 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/CIR/P/2017/0000000100  

September 08, 2017 

To, 

 

Registrars to an Issue / Share Transfer Agents 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

Subject:  Cyber  Security  and  Cyber  Resilience  framework  for  Registrars  to  an 

Issue / Share Transfer Agents (hereinafter referred to as RTAs) 

 

Rapid  technological  developments  in  securities  market  have  highlighted  the  need  for 

maintaining robust cyber security and cyber resilience framework to protect the integrity 

of data and guard against breaches of privacy. 

 

A  robust  cyber  security  and  cyber  resilience  framework  should  identify  the  plausible 

sources of operational risk, both internal and external, and mitigate the impact through 

the use of appropriate systems, policies, procedures, and controls. Systems should be 

designed to ensure a high degree of security and operational reliability and should have 

adequate,  scalable  capacity.  Business  continuity  management  should  aim  for  timely 

recovery of operations and fulfilment of its obligation in the event of cyber attack.  

 

Since RTAs perform important functions in providing services to holders of securities, it 

is  desirable  that  RTAs  have  robust  cyber  security  and  cyber  resilience  framework  in 

order to provide essential facilities and perform systemically critical functions relating to 

securities market. 

 

In  view  of  the  above,  SEBI’s  High  Powered  Steering  Committee  -  Cyber  Security 

engaged in detailed discussions  and decided that the framework prescribed vide SEBI 

circular  CIR/MRD/DP13/2015  dated  July  06,  2015  on  cyber  security  and  cyber 

resilience  framework  be  broadly  made  applicable  for  large  RTAs.  Accordingly,  the 

provisions of this circular are applicable only for RTAs servicing more than 2 crore folios 

(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “Qualified  RTAs”  or  “QRTAs”).  The  framework  placed  at 

Annexure  A,  would  be  required  to  be  complied  by  the  QRTAs  with  regard  to  cyber 

security  and  cyber  resilience.  QRTAs  are  directed  to  take  necessary  steps  to  put  in 

place systems for implementation of this circular, by December 01, 2017. 

 
 

 

 

This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in 

securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Debashis Bandyopadhyay 

General Manager 

 

 

 
 

 

Annexure A  

 

1.  Cyber  attacks  and  threats  attempt  to  compromise  the  Confidentiality,  Integrity  and 

Availability  (CIA)  of  the  computer  systems,  networks  and  databases  (Confidentiality  refers 

to limiting access of systems and information to authorized users, Integrity is the assurance 

that the information is reliable and accurate, and Availability refers to guarantee of reliable 

access  to  the  systems  and  information  by  authorized  users).  Cyber  security  framework 

includes  measures,  tools  and  processes  that  are  intended  to  prevent  cyber  attacks  and 

improve  cyber  resilience.  Cyber  Resilience  is  an  organisation’s  ability  to  prepare  and 

respond  to  a  cyber  attack  and  to  continue  operation  during,  and  recover  from,  a  cyber 

attack.  

 

Governance 

 

2.   As  part  of  the  operational  risk  management  framework  to  manage  risk  to  systems, 

networks  and  databases  from  cyber  attacks  and  threats,  QRTAs  should  formulate  a 

comprehensive  cyber  security  and  cyber  resilience  policy  document  encompassing  the 

framework mentioned hereunder. The policy document should be approved by the Board 

of  QRTAs,  and  in  case  of  deviations  from  the  suggested  framework,  reasons  for  such 

deviations  should  also  be  provided  in  the  policy  document.  The  policy  document  should 

be  reviewed  by  the  Board  of  QRTAs  atleast  annually  with  the  view  to  strengthen  and 

improve its cyber security and cyber resilience framework.  

3.  The  cyber  security  and  cyber  resilience  policy  should  include  the  following  process  to 

identify,  assess,  and manage  cyber  security  risk  associated  with  processes,  information, 

networks and systems;  

a. ‘Identify’ critical IT assets and risks associated with such assets,  

b. ‘Protect’ assets by deploying suitable controls, tools and measures,  

c.  ‘Detect’ 

incidents,  anomalies  and  attacks 

through  appropriate  monitoring 

tools/processes,  

d.  ‘Respond’  by  taking  immediate  steps  after  identification  of  the  incident,  anomaly  or 

attack,  

e. ‘Recover’ from incident through incident management, disaster recovery and business 

continuity framework.  

 

4.   The Cyber security policy should encompass the principles prescribed by National Critical 

Information  Infrastructure  Protection  Centre  (NCIIPC)  of  National  Technical  Research 

 
 

 

Organisation (NTRO), Government of India, in the report titled ‘Guidelines for Protection of 

National Critical Information Infrastructure’ and subsequent revisions, if any, from time to 

time.  

5.   QRTAs  should  also  incorporate  best  practices  from  standards  such  as  ISO  27001,  ISO 

27002, COBIT 5, etc., or their subsequent revisions, if any, from time to time.  

6.   QRTAs  should  designate  a  senior  official  as  Chief  Information  Security  Officer  (CISO) 

whose  function  would  be  to  assess,  identify  and  reduce  cyber  security  risks,  respond  to 

incidents, establish appropriate standards and controls, and direct the establishment and 

implementation  of  processes  and  procedures  as  per  the  cyber  security  and  resilience 

policy approved by the Board of the QRTAs. 

7.   The  Board  of  the  QRTAs  shall  constitute  a  Technology  Committee  comprising  experts 

proficient  in  technology.  This  Technology  Committee  should  on  a  quarterly  basis  review 

the  implementation  of  the  cyber  security  and  cyber  resilience  policy  approved  by  their 

Board,  and  such  review  should  include  review  of  their  current  IT  and  cyber  security  and 

cyber resilience capabilities, set goals for a target level of cyber resilience, and establish a 

plan  to  improve  and  strengthen  cyber  security  and  cyber  resilience.  The  review  shall  be 

placed before the Board of the QRTAs for appropriate action.  

8.   QRTAs  should  establish  a  reporting  procedure  to  facilitate  communication  of  unusual 

activities and events to CISO or to the senior management in a timely manner.  

9.   The aforementioned committee and the senior management of the  QRTAs, including the 

CISO,  should  periodically  review  instances  of  cyber  attacks,  if  any,  domestically  and 

globally, and take steps to strengthen cyber security and cyber resilience framework.  

10.  QRTAs  should  define  responsibilities  of  its  employees,  outsourced  staff,  and  employees 

of  vendors,  members  or  participants  and  other  entities,  who  may  have  access  or  use 

systems / networks of QRTA's, towards ensuring the goal of cyber security.  

Identify  

 

11.  QRTAs should identify critical assets based on their sensitivity and criticality for business 

operations,  services  and  data  management.  To  this  end,  QRTAs  should  maintain  up-to-

date inventory of its hardware and systems, software and information assets (internal and 

external), details of its network resources, connections to its network and data flows.  

 
 

 

12.  QRTAs  should  accordingly  identify  cyber  risks  (threats  and  vulnerabilities)  that  it  may 

face,  alongwith  the  likelihood  of  such  threats  and  impact  on  the  business  and  thereby, 

deploy controls commensurate to the criticality.  

13.  QRTAs should also encourage its third-party providers, if any, to have similar standards of 

Information Security.  

Protection  

Access Controls  

 

14.  No  person  by  virtue  of  rank  or  position  should  have  any  intrinsic  right  to  access 

confidential data, applications, system resources or facilities.  

15.  Any access to QRTA's  systems, applications,  networks, databases, etc., should be for a 

defined  purpose  and  for  a  defined  period.  QRTAs  should  grant  access  to  IT  systems, 

applications, databases and networks on a need-to-use basis and based on the principle 

of least privilege. Such access should be for the period when the access is required and 

should be authorized using strong authentication mechanisms.  

16.  QRTAs  should  implement  strong  password  controls  for  users’  access  to  systems, 

applications,  networks  and  databases.  Password  controls  should  include  a  change  of 

password  upon  first  log-on, minimum  password  length  and  history,  password  complexity 

as  well  as  maximum  validity  period.  The  user  credential  data  should  be  stored  using 

strong and latest hashing algorithms.  

17.  QRTAs should ensure that records of user access are uniquely identified and logged for 

audit and review purposes. Such logs should be maintained and stored in encrypted form 

for a time period not less than two (2) years.  

18.  QRTAs  should  deploy  additional  controls  and  security  measures  to  supervise  staff  with 

elevated  system  access  entitlements  (such  as  admin  or  privileged  users).  Such  controls 

and measures should inter-alia include restricting the number of privileged users, periodic 

review  of  privileged  users’  activities,  disallow  privileged  users  from  accessing  systems 

logs  in  which  their  activities  are  being  captured,  strong  controls  over  remote  access  by 

privileged users, etc.  

19.  Account  access  lock  policies  after  failure  attempts  should  be  implemented  for  all 

accounts.  

 
 

 

20.  Employees and outsourced staff such as employees of vendors or service providers, who 

may  be  given  authorised  access  to  the  QRTA's  critical  systems,  networks  and  other 

computer  resources,  should  be  subject  to  stringent  supervision,  monitoring  and  access 

restrictions.  

21.  Two-factor authentication at log-in should be implemented for all users that connect using 

online/internet facility.  

22.  QRTAs  should  formulate  an  Internet  access  policy  to  monitor  and  regulate  the  use  of 

internet  and  internet  based  services  such  as  social  media  sites,  cloud-based  internet 

storage sites, etc.  

23.  Proper ‘end of life’ mechanism should be adopted to deactivate access privileges of users 

who are leaving the organization or whose access privileges have been withdrawn.  

 

Physical security  

 

24.  Physical access to the critical systems should be restricted to minimum. Physical access 

of outsourced staff/visitors should be properly supervised by ensuring at the minimum that 

outsourced staff/visitors are accompanied at all times by authorised employees.  

25.  Physical  access  to  the  critical  systems  should  be  revoked  immediately  if  the  same  is  no 

longer required.  

26.  QRTAs  should  ensure  that  the  perimeter  of  the  critical  equipments  room  are  physically 

secured  and  monitored  by  employing  physical,  human  and  procedural  controls  such  as 

the use of security guards, CCTVs, card access systems, mantraps, bollards, etc. where 

appropriate.  

 

Network Security Management  

 

27.  QRTAs should establish baseline standards to facilitate consistent application of security 

configurations  to  operating  systems,  databases,  network  devices  and  enterprise  mobile 

devices  within  the  IT  environment.  The  QRTAs  should  conduct  regular  enforcement 

checks to ensure that the baseline standards are applied uniformly.  

28.  QRTAs  should  install  network  security  devices,  such  as  firewalls  as  well  as  intrusion 

detection  and  prevention  systems,  to  protect  their  IT  infrastructure  from  security 

exposures originating from internal and external sources.  

 
 

29.  Anti-virus software should be installed on servers and other computer systems. Updation 

of anti-virus definition files and automatic anti-virus scanning should be done on a regular 

 

basis.  

 

Security of Data  

 

30.  Data-in  motion  and  Data-at-rest  should  be  in  encrypted  form  by  using  strong  encryption 

methods such as Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), RSA, SHA-2, etc.  

31.  QRTAs  should  implement  measures  to  prevent  unauthorised  access  or  copying  or 

transmission  of  data  /  information  held  in  contractual  or  fiduciary  capacity.  It  should  be 

ensured  that  confidentiality  of  information  is  not  compromised  during  the  process  of 

exchanging and transferring information with external parties.  

32.  The  information  security  policy  should  also  cover  use  of  devices  such  as  mobile  phone, 

faxes,  photocopiers,  scanners,  etc.  that  can  be  used  for  capturing  and  transmission  of 

data.  

33.  QRTAs should allow only authorized data storage devices through appropriate validation 

processes.  

 

Hardening of Hardware and Software  

 

34.  Only  a  hardened  and  vetted  hardware  /  software  should  be  deployed  by  the  QRTAs. 

During the hardening process, QRTAs should inter-alia ensure that default passwords are 

replaced with strong passwords and all unnecessary services are removed or disabled in 

equipments / software.  

35.  All  open  ports  which  are  not  in  use  or  can  potentially  be  used  for  exploitation  of  data 

should  be  blocked.  Other  open  ports  should  be  monitored  and  appropriate  measures 

should be taken to secure the ports. 

 

Application Security and Testing  

 

36.  QRTAs  should  ensure  that  regression  testing  is  undertaken  before  new  or  modified 

system is implemented. The scope of tests should cover business logic, security controls 

and system performance under various stress-load scenarios and recovery conditions.  

 
 

 

 

Patch Management  

 

37.  QRTAs  should  establish  and  ensure  that  the  patch management  procedures  include  the 

identification,  categorisation  and  prioritisation  of  security  patches.  An  implementation 

timeframe  for  each  category  of  security  patches  should  be  established  to  implement 

security patches in a timely manner.  

38.  QRTAs  should  perform  rigorous  testing  of  security  patches  before  deployment  into  the 

production  environment  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  application  of  patches  do  not  impact 

other systems.  

 

Disposal of systems and storage devices 

 

39.  QRTAs should frame suitable policy for disposals of the storage media and systems. The 

data / information on such devices and systems should be removed by using methods viz. 

wiping / cleaning / overwrite, degauss and physical destruction, as applicable.  

 

Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing (VAPT)  

 

40.  QRTAs should regularly conduct vulnerability assessment to detect security vulnerabilities 

in  the  IT  environment.  QRTAs  should  also  carry  out  periodic  penetration  tests,  atleast 

once  in  a  year,  in  order  to  conduct  an  in-depth  evaluation  of  the  security  posture  of  the 

system through simulations of actual attacks on its systems and networks.  

41.  Remedial actions should be immediately taken to address gaps that are identified during 

vulnerability assessment and penetration testing.  

42.  In addition, QRTAs should perform vulnerability scanning and conduct penetration testing 

prior  to  the  commissioning  of  a  new  system  which  offers  internet  accessibility  and  open 

network interfaces. 

 

Monitoring and Detection  

 

43.  QRTAs  should  establish  appropriate  security  monitoring  systems  and  processes  to 

facilitate continuous monitoring of security events and timely detection of unauthorised or 

malicious  activities,  unauthorised  changes,  unauthorised  access  and  unauthorised 

 
 

 

copying or transmission of data / information held  in contractual  or fiduciary capacity, by 

internal  and  external  parties.  The  security  logs  of  systems,  applications  and  network 

devices should also be monitored for anomalies.  

44.  Further,  to  ensure  high  resilience,  high  availability  and  timely  detection  of  attacks  on 

systems and networks, QRTAs should implement suitable mechanism to monitor capacity 

utilization of its critical systems and networks.  

45.  Suitable alerts should be generated in the event of detection of unauthorized or abnormal 

system activities, transmission errors or unusual online transactions.  

 

Response and Recovery  

 

46.  Alerts  generated  from monitoring  and  detection  systems  should  be  suitably  investigated, 

including impact and forensic analysis of such alerts, in order to determine activities that 

are  to  be  performed  to  prevent  expansion  of  such  incident  of  cyber  attack  or  breach, 

mitigate its effect and eradicate the incident.  

47.  The response and recovery plan of the QRTAs should aim at timely restoration of systems 

affected  by  incidents  of  cyber  attacks  or  breaches.  QRTAs  should  have  the  same 

Recovery  Time  Objective  (RTO)  and  Recovery  Point  Objective  (RPO)  as  specified  by 

SEBI for  Market  Infrastructure  Institutions  vide  SEBI  circular  CIR/MRD/DMS/17/20  dated 

June 22, 2012 as amended from time to time.  

48.  The  response  plan  should  define  responsibilities  and  actions  to  be  performed  by  its 

employees and support / outsourced staff in the event of cyber attacks or breach of cyber 

security mechanism.  

49.  Any incident of loss or destruction of data or systems should be thoroughly analyzed and 

lessons  learned  from  such  incidents  should  be  incorporated  to  strengthen  the  security 

mechanism and improve recovery planning and processes.  

50.  QRTAs should also conduct suitable periodic drills to test the adequacy and effectiveness 

of response and recovery plan. 

 

Sharing of information  

 

51.  Quarterly  reports  containing  information  on  cyber  attacks  and  threats  experienced  by 

QRTAs  and  measures  taken  to  mitigate  vulnerabilities,  threats  and  attacks  including 

 
 

 

information on bugs / vulnerabilities / threats that may be useful for other QRTAs should 

be submitted to SEBI in soft copy to rta@sebi.gov.in 

52.  Such  details  as  are  felt  useful  for  sharing  with  other  QRTAs  in  masked  and  anonymous 

manner shall be shared using mechanism to be specified by SEBI from time to time.  

 

Training  

 

53.  QRTAs should conduct periodic training programs to enhance awareness level among the 

employees  and  outsourced  staff,  vendors,  etc.  on  IT  /  Cyber  security  policy  and 

standards. Special focus should be given to build awareness levels and skills of staff from 

non-technical disciplines.  

54.  The training program should be reviewed and updated to ensure that the contents of the 

program remain current and relevant.  

 

Periodic Audit  

 

55.  QRTAs shall arrange to have its systems audited on an annual basis  by an independent 

CISA/CISM qualified or equivalent auditor to check compliance with the above areas and 

shall  submit  the  report  to  SEBI  along  with  the  comments  of  the  Board  of  QRTAs  within 

three months of the end of the financial year.  

 

 

 
 

