 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DP/ 86/2017 
 
To, 
All Stock Exchanges   

 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

 

 
        August 01, 2017  

 

Sub: Margin Trading Facility- Clarification 

1.  SEBI  vide  circular  CIR/MRD/DP/54/2017  dated  June  13,  2017  prescribed 
comprehensive framework for permitting stock brokers to provide margin trading 
facility to their clients.  

2.  Representations have been received from the Stock brokers and their Association 
requesting to enable them to utilize funds from sources other than Banks and Non-
Banking Financial Company (NBFCs) for extending margin trading facility. Stock 
brokers  have  further  represented  that  currently  various  sources  of  borrowing  by 
way of issuance of Commercial Paper (CP) &  unsecured loans from directors & 
promoters are available for brokers in the normal course of business. Therefore 
Stock  brokers  have  requested  that  for  the  purpose  of  providing  Margin  Trading 
facility also, they may be allowed to borrow funds from these sources.  

 
3.  Accordingly, it is clarified that Stock brokers may borrow funds by way of issuance 
of CP and by way of unsecured long term loans from their promoters and directors. 
The  borrowing  by  way  of  issuance  of  CPs  shall  be  subject  to  compliance  with 
appropriate RBI Guidelines. The borrowing by way of unsecured long term loans 
from the promoters and directors shall be subject to the appropriate provisions of 
Companies Act. 

 

4.  A stock broker shall not be permitted to borrow funds from any other source, except 

the sources stated at para 3 above. 
 

5.  The  conditions  stated  at  para  14  of  circular  dated  June  13,  2017  shall  stand 
modified as above. All other conditions stated in the circular CIR/MRD/DP/54/2017 
dated June 13, 2017 remain unchanged.  

1 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

6.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to:-  

 
6.1. take necessary steps and put in place necessary systems for implementation 

of this circular. 

6.2. make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations 

for the implementation of the above decision. 

6.3. bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers of the 

stock exchange and also disseminate the circular on the website.  

 

7.  This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 (1) 
of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interest  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 
 

Yours faithfully  
 
 
 
Susanta Kumar Das 
Deputy General Manager 
e-mail: susantad@sebi.gov.in 

2 | P a g e  

 

 

 

