भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

    CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
CIR/CFD/CMD/93/2017 
 
To 
All Listed entities  
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Disclosures  by  listed  entities  of  defaults  on  payment  of  interest/  repayment  of 
principal amount on loans from banks / financial institutions, debt securities, etc. 

       August 4, 2017 

1.  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  (“SEBI  LODR 
Regulations”) currently require disclosure of material events / information by listed entities to 
stock  exchanges.  Specific  disclosures  are  required  under  the  SEBI  LODR  Regulations  in 
certain matters such as delay / default in payment of interest / principal on debt securities, 
including 
listed  Non-Convertible  Redeemable 
Preference  Shares,  Foreign  Currency  Convertible  Bonds  (FCCBs)  etc.  Similar  disclosures 
are presently not stipulated with respect to loans from banks and financial institutions. 

listed  Non-Convertible  Debentures, 

2.  Corporates in India are even today primarily reliant on loans from the banking sector. Many 
banks  are  presently  under  considerable  stress  on  account  of  large  loans  to  the  corporate 
sector turning into stressed assets / Non performing Assets (NPAs). Some companies have 
also been taken up for initiation of insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings.  

3.  In  order  to  address  this  critical  gap  in  the  availability  of  information  to  investors,  listed 

entities shall comply with the requirements of this circular. 

A.  Applicability:  

i.  The  circular  shall  be  applicable  to  all  listed  entities  which  have  listed  any  of  the  following: 
specified  securities  (equity  and  convertible  securities),  non-convertible  debt  securities  and 
non-convertible and redeemable preference shares. 

ii.  The  disclosures  shall  be  made  to  the  stock  exchanges  when  the  entity  has  defaulted  in 
payment of interest / instalment obligations on debt securities (including commercial paper), 
Medium  Term  Notes  (MTNs),  Foreign  Currency  Convertible  Bonds  (FCCBs),  loans  from 
banks and financial institutions, External Commercial Borrowings (ECBs) etc.  

iii.  ‘Default’  for  the  purpose  of  this  circular  shall  mean  non-payment  of  interest  or  principal 

amount in full on the pre-agreed date. 

 

 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
B.  Timing of disclosures:  

The entities shall make disclosures within one working day from the date of default at the first 
instance of default in the format specified in Clause C1 below.  

C.  List of disclosures:  

C1.The  following  details  shall  be  disclosed  by  listed  entities  at  the  first  instance  of 
default: 

a. For Debt securities (including Commercial Paper),/ MTNs, FCCBs etc.: 

 

Sr.No  Type of disclosure 

1.    Name of the Listed entity  
2.    Date of making the disclosure 
3.    Nature  of  obligation  /  Type  of  instrument  (Listed  debt  securities, 

MTNs, FCCBs etc. with ISIN as applicable) 

4.    Number of investors in the security as on date of default 
5.    Date of default  
6.    Details of the obligation (tenure, coupon, secured/unsecured etc.) 
7.    Current default amount (Amount in Rs.crore)  

(Please provide the break up of instalment and interest) 

8.    Gross Principal amount on which the default above has occurred 

(in Rs. crore): 

9.    Total amount of securities issued (in Rs.crore) 
10.   Any other details 

 

b. For Loans from banks and financial institutions, including ECBs: 

Sr.No  Type of disclosure 

1.    Name of the Listed entity  
2.    Date of making the disclosure 
3.    Nature of obligation (E.g. Term loan, ECB etc.) 
4.    Name of the Lender(s) 
5.    Date of default  
6.    Current default amount (Amount in Rs.crore)  

(Please provide the break up of instalment and interest) 

7.    Gross Principal amount on which the default above has occurred 

(in Rs.crore): 

8.    Details of the obligation (tenure, coupon rate, secured / unsecured 

etc.) 

9.    Total amount of borrowings from Banks / financial institutions 
10.   Any other details 

 

Details 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

Details 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

C2. The following details shall be disclosed by listed entities if there is any outstanding 
amount under default as on the last date of any quarter within 7 days from the end of 
such quarter: 

Nature of obligation  

Total 
outstanding as on date  
(In Rs. crore) 

amount 

securities 

Debt 
(including 
Commercial  Paper,  MTNs  etc.) 
and FCCBs 
Loans  from  banks,  and  financial 
institutions, including ECBs  

 

 

the 

total 

Of 
amount 
outstanding,  cumulative 
amount  of  default  as  on 
date (In Rs. crore) 
 

 

4.  Listed  entities  entity  shall  also  separately  provide  information  pertaining  to  defaults  to  the 
concerned Credit Rating Agencies in a timely manner and as may be specified by SEBI from 
time to time. 

5.  This circular shall come into effect with effect from October 1, 2017. This is to enable listed 
companies  to  put  appropriate  systems  in  place  for  prompt  submission  of  disclosures  as 
stipulated in this circular. 

6.  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  listed 

entities and to disseminate the same on their websites.  

7.  This  circular  is  issued  under  Regulation  101  of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 

8.  This circular is available on the SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category “Legal 

Framework/Circulars”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporate Finance Department 
Compliance and Monitoring Division and Forensic Accounting Cell 
Tel No.022-2644 9246 
Email - pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

