 

CIRCULAR 

 

  

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2017/83  

 

 

 

 

 

          July 24, 2017 

      

All Registered Infrastructure Investment Trusts 
All Registered Real Estate Investment Trusts 
 

Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Online Filing System for Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) and Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts (InvITs) 
 

1.  In order to facilitate ease of operations in terms of applying for registration, reporting and 
various compliances under SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 and 
SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, SEBI has introduced an online 
system  for  filings  related  to  REITs  and  InvITs.  The  online  system  can  be  used  for 
application  for  registration,  reporting  and  filing  under  the  provision  of  aforesaid 
Regulations. 
 

their  applications  online  only, 

2.  All  applicants  desirous  of  seeking  registration  as  REITs  or  InvITs  are  now  required  to 
submit 
Intermediary  Portal 
at https://siportal.sebi.gov.in. Furthermore, all SEBI registered REITs and InvITs are now 
required to file/ submit/ apply for any request, as may be required under the provision of 
aforesaid Regulations & Circulars issued thereunder, through the online system only. The 
aforesaid online filing system has been made operational. 
 

through  SEBI 

3.  Link for SEBI Intermediary Portal is also available on SEBI website - www.sebi.gov.in. In 
case of any queries and clarifications, users may refer to the manual provided in the portal 
or contact the Portal Helpline as specified in the manual. 
 

4.  Existing  SEBI  registered  InvITs  have  already  been  advised  to  activate  their  online 

accounts. 
 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of and to regulate the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

