 

 

 

  

CIRCULAR 

  

   CIR/IMD/DF-1/ 67 /2017                                                                              
 
 
To   
All Issuers 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges  
All Depositories  

  
  

 

June 30, 2017 
  
  

  

 
 

Dear Sir / Madam,  
Sub.: Specifications related to International Securities Identification Number (ISINs) for 
debt securities issued under the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 
2008. 
 
1.  A liquid corporate bond market helps in better price discovery of debt securities. Towards 
this,  the  working  group,  on  “Development  of  corporate  bond  market  in  India”,  under  the 
chairmanship of Shri. H R Khan in its report, inter-alia, recommended that  the issuers coming 
out with frequent debt issues with the same tenor during a quarter may club them under the 
same umbrella ISIN which in turn would increase the float in the market,  thus enhancing its 
liquidity.   
 

2.  Accordingly,  in respect of private placement of debt securities, it has been decided to specify 

the following: 

 

  

2.1. International Securities Identification Number (ISINs):  

 

2.1.1.  A  maximum  number  of  17  International  Securities  Identification  Numbers  (ISINs) 
maturing  in  any  financial  year  shall  be  allowed.  Additionally  12  ISINs  shall  also  be 
available  for  the  issuance  of  the  capital  gains  tax  debt  securities  by  the  authorized 
issuers under section 54EC of the Income Tax Act 1961 on private placement basis.   
 

2.1.2.  Out of 17 ISINs maturing in a financial year,  the bifurcation of ISINs shall be as 

under: 
 
2.1.2.1. A maximum of 12 ISINs maturing per financial year shall be allowed only for 
plain vanilla debt securities.  Further, within these 12 ISINs, the issuer can issue 
both secured and unsecured debt securities  

 

2.1.2.2. A  maximum  of  5  ISINs  (i.e.  for  structured  debt  securities  such  as  debt    

securities with call and/or put option, etc.) maturing per financial year shall be  

Page 1 of 5  

 

 

  

 

 

allowed only for structured products/market linked debt securities issued under the 
SEBI circular Cir/IMD/DF/17/2011 dated September 28, 2011, relating to issue and 
listing of structured/market linked debt securities.   

2.1.3.  An issuer issuing only structured/market linked debt securities, may utilise the entire 
bucket of 12 ISINs in a financial year only for structured/market linked debt securities. 
However, in such a scenario, the additional 5 ISINs as mentioned in paragraph 2.1.2.2 
above  shall  not  be  available  to  an  issuer  for  utilization,  either  for  structured  debt 
securities or for plain vanilla debt securities.  

2.1.4.  In case of structured /market linked debt securities which have embedded options viz. 
call  and/or  put  option,  the  maturity  of  ISINs  shall  be  reckoned  on  basis  of  original 
maturity date of debt securities.   

 

 For  e.g.  if a structured  debt  securities  having  maturity  of 5 years  , which is  callable 
after 3 years and thereafter every year until its redemption, then the debt securities 
shall be grouped in the bucket of 5 years maturity period which is its original maturity 
period even though it may be callable after a period of 3 years.  

 

2.1.5.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  be  applicable  for  debt  securities  issued  in  the 
financial year (FY) 2017-18 i.e. after the date of this circular and shall not be applicable 
to the ISINs maturing in respect of the debt securities issued prior to the FY 2017-18. 
However, post FY 2017-18, whatever issuances are made by the issuer, the issues shall 
be grouped and consolidated under the ISIN maturing in the same FY.   
 

2.2. Exemptions from applicability of ISINs:  

 

The  following  classes  of  debt  securities  issued  for  raising  regulatory  capital  are 
exempted from the applicability of provisions of this circular: 

 
2.2.1.  Tier  II  bonds  issued  by  Housing  Finance  Companies  (HFCs),  the  maturity  period  of 
which is not less than five years issued as per “Master Circular-The Housing Finance 
Companies (NHB) Directions, 2010” dated July 01, 2016; 
 

2.2.2.  Tier II bonds issued by the standalone Primary dealers, with minimum maturity of five 
years  issued  as  per  “Standalone  primary  Dealers  (Reserve  Bank)  Directions,  2016” 
dated August 25, 2016;  

 

2.2.3.  Subordinated  debt  issued  by insurance  companies, which is  either  perpetual  or the 
maturity period of which is not less than ten years for life, general and reinsurance 
companies and seven years for health insurance companies issued as per the “IRDAI 
(Other forms of Capital) Regulations, 2015” dated November 13, 2015; 
 

Page 2 of 5  

 

 
 
 

  

2.2.4.  Additional Tier 1 bonds, which are perpetual, issued by banks under Basel III norms 
and  Tier  II  bonds,  having  minimum  maturity  period  of  five  years,  issued  by  banks 
under the Basel III norms as per the “Master Circular- Basel III Capital Regulations” 
dated July 01, 2015. 
 

2.2.5.  Bonds issued by banks to raise resources for lending to long term infrastructure sub-
sectors and affordable housing, which have a minimum maturity of seven years issued 
as  per  RBI  circular  dated  July  15,  2014  on  “Issue  of  Long  Term  bonds  by  banks-
Financing of infrastructure and affordable housing”. 

 

2.2.6.  Perpetual debt instrument issued by Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking Non-
Banking  Financial Companies  issued  as  per RBI circular dated October  29, 2008  on 
“Enhancement of NBFCs’ capital raising option for capital adequacy purposes”;  
 

2.2.7.  Tier II bonds issued by Non-Systemically Important Non-Deposit taking Non-Banking 
Financial  Company  issued  as  per  RBI  “Master  Direction-Non-Banking  Financial 
Company-Non-Systemically important Non-deposit taking Company (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2016” dated September 01, 2016. 
 

2.3. Mechanism for honouring debt obligations arising out of capping of ISINs : 

 

2.3.1.  An  issuer  may  honour  its  debt  obligations/liabilities,  arising  out  of  such  ISIN 
restriction,  in  the  manner  as  deemed  feasible  to  them  i.e.  the  issuer  can  make 
staggered repayments or bullet maturity re-payments or in any other manner deemed 
so.  

2.3.2.  An issuer may offer different type of payment options to different category of investors 
subject to such disclosures being made in the information memorandum in order to 
manage their asset liability mismatch.  
 
For e.g. an insurance company may be offered staggered redemption, however mutual 
fund may be offered bullet payment.   
 

2.3.3.  Also, in case of any modification in terms or structure of the issue viz. change in terms 
of  payment,  change  in  interest  pay-out  frequency  etc.  the  issuer  may  make  such 
modification by following procedure as has been laid out in Regulation 59 of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  

 

2.3.4.  Record Date: There may be cases where multiple record dates would arise on account 
of staggered payment or other cases viz. frequency of payment etc. In such a case, when 
announcing  multiple  record  dates,  the  issuer  has  to  disclose  clearly  to  the  stock 
exchanges the basis of payment to the investors viz. pro-rata, first cum basis etc.  

Page 3 of 5  

 

 

2.4. Time  limit  for  carrying  out  necessary  changes  to  the  Articles  of  Association 

(AOA)/charter/constitution of the issuer:  

 

In order to comply with the provisions of clause (a) of Regulation 20A of the SEBI (ILDS) 
regulations, the issuer shall have a time period of six months from the date of this circular 
to make an enabling provision in its Articles of Association to carry out consolidation and 
re-issuance of debt securities.  
 

3.  Reporting and Monitoring: 

 
3.1. Issuers: 

 

3.1.1.  All the issuers  who  have  made  private  placement  of debt  securities under the  SEBI 
(Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008, shall within fifteen working 
days  of  issue  of  this  circular  submit  a  statement  containing  data  in  the  format  as 
prescribed below: 

 

Name 
of  the 
issuer  
 

 

ISIN 
number  

Issuance 
date  

Maturity 
date  

Coupon 
rate  

Payment 
frequency  

 

 

 

 

 

Embedded 
option 
if 
any  
 

Amount 
issued  

Amount 
outstanding  

 

 

3.1.2.  Also, an issuer shall within fifteen working days from the end of every half year, submit 
a statement, to the recognized stock exchange, where its debt securities are listed, as 
well as to the depository containing data in the format as prescribed above. 
 

3.1.3.  In case there is any modification in terms or structure of the issue viz. change in terms 
of payment, change in interest pay-out frequency etc.as specified in paragraph 2.3.3. 
above, the issuer shall, forthwith, inform the same to the depository. 
 

3.1.4.  An issuer shall within thirty working days from end of six months from the date of this 
circular  submit  a  confirmation  certificate  to  Stock  Exchanges  with  respect  to 
compliance with para 2.4 above.  

3.2. Recognized stock exchanges and depositories : 

 

3.2.1.  Upon  receipt  of  the  report  as  specified  in  paragraph  3.1.2  and  3.13  above,  the 
recognized stock exchange (RSE) shall upload the same on its website as well as the 
Integrated trade Repository for corporate bonds.  
 

3.2.2.  Upon  receipt  of  the  report  as  specified  in  paragraph  3.1.2  and  3.13  above,  the 
depository  shall  upload  the  same  on  the  centralized  database  for  corporate 

Page 4 of 5  

 

  

 

 

bonds/debentures as per SEBI circular CIR/IMD/DF/17/2013 dated October 22, 2013 
as well as the Integrated trade Repository for corporate bonds. 

3.2.3.  The  RSE  shall  within  five  working  days  of  the  expiry  of  the  period  as  specified  in 
paragraph  3.1.2  above,  send  the  reports  received  by  it  to  the  depositories  for  the 
purposes of their reconciliation.   

 

3.2.4.  The depositories shall thereafter within five working days of receipt of reports from 
the recognised stock exchanges, send a status report to the latter regarding utilization 
of ISINs by the issuers. 

 

3.2.5.  The recognized stock exchanges shall within thirty working days from the end of every 
half  year, shall submit  a report  to SEBI, in case there has been any violation  by the 
issuers of any provisions of this circular.  

 

4.  The provisions of this circular shall be applicable with immediate effect for the debt securities 

issued in accordance with SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008. 
 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in securities and 
to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities markets.   

 

6.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories  “Legal 

Framework”. 

 

Yours faithfully,  

  

          Richa G. Agarwal 

Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department  
richag@sebi.gov.in 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

Page 5 of 5  

