 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

              August 31, 2017 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2017/96      
 
All  recognized  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations 
International Financial Services Centres 
 

 

in 

Dear Sir/Madam 
 
Issuance,  listing  and  trading  of  debt  securities  on  exchanges  in  International 
Financial Services Centres (IFSC) 
 

In  continuation  of  guidelines  on  debt  securities  contained  in  Chapter  V  ‘Issue  of  Debt 

Securities’  of SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines,  2015 and based  on the representations received 

from  stock  exchanges  and  market  participants  in  IFSC,  it  has  been  decided  that  for 

issuing  debt  securities  in  IFSC,  stock  exchanges  shall  evolve  a  detailed  framework 

prescribing 

a)  the eligibility criteria for the issuers, and  

b)  the  issue  requirements  to  be  complied  with  by  such  eligible  issuers  for  issuing  debt 

securities in IFSC.  

 

The  above  framework,  and  the  subsequent  changes  made  thereto,  if  any,  shall  be 

submitted to SEBI for approval.  

2.  Listing: In addition to the mandatory listing of debt securities that are issued in IFSC, 

it has also been decided to permit listing of those debt securities on stock exchanges in 

IFSC, which are issued outside IFSC. However, listing of only those debt securities shall 

be permitted which are issued in, and by issuers resident in Financial Action Task Force 

(FATF)  member  jurisdictions.  The  issuer  of  debt  securities  shall  enter  into  a  listing 

agreement with the stock exchange(s) where such securities are intended to be listed. 

Further,  it  has  been  decided  that  the  stock  exchanges  in  IFSC  shall  evolve  a  detailed 

framework prescribing the initial and continuous listing requirements including corporate 

governance to be complied with by the issuers whose securities are listed/proposed to be 

listed on stock exchanges in IFSC. Stock exchanges shall submit the listing framework, 

and the subsequent changes made thereto, if any, to SEBI for approval. 

3.  Trading:  Guideline  21  of  SEBI  (IFSC)  Guidelines,  2015  provides  that  the  debt 

securities listed in stock exchanges shall be traded on the platform of the stock exchange 

and such trades shall be cleared and settled through clearing corporation set up in IFSC 

as specified. It has now been decided to permit over the counter trading of debt securities 

in  IFSC  subject  to  clearing  and  settlement  through  clearing  corporations  in  IFSC.  It  is 

advised that all OTC trades in debt securities shall be reported on the reporting platform 

of any one of the recognized stock exchanges in IFSC within 15 minutes of the trade. To 

ensure that the data is not duplicated, the trades shall be reported on reporting platform 

of one of the stock exchanges only. The reporting for a trade must be done by the buyer 

and the seller on the same platform to ensure matching of both sides of the trades.  

Clearing  Corporations  shall  submit  the  clearing  and  settlement  framework,  and  the 

subsequent changes made thereto, for debt securities to SEBI for approval. 

4.  ‘Person  resident  in  India’  shall  not  invest  or  trade  in  Rupee  denominated  bonds 

issued and/or listed in IFSC, except to the extent as permitted by Reserve Bank of India. 

Further,  ‘Person  resident  in  India’  shall  also  not  invest  or  trade  in  other  debt  securities, 

issued and/or listed in IFSC, by Indian entities. 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors 

in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

Yours faithfully 

 

Sanjay Purao 
General Manager  
Division of Risk Management and New Products 
Market Regulation Department 
Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 

2 

 

