 

 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2017/95 
To, 
All recognised Stock Exchanges/ Clearing Corporations in International Financial 
Services Centre (IFSC) 
All recognised Stock Exchanges/ Clearing Corporations 
All Registered Intermediaries  
 

August 10, 2017 

 

 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 
Sub:  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (International  Financial  Services 
Centres) Guidelines, 2015 -Liquidity Enhancement Scheme.  
 

1.  SEBI  vide  circular  CIR/MRD/DP/14/2014  dated  April  23,  2014  permitted  stock 

exchanges to introduce liquidity enhancement schemes in the equity derivatives and 

equity cash segments to enhance liquidity in illiquid securities. 

 
2.  Clause 5 of the SEBI circular dated April 23, 2014 prescribes that the incentives under 

liquidity enhancement schemes shall be transparent and measurable.  

 

3.  Based on  the  internal discussions  and  consultations  held  with  the  stakeholders 

and given the fact that the stock exchanges at GIFT IFSC are in a nascent stage and 

do not have access to net profits/free reserves,  it  has  been  decided  to grant an 

exemption    to  stock  exchanges  at  IFSC  from  complying  with  clause  5.1  and  5.2  of 

SEBI circular dated April 23, 2014 subject to the condition that the exchange would 

create  a  reserve  specifically  to  meet  Liquidity  Enhancement  Schemes  (LES) 

incentives/expenses based on the normative study of the LES in the domestic market 

and such reserves would not be included in the net worth calculation. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.  Further,  based  on  the  aforesaid  normative  study,  stock  exchanges  at  IFSC  shall 

furnish proposal for approval. 

 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. 

 

6.  Other contents of the SEBI Circular No: CIR/MRD/DP/14/2014 dated April 23, 2014 

will remain operative. 

 

7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Bithin Mahanta 

Deputy General Manager 

Email: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

. 

 

 

 

