 
 
 
                                                                          CIRCULAR 

 

 

CIR/IMD/FPI&C/76/2017 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     July 7, 2017 

 

 
To, 

All Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs)  

(Through their Designated Depository Participants/Custodians of Securities) 

 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

Subject: Guidelines for issuance of ODIs, with derivative as underlying, by the ODI issuing FPIs. 

 

1.  In  terms  of  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulation,  2014  (FPI  Regulations)  and 

circulars  issued  from  time  to  time  regarding  ODI,  the  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  (FPIs) 

issuing  ODIs  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  ODI  Issuers)  are  required  to  comply  with  the 

conditions for issuance of ODIs. 

 

2.  With the date of this circular, the ODI issuing FPIs are advised as follows: 

 

2.1.  The ODI issuing FPIs shall not be allowed to issue ODIs with derivative as underlying, 

with the exception of those derivative positions that are taken by the ODI issuing FPI for 

hedging the equity shares held by it, on a one to one basis. 

 

2.2.  In  the  case  of  the  existing  ODIs  which  have  been  issued  by  the  ODI  issuing  FPIs  with 

derivatives  as  underlying,  where  the  said  underlying  derivatives  position  are  not  for 

purpose of hedging the equity shares held by it, the ODI issuing FPI has to liquidate such 

ODIs  latest  by  the  date  of  maturity  of  the  ODI  instrument  or  by  December  31,  2020, 

whichever is earlier. However, ODI issuing FPIs should endeavor to liquidate such ODI 

instruments prior to said timeline. 

 

2.3.  In the case of issuance of fresh ODIs with derivatives as underlying, a certificate has to be 

issued by the compliance officer (or equivalent) of the ODI issuing FPI, certifying that the 

 

Page 1 of 2 

derivatives  position,  on  which  the  ODI  is  being  issued,  is  only  for  hedging  the  equity 

shares held by it, on a one to one basis. The said certificate shall be submitted along with 

 

 

the monthly ODI reports. 

 

2.4.  It is clarified that the term “hedging of equity shares” means taking a one-to-one position 

in only those derivatives which have the same underlying as the equity share.   

 

3.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  SEBI  Section  11  (1)  of  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and shall come into effect on immediate 

basis. 

 

A copy of this circular is available at the web page “Circulars” on our website www.sebi.gov.in. 

The  Designated  Depository  Participants  (DDPs)/Custodian  of  securities  are  requested  to 

bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FPI clients for necessary compliance.  

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Achal Singh 

Deputy General Manager  

+91-22-26449619 

achals@sebi.gov.in 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

