भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CIR/P/2017/85 
 
To, 
 
1.  All  Recognised  Stock  Exchanges/Clearing  Corporations  in  International 

   July 27, 2017 

 

 

 

Financial Services Centre (IFSC) 

2.  All Recognised Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporations and Depositories 
3.  All Registered Intermediaries 

 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 
Subject:  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (International  Financial 
Services Centres) Guidelines, 2015 – Amendments 
 

1.  Kindly refer to SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 notified by SEBI on March 27, 2015.  

2.   In  order  to  further  streamline  the  operations  at  IFSC,  based  on  the  internal 
discussions  and  consultations  held  with  the  stakeholders,  it  has  been  decided  to 
amend provisions of the aforesaid guidelines, which are as follows: 

2.1. Eligibility  and  Shareholding  in  Stock  Exchanges,  Clearing  Corporations 

and Depositories 

 

Clauses 4 (1), (2) and (3) of SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015  which specify the 
eligibility and shareholding limit for stock exchanges, clearing corporations and 
depositories desirous of operating in IFSC are being replaced as follows: 
 
“4. (1) Eligibility and shareholding limit for stock exchanges desirous of 
operating in IFSC: Any Indian recognised stock exchange or any recognised 
stock exchange of a foreign jurisdiction shall form a subsidiary to provide the 
services of stock exchange in IFSC wherein at least fifty one per cent. of paid 
up  equity  share  capital  shall  be  held  by  such  stock  exchange  and  the 
remaining share capital shall be held by the following: 

i)  any other stock exchange,  
ii)  a depository,  
iii) a banking company,  
iv) an insurance company,  
v) commodity derivatives exchange,  

whether Indian or of foreign jurisdiction and  

vi) a public financial institution of Indian jurisdiction,  

provided  that  any  one  of  the  aforesaid  entities  may  acquire  or  hold,  either 
directly  or  indirectly,  either  individually  or  together  with  persons  acting  in 

 

1 

a public financial institution of Indian jurisdiction,  

any other stock exchange,  
a clearing corporation,  
a depository,  
a banking company,  
an insurance company,  

concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital of such stock 
exchange. 
 
(2) Eligibility and shareholding limit for clearing corporations desirous of 
operating  in  IFSC:  Any  Indian  recognised  stock  exchange  or  clearing 
corporation,  or,  any  recognized  stock  exchange  or  clearing  corporation  of  a 
foreign  jurisdiction  shall  form  a  subsidiary  to  provide  the  services  of  clearing 
corporation in IFSC wherein at least fifty one per cent of paid up equity share 
capital shall be held by such stock exchange or clearing corporation, and the 
remaining share capital shall be held by the following: 
i) 
ii) 
iii) 
iv) 
v) 
whether Indian or of foreign jurisdiction and 
vi) 
provided  that  any  one  of  the  aforesaid  entities  may  acquire  or  hold,  either 
directly  or  indirectly,  either  individually  or  together  with  persons  acting  in 
concert,  upto  fifteen  per  cent.  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  of  such 
clearing corporation. 
 
(3) (a) Eligibility and shareholding limit for foreign depositories desirous 
of operating in IFSC: Any regulated depository of a foreign jurisdiction shall 
form a subsidiary to provide the depository services in IFSC where atleast fifty 
one  per  cent  of  paid  up  equity  share  capital  is  held  by  such  depository  and 
remaining  shares  may  be  offered  to  any  other  registered  depository  or 
recognised  stock  exchange  or  clearing  corporation,  whether  Indian  or  of 
foreign jurisdiction. 
(b)  Setting  up  of  IFSC  Depositories  Services  by  Indian  registered 
depositories:  Any  Indian  registered  depository  may  set  up  a  branch  –  IFSC 
Depository  Services  (IDS)  at  IFSC.  The  interested  depositories  shall  be 
required  to  obtain  prior  approval  of  the  Board  for  setting  up  an  IDS.  Such 
Indian  depository  shall  be  required  to  ring  fence  its  domestic  operations, 
financially, operationally and technologically, from its operations at IFSC.” 

 

2.2. Governance of Stock Exchanges 

 

As  per  Clause  6  (4)  of  SEBI  (IFSC)  Guidelines  which  stipulates  the 
governance  structure  of  depositories,  stock  exchanges  and  clearing 
corporations is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
“Provisions  of  Chapter  IIA  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996 and Chapter V of Securities 
Contracts 
(Stock  Exchanges  And  Clearing  Corporations) 

(Regulation) 

 

2 

Regulations  2012  shall  not  apply  to  depositories,  stock  exchanges,  clearing 
corporations in IFSC, as the case may be: 

 

Provided  that  depositories,  stock  exchanges,  clearing  corporations  operating 
in  IFSC  shall  adopt  the  broader  principles  of  governance  prescribed  by 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and  Principles 
for Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMIs) and such other governance norms 
as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board,  from  time  to  time.  Further,  the  parent 
depository/stock  exchange/clearing  corporation  shall  be  responsible  for  the 
governance  of  such  depository,  stock  exchange  and  clearing  corporation  in 
IFSC at all times.”  

 

2.3. Intermediaries in IFSC 
 

Clause 8 of SEBI IFSC Guidelines which specifies that any recognised entity 
or  entities  desirous  of  operating  in  IFSC  as  an  intermediary,  may  form  a 
company  to  provide  such  financial  services  relating  to  securities  market  has 
been amended as follows: 
“8.  (1)  Any  SEBI-registered  intermediary  (except  trading  member  or  clearing 
member)  or  its  international  associates  in  collaboration  with  such  SEBI-
registered  intermediary  may  provide  financial  services  relating  to  securities 
market,  in  IFSC,  without  forming  a  separate  company,  subject  to  the  prior 
approval of the Board. 
 (2) Trading members and clearing members desirous of operating in IFSC as 
an  intermediary,  shall  form  a  company  to  provide  such  financial  services 
relating to securities market, as permitted by the Board.” 

 

3.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 
Bithin Mahanta 
Deputy General Manager 
Market Regulation Department 
Email: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

3 

