 

 
 
 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/123                                           November 29, 2017 
 
To 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Modification to Enhanced Supervision Circular 

 

 

1. SEBI vide circular  no.  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/95 dated September  26, 
2016, has issued guidelines covering broad areas for enhanced supervision based on 
the recommendation of the committee constituted by SEBI.  

2. In this regard, following modifications are made : 

a.  Clause 7.1.2 stands modified as follows: “End of day securities balances ISIN wise 
(as on last trading day of the month) and End of day securities balances (as on 
last trading day of the month) consolidated ISIN wise (i.e., total number of ISINs 
and total number of securities across all ISINs)” 

b.  Clause 7.1.3 stands modified as follows: “ISIN wise number of securities pledged, 
if any, and the funds raised from the pledging of such securities and consolidated 
number  of  securities  pledged  (i.e.,  total  number  of  ISINs  and  total  number  of 
securities across all ISINs), if any and the funds raised from the pledging of such 
securities.” 

c.  Clause 7.1.4 stands modified as “The data at Para 7.1.1, 7.1.2 and 7.1.3 pertains 
to the last trading day of the month. The stock broker shall submit the aforesaid 
data within seven calendar days of the last trading day of the month.” 

d.  Clause 7.2 stands modified as below - 

“Each Stock Exchange shall in turn forward – 

a.  Information at Para 7.1.1, 7.1.2 and 7.1.3 to clients via Email on the email IDs 

uploaded by the stock broker to the exchange for their clients. 

b.  Information  at  Para  7.1.1,  7.1.2  (only  consolidated  data)  and  7.1.3  (only 
consolidated  data)  to  clients  via  SMS  on  mobile  numbers  uploaded  by  the 
stock broker to the Exchange for their clients.” 

3. The above provisions shall be applicable one month from the date of this circular. 

4. You are advised to take necessary steps to ensure compliance with the above. 

 

 

Page 1 of 2 

5. The Stock Exchanges are directed to  

 

 

a.  Bring the contents of this circular to the notice of the Stock Brokers and also 

disseminate the same on their website. 

b.  Make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations 
for  this  implementation  of  the  above  directions  in  co-ordination  with  one 
another to achieve uniformity in approach. 

6. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

7. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Legal 

Framework”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 Debashis Bandyopadhyay 

General Manager 

 

Page 2 of 2 

