भारतीयप्रततभूतीऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/124     

 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

 

November 30, 2017 

Sub:  Clarification  to  Circular  on  Prevention  of  Unauthorised  Trading  by 
 

Stock Brokers 

 

1. SEBI 

vide 

circular  no.  CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/108  dated 
September 26, 2017 has  inter-alia  specified that brokers shall execute trades of 
clients only after keeping evidence of the client placing such order. Further, SEBI 
has  made  it  mandatory  to  use  telephone  recording  system  to  record  client 
instructions  and  maintain  telephone  recordings  wherever  the  order  instructions 
are received from clients through the telephone. 

 

2. Subsequently,  SEBI  has  received  representations  from  stock  brokers  and  their 
associations  expressing  operational  difficulties  caused 
to  stock  brokers. 
Accordingly, in view of operational difficulties faced by stock brokers, it has been 
decided as under. 

ii. 

i.  Brokers  are  required  to  maintain  the  records  specified  at  para  III  of 
aforementioned  circular  for  a  minimum  period  for  which  the  arbitration 
accepts  investor  complaints  as  notified  from  time  to  time,  currently  three 
years.  However    in  cases  where  dispute  has  been  raised,  such  records 
shall be kept till final resolution of the dispute. 
If SEBI desires that specific records be preserved then such records shall 
be kept till further intimation by SEBI. 
The  above  mentioned  SEBI  circular    also  prescribes  that  'when  dispute 
arises,  the  burden  of  proof  will  be  on  the  broker  to  produce  the  above 
records  for  the  disputed  trades’.  However  for  exceptional  cases  such  as 
technical  failure  etc.  where  broker  fails  to  produce  order  placing 

iii. 

 

Page | 1  

evidences,  the  broker  shall  justify  with  reasons  for  the  same  and 
depending upon merit of the same, other appropriate evidences like post 
trade confirmation by client, receipt/payment of funds/ securities by client 
in respect of disputed trade, etc.  shall also be considered. 
 

3. The Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

a.  Bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the Stock Brokers and also 

disseminate the same on their websites. 

b.  Make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations 

for the implementation of the above directions. 

c.  Communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular in their Monthly Development Reports. 

 

4. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market.  

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

 

Debashis Bandyopadhyay 

General Manager 

 

Page | 2  

