¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

                      December 22, 2017 

 
SEBI/HO/CFD/DCR1/CIR/P/2017/131 
 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Exemption  application  under  Regulation  11  (1)  of  SEBI  (Substantial 

Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011  

 
1.  Regulation  11(1)  of  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011 (SAST Regulations), gives power to the Board to grant exemption 
from  the  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares.  Further,  as  per 
Regulation  11(3)  of  SAST  Regulations,  the  acquirer  shall  file  an  application  with  the 
Board, supported by a duly sworn affidavit, giving details of the proposed acquisition 
and the grounds on which the exemption has been sought. 

2.  In order to ensure  uniformity of disclosures in such applications,  it has been decided to 
provide a standard format for filing of application with SEBI. The instructions and details 
in this regard are given at Annexure - A. 

 
3.  This circular shall be applicable to all the applications that are filed with SEBI after the 

date of this circular. 

 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 read with 

Section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 
 

5.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Takeovers”. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Rajesh Gujjar 
Deputy General Manager 
 +91-22-26449232 
rajeshg@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure – A 

STANDARD FORMAT OF APPLICATION UNDER REGULATION 11(1) OF SEBI 
(SUBSTANTIAL ACQUISITION OF SHARES AND TAKEOVERS) REGULATIONS, 

2011 (SAST REGULATIONS) 

I. 

Instructions 

1.  The  application  should  be  made  by  the  acquirer.  If  it  is  made  by  a  person  other 
than  the  acquirer,  the  letter  of  authority  granted  by  the  acquirer  (including  all  the 
PACs) must be enclosed with the application.  

2.  The  application  must  be  supported  by  a  duly  sworn  affidavit  by  the  acquirer 
confirming  that  the  details  stated  in  the  application  are  true  and  correct  and  in 
accordance with the standard format prescribed by SEBI.  

3.  If  the  acquirer  is  a  body  corporate,  a  true  copy  of  the  resolution  of  its  Board  of 
Directors  or  the  Governing  Body  authorizing  filing  of  the  application,  must  be 
enclosed with the application.  

4.  If  the  acquirer  is  a  Trust,  executed  trust  deed(s)  must  be  submitted  and  the 
acquirer should endeavour to comply with the guidelines outlined at the ‘Schedule’ 
to this Annexure.  

5.  The  application  filed  with  SEBI  should  be  complete  in  all  respects  and  only 

complete application would be processed.  

6.  In  addition,  soft  copy  of  the  said  documents  in  pdf  format  should  be  emailed  to 

SEBI at sastexemptionapplication@sebi.gov.in 

7.  All the information given in the application should be as of the date of application 

unless otherwise specified therein.  

II.  General Details  

1.  Date of the application: 
2.  Name,  PAN  and  address  of  the  acquirer(s)  and  PACs  (including  telephone 

number, email etc.)  

3.  If  the  applicant  is  a  person  other  than  the  acquirer,  then  state  name,  address, 
telephone number, email  etc., of the applicant and state whether letter of authority 
given by the acquirer and persons acting in concert, is enclosed.  

4.  State  the  details  of  the  filing  fees  as  specified  in  regulation  11(4)  of  the  SAST 

Regulations.  

5.  State whether the acquirer/ PACs are part of the promoter/ promoter group. 
6.  If any application was filed under regulation 11(1) of SAST Regulations with SEBI 
in the past, give details including name of target company, pre and post acquisition 
shareholding,  regulation  triggered,  exemption  granted  or  not,  conditions  for 
exemption granted, if any, whether the said conditions were fulfilled, etc. 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

7.  Details of any directions by SEBI subsisting against the acquirers including PAC. 
8.  Details of any pending proceedings before SEBI. 

III.  Details of the Target Company  

1.  Name and address of the Target Company (include phone, email etc )    
2.  Brief  history  of  the  Target  Company  stating  inter-alia,  date  of  incorporation, 

address of registered office, main business activities, etc.)  

3.  Details of Board of Directors stating the total number of directors, their names and 
status  namely  whether  Executive  Director,  Promoter  Director,  Nominee  Director 
and Independent Director, etc. 

4.  Details of share capital of the target company.  

I.  No. of equity shares issued / subscribed and paid up and face value of each 

equity share.  

II.  No. of preference shares issued, subscribed and paid up and face value of 

each preference share.  

III.  Whether all equity shares have uniform voting rights, if not, then the details 

of voting rights attached to equity shares.  

IV.  Total paid up Equity Share Capital (number of shares x face value), showing 

separately, calls in arrears, if any.  

V.  Total  paid  up  Preference  share  Capital  (number  of  shares  x  face  value), 

showing separately calls in arrears, if any.  

5.  Total equity share capital / voting rights of the target company before and after the 
proposed  acquisition.  State  the  following  financial  parameters  of  the  target 
company for the immediately preceding financial year 

I.  Net-worth - Rs……….  
II.  Book value per equity share - Rs.  
III.  Return on Net-worth %  
IV.  Earnings per share - Rs.  

6.  Name of Stock Exchanges where shares of Target Company are listed / permitted 

to trade and the date of listing.  

7.  Indicate opening and closing prices of its shares as on a date prior to the date of 

the application. 

8.  Clarify  whether  the  shares  of  the  target  company  are  frequently  or  infrequently 
traded  in  terms  of  regulation  2(j)  of  SAST  Regulations,  taking  the  date  of 
application as the reference date.  

9.  Calculate  and  indicate  the  minimum  offer  price  of  the  shares  of  the  target 
company,  in  accordance  with  regulation  8  of  SAST  Regulations  (taking  date  of 
application as the reference date) considering all the parameters laid down therein, 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

as  may  be  applicable  (depending  upon  the  frequency  of  trading  in  shares  of  the 
target company). 

IV.  Details of the Proposed Acquisition  

1.  Number and percentage of equity shares / voting rights proposed to be acquired.  
2.  Acquisition price to be paid per share of the shares proposed to be acquired.  
3.  Names,  PAN  and  address  of  the  entities  from  whom  the  above  shares  are 

proposed to be acquired. 

4.  Date(s)  since  the  entities  from  whom  the  above  shares  are  proposed  to  be 
acquired  have  been disclosed  as promoters  in  the  shareholding  pattern filed  with 
the stock exchanges 

5.  Shareholding  pattern  of  the  target  company  before  and  after  the  proposed 

acquisition in the following format: 

Particulars 

Shareholding  

before the 
proposed 
acquisition 
% 

holding 

Proposed 

Transaction 

After the 
proposed 
acquisition 

 No. of 
shares  

 No. of 
shares  
Promoters & Promoter Group other than Acquirers 

No. of 
shares 

% 

holding 

 
 

 
 

 

Total 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

Acquirers and PAC 

 
 

 

 

 
 
Public 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

% 

holding 

 
 

 
 

 

 

6.  State which provision(s) of SAST Regulations would be triggered on account of the 

proposed acquisition. 

7.  If  the  proposed  acquisition  would  result  into  change  of  control  of  the  target 
company, the manner and relevant details of such acquisition of control inter- alia 
details  like  nature  of  approvals  required  for  such  acquisition,  status  of  such 
approvals, etc. shall be furnished.  

8.  Detailed grounds for seeking exemption 
9.  Details of relevant precedence, if any 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

Cases involving Trust as acquirer 

 

Schedule 

SEBI in the recent past has received a number of applications pertaining to transfer of 
shares from promoters to Trusts which were referred to the panel of experts (Takeover 
Panel) as per Regulation 11 (5) of SAST Regulations. Based on the recommendations 
of  the  Takeover  Panel,  SEBI  had  passed  orders  granting  /  not  granting  exemption  to 
the applicants.  In the recent past, grant of exemption were considered if the following 
conditions were met by the applicants, expressly in trust deed: 

 

i.  The  Trust  is  in  substance,  only  a  mirror  image  of  the  promoters’  holdings  and 
consequently,  there  is  no  change  of  ownership  or  control  of  the  shares  or  voting 
rights in the target company. 

ii.  Only  individual  promoters  or  their  immediate  relatives  or  lineal  descendants  are 

Trustees and beneficiaries; 

iii.  The beneficial interest of the beneficiaries of the trust has not been and will not in 
the  future,  be  transferred,  assigned  or  encumbered  in  any  manner  including  by 
way of pledge/mortgage; 
In  case  of  dissolution  of  the  Trust,  the  assets  will  be  distributed  only  to  the 
beneficiaries of the trust or to their legal heirs; 

iv. 

v.  The Trustees will not be entitled to transfer or delegate any of their powers to any 

person other than one or more of themselves. 
 

In addition, the following undertakings were part of the trust deed: 

 

vi.  Any change in the trustees / beneficiaries and any change in ownership or control 
of  shares  or  voting  rights  held  by  Trust  shall  be  disclosed  within  2  days  to  the 
concerned stock exchanges with a copy endorsed to SEBI for its record; 

vii.  As far as the provisions of the SEBI Act and the regulations framed thereunder are 
concerned  the  ownership  or  control  of  shares  or  voting  rights  will  be  treated  as 
vesting not only with the Trustees but also indirectly with the beneficiaries ; 

viii.  The liabilities and obligations of individual transferors under the SEBI Act and the 
regulations framed thereunder will not change or get diluted due to transfers to the 
Trust ; 

ix.  The  Trust  shall  confirm,  on  an  annual  basis,  that  it  is  in  compliance  with  the 
exemption order passed by SEBI. The said confirmation shall be furnished to the 
company which it shall disclose prominently as a note to the shareholding pattern 
filed for  the  quarter  ending  March  31  each  year,  under  regulation 31  of  the  SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015; 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

x.  The  Trust  shall  get  its  compliance  status  certified  from  an  independent  auditor 
annually  and  furnish  the  certificate  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  for  public  disclosure 
with a copy endorsed to SEBI for its records. 

 
Further, exemptions were granted when the following conditions were complied: 

 

xi.  The  proposed  acquisition  is  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Companies 

Act, 2013 and other applicable laws;  

xii.  The transferors  are   disclosed as promoters in  the  shareholding pattern filed with 
the  Stock  Exchanges  for  a  period  of  at  least  3  years  prior  to  transfer  (except  for 
holding on account of inheritance); 

xiii.  There is no layering in terms of trustees / beneficiaries in case of Trusts; 
xiv.  The Trust deed agreement does not contain any limitation of liability of the trustees 
/  beneficiaries  in  relation  to  the  provisions  of  the  SEBI  Act  and  all  regulations 
framed thereunder. 

 
The Takeover Panel and SEBI will continue to scrutinise exemption application based on 
the  above  conditions.  It  is  further  clarified  that  while  the  above  conditions  /  undertaking 
are  broad  and  general  in  nature,  compliance  with  the  above  conditions  does  not 
guarantee automatic exemption from open offer and all applications will be considered by 
the Takeover Panel and SEBI on a case to case basis. However, the processing time of 
applications where the above conditions are complied could be significantly faster. 

---xxx--- 

 

 

 

 

