 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      January 03, 2018 

CFD/DIL3/CIR/2018/2 
 
To 
 
All Listed Entities who have listed their equity and convertibles  
All the Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Schemes of Arrangement by Listed Entities and (ii) Relaxation under Sub-rule 

(7) of Rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957  

1.  SEBI  Circular  No.  CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21  dated  March  10,  2017  has  laid  down  the 

framework for Schemes of  Arrangement by Listed Entities and relaxation under Rule 

19 (7) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

2.  SEBI has received representations suggesting improvements to the existing regulatory 

framework governing scheme of arrangement. Considering the above and in order to 

expedite  the  processing  of  draft  schemes  and  to  prevent  misuse  of  schemes  to 

bypass regulatory requirements, it has been decided to make certain amendments to 

the  Circular  No.  CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21  dated  March  10,  2017,  as  provided  in  the 

Annexure. 

3.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of 

Listed Entities and also to disseminate the same on their websites. 

4.  This circular is issued under Section 11 of the SEBI Act, 1992 and Regulations 11, 37 

and  94  read  with  Regulation  101(2)  of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Rule 19(7) of Securities Contracts (Regulation) 

Rules, 1957. 

5.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Legal / Circulars”. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Narendra Rawat 
Deputy General Manager 
narendrar@sebi.gov.in 

 

Annexure 
 
Amendments  to  Circular  No.  CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21  dated  March  10,  2017  (‘the 
circular’) 
 
1.  Amendment to Para 7 

 

Para 7 of the circular shall be replaced with the following: 

 

“7. The Provisions of this circular shall not apply to schemes which solely provides for 
merger of a wholly owned subsidiary or its division with the parent company. However, 
such  draft  schemes  shall  be  filed  with  the  Stock  Exchanges  for  the  purpose  of 
disclosures  and  the  Stock  Exchanges  shall  disseminate  the  scheme  documents  on 
their websites.” 

 

2.  Insertion of Para (I)(A)(2A) 

Following Para shall be inserted after Para (I)(A)(2) of Annexure I to the circular: 

“The valuation report referred to in Para 2(b) above and the Fairness opinion referred 
to  in  Para  2(d)  above  shall  be  provided  by  Independent  Chartered  Accountant  and 
Independent  SEBI  Registered  Merchant  Banker 
respectively.  The  chartered 
accountant  and  the  merchant  banker  referred  herein  shall  not  be  treated  as 
independent in case of existence of any material conflict of interest among themselves 
or with the company, including that of common directorships or partnerships.” 

 

3.  Amendment to Para(I)(A)(3)(b) 

Para (I)(A)(3)(b) of Annexure I of the circular shall be replaced with the following: 

 

“The percentage of shareholding of pre-scheme public shareholders of the listed entity 
and the Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) of the unlisted entity, in the post  scheme 
shareholding pattern of the “merged” company on a fully diluted basis shall not be less 
than 25%.” 
 

4.  Deletion of Para (II) 

Para (II) of Annexure I to the circular shall stand repealed. 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 

 

5.  Amendment to Para(III)(A)(3) 

 

Para (III)(A)(3) of Annexure I of the circular shall be replaced with the following: 

“3.  In  case  of  a  scheme  involving  merger  of  a  listed  company  or  its  division  into  an 
unlisted  entity,  the  entire  pre-scheme  share  capital  of  the  unlisted  issuer  seeking 
listing shall be locked in as follows: 

(a) Shares held by Promoters up to  the  extent  of twenty  percent  of  the post-
merger paid-up capital of the unlisted issuer, shall  be  locked-in  for a period 
of three years from the date of listing of the shares of  the unlisted issuer; 

(b) The remaining shares shall be locked-in for a period of one year from the date 

of listing of the shares of the unlisted issuer.  

(c) No  additional  lock-in  shall  be  applicable  if  the  post  scheme  shareholding 
pattern of the unlisted entity is exactly similar to the shareholding pattern of the 
listed entity. 

Provided  that  the  shares  locked-in  under  this  clause  may  be  pledged  with  any 
scheduled commercial bank or public financial institution as collateral security for 
loan granted by such bank or institution if pledge of shares is one of the terms of 
sanction of the loan; 

Provided  further  that  the  shares  locked-in  under  this  clause  may  be  transferred 
‘inter-se’  among  promoters  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  specified  under 
Regulation 40 of ICDR Regulations. 

Provided further that shares presently under lock-in as per the provisions of earlier 
circulars shall also be governed by the provisions of this clause” 

 

6.  Deletion of Para (III)(A)(4) 

Para (III)(A)(4) of Annexure I to the circular shall stand repealed. 
 

7.  Amendment to Para(III)(A)(5) 

Para (III)(A)(5) of Annexure I of the circular shall be replaced with the following: 
 
“5. It shall be ensured that  steps for listing of specified securities are completed and 
trading in securities commences within sixty days of receipt of the order of the Hon’ble 
High  Court/  NCLT,  simultaneously  on  all  the  Stock  Exchanges  where  the  equity 
shares of the listed entity (or transferor entity) are/were listed. Before commencement 
of  trading,  the  transferee  entity  shall  give  an  advertisement  in  one  English  and  one 
Hindi  newspaper  with  nationwide  circulation  and  one  regional  newspaper  with  wide 
circulation at the place where the registered office of the transferee entity  is situated, 
giving following details:” 

 

********* 

Page 3 of 3 

 

