 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/MRD/DRMNP/008/2018  

 

All Recognised Clearing Corporations  

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub: Margin provisions for intra-day crystallised losses  

January   08, 2018 

1.  The margining system of Clearing Corporations currently levies margin based on 

net  buy  value  (Buy  –  Sales  value  of  underlying)  of  unsettled  trades  in  the  cash 

segment  and  based  on  the  net  open  positions  (Open  Interest)  in  the  derivatives 

segments. As such, the risk of crystallised obligations (Profit/Loss on trade) incurred 

due  to  intra-day  trades  does  not  get  fully  captured  in  the  margining  system  and 

consequently in the clearing corporation’s risk management system for the purpose 

of providing further exposure to the clearing member. 

2.  In this regard, the issue of risk arising out of accumulation of crystallised obligations 

incurred on account of intra-day squaring off of positions was discussed in SEBI’s 

Risk  Management  Review  Committee  meeting.  Based  on  the  recommendation  of 

the  Risk  Management  Review  Committee,  in  order  to  mitigate  such  risk,  the 

following has been decided: 

(a) The  intra-day  crystallised  losses  shall  be  monitored  and  blocked  by  Clearing 

Corporations  from  the  free  collateral  on  a  real-time  basis  only  for  those 

transactions  which  are  subject  to  upfront  margining.  For  this  purpose, 

crystallised losses can be offset against crystallised profits at a client level, if any.  

(b) If  crystallised  losses  exceed  the  free  collateral  available  with  the  Clearing 

Corporation, then the entity shall be put into risk reduction mode as specified in 

Para 7 of SEBI Circular no. CIR/MRD/DP/34/2012 dated December 13, 2012. 

(c)  Crystallised losses shall be calculated based on weighted average prices of trades 

executed.  

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(d) Adjustment of intraday crystallised losses shall not be done from exposure free 

liquid networth of the clearing member. 

3.  The recognised Clearing Corporations are advised to:- 

(a) implement the directions of this circular latest within three months from the date 

of issue of this circular. 

(b) bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of its clearing members and also 

to disseminate the same through their website ; and 

(c)  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  this  circular  in  the 

Monthly Development Reports to SEBI. 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors 

in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 

market. 

5.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Sanjay Purao 
General Manager 
Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

