 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/05                                                            January 05, 2018 
 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges (except Commodity Exchanges) 
All Depositories 
Issuers of debt securities/NCRPS  
Merchant Bankers and Brokers registered with SEBI 
Primary Dealers registered with RBI 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Electronic book mechanism for issuance of securities on private placement 
basis 

 

1.  SEBI vide circular No. CIR/IMD/DF1/48/2016 dated April 21, 2016, mandated usage 
of  electronic  book  mechanism  for  issuance  of  debt  securities  on  private  placement 
basis 

2.  Subsequently,  on  receiving  feedback  from  the  market  participants  to  further 
streamline  the  process,  SEBI  issued  a  consultation  paper  and  sought  public 
comments    on  the  matter.  On  the  basis  of  the  market  feedback  and  the  feedback 
received on SEBI consultation paper, it has been decided to make suitable revisions 
to the existing framework for Electronic Book Mechanism.  

3.  The revisions made to the existing framework are aimed  at further streamlining the 
procedure  for  private  placement  of  debt  securities,  allowing  private  placement  of 
other classes of securities which are in the nature of debt securities and enhancing 
transparency  in  the  issuance,  resulting  in  better  discovery  of  price.  The  revised 
guidelines for the Electronic Book Mechanism are placed at Schedule-A annexed to 
this circular. 

4.  This  circular  shall  come  in  to  force  with  effect  from  April  01,  2018  and  the  SEBI 
circular  CIR/IMD/DF1/48/2016  dated  April  21,  2016  shall  stand  repealed  from  the 
date of the enforcement of this circular.  

 

 

5.  Recognized Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

5.1. comply with the conditions laid down in this circular; 

5.2. put  in  place  necessary  systems  and  infrastructure  for  implementation  of  this 

circular; 

5.3. make  consequential  changes,  if  any,  to  their  bidding  portal  and  respective 

exchange bye-laws; and 

5.4. communicate  and  create  awareness  about  these  revised  guidelines  amongst 

issuers, arrangers and investors.  

6.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) read with 
regulation 31(2) of ILDS Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992. 

7.  This Circular is available on SEBI website at  www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Corp Debt Market”. 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.  Definition 

Schedule-A 

1.1. For the purpose of this circular, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms 
defined  herein  shall  bear  the  meanings  assigned  to  them  below  and  shall  be 
construed accordingly— 

1.1.1.  “Arranger”  means  a  SEBI  registered  Merchant  Banker,  broker  or  a  RBI 
registered Primary Dealer, who on behalf of the eligible participants bid on 
the EBP platform. 

Provided, that any of the aforesaid entities, prior to acting as an arranger 
in an issue, shall be authorized by the issuer to act as an arranger for that 
issue. 

1.1.2.   “Bidder” means eligible participant bidding on EBP platform. 

1.1.3.  “Cut  off  yield”  means  the  final  yield  so  determined  in  an  issue.  In  other 

words, it is the highest yield at which a bid is accepted.  

1.1.4.   “Eligible participant” means following: 

a)  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers  (QIBs),  defined  as  per  Regulation  2(zd)  of 

SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009.  

b)  Any  non-QIB 

investor 

including  arranger(s),  who/which  has  been 
authorized  by  the  issuer,  to  participate  in  a  particular  issue  on  EBP 
Platform. 

1.1.5.  "Electronic  Book  Provider"  or  "EBP"  means  a  recognized  stock 
exchange(s), which pursuant to obtaining approval from SEBI, provides an 
electronic platform  for private placement of securities. 

1.1.6.  "EBP Platform" or "Electronic Platform" means the platform provided by an 

EBP for private placement of securities. 

1.1.7.  “Estimated  cut  off  yield”  means  yield  so  estimated  by  the  issuer,  prior  to 

opening of issue 

1.1.8.  "Securities" for the purpose of this circular shall mean following: 

 

a) 

b) 

c) 

d) 

debt securities as defined under Regulation 2(e) of Issue and Listing of 
Debt Securities Regulations, 2008 (“ILDS Regulations” hereinafter);  

non-convertible  redeemable  preference  shares  ("NCRPS"  hereinafter) 
as defined under Regulation 2(k) of SEBI (Non-Convertible Preference 
Shares) Regulations, 2013 (“NCRPS Regulations” hereinafter); 

debt securities as defined under 2(e) of SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt 
Securities  by  Municipalities)  Regulations,  2015  ("ILDM  Regulations" 
hereinafter) 

'Commercial paper' and/or 'Certificate of Deposits' as defined under RBI 
guidelines 

1.1.9.  “Term  Sheet”  means  summary  of  important  terms  and  conditions  related 

to an issue. 

2.  Securities eligible for issuance on EBP Platform 

2.1. All  private  placement  of  debt  securities  and  NCRPS  as  per  the  provisions  of 
ILDS  and  NCRPS  Regulations,  respectively,  shall  be  required  to  be  made 
through EBP Platform if it is: 

2.1.1.  a  single  issue,  inclusive  of  green  shoe  option,  if  any,  of  Rs  200  crore  or 

more; 

2.1.2.  a shelf issue, consisting of multiple tranches, which cumulatively amounts 

to Rs 200 crore or more, in a financial year; 

2.1.3.  a subsequent issue, where aggregate of all previous issues by an issuer in 

a financial year equals or exceeds Rs 200 crore. 

2.2. An  issuer,  irrespective  of  issue  size,  if  desires,  may  choose  to  access  EBP 

platform for private placement of: 

2.2.1.  Debt securities as per provisions of ILDM Regulations 

2.2.2.  Commercial Paper; and 

2.2.3.  Certificate of Deposits.  

 

 

3.  Obligations of Issuer 

3.1. The  issuer,  to  the  extent  applicable,  shall  ensure  compliance  with  all  requisite 
laws,  rules,  regulations,  etc.  with  respect  to  private  placement  of  securities 
including  ensuring  compliance  with  Section  42  of  Companies  Act,  2013  and 
other relevant statutes. 

Provided  that,  an  issuer,  shall  consider  the  number  of  eligible  participants,  on 
whose  behalf  arranger  is  making  bid  in  a  particular  issue,  for  the  purposes  of 
compliance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  42  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  and 
other relevant statutes. 

3.2. Issuer  shall  provide  the  private  placement  Memorandum  (PPM)/  Information 
memorandum (IM) and term sheet to the EBP at least two working days prior to 
the start of issue opening date.  

3.3. The  issuers  shall  ensure  that  the  PPM/IM  and  the  term  sheet,  inter-alia, 

discloses following:- 

3.3.1.  Details of size of issue including green shoe option, if any.  

3.3.2.  Bid opening and closing date.  

3.3.3.  Minimum Bid Lot.  

3.4. The issuer may choose to disclose estimated cut off yield to the EBP, however 
the same has to be disclosed at least one hour prior to opening of the bidding for 
the issue. 

3.5. Subsequent to closure of the issue, the issuer shall provide  to the EBP, details 

of the issue in following manner: 

Table 1 

Details of Investors to whom allotment has been made 

Name   QIB/Non 

QIB 

Category 
i.e.  Scheduled  Commercial  Banks, 
Mutual Fund, Insurance Company, Pension Fund, 
Provident Fund, FPI, PFI, Corporate, Others.  

Amount 
invested  
(in Rs crore) 

 

 

 

 

 

3.6. Issuers, which have done private placement of debt securities  in terms of ILDS 
Regulations  or  ILDM  Regulations  or  private  placement  of  NCRPS  as  per 
NCRPS  regulation  and  for  whom  accessing  the  platform  is  not  mandatory  (in 
terms of para 2.2 above), shall also upload details of the issue in the format as 
prescribed at Table 1 above. The said information has to be uploaded with any 
one of the EBPs within one working day of such issuance. 

4.  Withdrawal of offer by an Issuer 

4.1. An  issuer,  at  its  discretion,  may  withdraw  from  the  issue  process  at  any  time, 
however  subsequent  to  such  withdrawal,  the  issuer  shall  not  be  allowed  to 
access  any  of  the  EBP  platform  for  a  period  of  7  days  from  the  date  of  such 
withdrawal.  

4.2. If an issuer withdraws from the issue because of any of the reasons as outlined 

below, provisions of clause 4.1 shall not be applicable: 

4.2.1.  issuer is unable to receive the bids upto base issue size; or 

4.2.2.  bidder  has  defaulted  on  payment  towards  the  allotment,  within  stipulated 
timeframe, due to which the issuer is unable to fulfill the base issue size; 
or 

4.2.3.  cutoff yield in the issue is higher than the estimated cut off yield disclosed 

to the EBP, where the base issue size is fully subscribed. 

4.3. Disclosure of estimated cut off yield by EBP to the eligible participants, pursuant 

to closure of issue, shall be at the discretion of the issuer.  

4.4. For issuers who have withdrawn the issue in terms of provisions of clause 4.2.3 
above, EBP shall mandatorily  disclose the  estimated cut off yield to the eligible 
participants.  

5.  Participants 

5.1. Participants, prior to entering into the bidding process shall be required to enroll 
with EBP. Such enrollment of a participant on an EBP will be  one time exercise 
and shall be valid till the time such enrolment is annulled or rescinded. 

5.2. The know your client (KYC) verification and enrolment of the eligible participants 

on the EBP platform shall be done in the following manner: 

 

5.2.1.  KYC  verification  shall  be  undertaken  by  obtaining/utilizing  existing  KYCs 
of clients from KRAs registered with SEBI or on the basis of the guidelines 
as prescribed by SEBI from time to time. 

5.2.2.  For  QIB  investors  bidding  directly  or  through  arranger(s),  KYCs  and 

enrolment shall be done by the EBP.  

5.2.3.  For Non QIB investors bidding directly, KYCs shall be done by the issuer 

and enrolment shall be done by the EBP; 

5.2.4.  For  Non  QIB  investors,  which  are  bidding  through  arranger(s),  KYC  and 

enrolment on EBP shall be ensured by arranger(s).  

5.3. All eligible participants shall have access to PPM/IM, term sheet and other issue 

specific information available on EBP.  

5.4. Eligible participants bidding on proprietary basis, for an amount equal to or more 
than  Rs.15  crore  or  5%  of  the  base  issue  size,  whichever  is  lower,  shall  bid 
directly i.e. shall enter the bids directly on EBP platform. 

Provided that the foreign portfolio investors may bid through their custodians. 

5.5. For bids made by an arranger for any particular issue, an arranger shall disclose 

following to the EBP at the time of bidding: 

5.5.1.  Specify that whether the bid is proprietary bid or is being entered on behalf 
of  an  eligible  participant  or  is  a  consolidated  bid  i.e.  an  aggregate  bid 
consisting of proprietary bid and bid(s) on behalf of eligible participants.  

5.5.2.  For consolidated bid, arranger shall disclose breakup between proprietary 
bid  and  bid(s)  made  on  behalf  of  eligible  participants.  Further,  for  bids 
entered on behalf of eligible participants, following shall be disclosed: 

a)  Names of such eligible participants; 

b)  category (i.e. QIB or non-QIB); and 

c)  quantum of bid of each eligible participant.  

5.6. An arranger shall not bid on behalf of eligible participants if the amount exceeds 

the limits as specified in clause 5.4 above.  

 

5.7. Pay-in towards the allotment of securities shall be done from the account of the 

bidder, to whom allocation is to be made. 

Provided that for the bids made by the arranger on behalf of eligible participants, 
pay-in  towards  allotment  of  securities  shall  be  made  from  the  account  of  such 
eligible participants. 

5.8. In case of non-fulfillment of bidding obligations by bidders, such bidders shall be 
debarred  from  accessing  the  bidding  platform  across  all  EBPs  for  a  period  of 
thirty days from the date of such default. 

5.9. Pay in shall be done through clearing corporation of Stock Exchanges. 

6.  Bidding Process 

6.1. Bidding timings & period 

6.1.1.  In  order  to  ensure  operational  uniformity  across  various  EBP  platforms, 
the bidding on the EBP platform shall take place between 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
only, on the working days of the recognized Stock Exchanges.  

6.1.2.  The bidding window shall be open for the period as specified by the issuer 
in the bidding announcement, however the same shall be open for atleast 
one hour. 

6.2. Bidding Announcement  

6.2.1.  Issuer shall make the bidding announcement on EBP at least one working 

day before initiating the bidding process.  

6.2.2.  Bidding  announcement  shall  be  accompanied  with  details  of  bid  opening 
and  closing  time,  and  any  other  details  as  required  by  EBP  from  time  to 
time.   

6.2.3.  Any change in bidding time and/ or date by the Issuer shall be intimated to 
EBP,  ensuring  that  such  announcement  is  made  within  the  operating 
hours of the EBP, atleast a day before the bidding date. 

Provided  that  such  changes  in  bidding  date  or  time  shall  be  allowed  for 
maximum of two times. 

 

6.3. Bidding & Allotment process 

6.3.1.  Bidding process on EBP platform shall be on an anonymous order driven 

system.  

6.3.2.  Bid  shall  be  made  by  way  of  entering  bid  amount  in  Rupees  (INR)  and 

coupon/ yield in basis points (bps) i.e. up to four decimal places. 

6.3.3.  Modification  or  cancellation  of  the  bids  shall  be  allowed  i.e.  bidder  can 

cancel or modify the bids made in an issue, subject to following: 

a)  such  cancellation/modification  in  the  bids  can  be  made  only  during 

the bidding period; 

b)  no cancellation of bids shall be permitted in the last 10 minutes of the 

bidding period;  

c)  in  the  last  10  minutes  of  the  bidding  period,  only  revision  allowed 
would for improvement of  coupon/yield and upward revision in terms 
of the bid size. 

6.3.4.  Multiple bids by a bidder shall not be permitted. 

Provided  that  an  arranger  making  multiple  bids,  where  each  bid  is  on 
behalf  of  different  investor(s),  the  aforesaid  provision  shall  not  be 
applicable. 

6.3.5.  The  bid  placed  in  the  system  shall  have  an  audit  trail  which  includes 
bidder’s  identification  details,  time  stamp  and  unique  order  number. 
Further  against  such  bids,  EBP  shall  provide  an  acknowledgement 
number.  

6.3.6.  All  the  bids  made  on  a  particular  issue,  should  be  disclosed  on  the  EBP 

platform on a real time basis in following format: 

 

 

 

 

 

Table 2 
Yield (%) 

Demand at that particular 
yield (in Rs. Crore) 

Cumulative Demand (in 
Rs. Crore) 

 

 

 

6.3.7.  Allotment  to  the  bidders  shall  be  done  on  yield  priority  basis  in  the 

following manner:- 

a)  All  the  bids  shall  be  arranged  in  the  ascending  order  of  the  yields, 

and a cut-off yield shall be determined. 

b)  All the bids below the cut-off yield shall be accepted and full allotment 

should be made to such bidders.  

c)  For  all  the  bids  received  at  cut-off  yield,  allotment  shall  be  made  on 

pro-rata basis. 

7.  Electronic Book Provider and its Obligations  

7.1. A recognized stock exchange identified to act as an EBP:-  

7.1.1.  shall provide an on-line platform for placing bids; 

7.1.2.  shall  have  necessary 

like  adequate  office  space, 
risk  management  capabilities,  manpower  and  other 
equipments, 
information technology infrastructure to effectively discharge the activities 
of an EBP; 

infrastructure 

7.1.3.  shall  ensure 

that 

the  private  placement  memorandum/information 
memorandum, term sheet and other issue related information is available 
to  the  eligible  participants  on  its  platform  immediately  on  receipt  of  the 
same from issuer; 

7.1.4.  has  adequate  backup,  disaster  management  and  recovery  plans  are 

maintained for the EBP; 

7.1.5.  shall ensure safety, secrecy, integrity and retrievability of data. 

7.2. The EBP platform so provided by the EBP shall be subject to periodic audit by 

Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA).  

 

7.3. EBP, shall make information related to the issue available on its website, in the 

format as under: 

Table 3 

Name of 
the 
issuer 

Date of 
the 
issuance 

Amount 
raised  
(Rs. In 
crore) 

No. of 
Investors 

Category 
of Investor  
(QIB/Non 
QIB) 

Tenor  
(In 
months) 

Coupon 
 

 
Credit 
Rating 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7.4. Obligations and duties 

7.4.1.  EBP  shall  ensure  that  all  details  regarding  issuance  is  updated  on  the 

website of the EBP.  

7.4.2.  EBPs shall together ensure that the operational procedure is standardized 
across all EBP platforms and the details of such operational procedure are 
disclosed on their website.  

7.4.3.  Where  an  issuer  has  disclosed  estimated  cut-off  yield/range  to  the  EBP, 
the  EBP  shall  ensure  its  electronic  audit  trail  and  secrecy.  Further,  the 
same shall be disclosed on EBP platform in terms of clause 4.3 and 4.4 of 
this circular. 

7.4.4.  All  EBPs  shall  ensure  coordination  amongst  themselves  and  also  with 
depositories  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  cooling  off  period  for  issuers  and 
debarment period for investors is adhered to.   

7.4.5.  EBP  shall  ensure  that  bidding  is  done  in  the  manner  as  specified  in  the 

provisions of this circular.  

7.4.6.  The  EBP  shall  be  responsible  for  accurate,  timely  and  secured  bidding 

process of the electronic bid by the bidders. 

7.4.7.  The  EBP  shall  be  responsible  for  addressing  investor  grievances  arising 

from bidding process. 

 

7.4.8.  EBP shall ensure that the pay-in of funds towards allotment of securities, 
placed  through  EBP  platform,  are  done  through  clearing  corporation 
mechanism. 

 

 

