 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2018/12   
 
To, 
 
1.  All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
2.  All  Recognized  Stock  Exchanges  in  International  Financial  Services  Centre 

January 22, 2018 

 

  

(IFSC) 

 

Sir / Madam, 

Sub.: Role of the Independent Oversight Committee for Product Design 

 
1.  SEBI  vide  its  circular  CIR/CDMRD/DEA/03/2015  dated  November  26,  2015, 
has prescribed “Timelines for compliance with various provisions of securities 
laws by commodity derivatives exchanges”. In the said circular, on the issue of 
oversight  committees,  SEBI  has  advised  all  the  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges as under- 
 

“21. Commodity derivative exchanges shall comply with the requirements of 
Regulation 29 read with Regulation 44D (1) (b) of SECC Regulations within 
three  months.  National  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  constitute 
an  oversight  committee  for  'Product  design',  chaired  by  a  Public  Interest 
Director, within three months.” 

 

2.  It is observed that the commodity derivatives exchanges have been adopting 
varied  approach  in  complying  with  the  above  requirement  both  in  the 
constitution and the functioning of such oversight committees. In order to bring 
uniformity with respect to the role of the oversight committee on product design, 
and  after  having  discussions  with  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  on  this 
issue,  it  is  decided  that  the functions  of  the  oversight  committee  for  ‘Product 
Design’ in all the commodity exchanges shall be as under- 

2.1. To oversee matters related to product design such as introduction of new 
products/contracts, modifications of existing product/contract designs etc. 
and review the design of the already approved and running contracts. 

2.2. To oversee SEBI inspection observation on Product Design related issues. 

Page 1 of 2 

2.3. To estimate the adequacy of resources dedicated to Product design related 

 

 

function. 
 

3.  The head(s) of department(s) handling the above matters shall report directly 
to the committee and also to the Managing Director. Any action of the Exchange 
against the aforesaid head(s) shall be subject to an appeal to the committee, 
within such period as may be determined by the governing board. 

 
4.  The recognized stock exchanges operating in the IFSC shall also be required 
to  constitute  an  oversight  committee  for  product  design  and  discharge  their 
functions enumerated at para ‘2’ and ‘3’ above. 
  

5.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from the 30 days from the 

date of the circular. 

 

6.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

ii. 

take  steps  to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws, 
rules and regulations for the implementation of the same. 
bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the members of the 
Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  
 

7.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 
8.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  
 

Page 2 of 2 

