                             

 

CIRCULAR 

 

                                             January 18, 2018 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/10 
 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges (except Commodity Exchanges) 
All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) 
All Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) 
All Parties to InvITs 
All Parties to REITs 
Merchant Bankers registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Participation by Strategic Investor(s) in InvITs and REITs 

1.  SEBI  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014  (“InvIT  Regulations”) 
define  strategic  investors  under  Regulation  2(1)(zza)  of  the  InvIT  Regulations  and 
allows  them  to  participate  in  InvITs.  Further,  SEBI  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts) 
Regulations,  2014  (“REIT  Regulations”)  vide  amendment  notification  dated 
December 15, 2017, inter-alia, define strategic investors  under Regulation 2(1)(ztb) 
of the REIT Regulations and allows them to participate in REITs. 

2.  In  this  regard  the  operational  modalities,  for  the  participation  by  the  strategic 

investors in InvITs and REITs shall be as under: 

2.1. An  InvIT/REIT,  if  chooses  to  invite  subscriptions  from  the  strategic  investors 

shall undertake the same in the following manner: 

i.  The strategic  investor(s) shall, either jointly  or severally, invest  not less than 

5% and not more than 25% of the total offer size.  

ii.  The investment manager or manager on behalf of the InvIT/REIT, shall enter 
into a binding unit subscription agreement with the strategic investor(s), which 
propose(s) to invest in the public issue of InvIT/REIT.  

iii.  Subscription  price  per  unit,  payable  by  the  strategic  investor(s)  shall  be  set 
out in the  unit subscription  agreement  and the  entire subscription  price shall 
be deposited in a special escrow account prior to opening of the public issue. 

 

1 

                             

 

 

iv.  The  price  at  which  the  strategic  investor(s)  has/have  agreed  to  buy  units  of 
the InvIT/REIT shall not be less than the issue price determined in the public 
issue. Thus, if the price determined in the public issue is higher than the price 
at  which  the  allocation  is  to  be  made  to  strategic  investor(s),  the  strategic 
investor(s) shall bring in the additional amount within two working days of the 
determination of  price in the public issue. However, if the price determined in 
the public issue is lower than the price at which the allocation is to be made to 
strategic  investor,  the  excess  amount  shall  not  be  refunded  to  the  strategic 
investor  and  the  strategic  investor  shall  take  allotment  at  the  price  at  which 
allocation was agreed to be made to it in unit subscription agreement. 

v.  The  draft  offer  document  or  offer  document,  as  applicable,  shall  disclose 
details of the unit subscription agreement. Such details shall include name of 
each strategic investor, the number of units proposed to be subscribed by it or 
the investment amount, proposed subscription price per unit, etc.  

vi.  The  unit  subscription  agreement  shall  not  be  terminated  except  in  the  event 

the issue fails to collect minimum subscription. 

2.2. The  units  subscribed  by  strategic  investors,  pursuant  to  the  unit  subscription 
agreement,  will be locked-in for a period of  180 days from the date of  listing in 
the public issue. 

3.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with  Regulation 33 of REIT 
Regulations and Regulation 33 of InvIT Regulations. 

4.  This Circular is available on SEBI website at  www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully, 

 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities  
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

2 

