भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2018/13 

 

 

 

January 29, 2018 

To, 
 
All Recognised Depositories 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Subject: Online Registration Mechanism and Filing System for Depositories 

1.  In  order  to  ease  the  process  of  application  for  recognition  /  renewal, 
reporting  and  other  filings  in  terms  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India(Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations,  1996  and  other  circulars 
issued  from  time  to  time,  SEBI  has  introduced  a  digital  platform  for  online 
filings related to Depositories. 

2.  All  applicants  desirous  of  seeking  registration  as  a  Depository  in  terms  of 
Regulation  3  of  the  Securities and Exchange Board of India(Depositories  and 
Participants)  Regulations,  1996,  shall  now  submit  their  applications  online, 
through SEBI Intermediary Portal at https://siportal.sebi.gov.in. 

3.  The  applicants  would  be  required  to  upload  scanned  copy  of  relevant 
documents  such  as  any  declaration  or  undertaking  or  not  arised  copy  of 
documents as may be prescribed in Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations 1996, and keep hard copy of the 
same to be furnished to SEBI whenever required. 

4.  Further,  all  other  filings  including  Annual  Financial  Statements  and  Returns, 
Monthly  Development Report,  Rules,  Bye-laws,  etc.,  shall  also  be  submitted 
online. 

5.  The  aforesaid  online  registration  and  filing  system  for  Depositories  is 
operational.  Recognised  Depositories  are  advised  to  note  the  same  for 
immediate compliance. 

Page 1 of 2 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
6.  Link  for  SEBI  Intermediary  Portal  is  also  available  on  SEBI  website  – 
www.sebi.gov.in. In case of any queries and clarifications, users may refer to 
the manual provided in the portal or contact the SEBI Portal helplin e on 022-
26449364 or may write at portalhelp@sebi.gov.in.  

7.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section 
11  (1)  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with 
Regulation 72 and 73  of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories 
and  Participants)  Regulations,  1996  to  protect  the  interest  of  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, the securities  
market. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Bithin Mahanta 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel: +91 22 26449634 
e-mail: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

