भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2018/14 

 

 

 

January 29, 2018 

To, 
 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Subject:  Online  Registration  Mechanism  and  Filing  System  for  Stock 
Exchanges 

1.  In  order  to  ease  the  process  of  application  for  recognition  /  renewal, 
reporting  and  other  filings  in  terms  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation) 
(Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations,  2012   and  other 
circulars  issued  from  time  to  time,  SEBI  has  introduced  a  digital  platform for 
online filings related to Stock Exchanges. 

2.  All applicants desirous of seeking registration / re newalas  a Stock Exchange 
in  terms  of  Regulation  4  and  12  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation) 
(Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations,  2012 ,  shall  now 
submit 
Intermediary  Portal  at 
https://siportal.sebi.gov.in. 

their  applications  online, 

through  SEBI 

3.  The  applicants  would  be  required  to  upload  scanned  copy  of  relevant 
documents such as any declarations, undertakings, etc. as may be specified 
in  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 
Corporations)  Regulations,  2012,  and  keep  hard  copy  of  the  same  to  be 
furnished to SEBI whenever required.  

4.  Further,  all  other  filings  including  Annual  Financial  Statements  and  Returns, 
Monthly  Development  Report,  Rules,  Bye-laws,  etc.,  shall  also  be  submitted 
online. 

Page 1 of 2 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
5.  The  aforesaid  online  registration  and  filing  system  for  Stock  Exchanges  is 
operational.  RecognisedStock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  note  the  same  for 
immediate compliance. 

6.  Link  for  SEBI  Intermediary  Portal  is  also  available  on  SEBI  website  – 
www.sebi.gov.in. In case of any queries and clarifications, users may refer to 
the manual provided in the portal or contact the SEBI Portal helplin e on 022-
26449364 or may write at portalhelp@sebi.gov.in.  

7.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exerc ise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section 
11  (1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with 
Regulation 50 and 51 of  Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges 
and  Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations,  2012to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate 
the securities market. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

BithinMahanta 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel: +91 22 26449634 
e-mail: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

