भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/43/2018         
 
To, 
 

1.  The listed entities 
2.  The recognised Stock Exchanges 

                       February 22, 2018 

 

 

Subject: Manner of achieving minimum public shareholding  

 

1.  Please refer to Circular No. CIR/CFD/CMD/14/2015 dated November 30, 2015 

on the captioned subject, which allowed for various methods that may be used 

by a listed entity to achieve compliance with the minimum public shareholding 

requirements  mandated  under  rules  19(2)  (b)  and  19A  of  the  Securities 

Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (“the SCRR”) read with regulation 38 of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  

 

2.  With a view to further facilitate listed entities to comply with the minimum public 

shareholding requirements, the following additional methods are allowed :-  

 

a)  Open  market  sale:  Sale  of  shares  held  by  the  promoters/promoter 

group up to 2% of the total paid-up equity share capital of the listed entity 

in  the  open  market,  subject  to  five  times’  average  monthly  trading 

volume of the shares of the listed entity;  

 

b)  Qualified  Institutions  Placement:  Allotment  of  eligible  securities 

through Qualified Institutions Placement in terms of Chapter VIII of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2009.  

 

Page 1 of 4 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

3.  Conditions for open market sale: 

a)  In  respect  of  the  method  mentioned  at  paragraph  2(a)  above,  the  listed 

entity  shall,  at  least  one  trading  day  prior  to  every  such  proposed  sale, 

announce the following  details to the stock exchange(s)  where  its shares  

are listed: 

i. 

the intention of the promoter/promoter group to sell and the purpose of 

sale;  

ii. 

the details of promoter(s)/promoter group, who propose to divest their 

shareholding;  

iii. 

total number of shares and percentage of shareholding proposed to be 

divested; and 

iv. 

the period within which the entire divestment process will be completed. 

 

b)  The  listed  entity  shall  also  give  an  undertaking  to  the  recognized  stock 

exchange(s)  obtained  from  the  persons  belonging  to  the  promoter  and 

promoter group that they shall not buy any shares in the open market on 

the dates on which the shares are being sold by promoter(s)/promoter group 

as stated above.  

c)  The  listed  entity,  its  promoter(s)  and  promoter  group  shall  ensure 

compliance  with  all  applicable  legal  provisions  including  that  of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 

Regulations, 2015 and Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 

Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.  

 

 

4.  Pursuant  to  the  above,  a  compilation  of  all  methods  allowed  for  achieving 

compliance  with  the  minimum  public  shareholding  requirements  is  placed  at 

Annexure for reference.   

 

 

Page 2 of 4 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

5.  This Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under sections 11 

and  11A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with 

regulations  38  and  101(2)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and shall 

supersede the Circular No. CIR/CFD/CMD/14/2015 dated November 30, 2015. 

 

6.  This  Circular  is  available  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  link  “Legal”  and 

“Circulars”. 

 

7.  The recognized Stock Exchanges are advised to disseminate the contents of 

this Circular on their website. 

 

 

 

Pradeep Ramakrishnan 

Deputy General Manager  

+91-22-26449246 

pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 4 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ANNEXURE 

In order to achieve the minimum level of public shareholding mandated under rules 

19(2)(b) and rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, a listed 

entity shall adopt any of the following methods :- 

 

i. 

Issuance of shares to public through prospectus;  

ii.  Offer for sale of shares held by promoters to public through prospectus;  

iii.  Sale of shares held by promoters through the secondary market in terms of 

Circular reference No. CIR/MRD/DP/18/2012 dated July 18, 2012;  

iv. 

Institutional Placement Programme (IPP) in terms of Chapter VIIIA of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2009;  

v.  Rights  Issue  to  public  shareholders,  with  promoter/promoter  group 

shareholders forgoing their entitlement to equity shares, that may arise from 

such issue;  

vi.  Bonus  Issues  to  public  shareholders,  with  promoter/promoter  group 

shareholders forgoing their entitlement to equity shares, that may arise from 

such issue;  

vii.  Sale of shares held by promoters/promoter group up to 2% of the total paid-

up  equity  share  capital  of  the  listed  entity  in  the  open  market,  subject  to 

conditions specified under this Circular;  

viii.  Allotment  of  eligible  securities  under  Qualified  Institutions  Placement  in 

terms of Chapter VIII of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 

Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009;  

ix.  Any  other  method  as  may  be  approved  by  the  Board  on  a  case  to  case 

basis.  For  this  purpose,  the  listed  entity  may  approach  the  Board  with 

appropriate details to obtain prior permission. The Board  would endeavor 

to communicate its decision within 30 days from the date of receipt of the 

proposal or the date of receipt of additional information as sought from the 

listed entity.  

****************** 

Page 4 of 4 

