 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2018/27   
 
All recognized Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations 

      

 

 

          February 20, 2018 

Dear Sir/Madam 
 
Computation of Daily Contract Settlement Value – Interest Rate Futures 
 
Kindly  refer  to  SEBI  circular  CIR/MRD/DRMNP/35/2013  dated  December  05,  2013 

and  circular  CIR/MRD/DRMNP//11/2015  dated  June  12,  2015  on  Exchange  Traded 

Cash Settled Interest Rate Futures (IRF) on Government of India security. 

2.  Based  on  the  consultations  held  with  the  stakeholders,  it  has  been  decided  to 

provide flexibility to the exchanges  with regards the computation  methodology of 

Daily  Contract  Settlement  Value  of  Interest  Rate  Futures.  Accordingly,  Para  8  of 

Annexure 1 to aforesaid SEBI circulars shall now read as follows: 

The Daily Contract Settlement Value shall be = Pw*2000 
 
(Here Pw is volume weighted average futures price of last half an hour). 
 
In  the  absence  of  last  half  an  hour  trading,  theoretical  futures  price  shall  be 
considered for computation of Daily Contract Settlement Value.  
 
For  computing  theoretical  futures  price,  volume  weighted  average  price  of 
underlying  bond  in  last  two  hours  of  trading on  NDS-OM  shall  be  considered.  In 
case, there are no trades in the last two hours of trading on NDS-OM, either of the 
following shall be considered:- 

 

A theoretical price with reference to FIMMDA rates shall be used. 

 

OR 

 

a)  The volume weighted average price of underlying bond in the entire day shall 

be considered. 

b)  In  case  there  are  no  trades  in  the  entire  day  on  NDS-OM,  then  the  previous 
day’s theoretical price shall be considered. The same can be considered up to 
maximum 5 trading days. 

c)  If case there are no trades for more than 5 consecutive days, then a theoretical 

price with reference to FIMMDA rates shall be used. 

Exchanges shall be required to disclose the model/methodology used for arriving 
at the theoretical price. 
 

3.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 

of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. 

Yours faithfully 

 

(Sanjay Purao) 
General Manager  
Market Regulation Department 
Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 

2 

 

