CIRCULAR  

 

    CIR/IMD/FPIC/47/2018 
 March 13, 2018 

    To, 

 

1.  All  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  ("FPIs")  through  their  Designated 

Depository Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities. 

2.  All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
3.  The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 

 
 Sir/ Madam,  
 
Subject: Clarifications in respect of investment by certain Category II FPIs  
 
I. 

This  is  in  reference  to  SEBI  circular  No.  CIR/IMD/FPIC/  26  /2018  dated 
February 15, 2018 regarding “Easing of access norms for investment by FPIs”.  

 
II. 

 

In  view  of  queries  from  stakeholders,  the following  clarifications  are  made  in 
respect of investment by certain category II FPIs:- 

(1) The  collective  investment  vehicle  of  private  banks/  merchant  banks 

investing on behalf of clients need to ensure the following:-  

 
a)  The client/ investor should have fulfilled know your client norms. The 
beneficial owners (BO) of client/ investor of bank should be identified 
in  accordance  with  Rule  9  of  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering 
(Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005. 
 

b)  The client/ investor or their BO should not be Resident Indian/ NRI/ 

Overseas Citizen of India.  
 

c)  The client/ investor is not resident in a country identified in the public 

statement of Financial Action Task Force as:- 
 

i.  a  jurisdiction  having  a  strategic  Anti-Money  Laundering  or 
Combating  the  Financing  of  Terrorism  deficiencies  to  which 
counter measures apply; or 

 
ii.  a  jurisdiction  that  has  not  made  sufficient  progress  in 
addressing the deficiencies or has not committed to an action 
plan developed with the Financial Action Task Force to address 
the deficiencies;  

d)  The client/ investor should not have opaque structure(s), as defined 
under Explanation 1 of Regulation 32(1)(f) of SEBI (Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) Regulations, 2014 or Bearer share structure.  
 

e)  The collective investment vehicle of the Bank (other than for ODIs) 
should  be  broad  based  (more  than  20  investors  and  no  investor 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

having more than 49% stake) and there should be common portfolio 
for all clients/ investors.  

f)  The conditions already specified at point (g) of SEBI circular dated 

February 15, 2018 shall continue to be applicable.  

 

 

(2) Presently,  appropriately  regulated  broad  based  insurance/  reinsurance 
companies  are  investing  proprietary  funds  and  for  unit  linked/  investment 
products. In this regard, it is clarified that investment in India by insurance/ 
reinsurance  companies  must  be  maintained  as  an  undivided  common 
portfolio.  Segregated  portfolio  or  investor/  policy-holder  level  investment 
structure shall not be permitted.  
 

(3) In respect of other appropriately regulated persons permitted as Cat. II FPIs 
viz.  asset  management  companies,  investment  managers/  advisers, 
Portfolio managers, Broker-dealer and Swap-dealer. It is clarified that:- 

  

(a) They are permitted to invest their proprietary funds,  

  

(b) These  appropriately  regulated  persons  by  taking  separate  registration 
can also invest with client funds as an ODI Issuing FPI or after fulfiling 
the  condition  of  being  broad  based  and  having  a  common  portfolio. 
However, asset management companies having thematic portfolios can 
also have segregated structure if each theme is broad based. 

 
(4) All  other  investment  restrictions  and  due  diligence  requirements  as 
applicable to FPIs shall continue to be applicable on entities referred at (1) 
to (3) above. 

This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of 
investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market.  
 

A copy of this circular is available at the links “Legal FrameworkCirculars” 
and “Info for F.P.I” on our website www.sebi.gov.in. The DDPs/Custodians 
are  requested to bring  the  contents  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of their  FPI 
clients. 
 

 

 

III. 

IV. 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
(Achal Singh) 

 

Page 2 of 2 

