 

  

           21 March, 2018 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2018/52          
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 

 

Sir / Madam, 
 
 
Sub: Risk Management norms for commodity derivatives  

 

 

 

Minimum Liquid Net-worth and Base Minimum Capital 
1.  SEBI  has  issued  various  circulars  from  time  to  time  prescribing  risk 
management norms for commodity derivatives exchanges. Post the transfer of 
clearing  and  settlement  functions  from  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  to 
Clearing Corporations, Clearing Corporations shall be required to comply with 
all such norms. However, norms related to minimum Liquid Net-worth and Base 
Minimum Capital requirements applicable for clearing members in commodity 
derivatives  are  different  from  that  applicable  for  clearing  members  in  equity 
derivatives and currency derivatives.  
 

2.  It  has  been  decided  to  align  norms  related  to  BMC  and  liquid  net-worth  for 
members  of  clearing  corporations  in  commodity  derivatives  with  those 
applicable  for  clearing  members  in  equity  and  currency  derivatives.  Thus, 
members  of  Clearing  Corporations  in  commodity  derivatives  segment  shall 
maintain a minimum Liquid Net-worth of at least INR 50 Lakhs at all points of 
time and shall not have any Base Minimum Capital requirement. 
 
(Clearing member’s liquid assets after adjusting for applicable margins shall be 
referred to as ‘Liquid Net-worth’ of the clearing member.  Initial  margins,  ELM,  
additional margins or any other margins as may be specified by SEBI from time 
to time shall  be  deducted  from  the  liquid  assets  of  a  clearing  member to 
arrive at ‘Liquid Net-worth’ of member). 
 

 

 

 

Acceptance of Fixed Deposit Receipts (FDRs) as collateral 
3.  SEBI  has  issued  circular  CIR/MRD/DRMNP/65/2016  dated  July  15,  2016  on 
“Acceptance  of  Fixed  Deposit  Receipts  (FDRs)  by  Clearing  Corporations”  to 
Recognised  Clearing  Corporations.  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  shall 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

also  comply  with  the  provisions  of  that  circular  within  three  months  from  the 
date of this circular. Thus, Trading/Clearing  members of commodity derivatives 
exchanges,  who  have  deposited their  own FDRs  or  FDRs  of associate 
banks, shall replace such collateral with other eligible collateral as per extant  
norms, within a  period  of three  months  from  the  date of  issuance  of  this 
circular. 

 
Margin provisions for intra-day crystallised losses 
4.  SEBI has issued circular CIR/MRD/DRMNP/008/2018 dated January 08, 2018 
on “Margin provisions for intra-day crystallised losses” to Recognised Clearing 
Corporations.  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  shall  also  comply  with  the 
provisions of that circular within three months from the date of this circular. 
 

5.  The  exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  
notice    of    their    members    and    also    to    disseminate    the    same    on    their  
website. 

 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 
7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Shashi Kumar 
General Manager  
Division of Risk Management and Products 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: shashikumarv@sebi.gov.in  
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 2 of 2 

