 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

CIR/CDMRD/DCE/CIR/P/2018/48           

 

 

           March 14, 2018 

 

 

To, 

The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
 
Sir/Madam, 

Subject:  Clarification  to  Circular  pertaining  to  Investor  Grievance  Redressal 
System and Arbitration Mechanism 

 

1.  SEBI vide circular no. CIR/CDMRD/DEICE/CIR/P/2017/77 dated July 11, 2017, has 

issued guidelines covering broad areas of Investor Grievance Redressal System and 
Arbitration Mechanism. 
 

2.  Subsequently,  SEBI  has  received  representations  from  the  national  commodity 
derivatives exchanges (NCDEs) with respect to some of the clauses of the said circular 
which have been considered. Accordingly, the following clarifications are being issued. 

  

i.  The NCDEs shall provide training of at least one day to every arbitrator each year.  

ii.  With  regard  to  para  2A(x)  of  the  aforesaid  circular  pertaining  to  speeding  up 
grievance  redressal  mechanism,  it  is  clarified  that  in  order  to  discourage  delayed 
filing  by  members,  the  additional  fees  payable  by  members  who  file  their  claim 
beyond  the  prescribed  time-lines  shall  be  non-refundable  even  if  the  arbitration 
award goes in favor of the member. 

3.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect immediately.  

 

4. The exchanges are advised to:- 

 
  make necessary amendments to relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of this circular. 

  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 

exchange  and also to disseminate the same on their website. 

 

Page 1 of 2 

  communicate to SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  

 

this circular. 

 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interests of investors in securities and to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

 

6.  The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Prasad Jagadale 
Deputy General Manager 
Division of Complaints against Exchanges 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
prasadj@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

