 

CIRCULAR 

 

CIR/CDMRD/DCE/CIR/P/2018/49           

 

 

          March 14, 2018 

 

To, 

The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
 
Sir/Madam, 

Subject: Clarification to Circular pertaining to Investor Protection Fund (IPF) and 
Investor Service Fund (ISF) 

 

1.  SEBI vide circular no. CIR/CDMRD/DEICE/CIR/P/2017/53 dated June 13, 2017, has 

issued guidelines covering broad areas of Investor Protection Fund and Investor 
Service Fund. 
 

2.  Subsequently,  SEBI  has  received  representations  from  the  national  commodity 
derivatives exchanges (NCDEs) for clarifications and consideration of their requests 
with respect to some of the clauses of the said circular. After examination thereof, the 
following clarifications are being issued. 

  

i.  It  is  clarified  that  the  unutilized  IPF  Interest  Income  accruing  during  a  specific 
financial year can be carried forward  to the next financial year to enable  effective 
utilization of such money by the exchanges during such extended period. 

ii.  NCDEs are hereby permitted to utilize IPF interest income for undertaking research 
activities  related  to  commodities  market,  provided  every  such  research  activity  / 
project can be undertaken only after obtaining prior written approval of the trustees 
of  the  IPF  Trust,  who  would  inter  alia,  record  the  reasons,  relevance  and  stated 
objectives of the research project while according approval to such activity/ project. 
Further,  the  Board  of  the  exchange  may  be  apprised  of  the  research  programs  / 
activities  being  undertaken  at  least  once  in  every  quarter  or  half  year  of  a  given 
financial year. 

There will be an overall cap on the total amount, not more than 10% of the interest 
amount of  IPF  which  can  be  spent  on  Research  activities  related to  commodities 
market. IPF shall frame a policy towards identifying / recognising public and private 
academic institutions, professional bodies, trade (physical market) associations and 

 

Page 1 of 2 

industry bodies / chambers through / with whom such Research  activities shall be 
undertaken / organised / sponsored. 
 

 

iii. Clause 7.3 of the circular no. CIR/CDMRD/DEICE/CIR/P/2017/53 dated June 13, 
2017 provided that the IPF of the exchange shall be utilized for the clients of SEBI 
registered members. In this connection, it is clarified that exchanges may also use 
the IPF of the exchange for meeting their liabilities towards the clients of members 
not registered with SEBI, if the same is allowed under the byelaws of the exchange.  

iv. SEBI has prescribed certain expenditures which are to be met utilizing the ISF and 
not IPF. However since ISF is of recent origin, its corpus may be inadequate. NCDEs 
have  therefore  requested  to  permit  utilizing  interest  on  IPF  in  lieu  of  ISF  for 
expenditures  meant  only  for  ISF.  Accordingly,  the  NCDEs  have  been  granted  3 
years period starting April 1st, 2018 to permit utilizing interest on IPF for activities of 
ISF also.  

 

3. The provisions of this circular shall come into effect immediately.  

 

4. The exchanges are advised to:- 

 
  make necessary amendments to relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of this circular. 

  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 

exchange  and also to disseminate the same on their website. 

  communicate to SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  

this circular. 

 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interests of investors in securities and to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

 

6.  The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Prasad Jagadale 
Deputy General Manager 
Division of Complaints against Exchanges 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
prasadj@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

