 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2018/51 
 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 

 

  

           March 20, 2018 

 

Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Spread margin benefit in commodity futures contracts 

 

 

 

 

 
1.  Vide  circulars  CIR/CDMRD/DRMP/01/2015  dated  October  01,  2015, 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/77  dated  September  01,  2016  and 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/130  dated  December  02,  2016,  SEBI 
has prescribed norms inter-alia for providing margin benefit on spread positions 
in commodity futures contracts.  
 

2.  Based  upon  proposals  from  Exchanges  and  recommendations  of  the  Risk 
Management Review Committee, following has been decided regarding margin 
benefit on spread positions: 

 

2.1. Exchanges  may  provide  spread  benefit  in  initial  margin  across  futures 
contracts  in  a  commodity  complex  provided  the  following  conditions  are 
met –  

  Minimum coefficient of correlation (r) between futures prices of the 

two commodities is 0.90. 

  Back testing for adequacy of spread margin to cover MTM has been 
carried  out  for  a  minimum  period  of  one  year  (back  testing  for  at 
least  250  days  wherein  daily  settlement  price  of  futures  used  for 
back testing have been determined from traded futures prices). 
Initial margin after spread benefit has been able to cover MTM on 
at least 99% of the days as per back testing. 

 

2.2. Maximum benefit in initial margin on spread positions is restricted to 50%. 
No benefit in ELM shall be provided for spread positions, i.e. ELM shall be 
charged  on  both  individual  legs.  Exchanges  are  free  to  charge  higher 
margins  depending  upon  their  risk  perception.  Margin  benefit  on  spread 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

positions shall be entirely withdrawn latest by the start of tender period or 
the start of the expiry day, whichever is earlier. 

2.3. To  be  eligible  for  initial  margin  benefit,  each  individual  contract  in  the 
spread shall be from amongst the first three expiring contracts in the two 
commodities only.  

2.4. Exchanges shall continuously monitor dynamics of the commodities and 
their correlation and if there are changes such that spread margin benefit 
is no longer appropriate to be given, shall take appropriate further course 
of action. 

2.5. In case of calendar spreads or spreads consisting of two contract variants 
having the same underlying commodity (wherein currently 75% benefit in 
initial margin is permitted) also, benefit in initial margin shall be permitted 
only when each individual contract in the spread is from amongst the first 
three expiring contracts. 

 

3.  The provisions of this circular shall be effective from July 01, 2018. 

 

4.  The  exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  
notice    of    their    members    and    also    to    disseminate    the    same    on    their  
website. 

 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 
6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Shashi Kumar 
General Manager  
Division of Risk Management and Products 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: shashikumarv@sebi.gov.in  
 

 

 
 

Page 2 of 2 

