 
 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP1/CIR/P/2018/54                            
 
To, 

 
All recognized Stock Exchanges, 

  

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

      March 22, 2018 

 Sub: Circular on Prevention of Unauthorised Trading by Stock Brokers 

  

I.  This    master    circular    consolidates    and    updates    the    requirements/obligations  
with  regard   to   Prevention of Unauthorised Trading by Stock Brokers prescribed 
by the following circulars: 
 

A.  CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/108 dated September 26, 2017 
B.  CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/124 dated November 30, 2017 
C.  CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2018/109 dated January 11, 2018 

 

Prevention of Unauthorised Trading by Stock Brokers 

 

II.  SEBI  in  the  past  has  taken  several  steps  to  tackle  the  issue  of  “Unauthorized 
Trades” viz Periodic Running Account Settlement, Post transactions SMS/email by 
exchanges/Depositories, Ticker on broker/DP websites etc. It was observed that in 
spite of measures taken, a considerable proportion of investor complaints is of the 
nature of “Unauthorized Trades”.  

 
III.  To further  strengthen  regulatory  provisions  against  un-authorized  trades and  also 
to  harmonise  the  requirements  across  markets,  it  has  now  been  decided  that  all 
brokers  shall  execute  trades  of  clients  only  after  keeping  evidence  of  the  client 
placing such order, which could be, inter alia, in the form of:   

a.  Physical record written & signed by client,  
b.  Telephone recording,  
c.  Email from authorized email id,  
d.  Log for internet transactions,  
e.  Record of messages through mobile phones,  
f.  Any other legally verifiable record.  

 

When a dispute arises, the broker shall produce the above mentioned records for 
the  disputed  trades.  However  for  exceptional  cases  such  as  technical  failure  etc. 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 
 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

where broker fails to produce order placing evidences, the broker shall justify with 
reasons  for  the  same  and  depending  upon  merit  of  the  same,  other  appropriate 
evidences  like  post  trade  confirmation  by  client,  receipt/payment  of  funds/ 
securities by client in respect of disputed trade, etc. shall also be considered. 
 

IV.  Further,  wherever  the  order  instructions  are  received  from  clients  through  the 
telephone,  the  stock  broker  shall  mandatorily  use  telephone  recording  system  to 
record the instructions and maintain telephone recordings as part of its records. 
 

V.  The Brokers are required to maintain the records  specified at Para III above for a 
minimum period for which the arbitration accepts investors’ complaints as notified 
from time to time currently three years. However in cases where dispute has been 
raised, such records shall be kept till final resolution of the dispute.  
 
If SEBI desires that specific records be preserved then such records shall be kept 
till further intimation by SEBI. 
 

VI. 

VII.  The  earlier  circulars  on  the  same  subject  mentioned  in  Para  1  of  this  Master 

Circular stand rescinded. 
 

VIII.  This master circular shall continue to be effective from 1st April 2018.  

 

IX.  The Stock Exchanges are directed to: 
 

a.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  Stock  Brokers 

and also disseminate the same on their websites. 

b.  make   necessary   amendments   to   the   relevant   bye-laws,   rules   and  
in  

regulations  
coordination  with  one  another  to  achieve uniformity in approach. 

the   above   directions  

for  

the 

implementation   of  

c.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions  of 

this circular in their Monthly Development Reports. 

X.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interest  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.  

Yours faithfully, 

  

Debashis Bandyopadhyay 

General Manager 

Page 2 of 2 

 

 

 

