CIRCULAR  

 

    IMD/ FPIC/CIR/P/2018/53    

 March 21, 2018 

    To, 

 

Designated Depository Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodians of Securities. 
 
Sir/ Madam,  
 
Subject: Due diligence and reporting requirements under Foreign Account Tax 
Compliance Act (FATCA) and Common Reporting Standards (CRS) 
 
1.  This is in continuation of SEBI circulars No. CIR/MIRSD/2/2015 dated August 26, 
2015 and No. CIR/MIRSD/3/2015 dated September 10, 2015  wherein SEBI has 
informed  all  intermediaries  regarding  due  diligence  and  reporting  requirements 
under Rules 114F to 114H of the Income- tax Rules (hereinafter referred as Rules) 
and  Guidance  Note  on  FATCA  and  CRS  issued  by  the  CBDT,  New  Delhi,  vide 
F.No.500/137/2011-FTTR-III 
at 
http://www.incometaxindia.gov.in/communications/notification/guidance_notes_o
n_implementation_31_08_2015.pdf) 
 

dated  August 

31, 

2015 

(Available 

2.  In  terms  of  Rule  114G(11),  the  regulators  are  required  to  issue  necessary 

instructions and guidelines from time to time for: 

a)  Incorporating the requirements of reporting and due diligence  
b)  Providing the procedure and manner of maintaining the information by the 

Reporting financial institution (RFI). RFI is defined in Rule 114F (7). 

c)  Ensuring  the  availability  of  the  information  with  the  reporting  financial 
institution  for  meeting  its  reporting  obligation,  if  such  information  is  not 
maintained by it under any rule or regulation issued by the regulator 
 

3.  Accordingly,  all  RFIs  are  advised  to  take  following  necessary  steps  to  ensure 
compliance with requirements specified in the aforesaid rules for carrying out the 
necessary due-diligence and reporting for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs):- 

i.  Obtain  valid  self-certifications/  FATCA  and  CRS  declaration  forms  with 
documentary  evidence  as  part  of  the  account  opening  documentation  in 
relation  to  FATCA/  CRS  as  specified  in  Rule  114H.  Indicative  self-
certifications for individuals and entities are provided as Appendix D and E 
in the Guidance Note on FATCA and CRS.   

ii. 

In accordance with CBDT clarification dated February 19, 2016, Custodians 
are required to carry out the due diligence on the accounts held by Global 
Custodian  (GC)  end-clients.  However,  for  carrying  out  due  diligence,  the 
Custodian may rely on the FATCA/CRS documentation done by GC for the 
account holders including the self-certification. Further, it may be clarified 
that  the  obligations  for  due  diligence  and  reporting  remain  that  of  the 

 

Page 1 of 2 

Custodian who should also be able to access all documents in relation to 
an account holder. 

iii.  Create a process/system to capture and validate the information collected 

through valid FATCA/ CRS declaration forms. 

iv.  Develop  framework  for  carrying  out  due  diligence  procedures  and  for 

maintaining reporting information, as provided in Rule 114G and 114H  

v. 

Furnish  the  relevant  information  in  Form  61B  in  respect  of  the  identified 
reportable  accounts  as  defined  in  Rule  114F(6)  on  or  before  the  date 
prescribed in accordance with sub-rules (7), (8) and (9) of Rule 114G for 
every calendar year. 

vi.  Develop a system of audit for compliance with Rules 114F, 114G and 114H 

of Income-tax rules. 

vii.  Ensure compliance with updated rules/ circulars/ notifications/ instructions/ 
/  guidance  notes  issued  on  the  subject by  Central  Board  of  Direct  Taxes 
(CBDT) from time to time. 

 

4.  RFIs are required to certify to SEBI on annual basis regarding compliance with the 
provisions of Rules 114F to 114H of Income-tax rules relating to FATCA / CRS. 
This certificate would be a part of the audit report on internal controls submitted to 
SEBI annually. 

 

5.  DDPs  should  grant  registration  to  a  foreign  Portfolio  Investor  (FPI)  only  after 
obtaining valid self-certification/FATCA/CRS declaration forms. DDPs shall submit 
a certificate in respect of new registration(s) granted during every month at the end 
of  the  month that all  due–diligence  procedures,  including  obtaining  of  valid  self-
certification/ FATCA/ CRS declaration, have been followed before granting the said 
registration to FPI. 

6.  During inspection of DDPs/ Custodians, SEBI will examine the compliance  with, 
inter-alia, the requirement of certificate to SEBI regarding self-certification and due-
diligence at the time of new registration.  

7.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market read with Rule 114G(11) of Income Tax Rules.  

8.  A copy of this circular is available at the links “Legal FrameworkCirculars” and 
“Info  for  F.P.I”  on  our  website  www.sebi.gov.in.  The  DDPs/Custodians  are 
requested to bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FPI clients. 
 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
(Achal Singh) 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449619 
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

 

 

 

 

