 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2018/50                 

 

     March 15, 2018 

To 

All Stock Exchanges (other than Commodity Exchanges); 
All Clearing Corporations; 
All Depositories; 
All Designated Depository Participants (DDPs) through Depositories; 
All Custodians of Securities; 
All Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) through their DDPs. 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Revision of limits relating to requirement of underlying exposure for 

currency derivatives contracts  

This is further to SEBI circular no. CIR/MRD/DP/20/2014 dated June 
20, 2014, wherein, limits were specified for the USD-INR, EUR-INR, GBP-
INR  and  JPY-INR  currency  derivatives  contracts  beyond  which  market 
participants  were  required  to  establish  proof  of  underlying  exposure  and 
SEBI circular no. CIR/MRD/DP/4/2015 dated April 08, 2015, wherein such 
limits were reviewed. 

2. 
RBI vide A.P. (DIR Series) Circular no. 18 dated February 26, 2018 
has revised the limits beyond which market participants would be required 
to establish underlying exposure in the currency derivatives segment. Copy 
of the RBI circular is enclosed for reference.  

Accordingly,  it  has  been  decided  to  modify  the  circular  no. 

3. 
CIR/MRD/DP/04/2015 dated April 08, 2015 as under: 

(a) Domestic clients / Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) may take long or 
short  positions  without  having  to  establish  existence  of  underlying 
exposure, upto a single limit of USD 100 million equivalent, across all 
currency pairs involving INR, put together, and combined across all 
the stock exchanges. 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(b) FPIs  shall  ensure  that  their  short  positions  at  all  stock  exchanges 
across all contracts in FCY-INR pairs do not exceed USD 100 million. 

(c) In the event a FPI breaches the short position limit, stock exchanges 
shall  restrict  the  FPI  from  increasing  its  existing  short  positions  or 
creating  new  short  positions  in  the  currency  pair  till  such  time  FPI 
complies with the said requirement. 

(d) To take long positions in excess of USD 100 million in all contracts in 
FCY-INR pairs, FPIs shall be required to have an underlying exposure 
in Indian debt or equity securities, including units of equity/debt mutual 
funds. 

(e) Domestic clients may take positions in excess of USD 100 million in 
in all contracts in FCY-INR pairs, subject to the conditions specified in 
the RBI A.P. (DIR Series) Circular no. 147 dated June 20, 2014 and 
RBI A.P. (DIR Series) Circular no. 90 dated March 31, 2015. 

4. 
The onus of complying with the provisions of the RBI A.P. (DIR Series) 
Circular no. 18 dated February 26, 2018 shall rest with the client / FPI and 
in case of any contravention, the client shall render itself liable to any action 
that may be  warranted by RBI as per the provisions of Foreign Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 and Regulations, Directions, etc. framed thereunder. 
These  limits  shall  be  monitored  by  stock  exchanges  and/or  clearing 
corporations  and  breaches,  if  any,  shall  be  reported  to  the  Market 
Surveillance  Team  of  Financial  Markets  Regulation  Department  (FMRD), 
RBI. In this regard, stock exchanges / clearing corporations  shall devise a 
suitable  mechanism  to  monitor  the  aforesaid  limits,  subject  to  appropriate 
regulatory concurrence. 

This Circular shall supersede SEBI circular no. CIR/MRD/DP/4/2015 

5. 
dated April 08, 2015. 

6. 
All other requirements, terms and conditions, as specified vide SEBI 
circular  no.  CIR/MRD/DP/20/2014  dated  June  20,  2014,  shall  remain 
unchanged. 

7. 

Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations are directed to:  

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(a) take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation 
of the circular, including necessary amendments to the relevant 
bye-laws, rules and regulations; 

(b) bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock 

brokers / clearing members and also disseminate the same on 
their website;  

(c) communicate to SEBI the status of implementation of the 

provisions of this circular.  

8. 
This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under 
Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to 
protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

Yours faithfully,  

 
Susanta Kumar Das 
Deputy General Manager  
email: susantad@sebi.gov.in 

Enclosure: 

(i)  Reserve Bank of India A.P. (DIR Series) Circular no. 18 dated February 
26,  2018  on  ‘Risk  Management  and  Inter-bank  Dealings:  Revised 
Guidelines relating to participation of Residents & Non-Residents in the 
Exchange Traded Currency Derivatives (ETCD) Market’. 

Page 3 of 3 

