 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/CIR/P/2018/58                                                                       

March 26, 2018  

 
To 
 
All Investor Associations recognized by SEBI 
All  Companies  whose  securities  are  listed  on  SEBI  recognized  Stock  Exchanges   
(Through the Stock Exchanges) 
All recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories  
All Registered Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI)  
All  Intermediaries  registered  with  SEBI  (Through  the  Stock  Exchanges  for  Stock   
Brokers  and  Sub  Brokers,  Depositories  for  Depository  Participants,  AMFI  for  Mutual   
Funds and Asset Management Companies)  
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Subject:  Investor grievance redress mechanism – new policy measures 
 
1.  This circular is being issued in continuation to SEBI circular no. CIR/OIAE/1/2014 dated 18th 
December,  2014  regarding  redressal  of  investor  grievances  through  SEBI  Complaints 
Redress System (SCORES) platform. 

 

2.  SCORES is a web based centralized system to capture investor complaints against listed 
companies and registered intermediaries and is available 24x7. It was introduced on June 8, 
2011 and has been facilitating redressal of investor grievances in a speedy manner. 

 
3.  SEBI  encourages  investors  to  lodge  complaints  through  electronic  mode  in  SCORES. 
However, complaints received from investors in physical form are also digitized by SEBI and 
uploaded in SCORES. Thereafter, follow-up actions of the complaint are done in electronic 
form  only  i.e.  through  SCORES.  Investors  can  easily  access,  retrieve  and  preserve  the 
complaints lodged by them in electronic mode. Further, it enhances the turnaround time and 
speed of redressal of a complaint. 
 

4.  Investors may contact the Investor Associations (IAs) recognized by SEBI for any assistance 
in filing  complaints  on  SCORES.  The  lists  of  Investor  Associations  are  available  on  SEBI 
website  (www.sebi.gov.in).  Investors  may  also  seek  assistance  in  filing  complaints  on 
SCORES from SEBIs toll free helpline number 1800 266 7575 or 1800 22 7575. 
 

5.  SEBI has received inputs from listed companies and intermediaries that investor grievances 
can  be  resolved  faster  if  the  grievance  been  taken  up  directly  with  the  entity  at  the  first 
instance. Accordingly, it appears to be prudent and time saving if the investors approach the 
concerned  listed  company  or  registered  intermediary  first  with  all  the  requisite  details  to 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 

redress the complaints. In case, the listed company or registered intermediary fails to redress 
the complaint to the investor’s satisfaction, the investor may file a complaint in SCORES. 
 

6.  At present following types of complaints are not dealt through SCORES: 

 
i.  Complaints  against  the  companies  which  are  unlisted/delisted,  in  dissemination 

board of Stock Exchanges, 

ii.  Complaints those are sub-judice i.e. relating to cases which are under consideration 

by court of law, quasi-judicial proceedings etc. 

iii.  Complaints  falling  under  the  purview  of  other  regulatory  bodies  viz.  RBI,  IRDAI, 

PFRDA, CCI, etc., or under the purview of other ministries viz., MCA, etc. 

iv.  Complaints  against  a  sick  company  or  a  company  where  a  moratorium  order  is 

passed in winding up / insolvency proceedings. 

v.  Complaints  against the companies where the name of company is  struck off from 

RoC or a vanishing company as per list published by MCA. 

vi.  Suspended companies, companies under liquidation / BIFR / etc. 

 

7.  To enhance investor satisfaction on complaint redressal, SEBI has already put in place a 
‘Complaint  Review  facility’  under  SCORES  wherein  an  investor  if  unsatisfied  with  the 
redressal may within 15 days from the date of closure of his complaint in SCORES opt for 
review of the complaint and the complaint shall be escalated 

 

8.  Effective from August 01, 2018, following procedure shall be followed for filing and redressal 

of investor grievances using SCORES: 
 

a.  Investors who wish to lodge a complaint on SCORES are requested to register 
themselves on www.scores.gov.in by clicking on “Register here”. While filing the 
registration form, details like Name of the investor, PAN, Contact details, Email 
id, Aadhaar card number(optional), CKYC ID(optional)   etc. (Annexure A) may 
be provided for effective communication and speedy redressal of the grievances. 
Upon  successful  registration,  a  unique  user  id  and  a  password  shall  be 
communicated to the investor through an acknowledgement email / SMS.  
 

b.  An investor shall use login credentials for lodging complaint on SCORES (“Login 
for registered user” section). Details on how to lodge a complaint on SCORES is 
at Annexure B. 
 

c.  The  complainant  may  use  SCORES  to  submit  the  grievance  directly  to 
companies / intermediaries and the complaint shall be forwarded to the entity for 
resolution. The entity is required to redress the grievance within 30 days, failing 
which the complaint shall be registered in SCORES 
 

d.  Presently, the limitation period for filing an arbitration reference with stock exchanges 
is three year. In line with the same and in order to enhance ease, speed & accuracy 
in redressal of investor grievance, the investor may lodge a complaint on SCORES 
within three years from the date of cause of complaint, where; 

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

Investor  has  approached  the  listed  company  or  registered  intermediary  for 
redressal of the complaint and, 
 
The concerned listed company or registered intermediary rejected the complaint 
or, 
 
The complainant does not receive any communication from the listed company or 
intermediary concerned or, 
 
The complainant  is not satisfied with the reply given to him or redressal action 
taken by the listed company or an intermediary. 

 
9.  Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories  and  the  Association  of  Mutual  Funds  of  India  (AMFI)  are 
accordingly  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  Circular  to  the  notice  of  all  Listed 
Companies,  registered  Stock-Brokers,  Depository  Participants  and  Asset  Management 
Companies respectively and also to disseminate the same on their websites. Further, Stock 
Exchanges, Depositories and AMFI should also arrange for adequate publicity of this Circular 
on an urgent basis. 
 

10. This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in securities and 
to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

11. This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category  “Legal 

/Circulars”. 

                          
                                                                          

 

 Yours faithfully, 
 
Medha Sonparote 
Deputy General Manager 

Office of Investor Assistance and Education                         

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 5 

 

Annexure A 

Details to be provided while registering on SCORES with effect from August 01, 2018: 
 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 
vi. 
vii. 
viii. 
ix. 
x. 

Name of the complainant* 
Pan Number* 
Aadhaar Number (Optional) 
CKYC ID  (Optional) 
DP id & Client Id 
Postal address for communication* 
Contact number – Mobile* :  Landline 
Email id* – For receipt of acknowledgement letter / updates of complaints on SCORES. 
Bank account details – To facilitate direct credit of benefits to investor. 
Client id as given by Broker / Stock Exchange. 
 

Note: * are mandatory fields. 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 5 

How to lodge a complaint on SCORES with effect from August 01, 2018. 

 

Annexure B 

 

 

CLICK 

CLICK 

Enter  

TYPE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
CLICK 

 

 

SCORES Portal 

http://www.scores.gov.in/ 

User Registration 

(Under “Register Here”) 

Press submit to complete the registration.  

An Email/ SMS informing User ID and Password will be sent to investor.  

  

(As per nature of complaint) 

Login to SCORES and Click on 

“Complaint Registration” 

 Details like Period of cause of event, Date of grievance taken up with the entity, 
address of direct complaint to the entity, Share certificate number / folio number etc. 

Complaint details in brief 

(1000 charcters) 

 

 

 

 

 
Upload supporting documents 

(upto 2 MB in PDF format) 

 

Add 

Enter 

Character shown in image 

CLICK 

 

Submit 

Complaint Registration Number is generated and sent to 

email id and to mobile number of the complainant.  

Page 5 of 5 

