 

 

March 26, 2018 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2018/55   
 
To, 
 
All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 

 

Sir / Madam, 

Sub.: Guidelines for Liquidity Enhancement Schemes (LES) in Commodity 
Derivatives Contracts 

 
1.  SEBI  vide  its  circular  CIR/MRD/DP/14/2014  dated  April  23,  2014,  has 
prescribed  revised  guidelines  for  Liquidity  Enhancement  Schemes  (LES)  in 
Equity Cash and Equity Derivatives segments. 
 

2.  Based upon feedback from exchanges, it has been decided to permit LES in 
commodity  derivatives  contracts  subject  to  the  requirements  stipulated  vide 
abovementioned SEBI Circular dated April 23, 2014. 

 

3.  In  addition  to  the  conditions  and  other  requirements  stipulated  in  the 
abovementioned circular, with regard to the eligibility of commodity derivatives 
contracts for LES, following additional requirements shall apply:- 

 

3.1.  Any  commodity  that  is  classified  as  ‘Sensitive  Commodity’  by  the 

Exchange, shall not be eligible for LES. 

 

3.2. If any commodity derivative product is 'liquid' on any of the exchanges  i.e. 
there  is  at  least  one  exchange  where  the  average  daily  turnover  in 
Options or/and Futures on similar underlying commodity is  more than or 
equal  to  INR  200  crore  for  agricultural  and  agri-processed  commodity, 
and  INR  1000  crore  for  non-agricultural  commodity  during  the  last  six 
months,  then  no  other  exchange  is  eligible  to  launch  LES  on  the  same 
derivative  product,  unless  the  exchange  where  the  product  is  liquid,  has 
itself also launched a LES on said  product. 

 
 
 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

3.3. For the present, schemes which incentivise brokers based on activation of 
new UCC (Unique Client Codes), number of trades or open interest shall 
not be permissible under LES. 
 

3.4. Exchanges  shall  put  in  place  a  mechanism  to  ensure  that  the LES  does 
not create artificial volumes, does not take away liquidity form the market, 
is not manipulative in nature and shall not lead to misselling of the product 
in the market. 

 

4.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  come  into  effect  from  the  date  of  the 

circular. 

 

5.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

ii. 

take  steps  to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws, 
rules and regulations for the implementation of the same. 
bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the members of the 
Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  
 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 
7.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

