 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/61     

April 05, 2018 

 
To 
 
1.  All Foreign Portfolio Investors (through their designated Custodian of Securities)  
2.  The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 
3.  The Stock Exchanges (BSE,NSE and MSEI) 

 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Monitoring of Foreign Investment limits in listed Indian companies 

1.  Foreign Investment in India is regulated in terms of clause (b) of sub-section 3 of section 6 and 
section 47 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA) read with Foreign Exchange 
Management (Transfer or Issue of a Security by a Person resident Outside India) Regulations, 
2017  issued  vide  Notification  No.  FEMA  20(R)/2017-RB  dated  November  7,  2017.  FEMA 
prescribes the various foreign investment limits in listed Indian companies. These include  the 
aggregate FPI limit, the aggregate NRI limit and the sectoral cap. The RBI Master Direction (FED 
Master  Direction  No.  11/2017-18)  dated  January  04,  2018  provides  a  compilation  of  the 
instructions issued on Foreign Investment in India and its related aspects under FEMA.     
 

2.  As  per  FEMA,  the  onus  of  compliance  with  the  various  foreign  investment  limits  rests  on  the 
Indian company. In order to facilitate the listed Indian companies to ensure compliance with the 
various foreign investment limits, SEBI in consultation with RBI has decided to put in place a new 
system for monitoring the foreign investment limits. The architecture of the new system has been 
explained in Annexure A.  

 
3.  The  depositories  (NSDL  and  CDSL)  shall  put  in  place  the  necessary  infrastructure  and  IT 
systems  for  operationalizing  the monitoring  mechanism  described  at  Annexure  A. The  Stock 
Exchanges  (BSE,  NSE  and  MSEI)  shall  also  put  in  place  the  necessary  infrastructure  and  IT 
systems  for  disseminating  information  on  the  available  investment  headroom  in  respect  of 
listed Indian companies.  
 

4.  The depositories shall issue the necessary circulars and guidelines for collecting data on foreign 
investment from listed companies. The system for collecting this data from the companies shall 

Page | 1  

 

go live on the date of the issuance of this circular. The companies shall provide the necessary 
data (details of which have been mentioned in Annexure A) to the depositories latest by April 
30, 2018.  
 

 

5.  The new system for monitoring foreign investment limits in listed Indian companies shall be 
made  operational  on  May  01,  2018.  The  existing  mechanism  for  monitoring  the  foreign 
investment limits shall be done away with  once the new system is operationalized. RBI shall 
issue the necessary guidelines in this regard.  

 
This circular  is  issued  in exercise of  powers  conferred  under Section  11  (1)  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  at  the  web  page  “Circulars”  on  our  website  www.sebi.gov.in. 
Custodians are requested to bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FPI clients. 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 
ACHAL SINGH 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449619 
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page | 2  

 

 

 
Architecture of the System for Monitoring Foreign Investment Limits in listed Indian 

Annexure A 

 

companies 

 
Housing of the System 
 
1.  The  system  for  monitoring  the  foreign  investment  limits  in  listed  Indian  companies  shall  be 

implemented and housed at the depositories (NSDL and CDSL). 

 
Designated Depository 

 

2.  A  Designated  Depository  is  a  depository  which  has  been  appointed  by  an  Indian  company  to 
facilitate  the  monitoring  of  the  foreign  investment  limits  of  that  company.    As  defined  at 
Regulation 2(xxiii) of FEMA, the term ‘Indian company’ means a company incorporated in India 
and registered under the Companies Act, 2013. 
 

3.  The Designated Depository shall act as a lead depository and the other depository shall act as a 

feed depository.  

 
Company Master 
 
4.  The company shall appoint any one depository as its Designated Depository for the purpose of 

monitoring the foreign investment limit.  
 

5.  The stock exchanges (BSE, NSE and MSEI) shall provide the data on the paid-up equity capital 
of an Indian company to its Designated Depository. This data shall include the paid-up equity 
capital of the company on a fully diluted basis. As defined at Regulation 2(xvii) of FEMA, the 
term  “fully  diluted  basis”  means  the  total  number  of  shares  that  would  be  outstanding  if  all 
possible sources of conversion are exercised. 
 

6.  The depositories shall provide an interface wherein the company shall provide the following 

information to its Designated Depository: 
 

i.  Company Identification Number (CIN) 
ii.  Name 
iii.  Date of incorporation 
iv.  PAN number 
v.  Applicable Sector 
vi.  Applicable Sectoral Cap 
vii.  Permissible Aggregate Limit for investment by FPIs 
viii.  Permissible Aggregate Limit for investment by NRIs  

 

Page | 3  

 

 

ix.  Details of shares held by  FPI, NRIs and other foreign investors,  on repatriable basis, in 

demat as well as in physical form  

x.  Details of indirect foreign investment which are held in both demat and physical form 
xi.  Details of demat accounts of Indian companies making indirect foreign investment in the 

capital of the company 

xii.  Whether the Indian company that has total foreign investment in it , is either not owned 
and  not  controlled  by  resident  Indian  Citizens  or  is  owned  or  controlled  by  person’s 
resident outside India (Yes or No) 

xiii.  ISIN-wise details of the downstream investment in other Indian companies 
 
The information provided by the companies shall be stored in a Company Master database. The 
Designated Depository, if required, may seek additional information from the company for the 
purpose of monitoring the foreign investment limits. The companies shall ensure that in case of 
any  corporate  action,  the  necessary  modification  is  reflected  immediately  in  the  Company 
Master database. 
 

7.  In  the  event  of  any  change  in  any  of  the  details  pertaining  to  the  company,  such  as 
increase/decrease of the aggregate FPI/NRI limits or the sectoral cap or a change of the sector 
of  the  company,  etc.  the  company  shall  inform  such  changes  along  with  the  supporting 
documentation to its Designated Depository. Such documentation may include: 

 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 

Board of Directors resolution approving the increase/decrease 
General body resolution approving the increase/decrease 
Company Secretary certificate for compliance with FEMA, 1999 

 
 
Reporting of trades 
 
8.  At present, as per SEBI guidelines, the custodians are reporting confirmed trades of their FPI 
clients to the depositories on a T+1 basis. This reporting shall continue and the data shall be the 
basis of calculating FPI investments/holding in Indian companies.  
 

9.  With  respect  to  NRI  (repatriable)  trades,  Authorized  Dealer  (AD)  Banks  shall  report  the 
transactions  of  their  NRI  clients  to  the  depositories.  The  AD  Banks  shall  be  guided  by  the 
circulars issued by RBI in this regard.  

 
Activation of a Red Flag Alert  
 
10. The monitoring of the foreign investment limits shall be based on the paid-up equity capital of 
the company on a fully diluted basis to ensure that all foreign investments are in compliance 
with the foreign investment limits. 
  

 

Page | 4  

11. A red flag shall be activated whenever the foreign investment within 3% or less than 3% of the 

 

aggregate NRI/FPI limits or the sectoral cap. This shall be done as follows : 
 
Aggregate NRI investment limit in the company 

 

11.1.  The  system  shall  calculate  the  percentage  of  NRI  holdings  in  the  company  and  the 
investment headroom available as at the end of the day with respect to the aggregate NRI 
investment limit 

11.2.  If the available headroom is 3% or less than 3% of the aggregate NRI investment limit, a 

red flag shall be activated for that company.  

11.3.  Thereafter,  the  depositories  and  exchanges  shall  display  the  available  investment 
headroom, in terms of available shares, for all companies for which the red flag has been 
activated, on their respective websites. 

11.4.  The data on the available investment headroom shall be updated on a daily end-of-day 

basis as long as the red flag is activated.  

Aggregate FPI investment limit of the company 

 

11.5.  The  system  shall  calculate  the  percentage  of  FPI  holding  in  the  company  and  the 
investment headroom available as at the end of the day with respect to the aggregate FPI 
investment limit 

11.6.  If the available headroom is 3% or less than 3% of the aggregate FPI investment limit, a 

red flag shall be activated for that company.  

11.7.  Thereafter,  the  depositories  and  exchanges  shall  display  the  available  investment 
headroom, in terms of available shares, for all companies for which the red flag has been 
activated, on their respective websites. 

11.8.  The data on the available investment headroom shall be updated on a daily end-of-day 

basis as long as the red flag is activated.  

Sectoral cap of the company 
 

11.9.  The  system  shall  calculate  the  total  foreign  investment  in  the  company  by  adding  the 
aggregate  NRI  investment  on  the  stock  exchange,  the  aggregate  FPI  investment  in  the 
company  and  other  foreign  investment  as  provided  by  the  company  in  the  company 
master.  

11.10. If the total foreign investment in a company is within 3% or less than 3% of the sectoral 

cap, then a red flag shall be activated for that company.  

11.11. Thereafter,  the  depositories  and  exchanges  shall  display  the  available  investment 
headroom, in terms of available shares, for all companies for which the red flag has been 
activated, on their respective websites. 

11.12. The data on the available investment headroom shall be updated on a daily end-of-day 

basis as long as the red flag is activated.  

Page | 5  

 

 

 

 

 

 

12. The depositories shall inform the exchanges about the activation of the red flag for the identified 
scrip. The exchanges shall issue the necessary circulars/public notifications on their respective 
websites. Once a red flag has been activated for a given scrip, the foreign investors shall take a 
conscious decision to trade in the shares of the scrip, with a clear understanding that in the 
event of a breach of the aggregate NRI/FPI limits or the sectoral cap, the foreign investors shall 
be liable to disinvest the excess holding within five trading days from the date of settlement of 
the trades. 

 
Breach of foreign investment limits 
 
13. Once the aggregate NRI/FPI investment limits or the sectoral cap for a given company have been 
breached, the depositories shall inform the exchanges about the breach. The exchanges shall 
issue the necessary circulars/public notifications on their respective websites and shall halt all 
further purchases by : 
 

13.1.  FPIs, if the aggregate FPI limit is breached 
13.2.  NRIs, if the aggregate NRI limit is breached 
13.3.  All foreign investors, if the sectoral cap is breached 

 
14. In the event of a breach of the sectoral cap/aggregate FPI limit/aggregate NRI limit, the foreign 
investors shall divest their excess holding within 5 trading days from the date of settlement of 
the trades, by selling shares only to domestic investors. 

 
Method of disinvestment 

 

15. The proportionate disinvestment methodology shall be followed for disinvestment of the excess 
shares  so  as  to  bring  the  foreign  investment  in  a  company  within  permissible  limits.  In  this 
method,  depending  on  the  limit  being  breached,  the  disinvestment  of  the  breached  quantity 
shall be uniformly spread across all foreign Investors/FPIs/NRIs which are net buyers of the 
shares of the scrip on the day of the breach.  The foreign investors are required to disinvest the 
excess quantity by selling them only to domestic investors, within 5 trading days of the date of 
settlement of the trades that caused the breach.  

 
16. This method has been illustrated with the help of an example provided below.  

 

 

 

Total shares that can be purchased by foreign investors till sectoral cap is not 
breached 
Total quantity purchased by foreign investors on T day 
Breach quantity 

600 

1000 
400 

Page | 6  

 

 
 
 

  

 

Time 

Foreign 
Investor 

Purchased 
quantity 

1000 hrs 
1015 hrs 
1145 hrs 
1230 hrs 
1300 hrs 
1400 hrs 
1410 hrs 
Total 

ABC 
XYZ 
TYU 
POI 
QSX 
REW 
LOP 
  

100 
250 
50 
180 
120 
150 
150 
1000 

Cumulative 
Purchase  by 
foreign 
investor 
100 
350 
400 
580 
700 
850 
1000 
 

Quantity to be 
disinvested by 
the 
foreign 
investor 
40 
100 
20 
72 
48 
60 
60 
400 

17. As can be observed from the above table, the foreign investors/FPIs/NRIs which are required 
to  disinvest  shall  be  identified  and  shall  be  informed  of  the  excess  quantity  that  they  are 
required to disinvest.  
 

18. In  the  case  of  FPIs  which  have  been  identified  for  disinvestment  of  excess  holding,  the 
depositories  shall  issue  the  necessary  instructions  to  the  custodians  of  these  FPIs  for 
disinvestment of the excess holding within 5 trading days of the date of settlement of the trades.  
 

19. In  the  case  of  NRIs  which  have  been  identified  for  disinvestment  of  excess  holding,  the 
depositories  shall  issue  the  necessary  instructions  to  the  Authorized  Dealer  (AD)  Banks  for 
disinvestment of the excess holding within 5 trading days of the date of settlement of the trades. 

 

20. The  depositories  shall  utilize  the  FPI  trade  data  provided  by  the  custodians,  post  custodial 
confirmation, on T+1 day, where T is the trade date.  The breach of investment limits (if any) 
shall  be  detected  at  the  end  of  T+1  day  and  therefore,  the  announcement  pertaining  to  the 
breach  shall  be  made  at  the  end  of  T+1  day.  The  foreign  investors  who  have  purchased  the 
shares of the scrip during the trading hours on T+1 day shall also be given a time period of 5 
trading days from the date of settlement of such trades, to disinvest the holding accruing from 
the aforesaid purchase trades. In other words, the purchase trades of such foreign investors 
which have taken place of T+1 day, shall be settled on T+3 day and thereafter a time period from 
T+4  day  to  T+8  day  shall  be  available  to  them  to  disinvest  their  entire  holding  arising  from 
purchases on T+1 day. 
 

21. If T+1 is a settlement holiday, then the custodial confirmation of the trade executed on T day 
shall  be  done  on T+2  day  and  the  subsequent  settlement  of  the  trade  on  T+3  day.  In  such a 

 

Page | 7  

scenario, the breach would be detected at the end of T+2 day. 
 

22. A table summarizing the breach-disinvestment scenario is given below  

 

 

 

Parameter 
Date of breach 
Date of trade 
Date  of  detection 
of breach 

Date of settlement 
of transaction 

Disinvestment 
time frame  

  

 

Purchase on T Day 
T day 
T day 
T+1 day (End of day) 
 
 
T+2  day  (End  of  Day,  if  T+1  is  a 
settlement holiday 

Purchase on T+1 
T day 
T+1 day 
T+1 day (End of day) 
 
 
T+2  day  (End  of  Day),  if  T+1  is  a 
settlement holiday 

 

 

T+2 day 
 
T+3 day, if either T+1 day or T+2 day is 
a settlement holiday  

 

5  trading  days  from  the  date  of 
settlement  of  the  transactions  which 
were executed on the day of the breach 
i.e. 5 trading days from T+2 day 
 
 
If  T+1  day  or  T+2  day  is  a  settlement 
holiday, then 5 trading days from T+3 
day 
 

T+3 day 
 
T+4 day, if either T+2 day or T+3 day 
is a settlement holiday 
 
5  trading  days  from  the  date  of 
settlement of the transactions which 
were  executed  on  T+1  day  i.e.  5 
trading days from T+3 day 
 
 
If T+2 day or T+3 day is a settlement 
holiday,  then  5  trading  days  from 
T+4 day 
 

23. In the event the foreign shareholding in a company comes within permissible limit during the 
time period for disinvestment, on account of sale by other FPI or other group of FPIs, the original 
FPIs, which have been advised to disinvest, would still have to do so within the disinvestment 
time  period,  irrespective  of  the  fresh  availability  of  an  investment  headroom  during  the 
disinvestment time period. 
 

24. There shall be no annulment of the trades which have been executed on the trading platform of 
the stock exchanges and which are in breach of the sectoral caps/aggregate FPI limits/aggregate 
NRI limits. 

 

 
 

 

Page | 8  

 

Failure to disinvest within 5 trading days 

 

25. If a breach of the investment limits has taken place on account of the FPIs and the identified FPIs 
have  failed  to  disinvest  within  5  trading  days,  then  necessary  action  shall  be  taken  by  SEBI 
against the FPIs.  

 
Fees 
 
26. The  Designated  Depository  shall  levy  reasonable  fee/charges  on  the  company  towards 

development, ongoing maintenance and monitoring costs at an agreed upon frequency. 

 

Page | 9  

