 

 

भारतीय प्रितभूित और िविनमय बोडर् 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2018/62 

 

 

            April 09, 2018 

To 
All Stock exchanges (except Commodity Derivatives Exchanges), 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Measures to strengthen Algorithmic Trading and Co-location / 

Proximity Hosting framework 

SEBI,  vide  circular  CIR/MRD/DP/09/2012  dated  March  30,  2012  and 
circular  CIR/MRD/DP/16/2013  dated  May  21,  2013  put  in  place  the  broad 
guidelines  for  algorithmic  trading  in  the  securities  market.  Further,  SEBI,  vide 
circular 
circular  CIR/MRD/DP/07/2015  dated  May  13,  2015  and 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2016/129  dated  December  01,  2016 
laid  down 
guidelines  to  ensure  fair  and  equitable  access  to  the  Co-location/proximity 
hosting facility offered by stock exchanges.  

2. 
In order to address the concerns relating to algorithmic trading and co-
location / proximity hosting facility offered by stock exchanges and to provide a 
level playing field between Algorithmic/ Co-located trading and manual trading, 
SEBI issued a discussion paper on August 5, 2016 requesting market participants 
to provide their views on the efficacy and need to introduce further mechanisms 
to address the aforementioned concerns.  

In light of the public comments received and in consultation with Technical 
3. 
Advisory Committee (TAC) of SEBI and Secondary Market Advisory Committee 
(SMAC)  of  SEBI,  it  has  been  decided  to  introduce  the  following  measures  in 
connection with algorithmic trading and co-location / proximity hosting framework 
facility offered by stock exchanges. 

Managed Co-location Service 

4. 
In order to facilitate small and medium sized Members, who otherwise find 
it  difficult  to  avail  colocation  facility,  due  to  various  reasons  including  but  not 
limited to high cost, lack of expertise in maintenance and troubleshooting, etc. to 
avail co-location facility, stock exchanges shall introduce ‘Managed Co-location 
Services’. Under this facility, space/rack in co-location facility shall be allotted to 
eligible vendors by the stock exchange along with provision for receiving market 
data for further dissemination of the same to their client members and the facility 

Page 1 of 4 

 

भारतीय प्रितभूित और िविनमय बोडर् 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
to place orders (algorithmic / non-algorithmic) by the client members from such 
facility. 

5. 
The vendors shall provide the technical knowhow, hardware, software and 
other  associated  expertise  as  services  to  trading  members  and  shall  be 
responsible for upkeep and maintenance of all infrastructure in the racks provided 
to them.  

6. 
Stock  exchanges  shall  supervise  and  monitor  such  facilities  on  a 
continuous basis. While allowing such services, stock exchanges shall continue 
to abide by the provisions of SEBI circular CIR/MRD/DP/07/2015 dated May 13, 
2015 and circular SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2016/129 dated December 01, 2016, 
including remaining responsible and accountable for actions of vendors providing 
Managed  Co-location  Services  and  ensuring  integrity,  security  and  privacy  of 
data, being handled at the facility. 

7. 
Further, in order to have fair competition, stock exchanges are advised to 
ensure that multiple vendors are permitted for providing Managed Co-location 
Services at their co-location facility. 

Measurement of Latency for Co-location and Proximity Hosting  
8. 
Clause 3.9 of SEBI circular CIR/MRD/DP/07/2015 dated May 13, 2015, 
mandated stock exchanges to publish suitable quarterly reports on their websites 
on latencies observed at the exchange. 

9. 
Currently, latency is measured by the Stock Exchange as the time taken 
to complete the round trip from the Core Router (Core Router is the place where 
both  Colo-location  orders  and  Non-colocation  orders  meet)  to  the  matching 
engine and back. In order to bring in greater transparency, stock exchanges shall 
additionally  publish  minimum,  maximum  and  mean  latencies  and  latencies  at 
50th and 99th percentile.  

10.  Stock Exchanges shall also publish reference latency, which is the time 
taken for an order message to travel between a reference rack in the Colocation 
facility and the Core Router.  

Free of Charge Tick-by-Tick Data feed (TBT Feed) 
Tick-by-Tick  (TBT)  data  feed  offered  by  stock  exchanges  provides  a 
11. 
detailed view of the entire order-book, which includes details relating to addition, 
modification and cancellation of orders and trades on a real-time basis.   

Page 2 of 4 

 

भारतीय प्रितभूित और िविनमय बोडर् 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
In order to create a more level playing field among the different types of 
12. 
market participants, Stock Exchanges shall provide TBT Feeds to all the trading 
members,  free  of  cost,  subject  to  trading  members  creating  the  necessary 
infrastructure for receiving and processing it.  

13.  After  assessing  the  needs  of  the  market  participants,  stock  exchanges 
may increase the depth of snapshot of 5 best bid and ask quotes currently being 
provided by them. 

Penalty on Order to Trade Ratio (OTR)  
In  order  to  ensure  orderly  trading  in  the  market,  vide  circulars  no. 
14. 
CIR/MRD/DP/ 09 /2012 dated March 30, 2012 and CIR/MRD/DP/ 16 /2013 dated 
May 21, 2013, stock exchanges were advised to put in place effective economic 
disincentives for high daily order-to-trade ratio (OTR) of algo orders placed by 
trading members. In order to encourage algo traders to place more orders closer 
to the last traded price (LTP), the following modification shall be carried out in the 
existing OTR framework: 

a.  Instead of orders placed within ±1%, orders placed within ±0.75% of the 
LTP shall be exempted from the framework for imposing penalty for high 
OTR.  

b.  Orders placed in the cash segment and orders placed under the liquidity 
enhancement schemes shall also be brought under the OTR framework. 

Unique Identifier for Algorithms / Tagging of Algorithms 
15.  Clause 6 (vi) of SEBI circular CIR/MRD/DP09/2012 dated March 30, 2012, 
prescribed that all algorithmic orders be tagged with a unique identifier provided 
by the stock exchange in order to establish audit trail. 

In order to ensure enhanced surveillance, stock exchanges shall now allot 
16. 
a unique identifier to each algorithm approved by them. Stock exchanges shall 
ensure that every algorithm order reaching on exchange platform is tagged with 
the  unique  identifier  allotted  to  the  respective  algorithm  and  that  such  unique 
identifier tags are part of the data set sent / shared with SEBI for surveillance 
purpose. 

Testing Requirement for Software and Algorithms 
17.  SEBI, vide Circular no. CIR/MRD/DP/24/2013 dated August 19, 2013, inter 
alia, prescribed the testing procedure to be followed by market participants before 
deployment  of  software  and  algorithms.  In  order  to  further  streamline  and 

Page 3 of 4 

 

भारतीय प्रितभूित और िविनमय बोडर् 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
strengthen the process of testing of software and algorithms, stock exchanges 
may  provide  a  simulated  market  environment  for  testing  of  software  including 
algos.  Such  a  facility  may  be  made  available  over  and  beyond  the  current 
framework of mock trading prescribed by SEBI. 

18.  Stock  exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the  tagging  of  each  order  each 
algorithm with its unique identifier is completed by September 30, 2018, while the 
other provisions of the circular shall be complied with at the earliest but not later 
than June 30, 2018. 

19.  Stock Exchanges are directed to:  

a.  take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation of the 
circular, including necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules 
and regulations; 

b.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  / 

clearing members and also disseminate the same on their website;  

c.  communicate to SEBI the status of implementation of the provisions of this 

circular through monthly development report.  

20. 
This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 
11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with Section 
10 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, to protect the interests of 
investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the 
securities market. 

This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  at  “Legal 

21. 
Framework→Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully,  

 
Susanta Kumar Das 
Deputy General Manager  
email: susantad@sebi.gov.in 

Page 4 of 4 

