 

    CIR/IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/64 
 April 10, 2018 

 

    To, 

 

1.  All Foreign Portfolio Investors ("FPIs") through their Designated Depository 

Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities. 

2.  Designated Depository Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities. 
3.  All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
4.  The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 
5.  Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges 
6.  Depository Participants through Depositories 
7.  Mutual Funds 
8.  Association of Mutual Funds in India 
9.  Portfolio Managers 
10. KYC Registrations Agencies (KRAs) 
11. Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 

 
 Sir/ Madam,  
 
Subject: Know Your Client Requirements for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) 
 
1.  This has reference to SEBI circular No CIR/MIRSD/11/2012 dated September 05, 

2012  and  subsequent  SEBI  circular  No.  CIR/MIRSD/07/2013  dated  September   
12,  2013  whereby  risk  based  documentation  requirements  were  prescribed  for 
Know  Your  Client  (KYC)  requirements  of  eligible  foreign  investors  classified  as 
category I, II and III investing under Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS) route.  KYC 
of FPIs is accordingly being done. 
 

2.  Upon a review, it has been decided to make the following changes :- 

 
(a) Identification and verification of Beneficial Owners 

 
(i) 

(ii) 

 

Beneficial  Owner  (BO)  is  the  natural  person(s)  who  ultimately  owns  or 
controls an FPI and should be identified in accordance with Rule 9 of the 
Prevention  of  Money-laundering  (Maintenance  of  Records)  Rules,  2005 
(hereinafter referred as PMLA Rules). 
 
Accordingly, BOs of FPIs having structure of company or trust should be 
identified on controlling ownership interest (also termed as ownership or 
entitlement)  and  control  basis.  The  BOs  in  case  of  partnership  firm  and 
unincorporated association of individuals should be identified on ownership 
or entitlement basis.  

1 | P a g e  

 
(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

The  materiality  threshold  for  identification  of  BOs  of  FPIs  on  controlling 
ownership  interest  (or  ownership/  entitlement)  basis  shall  be  same  as 
prescribed in PMLA Rules i.e. 25% in case of company and 15% in case 
of partnership firm, trust & unincorporated association of persons.  

 

In respect of FPIs coming from “high risk jurisdictions” as referred in SEBI 
Master  circular  No.  CIR/ISD/AML/2010  dated  December  31,  2010  the 
intermediaries  may  apply 
for 
identification of BO and also ensure KYC documentation as applicable for 
category  III  FPIs.  All  the  intermediaries  are  again  directed  to  ensure 
compliance with the  requirements contained in the Master circular dated 
December 31, 2010.  

threshold  of  10% 

lower  materiality 

The  materiality  threshold  (referred  at  (iii)  &  (iv)  above)  to  identify  the 
beneficial owner should be first applied at the  level of FPI and next  look 
through  principle  shall  be  applied  to  identify  the  beneficial  owner  of  the 
material  shareholder/  owner  entity.  Only  beneficial  owner  with  holdings 
equal & above the materiality thresholds in the  FPI need to be identified 
through the aforesaid look through principle.  

(vi)  Where no material shareholder/owner entity is identified in the  FPI using 
the  materiality  threshold  ((referred  at  (iii)  &  (iv)  above)  for  controlling 
ownership  interest  basis  and  also  on  control  basis  (for  companies  and 
trusts), BO shall be the senior managing official of the FPI. 

(vii) 

(viii) 

 
In case of companies/ trusts represented by service providers like lawyers/ 
accountants, FPIs should provide information of the real owners/ effective 
controllers of those companies / trusts.  

If the BO exercises controls through means like voting rights, agreements, 
arrangement etc., that should also be specified. It is clarified that BO should 
not be a nominee of another person. 
 

(ix)  BO should not be a person mentioned in United Nations Security Council’s 

Sanctions List notified from time to time;  

(x) 

BO  should  not  be  from  jurisdiction,  which  is  identified  in  the  public 
statement of Financial Action Task Force (FATF) as: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 | P a g e  

 
a)  a jurisdiction having a strategic Anti-Money Laundering or Combating 
the  Financing  of  Terrorism  deficiencies  to  which  counter  measures 
apply; or 

 
b)  a  jurisdiction that  has not made  sufficient  progress  in  addressing  the 
deficiencies or has not committed to an action plan developed with the 
FATF to address the deficiencies. 

 
(b) Format for reporting of BOs 

 

Category  II  &  III  FPIs  are  required  to  maintain  a  list  of  BOs.  In  order  to  bring 
consistency, it has been decided that Category II & III FPIs should provide list of 
their BOs in following format:-  

Date 
of 
Birth   

Tax 

Residency 
Jurisdictio

n 

Sl. 
No.  

 

Name  & 
Address  of 
the 
Beneficial 
Owner  
(Natural 
Person) 

1 

2 

 

 

 

 

 

Nationality  Whether  acting 
alone or together 
through  one  or 
natural 
more 
persons 
as 
group,  with  their 
name & address 

BO  Group’s 
percentage 
Shareholding  / 
Capital  /  Profit 
ownership 
in 
the FPIs 

Tax  Residency 
Number/  Social 
Security  Number/ 
Passport  Number 
of BO 

(Please  provide 
any) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This List should be certified by FPI. FPI should also certify that there are no other 
BOs other than those referred in list.  

  

The existing FPIs should provide the list of BOs (in aforementioned format) within 
six months from the date of this circular.  

 

(c) Indians as BO of FPIs 

 

In  reply  to  FAQ  91,  it  has  been  clarified  that  “NRI/PIO  is  not  eligible  to  make 
investments as an FPI. Accordingly, a company which is majority owned by one or 
more NRI/PIOs shall not be allowed to make investments as an FPI. However, if 
such company is appropriately regulated it may be given registration as Category 
II FPI for the purpose of acting as investment manager for other FPIs. This position 
is the same as in FII regime where companies promoted by NRIs were registered 
as non investing FIIs.” 
 
In order to bring further clarity, it is informed that Non Resident Indians (NRIs) / 
Overseas  Citizen  of  India  (OCI)  cannot  be  BO  of  FPIs.  However,  if  an  FPI  is 
3 | P a g e  

 

 
Category II Investment manager of other FPIs & is non- investing entity, it may be 
promoted by NRIs/ OCIs. It is also clarified that Resident Indian cannot be a BO of 
FPI. 
 
Existing FPI structures not in conformity with the above requirements henceforth 
should not create fresh position at the end of expiry of derivative contract of April 
2018. Further, these FPIs are given time of six months from the date of this circular 
to change their structure or close their existing position in Indian securities market. 

 
 

(d) Bearer share structure 

 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 

It should be ensured that FPIs or the investors identified on basis of threshold 
for identification of BO in accordance with PMLA Rules in the FPIs have not 
issued any bearer shares, or 

If  the  legal  constitution  of  FPIs  or  their  investors  identified  on  basis  of 
threshold  for  identification  of  BO  in  accordance  with  PMLA  Rules  and/or 
applicable home jurisdiction regulations permit issue of bearer shares, then 
FPIs  should  certify  that  they  have  not  issued  and  do  not  maintain  any 
outstanding bearer shares. Also, FPIs should certify that they  will not issue 
bearer shares. 

In  case  existing  FPIs  or  their  investors  identified  on  basis  of  threshold  for 
identification of BO in accordance with PMLA Rules do not conform to the above 
requirements, they shall ensure compliance within six months of the date of this 
circular.  

  

(e) KYC review 

 

As per SEBI circular dated September 12, 2013, eligible foreign investors shall be 
subject to KYC review as and when there is any change in material information / 
disclosure. 
 
It is however decided that there should be comprehensive KYC review of FPIs on 
a  periodical  basis.  The  KYC  review  (including  change  in  BOs  /  their  holdings) 
should be done based on risk categorization of FPIs. In case of high risk clients 
(including those coming from high risk jurisdictions) it should be done on yearly 
basis. In case of all other clients, the KYC review should be conducted every 3 
years preferably at the time of continuance of FPI registration. 

 

(f)  KYC documentation for Category III FPI 

4 | P a g e  

 

 

specific 

There is uncertainty around 
the 
financials 
required  for  Category  III 
FPIs.  Kindly  clarify 
the 
specific documents that are 
acceptable for the financial 
data  and  whether  there  is 
need 
to  be 
audited. 

these 

for 

Data” 

prescribed 
SEBI 
“Financial 
as 
mandatory  for  Category  III 
FPIs only. 
During  discussions  with 
DDPs  it  is  gathered  that 
there is no clarity on nature 
of financial data needed. 

certificate 

Audited 
Annual 
financial  statement  or 
a 
from 
certifying 
auditor 
be 
networth  may 
obtained 
from 
Category III FPIs. . 
In case of new funds/ 
companies/ 
family 
offices, 
the  audited 
financial  statement  of 
promoter  person  may 
be obtained. 
Yes 

 
 The  stakeholders  have  requested  for  clarifications  on  KYC  documentations  for 
category III FPIs.  
 
Sl. 
No. 
1 

Present Status 

Query 

Reply 

has 

2.  Whether  prospectus  and 
information  memorandum 
are acceptable in lieu of an 
official 
constitutional 
document. 

SEBI  circular  prescribes 
the 
of 
“Constitutional  document” 
for all category of FPIs. 

requirement 

 

(g) Exempted documents to be provided during investigations/ enquiry 

 

(i)  SEBI  vide  circular  dated  September  12,  2013  has  exempted  FPIs  from 
furnishing certain supporting KYC documents depending on risk involved.  It 
has been decided that in respect of exempted documents, FPIs concerned 
should  submit  an  undertaking  to  DDP/  Custodians  that  upon  demand  by 
Regulators/  Law  Enforcement  Agencies,  the  relevant  documents  would  be 
provided.  
 

(ii)  Further,  SEBI  vide  circular  dated  September  12,  2013  has  exempted 
Category  III  FPIs  from  submission  of  proof  of  address  of  BOs,  Senior 
Management and  Authorised Signatories. Since  Category  III  FPIs are  high 
risk investors, it is decided that “declaration on letter head” be provided by 
them.  
 
In  respect  of  (i)  and  (ii)  above,  the  existing  FPIs  should  provide  these 
documents within six months from the date of this circular.  

 

 

5 | P a g e  

 
3.  In  view  of  manner  of  identifying  Beneficial  Ownership  of  FPIs  having  been 
specified in this circular, it is decided that clubbing of investment limit for FPIs shall 
also be on said basis.  
 
All existing FPIs  whose  clubbed  investment  in equity shares of a company is in 
breach of the provisions of Regulation 21(7) in view of this circular are hereby given 
time of six months from the date of this circular to ensure compliance. In respect 
of any future breach of clubbing limit, there shall be two options:- 
 
(a)  The said investments shall be treated as Foreign Direct Investment from  the 

date of breach, or, 
 

(b)  FPI in breach shall have to divest its holding within five trading days from the 
date of settlement of the trades to bring its shareholding below 10% of the paid 
up capital of the company.  

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Sub-rule   14(i)   of   Rule   
9   of   the   Prevention   of   Money-laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 
2005  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

 

5.  A copy of this circular is available at the links “Legal FrameworkCirculars” and 
“Info  for  F.P.I”  on  SEBI  website  www.sebi.gov.in.  The  DDPs/Custodians  are 
requested to bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FPI clients. 
 

 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
ACHAL SINGH 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449619 
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in 

6 | P a g e  

 

 

 

