 

      April 13, 2018  

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

        

SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/71    
 
To 
All Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) 
All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) 
All Parties to REITs/InvITs 
All Stock Exchanges (other than Commodity Exchanges) 
All Merchant Bankers 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub: Guidelines for issuance of debt securities by Real Estate Investment Trusts 
(REITs) and Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) 

1.  SEBI  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014  (“REIT  Regulations”)  and 
SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 (“InvIT Regulations”) were 
amended vide notifications dated December 15, 2017. The said amendments, inter-
alia, clarified that REITs and InvITs can issue debt securities.  

2.  For issuance of  debt securities, REITs/InvITs shall follow provisions of SEBI (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities Regulations), 2008 (“ILDS Regulations”) in the following 
manner:- 

2.1. Regulation 4 (5) and Regulation 16 (1) of SEBI ILDS Regulations, 2008 shall not 

be applicable for issuance of debt securities by REITs/InvITs. 

2.2. The  compliances required  to be made  with respect to Companies Act, 2013 or 
any filing to be made to Registrar of Companies in terms of the ILDS Regulations, 
shall not apply to REITs/InvITs for issuance of debt securities unless specifically 
provided in this circular. 

2.3. All  other  provisions  of  ILDS  Regulations  shall  apply  to  REITs/InvITs  subject  to 
there being no conflict with REIT Regulations and/or InvIT Regulations or circulars 
issued thereunder. In case of conflict, provisions of REIT Regulations and/or InvIT 
Regulations or circulars issued thereunder shall prevail over ILDS Regulations. 

3.  For the issuance of debt securities REITs/InvITs shall appoint one or more debenture 
trustee  registered  with  SEBI  under  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993. 

Provided  that  a  trustee  to  the  REIT/InvIT  shall  not  be  eligible  to  be  appointed  as 
debenture trustee to such issue of debt securities. 

 

 

4.  Any secured debt securities issued by REITs/InvITs shall be secured by the creation 
of a charge on the assets of the REIT/InvIT or holdco or SPV, having a value which is 
sufficient for the repayment of the amount of such debt securities and interest thereon. 

 

5.  In  addition 

to 

the  disclosures  and  compliances  prescribed  under  Circular 
CIR/IMD/DF/146/2016 dated December 29, 2016 and Circular CIR/IMD/DF/127/2016 
dated  November  29,  2016,  as  applicable,  REITs/InvITs  which  have    issued  debt 
securities  shall  be  required  to  comply  with 
following  continuous  disclosure 
requirements:- 

5.1. Regulations  50,  51,  54,  55,  56,  57,  58,  59  and  60  of  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 
2015 (“LODR Regulations”) and any other provisions of the aforesaid regulations 
as may be applicable to REITs/InvITs. 

5.2. In addition to Financial disclosures made by REITs and InvITs in terms of circular 
dated  December  29,  2016  and  November  29,  2016  the  following  requirements 
shall apply: 

 
5.2.1.  Additional  line  items  that  shall  be  disclosed  by  REITs/InvITs  which  have 

issued/listed their debt securities are as follows:-  

(a) Asset cover available;  
(b) debt-equity ratio; 
(c) debt service coverage ratio; 
(d) interest service coverage ratio; 
(e) net worth; 

 
5.2.2.  Modified opinion(s) in audit reports having a bearing on the interest payment 
or  redemption  or  principal  repayment  capacity  of  the  REITs/InvITs  shall  be 
appropriately and adequately addressed by the board of the manager while 
publishing the accounts for the said period. 
 

5.2.3.  REITs/InvITs shall submit to the stock exchange on a half yearly basis along 
with  the  half  yearly  financial  results,  a  statement  indicating  material 
deviations, if any, in the use of proceeds of issue of debt securities from the 
objects stated in the offer document. 

 

 

 

6.  With  reference  to  ILDS  Regulations  and  LODR  Regulation  and  circulars  issued  
thereunder, the reference to the following terms made therein, should, for the purpose 
of this circular, be construed as follows, unless otherwise required:- 

 

Reference to 
Articles  of  Association/  Memorandum  of 
Association 
Board of directors 

Directors of the company 
Shares 
Shareholder 
Shareholding pattern 
Share capital 

To be construed as 
Trust Deed 

Board of Director/Governing Body of the 
Manager 
Directors of the manager 
Units 
Unit holder 
Unit holding pattern 
Unit capital 

7.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 33  of REIT 
Regulations and Regulation 33 of InvIT Regulations. 

8.  This Circular is available on SEBI website at  www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

