 

 

 
 
  

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

April 11, 2018 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2018/67 
 
 
To,  

All Stock Exchanges (except Commodity Derivatives Exchanges), 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

 

Sub: Review of Framework for Stocks in Derivatives Segment 

1.  Please  refer  to  SEBI  circular  CIR/DNPD/3/2012  dated  July  23,  2012  captioned 
‘Revision  of  Eligibility  Criteria  for  Stocks  in  Derivatives  Segment’  and  circular 
CIR/DNPD/4/2010  dated  July  15,  2010  captioned  ‘Physical  Settlement  of  Stock 
Derivatives’. 
 

2.  Discussion  Paper/public  consultation  on  Growth  and  Development  of 

Derivative Market in India 

With  a  view  to  improve  market  integrity  and  provide  better  alignment  of  cash  and 
derivatives  segment,  SEBI  published  discussion  papers  on  July  12,  2017  and 
September  7,  2017  requesting  stakeholders  to  provide  their  comments/views 
thereon. In light of the comments received and assessment thereof, discussion with 
the  stock exchanges and market  participants  and further  discussion  in  the  meeting 
of Secondary Market Advisory Committee (SMAC) of SEBI held on March 07, 2018, 
it has been decided to  take the following measures in connection with the eligibility 
criteria, exit criteria and settlement of stock derivatives as given hereunder: 
 

Physical settlement of stock derivatives 

3.  In  line  with  the  recommendations  made  by  the  L.C  Gupta  committee  regarding 
physical  settlement  of  stock  derivatives  and  discussion  in  SMAC  regarding  the 
functioning of the Securities Lending and Borrowing mechanism (SLBM), it has been 
decided  that physical settlement of stock derivatives  shall be  made  mandatory in a 
phased/calibrated manner. 
 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 

 
 
  

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Enhanced  eligibility  criteria  for  introduction  of  stocks  in  Derivatives  Segment 
(‘Enhanced criteria’) 

4.  A  stock,  on  which  option  and future  contracts  are  proposed  to  be  introduced,  shall 

conform to the following broad eligibility criteria: - 

(i)  The stock shall be chosen from amongst the top 500 stocks in terms of average 
daily  market  capitalization  and  average  daily  traded  value  in  the  previous  six 
months on a rolling basis', 

(ii)  The  stock’s  median  quarter-sigma  order  size  over  the  last  six  months,  on  a 

rolling basis, shall not be less than ₹ 25 Lakh, 

(iii)  The market wide position limit in the stock shall not be less than ₹ 500 crore on 

a rolling basis, and 

(iv)  Average daily delivery value in the cash market shall not be less than ₹ 10 crore 

in the previous six months on a rolling basis.  

Above criteria are to be met for a continuous period of six months. 
 

5.  Derivatives  on  stocks  (new/existing)  which  meet  the  enhanced  eligibility  criteria 
(given at para 4 above) shall be cash settled until further notification, however such 
stocks,  if  they  fail  to  satisfy  any  of  the  enhanced  eligibility  criteria  for  a  continuous 
period of three months, shall move from cash settlement to physical settlement. After 
moving to physical settlement, if such stocks do not meet any of the eligibility criteria 
(specified  vide  circular  CIR/DNPD/3/2012  dated  July  23,  2012)  for  a  continuous 
period of three months, then they shall exit from derivatives segment.  
 

6.  Stocks  which  are  currently  in  derivatives  segment  and  meet  the  eligibility  criteria 
(specified vide circular CIR/DNPD/3/2012 dated July 23, 2012) but do not meet the 
enhanced  criteria  shall  be  physically  settled.  Such  stocks,  however,  shall  exit  from 
derivatives segment in case; 

(a)  They  fail  to  meet  any  of  the  eligibility  criteria  (specified  vide  circular 
CIR/DNPD/3/2012  dated  July  23,  2012)  for  a  continuous  period  of  three 
months, or  

(b)  They fail to meet any of the enhanced eligibility criteria after a period of one 

year from the date of this circular. 

 

7.  After a period of one year from the date of this circular, only those stocks which meet 

the enhanced eligibility criteria shall remain in derivatives segment. 

 

8.  The  risk  management  framework,  settlement  mechanism  and  other  procedures  of 
the  cash  segment  shall  be  applicable  when  a  stock  derivatives  devolves  into 
physical settlement. 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 

 
 
  

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

9.  Stock  which  meet  the  enhanced  eligibility  criteria  shall  also  move  to  physical 

settlement albeit in a phased/calibrated manner. 

 

10. The  other provisions  regarding  single  stock derivatives  shall  remain  as  specified  in 
SEBI circulars CIR/DNPD/3/2012 dated July 23, 2012 and CIR/DNPD/4/2010 dated 
July 15, 2010. 

 
11. Exchanges are directed to  put in place proper systems and procedures for smooth 
implementation of physical settlement and take necessary action to give effect to this 
circular.  No  new  contract  shall  be  issued  on  stocks  that  may  exit  the  derivatives 
segment,  however,  the  existing  unexpired  contracts  may  be  permitted  to  trade  till 
expiry and new strikes may also be introduced in the existing contract months. 
 

12. Stock Exchanges are directed to:  

a.  take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation of the circular, 
including necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations; 

b.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers/clearing 

members and also disseminate the same on their website;  

c.  communicate  to  SEBI  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular through monthly development report. 
 

13.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992,  read  with  Section  10  of  the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 
 

14. The circular shall come into force from the date of the circular. 

 

15. This  circular 

is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  at  “Legal 

Framework→Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Amit Tandon 
Deputy General Manager 
email: amitt@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 3 of 3 

 

