 

CIRCULAR  

 

    SEBI/HO/IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/66 
  April 10, 2018 

 

    To, 

 

1.  All Foreign Portfolio Investors ("FPIs") through their Designated Depository 

Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities. 
 

2.  The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 

 
 Sir/ Madam,  
 
Subject: Clarification on clubbing of investment limits of foreign Government/ 
foreign Government related entities 
 
1.  SEBI has been monitoring investment by  foreign  Governments and  their related 
entities  viz. 
foreign 
Governmental  agencies  registered  as  foreign  portfolio  investors  (hereinafter 
referred  to  as  FPIs)  in  India.  Since  various  stakeholders  have  been  seeking 
guidance on clubbing of investment limits to be applied to foreign Government/ its 
related entities, the following clarifications are issued:   

foreign  central  banks,  sovereign  wealth 

funds  and 

 

a.  What is the investment limit for foreign Government/ foreign Government 

related entities registered as Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI)? 

Reply:   The  purchase  of  equity  shares  of  each  company  by  a  single  FPI  or  an 
investor group shall be below ten percent of the total paid up capital of the 
company. [Ref. Regulation 21(7) of FPI Regulations]. 

 
b.  What is an investor group? 
 
Reply:   In  case,  same  set  of  beneficial  owners  are  constituents  of  two  or  more 
FPIs and such investor(s) have a common beneficial ownership of more 
than 50% in those FPIs, all such FPIs will be treated as forming part of an 
investor  group  and  the  investment  limits  of  all  such  entities  shall  be 
clubbed at the investment limit as applicable to a single foreign portfolio 
investor. [Ref. Regulation 23(3) of FPI Regulations and FAQ 58]. 

 
c.  How to ascertain whether an FPI is forming part of any investor group? 

Reply:  The designated depository participant engaged by an applicant seeking 
registration as FPI shall ascertain at the time of granting registration and 

1 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 
whenever  applicable,  whether  the  applicant  forms  part  of  any  investor 
group. [Ref. Regulation 32(2)(a) of FPI Regulations]. 

Further, at para 2.2 in the Form A of first schedule, the applicant seeking 
registration  as  FPI  is  required  to  furnish  information  regarding  foreign 
investor group. Accordingly, it is the prime responsibility and obligation of 
the FPI to disclose the information with regard to investor group. 

 

 

d.  How  is  the  beneficial  ownership  of  foreign  Government  entities/  its 
related  entities  determined  for  the  purpose  of  clubbing  of  investment 
limit? 

Reply:  The  beneficial  owner  (BO)  of  foreign  Government  entities/  its  related 
entities  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  Rule  9  of  Prevention  of 
Money  Laundering  (Maintenance  of  Records)  Rules,  2005  (hereinafter 
referred to as PMLA Rules).The said PMLA Rules provide for identification 
of BO on the basis of two methodologies namely (a) controlling ownership 
interest  (also  termed  as  ownership  or  entitlement)  and  (b)  control  in 
respect  of  entities  having  company  or  trust  structure.  In  respect  of 
partnership 
firms  and  unincorporated  associations,  ownership  or 
entitlement is basis for identification of BO. 

 
e.  Whether two or more foreign Government related entities from the same 
jurisdiction will individually be permitted to acquire equity shares in an  
Indian company up to the prescribed limit of 10%? 

Reply:   In  case  the  same  set  of  beneficial  owner(s)  invest  through  multiple 
entities, such entities shall be treated as part of same investor group and 
the investment limits of all such entities shall be clubbed as applicable to 
a single FPI. [Ref. Regulation 23(3) of FPI Regulations]. 

 

 

Accordingly, the combined holding of all  foreign Government/ its related 
entities from the same jurisdiction shall be below ten percent of the total 
paid up capital of the company. 

However, in cases where Government of India enters into agreements or 
treaties  with other sovereign Governments and  where such agreements 
or  treaties  specifically  recognize  certain  entities  to  be  distinct  and 
separate,  SEBI  may,  during  the  validity  of  such  agreements  or  treaties, 
recognize them as such, subject to conditions as may be specified by it. 
[Ref. Regulation 21(9) of FPI Regulations]. 
 
 
 

2 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

f.  How will the investment by a Foreign Government Agency be treated? 

 Reply:  Foreign  Government  Agency  is  an  arm/  department/  body  corporate  of 
Government  or  is  set  up  by  a  statute  or  is  majority  (i.e.  50%  or  more) 
owned  by  the  Government  of  a  foreign  country  and  has  been  included 
under “Category I Foreign portfolio investors”. [Ref. Regulation 5(a) of FPI 
Regulations]. 
 
The investment by foreign Government agencies shall be clubbed with the 
investment by the foreign Government/ its related entities for the purpose 
of calculation of 10% limit for FPI investments in a single company, if they 
form part of an investor group. 

 
g.  Whether any investment by World bank group entity viz. IBRD, IDA, MIGA 
and  IFC  should  be  clubbed  with  the  investment  from  a  foreign 
Government having ownership in such World bank group entity? 
 

Reply: Government  of India, vide letter No.  10/06/2010-ECB dated January  06, 
2016  has  exempted  World Bank Group  viz.   IBRD, IDA, MIGA and IFC 
from clubbing of the investment limits for the purpose of application of 10% 
limit for FPI investments in a single company. 
 

h.  Where Provinces/States of some countries with federal structure have set 
up  their  separate  investment  funds  with  distinct  beneficial  ownership 
constituted with objectives suitable for their respective provinces, such 
funds  not  only  have  separate  source  of  financing  but  also  have  no 
management,  administrative  or  statutory  commonality.  Kindly  inform 
whether  investments  by  these  foreign  Government  entities  shall  be 
clubbed?   
 

Reply:   The investment by foreign Government/ its related entities from provinces/ 
states of countries with federal structure shall  not be clubbed if the said 
foreign  entities  have  different  BO  identified  in  accordance  with  PMLA 
Rules.   
 

i.  How will the foreign Government/ its related entities know the available 

limit for investment, to avoid breach of the limit? 

Reply:   The custodian of securities reports the holdings of FPIs/ investor groups 
to  depositories  who  monitor  the  investment  limits.  As  such,  NSDL  is  in 
ready possession of aggregate holdings of FPIs/ investor groups in any 
particular  scrip.  [Ref.  Regulation  26(2)(d)  of  FPI  Regulations].To  this 
3 | P a g e  

 

   

 

 

 
effect, SEBI, vide communication dated November 02, 2017 has already 
advised  DDPs/  custodians  of  securities  to  approach  NSDL  to  get 
information regarding aggregate percentage holdings of the group entities 
on whose behalf they are acting in any particular company before making 
investment decisions. SEBI has no objection to the said arrangement for 
sharing of data. 

j.  What if the investment by foreign Government/ its related entities cause 

breach of the permissible limit? 

Reply:   The  FPIs  investing  in  breach  of  the  prescribed  limit  shall  divest  their 
holdings  within 5 trading  days from the  date of  settlement of  the trades 
causing  the  breach.  Alternatively,  the  investment  by  such  FPIs  shall  be 
considered  as  investment  under  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)  at  the 
FPI’s option. However, the FPIs need to immediately inform of such option 
to SEBI & RBI, since they cannot hold equity investments in a particular 
company under FPI and FDI route, simultaneously.  

   

2. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.  

 

3. A copy  of this circular is available at the links “Legal FrameworkCirculars” and 
“Info  for  F.P.I”  on  our  website  www.sebi.gov.in.  The  DDPs/  Custodians  are 
requested to bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FPI clients. 
 

 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
(Achal Singh) 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel. No. 022-2644 9619 
e-mail: achals@sebi.gov.in 

4 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

