भारतीय प्रततभूती और वितिमय बोर्ड 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP1/CIR/P/2018/73   

 

 

 

To, 

All Listed entities (Through Stock Exchanges) 

All Registered Bankers to an Issue (BTIs), 

 
 
          April 20, 2018 
 

All Registrars to an Issue / Share Transfer Agents (RTAs) acting on behalf of 
listed entities 

All Depositories 

All Recognised Stock Exchanges  

 

Dear Sir/Madam,  

Subject:  Strengthening  the  Guidelines  and  Raising  Industry  standards  for  RTA, 

Issuer Companies and Banker to an Issue 

1. 

SEBI  constituted  a  Committee  on  “Strengthening  the  Guidelines  and  Raising 

Industry  Standards for  RTAs”,  which  included  representatives from  RTAs, Issuer 

Companies,  Depositories  and  Bankers  to  Issue.  The  objective  of  the  Committee 

was  to  suggest  guidelines  to  streamline  and  strengthen  the  procedures  and 

processes  with  regard  to  handling  and  maintenance  of  records,  transfer  of 

securities  and  payment  of  dividend/interest/redemption  by  the  RTAs,  Issuer 

Companies and Bankers to Issue.  

2. 

Based on recommendation of Committee, the guidelines as annexed to this Circular 

are being issued. These guidelines cover the following broad areas: 

i.  Provisions with respect to Payment of Dividend/interest/redemption/ 

redemption 

 

Page 1 of 10 

ii.  Provisions with respect to Transfer/Transmission/ Correction of errors etc. 

iii.  Compulsory internal audit of RTAs  

3. 

Unless otherwise indicated in the annexure, , the records /documents described in 

annexure shall be maintained for period not less than eight years after completion 

of the relevant transactions by Bankers to issue, Issuer Companies, and/or by RTAs 

on behalf of Issuer Companies  

4. 

RTAs, BTIs and Issuer Companies shall strictly comply with guidelines (annexed). 

Issuer  companies  shall  strictly  monitor  the  activities  of  their  RTAs  and  ensure 

compliance of provision of this circular. It is clarified that where share transfer agent 

activities are carried out in-house by issuer companies, the issuer companies shall 

ensure that their in-house share transfer activities comply with the relevant norms 

as applicable to them. 

5. 

RTAs, Bankers to issue, and the Issuer Companies can put in place more stringent 

internal checks and controls if they so desire. 

6. 

These guidelines issued through this circular shall be effective with immediate effect 

except where a timeframe has been prescribed in the guidelines itself.  

7. 

Stock Exchanges are advised to bring the contents of this circular to entities listed 

on their respective Exchange.  

8. 

This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market.  

Yours faithfully, 

 

Debashis Bandyopadhyay  

 General Manager 

Page 2 of 10 

 

Annexure 

I.  Provisions with regard to Payment of Dividend/Interest/Redemption :  

1. 

The Issuer Company, RTA and the dividend/interest/redemption processing Bank 

shall  ensure  that  the  Dividend/Interest/redemption  Master  file  (i.e.  file  containing 

detailed list of beneficiaries entitled for dividend/interest/redemption  distribution by 

whatever name called on the record date) shall include Company Name, Folio No., 

DPID/Client  ID,  Name  of  the  first  securities  holder,  Dividend/interest/redemption 

payment  date,  Dividend/interest/redemption  amount,  Payee  details,    Bank  name, 

Bank  account,  Bank  branch  of 

the  holder  of  securities,  MICR  number, 

Dividend/Interest/Redemption Warrant  number,  details  of  payment  made  through 

electronic  channels  such  as  RTGS/NEFT.  The  said  file  shall  be  shared  with  the 

Banker through a secured process/procedure as per Banker’s prescribed secured 

mechanism. Copy of the Dividend/Interest/Redemption Master data file containing 

details for each dividend/interest/redemption paid shall be maintained by the bank 

and the same shall be reconciled by the RTA and the Issuer Company. 

2. 

In cases where bank account details of the securities holder  is not available with 

RTA or there is change in bank account details, RTA shall obtain account details 

along  with  cancelled  cheque  to  update  the  securities  holder’s  data.  The  original 

cancelled cheque shall bear the name of the securities holder failing which securities 

holder shall submit copy of bank passbook /statement attested by the bank. RTA 

shall then update the bank details in its records after due verification. The unpaid 

dividend shall be paid via electronic bank transfer.  In cases where either the bank 

details such as MICR (Magnetic Ink Character Recognition), IFSC (Indian Financial 

System Code), etc. that are required for making electronic payment are not available 

or the electronic payment instructions have failed or have been rejected by the bank, 

the issuer companies or their RTA may ask the banker to make payment though 

physical  instrument  such  as  banker’s  cheque  or  demand  draft  to  such  securities 

holder incorporating his bank account details. 

 

Page 3 of 10 

3. 

The  dividend/interest/redemption  processing  Bank  shall  ensure 

that  any 

dividend/interest/redemption 

instrument 

(such 

as 

demand 

drafts, 

dividend/interest/redemption warrants etc.) lying unpaid beyond the validity period 

of the  instrument  shall  be  cancelled and  the  dividend/interest/redemption  amount 

transferred earlier by issuer in the said account shall be credited back immediately 

to the relevant bank account of the Issuer Company. Banks should also provide the 

unpaid instrument details when reconciliation data is shared with Issuer Company / 

RTAs. This provision will come into effect after 30 days from the date of this circular.  

4.  Revalidation/Re-issue  requests  to  the  dividend/interest/redemption  processing 

bank by the RTA should contain at least Name of the Company, DPID/Client ID/Folio 

No.  (as  applicable),  Original    Instrument    Number,  MICR  No.,  Security  holder’s 

name,  Payee’s  name,  Payee’s  bank  account  Number,  Bank  name,  reason  for  

revalidation etc. RTA shall maintain records of the revalidation/re-issue requests. 

5. 

The Issuer Company, RTA and the dividend/interest/redemption processing Bank 

shall  ensure  that  the  Banks  provide  reconciliation  of  the  Paid  and  Unpaid  details 

(including  bank  Transaction  Reference  Number,  payee  name  etc.)  of  the 

Dividend/interest/redemption  paid  fortnightly  during  the  initial  validity  of  the 

instrument  and  after  the  expiry  of  validity  period  of  the  instrument,  quarterly  till 

transfer of funds to Investor Education and Protection Fund (hereinafter referred to 

as  IEPF).  Dividend/interest/redemption  reconciliation  data  sent  by  banks  to 

RTA/Issuer  Companies  shall  contain  details  of  all  DDs/new  instruments  issued/ 

electronic instructions sent in lieu of original dividend/interest/redemption payment. 

Details of old as well as new dividend instruments shall be provided. RTA shall also 

do  the  reconciliation  and  inform  the  Bankers/Issuer  Companies  in  case  of  any 

discrepancies. The reconciliation files sent by the Banker shall be maintained by all 

the three entities, RTA, the Issuer Company, and the dividend/interest/redemption 

payment processing Banker as its record for a period of eight years.  

6.  Details  of  the  rejection  of  electronic  remittance,  dividend/interest/redemption 

instruments  undelivered,  dividend/interest/redemption  instruments  expired  and 

 

Page 4 of 10 

subsequent  payment  of  dividend/interest/redemption  made 

through  new 

instruments  including  the  status  of  payment  of  the  same  shall  be  linked  to 

dividend/interest/redemption payment record of each of the specific folios by RTA 

and audit trail shall be kept in the system of the RTA.  

II.  Provisions with regard to Transfer/Transmission/Correction of Errors etc. :  

1.  RTAs  and  Issuer  Companies  shall  ensure  that  a  folio  once  allotted  to  a  person 

should never be re-allotted to any other person under any circumstances. Ceased 

folios numbers i.e. folios having nil balance should not  be re-allotted to any other 

person. 

2.  RTAs and Issuer Companies shall ensure that history of all transactions in a folio 

(w.r.t securities held or dividend/interest/redemption issued in that folio, certificates 

issued or any other change) are linked to a particular folio for easy retrieval.  

3.  RTAs shall follow the “Maker-Checker” concept in all of its activities to ensure that 

accuracy of data and a mechanism to check unauthorised transaction and record 

shall be maintained.  

4.  RTAs and Issuer Companies shall ensure that all updation in the folio records shall 

be enabled only through front end modules. No back-end entry/updation /correction 

should be permitted. RTAs and Issuer Companies shall ensure that “System Log” 

having complete details for any change (viz. nature of change, user access history, 

user identification, date/time of change etc.) must be maintained. This provision will 

come into effect after 90 days from the date of this circular. 

5. 

For  any  correction  of  errors,  RTAs  must  take  prior  approval  from  the  Company 

similar to cases of transfers, transmissions etc.  

6.  RTAs shall provide to the Issuer Company a soft copy of  Members data (having 

details inter alia Name, Address, Folio No, Number of Shares, Distinctive numbers, 

Certificate  numbers,  etc.)  under due  certification at  the end  of  each  quarter  of  a 

financial year. This data should also contain transaction in the physical folio during 

 

Page 5 of 10 

the period. The copy of these databases shall be maintained by Issuer Companies 

and the RTAs independently as permanent record.  

7.  RTAs  shall  provide  to  the  Issuer  Company  a  copy  of  the  Register  of  debenture 

holders under due certification at the end of each quarter of a financial year. The 

register  should  contain  information  relating  to  name,  father’s  /husband’s  name; 

address and occupation, if any, of each debenture holder; date of allotment; date of 

registration with the Registrar of Companies; the debentures held by each holder 

distinguishing each debenture by its number except where such debentures are held 

with  a  depository;  distinctive  number  and  certificate  number  of  debentures;  the 

amount  paid  or  agreed  to  be  considered  as  paid  on  those  debentures;  date  of 

payment; date on which the name of each person was entered in the register as a 

debenture holder; date on which any person ceased to be a debenture holder; date 

of transfer of debentures; serial number of instrument of transfer; transferor’s name 

and folio number; transferee’s name and folio number, transfer number, number of 

debentures  transferred  and  their  distinctive  numbers;  date  of  transfer;  and 

instructions, if any, for payment of interest. The copy of that Register of debenture 

holder  shall be  maintained by  Issuer  Companies  and  the  RTAs  independently  as 

permanent record. 

8.  Any  returns  filed  with  Registrar  of  Companies  (ROC)  or  any  other  documents 

relating to company’s securities processed and compiled by the RTAs will also be 

maintained by the RTAs and a copy of the return shall be forwarded to the Issuer 

Company.  The  Issuer Companies  will  also  independently  preserve  these data  as 

filed with the ROC at their end. 

9.  RTAs and Issuer Companies shall frame a written policy and shall maintain strict 

control  on  stationery  including  blank  certificates,  dividend/interest/redemption 

warrants  and  shall  periodically  check  by  physical  verification.  The  reconciliation 

report shall be maintained by the RTAs and concerned Issuer Company.   

10. 

In addition to maintaining details of securities certificates issued or re-issued data in 

respective  folios,  RTAs  shall  maintain  a    certificate  printing  register/records 

 

Page 6 of 10 

containing, inter alia, details such as Date of Printing/issue, Folio No, Name in which 

printed,  Certificate  No,  Distinctive  Nos,  Old  Certificate  No  (in  case  is  reprinting), 

Reason of printing etc. 

11. 

If the  security  holder  is  holding  physical  securities,  RTAs,  Issuer  Companies and 

Depositories  shall  ensure  that  the  Bonus  securities  against  these  folios  shall 

mandatorily  be  issued  in  physical  mode  only.    In  other  words,  Bonus  securities 

cannot  be  allotted  in  demat  form  with  respect  to  folios  where  physical  securities 

certificates are maintained. 

12. 

Issuer  Companies  through  their  RTAs  shall  take  special  efforts  to  collect  copy  of 

PAN, and bank account details of all securities holders holding securities in physical 

form as mentioned below. While collecting details, RTAs shall ensure that 

i. 

They preserve a verifiable record as on the date of this circular regarding 

the folios which do not have PAN/bank account details. 

ii. 

They  send  a  letter  under  registered/Speed  post  seeking  PAN  and  bank 

details (a copy of the PAN card and original cancelled cheque leaf /attested 

bank  passbook  showing  name  of  account  holder)  within  90  days  of  the 

circular and two reminders thereof after the gap of 30 days. All the 3 letters 

will have 21 days’ notice period to provide the details.   

iii. 

In case of residents of Sikkim, the requirement of PAN Card be substituted 

with a valid Identity proof issued by Government. 

iv.  Records of all communications sent, replies received and decisions taken 

in the matter shall be   properly maintained. The same information shall also 

be linked to and available in each such folio.    

v.  Securities holders who are unable to respond to RTA call and provide PAN 

and bank details within 180 days of the circular or have informed that the 

securities available in their name as per the records of RTA does not belong 

to them, shall be subject to enhanced due diligence by Issuer Company. 

 

Page 7 of 10 

vi.  A list of all such accounts with complete details shall be shared by the RTAs 

with the Issuer Companies within 30 days of completion of notice period of 

the last reminder.   

Thereafter any transaction in the physical securities should done be with enhanced 

supervision by company and RTAs. 

13.  The Issuer Company and RTAs shall exercise enhanced due diligence in following 

cases:   

i.  Where  dividend/interest/redemption  remains  unpaid  for    three  years  & 

above 

ii.  PAN / bank account details not available in the folio. 

iii.  Unclaimed  suspense  account  constituted  pursuant  to  SEBI  (Listing 

Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations. 

iv. 

IEPF suspense account set up pursuant to Companies Act 2013. 

v.  Any  other  stringent  criteria  as  decided  by  the  Issuer  Company  and  the 

RTAs. 

RTAs shall maintain a list of such account folios and share with the Issuer 

Company at the end of every quarter of a financial year. 

14.  RTAs  shall  have  system  based  alerts  for  processing  of  all  transactions  in  such 

account  folios  referred  above  in  para  13.  In  case  any  request  for  transactions  is 

received from such folios, the Issuer Company and RTAs shall exercise enhanced 

due  diligence.  For  the  purpose  of  exercising  enhanced  due  diligence,  Issuer 

Companies  and/or  RTAs  shall  call 

for  documents  related 

to  proof  of 

identity/address, PAN and bank details ,  and such other additional procedures that 

would  enable  the  Issuer  Company/RTA  to  reasonably  satisfy  itself  about  the 

genuineness of the request.  

 

Page 8 of 10 

15.  RTAs  shall  maintain  a  register  containing  details  of  records  and  documents 

destroyed. The register shall inter alia contain the following particulars: description 

of  the  records  and  documents  destroyed,  name  of  authority  authorising  the 

destruction, date of authorization of destruction, destroyed in whose presence (with 

signature) and date of destruction. The authenticity of the register shall be verified 

during internal audit. The register shall be maintained till perpetuity.  

III.  Compulsory internal audit of RTAs  

1.  All  RTAs  are  required  to  carry  out  internal  audit  on  annual  basis  by  independent 

qualified Chartered Accountants or Company Secretaries or Cost and Management 

Accountants and Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) who don’t have any 

conflict of interest. 

2.  Eligibility of auditors for conducting the Internal Audit of the RTA  

i.  The audit firm shall have a minimum experience of three years in the financial 

sector. 

ii.  An  auditor  shall  be  appointed  for  a  maximum  term  of  five  years,  with  a 

cooling-off period of two years. 

3. 

The audit shall cover all aspects of RTA operations  including   investor grievance 

redressal mechanism and   compliance    with    the    requirements  stipulated  in  

the  SEBI  Act,  Rules  and  Regulations  made  thereunder, and guidelines/circulars  

issued  by  SEBI  from  time  to  time.  The  scope  of  the  audit  shall  cover  all  issues 

concerning the functioning of RTAs.  

4. 

The  report  shall  state  the  methodology  adopted,  deficiencies  observed,  and 

consideration of response of the management on the deficiencies. 

5. 

The  report  shall  include  a  summary  of  operations  and  of  the  audit,  covering  

the  size  of  operations,  number  of  transactions  audited  and  the  number  of  

instances    where    violations    /    deviations    were    observed    while    making 

observations on the compliance of any regulatory requirement.   

Page 9 of 10 

 

6. 

The  report  shall  comment  on  the  adequacy  of  systems  adopted  by  the  RTAs 

for compliance with the requirements of regulations and guidelines issued by SEBI 

and investor grievance redressal.    

7. 

The RTA shall submit a copy of report of the internal audit to Issuer Company within 

three months from the  end of  the financial  year.  Copy  of  the  same  shall  also be 

preserved by the RTA. 

8. 

The Governing Council (i.e. Board of Directors, Board of Partners, proprietor etc. as 

applicable) of the RTA shall consider the report of the internal auditor and take steps 

to rectify the deficiencies, if any. The RTA shall send the Action Taken Report to 

Issuer Company within next one month and a copy thereof shall be maintained by 

the RTA.  

9. 

The Action Taken report shall be submitted in the following format: 

Serial 

Audit  period  & 

Observations 

Comments  of 

Corrective 

No 

name of Issuer 

of the Auditor 

the  Board  of 

actions taken 

Company 

the RTA   

 

 

 

 

 

10.  The audit observations along with the corrective steps taken by the RTA shall be 

placed before the Board of Directors of the Issuer Company.   

11.  The  Issuer  Companies  shall  satisfy  themselves  regarding  the  adequacy  of  the 

corrective measures taken by the concerned RTA. If not satisfied with the corrective 

measures,  Issuer  Company  may  ask  RTA  to  take  more  stringent  corrective 

measures.  

******* 

 

Page 10 of 10 

