¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012 
 
 
To 
 
The Managing Director/Executive Director 
of all Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations.  
 
 
Sub:  Procedural  norms  on  Recognitions,  Ownership  and  Governance  for 

  December 13, 2012 

Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations. 

        

 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
Regulations,  2012  (henceforth  referred  to  as  'SECC  Regulations')  were  notified  on 
June 20, 2012. In terms of the powers under regulation 51 of the SECC Regulations, 
the Board hereby issues the following instructions for the effective implementation of 
the SECC Regulations. This circular shall be read in conjunction with the Securities 
Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  (SCRA),  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules, 
1957 (SCRR), SECC Regulations and other applicable laws. 
 

PART - A  

RECOGNITION 

 

 

1.  Stages Application  for seeking recognition as a Stock Exchange/ Clearing 

Corporation:- 
 
1.1 An  applicant  seeking  recognition  as  a  stock  exchange/  clearing  corporation 
shall substantiate its capability to fulfill all the requirements laid down under 
SCRA,  SCRR  and  regulation  7  of  the  SECC  Regulations  at  the  time  of 
making the application.  
 

1.2 Further, for the purpose of grant of in-principle approval under regulation 7(5) 
of  the  SECC  Regulations,  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  factors 
which  it  may  deem  fit  in  the  interest  of  the  securities  market.    For  this 
purpose, the Board may consider the information and documents including   
but not limited to the following:- 
:  

 Business feasibility plan for the next five years,   
 Net worth certificate/ financial books and bank account details,  
 Detailed write-up on each of its functions,  

 

Page 1 of 13 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 Details  of  authorised  officials  along  with  specimen  signatures  of  the  

authorised signatories,  

 Proposed organisational structure,  
 Necessary undertakings,  
 Manpower planning, 
 Background  and  necessary 

 

 

information  (as  specified  herein) 
establish that its shareholders/promoters are fit and proper persons, 
Information  regarding 
Director after following due process 

its  Office  set-up,Appointment  of  Managing 

to 

 

1.3 Before grant of final approval, in addition to the above,  the applicant should 

satisfy the Board with regard to compliance of the following  : 
 

a)  Appointment of heads of key departments such as legal, listing, 
member registration, trading and surveillance in case of a stock 
exchange, and   

b)  Appointment  of    heads  of  key  departments  such  as  risk,  legal, 

clearing and settlement, in case of a clearing corporation.  

c)  Satisfactory  compliance  with  observations  of  SEBI  during  

d)  Any  other  requirement  as  SEBI  may  deem  necessary  for 

inquiry/ inspection by SEBI. 

disposal of the application . 

 

 

1.4  After  grant  of  recognition,  the    stock  exchange  can  commence  trading 
operations  with  a  minimum  of  50  trading  members  and    the  clearing 
corporation  can  commence  clearing  and  settlement  operations  with  a 
minimum of 25 clearing members. 

2.  Bye-laws  of  a  Clearing  Corporation:-  A  clearing  corporation  shall  in  terms  of 
applicable  provisions  of  section  9  of  the  SCRA  and  regulation  4  of  SECC 
Regulations make bye-laws, providing inter alia for the following:- 
 

a)  the timings for pay-in and pay-out of funds and securities; 
b)  rules for clearing and settlement;  
c)  risk management mechanism; 
d)  process of netting, novation and guarantee for settlement of  trades; 
e)  norms for contribution into and utilisation of the Fund in terms of regulation 

39 of SECC Regulations ; 

f)  rights  and  obligations  of  the  clearing  members  vis-a-vis  the  clearing 
corporation,  other  clearing  members,  the  trading  members  and  clients  of 
such trading members; 

g)  criteria for admission and regulation of clearing members;  
h)  default handling mechanism; 
i)  Committees as mentioned in para 7 of this circular. 
j)  any other matter as may be specified by SEBI.  

 
Page 2 of 13 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

PART -B 
 

3.       ACTION PLAN FOR ACHIEVING NETWORTH:-  

 
3(a)    A recognised stock exchange having a networth of less than Rs.100 crore, 
as on the date of commencement of the SECC Regulations,  shall,, submit 
its  plan  duly  approved  by  its  shareholders  to  SEBI    for  achieving  the 
networth  in  terms  of  regulation  14  of  SECC  Regulations,  within  90  days 
from the date of this circular.  

 
3.(b).  A clearing corporation which has made application for recognition in terms 
of  second  proviso  of  regulation  3  of  the  SECC  Regulations  and  has    a 
networth of less than Rs. 300 crore shall submit its  plan duly approved by 
its shareholders to SEBI, for achieving the networth in  terms of regulation 
14 of the SECC Regulations, within 90 days from the date of this circular.  

 

 

 

PART -B 

OWNERSHIP 

 

 

 

4.  Application for grant of approval for shareholding beyond 2% or 5%:-  
 

4.1     A shareholder seeking SEBI's approval for holding more than 2% or 5% of 
paid  up  equity  share  capital  of  a  stock  exchange  or  clearing  corporation 
shall submit the following particulars:- 

a)  Name 
b)  Address 
c)  Details of employment/ business, if any:  
d)  SEBI registration number,if any. 
e)  Details of registration with other statutory authorities,. 
f)  Declaration regarding the fulfillment of requirements  of regulation 20 

of SECC Regulations. 

g)  Details of action /penalties taken/imposed against/upon him/it by any 

statutory authority in India or abroad. 

h)  Details of activities that may, in the opinion of the shareholder, lead to 

his/its disqualification.   

i)  Association  with 

trading  members/clearing  members  of  stock 

exchanges/clearing corporations. 

j)  Cases  pending  before  any  Court,  Tribunal  or  any  other  statutory 

authority in India or abroad, if any. 

k)  Previous approvals from SEBI as fit and proper, if any. 

The  stock  exchange/clearing  corporation  may  also  lay  down  any  fit  and 
proper  criteria    without  diluting  and  limiting  the  principles and criteria laid 
down in  regulation 20 of SECC Regulations. 

Page 3 of 13 

 
4.2 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
4.3    The stock exchange/clearing corporation application  shall ensure that all 

their shareholder are fit and proper persons.  

 
4.4      The  application  for  approval  under  clause  4.1  shall  be  submitted  to  SEBI 
through  the  stock  exchange/clearing  corporation  concerned.  The  stock 
exchange/clearing  corporation  shall    verify  the  declarations/  undertakings 
given  by  the  shareholders  and  forward  the  application  which  is,  in  its 
opinion, fit for approval alongwith its  recommendation for SEBI's approval.  

5.  Monitoring of shareholding limits:-  

 

5.1 

The  stock  exchange/clearing  corporation  shall  put  in  place  a  monitoring   
mechanism  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  shareholding  restrictions 
prescribed  in  SECC  Regulations  at  all  times.  stock  exchange/clearing 
corporation shall:- 

a)  Disseminate on its website, the number of shares available in the non-
public,  FII  and  FDI  category.  The 
information  shall  also  be 
disseminated  by  the  stock  exchange  on  which  the  shares  may  be 
listed.  

b)  Check  the  shareholding  data  on  a  periodic  basis  to  ensure  that  the 
shareholding  restrictions  specified  under  Chapter  IV  of  the  SECC 
Regulations are complied with at all times.  

c)  Upon  breach  of  shareholding  limits,  they  shall  intimate  the  same  to 

SEBI within 7 days. 

PART-C 

 

 

GOVERNANCE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6.  Procedure for appointment:- 

 
6.1  All  directors  while  seeking  approval  shall  submit 

exchange/clearing corporation the following details:- 

to 

the  stock 

a)  Name 
b)  Address 
c)  Educational qualification 
d)  Details of employment/ Occupation, past and present  
e)  Details of other directorships 
f)  DIN No. 
g)  Declaration  regarding  the  fulfillment  of  requirements  specified  under 

regulation 20 of SECC Regulations. 

Page 4 of 13 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

h)  Declaration  confirming  compliance  of  Regulation  23(7)  read  with 
Regulation 2(1)(b) of SECC Regulations, in respect of non association 
with trading member or clearing member. 

i)  Details of regulatory action taken against by any statutory authority in 

j)  Details of activities that may in the opinion of the director, lead to his 

disqualification.   
k)  Association  with 

exchanges/clearing corporations. 

trading  members/clearing  members  of  stock 

India . 

l)  Disclosure  of  the  names  of  his  dependents  associated  with  the 
securities  market  as  member,  sub-broker,  authorized  person  or 
holding any SEBI registration. 

m) An undertaking that he shall abide by the code of conduct and code of 
ethics  prescribed  in  Part  A  and  Part  B  of  Schedule  II  to  SECC 
Regulations.  

n)  In the case of public interest directors, consent letters for acting as a 

o)  Pending  /  completed  criminal  cases  pending  before  any  authority  in 

public interest director. 

India or abroad, if any.  

 
6.1.1  The  stock  exchange/  clearing  corporation  shall  forward  the  above 
details  to  SEBI  while  recommending  their  names  alongwith  the 
minutes  of  the  governing  board  meeting  where  their  name/s  was 
approved,  copy  of 
(wherever 
the  stock  exchange/  clearing 
applicable),  a  confirmation  by 
corporation that they are fit and proper persons in terms of their fit 
and proper criteria and are not associated with any trading member 
or clearing member in terms of regulation 23(7) read with regulation 
2(1)(b) of SECC Regulations. 

the  shareholder's 

resolution 

 

6.2  Managing Director / Executive Director:-  
 

6.2.1  The  stock  exchange/  clearing  corporation  shall  constitute  a 
Committee  for  the  selection  of  the  CEO  /Managing  Director  / 
Executive Director, as the case may be. The managing director shall 
be selected through open advertisement in all editions of atleast one 
national daily from amongst persons qualified in the fields of capital 
market/ finance/ management and possessing sufficient experience.  
In case of re-appointment, or extension the stock exchange/ clearing 
corporation shall apply to SEBI two months before the last working 
day of such Managing Director. 

6.2.2  In  case  a  vacancy  of  managing  director  arises  due  to  unforeseen 
reasons, the stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall forward the 
new names to SEBI within 60 days from the date of submission of 
resignation or such vacation of office.  

Page 5 of 13 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
6.3  Public Interest Directors:-  

 

 

 

 

6.3.1  The  names  of  public  interest  directors  shall  be  forwarded  to  SEBI 
after  the  approval  of  the  Board  of  the  stock  exchange/clearing 
corporation.  The  shareholders  approval  shall  not  be  necessary.  A 
minimum of two names shall be submitted to SEBI for each vacancy 
of public interest directors.  

6.3.2    The  stock  exchange/  clearing  corporation  shall  ensure  that  public 
interest  directors  are  selected  from  diverse  field  of  work.  While 
deciding to propose a particular person as a public interest director, 
the stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall also take into account 
the following factors: 

a)  Qualification in the area of law, finance, accounting, economics, 
management,  administration  or  any  other  area  relevant  to  the 
financial markets. 

b)  Atleast  one  person  may  be  inducted  having  experience  and 
background  in  finance  /  accounts  who  may  preferably  be 
inducted in the audit committee. 

c)  Persons currently holding positions of trust and responsibility in 
reputed  organisations  or  person  who  have  retired  from  such 
positions. 

d)  Persons  who  are 

to  have 

in 
commercial  contracts  and  financial  affairs  of  stock  exchanges, 
may  be  excluded.  Also,  persons  who  are  regular  traders/ 
speculators  in  the  market  or  are  director  in  the  board  of  the 
promoter entity of the Stock Exchange or Clearing Corporation, 
shall be excluded.  

interested  positions 

likely 

6.3.3    Chairperson  ofthe  stock  exchange/  clearing  corporation  shall  be 

appointment with the prior approval of SEBI. 

6.3.4   Public interest directors shall not be simultaneously on the board of 

any other stock exchange/ clearing corporation or their subsidiary. 

 
6.3.5  Public  interest  directors  shall  peruse  the  relevant  laws,  code  of 
conduct, code of ethics, etc and submit an undertaking to the stock 
exchange/clearing  corporation  that  they  are  aware  of  their  role, 
responsibilities  and  obligations.  The  stock  exchange/clearing 
corporation shall also provide at least seven days of training to every 
public interest director each year. 

 

Page 6 of 13 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

6.3.6  In  case  of  extension  of  the  term  of  the  public  interest  director  or 
appointment  of  a  new  public  interest  director,  the  stock  exchange/ 
clearing  corporation  shall  apply  to  SEBI  two  months  before  the 
expiry of the term. In addition to the other requirements prescribed 
herein,  the  application  for  extension  of  term  of  the  public  interest 
director  shall  be  accompanied  with,  his  attendance  details  on 
meetings  of  various  mandatory  committees  and  on  the  governing 
board  of  the  stock  exchange  /  clearing  corporation,  reasons  for 
waiver of the cooling off period. 

 
6.3.7  The  public  interest  director  shall  not  be  subject  to  retirement  by 

rotation. 

 
6.3.8    The existing public interest director shall continue holding the post, 

till a new public interest director is appointed in his place.  

 
6.3.9  In case of existing public interest directors, who are in their second 

term, they may complete their term.  

6.4  Share Holder Directors 

 

 

6.4.1    The  names  of  persons  to  be  appointed  as  share  holder  directors 
shall  first  be  approved  by  the  governing  board  of  the  stock 
exchange/ clearing corporation, followed by shareholders approval 
before submitting the same to SEBI for approval. 

    
6.4.2  The manner of election, appointment, tenure, resignation, vacation, 
etc. of shareholder directors shall be governed by the Companies 
Act, 1956 save as otherwise specifically provided under the SECC 
Regulations  or 
the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956, circulars issued thereunder. 

in  accordance  with 

the  governing  board  of 

6.5   Selection  of  trading  members/clearing  members  on  the  Advisory 
Committee to the governing board:- Prior to appointment to the advisory 
committee, 
the  stock  exchange/  clearing 
corporation shall satisfy itself that the trading members/ clearing members 
are  fit  and  proper  persons  in  terms  of  regulation  20  of  the  SECC 
Regulations. The governing board shall frame the eligibility norms, term of 
office,  cooling  off  period  etc.,  of  members  of  the  advisory  committee  in 
consultation  with  the  trading  members/clearing  members  of  the  stock 
exchange/ clearing corporation.  

6.6   Appointment  of  Compliance  Officer:-  The  stock  exchange/  clearing 
corporation shall appoint a compliance officer in terms of regulation 32 of 
SECC Regulations within 30 days from the date of this circular.  

 

 

Page 7 of 13 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

6.7   Appointment  of  key  management  personnel:-  The  stock  exchange/ 
clearing  corporation  shall  ensure  that  all  key  management  personnel 
employed by them are fit and proper.  

 
6.8  General conditions on appointment of directors:- 

process 

within 

30 

6.8.1  The  stock  exchange/  clearing  corporation  shall  complete  the 
appointment 
SEBI's 
nomination/approval  for  directors  and  submit  a  compliance  report 
within one week from the date of appointment. 

 
6.8.2   In case any other official of the stock exchange/ clearing corporation 
is  appointed  on  the  governing  board  in  addition  to  the  Managing 
Director, the same shall be subject to the approval of shareholders 
and SEBI, in that order. 

days 

from 

 
7.  Statutory Committees:  

 
7.1  

In order to ensure effective oversight of the functioning of stock exchanges, 
SEBI,  from  time  to  time,  through  various  circulars  has  mandated  the 
formation  of  various  committees  by  stock  exchanges.  A  list  of  all  such 
mandatory  committees  along  with  their  new  composition  and  function  is 
placed  under  Annexure  A  to  this  circular.  The  list  of  mandatory 
committees  for  clearing  corporations  is  placed  under  Annexure  B  to  this 
circular.  

 
7.2   The  stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  shall  form  the  respective 
committees  in  accordance  with  the  composition  prescribed  therein  and 
accordingly  no  approval  from  SEBI  is  required.  The  existing  stock 
exchange / clearing house of a stock exchange and person who clears and 
settles trades of a recognized stock exchange shall submit a confirmation 
within three months from the date of this circular. The stock exchange and 
clearing  corporation  shall  submit  a  confirmation  within  three  months  from 
the  date  of  their  recognition.  The  confirmation  shall  be  submitted  within 
three  months  with  regard  to  the  formation  and  composition  of  such 
committees. Any other conditions pertaining to the committees prescribed 
under the earlier circulars shall continue to apply. In addition to the above 
lists,  the  committees  that  are  mandated  for  listed  companies  shall  apply 
mutatis mutandis to stock exchanges and clearing corporations.  

 
7.3   The  stock  exchanges/  clearing  corporations  shall  lay  down  the  policy  for 
the frequency of meetings, quorum, etc., for the statutory committees. The 
meeting shall be conducted with atleast one public interest director being 
present except in the case of oversight committees wherein minimum 50% 
of  the  public  interest  directors  need  to  be  present.  In  the  case  of  public 
interest directors committee, all public interest directors shall be present. 

 

Page 8 of 13 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

  
7.4. 

Independent external persons appointed to committees: The independent 
external persons shall be from amongst the persons of integrity, having a 
sound reputation and not having any conflicts of interests.  They shall be 
specialists  in  the  field  of  work  assigned  to  the  committee.  The  stock 
exchange/ clearing corporation shall frame the guidelines for appointment, 
tenure, code of conduct, etc., of independent external persons. Extension 
of  the  tenure  may  be  granted  at  the  expiry  of  the  tenure  pursuant  to  a 
review of the contribution, record of attendance at meetings, etc.  
 

7.5.  SEBI  vide  circular  dated  May  31,  2000  had  mandated  appointment  of  a 
governing 
the  Derivative 
Exchange/Segment  of  the  stock  exchanges.  In  light  of  the  governance 
norms  and 
the  SECC 
Regulations, the requirement of governing council is not mandatory. 

the  oversight  committees  prescribed  under 

executive 

committee 

for 

council 

/ 

The present functioning of the defaults committee shall continue, however, 
the same shall constitute of a majority of public interest directors.  

The stock exchange and clearing corporation shall submit details about the 
above  mentioned  committees  by  way  of  Monthly  development 
report/Quarterly development report. 

 
8.  Norms for compensation policy:-  

 
8.1   Regulation 27 of the SECC Regulations mandates that the compensation 
policy  for  key  management  personnel  of  stock  exchange/  clearing 
corporation shall be in accordance with the norms specified by SEBI. The 
compensation norms, in this regard, shall be as follows:- 

years. 

a)  The variable pay component will not exceed one-third of total pay.  
b)  50%  of  the  variable  pay  will  be  paid  on  a  deferred  basis  after  three 

c)  ESOPs  and  other  equity  linked  instruments  in  the  stock  exchange/ 
clearing corporation will not form part of the compensation for the key 
management personnel. 

d)  The 

compensation  policy  will  have  malus1  and 

clawback 

arrangements2. 

 
7.6 

 
7.7 

 

 

                                                 
1 A malus arrangement permits the stock exchange/clearing corporation to prevent vesting of all or part of the 
amount of a deferred remuneration.  
2 A clawback is a contractual agreement between the employee and the stock exchange/clearing  corporation in 
which  the  employee  agrees  to  return  previously  paid  or  vested  remuneration  to  the  stock  exchange/clearing  
corporation under certain circumstances. 
 

Page 9 of 13 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

8.2  Apart  from  the  above,  the  compensation  policy  of  the  stock  exchange/ 

clearing corporation shall take into consideration the following: 

 

 
8.3 

 
8.5 

 
financial condition / health of the stock exchange/ clearing corporation, 
  average levels of compensation payable to employees in similar ranks, 
  should  not  contain  any  provisions  regarding 
take 

incentives 

to 

excessive risks over the short term, 
revenues, net profit of the stock exchange/ clearing corporation,  

 
  comparable to the industry standards,  
 
  periodic review 

role and responsibilities of the key management personnel,  

The  stock  exchange  shall  confirm  to  SEBI  within  three  months  from  the 
date  of  this  circular  that  the  compensation  for  the  key  management 
personnel is in accordance with the norms specified above.  

 
8.4    Further, at the time of seeking approval of SEBI for the appointment of the 
managing  director,  the  stock  exchange/  clearing  corporation  shall  seek 
approval  for  the  compensation  of  the  managing  director  from  SEBI.  The 
compensation  of  the  Managing  Director  of  a  stock  exchange  already 
appointed  with  the  approval  of  SEBI  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the 
compensation policy as mentioned above. The same shall be submitted to 
SEBI for approval within three months from the date of this circular. 

The  requirement  of  disclosures  under  Regulation  27(5)  of  the  SECC 
Regulations shall be with effect from the financial year 2012-13. 

 
9.  Regulatory departments:-  

 

9.1  Regulation 28 of the SECC Regulations mandate segregation of regulatory 
departments from other departments. For this purpose, an indicative list of 
regulatory  departments  is  given  below.  The  governing  board  of  the  stock 
exchange/ clearing corporation may specify any other department having a 
regulatory  function  in  addition  to  the  list  given  below  as  a  regulatory 
department.  

 
9.2  Departments  handling  the  following  functions  shall  be  considered  as 

regulatory departments in a Stock Exchange:- 

 

 

a)  surveillance,  
b)  listing,  
c)  member registration,  
d)  compliance,  
e)  inspection,  
f)  enforcement,  

Page 10 of 13 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
9.3  Departments handling the following functions shall be considered as regulatory 

departments in a Clearing Corporation:- 

 

g)  arbitration,  
h)  default, 
i) 
j) 

investor protection, 
investor services, 

 

a)  Risk management,  
b)  member registration,  
c)  compliance,  
d)  inspection,  
e)  enforcement,  
f)  default, 
g)  investor protection, 
h)  investor services, 

 
9.4  The  stock  exchange  /Clearing  Corporation  shall  ensure  that  the  regulatory 
departments  viz.,  surveillance, 
inspection,  risk  management,  default, 
investor  protection,  investor  services  etc,  are  sufficiently  staffed  with 
adequate number of persons having professional and relevant experience at 
all times. 

 

PART- D 

 

 

MISCELLANEOUS 

10. Procedure 

for 

to 

to 

submitting 

amendments 

Articles/Rules/Bye-
laws/Regulations,  etc,  for  SEBI's  approval:-  The  amendments 
the 
Memorandum, Articles of Association, Rules, bye-laws, Regulations (as may be 
applicable)  etc.,  of  the  stock  exchange/clearing  corporation,  in  terms  of  SCRA, 
SCRR, other applicable provisions in this regard, shall be submitted to SEBI for 
approval, subsequent to the following. The proposed amendment/s shall first be 
approved  by  the  governing  board  of  the  stock  exchange/clearing  corporation, 
followed  by  shareholders  approval  (wherever  applicable),  then  published  in  the 
Gazette of India (wherever applicable) and the respective State and then shall be 
submitted  to  SEBI  for  approval.  The  proposal  shall  be  accompanied  by  the 
minutes of the governing board, the shareholder's resolution and public criticism. 
However,  in  case  the  amendments  are  pursuant  to  Regulations,  circular  etc, 
issued by SEBI, the same shall not be subject to shareholder's approval.  
 

for  conflict  resolution:  The  stock  exchange/clearing 
corporation shall have an internal manual covering the management of conflicts 
between  commercial  and  regulatory  functions  of  the  stock  exchange/clearing 
corporation. The stock exchange/ clearing corporation shall put in place a policy 
for  comprehensive  training  and  awareness  of  its  employees  on  the  various 

11. Internal  manual 

 

Page 11 of 13 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

conflicts  of  interests  involved  in  the  functioning  of  its  regulatory  departments. 
Further, the entire conflict management framework shall periodically be reviewed 
and be strengthened based on the observations of such review. 
 

12. Report  to  SEBI:-  The  public  interest  directors  shall  identify  important  issues 
which may involve conflict of interest for the stock exchange/ clearing corporation, 
may  have  significant  impact  on  the  functioning  of  SE/CC,  may  not  be  in  the 
interest of market. The same shall be reported to SEBI.  

 
13. Disclosure  of  Transactions:  In  terms  of  the  code  of  conduct  /  code  of  ethics 
under SECC Regulations, every director, their family, firms / corporate entities in 
which  the  Directors  hold  twenty  percent  or  more  beneficial  interest  or  hold 
controlling  interest,  shall  disclose  all  transactions  /  dealings  in  securities  to  the 
stock  exchange/clearing  corporation.  The  details  including  time  period  for  the 
disclosure  in  this  regard  shall  be  prescribed  by  the  stock  exchange/clearing 
corporation, however the time period for disclosure shall not be later than fifteen 
days of the transaction / dealing. 

 
 
14. Clarifications regarding implementation of SECC Regulations:- 

14.1  

In respect  of regulation 23(7) following is clarified   

 

 

a)  no trading member or clearing member, or their associates and agents, 
irrespective  of  the  stock  exchange/  clearing  corporation  of  which  they 
are members, shall be on the governing board of any recognised stock 
exchange or recognised clearing corporation. 


b)  a person who is a director in an entity, that itself is a trading member or 
clearing  member  or  has  associate(s)  as  trading  members  or  clearing 
members  in  terms  of  regulation  2(1)(b),  he/she  will  deemed  to  be 
trading member or clearing member.  
 

c)  However,  a  person  who  is  an  independent  director  on  the  board  of  a 
Bank  or  Financial  Institution,  which  is  in  public  sector  or  which  either 
has  no  identifiable  ultimate  promoter  or  the  ultimate  promoter  is  in 
Public Sector or such Banks or Financial Institutions has well diversified 
shareholding,  and  it  /  its  associate  is  a  Clearing  Member  and  /  or 
Trading  Member,  the  applicant  will  not  be  deemed  to  be  Clearing 
Member and / or Trading Member or their associate for the purpose of 
Regulation  23(7).  However,  the  appointment  shall  be  subject  to 
fulfilment of other requirements and satisfaction of SEBI. 
 

d)  Further,  a  person  who  is  an  independent  director  on  the  board  of  the 
Public Limited Company whose other independent director(s) are also 
independent director in an entity, which is trading or clearing member, 

 

Page 12 of 13 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

the  person  will  not  be  deemed  to  be  associate  of  trading  member  or 
clearing member subject to that Public Limited Company does not have 
any other association with trading member or clearing member. 
 

e)  Recognised Stock Exchange and recognised clearing corporation, shall 
monitor  and  ensure  the  compliance  of  the  Regulation  23(7)  on 
continuous basis, to ensure that directors appointed, on their governing 
board, will not get associated with Trading Member or Clearing Member 
after approval and appointment,  
 

For the purpose of Regulation 27(6) , it is clarified that in terms of the said 
Regulation, the tenure refers to the period of posting as key management 
personnel in a regulatory department, which shall be for a fixed period. 

For  the  purpose  of  regulation  35,  the  Governing  Board  of  a  recognised 
stock  exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  confirm 
compliance of that regulation in writing on half yearly basis. 

 
15. The recognized stock exchanges/ clearing corporations are advised to:- 

 

 14.2  

 

14.4 

 

 

i.  make necessary amendments to the relevant rules/ bye-laws/ regulations 

for the implementation of the above decision immediately; 

ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 
stock  exchange/  clearing  corporation  and  also  to  disseminate  the  same 
through their website; and 

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this 

circular in the Monthly / Quarterly Development Reports to SEBI. 

16. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under regulation 51 of 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations) 
Regulations, 2012 read with section 8 and 10 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
Act, 1956 read with Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act,  1992  with  a  view  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market and shall come 
into effect immediately.  
 

17. This circular is also available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Rajesh Kumar D 
Deputy General Manager 
+91-22-26449242 
rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 13 of 13 

