 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/78                                                                    May 04, 2018 
 

All recognized Stock Exchanges and  
recognized Clearing Corporations  
(except those in International Financial Services Centre)  
 

Dear Sir / Madam 

Trading Hours on Stock Exchanges 

Pursuant to the approval of the SEBI Board, in its meeting held on December 28, 2017, 

Stock Exchanges have been permitted to trade commodity derivatives along with other 

segments of securities market effective from October 01, 2018. 

 

2.  With a view to enable integration of trading of various segments of securities market 

at the level of exchanges, it  has been decided to  permit  Stock Exchanges to  set  

their  trading  hours  in  the Equity Derivatives Segment between 9:00 AM and 11:55 

PM,  similar  to  the  trading  hours  for  Commodity  Derivatives  Segment  which  are 

presently fixed between 10:00 AM and 11:55 PM, provided that the Stock Exchange 

and  its  Clearing  Corporation(s)  have  in  place  risk  management  system  and 

infrastructure commensurate to the trading hours.  

 

3.  In  case,  stock  exchanges  are  desirous  of  extending  the  trade  timings  beyond  the 

extant  trading  hours,  prior  approval  from  SEBI  shall  be  sought  along  with  a  detailed 

proposal including the framework for risk management, settlement process, monitoring 

of positions, availability of manpower, system capability, surveillance systems, etc.  

 

4.  The provisions of this Circular shall be applicable from October 01, 2018. 

 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the Securities  and Exchange Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with Section  10  of  the 

Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 

securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

 

6.  This  circular 

is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  at  “Legal 

Framework→Circulars. 

 

Yours faithfully 

  

 

(Amrita Shukla) 
Deputy General Manager 
email: amrita@sebi.gov.in  

 

 

