भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2018/79 
 
 
To, 
 

 

 

 

 

               May 10, 2018 

1.  All the listed entities 
2.  All the recognized stock exchanges  

Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Circular for implementation of certain recommendations of the Committee 

on Corporate Governance under the Chairmanship of Shri Uday Kotak 

1.  The Committee on Corporate Governance under the Chairmanship of Shri Uday Kotak 
made several recommendations. Most of amendments necessary to implement these 
recommendations have been made in the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  vide  notification  dated  May  9,  2018.There  a  few 
recommendations as accepted by the Board,  which are to be implemented through 
issue of a circular.  

2.  Accordingly, the following provisions shall apply to entities whose equity shares are 

listed on a recognized stock exchange: 

a.  Disclosures on Board Evaluation: 

The listed entity may consider the following as a part of its disclosures on board 
evaluation: 

i.  Observations of board evaluation carried out for the year. 
ii.  Previous year’s observations and actions taken. 
iii.  Proposed actions based on current year observations. 

b.  Group Governance Unit: 

Where the listed entity has a large number of unlisted subsidiaries: 

i.  The  listed  entity  may  monitor  their  governance  through  a  dedicated 
group  governance  unit  or  Governance  Committee  comprising  the 
members of its board of directors.   

ii.  A strong and effective group governance policy may be established by 

the entity.  

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

iii.  The  decision  of  setting  up  of  such  a  unit/committee  or  having  such  a 

policy shall lie with the board of directors of the listed entity. 

c.  Medium-term and long-term strategy: 

The  listed  entity  may  consider  the  following  with  respect  to  disclosure  of 
medium-term and long-term strategy of the entity: 

i.  It may disclose, under the Management Discussion and Analysis section 
of the Annual report, within the limits set by its competitive position, its 
medium-term  and  long-term  strategy  based  on  a  time  frame  as 
determined by its board of directors. 

ii.  The listed entity may articulate a clear set of long-term metrics specific 
for  appropriate 

the  company's 

to 
long 
measurement of progress. 

term  strategy 

to  allow 

d.  The clause 4.4 of the SEBI Circular No.  CIR/CFD/CMD/56/2016 dated May 

27, 2016 shall stand deleted.  

 

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under sections 11 and  11A  
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read with regulation 
101  of  the  Securities    and    Exchange    Board  of    India  (Listing  Obligations  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.  

4.  This circular is available at www.sebi.gov.in under the link “Legal” and “Circulars”. 

5.  The  recognized  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  disseminate  the  contents  of  this 

circular on their website. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
Deputy General Manager  
Corporate Finance Department 
Compliance and Monitoring Division 
Tel No.: 022-26449246 
         Email: pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

 
 

 

