 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2018/75   
 
All  recognized  Stock  Exchanges  (except  Commodity  Derivatives 
Exchanges)  and  recognized  Clearing  Corporations,  including  those 
in IFSC 
 

      

 

                 May 02, 2018 

Dear Sir/Madam 
 
Additional Risk management measures for derivatives segment 
 
Based  on 

feedback  received 

from 

the 

the  Clearing  Corporations  and 

the 

recommendations of the Risk Management Review Committee (RMRC) of SEBI,  the 

following additional risk management measures are required to be complied with and 

implemented by the stock exchanges/clearing corporations for derivatives segment. 

Margin Collection Requirement 

2.  For  the  Equity  Derivatives  segment,  the  client  margins  which  are  required  to  be 

compulsorily  collected  and  reported  to  the  Exchange/Clearing  Corporation,  as  the 

case  may  be,  by  the  Clearing  members  /  Trading  members  shall  include  initial 

margin, exposure margin/extreme loss margin, calendar spread margin and mark to 

market settlements. 

 

Margin Enforcement Requirement 

3.  With reference to SEBI circular CIR/DNPD/7/2011 dated August 10, 2011 captioned 

“Short-collection/Non-collection  of  client  margins  (Derivatives  segments)”,  it  is 

clarified  that  the  ‘margins’,  for  both  Equity  Derivatives  Segment  and  Currency 

Derivatives  Segment,  shall  include  margins  as  specified  in  Para  2  of  this  circular, 

mark 

to  market  settlements  or  any  other  margin  as  prescribed  by 

the 

Exchange/Clearing  Corporation  to  be  collected  by  Clearing  Members  from  their 

clients  (i.e.  Custodial  Participants  and  Trading  Members  -  for  their  proprietary 

positions) and by Trading Members from their clients. 

Computation of Liquid Net worth 

4.  Further to SEBI circular IES/DC/Cir-4-99 dated 28th July, 1999, it is clarified that for 

the equity derivatives segment, the liquid net worth shall be arrived at by deducting 

initial margin and the exposure margin/extreme loss margin from the liquid assets of 

the clearing member.  

 

5.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from June 01, 2018. 

 

6.  Stock Exchanges and Clearing corporations are directed to:  

 
a)  take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation of the circular, 
the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 

to 

including  necessary  amendments 
regulations;  

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  members  and  also 

disseminate the same on their websites; and  

c)  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular in the Monthly Report.  
 

7.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully 

 

(Bithin Mahanta) 
Deputy General Manager  
Market Regulation Department 
Email: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

2 

 

