 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2018/83   
 
All 
Corporations in IFSC 
 

recognized  Stock  Exchanges  and 

      

                            May 24, 2018 

recognized  Clearing 

Dear Sir/Madam 
 
Segregated  Nominee  Account  Structure  in  International  Financial  Service 
Centre (IFSC) 
 
With  a  view  to  further  facilitate  ease  of  market  access  for  foreign  investors  in  IFSC 

and  based  on  feedback  received  from  market  participants,  it  has  been  decided  to 

permit  Segregated  Nominee  Account  Structure  in  IFSC  wherein  orders  of  foreign 

investors  may  be  routed  through  eligible  Segregated  Nominee  Account  Providers 

(hereinafter referred to as ‘Providers’), for trading on stock exchanges in IFSC while 

adhering to regulatory requirements, inter alia, relating to identification of  end-client, 

Unique  Client  Code,  order  placement  at  client  level,  client  level  margining  and 

position limits.  

2.  The  broad  features  of  the  Segregated  Nominee  Account  Structure  are  given  in 

Annexure, enclosed herewith. 

 

3.  It shall be obligatory on the stock exchanges,  brokers and ‘Providers’ to furnish to 

SEBI,  inter  alia,  information  relating  to  trades  on  stock  exchanges  in  IFSC 

originated by/through ‘Providers’, including KYC details of their end-clients, as and 

when requested.  

 

4.  Stock exchanges in IFSC shall ensure that the provisions of Prevention of Money 

Laundering  Act,  2002  (PMLA)  and  the  rules  thereof,  including  those  relating  to 

capturing the KYC information for sharing with the Central KYC Registry (CKYCR) 

to the extent applicable to FPIs, are adhered to by ‘Providers’ for their end-clients. 

 

5.  Stock Exchanges and Clearing corporations are directed to:  

a)  take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation of the circular, 

including  necessary  amendments 

to 

the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 

regulations;  

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  members  and  also 

disseminate the same on their websites; and  

c)  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular in the Monthly Report.  

 

6.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully 

 

(Sanjay Purao) 
General Manager  
Market Regulation Department 
Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 
 

Encl: a/a 

 

 

 

 

2 

Annexure 

A.  Entities eligible to offer Segregated Nominee Account Structure 

i.  SEBI-registered brokers in IFSC, 

ii.  SEBI registered FPIs (Category I and II), and  

iii.  Trading  /  Clearing  members  of  international  stock  exchanges  /  clearing 

corporations  that  are  regulated  by  a  member  of  Financial  Action  Task  Force 

(FATF) 

 

Such eligible entities shall be called Segregated Nominee Account Providers. 

 

B.  Registration of ‘Provider’ 

‘Providers’ shall be registered with Stock Exchange / Clearing Corporation in IFSC 

for providing Segregated Nominee Account services to their end-clients 

 

C.  Eligibility criteria/norms for ‘ Providers’ 

Stock  Exchanges  shall  lay  down  eligibility  criteria/norms for  ‘Providers’,  including 

‘net  worth’,  which  shall  not  be  less  than  that  prescribed  by  other  leading  stock 

exchanges offering similar structures. The conditions for registration shall include 

clauses/provisions 

for  obtaining 

information  relating 

to 

the  end-clients  of 

‘Providers’, as and when sought. 

 

D.  KYC of end-clients  

i. 

‘Providers’ shall be required to ensure appropriate due diligence of end-clients 

as  per  global  standards  including  KYC  and  AML  compliance  before  on-

boarding clients for offering Segregated Nominee Accounts to them. 

ii.  An  end-client  shall  open  Segregated  Nominee  Account  with  only  one 

‘Provider’.  Legal  Entity  Identifier  (LEI)  code  may  be  used  to  ensure  that  the 

end-client  does  not  open  Segregated  Nominee  Account  with  more  than  one 

‘Provider’ and trades of an end-client are cleared and settled only through one 

clearing member. 

3 

 

iii.  Each end-client shall be assigned a Unique Client Code (UCC), which shall be 

unique  across  all  end-clients  of  all  ‘Providers’,  by  Stock  exchange/clearing 

corporation in IFSC. 

 

E.  Order entry 

Unique Client Code shall be used at the time of order entry by the ‘Providers’ for 

their end-clients. 

 

F.  Margin Computation and Reporting 

i.  Margins shall be computed at the end-client level of ‘Provider’. 

ii.  Margins shall be grossed up at and collected from ‘Provider’. 

iii.  Margin reporting shall be at the level of the ‘Provider’. 

 

G.  Margin Collection 

i.  Margin shall be payable by the end-client to the Segregated Account Provider. 

However,  the  margins  may  be  funded  by  the  ‘Provider’  based  on  clearly 

defined bilateral agreement between ‘Provider’ and the end-client.  

ii.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  commercial  terms  and  documentation  / 

agreement  entered  into  between  ‘Provider’  and  the  end-client  contains  the 

clause regarding the aforesaid arrangement. 

 

H.  Monitoring of Position Limits  

Position limits shall be monitored at end-client level by stock exchanges / clearing 

corporations. 

 

I.  Other Risk Management Framework 

All  other  provisions  relating  to  risk  management  as applicable  in  IFSC  shall  also 

be applicable to end-clients of ‘Providers’, unless otherwise specified. 

4 

 

