¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

     November 26, 2015 

CIR/CDMRD/DEA/03/2015 
 
 
To,  
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
 of all Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Timelines  for  Compliance  with  various  provisions  of  Securities  Laws  by  Commodity 
Derivatives Exchanges 
 

1.  Pursuant  to  Section  131  of  the  Finance  Act,  2015  and  Central  Government  Notification 
S.O. 2362 (E) dated August  28, 2015, all recognized associations (commodity derivatives 
exchanges) under the Forward Contracts  (Regulation) Act, 1952  (‘FCRA’) are deemed to 
be  recognized  stock  exchanges  under  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956 
(‘SCRA’) with effect from September 28, 2015.   
 

2.  Section 131 of the Finance Act, 2015 also stipulates that SEBI may provide such deemed 
exchanges,  adequate  time  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  SCRA  and  any  regulations, 
rules,  guidelines  or  like  instruments  made  under  SCRA.    Accordingly,  commodity 
derivatives exchanges shall comply with the provisions of SCRA, applicable provisions of 
Securities  Contracts 
(Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations) 
Regulations, 2012, (‘SECC Regulations’) and SEBI circular CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012 dated 
December  13,  2012,  on  procedural  norms  on  recognition,  ownership  and  Governance  for 
Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporation (‘SECC Circular’).  
 

(Regulation) 

3.  The  timelines  provided  in  this  circular  shall  be  reckoned  from  the  date  of  recognized 
associations  under  FCRA  having  been  deemed  to  be  recognized  stock  exchanges  under 
SCRA, i.e. September 28, 2015. 
 
 Corporatization and Demutualization:  
 

4.  Regional  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  corporatize  and  demutualize  within  a 
period of three years in accordance with the provisions contained in section 4B of SCRA.  
In  this  regard,  regional  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  submit  a  scheme  for 
corporatization and demutualization for SEBI approval within a period of two years, as per 
the procedure laid down in section 4B of SCRA.  
 
Clearing and Settlement:   
 

5.  Commodity derivatives exchanges shall transfer the functions of clearing and settlement of 
trade  to  a  separate  clearing  corporation  within  three  years.    Till  then,  the  exchanges  may 
continue with the existing arrangement for clearing and settlement of trades. 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Validity of recognition of Commodity Derivative Exchanges:   
 

6.  Validity of recognition of commodity derivatives exchanges under SCRA shall be taken to 
be  the  same  as  the  validity  of  their  recognition  under  FCRA.  Further,  the  renewal  of 
recognition, if any, will be as per SCRA and SECC Regulations. 
 

7.  The conditions required to  be continuously complied with  by recognized stock exchanges 
as  given  in  Regulation  7(3)  of  SECC  Regulations  shall  be  complied  with  by  national 
commodity  derivative  exchanges  within  one  year  and  by  regional  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges within three years. 

However,  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  immediately  put  in  place  adequate 
surveillance  system  to  monitor  positions,  prices  and  volumes  etc.  so  as  to  ensure  market 
integrity till online real-time surveillance systems are set up and operationalized. 
 

8.  Conditions required to be continuously complied with by recognized clearing corporations 
given in Regulation 7(4) of SECC Regulations, to the extent applicable, shall be complied 
with  by  national  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  within  one  year  and  by  regional 
commodity derivatives exchanges within three years. 

 

Regulatory Fee: 
 

9.  Commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  pay  the  regulatory  fee  in  terms  of  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Regulatory Fee on Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006.  
 
Networth Requirements:   
 

10. Commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  comply  with  Regulation  14(1)  of  SECC 

Regulations as specified below: 
 

a)  Any national commodity derivatives exchange having a networth of less than INR 100 
crore, shall achieve a minimum networth of INR 100 crores by May 5, 2017. Further, it 
shall  submit  a  plan  duly  approved  by  its  shareholders  to  SEBI  for  achieving  the 
networth in terms of Regulation 14 of SECC Regulations, within six months. 

b)  Any  regional  commodity  derivatives  exchange having networth of less  than  INR  100 
crore, shall achieve a minimum networth of INR 100 crores within three years. Further, 
it  shall  submit  a  plan  duly  approved  by  its  shareholders  to  SEBI  for  achieving  the 
networth in terms of regulation 14 of SECC Regulations, within six months. 
 

11. It  may  be  stated  that  commodity  derivative  exchanges  shall  not  distribute  profits  in  any 
manner  to  its  shareholders  until  the  requisite  networth  of  INR  100  crores  is  achieved  in 
terms of Regulation 14(4) of SECC Regulations. 
 

12. It may also be stated that commodity derivatives exchanges shall submit audited networth 
certificate  from  the  statutory  auditor  on  an  yearly  basis  by  the  thirtieth  day  of  September 
every  year  for  the  preceding  financial  year  in  terms  of  Regulation  14(5)  of  SECC 
Regulations. The networth certificate for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2015 shall 
be submitted by 31st December, 2015. 
 
 
 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
Ownership:   
 

13. National  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  comply  with  the  shareholdings  limits 
specified  under  SECC  Regulations,  2012  by  May  5,  2019.    As  per  clause  5  of  SECC 
Circular,  they  shall  put  in  place  a  monitoring  mechanism  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 
shareholding restrictions specified in SECC Regulations. 
 

14. Shareholdings  of  existing  shareholders  of  national  commodity  derivatives  exchanges, 
whose  shareholdings  were  approved  by  Forward  Markets  Commission  (FMC),  shall  not 
require  fresh  approval  from  SEBI.  However,  any  fresh  holdings  will  be  governed  by  the 
provisions of Regulation 19 of SECC Regulations and SECC Circular.  
 

15. Regulations  20  to  22  of  SECC  Regulations  shall  be  applicable  to  national  commodity 
derivative exchange with immediate effect.  The format for submitting shareholding pattern 
to SEBI is annexed to this circular. 
 

16. Regional Commodity Derivatives Exchanges shall comply with the provisions specified in 

Chapter IV of SECC Regulations within three years.  
 
Governance:   
 

17. Provisions  of  Regulations  23  to  26  shall  be  applicable  to  national  commodity  derivatives 

exchanges, subject to the following: 
 

a)  Existing  Independent  Directors  on  the  boards  of  national  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges  shall  be  deemed  to  be  Public  Interest  Directors  (PIDs)  under  SECC 
Regulations,   

b)  All  existing  directors  on  the  governing  boards  of  national  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges  who  are  not  in  compliance  with  SECC  Regulations  may  be  allowed  to 
continue for one year or till completion of their term, whichever is earlier, 

c)  All  new  appointments  on  the  governing  boards  of  national  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges  shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  SECC  Regulations  and  SECC 
Circular. 

 

18. National  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of 

Regulation 27 of SECC Regulations within one year. 
 

19. Regional  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of 

Regulations 23 to 27 of SECC Regulations within three years. 
 
Segregation of Regulatory Departments:  
 

20. Commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  segregate  their  regulatory  departments  (as 
indicated  in  SECC Circular)  from  other  departments  in  the  manner  specified  in  Part  C  of 
Schedule II of SECC Regulations within six months.  
 
Oversight Committees:   
 

21. Commodity derivative exchanges shall comply with the requirements of Regulation 29 read 
with  Regulation  44D  (1)  (b)  of  SECC  Regulations  within  three  months.  National 
commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  constitute  an  oversight  committee  for  'Product 
design', chaired by a Public Interest Director, within three months. 

 

 

Page 3 of 5 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Advisory Committee and other Statutory Committees:  
 

22. National  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  constitute  Advisory  committees  in  line 
with  Regulation  30  of  SECC  Regulations,  2012  and  statutory  committees  as  specified  in 
SECC Circular within one year. 
 

23. Regional  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  constitute  Advisory  committees  in  line 
with Regulation 30 of SECC Regulations, 2012 and statutory committees as pre specified 
scribed in SECC Circular within three years. 
 
Risk Management Committee:    
 

24. Till  the  functions  of  clearing  and  settlement  are  transferred  to  a  separate  clearing 
corporation, commodity derivatives exchanges shall comply with provisions of Regulation 
31 of SECC Regulations relating to risk management committee. This committee shall be 
constituted. 
 
Appointment of Compliance Officer:  
 

25. All  commodity  derivative  exchanges  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  in  terms  of 

Regulation 32 of SECC Regulations.  
 
Transfer of Penalties:  
 

26.  National  commodity  derivative  exchanges  shall  credit  all  settlement  related  penalties  to 
their  settlement  guarantee  fund  (SGF)  and  other  penalties  to  Investor  Protection  Fund 
(IPF). 
 

27. Regional  Commodity  Derivatives  Exchanges  shall  credit  all  penalties  to  their  SGF.  On 
creation of IPF, regional commodity derivatives exchanges shall credit penalties other than 
settlement related to their IPF. 

 

Disclosure and Corporate Governance Norms:  
 

28. Regulation  35  of  SECC Regulations  shall  be  applicable  to  national  commodity  derivative 
exchanges immediately. Regional commodity derivatives exchanges shall comply with this 
Regulation within three years.  
 
General Obligations:  
 

29. Till  the  functions  of  clearing  and  settlement  are  transferred  to  a  separate  clearing 
corporation,  commodity  derivative  exchanges  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation 39 of SECC Regulations on Fund to guarantee settlement of trades. 
 

30. The provisions of Regulations 41, 42, 43, 44 and 44A of SECC Regulations to a recognized 
stock exchange shall be applicable to commodity derivatives exchanges. Additionally, the 
provisions  of  Regulations  41,  42,  43,  44  and  44A  of  SECC  Regulations  in  so  far  as  they 
pertain  to  a  recognized  clearing  corporation  shall  be  applicable  to  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges till the functions of clearing and settlement are transferred to a separate clearing 
corporation 
 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

31. Till  the  functions  of  clearing  and  settlement  are  transferred  to  a  separate  clearing 
corporation,  commodity  derivative  exchanges  shall  have  right  to  recover  dues  from  its 
trading/clearing  members  arising  from  the  discharge  of  their  clearing  and  settlement 
functions  from  the  collaterals,  deposits  and  the  assets  of  the  trading/clearing  members  in 
line with Regulation 44B of SECC Regulations.  

32. Regulation  44C  and  44D  of  SECC  Regulations  shall  be  applicable  to  commodity 

derivatives exchanges. 
 
Listing: 
 

33. Regulation  45  of  SECC  Regulations  shall  be  applicable  to  commodity  derivatives 

exchanges. 
 
Dematerialization of Securities:  
 

34. National  commodity  derivative  exchanges  shall  comply  with  Regulation  46  of  SECC 
Regulations  with  respect  to  holding  securities  in  dematerialized  form  within  six  months, 
and  regional  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall  comply  with  the  same  within  three 
years. 
 

35. Commodity derivative exchanges are advised to:-  

 

 

a)  Make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  rules/  bye-laws/  regulations  for  the 

implementation of the above decision;  

b)  Bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  members  and  also  to 

disseminate the same through their website; and, 

c)  Communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this circular in 

the Monthly / Quarterly Development Reports to SEBI.  

36. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Regulation 44D (1) and 51 
of  SECC  Regulations  read  with  Section  11  (1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India Act, 1992 with a view to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote 
the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities  market  and  shall  come  into  with 
immediate effect.  
 

37. This circular is also available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in   

 
Yours faithfully, 

 

Vishal Nair  
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Exchange Administration  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vishaln@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 5 of 5 

 

 

 

 
 

 

