SEBI/HO/CFD/DCR1/CIR/P/2018/85

CIRCULAR

May 28, 2018

To

All Listed Entities

All Depositories

All Nationwide Stock Exchanges

Dear Sir/Madam,

System-driven Disclosures in Securities Market

1. SEBI,  vide  circular  dated  December  01,  2015,  had  introduced  system-driven 

disclosures  in  securities  market  detailing  the  procedure  to  be  adopted  for  its 

implementation  with  effect  from  January  01,  2016.  The  procedure  was  further 

streamlined vide SEBI circular dated December 21, 2016.

2. As  specified  in  SEBI  circular  dated  December  01,  2015,  the  system  is  being 

implemented in phases and in the first phase, the disclosures of promoter/promoter 

group under SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 

2011  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  "SAST  Regulations")  and  SEBI  (Prohibition  of 

Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as "PIT Regulations") 

have been implemented.

3.

It is now proposed to implement the next phase of the system which shall pertain 

to the following additional disclosures:

a. Disclosures under Regulation 29(1) and 29(2) of SAST Regulations by non-

promoters. 

b. Disclosures under Regulation 7(2) of PIT Regulations pertaining to directors 

and employees of the company. 

4. The  CEO  and  upto  two  levels  below  CEO  of  a  company  shall  be  deemed  as 

employees for the purpose of system-driven disclosures in respect of Regulation 

7(2) (b) of PIT Regulations. 

5. For  the  purpose  of  system  driven  disclosure,  the    requirement  specified  under 

Regulation  29(4)  of  SAST  Regulations  shall  not  be  applied  to    a  scheduled 

commercial bank or public financial institution as pledgee irrespective of whether 

such a pledge is for securing indebtedness in the ordinary course of business or 

not.

6. The procedure required for implementation of the aforesaid disclosures is provided 

at Annexure-A.

7. The system would continue to run in parallel with the existing system i.e. the entities 

shall continue to comply with the disclosure obligations under SAST Regulations 

and PIT Regulations as applicable to them. 

8. The Depositories and  Stock Exchanges shall make  necessary arrangements so 

that the aforesaid disclosures pertaining to SAST Regulations and PIT Regulations 

are disseminated on the websites of respective stock exchanges from August 01, 

2018. 

9. Other requirements of SEBI circulars dated December 01, 2015 and December 21, 

2016 on the same subject will remain in force. 

10.This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  section  11(1)  of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. 

11.A copy of this circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the 

categories “Legal Framework/Circulars”.

Yours faithfully,

Rajesh Gujjar
Deputy General Manager
+91-22-26449232
rajeshg@sebi.gov.in

ANNEXURE - A

Procedure

The following would be the steps / process required to be taken for implementation 

of the second phase:

SAST Regulations:

1.

The various formats for sharing of data shall be standardized as agreed upon 

by the depositories and exchanges.

2.

For  the  purpose  of  Regulation  29(4)  of  SAST  Regulations,  the  depositories 

shall tag the scheduled commercial banks and public financial institutions in 

their systems for excluding them from disclosure requirements.

3.

The depositories shall share data with each other, on a daily basis, pertaining 

to non-promoter shareholders of a company who are holding more than 2% in 

the company. 

4.

The  details  of  shareholding  of  those  non-promoters  whose  combined 

shareholding  is  more  than  5%  in  the  company  shall  be  provided  by  the 

depositories to the stock exchanges on a daily basis.

5.

The  stock  exchanges  shall  then  identify  the  data  requiring  disclosure  under 

SAST Regulations and disseminate the same on its website in accordance with 

the respective Regulations.

6.

Any  discrepancy  observed  by  the  entities  must  be  communicated  to  the 

respective stock exchanges which may then resolve the issue in coordination 

with the depositories.

PIT Regulations:

1.

The various formats for sharing of data shall be standardized as agreed upon 

by the depositories and exchanges.

2.

The first step would be to build a database of the existing holdings at ISIN level 

of all the directors and employees of each listed company. The listed company 

will  be  required  to  provide  to  all  the  depositories  the  information  about  the 

directors and employees. The information provided by the listed company to 

the depositories must be authenticated and shall be provided within 15 days 

from  the  date  of  SEBI  circular.  The  information  provided  by  the  listed 

companies  to  the  depositories  shall  be  in  the  manner  prescribed  by 

depositories and must also include the PAN of the entity. In respect of PAN 

exempt entities, the account numbers shall be provided. 

3.

Based  on  the  PAN/account  numbers,  the  depositories  will  tag  such  demat 

accounts in their depository systems at ISIN level. 

4.

In case of  any  subsequent  changes in  the directors/employees of  the listed 

company,  the  company  shall  provide  the  information  of  the  changes  to  the 

depositories on an immediate basis and not later than 2 working days.

5.

The  listed  company  shall  select  one  of  the  depositories  as  a  Designated 

Depository for the purpose of disclosure of data for that particular company.  

In  respect  of  the  identified  directors/employees  for  a  listed  company,  the 

Designated Depository shall aggregate its data along with the data received 

from the other depository for the particular company.

6.

The data shall be processed by the Designated Depository and the identified 

data  requiring  disclosure  in  terms  of  PIT  Regulations  shall  be  sent  to  the 

respective stock exchanges on a daily basis for dissemination on their website.

7.

Any  discrepancy  observed  by  the  entities  must  be  communicated  to  the 

respective Stock Exchanges which may then resolve the issue in coordination 

with the depositories. 

