 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

    

         June 11, 2018 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2018/96   
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub.:  Disclosure  by  Exchanges  related  to  Deliverable  Supply  and  Position 
Limits Calculation for Agricultural Commodity Derivatives 
 
1.  After  due  consultation  with  various  stakeholders  and  on  the  basis  of 
recommendations  of  CDAC  (Commodity  Derivatives  Advisory  Committee), 
SEBI vide its circular No. CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2017/84 dated July 25, 2017 had 
prescribed  a  principle  based  methodology  for  revising  the  commodity-wise 
numerical  value  of  overall  client  level  open  position  limits  for  agricultural 
commodities with reference to the 'deliverable supply' of the such commodities 
available  in  the  country  during  a  financial  year.  Further  the  agricultural 
commodities have been classified into three categories viz. sensitive, broad and 
narrow. 
 

2.  The  clause  3.4.4  of  the  above  mentioned  SEBI  Circular  prescribes  the 

following:- 

 
“Every  year,  for  each  agricultural  commodity  that  is  being  traded  in  the 
derivatives  market,  all  national  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall 
jointly  complete  the  exercise  of  determination  of  ‘deliverable  supply, 
categorization/re-categorization  of  commodities  and  computation  of 
numerical value of position limits. Numerical values of position limits for any 
agricultural commodity shall be revised only if the computation results in a 
revision  in  the  value  by  at  least  5%  compared  to  previous  year's  limits. 
Exchanges  shall,  after  prior  intimation  to  SEBI,  notify  such  details  to  the 
market through their respective websites sufficiently in advance and latest 
by 31st of July (unless extended by SEBI under exceptional circumstances) 
of  every  year  and  revised  limits  shall  become  applicable  for  all  running 
contracts with effect from 1st of September of every year.” 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

3.  In order to provide necessary information  to the stakeholders the Exchanges 
shall prominently disseminate on their websites the details of five year average 
deliverable  supply,  current  year  deliverable  supply,  source  of  data, 
categorization of the commodity, position limits etc. for each of the commodity 
traded on their exchange, as per the format given in Annexure to this circular. 
 

4.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  come  into  effect  from  the  date  of  this 

Circular. 

 
5.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

a)  take steps to make necessary amendments, if any, to the relevant bye-laws, 

rules and regulations for the implementation of the same. 

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

c)  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular. 

 
6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote  the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 
 

7.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars”, “Info for Commodity Derivatives” 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 

 

Annexure 

Commodity  Units  Source 
of Data 

Average Deliverable Supply 
during past five Financial Year 

Classific
ation  

Deliverable Supply during 
Financial Year 

Member Limit* 

Client Limit 

Overall 
Exchange 
wide limit 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
* A member’s open interest limit at overall (all contracts) level will be either the absolute number indicated above or 15% of the total market wide open position in the 
commodity, whichever is higher. (As per Clause 5.3 of the SEBI Circular SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/96 dated September 27, 2016) 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Product
ion 

Import  Total  Total 

(in Cr) 

In Units 

Production 

Import  Total  Overall  Near 

Overall  Near 

Month 

Month 

(Board/ 
Narrow/ 
Sensitive
) 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

Page 3 of 3 

