CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

   June 05, 2018 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/89   
 
To, 
 
All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) 
All Parties to InvITs 
All Stock Exchanges (other than Commodity Exchanges) 
All Merchant Bankers 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam,  
 
Sub:  Guidelines  for  Preferential  Issue  of  Units  by  Infrastructure  Investment 
Trusts (InvITs)   
 
1.  Regulation 2(1)(zo) of SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 
(“InvIT  Regulations”)  defines  a  preferential  issue.  Regulation  14(4)(b)  read  with 
Regulation 2(1)(zo) provides for any subsequent issue of units after an initial offer 
in  a  manner  specified  by  Board  from  time  to  time.  Accordingly,  the  detailed 
guidelines for preferential issue by an InvIT are provided herein.  
 

2.  Conditions for preferential issue 

 

2.1. A listed InvIT may make preferential issue of units to an institutional investor 

as defined in the InvIT regulations, if it satisfies the following conditions: 

 

 

2.1.1.  A resolution of the unitholders of the InvIT approving the preferential 
issue in accordance with Regulation 22(5) of the InvIT Regulations has 
been passed. 
 

2.1.2.  The InvIT is in compliance with the conditions for continuous listing 
and  disclosure  obligations  under  the  InvIT  Regulations  and  circulars 
issued thereunder. 
 

2.1.3.  The  InvIT  is  in  compliance  with  the  minimum  public  unitholding 
requirements  as  stipulated  under  Regulation  16  (6)  of  the  InvIT 
Regulations. 
 

2.1.4.  No preferential issue of units by the InvIT has been made in the six 

months preceding the relevant date. 

2.2. Preferential issue pursuant to the unitholders resolution referred to in Clause 
2.1.1 shall be completed within a period of twelve months from the date of 
passing of the resolution. 
 

2.3. Allotment pursuant to preferential issue shall be completed within 12 days. 

 

2.4. The units shall be issued only in dematerialized form. 
 
2.5. The units to be issued in preferential issue shall be of same class or kind as 

the units issued in the initial offer by the InvIT. 

 
Further, such units have been listed on a recognised stock exchange, having 
nationwide trading terminal for a  period of at  least  six months prior to the 
date  of  issuance  of  notice  to  its  unitholders  for  convening  the  meeting  to 
approve the preferential issue. 

 

 
2.6. The  minimum  subscription  and  trading  lot  for  the  units  to  be  issued  in 
preferential issue shall be same as that for units issued in the initial offer by 
the InvIT. 
 

2.7. The units in a preferential issue shall be offered and allotted to a minimum 

of two investors and maximum of 1000 investors in a financial year. 

2.8. Relevant date for the purpose of preferential issue shall mean the date of 
the meeting in which the board of directors of the investment manager of 
the  InvIT  or  the  committee  of  directors  duly  authorised  by  the  board  of 
directors  of  the  investment  manager  of  the  InvIT  decides  to  open  the 
proposed issue. 

 

 
3.  Placement Document 

 

3.1. The InvIT may appoint one or more SEBI registered intermediaries to carry 

out the obligations relating to the issue. 
 

3.2. The preferential issue of units by an InvIT shall be done on the basis of a 
placement  document,  which  shall  contain  disclosures  as  specified  in 
Annexure I. 
 

3.3. The placement document shall be serially numbered and copies shall be 
circulated only  to  select  investors  subject  to  compliance  with  clause  2.7 
above. 
 

3.4. The  InvIT  shall,  while  seeking  in-principle  approval  from  the  recognised 
stock exchange, furnish a copy of the placement document, a certificate 
issued by its merchant banker or statutory auditor confirming compliance 
with  the provisions  of these  Guidelines  along  with  any  other documents 
required by the stock exchange. 
 

3.5. The  placement  document  shall  also  be  placed  on  the  website  of  the 
concerned  stock  exchange  and  the  InvIT  with  a  disclaimer  to  the  effect 
that it is in connection with a preferential issue and that no offer is being 
made to the public or to any other investor.  

4.  Pricing 
 

4.1. The preferential issue shall be made at a price not less than the average 
of the weekly high and low of the closing prices of the units quoted on the 
stock exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date. 

Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, the term “stock exchange” means any 
of the recognised stock exchanges on which the units of the InvIT are listed and 

 

 
on which the highest trading volume in such units has been recorded during the 
two weeks immediately preceding the relevant date. 
 
4.2. The InvIT shall not allot partly paid-up units.  
 
4.3. The prices determined for preferential issue shall be subject to appropriate 

adjustments, if the InvIT: 

4.3.1.  makes a rights issue of units 

 

4.3.2.  is involved in such other similar events or circumstances, which in the 

opinion of the concerned stock exchange, requires adjustments. 

 

 

5.  Restriction on allotment 
 

5.1. No allotment shall be made, either directly or indirectly, to any party to the 
InvIT or their related parties except to the sponsor only to the extent that is 
required  to  ensure  compliance  with  regulation  12  (3)  of  the  InvIT 
Regulations. 

 
Explanation: To determine the “related parties”, the term related party as defined 
under  the  InvIT  Regulations  shall  be  applicable.  However,  Mutual  Funds, 
Insurance Companies and Pension Funds shall not be treated as related parties 
for the purpose of clause 5.1 above. 
 
5.2. The  applicants  in  preferential  issue  shall  not  withdraw  their  bids  after  the 

closure of the issue. 

 

6.  Transferability of Units 

 
6.1. The units allotted under preferential issue shall not be sold by the allottee for 
a period of one year from the date of allotment, except on a recognised stock 
exchange. 

This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, Regulation 33 of the 
InvIT Regulations. 
 
This Circular is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (“SEBI”) at www.sebi.gov.in under the category “Legal” and under the 
drop down “Circulars”.  

 

 
7. 

8. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Barnali Mukherjee 
Chief General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Tel. No.: +91 22 2644 9660 
E-mail ID: barnalim@sebi.gov.in 

 
ANNEXURE I 

 
Information to be included in the placement document: 
 
1)  Disclaimer to the effect that the Placement Document relates to an issue made to 
institutional investors under the InvIT Regulations and these Guidelines and that 
no issue is being made to the public or any other class of investors. 
 

2)  Market Price Information: Disclose particulars of: 

 

a) 

high,  low  and  average  market  prices  of  units  of  the  InvIT  during  the 
preceding  three  years  or  since  the  date  of  listing  until  the  date  of  the 
placement document, as applicable; 
 

b)  monthly high and low prices for the six months preceding the date of filing 

c) 

d) 

e) 

f) 

g) 

of the placement document; 
 
number of units traded on the days when high and low prices were recorded 
in the relevant stock exchange during period of (i) and (ii) above, and total 
volume traded on those dates; 
 
the  stock  market  data  referred  to  above  shall  be  shown  separately  for 
periods  marked  by  a  change  in  capital  structure,  with  such  period 
commencing from the date the concerned stock exchange recognizes the 
change in the capital structure 
 
the market price immediately after the date on which the resolution of the 
board  of  directors  of  the  investment  manager  or  manager  of  the  InvIT 
approving the issue was approved. 
 
the volume of units traded in each month during the six months preceding 
the date on which the placement document is filed with the stock exchanges 
and the Board; 
 
along with high, low and average prices of units of the InvIT, details relating 
to  volume  of  business  transacted  should  also  be  stated  for  respective 
periods. 
 

3)  The placement document shall contain the disclosures as specified under schedule 

III of the InvIT Regulations in the following manner: 
 

a)  The disclosures as per clauses 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7(a), 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 

and 19 shall be made in the placement document. 
 

b)  The disclosures in clause (a) above may be incorporated by reference to 
in  any  previous  offer  document  or  placement 

disclosures  made 
memorandum or placement document. 
 
Provided, the link(s) to such document wherever available, including on the 
website of the InvIT, stock exchanges or SEBI, shall also be provided. 
 

 
Provided  further,  any  modification/update  in  the  information  provided  in 
such documents shall be suitably incorporated in the placement document. 
 

4)  Terms of the issue: 

 

 

a)  Objects of the issue 

b) 

c) 

 
If the objects of the issue involve financing of any new asset(s), description 
of such asset(s) as per disclosures required under clause 6 of the Schedule 
III of the InvIT Regulations. 
 
If the objects are not being financed solely through the issue proceeds, the 
details of other financing arrangements for fulfilling the objects of the issue. 

5)  Related Party Transactions: 

 

a)  Disclosure as per clause 9 of the Schedule III of the InvIT Regulations, which 
may be incorporated by reference to disclosures made in any previous offer 
document or placement memorandum or placement document. 
 

b)  Any  disclosures  made  regarding  related  party  transactions  shall  also  be 

incorporated by reference to such disclosures. 
 

c)  Link(s) to document(s) at (a) and (b) above wherever available, including on 

the website of the InvIT, stock exchanges, shall be provided. 
 

6)  Valuation 

 

 

a)  Summary  of  valuation  of  the  assets  proposed  to  be  financed  through 
proceeds of the issue, if any, as per the latest valuation report not more than 
six months old from the relevant date. 
 

b)  Valuation methodology 

 

c)  Frequency of valuation and declaration of NAV. 

 

d)  Any disclosures made regarding valuation since the initial offer shall also be 

incorporated by reference to such disclosures. 
 

e)  Link(s)  to  document(s)  at  (d)  above  wherever  available,  including  on  the 

website of the InvIT, stock exchanges, shall be provided. 
 

f)  The  valuation  report  of  the  asset  to  be  financed  through  proceeds  of  the 

issue, if any, shall be provided along with the placement document. 

7)  Financials 

 

a)  Disclosure as per clause 11 of the Schedule III of the InvIT Regulations 

 

b)  Disclosure as per clause (a) above may be incorporated by reference to any 
public  disclosures  of  financials  made  under  the  InvIT  Regulations  or  any 

 
circular issued thereunder, along with link(s) to such disclosure(s) wherever 
available, including on the website of the InvIT, stock exchanges. 
 
Provided, the information contained therein is not more than six months old 
from the relevant date. 

8)  Distribution including the manner of calculation of the net distributable cash flows, 
history  of distributions  made  in  the  last  three financial  years  or  from  the date of 
listing of the InvIT and the policy, if any. 
 

9)  Other disclosures: 

 

a)  Unit holding pattern 

 

b)  Review of Credit Rating 

 

c)  Grievance redressal mechanism 

 

d)  The  disclosures  in  clause  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  above  may  be  incorporated  by 
reference to any public disclosures made under the InvIT Regulations or any 
circular issued thereunder, along with link(s) to such disclosure(s) wherever 
available, including on the website of the InvIT, stock exchanges. 

