 

CIRCULAR 

 

IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/101  
June 15, 2018 

 
To 
 
1.  All Foreign Portfolio Investors (through their Custodian of Securities)  
2.  All Custodians 
3.  The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 
4.  The Stock Exchanges (BSE, NSE and MSEI) 

 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Sub: Review of Investment by Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI) in Debt 
 
1.  SEBI  vide  Circular  No.  CIR/IMD/FIIC/1/2015  dated  February  3,  2015  and  Circular  No. 
CIR/IMD/FPIC/8/2015 dated Oct 6, 2015 had stipulated minimum residual maturity restriction 
of  three  years  for  investment  by  FPI  in  Government  Securities  (G-secs)  ,  State  Development 
Loans  (SDLs)  and  Corporate  Debts.  Further,  vide  circular  No.  CIR/IMD/FIIC/2/2015  dated 
February 5, 2015, SEBI enabled investment of coupons in G-Secs and related matters. Also, SEBI 
Circular  No.    CIR/IMD/FIIC/19/2014  dated  October  09,  2014  prescribed  the  procedure  to  be 
followed in the implementation of the auction mechanism. 
 

2.  In  accordance  with  RBI  circular  A.P.  (DIR  Series)  Circular  No.  31  dated  June  15,  2018, the 

changes to operational aspects of FPI investment in debt are set forth below.  
 

3.  It  has  been  decided  to  withdraw  minimum  residual  maturity  restriction  of  three  years  for 
investment by FPIs in G-Secs and SDLs. Further, the auction process being carried out by BSE/ 
NSE shall be discontinued from the date of this circular.  
 

4.  Till date, depositories were monitoring the G-Sec/ SDLs utilisation limits and reporting to SEBI. 
Henceforth, the overall monitoring of G-Sec/ SDLs will be done by Clearing Corporation of India 
Ltd.(CCIL).  
 

5.  Thus, any circular previously issued by SEBI from time to time for monitoring of G-Sec and SDLs 
stands withdrawn and hence, shall not be applicable to FPIs for investments in G-Secs and SDLs 
from June 1, 2018. However, FPIs may be guided by RBI circular dated June 15, 2018 referred 
above for the requirements of G-Secs and SDLs. 

Page | 1  

 

 

 

6.  Further,  revised  requirements  for  FPIs  investments  in  corporate  debt  securities  are  placed  as 

Annexure. 
 

7.  It is clarified that the primary responsibility of complying with monitoring the  corporate debt 
investment  limits  is  with  the  FPIs  on  whose  behalf  depositories  will  monitor  the  investment 
limits. As the depositories are maintaining the data on investor group level, depositories shall 
monitor  the  investments  at  the  investor  group  level.  Custodians  shall  be  responsible  for 
monitoring their own clients.  
 

8.  At the time of monitoring the corporate debt investment limits, depositories shall identify the 
FPIs  in  breach  and  inform  to  their  respective  custodians  who  in  turn  shall  advise  their  FPI 
clients  for  the  needful.  For  the  monitoring  of  G-Secs/  SDLs  utilisation  limits  by  CCIL, 
depositories shall share the investor group data with RBI and CCIL on a monthly basis. 
 

9.  The  stock  exchanges  and  depositories  shall  put  in  place  the  necessary  systems  for  the  online 

monitoring of the investment limits 
 

This circular  is  issued  in exercise of  powers  conferred  under Section  11  (1)  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  at  the  web  page  “Circulars”  on  our  website  www.sebi.gov.in. 
Custodians are requested to bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FPI clients. 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 
ACHAL SINGH 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449619 
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in 

Page | 2  

 

 

 

 
 
Annexure 
 

Revised requirements for FPIs investments in corporate debt securities 

1)  Minimum residual maturity  

 

a)  Till date, FPIs were required to invest in corporate bonds with a minimum residual 
maturity of three years. Henceforth, FPIs are permitted to invest in corporate bonds 
with  minimum  residual  maturity  of  above  one  year,  subject  to  the  condition  that 
short-term investments (i.e. investment in securities with residual maturity up to 1 
year) in corporate bonds by an FPI shall not exceed 20% of the total investment of 
that FPI in corporate bonds.  

b)  The  requirement  that  short-term  investments  shall  not  exceed  20%  of  total 
investment by an FPI in any category applies on an end-of-day basis. At the end of 
any day, all  investments with residual maturity of up to one year will be reckoned 
for the 20% limit.  

c)  Short-term investments by an FPI may exceed 20% of total investments, only if such 
short-term investments consist entirely of investments made on or before  the date 
prescribed by RBI vide circular dated AP (DIR Series) Circular No. 24 dated April 27, 
2018;  that  is,  short-term  investments  do  not  include  any  investment  made  after 
aforesaid date prescribed by RBI. 

 

2)  Concentration Limits 

Investment  by  any  FPI  (including  investments  by  investor  group  as  determined  on  the 
basis  of  clubbing  requirement  on  the  basis  of  common  beneficial  owner  in  accordance 
with  Regulation  23(3)  of  SEBI  (FPI)  Regulations,  2014),  in  corporate  debt  securities, 
shall be subject to the following concentration limits:  
(i) 
(ii)  Other FPIs: 10% of prevailing investment limit.  
(iii) 

Long-term FPIs: 15% of prevailing investment limit.  

 In case an FPI has investments (INV0) in excess of the concentration limit on the 
effective  date  (date  on  which  these  concentration  limits  come  into  existence  as 
prescribed  by  RBI),  it  will  be  allowed  the  following  relaxations,  subject  to 
availability of overall limits, as a one-time measure:  
a)  In case an FPI has investments (INV0) in excess of the concentration limit on 
the effective date, it will be allowed to undertake additional investments such 
that its portfolio size at  the end of  any day (INVt) does not exceed INV0 plus 
2.5%  of  investment  limit  on  the  effective  date.  Once  INVt  falls  below  the 
prevailing concentration limit, the FPI shall be free to make investments up to 
the applicable concentration limit.  

b)  In  case  an  FPI  has  investments  (INV0)  within  the  concentration  limit,  but  in 
excess of 7.5% (12.5% in case of FPIs in the ‘Long-term’ sub-category) of the 

Page | 3  

 

 
investment limit on the effective date, that FPI shall be allowed to undertake 
additional investments such that its portfolio size at the end of any day (INVt) 
does not exceed INV0 plus 2.5% of the investment limit on the effective date. 
Once INVt falls below the prevailing concentration limit, the FPI shall be free to 
make investments up to the applicable concentration limit.  

c)  All  other  FPIs  will  be  allowed  to  invest  up  to  the  applicable  concentration 

limit.  

 

3)  FPI Investment limits in corporate bonds:  

FPI investment in corporate bonds shall be subject to the following requirements: 
(i) 

Investment by any FPI  (including investments by investor groups as determined 
on the basis of clubbing requirement on the basis of common beneficial owner in 
accordance  with  Regulation  23(3)  of  SEBI  (FPI)  Regulations,  2014),  shall  not 
exceed 50% of any issue of a corporate bond. In case an FPI, including investments 
by investor groups, has invested in more than 50% of any single issue, it shall not 
make further investments in that issue until this stipulation is met.  

(ii)  No FPI shall have an exposure of more than 20% of its corporate bond portfolio to 
a  single  corporate  (including  exposure  to  related  parties  of  corporate  as  defined 
under section 2(76)(viii) of Companies Act, 2013).  
a)  In case an FPI has, as on the date prescribed by RBI, exposure in excess of 20% 
to  any  corporate  (including  exposure  to  entities  related  to  the  corporate),  it 
shall  not  make  further  investments  in  that  corporate  until  this  stipulation  is 
met.  

b)  Investments made (other than those referred to in para 3(ii)(a)) by FPI after 
the  date  prescribed  by  RBI  would  be  exempted  from  this  requirement  till 
March  31,  2019.  These  investments  will,  however,  have  to  comply  with  this 
requirement thereafter. 

c)  To  facilitate  newly  registered  FPIs  to  build  up  a  diversified  portfolio,  FPIs 
registering after the date prescribed by RBI are permitted to comply with this 
requirement by March 31, 2019, or six months from the date of registration, 
whichever is later.  

(iii)  For the purpose of these stipulations, “entities related to  the corporate” shall not 
include issuers that are owned or controlled by the Government of India or State 
Governments. 

(iv)  These stipulations would not apply to investments by  FPIs which are Multilateral 
Financial  Institutions  in which  Government  of  India  is  a member  and investment 
by FPIs in Security Receipts issued by Asset Reconstruction Companies. 

 

4)  Pipeline investments in corporate bonds  

(i)  Investment transactions by FPIs in corporate bonds that were under process but 
had  not  materialized  as  on  the  date  prescribed  by  RBI  (pipeline  investments), 

 

Page | 4  

 
shall be exempt from the requirements specified in paragraphs  3(i) and 3(ii) of 
this circular, subject to the  custodian of the FPI reasonably satisfying itself that: 

a)  the  major  parameters  such  as  price/rate,  tenor  and  amount  of  the 
investment  have  been  agreed  upon  between  the  FPI  and  the  issuer  on  or 
before the date prescribed by RBI;  

b)  the actual investment will commence by December 31, 2018; and  
c)  the  investment  is  in  conformity  with  the  extant  regulations  governing  FPI 

investments in corporate bonds prior to the date prescribed by RBI. 

(ii) Custodians may, based on their assessment of adherence to the above conditions, 
permit, or not permit, as the case may be, pipeline investments by FPIs without 
reference to the Reserve Bank. 
 

5)  Partly paid instruments 

No FPI shall invest in partly paid debt instruments.  

6)  Action in case of default 

Appropriate  action  may  be  initiated  against  FPIs  who  are  not  in  compliance  with  the 
requirements specified here.  

 

*********************** 

 
 
 

Page | 5  

 

 

