 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2018/113                                                             July 12, 2018 
 
To, 
 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 

Subject: Discontinuation of acceptance of cash by Stock Brokers  

 

1.  Please refer to SEBI circular  SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir- 33/2003/27/08 dated August  27, 2003, 

regarding Mode of Payment and Delivery. 

 
2.  Government of India has promoted various means for transfer / receipt of funds through 
digital  mode  for  encouraging  a  cashless  economy.  Financial  institutions/  Banks  have 
introduced various modes of electronic payment facility including mobile banking, Unified 
Payment Interface (UPI) etc.  

 
3.  In view of the various modes of payment through electronic means available today, it is 
directed that Stock Brokers shall not accept cash from their clients either directly or by way 
of cash deposit to the bank account of stock broker. Accordingly, paragraph 3 of the SEBI 
circular dated August 27, 2003 is modified as under:  

 

All payments shall be received / made by the stock brokers from / to the clients strictly by 
account payee crossed cheques / demand drafts or by way of direct credit into the bank 
account  through  electronic  fund  transfer,  or  any  other  mode  permitted  by  the  Reserve 
Bank of India. The stock brokers shall accept cheques drawn only by the clients and also 
issue cheques in favour of the clients only, for their transactions. Stock Brokers shall not 
accept cash from their clients either directly or by way of cash deposit to the bank account 
of stock broker. 

 

4.  All other conditions specified in the SEBI circular dated August 27, 2003 shall continue to 

remain in force. 

 
5.  Stock Exchanges are directed to  
 

a)  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for the 

implementation of the above direction immediately; 

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  members  and  also 

disseminate the same on their websites; and  

c)  communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this circular 

in their Monthly Report.  

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

 

 
6.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
D Rajesh Kumar 
General Manager 

 

Page 2 of 2 

