CIRCULAR 

 

IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/114  
July 13, 2018 

To 
 
1.  All Foreign Portfolio Investors (through their Custodian of Securities)  
2.  All Custodians 
3.  The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 
4.  All Registrar and Transfer Agents 
5.  All Merchant Bankers 

Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Investment  by  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  (FPI)  through  primary  market 
issuances 
 
1.  Regulation  21(7)  of  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014  ('FPI 
Regulations') mandates that the purchase of equity shares of each company by a single 
foreign  portfolio  investor  or  an  investor  group  shall  be  below  ten  percent  of  the  total 
issued capital of the company. 
 

2.  Further,  Regulation  23(3)  of  FPI  Regulations  requires  that  in  case  the  same  set  of 
ultimate  beneficial  owner(s)  invest  through  multiple  entities,  such  entities  shall  be 
treated  as  part  of  same  investor  group  and  the  investment  limits  of  all  such  entities 
shall  be  clubbed  at  the  investment  limit  as  applicable  to  a  single  foreign  portfolio 
investor.  
 

3.  As prescribed in reply to FAQ No. 58 for FPIs, for the purpose of identifying the investor 
group, the Designated Depository Participant (DDP) shall obtain the details provided by 
the FPI under clause 2.2 of the FPI Application form (Form A) specified in First Schedule 
of  FPI  Regulations.  The  monitoring  of  investment  limits  at  the  level  of  investor  group 
shall be performed by the depositories based on the information provided by DDPs.  
 

4.  To  ensure  compliance  of  the  above,  at  the  time  of  finalization  of  basis  of  allotment 

during primary market issuances, Registrar and Transfer Agents ('RTAs') shall: 

 

 

a) Use Permanent Account Number (PAN) issued by Income Tax Department of India  

for checking compliance for a single foreign portfolio investor; and 

Page | 1  

 
b) Obtain  validation  from  Depositories  for  the  foreign  portfolio  investors  who  have 
invested in the particular primary market issuance to ensure there is no breach of 
investment limit 
 

within the timelines for issue procedure, as prescribed by SEBI from time to time. 

  

5.  The  depositories  shall  put  in  place  the  necessary  systems  for  sharing  of  information 
with RTAs within the timelines for issue procedure, as prescribed by SEBI from time to 
time.  
 

This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  at  the  web  page  “Circulars”  on  our  website 
www.sebi.gov.in.  Custodians  are  requested  to  bring  the  contents  of  this  circular  to  the 
notice of their FPI clients. 

Yours faithfully, 

 
ACHAL SINGH 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449619 
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page | 2  

