 
 
 

 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

          August 03, 2018 

 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DoP/CIR/P/2018/117  
 
To, 
 
1. All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
2. Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges 
3. Sub-Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

Sub: Role of Sub-Broker (SB) vis-a-vis Authorized Person (AP) 

1.  Under the current regulatory framework, Sub-Brokers (‘SB’) need to seek registration 
from  SEBI  under  SEBI  (Stock  Broker  and  Sub-Broker)  Regulations,  1992,  and 
Authorized  Persons  (‘AP’)  need  to  seek  registration  from  the  concerned  Exchange. 
There is no difference in the operative role of a Sub-Broker and that of an Authorized 
Person. 
  

2.  SEBI Board in its meeting held on June 21, 2018 decided to discontinue with Sub-Broker 

as an intermediary to be registered with SEBI. 

 

 

3.  In view of the same, the need for the category of Sub-Broker as a market intermediary 

may no longer be required. Therefore, it is decided that- 
 

a)  No fresh registration shall be granted to any person as Sub-Broker. Any pending 
applications for registration as Sub-Brokers under process, shall be returned to 
the concerned Stock Exchanges for onward transmission to the applicant.  

b)  The registered Sub-Brokers shall have time till March 31, 2019 in order to migrate 
to  act  as  an  AP  and  /  or  Trading  Member  (TM).  The  Sub-Brokers,  who  do  not 
choose to migrate into AP and /or TM, shall deemed to have surrendered their 
registration with SEBI as Sub-Broker, w.e.f. March 31, 2019.   

c)  Consequent  upon  migration  /  deemed  surrender,  the  certificate  of  registration 

granted to the Sub-Brokers by SEBI shall stand withdrawn. 

d)  The migration path for existing registered Sub-Brokers, shall be as under: 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 
 
 

 

 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

 

 

 

In case of a registered Sub-Broker who is already approved to act as AP in 
Derivatives  Segment  of  the  Exchanges,  he  shall  be  registered  with  the 
Exchange to continue activities of Sub-Broker as an AP in Cash Segment. 
In case of a registered Sub-Broker who is not approved by Stock Exchanges 
to act as AP in Derivatives Segment, Exchanges shall register them as AP 
in Cash Segment, to continue their operations without disruption. 
The existing Sub-Broker has an option to become a Trading Member, if the 
Sub-Broker  meets  the  eligibility  criteria  prescribed  under  Stock  Exchange 
Bye-laws and SEBI Regulations and by complying with these Regulations.  

e)  All the existing Sub-Brokers shall be required to pay renewal fees to SEBI up to 
financial  year  2018-19;  and  renewal  fees  paid  by  Sub-Broker  for  the  financial 
years  beyond  2018-19  shall  be  refunded  on  receipt  of  recommendation  from 
respective Stock Exchange. 

f)  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  put  in  place  appropriate  process  for  surrender  or 

migration of Sub-Broker to AP / TM. 

4.  The Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

a)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  Stock  Brokers and 

Sub-Brokers, and also disseminate the same on their websites;  

b)  make  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  for  the 
implementation  of  the  above  decision  in  co-ordination  with  one  another,  as 
considered necessary;  

c)  monitor the compliance of this circular;  
d)  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of the  implementation  of  the  provisions  

of this circular. 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interest of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of and to regulate the securities market. 

 

 

 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
D Rajesh Kumar 
General Manager 

Page 2 of 2 

 

