CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DoP/CIR/P/2018/ 119    
 
To, 
All Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 

 
 

 

 

 

       August 10, 2018 

Subject: Enhanced monitoring of Qualified Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 

Agents 

1.  SEBI  constituted  a  Committee  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  R.  Gandhi,  Former  Deputy 
Governor, Reserve Bank of India to review the regulations and relevant circulars pertaining to 
Market  Infrastructure  Institutions  (MIls).  The  Committee  also  looked  into  the  desirability  of 
extending  the  extant  framework  of  MIIs  to  certain  market  intermediaries  including  the 
Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents (RTAs) servicing more than 2 crore folios 
(hereinafter referred to as “Qualified RTAs” or “QRTAs”).  

2.  Based on the recommendations of the Committee and the public comments received on the 
same,  SEBI  Board  in  its  meeting  held  on  June  21,  2018,  decided  that  while  changes  in 
ownership structures of RTAs may not be required, the QRTAs may be required to comply 
with  enhanced  monitoring  requirements,  through  adoption  and  implementation  of  internal 
policy framework; and periodic reporting on key risk areas, data security measures, business 
continuity,  governance  structures,  measures  for  enhanced  investor  services,  service 
standards, grievance redressal, insurance against risks, etc. With respect to data security and 
system  audits,  vide  SEBI  circular  dated  September  08,  2017,  certain  compliance 
requirements have already been prescribed for QRTAs. 

3.  The QRTAs are now advised to formulate and implement a comprehensive policy framework, 
approved by the Board of Directors (“BoD”) of the QRTAs, which shall include the following 
aspects: 

I.  Risk Management Policy: 

The  QRTAs  are  advised  to  establish  a  clear,  thorough  and  a  well-documented  risk 
management policy, which shall include the following- 
a.  An  integrated  and  comprehensive  view  of  risks  to  the  QRTAs  including  those 
emanating from vendors, third parties to whom activities are outsourced, clients, etc.;  
b.  List of all relevant risks, including Operational risk, Fraud risk, Technology risk, Cyber 
Security risk, and general business risks including Credit risk, Market risk, Legal risk, 
Reputation  risk  etc.  as  the  BoD  of  QRTAs  deems  fit;  and  systems,  policies  and 
procedures to identify, assess, monitor and manage the risks that arise in or are borne 
by the QRTAs, including audit and reporting of the same to the BoD; 

c.  Responsibilities and accountability for risk decisions and decision making process in 

crises and emergencies.  

 

Page 1 of 6 

 

II.  Business Continuity Plan:  

QRTAs shall maintain Business Continuity Plan with a Center (BCP) situated at location 
other than primary processing location (off-site), which is capable to take over operations 
without disruption in case of any service failure at primary processing site.  

QRTAs shall have written policy, protocols, processes and controls for BCP. QRTAs shall 
ensure business continuity and no adverse impact on investor servicing resultant of any 
data loss. The effectiveness of BCP to be tested periodically, and the gap between two 
tests (mock drills, etc.) shall not be more than twelve months.  

III.  Manner of keeping records: 

Where records are kept electronically by the QRTAs, they shall ensure that the integrity 
of  the  automatic  data  processing  systems  is  maintained  at  all  times.  QRTAs  shall  also 
maintain  accurate  up  to  date  records  for  investor  servicing  and  take  all  precautions  
necessary  to  ensure  that  the records are not lost, destroyed or tampered with; and in 
the event of loss or destruction, ensure that sufficient back up of records is available at all 
times at a different place. 

IV.  Wind-down Plan: 

Every QRTA shall devise and maintain a wind-down plan.  

A 'wind-down plan' means a process or plan of action employed, for transfer of the entire 
operations  of the  QRTA  to  an  alternative  RTA/ QRTA  registered  with  SEBI, that  would 
take  over the  operations  of  the  QRTA  in  scenarios  such  as  erosion  of  net-worth  of the 
QRTA or its insolvency or its inability to provide critical RTA operations or services. 

V.  Data Access and Data Protection Policy:  

QRTAs  shall  extend  all  such  co-operation  to  the  investors,  issuers,  custodians  of 
securities,  depositories  and  other  QRTAs  as  is  necessary  for  effective  and  smooth 
investor servicing.  

Towards  this  purpose,  QRTAs  shall  lay  down  appropriate  protocols,  processes  and 
controls for its activities and also for entities who wish to connect with the database of the 
QRTAs  electronically.  QRTAs  shall  also  have  written  agreements,  confidentiality 
contracts, security protocols and such other relevant procedures for data integrity while 
facilitating electronic access. 

VI. 

Ensuring Integrity of Operations: 
QRTAs  shall  maintain  adequate  human  resources,  systems  and  processes  for  smooth 
functioning. QRTAs to  also  ensure that  its  database,  servers,  data  storage  media  shall 
reside in India. 

QRTAs  shall  lay  down  the  minimum  standards,  protocol  and  procedures  for  smooth 
running  of  operations,  to  protect  the  investor  data  and  maintain  information  security. 
Further, the QRTAs shall have a detailed operations manual explaining all aspects of its 
functioning, including the interface and method of transmission of information between the 
depository,  issuers,  and  others.  The  QRTAs  shall  have  a  mechanism  in  place  to  have 

 

Page 2 of 6 

 

periodic replication of data with the concerned Mutual Funds / Issuer Companies / Real 
Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)/ Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InVITs).  

VII. 

Scalable infrastructure: 
The  BoD  of  QRTAs  shall  approve  a  policy  framework  for  up-gradation  of  infrastructure 
and  technology  from  time  to  time  to  ensure  smooth  functioning  and  scalability  for 
delivering services to investors at all times. QRTAs shall at all times, maintain adequate 
technical capacity to process twice the peak transaction load encountered during past six 
months.  

VIII.  Board of Directors (BoD) / Committees of BoD of QRTAs: 

The BoD of QRTAs shall seek reports on incidents having an impact on investor protection 
including  data  security  breaches  that  can  affect  investor  data,  etc.  QRTAs  shall  have 
Committees  of  the  Board  of  Directors  including  Audit  Committee,  Nomination  and 
Remuneration Committee and IT Strategy Committee.  

The  Audit  Committee  shall  assist  the  BoD  in  fulfilling  its  corporate  governance  and 
overseeing  responsibilities  in  relation  to  an  entity's  financial  reporting,  internal  control 
system, and risk management system including the risk parameters. The Audit Committee 
shall also review the internal audit reports, compliance to SEBI Regulations, circulars and 
the reasonableness of the price being charged for investor services.  

The  Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee  shall  in  accordance  with  the  rules  laid 
down,  recommend  to  the  BoD  a  policy,  relating  to  the  appointment,  tenure  and 
remuneration for the directors, key managerial personnel and other employees. 

The  IT  Strategy  Committee  shall  provide  insight  and  advice  to  the  BoD  of  QRTAs  in 
various areas that may include developments in IT and  alignments with the same from 
investor services perspective, scalability of operations, etc. 

IX. 

Investor Services and Service Standards: 
a.  QRTAs,  servicing  Mutual  Funds  investors,  must  have  Investor  Service  Center  in  at 
least 100 cities based on investor population pertaining to the Mutual Funds clients 
they  service.  As  regards  servicing  of  corporate,  REIT,  InvIT  investors,  QRTA  shall 
maintain adequate investor service centers based on investor population. This shall 
be reviewed from time to time by SEBI.  

b.  QRTAs  shall  have  online  capabilities  for  investor  queries,  complaints  and  their 
redressal.  The  complaints  redressal  mechanism  should  be  investor  friendly  and 
convenient.  The  same  should  have  capabilities  of  being  retrieved  easily  by  the 
complainant online through complaint reference number, e-mail id, mobile no. etc. 

c.  QRTAs,  handling  corporate  registry  functions,  shall  develop  facility  for  providing 
services for managing Shareholders General Meetings including shareholders voting 
/ poll process and web streaming of all Annual General Meetings (AGMs) of all their 
listed client companies. QRTAs shall also look forward to providing other value added 
services and when required by SEBI. 

 

Page 3 of 6 

 

d.  QRTAs  must  publish  on  its  website,  the  service  standards  (eg:  turnaround  time  for 

services rendered).  

e.  QRTAs should also carry out stakeholder/ investor satisfaction surveys annually, and 

the same should also be published on the website before March 31, every year. 

X. 

Insurance against Risks:  
All  QRTAs  shall  take  adequate  insurance  for  omissions  and  commissions,  frauds  by 
employee/s to protect the interests of the investors.  

4.  QRTAs  shall  formulate  and  implement  the  policy  framework,  and  also  comply  with  the 
additional  reporting  requirements  within  six  months  from  the  date  of  this  circular.  The  first 
compliance with these guidelines shall be submitted within 30 days from the end of six months 
period.  

5.  The  compliance  report  of  the  enhanced  reporting  norms  shall  be  submitted  to  SEBI  duly 
reviewed by the BoD of QRTAs, within 60 days of expiry of each calendar quarter. The format 
of the report is placed at Annexure 1. 

6.  This  enhanced  reporting  would  be  in  addition  to  half-yearly  periodic  reporting  done  by 
Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents as prescribed by SEBI vide circular dated 
July 05, 2012 on "Review of Regulatory Compliance and Periodic Reporting". 

7.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
D Rajesh Kumar 
General Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 4 of 6 

Annexure- 1 

 

 
A.  Name of QRTA: 

B.  Registration No: 

 

 

 

 

C.  Date of Report Submission (in dd/mm/yy):  

 

D.  Enhanced Reporting Requirement for QRTAs for Quarter Ended on ……… 

Enhanced Reporting Norms 

Description   Remarks 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sr. 
No. 
1 

 
Risk Management Policy 

a)  Whether Risk Management policy is adopted and implemented 
b)  Whether responsibilities and accountabilities have been charted out 

2 

Business Continuity Plan Audit/Testing 

a)  Does the QRTA have Business Continuity Plan (BCP)? 
b)  Name of the Primary and the BCP locations 
c)  When was the BCP tested through mock drill? 
d)  Whether  the  QRTA  is  complying  with  the  requirement  of  testing  / 

mock drill every 12 months? 

e)  Has corrective action been initiated on learning arising out of BCP 

testing? 

3 

Manner of keeping records 

a)  Whether records are lost, destroyed or tampered with;  
b)  In  the  event  of  loss  or  destruction,  whether  sufficient  back-up  of 

records is available at all times at a different place. 

4 

5 

Wind-down Plan 

a)  Does the QRTA have in place a Wind-down Plan (WDP) ? 

Data Access and Data Protection Policy 

a)  Whether protocols, processes and controls in place for  entities who 

wish to connect with QRTA data base electronically 

b)  Whether  QRTA  has  entered  into  confidentiality  contracts,  legal 
contracts,  written  agreements,  security  protocols,  etc.,  while 
facilitating electronic access to other entities to its data? 

6 

Ensuring Integrity of Operations 

a)  Whether minimum standards, protocol and procedures are in place 
for  smooth running  of operations,  to  protect the investor  data  and 
maintain information security 

b)  Whether  detailed  operations  manual  explaining  all  aspects  of  its 

functioning has been prepared 

c)  Whether mechanism is in place to have periodic replication of data 
with the concerned Mutual Funds / Issuer Companies / InvIT/ REIT? 
d)  Does QRTA have its database, servers, data storage media, at all 

times, related to Indian investors / clients, present in India 

 

Page 5 of 6 

7 

Scalable Infrastructure 

a)  Peak transaction volume handled by the QRTA on any business day 
b)  Peak new folios created by QRTA on any business day 
c)  Was the adequacy of the capacity to handle twice the above volume 
reviewed  and  maintained  by  the  QRTA.  If  no,  what  corrective 
actions taken 

8 

Board Committees of QRTA  

a)  Audit Committee 
b)  Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
c)  IT Strategy Committee 
d)  Whether  any  incidents  having  an  impact  on  investor  protection 

including data security breaches reported to the BoD of QRTA 

9 

Investor Services 

a)  Number  of  Customer  Services  Centers  operated  by  QRTA 
servicing Mutual Funds investors, Corporate and other investors, 
if any. 

b)  Whether  the  QRTA  has  online  capabilities  to  resolve  investor 

queries and complaints 

c)  If the QRTA is handling corporate registry, does it have facility for 
providing  services  for  managing  shareholder  meetings  including 
poll process and web streaming of AGMs of listed companies 

d)  Whether QRTA can provide other facilities such as questions by 
investors  during  AGMs  through  online  access  as  and  when 
required by SEBI. 

e)  Whether service standards published on website 
f)  Date of investor satisfaction survey carried out 
g)  Whether  investor  satisfaction  survey  outcomes  published  on 

website.  

10  

Insurance against Risks 

a)  Whether adequate insurance against omissions and commissions, 

frauds by employee/s is in place 

 

 

E.  Details of the review of the report by the Board of Directors 

 

Date of Review (dd/mm/yyyy)   
 

 

 

 

F.  Observations of the BoD on  

 

 

 

 

 

i) The deficiencies and non-compliances: 
ii) Corrective measures initiated to avoid such instances in future: 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 6 of 6 

