 

     CIRCULAR

CIR / IMD / DF / 7 / 2013 

All Mutual Funds/Asset Management Companies 
Trustee Companies/Boards of trustees of mutual funds
 
 
Sir / Madam, 
 

Sub: Circular on Infrastructure Debt Fund 

 

 
 
April  23, 2013 

 

 
Amendments to SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 
 

1. Please find enclosed a copy of the gazette notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2013-14/03/5652 
dated  April  16,  2013,  pertaining  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 
Funds) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 for your information and implementation. 

 
Placement Memorandum 
 

2. Private Placement to less than 50 investors has been permitted as an alternative to New 
Fund  Offer  to  the  public,  in  case  of  Infrastructure  Debt  Funds  (IDF).  In  case  of  private 
placement,  the  mutual  funds  would  have  to  file  a  Placement  Memorandum  with  SEBI 
instead  of  a  Scheme  Information  Document  and  a  Key  Information  Memorandum. 
However, all the other conditions applicable to IDFs offered through the NFO route like kind 
of  investments,  investment  restrictions,  etc.  would  be  applicable  to  IDFs  offered  through 
private placement. 

3. In terms of regulation 49-OA of the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, the Placement 

Memorandum shall be filed with SEBI as per the format prescribed at Annexure. 
 

4. The  Asset  Management  Companies  shall  ensure  that  the  Placement  Memorandum  is 
uploaded on their respective websites after allotment of units, and on the website of such 
recognized Stock Exchange, where it is proposed to be listed, at the time of listing of the 
scheme. 
 
FIIs which are long term investors 
 

5. The universe of strategic investors in the IDF has been expanded to include, inter alia, FIIs 
registered  with  SEBI  which  are  long  term  investors  subject  to  their  existing  investment 

 

Page 1 of 2 

limits. With reference to regulation 49L of the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 the 
following categories of FIIs are designated as long term investors only for the purpose of 
IDF:  
 

 

 

a.  Foreign Central Banks 
b.  Governmental Agencies 
c.  Sovereign Wealth Funds 
d.  International/Multilateral Organizations/ Agencies 
e.  Insurance Funds 
f.  Pension Funds 
 
Investments by the IDF scheme 
 

6. With reference to regulation 49P (1) of the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, it may 
be noted that the investments in bank loans shall be made only through the securitization 
mode.  
 
 
This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under section 11(1) of the Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the  provisions  of  regulation  77  of  the 
SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities 
and to promote the development of and to regulate the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 

PARAG BASU 
General Manager 
Tel no. 022-26449360 
Email-paragb@sebi.gov.in 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Page 2 of 2 

 

 

 

 

PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM 

NAME OF THE SCHEME 

 

 

(Type of Scheme- Closed Ended / Interval)

ANNEXURE 

Private placement of Units of Rs. 10 lakh each during the Placement period 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

Placement Period Opens on: _______ 
Placement Period Closes on: _______ 
_______ 
Scheme re-opens on :  

 

 

Name of Mutual Fund 
: 
 
Name of Asset Management Company     : 
Name of Trustee Company 
: 
 
          : 
Addresses, Website of the entity 
 
The particulars of the Scheme have been prepared in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Mutual Funds) Regulations 1996, (herein after referred to as SEBI (MF) Regulations) as amended till date. These 
units being privately placed have not been approved or recommended by SEBI nor has SEBI certified the accuracy 
or adequacy of the Placement Memorandum. It is to be distinctly understood that this Placement Memorandum 
should not, in anyway, be deemed or construed that the same has been cleared or vetted by SEBI. 
 
 
The investors are advised to refer to the Statement of Additional Information (SAI) for details of ________ Mutual 
Fund, Tax and Legal issues and general information on www.__________. (website address). 
 
This Placement Memorandum is dated ________. 

 

Instructions: 

 
 

 

 

 

 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 

Investment objective  
 
Liquidity  
Benchmark  
Transparency/NAV Disclosure  
Minimum Application Amount  

 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
A.  RISK FACTORS 

 

  A Mutual Fund is free to add any other disclosure, which in the opinion of the Trustees of the 
Mutual Fund (Trustees) or the Asset Management Company (AMC) is material for the investor, 
provided  that  such  information  is  not  presented  in  an  incomplete,  inaccurate  or  misleading 
manner. Care should be taken to ensure that inclusion of such information does not, by virtue of 
its nature, or manner of presentation, obscure or impede understanding of any information that 
is required to be included in the Placement Memorandum.  

  Care should therefore be taken to present the information in the Placement Memorandum in 

simple language and in a clear, concise and easily understandable manner.  

  The scheme shall not have a name or title which may be deceptive or misleading. The Scheme’s 

name should be consistent with its statement of investment policy.  

HIGHLIGHTS/SUMMARY OF THE SCHEME – This section shall include the following: 

 

    Standard Risk Factors as per Scheme Information Document Format: 
 
    Scheme Specific Risk Factors: 
 

•  Risk associated with investment in the Infrastructure Sector 

•  Risk associated with investment in Infrastructure Debt Instruments 

•  Risk associated with investment in Infrastructure Projects 

•  Risk associated with investing in Equities 

•  Risk associated with investing in Bonds 

•  Risks associated with Investing in Bank Deposits 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

•  Risks associated with Investing in Convertibles including mezzanine financing instruments 

•  Risks associated with investing in Securitized Debt 

•  Risks associated with investing in unrated/below investment grade securities 

•  Any other risk factors 

 
 
 
B.  REQUIREMENT OF MINIMUM INVESTORS IN THE SCHEME  
 
(Applicability for a Close ended scheme / Interval scheme) 
 
The Scheme(s) and individual Plan(s) under the Scheme(s) shall have a minimum of 5 investors and no 

 

 

 
 
single investor shall account for more than 50% of the corpus of the Scheme(s)/Plan(s). These conditions 
will  be  complied  with  immediately  after  the  close  of  the  Placement  Period  itself  i.e.  at  the  time  of 
allotment. In case of non-fulfilment with the condition of minimum 5 investors, the Scheme(s)/Plan(s) 
shall be wound up in accordance with Regulation 39 (2) (c) of SEBI (MF) Regulations automatically 
without  any  reference  from  SEBI.  In  case  of  non-fulfilment  with  the  condition  of  50%  holding  by  a 
single  investor  on  the  date  of  allotment,  the  application  to  the  extent  of  exposure  in  excess  of  the 
stipulated  50%  limit  would  be  liable  to  be  rejected  and  the  allotment  would  be  effective  only  to  the 
extent of 50% of the corpus collected. Consequently, such exposure over 50% limits will lead to refund 
within 5 days of the date of closure of the Placement Period. 
 
For interval scheme the aforesaid provision will be applicable at the end of initial placement period and 
further specified transaction period(s). 
 
C.  SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS, if any 

D.  DEFINITIONS - All terms used in the Placement Memorandum shall be defined in this Section. 
 
Instructions: 
 
i. Language  and  terminology  used  in  the  Placement  Memorandum  shall  be  as  provided  in  the 

Regulations. Any new term if used shall be clearly defined. 

ii. The term ‘scheme’ shall be used uniformly to indicate the different schemes of a Mutual Fund.  
 
E.  DUE DILIGENCE BY THE ASSET MANAGEMENT COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE 
 
The  Asset  Management  Company  shall  submit  a  Due  Diligence  Certificate  duly  signed  by  the 
Compliance  Officer/Chief  Executive  Officer/Managing  Director/Whole 
time  Director/Executive 
Director  of  the  Asset  Management  Company  and  countersigned  by  a  director  of  the  trustee 
company/trustee from the board of trustees to SEBI, which reads as follows: 
 
It is confirmed that: 
 
(i) The final Placement Memorandum forwarded to SEBI is in accordance with the SEBI (Mutual Funds) 
Regulations, 1996 and the guidelines and directives issued by SEBI from time to time.  
(ii)  All  legal  requirements  connected  with  the  launching  of  the  scheme  as  also  the  guidelines, 
instructions, etc., issued by the Government and any other competent authority in this behalf, have been 
duly complied with.  
 
(iii) The  disclosures  made  in  the  Placement  Memorandum  are  true,  fair  and  adequate  to  enable  the 
investors to make a well informed decision regarding investment in the proposed scheme.  
 
(iv) The intermediaries named in the Placement Memorandum and Statement of Additional Information 
are registered with SEBI and their registration is valid, as on date.  
 
II.   INFORMATION ABOUT THE SCHEME 
 
A. TYPE OF THE SCHEME – (close ended /interval)  
 
B. WHAT IS THE INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE OF THE SCHEME?  

 

 
C. HOW WILL THE SCHEME ALLOCATE ITS ASSETS? 
The asset allocation will be as follows: 
 
Instrument 

the  purpose  of  facilitating  or  promoting 

Debt  securities  or  securitized  debt  instruments  of  infrastructure 
companies or projects or special purpose vehicles which are created 
for 
in 
infrastructure  or  bank  loans  in  respect  of  completed  and  revenue 
generating  projects  of  infrastructure  companies  or  special  purpose 
vehicle. 

investment 

Indicative Allocation  Risk 
Profile
Minimum  Maximum 

90% 

100% 

- 

 

- 

 
0% 

shares, 

 
10% 

convertibles 

including  mezzanine 

 
 
 
Equity 
financing 
instruments  of  companies  engaged  in  infrastructure,  infrastructure 
development  projects;  or  money  market  instruments  and  bank 
deposits 
 
 
D.WHERE WILL THE SCHEME INVEST? 
 
This  includes  a  brief  narration  on  the  types  of  instruments  in  which  the  scheme  will  invest  and  the 
concerned regulations and limits applicable shall also be mentioned. 
 
Portfolio Rebalancing – Briefly describe about the conditions which may lead to portfolio rebalancing 
and also in the event of asset allocation falling outside the limits, in what time period does the Mutual 
Fund will review and rebalance the same. 
 
E.WHAT ARE THE INVESTMENT STRATEGIES? 
 
Information about investment approach and risk control should be included in simple terms.  
 
F. FUNDAMENTAL ATTRIBUTES 
 
Following are the Fundamental Attributes of the scheme, in terms of Regulation 18 (15A) of the SEBI 
(MF) Regulations: 
 
i.  Type of  the scheme 
 

  Close ended/Interval scheme 

ii.  Investment Objective  
 

  Main Objective 
 

 
iii.  Terms of Issue  
 

Investment  Pattern  -  The  tentative  portfolio  break-up  with  minimum  and  maximum  asset 
allocation,  while  retaining  the  option  to  alter  the  asset  allocation  for  a  short  term  period  on 
defensive considerations.  

  Liquidity provisions such as listing, repurchase, redemption.  
  Aggregate fees and expenses charged to the scheme.  
  Any safety net or guarantee provided. 

  
In accordance with Regulation 18(15A) of the SEBI (MF) Regulations, the Trustees shall ensure that no 
change in the fundamental attributes of the Scheme(s) and the Plan(s) / Option(s) thereunder or the trust 
or fee and expenses payable or any other change which would modify the Scheme(s) and the Plan(s) / 
Option(s) thereunder and affect the interests of Unitholders is carried out unless: 
 

  A  written  communication  about  the  proposed  change  is  sent  to  each  Unitholder  and  an 
advertisement is given in one English daily newspaper having nationwide circulation as well as 
in a newspaper published in the language of the region where the Head Office of the Mutual 
Fund is situated; and 

  The Unitholders are given an option for a period of 30 days to exit at the prevailing Net Asset 

Value without any exit load.  

 

G. BENCHMARK AND ITS JUSTIFICATION 
 
 
H. WHO MANAGES THE SCHEME? 
 

Name, age, qualification and experience in the infrastructure sector of the fund manager to the scheme 
to be disclosed. The experience of the fund manager should include last 10 years experience and also 

 

 
 

the name of other schemes under his /her management. 

 
I. WHAT ARE THE INVESTMENT RESTRICTIONS? 
 

All  the  investment  restrictions  as  contained  in  Chapter  VI-B  (Infrastructure  Debt  Fund  Schemes)  to 
SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 and applicable restrictions of the Seventh Schedule should be 
incorporated.  Further  in  case  the  fund  follows  any  internal  norms  vis-à-vis  limiting  exposure  to  a 
particular security or sector, etc. apart from the aforementioned investment restrictions the same needs 
to be disclosed. 

Scheme Returns %

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

Bench
mark  Returns  
% 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Absolute Returns for each financial year for the last 5 years  
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
scheme returns %
benchmark returns %   

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
J. HOW HAS THE SCHEME PERFORMED? 
 

[In  case  of  a  new  scheme, 
this is  not  applicable  hence 
give    the    statement-“This 
scheme is a new scheme and 
does not have any performance track 
record”] 

                               Or 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 
 

[In   case   of   a   scheme   in 
existence, the return figures shall    be  
 
given    for    that scheme only, as per 
  
 
 
the For  
   
a    scheme    which    is    in existence 
  
for  more  than  1 year,  the  returns  
given  will be Compounded  
Annualized Returns and for scheme 
which is in existence for less than 1 
year, the returns would be  absolute 
returns since inception. 
 
Absolute returns   for   each financial 
year for the last 5 years shall  be 
represented by  means  of  a  bar  
diagram as per the adjacent format.] 

  
   
  

   
 
   

   
   
   

   
   

  

 
 
 
 
   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

   

  Compounded
  Annualised Returns
  Returns for the last
  1 year
 
  Returns for the last  
  3 years  
 
  Returns for the last  
  5 years  
 
 
since  
  Returns  
  inception
 
 
 
 
 
   

   
 

   

 
 

 

 

Q 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

20
15  
   
10  
return5  
 
   
0  
 
-5  

 
 
 

 

 

 

-10
-15  
-20  
   
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

a-b

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

b-c

c-d

Last 5 financial years

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
   
  

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

e-f   

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

d-e

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
K. Indicative Portfolio based on type of assets 
 
Indicative  %  of  investment  to  be  made  in  various  securities  to  be  mentioned  below  with  the  ratings 
mentioned against each type of instrument. 
 
All investments shall be based on the rating prevalent at the time of investment. However, in case of an 
instrument having dual ratings, the most conservative publicly available rating would be considered. 
 

 

 
L. Valuation Policy for the assets of the scheme 
 
A detailed valuation policy for the assets of the scheme based on the overarching principle of fair 

 

 
 
valuation and valuation done 'in good faith' shall be given. 
 
M. Extension in the tenure of the scheme: As stipulated in Regulations 
 
 
III. PLACEMENT DETAILS 
 
 
 
Offer Price: 
This is the price per unit that the investors have to pay to 
invest during the Placement Period. 

A.  Placement Period 

Rs. 10 lakh per unit 

Minimum Amount for Application  

Minimum Target amount 
 
This  is  the  minimum  amount  required  to  operate  the 
scheme  and  if  this  is  not  collected  during  the  Placement 
Offer Period, then  all  the  investors  would  be  refunded  
the  amount invested  without  any  return.  However,  if  
AMC  fails  to refund  the  amount  within  five business 
days,  interest  as  specified by SEBI (currently 15% p.a.) 
will  be  paid  to  the  investors  from  the  expiry  of  five 
working days from the date of closure of the subscription 
period. 
Details  of  strategic  investors  and  amounts  committed  by 
them 
Plans / Options offered 
Specified transaction period (for interval schemes)
Dividend Policy 
Allotment* 

Refund 

Dividend 
Redemption 
Who can invest 

Listing of fully paid up units 

Mandatory quoting of bank mandate and PAN number by 
investors 
Pledge/Lien 
Capital Commitments 
Subsequent Drawdowns 
Default on Capital Calls and the interest or penalty thereon, 
with the interest or penalty being retained in the scheme. 

Rs.  1  crore  and  in  multiples  of  Rs.10  lakh 
thereafter. 

Rs. ____________ 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
Restrictions, if any, on the right to freely retain or dispose 
of units being offered. 
Accounts Statements

 

 

During  subscription,  and  subsequent  capital 
calls 
Consolidated Account Statement 
 
Annual Account Statement 

Transaction Charges

 

*Allotment shall be made within five working days of the closure of the Placement Period. 
 
B. PERIODIC DISCLOSURES 
 
 
Net Asset Value 
 
This is the value per unit  of  the scheme  on a  particular 
day. You can ascertain the value of your investments by 
multiplying the NAV with your unit balance. 
Portfolio disclosures

 

Half Yearly Results 
Annual Report 
Taxation 
 
The information is provided for general information only.  
However,  in  view  of  the  individual  nature  of  the 
implications,  each  investor  is  advised  to  consult  his  or 
her  own  tax  advisors/authorised  dealers  with  respect  to 
the   specific   amount   of   tax   and   other   implications 
arising  out  of  his  or  her  participation  in  the  schemes. 
(mention the tax rates as per the applicable tax laws) 

Resident

Tax  on 
Dividend 

Non 
Resident 
Investor 
 

 

Mutual 
Fund 

 

 

Jurisdiction 
Investor Services 
 
C. COMPUTATION OF NAV  
Describe briefly the policies of the Mutual Fund with regard to computation of NAV of the scheme in 
accordance with SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. 
 
Rounding off policy for NAV as per the applicable guidelines shall be disclosed. 
 
D. FEES AND EXPENSES  
This section outlines the expenses that will be charged to the scheme.  
 
a.  PLACEMENT EXPENSES  
 
These expenses are incurred for the purpose of various activities related to the Placement process. The 

Capital 
Gains: 
 
Long 
Term 
 
Short 
Term
 
 

 

 
 
same may be borne by the AMC/trustee/sponsor. 
 
b.  ANNUAL SCHEME RECURRING EXPENSES  
 
These  are  the  fees  and  expenses  for  operating  the  scheme.  These  expenses  include  Investment 
Management and Advisory Fee charged by the AMC, Registrar and Transfer Agents’ fee, marketing and 
selling costs etc. as given in the table below:  
 
The AMC has estimated that upto _____ % of the daily net assets of the scheme will be charged to the 
scheme as expenses (Give slab wise break up depending on the assets under management.) For the actual 
current expenses being charged, the investor should refer to the website of the mutual fund.  
 
Particulars  
 

% of daily Net Assets 

Regular Plan (the 
name of the plan as 
applicable)  
 

Direct Plan (the 
name of the plan 
as applicable)  
 

Investment Management & Advisory Fee  
Marketing and selling expenses including agent's 
commission if any 
Brokerage and transaction cost 
Registrar services for transfer of units sold or 
redeemed 
Fees and expenses of trustees 
Audit fees 
Custodian fees 
Costs related to investor communication 
Costs of fund transfer from location to location 
Costs of providing account statements and 
dividend/redemption cheques and warrants 
Insurance premium paid by the fund 
Winding up costs for terminating a fund or a 
scheme 
Cost of statutory advertisements 
Listing fees 
Investor Awareness and Education Initiatives# 
Such other costs as may be approved by the Board*  
Total Recurring Expenses  
 
(* To be specified as permitted under the Regulation 52 of SEBI (MF) Regulations)  
(# At least 2 bps) 
 
Commission/ Distribution expenses will not be charged In case of Direct Plan.  

 

 

The  AMC  may  charge  additional  expenses  not  exceeding  0.20%  of  daily  net  assets  of  the  Scheme 
incurred towards different heads of fees and expenses. 
 
Additional  expenses  may  be  charged  up  to  30  basis  points  on  daily  net  assets  of  the  Scheme  as  per 
Regulation 52 of SEBI Regulations, if the new inflows from beyond top 15 cities are at least (a) 30% of 
gross new inflows in the Scheme or (b) 15% of the average assets under management (year to date) of 
the Scheme, whichever is higher. 
Provided  that  if  inflows  from  such  cities  is  less  than  the  higher  of  (a)  or  (b)  above,  such  additional 
expenses on daily net assets of the Scheme shall be charged on proportionate basis. 
Provided  further  that  expenses  charged  under  this  clause  shall  be  utilized  for  distribution  expenses 
incurred for bringing inflows from such cities. 
Provided further that amount incurred as expense on account of inflows from such cities shall be credited 

 

 
 
back to the Scheme in case the said inflows are redeemed within a period of one year from the date of 
investment. 
 
Brokerage and Transaction Cost: 
 
Brokerage and transaction cost incurred for the purpose of execution of trade may be capitalized to the 
extent of 12bps for cash market transactions. Any payment towards brokerage and transaction cost, over 
and  above  the  said  12  bps  for  cash  market  transactions  may  be  charged  to  the  scheme  within  the 
maximum limit of Total Expense Ratio (TER) as prescribed under regulation 52 of the SEBI (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations, 1996. Any expenditure in excess of the said prescribed limit (including brokerage 
and transaction cost, if any) shall be borne by the AMC or by the trustee or sponsors. 
 
Any expenditure in excess of the limits specified in Regulation 52(6) and 52(6A) (a) shall be borne 
by the asset management company or trustees or sponsors. 
 
Service Tax:  
 
1.  Mutual  funds  /AMCs  may  charge  service  tax  on  investment  and  advisory  fees  to  the  scheme  in 

addition to the maximum limit of TER as prescribed in regulation 52 of the Regulations.  
 

2.  Service tax on other than investment and advisory fees, if any, shall be borne by the scheme within 

the maximum limit of TER as per regulation 52 of the Regulations.  
 

3.  Service tax on brokerage and transaction cost paid for asset purchases, if any, shall be within the 

limit prescribed under regulation 52 of the Regulations.  

 
 
The  mutual  fund  would  update  the  current  expense  ratios  on  the  website  within  two  working  days 
mentioning the effective date of the change.  
 
c. TRANSACTION CHARGES as per SEBI Circulars 
 
IV. RIGHTS OF UNITHOLDERS  
Please refer to SAI for details.   
 
V. PENALTIES, PENDING LITIGATION OR PROCEEDINGS, FINDINGS OF INSPECTIONS 
OR  INVESTIGATIONS  FOR  WHICH  ACTION  MAY  HAVE  BEEN  TAKEN  OR  IS  IN  THE 
PROCESS OF BEING TAKEN BY ANY REGULATORY AUTHORITY 
 
Disclosure of such penalties, pending litigations, etc shall be given as per the requirements in the Scheme 
Information Document. 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Placement Memorandum, the provisions of the SEBI 
(Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  and  the  Circulars  and  guidelines  there  under  shall  be 
applicable. 
 

