 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/122                                                             August 16, 2018 
 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges (except Commodity Exchanges) 
All Recognized Depositories 
Issuers of debt securities/NCRPS  
Merchant Bankers and Brokers registered with SEBI 
Registrars to an Issue  
Primary Dealers registered with RBI 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Electronic book mechanism for issuance of securities on private placement 
basis - Clarifications 
 

1.  This  is  in  continuation  to  SEBI  circular  No.  SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/05  dated 
January 05, 2018 (hereinafter "EBP Circular"), which mandated the use of Electronic 
Book Provider  platform (EBP Platform), for private placement of securities. 

2.  With a view to further rationalise and ease the process  of issuance of securities on 
EBP platform and in consultation with the market participants, it has been decided to 
provide for the following additional facilities: 

a)  Closed bidding 

In addition to the current system of open bidding, closed bidding shall also be 
permitted on EBP platform subject to the issuer disclosing the mode of bidding 
in the PPM/IM. Under closed bidding, there shall be no real time dissemination 
of bids on the EBP platform.  

b)  Multiple yield allotment 

An issuer can choose  either  uniform  yield or multiple  yield allotment, provided 
the same is disclosed in the PPM/IM. 

c)  Multiple bids by an investor 

Investors are now permitted to place multiple bids in an issue.  

 

d)  Allotment on yield-time priority basis 

Allotment  to  the  bidders  shall  be  done  on  the  basis  of  "Yield-time  priority". 
Thus, allotment shall be done first on "yield priority" basis, however, where two 
or more bids are at the same yield, then the allotment shall be done on "time -
priority" basis. Further, if two or more bids have the same yield and time, then 
allotment shall be done on " pro-rata" basis.  

e)  Pay-in of funds through escrow bank account of issuer 

In addition to the current process of pay-in of funds through clearing corporation 
of Stock Exchanges, the pay-in of funds towards an issue on EBP shall also be 
permitted through escrow bank account of an issuer. An issuer, in its PPM/IM, 
shall disclose the manner of funds pay-in so chosen and details thereof.  

The process of pay-in of funds by investors and pay-out to issuer can be done 
on either T+1 or T+2 day, where T day is the issue day, and the  same shall be 
disclosed by issuer in PPM/IM.  

f)  Depositories to act as EBP 

In addition to the Stock Exchanges, Depositories can also act as EBP. 

3.  In  line  with  the  changes  described  above  the  amendments    to  the  EBP  Circular 

dated  January 05, 2018 are placed at Annexure-A to this circular. 

4.  The contents of this circular will come in effect from October 01, 2018. 

5.  This Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) read 
with regulation 31(2)  of ILDS Regulations of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India Act, 1992. 

6.  This Circular is available on SEBI website at  www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Corp Debt Market”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 

Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

Annexure - A 

A.  Para 5 of the EBP circular is modified to read as under: 

5. Electronic Book Providers are directed to: 

5.1.  comply with the conditions laid down in this circular; 

5.2.  put  in  place  necessary  systems  and  infrastructure  for  implementation  of 

this circular; 

5.3.  make  consequential  changes,  if  any,  to  their  bidding  portal  and 

respective bye-laws; and 

5.4.  communicate  and  create  awareness  about  these  revised  guidelines 

amongst issuers, arrangers and investors.  

B.  Clause 1.1.5 of Schedule - A of the EBP circular is modified to read as under: 

"Electronic  Book  Provider"  or  "EBP"  means  a  recognized  stock  exchange  or  a 
recognised depository, which pursuant to obtaining approval from SEBI, provides 
an electronic platform for private placement of securities. 

C.  Clause 3.3.1 of Schedule - A of the EBP circular is modified to read as under: 

Details  of  size  of  the  issue  and  green  shoe  option,  if  any,  and  a  range  within 
which green shoe may be retained (if applicable). 

D.  Following additional clauses are added after clause  3.3.3 of Schedule - A of the 

EBP circular: 

3.3.4 Manner of bidding in the issue i.e. open bidding  or closed bidding. 

3.3.5 Manner of allotment in the issue i.e. uniform yield allotment or multiple yield 

allotment. 

3.3.6  Manner  of  settlement  in  the  issue  i.e.  through  clearing  corporation  or 

through escrow bank account of issuer. 

3.3.7 Settlement cycle i.e. T+1 or T+2 day.  

E.  Clause 5.9  of Schedule - A of the EBP circular is modified to read as under: 

 

 

 
Pay in shall be done through the clearing corporation of Stock Exchanges, as per 
their operating guidelines,  or through an escrow bank account of the issuer, as 
per Annexure B. 

Provided  that  where  the  issuer  has  selected  the  escrow  bank  account  as  the 
mechanism for pay-in, EBP, pursuant to successful closure of issue, shall share 
the allocation details with the Registrar to an Issue, associated with the issue. 

F.  Clause 6.3.4 of Schedule - A of the EBP circular shall be deleted. 

G.  Clause 6.3.6 of Schedule - A  of the EBP circular is modified to read as under: 

All the bids made in a particular issue, shall be disclosed on the EBP platform, in 
the following format: 

Table 2 

 
Yield (%) 

  

 
 
Demand at that particular yield 
( in Rs. Crore) 

 
 
Cumulative Demand (in Rs. 
Crore) 

  

  

For issues with open bidding, the aforesaid information shall be disseminated on 
a  real  time  basis,  however,  for  issues  with  closed  bidding,  the  information  shall 
be disseminated after closure of bidding. 

H.  Clause 6.3.7 of Schedule - A of the EBP circular is modified to read as under: 

6.3.7  Allotment  to  the  bidders  shall  be  done  on  yield-time  priority  basis  in  the 

following manner:- 

a)  allotment would be done first on "yield priority" basis;  

b)  where two or more bids are at the same yield, then the allotment shall be 

done on "time-priority" basis; 

c)  where two or more bids have the same yield and time, then allotment shall 

be done on "pro-rata" basis  

I. 

In  Clause  7.1  of  the  of  Schedule  -  A  of  the  EBP  circular  "A  recognized  stock 
exchange identified to act as an EBP" shall be replaced by   "An electronic book 
provider" 

J.  Clause 7.4.8  of Schedule - A of the EBP circular shall be deleted. 

 

Annexure-B 

A.  Process flow of settlement, where funds pay-in is to be made to escrow bank 

account of issuer 

a.  Successful bidders, in an issue,  will make pay-in of funds towards the allocation 
made  to  them,  in  the  escrow  bank  account  within  the  timelines,  as  provided  by 
the  issuer  in  the  PPM/IM.  The  funds  pay-in  by  the  successful  bidders  will  be 
made  only  from  the  bank  account(s),  which  have  been  provided/updated  in  the 
EBP  system.  Further,  pay-in  received  from  any  other  bank  account  will  lead  to 
cancellation  of  bid  and  consequent  debarment  of  the  investor  from  accessing 
EBP platform for 30 days. 

b.  Escrow bank, pursuant to receipt of funds will provide a confirmation to the RTA, 
associated  with  the  issue,  about  receipt  of  funds  along  with  details  including 
name  of  bank  account  holder,  bank  account  number  and  the  quantum  of  funds 
received. 

c.  RTA,  will  then  reconcile  the  information  received  from  escrow  bank  with  the 
details  as  provided  by  EBP  and  after  reconciliation  RTA  shall  intimate  to  the 
issuer  about  receipt  of  funds.  Subsequently,  issuer  will  initiate  the  process  of 
corporate action through the RTA to Depository.  

d.  RTA, after passing on the instructions for corporate action to the depositories, will 
issue  instruction  to  the  escrow  bank  to  release  money  to  the  issuers  bank 
account. 

B.  Responsibilities of various entities involved in the process 

Issuer shall; 

a.  open an escrow bank  account/  have  a escrow  bank  account jointly with  a RTA, 
where the role of the RTA in operating  such bank account shall be limited to the 
responsibilities as provided under this circular; 

b.  provide  the  details  of  escrow  bank  account  in  which  pay-in  of  funds  has  to  be 
made  and  the  timelines  by  which  such  pay-in  shall  be  done  by  the  successful 
bidders; 

c.  effect  corporate  action  for  credit  of  securities  to  the  successful  bidders,  after 

receiving confirmation from the RTA about receipt of funds. 

 

 

RTA shall; 

a.  undertake reconciliation between information received from the escrow Bank and 
EBP.  Further,  after  reconciliation,  shall  intimate  the  issuer  about  the  receipt  of 
funds and shortfall, if any, and the reasons thereof; 

b.  issue  instructions  to  the  escrow  bank  account  for  the  release  of  funds,  after 

passing on the instructions for corporate action to the depositories; 

c.  intimate  to  the  EBP,  upon  closure  of  the  issue,  the  status  of  the  issue  i.e. 

successful or withdrawn, details of defaulting investors etc. 

 

