 

 

 

  

CIRCULAR 

  

CIR/DDHS/P/ 121/2018                                                                                           Date: August 16, 2018
 
 
To   
Recognized Stock Exchanges (other than commodity stock exchanges) 
Self-Certified Syndicate Banks, Depositories 
Merchant Bankers, Stock Brokers 
Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents  
Depository Participants, Bankers to an Issue 

  
  

  

  

  

 

 

Dear Sir/Madam,  
Sub.: Streamlining the process  of public issue under the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt 
Securities)  Regulations,  2008  (SEBI  ILDS),  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Non-Convertible 
Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulations, 2013 (SEBI NCRPS), SEBI (Public Offer and 
Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008 (SEBI SDI) and SEBI (Issue and 
Listing of Debt Securities by Municipalities) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI ILDM) 
 
1.  In order to make the existing process of issuance of debt securities, NCRPS and SDI easier, 
simpler and cost effective for both issuers and investors under the SEBI ILDS, SEBI ILDM, SEBI 
NCRPS and SEBI SDI regulations respectively, it has been decided to reduce the time taken 
for listing after the closure of the issue to 6 working days as against the present requirement 
of 12 working days and details with respect to the same are specified in this circular.  
 

2.  Submission of application form: 

 
2.1. All  the  investors  applying  in  a  public  issue  shall  use  only  Application  Supported  by 
Blocked  Amount  (ASBA)  facility  for  making  payment  i.e.  writing  their  bank  account 
numbers and authorising the banks to make payment in case of allotment by signing the 
application forms. 
 

2.2. An investor, intending to subscribe to a public issue, shall submit a completed bid-cum-
application form to Self-Certified Syndicate Banks (SCSBs), with whom the bank account 
to be blocked is maintained or any of the following intermediaries:  
 

a)  A syndicate member (or sub-syndicate member)  
b)  A stock broker registered with a recognised stock exchange 
c)  A depository participant (‘DP’) 
d)  A registrar to an issue and share transfer agent (‘RTA’) 

 

 
 

  

Page 1 of 5  

 

 

3.  Role of SCSBs and intermediaries:  
 

3.1. The SCSBs or the above intermediaries shall, at the time of receipt of application, give an 
acknowledgement  to  investor,  by  giving  the  counter  foil  or  specifying  the  application 
number to the investor, as a proof of having accepted the application form, in physical or 
electronic mode, respectively.   
 

3.2. For  applications  submitted  by  investors  to  SCSB:  After  accepting  the  form,  SCSB  shall 
capture  and  upload  details  in  the  electronic  bidding  system  as  specified  by  the  stock 
exchange(s) and may begin blocking of funds available in the bank account specified in 
the form, to the extent of the application money specified.   

 

3.3. For  applications  submitted  by  investors  to  other  intermediaries:  After  accepting  the 
application  form,  respective  intermediary  shall  capture  and  upload  details  in  the 
electronic bidding system as specified by the stock exchange(s).  

 

3.4. The  SCSBs  or  intermediaries  shall  provide  guidance  to  their  investors  on  making 
applications  in  public  issues  and  are  advised  to  take  necessary  steps  to  ensure 
compliance with this circular.  

 

4.  Role of Stock Exchanges: 
 

4.1.  Stock exchange(s) shall validate the electronic bid details with depository’s records for 
DP ID, Client ID and PAN, by the end of each bidding day and bring the inconsistencies to 
the  notice  of  SCSBs  or  intermediaries  concerned,  for  rectification  and  re-submission 
within the time specified by stock exchange(s). 
 

4.2. Stock exchange(s) shall allow modification of selected fields viz. DP ID/Client ID or Pan 
ID  (Either  DP  ID/Client  ID  or  Pan  ID  can  be  modified  but  not  BOTH),  Bank  code  and 
Location code in the bid details already uploaded on a daily basis upto timeline as has 
been specified.  

 

4.3. The  stock  exchanges  shall  develop  the  systems  to  facilitate  the  investors  to  view  the 
status  of  their  public  issue  applications  on  their  websites  and  sending  the  details  of 
applications and allotments through SMS and E-mail alerts to the investors.  

 

5.  Other requirements: 
 

5.1. The  character  length  for  each  of  fields  of  the  schedule  to  be  forwarded  by  the 
intermediaries  along  with  each  application  form  to  the  designated  branches  of  the 
respective  SCSBs  for  blocking  of  funds  shall  be  uniformly  prescribed  by  the  stock 
exchange(s) and the format of the schedule shall be as under: 

 

  

Field number   Details  
Symbol  
1.   
2. 
Bid Date 

Page 2 of 5  

 

 

3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11.  
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 

Intermediary Code   
Intermediary name 
Bank code 
Bank name 
Location Code  
Application No.  
Category  
PAN  
DP ID  
Client ID  
Quantity   
Series 
Amount  
Stock exchange 

5.2. Timelines:  The  revised  indicative  timelines  for  various  activities  are  specified  in 
Annexure-A  to  this  circular.  The  SCSBs,  stock  exchanges,  depositories  and 
intermediaries shall co-ordinate with one another to ensure completion of listing of debt 
securities, NCRPS, SDI and commencement of trading by T+6.  
 

6.  The  responsibilities  of  SCSBs,  stock  exchanges,  depositories  and  intermediaries  and  the 
indicative timelines prescribed shall stand modified to the extent stated in the SEBI circular 
CIR. /IMD/DF-1/20/2012 dated July 27, 2012. 

 
7.  This  circular  shall  be  applicable  for  all  public  issues  of  debt  securities,  NCRPS  and  SDI 

opening on or after October 01, 2018. 
 

8.  This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities markets. 

 
9.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories  “Legal 

Framework”. 

 

Yours faithfully,   

             
           Richa G. Agarwal 

Deputy General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities  
richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

  

Page 3 of 5  

 

Serial 

number 

1 

2. 

3 

Indicative timeline schedule for various activities 

Details of Activities 

Issue Closes  

Annexure-A 

Due Date 
(working 
day*)  

T 
closing date)  

(Issue 

a)  Stock exchange(s) shall allow modification of selected fields (till 01:00 

PM) in the bid details already uploaded. 

b)  Registrar to get the electronic bid details from the stock exchanges by 

end of the day.   

c)  SCSBs to continue / begin blocking of funds.  
d)  Designated  branches  of  SCSBs  may  not  accept  schedule  and 

T+1  

applications after T+1 day.  

e)  Registrar to give bid file received from stock exchanges containing the 
application number and amount to all the SCSBs who may use this file 
for validation/ reconciliation at their end. 

a)  Issuer, merchant banker and registrar to submit relevant documents 
to the  stock exchange(s) except  listing application, allotment  details 
and  demat  credit  and  refund  details  for  the  purpose  of  listing 
permission.   

b)  SCSBs to send confirmation of funds blocked (Final Certificate) to the 

registrar by end of the day.  

T+2  

c)  Registrar  shall  reconcile  the  compiled  data  received  from  the  stock 
exchange(s) and all SCSBs (hereinafter referred to as the “reconciled 
data”). 

d)  Registrar to undertake “Technical Rejection” test based on electronic 

bid details and prepare list of technical rejection cases.   

4. 

a)  Finalization of technical rejection and minutes of the meeting between 

issuer, lead manager, registrar.  

b)  Registrar  shall  finalise  the  basis  of  allotment  and  submit  it  to  the 

designated stock exchange for approval.   

c)  Designated Stock Exchange to approve the basis of allotment.   
d)  Registrar to prepare funds transfer schedule based on approved basis 

T+3  

of allotment. 

e)  Registrar and merchant banker to issue funds transfer instructions to 

SCSBs. 

  

Page 4 of 5  

5 

a)  SCSBs  to  credit  the  funds  in  public  issue  account  of  the  issuer  and 

confirm the same.  

b)  Issuer shall make the allotment. 
c)  Registrar/Issuer  to  initiate  corporate  action  for  credit  of  debt 

securities, NCRPS, SDI to successful allottees. 

d)  Issuer  and  registrar  to  file  allotment  details  with  designated  stock 
exchange(s)  and  confirm  all  formalities  are  complete  except  demat 
credit. 

e)  Registrar  to  send  bank-wise  data  of  allottees,  amount  due  on  debt 
securities,  NCRPS,  SDI  allotted,  if  any,  and  balance  amount  to  be 
unblocked to SCSBs.  

a)  Registrar to receive confirmation of demat credit from depositories.   
b)  Issuer and registrar to file confirmation of demat credit and issuance 
of  instructions  to  unblock  ASBA  funds,  as  applicable,  with  stock 
exchange(s).   

c)  The  lead  manager(s)  shall  ensure  that  the  allotment,  credit  of 
dematerialised debt securities, NCRPS, SDI and refund or unblocking 
of application monies, as may be applicable, are done electronically. 

d)  Issuer  to  make  a  listing  application  to  stock  exchange(s)  and  stock 

exchange(s) to give listing and trading permission.   

e)  Stock exchange(s) to issue commencement of trading notice.   

Trading commences   

T+4  

  

T+5  

T+6  

 

6 

7 

 

* Working days shall be all trading days of stock exchanges excluding Sundays 
and bank holidays in Mumbai. 

 

 
 
 

  

Page 5 of 5  

