CIR/IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/132 
 September 21, 2018 

 

    To, 

 

1.  All Foreign Portfolio Investors ("FPIs") through their Designated Depository 

Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities. 

2.  Designated Depository Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities. 
3.  All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
4.  The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 
5.  Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges 
6.  Depository Participants through Depositories 
7.  Mutual Funds 
8.  Association of Mutual Funds in India 
9.  Portfolio Managers 
10. KYC Registrations Agencies (KRAs) 
11. Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 

 

 Sir/ Madam,  
 
Subject: Eligibility conditions for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) 

 

in 

relation 

to 

referred  as  HR  Khan  group) 

SEBI Board in its meeting held on September 18, 2018, has after considering the interim 
recommendations  of  SEBI  Working  Group  under  the  chairmanship  of  Shri  H.  R.  Khan 
(hereinafter 
the  circular  No 
CIR/IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/64  dated  April  10,  2018  on  Know  Your  Client  (KYC) 
requirements for Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  (FPIs)  and  comments  received  from  public 
decided 
in  Prevention  of  Money-laundering 
(Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005 (hereinafter referred as PMLA Rules) should be 
made  applicable  for  purpose  of  KYC  and  not  for  determining  eligibility  of  FPIs.  The 
clubbing of investment limit for FPIs should not be done on the basis of beneficial owner 
(BO)  as  per  PMLA  Rules.  Accordingly,  there  will  be  a  separate  set  of  norms  for 
determining conditions where Non Resident Indians (NRIs) and Overseas Citizens of India 
(OCIs) and Resident Indians (RIs) are constituents.  

that  Beneficial  ownership  criteria 

2.  
The Board broadly accepted the recommendations of HR Khan group. Accordingly, 
it  has  been  decided  to  put  in  place  the  following  eligibility  norms.  The  Amendments  in 
SEBI (FPI) Regulations, 2014, wherever necessary, will be notified separately.  

2.1.   Non Resident Indians (NRIs) and Overseas Citizens of India (OCIs) shall have the 
same  meaning  as  assigned  to  them  under  regulation  2  of  the  Foreign  Exchange 
Management  (Transfer  or  issue  of  security  by  a  Person  Resident  outside  India) 
Regulations, 2017.  

2.2.   NRIs/  OCIs/  Resident  Indians  (RIs)  shall  be  allowed  to  be  constituents  of  FPIs 
subject to the following conditions:- 

Contributions by NRI/ OCI/ RI including those of NRI/ OCI/ RI controlled Investment 
Manager should be below 25% from a single NRI/ OCI/ RI and in aggregate should 
be below 50% to corpus of FPI.  

1 | P a g e  

a. 

 

 

Explanation:  Resident  Indian’s  contribution  permitted  is  that  made  through  Liberalised 
Remittance  Scheme  (LRS)  approved  by  Reserve  Bank  of  India  in  global  funds  whose 
Indian exposure is less than 50%.  

 

b. 

NRI/ OCI/ RI should not be in control of FPI. 

FPIs  can be controlled by  investment managers (IMs) which are controlled and / 

2.3 
or owned by NRI/ OCI/ RI if following conditions are satisfied:- 

i. 

ii. 

IM is appropriately regulated in its home jurisdiction and registers itself with SEBI 
as non-investing FPI; or 

IM  is  incorporated  or  setup  under  Indian  laws  and  appropriately  registered  with 
SEBI. 

A non-investing FPI may be directly or indirectly fully owned and/ or controlled by 

2.4 
a NRI/ OCI/ RI.  

2.5 
The  restriction  that  NRI/  OCI/  RI  should  not  be  in  control  of  FPI      shall  also  not 
apply  to  FPIs  which  are  ‘offshore  funds’  for  which  no-objection  certificate  has  been 
provided by the Board in terms of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. 

These restrictions in regard to eligibility conditions (viz. referred at para 2.2 above) 

2.6 
will not be applicable to FPIs investing only in mutual funds in India.  

Existing FPIs and new applicants shall be given a time period of two years from 
2.7 
the date of coming into force of the amended regulations or from the date of registration, 
whichever is later in order to satisfy these eligibility conditions.  

In  case  of  temporary  breach,  a  time  period  of  90  days  will  be  given  to  ensure 

2.8 
compliance with above conditions. 

3.  
This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

A copy of this circular is available at the links “Legal FrameworkCirculars” and 
4.  
“Info for F.P.I” on SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in. The DDPs/Custodians are requested 
to bring the contents of this circular to the notice of their FPI clients. 
 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
ACHAL SINGH 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449619 
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in 

 

2 | P a g e  

