 
CIR/IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/131 
 September 21, 2018 

    To, 

 

1.  All  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  ("FPIs")  through  their  Designated  Depository 

Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities. 

2.  Designated Depository Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities. 
3.  All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
4.  The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 
5.  Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges 
6.  Depository Participants through Depositories 
7.  Mutual Funds 
8.  Association of Mutual Funds in India 
9.  Portfolio Managers 
10. KYC Registrations Agencies (KRAs) 
11. Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 

relation 

to 

referred  as  HR  Khan  group) 

in 

that  Beneficial  ownership  criteria 

 
Sir/ Madam,  
 
Subject: Know Your Client requirements for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) 
 
SEBI Board in its meeting held on September 18, 2018, has after considering the interim 
recommendations  of  SEBI  Working  Group  under  the  chairmanship  of  Shri  H  R  Khan 
(hereinafter 
the  circular  No 
CIR/IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/64  dated  April  10,  2018  on  Know  Your  Client  (KYC) 
requirements for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) and comments  received from public 
decided 
in  Prevention  of  Money-laundering 
(Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005 (hereinafter referred as PMLA Rules) should be 
made  applicable  for  purpose  of  KYC  and  not  for  determining  eligibility  of  FPIs.  The 
clubbing of investment limit for FPIs should not be done on the basis of beneficial owner 
(BO)  as  per  PMLA  Rules.  Accordingly,  there  will  be  a  separate  set  of  norms  for 
determining  conditions  where  Non  Resident  Indians  (NRIs)  and  Overseas  Citizens  of 
India (OCIs) and Resident Indians (RIs) are constituents and also the basis for clubbing 
of  investment  limits.  The  Amendments  in  SEBI  (FPI)  Regulations,  2014,  wherever 
necessary, will be notified separately.  
 
In 
circular  No 
CIR/IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/64  dated  April  10,  2018  and  in  partial  modification  of  SEBI 
circular  No.  CIR/  MIRSD/11/2012  dated  September  05,  2012  and  subsequent  SEBI 
circular No. CIR/MIRSD/07/2013 dated September 12, 2013, FPIs shall comply with the 
following Know Your Client (KYC) requirements:-  
 
 
 
 
 

supersession 

the 

of 

directions 

contained 

in  SEBI 

 

1 | P a g e  

1.  Identification and verification of Beneficial Owners – For Category II & III FPIs 

 

 

ii. 

i.  Beneficial Owners (BOs) are the natural persons who ultimately own or control an FPI 
and  should  be  identified  in  accordance  with  Rule  9  of  the  Prevention  of  Money-
laundering  (Maintenance  of  Records)  Rules,  2005  (hereinafter  referred  as  PMLA 
Rules). FPIs are required to maintain a list of BOs and should provide such list of their 
BOs  as  per  Annexure  A.  BOs  of  FPIs  having  General  Partner/Limited  Partnership 
structure shall be identified on ownership or entitlement basis and control basis. 
In  respect  of  FPIs  coming  from  “high  risk  jurisdictions”  as  referred  in  SEBI  Master 
circular  No.  SEBI/  HO/  MIRSD/  DOS3/  CIR/  P/  2018/  104  dated  July  04,  2018  the 
intermediaries  may  apply  lower  materiality  threshold  of  10%  for  identification  of  BO 
and also ensure KYC documentation as applicable for category III FPIs.  
The materiality threshold to identify the beneficial owner should be first applied at the 
level of FPI and next look through basis shall be applied to identify the beneficial owner 
of  the  intermediate  shareholder/  owner  entity.  Beneficial  owner  and  intermediate 
shareholder/ owner entity with holdings equal & above the materiality thresholds in the 
FPI  need  to  be  identified  through  the  look  through  basis.  For  intermediate  material 
shareholder/ owner entity/ies, name and percentage holding shall also be disclosed 
as per Annexure B.  In case the intermediate shareholder/ owner entity is eligible for 
registration  as  Category  I  FPI,  there  is  no  need  for  identification  and  verification  of 
beneficial owner of said entity eligible as Cat. I FPI.  
The term senior managing official (SMO), for identification as BO, means an individual 
as designated by the FPI who holds a senior management position and makes key 
decisions relating to the FPI. 

iii. 

iv. 

v.  No foreign company shall be entitled to exemption under Rule 9(3)(f) of PMLA Rules.  
In  case  of  companies/  trusts  represented  by  service  providers  like  lawyers/ 
vi. 
accountants, FPIs should provide information of the real owners/ effective controllers 
of  those  companies  /  trusts. If  the  BO  exercises  controls  through means  like  voting 
rights, agreements, arrangement etc., that should also be specified. It is clarified that 
BO should not be a nominee of another person and real BO should be identified.  

vii.  Offshore  Derivative  Instrument  (ODI)  issuing  FPIs  shall  also  identify  and  verify  the 

BOs in the subscriber entities, as per these guidelines. 

 
2.  Periodic KYC review  

 
KYC Review means steps taken to ensure that documents, data or information collected 
under the due-diligence process are kept up-to-date and relevant by undertaking reviews 
of existing records on a periodical basis. FPIs shall be subject to KYC review as and when 
there  is  any  change  in  material  information  /  disclosure.  The  KYC  review  (including 
change in BOs / their holdings) should be done based on risk categorization of FPIs. In 
case of Category III and Category II FPIs from high risk jurisdictions KYC review should 
be done on yearly basis. In case of all other clients, the KYC review should be conducted 
at  the  time  of  continuance  of  FPI  registration.  In  the  event  of  non-submission  of  KYC 
documents, if any, no further purchase transactions shall be permitted to such clients. 

 
 

 

2 | P a g e  

3.  KYC documentation for Category III FPI 

 

 

SEBI  has  prescribed  “Financial  Data”  as  mandatory  for  Category  III  FPIs  only.  In  this 
regard, it is clarified that audited Annual financial statement or a certificate from auditor 
certifying  net  worth  may  be  obtained  from  Category  III  FPIs.  In  case  of  new  funds/ 
companies/  family  offices,  the  audited  financial  statement  of  promoter  person  may  be 
obtained. Further, prospectus and information memorandum are acceptable in lieu of an 
official constitutive document. 
 

4.  Exempted documents to be provided during investigations/ enquiry 

 

(i)  SEBI  vide  circular  dated  September  12,  2013  has  exempted  FPIs  from  furnishing 
certain  supporting  KYC  documents  depending  on  risk  involved.    In  respect  of 
exempted  documents,  FPIs  concerned  should  submit  an  undertaking  to  DDP/ 
Custodians  that  upon  demand  by  Regulators/  Law  Enforcement  Agencies,  the 
relevant documents would be provided.  
 

(ii)  Further,  SEBI  vide  circular  dated  September  12,  2013  has  exempted  Category  III 
FPIs  from  submission  of  proof  of  address  of  BOs,  Senior  Management  and 
Authorised Signatories. Since Category III FPIs are high risk investors, “declaration 
on letter head” shall be provided by them.  
 

5.  Data security 

The  KYC  Registration  Agencies  (KRAs)  shall  lock  personal  information  provided  with 
regard  to  beneficial  owner  including  SMO  of  FPI.  Such  information  should  be  made 
available to intermediaries only on ‘need to know basis’ using an authentication method 
wherein an intermediary, can access the information from KRA using the authentication 
(similar to OTP) after the KRA gets confirmation from the FPI or its Global custodian. For 
this purpose, KRA need to maintain email ids of the FPI and its Global custodian. This 
functionality will be optional and it will be deactivated only upon receipt of instruction from 
the FPI to KRA. 
 

6.  Period for maintenance of records 

 
The Custodian should maintain the KYC records in original for a minimum period of five 
years from the date of cessation of the transactions with the said FPI. In case any litigation 
is pending, these records should be maintained till the completion of the proceedings.   
   

7.  Timelines for compliance 

 
Category II and III FPIs registered prior to this circular (existing FPIs) should provide the 
list  of BOs  (as  per  Annexure  A)  and  applicable  KYC  documentation within  six  months 
from the date of this circular. If  an existing FPI fails to comply  with the applicable KYC 
requirements by the given deadline, the concerned Custodian shall not allow such FPI to 
make  fresh  purchases  till  the  time  KYC  documentary  requirements,  as  applicable,  are 
complied  with.  However,  such  FPI  shall  be  allowed  to  continue  to  sell  the  securities 

 

3 | P a g e  

 
already purchased by it. Such FPI shall be allowed to disinvest its holdings within a period 
of 180 days from the expiry of the timeline. In case the FPI remains non-compliant with 
this requirement even after 180 days from the said deadline, its FPI registration  will no 
longer be valid and it would need to disinvest its holdings immediately. 

 
8.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Sub-rule   14(i)   of   Rule   9   of   
the   Prevention   of Money-laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005 to protect 
the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market.  

 

9.  A copy of this circular is available at the links “Legal FrameworkCirculars” and “Info for 
F.P.I” on SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in. The DDPs/Custodians are requested to bring 
the contents of this circular to the notice of their FPI clients. 
 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
ACHAL SINGH 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449619 
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in 

 

4 | P a g e  

 

Annex A - BO Format: 

Date 
of 
Birth 

Tax 
Residency 
Jurisdiction 

Sl. 
No. 

Name  & 
Address of 
the 
Beneficial 
Owner 
(Natural 
Person) 

BO  Group’s 
percentage 
Shareholding 
/  Capital 
/ 
Profit 
ownership  in 
the FPIs 

Nationality  Whether 

or 

acting 
alone  or 
together 
through 
one 
more 
natural 
persons 
as 
group, 
with their 
name  & 
address 

 

Tax  Residency 
Number/  Social 
Security 
Number/ 
Passport 
Number  of  BO/ 
any 
other 
Government 
issued    identity 
document 
number 
(example 
driving  license) 
(Please  provide 
any) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
This List should be certified by FPI. FPI should also certify that there are no other BOs other than 
those referred in list. 

 

 

 

5 | P a g e  

Annex B – Information of intermediate material shareholder/ owner entity 

 

Illustration:  

  FPI ABC, a trust, is held 75% by XYZ Ltd. (intermediate material shareholder/ owner) – therefore 
XYZ needs to be identified and the identification of underlying individuals / non-individuals having 
controlling ownership interest in the FPI OR control of XYZ should be identified  

  XYZ is further controlled by PQR fund (trust)– Hence, PQR fund also needs to be identified on a 

look through basis.  

  Mr. ST is holding 35% in PQR fund and Mr. UV is holding 15% in PQR fund - So, Mr. ST needs to 

be identified as BO. 
 

Information of Intermediate material shareholder/ owner- on Ownership basis 

Name 

Direct / 
Indirect Stake 

Names of the entity(ies) through 
which the stake in the FPI is held 
indirectly  

Percentage 
stake held in 
the applicant  

Individual 
/Non-Individual 

XYZ Ltd. 

Direct 

 

75 

Non-Individual 

Information of Intermediate material shareholder/ owner- on control basis 

Name 

Method of Control (Give Details including 
names of the intermediate structures, if any, 
through which control is exercised ) 

PQR fund 

Management Share in XYZ Ltd. 

Mr. ST 

Holds 35% shares of PQR Fund 

BO disclosure (Annex A) 

Percentage 
control on the 
applicant, if 
applicable  

Individual/Non-
Individual 

 

 

Non-Individual 

Individual 

Date 

of 

Birth 

Tax 
Residency  
Jurisdiction  

Sl. 
No. 

Name & 
Address 
of the 
Beneficial 
Owner 
(Natural 
Person)  

Nationality  Whether 

acting 
alone or 
together 
through 
one or 
more 
natural 
persons as 
group, with 
their name 
& address 

BO Group’s 
percentage 
Shareholding 
/ Capital / 
Profit 
ownership in 
the FPIs 

Tax Residency 
Number/ Social 
Security Number/ 
Passport Number 
of BO/ any other 
Government 
issued  identity 
document number 
(example driving 
license) (Please 
provide any) 

1.  Mr. ST 

XX  XX 

XX 

XX 

26.25% 

XX 

Note: No need to declare Mr. UV as his effective holding in ABC would be 11.25% i.e. below the 
threshold.  

 

 

6 | P a g e  

