 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

 
 

                    October 09, 2018 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2018/134 
 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
All Recognised Stock Exchanges and recognised Clearing Corporations 
with Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  

 

Sub:  Participation of Eligible Foreign Entities (EFEs) in the commodity 

derivatives market 

 
1.  Currently,  foreign  entities  are  not  permitted  to  directly  participate  in  the 
Indian  commodity  derivatives  market,  even  if  they  import/export  various 
commodities from/to India. Such entities by virtue of their actual exposure 
to the various commodities in Indian market, are valuable stakeholders in 
the  value  chain  of  such  commodities,  and  are  also  exposed  to  price 
uncertainty of Indian commodity markets. Therefore these foreign  entities 
should  be  enabled  to  hedge  their  price  risk  in  the  Indian  commodity 
derivatives market.  
 

2.  Taking cognizance of the fact that participation by such foreign participants 
would  be  conducive  for  the  overall  development  of  the  commodity 
derivatives market in India, SEBI issued consultation paper on May 18, 2018 
to discuss the suitable framework for allowing foreign participants to hedge 
their commodity exposure. Pursuant to feedback received from the market 
participants during the consultative process, it has been decided to permit 
foreign entities having actual exposure to Indian commodity markets, 
to  participate  in  the  commodity  derivative  segment  of  recognized 
stock exchanges for hedging their exposure. Such foreign entities shall 
be  known  as  “Eligible  Foreign  Entities”  (EFEs).  The  detailed  regulatory 
framework for participation by the EFEs have been outlined at Annexure to 
the circular. 

 

 

Page 1 of 9 

 

3.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  come  into  effect  from  the  date  of  the 

 

 

circular. 
 

4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section 
11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992 to protect the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 
to regulate the securities market. 

 
 

5.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i.  To  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 

regulations. 

ii.  Bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers of 

the Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  Communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 

of this circular.  

 

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  

 

 

 

Page 2 of 9 

 

Annexure: Regulatory framework for Eligible Foreign Entities (EFEs) in 

Commodity Derivatives Segment 

 

 

 

I.  Eligible Commodities: 

All  commodity  derivatives  traded  on  Indian  Exchanges  except  for  those 
contracts having underlying commodity defined as ‘Sensitive Commodity’ in 
terms  of  SEBI  circular  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2017/84  dated  July 
25,  2017  or  by  any  other  stipulation  by  SEBI  which  are  disclosed  on 
Exchange websites. 

II.  Definitions: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

 “Eligible Foreign Entities” (EFEs) are the ‘Person resident outside India’ 
as defined in Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, and are having 
actual exposure to Indian physical commodity markets.  

“Exchanges”  under  these  guidelines  would  mean  recognized  stock 
exchanges having commodity derivatives segment. 

“Clearing  Corporations  (CC)”  under  these  guidelines  would  mean 
recognized clearing corporation undertaking the activity of clearing and 
settlement of trades in commodity derivative segment of a recognized 
stock exchange. 

4. 

“Auditor” under these guidelines would mean statutory auditor or such 
other authority carrying equivalent function of auditing and assurance 
in the respective jurisdiction as may be applicable  

III.  Eligibility and Jurisdiction  

1.  Such  EFEs  shall  have  actual  exposure  to  Indian  physical  commodity 

markets. 

2.  Such EFE is resident in a country/jurisdiction whose securities market 
regulator and/or commodity derivatives market regulator is a signatory 
to IOSCO’s MMoU (Appendix A Signatories) or a signatory of a bilateral 
MoU with SEBI.  

Provided  that  such  EFE  is  not  resident  in  a  country  identified  in  the 
public statement of Financial Action Task Force as: 

 

Page 3 of 9 

 

i. 

ii. 

 

 

a  jurisdiction  having  a  strategic  Anti-Money  Laundering  or 
Combating  the  Financing  of  Terrorism  deficiencies  to  which 
counter measures apply; or 

a  jurisdiction  that  has  not  made  sufficient  progress  in 
addressing the deficiencies or has not committed to an action 
plan  developed  with  the  Financial  Action  Task  Force  to 
address the deficiencies.  

3. 

If  such  EFEs  are  also  registered  with  SEBI  as  Foreign  Portfolio 
Investors (FPIs) or Foreign Venture Capital Investors (FVCIs) then they 
are permitted to participate in commodity derivatives markets as EFE 
provided  that  they  have  actual  exposure  to  Indian  physical 
commodity markets and subject to conditions that there  is  clear 
segregation  of  funds  /  securities  /  commodities  under  the 
respective registrations.  

4.  The  minimum  net-worth  requirement  for  such  EFE  shall  be  US$ 

500,000.  

 

IV.  Registration of EFEs 

 

1.  The  EFEs  desirous  of  taking  hedge  positions  in  Indian  commodity 
derivatives  market  shall  approach  Authorized  Stock  Brokers  (ASBs), 
from  amongst  the  Brokers  which  are  registered  under  SEBI(Stock 
brokers and sub-brokers) Regulations, 1992 having minimum net-worth 
of INR 25 Crores and are authorized by the Exchanges for opening of 
such accounts. 

2.  For  ASBs,  in  addition  to  the  minimum  Net-worth  criteria  prescribed 
above the Exchanges shall frame further guidelines regarding the other 
eligibility  criteria  for  the  ASBs  which  shall  be  approved  by  their  Risk 
Management  Committees.  While  framing  guidelines  for  ASBs,  the 
Exchanges shall look into various aspects, some of which are illustrated 
as under: 

a.  Appropriate arrangements with clearing bank and clearing member 

of the respective exchange and clearing corporation; 

b.  Appropriate arrangements for receipt and remittance of money with 

a designated Authorized Dealer (AD) Category - I bank. 

 

Page 4 of 9 

 

 

 

c.  Appropriate  systems  and  procedures  to  comply  with  the  FATF 
(Financial  Action  Task  Force)  Standards,  PMLA  (Prevention  of 
Money Laundering Act, 2002) and SEBI circulars issued from time 
to time.  

d.  Appropriate  systems  and  procedures  to  handle  the  physical 

deliveries of the underlying commodities on behalf of EFEs. 

3.  An  EFE  can  open  trading  account  with  only  one  of  the  ASBs  and 
participate in the commodity derivatives trading through the said ASB. 
EFE  shall  place  orders  for  trading  only  through  their  ASBs  on  the 
Exchange platform. 

4.  The EFEs shall be responsible for complying with all the relevant laws. 

5.  EFEs shall ensure that they submit the required documents as specified 

by the ASBs/Exchanges/SEBI or any other law enforcing agencies. 

6.  The  ASBs  shall  be  responsible  for  carrying  out  due-diligence  and 
complete  necessary  formalities/documentations  as  specified  by  the 
Exchanges in this regard. 

7.  The  ASBs  shall  capture  the  details  of  the  overseas  bank  account 
designated by the EFE. EFE shall open a single non-interest bearing 
Rupee  account  with  an  AD  Category-I  bank  in  India  for  routing  the 
receipt and payment for transactions. 

8.  The ASBs shall obtain appropriate declarations and undertakings from 
EFEs including the one that they are in compliance with laws, rules and 
regulations of the jurisdictions where the EFEs are located. 

9.  The  ASB  shall, at all  times, ensure  that  the participation of  EFE  is  in 
compliance with the applicable norms prescribed by SEBI, RBI or any 
other statutory authority in India. For this purpose the ASB shall obtain 
appropriate declarations and undertaking from EFEs, from time to time, 
as may be prescribed by Exchanges and regulators. 

 

V.  Know Your Client (KYC) requirements 

 

1.  The EFE shall be required to meet the extant KYC requirements as per 
extant  Indian  Anti-Money  Laundering  Laws  in  line  with  extant  KYC 

 

Page 5 of 9 

 

approach  adopted  for  the  equivalent  category  of  Foreign  Portfolio 
Investors (FPIs).  

 

 

2.  Such EFE shall also provide its valid Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) issued 
by  organizations  accredited  by  the  Global  Legal  Entity  Identifier 
Foundation (GLEIF), wherever available. 

 

VI.  Position Limit, documentation and other conditions 

1.  The  position  limits  shall  be  governed  by  the  hedge  policy  of  the 
Exchanges  and  no  separate  client  trading  limits  shall  be  allowed  for 
EFEs.  Exchanges  shall  issue  a  separate  hedge  code  for  easy 
identification of EFEs. 

2.  Appropriate  restrictions  shall  be  placed  by  Exchanges  to  maintain 

market integrity. 

3.  The tenor of the hedge shall not be greater than the tenor of underlying 
exposure.  At  any  point  of  time  during  the  hedge  period,  hedging 
positions  taken  in  derivatives  contracts  by  EFE,  across  multiple 
Exchanges/Contracts,  shall  not  exceed  his/its  actual  exposure  in  the 
physical market. 

4.  Hedge  limits for  an  EFE  will  be  determined  on  a  case  to  case basis, 
depending  on applicant’s  actual  exposure  to  the  commodity,  hedging 
requirement and other factors which the Exchanges deems appropriate 
in  the  interest  of  market.  The  EFE  shall  approach  the  ASB  of  the 
relevant  Exchanges  for  hedge  limits  in  the  format  prescribed  by 
Exchanges encompassing the following information –  

a.  Details of import / export to India during past three years, financial 

statements / annual report of last three years, certified by auditor. 

b.  Supporting  proof  of  Import  and/or  Export  in  the  form  of  invoice  or 
In  case  of  Export/import  commitments, 
shipping/cargo  bills. 
documents like proof of export / import commitments and any other 
relevant documents, duly certified by auditor. 

c.  A  certificate  of  import/export  turnover  of  the  EFE  during  the  past 
three  years  duly  certified  by  their  auditor.  Hedging  limit  shall  be 
permitted up to the average of previous three financial years’ actual 
purchases  /  sales  or  the  previous  year’s  actual  purchases  /  sales 
turnover from/to India, whichever is higher, in respect of the desired 

 

Page 6 of 9 

 

 

 

commodities. In case an EFE has been in existence for less than 3 
years, then the applicable time period for exposure calculation shall 
be for the actual period as may be certified by their auditor. 

d.  EFE  shall  submit  a  Board  resolution  certifying  Board  approved 
policies which define the overall framework within which it proposes 
to conduct its hedging activities. 

e.  A  declaration  of  details  of  hedging  positions  in  other  Indian 

exchanges (if applicable), certified by auditor. 

f.  Any  other  additional 

information  sought  by 

the  registering 

Exchanges. 

5.  Exchanges  may  prescribe  additional  documents/materials  for  short 
hedging and long hedging separately based on the nature and use of 
the commodity. 

6.  An  EFE  shall  apply  for  the  hedge  limits  corresponding  to  its  own 
physical exposure to the commodity and cannot apply for a hedge limit 
in respect of any stock it holds on behalf of another entity including stock 
positions it holds on behalf of a group-entity. The limits sanctioned to 
EFE shall be utilized only by  it and not by anyone else including any 
subsidiary/associate company. 

7.  The EFE shall not undertake any arbitrage/speculative transactions and 
the initiation and unwinding of hedge positions shall correspond to the 
underlying position in the physical markets. The quota for hedging shall 
be  used  to  only  hedge/  unwind  the  hedge.  The  contracts,  once 
cancelled, cannot be rebooked. The contracts may, however, be rolled 
over  on  or  before,  maturity  subject  to  maturity  of  the  underlying 
exposure. 

8.  The approved hedge limit is valid from the date of sanction for a period 
specified in the sanction letter. Unless renewed, the hedge limit shall 
stand terminated automatically upon expiry of such period without any 
notice. The  EFE  shall  apply  for  any  renewal  of  limits  in advance and 
before the expiry of earlier approval, along with relevant documents as 
prescribed by the Exchanges from time to time. 

9.  The hedge limit shall not be available for the near month contracts of 
the  said  underlying  commodity  from  the  date  of  applicability  of  near 
month or spot month, however once the near month starts the limit shall 

 

Page 7 of 9 

 

be equivalent to the limit available to regular clients or the hedge limit 
allocated, whichever is lower.  

 

 

10.  For  the  ease  of  business,  the  Exchanges  shall  develop  an  online 

system to deal with the EFEs through ASBs in this regard. 

VII.  Risk Management 

1.  Exchanges/CC shall put in place appropriate risk management systems 

for allowing EFE to take positions in eligible commodities. 

2.  The margins for any  commodity  prescribed by  the  Exchanges/CC for 
the  other  market  participants  shall  also  be  applicable  to  EFE.  As  the 
hedge positions are expected to be larger than the normal client level 
limits, the Exchanges/CC shall, based on their assessment of the risks, 
levy  additional  margins  including  concentration  margin  wherever 
necessary,  as  may  be  prudent.  Accordingly  the ASB  concerned  shall 
ensure that appropriate margins are collected upfront from the EFE as 
risk mitigation. 

3.  Where, in the assessment of the ASB, the risk profile of EFE warrants 
margins in addition to the margin stipulated by the Exchanges/CC, the 
ASB shall collect such additional margins. The margins collected by the 
ASB  at  no 
the 
Exchanges/CC. 

those  stipulated  by 

time  shall  be 

less 

than 

VIII.  Monitoring of limits and physical exposure 

1.  The Exchanges shall put in place a mechanism to monitor the limits as 
well  as  physical  exposure  of  an  EFE,  which  may  include  seeking 
periodical reports from EFEs and ASBs covering the following aspects: 

a.  Periodical  statement  of 

imports 

/  exports  undertaken  and 

outstanding contracts, as certified by auditor. 

b.  Audited summary of import or export details/documents in the form 
of invoice or shipping/cargo bills, containing information like Date of 
Dispatch, Tentative date of arrival, Quantity on that invoice/bill etc. 

c.  Details of hedging positions in other Indian exchanges(if applicable), 

as certified by auditor, 

d.  Where  hedge  limit  is  sanctioned  based  on  prior  import  /  export 
commitments/contracts, a report showing subsequent performance 

 

Page 8 of 9 

 

 

 

of  such  contracts  and  the  corresponding  hedging  proposed  to  be 
undertaken, as certified by an auditor.  

e.  EFE / ASB shall be required to submit a consolidated statement on 

an annual basis.  

f.  Any  other  additional  information  as  may  be  sought  by  the  SEBI/ 

Exchanges from time to time.  

2.  The EFEs shall also be required to submit to the respective ASB a half-
yearly certificate from their auditors as on March 31 and September 30, 
within  sixty  days  from  the  said  dates,  to  the  effect  that  during  the 
preceding six months, whether the derivative contracts entered into by 
the EFE exceeded or not exceeded the actual underlying exposure. In 
this  regard,  Exchanges  shall  develop  an  online  system  for  such 
submission. 

3.  The  Exchanges/  clearing  corporations  shall  provide  EFE  wise 
information  on  day  end  open  position  as  well  as  intra-day  highest 
position to the respective ASBs. If the EFE exceeds the allocated hedge 
limit on any day, the concerned EFE shall be liable to such penal action 
as may be laid down by the SEBI/Exchanges. The ASB will be required 
to  monitor  this  and  bring  transgressions,  if  any,  to  the  notice  of 
SEBI/Exchanges. 

4.  The  positions  shall  be  separately  monitored  by  the  respective 
Exchanges  and  such  Exchanges  shall  augment  their  monitoring  and 
surveillance capacity. 

5.  The ASBs shall also put in  place necessary system to monitor hedge 

limits for such EFEs. 

IX.  Disclosure by the Exchanges: 

The Exchanges on daily basis shall disclose on their website the hedge limit 
allocated to such EFEs, indicating the period for which approval is valid, in 
the  particular  commodity  in  an  anonymous  manner.  This  shall  be  on  the 
similar  lines  of  disclosures  made  by  the  exchanges  for  the  domestic 
hedgers. 

 

Page 9 of 9 

 

