 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/135 
October 11, 2018 

To 
 
1.  The Designated Depository Participants 
2.  The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL) 
 
Dear Sir / Madam 
 

Sub: Monthly report of FPI registration on SEBI’s website 

 
1.  Regulation 7(2) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 
2014  specifies  that  the  designated  depository  participant  (DDP)  shall  endeavor  to  dispose  of  the 
application for grant of certificate of registration as soon as possible but not later than thirty days after 
receipt  of  application  by  the  DDP  or,  after  the  information  called  for  under  regulation  6  has  been 
furnished, whichever is later. 
 

2.  For the purpose of transparency in the processing of applications for FPI registration, it has been decided 
that  the  average  time  taken  by  the  DDPs  in  processing  such  applications  be  disseminated  on  SEBI’s 
website on a monthly basis.  

 

3.  In order to disseminate the aforesaid information on SEBI’s website, the DDPs shall provide the number 
of  FPI  applications  received  and  the average  time  taken in  processing  the  said  applications  during  the 
immediate preceding month, to SEBI, by 5th working day of every month, in the following format: 

Name of 

DDP 

No. of FPIs 
registered during 
the month  

Average time 
taken for 
registration during 
the month  

No. of applications 
pending for 
registration for more 
than 30 days of 
receipt of 
application. 

Reasons given 
regarding 
application(s) 
pending for more 
than 30 days 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.  This circular shall come into effect immediately. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred 

under Section 11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 
5.  A copy of this circular is available at the web page “Circular” on our website www.sebi.gov.in. under the 

head “Legal FrameworkCirculars” and “Info for F.P.I. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
ACHAL SINGH 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel No.: 022-26449619 
Email: achals@sebi.gov.in 

