 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

         October 16, 2018 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2018/136 
 
To,  
 
All  Recognised  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations  with  Commodity 
Derivatives Segment 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  

 

Sub:  Uniformity  in  the  procedure  for  obtaining  samples  of  goods  at  the 

Exchange accredited warehouses 

 
1.  Majority  of  the  agricultural  commodities  traded  on  exchange  platform  requires 
assaying. The number and size of the samples are determined by the nature of 
commodity and the requirements of tests to be done in order to meet the exchange 
specifications. It has come to the notice that varied approaches are being followed 
by the exchanges in this regard.  
 

2.  In  order  to  bring  in  uniformity  in  the  procedure  adopted  by  the  exchanges,  in 
obtaining  samples  for  the  purpose  of  assaying  all  the  Exchanges/Clearing 
Corporations  are  directed  to  ensure  that  adequate  samples  of  goods  are 
collected/retained from the goods deposited and are sealed in the presence of the 
depositor  or  his  authorized  representative.  In  order  to  resolve  potential  disputes 
arising with respect to the quality of goods, if any, it is advised that at least four 
samples are taken of which one sample is used for analysis, one is kept with WSP 
for  comparison  purpose,  one  is  given  to  the  depositors  while  one  is  kept  for 
record/lab reference purpose. 
 

3.  The provisions of this circular shall come into effect from 30 days from the date of 

issue of this circular. 
 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

5.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

 

i.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations. 
ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular.  

 
6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”  

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Tel No.022-26449234 
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

