 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOS3/CIR/P/2018/139                                 November 6, 2018 
 
To, 
 
All Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents registered with SEBI 
All Listed entities (Through Stock Exchanges) 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Subject: Standardised norms for transfer of securities in physical mode  

1. 

2. 

Vide  Regulation  40  and  Schedule  VII  of  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of 
(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”) SEBI has prescribed requirements for transfer of 
securities in physical mode.  

India 

It  has  been  brought  to  the  notice  of  SEBI  that  RTAs  are  seeking 
various  documents  for  effecting  transfer  of  securities  and  the  documents 
sought  vary  across  RTAs.  SEBI  has  also  received  representations, 
highlighting difficulties faced by  transferees in providing these documents. In 
this  regard,  SEBI  had  meetings  with  Registrars  Association  of  India  (RAIN) 
and  Depositories  in  this  regard  and  pursuant  to  such  meetings,  RAIN  has 
submitted  a  standardised  procedure  for  transfer  of  securities  in  physical 
mode.  The  proposal  of  RAIN  has  been  examined  and  accordingly,  the 
documentation  /  procedure  for  transfer  of  physical  securities  is  modified  as 
under: 

a. 

Non-availability of  PAN of the transferor for transfer deeds 
executed prior to December 01, 2015: It has been brought to the notice 
of  SEBI  that  many  transfer  deeds  executed  prior  to  the  notification  of 
LODR,  (i.e.,  December  01,  2015)  have  not  been  registered  due  to  non-
availability  of  PAN  of  the  transferor.  It  is  clarified  that  transfer  deeds 
executed  prior  to  notification  of  LODR  may  be  registered  with  or  without 
the PAN of the transferor as per the requirement of quoting PAN under the 
applicable Income Tax Rules.  

b. 

Mismatch  of  name  in  PAN  card  vis-à-vis  name  on  share 
certificate/ transfer deed: In such cases, transfer shall be registered on 
submission  of  any  of  the  four  following  additional  documents  explaining 
the difference in names: 

i. 

Copy of Passport 

Page 1 of 4 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

ii. 
iii. 
iv. 

Copy of legally recognized Marriage Certificate 
Copy of gazette notification regarding change in name 
Copy of Aadhar Card 

c. 

Major mismatch  / Non-availability of transferor’s signature: 
As per   procedure laid down in LODR, in case of non-availability / major 
mismatch in transferor’s signature the transferor  is required to update  his 
/  her  signature  by  submitting  bank  attested  signature  along  with  an 
affidavit  and  cancelled  cheque  to  the  RTA/company.  Multiple  instances 
have  been  brought  to  the  notice  in  such  cases,  where  the  transferor  did 
not take efforts to update his signature since he had already received the 
consideration  for  the  transfer.  Further,  in  many  cases,  the  transferors 
could not be traced now. 

Accordingly,  following  procedure  /  documentation  shall  be  followed  for 
registration of transfer of securities, in such cases: 

i.  RTA/  company  shall follow  the  procedure  as  laid  down  in  Para 
(B)(2)  of  Schedule  VII    of  LODR  for  major  difference  or  non-
availability of signature of the transferor(s). 
Issuers / RTAs shall make efforts to contact the transferor : 

ii. 

1.  by  checking  the  Dividend  history  and  obtaining      the 
current contact details from the bank where dividend was 
encashed. 

2.  from  the  address,  email  ids  and  phone  numbers,  if  any, 

available with the Depositories/KRA 

iii. 

In case of non- delivery of the objection memo to the transferor 
or non-cooperation by / inability of the transferor to provide the 
required details to the transferee, company / RTA shall register 
the transfer after following the procedure as under: 

1.  Following  additional  documents  shall  be  collected  from 

the transferee: 

i.  An  indemnity  bond  from  the  transferee  in  the 

format placed at Annexure A; 

ii.  Copy of address proof  - Passport / Aadhar Card / 

Driving License of the transferee. 

iii.  An undertaking that the transferee will not transfer/ 
demat  the  physical  securities  until  the  lock-in 

Page 2 of 4 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

period  specified  under  clause 
completed. 

(4)  below 

is 

2.  RTA  may  also  verify  the  documents  submitted  by  the 
transferee with the KYC details, if any, available with the 
Depositories/ KRAs.  

3.  Companies  /  RTAs  shall  publish  an  advertisement  in  at 
least  one  English  language  national  daily  newspaper 
having  nationwide  circulation  and 
in  one  regional 
language  daily  newspaper  published  in  the  place  of 
registered  office  of  the  listed  entity  is  situated,  giving 
notice  of  the  proposed  transfer  and  seeking  objection,  if 
any, to the same within a period of 30 days from the date 
of advertisement. A copy of the advertisement shall also 
be published on the company’s website. 

4.  Transfer shall be effected only after the expiry of 30 days 
from  the  newspaper  advertisement.  The  securities  so 
transferred  shall  bear  a  stamp  affixed  by  the  company  / 
RTA  stating  that  these  securities  shall  be  under  lock-in 
for  a  period  of  6  months  from  the  date  of  registration  of 
transfer  and  should  not  be  transferred  /  dematerialized 
during the said period. 

5.  Names of the transferor, transferee and no. of  securities 
transferred  under  this  procedure  shall  be  disclosed  on 
the company’s website for a period of 6 months from the 
date of transfer.  This information shall also be displayed 
on 
corporate 
announcement; 

exchange  website 

stock 

as 

a 

d. 

e. 

In case of non-availability of any document required for transfer 
and  the  transferor  is  not  cooperating  or  not  traceable,  companies/  RTA 
shall register the transfer by following the procedure as specified in case 
of major mismatch / non-availability of transferor’s signature, as specified 
in Para 2(c) above. 

Clause  (B)(2)(d)  of  Schedule  VII  of  LODR  ,  inter-alia,  require 
that  the  transfer  shall  be  registered  if,  the  address  of  the  transferor 
submitted in the bank attestation matches with the address recorded in the 
records of the company / RTA. However, it has been brought to the notice 
that the  address  as available  with  the  company,  as  per old  records,  may 
not  match  with  the  current  address  attested  by  the  bank  and  this  has 
resulted  in  rejection  of  transfer  requests  causing  undue  hardship  to 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

investors. Accordingly, in case the bank attested address of the transferor 
differs  from  the  records  available  with  the  company  /  RTA,  companies/ 
RTAs shall register the transfer by updating the new address as attested 
by  the  bank.  Further,  an  intimation  may  also  be  sent  by  the  RTA  with 
regard  to  updation  of  address  on  the  old  and  new  address  of  the 
transferor. 

This  circular  is  issued  under  Regulation  101  and  102  of  LODR  to 

address the difficulties faced by investors in transfer of physical shares. 

The  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  
circular  to  the  notice  of Listed Entities and also to disseminate the same on 
their websites. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Surabhi Gupta 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel. No: 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

3. 

4. 

 

Encl: Annexure A – Format of Indemnity Bond 

Page 4 of 4 

 

