 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ DOS3/ CIR/ P/ 2018/ 140 

 

 

          November 13, 2018 

To 
All Credit Rating Agencies registered with SEBI 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 

 

Sub: Guidelines for Enhanced Disclosures by Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) 

 
SEBI  has  constantly  endeavoured  to  enhance  the  quality  of  disclosures  made  by  the 
CRAs. In pursuance of the same, the following disclosures are being prescribed to bring 
about greater transparency: 
 

1.  Disclosures in the Press Release regarding Rating Actions: 

 
A.  SEBI,  vide  Circular  dated  November  01, 2016,  had  prescribed  the standard 
format  for  press  release  regarding  rating  action  by  CRAs.  While  CRAs  are 
required  to  monitor  and  analyse  the  relevant  factors  that  affect  the 
creditworthiness  of  an  issuer  and  discuss  the  same  in  the  rating  notes 
considered by  the  rating  committee for  assignment  of  ratings,  such  relevant 
factors may also be suitably incorporated in the press release regarding the 
rating action. 
 
Accordingly,  in  order  to  enable  investors  to  understand  underlying  rating 
drivers  better  and  make  more  informed  investment  decisions,  CRAs  shall 
make the following specific disclosures in the section on “Analytical Approach” 
in the Press Release: 
 

a.  When a rating factors in support from a Parent/ Group/ Government, with 
an  expectation  of  infusion  of  funds  towards  timely  debt  servicing,  the 
name of such entities, along with rationale for such expectation, may be 
provided. 

b.  When  subsidiaries  or  group  companies  are  consolidated  to  arrive  at  a 
rating,  list  of  all  such  companies,  along  with  the  extent  (e.g.  full, 
proportionate  or  moderate)  and  rationale  of  consolidation,  may  be 
provided. 

 

B.  The Press Release shall include a specific section on “Liquidity”, which shall 
highlight  parameters  like  liquid  investments  or  cash  balances,  access  to 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 

 

unutilised  credit  lines,  liquidity  coverage  ratio,  adequacy  of  cash  flows  for 
servicing maturing debt obligation, etc. CRAs shall also disclose any linkage 
to external support for meeting near term maturing obligations. 

 

2.  Review of Rating Criteria 

 
A.  In terms of Para 2 in Annexure A of SEBI Circular dated November 01, 2016, 
CRAs  may  review  their  rating  criteria  with  regard  to  assessment  of  holding 
companies and subsidiaries in terms of their inter-linkages, holding company’s 
liquidity, financial flexibility and support to the subsidiaries, etc. 

 

B.  While carrying out “Monitoring of Repayment Schedules”, CRAs shall analyse 
the  deterioration  in  the  liquidity  conditions  of  the  issuer  and  also  take  into 
account any asset-liability mismatch.  

 
C.  While reviewing “Material Events”, CRAs may treat sharp deviations in bond 
spreads of debt instruments vis-à-vis relevant benchmark yield as a material 
event. 

 

3.  Disclosure of Average Rating Transition Rates for long-term instruments 

 
A.  Transition  studies  are  central  to  evaluating  the  performance  of  a  CRA  and 
provide an insight on the stability of ratings over a period of time. In order to 
promote transparency and to enable the market to best judge the performance 
of the ratings, the CRA should publish information about the historical average 
rating transition rates across various rating categories, so that investors can 
understand the historical performance of the ratings assigned by the CRAs. 
 

B.  Accordingly, CRAs shall publish their  average one-year rating transition rate 
over a 5-year period, on their respective websites, which shall be calculated 
as the weighted average of transitions for each rating category, across all static 
pools in the 5-year period. The format of the transition matrix is enclosed as 
Annexure A.  

 

 

a.  For the said purpose, the following terms shall have the meaning as under: 

i.  Static Pool: Ratings outstanding for each category at the beginning 
of any financial year. However, it shall exclude ratings that have been 
withdrawn or ratings of non-cooperative issuers during the financial 
year. Ratings downgraded to D shall be treated as default for the rest 
of  the financial  year.   Ratings  which  are  upgraded from  D  shall  be 
considered as new rating for the relevant subsequent static pools. 

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

ii. 

 
Transition  Rate:  The  number  of  movements/  transitions  from  each 
rating category to another, as at the end of the financial year, as a 
percentage of the total number of ratings in the static pool. 
 

iii.  Averaging:  All  averaging  across  static  pools  for  transition  rate 
computations must be based on the weighted average method where 
the weights are the number of issuers in each static period. 

 

4.  Disclosure  of  performance  of  CRAs  on  Stock  Exchange  and  Depository 

website 
 
A.  Each CRA shall furnish data on sharp rating actions in investment grade rating 
category, as per the format specified in Annexure B, to Stock Exchanges and 
Depositories for disclosure on website on half-yearly basis, within 15 days from 
the end of the half-year ( 31st March/ 30th September). 
 

 

5.  Internal Audit of CRAs:  

 
A.  It is clarified that the half-yearly internal audit, mandated under Regulation 22 
of  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  Regulations,  1999  and  Circular  SEBI/ 
MIRSD/CRA/Cir-01/ 2010 dated January 06, 2010, shall also cover adherence 
to the prescribed methodology for calculation of transition rates, as specified 
in  Para  3.  B.  above  and  default 
line  with  Circular 
CIR/MIRSD/CRA/6/2010 dated May 3, 2010.  

rates, 

in 

 

6.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section  11  (1)  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation 20 of SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999, to protect the 
interest  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate, the securities market. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Parag Basu 
Chief General Manager 
Tel. No: 022-26449360 
Email id: paragb@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 5 

 

ANNEXURE A 

 

 

Average one-year transition rates for long-term ratings for the last 5-Financial Year Period 

 

Rating 
Category 

AAA 

AA 

A 

BBB 

BB 

B 

C 

 

AAA 

AA 

A 

BBB 

BB 

B 

C 

D 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Note: The left-hand column identifies ratings outstanding at the beginning of the year. Each row 
provides information on the migration pattern of those ratings by end of the year. 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 5 

 

ANNEXURE B 

 

Sharp rating actions in investment grade rating category  

(excluding non-cooperative issuers) 

 

S. No.  Rating action 

Number of ratings  

1.    Number of rating downgrades of more than 

3 notches 

2.    Number  of  downgrades  to  default  from 

investment grade ratings 

3.    Number of rating upgrades of more than 3 

notches 

4.    Number of outstanding ratings as on March 

 

 

 

 

31/ September 30 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 5 

