भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 

SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2018/0000000141         
 
To, 
 

1.  The listed entities 
2.  The recognised stock exchanges 

                        November 15, 2018 

 

 

Subject: Disclosures regarding commodity risks by listed entities 

 

1.  Regulation 34(3) read with clause 9(n) of Part C of Schedule V of Securities and Exchange 

Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI 

LODR Regulations”) mandates listed entities to make disclosures regarding commodity price 

risk and hedging activities in the Corporate Governance Report section of the Annual Report 

of a listed entity.  

 

2.  In order to benefit the shareholders and to bring further clarity in disclosures to be made in 

the annual reports by listed entities, the Corporate Governance Committee formed under the 

Chairmanship  of  Shri  Uday  Kotak  inter  alia,  in  its  report  to  SEBI  dated  October  5,  2017 

recommended the following: 

a.  The listed entities should disclose their risk management activities during the year, 

including  their  commodity  hedging  positions  in  a  more  transparent,  detailed  and 

uniform manner for easy understanding and appreciation by the shareholders. 

b.  For  the  consistent  implementation  of  the  requirements  of  the  SEBI  LODR 

Regulations  regarding  disclosure  of  commodity  risks  and  other  hedging  activities 

across  listed  companies,  a  detailed  format  along  with  the  periodicity  of  the 

disclosures may be outlined by SEBI which would depict the commodity risks they 

face, how these are managed and also the policy for hedging commodity risk, etc. 

followed by the company for the purpose of disclosures in the annual report. 

 

3.  The  aforesaid  recommendation  of  the  Committee  was  accepted  by  the  SEBI  Board  in  its 

meeting held on March 28, 2018 and it was decided to implement the same through a circular.  

 

Page 1 of 3 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
4.  Accordingly,  all  listed  entities  shall  make  the  disclosures  in  the  format  as  placed  at  the 

Annexure as part of the Corporate Governance Report in the Annual Report under clause 

9(n) of Part C of Schedule V. 

 

5.  This Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Regulation 101 of the SEBI 

LODR Regulations. 

 

6.  This Circular is available at www.sebi.gov.in under the link “LegalCirculars”. 

 

7.  The recognized stock exchanges are advised to disseminate the contents of this Circular on 

their website. 

 

 

 

Pradeep Ramakrishnan 

Deputy General Manager  

Corporation Finance Department 

Compliance and Monitoring Division-1 

+91-22-26449246 

pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

Page 2 of 3 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 Annexure 

1.  Risk management policy of the listed entity with respect to commodities including through hedging 

(Such policy shall take into account total exposure of the entity towards commodities, commodity 

risks faced by the entity, hedged exposures, etc. as specified below) 

2.  Exposure of the listed entity to commodity and commodity risks faced by the entity throughout  the 

year: 

a.  Total exposure of the listed entity to commodities in INR 

b.  Exposure of the listed entity to various commodities:  

Commodity  

Exposure 

Exposure 

% of such exposure hedged through commodity derivatives 

Name 

in INR  

in Quantity 

Domestic market 

International market 

Total 

towards 

terms 

OTC 

Exchange 

OTC 

Exchange 

the 

towards 

particular 

the 

commodity  

particular 

commodity 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c.  Commodity risks faced by the listed entity during the year and how they have been managed. 

Note:  

(i)  The  disclosure  pertaining  to  exposure  &  commodity  risks  may  apply  only  for  those 

commodities where the exposure of the listed entity in the particular commodity is material. 

(Materiality in such cases shall be according to the materiality policy approved by the board 

of Directors of the listed entity in this context) 

(ii)  If  the  listed  entity  has  exposure  in  non-rupee  terms,  the  Indian  rupee  equivalent  after 

conversion shall be used for the aforesaid disclosures.  

(iii)  The term ‘exposure’ shall mean gross exposure of the listed entity including exposure both 

on the asset and liability side. 

(iv)  Where exact figures are not determinable, ballpark (estimated) figures may be provided.  

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

