 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

November 30, 2018 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2018/146  
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
All  Recognised  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations  having 
commodity derivatives segment 
 
Sir / Madam,  
 
Sub: Trading hours for commodity derivatives segment 
 
1.  Vide  circular  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/75  dated  August  30,  2016 
SEBI had inter-alia specified commodity category-wise time limits within which 
exchanges  are  permitted  to  fix  trading  hours  for  trading  in  derivatives 
contracts.  
 

2.  In order to deepen the commodity derivatives markets as well as to enhance 
the  participation  of  stakeholders  such  as  Farmers  Producers  Organizations 
(FPOs),  value  chain  participants,  foreign  entities  having  actual  exposure  to 
Indian physical markets etc., as recommended by the Commodity Derivatives 
Advisory  Committee,  it  has  been  decided  to  extend  the  trade  time  within 
which  recognized  stock  exchanges  can  set  their  trading  hours  for  their 
commodity derivatives segment. The revised trade timings are as under: 

 

S. 
No 

1 

2 

 

Commodity Category 

Trade Start 

Trade End time 

Time 

After Start of US 
Day light Savings 
in Spring Season 

After End of US 

Day light 

Savings in Fall 

Season 

09:00 AM 

11:30 PM 

11:55 PM 

09:00 AM 

09:00 PM 

Non-Agricultural 
Commodities 

Agricultural and Agri-
processed Commodities 

3.  The  extension  of  the  trade  timing  is  subject  to  the  Stock  Exchange  and  its 
Clearing  Corporation(s)  putting  in  place  adequate  risk  management  system, 
surveillance  system  and  infrastructure  commensurate  with  the  increased 
trading hours. 
 

4.  Thus,  para  4  of  the  circular  dated  August  30,  2016  stands  modified 

accordingly. 

Page 1 of 1 

 

5.  The  provisions  of  this  circular  shall  come  into  effect  from  30  days  from  the 

 

 

date of this circular. 
 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992  to  protect  the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market. 
 

7.  Exchanges and Clearing Corporations are advised to:  

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

ii.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers of the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular.  

 

8.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of New Products and Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vikass@sebi.gov.in 
 

Page 2 of 2 

