 

CIRCULAR 

 

CIR/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2018/145         

 

 

          November 27, 2018 

To 

All recognised Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations except Stock Exchanges 

and Clearing Corporations in International Financial Services Centre  

 
Dear Sir / Madam 

Interoperability among Clearing Corporations  

1. 

Interoperability among Clearing Corporations (CCPs) necessitates linking of multiple 

Clearing Corporations. It allows market participants to consolidate their clearing and 

settlement functions at a single CCP, irrespective of the stock exchange on which the 

trade is executed. It is expected that the interoperability among CCPs would lead to 

efficient allocation of capital for the market participants, thereby saving on costs as 

well as provide better execution of trades.  

2.  An  expert  Committee  constituted  by  SEBI,  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  K  V 

Kamath, had, inter alia, examined the ‘Viability of Interoperability between different 

Clearing  Corporations’.  Thereafter,  proposals  on  Interoperability,  received  from 

CCPs,  were  placed  before  the  Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee  (SMAC)  of 

SEBI. As recommended by SMAC, three working sub-groups pertaining to relevant 

subjects  viz.  Risk  Management,  Technology,  and  Finance  and  Taxation  were 

constituted comprising academicians, market participants and relevant stakeholders 

to  examine  the  related  issues  and  provide  their  recommendations.  The  reports  of 

these  sub-groups  were  placed  before  SMAC  and  their  recommendations  were 

deliberated upon. 

3.  Thereafter, SEBI Board approved suitable amendments to the Securities Contracts 

(Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations to, inter alia, 

enable interoperability among clearing corporations. 

4.  The  Committee  on  Payments  and  Settlement  Systems  (CPSS)  and  the  Technical 

Committee  of  International  Organization of Securities  Commissions  (IOSCO)  have 

prescribed the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMIs) with a view to 

enhance  safety  and  efficiency  in  payment,  clearing,  settlement,  and  recording 

arrangements as well as to limit systemic risk, and foster transparency and financial 

stability.  Principle  20  of  PFMIs,  which  is  relevant  to  the  proposed  interoperability 

among clearing corporations, prescribes that “An FMI that establishes a link with one 

or more FMIs should identify, monitor, and manage link-related risks.” 

5.  Keeping  the  aforementioned  in  view,  the  broad  guidelines  for  operationalizing  the 

interoperable framework among CCPs are prescribed for compliance hereunder :- 

5.1.  Scope of Interoperability among CCPs 

(1) The interoperability framework shall be applicable to all the recognised clearing 

corporations excluding those operating in International Financial Services Centre. 

 

(2) All the products available for trading on the stock exchanges (except commodity 

derivatives) shall be made available under the interoperability framework. 

5.2. 

Interoperable links among CCPs  

(1) The recognised clearing corporations shall establish peer-to-peer link for ensuring 

interoperability.  A  CCP  shall  maintain  special  arrangements  with  another  CCP 

and  shall  not  be  subjected  to  normal  participant  (membership)  rules.  Risk 

management  between  the  CCPs  shall  be  based  on  a  bilaterally  approved 

framework  and  shall  ensure  coverage  of  inter-CCP  exposures.  CCPs  shall 

exchange margins and other financial resources on a reciprocal basis based on 

mutually agreed margining models.  

 

(2) However, SEBI, in certain cases, may require a CCP to establish participant link 

for interoperability. In such cases the CCP concerned shall become participant of 

another  CCP  (the host  CCP)  and  shall  be  subjected  to the host  CCP’s  normal 

participant  rules.  Since  the  participant  CCP  would  be  posting  margins  with  the 

host  CCP,  but  would  not  be  collecting  margins  from  the  host  CCP,  it  shall  be 

 

2 

required to hold additional financial resources to protect itself against  default of 

the host CCP. 

5.3. 

Inter CCP Collateral  

(1) To manage the inter-CCP exposure in the peer-to-peer link, CCPs shall maintain 

sufficient  collateral  with  each  other  so  that  any  default  by  one  CCP,  in  an 

interoperable arrangement, would be covered without financial loss to the  other 

non-defaulting CCP. The inter-CCP collateral shall comprise two components, viz. 

 

(a) Margins  as  per  the  existing  Risk  Management  Framework  (initial  margin, 

extreme loss margin, calendar spread margin, etc.) prescribed by SEBI; and 

 

(b) Additional capital, to be determined by each CCP, based on the credit  risk 

from  the  linked  CCP,  on  which  no  exposure  shall  be  granted  to  the  linked 

CCP. 

 

(2) The  collateral  posted  by  one  CCP  with  another  CCP  shall  be  maintained  in  a 

separate account which can be clearly identified in the name of such linked CCP 

which is providing collateral and shall not be included in the Core SGF of the CCP 

receiving them. 

 

(3) The  liquid  assets  as  well  as  hair-cuts  as  prescribed  vide  SEBI  Circular 

MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-07/2005  dated  February  23,  2005  on  “Comprehensive  Risk 

Management  Framework 

for 

the  cash  market”  and  SEBI  Circular 

CIR/MRD/DRMNP/9/2013  dated  March  20,  2013  on  “Corporate  bonds  and 

Government  securities  as  collateral”  shall  be  applicable 

for 

inter-CCP 

transactions. 

5.4. 

Inter CCP Settlement  

The CCPs shall undertake multilateral netting to create inter-CCP net obligations 

and exchange funds and securities on a net basis. The pay-in and pay-out shall 

be  completed  as  per  the  settlement  schedule  prescribed  vide  SEBI  Circular 

MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-18/2005 dated  September  02,  2005  on  “Revised  Activity 

schedule for T+2 rolling settlement”. 

3 

 

5.5.  CCP-Trading Venue Link  

(1) In an interoperable arrangement, the stock exchange and the CCP may not be 

located  at  same  venue.  Accordingly,  to  ensure  real  time  flow  of  information 

between  the  stock  exchange  (trading  venue)  and  the  CCP,  so  as  to  facilitate 

effective  real-time  risk  monitoring  and mitigation, each  interoperable  CCP  shall 

put in place appropriate infrastructure including deployment of adequate servers 

at each of the linked trading venues.  

 

(2) In order to mitigate any risk arising out of latency, in partial modification of para-7 

of  the  SEBI  Circular  CIR/MRD/DP/34/2012  dated  December  13,  2012  on  “Pre-

trade  Risk  Controls”,  Stock  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  stock  brokers  are 

mandatorily  subjected to  risk  reduction mode  on  utilization of  85% of  the  stock 

broker’s collateral available for adjustment against margins. 

 

(3) Other provisions with regard to risk reduction mode, prescribed vide the above-

mentioned  SEBI  Circular  dated  December  13,  2012  shall  continue  to  be 

applicable. 

5.6.  Default Handling Process 

In  case  of  default  by  a  CCP,  in  the  interoperable  arrangement,  the  collateral 

provided by such CCP shall be utilized by the non-defaulting CCP to cover losses 

arising  from  such  default,  as  per  the  default  waterfall  prescribed  vide  SEBI 

Circular CIR/MRD/DRMNP/25/2014 dated August 27, 2014 on “Core Settlement 

Guarantee Fund, Default Waterfall and Stress Test”.  

5.7.  Charges by Stock Exchanges/Clearing Corporations 

(1) In  order  to  promote  transparency  in  terms  of  charges  levied  by  the  Stock 

Exchanges/ Clearing Corporations, the transaction charges levied shall be clearly 

identified and made known to the participants upfront. 

 

 

4 

(2) The Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations shall comply with the provisions 

under Para-2 of SEBI Circular MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-14/2009 dated October 14, 2009 

on “Revision of transaction charges by the stock exchanges”. 

5.8.  Dispute Resolution  

The  Conflict  Resolution  Committee,  as  prescribed  vide  SEBI  Circular 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2017/9  dated  January  27,  2017  on  “Procedures  for 

Exchange Listing Control Mechanism” shall address disputes, among CCPs and 

Stock Exchanges, arising out of interoperability. 

5.9. 

Inter-CCP Agreement  

(1) Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 

Regulations, 2018 prescribes that “...in case a recognised stock exchange enters 

into an arrangement with more than one recognised Clearing Corporation, it shall 

enter  into  a  multipartite  agreement  in  writing  with  such  recognised  clearing 

corporations to ensure interoperability among the clearing corporations”.  

 

(2) The  agreements  entered  into  by  the  Stock  Exchanges/  Clearing  Corporations 

shall, inter alia, include system capability, inter-CCP links and CCP-trading venue 

link,  risk  management  framework,  monitoring  of  client  margin/position  limits, 

obligation  system,  settlement  process,  surveillance  systems,  sharing  of  client 

data,  sharing  of  product  information,  default  handling  process  and  dispute 

resolution process. 

6.  Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations shall adhere to aforesaid guidelines and 

accordingly, take all necessary steps to operationalize interoperability at the earliest 

but not later than June 01, 2019. 

7.  The Stock Exchange and Clearing Corporations are directed to: 

(1) take  necessary  steps  to  put  in  place  requisite  infrastructure  and  systems  for 

implementation of the circular, including necessary amendments to the relevant 

bye-laws, rules and regulations;  

 

5 

 

(2) bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  members  and  also 

disseminate the same on its website; and 

 

(3) communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular. 

8.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate,  the 

securities market. 

Yours faithfully 

 

 

(Sanjay Purao) 

General Manager  

Division of Risk Management and New Products  

Market Regulation Department  

Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 

 

6 

