CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/143/2018 

   

 

 

 

 November 26, 2018 

 
All Alternative Investment Funds 
All Custodians 
 
Dear Sir / Madam  
 
Subject:  Operating  Guidelines  for  Alternative  Investment  Funds  in  International 
Financial Services Centres. 
 

1.  SEBI  has  issued  SEBI  (International  Financial  Services  Centre)  Guidelines,  2015 
(hereinafter  referred  to as  ‘IFSC  Guidelines’)  on  March  27,  2015  for facilitating  and 
regulating  financial  services  relating  to  securities  market  in  an  IFSC  set  up  under 
section 18(1) of Special Economic Zones Act, 2005. The IFSC Guidelines provide for 
broad framework for setting up of Alternatives Investment Funds (hereinafter referred 
to as ‘AIF’) in IFSC. 
  

2.  Based  on  the  deliberations  in  Alternative  Investment  Policy  Advisory  Committee 
(AIPAC)  and  in  consultation  with  other  stakeholders,  it  has  been  decided  to  put  in 
place ‘Operating Guidelines for Alternatives Investment Funds in IFSC’. The same is 
annexed herewith. 
 

3.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors 
in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 
 

4.  The  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

"Legal framework - Circulars" and "Info for - AIF". 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Naveen Sharma 
Deputy General Manager 
91-22-26449709 
naveens@sebi.gov.in   
 

 

 

 

Annexure  

Operating  Guidelines  for  Alternative  Investment  Funds  in  International  Financial 
Services Centres (IFSC) 

REGISTRATION OF ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUNDS FOR OPERATING IN 

 

 

IFSC 

1.  For registration as Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) for operating in IFSC, any fund 
established or incorporated in IFSC in the form of a trust or a company  or a limited 
liability partnership or a body corporate, can seek registration under the provisions of 
SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 (‘AIF Regulations’) under the 
categories mentioned therein.  
 

2.  An application for grant of certificate shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Chapter II of AIF Regulations, accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as 
stated in para 15 of this Annexure. 
 

3.  The Board may grant certificate under any specific category of AIF, if it is satisfied that 

the applicant fulfills the requirements as specified in AIF Regulations.   
  
        COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS 
 

4.  Any person as specified in sub-clause (1) of clause 22 of SEBI IFSC Guidelines may 

invest in AIFs operating in IFSC. 

 

5.  An AIF operating in IFSC is permitted to make investment in terms of sub-clause (3) 
of clause 22 of SEBI IFSC Guidelines and circulars issued in this regard by SEBI from 
time to time.  
 
Earlier,  such  AIFs  were  permitted  to  invest  in  India  through  the  Foreign  Portfolio 
Investment route in terms of SEBI circular dated May 23, 2017 governing permissible 
investments by AIFs operating in IFSC. Now, such AIFs may invest in India through 
the Foreign Venture Capital Investor or Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) route also, in 
accordance with applicable FDI policy/ guidelines issued by Government of India and 
RBI in this regard. 
 

6.  Each scheme of the AIF shall have corpus of at least USD three million;  

 

7.  The AIF shall accept from an investor, an investment of value not less than USD one 

hundred and fifty thousand : 
 
 
 

 

 
Further,  for  investors  who  are  employees  or  directors  of  the  AIF  or  employees  or 
directors  of  the  Manager,  the  minimum  value  of  investment  shall  be  USD  forty 
thousand. 
 

8.  The Manager or Sponsor shall have a continuing interest in the AIF of not less than 
two  and  half  percent  of  the  corpus  or  USD  seven  hundred  and  fifty  thousand, 
whichever is lower, in the form of investment in the AIF and such interest shall not be 
through the waiver of management fees:  
 
Further, for Category III AIF, the continuing interest shall be not less than five percent 
of the corpus or USD 1.5 million, whichever is lower. 
 

9.  An AIF set up in IFSC may invest in the units of other AIFs set up in IFSC and India 

subject to the provisions of AIF Regulations.  

 

10. Sponsors and Managers of AIF 

 
a.  A Sponsor / Manager of an existing AIF in India may act as a Sponsor / Manager 

of an AIF set up in the IFSC by :  
i)  setting up a branch in the IFSC; or 
ii)  incorporating a company or limited liability partnership in the IFSC 
 

b.  However,  Sponsor  /  Manager  to  be  set  up  in  IFSC  shall  need  to  incorporate  a 

company or limited liability partnership in the IFSC. 

11. Custodian 

 
a.  The Sponsor or Manager of an AIF (Category I and II) shall appoint a custodian 
registered with the Board for safekeeping of securities if the corpus of the  AIF is 
more than USD seventy million. 
 

b.  It will be mandatory for Category III AIF to appoint a custodian. 
 

12. Angel Funds 

a.  An  angel  fund  shall  have  a  corpus  of  at  least  USD  seven  hundred  and  fifty 

thousand. 
 

b.  Investment in angel funds. 

For the purpose of investment in an Angel Fund set-up in IFSC, an "angel investor" 
shall satisfy the following financial criteria : 
 
 

 

 

i.  An individual investor shall have net tangible assets of at least USD three 

hundred thousand excluding value of his principal residence, 

ii.  A  body  corporate  shall  have  a  net  worth  of  at least  USD  one  million  five 

hundred thousand. 

 

c.  Angel funds shall accept, up to a maximum period of five years, an investment of 

not less than USD forty thousand from an angel investor. 
 

d.  Investment by Angel Funds. 

i.  Angel funds shall invest in venture capital undertakings (VCU) in India in 
accordance with DIPP Guidelines as referred to in regulation 19(F)(1) (a) 
of AIF regulations. 

 

 

 

 

ii.  Angel funds shall invest in VCUs which have a turnover of less than USD 

three million, seven hundred and fifty thousand; 

iii.  Angel funds shall invest in VCU which are not promoted or sponsored by 
or related to an industrial group whose group turnover exceeds USD forty 
five million; and 

iv. 

Investment by an angel fund in any VCU shall not be less than USD forty 
thousand and shall not exceed USD one million five hundred thousand. 

e.  The Manager or Sponsor shall have a continuing interest in the Angel Fund of not 
less than two and half percent of the corpus or USD eighty thousand, whichever is 
lesser, and such interest shall not be through the waiver of management fees. 
 
 

MISCELLANEOUS  

 

13.  Applicability of SEBI AIF Regulations 

 
All  provisions  of  the  AIF  regulations  and  the  guidelines  and  circulars  issued 
thereunder, shall apply to AIFs setting up/ operating in IFSC, their investors, sponsors, 
managers and other intermediaries as applicable, except para 2(B) of SEBI circular 
dated October 1, 2015 governing overseas investments by AIFs. However, such AIFs 
shall report there activities in accordance with para 3.2 of SEBI circular dated July 29, 
2013. The said reporting shall be denominated in USD million. 
 

14. The applicability of these operating guidelines is subject to such conditions that may 
be  prescribed  by  the  Board,  Reserve  Bank  of  India  and  other  appropriate  authority 
from time to time. 
 

 
 

 

15. AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES 

 

 

Application fee  
Registration fee for Category I Alternative Investment 
Funds other than Angel Funds 
Registration fee for Category II Alternative Investment 
Funds  
Registration fee for Category III Alternative Investment 
Funds 
Registration fee for Angel Funds 

Scheme Fee for Alternative Investment Funds other than 
Angel Funds 
Re- Registration fee 

USD 1,500   
USD 7,500   

USD 15,000   

USD 22,500   

USD 3,000 

USD 1,500 

USD 1,500 

***** 

