 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2018/155 

 

 

        December 17, 2018 

All  Recognized  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations  (except  Stock 
Exchanges and Clearing Corporations in International Financial Services Centre) 

Madam/Sir 

Review of risk management framework for Equity Derivatives Segment 

The Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMI) inter alia prescribe that a 

central  counterparty  (CCP)  should  identify  and  consider  a  number  of  elements, 

including Margin Period of Risk (MPOR) or close-out period, when constructing an 

appropriate  margin  system  to  address  risks  that  arise  from  the  products  cleared. 

The assumed MPOR or close-out period should incorporate the market depth and 

characteristics  of  the  products  cleared.  A  CCP  should  consider  multiple  MPOR 

assumptions or seek to ensure that a single MPOR assumption is appropriate for 

all cleared products in case it clears products with different market characteristics. 

 

2.  The  PFMI  further  prescribe  that  a  CCP  should  adopt  a  margin  system  and 

parameters  that  are  risk-based  and  generate  margin  requirements  that  are 

sufficient  to  cover  its  potential  future  exposures  to  participants  in  the  interval 

between  the  last  margin  collection  and  the  close-out  of  positions  following  a 

participant default. A CCP should also consider the potential market liquidation 

costs that it assumes to incur while liquidating a participant’s portfolio.  

 

3.  In  order  to  bring  MPOR  in  greater  conformity  with  the  PFMI,  the  Risk 

Management  Review  Committee  (RMRC)  of  SEBI  recommended  that  the 

MPOR  may  be  increased  to  2  (two)  days  as  compared  to  current  MPOR  of  1 

(one) day. 

 

   Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 

4.  SEBI  circular  SEBI/DNPD/Cir-26/2004/07/16  dated  July  16,  2004  inter  alia 

prescribes that the Stock Exchanges/ Clearing Corporations may offer a choice 

to  the  members  to  opt  for  payment  of  mark  to  market  margin  (MTM)  either 

before the start of trading on the next day (T+0) or, on the next day (T+1) with 

scaled up margins to cover the potential for losses over the time elapsed in the 

collection of MTM. 

 

5.  Based  on  the  aforementioned  recommendation  made  by  RMRC  and  in 

consultation  with  the  Clearing  Corporations,  it  has  been  decided 

that 

Exchanges/  Clearing  Corporations  shall  estimate  the  appropriate  MPOR, 

subject  to  a  minimum  of  2  days,  for  each  equity  derivative  product  based  on 

liquidity  therein  and  scale  up  the  initial  margins  and  exposure  margins 

accordingly. For initial margins, the revised MPOR shall be given effect by way 

of  scaling  up  the  Price  Scan  Range  (PSR)  used  for  computing  the  Worst 

Scenario Loss. 

 

6.  It  has  further  been  decided  to  stipulate  PSR  for  computation of  initial  margins 

across  index  options  and  index futures  contracts  as  three  standard  deviations 

(3σ)  or  5%  of  the  underlying  value,  whichever  is  higher.  The  Short  Option 

Minimum Charge (SOMC) for index option contracts also stands revised to 5%. 

7.  Additionally,  in  order  to  make  risk  management  framework  more  robust,  the 

payment  of  MTM  shall  now  mandatorily  be  made  by  all  the  members  on  T+0 

basis i.e. before start of trading on the next day.  

 

8.  Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations are directed to:  

a)  take  necessary  steps  to  put  in  place  systems  for  implementation  of  the 

circular,  including  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules 

and regulations;  

b)  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of their members and also 

disseminate the same on their websites; and  

c)  communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this 

circular in the Monthly Report.  

 

9.  The provision(s) of this circular shall come into effect from January 21, 2019.  
   Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 

 

10. This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section 

11(1)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the 

interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 

regulate  the  securities  market.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at 

www.sebi.gov.in under the category "Circulars".  

Yours faithfully 

 

 

(Sanjay Purao) 
General Manager 
Market Regulation Department 
Division of Risk Management and New Products 
E-mail: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 

   Page 3 of 3 

