 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2018/153                                             December 17, 2018 
 
To, 
 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
All Recognised Clearing Corporations 
All Depositories 
 
Dear Sir / Madam 
 

Subject: Early Warning Mechanism to prevent diversion of client securities 

 

1.  There  have  been  instances  where  stock  brokers  had  diverted  clients’  securities 
received as collaterals towards margin obligations and / or settlement obligations, for 
raising  loan  against  shares  on  their  own  account  and  /  or  for  meeting  securities 
shortages in settlement obligations on its own  account. However, such instances of 
diversion  of  securities  come to  light  when  stock  broker failed  in meeting  the margin 
and/ or settlement obligations to Stock Exchange / Clearing Corporation.  

 
2.  It  has  been  decided  to  put  in  place  an  Early  Warning  Mechanism  and  sharing  of 
information  between  Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories  and  Clearing  Corporations  to 
detect the diversion of client’s securities by the stock broker at an early stage so as to 
take appropriate preventive measures. The threshold for such early warning signals 
shall be decided by the Stock Exchanges, Depositories and Clearing Corporations with 
mutual consultation. 
 

3.  Early warning signals, for prevention of diversion of clients’ securities, may include the 

following: 
3.1. Deterioration in financial health of the stock broker/ depository participant based 

on any of the following parameters: 
a)  Significant reduction in net worth over previous half-year / year.  
b)  Significant losses in the previous half years / years. 
c)  Delay  in  reporting  of  Annual  Report,  Balance  Sheet,  Internal  Audit  Reports, 
Risk Based Supervision (RBS) data and any other data related to its financial 
health to the Stock Exchanges / Depositories.  

d)  Failure to submit information sought by the Stock Exchange / Depositories on 

its dealing with related parties / promoters.    

e)  Significant mark-to-market loss on proprietary account/ related party accounts  
f)  Repeated instances of pay-in shortages. 
g)  Significant  trading  exposure  or  amount  of  loans  or  advances  given  to  and 

investments made in related parties/ group.  

h)  Sudden activation of significant number of dormant client’s accounts and / or 

significant activity in the dormant account/s. 
 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

i)  Significant number of UCC modifications. 
j)  Resignation of Statutory Auditors or Directors. 

 

 

3.2. Early  warning  signals  in  relation  to  securities  pledge  transactions  by    the  stock 
broker  to  be  identified  by  the  Depositories  and  shall  be  shared  with  Stock 
Exchanges which may include: 
a)  Alerts for stock brokers maintaining multiple proprietary demat accounts and 
opening any new demat account in the name of stock broker for client purpose. 
b)  Movement  of  shares  to  / from  a  large  number  of  clients’  demat  accounts  or 

large value shares to stock broker proprietary accounts and vice a versa.  

c)  Transfer  of  large  value  of  shares  through  off-market  transfers  other  than  for 

settlement purposes.  

d)  Invocation of pledge of securities by lenders against stock broker or his clients. 
e)  Significant  depletion  of  client’s  shares  in  the  stock  broker  client  account 

maintained by the stock broker. 
 

3.3. Increase in number of investor complaints against the stock broker / depository 
participant  alleging  un-authorized  trading  /  unauthorized  delivery  instructions 
being processed and non-receipt of funds and securities and non-resolution of the 
same. 
 

3.4. Alerts  generated  from  the  monthly  /  weekly  submissions  made  by  stock  broker 
under  Risk  Based  Supervision  (RBS)  or  Enhanced  Supervision  to  the  Stock 
Exchanges. 
a)  Non-recovery  of  significant  dues  from  debit  balance  clients  over  a  period  of 

time. 

b)  Significant dues to credit balance clients over a period of time. 
c)  Failure by stock broker to upload weekly data regarding monitoring of clients’ 
funds  as  specified  in  SEBI’s  circular  on  Enhanced  Supervision,  for  3 
consecutive weeks.  

d)  Pledging securities in case of clients having credit balance and using the funds 

so raised against them for own purposes or for funding debit balance of clients.   

e)  Mis-reporting / wrong reporting about the client funds / securities. 
f)  Significant increase in RBS score. 

 

3.5. Stock broker’s terminal disabled for certain number of days in any segment / Stock 

Exchange in previous quarter. 
 

4.  Stock Exchanges and Depositories shall frame an internal policy / guidelines regarding 
non-cooperation by stock brokers and depository participants during inspections which 
shall  lay  down  the  time  period,  the  type  of  documents  critical  for  closing  the 
inspections, which if not submitted, can be treated as non-cooperation. 
4.1. Failure to submit data sought for inspections especially relating to bank / demat 

accounts, client ledgers etc. despite repeated reminders.  

4.2. Failure to provide reasonable access to the records or any office premises.   

 

Page 2 of 4 

 

 
5.  Stock Exchanges / Clearing Corporations / Depositories, shall devise a mechanism to 
detect diversion  of clients’ securities and to share information among themselves in 
respect of:  
5.1 Diversion of pay-out of securities to non-client accounts 
5.2 Mis-matches between gross (client-wise) securities pay-in and pay-out files of a 
stock  brokers  generated  by  the  Clearing  Corporation  which  shall  be  compared 
with  actual transfer of securities to/from the client’s depository accounts by the 
Depository.  The  cases  of  any  mismatch  found  out  by  the  Depository  shall  be 
informed to the concerned Stock Exchange / Clearing Corporation.  

5.3 Stock Exchange shall seek clarification from the concerned stock broker on  the 
mismatches  reported  by  Depository  and  identify  transfer  to  a  non-client  /  third 
party, without any trade obligation.  

5.4 Such information on wrong / fraudulent / unauthorized transfer shall be shared by 

the Stock Exchange with other Stock Exchange/s.  

 

6.  Any  other  alerts  as  the  Stock  Exchanges  /  Clearing  Corporations  and  Depositories 

may deem fit. 
 

7.  Alerts  triggered  at  one Stock  Exchange  /  Clearing  Corporation  /  Depository  through 
early warning mechanism shall be immediately shared with other Stock Exchanges / 
Depositories with respect to the stock broker / depository participant. 
 

8.  Based  on  the  analysis  of  the  early  warning  data,  if  it  is  established  that  the  stock 
broker’s financial health has deteriorated  and/ or he has made unauthorized transfer 
of funds / securities of the client, in such cases  Stock Exchanges / Depositories shall 
jointly take preventive actions on the stock broker which may include one or more of, 
but not limited, to the following: 
8.1.  Actions to be initiated by the Stock Exchanges like: 

a)  Blocking of certain percentage of available collaterals towards margin. 
b)  Check  securities  register  in  respect  of  securities  received  and  transferred 
against pay-in / pay-out against settlement and client’s securities received as 
collateral. 

c)  Check  details  of  funds  and  securities  available  with  the  clearing  member, 

Clearing Corporation and the Depository of that stock broker. 

d)  Impose limits on proprietary trading by the stock broker. 
e)  Prescribe  and  monitor  shorter  time  duration  for  settlement  of  Running 

Account of clients.  

f)  Conduct  meeting  with  the  designated  directors  of  the  stock  broker  to  seek 

appropriate explanation. 

g)  Uniform  action  of  deactivation  of  trading  terminals  by  all  Stock  Exchanges 

based on the communication received from other Stock Exchange. 

h)  Initiate inspection of the stock broker / depository participant.  
i)  Cross  check  information  submitted  by  stock  broker  with  other  independent 
sources  like  collateral  details  with  the  Clearing  Corporation,  transactions  in 
Bank and Depositories, with statement collected directly etc.  

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 

j)  Where client money and securities diversion is suspected, appoint forensic 

auditor to trace trails of entire funds and securities of clients. 
 

8.2.  Actions to be taken by the Depositories: 

a)  Restriction on further pledge of client securities from the client’s account by 

freezing the stock broker client account for debit. 

b)  Imposition of 100% concurrent audit on the depository participant.  
c)  Cessation  /  restriction  on  uses  of  Power  of  Attorney  (POA)  given  to  stock 
broker by clients mapped to such brokers only to meet settlement obligation 
of  that  client.  Clients  to  issue  instructions  electronically  or  through  Delivery 
Instruction Slip (DIS) for delivery of shares for off market transfers. 
 

8.3.  Any other measures that Stock Exchanges / Clearing Corporations / Depositories 

may deem fit. 

 
9.  Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporations and Depositories are directed to implement 
the above early warning mechanism and preventive actions, with effect from February 
01, 2019.  

 
10. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  Section  19  of  the 
Depositories Act, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the 
development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
D Rajesh Kumar 
General Manager 

 

Page 4 of 4 

