 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIR/MRD/DP/158/2018 

CIRCULAR 
 
 

To, 

The Depositories, Dear Sir / Madam, 

December 27, 2018 

Sub: Change of Name in the Beneficial Owner (BO) Account with Depositories 

1.  This has reference to circular no. CIR/MRD/DP/27/2012 dated November 1, 2012 wherein 

SEBI has prescribed the documents required in order to simplify the procedure for change 

of name in Beneficial Owner's (BO) account with Depositories. 

2.  One of the documents required for change of name in Beneficial Owner's (BO) account 

with  Depositories  on  account  of  reasons  other  than  marriage  is  document  related  to 

publication of name change in official gazette. Depositories have now represented that for 

some  investors  residing  in  the  State  of  Karnataka  and  Punjab,  the  name  change  is 

published by the State Government in the Official Gazette only for Government employees 

and not for private persons in case of change of name of an individual.   

3.  Accordingly, it has been decided that in case of change of name of an individual in these 

states for reasons other than marriage, the same may be allowed for the individual in the 

BO account subject to the submission of following documents: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

Request letter for change of name; 

Sworn affidavit executed before the Notary Public/ Magistrate of First Class/ Executive 

Magistrate mentioning the reason for change of name and his complete address; 

Paper publication in one local newspaper and one national newspaper; and 

KYC in changed name. 

 

4.  The  Depository  Participants  (DPs)  shall  collect  the  self-attested  copies  of  above 

documents  and  maintain  the  same  in  their  records  after  verifying  with  the  original 

documents. 

5.  The Depositories are directed to- 

i. 

Implement  the  above  provisions  within  three  months  from  the  date  of  issue  of  this 

circular. 

ii. 

Ensure  that they have the system to keep audit trail of the name change in the BO 

account similar to that of address change or any other change of coordinates; 

iii.  Make  amendments  to  the  relevant  Bye-Laws,  Business  Rules  and  DP  Operating 

Instructions  for  the  implementation  of  the  above  decision,  as  may  be  applicable  or 

necessary; 

iv. 

Bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the DPs and also to disseminate the 

same on their website. 

 
6.  This  circular  is being  issued  in  exercise of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Section 19 of the Depositories 
Act, 1996 in the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market. 

 
 
 
Bithin Mahanta  
Deputy General Manager 
bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

