CIRCULAR 

 

CIR/MRD/CSC/148/2018 

 

 

 

 

                      December 07, 2018 

To, 

All  Stock  Exchanges,  Clearing  Corporations  and  Depositories  (except  Commodities 
Derivatives Exchanges and their Clearing Corporations). 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience framework of Stock Exchanges, Clearing 

Corporations and Depositories 

1.  Recognizing the need for a robust Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience framework at 
Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs), i.e., Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporations 
and  Depositories,  vide  SEBI  Circular  CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015  dated  July  06,  2015,  a 
detailed regulatory framework on cyber security and cyber resilience was prescribed.  

2.  With the view to further strengthening the aforesaid framework, particularly in respect 
of  monitoring  of  cyber  threats  and  cyber  resiliency,  the  matter  was  discussed  with 
SEBI’s  Technical  Advisory  Committee  (TAC),  SEBI’s  High  Powered  Committee  on 
Cyber Security (HPSC-CS) and the MIIs.  

3.  Accordingly,  it  has  been  decided  that  MIIs  shall  have  a  Cyber  Security  Operation 
Center  (C-SOC)  that  would  be  a  24x7x365  set-up  manned  by  dedicated  security 
analysts to identify, respond, recover and protect from cyber security incidents.  

4.  The C-SOC shall function in accordance with the framework specified in SEBI Circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015  dated  July  06,  2015.  Illustrative  list  of  broad  functions  and 
objectives to be carried out by a C-SOC are mentioned hereunder: 

4.1. Prevention of cyber security incidents through proactive actions: 

(a)  Continuous threat analysis, 

(b)  Network and host scanning for vulnerabilities and breaches, 

(c)  Countermeasure deployment coordination, 

 

Page 1 of 10 

(d)  Deploy  adequate  and  appropriate  technology  at  the  perimeter  to  prevent 
attacks originating from external environment and internal controls to manage 
insider threats. MIIs may implement necessary controls to achieve zero trust 
security model. 

4.2. Monitoring,  detection, and analysis  of  potential  intrusions  /  security  incidents  in 

 real time and through historical trending on security-relevant data sources. 

4.3. Response to confirmed incidents, by coordinating resources and directing use of 

 timely and appropriate countermeasures. 

4.4. Analysis  of  the  intrusions  /  security  incidents  (including  Forensic  Analysis  and 

 Root Cause Analysis) and preservation of evidence. 

4.5. Providing situational awareness and reporting on cyber security status, incidents, 
 and trends in adversary behavior to appropriate organizations including to CERT-
 In and NCIIPC. 

4.6. Engineer and operate network defense technologies such as Intrusion Detection 

 Systems (IDSes) and data collection / analysis systems. 

4.7. MIIs  to  adopt  security  automation  and  orchestration  technologies  in  C-SOC  to 
 automate  the  incident  identification,  analysis  and  response  as  per  the  defined 
 procedures.  

5.  Further to the above, the C-SOC of MII shall, at the minimum, undertake the following 

activities: 

5.1. In order to  detect  intrusions  /  security  incidents  in  real  time,  the  C-SOC  should 
monitor and analyze on a 24x7x365 basis relevant logs of MII’s network devices, 
logs of MII’s systems, data traffic, suitable cyber intelligence (intel) feeds sourced 
from  reliable  vendors,  inputs  received  from  other  MIIs,  inputs  received  from 
external agencies such as CERT-In, etc. The cyber intelligence (intel) feeds may 
include cyber news feeds, signature updates, incident reports, threat briefs, and 
vulnerability alerts. 

5.2. To  this  end,  appropriate  alert  mechanisms  should  be  implemented  including  a 
comprehensive dashboard, tracking of key security metrics and provide for cyber 
threat scorecards. 

5.3. The C-SOC should conduct continuous assessment of the threat landscape faced 
by  the  MII  including  undertaking  periodic  VAPT  (Vulnerability  Assessment  and 
Penetration Testing). 

 

Page 2 of 10 

5.4. The  C-SOC  should  have  the  ability  to  perform  Root  Cause  Analysis,  Incident 
Investigation, Forensic Analysis, Malware Reverse Engineering, etc. to determine 
the  nature  of  the  attack  and  corrective  and/or  preventive  actions  to  be  taken 
thereof. 

5.5. The  C-SOC  should  conduct  periodic  (at  the  minimum  quarterly)  cyber  attack 
simulation  to  aid  in  developing  cyber  resiliency  measures.  The  C-SOC  should 
develop  and  document  mechanisms  and  standard  operating  procedures  to 
recover from the cyber-attacks within the stipulated RTO of the MII. The C-SOC 
should also document various scenarios and standard operating procedures for 
resuming operations from Disaster Recovery (DR) site of MII.  

5.6. The C-SOC should conduct periodic awareness and training programs at the MII 
and for its members / participants / intermediaries with regard to cyber security, 
situational awareness and social engineering. 

5.7. The C-SOC should be capable to prevent attacks similar to those already faced. 
The C-SOC should also deploy multiple honey pot services which are dynamic in 
characteristics to avoid being detected as honey pot by attackers. 

6.  As  building  an  effective  C-SOC  requires  appropriate  mix  of  right  people,  suitable 
security  products  (Technology),  and  well-defined  processes  and  procedures 
(Processes), an indicative list of areas that MIIs should consider while designing and 
implementing a C-SOC are as follows: 

6.1. The MII shall ensure that the governance and reporting structure of the C-SOC is 
commensurate with the risk and threat landscape of the MII. The C-SOC shall be 
headed by the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) of the MII. The CISO shall 
be  designated  as  a  Key  Managerial  Personnel  (KMP)  and  relevant  provisions 
relating to KMPs in the SEBI Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges 
and  Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations,  2012  and  the  subsequent  circulars 
issued by SEBI relating to KMPs, shall apply to the CISO.   

6.2. While  the  CISO  is  expected  to  work  closely  with  various  departments  of  MIIs, 
including MII’s Network team, Cyber Security team and Information Technology 
(IT) team, etc., the reporting of CISO shall be directly to the MD & CEO of the MII. 

6.3. The roles and responsibilities of CISO may be drawn from Ministry of Electronics 

and IT notification No. 6(12)/2017-PDP-CERT-In dated March 14, 2017. 

6.4. The C-SOC should deploy appropriate technology tools of adequate capacity to 
cater  to  its  requirements.  Such  tools  shall,  at  the  minimum,  include  Security 

 

Page 3 of 10 

Analytics Engine, Malware detection tools, Network and User Traffic Monitoring 
and  Behavior  Analysis  systems,  Predictive  Threat  Modelling  tools,  Tools  for 
monitoring  of  System  parameters  for  critical  systems  /  servers,  Deep  Packet 
Inspection tools, Forensic Analysis tools, etc. 

6.5. Each MII is advised to formulate a Cyber Crisis Management Plan (CCMP) based 
on its architecture deployed, threats faced and nature of operations. The CCMP 
should define the various cyber events, incidents and crisis faced by the MII, the 
extant  cyber 
incident 
prevention, cyber crisis recognition, mitigation and management plan. The CCMP 
should be approved by the respective Standing Committee on Technology / IT- 
Strategy Committee of the MIIs and the governing board of the MII. The CCMP 
should also be reviewed and updated annually. 

the  cyber  resilience  envisaged, 

threat 

landscape, 

6.6. The C-SOC should have well-defined and documented processes for monitoring 
of  its  systems  and  networks,  analysis  of  cyber  security  threats  and  potential 
intrusions / security incidents, usage of appropriate technology tools deployed by 
C-SOC,  classification  of  threats  and  attacks,  escalation  hierarchy  of  incidents, 
response  to  threats  and  breaches,  and  reporting  (internal  and  external)  of  the 
incidents. 

6.7. The  C-SOC  should  employ  domain  experts  in  the  field  of  cyber  security  and 

resilience, network security, data security, end-point security, etc. 

6.8. The MIIs are also advised to build a contingent C-SOC at their respective DR sites 
with identical capabilities w.r.t. the primary C-SOC in line with the SEBI Circular 
CIR/MRD/DMS/12/2012  dated  April  13,  2012  read  with  SEBI  Circular 
CIR/MRD/DMS/17/2012  dated  June  22,  2012.  Additionally,  the  MIIs  should 
perform monthly live-operations from their DR-C-SOC. 

6.9. The C-SOC should document the cases and escalation matrices for declaring a 

disaster. 

7.  In view of the feedback received from MIIs, it has been decided that MIIs may choose 

any of the following models to set-up their C-SOC : 

(i)  MII’s own C-SOC manned primarily by its internal staff, 

(ii)  MII’s own C-SOC, staffed by a service provider, but supervised by a full time 
 

staff of the MII. (Refer to 7.3)  

(iii) C-SOC that may be shared by the MII with its group entities (that are also 
  SEBI recognized MIls), 

 

Page 4 of 10 

(iv) C-SOC that may be shared by the MII with other SEBI recognized MII(s). 

7.1. The  responsibility  of  cyber  security  of  an  MII,  adherence  to  business  continuity 
and recovery objectives, etc. should lie with the respective MII, irrespective of the 
model adopted for C-SOC. 

7.2. The  respective  risk  committee(s)  of  the  MII  should  evaluate  the  risks  of 

outsourcing the respective activity. 

7.3. The  MII  may  outsource  C-SOC  activities  in  line  with  the  guidelines  as  given  in 

Annexure-A. 

8.  A report on the functioning of the C-SOC, including details of cyber-attacks faced by 
the  MII,  major  cyber  events  warded  off  by  the  MII,  cyber  security  breaches,  data 
breaches should be placed on a quarterly basis before the board of the MII.  

9.  The system auditor of the MII shall audit the implementation of the aforesaid guidance 
in the annual system audit of the MII. The Scope and/or Terms of Reference (ToR) of 
the  annual  system  would  accordingly  be  modified  to  include  audit  of  the 
implementation of the aforementioned areas.  

10. Further, in continuation to the requirement specified at para 52 of the Annexure A to 
the aforementioned SEBI Circular dated July 06, 2015, the C-SOC shall share relevant 
alerts and attack information with members / participants / intermediaries of the MII, 
other MIIs, external cyber response agencies such as CERT-In, and SEBI.  

11. MIIs  are  directed  to  take  necessary  steps  to  put  in  place  appropriate  systems  and 
processes for implementation of the circular, including necessary amendments to the 
relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations, if any, within six months from the date of the 
circular. In case wherein a MII currently has a C-SOC set-up that is different from that 
mentioned at para 7(i) - 7(iv), such MIIs are directed to adopt and transit to one of the 
models  mentioned  at  para  7(i)  -  7(iv)  within  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of 
issuance of this circular. 

12. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  Section  19  of  the 
Depositories Act, 1996 to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote 
the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 10 

Yours faithfully, 

Bithin Mahanta 

 

 

Deputy General Manager 
Cyber Security Cell 
Market Regulation Department 
Email:  bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 6 of 10 

 
1.  Level of support definitions for outsourcing/in-house are as follows:  

Annexure A 

1.1.  Security Analyst Level 1 (L1): This function may be mostly outsourced 

(a) Monitoring  SIEM  Solution  console  for  identifying  the  security  events 

generated by the log sources integrated with SIEM tools. 

(b) Identification of security events that are false +ve before qualifying event 

as an incident. 

(c) Identify  the  exceptions  which  are  identified  as  an  event  (e.g.  VA 
scanning  performed  by  SEBI  appointed  3rd  party  which  may  be 
identified as port scanning attack) . 

(d) Perform first level event analysis before qualifying the incidents. 

(e) Qualifying the event as an incident using Knowledgebase. 

(f)  Escalating exceptions & Events to L2 level. 

(g) Log  Incident  tickets  in  service  management  tool  and  assign  it  to  the 

respective team. 

(h) Follow-up for the closure of the incident tickets generated. 

 

1.2.  Security Analyst Level 2 (L2): Combination of Outsource / In-House 

(a) Exception Analysis. 

(b) Analysis of extended events. 

(c) Confirmation of False +ve & update Knowledge Base. 

(d) Qualify Incident & provide mitigation suggestions. 

(e) Escalate incident to next level. 

(f)  Update /configuration correlation rules after approval. 

 

1.3.  Security Analyst Level 3 (L3):  Combination of Outsource / In-House 

(a) Analysis of escalated Incidents. 

(b) Define correlation rules. 

 

Page 7 of 10 

(c) Analysis of impact on SIEM over all correlation rules and operations for 

the correlation rules suggested by Level 2 Analyst. 

(d) Approve correlation rules after the impact analysis. 

(e) Perform impact analysis before deployment of correlation rules. 

(f)  Perform  impact  analysis  for  update  and  upgrade  of  SIEM  &  Advance 

security solutions components. 

(g) Define Mitigation suggestions for newly identified incidents. 

(h) Approve the reports before sharing with others. 

 

1.4.  SOC Manager (L4) : In-house 

(a) Lead and manage Security Operations Centre. 

(b) Provide strategic directions to SOC team and organization for security 

posture improvements. 

(c) To identify key contacts for incident escalation and change management 

activities. 

(d) Ensure compliance to SLA. 

(e) Ensure  process  adherence  and  process  improvisation  to  achieve 

operational objectives. 

(f)  Revise  and  develop  processes  to  strengthen  the  current  Security 

Operations. 

(g) Responsible for team and vendor management. 

(h) Responsible  for  overall  use  of  resources  and  initiation  of  corrective 

action where required for Security Operations Center. 

(i)  Escalate  to  the  other  IT  Infra.  Management  teams  or  application 

maintenance teams, as necessary. 

(j)  Overall responsibility for delivery of in scope activities as a part of this 

engagement. 

(k) Point of contact for problem escalation and reporting. 

 

1.5.  Security  Subject  Matter  Expert  for  Security  technologies:  In-house  with 
 

reliance on external expertise 

 

Page 8 of 10 

(a) Subject Matter Expert (SME) for SIEM and Advance security solutions. 

(b) Assist you with troubleshooting steps to be performed by you in order to 
re-establish  connectivity  between  the  SIEM  System  and  SEBI’s 
locations. 

(c) Provide software-level management for the SIEM System components; 

(d) Verify data collection and log continuity; 

(e) Manage user access including user and group permissions updates; 

(f)  Review  application  performance,  capacity,  and  availability  make 

recommendations as appropriate; 

(g) Review SIEM System disk space usage; 

(h) Verify time synchronization among SIEM System components; 

(i)  Perform  archival  management  and  retrieval  per  change  management 

process; 

(j)  Provide  problem  determination  /  problem  source  identification  for  the 
SIEM System, consisting of creating tickets & tracking progress of Open 
tickets 

(k) Managing  tickets  to  resolution  /  closure,  in  accordance  with  the 
Integrated  and  Transition  vendor 

processes  as  defined 
announcements & manage SIEM System update alerts; 

in 

the 

(l)  Install  application  patches  and  software  updates  in  order  to  improve 

performance, or enable additional functionality 

 
Illustrative Training Requirements 
 
Security Analyst Level 1 (L1): 
 
1)  SEC401: Security Essentials Bootcamp Style  

https://www.sans.org/event/cyber-defence-canberra-2018/course/security-
essentials-bootcamp-style 
 

2)  SEC301: Introduction to Cyber Security  

https://www.sans.org/course/introduction-cyber-security 

 
Security Analyst Level 2 (L2): 
 
1)  SEC542: Web App Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking 

https://www.sans.org/event/cyber-defence-canberra-2018/course/web-app-
penetration-testing-ethical-hacking 

 

Page 9 of 10 

 

2)  SEC566: Implementing and Auditing the Critical Security Controls - In-Depth 

https://www.sans.org/private-training/course/implementing-auditing-critical-security-
controls 
 

3)  SEC575: Mobile Device Security and Ethical Hacking  

https://www.sans.org/private-training/course/mobile-device-security-ethical-hacking 

 
 
 
Security Analyst Level 3 (L3): 
 
1)  SEC504: Hacker Tools, Techniques, Exploits, and Incident Handling 

https://www.sans.org/event/cyber-defence-canberra-2018/course/hacker-
techniques-exploits-incident-handling 
 

2)  FOR508: Advanced Digital Forensics, Incident Response, and Threat Hunting 

https://www.sans.org/event/digital-forensics-summit-2018/course/advanced-incident-
response-threat-hunting-training  
 

3)  SEC501: Advanced Security Essentials - Enterprise Defender  

https://www.sans.org/private-training/course/advanced-security-essentials-
enterprise-defender 
 

4)  MGT414: SANS Training Program for CISSP® Certification  

https://www.sans.org/course/sans-plus-s-training-program-cissp-certification-exam 

 
 
 
SOC Manager (L4): 
 
1)  Cyber Security Specialist  

http://www.leaderquestonline.com/it-career-training/cybersecurity-specialist/ 

 
2)  Managing Security Operations: Detection, Response, and Intelligence 

https://www.sans.org/event/rocky-mountain-2018/course/managing-security-
operations-detection-response-and-intelligence 
 

3)  SIEM with Tactical Analytics  

https://www.sans.org/private-training/course/siem-with-tactical-analytics 
 

4)  SEC511: Continuous Monitoring and Security Operations 

https://www.sans.org/course/continuous-monitoring-security-operations 
 

5)  SEC599: Defeating Advanced Adversaries - Implementing Kill Chain Defenses 

https://www.sans.org/course/defeating-advanced-adversaries-kill-chain-defenses 

 

Page 10 of 10 

