 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

CIR/MRD/CSC/151/2018 

 

 

 

 

              December 14, 2018 

To, 

All  Stock  Exchanges, Clearing  Corporations and  Depositories  (except  Commodities 
Derivatives Exchanges and their Clearing Corporations). 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Cyber Security Operations Center for SEBI registered intermediaries 

1.  Recognizing the need for a robust Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience framework 
at  Market  Infrastructure  Institutions  (MIIs),  i.e.  Stock  Exchanges,  Clearing 
Corporations  and  Depositories,  SEBI  vide  Circular  CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015  dated 
July 06, 2015, prescribed a detailed regulatory framework on cyber security and 
cyber resilience.  

2.  With the view to further strengthening cyber security in securities market the Cyber 
Security  and  Cyber  Resilience  framework  has  been  extended  to  Stock  Brokers/ 
Depository  Participants  vide  circular  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/CIR/PB/2018/147  dated 
December 03, 2018.  

3.  During  the  discussions  held  with  the  market  participants,  it  was  gathered  that 
compliance  with  the  cyber  security  guidelines  may  be  onerous  for  smaller 
intermediaries because of the lack of knowledge in cyber security and also the cost 
factor  involved  in  setting  up  own  Security  Operations  Center  (SOC).  These 
intermediaries may utilize the services of Market SOC which is proposed to be set 
up  by  MIIs  with  the  objective  of  providing  cyber  security  solution  to  such 
intermediaries. The intermediaries’ membership in Market SOC is non mandatory. 

4.  The particulars of the Market SOC will be as follows:  

4.1. The Market SOC shall be set up as a separate entity and MIIs shall have at 

least 51% stake in the new entity. 

4.2. Intermediaries who don’t have capability to set up a SOC on their own can opt 

for the Market SOC. 

4.3. The  Market  SOC 

should  be 

to 

circular 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/CIR/PB/2018/147  dated  December  03,  2018  and  should 
ensure that participating intermediaries are in compliance to the said circular, 

in  accordance 

the 

 

 
 

should  they  opt  for  the  market  SOC.  Market  SOC  would  provide  only  the 
technology perspective for the abovementioned cyber security guidelines and 
the  people  &  process  perspectives  of  cyber  security  as  mandated  by  the 
aforementioned  circular  would  still  be  have  to  be  managed  by 
the 
intermediaries.  

4.4. The  Market  SOC  should  be  evolving  continuously  in  order  to  be  able  to 
manage new security controls and guidelines that may issue by SEBI from time 
to time. 

4.5. The Market SOC to ensure that intermediaries participating in their SOC should 

adhere to the minimum IT guidelines and security protocols all the time. 

4.6. MII  will  carry  out  audit  of  their  Market  SOC  activity  annually  and  submit  the 

report to SEBI.  

4.7. The  Market  SOC  will  issue  an  audit  report  as  prescribed  in  the  circular 
the 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/CIR/PB/2018/147  dated  December  03,  2018, 
participating intermediary. 

to 

4.8. If  an  intermediary  is  subscribed  to  Market  SOC,  audit  report  submitted  by 

intermediary through the Market SOC would be deemed compliant. 

4.9. Approval for the Market SOC which is to be set up as a separate entity would 
be  in  terms  of  Regulation  38  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock 
Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018.  

5.  MIIs are directed to take necessary steps to put in place appropriate systems and 
processes for implementation of the circular, including necessary amendments to 
the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations, if any, within six months from the date 
of the circular. 

6.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  Section  19  of  the 
Depositories  Act,  1996  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

Bithin Mahanta 
Deputy General Manager 
Cyber Security Cell 
Market Regulation Department 
Email:  bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

