 
 
 

 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2019/05 

 

 

 

                  January 04, 2019 

To, 
 

1.  All Recognized Depositories 
2.  All Recognized Stock Exchanges 

 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub:  Acceptance  of  Probate  of  Will  or  Will  for  Transmission  of  Securities  held  in 
dematerialized mode 
 

1.  In  terms  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) (Sixth  Amendment)  Regulations,  2018,  succession  certificate  or  probate of 
will or will or letter of administration or court decree, as may be applicable in terms of Indian 
Succession Act, 1925 has been prescribed as documentary requirement for transmission of 
securities held in physical mode. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.  With regard to transmission of securities held in dematerialized mode, the same  is dealt in 
terms of bye laws of the Depositories. In order to harmonize the procedures for transmission 
of securities in dematerialized mode with that of transmission of securities in physical mode, 
it has been decided that transmission of securities held in dematerialized mode shall be dealt 
in  line  with  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2018.  

3.  Accordingly, the Depositories and Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

a)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their participants/ members, and 

also disseminate the same on their websites; and  

b)  suitably amend their Bye Laws; 

4.  The provisions of this circular shall be applicable with immediate effect. 

 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in securities and 
to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities markets.  

 
 
 
 

Yours faithfully, 

D. Rajesh Kumar 
General Manager 
Tel. No: 022 - 26449242 
Email: rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in 

 

