¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 
 
SEBI/HO/IMD/DF2/CIR/P/2019/12                                                 January 10, 2019 
 
 
All Mutual Funds/ 
Asset Management Companies (AMCs)/ 
Trustee Companies/ Boards of Trustees of Mutual Funds/ 
Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Cyber  Security  and  Cyber  Resilience  framework  for  Mutual  Funds  / 
Asset Management Companies (AMCs) 
 
1.  With  rapid  technological  advancement  in  securities  market,  there  is  greater 
need  for  maintaining  robust  cyber  security  and  to  have  cyber  resilience 
framework to protect integrity of data and guard against breaches of privacy. 
 

2.  As  part  of  the  operational  risk  management,  the  Mutual  Funds  /  Asset 
Management Companies (AMCs) need to have robust cyber security and cyber 
resilience  framework  in  order  to  provide  essential  facilities  and  services  and 
perform critical functions in securities market. 
 

3.  Based on the recommendation of SEBI’s High Powered Steering  Committee  - 
Cyber  Security,  it  has  been  decided  that  the  framework  prescribed  vide  SEBI 
circular CIR/MRD/DP13/2015 dated July 06, 2015 on cyber security and cyber 
resilience also be made applicable to all Mutual Funds / AMC. Accordingly, all 
Mutual  Funds  /  AMCs  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of  Cyber  Security  and 
Cyber Resilience as placed at Annexure-1.  

 

4.  Mutual  Funds  /  AMCs  are  advised  to  take  necessary  steps  to  put  in  place 
systems  for  implementation  of  this  circular.  The  guidelines  annexed  with  this 
circular shall be effective from April 1, 2019. 

 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the provisions 
of  Regulation  77  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996,  to  protect  the 
interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate the securities market. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Harini Balaji 
General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Tel No. 022-26449372 
Email: harinib@sebi.gov.in 

 
 

Page 1 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure - 1 

 
1.  Cyber-attacks  and  threats  attempt  to  compromise  the  Confidentiality,  Integrity 
and  Availability  (CIA)  of  the  computer  systems,  networks  and  databases 
(Confidentiality  refers  to  limiting  access  of  systems  and  information  to 
authorized users, Integrity is the assurance that the information is reliable and 
accurate, and Availability refers to guarantee of reliable access to the systems 
and  information  by  authorized  users).  Cyber  security  framework  includes 
measures, tools and processes that are intended to prevent cyber-attacks and 
improve  cyber  resilience.  Cyber  Resilience  is  an  organization’s  ability  to 
prepare  and  respond  to  a  cyber-attack  and  to  continue  operation  during,  and 
recover from, a cyber-attack.  

 
Governance  
 
2.  As  part  of  the  operational  risk  management  framework  to  manage  risk  to 
systems,  networks  and  databases  from  cyber-attacks  and  threats,  Mutual 
Funds/  Asset  Management  Companies 
formulate  a 
comprehensive  cyber  security  and  cyber 
resilience  policy  document 
encompassing  the  framework  mentioned  hereunder.  The  policy  document 
should  be  approved  by  the  Board  of  the  AMC  and  Trustees,  and  in  case  of 
deviations  from  the  suggested  framework,  reasons  for  such  deviations  should 
also  be  provided  in  the  policy  document.  The  policy  document  should  be 
reviewed  by  the  Board  of  AMC  at  least  once  annually  with  the  view  to 
strengthen and improve its cyber security and cyber resilience framework.  

(AMCs)  should 

 

3.  The  cyber  security  and  cyber  resilience  policy  should  include  the  following 
process  to  identify,  assess,  and  manage  cyber  security  risk  associated  with 
processes, information, networks and systems;  

 

 

a.  ‘Identify’ critical IT assets and risks associated with such assets,   
b.  ‘Protect’ assets by deploying suitable controls, tools and measures,  
c.   ‘Detect’  incidents,  anomalies  and  attacks  through  appropriate  monitoring     

tools/processes,  

d.  ‘Respond’  by  taking  immediate  steps  after  identification  of  the  incident, 

anomaly or attack,  

e.  ‘Recover’  from  incident  through  incident  management,  disaster  recovery     

and business continuity framework.  

4.  The  Cyber  security  policy  should  encompass  the  principles  prescribed  by 
National  Critical  Information  Infrastructure  Protection  Centre  (NCIIPC)  of 
National Technical Research Organization (NTRO), Government of India, in the 
report 
Information 
for  Protection  of  National  Critical 
Infrastructure’ and subsequent revisions, if any, from time to time.  

’Guidelines 

titled 

 

5.  Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  also  incorporate  best  practices  from  standards 
such as ISO 27001, ISO 27002, COBIT 5, etc., or their subsequent revisions, if 
any, from time to time. 

 

6.  Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  designate  a  senior  official  as  Chief  Information 
Security Officer (CISO) whose function would be to assess, identify and reduce 
cyber security risks, respond to incidents, establish appropriate standards and 

 

Page 2 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

controls,  and  direct  the  establishment  and  implementation  of  processes  and 
procedures  as  per  the  cyber  security  and  resilience  policy  approved  by  the 
Board of the AMCs. 

 

7.  The  Board  of  the  AMCs  shall  constitute  a  Technology  Committee  comprising 
experts  proficient  in  technology.  This  Technology  Committee  should  on  a 
quarterly  basis  review  the  implementation  of  the  cyber  security  and  cyber 
resilience  policy  approved  by  their  Board,  and  such  review  should  include 
review  of  their  current  IT  and  cyber  security  and  cyber  resilience  capabilities, 
set goals for a target level of cyber resilience, and establish a plan to improve 
and strengthen cyber security and cyber resilience. The review shall be placed 
before the Board of the AMCs and Trustees for appropriate action.  

 

8.  Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  establish  a  reporting  procedure  to  facilitate 
communication  of  unusual  activities  and  events  to  CISO  or  to  the  senior 
management in a timely manner.  

 
9.  The  aforementioned  committee  and  the  senior  management  of  the  AMCs, 
including  the  CISO,  should  periodically  review  instances  of  cyber-attacks,  if 
any, domestically and globally, and take steps to strengthen cyber security and 
cyber resilience framework.  

 

10. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  define  responsibilities  of 

its  employees, 
outsourced  staff,  and  employees  of  vendors,  members  or  participants  and 
other entities,  who may have  access or use systems / networks  of the Mutual 
Funds/ AMCs, towards ensuring the goal of cyber security.  

 
Identify  
 
11. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  identify  critical  assets  based  on  their  sensitivity 
and  criticality  for  business  operations,  services  and  data  management  and  
should  maintain  up-to-date  inventory  of  its  hardware  and  systems,  software 
and information assets (internal and external), details of its network resources, 
connections to its network and data flows.  

 

12. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  accordingly  identify  cyber  risks  (threats  and 
vulnerabilities)  that  it  may  face,  along  with  the  likelihood  of  such  threats  and 
impact  on  the  business  and  thereby,  deploy  controls  commensurate  to  the 
criticality.  

 

13. Mutual Funds/ AMCs should also encourage its third-party service providers, if 
any,  such  as  RTAs,  Custodians,  Brokers,  Distributors,  etc.  to  have  similar 
standards of Information Security.  

 
Protection  
 
Access Controls  
 
14. No person by virtue of rank or position should have any intrinsic right to access 

confidential data, applications, system resources or facilities.  

 

 

Page 3 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

15. Any  access  to  AMC’s/  Mutual  Fund’s  systems,  applications,  networks, 
databases,  etc.,  should  be  for  a  defined  purpose  and  for  a  defined  period. 
AMCs/MFs  should  grant  access  to  IT  systems,  applications,  databases  and 
networks on a need-to-use basis and based on the principle of least privilege. 
Such access should be for the period when the access is required and should 
be authorized using strong authentication mechanisms.  

 
16. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  implement  strong  password  controls  for  users’ 
access  to  systems,  applications,  networks  and  databases.  Password  controls 
should  include  a  change  of  password  upon  first  log-on,  minimum  password 
length  and  history,  password  complexity  as  well  as  maximum  validity  period. 
The  user  credential  data  should  be  stored  using  strong  and  latest  hashing 
algorithms.  

 
17. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  ensure  that  records  of  user  access  are  uniquely 
identified  and  logged  for  audit  and  review  purposes.  Such  logs  should  be 
maintained and stored in encrypted form for a time period not less than two (2) 
years.  

 
18. Mutual Funds/ AMCs should deploy additional controls and security measures 
to supervise staff with elevated system access entitlements (such as admin or 
privileged  users).  Such  controls  and  measures  should  inter-alia  include 
restricting  the  number  of  privileged  users,  periodic  review  of  privileged  users’ 
activities, disallow privileged users from accessing systems logs in which their 
activities are being captured, strong controls over remote access by privileged 
users, etc.  

 
19. Account  access  lock  policies  after  failure  attempts  should  be  implemented  for 

all accounts.  

 
20. Employees  and  outsourced  staff  such  as  employees  of  vendors  or  service 
providers,  who  may  be  given  authorized  access  to  the  Mutual  Fund’s/  AMC’s 
critical systems, networks and other computer resources, should be subject to 
stringent supervision, monitoring and access restrictions.  

 

21. Two-factor  authentication  at  log-in  should  be  implemented  for  all  users  that 

connect using online/ internet facility.  

 

22. Mutual Funds/ AMCs should formulate an Internet access policy to monitor and 
regulate  the  use  of  internet  and  internet  based  services  such  as  social  media 
sites, cloud-based internet storage sites, etc.  

 
23. Proper  ‘end  of  life’  mechanism  should  be  adopted  to  deactivate  access 
privileges of users who are leaving the organization or whose access privileges 
have been withdrawn.  

 

Physical Security  
 
24. Physical  access  to  the  critical  systems  should  be  restricted  to  minimum. 
Physical access of outsourced staff or visitors should be properly supervised by 
ensuring  at  the  minimum  that  outsourced  staff  or  visitors  are  accompanied  at 
all times by authorized employees.  

 

Page 4 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

25. Physical  access  to  the  critical  systems  should  be  revoked  immediately  if  the 

same is no longer required.  

 
26. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  ensure  that  the  perimeter  of  the  critical 
equipments  rooms  are  physically  secured  and  monitored  by  employing 
physical,  human  and  procedural  controls  such  as  the  use  of  security  guards, 
CCTVs, card access systems, mantraps, bollards, etc. where appropriate.  

 
Network Security Management  
 
27. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  establish  baseline  standards 

facilitate 
consistent  application  of  security  configurations 
to  operating  systems, 
databases,  network  devices  and  enterprise  mobile  devices  within  the  IT 
environment.  The  Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  conduct  regular  enforcement 
checks to ensure that the baseline standards are applied uniformly.  

to 

 

28. Mutual Funds/ AMCs should install network security devices, such as firewalls 
as  well  as  intrusion  detection  and  prevention  systems,  to  protect  their  IT 
infrastructure  from  security  exposures  originating  from  internal  and  external 
sources.  

 
29. Anti-virus software should be installed on servers and other computer systems. 
Updation  of  anti-virus  definition  files  and  automatic  anti-virus  scanning  should 
be done on a regular basis.  

 

Security of Data  
 
30. Data-in  motion  and  Data-at-rest  should  be  in  encrypted  form  by  using  strong 
encryption methods such as Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), RSA, SHA-
2, etc. 

 

31. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  implement  measures  to  prevent  unauthorized 
access  or  copying  or  transmission  of  data  /  information  held  in  contractual  or 
fiduciary capacity. It should be ensured that confidentiality of information is not 
compromised  during  the  process  of  exchanging  and  transferring  information 
with external parties.  

 
32. The  information  security  policy  should  also  cover  use  of  devices  such  as 
mobile  phone,  faxes,  photocopiers,  scanners,  etc.  that  can  be  used  for 
capturing and transmission of data.  

 
33. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  allow  only  authorized  data  storage  devices 

through appropriate validation processes.  

 
Hardening of Hardware and Software  
 
34. Only  a  hardened  and  vetted  hardware  /  software  should  be  deployed  by  the 
Mutual  Funds/  AMCs.  During  the  hardening  process,  Mutual  Funds/  AMCs 
should  inter-alia  ensure  that  default  passwords  are  replaced  with  strong 
passwords  and  all  unnecessary  services  are  removed  or  disabled 
in 
equipments / software.  

 

Page 5 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

35. All open ports which are not in use or can potentially be used for exploitation of 
data should be blocked. Other open ports should be monitored and appropriate 
measures should be taken to secure the ports.  

 
Application Security and Testing  
 
36. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  ensure  that  regression  testing  is  undertaken 
before  new  or  modified  system  is  implemented.  The  scope  of  tests  should 
cover  business logic, security controls and system performance under various 
stress-load scenarios and recovery conditions.  

 

Patch Management  
 
37. Mutual Funds/ AMCs should establish and ensure that the patch management 
procedures  include  the  identification,  categorization  and  prioritization  of 
security  patches.  An  implementation  timeframe  for  each  category  of  security 
patches  should  be  established  to  implement  security  patches  in  a  timely 
manner.  

 

38. Mutual Funds/ AMCs should perform rigorous testing of security patches before 
deployment  into  the  production  environment  so  as  to  ensure  that  the 
application of patches do not impact other systems.  

 
Disposal of systems and storage devices  
 
39. Mutual Funds/ AMCs should frame suitable policy for disposals of the storage 
media  and  systems.  The  data  /  information  on  such  devices  and  systems 
should  be  removed  by  using  methods  viz.  wiping  /  cleaning  /  overwrite, 
degauss and physical destruction, as applicable.  

 

Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing (VAPT)  
 
40. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  regularly  conduct  vulnerability  assessment  to 
detect  security  vulnerabilities  in  the  IT  environment.  Mutual  Funds/  AMCs 
should also carry out periodic penetration tests, at least once in a year, in order 
to conduct an in-depth evaluation of the security posture of the system through 
simulations of actual attacks on its systems and networks.  

 

41. Remedial  actions  should  be  immediately  taken  to  address  gaps  that  are 

identified during vulnerability assessment and penetration testing.  

 
42. In  addition,  Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  perform  vulnerability  scanning  and 
conduct penetration testing prior to the commissioning of a new system which 
offers internet accessibility and open network interfaces.  

 
Monitoring and Detection  
 
43. Mutual Funds/ AMCs should establish appropriate security monitoring systems 
and processes to facilitate continuous monitoring of security events and timely 
detection  of  unauthorized  or  malicious  activities,  unauthorized  changes, 
unauthorized  access  and  unauthorized  copying  or  transmission  of  data  / 

 

Page 6 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

information  held  in  contractual  or  fiduciary  capacity,  by  internal  and  external 
parties. The security logs of systems, applications and network devices should 
also be monitored for anomalies.  

 

44. Further,  to  ensure  high  resilience,  high  availability  and  timely  detection  of 
attacks  on  systems  and  networks,  Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  implement 
suitable  mechanism  to  monitor  capacity  utilization  of  its  critical  systems  and 
networks.  

 

45. Suitable alerts should be generated in the event of detection of unauthorized or 
abnormal system activities, transmission errors or unusual online transactions.  

 

Response and Recovery  
 
46. Alerts  generated  from  monitoring  and  detection  systems  should  be  suitably 
investigated,  including  impact  and  forensic  analysis  of  such  alerts,  in  order  to 
determine  activities  that  are  to  be  performed  to  prevent  expansion  of  such 
incident of cyber-attack or breach, mitigate its effect and eradicate the incident.  

 

47. The  response  and  recovery  plan  of  the  Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  aim  at 
timely  restoration  of  systems  affected  by  incidents  of  cyber-attacks  or 
breaches.  The  recovery  plan  should  be  in  line  with  the  Recovery  Time 
Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point Objective (RPO) as specified by SEBI for 
Market Infrastructure Institutions vide SEBI circular CIR/MRD/DMS/17/20 dated 
June 22, 2012 as amended from time to time. 

 
48. The  response  plan  should  define  responsibilities  and  actions  to  be  performed 
by its employees and support or outsourced staff in the event of cyber-attacks 
or breach of cyber security mechanism.  

 
49. Any  incident  of  loss  or  destruction  of  data  or  systems  should  be  thoroughly 
analyzed  and  lessons  learned  from  such  incidents  should  be  incorporated  to 
strengthen  the  security  mechanism  and  improve  recovery  planning  and 
processes.  

 
50. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  also  conduct  suitable  periodic  drills  to  test  the 

adequacy and effectiveness of response and recovery plan.  

 
Sharing of information  
 
51. Quarterly 

reports  containing 

threats 
experienced  by  Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  and  measures  taken  to  mitigate 
vulnerabilities, 
/ 
vulnerabilities  /  threats  that  may  be  useful  for  other  AMCs/MFs  should  be 
submitted to SEBI in a soft copy. 

information  on  cyber-attacks  and 

information  on  bugs 

threats  and  attacks 

including 

 

52. Such  details  as  are  felt  useful  for  sharing  with  other  Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  in 
masked  and  anonymous  manner  shall  be  shared  using  mechanism  to  be 
specified by SEBI from time to time.  

 

 

 

 

Page 7 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Training  
 
53. Mutual  Funds/  AMCs  should  conduct  periodic  training  programs  to  enhance 
awareness level among the employees  and outsourced staff, vendors, etc. on 
IT / Cyber security policy and standards. Special focus should be given to build 
awareness levels and skills of staff from non-technical disciplines.  

 

54. The  training  program  should  be  reviewed  and  updated  to  ensure  that  the 

contents of the program remain current and relevant.  

 
Periodic Audit  
 
55. AMCs / Mutual Funds  shall arrange to have its systems audited on an annual 
basis by an independent CISA / CISM qualified or CERT-IN empanelled auditor 
to check compliance with the above areas and shall submit the report to SEBI 
along  with  the  comments  of  the  Board  of  AMCs  and  Trustees  within  three 
months of the end of the financial year. 

 
Vendors or Service Providers  
 
56. AMCs  /  MFs  have  outsourced  many  of  their  critical  activities  to  different 
agencies  /  vendors  /  service  providers.  The  responsibility,  accountability  and 
ownership  of  those  outsourced  activities  lies  primarily  with  AMCs  /  MFs. 
Therefore,  AMCs  /  MFs  have  to  come  out  with  appropriate  monitoring 
mechanism 
the 
requirements  as  specified  in  this  circular  is  complied  with.  The  periodic  report 
submitted  to  SEBI  should  highlight  the  critical  activities  handled  by  the 
agencies  and  to  certify  the  above  requirement  is  complied.  The  provisions  of 
this circular shall also apply to those RTAs which serves AMCs as the in-house 
RTAs of the AMCs. 
 
 

through  clearly  defined 

framework 

to  ensure 

that  all 

********************* 

 

 

Page 8 of 8 

 

