 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

                                                                       SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2019/14                             

January 11, 2019 

                                     

To, 
 
1.  All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
2.  All Clearing Corporations 

 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Sub: Uniform membership structure across segments 

 

1.  In cash segment, all the Stock Brokers are trading cum self-clearing members whereas 
in derivatives segment, membership structure is that of Trading Member (TM) and / or 
Clearing Member (CM). After the introduction of derivatives in the year 2001, most of 
the Stock Brokers in cash segment had also become TM / CM in derivatives segment. 
Unification  of  membership  structure  across  equity  cash  and  derivatives  segments  of 
Stock Exchanges is vital to facilitate ease of doing business.  
 

2.  SEBI  Board  in  its  meeting  held  on  June  21,  2018  decided  that  sub-brokers  as  an 
intermediary shall cease to exist with effect from April 01, 2019. All existing sub-brokers 
would  migrate  to  become  Authorised  Persons  (APs)  or  Trading  Members  if  the  sub-
brokers meet the eligibility criteria prescribed under Stock Exchange bye-laws and SEBI 
Regulations and by complying with these Regulations.  

 

3.  SEBI has implemented the mechanism of single registration, whereby a registered TM 
/  CM  can  operate  in  any  segment  of  the  recognised  Stock  Exchange  /  Clearing 
Corporation under the single registration number granted by SEBI. 

 

4.  In order to implement uniform membership structure across equity cash and derivatives 

segments, following course of action is provided – 

 

a)  The membership structure as Trading Member (TM), Self-clearing Member (SCM), 
Clearing  Member  (CM)  and  Professional  Clearing  Member  (PCM) as  prevalent  in 
equity derivatives segment shall be implemented in cash segment with effect from 
April 01, 2019.  
 

b)  The existing Stock Brokers in cash segment of a Stock Exchange who are already 
registered as SCM / CM in derivatives segment shall automatically become SCM / 
CM, as the case may be, in cash segment with effect from April 01, 2019. 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

c)  The  existing  Stock  Brokers  in  cash  segment  of  a  Stock  Exchange  who  are  not 
registered  as  SCM  /  CM  in  derivatives  segment  shall  continue  as  SCM  in  cash 
segment with effect from April 01, 2019. However, - 

 

i.  Existing  Stock  Brokers  in  cash  segment  shall  meet  with  the  net-worth 
requirement  as  per  formula  prescribed  by  Dr.  L.C.  Gupta  Committee  as 
applicable to SCM / CM in equity derivatives segment on or before September 
30, 2019.  
 

ii.  Existing  Stock  Brokers  in  cash  segment  who  fail  to  meet  the  net-worth 
requirement for SCM / CM on or before September 30, 2019 shall continue to 
trade as Trading Member in cash segment provided that they shall tie up with 
a CM / PCM for clearing and settlement of their trades on or before September 
30, 2019. 

 

d)  The existing PCMs in derivatives segment shall become PCMs in cash segment with 
effect from April 01, 2019. However, the existing Custodian Clearing Member in cash 
segment shall continue to act as Custodian Clearing Member in cash segment only. 

 

5.  The Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations are directed to: 

a)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their members, and also 

disseminate the same on their websites;  

b)  make  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  for  the 
implementation  of  the  above  decision  in  co-ordination  with  one  another,  as 
considered necessary;  

c)  monitor the compliance of this circular;  
d)  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of the  implementation  of  the  provisions  

of this circular. 
 

6.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interest of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of and to regulate the securities market. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
D Rajesh Kumar 
General Manager 

Page 2 of 2 

 

