 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

January 23, 2019 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2019/023 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All  Recognized  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations  having 
Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Alignment of Trading Lot and Delivery Lot size 
 
1.  As  per  the  IOSCO  Principles  for  Regulation  and  Supervision  of  Commodity 
Derivatives Markets, with regards the size of delivery unit for physically settled 
commodity  derivatives  contracts,  “any  deviation  from  the  physical  market 
delivery size or composition should be closely examined to ensure that it does 
not constitute a barrier to delivery or otherwise impedes the physical delivery 
of the commodity.” 
 

2.  In the commodity derivatives markets, it is observed that the stock exchanges 
keep  differential  “trading  lot  size”  and  “delivery  lot  size”  of  some  commodity 
derivatives contracts, wherein- 

a.  Trading Lot Size represents the standard quantity of the underlying 
commodity  corresponding  to  a  single  derivatives  contract  position, 
i.e. trading can be done only in multiple of the Trading lot size, and 

b.  Delivery  Lot  Size  represents 

the 
underlying  commodity,  in  multiple  of  which  delivery  is  permitted 
after the expiry of the contract.  

the  standard  quantity  of 

 

3.  The  practice  of  different  trading  and  delivery  lot  sizes,  at  times,  puts 
participants in disadvantageous positions. The matter was discussed in CDAC 
and  based  on  the  recommendation  of  CDAC  it  has  been  decided  that  the 
exchanges  shall  follow  the  policy  of  having  uniform  trading  and  delivery  lot 
size for the commodity derivatives contracts.  

 

4.  An exception to the above may be provided on case to case basis, subject to 
the  recognized  stock  exchanges  submitting  detailed  rationale  including 
physical  market  practices,  feedback  from  stakeholders  etc.,  for  keeping 
different lot size for trading and delivery with respect to any contract, to SEBI 
for  approval.  In  such  cases  exchanges  shall  put  in  place  an  adequate 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

mechanism  to  ensure  that  no  participant  is  put  to  disadvantageous  position 
and  that  it  does  not  constitute  a  barrier  to  delivery  or  otherwise  impedes  the 
physical delivery of the commodity. 

 
5.  The  circular  shall  be  effective  from  the  date  of  this  circular.  For  existing 
contracts  with  different  trading  lot  and  delivery  lot  size,  exchanges  shall 
submit their proposal for alignment/exemption to SEBI within one month from 
the date of this circular in order to comply with the provisions of this circular.  
 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 

7.  Exchanges are advised to:  
 

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

ii.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers of the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular 

 

8.  This circular is available on SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of New Products and Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
vikass@sebi.gov.in 
 

Page 2 of 2 

