 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

            February 11, 2019 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2019/29 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All  Recognized  Stock  Exchanges  and  Recognized  Clearing  Corporations 
having Commodity Derivatives Segment  
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Framework for utilization of Financial Security Deposit (FSD) available 
with Clearing Corporations and WDRA  
 

 

1.  SEBI  vide 

its  circular  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2016/103  dated 
September 27, 2016 had inter alia specified the norms requiring  Financial 
Security  Deposit  (FSD)  to  be  furnished  by  Warehouse  Service  Providers 
(WSPs) linked to the value of goods stored in the warehouses. In addition 
to  this,  Warehousing  Development  Regulatory  Authority  (WDRA)  vide 
notification  dated  July 06,  2017  has also  specified  Security  Deposit  to  be 
maintained  by  warehouse/warehouseman  with  the  WDRA,  linked  to  the 
value  of  outstanding  negotiable  warehouse  receipts  for  the  registered 
warehouses  of  the  warehouseman.  Thus,  on  the  same  goods,  security 
deposits are required to be maintained with  both WDRA and  Recognized 
Clearing Corporations, putting additional financial burden on the warehouse 
operators. 

2.  In order to rationalize security deposit and after consultation with WDRA & 
Exchanges/Clearing  Corporations,  it  has  been  decided  that  Recognized 
Clearing Corporations having commodity derivatives segment shall adhere 
to the following norms for utilization of security deposit: 
 

i. 

The  Clearing  Corporations  shall  immediately  after  accreditation, 
provide  the  details  of  WDRA  registered  warehouses  accredited  by 
them  with  full  details  of  warehouseman  registration,  warehouse 
registration, WSP, address etc. to WDRA. WDRA will in turn, share 
the  details  of  security  deposit  received  from  these  accredited 
warehouses/WSPs  to  the  respective  Clearing  Corporations  as  per 
the  enclosed  format.  Clearing  Corporations  shall  inform  the 
changes,  if  any,  with  respect  to  these  warehouses  as  and  when  it 

Page 1 of 4 

 

in 

happens,  to  enable  WDRA  to  provide  the  required  information  as 
above.  WDRA  shall  also  inform  Clearing  Corporations  of  any 
changes, 
the  security  deposit  placed  by  such 
warehouses/WSPs with WDRA.  
 

if  any, 

 

 

ii.  Clearing Corporations shall continue to compute FSD requirement as 
per SEBI circular dated September 27, 2016. The deposits placed by 
WSPs  with  WDRA  for  Exchange/Clearing  Corporation  specific 
outstanding eNWRs shall be considered by the Clearing Corporation 
in the calculation of available FSD for the WSP subject to the same 
complying with norms regarding FSD in the said SEBI circular. 

iii. 

The accredited WSP shall be liable for any losses resulting from any 
action  or  inaction  on  its  part  or  on  the  part  of  its  warehouses  that 
prevents the buyer or seller from exercising, in whole or in part, their 
rights.  The  Clearing  Corporation  shall  compensate  the  aggrieved 
clients for any such losses that have been appropriately established 
by debiting the FSD of WSP held with the  Clearing Corporation, in 
accordance  with  its  applicable  rules.  In  case  the  FSD  available  at 
Clearing  Corporation  is  not  sufficient  to  compensate  for  the  loss, 
Clearing  Corporation  shall  make  part  compensation  with  the  FSD 
available with it and the security deposit available with WDRA shall 
be  made  available  to  Clearing  Corporation  within  7  days  of  the 
release request from Clearing Corporation to WDRA, for settlement 
of the remaining claims.    

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

The settlement of security deposit by WDRA originates only after the 
stocks stored, if any, are disposed off/ withdrawn by the holder.  
 
This  arrangement  is  only  for  stocks  stored  in  WDRA  registered  / 
Clearing  Corporation  accredited  Warehouses  for  the  purpose  of 
delivery  on  exchange  platform  and  for  which  e-NWR  has  been 
issued. 
 
The  discrepancy  noted  /  claim  received  by  any  agency  (Clearing 
Corporation or WDRA) shall be brought to the notice of other agency 
irrespective of invoking the security deposit. 

 
3.  The circular shall be effective from 30 days from the date of this circular. 
 
4.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 

Page 2 of 4 

of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 
 

 

5.  This circular is available on SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of New Products and Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in   

 
 
 

 

 

Page 3 of 4 

Formats for providing details of Security Deposit 
 

A.  Details of Bank Guarantee 

 

 

 
 
 

 

Sr.  
No. 

Name 
of 
WSP 

BG 
Number 

Bank 
Name 

Branch 
Name 

 

 

 

 

 

Date of 
Issuance 
(DD/MM/
YYYY) 
 

Maturity 
Date 
(DD/MM/
YYYY) 
 

Claim 
Date 
(DD/MM
/YYYY) 
 

Amount 

 

B.  Details of Fixed Deposit Receipt 

Name 
of 
WSP 
 

Sr.  
No. 

 

 

FDR 
Number 

Bank 
Name 

Branch 
Name 

 

 

 

Date of 
Issuance 
(DD/MM/YYYY) 
 

Maturity Date 
(DD/MM/YYYY) 

Amount 

 

 

Page 4 of 4 

