 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP2DSA2/CIR/P/2019/26 

CIRCULAR 

  February 5, 2019 

To 
All Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporations and Depositories. 
 
Sir/ Madam, 
 
Subject:  Performance review of Public Interest Directors (PIDs) 
 
1.  In  respect  of  Public  Interest  Directors  (PIDs)  appointed  in  the  governing  board  of  Stock 
Exchanges,  Clearing  Corporations  and  Depositories  (herein  after  referred  as  Market 
Infrastructure Institutions or MIIs), SEBI Board, in its meeting dated June 21, 2018, inter alia, 
decided  that  the  tenure  of  PIDs  may  be  extended  by  another  3  years,  subject  to 
performance review in the manner specified by the Board. 
 

2.  Based  on  decisions  taken  by  SEBI  Board,  the  clauses  relating  to  tenure  of  PID  were 
amended  and  have  been  provided  in  the  Regulation  24(3)  of  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations,  2018  [SECC 
Regulations,  2018]  and  Regulation  25(3)  of  SEBI(Depositories  and  Participants) 
Regulations, 2018 [SEBI(D&P) Regulations, 2018] as under:  
 
Public interest directors shall be nominated for a term of three years, extendable by another 
term  of  three  years,  subject  to  performance  review  in  the  manner  as may  be  specified  by 
the Board:  

 

  Provided  that  post  the  expiry  of  term(s)  at  the  recognized  stock  exchange  or  the 
recognized clearing corporation / depository, a public interest director may be nominated for 
a  further  term  of  three  years  in  other  recognized  clearing  corporation  or  recognized  stock 
exchange, or a depository, only after a cooling-off period of one year: 

 

 

Provided  further  that  a  person  may  be  nominated  as  a  public  interest  director  for  a 
maximum  of  three  terms  across  recognized  stock  exchanges  /  recognized  clearing 
corporations / depositories, subject to a maximum age limit of seventy five years. 

3.  For  complying  with  the  aforementioned  regulation,  while  developing  a  framework  for 

performance review of PIDs, MIIs need to consider the following:  
 
a.  Policy for Performance review of PIDs:   

i. 

The  Nomination  and  Remuneration  committee  (NRC)  of  the  MIIs  will  be 
responsible for framing the performance review policy for PIDs. 

 

Page 1  

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

Such  performance  review  policy  shall  include  criteria  for  performance  evaluation, 
methodology  adopted  for  such  evaluation  and  analyzing  the  results,  amongst 
others.  
Performance  review  policy  of  PID  shall  include  scope for  both  internal  evaluation 
as well as external evaluation. 
Further,  as  performance  review  is  not  a  static  process  and  requires  periodical 
review,  NRC  shall  also  be  responsible  for  reviewing  such  performance  review 
policy, at least once in 3 years.  
Such performance review policy and changes made therein, shall be approved by 
the governing board of MII.  

 

b.  Guiding criteria of Performance Review:  

As  a  part  of framing  performance  review  policy,  NRC  shall  be  primarily  responsible  for 
formulation  of  performance  evaluation  criteria.  The  criteria  for  performance  review  of 
PIDs, which shall be considered for both internal evaluation and external evaluation, may 
be framed by NRC taking into consideration guiding principles provided at Annexure A. 
These principles would serve as a guidance for MIIs and the same may be adopted by 
respective MIIs, as considered appropriate, with additional principles, if any.  

 

c.  Evaluation mechanism: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

the 

the  governing  board  members  shall  evaluate 

PIDs  shall  be  subjected  to  internal  evaluation  as  well  as  external  evaluation, 
carrying equal weightage. 
Internal  evaluation:  All 
performance of each PID, on an annual basis at the end of every financial year.  
External  evaluation:  PIDs  shall  also  be  subject  to  external  evaluation  during  their 
last year of the term in a MII, by a management or a human resources consulting 
firm.  The  consultant  shall  take  into  consideration  the  performance  of  the  PID  for 
the entire tenure served in a given MII, at least up to 4 months before expiry of his/ 
her  term.  In  order  to  avoid  any  bias  or  conflict  of  interest,  external  consultant 
should not be a related party or associated with the MII, the concerned PID or any 
other governing board members.  
Such performance review should be carried out in fair & objective manner and the 
review should be recorded with clarity and verifiable facts in a standardized format 
covering all the relevant criteria / aspects. 

v.  While evaluating conflict of interest of a PID, the governing board of MII shall also 
take  into  consideration  provisions  of  Clause  2(d)  of  Schedule  II  Part  H  of  SECC 
Regulations,  2018  and  Clause  2(d)  of  Schedule  II  Part  C  of  SEBI  (D&P) 
Regulations, 2018 under the head ‘Public Interest Director’; and conflict of interest, 
if any, of any PIDs should be disclosed to SEBI by the governing board with their 
comments/ views.   
 

d.  Disclosure:  Performance  evaluation  criteria for PIDs  shall  be  disclosed  in  their  annual 

report as well as on the website of the concerned MII.  

Page 2  

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

e.  Recommendation  to  SEBI:  After  taking  into  account  the  performance  of  a  PID  in  the 
concerned MII, on the basis of internal evaluation and external evaluation both carrying 
equal  weightage,  NRC  shall  consider  and  recommend  extension  of  his  /  her  tenure  to 
the  Governing  Board  of the  MII.  The  Governing Board  of  the  MII  shall  in-turn  consider 
and  recommend to  SEBI  if the  tenure  of  the  PID  is  desired  to  be  extended  by  another 
term of three years. 
 
In addition to the other requirements prescribed in performance review policy of the MIIs 
along-with  norms  specified  in  SECC  Regulations,  2018  and  SEBI  (D&P)  Regulations, 
2018, the following may be considered by NRCs of MIIs: 
i. 

It  shall  be  ensured  that  the  concerned  PID  hasn’t  remained  absent  for  three 
consecutive  meetings  of  the  governing  board  and  has  attended  seventy  five  per 
cent  of  the  total  meetings  of  the  governing  board  in  each  calendar  year;  failing 
which PID shall be liable to vacate office.  
It  shall  be  ensured  that  PIDs  in  the  governing  boards  of  MIIs  are  selected  from 
diverse fields of work, in terms of their qualification and experience. 

f. 

ii. 

 

4.  The  application  for  extension  of  term  of  a  PID  shall  be  accompanied  with  the  attendance 
details of PID in the meetings of various mandatory committees and of the governing board 
of the MII along-with specific reasons for seeking extension of his / her term as a PID. Such 
specific  reasons  shall  include  facts  such  as  whether  the  concerned  PID,  during  the  term 
served, had identified any important issues concerning any matter which may involve conflict 
of interest, or have significant impact on functioning of MII, or may not be in the interest of 
securities market as a whole, and whether the PID had reported the same to SEBI. 
 

5.  In terms of SECC Regulations, 2018 and SEBI (D&P) Regulations, 2018, it is clarified that a 
minimum  of  two  names  shall  be  submitted  by  MIIs  at  the  time  of  making  request  for 
appointment of PID and extension of the term of existing PID, including appointment of PID 
for the purpose of broad basing the governing board, against each such vacancy.  
 

6.  It is clarified that the aforementioned norms specify the minimum requirements that have to 
be  complied  with  by  MIIs,  however  the  NRCs  of  MIIs  may  adopt  additional  and  more 
stringent  norms  while  framing  a  policy  for  performance  review  of  PIDs.   With  regard  to the 
detailed  criteria  for  performance  evaluation,  as  provided  in  Annexure  A  to  the  circular,  the 
same shall serve as an illustrative guide for MIIs to frame performance evaluation criteria  –
both  for  internal  as  well  as  external  evaluation,  and  the  same  may  be  adopted  by  MIIs  as 
considered appropriate, with additional criteria, if any.  

 

7.  Additionally, with regard to tenure of PID, following is clarified: 

a.  The term of existing PIDs serving in a MII for more than three years, can be extended, 
subject to his / her performance review and a maximum tenure of 6 years as PID in that 
particular MII. 

 

Page 3  

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

b.  The term of existing PIDs, that have already served for six years or more in a single MII, 

shall not be eligible for further extension in that MII.  

 

8.  MIIs are directed to:  

c. 

take  necessary  steps  to  put  in  place  systems  for  implementation  of  the  circular,  
including      necessary      amendments      to      the      relevant      bye-laws,      rules      and 
regulations;  

d.  disseminate the  provisions  of  this  circular  on their websites; and  
e.  communicate    to    SEBI,    the    status    of    implementation    of    the    provisions    of    this 

circular in the Monthly Report.  
 

9.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the  
Securities    and    Exchange    Board    of    India    Act,    1992,    read    with    Section    10    of    the 
Securities    Contracts    (Regulation)    Act,    1956 and  Section    19    of    the  Depositories    Act,  
1996,        to    protect    the    interests    of  investors    in    securities    and    to    promote    the  
development  of,  and  to  regulate  the securities market. 

 

10. This    circular    is    available    on    SEBI    website    at    www.sebi.gov.in    at    “Legal 

Framework→Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Bithin Mahanta 
Deputy General Manager  
Market Regulation Department 
Email: bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 4  

 

 

 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure A to the circular 
 

Guide for MIIs to frame criteria for performance review of PIDs: 
a.  Qualifications:  The  PID’s  qualification  in  area  of  law,  finance,  accounting,  economics, 
management, administration or an other area relevant to the financial markets, including any 
recent updates in this regard. 

 

b.  Experience:  The  PID’s  prior  experience  in  area  of  law,  finance,  accounting,  economics, 
management,  administration  or  any  other  area  relevant  to  the  financial  markets,  including 
any recent updates in this regard. 

 

c.  Knowledge and Competency:  

  Whether  the  PID  has  sufficient  understanding  and  knowledge  of  the  entity  in  which  it 

operates and the applicable regulatory norms. 

  Whether the PID has sufficient understanding of the role, responsibilities and obligations 

of PID under the relevant regulatory norms. 

  How the PID fares across different competencies as identified for effective functioning of 
Board  of the  concerned MII  (The  MII  may  list  various  competencies  and mark all  PIDs 
against  every  such  competency  e.g.  Constructive  and  analytical  decision  making 
abilities). 

  Whether  the  PID  has  sufficient  understanding  of  the  risk  attached  with  the  business 

structure. 

d.  Fulfilment of functions:  

  Whether  the  PID  understands  and  fulfils  the  functions  as  assigned  to  him/her  by  the 

Board and the regulatory norms. 

  Whether the PID gives views and opinion on various regulatory matters when comments 

are invited by SEBI through various means. 

 

e.  Ability to function as a team:  

  Whether the PID is able to function as an effective team- member.  

  Whether  the  PID  listens  attentively  to  the  contributions  of  others  and  gives  adequate 

weightage to the views and perception of other Board members. 

  Whether the PID shares good interpersonal relationship with other directors. 

 

f. 

Initiative:  

  Whether the PID actively takes initiative with respect to various areas.  

  Whether the PID insists on receiving information necessary for decision making.  

 

Page 5  

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

  Whether the concerned PID keeps himself well informed about the functioning of MII and 

the external environment in which it operates. 

  Whether  the  PID  remains  updated  in  terms  of  developments  taking  place  in  regulatory 

areas. 

  Whether the PID has  identified any important issues concerning any matter which may 
involve conflict of interest for the concerned MII, or may have significant impact on their 
functioning,  or  may  not  be  in  the  interest  of  securities  market,  and  whether  the  PID 
reported same to SEBI.  

  Whether the PID appropriately deals with critical matters. 

 

 

 

 

g.  Availability and attendance: 

 

 Whether  the  PID  is  available  for  meetings  of  the  Board  and  attends  the  meeting  of 
Governing board and Committees regularly and timely, without delay. It must be ensured 
that  the  concerned  PID  hasn’t  remained  absent  for  three  consecutive  meetings  of  the 
governing  board  and  has  attended  seventy  five  per  cent  of  the  total  meetings  of  the 
governing  board  in  each  calendar  year;  failing  which  the  PID  shall  be  liable  to  vacate 
office. 

h.  Commitment: Whether the PID is adequately committed to the Board and the MII. 

 

 

i.  Contribution:  

  Whether the PID has contributed effectively to the entity and in the Board meetings.  

  Whether the PID participates in the proceedings of Board meetings keeping in mind the 

interests of various stakeholders. 

  Whether the PID actively deliberates and contributes on proposed business propositions 
and  strategic  decisions  taking  into  consideration  pros  and  cons  of  such  propositions, 
long term outlook, business goals, cost-benefit analysis, etc. 

 

j. 

Integrity:  

  Whether  the  PID  demonstrates  highest  level  of  integrity  (including  conflict  of  interest 

disclosures, maintenance of confidentiality, etc.).  

  Whether the PID strictly adhere to the provisions of the SEBI SECC Regulations, 2018,  
SEBI  (D  &P)  Regulations,  2018    and  any  other  regulatory  provision,  as  applicable, 
along-with  the  code  of  conduct  and  code  of  ethics  prescribed  under  other  applicable 
regulatory norms. 

  Whether  disclosures  such  as  dealing  in  securities  and  other  regulatory  disclosures  are 

provided by the PID on timely basis.  

  Confirmation on the PID being a Fit & Proper person. 

 

Page 6  

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

  Confirmation 

that 

including 
technologies,  unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  unless  such  disclosure  is 
expressly approved by the Board of directors or required under the applicable laws. 

the  PID  doesn’t  disclose  confidential 

information, 

 

k. 

Independence:  
  Whether the PID is independent from the entity and the other directors and there is no 

conflict of interest. 

  Confirmation as to non-association of the PID with relevant MII and its member. 

  Whether the PID keeps regulators informed of material developments in the concerned 

MIIs functioning, from time to time. 
 

l. 

Independent views and judgment:  
  Whether the PID exercises his/ her own judgment and voices opinion freely.  

  Whether the PID’s participation in decisions taken during meetings are unbiased, based 

on ethical judgment and are in strict conformity to the applicable regulatory norms. 

  Whether  the  PID  raises  his/her  concern  if  anything  is  observed  contrary  to  regulatory 

norms and the expected norms of ethical conduct. 

  Whether  the  PID  is  committed  to  ensure  that  there  is  fairness  and  integrity  in  MIIs 

system, in letter as well as spirit. 

 

 

---x--- 

 

Page 7  

 

