 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOS3/CIR/P/2019/30                                       February 11, 2019 
 
To, 
 
All Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents registered with SEBI 
All Listed entities (Through Stock Exchanges) 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Subject: Relaxation from requirement to furnish a copy of PAN for transfer 
of equity shares of listed entities executed by non-residents  

1.  Para  (A)(1)  of  Schedule  VII  of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”) specifies that the transferee(s) as 
well as transferor(s) shall furnish a copy of their PAN card to the listed entity 
for registration of transfer of securities.  

2.  It has been brought to the notice of SEBI that many non-residents such as Non-
Resident Indians (NRIs), Overseas Citizens of India (OCIs), Persons of Indian 
Origin (PIOs) and foreign nationals have been facing difficulties in transferring 
shares held by them since many of them do not possess PAN card. 

3.  In order to address the difficulties faced by such investors, it has been decided 
to  grant  relaxation  to  non-residents  (such  as  NRIs,  PIOs,  OCIs  and  foreign 
nationals)  from  the  requirement  to  furnish  PAN  and  permit  them  to  transfer 
equity shares held by them in listed entities to their immediate relatives subject 
to the following conditions: 

a.  The relaxation shall only be available for transfers executed after January 

01, 2016.  

b.  The relaxation shall only be available to non-commercial transactions, i.e. 

transfer by way of gift among immediate relatives. 

c.  The  non-resident  shall  provide  copy  of  an  alternate  valid  document  to 

ascertain identity as well as the non-resident status. 

For the purpose of Para 3(b) above, the term “immediate relative” shall have 
the  same  meaning  as  defined  in  Regulation  2(1)(l)  of  SEBI  (Substantial   
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section11(1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with Regulation 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

101  and  102  of  the  LODR  to  address  the  difficulties  faced  by  investors  in 
transfer of physical shares. 

5.  The  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  
to    the    notice    of  Listed  Entities  and  also  to  disseminate  the  same  on  their 
websites. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Surabhi Gupta 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel. No: 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

 

