 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2019/16                                                     January 15, 2019 

To All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs)  
All Parties to InvITs  
All Recognized Stock Exchanges (except Commodity Exchanges) 
All Merchant Bankers  

Dear Sir / Madam,  

Sub: Guidelines for public issue of units of InvITs - Amendments 

1.  This  is  in  continuation  to  SEBI  circular  No.  CIR/IMD/DF/55/2016  dated  May  11, 
2016,  which  provided  the  “Guidelines  for  public  issue  of  units  of  InvITs”  (“InvIT 
Guidelines”). 

2.  With a view to further rationalise and ease the process of public issue of units of 

InvITs, it has been decided to provide for following in the InvIT Guidelines: 

a. In clause 3 of Schedule A, 

i. 

explanation to sub-clause (1) shall be substituted with following: 

"Explanation:  Institutional  investors  is  as  defined  under  Regulation  2(1)(y)  of 
SEBI (Issue Of Capital And Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018." 

ii.  Sub-clause 2(h) shall be substituted with the following: 

“(g)  Neither  the  merchant  bankers(s)  nor  any  associate  of  the  merchant 
bankers, other than mutual funds sponsored by entities which are associate of 
the merchant bankers or insurance companies promoted by entities which are 
associate  of  the  merchant  bankers  or  pension  funds  of  entities  which  are 
associate  of  the  merchant  bankers  or  Alternate  Investment  Funds  (AIFs) 
sponsored by the entities which are associate of the merchant bankers or FPIs 
other  than  Category  III  sponsored  by  the  entities  which  are  associate  of  the 
merchant bankers, shall apply under the Anchor Investors category.” 

b. In clause 6 of Schedule A, 

i.  Following proviso shall be inserted after the proviso to sub-clause (3) 

"Provided  further,  that  in  case  of  force    majeure,  banking  strike  or  similar 
circumstances,  the  InvIT,  for  reasons  to  be  recorded  in  writing,  may  extend 
the  bidding  (issue)  period  disclosed  in  the  offer  document,  for  a  minimum 
period  of  three  working  days,  subject  to  total  bidding  period  not  exceeding 
thirty days." 

 

 

c. In clause 8 of Schedule A, 

i. 

In sub-clause (3), the word “five” shall be substituted with the word “two”. 

d. In clause 9 of Schedule A, 

i. 

sub-clause (1) to (5), shall be substituted with following:  

(1) The  InvIT  shall  accept  bids  using  only  the  Application Supported by 
Blocked Amount (ASBA)  facility for making payment i.e. writing their bank 
account  numbers  and  authorising  the  banks  to  make  payment  in  case  of 
allotment,  by  signing  the  application  forms.  Further,  the  bidding  process 
shall  be  done  only  through  an  electronic  bidding  platform  provided  by 
recognised stock exchanges. 

(2) An  investor,  intending  to  subscribe  to  a  public  issue,  shall  submit  a 
completed  bid-cum-application  form  to  Self-Certified  Syndicate  Banks 
(SCSBs), with whom the bank account to be blocked is maintained or any 
of the following intermediaries:  

a.  A syndicate member (or sub-syndicate member)  

b.  A stock broker registered with a recognised stock exchange 

c.  A depository participant („DP‟) 

d.  A registrar to an issue and share transfer agent („RTA‟) 

(3) Role of intermediaries:  

a.  Intermediaries accepting the application forms shall be responsible 
for uploading the bid along with other relevant details in application 
forms  on  the  electronic  bidding  system  of  stock  exchange(s)  and 
submitting the form to SCSBs for blocking of funds (except in case 
of  SCSBs,  where  blocking  of  funds  will  be  done  by  respective 
SCSBs only).  

b.  All applications shall be stamped and thereby acknowledged by the 

intermediary at the time of receipt.  

(4) Role of Stock Exchanges: 

a.  Stock Exchanges to provide transparent electronic bidding facility. 

 

b.  Stock  exchange(s)  shall  validate  the  electronic  bid  details  with 
depository‟s  records  for  DP  ID,  Client  ID  and  PAN,  by  the  end  of 
each  bidding  day  and  bring  the  inconsistencies  to  the  notice  of 
SCSBs  or  intermediaries  concerned,  for  rectification  and  re-
submission within the time specified by stock exchange(s). 

 

 

 

 

c.  Stock exchange(s) shall allow modification of selected fields viz. DP 
ID/Client  ID  or  Pan  ID  (Either  DP  ID/Client  ID  or  Pan  ID  can  be 
modified  but  not  BOTH),  Bank  code  and  Location  code  in  the  bid 
details already uploaded on a daily basis upto timeline as has been 
specified.  

d.  The  stock  exchanges  shall  develop  the  systems  to  facilitate  the 
investors to view the status of their public issue applications on their 
websites  and  sending  the  details  of  applications  and  allotments 
through SMS and E-mail alerts to the investors.  

(5) The  blocking  of  funds  accompanied  with  any  revision  of  Bid,  shall  be 
adjusted against the amount blocked at the time of the original bid or the 
previously revised bid.  

e. In clause 13 of Schedule A, 

i. 

sub-clause (7), shall be substituted with following: 

"The merchant bankers shall submit a  compliance certificate in respect of 
news reports appearing for the period between the date of filing the draft 
offer  document  with  the  Board  and  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue  in 
accordance with the Clause (11) of Schedule IX of SEBI (Issue Of Capital 
And Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018." 

3.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  Regulation  33  of 
InvIT Regulations.  

4.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”.  

 

Yours faithfully,  

 
Richa G. Agarwal  
Deputy General Manager  
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Tel No.022-2644 9596  
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 
 
 
 
 

