 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DMS1/CIR/P/2019/43 

 

 

 

 

   March 26, 2019 

 

To, 

All Stock Exchanges, 

All Depositories, 

All Clearing Corporations 

 

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

 

Guidelines for Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and Disaster Recovery (DR) of 

Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs) 

1.  SEBI  vide  circular  CIR/MRD/DMS/12/2012  dated  April  13,  2012  and 
CIR/MRD/DMS/17/2012  dated  June  22,  2012  prescribed  framework  for  Business 
Continuity  Plan  (BCP)  and  Disaster  Recovery  Site  (DRS)  for  stock  exchanges  and 
depositories. 
 

2.  With the advancement in technology and improved automation of processes in terms 
of  transitioning  time,  wherein  the  operations  can  be  moved  from  the  Primary  Data 
Centre  (PDC)  to  the  DRS,  it  was  felt  that  the  extant  framework  needs  to  be  re-
examined. 
 

3.  Considering 

the 

fact 

that  clearing  corporations  are  systemically 

important 
infrastructure institutions, it has been decided that framework on BCP and DR shall 
also be made applicable to all the clearing corporations. 
 

4.  Upon  examination  and  based  on  the  recommendation  of  Technical  Advisory 
Committee (TAC) of SEBI, the modified framework for BCP and DR shall be as under: 
 

a.  The  stock  exchanges,  clearing  corporations  and  depositories  (collectively 
referred as Market Infrastructure Institutions – MIIs) should have in place BCP 
and DRS so as to maintain data and transaction integrity. 
 

 

Page 1 of 5 

b.  Apart from DRS, stock exchanges and clearing corporations should also have 
a  Near  Site  (NS)  to  ensure  zero  data  loss  whereas,  the  depositories  should 
also ensure zero data loss by adopting a suitable mechanism. 
 

c.  The DRS should  preferably  be set up  in different seismic zones  and in case 
due  to  certain  reasons  such  as  operational  constraints,  change  of  seismic 
zones, etc., minimum distance of 500 kilometer shall be ensured between PDC 
and DRS so that both DRS and PDC are not affected by the same disaster.  
 

d.  The manpower deployed at DRS /NS should have same expertise as available 
at  PDC  in  terms  of  knowledge/  awareness  of  various  technological  and 
procedural systems and processes relating to all operations such that DRS /NS 
can function at short notice, independently. MIIs should have sufficient number 
of  trained  staff  at  their  DRS  so  as  to  have  the  capability  of  running  live 
operations from DRS without involving staff of the primary site. 
 

5.  Configuration of DRS/NS with PDC 

 
a.  Hardware,  system  software,  application  environment,  network  and  security 
devices and associated application environments of DRS / NS and PDC shall 
have one to one correspondence between them. 

 

b.  MIIs  should  endeavor  to  develop  systems  that  do  not  require  configuration 
changes  at  the  end  of  trading  members/  clearing  members/  depository 
participants for switchover from the PDC to DRS. Further, MIIs should test such 
switchover functionality by conducting unannounced 2 day live trading session 
from its DRS. This would help to gauge the state of readiness of various other 
processes and procedure relating to business continuity and disaster recovery 
that may not get tested in a planned exercise. 

 

c.  MIIs shall have Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point Objective 

(RPO) of not more than 4 hours and 30 minutes, respectively. 

 

d.  The time taken to define/ establish/ declare a disaster should not be more than 
2 hours and the total RTO including the time taken to declare an  incident as 
disaster  should  not  be  more  than  4  hours.  Further,  RTO  shall  be  calculated 
from the occurrence of disaster and not from the time an incident is declared a 
disaster.  

 

e.  Solution architecture of PDC  and  DRS /  NS should  ensure high  availability, 
fault  tolerance,  no  single  point  of  failure,  zero  data  loss,  and  data  and 
transaction integrity. 

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

f.  Any  updates  made  at  the  PDC  should  be  reflected  at  DRS/  NS  immediately 
(before  end  of  day)  with  head  room  flexibility  without  compromising  any  
of the performance metrics. 

 

g.  Replication architecture, bandwidth and load consideration between the DRS / 
NS and PDC should be within stipulated RTO and ensure high availability, right 
sizing, and no single point of failure. 

 

h.  Replication  between  PDC  and  NS  should  be  synchronous  to  ensure  zero 
data loss whereas, the one between PDC and DRS and between NS and DRS 
may be asynchronous. 

 

i.  Adequate  resources  (with  appropriate  training  and  experience)  should  be 
available at all times to handle operations at PDC, NS or DRS, as the case may 
be, on a regular basis as well as during disasters. 

6.  DR drills/Testing 

 

 

a.  DR drills should be conducted on a quarterly basis.  In case of exchanges and 
clearing corporations, these drills should be closer to real life scenario (trading 
days) with minimal notice to DR staff involved. 

 

b.  During the drills, the staff based at PDC should not be involved in supporting 

operations in any manner. 

 

c.  The drill should include running all operations from DRS for at least 1 full trading 

day. 

 

d.  Before  DR  drills,  the  timing  diagrams  clearly  identifying  resources  at  both 

ends (DRS as well as PDC) should be in place.   

 

e.  The  results  and  observations  of  these  drills  should  be documented  and 
placed    before    the    Governing    Board    of    stock    exchanges    /clearing 
corporations/    depositories.  Subsequently,    the    same    along    with    the  
comments    of   the    Governing    Board  should  be  forwarded  to  SEBI  within  a 
month of the DR drill. 

 

f.  The  system  auditor  while  covering  the  BCP  –  DR  as  a  part  of  mandated 
annual  system  audit   should   check the preparedness of the MII to shift its 
operations from PDC to DRS unannounced and also comment on documented 
results and observations of DR drills. 

 

Page 3 of 5 

 

g.  ‘Live’  trading  sessions  from  DR  site  shall  be  scheduled  for  at  least  two 
consecutive days in every six months. Such live trading sessions from the DRS 
shall  be  organized  on  normal  working  days  (i.e.  not  on  weekends  /  trading 
holidays).  The  stock  exchange/  clearing  corporation  shall  ensure  that  staff 
members working at DRS have the abilities and skills to run live trading session 
independent of the PDC staff. 

 

h.  Stock exchanges and clearing corporations shall include a scenario of intraday 
shifting  from  PDC  to  DR  during  the  mock  trading  sessions  in  order  to 
demonstrate its preparedness to meet RTO/RPO as stipulated above. 

 

i.  MII  should  undertake  and  document  Root  Cause  Analysis  (RCA)  of  their 
technical/  system  related  problems  in  order  to  identify  the  causes  and  to 
prevent reoccurrence of similar problems. 

 

 

7.  BCP – DR Policy Document 

 

a.  Stock exchanges, clearing corporations and depositories, depending upon their 
line of business shall decide the definition of ‘Disaster’ which requires them to 
move from the PDC to DRS and include the same in the BCP-DR Policy. The 
above policy shall be approved by the respective Governing Boards of MIIs. 

 

b.  The  BCP  –  DR  policy  of    stock    exchanges,  clearing  corporations  and  
depositories  should  be  well documented  covering  all  areas  as  mentioned  
above  including  disaster escalation hierarchy.  

 

c.  The  stock  exchanges/  clearing  corporations  should  specifically  address  their 
preparedness  in  terms  of  proper  system  and  infrastructure  in  case  disaster 
strikes during business hours. 

 

d.  Depositories should also demonstrate their preparedness to handle any issue 

which may arise due to trading halts in stock exchanges. 

 

e.  The policy document and subsequent changes / additions / deletions should be 
approved by Governing Board of the stock exchanges / clearing corporations/ 
depositories and thereafter communicated to SEBI. 

 

f. 

In case a MII desires to lease its premise at the DRS to other entities including 
to its subsidiaries or entities in which it has stake, the MII should ensure that 
such  arrangements  do  not  compromise  confidentiality,  integrity,  availability, 

 

Page 4 of 5 

targeted performance and service levels of the MII’s systems at the DRS. The 
right of first use of all the resources at DRS including network resources should 
be with the MII. Further, MII should deploy necessary access controls to restrict 
access (including physical access) of such entities to its critical systems and 
networks. 

 

8.  Considering the  above,  stock  exchanges, clearing corporations  and  depositories  
are  advised  to  submit their  revised BCP  –  DR  policy  to  SEBI  within  3  months  
from  the  date  of  this  circular. Further, they  should  also  ensure  that  clause  6  (f) 
mentioned  above  is  also included  in  the scope of System Audit.  
 

9.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  
of investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  
the securities market. 
 

10. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and “Circulars”.  

 

11. This circular shall supersede earlier circulars CIR/MRD/DMS/12/2012 dated April 13, 

2012 and CIR/MRD/DMS/17/2012 dated June 22, 2012 issued on BCP-DR Policy. 

 

 
 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
Susanta Kumar Das 
General Manager  
+91-22-26449221  
susantad@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 5 of 5 

