 

CIRCULAR 

 

  

                 March 20, 2019 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2019/40   
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges having Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Framework for Utilization of Regulatory Fee Foregone by SEBI 
 
1.  With  a  view  to  encourage  the  participation  by  Farmers/Farmer  Producer 
Organizations  (FPOs)  in  agricultural  commodity  derivatives  markets,  SEBI  has 
reduced  the  regulatory  fee  on  Stock  Exchanges  with  respect  to  turnover  in 
agricultural commodity derivatives. The objective was to reduce the cost burden 
on farmers/FPOs from the amount saved  by the Exchanges  due to reduction of 
regulatory fee.  

 

2.  In  order  to  pass  on  the  desired  benefits  from  reduction  of  regulatory  fees  on 
agricultural commodity derivatives, it has been decided that the stock exchanges 
dealing  with  agricultural  commodity  derivatives  shall  create  a  separate  fund 
earmarked for the benefit of farmers/FPOs in which, the regulatory fee forgone by 
SEBI  shall  be  deposited  and  utilized  exclusively  for  the  benefit  of  and  easy 
participation by Farmers and FPOs in the agri-commodity derivatives market. Any 
income on investments from the fund shall also be ploughed back into the same 
fund. 

 

3.  In this regard, exchanges shall follow the guiding principles outlined below for the 

purpose of utilization of the earmarked fund – 
 
3.1. The fund shall be used exclusively for the benefit of and for easy participation 

by Farmers and FPOs in the agri-commodity derivatives market.  

3.2. It  shall  be  the  endeavour  of  the  exchange  to  utilise  the  earmarked  fund 
primarily for reducing cost of transaction and for facilitating ease of trading by 
farmers/FPOs. 

3.3. Exchange shall draw an action plan for full utilisation of regulatory fee foregone 
by  SEBI  in  any  financial  year  to  be  utilised  during  the  succeeding  financial 
year. Such action plan shall be  drawn up by the 10th of April  (of the year  in 
which the fund has to be utilised) keeping in view the amount of fund available 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

for the purpose. In this regard, w.r.t. the action plan for F.Y. 2019-20, the same 
may be prepared and disseminated latest by April 30, 2019 after earmarking 
the fund out of the regulatory fee foregone by SEBI for F.Y. 2018-19. 

3.4. Exchange  shall  disseminate  the  details  of  the  action  plan  including  the 
financial assistance proposed to be rendered to farmers/FPOs, activities to be 
subsidised/facilitated w.r.t. participation by farmers/FPOs during the financial 
year on their website under intimation to SEBI.  

3.5. The aforesaid earmarked fund shall not be clubbed with any other funds such 
as  Investor  Protection  Fund  (IPF)  /Investor  Services  Fund  (ISF)  /Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) Funds etc. 

3.6. Exchange shall ensure that the farmers/FPOs participating on the exchange 
are treated in a fair and equitable manner while utilising the proceeds of the 
fund for their benefit. Accordingly, the choice of activities for utilizing the fund 
and the rate of benefit should be such that benefits with respect to the activity 
are  imparted  to  all  farmers/FPOs  participating  during  the  year  and  are  not 
restricted to a select few farmers/FPOs.  

 
4.  While preparing the action plan for a financial year, the exchanges may consider 
one  or  more  of  the  following  activities  for  utilization  of  the  fund  for  benefit  of 
farmers/FPOs – 
 
4.1. Funding  of  Warehousing  and/or  Assaying  charges  –  Waiver/subsidy  in 
warehousing and/or assaying charges for agricultural commodities deposited 
for delivery on exchange platform by the farmers/FPOs.  

4.2. Cost of bags and transportation for the Farmers / FPOs for delivery on 
exchange  platform-  The  cost  of  bags  can  be  reimbursed  or  bags  can  be 
provided to Farmers / FPOs for deposits on exchange platform. To incentivize 
delivery  based  participation  by  Farmers  /  FPOs,  certain  percentage  of 
transportation  expenses  can  also  be  considered  for  reimbursement  to 
farmers/FPOs.  

4.3. Cost of Mark to market (MTM) funding – The cost of or a part of the cost of 
MTM funding by Exchange/Clearing Corporation (CC) on the sell positions of 
the Farmers / FPOs who make early pay-in of the commodities in approved 
warehouses. 

4.4. Broker fee – Broker fee for farmers/FPOs can be subsidized. 
4.5. Delivery fee/charge- As delivery fee is one of the largest constituents of the 
overall  transaction  costs  in  the  delivery  based  agri-  commodity  derivatives 
markets, Exchanges may reduce/subsidize this cost head. 

4.6. Repository  related  fee  –  Exchanges  may  subsidize  repository  related 
charges  for  farmers/FPOs  -  account  opening,  maintenance  and  transfer 
charges or any other similar charges. 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

4.7. Any other activity as may be permitted by SEBI. 

 

5.  The exchanges shall allow utilization of the fund for the activities mentioned above 
with certain conditions such as overall amount per activity, maximum amount per 
farmer/FPO, maximum period etc., as may be applicable from time to time, so as 
to ensure fair and equitable distribution of benefit to farmers/FPOs. 

 

6.  The provisions of this circular shall be effective from the date of this circular.  
 
7.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

8.  Exchanges are advised to:  
 

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular 

 

9.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 
 

Yours faithfully, 

Vikas Sukhwal 
General Manager  
Division of New Products and Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 3 of 3 

