 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

       April 10, 2019 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2019/55   

 

All  Recognized  Clearing  Corporations  (except  those  operating  in  International  Financial 

Services Centre) 

 

Madam/Sir 

 

Risk-based  capital  and  net  worth  requirements  for  Clearing  Corporations  under  Securities 

Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018 

 

1.  SEBI  constituted  a  Committee  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  R  Gandhi,  Former  Deputy 

Governor, Reserve Bank of India, to review the extant regulatory framework pertaining to Market 

Infrastructure Institutions (“MIIs”) viz. Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporations (“CCP” or “CC”) 

and  Depositories.  Based  on  the  recommendations  made  by  the  Committee,  SEBI  notified  the 

Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations, 

2018 (“SECC Regulations, 2018”). 

 

2. 

In order to ensure that the  net  worth of a CCP adequately captures the risks faced by  it, SEBI 

vide Regulation 14(3) of SECC Regulations, 2018 has adopted  a risk-based approach towards 

computation of capital and net worth requirements for CCPs. The same is reproduced as under : 

 

 

14(3)(a) Every  recognized  clearing  corporation,  on  commencement  of  operations,  shall,  on 

an  ongoing  basis,  maintain  capital  including  retained  earnings  and  reserves,  as  may  be 

specified  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time,  to  adequately  cover  counterparty  credit  risk, 

business risk, legal and operational risk.  

 

14(3)(b) Every  recognized  clearing  corporation  shall  hold  additional  capital  to  cover  costs 

required for orderly wind-down or recovery of operations. 

 

14(3)(c) Every  recognized  clearing  corporation  shall  maintain,  at  all  times,  a  minimum  net 

worth of  one  hundred crore rupees  or  capital  as  determined under  regulation 14(3)(a)  and 

14(3)(b), whichever is higher. 

3.  Accordingly,  in  consultation  with  the  recognised  Clearing  Corporations,  it  has  been  decided  to 

issue granular norms related to computation of risk-based capital and net worth requirements for 

CCPs as under: 

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.1. For Credit Risk (“A”): 

 

3.1.1.  The credit risk from default of clearing members is being captured through the Core 

SGF framework  as prescribed vide  SEBI circular  CIR/MRD/DRMNP/25/2014  dated 

August 27, 2014 on “Core Settlement Guarantee Fund, Default Waterfall and Stress 

Test”.  The  CCP  contribution  to  Core  SGF  shall  be  at  least  50%  of  the  Minimum 

Required Corpus (MRC).  

 

3.1.2.  The minimum contribution required to be made by the CCP towards Core SGF shall 

be considered for the purpose of computing capital requirements towards credit risk. 

3.2. For Business Risk (“B”):  

 

3.2.1.  The  capital  requirement  for  general  business  risk  shall  be  based  on  a  CCP’s  own 

estimate  as  it  is  dependent  on  factors  specific  to  each  CCP  such  as  execution  of 

business strategy, market environment, response(s) to competition or technological 

progress etc.  

 

3.2.2.  A  CCP  shall  identify,  monitor,  and  manage  its  general  business  risk  and  hold 

sufficient  liquid  net  assets  funded  by  equity  to  cover  potential  general  business 

losses so that it can continue operations and services as a going concern. 

 

3.2.3.  The  capital  requirement  for  business  risk  shall  be  subject  to a  minimum  of  25%  of 

annual gross operational expenses. 

3.3. For Orderly Wind-down (“C”): 

 

3.3.1.  A  CCP  shall  have  in  place  a  viable  recovery  or  orderly  wind-down  plan  and  hold 

sufficient liquid net assets funded by equity to implement this plan.  

 

3.3.2.  These  assets  shall  be  determined  by  the  general  business  risk  profile  of  the  CCP 

and  the  length  of  time  required  to  achieve  a  recovery  or  orderly  wind-down,  as 

appropriate, of its critical operations and services.  

 

3.3.3.  While computing the capital requirement for winding  down, a  CCP shall consider a 

minimum  time  span  of  six  months  for  ensuring  an  orderly  winding  down  or 

restructuring  of  its  activities  and  thus,  hold  liquid  net  assets  equal  to  at  least  six 

months of gross operational expenses. 

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

3.4. For Operational and Legal Risks (“D”):  

 

3.4.1.  A  CCP  shall  identify  the  plausible  sources  of  operational  risk,  both  internal  and 

external, and mitigate their impact through the use of appropriate systems, policies, 

and  control  measures.  CCPs  may  be  exposed 

to  risk  of 

litigations 

from 

participants/investors  or  other  entities.  It  is,  therefore,  important  that  the  CCP 

identifies  such  risks  and  maintains  adequate  financial  resources  to  mitigate  any 

losses in the foreseeable future. 

 

3.4.2.  The capital requirement for legal  and operational risks shall  at least be  20%  of the 

aggregate  of  capital  requirements  for  counterparty  credit  risk,  business  risk  and 

orderly wind-down or recovery of operations, i.e. 20% of (A+B+C). 

 

4.  The  total  risk-based  net  worth  requirement  for  CCPs  shall  be  computed  as  the  aggregate  of 

capital  requirements  each  for  counterparty  credit  risk,  business  risk,  orderly  winding  down  or 

recovery of operations and legal and operational risks i.e. (A+B+C+D) or, 1.20 (A+B+C). Thus, 

the CCPs shall be required to maintain, at all times, in the form of liquid assets,  a net worth of 

either INR 100 crore or as determined in the manner specified above, whichever is higher.  

 

5.  The  CCPs  shall  use  the  most  recent  audited  information  from  their  annual  financial  statement 

for the purposes of calculation of gross operational expenses.  

 

6.  The CCPs shall regularly review their net worth requirement and ensure that the net worth does 

not  fall  below  the  prescribed  threshold.  A  certificate  to  this  effect,  as  signed  by  the  Managing 

Director of the CCPs, shall be submitted to SEBI within 15 days from the end of every quarter. 

The first such submission shall be made applicable for the April 2019 – June 2019 quarter. 

 

7. 

In  exceptional  cases  where  the  net  worth  of  a  CCP  falls  below  the  prescribed  threshold,  the 

CCP  shall  forthwith  inform  SEBI  inter  alia  mentioning  the  reason(s)  behind  the  same  and  the 

measure(s) it intends to adopt in order to re-attain the prescribed net worth. 

 

8.  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in 

securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities  market.  This 

circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category "Circulars".  

 

Yours faithfully 
 
 
 
Sanjay Purao 
General Manager 
Market Regulation Department 
Division of Risk Management and New Products 
E-mail: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 3 of 3 

