 

SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL2/CIR/P/2019/50                      

 

                     April 3, 2019 

 

 

To 

Recognized Stock Exchanges  

Depositories 

Registered Stock Brokers  

Registered Merchant Bankers 

Registered Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents 

Registered Depository Participants  

Registered Bankers to an Issue 

National Payments Corporation of India 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Sub: Streamlining the Process of Public Issue of Equity Shares and convertibles- 

Extension of time lime for implementation of Phase I of Unified Payments Interface 

with Application Supported by Block Amount 

 

1.  This refers to SEBI circular SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL2/CIR/P/2018/138 dated November 

1, 2018, vide  which SEBI  had introduced the use of Unified Payments Interface 

(UPI)  as  a  payment  mechanism  with  Application  Supported  by  Block  Amount 

(ASBA)  for  applications  in  public  issues  by  retail  individual  investors  through 

intermediaries  (Syndicate  members,  Registered  Stock  Brokers,  Registrar  and 

Transfer  agent  and  Depository  Participants),  with  effect  from  January  1,  2019. 

Implementation of the same was to be carried out in a phased manner to ensure 

gradual transition to UPI with ASBA. 

 

 

2.  Based on the representations received from the various market intermediaries like 

Self Certified Syndicate Banks (SCSBs), National Payments Corporation of India 

(NPCI) and the Association of Investment Bankers of India (AIBI), to extend the 

timeline  for  implementation  of  Phase  I  of  the  aforesaid  Circular  and  in  order  to 

ensure that the transition to UPI in ASBA is smooth for all the stakeholders, it has 

been decided to extend the timeline for implementation of Phase I of the aforesaid 

Circular by 3 months i.e. till June 30, 2019. The implementation of Phase II and III 

shall continue unchanged as per the aforesaid Circular from the date of completion 

of Phase I as above.  

 

3.  All entities involved in the process are advised to take necessary steps to ensure 

compliance with this circular. 

 

4.  The aforesaid Circular dated November 1, 2018, shall stand modified to the extent 

stated under this Circular. 

 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers under section 11 read with 

section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 

6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

"Legal Framework" and "Issues and Listing". 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Narendra Rawat   

General Manager  

+91-22-26449383 

narendrar@sebi.gov.in 

 

