 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

CIR/LAD/1/2019  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To, 
All Divisions / Departments 
SEBI Head Office, Regional Offices and Local Offices 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

 
April 04, 2019 

 

Subject: Issue of Certified copies of Orders and Circulars 

 

In order to streamline the procedure for issuance of certified copies of orders 
and circulars based on requests for certified copies of orders passed by the Board, 
Adjudicating Officers or Recovery Officers or circulars issued by the departments of 
the Board, the following procedure shall be adopted. 
 
Issue of certified copy to persons  against whom order has been passed by 
the Board, Adjudicating Officer or Recovery Officer 
 

1.  A certified copy of the  order passed by the Board or Adjudicating Officer or 
Recovery Officer shall be provided by the Enforcement Department or by the 
Enquiries and Adjudication Department (EAD) or by the Recovery and Refund 
Department  or  by  the  concerned  Operational  Department,  as  the  case  may 
be, to the person who is a party to the said proceedings, without charging any 
fee.  
 

Provided that where there is an acknowledgment on record of service 
of the certified copy of the order upon such persons against whom such order 
has been passed by the Board or Adjudicating Officer or Recovery Officer, and 
such a person subsequently seeks another certified copy of the order, the fees 
provided herewith shall be applicable to such applications.   
 

Provided further that where an application is filed for the certified copy 
of an order passed within two months prior to the date of issue of this circular 
for which no certified copy was issued to such applicant against whom an order 
had been passed, such an application may be processed without charging any 
fee. 

 
Issue of certified copy of Order or Circular to any applicant 

 

2.  An  application  may  be  made  by  any  person  seeking  a  certified  copy  of  the 
order  passed  by  the  Board,  Adjudicating  Officer  or  Recovery  Officer  or 
circulars issued by the departments of the Board. The application shall be filed 
with  the  concerned  department  or  the  Enforcement  Department  or  the 
Recovery and Refund Department, as the case may be. 
 
 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

3.  An  application  may  be  made  by  an  applicant  at  any  time  after  the  order  is 

passed or the circular is issued.  

 

4.  An  officer  of  the  rank  of  Assistant  Manager  and  above  of  the  concerned 
division  of  the  department  which  is  in  possession  of  the  original  order  or 
circular, may issue the certified copy of the order or the circular with the prior 
approval of the Division Chief, within five working days from the date of receipt 
of the complete application.  
 

5.  The certified copy of the order or circular, as the case may be, shall be issued 

after verifying the same with the original order or circular.  
 

6.  The certified copy shall contain the following: 

a)  the words “Certified to be true copy” shall be conspicuously visible on the 
bottom of the last page along with the name and designation of the officer 
certifying it; 
 

b)  Office Seal at the bottom of every page along with the full signature of the 
officer certifying it on the last page of the certified copy and the initials of 
the certifying officer on the remaining pages;  
 

c)  the date of issue of the certified copy; and 

 

d)  information as to the number of pages of the order or circular contained.  

 

 

 

7.  Every division/department that issues a certified copy of an order or circular, 
as the case may be, shall maintain a record of the certified copies given and 
give a serial number to each copy. 

 

Fee Payment 

 

8.  A non-refundable fee of `50/- per order or circular or ` 5/- per page, whichever 
is higher, shall be charged as fees for each certified copy. The same shall be 
paid  along  with  the  application  or  subsequently  within  such  time  as  may  be 
informed  to  the  applicant,  by  way  of  a  demand  draft  drawn  in  favour  of 
‘Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India’  payable  at  Mumbai  or  by  way  of 
direct credit in the bank account of the Board through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or 
any other mode allowed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).  
 
In case of receipt of a demand draft, the same shall be sent to the General 
Services  Department-Treasury  and  Accounts  Division,  immediately  upon 
receipt  of  the  same.  In  case  of  payments  made  electronically  through 
NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  modes,  the  applicant  shall  intimate  the  same  to  the 
concerned department along with necessary details.  
 

9. 

10.  Certified copies shall be ordinarily collected by the applicant in person against 
proper  acknowledgment.  However,  upon  specific  request  and  subject  to 
payment  of  charges;  certified  copies may  be  dispatched  to  the applicant by 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

Registered Post or Speed Post with acknowledgment due or through Courier 
Service.    
 

11.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under sub-section (1) 
of section 11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and in 
supersession of Legal Department office circular no. 3 of 2003.   
 

12.  This circular shall come into force with immediate effect.  

 

13.  This circular is issued with the approval of the competent authority. 

 

 

 
 
Vijayakrishnan G 
General Manager 
Division of Policy 
Legal Affairs Department 
+91-22-26449824 
vijayakrishnang@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 3 of 3 

