 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2019/60  
 
All recognized Clearing Corporations in International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) 

                 April 26, 2019

 
 

 
 

 

 

Dear Sir / Madam 

 
Net  worth  Requirements  for  Clearing  Corporations  in  International  Financial 
Services Centre (IFSC) 

Clause 5 of SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 prescribes net worth requirements for, inter 

alia, Clearing Corporations operating in IFSC. 

 

2.  Subsequent  to  the  notification  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock 

Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations,  2018  (SECC  Regulations, 

2018), wherein it is prescribed, inter alia, that every recognized Clearing Corporation 

shall maintain, at all times, a minimum net worth of  one hundred crore rupees or 

capital as determined under Regulation 14(3)(a) and 14(3)(b), whichever is higher, 

SEBI  issued  a  circular  SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2019/55  captioned  ‘Risk-

based  capital  and  net  worth  requirements  for  Clearing  Corporations  under 

Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations) 

Regulations, 2018’ on April 10, 2019.  

 

3.  The  aforementioned  circular  lays  down  the  methodology  for  determining  the 

minimum capital/net worth requirements for clearing corporations. 

 

4.  In view of the above, Clause 5(2) of SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 is being amended 

and shall now read as under: 

 

“(2) (a) Every applicant seeking recognition as a clearing corporation shall have, in    

the form of liquid assets, a minimum net worth equivalent of fifty crore rupees. 

 

b)  Every recognized clearing corporation, on commencement of operations, shall 

have at all times, in the form of liquid assets, a minimum net worth equivalent of 

fifty  crore  rupees  or  capital  as  determined 

in  accordance  with 

the 

aforementioned  SEBI  circular  dated  April  10,  2019  as  amended  from  time  to 

time.  

 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

 

c)  Further, every recognized clearing corporation shall enhance, over a period of 

three years from commencement of operations, its net worth, to be maintained 

in the form of liquid assets, to a minimum equivalent of one hundred crore rupees 

or capital as determined in accordance with aforementioned SEBI circular dated 

April 10, 2019 as amended from time to time.”  

 

5.  The  Clearing  Corporations  shall  regularly  review  their  net  worth  requirement and 

ensure that the net worth does not fall below the prescribed threshold. A certificate 

to this effect, as signed by the Managing Director of the Clearing Corporation, shall 

be submitted to SEBI within 15 days from the end of every  quarter. The first such 

submission shall be made applicable for the April - June, 2019 quarter. 

 

6.  In  exceptional  cases  where  the  net  worth  of  Clearing Corporation falls  below  

the  prescribed  threshold,  it  shall  forthwith  inform  SEBI inter  alia mentioning  the  

reason(s)  behind  the  same  and  the measure(s) it intends to adopt in order to re-

attain the prescribed net worth. 

 

7.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the  Securities and  Exchange  Board of  India  Act,  1992, to  protect the  interests of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully 

Sanjay Purao 
General Manager 
Market Regulation Department 
Division of Risk Management and New Products 
Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

