 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL2/CIR/P/2019/67    

 

                                         May  22, 2019 

 

To 

All the Depositories 

Recognized Stock Exchanges  

Registered Merchant Bankers 

Registered Stock Brokers 

Registered Depository Participants 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

Sub: Framework for the process of accreditation of investors for the purpose of 

Innovators Growth Platform 

 

1.   Accredited Investors (AIs) for the limited purpose of Innovators Growth Platform 

(“IGP”),  are  investors  whose  holding  in  the  Issuer  Company,  is  eligible  for  the 

computation of at least 25% of the pre-issue capital in accordance with Regulation 

283.(1)  of  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  &  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 

2018 (“ICDR Regulations”). 

 

2.  Accordingly, the framework for the process of accreditation of investors is detailed 

below: 

A.  Eligibility 

The following entities shall be eligible to be considered as AIs: 

i. 

Any  individual  with  total  gross  income  of  ₹  50  lakhs  annually  and  who  has 

minimum liquid net worth of ₹ 5 crores;  or 

Page 1 of 6 

 

 

ii. 

Any  body corporate with net worth of ₹ 25 crores. 

 

B.  Procedure for accreditation 

(a) Responsibility of Stock Exchanges/Depositories  

The investor, having a demat account with a Depository, will make an application 

to  the  Stock  Exchanges/Depositories  in  the  manner  prescribed  by  them  for 

recognition as an AI. The Stock Exchanges /Depositories may use the services of 

Brokers/Depository  participants  respectively  for  such  purpose.  However,  Stock 

Exchanges/Depositories shall be responsible for verification and maintenance of 

the AI  data.  

 

(b) Documentation 

Detailed Documentation required for accreditation is provided at Annexure ‘A’ of 

this Circular. 

 

3.  Validity of Accreditation  

The accreditation granted by the Stock Exchange/Depository shall be valid for a 

period  of  three  years from the  date  of  issue of  such  accreditation unless  the  AI 

becomes ineligible due to change in his/her/its financial status in which case such 

AI shall inform the Stock Exchange/Depository of such ineligibility. 

 

4.  Responsibility of Merchant Bankers at the time of listing on IGP with regard 

to AIs 

At the time of application by a Company for listing on IGP, the merchant bankers 

shall ensure due diligence with regard to eligibility of AIs and that their holding in 

the  Company  desirous  of  listing  on  IGP  is  in  accordance  with    the  Regulation 

283.(1) of the ICDR Regulations. 

 

5.  The Exchanges / Depositories are directed to- 

i. 

Implement the procedure for accreditation within 45 days from the date of issue 

of this Circular. 

ii.  Disseminate the provisions of this Circular on their website. 

 

Page 2 of 6 

iii.  Communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular. 

 

6.  Exchanges/Depositories are advised to make  necessary  amendments  to  the  

relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and regulations. 

 

7.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992 to protect the interests of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. 

Yours faithfully,  

 

 

Narendra Rawat 
General Manager  
Corporation Finance Department 
narendrar@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 6 

 

 

 

Annexure-A 

For accreditation as an Accredited Investor for the purpose of Innovators Growth 

Platform, the investor having a demat account with a Depository shall submit the 

following  documents  with  the  Exchanges/Depositories  or  Brokers/Depository 

Participants: 

 

I. In case of Individual / HUF 

i)  Copy of PAN Card. 

ii)  Copy of Aadhaar Card or Copy of Valid Passport. 

iii) 

Income tax return of last 3 financial years  

iv)  Certificate from practicing chartered accountant stating total gross income 

(annually) and liquid net worth as on date of application. Working of Liquid 

Net worth shall be given as an Annexure to the certificate. The same shall 

be calculated as follows: 

Capital + Free Reserves 

Less: non-allowable assets 

(a)  Fixed assets 

(b)  Pledged Securities 

(c) 

 Non-allowable securities (unlisted securities) 

(d) 

 Doubtful debts and advances* 

(e)  Prepaid expenses, losses 

(f) 

Intangible assets 

(g) 

30% value of marketable securities 

*  Explanation  –  Includes  debts/advances  overdue  for  more  than 

three months or given to associates and to related parties. 

v)  Where  the  individual  has  been  debarred  or  disciplinary  action  has  been 

taken against investor by SEBI, RBI or any other regulatory body, then the 

debarment period or disciplinary action should be over. In case of an Non 

Resident  Indian,  he  or  she  shall  confirm  that  he  or  she  has  not  been 

 

Page 4 of 6 

restricted  from  accessing  securities  market  by  the  country  of  jurisdiction 

where he or she resides.  

vi)  Declaration from investor which will state that: 

(i) 

he/she/it, is not a wilful defaulter as defined under Regulation 2(1)(III) 

of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2018. 

(ii) 

he/she/it,  is  not  a  fugitive  economic  offender  as  defined  under 

Regulation 2(1)(p) of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2018. 

(iii)  he/she/it,    is  not  in  violation  of  Regulation  24  of  SEBI  (Delisting  of 

Equity Shares) Regulation, 2009. 

(iv)  he/she/it, is not in violation of the restrictions imposed by SEBI under 

SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/ MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2017/92 dated August 

01, 2017. 

(v) 

(vi) 

he/she/it, is in compliance with RBI regulations, if applicable. 

that  the  investment  in  the  Companies  are  in  compliance  with  RBI 

norms, if applicable. 

(vii) 

that the submissions made to the Exchange/Depository are true and 

correct and if found incorrect, the Exchange/Depository reserves the 

right to reject the application and take necessary action. 

(viii) 

that in case of ineligibility due to change in the financial status of the 

Accredited 

Investor, 

he/she/it 

shall 

inform 

the  Stock 

Exchange/Depository of such ineligibility. 

 

II.  In case of body corporate (including LLP) 

i)  Certificate of Incorporation.  

ii) 

If the body corporate is registered with any regulatory body such as RBI, 

IRDA, etc.,  then certificate of such valid registration from such regulatory 

body.  

iii)  Copy of PAN card of body corporate. 

iv)  Copies of Financial Statements of last 3 financial years. 

v)  Copies of Income tax return of last 3 financial years. 

vi)  Certificate from statutory auditor of the body corporate stating net worth 

as  on  date  of  application.  Working  of  Net  worth  shall  be  given  as 

Annexure to the certificate. 

Page 5 of 6 

 

vii)  Certified  copy  of  Board  Resolution  to  make  application  for  Accredited 

Investor as per IGP norms. 

viii)  Declaration  from  Managing  Director/Designated  Partner/authorized 

person that: 

(i) 

the  body  corporate  or  its  promoters/partners  or  directors  are  not 

wilful defaulter as defined under Regulation 2(1)(lll) of SEBI (ICDR) 

Regulations, 2018. 

(ii) 

the promoters/partners or directors of the body corporate are not a 

fugitive  economic offender as defined  under  Regulation  2(1)(p) of 

SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2018. 

(iii) 

the body corporate or its promoters/partners or whole-time directors 

should not be in violation of the provisions of Regulation 24 of the 

SEBI Delisting Regulations, 2009. 

(iv) 

the body corporate or its promoters/partners, its directors should not 

be  in  violation  of  the  restrictions  imposed  by  SEBI  under  SEBI 

circular no. SEBI/HO/ MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2017/92 dated August 01, 

2017. 

(v) 

the  body  corporate  is  in  compliance  with  RBI  Regulations,  if 

applicable. 

(vi) 

that  the  investment  made  in  the  Companies  are  within  the  limit 

prescribed  by  the  RBI  and  if  investments  exceed  the  prescribed 

limit, then approval of RBI for the same has been obtained, in case 

the same is applicable . 

(vii)  that the submissions made to the Exchange/Depository are true and 

correct  and  if  found  incorrect,  the  Exchange/Depository  reserves 

the right to reject the application and take necessary action. 

(viii)  that in case of ineligibility due to change in the financial status of the 

Accredited Investor, it shall inform the Stock Exchange/Depository 

of such ineligibility.  

 

Page 6 of 6 

