 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/MRD/CSC/CIR/P/2019/64   
 

 

 

 

 

   May 20, 2019 

To, 

All Stock Exchanges, Depositories and Qualified Registrar and Share Transfer Agents 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

Subject: Framework for Innovation Sandbox 

1.  Capital  market  in  India  have  been  early  adopters  of  technology.  SEBI  believes  that 
encouraging  adoption  and  usage  of  financial  technology  (‘FinTech’)  would  have  a 
profound impact on the development of securities market.  FinTech can act as a catalyst 
to  further  develop  and  maintain  an  efficient,  fair  and  transparent  securities  market 
ecosystem. 
 

2.  To create an ecosystem which promotes innovation in the securities market, SEBI feels 
that FinTech firms should have access to market related data, particularly, trading and 
holding data, which is otherwise not readily available to them, to enable them to test their 
innovations effectively before the introduction of such innovations in a live environment.  
 

3.  With  a  view  to  operationalizing  the  abovementioned  endeavor,  SEBI  is  proposing  an 
“Innovation Sandbox”, which would be a testing environment where FinTech firms and 
entities  not  regulated  by  SEBI  including  individuals  (hereinafterwards  referred  to  as 
participants/applicants) may use the environment for offline testing of their proposed 
solutions in isolation from the live market, subject to fulfillment of the eligibility criteria, 
based  on  market  related  data  made  available  by  Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories  and 
Qualified Registrar and Share Transfer Agents (QRTAs).  

 

 
 
 

 

1 | P a g e  

Features and Structure of Innovation Sandbox 

 

 

4.  The components and structure of the Innovation Sandbox can be broadly classified into 
design,  legal  and  administrative  categories.  The  method  of  implementation  has  been 
elaborated under the head “Implementation” in para 6-13. 

 

I.  Design Components 

 

A.  Data Sets  

 

a)  One of the most important components of an Innovation Sandbox is access to 
securities  market  related  data,  which  will  enable  participants  to  test  and 
improve their FinTech solutions. 
 

b)  The datasets that will be made available to participants shall be clearly defined 
and known to market participants. Indicative datasets which may become part 
of the Innovation Sandbox are as follows: 

I.  Depositories data:  Holding data, KYC data 
II. 
III.  RTA data: Mutual fund transactions data 

Stock exchange data: Transactions data like order log, trade log 

c)  The  datasets shall be  historical  and  anonymized data  and shall  also  contain 
data related to episodic market events. Live data shall not be made available 
to participants. 
   

d)  Access to datasets shall be provided in a phased manner starting with limited 
amount  of  data  and  based  on  validations,  more  exhaustive  data  would  be 
provided to participants.  
 

e)  The  use  of  datasets  shall  be  governed  by  comprehensive  confidentiality 
agreement which shall include an ‘End User Agreement’ clearly specifying that 
the datasets made available shall not be sold or sublet or shared in any manner 
with any other entities. 
 
 
 
 

 

2 | P a g e  

 

B.  Infrastructure 

 

 

a)  The datasets to be used for testing solutions in the Innovation Sandbox shall 
be shared through application program interface (APIs), which will be widely 
published and available to all eligible participants. 
 

b)  Virtual machines may be made available with configurations similar to the live 
environment  for  testing  an  innovative  product,  service  or  solution  on  the 
datasets.  

 

II. Legal components 

 

a)  Flexibility 

The Innovation Sandbox shall be flexible to adapt and incorporate the changes, 
once the Innovation Sandbox evolves and matures. 
 

b)  Not-for-profit   

The Innovation Sandbox can be set up as a separate not-for-profit entity which 
enhances the impartiality of the Innovation Sandbox. 
 

c)  Compliance  

The Innovation Sandbox should ensure that all applicants can perform their 
testing without breaking any regulatory barriers, including compliance with 
investor  protection,  Know  Your  Client  norms,  data  integrity  or  any  other 
Indian laws. 
 

d)  Legally robust  

The Innovation Sandbox should clearly define the rights and obligations of the 
stakeholders. Applicants are required to agree to contractually binding terms 
of participation. 
 

e)  Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) protection  

The  Innovation  Sandbox  should  have  the  relevant  provisions  to  protect  the 
applicants’  IPR.  Also,  it  should  define  how  the  IPR  which  results  from  the 
collaboration can be used once the testing phase has ended. 
 

 

3 | P a g e  

 

f)  Prevention of Data misuse 

 

The Innovation Sandbox should have provision to restrict misuse of data from 
the stated purposes. 
 

g)  Restriction from Fraudulent purposes 

The Innovation Sandbox should have provision for restricting development of 
any product/ solution for fraudulent/ manipulative purposes. 
 

h)  Secured 

The  Innovation  Sandbox  should  be  secured  from  cyber  threats  or 
unauthorized access. 

 

III.  Administrative Components 

 

a)  Application Assessment  

Applications  received  for  participating  in  the  Innovation  Sandbox  will  be 
assessed  and  going  forward,  rule  based  self-assessment  process  shall  be 
formalized,  in  order  to  allow  the  applicants’  automatic  entry  into  the 
Innovation Sandbox. 
 

b)  Governance body  

A  governance  body  shall  be  formed  comprising  of  representatives  from  the 
Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories  and  Qualified  Registrar  and  Share  Transfer 
Agents. This body shall supervise the operations of the Innovation Sandbox in 
the  interests  of  its  contributors,  users  and  securities  market  in  general.  The 
governance body shall be responsible for ensuring that the sandbox fulfils its 
stated objectives. The governance of the Innovation Sandbox should be neutral 
and should not favor any particular participant or category of participants. 

 

c)  Operational team  

An operational team shall be constituted to carry out the day-to-day activities 
of the Innovation Sandbox including processing applications, communicating 
with applicants, assisting the governance body, maintaining the infrastructure 
of the Innovation Sandbox, supervising the testing in Innovation Sandbox etc. 

 
 

 

4 | P a g e  

d)  Rules of participation  

 

Rules  shall  be  framed  to  regulate  the  rights  and  responsibilities  of  the 
participant with respect to an Innovation Sandbox and to other participants. 
These rules could be same for each applicant type and may include the entry 
and exit criteria, operating guidelines, reporting requirements etc. 

 

e)  Grievance redressal process  

A  grievance  redressal  mechanism  shall  be  formulated  to  deal  with  the 
grievances of any applicant in the Innovation Sandbox.  This mechanism shall 
clearly  define  the  point  of  contact  for  grievance  redressal  along  with  the 
escalation matrix.  
 

IV.  Interface for Innovation Sandbox 

 

The  entire  sandbox  participation  lifecycle  (applying,  tracking,  on-boarding, 
monitoring, reporting, etc.) shall be completely digital to ensure transparency 
and efficiency. 

Eligibility Criteria  

 

5.  The eligibility criteria for inclusion into the Innovation Sandbox are as follows: 

 

a)  Applicability  

Conceptually, the Innovation Sandbox framework is applicable to any entity, who 
intends  to  innovate  on  the  products, services,  and/or solutions for the  securities 
and commodities market in India. 
 

b)  Genuine need to test  

The applicant should have a genuine need for testing the solution using resources 
available in the Innovation Sandbox. The applicant should be able to postulate that 
the  solution  cannot  be  developed  properly  without  testing  in  the  Innovation 
Sandbox. 
 

c)  Testing readiness of the solution  

The  applicant  should  have  the  necessary  resources  to  support  testing  in  the 
sandbox. The applicant must show testing plans with clear objectives, parameters 
and success criteria. 

 

5 | P a g e  

 

d)  Post-testing strategy  

 

The applicant should be able to postulate their post-testing plan. 
 

e)  Direct benefits to consumers  

The solution should offer identifiable benefits (direct or indirect) to consumers and 
to the capital market and the Indian economy at large. 

 

f) 

Secure  
The  solution  shall  be  validated  for  cyber  security  parameters.  The  applicant  is 
required  to  submit  a  cyber-security  compliance  certificate  as  per  SEBI’s  Cyber 
Security guidelines. 

Implementation 

 

6.  A  Steering  Committee  comprising  of  representatives  from  the  Market  Infrastructure 
Institutions  (MIIs)  and  QRTAs  shall  develop  the  operating  guidelines  as  mentioned  at 
Para  4  III  (c)  towards  the  components  and  structure  of  the  Innovation  Sandbox  as 
articulated  in  the  Features,  Structure  and  Eligibility  criteria  of  Innovation  Sandbox  in 
Para 4 and 5. The Steering Committee shall also include members drawn from the areas 
of  FinTech  start-ups,  academia  and  angel  investors  or  any  other  area  as  may  be 
prescribed by SEBI. At the initial stage, SEBI representative shall be a permanent invitee 
to this Committee. 
 

7.  Post  issuance  of  operating  guidelines,  the  Steering  Committee  shall  carry  out  all  the 
functions as envisaged in the Administrative Components at Para 4 viz. receive, evaluate 
and  process  the  applications  received  for  participating  in  the  Innovation  Sandbox, 
approve  /  reject  applications  so  received,  grievance  redressal  etc.    The  Steering 
Committee  shall  also  be  responsible  for  registering/onboarding  the  applicant  post 
approval of the application and monitor the participant throughout the lifecycle of the 
project. 
 

8.  Each  of  the  MIIs  and  QRTAs  shall  build  their  own  interface  and  APIs.  Any  approved 
sandbox applicant can then get access to the APIs of the respective MIIs and QRTAs where 
the applicant would test its solution. 

 

 

6 | P a g e  

 
9.  The  Sandbox  applicant  may  give  a  presentation  to  the  Steering  Committee  upon 

completion of the testing and exit from the Innovation Sandbox. 

 

10. The  Steering  Committee  overseeing  the  testing  of  the  applicant’s  solution  within  the 
sandbox shall maintain an Objective and Key Result Areas (OKRA) document for effective 
oversight on the entire process. 

 

11. The entire sandbox participation lifecycle (applying, tracking, on-boarding, monitoring, 
reporting,  etc.)  should  move  towards  a  complete  digital  environment  within  a  time-
bound manner, not exceeding 24 months, towards ensuring transparency and efficiency. 

 

12. The Steering Committee, to begin with, shall evolve decisions based on consensus and 

have a Chairperson from among the group on a rotation basis. 
 

13. Based on the functioning of the Steering Committee, SEBI would prescribe other norms 

for governance, as and when required. 

 

14. The steering committee shall be constituted within 15 days of the circular. The steering 

committee shall provide the operating guidelines within 2 months of the circular.  

Outcome of Innovation Sandbox 

 

15. SEBI envisages the Innovation Sandbox to have the following benefits: 

 

i)  Product showcase  

A  platform  for  showcasing  the  working  prototype  of  the  solution  which  may  help 
FinTech firms secure more funding. 
 

ii)  Product regulation  

Assessing compliance and readiness with SEBI’s regulations. 
 

iii) Industry interoperability  

Providing an environment where developers could explore industry challenges and 
use  cases  for  innovative  technologies  linked  to  interoperability  of  new  solutions 
across the industry. 

 

 

7 | P a g e  

 
This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the 
Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  Section  19  of  the  Depositories  Act, 
1996 to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, 
and to regulate the securities market. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Bithin Mahanta 
Deputy General Manager 
Phone: +91-022-26449634 
email:  bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

 

8 | P a g e  

