 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ DOS3/CIR/P/2019/68 

 

 

 

          May 27, 2019 

 

To,  

All Issuers of debt securities  

All registered Debenture Trustees,  

All registered RTAs/STAs acting on behalf of listed issuers 

All recognized Stock Exchange(s) 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

Subject: Enhanced disclosure in case of listed debt securities 

 

With a view to further secure the interests of investors in listed debt securities, enhance 

transparency and to enable Debenture Trustees (DTs) to perform their duties effectively 

and  promptly,  pursuant  to  public  consultation,  amendments  to  the  existing  regulatory 

framework for governing Debenture Trustees (DTs), vide Gazette notifications no. 150, 

151, 152 dated May 7, 2019 were carried out.  

 

Taking into consideration the comments received from the public, the following guidelines 

are being issued:  

 

1.  Disclosure of compensation arrangement with clients by DTs on their websites. 

a.  DTs shall disclose the nature of compensation arrangement with its clients on 

their websites, including the minimum fee to be charged (in absolute terms or 

as a percentage of the issue size) and factors determining the same.  

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

2.  Calendar of interest/ redemptions, due and paid, to be displayed on the website 

of DT(s) for the financial year.  

a.  DTs shall display on their website the ISIN wise details of interest/ redemption 

due to the debenture holders in respect of all issues during a financial year within 

5 working days of start of financial year. DTs shall also update such details for 

any new issues handled during the financial year within 5 days of closure of the 

Issue.  

 

b.  DTs shall also update the status of payment ISIN-wise against such issuers not 

later than 1 day from the due date. In case the payment is made with a delay by 

the issuer, DTs shall update the calendar specifying the date of such payment, 

with a remark ‘delayed payment’.  

 

3.  Furnishing  of  updated  list  of  debenture  holders  to  the  DTs  by  Issuers/ 

Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent (RTA).  

a.  RTA / Issuers shall henceforth forward the  details of debenture holders to the 

DT at the time of allotment and thereafter by the seventh working day of every 

next  month  in  order  to  enable  DTs  to  keep  their  records  updated  and  to 

communicate  effectively  with  the  debenture  holders,  especially  in  situations 

where events of default are triggered.  

 

4.  Additional covenants in case of privately placed issues 

a.  In privately placed issues, additional Covenants as under, shall be included as 

part  of  the  Issue  Details  in  the  summary  term  sheet,  as  per  the  agreement 

between the issuer and investor: 

i. Default  in  Payment:  In  case  of  default  in  payment  of  Interest  and/or  

principal redemption  on  the  due  dates,  additional  interest    of  atleast  @  

2%    p.a.    over  the  coupon  rate  shall  be  payable  by  the  Company  for  the 

defaulting period 

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

ii.  Delay in Listing: In case of delay in listing of the debt securities beyond 20 

days from the deemed date of allotment, the Company shall pay penal interest  

of atleast  @ 1 % p.a. over the coupon rate from the expiry of 30 days from the 

deemed date of allotment till the listing of such debt securities to the investor. 

b.  It  is  clarified  that  amendments  may  be  made,  to  incorporate  the  aforesaid 

additional  covenants  in  the  summary  term  sheet  issued  and/or  agreement 

executed on or after May 7, 2019.  

 

This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section  11  (1)  of 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  Regulation 31 (1) of 

SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 to protect the interest  of  

investors  in  securities  market,  to  promote  the  development  of  and  to regulate the 

securities market.  

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Surabhi Gupta  
General Manager 
Tel. No: 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

