 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ DOS3/ CIR/ P/ 2019/ 70 

 

                              June 13, 2019 

To 
 
All Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) registered with SEBI 
All Debenture Trustees (DTs) registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 

 

Sub: Guidelines for Enhanced Disclosures by Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) 

 

 
1.  In order to further strengthen the disclosures made by CRAs and enhance the rating 

standards, it has been decided to prescribe the following disclosures: 

 

 

I.  Computation of Cumulative Default Rates (CDR) 

 
A.  With a view to aligning the methodology of calculation of default rates with that 
followed  globally  and 
in  partial  modification  of  SEBI  Circular 
CIR/MIRSD/CRA/6/2010  dated  May  3,  2010,    the  default  rates  shall  be 
computed in the following manner: 
 

a.  CDR shall be calculated issuer-wise using the Marginal Default Rate (MDR) 

approach, using monthly static pools. 

b.  The  above  may  be  adjusted  for  rating  withdrawals.  For  securities,  the 
withdrawn rating shall be included in the computation of default rates till the 
completion  of  the  cohort  or  the  maturity  of  the  instrument,  whichever  is 
earlier. Accordingly, all DTs shall continue to report any delays/ default in 
payment on debentures to the CRA(s) having rated the said debenture for 
the lifetime of the instrument, irrespective of the rating on that instrument 
being withdrawn. 

c.  Ratings of non-cooperative issuers shall be included in the cohort under the 

rating category in which the instrument is currently being rated. 
 

B.  Based on the above approach, a CRA shall disclose, on an annual basis, the 
average one-year, two-year and three-year cumulative default rates (based on 
weighted average) each for: 
 

a.  Last 10-financial years period (Long-run average default rates) 
b.  24, 36 and 48 most recent cohorts, respectively (Short-run average default 

rates) 

 

Page 1 of 10 

 

 

C.  The format of the above disclosures is specified at Annexure A. Consequently, 
Annexure B. VII of SEBI Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/ DOP2/CIR/P/2018/86 dated 
May 30, 2018 stands deleted.  

 

D.  The above disclosures shall be made on a consolidated basis for all financial 

instruments rated by a CRA. 

 
E.  Further,  the  historical  data  on  the  default  rates  disclosed  every  year  shall  be 

archived and made available on the website of each CRA for last 10 years. 

 
In order to achieve a consistent approach, CRAs, in consultation with SEBI, shall 
frame a uniform Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in respect of tracking and 
timely recognition of default, which shall be disclosed on the website of each CRA. 

 

Introducing Probability of Default (PD) benchmarks for CRAs 
 
A.  In order to enable investors to discern the performance of a CRA vis-à-vis a 
standardised  PD  benchmark  scale,  CRAs,  in  consultation  with  SEBI,  shall 
prepare and disclose standardized and uniform PD benchmarks for each rating 
category  on  their  website,  for  one-year,  two-year  and  three-year  cumulative 
default rates, both for short-run and long-run.  
 

B.  These benchmarks shall be prepared based on the following key principles: 

 

II. 

III. 

a.  Marginal Default Rate (MDR) approach, using monthly static pool, for last 

10-year period. 

b.  The short-run benchmarks may account for spikes due to economic cycles 
or unforeseen events, and hence, may have a wider band. The same shall 
be computed based on a confidence interval of 99.7% over the weighted 
average  of  1-year,  2-year  and  3-year  default  rates  pertaining  to  last  10-
year period, making adjustments to achieve ordinality, wherever required.  
c.  The long-run benchmarks iron out economic cycles since these are over a 
longer tenure (10-year period) and may, therefore, be narrower. The same 
shall  be  computed  based  on  a  confidence  interval  of  95%  over  the 
weighted  average default rates  (1-year, 2-year and  3-year)  pertaining to 
10-year  period,  making  adjustments  to  achieve  ordinality,  wherever 
required. 

d.  The same may be adjusted for rating withdrawals. For securities, the rating 
shall be included in the computation of default rates till the completion of 
the cohort or the maturity of the instrument, whichever is earlier. 

e.  Ratings of non-cooperative issuers shall be included in the cohort under 

the rating category in which the instrument is currently being rated. 

f.  The PD benchmark for the rating categories AAA, AA and A shall be as 
under, subject to any unexpected legal events/ mitigating circumstances 
impacting the default rates, with certain permitted tolerance levels: 

 

Page 2 of 10 

 

i.  For AAA: 

 

 

ii. 

iii. 

  Zero for 1-year and 2-year default rate.  
  Zero for 3-year default rate, with a tolerance level of 1%. 
For  AA: 
  Zero for 1-year default rate.  
  Zero for 2-year default rate with a tolerance level of 2%. 
For A: 
  Zero for 1-year default rate with a tolerance level of 3%. 
 

g.  For ratings on non-structured instruments, various instruments of an issuer 
with  equal  seniority  level  and  having  same  rating  shall  not  be  included 
separately for default rate calculation. However, various instruments of an 
issuer  having  different  seniority  levels  shall  be  included  as  separate 
instances, subject to a cap of three instances across all rating categories 
put together.  

 

h.  For  ratings  on  structured  instruments,  various  instruments,  issued  by  a 
trust, with the same degree of seniority and hence having same rating shall 
not be  included separately for default rate calculation. However,  various 
instruments,  issued  by  a  trust,  having  different  seniority  levels  shall  be 
included as separate instances. Further, in order to avoid under-estimation 
of  default  rates  in  case  of  significantly  higher  number  of  tranches  of 
differing  seniority  but  same  rating,  a  cap  of  three  tranches  per  rating 
category per issuer may be applied. 

 

C.  The  above  standardised  and  uniform  PD  benchmarks  shall  be  disclosed  on 
the website of each CRA for ratings of long-term and short-term instruments, 
on  a  consolidated  basis  for  all  financial  instruments  rated  by  a  CRA,  by 
December 31, 2019. 
 

D.  CRAs may review their rating methodologies in order to align the same with 

the proposed PD benchmarks. 

 
E.  The above PD benchmarks and tolerance levels may be re-indexed from time 

to time.  

 

IV.  Rating symbol for Instruments having explicit Credit Enhancement feature 

 
A.  SEBI, vide circulars dated May 03, 2010 and June 15, 2011, had mandated 
certain disclosures and standardised the rating symbols in respect of rating of 
structured  finance  products,  namely,  instruments/  pay-outs  resulting  from 
securitization transactions, by using suffix ‘SO’. 
 

 

Page 3 of 10 

 

 

B.  It is observed that CRAs are also assigning ‘SO’ suffix to ratings of instruments 
other than securitized  or asset backed transactions. The  ‘SO’ rating to such 
instruments is based on some form of explicit credit enhancement from a third 
party/  parent/  group  company,  in  the  form  of  corporate  guarantee/  letter  of 
comfort/ pledge of shares, etc. There is a need to differentiate ratings of such 
instruments from the ratings of securitized debt and asset backed transactions. 
It has therefore been decided that: 

 

 

a.  CRAs shall now assign the suffix ‘CE’ (Credit Enhancement) to rating of 
instruments  having  explicit  credit  enhancement.  In  this  regard,  the 
standardised  symbols  and  definitions,  annexed  as  Annexure  B,  shall 
henceforth  be  used  for  new  ratings/  reviews  by  the  CRAs.  For  existing 
outstanding ratings, the CRAs shall:   

 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 

disclose new rating symbols and definitions on their websites; 
update their rating lists on their websites; and  
inform  their  clients  about  the  change  in  the  rating  symbols  
and    definitions    and    specifying    that    this    should    not    be  
construed  as  a  change in the ratings. 
 

b.  Disclosure  of  unsupported  and  supported  ratings  -  To  bring  more 
transparency  and  to  enable  investors  to  understand  the  extent  of  credit 
enhancement  provided  by 
third  party/  parent/  Group  Company, 
disclosures of both the ratings i.e. unsupported ratings without factoring in 
the explicit credit enhancement and supported rating after factoring in the 
explicit  credit  enhancement  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  Press  release. 
Further, the Press Release shall also contain a detailed explanation of all 
the covenants of the instrument. 

 

c.  The  CRAs  shall  devise  a  model  to  assess  the  adequacy  of  credit 
enhancement  structure  under  various  scenarios 
including  stress 
scenarios. Such assessment shall also be disclosed in the press release 
regarding the rating action. 

V.  Disclosure of rating sensitivities in press release 

 
A.  The disclosure of factors to which the rating is sensitive, is critical for the end-
users  to  understand  the  factors  that  would  have  the  potential  to  impact  the 
credit worthiness of the entity. Accordingly, in order to improve transparency, 
the  CRA  shall  have  a  specific  section  on  ‘Rating  Sensitivities’  in  the  Press 
Release  which  shall  explain  the  broad  level  of  operating  and/  or  financial 
performance levels that could trigger a rating change, upward and downward. 
Such  factors  shall  be  disclosed  in  quantitative  terms  to  the  extent  possible, 
discernible to the investors, and should not read like a general risk factor.  
 

 

Page 4 of 10 

VI.  Disclosure on liquidity indicators 

 

 

 
A.  SEBI Circular SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ DOS3/CIR/P/2018/140 dated November 13, 
2018,  inter-alia,  mandated  inclusion  of  a  specific  section  on  Liquidity  in  the 
Press Release, highlighting parameters such as liquid investments, access to 
unutilised  credit  lines,  liquidity  coverage  ratio,  adequacy  of  cash  flows  for 
servicing maturing debt obligation, etc. 

 

B.  In  order  to  make  the  disclosures  meaningful  to  the  end  users,  it  has  been 
decided  to  mandate  disclosure  of  liquidity  indicators  using  standardised 
terminology. Accordingly, CRAs shall, in addition to the disclosures mandated 
vide aforesaid circular, shall also disclose the liquidity indictors using one of 
the following indicators and give an explanation thereon: 

 

 

a.  Superior / Strong 
b.  Adequate 
c.  Stretched 
d.  Poor 

An indicative description for these liquidity indicators is enclosed as Annexure 
C. 
 

VII.  Tracking deviations in bond spreads 

 
A.  SEBI circular No. SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ DOS3/CIR/P/2018/140 dated November 
13,  2018,  inter-alia,  provided  that  CRAs  may  treat  sharp  deviations  in  bond 
spreads of debt instruments vis-à-vis relevant benchmark yield as a material 
event, while reviewing material events. It is reiterated that CRAs shall devise 
a model to track deviations in bond spreads in line with the said circular.  

 

2.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section  11  (1)  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation  20  of  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  Regulations,  1999,  to  protect  the 
interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, 
the securities market. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Surabhi Gupta 
General Manager 
Tel. No: 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 10 

 

ANNEXURE A 

 

ANNEXURE A.1. – Long-run average default rates for long term instruments 

Rating Category   1-Year Default 

Rate 
 

2-year 
Cumulative 
Default Rate 

3-year 
Cumulative 
Default Rate 

AAA 
AA 
A 

BBB 
BB 
B 
C 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

ANNEXURE A.2. – Long-run average default rates for short term instruments 

Rating Category   1-Year Default Rate 

A1+ 
A1 
A2 
A3 
A4 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

ANNEXURE A.3. – Short-run average default rates for long term instruments 

Rating Category   1-Year Default 

Rate 
 

2-year 
Cumulative 
Default Rate 

3-year 
Cumulative 
Default Rate 

AAA 
AA 
A 

BBB 
BB 
B 
C 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 6 of 10 

ANNEXURE A.4. – Short-run average default rates for short term instruments 

 

 

 

Rating Category   1-Year Default Rate 

 

A1+ 
A1 
A2 
A3 
A4 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Page 7 of 10 

 

ANNEXURE B 

 

Rating Symbols and Definitions for Long Term Credit Enhanced Instruments 
 
Long term Credit Enhancement instruments: The instruments with original 
maturity exceeding one year  
 
Rating symbols should have CRA’s first name as prefix. 
 
AAA (CE) - Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree 
of  safety      regarding  timely  servicing  of  financial  obligations.  Such  instruments 
carry lowest credit risk.  
 
AA (CE) - Instruments with this rating are considered to have high degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry very low 
credit risk.  
 
A (CE) - Instruments with this rating are considered to have adequate degree of 
safety  regarding timely servicing of financial  obligations. Such instruments carry 
low credit risk.  
 
BBB (CE) - Instruments with this rating are considered to have moderate degree 
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry 
moderate credit risk.  
 
BB  (CE)  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  moderate  risk  of 
default regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.  
 
B (CE) - Instruments  with this rating  are considered to  have  high  risk of default 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations.   
 
C (CE) - Instruments with this rating are considered to have very high likelihood of 
default regarding timely payment of financial obligations.  
 
D (CE) - Instruments with this rating are in default or are expected to be in default 
soon. 
 
Modifiers {"+" (plus)  / "-"(minus)} can be  used with the rating symbols for 
the  categories  AA  (CE)  to  C  (CE).  The  modifiers  reflect  the  comparative 
standing within the category. 
 
 

 

Page 8 of 10 

 

 

Rating Symbols and Definitions for Short Term Credit Enhanced Instruments 
 
Short  term  Credit  Enhanced  Instruments:  The  instruments  with  original 
maturity of up to one year  
 
Rating symbols should have CRA’s first name as prefix. 
 
A1 (CE) – Instruments with this rating are considered to have very strong degree 
of safety regarding timely payment of financial obligation. Such instruments carry 
lowest credit risk.  
 
A2 (CE)  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  strong  degree  
of  safety  regarding  timely    payment  of  financial  obligation. Such instruments 
carry low credit risk.  
 
A3 (CE) - Instruments with this rating are considered to have moderate degree of 
safety  regarding  timely  payment  of  financial  obligation.    Such  instruments  carry 
higher credit risk as compared to instruments rated in the two higher categories.  
 
A4 (CE) - Instruments with this rating are considered to have minimal degree of 
safety  regarding  timely  payment  of  financial  obligation.  Such  instruments  carry 
very high credit risk and are susceptible to default. 
 
D (CE) - Instruments with this rating are in default or expected to be in default on 
maturity. 
 
Modifier {"+" (plus)} can be used with the rating symbols for the categories 
A1 (CE) to  A4 (CE).  The modifier reflects the comparative standing within 
the category. 

 

Page 9 of 10 

 

 

 

ANNEXURE C 

 

Indicative illustration of usage of descriptors for liquidity assessment 

1.  Liquidity:  Superior/  Strong  -  Liquidity  is  marked  by  strong  accruals  against 
negligible  repayment  obligations  and  liquid  investments  to  the  tune  of  Rs.xxx 
Crore. With a gearing of xx times as of March 31, xxxx, the issuer has sufficient 
gearing headroom, to raise additional debt for its capex. Its unutilized bank lines 
are  more  than  adequate  to  meet  its  incremental  working  capital  needs  over  the 
next one year.  
 

2.  Liquidity:  Adequate  -  Adequate  liquidity  characterized  by  sufficient  cushion  in 
accruals  vis-à-vis  repayment  obligations  and  moderate  cash  balance  of  Rs.xx 
Crore. Its capex requirements are modular and expected to be funded using debt 
of Rs.xx Crore for which it has sufficient headroom. Its bank limits are utilized to 
the extent of 80% and has sought enhancement in bank lines, supported by above 
unity current ratio.  
 

3.  Liquidity:  Stretched  -  Liquidity  is  marked  by  tightly  matched  accruals  to 

repayment obligations, highly utilized bank limits and modest cash balance.  
 

4.  Liquidity:  Poor  -  Poor  liquidity  marked  by  lower  accruals  when  compared  to 
repayment  obligations,  fully  utilized  bank  limits  and  modest  cash  balance.  This 
could constrain the ability of the company to repay is debt obligations on a timely 
basis. 
 
 

 

Page 10 of 10 

