 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/EFD2/CSD/CIR/P/2019/0000000072   

 

 

     June 18, 2019 

 

To, 

 

Whomsoever it may concern 

 

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

 

Subject:   Factors  for  assuring  confidentiality  in  a  settlement  application  filed  under 

Chapter IX of the SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018. 

 

A  person  who  may  have  committed  a  violation  of  securities  laws,  other  than  those  detailed  in 

Tables VII to IX of Schedule II of the SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018, may 

make  full  disclosure  of  such  violation  and  also  provide  substantial  assistance 

in 

examination/investigation/inspection/inquiry/audit/any other proceedings (hereinafter referred 

to  as  “examination  proceedings”)  that  is  initiated/is  ongoing/yet  to  be  initiated  by  the  Board, 

against any person in respect of violation of the securities laws for the purpose of seeking grant 

of confidentiality and reduced settlement charges.  

 

2.  In  order  to  assure  confidentiality  to  an  applicant  who  provides  assistance  in  examination 

proceedings, the Board may assess the information/assistance/co-operation rendered during 

such examination proceedings by inter alia considering, the following factors:- 

 

(A)  ASSISTANCE  PROVIDED:  -  Nature  of  co-operation,  based  on,  but  not  limited  to  the 

following,- 

(i)  Whether the co-operation was provided before he or she had any knowledge of any 

pending examination proceedings  and related action; 

 

Page 1 of 4 

Explanation- A ‘related action’ is a judicial or administrative action in respect of the 

same cause of action brought by: 

a.  The Union or State Government; 

b.  A regulatory authority established by or under any law; 

c.  A self-regulatory organization; or  

d.  A recognized stock exchange. 

(ii)  Whether the applicant was the first person to report the misconduct to the Board or 

to offer co-operation and such co-operation was truthful, complete and reliable; 

(iii)  Whether the co-operation was voluntary or pursuant to the terms of an agreement 

with any other law enforcement or regulatory organization/agency; 

(iv)   Whether  the  co-operation  resulted  in  substantial  assistance  in  conclusion  of  such 

examination proceedings and resulted in conserving of time and resources; 

(v) 

 Whether  any  hardship  was  experienced  by  the  applicant  as  a  result  of  such  co-

operation;  

(vi)  Whether  the  applicant  provided  non-privileged  information,  which  was  not 

requested by the Board but otherwise might not have been discovered; 

(vii)  Whether  the  co-operation  was  in  the  form  of  original  information  (sufficiently 

specific and credible) to cause the Board to commence an examination proceedings 

or  to  inquire  concerning  different  conduct  as  part  of  a  current  examination 

proceedings; 

(viii)  Whether the Board brought a successful judicial or civil and administrative action 

based on the original information. 

Explanation – For information to be considered original, it may be:- 

i.  Derived from an independent knowledge and analysis of the person providing, 

but not from confidential communication protected under the Indian Evidence 

Act, 1872 (1 of 1872); 

a.  ‘Independent knowledge’ means information in possession of the applicant that 

is  not  derived  from  publicly  available  sources  but  may  include  his 

experiences,  communications  and  observations  in  his  business  or  social 

interactions;  

b.  ‘Independent  analysis’  means  the  applicant’s  own  analysis,  done  alone  or  in 

combination  with  others.  Analysis  means  examination  and  evaluation  of 

Page 2 of 4 

 

information  that  may  be  publicly  available,  but  which  should  reveal 

information that is not generally known or available to the public. 

ii.  Not  derived  from  an  allegation  made  in  a  judicial  or  civil  and  administrative 

hearing/in  a  governmental  report/hearing/audit/investigation,  unless  the 

applicant is the source of such information.  

(ix)   Whether the applicant encouraged/authorized others to assist the Board who might 

not have otherwise participated in the examination proceedings. 

 

(B) GRAVITY OF THE SUBJECT MATTER:-  

(i)  The nature and type of defaults under the securities laws;  

(ii)  The age and repetitive nature of defaults. 

(iii)  The adverse effect upon investors due to the defaults involved. 

 

(C)  FACTORS  WHICH  MAY  ADVERSELY  AFFECT  THE  APPLICANT’S  CLAIM  FOR 

CONFIDENTIALITY:- 

(i)  Past history of securities laws violations by the applicant; 

(ii)  The  extent  of  involvement  of  the  applicant  in  the  violation  of  securities  laws 

assessed in the context of the individual’s knowledge and position of responsibility 

at the relevant time; 

(iii)  The degree to which the applicant tolerated illegal activity. Whether the applicant 

had taken adequate steps to prevent the violations from occurring or continuing, 

such  as  notifying  the  Board  or  other  appropriate  law  enforcement  agency  of  the 

misconduct or, in the case of a violation involving a business organization, notifying 

members of the management who are not involved in the misconduct; 

(iv)  Whether  the  applicant  is/was  an  auditor/accountant/compliance  officer;  an 

associated person of a regulated entity (such as a broker or dealer); a fiduciary for 

other persons regarding financial matters; an officer or director of listed companies; 

or  a  member  of  senior  management  and  hence  ought  to  have  exercised  a  higher 

standard of diligence but failed to do so. 

(v)  The plausibility of the reasons for the applicant to delay reporting of the violations 

of the securities laws;  

 

Page 3 of 4 

(vi)  The degree to which the applicant knowingly interfered with an entity’s established 

legal, compliance or audit procedures to prevent or delay detection of the reported 

violation; 

(vii)  The efforts undertaken by the applicant to remediate/mitigate/indemnify the harm 

caused by the violations;  

(viii) The  sanctions  imposed  on  the  applicant  by  other  Central/State  authorities  and 

industry  organizations/professional  bodies  for  the  defaults  which  are  the  subject 

matter in the examination proceedings; 

 

3.  Applicants  desirous  of  filing  a  settlement  application  under  Chapter  IX  of  the  SEBI 

(Settlement Proceedings) regulations, 2018 may take note of the aforesaid at the time of filing 

the application with the Board. 

 

4.  This Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of Section 

11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 19 of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018. 

 

5.  This circular shall come into force with immediate effect. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Biju S. 
Chief General Manager 
Enforcement Department 2 
Settlement Division 
+91-22-26449350. 
bijus@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 4 of 4 

