 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

  

              June 18, 2019 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2019/71  
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges having Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Design  of  Commodity  Indices  and  Product  Design  for  Futures  on 
Commodity Indices 
 
1.  In the Union Budget Speech for the year 2016-17, the Hon’ble Finance Minister 
had announced that “new derivatives products will be  developed by SEBI in the 
Commodity  Derivatives  Market”.  Introduction  of  new  commodity  derivatives 
products has been a subject of deliberation as it is considered to be conducive for 
the  overall  development  of  the  commodity  derivatives  market,  attracting  broad 
based participation, enhancing liquidity, facilitating hedging and bringing in more 
depth to the commodity derivatives market. 
 

2.  In  this  regard,  the  Commodity  Derivatives  Advisory  Committee  (CDAC)  of  SEBI 
had  inter-alia  recommended  introduction  of  options,  derivatives  on  commodity 
indices and at later stage products such as weather and freight derivatives. SEBI 
has already permitted commodity options in Indian commodity derivatives markets. 
Based on the above recommendation of CDAC and comments received on SEBI 
consultation paper dated January 16, 2019 on design of commodity indices and 
product design for futures on commodity indices, it has now been decided to permit 
recognised  stock  exchanges  with  commodity  derivative  segment  to  introduce 
futures on commodity indices. Construction of commodity indices shall conform to 
the guidelines prescribed in  Annexure I and futures on commodity indices  shall 
conform to the product design given in Annexure II. 

 

3.  The  recognised  stock  exchanges  with  commodity  derivative  segment  willing  to 
start trading in futures on commodity indices shall take prior approval of SEBI for 
launching such contracts. Exchanges will have to submit at-least past 3 years data 
of the index constructed along with data on monthly volatility, roll over yield for the 
month  and  monthly  return  while  seeking  approval  from  SEBI.  On  approval, 
exchanges shall also publish the above data on their website before launch of the 
products. 

 

Page 1 of 8 

 

 

 

4.  Exchanges  shall  make  necessary  disclosures  such  as  open  interest  of  top  10 
largest participants/group of participants in index futures (both long and short) and 
the details of their combined open interest in underlying constituents etc., in line 
with  SEBI  circular  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2019/08  dated  January  04, 
2019 regarding “Disclosures by Stock Exchanges for commodity derivatives”   to 
the public. 

 
5.  The Exchanges shall augment their monitoring and surveillance capacity. 
 
6.  The provisions of this circular shall be effective from the date of this circular.  
 
7.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

8.  Exchanges are advised to:  
 

i.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations. 
ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular 

 

9.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 

Vikas Sukhwal 
General Manager  
Division of New Products and Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  

 

 

Page 2 of 8 

 

 

Annexure I 

 

Design of Commodity Indices 

 

1.  Types of Indices:  

 
Composite (i.e., comprising of commodities from more than one sector) as well 
as  sectoral  indices,  meeting  the  eligibility  criteria  prescribed  herein  are 
permitted.  For  being  eligible  to  launch  derivatives  upon,  Exchanges  shall 
ensure  that  indices  are  compliant  with  IOSCO  Principles  for  Financial 
Benchmarks and make necessary disclosures in this regard on their websites. 
Further,  exchanges  shall  also  ensure  that  an  index  is  not  susceptible  to 
manipulation and shall make mandatory disclosure with respect to the Index 
design parameters on their website. 
 

2.  Name:  

 
The  name  of  index  should  include  the  name  of  the  exchange  on  which  the 
constituents of index are traded. 
 

3.  Eligibility criteria:  

 
Constituents of the commodity index shall meet the criteria given below –  
 

a.  Constituent futures contracts should be in existence on the  respective 
exchange  for  at  least  previous  twelve  months.  (All  constituents  shall 
meet this criterion) 
 

b.  The contracts have traded for at least 90% of the trading days during 

the previous twelve months. (All constituents shall meet this criterion) 

 

c.  The  average  daily  turnover  of  the  constituent  futures  contracts  during 

the previous twelve months is at least :  

i.  INR 75 Crore for agricultural and agri-processed commodities  
ii.  INR 500 Crore for all other commodities.  

(Constituents having at least 80% combined weightage in the index shall 
meet  this  criterion  and  no  single  constituent  not  meeting  this  criterion 
shall have a weightage of more than 15% in the index) 
 

 

Page 3 of 8 

 

However, the above turnover requirements shall not be applicable for sectoral 
indices subject to exchanges ensuring that constituent futures have adequate 
liquidity. 

 

 

4.  Re-balancing:  

 
a.  The  index  constituents  and  their  weightages  shall  be  at  least  annually 
selected and rebalanced. Exchanges shall  decide and announce/disclose 
the constituents and weightages of the index at least three months before 
the  actual  re-balancing  of  the  index.  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that 
constituents meet the eligibility criteria as given in para 3 while deciding the 
constituents and weightages for rebalancing. 
 

b.  However,  in  case  of  an  extraordinary  event  such  as  ban  /  suspension  of 
trading of an index constituent, following action shall be taken by exchange- 
(excluding  banned/suspended 

i.  Reselection  of 

commodities 

commodities) 

ii.  Recalculation of weightage  

Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  constituents  meet  the  eligibility  criteria  as 
given in para 3. 
 

c.  The index changes shall be implemented only after market hours. 

 

5.  Weights of constituents:  

 
a. 

b. 

Index constituents will be assigned weightages based on their production 
value  and  liquidity  value  with  appropriate  weightages  pre-decided  by 
exchange for production value and liquidity value (provided that weightage 
of either shall not be less than 25%). The liquidity value will be total traded 
value of the index constituent on the exchange platform in the preceding 
twelve months prior to the construction / announcement of re-balancing of 
the index. The production value will be average of the value of deliverable 
supply  of  underlying  commodity  for  past  five  financial  years  prior  to  the 
construction / announcement of re-balancing of the index. 
 
In order to ensure that no single commodity dominates a composite index, 
maximum weightage for any index constituent in a composite index shall 
be capped at 30% and minimum weightage shall be at least 1%. However, 
these weightage caps shall not be applicable for sectoral indices subject to 
exchanges  ensuring  that  any  single  constituent  does  not  get  heavily 
weighted in an index. 

 

Page 4 of 8 

 

In case of an index having multiple commodity groups, exchanges may put 
in place maximum and minimum weightages for a commodity group. 

c. 

 

6.  Computation and roll over: 

 
a.  The  index  value  shall  ordinarily  be  computed  using  the  nearest  expiry 
futures prices of the index constituents so that prices of liquid contracts are 
used for index construction.  
 

b.  Exchange shall put in place a transparent methodology (including the dates 
of roll over, the various constituents which will be rolled over from nearest 
to next expiry, weights of nearest and next expiry contracts during each of 
the roll over day for such constituents etc.) for gradual roll over of the index 
constituents to next expiry taking into account the liquidity in the underlying 
nearest /next expiry contracts. 

 

7.  Real time dissemination:  

 
The index value shall be updated on real time continuous basis and shall be 
displayed on the Exchange website. 

8.  Dissemination of methodology:  

 
Exchange  shall  ensure  a  transparent  methodology  of  index  construction, 
calculation, dates and details of roll over, dates and other details of periodic 
rebalancing, report on compliance with IOSCO principles etc., and disseminate 
the same on its website. 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 8 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure II 

 

Product Design for Futures on Commodity Indices 

 

1.  Trading Hours:  

 
The trading hours will be in line with the trading hours for constituent futures of 
underlying index. In case trading hours vary for constituents, trading hours for 
index derivatives shall be kept such that it is available for trading whenever any 
of the constituent futures contract is available for trading. However, on the day 
of its expiry, Index futures contract shall expire at 5:00 pm.  
 

2.  Size of the Contract:  

 
At least INR 5 lakh at the time of introduction in the market.  

3.  Tenor of the Contract:  

 
To begin with, maximum tenor of contracts shall be 12 months. 

4.  Available Contracts:  

 
Stock Exchanges shall decide the number of contracts, duration of contracts 
and launch calendar based on market requirements. 

5.  Position Limits: 

 

a.  Client level- Higher of:  

5% of the total open interest in the market in commodity index futures 
Or  
1000 lots   

b.  Trading Member level- Higher of:  

15% of the total open interest in the market in commodity index futures 
Or  
10000 lots  
  

6.  Daily Price Limit:  

 
Stock  Exchanges  shall  decide  appropriate  daily  price  limits  for  commodity 
index futures based on historical price movement of the indices. 
 

 

Page 6 of 8 

 

7.  Settlement Mechanism:  

 

 
Final Settlement for futures on commodity index shall be done in cash.  
 

8.  Final Settlement Price:  

 
The Final Settlement Price shall be the underlying index price arrived at based 
on Volume Weightage Average Price of the constituents of the underlying index 
between 4:00 pm and 5:00 pm on the expiry day of the Index futures contract. 
{In absence of trading in any constituent during last one hour, exchange shall 
determine  appropriate  methodology  (in  line  with  the  methodology  for 
determining daily closing price) to arrive at appropriate price of the constituent 
to be used for determining index price}. 
 

9.  Expiry date:  

 
The  stock  exchanges  shall  have  the  flexibility  to  set  the  expiry  date  for 
contracts. However, the expiry date may not coincide with the roll-over period 
of the constituents of the underlying index.  
 

10. Application:  

 
Before  launching  any  futures  contract  on  an  index,  a  Recognised  Stock 
Exchange  with  commodity  derivative  segment  shall  submit  its  proposal  with 
contract specifications and risk management framework to SEBI, for approval. 
 

11. Risk Management Framework:  

 
Exchanges shall adopt risk management framework compliant with the CPMI-
IOSCO Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures, including the following: 
 

a.  Margining model and quantum of initial  margins: Exchanges shall 
adopt  initial  margin  models  and  parameters  that  are  risk-based  and 
generate  margin  requirements  sufficient  to  cover  potential  future 
exposure to participants/clients in the interval between the last margin 
collection  and  the  close  out  of  positions  following  a  participant/client 
default. The model should:  

i.  use a conservative estimate of the time horizons for close out of 

the positions (including in stressed market conditions), 

ii.  have an appropriate method for measuring credit exposure that 

accounts for relevant risk factors and portfolio effects, and 

 

Page 7 of 8 

 

 

iii.  to  the  extent  practicable  and  prudent,  limit  the  need  for 

destabilising, pro-cyclical changes.  
 

Initial margin requirement shall be adequate to cover at least 99% VaR 
(Value at Risk) and Margin Period of Risk (MPOR) shall be at least two 
days. In case of portfolio based margining, this requirement applies to 
each portfolio’s distribution of future exposure.   
Accordingly,  exchanges  shall  fix  prudent  price  scan  range,  and/or 
plausible changes in any other parameters impacting futures price. 
  

b.  Margining at client level: Exchanges shall impose initial margins at the 

level of portfolio of individual client. 
 

c.  Real  time  computation:  Though  the  margining  models  may  update 
various scenarios of parameter changes (underlying price, volatility etc.) 
at  discrete  time  points  each  day  (at  least  every  two  hours),  the  latest 
available  scenarios  shall  be  applied  to  client  portfolios  on  a  real  time 
basis. 

 

 

 

Page 8 of 8 

