CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

   June 20, 2019 

              

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2019/73 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers,  
All Recognised Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations having 
Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
IPF Trusts of Recognised Stock Exchanges 
 
Sir / Madam,  

 

 
Sub:  Credit  of  Penalty  for  short-collection/non-collection  of  Margins  on 

Commodity Derivatives Segments to Core SGF 

 

 

1.  SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/80 dated September 07, 
2016 prescribed mechanism for levying penalties on short-collection/non-collection 
of Margins. Para ‘3.x’ of the said circular stipulated that all the penalties collected 
as prescribed therein shall be credited to the Investor Protection Fund (IPF) of the 
Exchange. 
 

2.  Regulation 32 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges And Clearing 

Corporations) Regulations, 2018 (SECC Regulations) prescribes the following:- 

Penalties  levied  by  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing 
corporation  shall  be  credited  to  its  Investor  Protection  Fund  or  the  Fund  as 
specified in regulation 37, as the case may be. 

 
3.  With regard to the above, it has been noted that while a few Clearing Corporations 
(CCs)/Exchanges are crediting the aforementioned penalties to Core SGF, others 
are crediting the same to IPF. 
 

4.  In this regard, in order to bring uniformity and make it compliant with the aforesaid 
provisions of the SECC Regulations, it is hereby clarified that all penalties levied 
on short-collection/non-collection of Margins as prescribed by SEBI Circular dated 
September 07, 2016 shall be credited to Core SGF only. Thus para ‘3.x’ of SEBI 
circular dated September 07, 2016 stands modified accordingly. 
 

 

Page 1 of 2 

5.  Further, it is also directed that penalties, if any, on short-collection/non-collection 
of  Margins  for  commodity  derivatives  segments  levied  by  CCs/Exchanges  that 
have already been transferred to IPF Trust, the same shall be transferred to Core 
SGF, effective from the day on which CCs started clearing function for commodity 
derivatives segment. For this purpose, the penalty amounts to be  so transferred 
to the Core SGF may be deemed to have been levied, collected and transferred by 
the respective CC with effect from the date from which the said CC commenced 
clearing functions for commodity derivatives segment. 

 

 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 
market. 
 

7.  This circular shall be effective from the date of the circular. 

 

8.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 
 
 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
 
Prasad Jagadale 
General Manager  
Division of Risk Management 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
prasadj@sebi.gov.in  

 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

