 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

  

                July 26, 2019 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2019/83 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges having Commodity Derivatives Segment 
All Recognized Clearing Corporations having Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Staggered Delivery Period in Commodity futures contracts 
 
1.  SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/90 dated September 21, 
2016  had  inter-alia  specified  the  staggered  delivery  framework  for  commodity 
futures contracts. The applicable staggered delivery periods for various commodity 
futures  contracts  as  on  the  date  of  the  above  circular  were  also  continued.  It  is 
observed that currently there is no uniformity in the length of staggered delivery 
period  for  commodity  futures  contracts  across  exchanges  even  for  the  same 
commodities. 

 
2.  Based on the representations received from exchanges and deliberations thereon, 
following revised norms for staggered delivery {replacing the norms with respect 
to the staggered delivery (para 3(a)) prescribed vide circular dated September 21, 
2016} are prescribed:  
 
2.1. Definition: Staggered delivery period is the period, beginning few working days 
prior  to  expiry  of  any  contract  and  ending  with  expiry,  during  which 
sellers/buyers  having  open  position  may  submit  an  intention  to  give/take 
delivery.  
  

2.2. All compulsory delivery commodity futures contracts (agriculture commodities 
as  well  as  non-agriculture  commodities)  shall  have  a  staggered  delivery 
period. 

 

2.3. The  minimum  duration  of  staggered  delivery  period  shall  be  at  least  five 

working days.   
  

2.4. Exchanges shall have the flexibility to set higher duration of staggered delivery 
period for any commodity futures contract, as deemed fit, taking into account 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

various  factors  such  as  historical  open  interest,  volume  near  expiry  etc...  In 
this regard, for the benefit of the market participants, all the exchanges shall 
jointly  prepare  and  publish  a  detailed 
framework  outlining  various 
circumstances  and  factors  which  would  generally  require  longer  duration  of 
staggered delivery period in any commodity. 

 

 

2.5. In  the  interest  of  trade  and  public,  SEBI  or exchange may exercise  its  
due discretion  in  modifying  the  aforesaid  staggered delivery period at  any 
time. 

 

2.6. Framework: 

 
  Seller/buyer  having  open  position  shall  have  an  option,  of  submitting  an 
intention of giving/taking delivery, on any day during the staggered delivery 
period.   

  On each day (except for the expiry day), Exchange shall allocate intentions 
received to give delivery during the day, to buyers having open long position 
as  per  random  allocation  methodology  to  ensure  that  all  buyers  have  an 
equal  opportunity  of  being  selected  to  receive  delivery  irrespective  of  the 
size or value of the position. However, preference may be given to buyers 
who have marked an intention of taking delivery, which may be based on 
aspects such as location, quality etc...  

  Pay-in and pay-out for the allocated deliveries shall happen within 2 working 

days after allocation.  

  All  open  positions  after  expiry  of  the  contract  shall  result  in  compulsory 
delivery  and  be  settled  at  Final  Settlement  Price  (FSP)  of  the  respective 
contract and pay-in and pay-out shall happen latest by the 2nd working day 
after expiry.  

 

2.7. Exchanges  shall  start  imposing  pre-expiry  margin  (as  prescribed  vide  SEBI 
circular  CIR/CDMRD/DRMP/01/2015  dated  October  01,  2015)  latest  by  the 
start of the staggered delivery period. 

 
3.  To comply with the provisions of this circular, Exchanges shall appropriately modify 
the contract specifications (if required) and implement the changes in all contracts 
(whether running or yet to be launched) expiring after three months from the date 
of this circular. 
 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

 

5.  Exchanges are advised to:  
 

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular 

 

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 
 

Yours faithfully, 

Vikas Sukhwal 
General Manager  
Division of New Products and Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 3 of 3 

