 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

August 02, 2019 

SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/CIR/P/2019/86 
 
To  
All  Intermediaries registered with SEBI (except Stock Brokers and Depository 
Participants)  
All recognized Stock Exchanges 
All recognized Commodity Exchanges  
All Depositories 
All Mutual Funds 
All Alternate Investment Funds 
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Streamlining  issuance  of  SCORES  Authentication  for  SEBI  registered 
intermediaries 
 
1.  Please refer to Circular No. CIR/OIAE/1/2014 dated December 18, 2014 where-in 
SEBI  had  directed  all  listed  companies  and  SEBI  registered  intermediaries 
(excluding  Stock  Brokers and Depository Participants) to send their details as per 
Form-A  and  Form-B  respectively,  annexed  to  the  said  Circular,  to  SEBI  in  hard  
copy  and  by  email  to  scores@sebi.gov.in  in order to obtain  SCORES  user  id  
and  password.  
 
Any  existing  or  new  listed  company  or  SEBI  registered  intermediary,  not  having 
SCORES user id and password were also required to obtain the same. 
 

2.  In partial modification of the abovementioned circular, the generation of SCORES 
user  id  and  password  has  been  automated  for  all  new  SEBI  registered 
intermediaries.  This  has  been  done  to  streamline  the  process  of  providing 
SCORES credentials in the interest of investors. 

 
3.  SCORES user  id  and password  details  shall  be  sent to all  new  SEBI  registered 
intermediaries, through an auto-generated e-mail, upon completion of process of 
online grant of registration by SEBI.  

 
4.  The SCORES user id and password details shall be sent to the  e-mail id of the 
Contact Person/Compliance Officer as provided in the online Registration Form. In 
view of the same, newly registered intermediaries are no longer required to submit 
Form-B, as provided in Circular No. CIR/OIAE/1/2014 dated December 18, 2014, 
to SEBI. 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 
5.  The  primary  e-mail  address  in  SCORES  is  the  e-mail  ID  where  all  notifications 
related to SCORES complaints are sent to the SEBI registered intermediary.  All 
existing and new SEBI registered intermediaries will now be able to update their 
primary e-mail address and registered address on their own. 

 
6.  All  listed  companies  will  continue  to  follow  the  process,  as  provided  in 
CIR/OIAE/1/2014 dated December 18, 2014, for obtaining SCORES user id and 
password. 

 
7.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  
interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  
to  regulate  the  securities market.  

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Medha Sonparote 
General Manager 
Investor Grievance Division  

Office of Investor Assistance and Education      

Tel No. 022 26449312 
Email id -  medhad@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

 

