 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

  

              July 26, 2019 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2019/84 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges having Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Guidelines  for  Liquidity  Enhancement  Scheme  (LES)  in  Commodity 
Derivatives Contracts 
 
1.  SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2018/55 dated March 26, 2018 
had  issued  guidelines  for  LES  in  Commodity  Derivatives  Contracts  subject  to 
certain  conditions  stipulated  vide  Circular  No.  CIR/MRD/DP/14/2014  dated  April 
23, 2014. 
  

2.  The manner in  which  exchanges can  provide LES  under the  extant circular  No. 

CIR/MRD/DP/14/2014 dated April 23, 2014 is as under: 

 

 

‘5.1.  Discount in fees, adjustment in fees in other segments or cash payment  - 
The incentives  during  a  financial  year  shall  not  exceed  25%  of  the  
net  profits  or 25% of  the free  reserves  of  the  stock  exchange,  whichever  
is  higher,  as per the audited financial statements of the preceding financial 
year. 

5.2.  Shares,  including  options  and  warrants,  of  the  stock  exchange - The  
shares  that  may  accrue  on  exercise  of  warrants  or  options,  given  as 
incentives under all  liquidity  enhancement  scheme,  during  a  financial  
year,  shall  not  exceed 25%  of  the  issued  and  outstanding  shares  of  
the  stock  exchange  as  on  the last  day  of  the  preceding  financial  year.  
Further,  the stock  exchange  shall ensure  that  this  is  in  compliance  with  
the    Securities    Contracts    (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 
Corporations) Regulations, 2012 at all times.' 
 

3.  An exchange in early years of its formation/commencement of business may not 
be able to generate profits or have free reserves from business operations. In this 
regard, it has now been decided to exempt such exchanges, during their first five 
years  of  operation  from  the  date  of  SEBI’s  approval  for  commencement  / 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

recommencement of their business, from the applicability of clauses 5.1 and 5.2 
of said SEBI  circular No.  CIR/MRD/DP/14/2014 dated April 23, 2014, subject to 
adherence to the following conditions: 
3.1. The yearly incentives that  such an exchange can earmark for LES shall not 
exceed 25% of the audited net-worth of the said exchange as on the last day 
of the previous financial year. 

3.2. Such  exchange  shall  create  a  reserve  specifically  to  meet 

its  LES 
incentives/expenses and transfer funds to such reserve accordingly. However, 
such reserves shall not be included in the calculation of Exchange net worth. 
3.3. Such  exchange  however  shall  continuously  comply  with  the  minimum  net-
worth requirement as per Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges 
and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018.  
 

4.  The provisions of this circular shall be effective from the date of this circular.  

 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

6.  Exchanges are advised to:  
 

i.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations. 
ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular 

 

7.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 

Vikas Sukhwal 
General Manager  
Division of New Products and Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 2 of 2 

