 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

  

          August 07, 2019 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2019/89 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges having Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Sub: Product Advisory Committee 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
1.  In  order  to  bring  transparency  in  the  design  process  for  commodity  derivatives 
contract so that it caters to the needs of the physical market participants and based 
on the advice of the Commodity Derivatives Advisory Committee (CDAC), it has 
been  decided  that  each  recognised  stock  exchange  dealing  in  commodity 
derivatives segment shall constitute a Product Advisory Committee (PAC) for each 
group/complex  of  commodities  having  common  stakeholders/value  chain 
participants, on which derivatives are traded or being proposed to be traded on the 
exchange.  
 
1.1. Terms of Reference 

 

The PAC shall be consulted for the following: 
 
  Contract design on new commodities and review of design of existing contracts, 

to ensure that contract specifications represent the industry’s needs: 

o  alignment  of  quality/quantity  specifications  of  the  product  with  the 

physical market 

o  choice of basis and additional delivery centers 
o  appropriate premium/discount for additional deliverable quality/ delivery 

at additional delivery center, etc. 

  Discussion on the “State of the Markets for the commodity” at every meeting.  
  Review  of  the  delivery  centres  as  well  as  recommendations  with  respect  to 

modifications of delivery centres. 

  Review  of  suggestions/feedback/complaints  received  by 

the  exchange 

regarding the commodity/contract and action taken thereon. 

  Performance review of the existing contracts on various parameters. 
  Any other related matter thereof. 
 
Exchange shall have the right to accept, reject or modify any recommendations 
made to it by the PAC, by recording the reasons thereof. 

 
 
 
 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

1.2. Composition 

 

a)  The  PAC  shall  have  a  balanced  representation  from  amongst  the  following  

categories of stakeholders: 

  Representatives from Trade Associations representing various value chain 

participants 

  Representatives  from  various  Stakeholders  and  value  chain  participants 
such  as  producers,  traders,  consumers,  Farmers  &  Farmers  Producers 
Organisations  (FPOs)/Cooperative  societies 
in  case  of  agricultural 
commodities, SMEs/MSMEs etc. 

  Representative(s) from warehousing/ assaying sector 
 
  Representative(s)  from  financial  sector  (such  as  Financial  Institutions, 

Independent Expert(s) in the specific commodity group 

brokers, etc.) 

  Representative(s)  from  Exchange/  clearing  corporation  responsible  for 

specific commodity. 

b)  Each  PAC  meeting  shall  be  headed  by  a  Chairman  (who  shall  be  an 
independent  person  with  experience  in  the  specific  commodity)  selected  as 
such for the meeting based on attendees’ choice. PAC shall have an exchange 
executive as Vice Chairman for administrative coordination/decision.  

 
1.3. Proceeding of meetings 

 

a)  The  PAC  shall meet at  least  twice  a  year  and more frequently  as and  when 

required. 
 

b)  The Exchange shall prepare the agenda for the meeting based on the views 
and requirements of value chain participants and also taking into account any 
suggestions/feedback/complaints  received  by  the  exchange  regarding  the 
commodity/contract. 
 

c)  In  the  PAC  meetings  at  least  50%  members  (excluding  representative  from 
exchange/Clearing Corporation) shall be present, including its chairman or vice 
chairman (acting chairman). 

 
1.4. Disclosure 

 

For each PAC, the exchange shall make following disclosures on its website: 

  Composition of Committee- Name of the member, Organisation, Sector 
  Terms and reference of the Committee 
  The  Committee  shall  be  at  liberty  to  publicise  agenda  items  with  the 
Exchange’s prior concurrence in order to encourage market participants to 
contribute their point of view.  

 

 

 

 
 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

1.5. Confidentiality and Conflicts of Interest  

 

a)  PAC  members  must  ensure  that,  unless  outside  consultation  is  specifically 
agreed,  all  matters  discussed  and  all  materials  and  data  made  available  to 
them in respect of their Committee-related activities are kept confidential at all 
times.    Exchange  shall  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  to  be  adhered  to  as  a 
member of the Committee. 
 

b)  If there is a conflict of interest arising for a member out of any matter proposed 
to be discussed at a Committee meeting or a matter that comes for discussion 
in the course, in a Committee meeting, such committee member must absent 
himself from  discussion  on  that matter  and  the minutes of  the meeting  must 
record the same.  

 
2.  There should be an annual review of the  PAC’s performance by the Regulatory 

Oversight Committee of the Stock Exchange. 

 

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the  Securities and  Exchange  Board of  India  Act  1992  to protect the  interests of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 
4.  The circular would be effective from one month from the date of the circular. 

 

5.  Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular.  

 

6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
General Manager  
Division of New Products and Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 3 of 3 

