 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

August 19, 2019 

SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL2/CIR/P/2019/94 
 
To 
 
All the Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Non-compliance  with  certain  provisions  of  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 (“ICDR Regulations”) 

 

1.  SEBI issued a Circular bearing reference number CIR/CFD/DIL/57/2017 dated June 15, 
2017, specifying the fines to be imposed by the Stock Exchanges for non-compliance 
with certain provisions of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009. 

2.  Present Circular is issued in supersession to the aforesaid Circular bearing reference 

number CIR/CFD/DIL/57/2017 dated June 15, 2017. 

3.  Regulation 297 and 298 of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2018, inter alia specify liability of 
a listed entity or any other person for contravention and actions which can be taken by 
the respective stock exchange, the revocation of such actions and consequences for 
failure to pay fine in the manner specified by SEBI. 

4.  In  pursuance  of  the  above,  for  non-compliance  with  certain  provisions  of  ICDR 

Regulations, stock exchanges shall impose fines on the listed entities, as under: 

S/N 

Violation 

Regulation 
/ Schedule 

Fine 

1. 

Delay in completion of a bonus issue : 

295 (1) 

i.  Within 15 days from the date of approval 
of the issue by its board of directors – in 
cases  where  shareholders’  approval  for 
capitalization  of  profits  or  reserves  for 
making the bonus issue is not required. 

ii.  Within  2  months  from  the  date  of  the 
meeting of its board of directors wherein 
the  decision  to  announce  bonus  issue 
was 
to  shareholders’ 
approval  –  in  cases  where  issuer  is 
required  to  seek  shareholders’  approval 

taken  subject 

₹  20,000  per 
day  of  non-
compliance 
till the date of 
compliance. 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 

2. 

3. 

for capitalization of profits or reserves for 
making the bonus issue. 

Listed entities not completing the conversion of 
convertible  securities  and  allotting  the  shares, 
within  18 months from the  date  of  allotment of 
convertible securities. 

162 

As per Schedule XIX - Para (2) under heading 
Application  for  listing,  it  is  stated  that:  “The 
issuer shall make an application for listing, from 
the date of allotment, within such period as may 
be specified by the Board from time to time, to 
one or more recognized stock exchange(s)”. 

Schedule 
XIX – Listing 
of Securities 
on 
Stock 
Exchanges. 

 

as 

Same 
above. 

Same as 
above. 

In regard to above, it is specified that Issuer shall 
make an application to the exchange/s for listing 
in case of further issue of equity shares from the 
date  of  allotment  within  20  days  (unless 
otherwise specified). 

4. 

Listed  entities  shall  make  an  application  for 
trading approval to the stock exchange/s within 
7 working days from the date of grant of listing 
approval by the stock exchange/s. 

Same as 
above. 

- 

Credit of Fine: 

5.  The amount of fine realized as per the above structure shall continue to be credited to 

the “Investor Protection Fund” of the concerned stock exchange. 

6.  The recognized stock exchange shall disseminate on their website the names of non-
compliant listed entities that are liable to pay fine for non-compliance, the amount of fine 
imposed, details of fines received, etc. 

7.  The recognized stock exchange shall issue notices to the non-compliant listed entities 
to ensure compliance and collect fine as per this circular within 15 days from the date 
of such notice.  

8.  Needless to state, if any non-compliant listed entity fails to pay the fine, the recognized 
stock exchange may initiate appropriate enforcement action, including prosecution in 
furtherance of regulation 298 of ICDR, 2018. 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

Bonus Issue Delays: 

9.  With respect to bonus issue delays, it is clarified that : 

 

a)  The approvals for the listing and trading of promoters’ bonus shares may be granted 
by the Stock Exchange, only after payment of the requisite fine by the listed entity. 

b)  However,  the  approvals  for  the  listing  and  trading  of  bonus  shares  allotted  to 
persons other than the promoter(s) may be granted in the interest of the investors, 
subject to compliance with other requirements. 

10. This circular will be applicable from the date of issue of the circular. 

11. The Stock Exchange are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of 

listed entities and also to disseminate the same on its website. 

12. This  circular  is  issued  under  regulation  299  of  ICDR  Regulations  and  in  exercise  of 
power conferred under Section 11(1) of the Sebi Act 1992, to protect the interests of 
investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, the securities 
market. 

13. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework/Circulars”.  

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Amy Durga Menon 

Deputy General Manager 

Corporate Finance Department 

+91 22 2644 9584 

Email - amydurga@sebi.gov.in 

Page 3 of 3 

 

