 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    October 10, 2019 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP1/CIR/P/2019/106 
 
To,  
 
1.  All recognized Stock Exchanges 
2.  All Listed Companies through recognized Stock Exchanges  
3.  All recognized Depositories  
4.  All recognized Custodians 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
    
Subject: Framework for issue of Depository Receipts  
 
1.  Reference is drawn to Section 41 of the Companies Act, 2013, Companies (Issue of 
Global  Depository  Receipts)  Rules,  2014  (‘GDR  Rules’),  the  Depository  Receipts 
Scheme,  2014  (‘DR  Scheme’),  Reserve  Bank  of  India  (‘RBI’)  notification  dated 
December 15, 2014, Central Government notification dated September 18, 2019 and 
Central Government notification dated October 07, 2019. 
 

2.  In  light  of  the  aforesaid,  only  ‘a  company  incorporated  in  India  and  listed  on  a 
Recognized  Stock  Exchange  in  India’  (‘Listed  Company’)  may  issue  Permissible 
Securities  or  their  holders  may  transfer  Permissible  Securities,  for  the  purpose  of 
issue  of  Depository  Receipts  (‘DRs’),  subject  to  compliance  with  the  following 
requirements: 
 
Eligibility  
2.1.  Listed Company is in compliance with the requirements prescribed under SEBI 
(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  and  any 
amendments thereof. 

 

2.2.  Listed company shall be eligible to issue Permissible Securities, for the purpose 

of issue of DRs, if:  
(a) the  Listed  Company,  any  of  its  promoters,  promoter  group  or  directors  or 
selling shareholders are not debarred from accessing the capital market by 
SEBI; 

(b) any  of  the  promoters  or  directors  of  the  Listed  Company  is  a  promoter  or 
director  of  any  other  company  which  is  not  debarred  from  accessing  the 
capital market by SEBI;  

(c) the  listed  company  or  any  of  its  promoters  or  directors  is  not  a  wilful 

defaulter;  

(d) any of its promoters or directors is not a fugitive economic offender.  

 

 

Page 1 of 6 

 

 

 

 

 

2.3.  Existing  holders  shall  be  eligible  to  transfer  Permissible  Securities,  for  the 

purpose of issue of DRs, if:  
(a) the Listed Company or the holder transferring  Permissible  Securities are not 

debarred from accessing the capital market by SEBI; 

(b) the Listed Company or the holder transferring Permissible Securities is not a 

wilful defaulter;  

(c) the  holder  transferring  Permissible  Securities  or  any  of  the  promoters  or 

directors of the Listed Company are not a fugitive economic offender.  

Explanation  1:  The  restrictions  at  Paragraph  (2.2)  and  (2.3)  above  shall  not 
apply to the persons or entities mentioned therein, who were debarred in the past 
by  SEBI  and the  period  of  debarment  is  already  over  as  on the  date  of filing of 
the document as referred at Paragraph (2.13). 
 
Explanation  2:  For  the  purpose  of  this  Circular,  DR  means  a  foreign  currency 
denominated instrument, listed on an international exchange, issued by a foreign 
depository  in  a  permissible  jurisdiction  on  the  back  of  permissible  securities 
issued  or  transferred  to  a  domestic  custodian  and  includes  ‘global  depository 
receipt’ as defined in section 2(44) of the Companies Act, 2013. 
 
Explanation  3:  For  the  purpose  of  this  Circular  ‘Foreign  Depository’  means  a 
person which: 
(a) is not prohibited from acquiring permissible securities; 
(b) is regulated in any of the  Permissible  Jurisdiction as defined in this Circular; 

and 

(c) has legal capacity to issue DRs in the Permissible Jurisdiction where issue of 

DRs is proposed. 
 

Explanation  4:  For  the  purpose  of  this  Circular,  ‘transfer  of  permissible 
securities by existing holders’ means deposit of existing Permissible Securities of 
the Listed Company with a Domestic Custodian, for the purpose of issue of DRs, 
pursuant  to  formal  agreement(s)  among  the  Listed  Company  and  the  Foreign 
Depository.  For  this  purpose,  the  Listed  Company  may  also  enter  into 
arrangement(s)  with,  Indian  Depository,  Domestic  Custodian  and  existing 
Permissible Securities holder(s), as may be necessary.  
 

2.4.  For  the  purpose  of  an  initial  issue  and  listing  of  DRs,  pursuant  to  ‘transfer  by 
existing  holders’,  the  Listed  Company  shall  provide  an  opportunity  to  its  equity 
shareholders to tender their shares for participation in such listing of DRs.  
 

2.5.  Subsequent  issue  and  listing  of  DRs,  pursuant  to  ‘transfer  by  existing 
shareholders’ may take place subject to the limits approved pursuant to a special 
resolution in terms of GDR Rules.  
 

2.6.  A  company  proposing  to  make  a  public  offer  and  list  on  a  Recognized  Stock 
Exchange, and also simultaneously proposing to issue Permissible Securities or 
transfer  Permissible  Securities  of  existing  holders,  for  the  purpose  of  issue  of 
DRs  and  listing  such  DRs  on  an  International  Exchange,  may  seek  in-principle 
and  final  approval  from  Recognized  Stock  Exchange  as  well  as  International 
Exchange.  However,  such  issue  or  transfer  of  Permissible  Securities  for  the 

Page 2 of 6 

 

 

 

 

purpose of issue  of DRs  shall be subsequent to, the  receipt of  trading  approval 
from the Recognized Stock Exchange for the public offer. 
 

Permissible Jurisdictions and International Exchanges 
2.7.  Listed  Company  shall  be  permitted  to  issue  Permissible  Securities  or  transfer 
Permissible Securities of existing holders, for the purpose of issue of DRs, only in 
Permissible  Jurisdictions  and  said  DRs  shall  be  listed  on  any  of  the  specified 
International Exchange(s) of the Permissible Jurisdiction.  
 
Explanation  1:  For  the  purpose  of  this  Circular,  ‘Permissible  Jurisdiction’  shall 
mean  jurisdictions  as  may  be  notified  by  the  Central  Government  from  time  to 
time,  pursuant  to  notification  no.  G.S.R.  669(E)  dated  September  18,  2019  in 
respect of sub-rule 1 of rule 9 of Prevention of Money-Laundering (Maintenance 
of Records) Rules, 2005. 
 
Explanation  2:  For  the  purpose  of  this  Circular  ‘International  Exchange(s)’  shall 
mean exchange(s) as may be notified by SEBI from time to time. 
 

2.8.  Listing  of  DRs  on  specified  International  Exchange  shall  meet  the  highest 

applicable level / standards for such listing by foreign issuers. 

 

Explanation:  Examples  of  DR  listing  programs  that  would  qualify  for  the 
aforesaid criteria: 
 
Issuer-sponsored  Level  III  ADR  programs  listed  on  Nasdaq  or  the  NYSE,  DRs 
listed on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange,  Global Depositary 
Receipts admitted to the Standard Segment of the Official List of the FCA and to 
trading on the London Stock Exchange. 
 

Obligations of Listed Company 
2.9.  Listed Company shall ensure compliance with extant laws relating to issuance of 
DRs,  including,  requirements  prescribed  in  this  Circular,  the  Companies  Act, 
2013,  the  Foreign  Exchange  Management  Act,  1999  (‘FEMA’),  Prevention  of 
Money-Laundering  Act,  2002,  and  rules  and  regulations  made  thereunder.  For 
this purpose, Listed Company may also enter into necessary arrangements with 
Custodian, Indian Depository and Foreign Depository. 
 

2.10. Listed  Company  shall  ensure  that  DRs  are  issued  only  with  Permissible 

Securities as the underlying.  
Explanation: For the purpose of this Circular, ‘Permissible Securities’ shall mean 
equity shares and debt securities, which are in dematerialized form and rank pari 
passu with the securities issued and listed on a Recognized Stock Exchange. 

 

2.11. Listed Company shall ensure that the aggregate of Permissible Securities which 
may  be  issued  or  transferred  for  the  purpose  of  issue  of  DRs,  along  with 
Permissible  Securities  already  held  by  persons  resident  outside  India,  shall  not 
exceed  the  limit  on  foreign  holding  of  such  Permissible  Securities  under  the 
applicable regulations of FEMA: 
 

Page 3 of 6 

 

 

 

 

 

Provided  that  within  the  above  limit,  the  maximum  of  aggregate  of  Permissible 
Securities  which  may  be  issued  by  the  Listed  Company  or  transferred  by  the 
existing  holders,  for  the  purpose  of  issue  of  DRs,  shall  be  such  that  the  Listed 
Company  is  able  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  minimum  public  shareholding 
requirement, after excluding the Permissible Securities held by the depository for 
the purpose of issue of DRs.  
 

2.12. Listed  Company  shall  ensure  that  the  agreement  entered  with  the  Foreign 
Depository, for the purpose of issue of DRs, provides that the Permissible holder, 
including  its  Beneficial  Owner(s),  shall  ensure  compliance  with  holding  limits 
prescribed under Paragraph (2.19). 
 

2.13. Listed  Company  shall,  through  an  intermediary,  file  with  SEBI  and  the 
Recognized  Stock  Exchange(s),  a  copy  of  the  initial  document,  by  whatever 
name called, for initial issue of DRs issued on the back of Permissible Securities.  
 
(a) SEBI shall endeavor to forward its comments, if any, to the Recognized Stock 
Exchange(s)  within  a  period  of  7  working  days  from  the  receipt  of  the 
document and in the event of no comments being issued by SEBI within such 
period, it shall be deemed that SEBI does not have comments to offer. 
 

(b) Recognized Stock Exchange(s) shall take into consideration the comments of 
SEBI  while  granting  in-principle  approval  to  the  Listed  Company  and  decide 
on the approval within 15 working days of receipt of application and required 
documents.  

 
Further, final document for such initial issue shall be filed with Recognized Stock 
Exchange(s) and SEBI for record purpose. 
 

2.14. Listed  Company  shall  ensure  that  any  public  disclosures  made  by  the  Listed 
Company  on  International  Exchange(s)  in  compliance  with  the  requirements  of 
the  Permissible  Jurisdiction  where  the  DRs  are  listed  or  of  the  International 
Exchange(s),  are  also  filed  with  the  Recognized  Stock  Exchange  as  soon  as 
reasonably possible but not later than twenty four hours from the date of filing. 
 

Permissible holder 
2.15. Permissible  holder  means  a  holder  of  DR,  including  its  Beneficial  Owner(s), 

satisfying the following conditions: 
 
(a) who is not a person resident in India; 
(b) who is not a Non-Resident Indian (NRI) 

 

Explanation 1: For the purpose of this Circular, ‘Beneficial Owner’ shall have the 
same  meaning  as  provided  in  proviso  to  sub-rule  1  of  rule  9  of  Prevention  of 
Money-Laundering  (Maintenance  of  Records)  Rules,  2005,  as  amended  by  the 
Central  Government  vide  notification  no.  G.S.R.  669(E)  dated  September  18, 
2019. 
 
Explanation 2: The Permissible holder, including its Beneficial Owner(s), shall be 
responsible for ensuring compliance with this requirement. 

Page 4 of 6 

 

 

 
 

 

Voting rights 
2.16. Listed Company shall ensure that the agreement entered between the holder of 
DRs,  the  Listed  Company  and  the  Depository  provides  that  the  voting  rights  on 
Permissible  Securities,  if  any,  shall  be  exercised  by  the  DR  holder  through  the 
Foreign Depository pursuant to voting instruction only from such DR holder. 

 
Pricing 
2.17. In case of a simultaneous listing of, Permissible Securities on Recognised Stock 
Exchange(s)  pursuant  to  a  public  offer  /  preferential  allotment  /  qualified 
institutions  placement  under  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of 
Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2018,  and  DRs  on  the 
International  Exchange,  the  price  of  issue  or  transfer  of  Permissible  Securities, 
for the purpose of issue of DRs by Foreign Depository, shall not be less than the 
price for the public offer  / preferential allotment / qualified institutions  placement 
to domestic investors under the applicable laws. 
 

2.18. Where Permissible Securities are issued by a Listed Company or  ‘transferred by 
the existing holders ’, for the purpose of issue of DRs by the Foreign Depository, 
the  same  shall  be  issued  at  a  price,  not  less  than  the  price  applicable  to  a 
corresponding  mode  of  issue  of  such  Permissible  Securities  to  domestic 
investors under the applicable laws. 
 
Obligations  of 
Custodian 

Indian  Depository,  Foreign  Depository  and  Domestic 

2.19. Indian  Depositories,  in  consultation  with  each  other,  shall  develop  a  system  to 
ensure  that  aggregate  holding  of  DR  holders  along  with  their  holding,  if  any, 
through  offshore  derivative  instruments  and  holding  as  a  Foreign  Portfolio 
Investor  belonging  to  same  investor  group  shall  not  exceed  the  limit  on  foreign 
holding  under  the  FEMA  and  applicable  SEBI  Regulations.  For  this  purpose, 
Indian  Depositories  shall  have  necessary  arrangement  with  the  Domestic 
Custodian and / or Foreign Depository. 
 
Explanation-  For  the  purposes  of  Paragraph  (2.19),  the  term  ‘investor  group’ 
shall  have  the  meaning  as  prescribed  to  such  term  in  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2019  or 
amendments thereof. 
 

2.20. Domestic  Custodian  shall  maintain  records  in  respect  of,  and  report  to,  Indian 
depositories all transactions in the nature of issue and cancellation of depository 
receipts, for the purpose of monitoring limits. 
 

2.21. Indian  Depositories  shall  coordinate  among  themselves  and  with  Domestic 

Custodian to disseminate: 
(a) the  outstanding  Permissible  Securities  against  which 

the  DRs  are 

outstanding; and, 

(b) the limit up to which Permissible Securities can be converted to DRs. 

 

Page 5 of 6 

 

 

 

2.22. The  Foreign  Depository  shall  not  issue  or  pre-release  the  DRs  unless  the 
Domestic  Custodian  has  confirmed  the  receipt  of  underlying  Permissible 
Securities. 
 

3.  Words and expressions used and not defined in this Circular but defined in the DR 
Scheme,  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  or  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 or the Depositories Act, 1996 or the Companies 
Act,  2013  or  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  Act,  1934  or  the  Foreign  Exchange 
Management Act, 1999 or Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002, and rules and 
regulations  made  thereunder  shall  have  the  meanings  respectively  assigned  to 
them, as the case may be, in those Acts, unless the context requires otherwise. 

 

Power to remove difficulties 

4.  In  case  of  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  or  to  relax  strict 
enforcement of the requirements of this Circular, the Board may issue clarifications 
through guidance notes or circulars after receipt of request from the issuer. 
 

5.  The provisions of this circular shall be effective from October 10, 2019 and shall be 

applicable only to DR issuance by a Listed Company after the effective date. 
 

6.  Stock Exchanges and Depositories are advised to: 

a)  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations 

for the implementation of the above circular; and 

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  issuers,  Domestic 

Custodians and also to disseminate the same on the website. 

 

7.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 
  
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
Amit Tandon 
General Manager  
+91-22-26449373  
amitt@sebi.gov.in 

  

 
 

 

Page 6 of 6 

