¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

CIR/CFD/CMD1/114/2019 

October 18, 2019 

 
To 
 
All Listed Entities / Material Subsidiaries 
All the Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Madam / Sir, 
 
Sub:  Resignation  of  statutory  auditors  from  listed  entities  and  their 
material subsidiaries 

1.  Listed companies are required to make  timely disclosures to investors in 

the  securities  market  for  enabling  them  to  take  informed  investment 

decisions. 

2.  Under Sub-clause (2) of Clause A in Part C of Schedule II under Regulation 

18(3)  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 

Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR Regulations”), the Audit Committee of a 

listed entity, inter alia, has to make recommendations for the appointment, 

remuneration and terms of appointment of auditors of a listed entity. Under 

Sub-clause (7), the Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing and 

monitoring  the  independence  and  performance  of  auditors  and  the 

effectiveness of the audit process.  

3.  Further, Sub-clause (7A) inserted under Clause A in Part A of Schedule III 

under  Regulation  30(2)  of  SEBI  LODR  Regulations  requires  detailed 

reasons to be disclosed by the listed entities to the stock exchanges in case 

of resignation of the auditor of a listed entity as soon as possible but not 

later than twenty-four hours of receipt of such reasons from the auditor. 

4.  Regulation  36(5)  of  the  SEBI  LODR  Regulations  lays  down  certain 

disclosures to be made part of the notice to the shareholders for an AGM, 

where  the  statutory  auditors  are  proposed  to  be  appointed/re-appointed, 

including their terms of appointment. 

5.  Resignation of an auditor  of a listed entity / its material subsidiary before 

completion of the audit of the financial results for the year due to reasons 

such  as  pre-occupation  may  seriously  hamper  investor  confidence  and 

deny  them  access  to  reliable  information  for  taking  timely  investment 

decisions. 

 

 
 
 
 

Page 1 of 5 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

6.  In light of the above, the conditions to be complied with upon resignation of 

the statutory auditor of a listed entity/material subsidiary w.r.t. limited review 

/ audit report as per SEBI LODR Regulations, are as under:  

A.  All  listed  entities/material  subsidiaries  shall  ensure  compliance 

with  the  following  conditions  while  appointing/re-appointing  an 

auditor: 

(i)  If the auditor resigns within 45 days from the end of a quarter of a 

financial year, then the auditor shall, before such resignation, issue 

the limited review/ audit report for such quarter. 

(ii)  If  the  auditor  resigns  after  45  days  from  the  end  of  a  quarter  of  a 

financial year, then the auditor shall, before such resignation, issue 

the limited review/ audit report for such quarter as well as the next 

quarter. 

(iii) Notwithstanding  the  above,  if  the  auditor  has  signed  the  limited 

review/ audit report for the first three quarters of a financial year, then 

the auditor shall, before such resignation, issue the limited review/ 

audit report for the last quarter of such financial year as well as the 

audit report for such financial year. 

B.  Other conditions relating to resignation shall include:  

(i)  Reporting  of  concerns  with  respect  to  the  listed  entity/its 

material subsidiary to the Audit Committee: 

a.  In  case  of  any  concern  with  the  management  of  the  listed 

entity/material subsidiary such as non-availability of information / 

non-cooperation by the management which may hamper the audit 

process,  the  auditor  shall  approach  the  Chairman  of  the  Audit 

Committee  of  the  listed  entity  and  the  Audit  Committee  shall 

receive such concern directly and immediately without specifically 

waiting for the quarterly Audit Committee meetings. 

b.  In case the auditor proposes to resign, all concerns with respect 

to the proposed resignation, along with relevant documents shall 

be brought to the notice of the Audit Committee. In cases where 

the  proposed  resignation  is  due  to  non-receipt  of  information  / 

explanation from the company, the auditor shall inform the Audit 

Committee of the details of information / explanation sought and 

not provided by the management, as applicable. 

 

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

 
 
 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

c.  On  receipt  of  such  information  from  the  auditor  relating  to  the 

proposal  to  resign  as  mentioned  above,  the  Audit  Committee  / 

board  of  directors,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  deliberate  on  the 

matter  and  communicate  its  views  to  the  management  and  the 

auditor. 

(ii) Disclaimer in case of non-receipt of information:  

In  case  the  listed  entity/  its  material  subsidiary  does  not  provide 

information required by the auditor, to that extent, the auditor shall 

provide an appropriate disclaimer in the audit report, which may be 

in accordance with the Standards of Auditing as specified by ICAI / 

NFRA. 

The listed entity/ material subsidiary shall ensure that the conditions as 

mentioned  in  6(A)  and  6(B)  above  are  included  in  the  terms  of 

appointment  of  the  statutory  auditor  at  the  time  of  appointing/re-

appointing the auditor. In case the auditor has already been appointed, 

the terms of appointment shall be suitably modified to give effect to 6(A) 

and 6(B) above. 

The  practicing  company  secretary  shall  certify  compliance  by  a  listed 

entity  with  6(A)  and  6(B)  above  in  the  annual  secretarial  compliance 

report  issued  in  terms  of  SEBI  Circular  no.  CIR/CFD/CMD1/27/2019 

dated February 08, 2019. 

C.  Obligations of the listed entity and its material subsidiary: 

(i)  Format of information to be obtained from the statutory auditor 

upon resignation: 

Upon resignation, the listed entity / its material subsidiary shall obtain 

information from the Auditor in the format as specified in Annexure 

A to this Circular. The listed entity shall ensure disclosure of the same 

under Sub-clause (7A) of Clause A in Part A of Schedule III under 

Regulation 30(2) of SEBI LODR Regulations. 

 

(ii) Co-operation by listed entity and its material subsidiary: 

During  the  period from  when  the auditor  proposes  to  resign  till  the 

auditor  submits  the  report  for  such  quarter  /  financial  year  as 

specified  above,  the  listed  entity  and  its  material  subsidiaries  shall 

continue  to  provide  all  such  documents/information  as  may  be 

necessary for the audit / limited review. 

 

 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 

 
 
 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(iii)Disclosure of Audit Committee’s views to the Stock Exchanges: 

Upon resignation of the auditor, the Audit Committee shall deliberate 

upon  all  the  concerns  raised  by  the  auditor  with  respect  to  its 

resignation as soon as possible, but not later than the date of the next 

Audit  Committee  meeting  and  communicate  its  views  to  the 

management.  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  the  disclosure  of  the 

Audit Committee’s views to the stock exchanges as soon as possible 

but  not  later  than  twenty-four  hours  after  the  date  of  such  Audit 

Committee meeting. 

7.  In  case  an  entity  is  not  mandated  to  have  an  Audit  Committee,  then  the 

board of directors of the entity shall ensure compliance of this circular. 

8.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to 

the  notice  of  all  listed  entities  and  their  material  subsidiaries  and  also 

disseminate it on their websites.  

9.  This Circular shall come into force with immediate effect. 

10. In case the auditor is rendered disqualified due to operation of any condition 

mentioned in Section 141 of the Companies Act, 2013, then the provisions 

of this Circular shall not apply. 

11. The Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under  Section 

11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with 

regulations 18(3), 30(2) and 36(5) of the SEBI LODR Regulations and shall 

be in addition to the provisions of Companies Act, 2013. 

12. The  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category - 'LegalCirculars'. 

 

Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
General Manager 
Compliance and Monitoring Division-1 
Corporation Finance Department 
+91-22-26449246 
pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 
 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Format of information to be obtained from  

the statutory auditor upon resignation 

 

Annexure A 

1.  Name of the listed entity/ material subsidiary: 
2.  Details of the statutory auditor: 

a.  Name:  
b.  Address:  
c.  Phone number:  
d.  Email:  

3.  Details of association with the listed entity/ material subsidiary: 

a.  Date on which the statutory auditor was appointed:  
b.  Date on which the term of the statutory auditor was scheduled to expire:   
c.  Prior  to  resignation,  the  latest  audit  report/limited  review  report 

submitted by the auditor and date of its submission. 

4.  Detailed reasons for resignation:  
5.  In  case  of  any  concerns,  efforts  made  by  the  auditor  prior  to  resignation 
(including approaching the Audit Committee/Board of Directors along with 
the date of communication made to the Audit Committee/Board of Directors) 
6.  In  case  the  information  requested  by  the  auditor  was  not  provided,  then 

following shall be disclosed: 

a.  Whether the inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence was 
due to a management-imposed limitation or circumstances beyond the 
control of the management.  

b.  Whether the lack of information would have significant impact on the 

financial statements/results.  

c.  Whether  the  auditor  has  performed  alternative  procedures  to  obtain 
appropriate  evidence  for  the  purposes  of  audit/limited  review  as  laid 
down in SA 705 (Revised)  

d.  Whether the lack of information was prevalent in the previous reported 
financial  statements/results.  If  yes,  on  what  basis  the  previous 
audit/limited review reports were issued. 

7.  Any other facts relevant to the resignation:  
 
Declaration 
1.  I/ We hereby confirm that the information given in this letter and its attachments is 

correct and complete.  

2.  I/  We  hereby  confirm  that  there  is  no  other  material  reason  other  than  those 

provided above for my resignation/ resignation of my firm.  

 
Signature of the authorized signatory 
Date:  
Place:  
Encl: 

 
 
 
 

Page 5 of 5 

 

