 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2019/111                                                 October 15, 2019 
 
To 
 
KYC Registration Agencies 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
Subject:  Cyber  Security  &  Cyber  Resilience  framework  for  KYC  Registration 

Agencies 

 

1.  Rapid technological developments in securities market have highlighted the need for 
maintaining  robust  Cyber  Security  and  Cyber  Resilience  framework  to  protect  the 
integrity of data and guard against breaches of privacy. 

 
2.   A  robust  Cyber  Security  and  Cyber  Resilience  framework  should  identify  the 
plausible  sources  of  operational  risk,  both  internal  and  external,  and  mitigate  the 
impact  through  the  use  of  appropriate  systems,  policies,  procedures,  and  controls. 
Systems  should  be  designed  to  ensure  a  high  degree  of  security  and  operational 
reliability  and  should  have  adequate,  scalable  capacity.  Business  continuity 
management  should  aim  for  timely  recovery  of  operations  and  fulfilment  of  its 
obligation in the event of cyber-attack. 

 
3.  Since KYC Registration Agencies (KRAs) perform important function of maintaining 
KYC  records  of  the  clients  in  the  securities  market,  it  is  desirable  that  KRAs  have 
robust Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience framework in order to provide essential 
facilities and perform systemically critical functions relating to securities market. 

  
4.  In  view  of  the  above,  SEBI’s  High  Powered  Steering  Committee  -  Cyber  Security 
decided  that  the  framework  on  Cyber  Security  and  Cyber  Resilience  be  made 
applicable for KRAs. The framework placed at Annexure A, would be required to be 
complied by the KRAs with regard to Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience. KRAs are 
directed to take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation of this 
circular by January 01, 2020. 

 
5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

 

Yours faithfully 
 
D Rajesh Kumar 
General Manager 
                                Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department 

 

Page 1 of 11 

 

 

Annexure – A 
 
1.  Cyber  attacks  and  threats  attempt  to  compromise  the  Confidentiality,  Integrity  and 
Availability (CIA) of the computer systems, networks and databases (Confidentiality 
refers to limiting access of systems and information to authorized users, Integrity is 
the assurance that the information is reliable and accurate, and Availability refers to 
guarantee  of  reliable  access  to  the  systems  and  information  by  authorized  users). 
Cyber security framework includes measures, tools and processes that are intended 
to  prevent  cyber  attacks  and  improve  cyber  resilience.  Cyber  Resilience  is  an 
organisation’s  ability  to  prepare  and  respond  to  a  cyber  attack  and  to  continue 
operation during, and recover from, a cyber attack.  

 
Governance 
 
2.  As part of the operational risk management framework to manage risk to systems, 
networks  and  databases  from  cyber  attacks  and  threats,  KRAs  should  formulate  a 
comprehensive Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience policy document encompassing 
the  framework mentioned  hereunder.  The  policy  document  should  be  approved  by 
the Board of KRAs, and in case of deviations from the suggested framework, reasons 
for  such  deviations  should  also  be  provided  in  the  policy  document.  The  policy 
document should be reviewed by the Board of KRAs atleast annually with the view to 
strengthen and improve its Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience framework. 

 
3.  The Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience policy should include the following process 
to  identify,  assess,  and  manage  cyber  security  risk  associated  with  processes, 
information, networks and systems 
3.1. ‘Identify’ critical IT assets and risks associated with such assets,  
3.2. ‘Protect’ assets by deploying suitable controls, tools and measures,  
3.3. ‘Detect’  incidents,  anomalies  and  attacks  through  appropriate  monitoring 

tools/processes,  

3.4. ‘Respond’ by taking immediate steps after identification of the incident, anomaly 

or attack,  

3.5. ‘Recover’  from  incident  through  incident  management,  disaster  recovery  and 

business continuity framework. 

 
4.  The  Cyber  security  policy  should  encompass  the  principles  prescribed  by  National 
Critical  Information  Infrastructure  Protection  Centre  (NCIIPC)  of  National  Technical 
Research Organisation (NTRO), Government of India, in the report titled ‘Guidelines 
for  Protection  of  National  Critical  Information  Infrastructure’  and  subsequent 
revisions, if any, from time to time. 

 
5.  KRAs should also incorporate best practices from standards such as ISO 27001, ISO 

27002, COBIT 5, etc., or their subsequent revisions, if any, from time to time. 

 
6.  KRAs should designate a senior official as Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) 
whose function would be to assess, identify and reduce cyber security risks, respond 
the 
to 

incidents,  establish  appropriate  standards  and  controls,  and  direct 

 

Page 2 of 11 

 

 

establishment  and  implementation  of  processes  and  procedures  as  per  the  cyber 
security and resilience policy approved by the Board of the KRAs. 

 
7.  The Board of the KRAs shall constitute a Technology Committee comprising experts 
proficient  in  technology.  This  Technology  Committee  should  on  a  quarterly  basis 
review  the  implementation  of  the  Cyber  Security  and  Cyber  Resilience  policy 
approved by their Board, and such review should include review  of their current IT 
and Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience capabilities, set goals for a target level of 
cyber resilience, and establish a plan to improve and strengthen Cyber Security and 
Cyber  Resilience.  The  review  shall  be  placed  before  the  Board  of  the  KRAs  for 
appropriate action. 

 
8.  KRAs should establish a reporting procedure to facilitate communication of unusual 

activities and events to CISO or to the senior management in a timely manner. 

 
9.  The aforementioned committee and the senior management of the KRAs, including 
the CISO, should periodically review instances of cyber attacks, if any, domestically 
and  globally,  and  take  steps  to  strengthen  Cyber  Security  and  Cyber  Resilience 
framework. 

 
10. KRAs  should  define  responsibilities  of  its  employees,  outsourced  staff,  and 
employees  of  vendors,  members  or  participants  and  other  entities,  who  may  have 
access or use KRA’s systems / networks, towards ensuring the goal of cyber security. 

 
Identify 
 
11. KRAs  should  identify  critical  assets  based  on  their  sensitivity  and  criticality  for 
business  operations,  services  and  data  management.  To  this  end,  KRAs  should 
maintain up-to-date inventory of its hardware and systems, software and information 
assets  (internal  and  external),  details  of  its  network  resources,  connections  to  its 
network and data flows. 

 
12. KRAs should accordingly identify cyber risks (threats and vulnerabilities) that it may 
face, alongwith the likelihood of such threats and impact on the business and thereby, 
deploy controls commensurate to the criticality. 

 
13. KRAs should also encourage its third-party providers, if any, to have similar standards 

of Information Security. 

 
Protection 
 
Access Controls 
 
14. No  person  by  virtue  of  rank  or  position  should  have  any  intrinsic  right  to  access 

confidential data, applications, system resources or facilities. 
 

 

Page 3 of 11 

 
15. Any access to KRA's systems, applications, networks, databases, etc., should be for 
a defined purpose and for a defined period. KRAs should grant access to IT systems, 
applications,  databases  and  networks  on  a  need-to-use  basis  and  based  on  the 
principle of least privilege. Such access should be for the period when the access is 
required and should be authorized using strong authentication mechanisms. 

 

 
16. KRAs  should  implement  strong  password  controls  for  users’  access  to  systems, 
applications, networks and databases. Password controls should include a change of 
password  upon  first  log-on,  minimum  password  length  and  history,  password 
complexity as well as maximum validity period. The user credential data should be 
stored using strong and latest hashing algorithms. 

 
17. KRAs should ensure that records of user access are uniquely identified and logged 
for  audit  and  review  purposes.  Such  logs  should  be  maintained  and  stored  in 
encrypted form for a time period not less than two (2) years. 

 
18. KRAs should deploy additional controls and security measures to supervise staff with 
elevated  system  access  entitlements  (such  as  admin  or  privileged  users).  Such 
controls and measures should inter-alia include restricting the number of privileged 
users,  periodic  review  of  privileged  users’  activities,  disallow  privileged  users  from 
accessing systems logs in which their activities are being captured, strong controls 
over remote access by privileged users, etc. 

 
19. Account  access  lock  policies  after  failure  attempts  should  be  implemented  for  all 

accounts. 

 
20. Employees and outsourced staff such as employees of vendors or service providers, 
who  may  be  given  authorised  access  to  the  KRA's  critical  systems,  networks  and 
other computer resources, should be subject to stringent supervision, monitoring and 
access restrictions. 

 
21. Two-factor authentication at log-in should be implemented for all users that connect 

using online/internet facility. 

 
22. KRAs should formulate an Internet access policy to monitor and regulate the use of 
internet and internet based services such as social media sites, cloud-based internet 
storage sites, etc. 

 
23. Proper ‘end of life’ mechanism should be adopted to deactivate access privileges of 
users  who  are  leaving  the  organization  or  whose  access  privileges  have  been 
withdrawn. 

 
Physical security 
 
24. Physical  access  to  the  critical  systems  should  be  restricted  to  minimum.  Physical 
access of outsourced staff/visitors should be properly supervised by ensuring at the 

 

Page 4 of 11 

 

 

minimum  that  outsourced  staff/visitors  are  accompanied  at  all  times  by  authorised 
employees. 

 
25. Physical access to the critical systems should be revoked immediately if the same is 

no longer required. 

 
26. KRAs should ensure that the perimeter of the critical equipment room are physically 
secured and monitored by employing physical, human and procedural controls such 
as the use of security guards, CCTVs, card access systems, mantraps, bollards, etc. 
where appropriate. 

 
Network Security Management 
 
27. KRAs  should  establish  baseline  standards  to  facilitate  consistent  application  of 
security  configurations  to  operating  systems,  databases,  network  devices  and 
enterprise  mobile  devices  within  the  IT  environment.  The  KRAs  should  conduct 
regular  enforcement  checks  to  ensure  that  the  baseline  standards  are  applied 
uniformly. 

 
28. KRAs should install network security devices, such as firewalls as well as intrusion 
detection  and  prevention  systems,  to  protect  their  IT  infrastructure  from  security 
exposures originating from internal and external sources. 

 
29. Anti-virus  software  should  be  installed  on  servers  and  other  computer  systems. 
Updation  of  anti-virus  definition  files  and  automatic  anti-virus  scanning  should  be 
done on a regular basis. 

 
Security of Data 
 
30. Data-in  motion  and  Data-at-rest  should  be  in  encrypted  form  by  using  strong 
encryption methods such as Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), RSA, SHA-2, etc. 
 

31. KRAs  should  implement  measures  to  prevent  unauthorised  access  or  copying  or 
transmission of data / information held in contractual or fiduciary capacity. It should 
be ensured that confidentiality of information is not compromised during the process 
of exchanging and transferring information with external parties. 
 

32. The  information  security  policy  should  also  cover  use  of  devices  such  as  mobile 
phone,  faxes,  photocopiers,  scanners,  etc.  that  can  be  used  for  capturing  and 
transmission of data. 
 

33. KRAs  should  allow  only  authorized  data  storage  devices  through  appropriate 

validation processes. 

 
 
 
 

 

Page 5 of 11 

 
Hardening of Hardware and Software 
 
34. Only a hardened and vetted hardware / software should be deployed by the  KRAs. 
During the hardening process, KRAs should inter-alia ensure that default passwords 
are  replaced  with  strong  passwords  and  all  unnecessary  services  are  removed  or 
disabled in equipments / software. 

 

 
35. All open ports which are not in use or can potentially be used for exploitation of data 
should be blocked. Other open ports should be monitored and appropriate measures 
should be taken to secure the ports. 

 
Application Security and Testing 
 
36. KRAs  should  ensure  that  regression  testing  is  undertaken  before  new  or  modified 
system  is  implemented.  The  scope  of  tests  should  cover  business  logic,  security 
controls and system performance under various stress-load scenarios and recovery 
conditions. 

 
Patch Management 
 
37. KRAs should establish and ensure that the patch management procedures include 
the 
identification,  categorisation  and  prioritisation  of  security  patches.  An 
implementation  timeframe  for  each  category  of  security  patches  should  be 
established to implement security patches in a timely manner. 

 
38. KRAs should perform rigorous testing of security patches before deployment into the 
production environment so as to ensure that the application of patches do not impact 
other systems. 

 
Disposal of systems and storage devices 
 
39. KRAs should frame suitable policy for disposals of the storage media and systems. 
The  data  /  information  on  such  devices  and  systems  should  be  removed  by  using 
methods  viz.  wiping  /  cleaning  /  overwrite,  degauss  and  physical  destruction,  as 
applicable. 

 
Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing (VAPT) 
 
40. KRAs  should  regularly  conduct  vulnerability  assessment 

to  detect  security 
vulnerabilities in the IT environment. KRAs should also carry out periodic penetration 
tests, atleast once in a year, in order to conduct an in-depth evaluation of the security 
posture  of  the  system  through  simulations  of  actual  attacks  on  its  systems  and 
networks. 

 
41. Remedial  actions  should  be  immediately  taken  to  address  gaps  that  are  identified 

during vulnerability assessment and penetration testing. 

 

 

Page 6 of 11 

 
42. In  addition,  KRAs  should  perform  vulnerability  scanning  and  conduct  penetration 
testing prior to the commissioning of a new system which offers internet accessibility 
and open network interfaces. 

 

 
Monitoring and Detection 
 
43. KRAs  should  establish  appropriate  security  monitoring  systems  and  processes  to 
facilitate  continuous  monitoring  of  security  events  and 
timely  detection  of 
unauthorised or malicious activities, unauthorised changes, unauthorised access and 
unauthorized  copying  or  transmission  of  data  /  information  held  in  contractual  or 
fiduciary  capacity,  by  internal  and  external  parties.  The  security  logs  of  systems, 
applications and network devices should also be monitored for anomalies. 

 
44. Further, to ensure high resilience, high availability and timely detection of attacks on 
systems  and  networks,  KRAs  should  implement  suitable  mechanism  to  monitor 
capacity utilization of its critical systems and networks. 

 
45. Suitable  alerts  should  be  generated  in  the  event  of  detection  of  unauthorized  or 

abnormal system activities, transmission errors or unusual online transactions. 

 
Response and Recovery 
 
46. Alerts  generated  from  monitoring  and  detection  systems  should  be  suitably 
investigated,  including  impact  and  forensic  analysis  of  such  alerts,  in  order  to 
determine activities that are to be performed to prevent expansion of such incident of 
cyber attack or breach, mitigate its effect and eradicate the incident. 

 
47. The  response  and  recovery  plan  of  the  KRAs  should  aim  at  timely  restoration  of 
systems affected by incidents of cyber attacks or breaches.  KRAs should have the 
same  Recovery  Time  Objective  (RTO)  and  Recovery  Point  Objective  (RPO)  as 
specified  by  SEBI 
Institutions  vide  SEBI  circular 
CIR/MRD/DMS/17/20 dated June 22, 2012 as amended from time to time. 

Infrastructure 

for  Market 

 
48. The response plan should define responsibilities and actions to be performed by its 
employees and support / outsourced staff in the event of cyber attacks or breach of 
cyber security mechanism. 

 
49. Any incident of loss or destruction of data or systems should be thoroughly analyzed 
and  lessons  learned  from  such  incidents  should  be  incorporated  to  strengthen  the 
security mechanism and improve recovery planning and processes. 

 
50. KRAs  should  also  conduct  suitable  periodic  drills  to  test  the  adequacy  and 

effectiveness of response and recovery plan. 

 
 
 

 

Page 7 of 11 

 

 
Sharing of information 
 
51. Quarterly reports containing information on cyber attacks and threats experienced by 
KRAs  and measures taken  to mitigate  vulnerabilities,  threats  and  attacks  including 
information on bugs / vulnerabilities / threats that may be useful for other KRAs should 
be  submitted  to  SEBI  in  soft  copy  to  kra@sebi.gov.in.  The  format  for  submitting 
quarterly reports is attached as Annexure B. 
 

52. Such details as are felt useful for sharing with other KRAs in masked and anonymous 
manner shall be shared using mechanism to be specified by SEBI from time to time. 

 
Training 
 
53. KRAs should conduct periodic training programs to enhance awareness level among 
the employees and outsourced staff, vendors, etc. on IT / Cyber security policy and 
standards. Special focus should be given to build awareness levels and skills of staff 
from non-technical disciplines. 

 
54. The training program should be reviewed and updated to ensure that the contents of 

the program remain current and relevant. 

 
Periodic Audit 
 
55. KRAs shall arrange to have its systems audited on an annual basis by an CERT-IN 
empanelled  auditor,  an  independent  DISA  (ICAI)  Qualification,  CISA  (Certified 
Information  System  Auditor)  from  ISACA,  CISM  (Certified  Information  Securities 
Manager) from ISACA, CISSP (Certified Information Systems Security Professional) 
from International Information Systems Security Certification Consortium (commonly 
known  as  (ISC)2),  to  check  compliance  with  the  above  areas  and  shall  submit the 
report to SEBI along with the comments of the Board of KRAs within three months of 
the end of the financial year. 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

***** 

Page 8 of 11 

 

Incident Reporting Form 

 

Annexure - B 
 

 1. Letter / Report Subject -  

Name of the intermediary -  

 

SEBI Registration no. - 

Type of intermediary -  

 2. Reporting Periodicity      
     Year- 

 

 
Quarter 1   (Apr-Jun)  

 
 

 

Quarter 3  (Oct-Dec) 

 

 
 

 

Quarter 2   (Jul-Sep) 

 

Quarter 4  (Jan-Mar) 

 

 3. Designated Officer (Reporting Officer details) -  

Name: 

Organization: 

Title: 

Phone / Fax No: 

Mobile: 

Email: 

Address: 
 
 

 

 
Cyber-attack / breach observed in Quarter: 
 
( If yes, please fill Annexure C) 
 
 
( If no, please submit the NIL report) 
 

Date & Time   Brief information on the Cyber-attack / breached observed 

 

 

Annexure C 

 1. Physical location of affected computer / network and name of ISP -  
     
 
 

2. Date and time incident occurred - 

Date: 

Time: 

 

Page 9 of 11 

 

 

3. Information of affected system - 
IP Address: 

Computer
/ Host 
Name: 

Operating System 
(incl. Ver. / release 
No.): 

 

Last 
Patched/ 
Updated: 

Hardware 
Vendor/ 
Model: 

 

4. Type of incident -  

  Phishing 
  Network scanning 

/Probing Break-
in/Root 
Compromise 

  Virus/Malicious 

Code  

  Website 

Defacement 

   System Misuse 

 

 
 

 

  Spam  
  Bot/Botnet  
  Email Spoofing 
  Denial of Service(DoS) 
  Distributed Denial of 

Service(DDoS)  

  User Account 
Compromise 

  Website 
Intrusion 

  Social 

Engineering 

  Technical 

Vulnerability 
   IP Spoofing 
  Ransomware 
  Other  

 

   5. Description of incident - 
 
 

6. Unusual behavior/symptoms (Tick the symptoms) - 

  System crashes 
  New user accounts/ Accounting 

discrepancies 

  Anomalies 
  Suspicious probes 
   Suspicious browsing New 

  Failed or successful social engineering 

files 

attempts 

   Unexplained, poor system performance 
  Unaccounted for changes in the DNS 

tables, router rules, or firewall rules 

  Unexplained elevation or use of 

privileges Operation of a program or 
sniffer device to capture network traffic; 
  An indicated last time of usage of a user 
account that does not correspond to the 
actual last time of usage for that user 

  A system alarm or similar indication from 

an intrusion detection tool 

  Altered home pages, which are usually 

the intentional target for visibility, or other 
pages on the Web server 

  Changes in file lengths or 

dates 

  Attempts to write to system  
  Data modification or deletion 
  Denial of service 
  Door knob rattling 
  Unusual time of usage 
  Unusual usage patterns 
  Unusual log file entries 
  Presence of new setuid or 

setgid files Changes in 
system directories and files  
  Presence of cracking utilities 
  Activity during non-working 

hours or holidays 

  Other (Please specify) 

7. Details of unusual behavior/symptoms - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 10 of 11 

 

 

8. Has this problem been experienced earlier? If yes, details - 

 

9. Agencies notified - 

  Law Enforcement 

   Private Agency    Affected Product Vendor  Other  

 

 

 

 

 10. IP Address of apparent or suspected source - 

Source IP address: 
 
 

 

 

 11. How many host(s) are affected -  

Other information available: 

1 to 10 

10 to 100 

More than 100 

 

 

 

 

 12. Details of actions taken for mitigation and any preventive measure applied - 

 

 

 

***** 

Page 11 of 11 

