 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

October 22, 2019 

 
       
SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2019/115  
 
 
To 
 
Issuers who intend to list their Commercial Papers 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Subject: Framework for listing of Commercial Paper 
 
1.  The  issuers  of  Commercial  Papers  (CPs)  have  shown  interest  to  list  CPs  for 
trading on Stock Exchange(s) with a view to broadening investor participation in 
CPs. Accordingly, to enable listing of CPs and to  ensure investor protection, it is 
important that issuers make appropriate disclosures at the time of listing and on a 
continuous basis. 
 

2.  In  view  of  the  above,  a  disclosure  framework  applicable  for  listing  of  CPs  was 
discussed  in  the  meeting  of  Corporate  Bonds  &  Securitization  Advisory 
Committee (CoBoSAC), chaired by Shri H. R. Khan.  

 

3.  Based  on  recommendations  of  CoBoSAC,  for  listing  of  CPs,  issuers  and  stock 
exchanges shall comply at the time of listing and on a continuous basis with the 
following; 

 

 

 

a. An  issuer  who  desires  to  list  its  CP  shall  forward  an  application  for  listing 
along  with  the  disclosures  specified  in  Annexure  I  to  the  concerned  stock 
exchange(s). 

b. On approval of the listing application by the concerned stock exchange(s), the 
disclosures  so  provided  along  with  the  application  for  listing,  shall  be  made 
available on the website of the concerned stock exchange(s). 

c. Post  listing,  the  issuer  shall  make  disclosures,  as  specified  in  Annexure  II, 
during the tenure of the CP(s) to the concerned stock exchange(s),  which in 
turn shall disseminate the same on its website. 
 

4.  The Stock exchange(s) are advised to put in place; 
 

a.  Necessary systems and procedures for monitoring of disclosures as specified 

in Annexure I & II of this circular.  

 
 
 

 

Page 1 of 7 

 
 
 

 

b. A  framework  for  imposition  of  fine,  in  case  of  non-compliance  and/  or 

inappropriate disclosures by issuers. 
 

5.  Any  non-compliance  with  the  conditions  of listing  issued  under this  circular  may 

also attract action under Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 
6.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  

of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 
7.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 
categories “Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Corporate Debt Market”. 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Tel No.022-2644 9596 
Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 7 

 
 
                                                            Annexure I 

 

Disclosures to be provided along with the application for listing 

      
1.   Issuer details:  

1.1.  Details of the issuer: 

(i) Name, Address, CIN and PAN 
(ii)  Line of business 
(iii) Chief Executive (Managing Director / President/ CEO / CFO) 
(iv) Group affiliation (if any). 

1.2.  Details of the directors: 

Name, 
designation 
and DIN 

Age 

Address 

Director since  List of other 
directorships 

  

  

  

  

  

  

1.3.  Details  of  change  in  directors  in  last  three  financial  years  including  any 

change in the current year: 

Name, 
designation and 
DIN 

Date of 
appointment/ 
resignation 

Date of cessation 
(in case of 
resignation) 

Remarks(viz. 
reasons for 
change etc) 

 

 

 

 

 

1.4.  List of top 10 holders of equity shares of the company as on date or the latest 

Total 
shareholding 
as % of total 
no. of equity 
shares 
  

quarter end: 
 
S.no  Name and category 

of shareholder 

Total no. of 
equity shares 

No of shares 
in demat form 

  

  

  

  

1.5.  Details of the statutory auditor:  

Name and address 

Date of appointment 

Remarks  

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 7 

1.6.  Details  of  the    change  in  statutory  auditors  in  last  three  financial  years 

 

including any change in the current year: 

Name, address 

 

 

Date of 
appointment/ 
resignation 

 

Date of cessation 
(in case of 
resignation) 

Remarks (viz. 
reasons for change 
etc) 

 

 

1.7.  List of top 10 debt securities holders (as on …….): 

S. 
No. 

Name  of 
holder  

 
 

  
 

  

Category   Face value   Holding  of  debt  securities  as  a 
percentage 
debt 
securities  outstanding  of  the 
issuer 
  

total 

of 

  

  

1.8.  List of top 10 CP holders (as on …….): 

Name of 
CP holder 
  

Category 
of CP 
holder 
  

Face value 
of CP 
holding 
  

CP  holding  percentage  as  a 
percentage 
total  CP 
outstanding of the issuer 
  

of 

S. 
No. 
  
 

 
 

2.  Material Information: 

2.1.  Details  of  all  default/s  and/or  delay  in  payments  of  interest  and  principal  of 
CPs,  (including  technical  delay),  debt  securities,  term  loans,  external 
commercial  borrowings  and  other  financial  indebtedness  including  corporate 
guarantee issued in the past 5 financial years including in the current financial 
year. 

2.2.  Ongoing and/or outstanding material litigation and regulatory strictures, if any. 

2.3.  Any  material  event/  development  having  implications  on  the  financials/credit 
quality 
the 
Issuer/promoters,  tax  litigations  resulting  in  material  liabilities,  corporate 
restructuring  event  which  may  affect  the  issue  or  the  investor’s  decision  to 
invest / continue to invest in the CP. 

regulatory  proceedings  against 

including  any  material 

 

3.  Details of borrowings of the company, as on the latest quarter end: 

3.1.  Details of debt securities and CPs: 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 4 of 7 

 
 
 

 

ISIN 

Seri
es 

Tenor/ 
Period 
of 
maturit
y 

Coup
on 

Amo
unt 
issu
ed 

Date 

of 

allotm
ent 

Redem
ption 
date/ 
Schedu
le 

Credit 
rating 

Sec
urity 

Secur
ed/ 
Unse
cured 

Other 
Details 
viz. 
Details 
of IPA, 
Details 
of CRA 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.2.  Details of secured/ unsecured loan facilities/ bank fund based facilities/ rest of 
the  borrowing,  if  any,  including  hybrid  debt  like  foreign  currency  convertible 
bonds  (FCCB),  optionally  convertible  debentures  /  preference  shares  from 
banks or financial institutions or financial creditors, as on last quarter end: 

 
Lender’
s name/ 
Name 
of the 
Bank 
 

Nature 
of 
facility/ 
instrume
nt 
 

Amount 
sanctio
ned 

Principal 
Amount 
outstandi
ng 

 

 

Repay
ment 
date / 
schedul
e 
 

Securit
y, if 
applica
ble 

 

Credit 
rating, 
if 
applica
ble 
 

Asset 
classification 

 

3.3.  The  amount  of  corporate  guarantee  or  letter  of  comfort  issued  by  the  issuer 
along  with  name  of  the  counterparty  (like  name  of  the  subsidiary,  JV  entity, 
group company, etc) on behalf of whom it has been issued, contingent liability 
including  debt  service  reserve  account  (DSRA)  guarantees/  any  put  option 
etc. 

4.  Issue Information: 

4.1.  Details  of  current  tranche  including  ISIN,  amount,  date  of  issue,  maturity,  all 
credit  ratings  including  unaccepted  ratings,  date  of  rating,  name  of  credit 
rating agency, its validity period (details of credit rating letter issued not older 
than  one  month  on  the  date  of  opening  of  the  issue),  details  of  issuing  and 
paying agent and other conditions, if any. 

4.2.  CP  borrowing  limit,  supporting  board  resolution  for  CP  borrowing,  details  of 

CP issued during the last 15 months. 

4.3.  End-use of funds. 

4.4.  Credit Support/enhancement (if any): 

 

 

Page 5 of 7 

 

 

(i) 

Details of instrument, amount, guarantor company 

(ii) 

Copy of the executed guarantee 

(iii)  Net worth of the guarantor company  

(iv)  Names of companies to which guarantor has issued similar guarantee  

(v) 

Extent of the guarantee offered by the guarantor company  

(vi)  Conditions under which the guarantee will be invoked 

     
5.     Financial Information: 

5.1.  Audited  /  Limited  review  half  yearly  consolidated  (wherever  available)  and 
standalone financial information (Profit & Loss statement, Balance Sheet and 
Cash  Flow  statement)  along  with  auditor  qualifications,  if  any,  for  last  three 
years along with latest available financial results. 

In  case  an  issuer  is  required  to  prepare  financial  results  for  the  purpose  of 
consolidated  financial  results  in  terms  of  Regulation  33  of  SEBI  LODR 
Regulations, latest available quarterly financial results shall be filed.   

5.2.  Latest audited financials should not be older than six month from the date of 

application for listing.  

Provided that listed issuers (who have already listed their specified securities 
and/or  ‘Non-convertible  Debt  Securities’  (NCDs)  and/or  ‘Non-Convertible 
Redeemable Preference Shares’ (NCRPS)) who are in compliance with SEBI 
(Listing  obligations  and  disclosure 
requirements)  Regulations  2015 
(hereinafter  “SEBI  LODR  Regulations”),  may  file  unaudited  financials  with 
limited  review  for  the  stub  period  in  the  current  financial  year,  subject  to 
making necessary disclosures in this regard including risk factors. 

6.     Asset Liability Management (ALM) Disclosures: 

6.1.  NBFCs  seeking  to  list  their  CPs  shall  make  disclosures  as  specified  for 
NBFCs in SEBI Circular nos. CIR/IMD/DF/ 12 /2014, dated June 17, 2014 and 
CIR/IMD/DF/  6  /2015,  dated  September  15,  2015,  as  revised  from  time  to 
time. Further, “Total assets under management”, under para 1.a. of Annexure 
I of CIR/IMD/DF/ 6 /2015, dated September 15, 2015 shall also include details 
of off balance sheet assets. 

6.2.  HFCs  shall  make  disclosures  as  specified  for  NBFCs  in  SEBI  Circular  no. 
CIR/IMD/DF/ 6 /2015, dated September 15, 2015, as revised from time to time 
with  appropriate  modifications  viz.  retail  housing  loan,  loan  against  property, 
wholesale loan - developer and others. 

 

Page 6 of 7 

 

 

Annexure II 

 

Continuous obligations and disclosure requirements for listed CPs: 

1.  Financial results: 

1.1. 

1.2. 

Issuers  who  have  listed  their  specified  securities  and  are  required  to 
comply with provisions of Chapter IV of SEBI LODR Regulations and also 
have  outstanding  listed  CPs  shall  prepare  and  submit  financial  results  in 
terms  of  Regulation  33  of  SEBI  LODR  Regulations  and  additional  line 
items as required under Regulation 52(4) of SEBI LODR Regulations.  

Issuers  who  have  listed  NCD’s,  NCRPS  or  both  and  are  required  to 
comply with provisions of Chapter V of SEBI LODR Regulations and also 
have outstanding listed CPs or who only have outstanding listed CPs shall 
prepare  and  submit  financial  results  in  terms  of  Regulation  52  of  SEBI 
LODR Regulations. 

However,  if  an  issuer  is  required  to  prepare  financial  results  for  the 
purpose of consolidated financial results in terms of Regulation 33 of SEBI 
LODR  Regulations,  then  such  issuers,  shall  prepare  and  submit  financial 
results in terms of para 1.1. above.  

 
2.  Material events or Information: The issuer shall disclose the following details to 
the  stock exchange(s)  as  soon  as  possible but not  later  than  24  hours from the 
occurrence of event (or) information: 

2.1.  Details  such  as  expected  default/  delay/  default  in  timely  fulfilment  of  its 

payment obligations for any of the debt instrument; 

2.2.  Any action that shall affect adversely, fulfilment of its payment obligations 

in respect of CPs; 

2.3.  Any revision in the credit rating; 

2.4.  A certificate confirming fulfilment of its payment obligations, within 2 days 

of payment becoming due. 

3.  Issuers  who  are  NBFCs/HFCs,  shall  simultaneously  submit  to  the  stock 
exchanges  the  latest  ALM  statements  as  and  when  they  submit  the  same  to 
respective regulator(s) viz RBI/NHB, as applicable. 

4.  A certificate from the CEO/CFO to the recognized stock exchange(s) on quarterly 
basis  certifying  that  CP  proceeds  are  used  for  disclosed  purposes,  and 
adherence to other listing conditions, as specified in Annexure I.   

 

 

Page 7 of 7 

