 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/CRADT/CIR/P/2019/121    

            

          November 04, 2019 

To 
 
All Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 

 

Sub: Enhanced Governance Norms for Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) 

 

In  order  to  further  enhance  governance  and  accountability  of  Credit  Rating  Agencies 
(CRAs), the following directions are being issued: 
 
1. 

In  partial  modification  of  para  3B  of  Annexure  A  of  SEBI  circular  No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119  dated  November  1,  2016  regarding 
MD/CEO being a member of rating committee, it has been decided that: 
 

A.  MD/CEO of a CRA shall not be a member of rating committees of the CRA. 

 

B.  Rating committees of a CRA shall report to a Chief Ratings Officer (CRO). 

 

C.  One third of the board of a CRA shall comprise of independent directors, if the 
board is chaired by a non-executive director. In case the board of  the  CRA is 
chaired by an executive director, half of the board shall comprise of independent 
directors. 

 

D.  The board of a CRA shall constitute the following committees: 

(i) 
(ii) 

Ratings Sub-Committee 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee 

 

E.  The  Chief  Ratings  Officer  (CRO)  shall  directly  report  to  the  Ratings  Sub-

Committee of the board of the CRA. 
 

F.  The  Nomination  and  Remuneration  Committee  shall  be  chaired  by  an 

independent director. 
 

2.  During  the  rating  process,  CRAs  shall  record  minutes  of  the  meeting  with  issuer 

management and incorporate it in the rating committee note.  
 

3.  CRAs  shall  meet  the audit  committee  of  the  rated  entity,  at  least once  in a  year,  to 
discuss issues including related party transactions, internal financial control and other 
material disclosures made by the management, which have a bearing on rating of the 
listed NCDs. 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section  11  (1)  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation  20  of  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  Regulations,  1999,  to  protect  the 
interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, 
the securities market. 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Surabhi Gupta 
General Manager 
Tel. No: 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

