 
 
 

 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

    SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2019/123 

 

 

 

             November 05, 2019 

     To, 

1.  All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
2.  All Recognized Depositories 
3.  Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges 
4.  Depository Participants through Depositories 
5.  Association of Mutual Funds in India 
6.  Mutual funds through AMFI 
7.  Portfolio Managers 
8.  KYC Registration Agencies (KRAs) 
9.  Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 
10. Collective Investment Schemes (CIS) 
11. Custodians 
12. Investment Advisors 

 

     Dear Sir/Madam, 
 

Subject:  e-KYC  Authentication  facility  under section  11A  of  the  Prevention  of Money     
Laundering Act, 2002 by Entities in the securities market for Resident Investors 

 

 

 

1.  SEBI  simplified 

for 

the  account  opening  process 

investors  vide  Circular  No. 
CIR/MIRSD/16/2011 dated August 22, 2011. Further, SEBI vide circular MIRSD/SE/Cir-
21/2011  dated  October  05,  2011  issued  guidelines  for  uniform  KYC  requirements  for 
investors while opening accounts with any intermediary in the securities market.  
 

2.  SEBI  vide  Circular  No.  CIR/MIRSD/09/2012  dated  August  13,  2012  clarified  that  after 
consultation with Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), Government of India, it 
was  decided  that  the  Aadhaar  Letter  issued  by  UIDAI  shall  be  admissible  as  Proof  of 
Address in addition to its being recognized as Proof of Identity. 
 

3.  Subsequently,  vide  circular  No.  CIR/MIRSD/09/2013  dated  October  08,  2013,  SEBI 
clarified  that  in  consultation  with  UIDAI  and  the  market  participants,  it  was  decided  to 
accept  e-KYC  service  launched  by  UIDAI  also, as  a  valid  process for  KYC  verification. 
The  information  containing  relevant  client  details  and  photograph  made  available  from 
UIDAI  as  a  result  of  e-KYC  process  shall  be  treated  as  sufficient  Proof  of  identity  and 
Address of the client. Also vide circular No. CIR/MIRSD/29/2016 dated January 22, 2016, 
SEBI clarified that the usage of Aadhaar card as issued by the UIDAI is voluntary. 
 

4.  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court,  in  its  judgement  dated  September  26,  2018,  had  struck  down 
Section  57  of  the  Aadhaar  Act  as  “unconstitutional”  which  means  that  no  company  or 
private entity can seek Aadhaar identification from clients or investors.  
 

5.  The Aadhaar and Other Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2019 was promulgated on March 
02, 2019 through which a new Section 11A was inserted in chapter IV of the Prevention 

Page 1 of 5 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
of Money-Laundering Act, 2002. The Aadhaar and Other Laws (Amendment) Act, 2019 
was notified in the Gazette of India on July 24, 2019. 
 

6.  The Department of Revenue (DoR), Ministry of Finance issued a circular dated May 09, 
2019 on procedure for processing of applications under section 11A of the Prevention of 
Money  Laundering  Act,  2002  (“PMLA”),  for  use  of  Aadhaar  authentication  services  by 
entities  other  than  the  Banking  companies.  In  terms  of  the  said  circular,  if  the  Central 
Government  is  satisfied  with  the  recommendations  of  the  Regulator  and  Unique 
Identification Authority of India (“UIDAI”) and reporting entity complies with such standards 
of  privacy  and  security  under  the  Aadhaar  (Targeted  Delivery  of  Financial  and  Other 
Subsidies,  Benefits  and  Services)  Act,  2016  (“Aadhaar  Act”),  and  it  is  necessary  and 
expedient to do so, it may by notification, permit such entity to carry out authentication of 
the Aadhaar number of clients using e-KYC authentication facility.  
 

7.  The said circular also inter-alia specifies that, applications by the concerned entities under 
Section 11A of the PMLA for use of Aadhaar authentication services shall be filed before 
the  Regulator,  who  after  scrutiny  shall  forward  the  applications  to  UIDAI  along  with  its 
recommendation.  UIDAI  shall  scrutinize  the  applications  received  and  send  its 
recommendation to the Department of Revenue for notification under Section 11A of the 
PML Act. The Central Government, if satisfied with the recommendations of the Regulator 
and the UIDAI that the applicant fulfils all conditions under Section 11A, may by notification 
permit  such  applicant  to  perform  authentication  under  clause  (a)  of  sub-section  (1)  of 
Section  11A.  At  any  point,  after  issue  of  such  notification,  based  on  a  report  of  the 
appropriate Regulator or UIDAI or otherwise, if it is found that the reporting entity no longer 
fulfils the requirements for performing authentication under clause (a) of sub-section (1) 
of  section  11A,  the  Central  Government  may  withdraw  the  notification  after  giving  an 
opportunity to the reporting entity. 
 

8.  Accordingly,  entities  in  the  securities  market,  as  may  be  notified  by  the  Central 
Government, shall be allowed to undertake Aadhaar Authentication under section 11A of 
the  PMLA.  SEBI  Registered  intermediaries  for  reasons  such  as  online  on-boarding  of 
clients,  customer  convenience,  increased  efficiency  and  reduced  time  for  client  on-
boarding would prefer to use Aadhaar based e-KYC facility to complete the KYC of the 
client. 

9.  These entities would be registered with UIDAI as KYC user agency (“KUA”) and shall allow 
all  the  SEBI  registered  intermediaries  /  mutual  fund  distributors  to  undertake  Aadhaar 
Authentication of their clients for the purpose of KYC through them.  
 

10. The  SEBI  registered  intermediaries  /  mutual  fund  distributors,  who  want  to  undertake 
Aadhaar  authentication  services  through  KUAs,  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  any 
one KUA and get themselves registered with UIDAI as sub-KUAs. The agreement in this 
regard shall be as may be prescribed by UIDAI. 
 

11. Upon notification by the Central Government / registration with UIDAI, the KUAs and sub-
KUAs shall adopt the following process for Aadhaar e-KYC of investors (resident) in the 
securities market. 
 
 
 

Page 2 of 5 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A.  Online Portal based Investor (Resident) e-KYC Process (Aadhaar as an OVD) 

 

a.  Investor visits portal of KUA or  the SEBI registered intermediary which is also a 

Sub-KUA to open account/invest through intermediary. 

b.  For  Aadhaar  e-KYC,  investor  is  redirected  to  KUA  portal.  Investor  enters  the 
Aadhaar  Number  or  Virtual  Id  and  provides  consent  on  KUA  portal.  Adequate 
controls shall be in place to ensure that Aadhaar Number is not stored anywhere 
by the Sub-KUA or KUA. 
Investor  will  receive  OTP  in  mobile  number  registered  with  Aadhaar.  Investor 
enters the OTP sent by UIDAI on KUA portal for Aadhaar e-KYC. 

c. 

d.  KUA  will  receive  the  e-KYC  details  from  UIDAI  upon  successful  Aadhaar 
authentication  which  will  be  further  forwarded  to  Sub-KUA  in  encrypted  format 
(using KUAs own encryption key) and will be displayed to the investor on portal. 
Sharing  of  e-KYC  data  by  the  KUA  with  Sub-KUA  may  be  allowed  under 
Regulation  16(2)  of  Aadhaar  (Authentication)  Regulation,  2016.  Sub-KUA  shall 
clearly specify the name of the KUA and Sub- KUA, and details of sharing of data 
among KUA and Sub-KUA while capturing investor consent. 

e.  Investor will fill the additional detail as required under KYC format. 
f.  SEBI registered Intermediary will upload additional KYC details to the KUA. 

 

B.  Assisted Investor (Resident) e-KYC process (Aadhaar as an OVD) 

 

a.  Investor  approaches  any  of  the  SEBI  Registered  Entity/  Sub-KUAs  i.e.  Mutual 

Fund Distributors or appointed persons for e-KYC through Aadhaar. 

b.  SEBI  registered  entities  (Sub-KUAs)  will  perform  e-KYC  using  registered  / 

Whitelisted devices with KUAs. 

c.  KUA will ensure that all devices and device operators of Sub-KUA are registered / 

whitelisted devices with KUA. 

d.  Investor will enter Aadhaar No. or Virtual Id and provides consent on the registered 

device. 

e.  Investor provides biometric on the registered device. 
f.  SEBI  registered  intermediary  (Sub-KUA)  fetches  the  e-KYC  details  through  the 

KUA from UIDAI which will be displayed to the investor on the registered device. 

g.  Investor will also provide the additional detail as required. 

 

12. The KUA/ sub-KUA while performing the Aadhaar authentication shall also comply with 

the following: 
 

a.  For  sharing  of  e-KYC  data  with  Sub-KUA  under  Regulation  16(2)  of  Aadhaar 
(Authentication)  Regulations,  2016,  KUA  shall  obtain  special  permission  from 
UIDAI by submitting an application in this regard. Such permissible sharing of e-
KYC details by KUA can be allowed with their associated Sub-KUAs only.  

b.  KUA shall not share UIDAI digitally signed e-KYC data with other KUAs. However, 
KUAs may share data after digitally signing it using their own signature for internal 
working of the system. 

c.  e-KYC data received as response upon successful Aadhaar authentication from 
UIDAI will be stored by KUA and Sub-KUA in the manner prescribed by Aadhaar 
Act/Regulations and circulars issued by UIDAI time to time. 

Page 3 of 5 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d.  KUA/Sub-KUA  shall  not  store  Aadhaar  number  in  their  database  under  any 
circumstances.  It  shall  be  ensured  that  Aadhaar  number  is  captured  only  using 
UIDAI`s Aadhaar Number Capture Services (ANCS). 

e.  The KUA shall maintain auditable logs of all such transactions where e-KYC data 

f. 

has been shared with sub-KUA, for a period specified by the Authority.  
It shall be ensured that full Aadhaar number is not stored and displayed anywhere 
in the system and wherever required only last 4 digits of Aadhaar number may be 
displayed. 

g.  As  per  Regulation  14(i)  of  the  Aadhaar  (Authentication)  Regulation,  2016, 
requesting  entity  shall  implement  exception-handling  mechanisms  and  backup 
identity authentication mechanism to ensure seamless provision of authentication 
services to Aadhaar number holders. 

h.  UIDAI  may  conduct  audit  of  all  KUAs  and  Sub  KUAs  as  per  the  Aadhaar  Act, 
Aadhaar Regulations, AUA/KUA Agreement, Guidelines, circulars etc. issued by 
UIDAI from time to time. 

i.  Monitoring of irregular transactions  - KUAs shall develop appropriate monitoring 

j. 

mechanism to record irregular transactions and their reporting to UIDAI. 
Investor Grievance  Handling  Mechanism  - Investor may  approach  KUA for their 
grievance  redressal.  KUA  will  ensure  that  the  grievance  is  redressed  within  the 
timeframe  as  prescribed  by  UIDAI.  KUA  will  also  submit  report  on  grievance 
redressal to UIDAI as per timelines prescribed by UIDAI. 
 

13. Onboarding process of KUA/Sub-KUA by UIDAI: 

 

a.  As  provided  in  the  DoR  circular  dated  May  09,  2019,  SEBI  after  scrutiny  of  the 
application  forms  of  KUAs  shall  forward  the  applications  along  with  its 
recommendation to UIDAI. 

b.  For appointment of SEBI registered intermediary / MF distributors as Sub-KUAs, 
KUA will send list of proposed Sub-KUAs to SEBI and SEBI would forward the list 
of recommended Sub-KUAs to UIDAI for onboarding. An agreement will be signed 
between KUA and Sub-KUA, as prescribed by UIDAI. Sub-KUA shall also comply 
with the Aadhaar Act Regulations, circulars, Guidelines etc. issued by UIDAI from 
time to time. 

c.  Each sub-KUA shall be assigned a separate Sub-KUA code by UIDAI. 

 

14. The  KUA/sub-KUA  shall  be  guided  by  the  above  for  use  of  Aadhaar  authentication 

services of UIDAI for e-KYC. 
 

15. For  non-compliances  if  any  observed  on  the  part  of  the  reporting  entities  (KUAs/  Sub-
KUAs),  SEBI  may  take  necessary  action  under  the  applicable  laws  and  also  bring  the 
same  to  the  notice  of  DoR  /  FIU  for  further  necessary  action,  if  any.  Reporting  entity 
(KUAs/Sub-KUAs)  shall  also  adhere  to  the  continuing  compliances  and  standards  of 
privacy  and  security  prescribed  by  UIDAI  to  carry  out  Aadhaar  Authentication  Services 
under  section  11A  of  PMLA.  Based  on  a  report from  SEBI  /  UIDAI  or  otherwise,  if  it  is 
found  that  the  reporting  entity  no  longer  fulfills  the  requirements  for  performing 
authentication under clause (a) of section 11A(1) of PMLA, the Central Government may 
withdraw the notification after giving an opportunity to the reporting entity.  
 

Page 4 of 5 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16. Upon  notification  by  the  Central  Government  permitting  the  entities  recommended  by 
SEBI to undertake Aadhaar based authentication, the Circulars issued in the past by SEBI 
for e-KYC using Aadhaar based authentication shall stand modified/ revised in compliance 
with this Circular.  
 

17. This Circular is issued by SEBI in exercise of  powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 
 

 
 

Yours faithfully, 

D. Rajesh Kumar 
General Manager 
Tel. No: 022 - 26449242 
Email: rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in 

Page 5 of 5 

