 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/RTAMB/CIR/P/2019/122            

            

November 05, 2019 

To 

 

All Depositories 

All Registrars to an Issue & Share Transfer Agents (RTA) 

All Recognised Stock Exchanges  

All Listed Companies (through Stock Exchanges) 

 

 

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

Sub: Enhanced Due Diligence for Dematerialization of Physical Securities 

 

 

1.  In  terms  of  Regulation  40  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing 

Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  (IV  Amendment)  Regulations,  2018 

(LODR), transfer of securities held in physical mode is not permitted w.e.f. April 01, 

2019. Standardised norms with respect to documentation / procedure for transfer of 

physical 

securities 

were 

issued 

vide 

SEBI 

circular 

No. 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOS3/CIR/P/2018/139 dated November 06, 2018.  

 

2.  To augment the integrity of the system in processing of dematerialization request in 

respect of the remaining physical shares, the Depositories and the listed companies / 

RTAs are directed to implement the following due diligence process: 

 

I.  All Listed companies or their RTAs shall provide data of their members holding 

shares in physical mode, viz the name of shareholders, folio numbers, certificate 

numbers, distinctive numbers and PAN etc. (hereinafter, static database) as on 

March 31, 2019, to the Depositories, latest by December 31, 2019. The common 

 

Page 1 of 3 

format  for  this  data  shall  be  specified  jointly  by  the  Depositories  and  be 

communicated to Issuer companies / their RTAs. 

 

 

 

II.  Depositories  shall  capture  the  relevant  details  from  the  static  database  as  per 

clause I above and put in place systems to validate any dematerialization request 

received  after  December  31,  2019.  Accordingly,  the  depository  system  shall 

retrieve the shareholder name(s) recorded against the folio number and certificate 

number in Static Data for each DRN request received after this date and validate 

the same against the demat account holder(s) name as available in the records 

of the Depositories.   

 

III. 

In  case  of  mismatch  of  name  on  the  share  certificate(s)  vis-à-vis  name  of  the 

beneficial  owner of  demat  account,  the depository  system  shall  generate flag / 

alert. In instances, where such flags / alerts have been generated, the following 

additional  documents  explaining  the  difference  in  name,  as  prescribed  in 

paragraph 2 (b) of the cited SEBI circular of November 06, 2018, shall be sought, 

namely 

 

i.  Copy of Passport 

ii.  Copy of legally recognized marriage certificate 

iii.  Copy of gazette notification regarding change in name 

iv.  Copy of Aadhar Card 

 

IV. 

In  the  case  of  complete  mismatch  of  name  on  the  share  certificate(s)  vis-à-vis 

name of the beneficial owner of demat account, the applicant may approach the 

Issuer company / RTA for establishing his title / ownership. 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

3.  Depositories shall; 

 

 

 

a)  make necessary amendments to the relevant byelaws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of the above directions, as may be applicable 

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  participants  and  also 

disseminate the same on their websites; and 

c)  communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this circular 

in their Monthly Report.  

 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. 

 

5.  The  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  

the  notice  of Listed Entities and also to disseminate the same on their websites. 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully 

Manjesh Roy S.                                                                                                                    

General Manager                                                                                                                           

Tel. no: 022-26449710                                                                                                                            

Email id: manjeshsr@sebi.gov.in  

Page 3 of 3 

