  

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP1/CIR/P/2019/128                

 

 

 November 08, 2019  

To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam 
 
Introduction  of  Cross-Margining  facility  in  respect  of  offsetting  positions  in  co-
related equity Indices 

 

 

SEBI vide its circular SEBI/DNPD/Cir-44/2008 dated December 02, 2008 allowed cross 
margining across cash and exchange traded equity derivatives segments. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.  In  order  to  facilitate  efficient  use  of  collateral  by  market  participants,  it  has  been 
decided to extend cross margining facility to off-setting positions in highly co-related 
equity indices. 

3.  Eligibility Criteria 

 
a.  Cross margin benefit shall be provided on off-setting positions in futures on equity 

indices pairs which satisfy the below mentioned conditions: 

i.  A positive correlation of more than 0.90 for a period of six months between the 

values of the equity Indices and 
 

ii.  At least 80% of constituents of one of the index is present in the other index and 

iii.  The constituents of smaller index based on free float market capitalization shall 
have  at  least  80%  weightage  in  the  larger  index  based  on  free  float  market 
capitalization. 

b.  For cross margining benefit to continue the abovementioned eligibility criteria shall 

be checked by Clearing Corporations as under: 
 

Page 1 of 3 

 

i.  on a monthly basis on the 15th of every month 

 

 

ii.  on the day of change in the constituents of the equity indices 

 

c.  If the equity indices pairs fail to fulfil any of the abovementioned eligibility criteria, 

cross margining benefit shall not be given after the upcoming monthly expiry. 

4.  Computation of cross margin 

 

a.  To begin with, a spread margin of 30% of the total applicable margin on the eligible 

off-setting positions, shall be levied. 
 

b.  Cross margining benefit shall be computed at client level on an online real time 
basis and provided to the trading member / clearing member, as the case may be, 
who, in turn, shall pass on the benefit to the client.  
 

5.  All other conditions as specified in circular SEBI/DNPD/Cir-44/2008 dated December 
02, 2008 shall continue to be applicable on off-setting positions in futures on equity 
indices pairs. 

 

6.  Clearing  Corporations  shall  apply  to  SEBI  for  approval  for  providing  of  cross 
margining benefit on co-related equity indices which fulfil the eligibility criteria. The 
application shall be accompanied with the data on eligibility criteria specified above. 

 

7.  Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations are directed to: 

 

a.  put  in  place  the  adequate  systems  and  issue  the  necessary  guidelines  for 

implementing the above decision. 
 

b.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of the above decision. 

c.  specify  the  legal  agreements  between  the  clearing  entities  for  the  purpose  of 

margin utilisation in case of liquidation/default, etc. 

d.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the trading members / clearing 

members / custodians and also to disseminate the same on the website. 
 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e.  communicate to SEBI the status of implementation of the provisions of this circular 

 

 

through Monthly Development Report. 

 

8.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  
of the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992,  read  with  Section  10  
of  the Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  to  protect  the  interests  of  
investors    in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

9.  This   circular   is   available   on   SEBI   website   at   www.sebi.gov.in at “Legal 

Framework→Circulars”. 

 
 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

Amit Tandon 
General Manager 
Tel: +91 22 2644 9373 
email: amitt@sebi.gov.in  

Page 3 of 3 

 

