 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CFD/DCR2/CIR/P/2019/133                  

 

                     Nov 08, 2019 

 

To 

Recognized Stock Exchanges  

Depositories 

Registered Stock Brokers  

Registered Merchant Bankers 

Registered Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents 

Registered Depository Participants  

Registered Bankers to an Issue 

National Payments Corporation of India 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Sub: Streamlining the Process of Public Issue of Equity Shares and convertibles- 

Extension of time lime for implementation of Phase II of Unified Payments Interface 

with Application Supported by Blocked Amount 

 

 

 

1.  This refers to SEBI circular SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL2/CIR/P/2018/138 dated November 

1, 2018, vide  which SEBI had  introduced the use of Unified Payments Interface 

(UPI)  as  a  payment mechanism  with  Application  Supported  by  Blocked  Amount 

(ASBA)  for  applications  in  public  issues  by  retail  individual  investors  through 

intermediaries  (Syndicate  members,  Registered  Stock  Brokers,  Registrar  and 

Transfer  agent  and  Depository  Participants),  with  effect from  January  01,  2019. 

Implementation of the same was to be carried out in a phased manner to ensure 

gradual transition to UPI with ASBA. 

Page 1 of 14 

 

 

 

 

2.  Vide  SEBI  Circular  SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL2/CIR/P/2019/76  dated  June  28,  2019, 

Phase II was implemented from July 01, 2019. In Phase II, for applications by retail 

individual investors through intermediaries, the process of physical movement of 

forms from intermediaries to Self-Certified Syndicate Banks (SCSBs) for blocking 

of funds was discontinued and only the UPI mechanism with existing timeline of 

T+6 days was mandated, for a period of 3 months or floating of 5 main board public 

issues, whichever is later. 

3.  Since then, two big public issues have used the facility of UPI 2.0, wherein it was 

seen that the platform has become increasingly acceptable given the number of 

applications received in ASBA with UPI as a payment mechanism. Presently, 47 

and 5 self-certified syndicate banks are eligible to act as issuer banks and sponsor 

banks in UPI respectively.  

 

4.  National  Payments  Corporation  of  India  (NPCI)  has  assessed  the  situation  with 

respect  to  infrastructure  at  banks  and  their  logistics  and  suggested  further 

tweaking of systems, procedures and timelines for various activities for smoother 

operations  of  ASBA  with  UPI  as  a  payment  mechanism.  Similar  contraction  of 

timelines is required to be carried out by the intermediaries in the securities market. 

 

5.  In  order  to  ensure  that  the  transition  to  UPI  in  ASBA  is  smooth  for  all  the 

stakeholders,  it has been decided, after consultation with various intermediaries 

and NPCI, to extend the timeline for implementation of Phase II of the aforesaid 

Circular till March 31, 2020.  

 

6.  The revised timelines for the existing T+6 environment are placed at Annexure 1. 

 
 

 

Page 2 of 14 

 

 

 

7.  In  terms  of  regulation  23(5)  and  regulation  271  of  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital    and 

Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, these timelines and processes shall 

continue to form part of the agreements being signed between the intermediaries 

involved  in  the  public  issuance  process  and  lead  managers  shall  continue  to 

coordinate with intermediaries involved in the said process. 

 

8.  All entities involved in the process are advised to take necessary steps to ensure 

compliance with this circular. 

 

9.  The modalities and the date for T+3 listing shall be intimated later. 

 

10. The aforesaid Circulars dated November 1, 2018 and June 28, 2019, shall stand 

modified to the extent stated under this Circular. 

 

11. This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers under section 11 read with 

section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 

12. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

"Legal Framework" and "Issues and Listing". 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Narendra Rawat   

General Manager  

+91-22-40459383 

narendrar@sebi.gov.in 

Page 3 of 14 

Detailed Timelines of Activities to be adhered in T+6 listing – Phase II(Annexure 1) 
 

 

Sr. 

No. 

Details of activities 

Due Date 

(working 

day*) 

1.    An  investor,  intending  to  subscribe  to  a  public  issue,  shall  submit  a 

completed bid-cum-application form to any of the following entities:  

i.  an  SCSB,  with  whom  the  bank  account  to  be  blocked,  is 

maintained 

ii.  a syndicate member (or sub-syndicate member)  

iii.  a stock broker registered with a recognised stock exchange (and 

whose name is mentioned on the website of the stock exchange 

as eligible for this activity) (‘broker’) 

iv.  a depository participant (‘DP’) (whose name is mentioned on the 

website of the stock exchange as eligible for this activity) 

v.  a registrar to an issue and share transfer agent (‘RTA’) (whose 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

name  is  mentioned  on  the  website  of  the  stock  exchange  as 

Issue 

eligible for this activity) 

 

opening date 

to issue 

Retails investors submitting application with any of the entities at (ii) to 

closing date 

(v)  above  (hereinafter  referred  as  ‘Intermediaries’),  have  to  use  UPI 

(where T is 

and shall also their UPI ID in the bid-cum-application form.  

issue closing 

 

date)  

2.    The aforesaid entities shall, at the time of receipt of application, give an 

acknowledgement to investor, by giving the counter foil or specifying the 

application number to the investor, as a proof of having accepted the 

application form, in physical or electronic mode, respectively.  

 

(i)  For  applications  submitted  to  SCSB:  After  accepting  the  form, 

SCSB  shall  capture  and  upload  the  relevant  details  in  the 

electronic bidding system as specified by the stock exchange(s) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and blocked funds available in the bank account specified in the 

form, to the extent of the application money specified.  

 

 

(ii)  For applications submitted to intermediaries, with use of UPI for 

payment: 

After accepting the application form, respective intermediary shall 

capture and upload the relevant bid details, including UPI ID, in 

the electronic bidding system of stock exchange(s). 

 

Stock  exchange(s)  shall  validate  the  electronic  bid  details  with 

depository’s  records  for  DP  ID/Client  ID  and  PAN  Combination,  on  a 

real time basis through API Integration and bring the inconsistencies to 

the  notice  of  intermediaries  concerned,  for  rectification  and  re-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

submission within the time specified by stock exchange. 

Issue 

 

opening date 

Stock  exchange(s)  shall  allow  modification  of  selected  fields  viz.  DP 

to issue 

ID/Client ID or Pan ID (Either DP ID/Client ID or Pan ID can be modified 

closing date 

but not BOTH), Bank code and Location code, in the bid details already 

(where T is 

uploaded. 

issue closing 

3.    For retail applications submitted to intermediaries, with use of UPI for 

date)  

payment: 

 

Stock Exchange to share bid details including the UPI ID with Sponsor 

Bank on a continuous basis through API integration, to enable Sponsor 

Bank to initiate mandate request on investors for blocking of funds. 

 

Sponsor Bank to initiate request for blocking of funds through NPCI to 

investor. Investor to accept mandate request for blocking of funds, on 

his / her mobile application, associated with UPI ID linked bank account. 

4.    Reconciliation Steps to be done on daily basis (for UPI Mandates): 

Issue 

opening date 

 

Page 5 of 14 

 

Step 1: Sponsor bank shall do a reconciliation of bid requests received 

to issue 

from exchange(s) and sent to NPCI. Sponsor bank shall ensure that all 

closing date 

the bids received from exchange(s) are pushed to NPCI. 

(where T is 

Step  2:  NPCI  shall  ensure  that  all  the  bid  requests  received  from 

issue closing 

sponsor  bank  are  pushed  to  the  corresponding  payment  system 

date) – on 

participants  of  issuer  banks.  The  issuer  banks/sponsor  bank  shall 

daily basis 

download  the mandate related UPI settlement files and raw data files 

from NPCI portal on daily basis after every settlement cycle  and shall 

do a three way reconciliation with Banks UPI switch data, CBS data and 

the  UPI  raw  data.  NPCI  shall  coordinate  with  issuer  banks  /sponsor 

bank on continuous basis. 

Step  3: The  issuer  banks  shall  process  all  the  incoming  bid  requests 

from NPCI and shall send the response to NPCI in real time. NPCI shall 

further facilitate the flow of these responses to sponsor bank. 

Step 4: Sponsor bank shall do a reconciliation of bid responses received 

from NPCI and sent to exchange(s). Sponsor bank shall ensure that all 

the responses received from NPCI are sent to the exchange(s) platform 

with detailed error code and description, if any. 

Step 5: Sponsor bank shall do a final reconciliation of all bid requests 

and responses (obtained in Step 1 and Step 4) throughout their lifecycle 

on daily basis and share the consolidated report not later than 07:00 PM 

to Merchant Banker 

Step 6: Merchant Banker shall share the consolidated file received from 

sponsor bank with SEBI on daily basis not later than 09:00 PM as per 

the format mentioned in Annexure ‘A’ 

Step 7: On ‘T’ day, after the closure of issue, Sponsor Bank shall share 

the  consolidated  data  to  Merchant  Banker  not  later  than  07:00  PM.  

Merchant Banker shall share the consolidated data as on ‘T’ day (data 

obtained on daily basis in step 6) to SEBI not later than 09:00 PM as per 

the format mentioned in Annexure ‘A’ 

 

 

Page 6 of 14 

 

 

            The  objective  of  the  reconciliation  exercise  is  to  ensure  that 

every bid entered in the exchange(s) bidding platform has successfully 

completed its entire lifecycle and got its response updated back in the 

same exchange(s) bidding platform.  

 

            Merchant  Banker  shall  be  responsible  for  the  reconciliation 

exercise  and  shall  coordinate  with  NPCI,  Sponsor  Bank  and 

Exchange(s) on continuous basis. Merchant Banker shall be the nodal 

entity for any issues arising out of public issuance process.          

 

5.   

Issue Closes 

6.    For  retail  applications  submitted  to  intermediaries  with  use  of  UPI  for 

payment: 

Sponsor Bank may not accept bid details from Stock Exchanges post 

11:00 a.m. 

 

Sponsor Bank to initiate request for blocking of funds of investor, with 

confirmation cut off-time of 12:00 p.m. 

 

All pending requests at the cut-off time would lapse. 

 

Applicant to accept mandate request for blocking of funds prior to cut 

off-time of 12:00 p.m. 

 

Sponsor Bank to send confirmation of funds blocked (Final Certificate) 

to the registrar through stock exchange not later than 06:00 PM 

 

For QIB & NII application submitted to intermediaries: 

 

Page 7 of 14 

T (Issue 

closing 

date) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

T+1 

 

 

Intermediaries to forward a schedule as per format given below along 

with  the  application  forms  to  designated  branches  of  the  respective 

SCSBs for blocking of funds. 

Field No.  Details 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15. 

Symbol 

Intermediary Code 

Intermediary Name 

Bank Code 

Bank Name 

Location Code 

Application No 

Category 

PAN 

DP ID  

Client ID 

Quantity 

Amount 

Order No 

Exchange  

(*The character length for each of fields of the schedule to be forwarded 

by the intermediaries along with each application form to the designated 

branches  of  the  respective  SCSBs  for  blocking  of  funds  shall  be 

uniformly prescribed by the stock exchange(s))  

 

Designated  branches  of  SCSBs  may  not  accept  schedule  and 

applications after T+1 day 11:00 AM 

 

SCSBs to begin blocking of funds. 

 

Page 8 of 14 

 

Registrar to give bid file received from stock exchanges containing the 

application number and amount to all the SCSBs who may use this file 

for validation / reconciliation at their end. 

 

For all applications submitted to SCSB  

The  respective  SCSB  to  send  confirmation  of  funds  blocked  (Final 

Certificate) to the registrar not later than 06:00 PM 

 

On  ‘T+1’  day,  after  the  closure  of  modification  and  mandate 

acceptance by applicant, NPCI shall share the analysis of failures 

in UPI mandate transactions, duly classifying them into business 

declines and technical declines and further sub-classifying them 

as per their error descriptions to sponsor bank not later than 08:00 

PM 

 

On  ‘T+1’  day,  after  the  closure  of  modification  and  mandate 

acceptance  by  applicant,  Sponsor  Bank  shall  share  the  final 

consolidated  data  (Annexure  ‘A’)  and  the  error  description 

analysis  report  received  from  NPCI  to  Merchant  Banker  not  later 

than 08:15 PM 

 

Merchant Banker shall share the final consolidated data as per the 

format mentioned in Annexure ‘A’ (by ensuring that point 4 of the 

‘detailed timelines of Activities to be adhered in T+6 listing – Phase 

II’ is strictly adhered to) and the error description analysis report 

received from sponsor bank to SEBI not later than 09:00 PM 

7.    Third  party  confirmation  process  to  be  initiated  by  Registrar  not  later 

than 09:00 am on T+2. SCSBs and Issuer Banks to provide confirmation 

on the third party applications to the registrar not later than 09:00 pm on 

T+2. 

 

 

Page 9 of 14 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Issuer, merchant banker and registrar to submit relevant documents to 

the stock exchange(s) except listing application, allotment details and 

demat credit and refund details for the purpose of listing permission. 

 

Registrar  shall  reconcile  the  compiled  data  received  from  the  stock 

exchange(s), all SCSBs and Sponsor Bank (hereinafter referred to as 

the “reconciled data”).  

 

Registrar shall reject multiple applications determined as such, based 

on common PAN.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

T+2 

Registrar  to  undertake  “Technical  Rejection”  test  based  on  electronic 

bid details and prepare list of technical rejection cases.  

 

Merchant  Banker  shall  submit  a  report  of  compliance  with  all 

activities in T+2 to SEBI not later than 10:00 PM. 

8.    For  every  bid  entered  in  the  exchange(s)  bidding  platform,  the 

Issue 

audit trail shall be maintained by NPCI. The liability to compensate 

opening date 

the  investor  in  case  of  failed  transactions  shall  be  with  the 

to ‘T+2’ 

concerned  entity 

in  the 

‘ASBA  with  UPI  as  the  payment 

(where T is 

mechanism’ process (Sponsor Bank/ NPCI/ Issuer Banks) at whose 

issue closing 

end the lifecycle of the transaction has come to a halt. 

date)  

 

NPCI shall share the audit trail of all disputed transactions/investor 

complaints to the sponsor bank/Issuer banks. 

 

Merchant  Banker  shall  obtain  the  audit  trail  from 

Issuer 

banks/Sponsor banks for analysis and fixation of liability.  

9.    Finalisation of technical rejection and minutes of the meeting between 

issuer, lead manager, registrar. 

 

 

Page 10 of 14 

 

 

 

 

Registrar  shall  finalise  the  basis  of  allotment  and  submit  it  to  the 

designated stock exchange for approval. 

 

 

Designated Stock Exchange(s) to approve the basis of allotment. 

T+3 

 

Registrar to prepare funds transfer schedule based on approved basis 

of allotment. 

 

Registrar / Issuer to initiate corporate action to carry out lock-in for pre-

issue capital held in depository system. 

 

Registrar to issue funds transfer instructions to SCSBs. 

 

Registrar  to  issue  funds  transfer  instructions  to  Sponsor  Bank  in  two 

files, one for debit processing and the other for unblocking of funds. 

 

Merchant  Banker  shall  submit  a  report  of  compliance  with  all 

activities in T+3 to SEBI not later than 09:00 PM. 

10.   Registrar  to  receive  confirmation  for  pre-issue  capital  lock-in  from 

depositories. 

 

SCSBs and Sponsor Bank to credit the funds in public issue account of 

the issuer and confirm the same. 

 

Issuer shall make the allotment.  

 

Registrar  /  Issuer  to  initiate  corporate  action  for  credit  of  shares  to 

successful allottees. 

 

Issuer  and  registrar  to  file  allotment  details  with  designated  stock 

exchange(s)  and  confirm  all  formalities  are  complete  except  demat 

credit.  

 

Page 11 of 14 

 

 

 

 

 

 

T+4 

 

 

Registrar  to  send  bank-wise  data  of  allottees,  amount  due  on  shares 

allotted,  if  any,  and  balance  amount  to  be  unblocked  to  SCSBs  and 

Sponsor Bank. 

 

Merchant  Banker  shall  submit  a  report  of  compliance  with  all 

activities in T+4 to SEBI not later than 09:00 PM  

 

Sponsor bank, in coordination with NPCI and Issuer banks, shall 

share  the  data  points  4  to  8  mentioned  in  Annexure  ‘B’  with  the 

Registrar. 

 

Registrar shall coordinate with Sponsor Bank/SCSB’s and  submit 

a  comprehensive  report  on  status  of  debit/unblock  requests  of 

allottees/Non-allottees  not  later  than  08:00  PM  as  per  the  format 

mentioned in Annexure ‘B’ to Merchant Banker. 

 

 

Merchant Banker shall submit a comprehensive report on status of 

debit/unblock requests (Annexure ‘B’) received from the Registrar 

to SEBI not later than 09:00 PM. 

 

11.   Registrar to receive confirmation of demat credit from depositories.  

 

Issuer  and  registrar  to  file  confirmation  of  demat  credit,  lock-in  and 

issuance  of  instructions  to  unblock  ASBA  funds,  as  applicable,  with 

stock exchange(s).  

 

T+5 

Issuer  to  make  a  listing  application  to  stock  exchange(s)  and  stock 

exchange(s) to give listing and trading permission.  

 

 

Page 12 of 14 

 

Issuer,  merchant  banker  and  registrar  to  initiate  the  process  of 

publishing the allotment advertisement. 

  

Stock exchange(s) to issue commencement of trading notice.  

 

Merchant  Banker  shall  submit  a  report  of  compliance  with  all 

activities in T+5 to SEBI not later than 09:00 PM  

 

12.  

Issuer,  merchant  banker  and 

registrar 

to  publish  allotment 

advertisement  before  the  commencement  of  trading,  prominently 

displaying the date of commencement of trading, in all the newspapers 

where issue opening/closing advertisements have appeared earlier.  

 

Trading commences  

 

Merchant Banker shall identify the non-adherence of timelines and 

processes  (‘T’  to  ‘T+6’  days)  mentioned  in  ‘detailed  timelines  of 

T+6 

activities  to  be  adhered  in  T+6  listing  –  Phase  II’  and  submit  a 

report  to  SEBI  with  a  comprehensive  analysis  of  entities 

responsible for the delay and the reasons associated with it.  

 

Merchant  Banker  should  diligently  follow  all  the  activities 

mentioned in ‘detailed timelines of activities to be adhered in T+6 

listing – Phase II’ on daily basis from ‘T’ day to ‘T+6’ day. 

 

* Working days will be all trading days of stock exchanges, excluding Sundays, and 

bank holidays 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 13 of 14 

 

Annexure ‘A’ 

 

Exchange(s) 

**Bank ASBA 

Syndicate ASBA 

**Online 

No of 
Unique 
Application
s 

No of 
Shares 
Blocked 

No of 
Unique 
Applicatio
ns 

No of 
Shares 
Blocked 

No of Unique 
successful 
Applications 

UPI 
No of Shares  
successfully 
Blocked 

BSE 
NSE 
Total 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

** - Data to be obtained by merchant banker from registrar/exchange(s) 

No of 
Unique 
failed 
Application
s, if any 
 
 
 

No of 
Shares  
failed to get 
Blocked 

 
 
 

Annexure ‘B’ 

S.No. 
1. 

Data Point 
Total No of unique applications received 

2.
 

 

Total No of Allottees 

3. 

Total No of Non-Allottees 

 
Total 
Bank ASBA 
 

Online 
UPI 
Total 
Bank ASBA 
 
Online 
UPI 
Total 
Bank ASBA 
 
Online 
UPI 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8.  

Out of total UPI Allottees (Debit execution file), How many records were 
processed successfully? 

Out of total UPI Allottees (Debit execution file), How many records 
failed? 

Out of total UPI Non-Allottees (Unblocking file), How many records 
were successfully unblocked? 
Out of total UPI Non-Allottees (Unblocking file), How many records 
failed in unblocking? 
Whether offline revoke is taken up with issuer banks due to failure of 
online unblock system? If yes, Share a separate list of bank-wise count 
and application numbers. 

Count 
 
 

Date of Activity 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
Count : 
No of 
shares: 
Amount: 
Count: 
No of 
shares: 
Amount: 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 14 of 14 

 

 

