 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

             November 13, 2019 

 
SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/134/2019   
 
To  
 
All Issuers who have listed/propose to list municipal debt securities (listed entities) 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges  
All Registered Depositories  
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
 
Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Continuous disclosures and compliances by listed entities under SEBI (Issue 
and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) Regulations, 2015 

 

1.  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Municipal  Debt  Securities)  Regulations,  2015  (ILDM 
Regulations) prescribe disclosures to be made by issuers making public issues of debt 
securities  or  seeking  listing  of  municipal  debt  securities  issued  on  private  placement 
basis  to  the  Stock  Exchange(s).  SEBI  vide  Circular  No.  CIR/IMD/DF1/60/2017 
(“hereinafter  to  be  referred  as  ILDM  Circular”)  dated  June  19,  2017  had  specified 
continuous  disclosures  and  compliance  by  issuers  of  debt  securities  under  ILDM 
Regulations. 
 

2.  Subsequently, ILDM regulations have been amended to, inter alia, widen the definition 
of  issuers,  revise  timelines for  submission  of  annual and  half  yearly  financial  results, 
structure payment mechanism through escrow accounts, etc. 

 

3.  Regulation 29 of ILDM regulations provides that the Board shall have the power to issue 
directions  through  guidance  notes  or  circulars.  Accordingly,  it  has  been  decided  to 
specify as under: 

 

(a)  Clause  2.1  of  the  ILDM  circular  regarding  disclosure  of  financial  information  is 

substituted to read as under : 

 
 
 

 

Page 1 of 6 

 
      “2.1 Disclosure of Financial Information 

 

 
While disclosing its financial information to the Stock Exchange(s), listed entities shall 
comply with the following: 
 
2.1.1. Half Yearly Unaudited Financial results 

 

(a)  The listed entities shall prepare and submit half yearly un-audited financial results 
to the stock exchange as soon as the same are available but within forty five days 
of the end of the first half year. 

 

2.1.2. Annual Audited Financial Results 

 

(a)  The  listed  entities  shall  submit  annual  audited  financial  results  for  the  financial 
year, within sixty days from the end of the financial year along with the audit report. 
  
Provided  that  listed  entities,  who  are  being  audited  by  CAG,  may  adopt  the 
following two step process for audit of its accounts  

(i)  The first level audit shall be carried out by CAG appointed audit firm (auditor). 
The auditor so appointed shall conduct audit of accounts of the listed entity 
and  such  audited  annual  financial  results  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Stock 
exchange(s) within sixty days from the end of the financial year. 

(ii)  The final annual audited financial results as audited by CAG and after approval 
of the same by the Standing Committee and/or the Governing Body or Board 
of Directors of the listed entities, as applicable, shall be submitted to the Stock 
exchange(s) within nine months from the end of the financial year.  

 

2.1.3.   Preparation and Submission of Financial Results 

 

While preparing financial results, the listed entities shall comply with the following 

 

(a)  The  half  yearly  un-audited  financial  results  and  annual  audited  financial  results 
immediately  preceding 

information 

shall  contain  comparative 
the 
corresponding half year or financial year respectively. 
 

for 

(b)  The  half  yearly  un-audited  financial  results  and  annual  audited  financial  results 
submitted  to  the  Stock  exchange(s)  shall  be  taken  on  record  by  Standing 

 

Page 2 of 6 

 

Committee  or  General  Body  or  Board  of  Directors  or  Board  of  Trustee,  as 
applicable or equivalent. 
 

(c)  The  listed  entities  shall  disclose  debt  equity  ratio,  debt  service  coverage  ratio, 
interest service coverage ratio etc along with the half yearly and annual financial 
results. 

 

 

2.1.4.  Annual Report 

 

The annual report shall contain the following 

 

(a)  Balance sheet 
(b)  Income and expenditure account 
(c)  Statement of cash flows (a summary of cash flow over a given period of time) 
(d)  Receipts and payments accounts (detailed as per the account head) 
(e)  Notes to Account 
(f)  Financial performance indicators 
(g)  Auditor’s report 
(h)  Municipal  commissioner's  report  on  the  Annual  Financial  Statements  and  the 

qualifications and comments made in the report of the auditor; and 

(i)  Standing  committee's  action  taken  report  on  the  qualifications  and  comments 
made in the Report of the Auditor and the Report of the Municipal commissioner.” 

 

(b)  The following shall be added after para (16) in the Annexure 1 of Clause 2.2.2(b) of 

ILDM Circular on disclosing material and price sensitive information. 
 

“17. any material adverse changes affecting ability to service municipal debt securities” 

 

(c)  Clause 2.2.2.(c) of the ILDM Circular regarding timely payment of interest or principal 

obligations or both is substituted to read as under: 

 
“(c) Timely payment of interest or principal obligations or both 
 
The listed entities shall submit a certificate to the stock exchange(s) intimating the status 
of payment of interest or principal or both within five working days of the same becoming 
due in respect of municipal debt securities.” 
 

(d)  Clause 2.3.2. of ILDM Circular regarding Credit rating is modified to read as under:- 

 

 

Page 3 of 6 

 

 

 

“2.3.2. Credit Rating 

(a) Every credit rating shall be reviewed at least once a year, by a registered credit 

rating agency. 

 

(b) In the event of credit rating being downgraded by two or more notches below the 
rating assigned at the time of issue, the listed entities shall disclose the reasons 
for downgrade in rating and the steps, if any, it intends to take to recover the rating. 

 

(c) Any  change  in  credit  rating  shall  be  promptly  disseminated  on  the  Stock 

exchange(s) where such securities are listed.” 

 

(e)  Clause 2.3.3. (e) of ILDM Circular regarding periodic disclosure shall be deleted. 

 

4.  In addition to the above modifications, it has been decided to further specify as under:- 

 

9.1  Escrow Payment Mechanism 

 

The listed entities are required to create following escrow accounts for the purpose of 
payment obligations due to the investors. 

 

4.1.1.  No lien escrow account 

 

(a)  The listed entities shall deposit tax revenues, user charges and/or grants etc., as 

detailed in the offer document/private placement memorandum, to this account. 

4.1.2. 

Interest payment account 
 

(a)  The  listed  entities  shall,  throughout  the  tenure  of  the  municipal  debt  securities, 
maintain an amount equivalent to one year interest obligation in this account. The 
amount received in the “No lien escrow account” may be transferred to this account 
to maintain the required balance. 
 

(b)  In case of any shortfall of funds in this account, the listed entities are required to 

maintain the minimum balance from other accounts. 
 
 
 

Page 4 of 6 

 

 

4.1.3.  Sinking fund account 

 

(a)  A  Sinking  fund  account  shall  be  created  for  redemption  of  municipal  debt 

 

securities.  
 

(b)  The listed entities shall transfer the principal amount due for repayment, as per the 
timelines  and  amount  specified  in  the  offer  document  or  preliminary  placement 
memorandum.  The  amount  received  in  the  “No  lien  escrow  account”  may  be 
transferred to this account to maintain  the required balance in the  "Sinking fund 
account". 
 

4.1.4.  General Account 

 

(a)  The surplus funds in the “No lien escrow account” after meeting minimum balance 
in the “Interest payment account” and “Sinking funding account” can be transferred 
to General account on a monthly basis after obtaining certificate from debenture 
trustee  that  the  listed  entities  has  discharged  its  debt  obligations  in  a  timely 
manner. 

 

4.1.5.  All  the  above  accounts  except  “General  account”  shall  be  monitored  by  the 

debenture trustee. 

 

4.1.6.  The listed entities shall within 45 days from the end of the quarter, disclose the 
balances  in  the  aforesaid  accounts  along  with  notes  pertaining  to  transfers 
made to/from these accounts to stock exchange(s) for dissemination. 

 

4.1.7.  The amounts available in the escrow accounts may be invested in Government 
Securities or Treasury Bills or Fixed deposit with Scheduled commercial bank 
or liquid mutual fund or gilt fund or debt mutual funds or debt ETFs with a lien 
in favour of the debenture trustee. 

 

9.2  Interim use of issue proceeds 

 

(a)  The  listed  entities  may  invest  the  issue  proceeds  in  Government  Securities  or 
Treasury Bills or Fixed deposit with Scheduled commercial bank or liquid mutual 
fund  or  gilt  fund  or  debt  mutual  funds  or  debt  ETFs  with  a  lien  in  favour  of  the 
debenture trustee pending utilization of funds for the stated objects. 

 
 

Page 5 of 6 

 

 

 

9.3  Utilization of funds for projects and status of implementation of projects 

 

 

(a)  The  listed  entities  shall  submit  a  report  containing  status  of  implementation  of 
project(s)  which  is  being  financed  along  with  reasons  for  delay,  if  any  and  the 
amount of utilizations of issue proceeds for execution of the projects as stated in 
the offer document/ placement memorandum, as applicable, on a half yearly basis 
along with financial results to the stock exchange(s). 

 

9.4  Day Count Convention 

 

(a)  The day count convention for calculation of interest payment for listed municipal 
debt securities shall be Actual/ Actual. The manner of calculation of Actual/ Actual 
for municipal debt securities shall be as specified in Clause I of SEBI Circular no. 
CIR/IMD/DF/18/2013  dated  October  29,  2013  and  Circular  no.  CIR/IMD/DF-
1/122/2016 dated November 11, 2016 issued for debt securities listed under ILDS 
Regulations. 

 

5.  The provisions of this circular shall come into force with immediate effect. 

 

6.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  Regulation  29  of  ILDM 
Regulations  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 
development of, and to regulate the securities markets.  

 

7.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework   Circulars”. 

 
 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
   Tel No.:  022-2644 9596  
   Email id : richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 6 of 6 

