 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2019/136                                                   November 15, 2019 
 
To, 
 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 

Subject: Mapping of Unique Client Code (UCC) with demat account of the clients 

 

1.  Vide SEBI circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2018/153 dated December 17, 2018, 

Early Warning Mechanism was put in place to detect the diversion of client’s securities by 

the stock broker at an early stage so as to take appropriate preventive measures.  Early 

Warning  circular,  inter-alia,  specified  that  Stock  Exchanges  /  Clearing  Corporations  / 

Depositories,  shall  devise  a  mechanism  to  detect  diversion  of  clients’  securities  and  to 

share information among themselves in respect of:  

1.1. Diversion of pay-out of securities to non-client/other client accounts.  

1.2. Mis-matches between gross (client-wise) securities pay-in and pay-out files of a stock 

brokers generated by the Clearing Corporation which shall be compared with actual 

transfer of securities to/from the client’s depository accounts by the Depository. The 

cases of any mismatch found out by the Depository shall be informed to the concerned 

Stock Exchange / Clearing Corporation. 

 

2.  In  order  to  facilitate  ease  in  reconciliation,  it  was  considered  necessary  to  map  clients’ 

Unique Client Code (UCC) with their demat accounts. A mechanism for mapping of UCC 

with demat accounts of the clients was discussed with Stock Exchanges and Depositories. 

Pursuant to the discussion with Stock Exchanges and Depositories, it has been decided 

that for mapping of UCC with the demat account of the clients, following mechanism shall 

be implemented: 

1.1. UCC allotted by the trading member (TM) to the client shall be mapped with the demat 

account of the client. 

 

1.2. A  client  may  trade  through  multiple  TMs  in  which  case  each  such  UCC  shall  be 

mapped with one or more demat account(s).  

 

1.3. Stock Exchanges shall share the UCC data with the Depositories which shall include 

the PAN, segment, TM/CM code and UCC allotted. Such UCC data shall be shared 

 

Page 1 of 2 

with the Depositories on a one-time basis by November 30, 2019, and subsequently 

incremental data in respect of new UCCs created, shall be shared on a daily basis.  

 

 

 

1.4. Depositories shall map the UCC data in the demat account based on the PAN provided 

in the UCC database.  

 

1.5. Clients  may  make  a  request  to  their  depository  participants  to  delink  or  add  UCC 

details  which  shall  be  processed  by the  Depository  through  depository  participants. 

Before any addition of UCC in the demat account, the Depositories shall validate the 

same with the Stock Exchanges / client.  

 

1.6. Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories  shall  have  a  mechanism  in  place  to  address 

clients’ complaints with regard to UCC mapping with their demat accounts. 

 

1.7. Stock Exchanges and Depositories shall have a mechanism in place to ensure that 

inactive, non-operational UCCs are not misused and also a mechanism to ensure that 

inactive,  non-operational  UCCs  are  weeded  out  in  the  process  of  mapping  clients’ 

UCC with their demat account. 

 

2.  Stock Exchanges and Depositories shall map the existing UCCs with the demat account 

of the clients latest by December 31, 2019. 

 

3.  Stock Exchanges and Depositories are directed to:   

3.1. bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of their members and participants, as 

the case may be, and also disseminate the same on their websites;  

3.2. communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular in their monthly development report. 

 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Section 19 of the Depositories Act 

to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and 

to regulate the securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
D Rajesh Kumar 
General Manager 
                                       Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department 

 

Page 2 of 2 

