 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2019/142  

 

 

 

November 27, 2019                                                                

 

To,  

All Real Estate Investment Trusts (“REITs”)  

All Parties to REITs  

All Recognised Stock Exchanges 

All Merchant Bankers 

 

Dear Sir/ Madam,  

 

Sub: Guidelines for preferential issue of units and institutional placement of units 

by a listed Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) 

 

Regulation 2(1) (zd) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 

Trusts) Regulations, 2014 (“REIT Regulations”), defines a “preferential issue” as an issue 

of units to a select persons on a private placement basis. 

 

This  circular  details  the  guidelines  in  respect  of  a  preferential  issue  of  units  and 

institutional placement of units by a listed REIT. 

 

GUIDELINES 

1.  “Institutional Placement” shall mean a preferential issue of units by a listed REIT only 

to  Institutional  Investors,  as  defined  under  REIT  Regulations  or  circulars  issued 

thereunder. 

 

 

Page 1 of 14 

 

 

 

Conditions for issuance 

2.  A listed REIT may make a preferential issue of units or an institutional placement of units 

under these guidelines, if it satisfies the following conditions:  

2.1. A resolution of the existing unitholders approving the issue of units, in accordance 

with Regulation 22(6) of the REIT Regulations has been passed. 

2.2. Units of the same class, which are proposed to be allotted have been listed on a 

stock exchange for a period of at least six months prior to the date of issuance of 

notice to its unit holders for convening the meeting to pass the resolution in terms 

of clause 2.1 above: 

Provided  in  case  of  issuance  of  units  through  “institutional  placement”  the 

minimum listing period required shall be 12 months. 

2.3. The REIT has obtained in principle approval of the stock exchange(s) for listing of 

units proposed to be issued under these guidelines. 

2.4. The  REIT  is  in  compliance  with  all  the  conditions  for  continuous  listing  and 

disclosure  obligations  under  the  REIT  Regulations  and  circulars  issued 

thereunder. 

2.5. None  of  the  respective  promoters  or  partners  or  directors  of  the  sponsor(s)  or 

manager  or  trustee  of the  REIT  is  a fugitive  economic offender  declared  under 

section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018 (17 of 2018). 

2.6. The REIT shall not make any subsequent institutional placement until the expiry 

of six months from the date of the prior institutional placement made pursuant to 

one or more special resolutions. 

Manner of issuance of units 

3.  Any issuance of units under these guidelines shall be done in the following manner: 

3.1. The units shall be allotted in the dematerialized form only and shall be listed on 

the stock exchange(s) where the units of the REIT are listed.  

 

Page 2 of 14 

 

3.2. Any offer or allotment through private placement shall not be made to more than 

200 investors (excluding institutional investors) in a financial year.  

3.3. Other  than  to  the  extent  of  the  issue  of  units  that  is  proposed  to  be  made  for 

consideration other than cash, full consideration for the units issued shall be paid 

by  the  prospective  allottees  prior  to  the  allotment  of  the  units,  through  banking 

channels. All such monies shall be kept by the Trustee in a separate bank account 

in the name of the REIT and shall only be utilized for adjustment against allotment 

of units or refund of money to the applicants till the time such units are listed. 

3.4. The minimum allotment and trading lot for units issued shall be equivalent to the 

minimum allotment and trading lot as applicable to  the units of the same class, 

under  the  extant  provisions  of  the  REIT  Regulations  or  circulars  issued 

thereunder. 

3.5. Post allotment, the REIT shall make an application for listing of the units to the 

stock exchange(s) and the units shall be listed within seven days from the date of 

allotment: 

Provided that where the REIT fails to list the units within the specified time, the 

monies received shall be refunded through verifiable means within twenty days 

from the date of the allotment, and if any such money is not repaid within such 

time after the issuer becomes liable to repay it, the REIT and the manager and its 

director or partner who is an officer in default shall, on and from the expiry of the 

twentieth day, be jointly and severally liable to repay that money with interest at 

the rate of fifteen percent per annum. 

3.6. The REIT shall file an allotment report with SEBI within seven days of allotment 

of  the  units  providing  details  of  the  allottees  and  allotment  made.  Placement 

document, if applicable, shall also be filed with the Board along with the allotment 

report. 

Page 3 of 14 

 

 

 

3.7. The issue of units shall comply with the conditions and manner of allotment for 

preferential  issue units  and  institutional  placement  as  provided  in  Annexure  –  I 

 

and Annexure – II & III, respectively. 

4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Regulation 33 of the REIT 

Regulations.  

5.  This Circular is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

at www.sebi.gov.in under the sub-category “Circulars” under the category “Legal”.  

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

 

Richa G. Agarwal 

Deputy General Manager 

Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 

Tel. No.: +91 22 2644 9596 

E-mail ID: richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 4 of 14 

 

 

Annexure – I 

Manner of preferential issue of units by a listed REIT 

1.  Unit holders’ approval 

1.1. The issuer shall, in an explanatory statement to the notice for the general meeting 

proposed for passing the resolution in terms of  guideline 2.1, make appropriate 

disclosures including the following: 

1.1.1.  Objects of the preferential issue; 

1.1.2.  NAV of the REIT; 

1.1.3.  Maximum number of units to be issued; 

1.1.4.  Intent of the parties to the REIT, their directors or key managerial personnel 

to subscribe to the issue; 

1.1.5.  Unitholding pattern of the issuer before and after the preferential issue; 

1.1.6.  Time frame within which the preferential issue shall be completed; 

1.1.7.  Identity of the natural persons who are the ultimate beneficial owners of the 

units  proposed  to  be  allotted  and/or  who  ultimately  control  the  proposed 

allottees: 

Provided  that  if  there  is  any  listed  company,  mutual  fund,  scheduled 

commercial  bank, 

insurance  company  registered  with 

the 

Insurance 

Regulatory and Development Authority of India in the chain of ownership of 

the proposed allottee, no further disclosure will be necessary. 

 

Explanation: For the purpose of identification of the ultimate beneficial owners 

of the allottees, where the allottees are institutions/entities, the identification 

of such ultimate beneficial owners, shall be in accordance with the guidelines 

prescribed by the Board, if any. 

 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 14 

 
2.  Pricing of Units 

A.  Pricing of frequently traded units 

 

2.1. Where the units of the REIT are frequently traded, the pricing of units to be allotted 

pursuant to the preferential issue shall not be less than higher of the following: 

2.1.1.  the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average price 

of the related units quoted on the stock exchange during the twenty six weeks 

preceding the relevant date; or  

2.1.2.  the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average prices 

of  the  related  units  quoted  on  the  stock  exchange  during  the  two  weeks 

preceding the relevant date. 

2.2. A preferential issue of units to “institutional investors” not exceeding five in number, 

shall be made at a price not less than the average of the weekly high and low of the 

volume weighted average prices of the related units quoted on a recognised stock 

exchange during the two weeks preceding the relevant date. 

Explanation:  

a)  “Relevant date” for the purpose of clauses related to preferential issue of units 

shall be the date thirty days prior to the date on which the meeting of unitholders 

is  held  to  consider  the  preferential  issue.  Where  the  relevant  date  falls  on  a 

weekend  or  a  holiday,  the  day  preceding  the  weekend  or  the  holiday  will  be 

reckoned to be the relevant date. 

b)  “Relevant stock exchange” shall mean the recognised stock exchange in which 

the units of the REIT are listed, and in which the highest trading volume in respect 

of the units of the REIT has been recorded during the preceding twenty-six weeks 

prior to the relevant date. 

c)  “Frequently traded units” for purposes of these guidelines shall mean the units of 

the REIT, in which the traded turnover on any recognised stock exchange during 

the twelve calendar months preceding the relevant date, is at least ten percent of 

 

Page 6 of 14 

 

the  total  number  of  issued  and  outstanding  units  of  such  class  of  units  of  the 

issuer: 

Provided that where the number of issued and outstanding units of a particular 

class of units of the issuer is not identical throughout such period, the weighted 

average number of total units of such class of the issuer shall represent the total 

number of units. 

 

 

B.  Pricing of infrequently traded units 

2.3. Where the units of the REIT are not frequently traded, the price determined by the 

REIT shall take into account the NAV of the REIT based on a full valuation of all 

existing REIT assets conducted in terms of REIT Regulations. 

 

3.  Lock-in 

3.1. The units allotted to sponsor(s) shall be locked-in for a period of three years from 

the date of trading approval granted for the units: 

Provided that units not more than that required to be held in terms of Regulation 

11  of  the  REIT  Regulations  shall  be  locked-in  for  three  years  from  the  date  of 

trading approval: 

Provided  further  that  units  allotted  in  excess  of  the  units  required  to  be  held  in 

terms of Regulation 11  of the  REIT  Regulations  shall be locked-in for one year 

from the date of trading approval. 

Explanation: For the computation of the lock-in requirement, the units held by the 

sponsor(s)  and  locked-in  in  the  past  in  terms  of  Regulation  11  of  the  REIT 

Regulations or these guidelines shall be taken into account.  

The units locked-in pursuant to Regulation 11 of the REIT Regulations shall not 

be put under fresh lock-in again, even though they are considered for computing 

the lock-in requirement, in case the said units are free of lock-in at the time of the 

preferential issue. 

 

Page 7 of 14 

 

3.2. The  units  allotted  to  persons  other  than  the  sponsor(s)  shall  be  locked-in  for  a 

period of one year from the date of trading approval for such units. 

3.3. The entire pre-preferential issue unitholding of the allottees, if any, shall be locked-

in  from  the  relevant  date  up  to  a  period  of  six  months  from  the  date  of  trading 

 

approval. 

 

 

4.  Allotment 

4.1. Preferential  issue  of  units  shall  not  be  made  to  any  person  who  has  sold  or 

transferred any units of the issuer during the six months preceding the relevant 

date. 

Explanation: Where any person belonging to sponsor(s) or the sponsor group has 

sold/transferred  their  units  of  the  issuer  during  the  six  months  preceding  the 

relevant date, the sponsor(s) and sponsor group shall be ineligible for allotment 

of specified securities on preferential basis. 

4.2. Allotment  pursuant  to  the  unit  holders’  resolution  shall  be  completed  within  a 

period of fifteen days from the date of passing of such resolution: 

Provided that in case the approval of any regulatory, governmental or statutory 

body  /  agency  is  required,  then  in  such  cases  the  period  of  fifteen  days  will 

commence  from  the  date  of  approval  from  such  regulatory,  governmental  or 

statutory body/agency: 

Provided  further  that where  the  REIT fails  to  allot  the  units  within  the  specified 

time,  the  monies  received  shall  be  refunded  through  verifiable  means  within 

twenty days from the date of the resolution, and if any such money is not repaid 

within  such  time  after  the  issuer  becomes  liable  to  repay  it,  the  REIT  and  the 

manager and its director or partner who is an officer in default shall, on and from 

the expiry of the twentieth day, be jointly and severally liable to repay that money 

with interest at the rate of fifteen percent per annum. 

 

 

Page 8 of 14 

 

Manner of institutional placement of units by a listed REIT 

 

1.  Placement document 

 

Annexure II 

1.1. The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, which are registered with 

the Board, as lead manager(s) to the issue. 

1.2. The lead manager(s) shall, while seeking in-principle listing approval for the units, 

furnish to each stock exchange on which the same class of units of the issuer are 

listed,  a  due  diligence  certificate  stating  that  the  units  are  being  issued  under 

institutional  placement  and  that  the  issuer  complies  with  requirements  of  these 

guidelines, and also furnish a copy of the preliminary placement document along 

with any other document required by the stock exchange. 

1.3. The  lead  manager(s)  shall  exercise  due  diligence  and  shall  satisfy  themselves 

with all aspects of the Issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosures in 

the offer document. 

1.4. The institutional placement shall be made on the basis of a placement document 

which shall contain all material information, including disclosures as specified in 

Annexure III. 

1.5. The  preliminary  placement  document  and  the  placement  document  shall  be 

serially  numbered  and  copies  of  the  same  shall  be  circulated  only  to  select 

investors. 

1.6. The  preliminary  placement  document  and  the  placement  document  shall  be 

placed on the websites of the relevant stock exchange(s) and of the issuer with a 

disclaimer to the effect that it is in connection with an institutional placement and 

that no offer is being made to the public or to any other category of investors. 

 

 

 

 

Page 9 of 14 

 

 

2.  Pricing of Units 

A.  Pricing of frequently traded units 

 

2.1. Where the units of the REIT are frequently traded, the institutional placement shall 

be made at a price not less than the average of the weekly high and low of the 

closing prices of the units of the same class quoted on the stock exchange during 

the two weeks preceding the relevant date: 

Provided that the REIT may offer a discount of not more than five percent on the 

price  so  calculated,  subject  to  approval  of  unitholders  through  a  resolution  as 

specified in  guideline 2.1. 

Explanation:  “relevant  date”  for  the  purpose  of  clauses  related  to  institutional 

placement shall be the date of the meeting in which the board of directors of the 

manager decides to open the issue. 

 

B.  Pricing of infrequently traded units 

2.2. Where the units of the REIT are not frequently traded, the price determined by the 

REIT shall take into account the NAV of the REIT based on a full valuation of all 

existing REIT assets conducted in terms of REIT Regulations. 

 

3.  Transferability 

3.1. The  units  allotted  through  the  institutional  placement  shall  not  be  sold  by  the 

allottee for a period of one year from the date of allotment, except on a recognised 

stock exchange. 

 

4.  Allotment 

4.1. Allotment  pursuant  to  the  unit  holders’  resolution  shall  be  completed  within  a 

period of 365 days from the date of passing of such resolution: 

 

Page 10 of 14 

 

Provided that where the REIT fails to allot the units within the specified time, the 

monies received shall be refunded through verifiable means within twenty days 

from  the  date  of  the  closure  of  the  issue,  and  if  any  such  money  is  not  repaid 

within  such  time  after  the  issuer  becomes  liable  to  repay  it,  the  REIT  and  the 

manager and its director or partner who is an officer in default shall, on and from 

the expiry of the twentieth day, be jointly and severally liable to repay that money 

with interest at the rate of fifteen percent per annum. 

 

4.2. No allotment shall be made, either directly or indirectly, to any institutional investor 

who  is  a  sponsor(s)  or  manager,  or  is  a  person  related  to,  or  related  party  or 

associate of, the sponsor(s) or the manager 

 

Page 11 of 14 

 

 

 

 

1. 

 
2. 

 

ANNEXURE III 

Disclosures to be made by the issuer 

Disclaimer to the effect that the preliminary placement document and placement 
document relates to an issue being made to institutional investors under the REIT 
Regulations and these guidelines and that no issue is being made to the public or 
any other class of investors. 

Market Price Information  
 
2.1.  Disclose particulars of: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

 

 

 

 

high, low and average market prices of units of the REIT during the 
preceding three years or since the date of listing, as applicable, until 
the  date  of  the  preliminary  placement  document  and  placement 
document; 

monthly high and low prices for the six months preceding the date of 
filing  of  the  preliminary  placement  document  and  placement 
document, as applicable; 

number of units traded on the days when high and low prices were 
recorded in the relevant stock exchange during period of (a) and (b) 
above, and total volume traded on those dates; 

2.2.  The  stock  market  data  specified  in  paragraph  2.1  above  shall  be  shown 
separately for periods marked by a change in capital structure, with such 
period  commencing  from  the  date  the  concerned  stock  exchange 
recognizes the change in the capital structure 

 

2.3.  The market price immediately after the date on which the resolution of the 
board of directors of the manager of the issuer approving the institutional 
placement was passed. 

 

2.4.  Valuation  report  which  forms  the  basis  for  calculation  of  issue  price  for 

infrequently traded units.(if applicable) 
 

3.  The  preliminary  placement  document  and  placement  document  shall  contain  the 
disclosures as specified under schedule III of the REIT Regulations in the following 
manner: 

 

Page 12 of 14 

 

 

a) 

b) 

 

 

The disclosures as per clauses 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7(a), 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 
18  shall  be made  in the  preliminary  placement  document  and placement 
document. 
 
The disclosures in clause (a) above may be incorporated by reference to 
disclosures  made 
in  any  previous  offer  document  or  placement 
memorandum or placement document or annual report duly published by 
the REIT: 

Provided that the link(s) to such document wherever available, including on 
the website of the issuer, stock exchanges or SEBI, shall also be provided. 

Provided further that any modification/update in the information provided in 
such documents shall be suitably incorporated in the disclosure document. 

 
4.  Terms of the issue: 

 
a) 

b) 

c) 

Objects of the issue. 
 
If the objects of the issue involve financing of any new asset(s), description 
of such asset(s) as per disclosures required under clause 6 of the Schedule 
III of the REIT Regulations. 
 
If the objects are not being financed solely through the issue proceeds, the 
details of other financing arrangements for fulfilling the objects of the issue. 

 
5.  Related Party Transactions: 

a) 

b) 

c) 

Disclosure  as  per  clause  9  of  the  Schedule  III  of  the  REIT  Regulations, 
which  may  be  incorporated  by  reference  to  disclosures  made  in  any 
previous  offer  document  or  placement  memorandum  or  placement 
document. 
 
Any  disclosures  made  regarding  related  party  transactions  shall  also  be 
incorporated by reference to such disclosures. 
 
Link(s) to document(s) at (a) and (b) above wherever available, including 
on the website of the REIT, stock exchanges, shall be provided. 

 
6.  Valuation: 

 
a) 

 

Summary  of  valuation  of  the  assets  proposed  to  be  financed  through 
proceeds of the issue 

Page 13 of 14 

 

 

b) 
c) 
d) 

Valuation methodology. 
Frequency of valuation and declaration of NAV. 
Any disclosures made regarding valuation since the initial offer shall also 
be incorporated by reference to such disclosures. 
Link(s)  to  document(s)  at  (d)  above  wherever  available,  including  on  the 
website of the REIT, stock exchanges, shall be provided. 
The  valuation  report of  the  asset to be financed  through proceeds  of the 
issue,  if  any,  shall  be  provided  along  with  the  preliminary  placement 
document and placement document. 
 
7.  Financials: 

e) 

f) 

 
a) 

b) 

 

Disclosure as per clauses 11(a), 11(b), 11(c) and 11(e) of the Schedule III 
of the REIT Regulations: 
 
Provided if the REIT is undertaking/ has undertaken any acquisition of any 
material asset(s), the disclosures as per clause 11(b) should be prepared 
on a pro forma basis certified by statutory auditors of the REIT, taking into 
account the financials of the asset(s) being acquired/already acquired. 
 
Disclosure as per clause (a) above may be incorporated by reference to any 
public  disclosures  of  financials  made  under  the  REIT  Regulations  or  any 
circular issued thereunder, along with link(s) to such disclosure(s) wherever 
available, including on the website of the REIT, stock exchanges. 

8.  Distribution  including  the  manner  of  calculation  of  the  net  distributable  cash  flows, 
history of distributions made in the last three financial years or from the date of listing 
of the REIT and the policy, if any. 

 

9.  Other disclosures: 
 

Unit holding pattern 

Review of Credit Rating 

Grievance redressal mechanism 

The  disclosures  in  clause  (a),  (b)  and  (c)  above  may  be  incorporated  by 
reference  to  any  public  disclosures  made  under  the  REIT  Regulations  or 
any  circular  issued  thereunder,  along  with  link(s)  to  such  disclosure(s) 
wherever available, including on the website of the REIT, stock exchanges. 

a) 
 
b) 
 
c) 
 
d) 

 

10. Declarations (to be signed by the board of directors of the manager and the trustee) 

 

Page 14 of 14 

