 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD2/DCAP/CIR/P/2019/145 
 
All  Recognized  Clearing  Corporations  including  those  in  International 
Financial Services Centre (IFSC) 
 
Madam/Sir, 
 
Subject – Investment Policy of Clearing Corporations 

        November 28, 2019 

 
1.  SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/MRD/DRMNP/CIR/P/2016/54 dated May 04, 2016 on 
“Investment Policy, Liquid Assets for the purpose of Calculation of Net Worth of a 
Clearing  Corporation  and  Transfer  of  Profits”  inter  alia  permitted  the  Clearing 
Corporations to make investments in Fixed Deposits with Banks (only those banks 
which  have  a  net  worth  of  more  than  INR  500cr.  and  are  rated  A1  (or  A1+)  or 
equivalent),  Central  Government  Securities  and  Liquid  schemes  of  debt  mutual 
funds (subject to a limit of ten percent of the total investible resources held by the 
Clearing Corporation, at any point in time). 
 

2.  Upon  a  review  of  investment  avenues  available  for  Clearing  Corporations  and 
based  on  the  feedback  received,  it  has  been  decided  to  permit  the  Clearing 
Corporations  to  make  investments  in  Overnight  Funds;  however,  the  combined 
investments made by Clearing Corporations in Liquid Funds and Overnight Funds 
shall not exceed a limit of ten percent of the total investible resources. Further, the 
investments in Overnight Funds shall also be considered as 'Liquid Assets', for the 
purpose of calculation of Net worth of a Clearing Corporation. 

 

3.  The provisions of this circular shall come into force with immediate effect. 
 
4.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 1992,  to  protect the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate,  the 
securities market. 

 
5.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the category 

"Circulars".  

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Amit Tandon 
General Manager 
Market Regulation Department 
E-mail: amitt@sebi.gov.in 
 

