भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरतितिमयबोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

    CIRCULAR 

 

                              November 21, 2019 

 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2019/140 
  
To 
All Listed entities  
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
 
Madam / Sir, 
 
Sub:  Disclosures  by  listed  entities  of  defaults  on  payment  of  interest/  repayment  of 
principal amount on loans from banks / financial institutions and unlisted debt securities 
 
1.  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  (“SEBI  LODR 
Regulations”) currently require disclosure of material events / information by listed entities to 
stock  exchanges.  Specific  disclosures  are  required  under  the  SEBI  LODR  Regulations  in 
certain matters such as delay / default in payment of interest / principal  on  debt  securities 
such  as  Non-Convertible  Debt  (NCDs),  Non-Convertible  Redeemable  Preference  Shares 
(NCRPS) etc. It has been observed that similar disclosures are generally not made by listed 
entities with respect to loans from banks and financial institutions. 
 

2.  Corporates in India are even today primarily reliant on loans from the banking sector. Many 
banks and financial institutions are presently under considerable stress on account of large 
loans to the corporate sector turning into stressed assets / Non-performing Assets (NPAs). 
Some  companies  have  also  been  taken  up  for  initiation  of  insolvency  and  bankruptcy 
proceedings.  

 

3.  In  order  to  address  this  critical  gap  in  the  availability  of  information  to  investors,  listed 

entities shall comply with the requirements of this circular. 
 

A.  Applicability:  

 

i.  The  circular  shall  be  applicable  to  all  listed  entities  which  have  listed  any  of  the following: 

specified securities (equity and convertible securities), NCDs and NCRPS. 
 

ii.  The  disclosures  shall  be  made  to  the  stock  exchanges  when  the  entity  has  defaulted  in 
payment of interest / instalment obligations on loans, including revolving facilities like cash 
credit, from banks / financial institutions and unlisted debt securities.  

 

iii.  ‘Default’ for the purpose of this circular shall mean non-payment of the interest or principal 
amount  in  full  on  the  date  when  the  debt  has  become  due  and  payable  (‘pre-agreed 
payment date’).  
Provided that for revolving facilities like cash credit, an entity would be considered to be in 
‘default’ if the outstanding balance remains continuously in excess of the sanctioned limit or 
drawing power, whichever is lower, for more than 30 days. 

 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरतितिमयबोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
B.  Timing of disclosures:  

 

i.  To  begin  with,  listed  entities  shall  make  disclosure  of  any  default  on  loans,  including 
revolving facilities like cash credit, from banks / financial institutions which continues beyond 
30 days. Such disclosure shall be made promptly, but not later than 24 hours from the 30th 
day of such default. 

 

ii.  In  case  of  unlisted  debt  securities  i.e.  NCDs  and  NCRPS,  the  disclosure  shall  be  made 
promptly but not later than 24 hours from the occurrence of the default. This is in line with 
the existing disclosure requirements specified for listed debt instruments. Disclosures shall 
be made in the format(s) specified in Paras 3 (C1) and (C2) below. 
 

C.  Disclosure formats:  

 
C1. The following details shall be disclosed by listed entities for each instance of default, as 
specified in Para 3 (B) above: 
 
a.  For  loans  including  revolving  facilities  like  cash  credit  from  banks  /  financial 
institutions: 
 

Sr. No  Type of disclosure 

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

  Name of the Listed entity  
  Date of making the disclosure 
  Nature of obligation  
  Name of the Lender(s) 
  Date of default  
  Current default amount (break-up of principal and interest in INR crore)  
  Details  of  the  obligation  (total  principal  amount  in  INR  crore,  tenure, 

interest rate, secured / unsecured etc.) 

8. 

  Total amount of outstanding borrowings from Banks / financial institutions 

(in INR crore) 

9. 

  Total  financial  indebtedness  of  the  listed  entity  including  short-term  and 

long-term debt (in INR crore) 

 
b. For unlisted debt securities i.e. NCDs and NCRPS: 
 

Sr. No  Type of disclosure 

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 

  Name of the Listed entity  
  Date of making the disclosure 
  Type of instrument with ISIN  
  Number of investors in the security as on date of default 
  Date of default  
  Current default amount (break-up of principal and interest in INR crore)  
  Details 

obligation 

tenure, 

(amount 

issued, 

of 

the 

coupon, 

Details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

secured/unsecured, redemption date etc.) 

8. 
9. 

  Total amount issued through debt securities (in INR crore) 
  Total  financial  indebtedness  of  the  listed  entity  including  short-term  and 

 
 

long-term debt (in INR crore) 

 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरतितिमयबोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

C2. Disclosures specified in the table below shall be made by listed entities, if on the last date 
of any quarter: 
 
a.  Any  loan  including  revolving  facilities  like  cash  credit  from  banks  /  financial  institutions 

where the default continues beyond 30 days or 

b.  There is any outstanding debt security under default.  

 
S. no. 
1. 
A.   
B.   
2. 
A.   
B.   
3. 

Particulars 

in INR crore 
Loans / revolving facilities like cash credit from banks / financial institutions 

Total amount outstanding as on date  

Of the total amount outstanding, amount of default as on date  
Unlisted debt securities i.e. NCDs and NCRPS 

Total amount outstanding as on date  

Of the total amount outstanding, amount of default as on date  

Total  financial  indebtedness  of  the  listed  entity  including 
short-term and long-term debt  

 

 

 
 
 

 
The above disclosure shall be made within 7 days from the end of each quarter. 
 

4.  As far as disclosures pertaining to default of listed NCDs / listed NCRPS / listed Commercial 
paper are concerned, the same would continue to be made as per the present provisions of 
the SEBI Regulations and Circulars issued thereunder.  
 

5.  Disclosures  as  applicable  in  terms  of  this  circular,  including  quarterly  disclosure,  shall  be 
made beginning January 01, 2020 in the format specified in Paras 3 (C1) and 3 (C2) above. 

 

6.  SEBI circular no. CIR/CFD/CMD/93/2017 dated August 4, 2017 is rescinded. 

 

7.  This  circular  is  issued  under  Section  11(1)  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992  and  Regulation  101  of 

SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 

 

8.  This  circular  is  available  on  the  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category  -

“LegalCirculars”. 

 
 

 
 

 

Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
General Manager 

Compliance & Monitoring Division-1   

Corporation Finance Department 
Tel No.022-2644 9246 
Email - pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

