 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
 
SEBI/HO/MRD2/DCAP/CIR/P/2019/146   

 

 

 

November 28, 2019 
 

To,  
 
1.  All recognized Stock Exchanges 
2.  All Listed Companies through recognized Stock Exchanges  
3.  All recognized Depositories  
4.  All recognized Custodians 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
    
Subject: Framework for issue of Depository Receipts 
 
1.  The framework for issuance of Depository Receipts (‘DRs’) by a Listed Company was 

notified by SEBI vide Circular dated October 10, 2019.  
 

2.  The said Circular, inter-alia, provided that a Listed company shall be permitted to issue 
permissible  securities  or  transfer  Permissible  Securities  of  existing  holders,  for  the 
purpose of issue of DRs, only in Permissible Jurisdictions and said DRs shall be listed 
on any of the specified International Exchange(s) of the Permissible Jurisdiction.  
 

3.  The Circular also provided that ‘Permissible Jurisdiction’ shall mean jurisdictions as 
may be notified by the Central Government from time to time, pursuant to notification 
no.  G.S.R.   669(E)  dated  September  18,  2019  in  respect  of  sub-rule 1  of  rule  9 of 
Prevention  of  Money-Laundering  (Maintenance  of  Records)  Rules,  2005,  and 
‘International Exchanges’ shall mean exchanges as may be notified by SEBI from time 
to time.’ 

 
4.  In this  regard,  the  Central Government vide  notification  dated November 28, 2019, 
has  notified  the  list  of  Permissible  Jurisdictions  in  pursuance  of  notification  dated 
September 18, 2019. Accordingly, for the purpose of Para 2.7 of the abovementioned 
Circular dated October 10, 2019, a list of Permissible Jurisdictions and International 
Exchange(s) is placed at Annexure A. 

 

5.  Stock Exchanges and Depositories are advised to: 

a)  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of the above circular; and 

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  issuers,  domestic 

custodians and also to disseminate the same on the website. 

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 

 
6.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 
 

7.  This   circular   is   available   on   SEBI   website   at   www.sebi.gov.in at “Legal 

Framework→Circulars”. 

  
 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
Amit Tandon 
General Manager 
Market Regulation Department 
E-mail: amitt@sebi.gov.in 
 
 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure A 
 

List of Permissible Jurisdictions and International Exchanges  
 
1.  United States of America - NASDAQ, NYSE 
2.  Japan - Tokyo Stock Exchange  
3.  South Korea - Korea Exchange Inc.   
4.  United Kingdom excluding British Overseas Territories- London Stock Exchange  
5.  France - Euronext Paris 
6.  Germany - Frankfurt Stock Exchange  
7.  Canada - Toronto Stock Exchange  
8.  International  Financial  Services  Centre  in  India  -  India  International  Exchange, 

NSE International Exchange  

 
 

Page 3 of 3 

