CIRCULAR 

 

                November 29, 2019 

 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2019/149 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers,  
All Recognised Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations having 
Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Sir / Madam,  

 

Sub:  Cut-off  Time  for  Determining  Minimum  Threshold  of  Margins  to  be 

Collected from Clients 

 
1.  SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/80 dated September 07, 
2016  and  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2019/73  dated  June  20,  2019 
prescribed  mechanism  for  levying  penalties  on  short-collection/non-collection  of 
Margins. 
 

 

2.  SEBI has received feedback from the market participants that members currently 
report margins collected from their clients to clearing corporations (CCs) vis-à-vis 
the End of Day (EOD) Risk Parameters File (RPF) generated by the CC. In case 
of commodity derivative products that are traded beyond 5:00 PM, members face 
difficulty in collecting Initial Margin (IM)/Extreme Loss Margin from their respective 
clients. This is because final margin requirements are crystallized at EOD, which 
is beyond banking hours. 
 

3.  In  the  light  of  the  above,  following  has  been  decided  for  commodity  derivative 

contracts, having trading hours beyond 5:00 PM:- 

a.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  minimum  threshold  of  margins  to  be 
collected by members from their clients, cut off time shall be kept as 5:00 
PM. 

b.  Risk Parameter File (RPF) to be generated at cut-off time shall be applied 
on clients’ EOD portfolio for the purpose of determining minimum threshold 
of margin to be collected from clients by members. 

c.  Similarly for the purpose of determining minimum threshold of Extreme Loss 
Margin  (ELM)  to  be  collected  from  clients,  EOD  client  portfolio  shall  be 

 

Page 1 of 2 

valued  at  the  half  an hour  weighted  average  trade  price arrived  at  cut-off 
time stipulated above. 

 

4.  For commodity derivative contracts having trading till 5:00 PM, margin collection 

from clients shall be on EOD basis. 
  

5.  Further  it  is also  clarified  that  there  shall  not  by  any  change  in  norms  regarding 

margin computation and collection by the CC from its members. 

 

6.  This circular shall be effective from April 01, 2020. 

 

7.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 
market. 
 

8.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
Vishal V. Nair 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Risk Management 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
vishaln@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

