 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2019/161 

 

 

 

December 24, 2019 

 

To 

All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) 

All Parties to InvITs 

All Stock Exchanges 

All Merchant Bankers 

 

Sir / Madam, 

 

Sub: Guidelines for filing of placement memorandum - InvITs proposed to be listed 

 

1.  Regulation  2(1)  (zoa)  of  SEBI  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014 

(“InvIT Regulations”) defines “private placement” as an issue of units by an InvIT to any 

select person or group of persons and does not include an offer of units made through 

a  public  issue  and  Regulation  2(1)(zl)  of  InvIT  Regulations  defines  a  “placement 

memorandum” as any document through which private placement of units of the InvIT is 

made.  

 

2.  The  following  clarification  is  issued  to  the  InvITs  which  are  issuing  units  on  private 

placement basis that are proposed to be listed: 

 

a. InvITs, wherein units are issued by way of private placement and which are proposed 

to  be  listed,  shall  file  a  draft    placement  memorandum  with  the  Board  and  stock 

exchange(s) through a merchant banker registered with the Board not less than thirty 

days prior to opening of the issue. 

 

 

1 

 

 

b.  The draft placement memorandum shall contain disclosures as specified in Schedule 

III of InvIT Regulations and the merchant banker shall submit a due diligence certificate 

as  per  Form  A  (to  the  extent  applicable)  of  Annexure  I  of  SEBI  Circular  no. 

CIR/IMD/DF/55/2016 along with the draft placement memorandum.  

 

c.  The Board may issue observations, if any, on the draft placement memorandum within 

fifteen working days from the later of the following dates: 

i) 

ii) 

the date of receipt of the  draft placement memorandum by the Board; or 

the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the issuer and/or merchant banker 

to  the  issue,  where  the  Board  has  sought  any  clarification  or  additional 

information from them; or 

iii) 

the date of receipt of clarification or information from any regulator or agency, 

where the Board has sought any clarification or information from such regulator 

or agency; or 

iv) 

the date of receipt of a copy of in-principle approval letter issued by the stock 

exchange(s). 

 

d.  The  merchant  banker  to  the  issue,  shall  ensure  that  all  comments  are  suitably 

incorporated  in  the  draft  placement  memorandum  prior  to  filing  of  the  placement 

memorandum in terms of Regulation 14(2)(e) of InvIT Regulations and shall provide 

the  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Form  B  of  Annexure  I  of  SEBI  Circular  no. 

CIR/IMD/DF/55/2016. 

 

3.  The Circular shall come into effect from January 15, 2020 for all InvITs issuing units on 

private placement basis and are proposed to be listed.  

 

4.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of Securities 

and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 14(6) and Regulation 33 of 

InvIT Regulations. 

 

2 

 

 

5.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

 

Richa G. Agarwal 

Deputy General Manager 

Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 

Tel No.022-2644 9596  

Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

