 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

       

SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2019/167  

                       December 24, 2019 

 

To 

Issuers who intend to list their Commercial Papers 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 

Sir / Madam, 

 

 

Subject: Framework for listing of Commercial Paper-Amendments 

1.  SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/DHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2019/115 dated October 22, 2019 

(hereinafter  “CP  Circular”)  prescribed  a  framework  for  listing  of  Commercial 

Paper. 

 
2.  Based  on  the  representations  received  from  the  market  participants,  following 

paragraphs of CP circular stands modified: 

a)  The proviso to para 5.2 of Annexure I of CP Circular shall read as under: 

Provided  that  listed  issuers  (who  have  already  listed  their  specified 

securities and/or  ‘Non-convertible  Debt  Securities’  (NCDs)  and/or  ‘Non-

Convertible  Redeemable  Preference  Shares’  (NCRPS))  who  are 

in 

compliance  with  SEBI  (Listing        obligations        and        disclosure    

requirements)        Regulations        2015  (hereinafter    “SEBI    LODR  

Regulations”),  and/or      issuers  (who  have  outstanding  listed  Commercial 

Paper  (CPs))  who  are  in  compliance  with  Annexure  II  of  CP  Circular  may  

file  unaudited  financials  with limited  review  for  the  stub  period  in  the  

current    financial    year,    subject    to  making  necessary  disclosures  in  this 

regard including risk factors. 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

b)  Second  para  of  para  1.2  of  Annexure  II  of  CP  Circular  shall  be  read  as 

under: 

However,    if   an    issuer    is   required   to    prepare   financial    results   for    the 

purpose  of  consolidated  financial  results  of  its  parent  company  in  terms  of 

Regulation 33 of SEBI LODR Regulations, such issuers shall submit financial 

results  in  terms  of  para  1.1  above  or  shall  submit  quarterly  financial  results 

that  have  been  prepared  for  the  purpose  of  consolidation  of  their  parent 

company.  

 
3.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  

of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 

4.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Richa G. Agarwal 

Deputy General Manager 

Department of debt and hybrid securities 

Tel No.022-2644 9596 

Email id - richag@sebi.gov.in 

 
 

 

