                              
 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2019/169   

 

 

 

 

 

               December 27, 2019 

All Investment Advisers 

Sir/Madam, 

Subject: Measures to strengthen the conduct of Investment Advisers (IA) 

1.  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Investment  Advisers)  Regulations,  2013  (IA 
Regulations) provides for code of conduct to be followed by IAs. In order to further strengthen 
the conduct of IAs, while providing investment advice and to protect the interest of investors 
seeking their advice, the IAs shall comply with the following: 
 

(i) 

(ii) 

Restriction on free trial  
 
As per SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013, investment advice can be given after 
completing risk profiling of the client and ensuring suitability of the product. It has come to 
the notice that IAs are providing advice on free trial basis without considering risk profile of 
the client. Hence the IAs shall not provide free trial for any products/services to prospective 
clients. Further, IAs shall not accept part payments (where some part of the fee is paid in 
advance) for any product/service.  
 
Proper risk profiling and consent of client on risk profiling  
 
Risk profiling of the client is essential to provide advice on suitable product based on various 
criteria like income, age, securities market experience etc. RIAs shall provide investment 
advice only after completing the following steps:  
 
a.  Complete the risk profile of the client based on information provided by the client. 
b.  Obtain consent of the client on completed risk profile either through registered email 

or physical document. 
 
 
 

 

 

1 | P a g e  

                              
 

 

(iii) 

(iv) 

Receiving fees though banking channel only  
 
It is observed that investment advisers are receiving advisory fee in the form of cash deposit 
in their bank accounts or through payment gateways which does not provide proper audit 
trail of fees received from the clients. To bring transparency in dealing with the clients, IAs 
shall accept fees strictly by account payee crossed cheques / demand draft or by way of 
direct credit into their bank account through NEFT/ RTGS/IMPS/UPI. It is clarified that, IAs 
shall not accept cash deposits. 
 
Display of complaints status on website  
 
In  order to  bring more transparency and  enable  the  investors  to take  informed decision 
regarding availing of advisory services, IAs shall display the following information on the 
homepage  (without  scrolling)  of  their  website/mobile  app.  The  information  should  be 
displayed  properly  using  font  size  of  12  or  above  and  made  available  on  monthly  basis 
(within 7 days of end of the previous month): 
 

Number of complaints 

At the beginning 
of the month 

Received 
during 
month  

the 

Resolved 
during 
month  

the 

Pending  at  the 
end 
the 
month 

of 

Reasons 
pendency 

for 

  

2.  The measures as referred above shall come into effect from January 01, 2020.  

 

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to 
promote the development of and to regulate the securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Naveen Sharma 
General Manager 
022-26449709 
Email: naveens@sebi.gov.in 

2 | P a g e  

 

 

