 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD2/DCAP/CIR/P/2020/01 

 

  

 

January 03, 2020 

To 
 
All recognised Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations except Stock Exchanges and 
Clearing Corporations in International Financial Services Centre 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam 
 
Contribution  by  a  non-defaulting  member  in  the  Default  waterfall  of  Clearing 
Corporations 

 

SEBI vide its Circular no. CIR/MRD/DRMNP/25/2014 dated August 27, 2014  has, inter 
alia,  specified  guidelines  pertaining  to  Core  Settlement  Guarantee  Fund  and  Default 
Waterfall for Clearing Corporations. 
 

2.  Pursuant to deliberations with Risk Management Review Committee (RMRC) of SEBI 
and various stakeholders, it has been decided to amend the following provisions of 
the aforesaid Circular. 

 

 

a.  Clause  14  of  the  said  Circular  dated  August  27,  2014  shall  stand  modified  as 

under: 
 

“Further Contribution to/ Recoupment of Core SGF 
14)  Requisite contributions to Core SGF by various contributors (as per clauses 7      

and 8) for any month shall be made by the contributors before start of the month.  
 
In the event of usage of Core SGF during a calendar month, contributors shall, 
as per usage of their individual contribution, immediately replenish the Core SGF 
to MRC. However, such contribution towards replenishment of Core SGF by the 
members would be restricted to only once during a period of 30 calendar days 
regardless of the number of defaults during the period. The period of 30 calendar 
days shall commence from the date of notice of default by Clearing Corporation 
to market participants. 
 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 

In  case  there  is  failure  on  part  of  some  contributor(s)  to  replenish  its  (their) 
contribution,  same  shall  be  immediately  met,  on  a  temporary  basis  during  the 
month, in the following order:  
(i) 
(ii) 

By CC  
By SE” 

b.  Layer VII of the default waterfall, as specified under clause 16 of the said Circular 

dated August 27, 2014, shall stand modified as under: 

“VII.  Capped  additional  contribution  by  non-defaulting  members  of  the 
segment. ** 

 

 
 

** 
(i)  CC  shall  call  for  the  capped  additional  contribution  only  once  during  a 
period of 30 calendar days regardless of the number of defaults during the 
period. The period of 30 calendar days shall commence from the date of 
notice of default by CC to market participants. 

 

(ii)  CCs  shall  have  relevant  regulations/provisions 

for  non-defaulting 
members to resign un-conditionally within the abovementioned period of 
30 calendar days, subject to member closing out/settling any outstanding 
positions, paying the capped additional contribution and any outstanding 
dues to SEBI. No further contribution shall be called from such resigned 
members. 

(iii) The maximum capped additional contribution by non-defaulting members 
shall be lower of 2 times of their primary contribution to Core SGF or 10% 
of the Core SGF of the segment on the date of default in case of equity/ 
debt segments.  

 

(iv) The maximum capped additional contribution by non-defaulting members 
shall be lower of 2 times of their primary contribution to Core SGF or 20% 
of  the  Core  SGF  of  the  segment  on  the  date  of  default  in  case  of 
derivatives segment. 

  

(v) In case of shortfall in recovery of assessed amounts from non-defaulting 
members, further loss can be allocated to layer 'VI' with approval of SEBI.” 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 

 

 

3.  Clearing Corporations are directed to: 

 

 

 

(i)  put  in  place  the  adequate  systems  and  issue  the  necessary  guidelines  for 

implementing the above decision. 

 

(ii)  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of the above decision. 

(iii) bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the trading members / clearing 

members / custodians and also to disseminate the same on the website. 

 

(iv) communicate  to  SEBI  the  status  of  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  this 

circular through Monthly Development Report. 

 

 

4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  
of the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992,  read  with  Section  10  
of  the Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  to  protect  the  interests  of  
investors    in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

5.  This   circular   is   available   on   SEBI   website   at   www.sebi.gov.in at “Legal 

Framework→Circulars”. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 

 
 

Amit Tandon 
General Manager 
Market Regulation Department 
E-mail: amitt@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 3 of 3 

 

