CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2020/04 

January 09, 2020 

All Investment Advisors 

 

Sir / Madam 

 

Subject:  Operating  Guidelines  for  Investment  Advisers  in  International  Financial 

Services Centre. 

1.  SEBI  has  issued  SEBI  (International  Financial  Services  Centres)  Guidelines,  2015 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  ‘IFSC  Guidelines’)  on  March  27,  2015  for  facilitating  and 
regulating financial services relating to securities market in an IFSC set up under section 
18(1)  of  Special  Economic  Zones  Act,  2005.  The  IFSC  Guidelines  provide  for  a  broad 
framework for operating of various intermediaries (including Investment Advisers) therein, 
as defined in Clause 2 (1) (g) of the IFSC Guidelines. Further, in terms of Clause 3 (1) of 
the IFSC Guidelines, SEBI can issue guidelines for any entity desirous of undertaking any 
other financial services relating to securities market. 

2.  Based on the representations received from various stakeholders, it has been decided to 
put in place ‘Operating Guidelines for Investment Advisers in IFSC’. The same is annexed 
herewith. 

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in securities and 
to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

4.  The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Info 

for – Investment Advisers” and "Legal framework - Circulars". 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Naveen Sharma 
General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Ph: 022-26449709 
Email: naveens@sebi.gov.in 
 
 
 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

 
Annexure 
 
Operating Guidelines for Investment Advisers in International Financial Services Centre 
(IFSC) 
 
1.  Applicability of SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 (‘Investment Adviser Regulations’) 
The applicability of these operating guidelines is subject to such conditions that may be prescribed 
by the Board, Reserve Bank of India and other appropriate authority from time to time. 
 
All  provisions  of  the  Investment  Adviser  Regulations,  the  guidelines  and  circulars  issued 
thereunder,  shall  apply  to  Investment  Advisers  setting  up/  operating  in  IFSC  subject  to  the 
following  paragraphs.  Further,  subsequent  amendments  in  Investment  Adviser  Regulations, 
guidelines and circulars issued by SEBI for investment advisers shall be applicable to Investment 
Advisers in IFSC.  
 

A.  Registration of Investment Advisers for operating in IFSC 
2.  An  application  for  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of Chapter II of the Investment Adviser Regulations, accompanied by a non-refundable 
application fee as stated in para C of this Annexure. 
 

3.  The following persons shall be eligible to apply for an Investment Adviser Registration in IFSC to 

the Board: 
 
Any  entity,  being  a  company  or  a  limited  liability  partnership  (LLP),  which  has  the  minimum 
prescribed net worth as specified below at the time of application can act as an Investment Adviser 
(IA) in the IFSC, in the following forms- 
 

a.  Any recognised entity or entities desirous of operating in IFSC as an IA, may form a company 

or LLP to provide investment advisory services. 

 

Explanation:  “Foreign jurisdiction” shall be construed  in accordance  with  Clause  2(1)(f) of 
SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines) 2015.  
 
“Recognised  entity”  shall  be  construed  in  accordance  with  Clause  2(1)(j)  of  SEBI  (IFSC) 
Guidelines) 2015.  
 

4.  Persons  seeking  registration  under  the  Investment  Adviser  Regulations  read  with  these 
Guidelines shall provide investment advisory services only to those persons referred in Clause 9 
(3)  of  the  IFSC  Guidelines.  Further,  persons  resident  outside  India  and  non-resident  Indians 
seeking advice from IA in IFSC shall comply with the applicable guidelines issued by the relevant 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 

overseas regulator/ authority.  
 

5.  The  Board  may  grant  certificate  if  it  is  satisfied  that  the  applicant  fulfils  the  requirements  as 

specified in the Investment Adviser Regulations read with these guidelines. 

 

B.  Compliance Requirements, Conditions and Restrictions  

 

6.  Qualification  and  Experience  Requirement  [Corresponding  Regulation  in  Investment  Adviser 

Regulations- 7(1)] 
 
Partners and representatives of applicants referred to in para 3 offering investment advice shall 
have: 
 
a.  at  all  times,  a  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post  graduate  diploma 
(minimum  two  years  tenure)  in  finance,  accountancy,  business  management,  commerce, 
economics,  capital market,  banking,  insurance  or  actuarial  science from  a  university  or  an 
institution recognized  by the  central government or  any  state government or a recognised 
foreign university or institution or association; and 
 

b.   an  experience  of  at  least  five  years  in  activities  relating  to  advice  in  financial  products  or 

securities, or fund/ asset/ portfolio management, or investment advisory services. 

 

 

7.  Certification Requirement [Corresponding Regulation in Investment Adviser Regulations- 7(2)] 

 
Partners and representatives of the applicants referred to in para 3 offering investment advice 
shall have, at all times, a certification on investment advisory services: 
 
a.  in respect of partners and representatives resident in India-  

 
i. 
ii. 

from National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM); or 
from any other organization or institution including Financial Planning Standards Board 
India  or  any  recognized  stock  exchange  in  India  provided  that  such  certification  is 
accredited by NISM 
 

b.  in respect of partners and representatives resident outside India, from any other organization 
or institution or association or stock exchange which is recognized/ accredited by a Financial 
Market regulator in that foreign jurisdiction.  
 
However,  certification  from  NISM  shall  be  mandatory  for  partners  and  representatives  of 
applicants who offer investment advice in relation to Indian securities markets.  
 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

8.  Net Worth Requirement [Corresponding Regulation in Investment Adviser Regulations- 8] 

 
In case of applicants referred to in para 3, the net worth requirement shall be as under: 
 
a.  An applicant shall have a net worth of not less than USD 1.5 million. 

 

b.   In  case  the  IA  is  set  up  as  a  subsidiary,  the  net  worth  requirement  is  to  be  met  by  the 
subsidiary itself. However, if the subsidiary does not meet the criteria, the net worth of the 
parent can be considered. 
 

c.  The IAs shall fulfil the aforesaid net worth requirement, separately and independently for each 

activity undertaken by it under the relevant regulations. 
 

9.  An  IA  shall  ensure  to  conduct  annual  audit  in  respect  of  compliance  with  Investment  Adviser 
Regulations  and  these  guidelines  from  a  chartered  accountant  or  a  company  secretary  or  its 
equivalent  under  the  laws  in  force  of  the  country  in  which  the  applicant  is  registered  or 
incorporated.   

 

10. The  conditions  prescribed  in  Para  2  of  Form  A  of  First  Schedule  of  Investment  Adviser 

Regulations shall continue to apply, except for the following: 
 
a.  In case of overseas applicants, a net worth certificate (not more than six months old at the 
time of filing of application) by a chartered accountant or its equivalent under the laws in force 
of  the  country  in  which  the  applicant  is  registered  or  incorporated,  shall  be  provided.  The 
membership  number  or  any  other  identification  number  of  the  chartered  accountant  or  its 
equivalent shall be included in the certificate. 
 

b.  In case of overseas applicants, a credit score from a body similar to CIBIL, if existing in the 

applicant’s jurisdiction, shall be provided. 

 

C.  Amount to be paid as Fees 

Application fees 

Registration fee for grant or renewal of certificate 

 

***** 

USD 750 

USD 7,500 

 

 

Page 4 of 4 

