 

CIRCULAR 

 

IMD/FPI&C/CIR/P/2020/07 
January 16, 2020  

To,  
 
1. All Foreign Portfolio Investors ("FPIs") through their Designated Depository 
Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities.  
2. Designated Depository Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities.  
3. All Recognized Stock Exchanges/ Clearing Corporations  
4. All recognized Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations in International 
Financial Services Centres  
5. The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL)  
6. Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges  
7. Depository Participants through Depositories  
8. KYC Registrations Agencies (KRAs)  
 

Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
Subject: Exemption from clubbing of investment limit for foreign Government 
agencies and its related entities 
 
1.  SEBI  vide  notification  dated  19  December  2019  amended  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019 and omitted 
the following regulation: 
 
“Regulation 20 (9)   
In cases where the Government of India enters into agreements or treaties with other 
sovereign Governments and where such agreements or treaties specifically recognize 
certain entities to be distinct and separate, the Board may, during the validity of such 
agreements  or  treaties,  recognize  them  as  such,  subject  to  conditions  as  may  be 
specified by it.”  

 
2.  In line with rule 1(a)(iv) of Schedule II of Foreign Exchange Management (Non-debt 
Instruments)  Rules,  2019  regarding  “Investments  by  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors”, 
certain foreign Government agencies and its related entities are exempt from clubbing 
of investment limit requirements and other investment conditions either by way of an 
agreement or treaty with other sovereign governments or by an order of the Central 
Government. 
 

 

1 

 
3.  In view of the above, clause 1(x) of Part C of Operational guidelines for FPIs & DDPs 
and EFIs regarding “Monitoring of investment limit at investor group level” has been 
amended accordingly. The amended operational guidelines are annexed herewith. 
 
 

4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 
 

5.  A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  at  the  web  page  “Circulars”  on  our  website 
www.sebi.gov.in. Custodians are requested to bring the contents of this circular to the 
notice of their FPI clients. 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
ACHAL SINGH  
General Manager  
Tel No.: 022-26449619  
achals@sebi.gov.in  

 
 
Enclosed: Operational guidelines for FPIs & DDPs and EFIs 

 

2 

