¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/12   

 

     

 

 January 22, 2020 

To, 

All the Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub:   Non-compliance with certain provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  and  the  Standard 
Operating  Procedure  for  suspension  and  revocation  of  trading  of 
specified securities. 

1.  In exercise of powers under Section 11A(2) of the SEBI Act, 1992 read with Section 
9  and  21  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  and  read  with 
regulation  98  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations,  2015  (“Listing  Regulations”),  SEBI  had  issued  a  Circular  bearing 
reference  number  SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2018/77  dated  May  3,  2018 
specifying  the  uniform  structure  for  imposing  fines  as  a  first  resort  for  non-
compliance  with  certain  provisions  of  the  Listing  Regulations,  freezing  of  entire 
shareholding  of  the  promoter  and  promoter  group  and  the  standard  operating 
procedure  for  suspension  of  trading  in  case  the  non-compliance  is  continuing 
and/or repetitive. 
 

2.  Pursuant to the amendments to Listing Regulations and to further streamline the 
Standard  Operating  Procedure  for  dealing  with  non-compliances,  it  has  been 
decided to issue the present Circular in supersession of the said Circular bearing 
number SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2018/77 dated May 3, 2018. 

 
3.  Henceforth, the stock exchanges shall, having regard to the interests of investors 

and the securities market: 
 

a)  Take  action  in  case  of  non-compliances  with  the  Listing  Regulations  as 

specified in Annexure I of this Circular, and. 
 

b)  Follow  the  Standard  Operating  Procedure  (“SOP”)  for  suspension  and 
revocation of suspension of trading of specified securities as specified in 
Annexure II of this Circular. 
 

Stock  Exchanges  may  deviate  from  the  above,  if  found  necessary,  only  after 
recording reasons in writing. 

 

 

Page 1 of 12 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

4.  In  order  to  ensure  effective  enforcement  of  the  Listing  Regulations,  the 
depositories,  on  receipt  of  intimation  from  the  concerned  recognized  stock 
exchange, shall freeze or unfreeze, as the case may be, the entire shareholding of 
the promoter(s) in such non-compliant listed entity  as well as all other securities 
held in the demat account of the promoter(s). Further, if a non-compliant entity is 
listed  on  more  than  one  recognized  stock  exchange,  the  concerned  recognized 
stock exchanges shall take uniform action under this Circular in consultation with 
each other. 
 

5.  The  recognized  stock  exchanges  shall  take  necessary  steps  to  implement  this 
circular.  The  recognized  stock  exchanges  shall  disclose  on  their  website  the 
action(s)  taken  against  the  listed  entities  for  non-compliance(s);  including  the 
details of the respective requirement, amount of fine levied, details regarding the 
freezing of shares of promoters, the period of suspension etc.  
 

6.  The recognized stock exchanges may keep in abeyance the action against any non-
compliant entity or withdraw the action in specific cases where specific exemption from 
compliance  with  the  requirements  under  the  Listing  Regulations/moratorium  on 
enforcement proceedings has been provided for under any Act, Court/Tribunal Orders 
etc. 
 

7.  The  above  provisions  are  without  prejudice  to  the  power  of  SEBI  to  take  action 

under the securities laws. 
 

8.  The recognized stock exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this Circular to 
the notice of listed entities and the listed entities shall in turn bring the same to the 
notice of their promoter(s).  

 
9.  This Circular shall come into force with effect from compliance periods ending on or 
after March 31, 2020. It may be noted that the SoP circular dated May 03, 2018 would 
be applicable till the time current SoP circular comes into force. 

 

10. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Legal”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
TVVPS Chakravarti T 
General Manager 
Compliance and Monitoring Division 
Corporation Finance Department 
chakravartit@sebi.gov.in

 

Page 2 of 12 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

ACTION TO BE TAKEN IN CASE OF NON-COMPLIANCES  

ANNEXURE I 

 

1.  The  recognized  stock  exchanges  shall  take  action  for  non-compliance  with  the 
provisions  of  the  Listing  Regulations  &  circulars/guidelines  issued  thereunder,  by  a 
listed entity as under: 

 

Sl.  
No. 

Regulation 

Fine  payable  and/or 
other  action  to  be 
non-
taken 
for 
in 
compliance 
respect  of 
listed 
entity  

1.    Regulation 6(1)  

₹ 1,000 per day 

Non-compliance  with  requirement 
to  appoint  a 
qualified company secretary as the compliance officer 

 

2.    Regulation 7(1)  

₹ 1,000 per day 

Non-compliance  with  requirement  to  appoint  share 
transfer agent 

3.    Regulation 13(1)* 

₹ 1,000 per day 

Failure  to  ensure  that  adequate  steps  are  taken  for 
expeditious redressal of investor complaints 

4.    Regulation 13(3) 

₹ 1,000 per day 

Non-submission  of  the  statement  on  shareholder 
complaints  within  the  period  prescribed  under  this 
regulation or under any circular issued in respect of 
redressal of investor grievances 

5.    Regulation 17(1) 

₹ 5,000 per day 

Non-compliance  with the  requirements pertaining to 
the  composition  of  the  Board  including  failure  to 
appoint  woman director 

6.    Regulation 17(1A)  

₹ 2,000 per day 

Non-compliance  with the  requirements pertaining to 
appointment or continuation of Non-executive director 
who has attained the age of seventy five years 

*Fines would be imposed even during suspension period for non-compliance of regulation 
13(1), the modalities of the same would be dealt as part of a separate circular. 
 

Page 3 of 12 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

7.    Regulation 17(2)  

₹ 10,000 per instance 

Non-compliance  with the  requirements pertaining to 
the number of Board meetings  

8.    Regulation 17(2A) 

₹ 10,000 per instance 

Non-compliance  with the  requirements pertaining to 
quorum of Board meetings. 

9.    Regulation 18(1) 

₹ 2,000 per day 

Non-compliance  with 
committee 

the  constitution  of  audit 

10.   Regulation 19(1)/ 19(2) 

₹ 2,000 per day 

Non-compliance  with  the  constitution  of  nomination 
and remuneration committee 

11.   Regulation 20(2) / (2A) 

₹ 2,000 per day 

Non-compliance  with the  constitution of stakeholder 
relationship committee 

12.   Regulation 21(2) 

₹ 2,000 per day 

Non-compliance  with 
management committee  

the  constitution  of 

risk 

13.   Regulation 23 (9) 

₹ 5,000 per day 

Non-compliance  with  disclosure  of  related  party 
transactions on consolidated basis.   

14.   Regulation 24A 

₹ 2000 per day  

Non-compliance  with  submission  of  secretarial 
compliance report  

Page 4 of 12 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

15.   Regulation 27(2) 

₹ 2,000 per day 

Non-submission  of 
the  Corporate  governance 
compliance  report  within  the  period  provided  under 
this regulation 

16.   Regulation 28 (1) 

₹ 50,000 per instance 

Non-compliance  with  obtaining  in-principle  approval 
of stock exchange(s) before issuance of securities. 

 

17.   Regulation 29(2)/29(3) 

Delay in furnishing prior intimation about the meeting 
of the board of directors 

₹ 10,000 per instance 
of non-compliance 
per item 

18.   Regulation 31 

₹ 2,000 per day 

Non-submission  of  shareholding  pattern  within  the 
period prescribed 

19.   Regulation 31A(3)(a) 

₹ 5,000 per day 

Non-compliance pertaining to delay in submission of 
reclassification application to stock exchanges 

20.   Regulation 32(1) 

₹ 1,000 per day 

Non-submission of deviations/ variations in utilization 
of issue proceeds 

21.   Regulation 33 

₹ 5,000 per day 

Non-submission  of  the  financial  results  within  the 
period prescribed under this regulation 

(Levy  of  fine  is  in  addition  to  the  requirement  of 
providing reasons for non-submission of the financial 
result as per circular no. CIR/CFD/CMD-1/142/2018 
dated November 19, 2018.) 

22.   Regulation 34 

₹ 2,000 per day 

Non-submission  of  the  Annual  Report  within  the 
period prescribed under this regulation 

Page 5 of 12 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

23.   Regulation 42(2)/42(3)/ 42(4)/42(5) 

Delay  in/  non-disclosure  of  record  date/  dividend 
declaration  or  non-compliance  with  ensuring  the 
prescribed time gap between two record dates/ book 
closure dates 

₹ 10,000 per instance 
of non-compliance 
per item 

24.   Regulation 43A 

₹ 25,000 per instance 

Non-disclosure of Dividend Distribution Policy in the 
Annual Report and on the websites of the entity.  

25.   Regulation 44(3) 

₹ 10,000 per instance 
of non-compliance 

Non-submission of the voting results within the period 
provided under this regulation 

26.   Regulation 44(5) 

₹ 25,000 per instance 

Non-convening  of  annual  general  meeting  within  a 
period of five months from the close of financial year. 

27.   Regulation 45(3) 

₹ 25,000 per instance 

Non-obtaining approval of stock exchange(s) before 
filing  request  for  change  of  name  with  Registrar  of 
Companies. 

28.   Regulation 46 

Non-compliance  with  norms  pertaining  to  functional 
website 

Advisory/warning 
letter  per  instance  of 
non-compliance  per 
item 

₹ 10,000 per instance 
for  every  additional 
advisory/warning 
letter  exceeding  the 
four advisory/ warning 
letters  in  a  financial 
year 

 
 
2.  Concerned  recognized  stock  exchange(s)  shall  display  on  their  website  non-

compliance by the listed entity and details of fine levied/ action taken. 
 

3.  The  amount  of  fine  realized  as  per  the  above  structure  shall  be  credited  to  the 

"Investor Protection Fund" of the concerned recognized stock exchange.

 

Page 6 of 12 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.  The fines specified above shall continue to accrue till the time of rectification of the 
non-compliance to the satisfaction of the concerned recognized stock exchange or 
till the scrip of the listed entity is suspended from trading for non-compliance with 
aforesaid  provisions*.  Such  accrual  shall  be 
irrespective  of  any  other 
disciplinary/enforcement action(s) initiated by recognized stock exchange(s)/SEBI. 
 

5.  Every recognized stock exchange shall review the compliance status of the listed 
entities and shall issue notices to the non-compliant listed entities within 30 days 
from the due date of submission of information. Non-compliant listed entity shall 
ensure compliance with the requirement(s) and pay fines as per the circular within 
15  days  from  the  date  of  such  notice.  If  the  non-compliant  listed  entity  fails  to 
comply  with  the  aforesaid  requirement(s)  and/or  pay  fine  levied  within  the 
stipulated period as per the notice stated above, the concerned recognized stock 
exchange(s)  shall,  upon  expiry  of  the  period  indicated  in  the  notice,  shall  issue 
notices  to  the  promoter(s)  of  such  non-compliant  entities,  to  ensure  compliance 
with the requirement(s) and pay fines within 10 days from the date of such notice. 
While  issuing  the  aforementioned  notices,  the  recognized  stock  exchange  shall 
also send intimation to other recognized stock exchange(s) where the shares of 
the non-compliant entity are listed. 

 

6.  The concerned recognized stock exchange(s) shall, upon expiry of the stipulated 
periods indicated in the aforementioned notices, forthwith intimate the depositories 
to  freeze  the  entire  shareholding  of  the  promoter(s)  in  such  entity  as  well  as  all 
other securities held in the demat accounts, if the non-compliant listed entity fails 
to  comply  with  the  aforesaid  requirement(s)  and/or  pay  fine  levied.  The 
depository(ies)  shall  immediately  freeze  such  demat  accounts  and  also  intimate 
the promoter(s) about the details of non-compliances resulting in freezing of their 
demat accounts. 
 

7.  If  the  non-compliant  listed  entity  subsequently  complies  with  the  respective 
requirement(s)  and  pays  the  fine  levied,  in  terms  of  this  circular,  the  concerned 
recognized stock exchange(s) shall display on their website details of compliance 
and  fines  paid  by  the  listed  entity.  Simultaneously,  the  recognized  stock 
exchange(s) shall intimate the depositories to unfreeze the entire shareholding of 
the  promoter(s)  in  such  entity  as  well  as  all  other  securities  held  in  the  demat 
account of the promoter(s), immediately from the date of compliance. 
 

8.  If any non-compliant listed entity fails to pay the fine despite receipt of the notice 
as stated above, the recognized stock exchange(s) may also initiate appropriate 
enforcement action.

*Fines would be imposed even during suspension period for non-compliance of regulation 
13(1), the modalities of the same would be dealt as part of a separate circular. 
 

Page 7 of 12 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

9.  The recognised stock exchange(s) shall also advise the non-compliant listed entity 
to ensure that the subject matter of non-compliance which has been identified and 
indicated by the recognised stock exchange(s) and any subsequent action taken 
by the recognised stock exchange(s) in this regard shall be placed before the Board 
of Directors of the company in its next meeting. Comments made by the board shall 
be duly informed to the recognised stock exchange(s) for dissemination. 
 

 

 

 

Page 8 of 12 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE (SOP) 

ANNEXURE II 

 

1.  If a listed entity is non-compliant with the provisions of the Listing Regulations as 
specified  under  paragraph  2  below,  in  terms  of  this  circular,  the  concerned 
recognized stock exchange(s) shall:  
 

(a)  Move the scrip of the listed entity to "Z" category wherein trades shall take 
place  on  'Trade  for  Trade'  basis  by  following  procedure  prescribed  at 
paragraph A below and 

(b)  Suspend trading in the shares of such listed entity by following procedure 

prescribed at paragraph B below. 

 

If a listed entity rectifies non-compliance with the provisions of the Listing Regulations, 
the stock exchanges shall neither move the listed entity to “Z” category nor suspend 
trading  in  the  shares  of  such  listed  entity.  However,  the  entire  shareholding  of  the 
promoter(s) in the non-compliant listed entity as well as all other securities held in the 
demat  account(s)  of the  promoter(s)  shall  remain frozen till  the  non-compliant  listed 
entity complies with respective requirement(s) and pays the applicable fines. 
 
In  cases,  where  the  non-compliant  listed  entity  complies  with  the  respective 
requirement(s) and pays the applicable fine, the recognized stock exchange(s) shall 
intimate the depositories to unfreeze the entire shareholding of the promoter(s) in such 
entity  as  well  as  all  other  securities  held  in  the  demat  account  of  the  promoter(s), 
immediately from the date of compliance. 

 

2.  Criteria for suspension of the trading in the shares of the listed entities: 

(a)  failure  to  comply  with  regulation  17(1)  with  respect  to  board  composition 

including appointment of woman director for two consecutive quarters; 

(b)  failure to comply with regulation 18(1) with respect to constitution of audit 

committee for two consecutive quarters; 

(c)  failure  to  comply  with  regulation  27(2)  with  respect  to  submission  of 

corporate governance compliance report for two consecutive quarters; 

(d)  failure  to  comply  with  regulation  31  with  respect  to  submission  of 

shareholding pattern for two consecutive quarters; 

(e)  failure to comply with regulation 33 with respect to submission of financial 

results for two consecutive quarters; 

(f)  failure to comply with regulation 34 with respect to submission of Annual 

Report for two consecutive financial years; 

(g)  failure to submit information on the reconciliation of shares and capital audit 

report, for two consecutive quarters;  

(h)  receipt  of  the  notice  of  suspension  of  trading  of  that  entity  by  any  other 

recognized stock exchange on any or all of the above grounds. 

 
For the purpose of the Circular, it is clarified that non-compliance for two consecutive 
quarters  of  aforementioned  Regulations  17(1)  and  18(1),  refers  to  two  complete 
consecutive quarters (180 days) of non-compliance. 

 

 

Page 9 of 12 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

3.  If the non-compliant listed entity complies with the aforesaid requirement(s) after 
the  date  of  suspension,  the  recognized  stock  exchange(s)  shall  revoke  the 
suspension  of  trading  of  its  shares  by  following  the  procedure  prescribed  at 
paragraph C below.  
 

4.  If the non-compliant listed entity fails to comply with the aforesaid requirement(s) 
within  6 months from  the  date  of suspension, the  recognized  stock  exchange(s) 
shall initiate the process of compulsory delisting of the non-compliant listed entity 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act, 
1956,  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957  and  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  Regulations,  2009  as 
amended from time to time. 

 

A. Standard operating procedure for moving the scrip to "Z" Category 
 

If  a  listed  entity  defaults  in  complying  with  the  provisions  of  the  Listing 
Regulations as specified under paragraph 2 above, in terms of this circular, 
the concerned recognised stock exchange(s) shall, in addition to imposing fine 
under paragraph 1 in Annexure I of this circular, move the scrip of the listed 
entity  to  "Z"  category  wherein  trades  shall  take  place  on  'Trade  for  Trade' 
basis.  However,  before  moving  the  scrip  to  “Z”  category,  the  concerned 
recognized  stock  exchange(s)  shall  send  written  intimation  to  the  non-
compliant listed entity calling upon it to comply with respective requirement(s) 
within 7 days of the date of the intimation.  
 
Simultaneously,  the  recognized  stock  exchange(s)  shall  give  10  days  prior 
public  notice  to  investors  before  moving  the  scrip  to  "Z"  category  or  while 
moving the scrip out of "Z" category. While issuing the notice, the recognized 
stock  exchange(s)  shall  intimate  the  other  recognized  stock  exchange(s) 
where the shares of the non-compliant entity are listed. 

If the non-compliant listed entity complies with respective requirement(s) two 
working  days  before  the  proposed  date  of  movement  of  the  scrip  to  “Z” 
category,  the  scrip  shall  not  be  moved  to  “Z”  category  and  the  concerned 
recognized  stock  exchange(s)  shall  give  a  public  notice  on  its  website 
informing  compliance  by  the  listed  entity. While  issuing  the  said  notice,  the 
recognized  stock  exchange(s)  shall  send  intimation  of  notice  to  other 
recognized stock exchange(s) where the shares of the entity are listed.  

 
The recognised stock exchange(s) shall move back the scrip of the listed entity 
from "Z" category to the normal trading category (if not suspended as specified 
in paragraph B below), provided it complies with respective provisions of the 
Listing Regulations. While moving the scrip back to normal trading category the 
recognized  stock  exchange(s)  shall  intimate  the  other  recognized  stock 
exchange(s) where the shares of the non-compliant entity are listed. 

Page 10 of 12 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

B. Standard operating procedure for suspending the trading 
 

i. 

ii. 

 

iii. 

is  uniform  across  all 

If a listed entity complies with respective provisions of the Listing Regulations, 
no  suspension  proceedings  would  be  initiated.  However,  before  suspending 
the trading of a scrip, the concerned recognized stock exchange(s) shall send 
written intimation to the non-compliant listed entity calling upon it to comply with 
respective requirement(s) and pay the applicable fine within 21 days of the date 
of  the  intimation.  While  issuing  the  said  intimation,  the  recognized  stock 
exchange(s) shall also inform other recognized stock exchange(s) where the 
shares  of  the  non-compliant  entity  are  listed  to  ensure  that  the  date  of 
suspension 
the  recognised  stock  exchange(s). 
Simultaneously, the recognized stock exchange(s) shall give a public notice on 
its website proposing possible suspension of trading in the shares of the non-
compliant listed entity 30 days prior to date of suspension. 
 
If the non-compliant listed entity complies with respective requirement(s) two 
working days before the proposed date of suspension, the trading in its shares 
shall not be suspended and the concerned recognized stock exchange(s) shall 
give  a  public  notice  on  its  website  informing  compliance  by  the  listed  entity. 
While  issuing  the  said  notice,  the  recognized  stock  exchange(s)  shall  send 
intimation of notice to other recognized stock exchange(s) where the shares of 
the entity are listed. 

In  case  of  failure  to  comply  with  respective  requirement(s),  the  recognized 
stock exchange(s) shall suspend the trading in the shares of a non-compliant 
listed entity. The entire shareholding of the promoter(s) in the non-compliant 
listed entity as well as all other securities held in the demat account(s) of the 
promoter(s) shall remain frozen during the period of suspension. 
 

iv.  While  suspending  trading  in  the  shares  of  the  non-compliant  entity,  the 
recognized  stock  exchange(s) shall  send  intimation  of  suspension  to other  
recognized    stock    exchange(s)    where    the    shares    of    the    non-compliant  
entity  are  listed to  ensure  that  the  date  of  suspension  is uniform across 
all the recognised stock exchange(s). 

 

v. 

vi. 

 

After 15 days of suspension, trading in the shares of non-compliant entity may 
be allowed on 'Trade for Trade' basis, on the first trading day of every week for 
6  months  from  the  date  of  suspension.  In  this  regard,  the  recognized  stock 
exchange(s) shall give instruction to its trading members to obtain confirmation 
from  clients  before  accepting  an  order  for  purchase  of  shares  of  the  non-
compliant listed entity on 'Trade for Trade' basis. 
 
The  recognized  stock  exchange(s)  shall  put  in  place  a  system  to  publish  a 
caution message on its trading terminals, as follows: "Trading in shares of the 
<Name of the Listed Entity> is presently under 'suspension and trade to trade 
basis'  and  trading  shall  stop  completely  and  compulsory  delisting  may  be 
initiated if <Name of the Listed Entity> does not become compliant by <Date> 
". 
 

Page 11 of 12 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

C. Standard operating procedure for revocation of suspension of trading. 

i. 

 
If  the  non-compliant  listed  entity  complies  with  the  aforesaid  requirement(s) 
after  trading  is  suspended  in  the  shares  of  the  non-compliant  entity,  the 
recognized stock exchange(s) shall, on the date of compliance, give a public 
notice on its website informing compliance by the listed entity. The recognized 
stock exchange(s) shall revoke the suspension of trading of its shares after a 
period of 7 days from the date of such notice. While issuing the said notice, the 
recognized  stock  exchange(s)  shall  send  intimation  of  the  notice  to  other 
recognized stock exchange(s) where the shares of the entity are listed. After 
revocation of suspension, the trading of shares shall be permitted only in 'Trade 
for Trade' basis for a period of 7 days from the date of revocation and thereafter, 
trading in the shares of the entity shall be shifted back to the normal trading 
category.  

******** 

 

 

Page 12 of 12 

