 

CIRCULAR 

 

                          January 16, 2020 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2020/05    
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All  Recognised  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations  having 
commodity  derivatives  segment  except  those  in  International  Financial 
Services Centre 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Options in Goods - Product Design and Risk Management Framework 
 
1.  The   Central   Government, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause 
(D) of clause (ac) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
and  in  consultation  with  the  SEBI,  have  vide  Notification  No.  S.O.    3743(E) 
dated October 18, 2019 declared a contract for the purchase or sale of a right 
to  buy  or  sell  or  a  right  to  buy  and  sell  in  future,  such  underlying  goods,  as 
notified  vide  number  S.O.  3068(E),  dated  the  27th  September,  2016,  as  a 
derivative  for  the  purposes  of  the  said  Act.  For  ease  of  nomenclature,  the 
instrument notified vide the said Notification may be called as ‘Option in Goods’. 

 

2.  Stock  Exchanges  are  now  permitted  to  launch  ‘Option  in  Goods’  in  their 
commodity derivatives segment. This is in addition to ‘Options on commodity 
futures’, 
circular 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2017/55 dated June 13, 2017. 

guidelines  which  were 

SEBI 

issued 

vide 

 

3.  The  product  design and  risk  management framework  would  be  in  conformity 

with the guidelines prescribed in Annexure  enclosed with this circular. 

 

4.  Exchanges willing to start trading in options contracts with goods as underlying 

shall take prior approval of SEBI for launching such contracts.  

 
5.  Exchanges shall make necessary disclosures such as open interest of top 10 
largest  participants/group  of  participants  in  “option  in  goods”  (both  long  and 
short) and the details of their combined open interest in underlying constituents 
etc.,  in  line  with    SEBI    circular  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2019/08 
dated    January    04,  2019  regarding  “Disclosures  by  Stock  Exchanges  for 
commodity derivatives”  to the public. 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

6.  The Exchanges shall augment their monitoring and surveillance capacity. 

 

7.  The circular shall be effective from the date of this circular. 
 
8.  The Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

take steps to make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules 
and regulations for the implementation of the same, 

ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  members  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website, 

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular. 

 
9.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 
 

10. This circular is available on SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 
 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 

Vikas Sukhwal 
General Manager  
Division of Market Policy and New Products 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  

Page 2 of 2 

 

 

Annexure 1: Product Design and Risk Management Framework for Option 

 

 

in Goods 

1.  Underlying:  Goods  as  notified  vide  number  S.O.  3068(E),  dated  the  27th 
September,  2016  under  clause  (bc)  of  section  2  of  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956. 
 

2.  Eligibility  Criteria  for  Underlying:  Only  those  goods  shall  be  eligible  as 
underlying for these options, on which exchange either is already  trading the 
futures contracts or is proposing to  launch the futures contracts on or before 
the day of launching option in those goods. These Option contracts shall have 
same  quality  specifications,  delivery  centres,  Final  Settlement  Price 
methodology etc. as in the case of corresponding futures contracts. 
 

3.  Settlement  Method:  On  exercise,  option  contract  shall  be  settled  through 

delivery of goods.  
 

4.  Exercise Style: All exercise style are permitted. 

 

5.  Minimum  Strikes:  Each  option  expiry  shall  have  minimum  three  strikes 
available viz., one each for In the Money (ITM), Out of the Money (OTM) and 
At the Money (ATM). 

 

6.  Exercise Mechanism:  

 
On expiry, following mechanism shall be adopted by Exchanges for exercise of 
the options contracts: 

 

6.1.  Option  series  having  strike  price  closest  to  the  price  of  the  underlying 

shall be termed as At the Money (ATM) option series.  

 

This  ATM  option  series  and  three  option  series  having  strike  prices 
immediately above this ATM strike and three option series having strike 
prices immediately below this ATM strike shall be referred as ‘Close to 
the money’ (CTM) option series. 
 

 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

 

In case the price of the underlying is exactly midway between two strike 
prices, then immediate three option series having strike prices just above 
the price of the underlying and immediate three option series having strike 
prices just below the price of the underlying shall be referred as ‘Close to 
the money’ (CTM) option series.  

  

6.2.  All option contracts belonging to ‘CTM’ option series shall be exercised 
only  on  ‘explicit  instruction’ for  exercise  by  the  long  position  holders  of 
such contracts.   

  

6.3.  All In the money (ITM) option contracts, except those belonging to ‘CTM’ 
option  series,  shall  be  exercised  automatically,  unless 
‘contrary 
instruction’ has been given by long position holders of such contracts for 
not doing so.  

  

6.4.  All Out of the money (OTM) option contracts, except those belonging to 

‘CTM’ option series, shall expire worthless. 

 

6.5.  All exercised contracts within an option series shall be assigned to short 

positions in that series in a fair and non-preferential manner. 

 

7.  Trading Hours: Trading hours shall be same as those of corresponding futures 

contract. 
 

8.  Expiry  Day:  Exchanges  shall  have  flexibility  to  decide  upon  Expiry  day  of 

options contracts. 

 

9.  Minimum  Tenor:  Minimum  tenor  of  such  option  contracts  shall  be  same  as 

those of corresponding futures contracts. 

 

10. Position Limits:  
 

10.1.  SEBI  vide  Circulars  dated  September  27,  2016  and  July  25,  2017 
prescribed norms for position limits for commodity futures. Position limits 
for options shall follow the same norms as provided in the said circulars 
for futures. 

 

10.2.  The computation of position limits for ‘option in goods’ shall be clubbed 
with  position  limits  of  ‘options  on  commodity  futures’  on  the  same 
underlying goods but shall remain separate from position limits of futures 

Page 2 of 4 

 

 

the  same  underlying.  Numerical  value 

contracts  on 
for  client 
level/member  level  limits  shall  be  twice  of  the  corresponding  numbers 
applicable for futures contracts. 

 

11. Risk  Management:  Clearing  Corporations  shall  adopt  risk  management 
framework  compliant  with  the  CPMI-IOSCO  Principles  for  Financial  Market 
Infrastructures, including the following: 

 

11.1.  Margining model and quantum of initial margins: CC shall adopt initial 
margin models and parameters that are risk-based and generate margin 
requirements  sufficient 
to 
participants/clients in the interval between the last margin collection and 
the close out of positions following a participant/client default. The model 
should  
a) 

to  cover  potential 

future  exposure 

use a conservative estimate of the time horizons for close out of 
the positions (including in stressed market conditions), 
have  an  appropriate  method  for  measuring  credit  exposure  that 
accounts for relevant risk factors and portfolio effects, and 
to  the  extent  practicable  and  prudent,  limit  the  need  for 
destabilizing, pro-cyclical changes.  

b) 

c) 

 

 

Initial margin requirement shall be adequate to cover at least 99% VaR 
(Value at Risk). Margin Period of Risk (MPOR) shall be at least equal to 
three days or MPOR of  corresponding futures contracts, whichever  is 
higher. In case of portfolio based margining, this requirement applies to 
each portfolio’s distribution of future exposure. Accordingly, CCs shall fix 
prudent price scan range, volatility scan range and/or plausible changes 
in any other parameters impacting options price.  
 
CCs  shall  impose  appropriate  short  option  minimum  margin,  calendar 
spread charge, extreme loss margin, concentration margins, additional 
margins,  pre-expiry  margin,  delivery  period  margin  etc.  for  option 
contracts. 

11.2.  Margining at client level: CCs shall impose initial margins at the level of 
portfolio  of  individual  client  comprising  of  his  positions  in  futures  and 
options contracts on each commodity.  

 
 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 

11.3.  Real  time  computation:  Though  the  margining  models  may  update 
various scenarios of parameter changes (underlying price, volatility etc.) 
at  discrete  time  points  each  day  (at  least  every  two  hours),  the  latest 
available  scenarios  shall  be  applied  to  client  portfolios  on  a  real  time 
basis. 

 

11.4.  Mark  to  market:  CCs  shall  mark  to  market  the  options  positions  by 
adding the current market value of options (positive for long options and 
negative  for  short  options)  to  the  margin  requirement.  Thus,  mark  to 
market  gains  and  losses  would  not  be  settled  in  cash  for  options 
positions. 

 

 

 

-------- 

Page 4 of 4 

