 
 
 
 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

     January 17, 2020 

 
SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/10    
 
To,  
All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (“InvITs”)  
All Parties to InvITs  
All Stock Exchanges 
All Merchant Bankers and other Intermediaries 
 
Madam/Sir,  
 
Sub: Guidelines for rights issue of units by a listed Infrastructure Investment Trust 

 

 

 

(InvIT) 

 
Regulation 2(1)(zw) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure Investment 
Trusts)  Regulations,  2014  (“InvIT  Regulations”),  defines  a  “rights  issue”  as  an  offer  of 
units by a listed InvIT to the unitholders of the InvIT as on the record date fixed for the 
said purpose. 

 

This circular details the guidelines in respect of a rights issue of units by a listed InvIT. 

 

1.  Conditions for issuance 

 

1.1. No  InvIT  shall  make  a  rights  issue  of  units  unless  the  following  conditions  are 

satisfied:  

 

(a) A resolution of the board of directors of the investment manager approving 
the rights issue of units and determining the record date has been passed. 

  
(b) Units of the same class, which are proposed to be allotted are already listed 

on a stock exchange. 

(c) The InvIT has obtained in-principle approval of the stock exchange(s) for 

listing of units proposed to be issued under these guidelines. 

(d) The  InvIT  is  in  compliance  with  the  continuous  listing  and  disclosure 

obligations under the InvIT Regulations and circulars issued thereunder. 

Provided that imposition of only monetary fines by stock exchanges on the 
InvIT shall not be a ground for ineligibility for undertaking issuances under 
these guidelines. 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 11 

 
 
 
 

(e) None of the respective promoters or partners or directors of the sponsor(s) 
or  investment  manager  or  trustee  of  the  InvIT  is  a  fugitive  economic 
offender declared under section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 
2018 (17 of 2018). 

(f)  None of the respective promoters or partners or directors of the sponsor(s) 

or investment manager or trustee of the InvIT 

 

 

is debarred from accessing the securities market by the Board; 

is a promoter, director or person in control of any other company or 
a sponsor, investment manager or trustee of any other InvIT which 
is  debarred from  accessing  the  capital  market  under  any  order  or 
directions made by the Board; 

i. 
 
ii. 

 

2.  Appointment of merchant banker(s) and other intermediaries 

 
2.1. The investment manager on behalf of the InvIT, in line with Regulation 10(5) of 
InvIT Regulations, shall appoint one or more merchant bankers, at least one of 
whom shall be a lead merchant banker and shall also appoint other intermediaries, 
in consultation with the merchant banker(s), to carry out the obligations relating to 
the issue. 
 

2.2. If the InvIT desires to have the issue underwritten, it shall appoint underwriters in 
accordance  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Underwriters) 
Regulations, 1993.  
 

2.3. In case of an underwritten issue, the merchant banker(s) shall undertake minimum 
underwriting  obligations  as  specified  in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India (Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992. 
 

2.4. The merchant banker(s) shall exercise due diligence and shall satisfy themselves 
with all aspects of the issue including the veracity and adequacy of disclosures in 
the letter of offer. 

 
3.  Draft Letter of Offer and Letter of Offer 

 

3.1. The investment manager, on behalf of the InvIT shall file a draft letter of offer with 
the Board through the lead merchant banker along with filing fees as specified in 
Schedule II of InvIT Regulations. 
 

3.2. The lead merchant banker shall submit the following to the Board along with the 

draft letter of offer: 

 

 

Page 2 of 11 

 
 
 
 

 

(a) a certificate, confirming that an agreement has been entered into between 
the investment manager on behalf of the InvIT and the merchant bankers; 
 

(b) a due diligence certificate along the lines of Form A of Annexure I of SEBI 

Circular CIR/IMD/DF/55/2016 dated May 11, 2016.  
 

3.3. The investment manager, on behalf of the InvIT shall also file the draft letter of 
offer with the stock exchange(s) where the units of the InvIT are listed and further 
make it public by posting the same on the website of the stock exchange(s) for 
seeking public comments for a period of seven working days from the date of filing 
the draft letter of offer. 
 

3.4. The draft letter of offer shall also be displayed on the website of the InvIT and the 

merchant bankers. 

 

3.5. The investment manager shall, after filing the draft letter of offer and letter of offer 
with the Board, make appropriate advertisement on the website of the sponsor, 
investment manager and stock exchanges. 
 

3.6. The investment manager may also issue such advertisement in any newspaper 

and on the website of the InvIT. 

 

3.7. The Board may specify changes or issue observations, if any, on the draft letter 

of offer within fifteen days from the later of the following dates: 
 

a)  the date of receipt of the draft letter of offer, filed under sub-clause 3.1; or 

 

 

 

 

b)  the date of receipt of satisfactory reply from the lead merchant banker(s), 
where the Board has sought any clarification or additional information from 
them; or 

c)  the  date  of  receipt  of  clarification  or  information  from  any  regulator  or 
agency, where the Board has sought any clarification or information from 
such regulator or agency; or  

d)  the  date  of  receipt of a  copy  of  in-principle approval  letter  issued  by  the 

stock exchanges. 

3.8. If  the  Board  specifies any  changes  or  issues  observations on  the draft  letter  of 
offer, the investment manager on behalf of the InvIT and lead merchant banker(s) 
shall  carry  out  such  changes  in  the  draft  letter  of  offer  and  shall  submit  to  the 
Board an updated draft letter of offer complying with the observations issued by 
the Board and highlighting all changes made in the draft letter of offer before filing 
the letter of offer with the stock exchanges. 
 

Page 3 of 11 

 
 
 
 

3.9. The  lead  merchant  banker  shall,  along  with  filing  of  the  letter  of  offer  with  the 
Board and the stock exchange(s), furnish to the Board, a due diligence certificate 
along  the  lines  of  Form  B  of  Annexure  I  of  SEBI  Circular  CIR/IMD/DF/55/2016 
dated May 11, 2016. 
 

3.10. The draft letter of offer and letter of offer shall contain disclosures as specified in 

Annexure I of this Circular. 

 

3.11. The investment manager, on behalf of the InvIT, and the merchant banker(s) shall 
ensure  that  the  letters  of  offer are  hosted  on  the  websites of the  InvIT, merchant 
bankers and the stock exchanges where the units are listed and their content is the 
same as the versions filed with the Board and the stock exchange(s), as applicable. 

 

3.12. The draft letter of offer and letter of offer, as applicable, shall also be furnished to 

the Board in soft copy. 

 

4.  Application 

 

4.1. The application form for the issue shall be prepared by the merchant banker(s) 
and  the  merchant  banker(s)  shall  make  arrangements  for  distribution  of  the 
application form. 

 

5.  Pricing of Units 

 

5.1. The  investment  manager  on  behalf  of  the  InvIT,  in  consultation  with  the  lead 
merchant  banker(s),  shall  decide  the  issue  price  before  determining  the  record 
date. 
 

5.2. The issue price shall be disclosed in the letter of offer filed with the Board and the 

stock exchange(s).  

 
6.  Timelines 

 
6.1. The investment manager, on behalf of the InvIT, shall announce the record date 
to stock exchange(s) at least three working days (excluding the date of intimation 
and the record date) prior to the record date. The InvIT shall not withdraw its rights 
issue after announcement of the record date. 
 
Provided  that  in  case  the  InvIT  withdraws  the  rights  issue  after  announcing  the 
record date, it shall not be eligible to make an application for listing of any of its 
units on any stock exchange for a period of twelve months from the record date.  
 

6.2. The rights issue shall open within three months from the record date. 

 

 

Page 4 of 11 

 
 
 
 

6.3. The rights issue shall be kept open for at least three working days but not more 

than fifteen working days. 

 

7.  Manner of issuance of units 
 

7.1. Any issuance of units under these guidelines shall be done in the following manner: 

 

7.1.1.  The  rights  entitlements  shall  be  credited  to  the  demat  account  of  the 
unitholders before the date of opening of the issue. The  rights entitlements 
shall  include  a  right  exercisable  by  the  person  concerned  to  renounce  the 
units offered to him/her or any of them in favour of any other person and the 
draft letter of offer, letter of offer and the notice sent to the unitholders shall 
contain a statement to this effect. 

 
7.1.2.  The units shall be allotted in the dematerialized form only and shall be listed 

on the stock exchange(s) where the units of the InvIT are listed.  

 
7.1.3.  All investors would be required to mandatorily use Application Supported by 
Blocked Amount (ASBA) as a payment mode, whether existing unitholders or 
renouncees and follow the procedure for rights issues of securities specified 
by the Board. 

 

8.  Subscription, Allotment and Listing of Units 

 
8.1. Minimum Subscription 
 

(a) The minimum subscription to be received in the rights issue shall be 90% of the 

issue size through the letter of offer.  

 
(b) If the minimum subscription as specified under (a) above is not received, the 
application monies shall be refunded to the applicants forthwith, but not later 
than 15 days from the issue closing date.  

 

8.2. The sponsor(s), and their associates who are unitholders as on the record date, 
may choose to subscribe to additional units subject to disclosure of such intent in 
the draft letter of offer and letter of offer. 
 
Provided that such additional subscription over and above the entitlement shall be 
subject to compliance with the minimum public unitholding requirements. 

 

8.3. The minimum allotment and trading lot for units issued shall be equivalent to the 
minimum allotment and trading lot as applicable to the units of the same class, 
under  the  extant  provisions  of  the  InvIT  Regulations  or  circulars  issued 
thereunder. 
 

 

Page 5 of 11 

 
 
 
 

8.4. The InvIT shall not make any allotment in excess of the units offered through the 
letter of offer except in case of oversubscription for the purpose of rounding off to 
even lots to make allotment, in consultation with the designated stock exchange. 

 

Provided that in case of oversubscription, an allotment of not more than one per 
cent.  of  the  issue  size  may  be  made  for  the  purpose  of  making  allotment  in 
minimum even lots. 

 
8.5. Allotment shall be made in the following manner: 
 

(a) full  allotment  to  those  eligible  unitholders  who  have  applied  for  their  rights 
entitlement either in full or in part and also to the renouncee(s), who has/have 
applied for the units renounced in their favour, in full or in part, as adjusted for 
fractional entitlement. 
 

(b) allotment to eligible unitholders who having applied for the units in full to the 
extent of their rights entitlement and have also applied for additional units shall 
be made  as far  as  possible  on an  equitable  basis,  having  due  regard  to  the 
number of units held by them on the record date, provided there is an under-
subscribed portion after making allotment in (a) above. 

 
(c) allotment to the renouncees, who having applied for the units renounced in their 
favour  and  also  applied  for  additional  units,  provided  there  is  an  under-
subscribed portion  after  making  full  allotment  specified  in  (a)  and  (b)  above. 
The allotment of such additional units may be made on a proportionate basis. 

 
(d) Allotment to sponsor(s) and their associates, who are unitholders on the record 
date  and  who  have  disclosed  their  intent  to  subscribe  to  additional  units  in 
terms  of  8.2  above,  if  there  is  an  unsubscribed  portion  after  making  full 
allotment as per clause (a), (b) and (c) above. 

 
(e) Allotment to the underwriter appointed for the issue, if any, at the discretion of 
the board of directors of the investment manager, subject to disclosure in the 
draft letter of offer and / or letter of offer as applicable. 

 

8.6. The units allotted in the manner specified above shall be listed within six working 

days from the issue closing date. 

 

9.  Restriction on further capital issues 

 
9.1. The InvIT shall not make any further issue of units in any manner whether by way 
of  public  issue,  rights  issue,  preferential  issue,  qualified  institutions  placement, 
institutional  placement,  issue  of  bonus  shares  or  otherwise  during  the  period 
between the date of filing the draft letter of offer with the Board and the listing of 
the units offered through the letter of offer or refund of application monies. 

 

Page 6 of 11 

 
 
 
 

 

10. The InvIT shall file an allotment report with the Board providing details of the allottees 

and allotment made within 15 days of the issue closing date.  
 

11. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Regulation 33 of the InvIT 
Regulations. 
 

12. This Circular is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

at www.sebi.gov.in under the category “Legal” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 
 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Tel No. 022-2644-9596 
Email Id – richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 7 of 11 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
Disclosures in a letter of offer 
 
1.  Disclaimer to the effect that the letter of offer relates to an issue being made to existing 

unit holders as on record date under the InvIT Regulations and these guidelines. 

Annexure I 

 

2.  The draft letter of offer and the letter of offer shall contain the disclosures as specified 

under Schedule III of the InvIT Regulations in the following manner: 
 
a)  The disclosures as per clauses 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7(a), 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 19 

shall be made in the letter of offer. 
 

b)  The  disclosures  in  clause  (a)  above  may  be  incorporated  by  reference  to 
disclosures made in any previous offer document or placement memorandum or 
placement document or annual report duly published by the InvIT: 
 
Provided  that  the  link(s)  to  such  document wherever  available,  including  on  the 
website of the InvIT, stock exchanges or SEBI, shall also be provided. 
 
Provided further that any modification/update in the information provided in such 
documents shall be suitably incorporated in the draft letter of offer and the letter of 
offer. 

 
3.  Terms of the issue: 

a)  Objects of the issue. 

 

b)  If the objects of the issue involve financing of any new asset(s), description of such 
asset(s) as per disclosures required under clause 6 of the Schedule III of the InvIT 
Regulations. 
 

c)  If the objects are not being financed solely through the issue proceeds, the details 

of other financing arrangements for fulfilling the objects of the issue. 
 

 

4.  Intention and extent of participation by the sponsor(s) and their associates in the issue 

their rights entitlement 
the unsubscribed portion over and above their rights entitlement:  

with respect to:  
 
a) 
b) 
 
Provided  that  such  participation  shall  not  result  in  a  breach  of  the  minimum  public 
unitholding requirement. 

 

5.  Related Party Transactions: 

 

 

Page 8 of 11 

 
 
 
 

a)  Disclosure as per clause 9 of the Schedule III of the InvIT Regulations, which may 
be incorporated by reference to disclosures made in any previous offer document 
or placement memorandum or placement document. 
 

b)  Any  disclosures  made  regarding  related  party  transactions  shall  also  be 

incorporated by reference to such disclosures. 
 

c)  Link(s) to document(s) at (a) and (b) above wherever available, including on the 

website of the InvIT, stock exchanges, shall be provided. 
 

6.  Valuation (latest available): 

 
a)  Summary of valuation of the assets proposed to be financed through proceeds of 

the issue 
 

b)  Valuation methodology. 

 

c)  Frequency of valuation and declaration of NAV. 

 

d)  Any  disclosures  made  regarding  valuation  since  the  initial  offer  shall  also  be 

incorporated by reference to such disclosures. 
 

e)  Link(s) to document(s) at (d) above wherever available, including on the website 

of the InvIT, stock exchanges, shall be provided. 
 

f)  The valuation report of the asset to be financed through proceeds of the issue, if 
any, shall be provided to Board along with the draft letter of offer and letter of offer. 
 

7.  Financials: 

 
a)  Disclosure as per clauses 11(a) to 11(c), 11(e) to 11(f) of the Schedule III of the 

InvIT Regulations: 

 

 

 

Provided if the InvIT has undertaken  any acquisition or disposal of any material 
asset(s)  after  the  latest  period for  which financial  information  is disclosed  in the 
letter  of  offer  but  before  the  date  of  filing  of  the  letter  of  offer,  the  financial 
information should be prepared on a pro forma basis certified by statutory auditors 
of the InvIT. 

b)  Disclosure as per clause (a) above may be incorporated by reference to any public 
disclosures of financials made under the InvIT Regulations or any circular issued 
thereunder, along with link(s) to such disclosure(s) wherever available, including 
on the website of the InvIT, stock exchanges. 
 

Page 9 of 11 

 
 
 
 

c)  Summary of financial statement of the assets being acquired for the previous three 

years. 
 

8.  Distribution  including  the  manner  of  calculation  of  the  net  distributable  cash  flows, 
history of distributions made in the last three financial years or from the date of listing 
of the InvIT and the policy, if any. 
 

9.  Manner of Application and Allotment: 

 

a)  How  to  apply,  availability  of  application  forms  and  letter  of  offer  and  mode  of 

payment 
 

b)  Allotment and renunciation in even lots 

 

c)  Dealing with Fractional Entitlement: Manner of dealing with fractional entitlement, 

if any, of the fractional rights etc. 

 

10. Other disclosures: 

 

a)  Unit holding pattern 

 

b)  Review of credit rating 

 

c)  Grievance redressal mechanism 

 

d)  The disclosures in clause (a), (b) and (c) above may be incorporated by reference 
to any public disclosures made under the InvIT Regulations or any circular issued 
thereunder, along with link(s) to such disclosure(s) wherever available, including 
on the website of the InvIT, stock exchanges. 
 

e)  The draft letter of offer and letter of offer shall contain the process of credit of rights 

entitlements in the demat accounts and the renunciation thereof.  
 

f)  Any material development after the date of the latest balance sheet and its impact 

on the performance and prospects of the InvIT. 
 

11. Such other information as is material and appropriate to enable the investors to make 

an informed decision. 
 

12. Declarations (to be signed by the board of directors of the investment manager and 

sponsor) 
 

13. The lead merchant banker shall ensure that the information contained in the draft letter 
of offer and letter of offer and the particulars as per audited financial statements in the 
letter of offer are not more than six months old from the issue opening date. 

 

Page 10 of 11 

 
 
 
 

 

 

Provided that InvITs which are in compliance with InvIT Regulations and guidelines 
issued thereunder may file unaudited financials with limited review for the stub period 
in the current financial year, subject to making necessary disclosures in this regard 
including risk factors. 

Page 11 of 11 

