 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/08/2020 

 

 

 

 

              January 17, 2020 

 

To 

All entities whose debt securities are listed 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 

 

Madam/Sir, 

Sub:  Format  for  Statement  indicating  Deviation  or  Variation  in  the  use  of 
proceeds  of  issue  of  listed  non-convertible  debt  securities  or  listed  non-
convertible redeemable preference shares (NCRPs)  

1.  As  per  Regulations  52(7)  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  (‘SEBI  LODR  Regulations’),  a  listed  entity  is 
required  to  submit  to  the  stock  exchange,  a  statement  indicating  deviation  or 
variation, if any, in the use of proceeds of issue of non-convertible debt securities 
or non-convertible redeemable preference shares (NCRPs), from the objects stated 
in the offer document/Information memorandum.  
 

2.  SEBI  vide  circular  no.  CIR/CFD/CMD1/162/2019  dated  December  24,  2019,  has 
prescribed a format for the statement indicating deviation or variation in the use of 
proceeds of issue for entities whose specified securities are listed. It is felt that a 
similar format be issued for listed entities which have listed its non-convertible debt 
securities or NCRPs on the stock exchange(s). 

 

3.  Accordingly,  it  has  been  decided  that  listed  entities  which  have  issued  non-
convertible  debt  securities  or  NCRPs,  shall  submit  the  statement  indicating 
deviation or variation, if any, in the format placed at Annexure-A of this circular on 
half yearly basis. 

 

4.  The salient features of the format are as under:  

 

a.  Applicability: The format for the statement indicating deviation or variation shall 
be applicable for funds  raised  by  entities  through  issuance  of  non-convertible 
debt securities or NCRPs, which are listed. 
 

b.  Frequency of Disclosure: The statement indicating deviation or variation shall 
be submitted to the Stock Exchange(s)  on half yearly basis  within 45 days of 
end of the half year until such funds are fully utilised or the purpose for which 
these proceeds were raised has been achieved. 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 

c.  Role of the Audit Committee: The statement indicating deviation report shall 
be placed before the Audit Committee of the listed entity for review on half yearly 
basis and after such review, the comments of Audit Committee along with the 
report shall be disclosed/submitted to the stock exchange, as part of the format. 
 
In cases where the listed entity is not required to have an audit committee under 
the provisions  of  SEBI  LODR  Regulations or  Companies  Act, 2013,  the  word 
‘Audit Committee’ shall be replaced with ‘Board of Directors’. 

 

5.  The first such submission shall be made by the listed entities for the half year ended 
March  31,  2020;  subsequent  submissions  shall  be  made  on  half  yearly  basis  as 
explained above.  
 

6.  The  Stock  Exchanges  are  advised  to  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the 

notice of all the listed entities and to disseminate the same on their websites.  
 

7.  The circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under sections 11 and 
11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulations 
52(7)  and  101  of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.  
 

8.  The  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

'LegalCirculars'.  

 
 
 
 
Sabir Vasant Sawant 
Deputy General Manager 
Post Issuance and Compliance and Monitoring Division 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities  
+91-22-26449393  
sabirvs@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 
 
 

 

                                                      

                                              

Statement of Deviation or Variation 
Name of listed entity 
Mode of Fund Raising  

Type of instrument 

  

Public Issues / Private 
Placement 
Non-Convertible 
Debentures/Non-
Convertible 
Redeemable  Preference 
Shares 

  
Date of Raising Funds  
(INR Crores) 
Amount Raised  
Report filed for half year ended 
  
Is there a Deviation / Variation in use of funds raised ?    

Whether any approval is required to vary the objects of 
the issue stated in the prospectus/ offer document? 

Yes / No 

If yes, details of the approval so required? 
Date of approval 
Explanation for the Deviation / Variation 
Comments of the audit committee after review 
Comments of the auditors, if any 
Objects for which funds have been raised and where 
there has been a deviation, in the following table 

  
  
  
  
  
  

                                           Annexure-A 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Original Object  

Modified Object, if any  Original 

Allocation 

Modified 
allocation, 
if any 

Funds 
Utilised  

  
Deviation could mean: 
(a) Deviation in the objects or purposes for which the funds have been raised 
(b) Deviation in the amount of funds actually utilized as against what was originally disclosed. 

  
 

  
 

Name of Signatory  
Designation  

 
  

 
  

Page 3 of 3 

  
 

 
  

  
 

 
  

of 

Amount 
Deviation/Variation 
the  half  year 
for 
to 
according 
applicable 
object 
(INR Crores and in %) 
  
 
 
 

 
  

Remarks, 

 

if any 

  
 
 
 

 
  

 
 
 
 

 
  

  
  

  

  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
  

 

 
  
  
  

  
  

