 

SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL2/CIR/P/2020/13 

 

 

 

 

January 22, 2020 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

To  

 

Recognized Stock Exchanges  

Depositories  

Registered Stock Brokers  

Registered Merchant Bankers  

Registered Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents  

Registered Depository Participants  

Registered Bankers to an Issue 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Sub: Streamlining the Process of Rights Issue 

1.  The Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India (SEBI),  has  simplified  the  rights  issue  

process  to  make  it  more  efficient  and  effective, by amending the SEBI (Issue of 

Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2018  (“ICDR  Regulations”)  and 

SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  (“LODR 

Regulations”). Accordingly, following changes are made with respect to the Rights Issue 

process : 

1.1. The  period  for  advance  notice  to  stock  exchange(s)  under  Regulation  42(2)  of 

LODR  Regulations  has  been  reduced  from at  least  7  working  days  to  at  least  3 

working days (excluding the date of intimation and the record date), for the purpose 

of rights issue. 

 

1.2. Issuance of newspaper advertisement disclosing date of completion of dispatch and 

intimation of same to the stock exchanges for dissemination on their websites, as 

per Regulation 84 (1) of ICDR Regulations, shall be completed by the issuer at least 

2 days before the date of opening of the issue.  

 

Page 1 of 7 

 

 

 

 

 

1.3. Introduction of dematerialized Rights Entitlements (REs)  –  

 

1.3.1.  In the letter of offer and the abridged letter of offer, the issuer shall disclose 

the process of credit of REs in the demat account and renunciation thereof. 

 

1.3.2.  REs  shall  be  credited  to  the  demat  account  of  eligible  shareholders  in 

dematerialized form. 

 

1.3.3.  In REs process, the REs with a separate ISIN shall be credited to the demat 

account of the shareholders before the date of opening of the issue, against the 

shares held by them as on the record date. 

 

1.3.4.  Physical shareholders shall be required to provide their demat account details 

to Issuer / Registrar to the Issue for credit of REs not later than two working 

days  prior  to  the  issue  closing  date,  such  that  credit  of  REs  in  their  demat 

account takes place at least one day before the issue closing date. 

 

 

1.4. Trading of dematerialized REs on stock exchange platform - 

 

1.4.1.  REs shall be traded on secondary market platform of Stock exchanges, with 

T+2  rolling  settlement,  similar  to  the  equity  shares.  Trading  in  REs  on  the 

secondary market platform of stock exchanges shall commence along with the 

opening of the issue and shall be closed at least four days prior to the closure 

of the rights issue. 

 

1.4.2.  Investors holding REs in dematerialized mode shall be able to renounce their 

entitlements by trading on stock exchange platform or off-market transfer. Such 

trades  will  be  settled  by  transferring  dematerialized  REs  through  depository 

mechanism, in the same manner as done for all other types of securities.  

 

Page 2 of 7 

 

 

1.5. Payment mode - Application for a rights issue shall be made only through ASBA 

 

facility.  

 

1.6. No withdrawal of application shall be permitted by any shareholder after the issue 

closing date. 

 

2.  The detailed procedures on the Rights Issue process are given at Annexure I for due 

compliance. 

3.  This circular shall be applicable for all rights issues and fast track rights issue where 

Letter of Offer (LoF) is filed with the stock exchanges on or after February 14, 2020. 

4.  All entities involved in the Rights Issue process are advised to take necessary steps to 

ensure compliance with this circular including the procedures stated at Annexure I of 

this circular.  

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers under section 11 read with section 

11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

6.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  (www.sebi.gov.in)  under  the  categories  

“Legal Framework / Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Amy Durga Menon 

Deputy General Manager 

Corporate Finance Department 

+91 22 2644 9584 

Email - amydurga@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 7 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure I 

Procedures on the Rights Issue process 

A.  Application Form  

a.  The issuer shall dispatch a common application form to its shareholders as 

on the record date. Along with application form, the issuer shall also send the 

details of the rights entitlements of the shareholder separately.  

b.  This application form can be used both by shareholder or renouncee. 

c.  Registrar to the issue shall also upload the application forms on its website.  

d.  Applicants can use application form available on the website of registrar to 

the  issue  or  printed  forms  sourced  from  the  issuer,  merchant  bankers  or 

registrars to the issue. 

e.  In terms of Regulation 78 of the ICDR Regulations, investor also has option 

to make an application in writing on a plain paper.  

 

B.  Credit of Rights Entitlements (“REs”) in dematerialized form 

a.  The depositories shall put necessary procedures in place for issue and credit 

of REs in demat mode.  

b.  The issuer making a rights issue of  specified securities shall ensure that it 

has made necessary arrangements with depositories to issue and credit the 

REs in demat mode in the demat accounts of shareholders holding shares as 

on the record date. 

c.  A separate ISIN shall be obtained by the issuer for credit of REs.  

d.  Issuer  shall  specify  the  ISIN  for  REs  while  announcing  the  record  date. 

However, for issues where the record date is announced before February 14, 

2020,  and  the  letter  of  offer  is  filed  with  the  stock  exchanges  on  or  after 

February  14,  2020,  the  Issuer  shall  file  the  letter  of  offer  with  the  stock 

exchanges only after it has obtained ISIN for REs.   

e.  Based  on  the  rights  entitlement  ratio,  the  issuer  shall  credit  REs  in 

dematerialized  mode  through  corporate  action  to  shareholders  holding 

Page 4 of 7 

 

 

 

shares as on record date. The ISIN of REs shall be kept frozen (for debit) in 

 

the depository system till the date of opening of the issue. 

f.  Physical shareholders shall be required to provide their demat account details 

to Issuer / Registrar to the Issue for credit of REs not later than two working 

days prior to issue closing date, such that credit of REs in their demat account 

takes place at least one day before issue closing date. 

g.  In case of fractional entitlements of REs, the fractional part shall be ignored 

by rounding down the entitlement. 

h.  The issuer shall submit details of total REs credited to the stock exchanges 

immediately  after  completing  the  corporate  action  for  the  same  and  shall 

obtain requisite trading approval from the stock exchanges. 

i.  The details with respect to shareholder entitlement shall be made available 

on the website of the Registrar to the issue and the investors shall be able to 

check their respective entitlements on the website of the Registrar by keying 

their  details,  after  adequate  security  controls  to  ensure  that  investors’ 

information is made available only to the particular investor. Issuer shall also 

carry these links on their website. 

j. 

If the demat account of a shareholder is frozen or demat account details are 

not available, including shares held in unclaimed suspense account or in the 

account of IEPF Authority, then REs shall be credited in a suspense escrow 

demat  account  of  the  Company  and  an  intimation  should  be  sent  to  such 

shareholder by the issuer /Registrar to the issue. 

k.  The issuer shall intimate issue closing date to the depositories at least one 

day before the issue closing date, and the depositories shall suspend the ISIN 

of REs for transfers, from issue closing date. 

l.  REs which are neither renounced nor subscribed by the shareholders, shall 

be lapsed after closure of the Rights Issue.  

m.  Issuer  Company  shall  ensure  that  REs  which  are  lapsed  are  extinguished 

from  the  depository  system  once  securities  are  allotted  pursuant  to  Rights 

Issue.  Once  allotment  is  done,  the  ISIN  for  REs  shall  be  permanently 

deactivated in the depository system by the depositories.  

 

Page 5 of 7 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C.  Renunciation process and trading of REs on stock exchange platform: 

a.  The stock exchanges shall put necessary procedures in place for trading of 

REs on stock exchange platform.  

b.  REs credited to demat account can be renounced either by sale of REs using 

stock  exchanges  platform  or  off-market  transfer  and  such  trades  will  be 

settled by transferring dematerialized REs through depository mechanism in 

the same manner as done for all other types of securities. 

c.  For sale of REs through stock exchange, investors can place order for sale 

of  REs  only  to  the  extent  of  REs  available  in  the  demat  account  of  the 

investor.  Trading  in  REs  on  the  secondary  market  platform  of  Stock 

exchanges will happen electronically on T+2 rolling settlement basis where T 

being the date of trading. The transactions will be settled on trade-for-trade 

basis.  

d.  Issuer  shall  inform  the  dates  of  issue  opening  and  closing  to  the  stock 

exchanges and the depositories at the time of filing the letter of offer with the 

stock exchanges. 

e.  Trading in REs shall commence on the date of opening of the issue and shall 

be closed at least four days prior to the closure of rights issue. 

                  

D.  Submission of Application form in Rights Issue  

a.  All investors (including renouncee) shall submit application forms using ASBA 

facility through the Self Certified Syndicate Banks (SCSB) network during the 

issue period. 

b.  Investor  shall  submit  only  one  application  form  for  REs  available  in  a 

particular demat account. 

 

 

 

Page 6 of 7 

 

 

 

E.  Allotment process in the rights issue  

 

a.  Facility for correction of bid data as collated by the SCSBs after issue closing 

shall be provided for period of one day i.e. on next working day after issue 

closing. 

b.  Registrar shall obtain demographic details of all applicants from depositories. 

c.  Registrar shall obtain details of holders of REs as on issue closing date, from 

the depositories.  

d.  After reconciliation of valid ASBA applications, funds blocked and REs demat 

holding list, the registrar shall finalise allocation of securities offered through 

rights offering. 

e.  Registrar  shall  credit  the  shares  to  the  respective  demat  accounts  of  the 

applicants  based  on  basis  of  allotment  approved  by  the  designated  stock 

exchange  and  shall  issue  instructions  to  unblock  bank  accounts  wherever 

necessary. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 7 of 7 

 

