 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

           February 04, 2020 

 
 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2020/21 
 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers  
All  Recognized  Stock  Exchanges  having  commodity  derivatives  segment 
except those in International Financial Services Centre 
 
 
Sub: Performance review of the commodity derivatives contracts  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
1.  The primary objective of the commodity derivatives market  is to provide credible 
future price signals to market participants and an effective platform for hedging the 
price risks. In order to ensure that the derivatives contracts are closely aligned to 
the  physical  markets,  it  is  imperative  to  have  a  framework  to  evaluate  the 
performance of these contracts based not merely on statistics regarding delivery 
and  trade  volumes  but  also  on  the  strength  of  a  comprehensive  empirical 
assessment  after  considering  all  relevant 
the 
performance of a derivative contract during the relevant period of time.  
 

information,  pertaining 

to 

2.  Keeping  the  above  in  view  and  in  consultation  with  the  Commodity  Derivatives 

Advisory Committee (CDAC), the following has been decided: 

 

2.1. All recognized stock exchanges shall review the performance of all contracts 
traded  on  their  exchanges,  in  commodity  derivatives  segment,  as  per  the 
parameters laid down in the Circular.  

2.2. The  said  performance  review  shall  be  consulted  with  the  Product  Advisory 
Committee 
terms  of  SEBI  Circular  no. 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2019/89  dated  August  07,  2019  on  the 
subject of “Product Advisory Committee”.  

constituted 

(PAC) 

in 

2.3. The  said  performance  review  along  with  the  methodology  adopted  in 
evaluation, if any, shall be disclosed by the stock exchanges on their website 
prominently. 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 

 

2.4. The said performance review shall be conducted on an annual basis for each 
financial year and shall be disclosed by 30th June of the following financial year. 
 

3.  The performance review of the commodity derivatives contracts shall be based on 

various parameters for each commodity as illustrated in Annexure-I. 
 

4.  This Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 
5.  The Circular would be effective from April 01, 2020. The stock exchanges shall be 
required to undertake and disclose performance review of all contracts traded on 
their exchange from FY 2019-20.  
 

6.  Exchanges are advised to:  

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations. 

ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular.  

 

7.  This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Vikas Sukhwal 
General Manager  
Division of New Products and Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
vikass@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

Page 2 of 5 

Parameters for Performance Review of Commodity 

Annexure I  

 

 

 
1.  Background 

a.  Brief  about  the  commodity  such  as  sample  picture,  lifecycle  and  various 

varieties/grade of the commodity found in India  

b.  Commodity fundamentals and balance sheet as per the following format (to 

be prepared based on publicly available information on best effort basis):  
 

  
  
 
  
  
 

Table -  Fundamentals & Balance sheet (quantity) 
Previous FY  Current FY 
  
  
 
  
  
 
Previous FY  Current FY 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 

Global Scenario 
Opening Stocks 
Production 
Others (if any) 
Consumption 
Closing Stocks 
 
Indian Scenario 
Opening Stocks 
Production 
Imports 
Total Supply 
Exports 
Domestic Consumption 
Closing Stocks 
 
Top 10 Major producing 
countries 
  
 
Top 10 Major consuming 
countries 
  
 
Top 10 Major exporting 
countries 
  
 
 

Previous FY  Current FY 
  
 

  
 

Previous FY  Current FY 
  
 

  
 

Previous FY  Current FY 
  

  

 

 

 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 

Top 10 Major importing 
countries 
  
 
Top 10 Major producing 
states in India 
  
 

Previous FY  Current FY 
  
 

  
 

Previous FY  Current FY 
  

  

c.  Major  changes  in  the  polices  governing  trade  in  the  spot  markets  of  the 

commodity  

d.  Geo political issues in the commodity and its impact on Indian scenario. 

 

2.  Trading related parameter 

a.  Monthly and Annual traded volume (quantity in appropriate units) 
b.  Annual traded volume as proportion of total deliverable supply (quantity in 

appropriate units) 

c.  Annual traded volume as proportion of total annual production (quantity in 

appropriate units) 

d.  Annual average Open interest as proportion of total production  
e.  Annual average Open interest as proportion of total deliverable supply  
f.  Monthly and Annual value of trade (in Rs. Crores) 
g.  Monthly and Annual quantity of delivery (in appropriate units) 
h.  Monthly and Annual value of delivery (in Rs. Crores) 
i.  Monthly and Annual Average Open Interest (OI) (in appropriate units) 
j.  Annual average volume to open interest ratio 
k.  Total number of unique members and clients who have traded during the 

financial year 

l.  Ratio of open interest by FPOs/farmers/Hedge/VCP positions to total open 

interest (Annual average as well as maximum daily value) 

m.  Number  of  unique  FPOs  /  farmers  and  VCPs/hedgers  who  traded  in  the 

financial year  

n.  Algorithmic trading as percentage of total trading 
o.  Delivery defaults  

o  Number of instances 
o  Quantity involved 
o  Value involved 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 
3.  Price movements 

a.  Comparison, correlation and ratio of standard deviation of Exchange futures 
price vis-à-vis international futures price (wherever relevant comparable are 
available). 

b.  Comparison, correlation and ratio of standard deviation of Exchange futures 
price  vis-à-vis  international  spot  price  (wherever  relevant  comparable  are 
available) and domestic spot price (exchange polled price).  

c.  Correlation  between  exchange  futures  &  domestic  spot  prices  along  with 

ratio of standard deviation. 

d.  Correlation between international futures & international spot prices along 
with  ratio  of  standard  deviation  (wherever  relevant  comparable  are 
available). 

e.  Comparison  of  Exchange  polled  price  and  mandi  price  (in  case  of 
agricultural  commodities)  /  other  relevant  price  (in  case  non-agricultural 
commodities) at basis centre. 

f.  Maximum  &  Minimum  value  of  daily  futures  price  volatility  and  spot  price 
volatility  along  with  disclosure  of  methodology  adopted  for  computing  the 
volatility. 

g.  Number  of  times  the  futures  contract  was  in  backwardation/contango  by 

more than 4% for the near month contract in the period under review  
 

4.  Others parameters 

a.  Qualitative  and  quantitative  measure  for  Hedge  effectiveness  ratio  and 
basis Risk (Volatility of Basis) along with disclosure of methodology adopted 
for such calculations. 

b.  Details  about  major  physical  markets  of  the  commodity  vis-à-vis  market 
reach in terms of availability of delivery centers (information to be provided 
state-wise and UT-wise).  

c.  Details about major physical markets of the commodity and average Open 

Interest for each month generated from those regions.  

d.  Details, such as number and target audience, of stakeholders’ awareness 

programs carried out by the exchange. 

e.  Steps  taken  /  to  be  undertaken  to  improve  hedging  effectiveness  of  the 

contracts as well as to improve the performance of illiquid contracts. 
 

5.  Any other information to be disclosed as deemed important by the exchange 

or as suggested by the PAC. 

 

 

Page 5 of 5 

