CIRCULAR 

                                        February 05, 2020 

 
SEBI/HO/IMD/DF6/CIR/P/2020/24  
 
 
All Alternative Investment Funds 
  
 
Sir/ Madam,   
 

Sub: Disclosure Standards for Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs)  

 

1.  As a part  of SEBI’s initiatives to  streamline disclosure standards in the growing 
AIF space, SEBI through a Consultation Paper dated December 4, 2019 sought 
public  comments  on 
‘Introduction  of  Performance  Benchmarking’  and 
‘Standardization of Private Placement Memorandum (PPM) for AIFs’. Considering 
inputs from public consultation and deliberations in Alternative Investment Policy 
Advisory  Committee  (AIPAC),  it  has  been  decided  to  introduce  template(s)  for 
PPM, subject to certain exemptions, and mandatory performance benchmarking 
for AIFs with provisions for additional customized performance reporting. 
 

A.  Template(s) for PPM 

 

2.  PPM is a primary document in which all the necessary information about the AIF 
is  disclosed  to  prospective  investors.  To  ensure  that  a  minimum  standard  of 
disclosure  is  made  available  in  the  PPM,  it  has  been  decided  to  mandate  a 
template for the PPM providing certain minimum level of information in a simple 
and comparable format. AIFs are also permitted to provide additional information 
in their PPM. 

 

3.  Thus, the template for PPM shall have two parts viz.  

 

 

Part A – section for minimum disclosures, and  
Part B – supplementary section to allow full flexibility to the Fund in order to 
provide any additional information, which it deems fit. 

4.  The template for PPM of AIFs raising funds under Category I and Category II is 
provided  at  Annexure  1.  The  template  for  PPM  of  AIFs  raising  funds  under 
Category III is provided at Annexure 2. 

5.  Further, in order to ensure compliance with the terms of PPM, it will be mandatory 
for AIFs to carry out an annual audit of such compliance. The audit shall be carried 
out  by  either  internal  or  external  auditor/legal  professional.  However,  audit  of 
sections  of  PPM  relating  to  ‘Risk  Factors’,  ‘Legal,  Regulatory  and  Tax 
Considerations’ and ‘Track Record of First Time Managers’ shall be optional. 

 

Page 1 of 4 

6.  The  findings  of  the  audit,  along  with  corrective  steps,  if  any,  shall  be 
communicated to the Trustee or Board or Designated Partners of the AIF, Board 
of the Manager and SEBI. 

7.  The terms of contribution or subscription agreement (by any name as it may be 
called), shall be aligned with the terms of the PPM and shall not go beyond the 
terms of the PPM.  
 

8.  The requirements as mentioned at para no. 2 and 5 above shall not apply to the 

following:   
 

(i)  Angel  Funds  as  defined 

in  SEBI  (Alternative 

Investment  Funds), 

Regulations 2012.  

 

(ii)  AIFs/Schemes  in  which  each  investor  commits  to  a  minimum  capital 
contribution  of  INR  70  crores  (USD  10  million  or  equivalent,  in  case  of 
capital commitment in non-INR currency) and also provides a waiver to the 
fund  from  the  requirement  of  PPM  in  the  SEBI  prescribed  template  and 
annual audit of terms of PPM, in the manner provided at Annexure 3.   

 

9.  The aforesaid requirements shall come into effect from March 01, 2020.  

 

B.  Performance Benchmarking of AIFs  

 

10. Based  on  the  request  of  the  industry,  it  was  considered  appropriate  that  an 
industry  benchmark  be  developed  to  compare  the  performance  of  AIF  industry 
against  other  investment  avenues,  as  also  global  investment  opportunities. 
Accordingly, a proposal for performance benchmarking of AIFs was incorporated 
in the aforementioned Consultation Paper. 
 

11. As the industry needs the flexibility to showcase its performance based on different 
criteria and benchmarking of performance of AIFs will help investors in assessing 
the performance of the AIF industry, it is decided to introduce: 

 

a.  Mandatory benchmarking of the performance of AIFs (including Venture 

Capital Funds) and the AIF industry.  

b.  A framework for facilitating the use of data collected by Benchmarking 

Agencies to provide customized performance reports  
 

12. In this regard, the following is mandated: 

 

(i)  Any  association  of  AIFs  (“Association”),  which  in  terms  of  membership, 
represent  at  least  51%  of  the  number  of  AIFs,  may  notify  one  or  more 
Benchmarking Agencies, with whom each AIF shall enter into an agreement 
for carrying out the benchmarking process.  
 

 

Page 2 of 4 

(ii)  The  agreement  between  the  Benchmarking  Agencies  and  AIFs  shall  cover 
the  mode  and  manner  of  data  reporting,  specific  data  that  needs  to  be 
reported,  terms  including  confidentiality  in  the  manner  in  which  the  data 
received by the Benchmarking Agencies may be used, etc. 
 

(iii)  AIFs, for all their schemes which have completed at least one year from the 
date  of  ‘First  Close’,  shall  report  all  the  necessary  information  including 
scheme-wise valuation and cash flow data to the Benchmarking Agencies in 
a timely manner. 
 

(iv)  The form and format of reporting shall be mutually decided by the Association 

and the Benchmarking Agencies. 
 

(v)  If an applicant claims a track-record on the basis of India performance of funds 
incorporated overseas, it shall also provide the data of the investments of the 
said  funds  in  Indian  companies  to  the  Benchmarking  Agencies,  when  they 
seek registration as AIF. 
 

(vi)  In  the  PPM,  as  well  as  in  any  marketing  or  promotional  or  other  material, 
where  past  performance  of  the  AIF  is  mentioned,  the  performance  versus 
benchmark  report  provided  by  the  benchmarking  agencies  for  such 
AIF/Scheme shall also be provided. 

 

(vii)  In any reporting to the existing investors, if performance of the AIF/Scheme is 
compared to any benchmark, a copy of the performance versus benchmark 
report provided by the Benchmarking Agency shall also be provided for such 
AIF/scheme.    

 

(viii)  As a first step, Association will appoint Benchmarking Agencies and thereafter 
will set timeline for reporting of requisite data to Benchmarking Agencies by 
all  the  registered  AIFs.  In  this  regard,  Association  and  Benchmarking 
Agencies  will  ensure  that  the  first  industry  benchmark  and  AIF  level 
performance versus Benchmark Reports are available latest by July 01, 2020, 
for the performance upto September 30, 2019. Further the Association shall 
submit  a  progress  report  in  this  regard  to  SEBI  on  a  monthly  basis  till  the 
creation of first industry benchmark.  

 

13. The  operational  guidelines  for  performance  benchmarking  are  provided  at        

Annexure 4. 
 

14. In  addition  to  the  standard  benchmark  report  prepared  by  the  Benchmarking 
Agencies,  if  any  AIF  seeks  customized  performance  reports  in  a  particular 
manner, the same may be generated by the Benchmarking Agencies, subject to: 

 

(i)  Consent of the AIFs, whose data needs to be considered for generation of 

the customized performance report.  

 

Page 3 of 4 

Terms  and  conditions,  including  fees,  decided  mutually  between  the 
Benchmarking Agencies and the AIF. 

(ii) 

 

15. The requirements as mentioned at para no. 11 to 14 above shall not apply to Angel 
Funds registered under sub-category of Venture Capital Fund under Category I - 
AIF.   

 

16. This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

17. The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

"Legal framework - Circulars" and "Info for - Alternative Investment Funds”. 

 
 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 

Sanjay Singh Bhati 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel no.: +91-22-26449222 
ssbhati@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

 

Page 4 of 4 

