CIRCULAR 

 

 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2020/15 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers,  
All Clearing Corporations having Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Sir / Madam,  

                    January 27, 2020 

 

Sub: Review of Margin Framework for Commodity Derivatives Segment 

 

1.  SEBI  vide  Circular  CIR/CDMRD/DRMP/01/2015  dated  October  01,  2015  and 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/77  dated  September  01,  2016  prescribed 
Risk  Management  Framework  for  the  Commodity  Derivatives  Segment  (CDS). 
These  circulars,  inter  alia,  stipulated  minimum  value  for  Initial  Margin(IM)  and 
Margin Period of Risk (MPOR). 
 

2.  CPSS-IOSCO  Principles  for  Financial  Market  Infrastructure  (PFMI)  inter  alia 
prescribes  under  Key  Considerations  for  Principle  6  on  margin  that  margining 
model should to the extent practicable and prudent, limit the need for destabilising, 
pro-cyclical changes. 
 

3.  It is further explained under Clause 3.6.10 of PFMI that: 

 

Limiting  procyclicality:  A  CCP  should  appropriately  address  pro-cyclicality  in  its  margin 
arrangements.  In  this  context,  pro-cyclicality  typically  refers  to  changes  in  risk-
management practices that are positively correlated with market, business, or credit cycle 
fluctuations and that may cause or exacerbate financial instability.  

 

For example, in a period of rising price volatility or credit risk of participants, a CCP may 
require  additional  initial margin for  a  given  portfolio  beyond  the  amount required  by the 
current margin model. This could exacerbate market stress and volatility further, resulting 
in  additional  margin  requirements.  To  support  this  objective,  a  CCP  could  consider 
increasing the size of its prefunded default arrangements to limit the need and likelihood 
of  large  or  unexpected  margin  calls  in  times  of  market  stress. These  procedures  may 
create additional costs for CCPs and their participants in periods of low market volatility 
due to higher margin or prefunded default arrangement contributions, but they may also 
result in additional protection and potentially less costly and less disruptive adjustments in 
periods of high market volatility.  
 

4.  In light of the above and given the wide variation of liquidity and volatility among 
different  commodity  derivatives,  it  has  been  decided,  in  consultation  with 

 

Page 1 of 4 

stakeholders,  to  categorize  commodities  as  per  their  realized  volatility  and  to 
prescribe floor values of IM and IMPOR depending upon their categories.  
 

 

5.  Accordingly,  norms  regarding  Minimum  IM  and  minimum  MPOR  for  commodity 
derivatives segment stands revised as per the framework mentioned below. The 
norms on risk management prescribed vide circulars referred to at Para ‘1’ above, 
which are not modified herewith, shall continue to prevail. 

 
a.  Clearing Corporations (CCs) shall categorise their commodities into three 
categories of volatility based upon the realized volatility for last three years 
as given below: - 
 

Volatility Category 
of Commodity 
Low 
Medium 
High 

Realized Annualized Volatility 
criteria 
0 to 15% 
Above 15 % to 20% 
Above 20% 

b.  Realized volatility shall be calculated from series of daily log normal return 
of main near month future contracts of the respective commodity. The series 
of daily log normal return shall be rolled over to next month contract on start 
of  staggered  delivery  period  if  it  is applicable.  If  staggered  delivery  is  not 
applicable, then rollover shall be done on the day after the expiry of near 
month contract. 

 
c.  Exchange  having  maximum  average  daily  turnover  across  all  derivative 
contracts  on  the  respective  commodity  based  on  last  six  months’  period 
shall be termed as Lead Exchange. The CC of the Lead Exchange shall do 
the  categorisation  of  the  respective  commodities  and  same  shall  be 
intimated to, and adopted by all other CCs 

 
d.  Based  on  volatility  category,  minimum  initial  margin  (IM)  and  minimum 

MPOR shall be as under: 

 

Volatility 
Category of 
Commodity 

Low 

Medium 

High 

Minimum IM 

Minimum MPOR 

Non-Agri  

Agri  

Non-Agri  

Agri  

6% 

8% 

10% 

8% 

10% 

12% 

2 

2 

3 

3 

3 

4 

 

Page 2 of 4 

e.  It is also clarified that floor values prescribed for IM in table above need not 

 

be scaled up by MPOR. 

 
f.  CCs shall review the categories of all commodities once in every six months’ 
period based upon past three years’ data. Commodity may be moved from 
higher volatility category to lower category only if it satisfies criteria of the 
revised  category  of  volatility  for  two  consecutive  reviews.  However, 
movement  from  a  lower  to  higher  volatility  category  shall  be  done  based 
upon a single review.  

 
g.  The categorisation shall be done on 1st March and 1st September of each 
year on rolling basis and changes if any shall be made applicable from 1st 
April and 1st October respectively of each year. 

 
h.  In case derivatives are launched on any new underlying commodity for the 
first  time  for  which  no  reference  futures  prices  are  available,  it  shall  be 
initially categorised based upon prices available in the spot markets subject 
to  a minimum of  Medium  Category  of  volatility.  Re-categorisation of  such 
commodity from higher to lower category of volatility can only be done after 
two consecutive reviews. 

 

6.  Lean Period in Agri Commodities:  

 

a.  In case of Agri commodities, it has been observed that during lean period 
(i.e. the period before the arrival of new crop) there is often uncertainty about 
the  arrivals  of  new  crop.  This  may  lead  to  higher  volatility  in  prices  of 
commodities  during  this  period.  Therefore,  CCs  shall  levy  additional  lean 
period margin of 2% on contracts expiring during lean period.  

 
b.  Lead exchanges shall determine the lean period in consultation with their 
relevant  Product  Advisory  Committee  and  disclose  the  same  on  their 
websites. 

 

7.  It  is  reiterated  that  risk  management  is primarily  a  responsibility  of CCs  and  the 
framework prescribed by SEBI is minimum framework. CCs are allowed to be more 
conservative as per their own perception of risk. 
 

8.  CCs  shall  also  disclose  detailed  break  up  of  various  applicable  margins  on 

contracts cleared by them along with volatility on their websites. 
 

9.  Initial categorisation of commodities as prescribed under Para ‘5’ above shall be 
done and notified by CCs within 15 days of the circular.  The revised norms with 

 

Page 3 of 4 

regard  to  IM,  MPOR  and  lean  period  margin  may  be  implemented  by  CCs  in  a 
phased manner and shall be fully implemented within a period of three months from 
the  date of  the  circular.  The  corresponding  update  in  stress  testing  scenarios,  if 
applicable,  shall  also  be  done  by  CCs  immediately  after  the  circular  is  fully 
implemented. 

 

 

10. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 
market. 
 

11. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
Vishal V. Nair 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Risk Management 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
vishaln@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 4 of 4 

