 

CIRCULAR 

 

IMD/FPI&C/CIR/P/2020/022  
February 04, 2020 

To,  
 
1. All Foreign Portfolio Investors ("FPIs") through their Designated Depository  
    Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities.  
2. Designated Depository Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities.  
3. All Recognized Stock Exchanges/ Clearing Corporations  
4. All recognized Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations in International  
    Financial Services Centres  
5. The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL)  
6. Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges  
7. Depository Participants through Depositories  
8. KYC Registrations Agencies (KRAs)  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
Subject: Common Application Form for Foreign Portfolio Investors 
 
1.  The  Government  of  India  vide  notification  number  F.  No.  4/15/2016-ECB  dated 

January  27,  2020  notified  the  Common  Application  Form  (CAF)  for  the  purpose  of      
(a)  registration  of  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  (FPIs)  with  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India, (b) allotment of Permanent Account Number (PAN) and (c) carrying out 
of Know Your Customer (KYC) for opening of Bank & Demat Account.  
 

2.  The  applicants  seeking  FPI  registration  shall  be  required  to  duly  fill  CAF  and 
‘Annexure to CAF’ and provide supporting documents and applicable fees for SEBI 
registration and issuance of PAN. The other intermediaries dealing with FPIs may rely 
on the information in CAF for the purpose of KYC. 
 

3.  DDP may continue to accept in–transit FPI registration applications, for a period of 60 
days  from  date  of  issuance  of  this  Circular,  received  in  the  form  prescribed  in 
operational guidelines issued on November 05, 2019.  
 

4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Sub-rule 14(i) of Rule 9 of the 
Prevention of Money-laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005 to protect the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 
 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 
5.  A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  at  the  web  page  “Circulars”  on  our  website 
www.sebi.gov.in. Custodians are requested to bring the contents of this circular to the 
notice of their FPI clients. 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
ACHAL SINGH  
General Manager  
Tel No.: 022-26449619  
achals@sebi.gov.in  

 
 
Enclosed: 1. CAF notified by Government of India 

      2. Annexure to CAF (Declarations and Undertakings) 

      3. Operational guidelines for FPIs & DDPs and FPIs  

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

