 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2020/26                               February 13, 2020 
 
 
To, 
 
All Portfolio Managers, 
 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam,   
 

Sub: Guidelines for Portfolio Managers 

 

1.  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

(SEBI),  based  on  the 
recommendations of a Working Group and inputs from public consultation, 
reviewed the framework for regulation of Portfolio Managers and the SEBI 
(Portfolio  Managers)  Regulations,  2020  (“PMS  Regulations”)  has  been 
notified on January 16, 2020. (Available at Link) 
 

India 

2.  In addition to the above, certain changes to the regulatory framework for 

Portfolio Managers are mandated as under:  

 

A.  Fees and Charges  

3. 

 
In partial modification to Cir. /IMD/DF/13/2010 dated October 05, 2010 
on Regulation of Fees and Charges, the following is mandated: 
 
(i)  As provided in Regulation 22 (11) of the PMS Regulations, no upfront 
fees  shall  be  charged  by  the  Portfolio  Managers,  either  directly  or 
indirectly, to the clients. 

 

(ii)  Brokerage at actuals shall be charged to clients as expense.  

 

(iii)  Operating  expenses  excluding  brokerage,  over  and  above  the  fees 
charged for Portfolio Management Service, shall not exceed 0.50% per 
annum of the client’s average daily Assets under Management (AUM). 

 

(iv)  In case client portfolio is redeemed in part or full, the exit load charged 

shall be as under: 

 
a)  In  the  first  year  of  investment,  maximum  of  3%  of  the  amount 

redeemed.  

 

Page 1 of 6 

 
 

 

b)  In the second year of investment, maximum of 2% of the amount 

redeemed.  

 
c)  In  the  third  year  of  investment,  maximum  of  1%  of  the  amount 

redeemed.  

 
d)  After  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  investment,  no  exit 

load. 

 

(v)  The Annexure to the Client agreement referred in Paragraph 4 g) of the 
aforementioned  Circular  shall  be  suitably  modified  for  a  sample 
portfolio of INR 50 Lacs as against the present illustration for INR 10 
Lacs. 

 

(vi)  Charges  for  all  transactions  in  a  financial  year  (Broking,  Demat, 
custody  etc.)  through  self  or  associates  shall  be  capped  at  20%  by 
value  per  associate  (including  self)  per  service.  Any  charges  to 
self/associate  shall  not  be  at  rates  more  than  that  paid  to  the  non-
associates providing the same service.  

 

 

B.  Direct on-boarding of clients by Portfolio Managers 

 

4.  Portfolio  Managers  shall  provide  an  option  to  clients  to  be  on-boarded 
directly,  without  intermediation  of  persons  engaged  in  distribution 
services.  
 

5.  Portfolio  Managers  shall  prominently  disclose 

its  Disclosure 
Documents, marketing material and on its website, about the option for 
direct on-boarding.  

in 

 

6.  At the time of on-boarding of clients directly, no charges except statutory 

charges shall be levied. 
 

 

C.  Nomenclature ‘Investment Approach’  

 

7.  The  information  about  Investment  Approaches  offered  by  Portfolio 
Managers, shall be uniform across all types of regulatory reporting, client 
reporting,  disclosure  document,  marketing  materials  and  any  such 
document which refer to services offered by Portfolio Managers.  
 

8.  Any  description  of  investment  approach  provided  by  Portfolio  Managers 

shall, inter-alia, include: 

 

 

Page 2 of 6 

(i) 

investment objective  
 

 
 

 

(ii)  description  of  types  of  securities  e.g.  equity  or  debt,  listed  or 

unlisted, convertible instruments, etc. 
 

(iii)  basis  of  selection  of  such  types  of  securities  as  part  of  the 

investment approach 
 

(iv)  allocation of portfolio across types of securities 

 

(v)  appropriate  benchmark  to  compare  performance  and  basis  for 

choice of benchmark 
 
indicative tenure or investment horizon 
 
risks associated with the investment approach 
 

(vi) 

(vii) 

(viii)  other salient features, if any.     

 
 

D.  Periodic reporting by Portfolio Managers 

 

9. 

In  partial  modification  to  Circular  IMD/PMS/CIR/1/21727/03  dated 
November 18, 2003 on ‘Improvement in Corporate Governance’, Portfolio 
Managers shall report to SEBI on compliance with the provisions of the 
said Circular on an annual basis as against bi-annual submission. 

 

10.  SEBI  Circular  No.  IMD/DOF-1/PMS/Cir-1/2010  dated  March  15,  2010 
stands  superseded.  However,  with  effect  from  Financial  Year  2019-20, 
Portfolio Managers shall submit the following information to the Board:  

 
(i)  A certificate from the qualified Chartered Accountant certifying the 
net-worth  as  on  March  31,  every  year  based  on  audited  account 
within 6 months from the end of Financial Year. 
 

(ii)  A  certificate  of  compliance  with  PMS  Regulations  and  circulars 
issued  thereunder, duly  signed  by  the Principal  Officer,  within  60 
days  of  end  of  each  financial  year.  Further,  details  of  non-
compliance along with the corrective actions, if any, duly approved 
by Board of the portfolio manager.  
 

11.  Further, in partial modification to Cir. /IMD/DF/14/2010 dated October 
08,  2010,  Portfolio  Managers  shall  submit  a  monthly  report  regarding 
their portfolio management activity, on SEBI Intermediaries Portal within 

 

Page 3 of 6 

 
 

 

7  working  days  of  the  end  of  each  month,  as  per  the  revised  format 
enclosed in Annexure A. 
 

12.  Portfolio  Managers  shall  furnish  a  report  in  the  format  provided  at 

Annexure B, to their clients on a quarterly basis.   

 

 

E.  Reporting of Performance by Portfolio Managers 

 

13.  Further to Regulation 22 (4)(e) of PMS Regulations, it is clarified that the 

Portfolio Managers shall: 

 
(i)  Consider  all  cash  holdings  and  investments  in  liquid  funds,  for 

calculation of performance.  
 

(ii)  Report performance data net of all fees and all expenses (including 

taxes). 
 

(iii)  Clearly  disclose  any  change  in  investment  approach  that  may 
impact  the  performance  of  client  portfolio,  in  the  marketing 
material. 
 

(iv)  Ensure  that  performance  reported  in  all  marketing  material  and 
website  of  the  Portfolio  Manager  is  the  same  as  that  reported  to 
SEBI. 

 

(v)  Ensure  that  the  aggregate  performance  of  the  Portfolio  Manager 
(firm-level performance) reported in any document shall be same as 
the  combined  performance  of  all  the  portfolios  managed  by  the 
Portfolio Manager.  
 

(vi)  Provide a disclaimer in all marketing material that the performance 

related information provided therein is not verified by SEBI. 

 
14.  The  firm-level  performance  data  of  Portfolio  Managers  shall  be  audited 
annually. Confirmation of compliance with Paragraph 13 of this Circular 
shall be reported to SEBI within 60 days of end of each financial year. The 
said  report  to  SEBI  shall  be  certified  by  the  Directors/Partners  of  the 
Portfolio  Manager  or  by  person(s)  authorized  by  the  Board  of 
Directors/Partners of the Portfolio Manager.  

 
 
 
 

 

Page 4 of 6 

 
 

 

F.  Disclosure Documents 

 

15.  Material change, for the purpose of Regulation 22 (7) of PMS Regulations, 
shall include change in control of the Portfolio Manager, Principal Officer, 
fees  charged,  charges  associated  with  the  services  offered,  investment 
approaches offered (along with the impact of such change) and such other 
changes as specified by SEBI from time to time. 
 

G.  Supervision of Distributors   

 

16.  Further  to  Regulation  23(10)  of  PMS  Regulations,  it  is  clarified  that 

Portfolio Managers shall: 

 
(i)  Utilize  services  of  only  such  distributors  (whether  known  as 
Channel Partners, Agents, Referral Interfaces or by any other name) 
who have a valid AMFI Registration Number or have cleared NISM-
Series-V-A exam. 
 

(ii)  Pay fees or commission to distributors only on trail-basis. Further, 
any fees or commission paid shall be only from the fees received by 
Portfolio Managers.  
 

(iii)  Ensure  that  prospective  clients  are  informed  about  the  fees  or 
commission to be earned by the distributors for on-boarding them 
to specific investment approaches. 
 

(iv)  Ensure that distributors abide by the Code of Conduct as specified 

in Annexure C. 
 

(v)  Have  mechanism  to  independently  verify  the  compliance  of  its 

distributors with the Code of Conduct.  
 

(vi)  Ensure that, within 15 days from the end of every financial year, a 
self-certification  is  also  received  from  distributors  with  regard  to 
compliance with Code of conduct.  

 

H. Applicability  

 

17.  The provisions of this Circular shall be applicable with effect from May 01, 

2020. 
 

18.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the 
provisions of Regulation 43 of the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 

 

Page 5 of 6 

 
 

 

2020,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  market  and  to 
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 
 

19.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

category “Circulars” and “Info for - Portfolio Managers”. 

 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Sanjay Singh Bhati 
Deputy General Manager 
+91-22-26449222 
ssbhati@sebi.gov.in 
 
 

 

Page 6 of 6 

