                              
 
 

     

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2020/28 

 

 

 

February 25, 2020 

To, 

All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
All Recognised Clearing Corporations 
All Depositories 
 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Subject: 

Margin obligations to be given by way of Pledge/ Re-pledge in the 
Depository System 

1.  SEBI  had  extensive  consultations  with  Stock  Exchanges,  Clearing  Corporation 
and Depositories and industry representatives of Trading Members (the “TM”) / 
Clearing  Members (the “CM”) / Depository  Participants (the  “DP”), to devise a 
framework  that  mitigates  the  risk  of  misappropriation  or  misuse  of  client’s 
securities available with the TM / CM / DP. The misappropriation or misuse would 
include use of one client’s securities to meet the exposure, margin or settlement 
obligations of another client or of the TM / CM. The matter was also discussed in 
the Secondary Market Advisory Committee meeting. 

 

2.  With effect from June 01, 2020, TM / CM shall, inter alia, accept collateral from 
clients  in  the  form  of  securities,  only  by  way  of  ‘margin  pledge’,  created  in  the 
Depository system in accordance with Section 12 of the Depositories Act, 1996 
read with Regulation 79 of the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 
2018 and the relevant Bye Laws of the Depositories.    

 

3.  Section  12  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  read  with  Regulation  79  of  the  SEBI 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018 and the relevant Bye Laws of 
the  Depositories  clearly  enumerate  the  manner  of  creating  pledge  of  the 
dematerialised securities. Any procedure followed other than as specified under 
the aforesaid provisions of law for creating pledge of the dematerialised securities 
is prohibited. It is clarified that an off-market transfer of securities leads to change 
in ownership and shall not be treated as pledge.  

 

4.  Transfer of securities to the demat account of the TM / CM for margin purposes 
(i.e. title transfer collateral arrangements) shall be prohibited. In case, a client has 
given a power of attorney in favour of a TM / CM, such holding of power of attorney 
shall not be considered as equivalent to the collection of margin by the TM / CM 
in respect of securities held in the demat account of the client.  

 

Page 1 of 8 

 

     

                              
 
 
5.  Depositories shall provide a separate pledge type viz. ‘margin pledge’, for pledging 
client’s securities as margin to the TM / CM.   The TM / CM shall open a separate 
demat account for accepting such margin pledge, which shall be tagged as ‘Client 
Securities Margin Pledge Account’.  

 

 

6.  For the purpose of providing collateral in form of securities as margin, a client shall 
pledge securities with TM, and TM shall re-pledge the same with CM, and CM in 
turn shall re-pledge the same to Clearing Corporation (CC). The complete trail of 
such re-pledge shall be reflected in the de-mat account of the pledgor. 

 

7.  The  TM  shall  re-pledge  securities  to the  CM’s ‘Client  Securities  Margin  Pledge 
Account’ only from the TM’s ‘Client Securities Margin Pledge Account’. The CM 
shall create a re-pledge of securities on the approved list to CC only out of ‘Client 
Securities Margin Pledge Account’. 

 

8. 

In this context, re-pledge would mean endorsement of pledge by TM / CM in favour 
of CM/CC, as per procedure laid down by the Depositories.   

 

9.  The TM and CM shall ensure that the client’s securities re-pledged to the CC shall 
be available to give exposure limit to that client only. Dispute, if any, between the 
client, TM / CM with respect to pledge, re-pledge, invocation and release of pledge 
shall be settled inter-se amongst client and TM / CM through arbitration as per the 
bye-laws of the Depository. CC and Depositories shall not be held liable for the 
same.  

 

10.  Securities that are not on the approved list of a CC may be pledged in favour of 
the TM / CM. Each TM / CM may have their own list of acceptable securities that 
may be accepted as collateral from client.  

 

11.  Funded stocks held by the TM / CM under the margin trading facility shall be held 
by the TM / CM only by way of pledge. For this purpose, the TM / CM shall be 
required to open a separate demat account tagged ‘Client Securities under Margin 
Funding Account ’ in which only funded stocks in respect of margin funding shall 
be kept/ transferred, and no other transactions shall be permitted. The securities 
lying in ‘Client Securities under Margin Funding Account’ shall not be available for 
pledge with any other Bank/ NBFC. 

 

12.  The  TM  /  CM  shall  be  required  to  close  all  existing  demat  accounts  tagged  as 
‘Client  Margin/  Collateral’  by  June  30, 2020.  The  TM  /  CM shall  be  required to 
transfer all client’s securities lying in such accounts to the respective clients’ demat 
accounts. Thereafter, TM / CM are prohibited from holding any client securities in 
any beneficial owner accounts of TM/CM, other than specifically tagged accounts 

Page 2 of 8 

 

                              
 
 

     

 

as indicated above, and in pool account(s), unpaid securities account, as provided 
in SEBI Circular CIR/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2019/75 dated June 20, 2019. 

 

13.  Clients having arrangements with custodians registered with SEBI for clearing and 

settlement of trades shall continue to operate as per the extant guidelines.  

 

14.  The operational mechanism for margin  pledge is  provided in  Annexure  A. The 
framework for utilisation of pledged clients’ securities for exposure and margin is 
provided in Annexure B. 

 

15.  This circular is applicable for all securities in dematerialised form and which are 
given as collateral / margin by the client to TM / CM / CC by way of pledge and re-
pledge. 

 

16.  The Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporations and Depositories are directed to:   
16.1. bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  TM  /  CM  and 
Depository Participants, as the case may be, and also disseminate the same 
on their websites;  

16.2. make   amendments   to   the   relevant   bye-laws,   rules   and   regulations   
for   the implementation  of  the  above  decision  in  co-ordination with  one  
another,  as considered necessary;  

16.3. communicate to SEBI,  the  status  of  the  implementation  of  the  provisions  

of  this circular in their monthly development report and 

16.4. monitor  the  compliance  of  this  circular  through  half-yearly  internal  audits, 
inspections and other appropriate monitoring mechanisms to be put in place 
by Stock Exchanges / Clearing Corporation / Depository. 

 

17.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.  

 

18.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

D. Rajesh Kumar 
General Manager 
Tel. No: 022 -26449242 
Email: rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in 

Page 3 of 8 

 

                              
 
 

     

 

Annexure A 

Operational mechanism for margin pledge 

INITIATION OF MARGIN PLEDGE 

1.  For  the  purpose  of  providing  collateral  in  form  of  dematerialised  securities  as 
margin, a client shall initiate the margin pledge  only in favour of the TM / CM’s 
separate  client  securities  margin  account  tagged  as  ‘Client  Securities  Margin 
Pledge Account’ through physical instruction or electronic instruction mechanism 
provided by the Depositories. Such instructions shall have details of client UCC, 
TM, CM and Default Segment.  

 

2. 

In cases where a client has given a Power of Attorney (the “POA”) to the TM / 
CM, the TM / CM may be allowed to execute the margin pledge on behalf of such 
client to the demat account of the TM / CM tagged  as ‘Client Securities Margin 
Pledge Account’. 

 

3.  The ‘pledge request form’ shall have a clause regarding express consent by the 
client for re-pledge of the securities by the TM to CM and further by the CM to CC. 

 

4.  On receipt of the margin pledge instruction either from the client or by TM / CM as 
per the POA, DP of a client shall initiate a margin pledge in the client’s account 
and the status of instruction will remain pending till confirmation is received from 
client / pledgor. The client will submit acceptance by way of One Time Password 
(the “OTP”) confirmation on mobile number / registered e-mail id of the client or 
other  verifiable  mechanism.  Such  OTP  confirmation  from  client  shall  also  be 
required, if securities of such client are being re-pledged. The Depositories shall 
develop a verifiable mechanism for confirmation of the pledge by the client. 

 

5. 

In  client  account,  margin  pledge  or  re-pledge  shall  be  reflected  against  each 
security, if it is pledged / re-pledged and in whose favour i.e. TM / CM / CC. 

 

6.  The  TM  can  re-pledge  only  in  favour  of  CM’s  demat  account  tagged  as  ‘Client 
Securities Margin Pledge Account’. The CM shall create a re-pledge of securities 
on  the  approved  list  only  to  the  CC  out  of  ‘Client  Securities  Margin  Pledge 
Account’. While re-pledging the securities to the CC, CM/TM shall fully disclose 
the details of the client wise pledge to the CC/CM. CM would need to have visibility 
of client level position and client collateral so that CM shall allow exposure and / 
or margin credit in respect of such securities to that client to whom such securities 
belong. 

 

Page 4 of 8 

 

                              
 
 
RELEASE OF MARGIN PLEDGE 

     

 

7. 

In case of a client creating pledge of the securities in favour of the TM / CM against 
margin, the TM / CM may release the ‘margin pledge’ after their internal exposure 
and risk management checks. The request for release of pledge can be made by 
the  client  to  its  DP  or  to  the  TM  /  CM,  who  shall  release  the  pledge  in  the 
Depository system. 

 

8.  For release of client securities given to TM/CM as margin pledge and which are 
re-pledged in favour of the CC, the CM shall make a request to the CC. The client 
through TM, or the TM on his own, may request the CM to make an application to 
the CC for the release of margin pledge. CC shall do margin utilisation check at 
the CM level before releasing the re-pledge of securities to the CM. The CC will 
release the re-pledged client securities to CM after blocking other available free 
collateral  of  CM.  The  CM  /TM  in  turn  after  doing  their  risk  management  shall 
release the securities to TM / client, as the case may be. 

INVOCATION OF MARGIN PLEDGE 

9. 

In case of default by a client of TM where the clients securities are re- pledged 
with the CM/ CC, the invocation request shall be made by the TM to CM and CM 
in turn will make request to CC as per the procedure laid down by the Depositories 
under their bye-laws.  
 

10.  In case of default by a client of TM who has pledged securities with TM, The TM 

shall invoke the pledge.  
 

11.  In case of default by a client of TM whose securities are re-pledged by TM with 
CM, the invocation request shall be made by TM to the CM. The CM, after doing 
its internal exposure and risk management, shall release the re-pledged securities 
to the ‘Client Securities Margin Pledge Account’ of the TM.  The TM in turn will 
invoke the pledge of client’s securities. 
 

12.  In the event of default by a client of a TM, whose securities are re-pledged by TM 
with CM and CM in turn has re-pledged with CC, the TM shall make a request for 
invocation of pledge with CM and CM in turn shall file a request with CC to release 
the re-pledged securities for invocation.  The CC shall block equivalent available 
free collateral provided by CM and shall release the re-pledged securities of that 
defaulting client of TM to CM in “Client Securities Margin Pledge Account” of CM. 
The CM shall do his own risk assessment of TM and  would release re-pledged 
securities  of  the  defaulting  client  of  TM  in  “Client  Securities  Margin  Pledge 
Account” of TM and TM shall invoke the pledge in Demat account of the client.  

Page 5 of 8 

 

 

     

                              
 
 
13.  In case of default by a client/ TM of CM whose securities are re-pledged with CC, 
CM shall file a request with CC for invocation of the pledged/ re-pledged securities 
of that client/TM. CC shall block the equivalent available free collateral provided 
by CM  and shall release the re-pledged securities of that defaulting client/TM in 
“Client  Securities  Margin  Pledge  Account”  of  CM  and  the  CM  shall  invoke  the 
pledge in Demat account of the client/ TM.  
 

14.  In case of default by TM or client of TM, CM shall be entitled to invoke pledged/ 
re-pledged securities of the TM. CM shall also be entitled to invoke directly the re-
pledged securities of client of TM having open position with CM to close out such 
positions.   
 

15.  In case of default by the CM, CC shall invoke securities pledged by the CM. After 
exhausting the CM own collateral, CC may also invoke re-pledge securities of that 
client who has open position and their re-pledged securities are blocked by CC to 
close  out their open positions. The re-pledge securities of other clients who did 
not have any open position with CC, their securities shall not be available to CC 
for invocation to meet settlement default of the CM.   

 

 

 

Page 6 of 8 

 

                              
 
 

     

 

Annexure B 

Framework for utilisation of client’s pledged securities for exposure and 

margin 

1.  At present, the margin requirement is computed in real time at client level by the 
CC and is aggregated at the level of CMs to arrive at the total margin requirement. 
The CC maintains and monitor the collateral at the level of CM. The CM is required 
to  provide  the  collateral  in  various  acceptable  forms  such  as  Cash,  Bank 
Guarantee, Govt. Securities, pledge of acceptable shares, etc.  

 

2.  The day to day real time risk management with respect to client / TM exposure, 
and the margin requirement shall continue to be the responsibility of the CM, and 
CC  shall  not  monitor  the  client  level  exposure  against  the  available  client  level 
collateral in real time.  

 

3. 

In order to provide exposure to CM and/or to the clients / TM of a CM, CC shall 
aggregate  margin  requirement  at  CM  level  that  shall  be  compared  against  the 
available collateral in real time as aggregate of;  

a.  cash and cash equivalent deposited by CM,  
b.  own securities pledged by CM with CC,  
c.  CC requires  minimum 50%  of  the  collateral  to be deposited in cash and 
cash equivalent, if the total securities pledged by CM with CC exceed the 
total cash and cash equivalent, the value of securities will be restricted to 
amount of cash and cash equivalent. 

d.  The TM’s proprietary margin requirement will be treated as a client of CM 

and aggregated along with other clients. 

 

4.  CM shall be allowed to re-pledge acceptable/approved client securities with the 
CC by furnishing the UCC wise client details. CC shall not allow any exposure to 
the CM on re-pledged securities of the client / TM. In case of a trade by a client / 
TM whose securities are re-pledged with CC, the CC shall first block the available 
collateral provided by CM as mentioned in point 3 above. However, at periodical 
interval (latest by end of day), CC shall release the blocked securities collateral of 
CM to the extent of re-pledged securities collateral of that client / TM available with 
the CC. 

 

5. 

In the event of default by a client of TM, the TM shall make good the default to 
CM. In the event of default by a client or TM on its proprietary position, the CM 
shall  make  good  the  default  to  CC.  However  in  the  event  of  default  by  client/s 
leading to default of TM and also the CM, the following process shall be applied 
by  TM/CM/CC 
invocation  of  pledged  and  re-pledged  securities  of 
client/TM/CM:  

for 

a.  In  case  of  default  by  a  client  of  TM/CM  or  default  of  TM  leading  to  the 

default of CM, CC shall:  

Page 7 of 8 

 

                              
 
 

     

 

i.  encash  the  available  collateral  including  cash,  cash  equivalent 

collateral, CM’s own pledged securities.  

ii.  After  encashing  the  available  collateral  of  CM,  also  be  entitled  to 
directly invoke the re-pledged securities of  client / TM  who  has any 
open position so as to close out the open positions of that client. 

iii.  not be entitled to invoke  re-pledged securities of those clients who 
did not have any open position to meet settlement obligation of the 
defaulting CM 

 

b.  In case of default by a client of TM or default of TM, CM Shall: 

i.  be entitled to liquidate available cash, cash equivalent collateral and 
TM’s  own  pledged  /or  re-pledged  securities  with  CM/  CC  to  meet 
settlement/margin  obligations  of  defaulting  TM  or  client(s)  of  that 
TM.  

ii.  After encashing the available collateral of TM, be entitled to directly 
invoke re-pledged securities of the client of defaulting TM who has 
open position through CM so as to close out his position. 

iii.  not  be  entitled  to  invoke  re-pledged  securities  of  those  clients  of 

defaulting TM who did not have any open position, 

iv.  ensure that the client securities of TM/ CM re-pledged with the CC 
are  not  utilized  for  meeting  the  margin  requirement/  settlement 
obligation  of  a  TM’s/CM’s  own  proprietary  position  or  margin 
requirement/ settlement obligation of any other client of TM / CM.  

 

***** 

Page 8 of 8 

 

