 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD1/DSAP/CIR/P/2020/30 
 
 
1.  All Recognised Stock Exchanges, Depositories and Clearing Corporations  

         February 27, 2020
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

(including those in International Financial Services Centres) 

2.  All Registered Intermediaries (including those in International Financial 

Services Centres) 

 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Subject:  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (International  Financial 
Services Centres) Guidelines, 2015 - Amendments 

Kindly refer to SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 which were notified by SEBI on March 27, 

2015.  

 

2.  In  order  to  further  streamline  the  operations  at  IFSC,  based  on  the  internal 

discussions  and  consultations  held  with  the  stakeholders,  it  has  been  decided  to 

amend provisions of the aforesaid guidelines, which are as follows: 

 

2.1 Intermediaries in IFSC 

 

Clause 8 (1) of SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 is being amended to read as under: 

 

“8  (1)  Any  SEBI-registered  intermediary  (except  trading  member  or  clearing 

member) or its international associates in collaboration with such SEBI-registered 

intermediary may provide financial services relating to securities market, in IFSC, 

without forming a separate company, subject to the prior approval of the Board. 

 

Provided  that,  in  case,  such  financial  services  are  offered  exclusively  to 

institutional investors, prior permission of the Board is not required. 

 

Provided, further that, in case, such financial services are offered exclusively to 

institutional investors by non SEBI-registered intermediary, prior approval of the 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

Board  is  not  required,  if  such  intermediary  is  recognized  entity  in  a  foreign 

jurisdiction as defined under clause 2 (1) (j) of these guidelines.” 

 

2.2 Reporting of Financial Statements 

 

Clause 19 of SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 is being amended to read as follows: 

 

“19. The entities issuing and/or listing their debt securities in IFSC shall prepare 

their  statement  of  accounts  in  accordance  with  IFRS/  US  GAAP/  IND  AS  or 

accounting standards as applicable to them in their place of incorporation. In case 

an entity does not prepare its statement of accounts in accordance with IFRS/ 

US  GAAP/  IND  AS,  a  quantitative  summary  of  significant  differences  between 

national  accounting  standards  and  IFRS  shall  be  prepared  by  such  entity  and 

incorporated in the relevant disclosure documents to be filed with the exchange.”  

 

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Sanjay Purao 

General Manager 

Market Regulation Department 

Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in  

 

 
 

 

