CIRCULAR 

 

 

 March 03, 2020 

 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2020/32 
 
To,  
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers,  
All Clearing Corporations having Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Sir / Madam,  

             

 

Sub:  Review  of  Norms  regarding  Regaining  Matched  Book  for  Commodity 

Derivatives Segment 
 

1.  SEBI vide Circular SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/77 dated September 01, 
2016, inter alia, prescribed norms to regain matched book vide Clause ‘5’ of the 
Annexure  –  I  to  the  said  circular.  The  norms  prescribed  four  alternative  tools  to 
regain a matched book based on market conditions. 
 

2.  Based on the experience gained with regard to the implementation of these norms 
and the feedback from Clearing Corporations (CCs) and other stakeholders, it has 
been decided to revise the Alternatives ‘3’ and ‘4’ in terms of compensation and 
penalty applicable on tear-up of positions as under: 

 
  Alternative  3:  Voluntary  tear-up  at  last  mark-to-market  price  along  with 
compensation equal to 10% of last mark-to-market price and penalty equal 
to 1% of last mark-to-market price (to be credited to SGF); 
 

  Alternative  4:  Partial  tear-up  (pro-rata  against  members/clients  having 
opposite  positions)  at  last  mark-to-market  price  along  with  compensation 
equal  to  8%  of  last  mark-to-market  price  and  penalty  equal  to  1%  of  last 
mark-to-market price (to be credited to SGF). 

 

3.  The other provisions with regard to regaining of the matched book prescribed by 

the earlier circular dated September 01, 2016, shall continue to prevail. 
 

4.  Further to enable timely and error free execution, CCs shall have an automated 
system to implement all such tools. CCs shall put in place such system, and also 
conduct testing of the same, within  six months from the date of  issuance of this 
circular. The other provisions of this circular shall be effective immediately. 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with Section 10 of the 

 

Page 1 of 2 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 
market. 
 

 

6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
 
Vishal V. Nair 
Deputy General Manager  
Division of Risk Management 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
vishaln@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

