 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

March 13, 2020 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/36   
 
To,  
All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (“InvITs”)  
All Parties to InvITs  
All Stock Exchanges 
All Merchant Bankers and other Intermediaries 
 
Madam/Sir,  
 
Sub: Amendments to guidelines for rights issue, preferential issue and institutional 
placement of units by a listed InvIT 
 
Rights Issue 
 
1.  SEBI issued circular SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/10 dated January 17, 2020 
(hereinafter “rights issue circular”) providing guidelines for rights issue of units by a 
listed InvIT. The circular stands modified as under: 
 
1.1. The existing clause 11 and 12 shall be re-numbered as 13 and 14 respectively 
and the following shall be inserted as clause 11 and 12 before the re-numbered 
clauses: 

 

 

“11.  An  InvIT  satisfying  the  conditions  mentioned  below  and  desirous of  issuing 
units  under  fast  track  rights  issue  shall,  for  such  an  issue,  follow  guidelines 
specified in this circular except those under sub-clauses 3.1, 3.2, 3.7 and 3.8: 

 

 

 

11.1  the units of the InvIT have been listed on any stock exchange for a period 

of at least three years immediately precfeding the record date; 

 
11.2  all the units of the InvIT are held in demat form on the record date; 

11.3  the average market capitalisation of public unitholding of the InvIT is at least 

two hundred and fifty crore rupees; 

11.4  the InvIT is in compliance with the listing and disclosure requirements of the 

InvIT Regulations; 

1 

 

 

 

 

11.5  the  InvIT  has  redressed  at  least  ninety-five  per  cent.  of  the  complaints 
received from the investors till the end of the quarter immediately preceding 
the month of the record date; 

 
11.6  no show-cause notices have been issued or prosecution proceedings have 
been initiated by the Board and pending against the InvIT, parties to the InvIT 
or their respective promoters or partners or directors as on the record date; 

11.7  the InvIT, parties to the InvIT or their respective promoters or partners or 
directors has not settled any alleged violation of securities laws through the 
consent  or  settlement  mechanism  with  the  Board  during  three  years 
immediately preceding the record date; 

11.8  units of the InvIT have not been suspended from trading as a disciplinary 

measure during last three years immediately preceding the record date; 

11.9  no  regulatory  action  has  been  imposed  on  the  InvIT  in  the  three  years 

preceding the year in which rights issue is proposed; 

Provided that imposition of only monetary fines by stock exchanges on the 
InvIT shall not be a ground for ineligibility for undertaking issuances under 
this clause. 
 

11.10 there shall be no conflict of interest between the lead merchant banker(s) 
and the InvIT or its associates in accordance with the applicable regulations; 

11.11 The sponsor(s) shall mandatorily subscribe to their rights entitlement and 
shall  not  renounce  their  rights,  except  for  the  purpose  of  complying  with 
minimum public shareholding norms prescribed under the InvIT Regulations, 
2014; 

11.12 there  are  no  audit  qualifications  on  the  audited  accounts  of  the  InvIT  in 
respect of those financial years for which such accounts are disclosed in the 
letter of offer; 

Explanation: For the purpose of this circular, “audit qualifications” shall be those 
disclosed  under  applicable  accounting  standard  relating  to  modification  to  the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

 

 

opinion  in  the  independent  auditor’s  report  and  requires  a  qualified  opinion, 
adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion for material misstatements. 

12. The InvIT shall file the letter of offer with the Board in accordance with sub-
clause 3.9 and shall pay fees to the Board as specified in Schedule II of InvIT 
Regulations.” 

 

1.2. Clause 7 (a) of Annexure I is modified as under: 
 

“Provided if the InvIT has undertaken any acquisition or disposal of any material 
asset(s)after  the  latest  period  for  which  financial  information  is  disclosed  in  the 
letter  of  offer  but  before  the  date  of  filing  of  the  letter  of  offer,  the  financial 
information should be prepared on a pro forma basis certified by statutory auditors 
of the InvIT for the last completed financial year and the stub period (if any).” 

 

Preferential and Institutional Placement  

 

2.  The following clauses of SEBI circular SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2019/143 dated 
November  27,  2019  providing  guidelines  for  preferential  issue  and  institutional 
placement of units by listed InvITs stand modified as under: 

 

2.1. Clause 3.1 of Annexure I is modified as under: 

 
“The units allotted to sponsor(s) and its associates shall be locked-in for a period 
of three years from the date of trading approval granted for the units:  

 

 

Provided that units not more than twenty-five percent of the total unit capital of the 
InvIT shall be locked-in for three years from the date of trading approval: 

Provided further that units allotted in excess of twenty-five percent of the total unit 
capital  of  the  InvIT  shall  be  locked-in  for  one  year  from  the  date  of  trading 
approval.” 

 
2.2. The proviso to the paragraph 7(a) of Annexure III is modified as under: 

 
“Provided  that  if  the  InvIT  has  undertaken  any  acquisition  or  disposal  of  any 
material  assets  after  the  latest  period  for  which  the  financial  information  is 
disclosed in the placement document but before the date of placement document, 
the  pro  forma  financial  statements  shall  be  prepared  and  certified  by  statutory 
auditors for the last completed financial year and the stub period (if any).” 

 

 

3 

 

2.3. The existing paragraph (b) under clause 7 of Annexure III shall be re-numbered 

as (c) and the following shall be inserted before the re-numbered (c): 
 
“b)  Summary  of  the  audited  standalone  financial  statements  of  the  assets 
proposed to be acquired for the previous three years and the stub period (if any)” 

 
2.4. Clause 11 is added to Annexure III is as under: 
 

“The lead merchant banker shall ensure that the information contained in the draft 
placement document and placement document and the particulars as per audited 
financial statements are not more than six months old from the issue opening date: 

 

Provided that InvITs which are in compliance with InvIT Regulations and guidelines 
issued  thereunder  may  file  unaudited  financials  with  limited  review  for  the  stub 
period in the current financial year, subject to making necessary disclosures in this 
regard including risk factors.” 
 

3.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Regulation 33 of the InvIT 
Regulations. 

 

4.  This Circular is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

at www.sebi.gov.in under the category “Legal” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 
 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Tel No. 022-2644-9596 
Email Id – richag@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

4 

