 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

March 13, 2020 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/35   
 
To,  
All Real Estate Investment Trusts (“REITs”)  
All Parties to REITs  
All Stock Exchanges 
All Merchant Bankers and other Intermediaries 
 
Madam/Sir,  
 
Sub: Amendments to guidelines for rights issue, preferential issue and institutional 
placement of units by a listed REIT  
 
Rights Issue  
 
1.  SEBI issued circular SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/09 dated January 17, 2020 
(hereinafter “rights issue circular”) providing guidelines for rights issue of units by a 
listed REIT. The circular stands modified as under: 
 
1.1. The existing clause 11 and 12 shall be re-numbered as 13 and 14 respectively 
and the following shall be inserted as clause 11 and 12 before the re-numbered 
clauses: 

 

 

“11. A REIT satisfying the conditions mentioned below and desirous of issuing units 
under fast track rights issue shall, for such an issue, follow guidelines specified 
in this circular except those under sub-clauses 3.1, 3.2, 3.7 and 3.8: 

 

 

 

11.1  the units of the REIT have been listed on a stock exchange for a period of 

at least three years immediately preceding the record date; 

 
11.2  all the units of the REIT are held in demat form on the record date; 

11.3  the average market capitalisation of public unitholding of the REIT is at least 

two hundred and fifty crore rupees; 

11.4  the REIT is in compliance with the listing and disclosure requirements of the 

REIT Regulations; 

1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.5  the  REIT  has  redressed  at  least  ninety-five  per  cent.  of  the  complaints 
received from the investors till the end of the quarter immediately preceding 
the month of the record date; 

 
11.6  no show-cause notices have been issued or prosecution proceedings have 
been initiated by the Board and pending against the REIT, parties to the REIT 
or their respective promoters or partners or directors as on the record date; 

11.7  the REIT, parties to the REIT or their respective promoters or partners or 
directors has not settled any alleged violation of securities laws through the 
consent  or  settlement  mechanism  with  the  Board  during  three  years 
immediately preceding the record date; 

11.8  units of the REIT have not been suspended from trading as a disciplinary 

measure during last three years immediately preceding the record date; 

11.9  no  regulatory  action  has  been  imposed  on  the  REIT  in  the  three  years 

preceding the year in which rights issue is proposed; 

Provided that imposition of only monetary fines by stock exchanges on the 
REIT shall not be a ground for ineligibility for undertaking issuances under 
this clause. 

11.10 

there  shall  be  no  conflict  of  interest  between  the  lead  merchant 
banker(s)  and  the  REIT  or  parties  to  the  REIT  in  accordance  with  the 
applicable regulations; 

11.11 

The sponsor and sponsor group shall mandatorily subscribe to their 
rights entitlement and shall not renounce their rights, except to the extent of 
renunciation  within  the  respective  sponsor  group  or  for  the  purpose  of 
complying  with  minimum  public  shareholding  norms  prescribed  under  the 
REIT Regulations, 2014; 

11.12 

there are no audit qualifications on the audited accounts of the REIT 
in respect of those financial years for which such accounts are disclosed in 
the letter of offer; 

Explanation: For the purpose of this circular, “audit qualifications” shall be those 
disclosed  under  applicable  accounting  standard  relating  to  modification  to  the 

 

2 

opinion  in  the  independent  auditor’s  report  and  requires  a  qualified  opinion, 
adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion for material misstatements. 

 

12.  The REIT shall file the letter of offer with the Board in accordance with sub-
clause 3.9 and shall pay fees to the Board as specified in Schedule II of REIT 
Regulations for issuing units through fast track rights issue route.” 

 

 

1.2. Clause 7 (a) of Annexure I is modified as under: 
 

“Provided if the REIT has undertaken any acquisition or disposal of any material 
asset(s)after  the  latest  period  for  which  financial  information  is  disclosed  in  the 
letter  of  offer  but  before  the  date  of  filing  of  the  letter  of  offer,  the  financial 
information should be prepared on a pro forma basis certified by statutory auditors 
of the REIT for the last completed financial year and the stub period (if any).” 

 

Preferential and Institutional Placement  

 

2.  The following clauses of SEBI circular SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2019/142 dated 
November  27,  2019  providing  guidelines  for  preferential  issue  and  institutional 
placement of units by listed REITs stand modified as under: 

 

2.1. Clause 3.1 of Annexure I is modified as under: 

 

“The units allotted to sponsor(s) and sponsor group shall be locked-in for a period of 
three years from the date of trading approval granted for the units:  
 
Provided that units not more than  twenty-five percent of the total unit capital of the 
REIT shall be locked-in for three years from the date of trading approval: 
 
Provided  further  that  units  allotted  in  excess  of  twenty-five  percent  of  the  total  unit 
capital of the REIT shall be locked-in for one year from the date of trading approval.” 
 
2.2. The proviso to the paragraph 7(a) of Annexure III is modified as under: 

 

“Provided that if the REIT has undertaken any acquisition or disposal of any material 
assets  after  the  latest  period  for  which  the  financial  information  is  disclosed  in  the 
placement  document  but  before  the  date  of  placement  document,  the  pro  forma 
financial statements shall be prepared and certified by statutory auditors for the last 
completed financial year and the stub period (if any).” 
 

 

3 

 

2.3. The existing paragraph (b) under clause 7  shall be re-numbered as (c) and the 

following shall be inserted before the re-numbered (c): 
 

“b) Summary of the audited standalone financial statements of the assets proposed 
to be acquired for the previous three years and the stub period (if any)” 
 
2.4. Clause 11 is added to Annexure III is as under: 
 
“The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  information  contained  in  the  draft 
placement  document  and  placement  document  and  the  particulars  as  per  audited 
financial statements are not more than six months old from the issue opening date: 
 
Provided that REITs which are in compliance with REIT Regulations and guidelines 
issued thereunder may file unaudited financials with limited review for the stub period 
in the current financial year, subject to making  necessary disclosures in this regard 
including risk factors.” 
 

3.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Regulation 33 of the REIT 
Regulations. 

 

4.  This Circular is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

at www.sebi.gov.in under the category “Legal” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 
 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Tel No. 022-2644-9596 
Email Id – richag@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

4 

