CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

March 23, 2020  

 

 

 
SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/44 
 
To,  
All Real Estate Investment Trusts (“REITs”) 
All Parties to REITs  
All Stock Exchanges  
 
Madam/Sir,  
 
Sub: Encumbrance on units of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)  
 

1.  Regulation  11(3)  of  SEBI  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014  (“REIT 
Regulations”)  inter alia provides for mandatory holding of units of REIT  by sponsor(s) 
and sponsor group(s) of REIT. 
 

2.  Regulation 23 of the REIT Regulations, 2014 inter alia provides that the manager shall 
disclose to the designated stock exchanges, unit holders and the Board such information 
and in the manner as may be specified by the Board.. 
 

A.  Encumbrance on units 

 

3.  Entities required to hold units in terms of Regulation 11(3) of the REIT Regulations may 
create  encumbrance  on  such  units  during  the  mandatory  holding  period  wherein 
encumbrance shall include pledge, lien, negative lien, non-disposal undertaking etc. or 
any other covenant, transaction, condition or arrangement in the nature of encumbrance. 
 
Provided that the conditions for creation and invocation of encumbrance, provided in this 
circular, are also included in the agreement executed for the purpose of creation of such 
encumbrance. 
 

B.  Conditions for invocation during the mandatory holding period 

 

4.  Such  encumbrance  shall  not  be  permitted  to  be  invoked  during  the  holding  period 
prescribed  in  terms  of  Regulation  11(3)  of  the  REIT  Regulations  unless  the  following 
conditions are satisfied: 
 
a)  the person(s) invoking the encumbrance (whether directly or through any trustee or 
agent  acting  on  its  behalf)  shall  get  itself  or  its  nominee  to  become  re-designated 
sponsor upon compliance with the terms and conditions for re-designation of sponsor 
as specified under REIT Regulations: 
 
Provided that this condition shall not be applicable in case the person invoking such 
encumbrance is already a member of sponsor group. 
 

 

Page 1 of 3 

b)  The  re-designated  sponsor  shall  fulfil  the  obligations  specified  for  sponsor  under 

 

REIT Regulations. 

 

C.  Obligation of entity creating encumbrance 

 

5.  Sponsor(s)  and  sponsor  group  creating  encumbrance  on  units  held  by  them,  shall 
provide details of the encumbrance to the manager of the REIT within two working days 
from the date of creation of such encumbrance in the format specified at Annexure -I. 
 
Any change in the above information pursuant to release or invocation of encumbrance, 
or in any other manner, shall also be informed to the manager of the REIT  within two 
working days from the date of such event.  
 

D.  Other Obligations 

 

6.  The REIT shall within two working days from the receipt of details in terms of clause 5 
shall  disclose  such  information  to  every  stock  exchange  where  units  of  the  REIT  are 
listed. 

 
7.  The format for disclosure of unit holding pattern as provided under Annexure B of SEBI 
circular No. IMD/DF/146/2016 dated December 29, 2016 stands modified to include the 
following details pertaining to sponsor(s) and sponsor group: 
 

 
Catego
ry 

Category of 
Unit Holder 

No. of 
Unit 
Held 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

As a % of 
Total 
Outstanding 
Units 
 

 

 

No. of units 
mandatorily held 

No. of 
units 

As a % of 
total units 
held 
 

Number of units 
pledged or 
otherwise 
encumbered 
No. of 
units 

As a % of 
total units 
held 
 

 

8.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 33 of the REIT Regulations. 

 
9.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Legal 

Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”.  

Yours faithfully, 

 

  

Richa G. Agarwal  
Deputy General Manager  
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities  
Tel No. 022-2644-9596  
Email Id – richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 3 

Format for disclosure of details of encumbrance 

Annexure - I 

 

Name of REIT 

Name of the recognised stock exchanges where the units 
of REIT are listed 

Name of the sponsor or the member of sponsor group, as 
applicable 

  

  

  

Total unitholding 
 
Specific details about the encumbrance 

  
Type of encumbrance 

No. and % of units encumbered 
Encumbered units as a % of total units held 
Period of encumbrance 
Name of the entity in whose favour units have been 
encumbered 
Purpose of borrowing 
 
 
Signature of Authorised Signatory: 
Place: 
Date: 

No. of units – 
% of total outstanding units - 
 

Encumbrance  
(Date of creation of 
encumbrance: ______ ) 
  

No. of units: 
% of total outstanding units: 
  
  

  
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

