 

 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL2/CIR/P/2020/50 

 

 

 

March 30, 2020 

To 

Recognized Stock Exchanges  

Depositories 

Registered Stock Brokers  

Registered Merchant Bankers 

Registered Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents 

Registered Depository Participants  

Registered Bankers to an Issue 

National Payments Corporation of India 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Sub: Continuation of Phase II of Unified Payments Interface with Application 

Supported by Block Amount due to Covid-19 virus pandemic 

 

1.  Vide  SEBI  Circular  SEBI/HO/CFD/DCR2/CIR/P/2019/133  dated  November  08, 

2019, the  timeline for implementation of Phase  II of Unified Payments Interface 

with Application Supported by Blocked Amount was extended till March 31, 2020. 

 

2.  It has been represented to SEBI by various stakeholders that given the prevailing 

uncertainty  due  to  the  Covid-  19  pandemic, the  timelines  of Phase  II  of  Unified 

Payments  Interface  with  Application  Supported  by  Blocked  Amount  may  be 

continued  at  present.  It  has  been  stated  that  the  systems  and  processes  for 

achieving Phase III timelines of T+3 need to be further deliberated and finalized in 

light of the experience gained during one of the major IPOs that opened and closed 

in the first week of March 2020.  

 

 

3.  In  view  of  the  aforesaid  representations  and  also  taking  into  account  that 

introducing any new changes under the prevailing circumstances where staff at 

the stakeholders are sparsely populated may not be workable, it has been decided 

to continue with the current Phase II of the UPI ASBA till further notice.   

 

4.  The modalities for the implementation of the Phase III of the UPI ASBA shall be 

notified later after deliberations with stakeholders. 

 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers under section 11 read with 

section 11A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 

6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

"Legal Framework" and "Issues and Listing". 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Amy Durga Menon 

Deputy General Manager  

+91-22-26449584 

amydurga@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

 

 

