 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/FPI&C/CIR/P/2020/056 
March 30, 2020  

To,  
 
1. All Foreign Portfolio Investors ("FPIs") through their Designated Depository 
Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities.  
2. Designated Depository Participants ("DDPs")/ Custodian of Securities.  
3. All Recognized Stock Exchanges/ Clearing Corporations  
4. All recognized Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations in International 
Financial Services Centres  
5. The Depositories (NSDL and CDSL)  
6. Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges  
7. Depository Participants through Depositories  
8. KYC Registrations Agencies (KRAs)  
 

Dear Sir / Madam,  
 
Subject: Temporary relaxation in processing of documents pertaining to FPIs due to 
COVID-19 
 
1.  In terms of Operational guidelines for Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) & Designated 
Depository Participants (DDPs) issued under Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(FPI)  Regulations,  2019,  FPI  applicant  shall  submit  duly  signed  application  form 
(including  KYC  details)  and  supporting  documents  and  applicable  fees.  Further, 
copies of all the KYC documents submitted by the applicant should be accompanied 
by originals for verification. In case the original of any KYC document is not produced 
for verification, then the copies should be properly attested by entities authorized for 
attesting the documents.  

 
2.  In light of the recent events pursuant to COVID 19, a need has been felt for temporary 
relaxations with respect to compliance requirements for FPIs. Accordingly, SEBI has 
decided to grant the following relaxations in a situation where FPIs are not in a position 
to send original and/or certified documents as specified in Operational guidelines for 
Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  (FPIs)  &  Designated  Depository  Participants  (DDPs) 
issued under Securities and Exchange Board of India (FPI) Regulations, 2019: 

 

 

(a) DDPs & Custodians may consider and process the request(s) for registration/ 
continuance/ KYC / KYC review & any other material change on the basis of 
scanned  version  of  signed  documents  (instead  of  originals)  and  copies  of 
documents which are not certified, received from  
(i)  e-mail IDs of their Global Custodians/existing clients where these details 

are already captured in records or 

1 

 
(ii)  e-mail IDs of new clients received from domains which are duly encrypted 
with  Transport  –layer  security  (TLS)  or  similar  encryption  or  the 
documents are password protected. 

(b) These documents may be uploaded on KRAs. The other intermediaries may 

rely on said documents.  
 

3.  The  above  temporary  relaxations  shall  be  applicable  till  June  30,  2020.  DDPs  & 
Custodians  shall  ensure  to  obtain  the  original  and/or  certified  documents  (as 
applicable  normally)  within  30  days  from  the  aforesaid  deadline.  In  case  required 
documents for registration/ KYC are not received by said deadline, the accounts of 
such FPIs shall be blocked for any fresh purchase. In case documents are still not 
received  within  3  months  of  said  deadline,  DDPs  &  Custodians  shall  report  these 
cases to SEBI for appropriate action. 
 

4.  Intermediaries should undertake necessary due diligence including that required for 
regulatory and risk based approach towards compliance with AML requirements while 
processing these documents based on scan copy. 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Sub-rule 14(i) of Rule 9 of the 
Prevention of Money-laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005 to protect the 
interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 
 

6.  A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  at  the  web  page  “Circulars”  on  our  website 
www.sebi.gov.in. Custodians are requested to bring the contents of this circular to the 
notice of their FPI clients. 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
ACHAL SINGH  
General Manager  
Tel No.: 022-26449619  
achals@sebi.gov.in  

2 

