  

 

SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ CRADT/ CIR/ P/ 2020/ 53   

 

 

       March 30, 2020 

To, 

All Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) registered with SEBI  
 

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

Sub: Relaxation from compliance with certain provisions of the circulars issued under 
SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and 
moratorium permitted by RBI.  

1.  In  view  of  the  developments  arising  due  to  COVID-19  pandemic  and  in  light  of  the 
moratorium permitted by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) (vide notification no. RBI/2019-
20/186, dated March 27, 2020) on loan servicing, working capital facilities etc. for three 
months, a need for temporary relaxations in compliance by CRAs is felt. Accordingly, 
it has been decided to grant relaxations from the requirements stipulated vide circulars 
as under: 
 

2.  Recognition of Default 

A.  Currently,  CRAs  recognize  default  based  on  the  guidance  issued  vide  SEBI 

circular dated May 3, 2010 and November 1, 2016. 

B.  In view of the nationwide lockdown and the three month moratorium/ deferment 
on payment permitted by RBI, a differentiation in treatment of default, on a case 
to case basis, needs to be made as to whether such default occurred solely 
due to the lockdown or loan moratorium.  

C.  Accordingly, based on its assessment, if the CRA is of the view that the delay 
in  payment  of  interest/principle  has  arisen  solely  due  to  the  lockdown 
conditions  creating  temporary  operational  challenges  in  servicing  debt, 
including due to procedural delays in approval of moratorium on loans by the 
lending institutions, CRAs may not consider the same as a default event and/or 
recognize default. Appropriate disclosures in this regard shall be made in the 
Press Release.  

D.  The  above  shall  also  be  applicable  on  any  rescheduling  in  payment  of  debt 
obligation  done  by  the  issuer,  prior  to  the  due date,  with  the  approval  of  the 
investors/lenders.  

E.  The above relaxation is extended till the period of moratorium by the RBI.  

 
 
 

 

3.  Extension in timelines for press release and disclosures on website 

 

A.  Considering that the CRAs are dependent on the issuers and third parties for 
information  collection  which  is  impaired  due  to  current  lockdown,  relaxation 
from timelines for rating action/ issue of press release by CRAs stipulated vide 
SEBI circular dated June 30, 2017  is being  granted. However, CRAs should 
endeavour to finish the exercise on a best effort basis. Such cases shall be put 
up for ratification by the Rating Sub-Committee of the Board of CRA.  

B.  Further, an extension of 30 days is being granted for making annual and semi-
annual disclosures by CRAs on its website for the period ended March 2020. 
 

4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section  11  (1)  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation  20  of  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  Regulations,  1999,  to  protect  the 
interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, 
the securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Surabhi Gupta 
General Manager 
Tel No. 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 
  

