 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/CFD/CIR/CFD/DIL/67/2020 

April 21, 2020 

 
To 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Relaxations  from  certain  provisions  of  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 in respect of Rights Issue. 

1.  In  the  wake  of  developments  relating  to  the  Covid-19  pandemic,  a  number  of 

suggestions  have  been  received  by  SEBI  from  industry  bodies  and  market 

participants for easing of conditions relating to raising of funds from the securities 

market.  

2.  In  this  context,  it  has  been  decided  to  introduce  temporary  relaxations  in  the 

provisions related to Rights Issues as contained in the SEBI (Issue of Capital and 

Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 (“ICDR Regulations) as follows: 

A.  Relaxations with respect to the eligibility conditions related to Fast Track Rights 

Issues: 

Unless otherwise specified, nothing contained in sub-regulations (1), (2), (4) and 

(5)  of  the  Regulation  71  shall  apply  if  the  issuer  satisfies  the  conditions 

mentioned under Regulation 99 of ICDR Regulations for making a rights issue 

through the fast track route.  

Certain  temporary  relaxations  with  respect  to  Regulation  99  of  ICDR 

Regulations are extended as follows:  

(i) 

In  regulation  99(a)  the  words  ‘three  years’  shall  be  read  as  ‘eighteen 

months’  

(ii) 

In regulation 99(c) the words ‘two hundred and fifty crores’ shall be read as 

‘one hundred crores’ 

(iii) 

In regulation 99(f) and its proviso the words ‘three years’ shall be read as 

‘eighteen months’ 

(iv)  Regulation 99(h) shall be read as under: 

“no show-cause notices, excluding under adjudication proceedings, have 

been issued by the Board and pending against the issuer or its promoters 

or whole-time directors as on the reference date; 

 

 
 
 
 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 

In  cases  where  against  the  issuer  or  its  promoters/  directors/  group 

companies, 

 

 

i) 

ii) 

 

a  show  cause  notice(s)  has  been  issued  by  the  Board  in  an 

adjudication proceeding or  

prosecution proceedings have been initiated by the Board;   

necessary disclosures in respect of such action (s) along-with its potential 

adverse impact on the issuer shall be made in the letter of offer. 

 

(v)  Regulation 99(i) shall be read as “the issuer or promoter or promoter group 

or  director  of  the  issuer  has  fulfilled  the  settlement  terms  or  adhered  to 

directions  of  the  settlement  order(s)  in  cases  where  it  has  settled  any 

alleged  violation  of  securities  laws  through  the  consent  or  settlement 

mechanism with the Board” 

(vi) 

In  regulation  99  (j)  the  words  ‘three  years’  shall  be  read  as  ‘eighteen 

months’. 

(vii)  Regulation  99  (m)  shall  be  read  as  “For  audit  qualifications,  if  any,  in 

respect of any of the financial years for which accounts are disclosed in the 

letter  of  offer,  the  issuer  shall  provide  the  restated  financial  statements 

adjusting for the impact of the audit qualifications.  

Further, that for the qualifications wherein impact on the financials cannot 

be  ascertained  the  same  shall  be  disclosed  appropriately  in  the  letter  of 

offer."  

B.  Relaxation with respect to Minimum Subscription:  

Regulation 86(1) shall be read as under- 

The minimum subscription to be received in the issue shall be at least seventy-

five per cent of the offer through the offer document. 

Provided  that  if  the  issue  is  subscribed  between  75%  to  90%,  issue  will  be 

considered  successful  subject  to  the  condition  that  out  of  the  funds 

raised atleast 75% of the issue size shall be utilized for the objects of the issue 

other than general corporate purpose 

C.  Relaxation  with  respect  to  the  minimum  threshold  required  for  not  filing  draft 

letter of offer with SEBI:  

In regulation 3(b), proviso to regulation 3 and in regulation 60, the words  ‘ten 

crores’ shall be read as ‘twenty-five crores’.  

 
 
 
 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 

 

The  eligibility  and  general  conditions  as  specified  in  Regulation  61  &  62 

respectively shall continue to apply. 

3.  These temporary relaxations are applicable for Right Issues that open on or before 

March 31, 2021. 

4.  The  relaxations  mentioned  in  this  circular  are  not  applicable  for  issuance  of 

warrants. 

5.  This circular shall come into force with immediate effect. The Stock Exchanges are 

advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of all entities who have 

listed their equity and convertible securities. 

6.  The circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

7.  The  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in under  the  category  - 

'LegalCirculars'. 

 

 

Jeevan Sonparote 

Chief General Manager 

Corporation Finance Department 

+91-22-26449110 

jeevans@sebi.gov.in 

 
 
 
 

Page 3 of 3 

 

