                            

       

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2020/73 

 

 

              April 24, 2020 

CIRCULAR 

 

To, 

All Recognized Stock Exchanges 

All Recognized Depositories 

Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges 

Depository Participants through Depositories 

Association of Mutual Funds in India 

All Mutual funds and AMCs through AMFI 

Portfolio Managers 

KYC Registration Agencies (KRAs) 

Qualified Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents (QRTAs) 

Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 

Collective Investment Schemes (CIS) 

Custodians 

Investment Advisors 

 

Madam/Sir, 

 

Subject: 

 

Clarification  on  Know  Your  Client  (KYC)  Process  and  Use  of 
Technology for KYC 

1.  Know Your Customer (KYC) and Customer Due Diligence (CDD) policies as part 
of  KYC are the  foundation of an  effective Anti-Money  Laundering  process. The 
KYC process requires every SEBI registered intermediary (hereinafter referred to 
as ‘RI’) to collect and verify the Proof of Identity (PoI) and Proof of Address (PoA) 
from the investor.  

2.  The provisions as laid down under the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002, 
Prevention  of  Money-Laundering  (Maintenance  of  Records)  Rules,  2005,  SEBI 
Master  Circular  on  Anti  Money  Laundering  (AML)  dated  October  15,  2019  and 
relevant  KYC  /  AML  circulars issued from  time to  time  shall  continue  to remain 

1 OF 6 

 

 

 

                            

       

 

applicable. Further, the SEBI registered intermediary shall continue to ensure to 
obtain the express consent of the investor before undertaking online KYC. 

3.  SEBI, from  time to time has  issued  various  circulars to  simplify,  harmonize  the 
process of KYC by investors / RI. Constant technology evolution has taken place 
in  the  market  and  innovative  platforms  are  being  created  to  allow  investors  to 
complete  KYC  process  online.  SEBI  held  discussions  with  various  market 
participants and based on their feedback and with a view to allow ease of doing 
business in the securities market, it has been decided to make use of following 
technological innovations which can facilitate online KYC: 

a.  eSign service is an online electronic signature service that can facilitate an 
Aadhaar  holder  to  forward  the  document  after  digitally  signing  the  same 
provided the eSign signature framework is operated under the provisions of 
Second schedule of the Information Technology Act and guidelines issued 
by the controller.  

b.  In terms of PML Rule 2 (1) (cb) “equivalent e-document” means an electronic 
equivalent of a document, issued by the issuing authority of such document 
with  its  valid  digital  signature,  including  documents  issued  to  the  Digital 
Locker account of the investor as per Rule 9 of the Information Technology 
(Preservation  and  Retention  of  Information  by  Intermediaries  Providing 
Digital Locker Facilities) Rules, 2016.  

c.  Section  5  of  the  Information  Technology  Act,  2000  recognizes  electronic 
signatures (which includes digital signature) and states that where any law 
provides  that  information  or  any  other  matter  shall  be  authenticated  by 
affixing the signature or any document shall be signed or bear the signature 
of any person then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied, 
if such information or matter is authenticated by means of a digital signature 
affixed in such manner as prescribed by the Central Government. Therefore, 
the eSign mechanism of Aadhaar shall be accepted in lieu of wet signature 
on  the  documents  provided  by  the  investor.  Even  the  cropped  signature 
affixed on the online KYC form under eSign shall also be accepted as valid 
signature. 

4. 

 
In  order  to  enable  the  Online  KYC  process  for  establishing  account  based 
relationship with the RI, Investor’s KYC can be completed through online / App 
based  KYC, in-person  verification  through video,  online  submission of  Officially 
Valid Document (OVD) / other documents under eSign, in the following manner: 

i.  The investor visits the website/App/digital platform of the RI and fills up the 

online KYC form and submits requisite documents online. 

ii.  The name, photograph, address, mobile number, email ID, Bank details of the 
investor shall be captured online and OVD / PAN / signed cancelled cheque 

2 OF 6 

 

 

 

                            

       

 

shall be provided as a photo / scan of the original under eSign and the same 
shall be verified as under: 

a.  Mobile  and  email  is  verified  through One  Time  Password (OTP)  or  other 
verifiable mechanism. The mobile number/s of investor accepted as part of 
KYC  should  preferably  be  the  one  seeded  with  Aadhaar.  (the  RI  shall 
ensure  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  mobile  number  and  email  as 
detailed  under  SEBI  circular  no.  CIR/MIRSD/15/2011  dated  August  02, 
2011) 

b.  Aadhaar is verified through UIDAIs authentication / verification mechanism. 
Further,  in  terms  of  PML  Rule  9  (16),  every  RI  shall,  where  the  investor 
submits  his  Aadhaar  number,  ensure  that  such  investor  to  redact  or 
blackout  his  Aadhaar  number  through  appropriate  means  where  the 
authentication  of Aadhaar number is not required  under sub-rule  (15). RI 
shall not store/ save the Aadhaar number of investor in their system. e-KYC 
through  Aadhaar  Authentication  service  of  UIDAI  or  offline  verification 
through Aadhaar QR Code/ XML file can be undertaken, provided the XML 
file or Aadhaar Secure QR Code generation date is not older than 3 days 
from  the  date  of  carrying  out  KYC.  In  terms  of  SEBI  circular  No. 
CIR/MIRSD/29/2016  dated  January  22,  2016  the  usage  of  Aadhaar  is 
optional and purely on a voluntary basis by the investor. 
c.  PAN is verified online using the Income Tax Database. 
d.  Bank account details are verified by Penny Drop mechanism or any other 
mechanism using API of the Bank. (Explanation: based on bank details in 
the copy  of the cancelled  cheque  provided by the  investor,  the  money  is 
deposited into the bank account of the investors to fetch the bank account 
details and name.) The name and bank details as obtained shall be verified 
with the information provided by investor. 

e.  Any OVD other than Aadhaar shall be submitted through Digiocker / under 

eSign mechanism. 

iii.  In  terms  of  Rule  2  (d)  of  Prevention  of  Money-Laundering  (Maintenance  of 
Records)  Rules,  2005  (PML  Rules)  “Officially  Valid  Documents”  means  the 
following: 

the passport, 
the driving licence, 

a. 
b. 
c.  proof of possession of Aadhaar number, 
d. 
e. 

the Voter's Identity Card issued by Election Commission of India, 
job  card  issued  by  NREGA  duly  signed  by  an  officer  of  the  State 
Government and 

3 OF 6 

 

 

 

                            

       

 

f. 

the letter issued by the National Population Register containing details 
of  name,  address,  or  any  other  document  as  notified  by  the  Central 
Government in consultation with the Regulator. 

iv.  Further, Rule 9(18) of PML Rules states that in case OVD furnished by the 
investor  does  not  contain  updated  address,  the  document  as  prescribed 
therein in the above stated Rule shall be deemed to be the OVD for the limited 
purpose of proof of address. 

v.  PML Rules allows an investor to submit other OVD instead of PAN, however, 
in terms of SEBI circular No. MRD/DoP/Cir- 05/2007 dated April 27, 2007 the 
requirement of mandatory submission of PAN by the investors for transaction 
in the securities market shall continue to apply. 

vi.  Once all the information as required as per the online KYC form is filled up by 

the investor, KYC process could be completed as under: 

a.  The investor would take a print out of the completed KYC form and after 
affixing  their  wet  signature,  send  the  scanned  copy  /  photograph  of  the 
same to the RI under eSign, or 

b.  Affix online the cropped signature on the filled KYC form and submit the 

same to the RI under eSign. 

vii.  The RI shall forward the KYC completion intimation letter through registered 
post/ speed post or courier, to the address of the investor in cases where the 
investor has given address other than as given in the OVD. In such cases of 
return  of  the  intimation  letter  for  wrong  /  incorrect  address,  addressee  not 
available etc, no transactions shall be allowed in such account and intimation 
shall also sent to the Stock Exchange and Depository. 

viii. The  original  seen  and  verified  requirement  under  SEBI  circular  no. 
MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011 dated October, 5 2011 for OVD would be met where 
the investor provides the OVD in the following manner: 

i. 

ii 

As a clear photograph or scanned copy of the original OVD, through 
the eSign mechanism, or; 
As digitally signed document of the OVD, issued to the DigiLocker by 
the issuing authority.   

ix.  SEBI  vide  circular  no. MIRSD/Cir- 26  /2011  dated  December  23,  2011  had 
harmonized the IPV requirements for the intermediaries. In order to ease the 
IPV process for KYC, the said SEBI circular pertaining to IPV stands modified 
as under: 

i. 

IPV/ VIPV would not be required when the KYC of the investor is completed 
using the Aadhaar authentication / verification of UIDAI. 

4 OF 6 

 

 

 

                            

       

 

ii. 

IPV / VIPV shall not be required by the RI when the KYC form has been 
submitted online, documents have been provided through digiocker or any 
other source which could be verified online. 

5.  Features  for  online  KYC  App  of  the  RI  -  SEBI  registered  intermediary  may 
implement their own  Application  (App) for  undertaking  online  KYC of  investors. 
The App shall facilitate taking photograph, scanning, acceptance of OVD through 
Digilocker,  video  capturing  in  live  environment,  usage  of  the  App  only  by 
authorized person of the RI. The App shall also have features of random action 
initiation for investor response to establish that the interactions not pre-recorded, 
time stamping, geo-location tagging to ensure physical location in India etc is also 
implemented. RI shall ensure that the process is a seamless, real-time, secured, 
end-to-end encrypted audiovisual interaction with the customer and the quality of 
the  communication  is  adequate  to  allow  identification  of  the  customer  beyond 
doubt. RI shall carry out the liveliness check in order to  guard against spoofing 
and  such  other  fraudulent  manipulations.  The  RI  shall  before  rolling  out  and 
periodically, carry out software and security audit and validation of their App. The 
RI  may  have  additional  safety  and  security  features  other  than  as  prescribed 
above. 

6.  Feature for Video in Person Verification (VIPV) for Individuals – To enable ease 
of  completing  IPV  of  an  investor,  intermediary  may  undertake  the  VIPV  of  an 
individual investor through their App. The following process shall be adopted in 
this regard: 

i. 

ii. 
iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

Intermediary  through  their  authorised  official,  specifically  trained  for  this 
purpose, may undertake live VIPV of an individual customer, after obtaining 
his/her informed consent. The activity log along with the credentials of the 
person performing the VIPV shall be stored for easy retrieval. 
The VIPV shall be in a live environment. 
The VIPV shall be clear and still, the investor in the video shall be easily 
recognisable and shall not be covering their face in any manner. 
The VIPV process shall include random question and response from the 
investor  including  displaying  the  OVD,  KYC  form  and  signature  or  could 
also be confirmed by an OTP. 
The RI shall ensure that photograph of the customer downloaded through 
the Aadhaar authentication / verification process matches with the investor 
in the VIPV.  
The VIPV shall be digitally saved in a safe, secure and tamper-proof, easily 
retrievable manner and shall bear date and time stamping. 
The  RI  may  have  additional  safety  and  security  features  other  than  as 
prescribed above. 
 

5 OF 6 

 

 

 

                            

       

 

7.  The Stock Exchanges and Depositories are directed to:   

a.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  Stock  Brokers, 
Depository Participants and also disseminate the same on their websites.  
b.  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations for the implementation  of the above decision in co-ordination 
with one another to achieve uniformity in approach.  

c.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular Monthly Development Report of the following month; and  

d.  monitor the compliance of this circular.   

8.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities markets. 

9.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
D. Rajesh Kumar  
General Manager  
Tel. No: 022 -26449242  
Email: rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in 

6 OF 6 

 

 

 

