 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL1/CIR/P/2020/66 

 

To 

All Registered Merchant Bankers 

All Recognized Stock Exchanges 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   April 21, 2020 

All entities who propose to list specified securities 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

Sub: One-time relaxation with respect to validity of SEBI Observations. 

 
1.  In view of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, based on representations from 

various  industry  bodies,  SEBI  has  decided  to  grant  the  following  one  time 

relaxations: 

 
(i)  In terms of Regulation 44(1), 85 and 140 of the Securities and Exchange 

Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 

2018 (ICDR Regulations), a public issue/rights issue may be opened within 

twelve months from the date of issuance of observations by SEBI.  

 

The  validity  of  the  SEBI  Observations  where  the  same  have  expired/  will 

expire between March 1, 2020 and September 30, 2020 has been extended 

by  6  months,  from  the  date  of  expiry  of  such  observation,  subject  to  an 

undertaking  from  lead  manager  of  the  issue  confirming  compliance  with 

Schedule XVI of the ICDR Regulations while submitting the updated offer 

document to the Board. 

 

(ii)  In  terms  of  Schedule  XVI  (1)  (f)(i)  of  the  ICDR  Regulations,  2018  any 

increase  or  decrease  in  estimated  fresh  issue  size  by  more  than  twenty 

percent of the estimated fresh issue size shall require fresh filing of the draft 

offer document along with fees.  

 

 

Page 1 of 2 

An issuer shall be permitted to increase or decrease the fresh issue size by 

up to 50% of the estimated issue size without requiring to file fresh draft offer 

document with the Board subject to following conditions:  

(a) there has been no change in the objects of the issue 

(b) the  lead  manager  undertakes  that  the  draft  offer  document  is  in 

compliance with provisions of Regulation 7(1)(e) 

(c) the  lead  manager  shall  ensure  that  all  appropriate  changes  are 

made  to the  relevant section  of  DRHP  and an addendum,  in  this 

regard, shall be made public. 

The above relaxation on change in fresh issue size shall be applicable for 

issues (IPO/ Rights Issues/ FPO) opening before December 31, 2020. 

 

2.  This circular shall come into force with immediate effect.  

 

3.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  Section  11(1)  of  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

 

4.  A copy of this circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the 

categories “Legal Framework/Circulars”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Jeevan Sonparote 
Chief General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
+91-22-26449110 
jeevans@sebi.gov.in 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

