 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL2/CIR/P/2020/78 

 

 

 

 

     May 06, 2020 

 

To 

All Registered Merchant Bankers 

 

All Recognized Stock Exchanges 

All Registered Registrars to an Issue 

All Self Certified Syndicate Banks 

 

All listed entities 

All entities who propose to list specified securities 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

 

Sub: Relaxations relating to procedural matters – Issues and Listing 

 
1.  In  view  of  the  impact  of  the  COVID-19  pandemic  and  the  lockdown  measures 

undertaken by Central and State Governments, based on representations, SEBI 

has decided to grant the following one time relaxations from strict enforcement of 

certain  regulations  of  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 

Regulations,  2018  (hereafter  “ICDR  Regulations”)  ,  pertaining  to  Rights  Issue 

opening upto July 31, 2020: 

 
(i) 

 

Service of the abridged letter of offer, application form and other issue 

material to shareholders may be undertaken by electronic transmission 

as  already  provided  under  Regulation  77(2)  of  the  ICDR  Regulation. 

Failure to adhere to modes of dispatch through registered post or speed 

post or courier services due to prevailing Covid-19 related conditions will 

not be treated as non-compliance during the said period.  

However, the issuers shall  publish the letter of offer, abridged letter of 

offer  and  application  forms  on  the  websites  of  the  company,  registrar, 

stock  exchanges  and the  lead manager(s)  to  the  rights  issue. Further, 

the  issuer  company  along  with  lead  manager(s)  shall  undertake  all 

Page 1 of 4 

adequate steps to reach out its shareholders through other means such 

as ordinary post or SMS or audio-visual advertisement on television or 

digital advertisement, etc.  

 

(ii) 

The issue related advertisement as mandated by Regulation 84(1), shall 

 

(iii) 

contain  additional  details  as  regards  the  manner  in  which  the 

shareholders who have not been served notice electronically may apply. 

The issuer may have the flexibility to publish the dispatch advertisement 

in additional newspapers, over and above those required in Regulation 

84.  The advertisement should also be made available on the website of 

the Issuer, Registrar, Lead Managers, and Stock Exchanges. The Issuer 

shall make use of advertisements in television channels, radio, internet 

etc. to disseminate information relating to the application process. Such 

advertisements can be in the form of crawlers/ tickers as well. 

In  terms  of  SEBI  circular  dated  January  22,  2020,  SEBI  introduced 

dematerialized rights entitlements (REs). Further, physical shareholders 

are required to provide their demat account details to Issuer/ Registrar 

to the Issue for credit of REs.  In view of COVID-19 pandemic and the 

lockdown measures undertaken by Central and State Governments,  in 

case the physical shareholders who have not been able to open  a demat 

account or  are unable to  communicate their demat details, in terms of 

clause  1.3.4  of  SEBI  circular  dated  January  22,  2020,  to  the  issuer/ 

registrar  for  credit  of  REs  within  specified  time,  such    physical 

shareholders  may  be  allowed  to  submit  their  application  subject  to 

following conditions: 

 

(a) Issuer  along  with 

lead  manager(s)  and  other  recognized 

intermediary  shall 

institute  a  mechanism 

to  allow  physical 

shareholders  to  apply  in  the  rights  issue.  Issuer  along  with  lead 

manager(s)  shall  ensure  to  take  adequate  steps  to  communicate 

such a mechanism to physical shareholders before the opening of 

the issue. 

(b) Such  shareholder  shall  not  be  eligible  to  renounce  their  rights 

entitlements. 

Page 2 of 4 

 

(c) Such physical shareholders shall receive shares, in respect of their 

application, only in demat mode. The lead managers may also be 

guided  by  Para  10  of  the  Form  A  Schedule  V  of  the  ICDR 

Regulations.  

 

(iv) 

In terms of Regulation 76 of the ICDR Regulations, an application for a 

rights  issue  shall  be  made  only  through  ASBA  facility.  In  view  of  the 

difficulties  faced  due  to  COVID-19  pandemic  and  the  lockdown 

measures, and  in order to ensure that all eligible shareholders are able 

to apply to rights issue during such times, the issuer shall along with lead 

manager(s) 

to 

the 

issue, 

the 

registrar,  and  other 

recognized 

intermediaries [as deemed fit by issuer and lead manager(s)] institute an 

optional mechanism (non- cash mode only) to accept the applications of 

the shareholders subject to ensuring that no third party payments shall 

be allowed in respect of any application. 

 

(v) 

In respect of mechanisms at point (iii) and (iv) above, the issuer along 

with Lead Manager(s) shall ensure the following: 

(a) The  mechanism(s)  shall  only  be  an  additional  option  and  not  a 

replacement of the existing process. As far as possible,  attempts 

will be made to adhere to the existing prescribed framework. 

(b) The mechanism(s) shall be transparent, robust and have adequate 

checks and balances. It should aim at facilitating subscription in an 

efficient manner without imposing any additional costs on investors. 

The issuer along with  lead manager(s), and registrar shall satisfy 

themselves about the transparency, fairness and integrity of such 

mechanism. 

(c) An FAQ, online dedicated investor helpdesk, and helpline shall be 

created by the issuer company along with lead manager(s) to guide 

investors  in  gaining  familiarity  with  the  application  process  and 

resolve difficulties faced by investors on priority basis. 

(d)  The  issuer  along  with  lead  manager(s),  registrar,  and  other 

recognized intermediaries (as incorporated in the mechanism) shall 

be responsible for all investor complaints.  

Page 3 of 4 

 

2.  In respect of all offer documents filed until July 31, 2020, it has been decided to 

grant the following relaxations:  

(i) 

Authentication/  certification/  Undertaking(s) 

in 

respect  of  offer 

documents, may be done using digital signature certifications. 

(ii) 

The  issuer  along  with  lead  manager(s)  shall  provide  procedure  for 

inspection of material documents electronically. 

 

 

3.  This circular shall come into force with immediate effect.  

 

4.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  Section  11(1)  of  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

 

5.  A copy of this circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the 

categories “Legal Framework/Circulars”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Jeevan Sonparote 
Chief General Manager 
jeevans@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 4 of 4 

