भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरतितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
 

 

                                               May 20, 2020 

SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/84      
 
To, 
 
All listed entities    
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 
 
Madam / Sir, 

 
Subject:  Advisory  on  disclosure  of  material  impact  of  CoVID–19  pandemic  on  listed 
entities under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 2015  
(‘LODR Regulations’/‘LODR’)   
 

1.  The  CoVID–19  pandemic  and  the  consequent  lockdown  restrictions  imposed  by  national 

governments  has impacted businesses  not only in India but all over the world. In view of the 

same, SEBI has granted several relaxations to the listed entities in terms of timelines for filing 

of various  reports/disclosures  under LODR Regulations.   

 

2.  While  such a lockdown  and  disruption  is unforeseen  and  beyond  the control  of the  entities, 

such  events  can  lead  to  distortions  in  the  market  due  to  the  gaps  in  information  available 

about the operations  of a listed entity.  Hence, it is important  for a listed entity  to ensure  that 

all available information  about the impact of these events on the company and its operations 

is communicated  in a timely and cogent manner to its investors and stakeholders.   

  

3.  Various  provisions  under  the  LODR  Regulations  already  require  listed  entities  to  disclose 

material events  which have a bearing on its performance  / operations.  These provisions  are 

reiterated  below: 

 

a.  Regulation  30(3)  of  the  LODR  specifies  that  a  listed  entity  shall  make  disclosures  of 

events  specified  in Para  B of Part A of Schedule  III of LODR,  based on  application  of 

the  guidelines  for  materiality.  Clause  6  of  Para  B  of  Part  A  of  Schedule  III  of  LODR 

specifies  events such as “Disruption  of operations  of any one or more units or division 

of the  listed  entity  due  to natural  calamity  (earthquake,  flood,  fire etc.),  force  majeure 

or events such as strikes,  lockouts etc.” that shall be disclosed upon application  of the 

guidelines  for materiality  referred in Regulation  30(4).  

b.  SEBI vide Circular No. CIR/CFD/CMD/4/2015  dated September  9, 2015, has provided 

further  guidance  to  the  listed  entities  on  such  disclosures.  Annexure  I to  the  circular, 

specifically,  provides  the  details  to  be  disclosed  in  cases  of  disruptions  of  operations 

due to natural calamity,  force majeure  and other events.  

Page 1 of 3 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरतितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

c.  Similarly,  for  non-convertibles,  Regulation  51(1)  of  the  LODR  requires  prompt 

dissemination  to  the  stock  exchange(s)  of  all  information  having  bearing  on  the 

performance/operation  of  the  listed  entity,  price  sensitive  information  or  any  action 

that  shall  affect  payment  of  interest  or  dividend.  As  per  Clause  16  of  Part  B  of 

Schedule  III  read  with  Regulation  51(2)  of  the  LODR,  a  listed  entity  shall  promptly 

inform  to  the  stock  exchange(s)  of  any  other  information  having  bearing  on  the 

operation/performance  of the listed entity.  

 

4.  It  is  observed  that  many  listed  entities  have  made  disclosures  under  LODR  Regulations, 

primarily intimating  shutdown of operations owing to the pandemic  and resultant  lockdowns. 

Some  listed  entities  have  provided  information  relating  to actions  taken towards  sanitation, 

safety etc.; the number of entities that have disclosed the financial impact, however, is small.   

 

5.  Listed  entities  around  the  world  have  been  making  disclosures  regarding  the impact  of  the 

pandemic,  including  that on  financial  condition  and  results  of operations,  future  operations, 

capital  and  financial  resources,  liquidity,  assets,  internal  financial  control  over  financial 

reporting  and  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,  demand  for  products/services  etc. 

Regulators  have  encouraged  timely  reporting  as well  as  complete  and  accurate  disclosure 

of the impact, as far as possible.   

 

6.  Listed entities should endeavour to ensure that all investors have access to timely, adequate 

and updated  information.  Towards  this end,  entities  are encouraged  to evaluate  the impact 

of the CoVID-19  pandemic  on their business,  performance  and financials,  both qualitatively 

and  quantitatively,  to  the  extent  possible  and  disseminate  the  same.  An  illustrative  list  of 

information  that  listed  entities  may  consider  disclosing,  subject  to  the  application  of 

materiality,  is given below:  

• 

Impact of the CoVID-19  pandemic on the business;   

•  Ability  to  maintain  operations  including  the  factories/units/office  spaces  functioning 

and closed down; 

•  Schedule,  if any, for restarting  the operations;   

•  Steps taken to ensure smooth  functioning of operations;  

•  Estimation  of the future impact of CoVID-19  on its operations; 

•  Details of impact  of CoVID-19 on listed entity’s -  

o  capital and financial resources;   

o  profitability; 

o 

liquidity position;   

o  ability to service debt and other financing arrangements; 

o  assets; 

o 

internal financial  reporting and control; 

Page 2 of 3 

भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरतितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

o  supply chain; 

o  demand for its products/services;   

•  Existing  contracts/agreements  where  non-fulfilment  of  the  obligations  by  any  party 

will have significant  impact on the listed entity’s business; 

•  Other relevant material updates  about the listed entity’s business.   

 

The above list is only illustrative  and not exhaustive.  Further, to have continuous  information 

about  the impact of CoVID-19  on operations,  listed  entities may  provide regular  updates,  as 

and when there are material developments.   

 

7.  Additionally,  while  submitting  financial  statements  under  Regulation  33 of  the LODR,  listed 

entities  may  specify/include  the  impact  of  the  CoVID-19  pandemic  on  their  financial 

statements,  to the extent possible. 

 

8.  When  listed  entities  disclose  material  information  related  to  the  impact  of  CoVID-19,  they 

should  not  resort  to  selective  disclosures,  keeping  in  mind  the  principles  governing 

disclosures  and  obligations  of  a  listed  entity  as  prescribed  in  LODR  Regulations,  more 

specifically,  having  regard  to  the  requirements  of  Regulation  4(2)(e)  of  the  LODR  on 

disclosure and transparency.   Depending  on circumstances  peculiar to a listed entity and on 

account  of  passage  of  time,  the  listed  entity  shall  revisit,  refresh,  or  update  its  previous 

disclosures. 

 

9.  This Circular shall come into force with immediate  effect. The Stock Exchanges are advised 

to bring the provisions  of this circular  to the notice of all listed entities  and also disseminate 

the same on their websites. 

  

10. The  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  Regulation  101  of  the  LODR 

Regulations.   

 

11. This Circular is available  at www.sebi.gov.in  under the link “Legal→Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully,  

 

Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
General Manager   
Corporation  Finance Department 
Compliance  and Monitoring Division-1 
+91-22-26449246 
pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

Page 3 of 3 

