                                 
 

    

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2020/80 

 

 

              May 12, 2020 

 

To, 

All Recognized Stock Exchanges 

All Recognized Depositories 

Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges 

Depository Participants through Depositories 

Association of Mutual Funds in India 

All Mutual funds and AMCs through AMFI 

Portfolio Managers 

KYC Registration Agencies (KRAs) 

Qualified Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents (QRTAs) 

Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 

Collective Investment Schemes (CIS) 

Custodians 

Investment Advisors 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 
Subject:        Entities  permitted  to  undertake  e-KYC  Aadhaar  Authentication 

service of UIDAI in Securities Market 

1.  SEBI  vide  circular  No.  CIR/MIRSD/29/2016  dated  January  22,  2016,  had 
clarified that the usage of Aadhaar as issued by the UIDAI is optional and on 
a voluntary basis. 
 

2.  The  Department  of  Revenue  (DoR),  Ministry  of  Finance  issued  a  circular 
dated  May  09,  2019  on  procedure  for  processing  of  applications  under 
section 11A of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (“PMLA”), for 
use  of  Aadhaar  authentication  services  by  entities  other  than  the  Banking 
companies. In terms of the said circular, if the Central Government is satisfied 

1 OF 3 

 

 

                                 
 

    

 

with  the  recommendations  of  the  Regulator  and  Unique  Identification 
Authority of India (“UIDAI”) and reporting entity complies with such standards 
of privacy and security under the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and 
Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 (“Aadhaar Act”), and it is 
necessary and expedient to do so, it may by notification, permit such entity to 
carry  out  authentication  of  the  Aadhaar  number  of  clients  using  e-KYC 
authentication facility. Subsequent to the DoR notification, entities as may be 
recommended  by  UIDAI  and  as  permitted  by  SEBI,  may  perform  Aadhaar 
Authentication in the Securities Market. 

3.  Based  on  the  requirements prescribed  by  UIDAI,  SEBI  issued  circular  No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2019/123 dated November 05, 2019 detailing 
the  e-KYC  Authentication  facility  under  section  11A  of  the  Prevention  of 
Money Laundering Act, 2002, by entities in the securities market for Resident 
Investors.  The  said  circular  also  mentions  that  at  any  point,  after  issue  of  
such  notification,  based  on  a  report  of  the appropriate Regulator or UIDAI 
or  otherwise,  if  it  is  found  that  the  reporting  entity  no  longer  fulfils  the 
requirements for  performing  authentication under  clause  (a)  of  sub-section 
(1) of section  11A,  the Central Government  may  withdraw  the  notification  
after  giving  an opportunity to the reporting entity. 

4.  Government of India, DoR, vide Gazette Notification No. G.S.R. 261(E) dated 
April 22, 2020 has notified nine reporting entities as per the recommendation 
by UIDAI and SEBI to undertake Aadhaar authentication service of the UIDAI 
under section 11A of the Prevention of Money-laundering Act, 2002. In view 
of  the  same,  the  following  entities  shall  undertake  Aadhaar  Authentication 
service of UIDAI subject to compliance of the conditions as laid down in this 
regard: 

I. 
II. 
III. 
IV. 
V. 
VI. 
VII. 
VIII. 

Bombay Stock Exchange Limited 
National Securities Depository Limited 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
CDSL Ventures Limited 
NSDL Database Management Limited 
NSE Data and Analytics Limited 
CAMS Investor Services Private Limited 
Computer Age Management Services Private Limited 
 

5.  The above listed entities shall get registered with UIDAI as KYC user agency 
(“KUA”)  and  shall  allow  SEBI  registered  intermediaries  /  mutual  fund 
distributors to undertake Aadhaar Authentication in respect of their clients for 
the  purpose  of  KYC.  The  SEBI  registered  intermediaries  /  mutual  fund 
distributors, who want to undertake Aadhaar authentication services through 

2 OF 3 

 

 

 

 

                                 
 

    

 

KUAs, shall enter into an agreement with KUA and get themselves registered 
with UIDAI as sub-KUAs. The agreement in this regard shall be as prescribed 
by UIDAI. Further, the KUAs and their Sub-KuAs shall follow the process as 
detailed in SEBI circular dated Nov 05, 2019 and as may be prescribed by 
UIDAI from time to time. 
 

6.  The Stock Exchanges and Depositories are directed to:   

a.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  Stock  Brokers, 
Depository Participants and also disseminate the same on their websites.  
b.  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations for the implementation  of the above decision in co-ordination 
with one another to achieve uniformity in approach.  

c.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular Monthly Development Report of the following month; and  

d.  monitor the compliance of this circular. 

 

7.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities markets. 
 

8.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

D. Rajesh Kumar 

General Manager 

Tel. No: 022 -26449242 

Email: rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in 

 

3 OF 3 

