भारतीय    प्रितभूित    और    िविनमय    बोडर् 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/IMD/DF3/CIR/P/2020/086                                                            May 20, 2020 
 
To, 
 
All Mutual Funds (MFs) /  
Asset Management Companies (AMCs)/ 
Trustee Companies/ Boards of Trustees of Mutual Funds 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Sir / Madam, 
 
Subject: Listing of Mutual Fund schemes that are in the process of winding up  
 
1.  Presently, in terms Regulation 32 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996 (“MF 
Regulations”)  and  SEBI  Circular  no.  SEBI/HO/IMD/DF2/CIR/P/2018/160  dated 
December 28, 2018, every close-ended scheme and units of segregated portfolio 
shall be listed on recognized stock exchanges.  
 

2.  As per MF Regulations, there are several steps envisaged with respect to winding 
up  of  Mutual  Fund  schemes  before  the  scheme  ceases  to  exist.  During  this 
process,  such  units  can  be  listed  and  traded  on  a  recognized  stock  exchange, 
which may provide an exit to investors.  
 
In  terms  of  Regulation  31B(1)  of  the  MF  Regulations,  the  units  of  Mutual  Fund 
schemes can be listed in the recognized stock exchange. Accordingly, the units of 
Mutual  Fund  schemes  which  are  in  the  process  of  winding-up  in  terms  of 
Regulation  39(2)(a)  of  MF  Regulations,  shall  be  listed  on  recognized  stock 
exchange, subject to compliance with listing formalities as stipulated by the stock 
exchange.  
 
However,  pursuant  to  listing,  trading  on  stock  exchange  mechanism  will  not  be 
mandatory for investors, rather, if they so desire, may avail an optional channel to 
exit provided to them. 

 
3.  Initially, trading in units of such a listed scheme that is under the process of winding 

up, shall be in dematerialised form.  
 

Page 1 of 2 

भारतीय    प्रितभूित    और    िविनमय    बोडर् 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
4.  AMCs  shall  enable  transfer  of  such  units  which  are  held  in  form  of  Statement  of 

Account (SoA) / unit certificates. 

 
5.  Detailed operational modalities for trading and settlement of units of MF schemes 
that are under the process of winding up, shall be finalized by the stock exchanges 
where  units  of  such  schemes  are  being  listed,  in  consultation  with  SEBI.  The 
operational modalities shall include the following: 
a.  Mechanism for order placement, execution, payment and settlement; 
b.  Enabling bulk orders to be placed for trading in units; 
c.  Issue  related  to  suspension  of  trading,  declaration  of  date  for  determining  the 
eligibility of unitholders etc. in respect of payments to be made by the AMC as 
part of the winding up process; 

d.  Disclosures to be made by AMCs including disclosure of NAV on daily basis and 

scheme portfolio periodically etc. 

 
6.  The  stock  exchange  shall  develop  a  mechanism  along  with  RTA  for  trading  and 

settlement of such units held in the form of SoA/ Unit Certificate 
 

7.  The  AMC,  its  sponsor,  employees  of  AMC  and  Trustee  shall  not  be  permitted  to 
transact  (buy  or  sell)  in  the  units  of  such  schemes  that  are  under  the  process  of 
being wound up. The compliance of the same shall be monitored both by the Board 
of AMC and Trustee. 
 

8.  This Circular shall come into force with immediate effect. Stock exchanges desirous 
of  offering  this  facility,  shall  submit  the  detailed  operational  modalities  to  SEBI, 
within 7 days from date of issuance of this Circular. 

 
9.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation 77 of SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, to protect the interests of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully,  
 
Prasenjit Dey 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel. no.: 022-26449314 
Email: prasenjitd@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

