 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

  

   May 26, 2020 

 
 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2020/89 
 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All  Recognized  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations  having 
Commodity  Derivatives  Segment  (except  those  in  International  Financial 
Services Centre) 
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
 
Sub:  Guidelines  for  identification  and  selection  of  location  as  a  delivery 
centre(s) for commodity derivatives contract  
 
 
1.  The delivery centre(s), whether basis or additional, plays an important role in 
the  pricing  and  settlement  of  the  physically  delivered  commodity  derivatives 
contract.  The  choice  of  delivery  centre(s)  is  of  vital  importance  to  help  the 
buyers/sellers in taking informed decisions about taking or giving deliveries. In 
the absence of a well-defined laid down criteria for identification and selection 
of a location as a delivery centre, it is observed that each stock exchange has 
adopted different criteria for different commodities as per their internal policy 
decision. 
 

2.  Based on the market feedback and in the interest of the stakeholders there is a 
need  to  bring  in  uniformity  in  the  guidelines  to  be  followed  by  the  stock 
exchanges  for  identification  and  selection  of  a  location  as  a  delivery  centre. 
Based on the recommendations of Commodity Derivatives Advisory Committee 
(CDAC) and in consultation with the stock exchanges, it has been decided to 
lay  down  guidelines  that  are  to  be  followed  by  the  stock  exchanges  while 
identifying and selecting a location as a delivery centre.  

 

3.  Considering  the  inter-play  of  various  factors,  a  particular  location  can  be 
identified and selected as a delivery centre by a stock exchange based on all 
or combination of the following guidelines. 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

 

 

 
3.1. Demand/supply dynamics:  

3.1.1.  There  should  be  adequate  consumption  demand  throughout  the 
year and/or adequate supply at least during the expiry month(s) in 
and around the location; 

3.1.2.  The location should have a sizeable production catchment area and 

arrivals;  

3.1.3.  The location should be an active consumption centre/trading centre 
attracting adequate supplies from other production centres to fulfil 
demand for processing, consumption, trade, etc. 
 

3.2. Liquidity of the contract: The location should have high potential to attract 

trading and delivery participation in the derivatives contract.  
 

3.3. Value  chain  participants:  There  should  be  adequate  participation  or 
representation from different segments of the commodity value chain of the 
commodity viz., farmers/producers, traders, millers, processors, exporters, 
users, etc. who are interested in trading / delivering the commodity at such 
location proposed to be designated as a delivery centre.  
 

3.4. Infrastructure Support:   

3.4.1.  There  should  be  presence  of  sufficient  and  sizeable  number  of 
warehouses  in  and  around  the  location  capable  of  handling  the 
deliveries  on  expiry  of  the  contract  and  capable  of  getting 
registration  with  Warehousing  Development  and  Regulatory 
Authority (WDRA)  wherever  applicable,  before  the  launch  of  the 
contracts.  

3.4.2.  There should be adequate transport links (road or rail connectivity), 
presence of assaying and testing facilities, processing plants, etc., 
for effecting smooth deliveries.  

3.5. Trade Feedback: Feedback from all the stake holders including Farmers/ 
Farmer Producers Organization (FPOs)/ Traders/ Value Chain Participants 
(VCPs)/  Corporates/  Micro,  Small  &  Medium  Enterprises 
(MSMEs),Processors,  Exporters  etc.,  should  be  obtained  and  duly 
considered before selecting a location for designating as delivery centre(s) 
of a particular commodity. 

 
 
 
 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 

 
4.  Review of delivery centre:  

4.1. The  stock  exchanges  shall  carry  out  a  review  of  the  delivery  centre(s) 
already  designated  and  notified  for  the  existing  commodity  derivatives 
contracts, based on the aforesaid guidelines. 

4.2. The  review  shall  also  include  those  locations  which  though  satisfy  the 
above  mentioned  guidelines  but  have  not  been  selected  as  the  delivery 
centre(s)  by  the  stock exchanges  and examine  reasons for  not  selecting 
these locations as delivery centre.  

4.3. The  stock  exchanges  shall  submit  their  assessment  in  the  form  of  a 
comprehensive review report  to their Product Advisory Committee (PAC) 
constituted for respective commodity for consideration and advice.  

 

5.  The  stock  exchanges  shall  undertake  and  complete  the  aforesaid  Review 
stated  at Para  4 above  for  Financial  Year  2019-20  within  3  months  from  the 
date of this Circular. Comments/ observations/ suggestions from PAC leading 
to change/replacement in any of the existing delivery centre(s) may be shared 
with  SEBI  for  information  purpose,  within  1  month  of  completion  of  the  said 
Review. 

 

6.  SEBI vide Circular no. SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2019/89 dated August 
07, 2019 has issued guidelines about the PAC in which the terms of reference, 
inter-alia, includes choice of basis and additional delivery centre, review of the 
delivery centres etc. Henceforth, the requisite information highlighted at Para 3 
and 4 above shall form part of the information to be submitted to PAC for their 
consideration in terms of the reference provided in the  aforesaid Circular. All 
the above stated information shall also be submitted by the stock exchanges to 
SEBI while submitting application for contract approval or renewal.  
 

7.  The provisions of this Circular shall be effective from August 01, 2020. 
 
8.  This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities market. 

 

9.  The Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations are advised to:  

 
9.1. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations, if required. 

9.2.  bring the provisions of this Circular to the notice of the stock brokers of 

the Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website.  

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

9.3.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions 

 

of this Circular. 

 

10. This Circular is available on SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in under the category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 

Vikas Sukhwal 
General Manager  
Division of New Products and Market Policy  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 4 of 4 

