 

CIRCULAR  

 

SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ CRADT/ CIR/ P/ 2020/ 87    

 

  

 

May 21, 2020 

To 

All Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) registered with SEBI  

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

Sub: Review of Post-Default Curing Period for CRAs 

I. 

It has been noted in a few recent cases of defaults that even though the rated entity 
was able to correct the default within a relatively shorter span of time, the rating 
could not be upgraded and continued to be under sub-investment grade due to the 
extant provisions on post-default curing period of 90 days for the rating to move 
from default to speculative grade and generally 365 days for default to investment 
grade. There is a possibility that such cases may increase in the wake of COVID-
19 pandemic. A need has been felt  to review the  existing  policy on post-default 
curing period with a view to providing some flexibility to CRAs in taking appropriate 
view in such cases. 
 

II.  Taking into  consideration the representation received from various stakeholders 
and  analysis  of  the  same,  the  provision  on  post-default  curing  period  is  being 
hereby revised. Accordingly, in partial modification to Annexure-A1 of SEBI circular 
no.  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119  dated  November  1,  2016,  the 
revised policy in this regard is as under: 

A.  After a default is cured and the payments regularized, a CRA shall generally 
upgrade the rating from default to non-investment grade after a period of 90 
days  based  on  the  satisfactory  performance  by  the  company  during  this 
period. CRAs may deviate from the said period of 90 days on a case to case 
basis, subject to the CRAs framing a detailed policy in this regard. The said 
policy  shall  also  be  placed  on  CRA’s  website.  Cases  of  deviations  from 
stipulated  90  days,  if  any,  shall  be  placed  before  the  Ratings  Sub-
Committee of the board of the CRA, on a half yearly basis, along with the 
rationale for such deviation. 
 

B.  The  CRA  shall  frame  a  policy  in  respect  of  upgrade  of  default  rating  to 

investment grade rating and place it on its website. 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

 

C.  The policies framed as above may include scenarios like technical defaults, 
change in management, acquisition by another firm, sizeable inflow of long-
term  funds  or  benefits  arising  out  of  a  regulatory  action,  etc.  which 
fundamentally alter the credit risk profile of the defaulting firm. 
 

III.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section  11  (1)  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the  provisions  of 
Regulation 20 of SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999, to protect the 
interest  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 
regulate, the securities market. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Surabhi Gupta  
General Manager 
Tel. No: 022-26449315 
Email ID: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

