 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/MRD-1/CIR/P/2020/95      

June 05, 2020 

 
 To, All Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporations and Depositories  
All Intermediaries 
 Dear Sir/Madam, 
 Subject: Framework for Regulatory Sandbox 
 1. Participants in the capital market in India have been early adopters of technology. SEBI 
believes that encouraging adoption and usage of financial technologies (‘FinTech’) can 
act as an instrument to further develop and maintain an efficient, fair and transparent 
securities market ecosystem. 
 2. Towards this end, SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/MRD/2019/P/64 dated May 20, 2019, 
stipulated a framework for an industry-wide Innovation Sandbox, whereby FinTech 
startups and entities not regulated by SEBI were permitted to use the Innovation 
Sandbox for offline testing of their proposed solution.  
 3. Further, SEBI now has decided to introduce a framework for “Regulatory Sandbox”. 
Under this sandbox framework, entities regulated by SEBI shall be granted certain 
facilities and flexibilities to experiment with FinTech solutions in a live environment and 
on limited set of real customers for a limited time frame. These features shall be fortified 
with necessary safeguards for investor protection and risk mitigation.  
 

 

1 | P a g e  

 

4. The guidelines pertaining to the functioning of the Regulatory Sandbox are provided at 
Annexure A.  
 
This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Section 19 of the Depositories Act, 
1996 to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, 
and to regulate the securities market. 
 
Yours faithfully,  
Email:  bithinm@sebi.gov.in 

Bithin Mahanta 
Deputy General Manager 
Division of Technology & Cyber Security 
Market Regulation Department-1 
Phone: +91-022-26449634 

 

2 | P a g e  

 
Annexure A 

ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR THE PROJECT 

 APPLICABILITY 
 1. All entities registered with SEBI under section 12 of the SEBI Act 1992, shall be eligible 
for testing in the regulatory sandbox. The entity may either on its own or engage the 
services of a FinTech firm. In either scenarios, the registered market participant shall be 
treated as the principal applicant, and shall be solely responsible for testing of the 
solution.  
 2. The eligibility criteria shall be as follows: 
 
a)  Genuineness of innovation  
The solution should be innovative enough to add significant value to the existing 
offering in the Indian securities market.  
 
b)  Genuine need to test  
The applicant should have a genuine need for live testing the solution on real 
customers. Further, the applicant should demonstrate that the solution cannot be 
developed without relaxing certain regulations, if any, being sought. 
 
c)  Limited prior testing  
Before applying for testing in sandbox, limited offline testing of the solution should 
have been carried out by the applicant.  
d)  Direct benefits to users  
The solution should offer identifiable benefits (direct or indirect) to the investors or 
entities or to the capital market at large.  
e)  No risks to the financial system  
The solution should have proper risk management strategy to incorporate 
appropriate safeguards to mitigate and control potential risks to any market 
participants/users that may arise from the testing of the solution and shall propose 
appropriate safeguards to manage the risks and contain the consequences of failure. 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

3 | P a g e  

 

f)  Testing readiness of the solution  
The applicant should have the necessary resources to support testing in the sandbox 
and must demonstrate well developed testing plans with clear objectives, parameters 
and success criteria. 
 
g)  Deployment post-testing 
The applicant should demonstrate the intention and ability to deploy the solution on 
a broader scale. To this effect the applicant should share a proposed sandbox exit and 
transition strategy. 
 
 APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS 
3. The applicant shall ensure that the specified eligibility criteria are satisfied while 
submitting the application as per Annexure-1 to SEBI. The application form shall be 
signed by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the applicant or officer duly authorized by 
the CEO or compliance officer. The complete application must be submitted to:  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
 
 4. Thereafter, the application shall be forwarded to the relevant department of SEBI for 
processing. The flowchart for the application and approval process is depicted at 
Annexure-2. SEBI shall communicate with the applicant during the course of evaluating 
the sandbox application, and during the testing phase. 
 5. At the “Application Stage”, SEBI shall review the application and inform of its potential 
suitability for a sandbox within 30 working days from the submission of the complete 
application. SEBI may issue guidance to the applicant according to the specific 
characteristics and risks associated with the proposed solution. SEBI may also consult its 

Chief General Manager, 
Market Regulation Department-1,  
Bandra (E), Mumbai – 400051 
by email at regulatorysandbox@sebi.gov.in  

 

 
or  

 

4 | P a g e  

 

Committee on Financial and Regulatory Technologies (CFRT), if necessary, to evaluate 
the application. 
 6. At the “Evaluation Stage”, SEBI shall work with the applicant to determine the specific 
regulatory requirements and conditions (including test parameters and control 
boundaries) to be applied to the proposed solution in question. The applicant shall then 
assess if it is able to meet these requirements. If the applicant is able and willing to meet 
the proposed regulatory requirements and conditions, the applicant shall be granted 
permission to develop and test the proposed FinTech innovation(s) in the sandbox. 
 7. Upon approval, the application shall proceed towards the “Testing Stage”. The participant 
shall disclose to its users that the solution shall operate in a sandbox and the potential 
key risks associated with the solution. The applicant is also required to obtain the user’s 
acknowledgement that they have read and understood the risks. 
 8. During the testing stage, the applicant shall take prior approval from SEBI to effect any 
material changes to the solution.  
 9. Each applicant shall assign a contact person to coordinate with a designated officer of 
SEBI.  
10. The duration of the sandbox testing stage shall be a maximum of twelve months and 
extendable upon request of the applicant. 
 11. In case an application is rejected at any stage, the applicant shall be informed accordingly. 
The reasons for rejection could include failure to meet the objective of the sandbox or 
any of the eligibility criteria. The applicant may re-apply for the sandbox when it is ready 
to meet the objective and eligibility criteria of the sandbox, subject to an appropriate 
cooling off period as decided by the concerned department of SEBI. 
  EVALUATION CRITERIA 
 12. The applicant may be evaluated using a scoring process by the concerned department, 
inter alia, based on the parameters given below: 
 
i. 

Profile of the applicant 

 

 

5 | P a g e  

 

ii.  Usage of innovative solution including technology and/or processes 
iii. 
Identified benefits to the investors and/or the securities/commodities markets 
iv. 
Compilation of meaningful test scenarios and expected/desired outcomes 
v.  Risk measured/graded testing conditions and parameters so as to ensure safety 
and protection of the markets/investors 
vi.  Risk mitigation for high risk testing conditions and parameters 
vii.  Appropriate disclosure requirements and protection to their users  
viii. 
Clearly defined grievance redressal mechanism and user rights 
ix.  Adequate disclosure of the potential risks to participating users  
Prior confirmation from users that they fully understand and accept the attendant 
x. 
risks 
xi. 
Intent and feasibility to deploy the proposed FinTech solution post testing 
xii. 
The deployment and monitoring strategy post testing (in the event the tests are 
deemed successful) or the exit strategy (in the event the tests are not successful)  
xiii.  Any other factors considered relevant by SEBI 
 REGULATORY EXEMPTIONS 
 13. To encourage innovation with minimal regulatory burden, SEBI shall consider 
exemptions/ relaxations, if any, which could be either in the form of a comprehensive 
exemption from certain regulatory requirements or selective exemptions on a case-by-
case basis, depending on the FinTech solution to be tested.  
 14. Within the overarching principles of market integrity and investor protection, no 
exemptions would be granted from the extant investor protection framework, Know-
Your-Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) rules.  
 15. Entities desirous of participating in sandbox shall make an application, including 
exemption / relaxation being sought from relevant provisions of the applicable 
regulatory framework. 
 16. The registration granted by SEBI to all entities registered with SEBI under Section 12 of 
the SEBI Act, 1992 is activity based. An entity which is registered with SEBI for a 
particular activity is authorized to carry out activity in that domain. In order to enable 
the cross domain testing of FinTech solutions, an existing registered entity would be 
required to first obtain a limited certificate of registration for the category of 
intermediary for which it seeks to test the FinTech solution(s).This concept of limited 

 

6 | P a g e  

 

registration shall facilitate the entities to operate in a Regulatory Sandbox without being 
subjected to the entire set of regulatory requirements to carry out that activity.  
 17. Accordingly, regulatory relaxations from various SEBI regulations may be provided after 
analyzing specific sandbox testing applications. A reference list is given at Annexure-3 
with examples of the regulatory requirements that will be mandatory and those for which 
SEBI may consider granting relaxation during the sandbox testing. 
 18. SEBI has notified SEBI Regulatory Sandbox (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 so as to 
enable the respective department(s) to grant relaxation(s)/exemption(s), as may be 
deemed fit, while granting such limited certificate of registration. 
 
 SUBMISSION OF TEST RELATED INFORMATION AND REPORTS 
19. During the testing period, SEBI may require the participant to submit information/ 
interim reports including:  
i)  Key performance indicators, milestones and statistical information 
ii)  Key issues arising as observed from fraud or operational incident reports  
iii)  Actions or steps taken to address the key issues identified above 
 20. The Sandbox Participants must submit a final report containing the following 
information to SEBI within 30 calendar days from the expiry of the testing period: 
 
i)  Key outcomes, key performance indicators against agreed measures for the 
success or failure of the test and findings of the test 
ii)  A full account of all incident reports and resolution of user complaints, if any 
iii)  Key learnings from the test  
 
21. The interim and final reports must be confirmed by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of 
the applicant or officer duly authorized by the CEO or the compliance officer. 
 22. The participant must ensure that proper records of the conducted tests are maintained 
for review by SEBI. Further, the participant shall also maintain such records for a period 
of five (5) years from the date of completion of testing/ exit from the sandbox. 

7 | P a g e  

  

 

 

 OBLIGATIONS OF THE APPLICANT TOWARDS THE USER 
 23. The applicant shall ensure that before signing up, the user has read the full 
documentation provided by the applicant and confirm that he/she is aware of the risks 
of using the solution. 
 24. The applicant shall ensure that users participating in the sandbox have the same 
protection rights as the ones participating in the live market. 
 EXTENDING OR EXITING THE SANDBOX 
25. At the end of the testing period, the permission granted to the applicant as well as the 
legal and regulatory requirements relaxed by SEBI, shall expire. 
26. Upon completion of testing,  
 
i)  SEBI shall decide whether to permit the FinTech innovation to be introduced in the 
market on a wider scale. Where allowed, participants intending to carry out regulated 
businesses shall be assessed based on applicable licensing, approval and registration 
criteria under various SEBI regulations, as the case may be. 
 
      OR 
ii) The applicant may employ an exit strategy. 
 
OR 
iii) The applicant may request for an extension period to continue testing. 
 27. The applicant may exit the sandbox on its own by giving a prior notice to SEBI, in writing, 
of its intention to exit the sandbox.  
 28. The applicant shall ensure that any existing obligation to the users of the FinTech 
innovation(s) in the sandbox are completely fulfilled or addressed before exiting the 
sandbox or before discontinuing the sandbox testing.  
 29. The applicant is required to maintain records of acknowledgement of all its users stating 
that all the obligations towards the users have been met. These records shall be 

8 | P a g e  

 
 

 

 

REVOCATION OF THE APPROVAL 

maintained by the applicant for a period of five years from the date of exit from the 
sandbox.  
  
30. SEBI may revoke an approval, to participate in the sandbox, at any time before the end of 
the testing period, if the applicant: 
i)  Fails to carry out risk mitigants. 
ii) Submits false, misleading or inaccurate information, or has concealed or failed to 
disclose material facts in the application 
iii) Contravenes any applicable law administered by SEBI or any applicable law in 
India or abroad 
iv) Suffers a loss of reputation 
v) Undergoes or has gone into liquidation 
vi) Comprises the digital security and integrity of the service or product or elevates 
the risk of a cyber-security attack 
vii) Carries on business in a manner detrimental to users or the public at large 
viii) Fails to effectively address any technical defects, flaws or vulnerabilities in the 
product, service or solution which gives rise to recurring service disruptions or 
fraudulent activities 
ix) Fails to implement any directions given by SEBI 
 31. In addition to revocation of approval for participating in the sandbox, appropriate actions 
under relevant regulatory framework may be initiated against the applicant in case 
Fintech solution facilitates the following:  
 
i)  Undermining of Know Your Customer (KYC) principles 
ii) Violation of user’s/investor’s privacy 
iii) Promotion of sale of fraudulent/illegal products or services  
iv) Promotion of mis-selling of products or services 
v) Violation of Anti-Money Laundering (AML) norms 
vi) Creation of risk to financial stability  
vii) Theft of intellectual property 

 

9 | P a g e  

  
 

 

 

 

 32. Before revoking the approval to participate in the sandbox, SEBI shall: 
 
Immediately suspend trials on new users i.e. no new users shall be permitted to 
i. 
sign up for using/testing the solution 
Give the applicant a prior notice of its intention to revoke the approval; and 
ii. 
Provide an opportunity to the applicant to respond to SEBI on the grounds for 
iii. 
revocation 
33. Notwithstanding anything contained in the above para, where SEBI is satisfied that in the 
interest of the applicant, its users, the financial system or the public in general, it may 
revoke the approval immediately without prior notice and provide the opportunity to the 
participant to respond after the effective date of revocation. If the response is 
satisfactory, SEBI may reinstate the approval to participate in the sandbox. 
 34. Upon revocation of an approval, the participant must: 
 
i)  Immediately implement its exit plan to cease the provision of the product, process, 
service or solution to new and existing users; 
ii) Notify its users about the cessation and their rights to grievance redressal, as 
applicable; 
iii) Comply with obligations imposed by SEBI to dispose of all confidential information 
including user’s personal information collected over the duration of the testing; 
iv) Compensate any users who had suffered financial losses arising from the test in 
accordance with the safeguards submitted by the participant;  
v) Submit a report to SEBI on the actions taken, within 30 days from the revocation; 
vi) Comply with any other directions given by SEBI. 
 
*** 

 

10 | P a g e  

 
REGULATORY SANDBOX APPLICATION FORM 

ANNEXURE 1  

1.  Applicant’s Information 

Description 

Sr. 
No. 

Description 

Sr. 
No. 

2.  Details of the FinTech firms involved, if any 

 
1.1  Name of the Organization 
1.2 
SEBI Registration no. 
1.3  Name of the Authorized Representative 
1.4  Designation 
1.5  Contact No 
1.6  Email id 
Provide a brief description of the FinTech firm and its core 
2.1 
businesses including but not limited to: 
a. 
registration with other regulators,  
b. 
affiliation to prominent societies,  
c.  Accreditations,  
d. 
significant achievements 
e. 
financial standing including avenues for funding 
Profile of key personnel 
f. 
 
2.2  Does the FinTech firm have a presence in India? If yes then 
please provide details. 
 
2.3 
Is the FinTech firm’s business is already active abroad? If yes 
then please provide details. 
 
2.4 
Current orders or proceedings against the FinTech firm in India 
and abroad (if any) 
 
Provide a short summary of the proposed solution to be tested 
3.1 
in the sandbox including but not limited to: 
a. Objective of the proposed FinTech solution or the 
statement of purpose 

3.  About the proposed solution 

Description 

Sr. 
No. 

 

 

 

Response 

Response 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Response 

11 | P a g e  

3.2 

Sr. 

b. Key benefits to the users and markets 
c.  Business Model, including asset deployment and sources 
of revenue 
d. Target users 
e. Compliance obligations 
f.  Time period for testing 
Summary of the technical solution including but not limited to: 
a. Technical architecture 
b. Usage of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, if 
any 
c.  Cyber resilience: VAPT results, if any 
d. Certification from Common Criteria Recognition 
Arrangement (CCRA), if any 
e. Business Continuity Plan, if any 
f.  Any other certifications, if any 
 
3.3  With respect to the genuineness of innovation, please provide 
an explanation as to how the solution constitutes a significantly 
different offering in the market place 
 
3.4  Awareness of similar offering in other countries or for other 
than securities/commodities markets 
 
3.5  Timelines for pan-India deployment post sandbox testing 
 
No.  Description 
Illustrate the aspect of the FinTech solution that will be tested  
4.1 
 
4.2  The test criteria and expected outcomes 
4.3  Describe the use case that will be tested in the sandbox 
 
4.4  Define success for a test and the Key Performance Indicators 
that will indicate a successful test 
 
4.5 
Probable start and end date of sandbox testing 
 
4.6  Details of users including but not limited to: 
 
a. Number of participating customers 
b. Profile of customers (retail, institutional, etc.) 
c.  Process for enrollment and acquisition of customers  

4.  Sandbox readiness 

 

 

 
 
 
Response 
 
 
 
 
 
 

12 | P a g e  

 

5.  Legal and Regulatory Assessment: other regulators 

d. Requirement of KYC 
e. User awareness required/conducted 
f.  Whether consent required /has consent been obtained 
g. Arrangements to limit loss if applicable e.g. Margin, stop 
loss thresholds etc. 
h. User compensation if any 
i.  Value at risk per user 
j.  Transaction thresholds per user 
 
4.7  Risk assessment and mitigation options including but not 
limited to: 
a. Failure of sandbox testing 
b. Financial loss to the customers 
c.  Cyber attack 
d. AML and terrorism financing 
 
4.8  Any instance of a legal and regulatory non-compliance for any 
other regulator during the sandbox testing 
 
5.1 
Legal and regulatory status (registration, licensing, 
authorization, approval, recognition etc.) 
 
5.2 
Legal opinion sought on the proposed FinTech solution, if any 
 
5.3  Relevant license to deploy the proposed solution in the 
production environment? Please provide the details 
 
6.1  Describe how the regulatory requirements will be met post 
successful sandbox testing 
 
Please provide a pan-India deployment strategy, post successful 
6.2 
sandbox testing 
 
6.3 
Please provide a clear strategy to monitor the outcomes in the 
live scenario 
 
Please provide exit and transition strategy if the deployed 
6.4 
solution turns unviable and the tests are unsuccessful 
   

6.  Deployment post-testing 

 

13 | P a g e  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

7.  Relaxation of SEBI regulations and guidelines 

7.1  Outline the list of rules, regulation, guidelines, circulars etc. of 
SEBI that, as per the applicant, may act as an impediment to the 
proposed FinTech solution, along with detailed rationale  
 
7.2 
Is SEBI to relax any specific regulatory requirements, for the 
duration of the sandbox? Please provide the details along with 
detailed rationale 
 
7.3 
In the event of a successful test and before exit from the sandbox, 
provide details on how SEBI’s regulatory requirements shall be 
complied with 
 

  

 

 

 
 
 

14 | P a g e  

 

 

 

                                                                                       ANNEXURE -2  

 

Applicant is informed that the 
Sandbox application is not suitable 

NO 

After completion of the evaluation 
period, Sandbox exit criteria will be 

triggered 

15 | P a g e  

 

 FLOWCHART: APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS 
  
submits 
Applicant 
a 
sandbox 
application to SEBI 
Application Stage: 
SEBI reviews the application  
Is application 
potentially 
suitable 
 
YES 
Evaluation Stage: 
Specific sandbox conditions 
determined 
Is sandbox 
application 
approved?  
YES 
Testing Stage 
Testing of the solution 
begins 

NO 

 

 

 

                                                                         ANNEXURE -3  

 

(FOR ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSE) 

 
 REQUIREMENTS WHICH WILL NOT BE RELAXED AND WHICH MAY MERIT RELAXATION  
  
 

a. Requirements for which relaxation will not be considered 
i. Confidentiality of customer information  
ii. Fit and proper criteria particularly on honesty and integrity   
iii. Handling of customer’s moneys and assets by intermediaries  
iv. Prevention of money laundering and countering the financing of 
terrorism 
v. Risk checks (like price check, order value check, etc.)  
vi. Principles of KYC 
b. Requirements that may merit relaxation 
i. Net worth  
ii. Track record 
iii. Registration fees 
iv. SEBI Guidelines, such as technology risk management guidelines and 
outsourcing guidelines 
v. Financial soundness 

 

 

 

16 | P a g e  

