 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CFD/CIR/CFD/DIL/85/2020 

June 09, 2020 

CIRCULAR 

To, 

All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Registered Merchant Bankers 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub:  Relaxations  from  certain  provisions  of  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 in respect of Further Public Offer 

1.  In  the  wake  of  developments  relating  to  the  Covid-19  pandemic,  SEBI  vide 

Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CIR/CFD/DIL/67/2020 dated April 21, 2020 introduced 

temporary relaxation in eligibility conditions related to Fast Track Rights Issue.  

2.  In continuation, it has been decided to provide similar relaxations in  the eligibility 

conditions  related  to  Fast  Track  Further  Public  Offer  (FPO)  as  contained  in  the 

SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2018  (“ICDR 

Regulations) as follows: 

Sub-regulations (1), (2), (3), ( 4) and ( 5) and (9) of regulation 123 shall not apply if 
the  issuer  satisfies  the  conditions  mentioned  under  Regulation  155  of  ICDR 
Regulations for making a further public offer through the fast track route: 

Certain temporary relaxations with respect to Regulation 155 of ICDR Regulations 

are extended as follows: 

(i) 

In  regulation  155(c)  the  words  ‘one  thousand  crore’  shall  be  read  as  ‘five 

hundred crore’ 

(ii)  Regulation 155(h) shall be read as under: 

“no  show-cause  notices,  excluding  under  adjudication  proceedings,  have 

been issued by the Board and pending against the issuer or its promoters or 

whole-time directors as on the reference date; 

In  cases  where  against  the  issuer  or  its  promoters/  directors/  group 

companies, 

i) 

a  show  cause  notice(s)  has  been  issued  by  the  Board  in  an 

adjudication proceeding or 

ii) 

prosecution proceedings have been initiated by the Board; 
 

necessary  disclosures  in  respect  of  such  action  (s)  along-with  its  potential 

adverse impact on the issuer shall be made in the offer documents.” 

 

 

 

1 

 

 
 

 

(iii)  Regulation 155(i) shall be read as “the issuer or promoter or promoter group 

or  director  of  the  issuer  has  fulfilled  the  settlement  terms  or  adhered  to 

directions of the settlement order(s) in cases where it has settled any alleged 

violation of securities laws through the consent or settlement mechanism with 

the Board” 

(iv)  Regulation 155 (l) shall be read as “impact of audit qualifications, if any and 

where quantifiable, on the audited accounts of the issuer in respect of those 

financial years for which such accounts are disclosed, shall be appropriately 

disclosed and accounts accordingly restated, in the offer documents. 

Further, that for the qualifications wherein impact on the financials cannot be 

ascertained 

the  same  shall  be  disclosed  appropriately 

in 

the  offer 

documents.” 

3.  These  temporary  relaxations  are  applicable  for  FPOs  that  open  on  or  before 

March 31, 2021. 

4.  The  relaxations  mentioned  in  this  circular  are  not  applicable  for  issuance  of 

warrants. 

5.  This circular shall come into force with immediate effect. The Stock Exchanges are 

advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of all entities who have 

listed their equity and convertible securities. 

6.  The circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

7.  The  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category  - 

'LegalCirculars'. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 

Jeevan Sonparote 

Chief General Manager 

Corporation Finance Department 

+91-22-26449110 

jeevans@sebi.gov.in 

2 

