 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/102  

 

 

 

June 22, 2020 

To, 

All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) 
All Real Estate Investment Trusts (“REITs”) 
All Parties to InvITs and REITs 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 

Madam/ Sir, 

Subject: Conducting meeting of unitholders of InvITs and REITs through Video 
Conferencing (VC) or through other audio-visual means (OAVM) 

1.  Regulation  22(3)(a)  of  SEBI    (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)    Regulations,  
2014 (“InvIT Regulations”)  inter alia provides for holding of an  annual  meeting  
of  all  unitholders of InvIT not  less  than  once  a  year. 
 

2.  Regulation 22(3) of SEBI  (Real  Estate Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014 
(“REIT  Regulations”) inter alia provides for holding of an  annual  meeting  of  all  
unitholders of REIT not  less  than  once  a  year.  
 

3.  Further,  meeting  of  unitholders  are  also  required  for  matters  which  require 

approval of unitholders of InvITs/ REITs. 

 

4.  In  this  respect,  representations  have  been  received  to  allow  InvITs/  REITs  to 
conduct meeting of unitholders through Video Conferencing (VC) or through other 
audio-visual means (OAVM). 

 

5.  In this regard, it is clarified that InvITs/ REITs may conduct meeting of unitholders 
through  VC  or  OAVM.  InvITs/  REITs  conducting  such  meetings  through  VC  or 
OAVM shall follow the procedure specified in Annexure I of this circular. 

 

6.  The facility of VC or OAVM shall be available for annual meeting of unitholders in 
terms  of  Regulation  22(3)(a)  of  InvIT  Regulations  and  Regulation  22(3)  of  REIT 
Regulations,  to  be  conducted  during  calendar  year  2020.  For  meetings,  other 
than  annual  meeting  of  unitholders,  the  facility  for  conducting  meeting  of 
unitholders through VC or OAVM shall be available upto September 30, 2020. 

 

 
Page 1 of 2 

 
7.  The Circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 33 of 
InvIT Regulations and Regulation 33 of REIT Regulations. 

 

 

8.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework” and under the drop down “Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully 
 
 
Sabir Vasant Sawant 
Deputy General Manager 
Post Issuance and Compliance and Monitoring Division 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Tel No. +91-22-26449393 
Email- sabirvs@sebi.gov.in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 2 of 2 

 

Annexure I 

 

1.  The  recorded  transcript  of  the  meeting  held  through  VC  or  OAVM  shall  be 
maintained  in  safe  custody  of  the  Investment  Manager  of  the  InvIT/  Manager of 
the REIT and listed InvITs/ REITs shall also upload the transcript on  the website 
of the InvIT/ REIT as soon as possible after the conclusion of the meeting.  
 

2.  Convenience of different persons positioned in different time zones shall be kept 

in mind before scheduling the meeting. 

3.  All care must be taken to ensure that such meetings through VC or OAVM allow 
two-way teleconferencing for the ease of participation of the unitholders and the 
participants  are  allowed  to  pose  questions  concurrently  or  given  time  to  submit 
questions in advance on the email address of the InvIT/ REIT. Such facility must 
have  a  capacity  to  allow  at  least  1000  unitholders  or  actual  no.  of  unitholders, 
whichever  is  lesser  to  participate  on  a  first-come-first-served  basis.  Further,  all 
the  parties  to  the  InvIT/  REIT  shall  be  allowed  to  attend  the  meeting  without 
restriction on account of first-come-first-served principle. 

4.  The facility for joining the meeting shall be kept open at least 15 minutes before 
the time scheduled to start the meeting and shall not be closed until the expiry of 
15 minutes after such scheduled time. 

5.  Before  the  actual  date  of  the  meeting,  the  facility  of  remote  e-voting  shall  be 

provided. 

6.  Only  those  unitholders  that  are  present  in  the  meeting  and  have  not  cast  their 
vote  on  resolutions  through  remote  e-voting  and  are  otherwise  not  barred  from 
doing so, shall be allowed to vote through the e-voting system at the meeting.  

7.  The  chairperson  of  the  meeting  shall  satisfy  himself  and  cause  to  record  the 
same  before  considering  the  business  in  the  meeting  that  all  reasonable  efforts 
have been made by the Investment Manager of the InvIT/ Manager of the REIT to 
enable  unitholders  to  participate  and  vote  on  the  items  being  considered  in  the 
meeting. 

8.  The  chairperson  present  at  the  meeting  shall  also  ensure  that  the  facility  of  e-
voting system is available for the purpose of conducting a poll during the meeting 
held through VC or OAVM on the business to be considered during the meeting. 

9.  At  least  one  independent  director  of  the  Investment  Manager  of  the  InvIT  or 
Manager  of  the  REIT  and  the  auditor  of  the  InvIT/  REIT  or  his/her  authorized 
representative  who  is  qualified  to  be  the  auditor  shall  attend  such  unitholder 
meeting. 

10. The  notice  for  the  unitholder  meeting  shall  make  disclosures  with  regard  to  the 
manner in which framework provided in this circular shall be available for use by 
the  unitholders  and  also  contain  clear  instructions  on  how  to  access  and 
participate in the meeting. Investment Manager of the InvIT/ Manager of the REIT                                 
 

                                                                                    Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

 

shall also provide a helpline number through the registrar and unit transfer agent, 
technology  provider  or  otherwise,  for  unitholders  who  need  assistance  with  the 
technology  before  or  during  the  meeting.    Such  notice  shall  also  include  the 
following: 

(i) 

Statement  that  the  meeting  will  be  convened  through  VC  or  OAVM  in 
compliance with applicable provisions. 

(ii) 

The date and time of meeting through VC or OAVM. 

(iii) 

(iv) 

Availability of the notice of the meeting on website of the  InvIT/ REIT and 
stock exchanges, in case of listed InvITs/ REITs 

The  manner  in  which  unitholders  who  have  not  registered  their  e-mail 
address  with  InvIT/  REIT  or  depositories  can  cast  their  vote  through 
remote e-voting or through the e-voting system during the meeting. 

(v) 

The manner in which the unitholders who have not registered their e-mail 
addresses with InvIT/ REIT or depositories can get the same registered. 

(vi)  Any  other  detail  considered  necessary  by  the  Investment  Manager  of the 

InvIT/ Manager of the REIT. 

11. A  copy  of  the  notice  shall  be  made  available  on  the  website  of  the  InvIT/  REIT 

and on the stock exchanges, in case of listed InvITs/ REITs. 
 

12. The  notice  to  the  unitholders  may  be  given  through  emails  registered  with  the 

InvIT/ REIT or with depositories. 

13. Investment  Manager  of  the  InvIT/  Manager  of  the  REIT  shall  contact  all 
unitholders whose email addresses are not registered with the depositories over 
possible  /  available  mode  of  communication  for  registration  of  their  email 
addresses.  

14. Investment  Manager  of  InvITs/  Manager  of  REITs  shall  ensure  that  all  other 
compliances associated with the provisions relating to meeting of unitholders are 
complied  with and documents required to be provided to unitholders, if any, are 
provided through electronic mode. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 2 

