 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/103/2020   

 

 

 

 

   June 23, 2020 

 

To  

 

All Issuers who have listed their debt securities 

All Recognized Stock Exchanges  

All Depositories  

All Debenture Trustee(s) 

 

Sir/Madam, 

Sub: Operational framework for transactions in defaulted debt securities post 

maturity date/ redemption date under provisions of SEBI (Issue and Listing of 

Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 

 

1.  Representations  have  been  received  from  market  participants  and  investors  to 

allow transactions in debt securities where redemption amount has not been paid 

on maturity/redemption date (referred as defaulted debt securities). 

 

2.  After detailed consultation with various stakeholders including market participants, 

investors,  Debentures  Trustee(s),  Stock  Exchange(s),  Depositories  etc.,  it  has 

been decided to introduce an operational framework for  transactions in defaulted 

debt  securities  Accordingly,  this  circular  outlines  the  operational  framework  for 

transactions  in  defaulted  debt  securities  and  also  prescribes  the  obligations  of 

Issuers,  Debenture  Trustee(s),  Depositories  and  Stock  Exchange(s)  while 

permitting such transactions.  

 

3.  The operational framework has been outlined in Annexure A and the same is also 

presented  in  a  tabular  form  along-with  timelines  in  Annexure  B,  for  ease  of 

reference.  

1 
 

 

 

4.  Issuers, Debenture Trustee(s), Stock Exchanges and Depositories are advised to:  

 

4.1.  comply with the obligations laid down in this circular including mechanism for 

inter-depository and exchange coordination, wherever required;  

4.2.  put in place necessary systems and infrastructure for implementation of this 

circular and complete the same by June 29, 2020.  

 

5.  The provisions of this circular shall come into force from July 01, 2020. 

 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 31(1) of 

SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  securities)  Regulations,  2008,  to  protect  the 

interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to 

regulate the securities markets.  

 

7.  This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework     Circulars”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

        Richa G. Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager  
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Email id: richag@sebi.gov.in 
Phone: +91-22-26449596 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 
 

 
 

Annexure A   

 

Operational framework 

As per existing practice, the Stock Exchanges suspend trading/reporting of trades on 

debt securities  before the redemption date. Further, Depositories  impose  restriction 

on  off-market  transfers  on  redemption  date  that  restricts  transfers  on  and  after  the 

redemption date. 

 

It is proposed to allow these restrictions be lifted on defaulted debt securities as per 

para 4 of this Annexure and after following procedure given in this Annexure. 

 

1.  Temporary restriction on transactions in debt securities:  

1.1. Stock  Exchange(s)  shall  not  allow  any  transactions  in  the  defaulted  debt 

securities, two working days prior to their maturity/redemption date. 

1.2. On maturity/redemption date of the defaulted debt securities Depositories shall 

temporarily 

restrict 

transactions 

in  such  debt  securities 

from  such 

maturity/redemption date till the time its status of payment is determined. 

  

2. 

Intimation on status of payment:  

2.1. Issuer  shall  intimate  to  the  Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories  and  Debenture 

Trustee(s)  the  status  of  payment  of  debt  securities  within  1  working  day  of 

payment/redemption date.  

 

Provided  for debt  securities in which  default has occurred before  the date of 

this circular,  the  issuer  shall intimate  the status  of  payment  within  5  working 

days from the issuance of this circular. 

 

2.2. Working day shall be the working day of the Stock Exchange on which the debt 

securities have been listed.  

 

 

 

3 
 

 
2.3. While intimating the status of payment to Debenture Trustee(s), Issuer shall 

also  intimate  to  Debenture  Trustee(s)  that  they  have  informed  the  status  of 

payment or otherwise to the Stock Exchanges and Depositories. 

  

3.  Role of Debenture Trustee(s): 

 

3.1. In case the Issuer fails to intimate the status of payment of the debt securities 

within  stipulated  timelines,  then  Debenture  Trustee(s)  shall  seek  status  of 

payment  from  Issuer  and/or  conduct  independent  assessment  (from  banks, 

investors, rating agencies, etc) to determine the same.  

 

3.2. At the time of executing Debenture Trust Deed, Issuer shall provide its bank 

details  (from  which  it  proposes  to  pay  the  redemption  amount)  and  pre-

authorise  Debenture  Trustee(s)  to  seek  debt  redemption  payment  related 

information  from  the  Issuer’s  bank.  Issuer  shall  also  inform  the  Debenture 

Trustee(s) of any change in bank details within 1 working day of such change.  

 
For  existing  debt  securities,  Issuer  shall  provide  such  pre-authorisation  to 

Debenture Trustee(s), within 60 days from the date of this circular.  

 

3.3. Based  on  such  assessment,  Debenture  Trustee(s)  shall  intimate  Stock 

Exchange and Depositories the status of payment of debt securities within 9 

working days of the maturity/redemption date. 

 

3.4. In case intimation of the status of payment of debt securities is not received by 

Stock Exchanges and Depositories within stipulated timeline, transactions in 

such debt securities shall continue to be restricted and such restrictions shall 

continue  until  any  further  intimation  is  received  from  Issuer/  Debenture 

Trustee(s) regarding the status of payment of such debt securities. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 
 

 

 

4.  Default  in  payment  of  redemption  amount  and  resumption  of  transaction  on 

defaulted debt securities: 

 
4.1. Within 2  working  days  from  the  date  of  intimation  from  Issuer or  Debenture 

Trustee(s)  that  issuer  has  defaulted  on  its  payment  obligations,  the 

Depositories  in  co-ordination  with  Stock  Exchanges  shall  update  the  ISIN 

master  file  and  lift  restrictions  on  transactions  in  such  debt  securities. 

Information  regarding  resumption  of  transactions  shall  be  disseminated 

immediately on the websites of both Depositories and Stock Exchange(s).  

 

4.2. Depositories shall also immediately flag in the Corporate Bond Database such 

debt  securities  as  “ISIN-defaulted  in  redemption”  and  its  description  shall 

mandatorily reflect that there was default in payment of redemption amount of 

the concerned debt securities.  

 

5.  Reporting of trades in defaulted Debt Securities on stock exchange platform: 

 

5.1. Upon intimation by Depositories that transactions have been permitted in the 

defaulted debt securities, Stock Exchange(s) shall simultaneously but not later 

than  2  working  days  of  the  default  intimation  from  Issuer/  Debenture 

Trustee(s),   permit reporting of OTC trades in the concerned defaulted debt 

securities  on 

 

its  reporting  platform 

in 

terms  of  SEBI  circular  no. 

CIR/MRD/DP/10/2014 dated March 21, 2014.  

 

5.2. At the time of reporting of such trades, Stock Exchanges shall ensure that a 

pop-up window is flashed, specifying that the reported trade is in a defaulted 

debt security. 

 

5.3. The  trade  repository  shall  flag  such  trades  as  “Trades  in  ISIN-defaulted  in 

redemption”.  

 

 

5 
 

 
Intimation of transactions in defaulted debt securities: In case of transactions in 

6. 

defaulted debt securities, the Depositories shall send an intimation (by email/SMS, 

as  per  BO  a/c  details  available)  to  both  parties  to  the  transaction  that  it  is 

“Transaction in ISIN-defaulted in redemption” immediately.  

 

7.  Account statement: While sending the periodic account statement to the Demat 

account holders, including Consolidated Account statement (CAS), Depositories 

shall  highlight  in  such  statements that  a  particular  debt securities  is  an  "ISIN –

defaulted in redemption". 

 

8.  Continuous assessment of default status: 

 

8.1. The Issuer shall inform the Stock Exchange(s),  Depositories and Debenture 

Trustee(s) latest by the 2nd working day of April of each financial year on the 

updated status of payment of the debt securities 

 

8.2. In  case  the  Issuer  fails  to  intimate  the  updated  status  of  payment  of  the 

concerned  debt  securities,  within  the  stipulated  timelines,  the  Debenture 

Trustee(s)  shall  carry  independent  assessment  as  given  at  3.1  above  and 

intimate the status of payment of debt securities to the Stock Exchange and 

Depositories within 7th working day of April of each Financial Year.  

 

8.3. In case issuer or Debenture Trustee(s) does not intimate the status of payment 

of debt securities to Stock Exchanges and Depositories within the stipulated 

timeline,  transactions  in  such  debt  securities  shall  be  restricted  from  8th  

working  day  of  April  of  that  Financial  year,  until  any  further  intimation  is 

received from Issuer or  Debenture Trustee(s) regarding the same. 

 

8.4. In  case  of  any  developments  that  impact  the  status  of  default  of  the  debt 

securities  (including  restructuring  of  debt  securities,  IBC  proceedings,  its 

repayment,  etc.),  the  issuer/debenture  trustee  shall  intimate  the  stock 

exchange and depositories within 1 working day of such development. 

 

6 
 

 
9.  Payment of debt securities or subsequent payment of defaulted debt securities:, In 

case of  receipt of intimation or subsequent intimation to the depositories regarding 

full payment of redemption amount or any developments that impacts the status of 

default of the concerned debt securities (including restructuring of debt securities,  

IBC proceedings, its repayment, etc.) from Issuer or from Debenture Trustee(s), 

transactions  shall  be  restricted  in  such  debt  securities  by  the  Depositories 

immediately.  The  same  shall  be  informed  to  the  Stock  Exchange(s)  and 

disseminated on respective Depositories’ website, within one working day of such 

restriction.  Further,  the  concerned  ISIN  shall  be  extinguished  in  the  depository 

system  on  receipt  of  corporate  action  documents  from  the  issuer  towards  its 

extinguishment. 

 

10. Process  in  paras  8  and  9  above  shall  be  followed  till  either  Issuer  has  been 

liquidated and money has been realised after completion of recovery proceedings 

or full payment on these securities is made by Issuer. 

  

 

7 
 

 

 

Event 

1.  Execution of 

Debenture trust 
deed 

2.  Any change in 
bank details of 
issuer for making 
debt redemption 
payment 
 
 
 

3.  Creation of ISIN / 

Listing of Debt 
Securities 

4.  Redemption/ 
Maturity date 
(T day) 

5. 

6. 

7.  Non receipt of 

status of payment 
from Issuer 

8. 

9.  Receipt of 
information 
regarding full 
payment 

10. Receipt of 
information 
regarding non 
payment 

 
Annexure B 

By 

To 

Issuer 

Debenture 
Trustee(s) 

Issuer 

Debenture 
Trustee(s) 

Issuer 

Stock 
Exchange 

1. Depositories 
2. Stock 
Exchange(s) 
- 

Depository 

- 

Issuer 

T+2 to T+9 
 

Debenture 
Trustee(s) 

1. Stock 
Exchange(s)  
2. Depositories 
3. Debenture 
Trustee(s) 
- 

1. Stock 
Exchange(s)  
2. Depositories 

1. Depositories 
2. Stock Exchanges 

1. Depositories 
2. Stock Exchanges 
 
 
 

Activity to be 
undertaken 

Pre authorization to 
seek debt redemption 
payment related 
information from 
issuer’s bank 
Information regarding 
updated bank details   
 
 
 
 

Timeline 
(Working 
Days) 
At the time 
of 
execution 
of the deed 

Within 1 
working 
day of 
event 
 
 
 

 
- 

T-2 

T  

T+1  

By T+9 

T+3/T+11/ 
event 
basis, as 
applicable 

Intimation of 
Redemption date  

Non acceptance of 
trades for 
reporting/settlement 
Temporary restriction 
on transaction in ISIN 
Intimate Status of 
payment of debt 
securities 

 

Independent 
Assessment of 
Payment Status 
Intimate Status of 
payment of debt 
securities 
Obligations as per 
para 9 of Annexure A 

Obligations as per 
para 4-8 of Annexure 
A 

8 
 

 

Within 1 
working 
day of 
event 

Issuer or 
Debenture 
Trustee(s) 

1. Stock 
Exchange(s)  

2. Depositories 

Issuer 

1. Stock 
Exchange(s)  

2. Depositories 

3. Debenture 
Trustee(s) 

Debenture 
Trustee(s) 

 

1. Stock 
Exchange(s)  

2. Depositories 

 

2nd working 
day of April 
every 
financial 
year 

3rd  
working 
day of April 
– 7th 
working 
day of April 
of every 
financial  
year 

Within 7 
working 
days of 
April of 
every 
financial  
year 

Continuous assessment of payment 
11. Any development 

Intimate 
updated 
Status  of  payment  of 
debt securities  

that impacts the 
status of default of 
the concerned 
debt securities 
(including 
restructuring of 
debt securities, 
IBC proceedings, 
its repayment, etc.) 

12. Continuous 

assessment of 
Payment 

Intimate  Status  of 
payment 
debt 
securities 
 

of 

13. Non receipt of 

status of payment 
from Issuer 

Independent 
Assessment 
Payment Status 

of 

14.

 

 

Intimate  Status  of 
payment 
debt 
securities 

of 

9 
 

