 

 

भारतीय (cid:7079)ितभूित और िविनमय बोड(cid:6981)

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/IFSC/CIR/P/2020/117      
 
 
 
1.  All Recognised Stock Exchanges, Depositories and Clearing Corporations  

         July 9, 2020
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

(including those in International Financial Services Centres) 

2.  All Registered Intermediaries (including those in International Financial Services 

Centres) 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Subject:  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (International  Financial 
Services Centres) Guidelines, 2015 - Amendments 

Kindly refer to SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 which were notified by SEBI on March 27, 

2015 and SEBI Circular dated July 27, 2017. 

 

2.  In  order  to  further  streamline  the  operations  at  IFSC,  based  on  the  internal 

discussions and consultations held with the stakeholders, it has been decided  to 

amend clause 4 (1) of SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 to read as follows:  

 

“4.  1)  Eligibility  and  shareholding  limit  for  stock  exchange  desirous  of 

operating in IFSC 

Any  Indian  recognized  stock  exchange  or  any  stock  exchange  of  a  foreign 
jurisdiction may form a subsidiary to provide the services of stock exchange in IFSC 
wherein at least fifty one per cent. of paid up equity share capital is held by such 
stock exchange and remaining share capital may be offered to any other person 
(whether Indian or of foreign jurisdiction) and such person  shall not at any time, 
directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, 
acquire  or  hold  more  than  five  per  cent  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  in  a 
recognised stock exchange in IFSC, subject to applicable law. 
 
Provided that,— 
 (a) a stock exchange,  
(b) a depository, 
(c) a banking company, 
 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय (cid:7079)ितभूित और िविनमय बोड(cid:6981)

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
(d) an insurance company, 
(e) a commodity derivatives exchange 
 [whether Indian or of foreign jurisdiction for (a) to (e)] 
 (g) a public financial institution of Indian jurisdiction, and  
(h) a bilateral or multilateral financial institution approved by the Central 
Government, 
 
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with 
persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent of the paid up equity share capital 
of a recognised stock exchange with prior approval of the Board. 

 

Provided further that the provisions of Regulation 19 and 20 of Securities Contracts 
(Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations,  2018 
should be complied with”.  

 

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 
 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Sanjay Purao 
General Manager 
Market Regulation Department 
Email: sanjayp@sebi.gov.in  
 

 
 

 

