 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/123        
 

 

 

 

 

       July 17, 2020 

To,  

 
All Real Estate Investment Trusts (“REITs”)  
All Parties to REITs 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
All Merchant Bankers 

Dear Sir/ Madam,  

Sub:  Manner  and  mechanism  of  providing  exit  option  to  dissenting  unit  holders 
pursuant to Regulation 22(6A) and  Regulation 22(8) of SEBI Real Estate Investment 
Trusts Regulations, 2014 (“SEBI (REIT) Regulations”) 
  

1.  Regulation  22  (6A)  and  Regulation  22  (8)  of  SEBI  (REIT)  Regulations  provide  for  exit 

option to be given to dissenting unit holders. 
  

2.  This circular details the guidelines in respect of conditions, manner and mechanism of 
exit option to be provided to dissenting unit holders. The detailed guidelines have been 
provided in Annexure - I. 

 

3.  An acquirer providing exit option to dissenting unitholders in terms of this circular shall 
appoint one or more merchant bankers, registered with the Board, as lead manager(s) 
for the exit option/offer, who shall ensure compliance with the provisions of SEBI (REIT) 
Regulations and this circular. Lead manager(s) shall send the Letter of Offer (LoF) to all 
dissenting unit holders and shall also file the same along with the due diligence certificate, 
in line with format specified in Form A in Annexure-I of SEBI circular IMD/DF/136/2016 
dated December 19, 2016, with the Exchange(s). The broad contents of LoF are indicated 
in Annexure-II of this circular. 

 

4.  Upon  completion  of  exit  option  process,  a  due  diligence  certificate  in  line  with  format 
specified  in  the  Form  D  in  Annexure-I  of  SEBI  circular  no.  IMD/DF/136/2016  dated 
December  19,  2016,  shall  be  filed  by  the  lead  manager(s)  with  the  Board  within  two 
working days of payment of consideration by the acquirer.  

 

Page 1 of 11 

 

 

 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Regulation 33 of the SEBI (REIT) 
Regulations. 

 

6.  This circular is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Board of India at 

www.sebi.gov.in under the sub-category “Circulars” under the category “Legal”.  

  

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
Richa G. Agarwal  
Deputy General Manager   
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities  
Email id: richag@sebi.gov.in  
Phone: +91-22-26449596 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 11 

 

 

Annexure - I 

1.  Definitions 

For the purpose of this circular: 

 

1.1 “Acquirer” means, 

 
(a)  a person who, along with persons acting in concert, intends to acquire units 

of a listed REIT; or 

(b)  a  person  who  intends  to  be  an  inducted  sponsor  as  defined  under 

Regulation 2(qaa) of SEBI (REIT) Regulations; or 

(c)  a sponsor being subject to a change in control, 

and  required  to  provide  an  exit  option  in  terms  of  Regulation  22(6A)  or 
Regulation 22(8) of the SEBI (REIT) Regulations, as the case may be; 

 

1.2 “persons acting in concert” means,— 

(1) persons who, with a common objective or purpose of acquisition of units of the 
REIT, pursuant to an agreement or understanding, formal or informal, directly or 
indirectly co-operate for acquisition of units of the REIT. 
 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the persons falling within 
the following categories shall be deemed to be persons acting in concert with other 
persons within the same category, unless the contrary is established,— 
 

i) 

ii) 

iii) 

iv) 
v) 

vi) 

vii) 
viii) 
ix) 

a  company,  its  holding  company,  subsidiary  company  and  any  company 
under the same management or control; 
a company, its directors, and any person entrusted with the management 
of the company; 
directors of companies referred to in item i) and ii) of this sub-clause and 
associates of such directors; 
immediate relatives; 
an  institutional  investor  and  wherever  applicable  its  sponsor,  trustees, 
trustee company, asset management company; 
a collective investment scheme and its collective investment management 
company, trustees and trustee company;  
a merchant banker and its client, who is an Acquirer; 
a portfolio manager and its client, who is an Acquirer; 
banks,  financial  advisors  and  stock  brokers  of  the  Acquirer,  or  of  any 
company  which  is  a  holding  company  or  subsidiary  of  the  Acquirer,  and 

Page 3 of 11 

 

 

 

 

 

x) 

where  the  Acquirer  is  an  individual,  of  the  immediate  relative  of  such 
individual: 
Provided that this sub-clause shall not apply to a bank whose sole role is 
that of providing normal commercial banking services or activities in relation 
to an acquisition/exit option under SEBI (REIT) Regulations; 
an investment company or fund and any person who has an interest in such 
investment company or fund as a shareholder or unit holder having not less 
than 10 per cent of the paid-up capital of the investment company or unit 
capital of the fund, and any other investment company or fund in which such 
person or his associate holds not less than 10 per cent of the paid-up capital 
of that investment company or unit capital of that fund: 

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-clause shall apply to holding of 
units of mutual funds registered with the Board; 

Explanation—For the purposes of this clause “associate” of a person means any 
person as defined under Regulation 2(1)(b) of SEBI (REIT) Regulations and shall 
also include- 
  

i) 
ii) 

trusts of which such person or his immediate relative is a trustee; 
partnership  firm in which such person or his immediate relative is a partner; 
and 

iii)  members of Hindu undivided families of which such person is a coparcener 

 

1.3 “Cut-off  date” means a date not more than three working days before the date 

of meeting for determining the eligibility to vote; 
 

1.4 “Dissenting unit holders” means unit holders as on the cut-off date who have 
not voted in favour of the resolution proposed in terms of Regulation 22(6A) or 
Regulation  22(8)  of  the  SEBI  (REIT)  Regulations,  irrespective  of  whether 
present or not; 
 

1.5 “Frequently traded units” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in SEBI 

circular SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2019/142 dated November 27, 2019; 

 
1.6 “Relevant date” means the last day of voting for resolution  under  Regulation 

22(6A) or Regulation 22(8) of the SEBI (REIT) Regulations. 

 
 
 

Page 4 of 11 

 

 

 

 

2.  Manner and mechanism of exit option: 

 

2.1  The Acquirer shall facilitate tendering of units by the unit holders and settlement of 
the  same  through  the  stock  exchange  mechanism  as  specified  by  SEBI  for  the 
purpose of takeover, buy-back and delisting in case of equity listed companies. 
 

2.2  Manager shall be entitled to receive from the Acquirer all expenses incurred and 
payable  to  external  agencies  related  to  the  exit  offer  process  prescribed  in  this 
circular.  
 

2.3  Units tendered in exit option shall be in multiples of the trading lot as applicable to 
the units of the same class of the REIT, under the existing provisions of the SEBI 
(REIT) Regulations and circulars issued thereunder. 
 

2.4  Dissenting Unitholders who are unitholders on the cut-off date for the purpose of 
voting shall be eligible to avail the exit option/offer only in respect of such number 
of units held by such Dissenting Unitholders on the cut-off date. 
 

2.5  A summary of activities pertaining to exit option is indicated below along with the 

prescribed timelines: 

Activity Description 

Acquirer shall give notice to the Manager for the 
purpose of obtaining approval of the unit holders 
under Regulation 22(6A) or Regulation 22(8) of 
SEBI  (REIT)  Regulations.  Further,  a  person 
being 
inducted  as  a  sponsor  shall  give 
declaration to Manager with regard to satisfying 
the eligibility conditions prescribed for a sponsor 
under SEBI (REIT) Regulations. 
On  receipt  of  notice,  Manager  shall  intimate  to 
stock exchange(s) 

Manager shall convene a meeting of unit holders 
for voting 
 

Intimation  of  outcome  of  the  unit  holders’ 
meeting  by  the  Manager  to  Acquirer  and  stock 
exchange(s)  along  with 
the  number  of  
dissenting unit holders and total number of units 

Page 5 of 11 

Timelines 

- 

Immediately but not later than 
twenty  four  hours  from  the 
receipt of such notice 

Voting  to  be  completed  not 
later than three working days 
from  the  cut-off  date  and 
within  twenty  one  days  from 
the  date  of  receipt  of  notice 
from the acquirer 
Within forty eight hours of the 
last day of voting 
 
 

 

 

 

held by them as of the cut-off date, as certified 
by its compliance officer.  
 
The day of aforesaid intimation by Manager shall 
be construed as “Date of Intimation”. 
Acquirer through the Lead Manager shall give a 
public notice to stock exchange(s) and Manager 
regarding his intention of providing exit option to 
dissenting unit holders 
Upon  receipt  of  public  notice  from  the  Lead 
Manager,  Manager  shall  provide  the  list  of 
dissenting unit holders to the Lead Manager(s). 

Acquirer  through  the  Lead  Manager(s)  shall 
send  the  Letter  of  Offer  (LoF)  to  all  dissenting 
unit holders and file a copy of the same with the 
stock  exchange(s).  Lead  Manager(s)  shall 
exercise  due  diligence  with  regard 
to  all 
information  and  disclosures  contained  in  the 
LoF. 
 
The  stock  exchange(s)  shall  disseminate  the 
LoF  on  its  website  as  soon  as  it  receives  the 
same. 
Acquirer shall create an escrow account wherein 
the aggregate amount of consideration based on 
the list of dissenting unit holders provided by the 
Manager  to Lead Manager  would be deposited 
in the manner specified at para 2.6 below.   
Tender  date  and  tender  period  for  tendering 
units in exit option 

Payment  of  consideration  to  dissenting  unit 
holders by the Acquirer 

 

 

Within  twenty  four  hours  of 
the Date of Intimation 

Immediately but not later than 
twenty  four  hours  from  the 
receipt  of  public  notice  from 
the Acquirer 
Within  three  working  days 
from the date of public notice 
by the Acquirer regarding exit 
option/offer 

At  least  two  working  days 
prior 
the 
tendering period. 

to  opening  of 

Seventh working day from the 
“Date of Intimation”  
 
Tender  period  shall  be  five 
working days. 
Within  a  period  of 
three 
working  days  from  the  last 
date of the tendering period 

Page 6 of 11 

 

 

 

 

Within two working days from 
the  date  of  payment  of 
consideration 

Lead Manager shall submit a report to Manager 
that the payment has been duly made to all the 
dissenting  unit  holders  whose  units  have  been 
accepted in the exit option. 
Based  on  the  information  received  from  Lead 
Manager,  Manager  shall  update  aggregate 
number of units tendered, accepted, payment of 
the  consideration  and  the  post-exit  option  unit 
holding  pattern  of 
the  REIT  with  stock 
exchange(s).  

2.6  The escrow account referred to in aforesaid table may be in the form of —  

(a) cash deposited with any scheduled commercial bank; and/or 
(b) bank guarantee issued in favour of the  Lead Manager to the exit option/offer 
by any  scheduled commercial bank; 

2.6.1  In  the  event  of  the  escrow  account  being  created  by  way  of  a  bank 
guarantee, the Acquirer shall also ensure that at least one per cent of the 
total  consideration  payable  is  deposited  in  cash  with  a  scheduled 
commercial bank as a part of the escrow account.  
 

2.6.2  For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a cash deposit with 
a scheduled commercial bank, the acquirer shall while opening the account, 
empower the lead manager to the  exit option/offer to instruct the  bank to 
issue  a  banker’s  cheque  or  demand  draft  or  to  make  payment  of  the 
amounts lying to the credit of the escrow account. 

 
2.6.3  For such part of the escrow account as is in the form of a bank guarantee, 
such  bank  guarantee  shall  be  in  favour  of  the  lead  manager  to  the  exit 
option/offer and shall be kept valid throughout the period of exit option/offer 
and  for  an  additional  period  of  thirty  days  after  completion  of  payment  of 
consideration to unit holders who have tendered their units in acceptance 
of the exit option/offer. 

3.  Exit Price 

3.1 The  exit  price  payable  to  the  dissenting  unit  holders  shall  be  highest  of  the 

following: 

3.1.1  the highest negotiated price per unit of the REIT for any acquisition under 

the agreement attracting the obligation of exit option; 

Page 7 of 11 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.1.2  the  volume-weighted  average  price  paid  or  payable  for  acquisitions, 
whether by the proposed Acquirer or any person acting in concert with them, 
during the fifty-two weeks immediately preceding the relevant date; 

 
3.1.3  the  highest  price  paid  or  payable  for  any  acquisition,  whether  by  the 
proposed  Acquirer  or  any  person  acting  in  concert  with  them,  during  the 
twenty-six weeks immediately preceding the relevant date; 

 
3.1.4  the volume-weighted average market price of such units for a period of sixty 
trading days immediately preceding the relevant date as traded on the stock 
exchange where the maximum volume of trading  in the units of the REIT 
are recorded during such period, provided such units are frequently traded; 

 
3.1.5  Where the units of the REIT are not frequently traded, the price determined 
by  the  Acquirer  and  the  lead  manager  to  the  exit  option/offer  taking  into 
account valuation parameters including the NAV of the REIT based on a full 
valuation  of  all  existing  REIT  assets  conducted  in  terms  of  SEBI  (REIT) 
Regulations,  book  value,  comparable  trading  multiples,  and  such  other 
parameters as are customary for valuation of units of such REITs. 

3.2 Where  the  Acquirer  has  acquired  or  agreed  to  acquire  whether  by  himself  or 
through or with persons acting in concert with him any units of the REIT between 
the  relevant  date  and  the  date  of  payment  of  consideration  to  dissenting  unit 
holders, whether by subscription or purchase, at a price higher than the exit option 
price, the exit option price shall stand revised to the highest price paid or payable 
for any such acquisition:  

Provided that no such acquisition shall be made after the third working day 
prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  tendering  period  and  until  the  expiry  of  the 
tendering period. 

 

3.3 Where  the  Acquirer  or  persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  acquires  units  of  the 
REIT during the period of twenty-six weeks after the tendering period at a price 
higher than the exit option price, the Acquirer and persons acting in concert shall 
pay the difference between the highest acquisition price and the exit option price, 
to  all  the  unit  holders  whose  units  were  accepted  in  the  exit  option/offer,  within 
sixty days from the date of such acquisition:  

Provided  that  this  provision  shall  not  be  applicable  to  acquisitions  under 
another exit option/offer under SEBI (REIT) Regulations or open market purchases 
made  in  the  ordinary  course  on  the  stock  exchanges,  not  being  negotiated 

Page 8 of 11 

 

 

acquisition of units of the REIT whether by way of bulk deals, block deals or in any 
other form. 

 

 

4.    Maintenance of minimum public unitholding  

If the units tendered in exit option are such that, if accepted may result in public 
unit holding below the minimum public unit holding norm prescribed under SEBI  
(REIT)  Regulations,  in  such  scenario,  tendered  units  shall  be  accepted  on 
proportionate  basis  so  as  to  maintain  the  minimum  public  unit  holding  post 
completion of exit option process.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 9 of 11 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure - II 

Contents of letter of offer (LoF) and certificate by the Merchant Banker: 

1.  The  disclosures  prescribed  herein  are  the  minimum  disclosure  requirements  to  be 
contained in the LoF for an exit option/offer. The lead manager/Acquirer is free to add 
any other disclosure(s) which in his opinion is material for the unit holders, provided 
such  disclosure(s)  is  not  presented  in  an  incomplete,  inaccurate  or  misleading 
manner. 
 
1.1. All the requisite disclosures/statements in respect of the  Acquirer, persons who 
are acting in concert (PAC) with the Acquirer for the purpose of the exit option/offer 
shall be made in the LoF. 
 

1.2. Lead  manager  shall  ensure  that  the  timelines  specified  for  tendering  period, 
payment of consideration to unit holders, etc. are as per the timelines specified in 
this circular.  
 

1.3. The source from which data / information is obtained should be mentioned in the 

relevant pages of LoF. 
 

1.4. The LoF shall, inter alia, shall include the following: 

 

1.4.1. Details  of  the  Acquirer  (including  PAC,  if  any)  including  its  background, 
experience, areas of operation, relationship between  Acquirers, pre and post 
exit offer unit holding etc. financial position (financial statements/net worth, as 
applicable) etc. In case of financial statements, audited Profit & Loss statement, 
Balance  Sheet  and  Cash  Flow    statement    for    last    three    years  along  with 
latest available financial statements. Latest financials should not be older than 
six months from the date of LoF. 
 

1.4.2. Details of the exit option/offer, statutory approvals and detailed timelines with 
regard  to  exit  option  process  including  operational  terms  and  conditions  etc. 
subject to which Acquirer(s) would accept the offer. 

 

1.4.3. Details  of  exit  price  including  total  amount  of  funds  required  to  make  the 
payment of consideration to unit holders, details of escrow account and bank 
guarantee, as the case may be. It shall also be disclosed that the lead manager 
has been empowered by Acquirer to realise the value of such escrow account.  

 

 

Page 10 of 11 

 

 

 

1.4.4. Procedure  for  accepting  the  offer  including  disclosure  of  relevant  provisions 

pertaining to acceptance of units.  

 

1.4.5. In  case  there  is  any  agreement,  mention  important  features  of  the 
agreement(s), acquisition price per unit, number and percentage of units to be 
acquired under the agreement, name of the seller(s), names of parties to the 
agreement, date of agreement, manner of payment of consideration including 
salient  features  of  the  agreement,  if  any,  entered  between  the  Acquirer  and 
PAC with regard to the offer/ acquisition of units. 

 

1.4.6. Due  diligence  certificate  of  Lead  Manager  &  Declaration  by  the  Acquirer 
(including  PAC,  if  any)  including  statements  regarding  the  Acquirer’s 
responsibility for the information contained in the LoF and a statement to the 
effect  that  the  Acquirer  (including  PAC,  if  any)  would  be  responsible  for 
ensuring compliance with this circular shall be incorporated in the LoF. 

 

2.  The due diligence certificate to be filed with exchange(s) along with the LoF shall inter-
alia  undertake  that  lead  manager(s)  have  examined  all  relevant  information  and 
documents pertaining to this exit option/offer. Certificate shall also include that letter 
of offer filed with the exchange(s) is in conformity with the documents, materials and 
papers relevant to the exit option/offer. The lead manager(s) shall be responsible for 
ensuring compliance with SEBI rules, regulation and the provisions of this circular and 
lead manager(s) shall continue  to  be  responsible  until completion of the  exit option 
process and for any related matter thereafter. 
 

3.  Any act of omission or commission on the part of any of the intermediaries noticed by 

the lead manager(s) shall be duly reported by them to the Board. 

 

4.  In the due diligence certificate to be submitted to SEBI upon completion of exit option 
process,  the  lead  manager(s)  shall  confirm  compliance  with  all  provisions  of  this 
circular by the Acquirer and the certificate shall also mention that information disclosed 
in the LoF was true and correct to the best of his knowledge and was obtained after 
exercising proper due diligence.   

********** 

Page 11 of 11 

 

