भारतीयप्रततभूततऔरवितिमयबोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

                                          July 31, 2020 

SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/144          
 
To 
 
All listed entities  
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Registrars and Share Transfer Agents 
All Depositories 
 
Madam / Sir, 

 

 

Sub:  Clarification on applicability of regulation 40(1) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  to  open  offers,  buybacks  and 
delisting of securities of listed entities  

1.  The  proviso  to  regulation  40(1)  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  (‘LODR  Regulations’)  states  that  “..except  in  case  of 
transmission or transposition of securities, requests for effecting transfer of securities shall 
not be processed unless the securities are held in the dematerialized form with a depository.”  
   

2.  SEBI has received representations from investors  expressing concerns that they have not 
been able to participate in open offers, buybacks and delisting of securities of listed entities 
since the securities held by them were not in dematerialized form.  

 

3.  In this context, it is clarified that shareholders holding securities in physical form are allowed 
to tender shares in open offers, buy-backs through tender offer route and exit offers in case 
of voluntary or compulsory delisting. However, such tendering shall be as per the provisions 
of respective regulations. 

 

4.  This Circular shall come into force with immediate effect. Stock Exchanges are advised to 
bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of all listed entities, Registrars and Share 
Transfer Agents and Depositories and also disseminate on their websites. 
  

5.  The  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 101 of the  LODR 
Regulations. This Circular is available at www.sebi.gov.in under the link “LegalCirculars”. 

 

Yours faithfully,  

 
Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
General Manager  
Corporation Finance Department 
Compliance and Monitoring Division-1 
+91-22-26449246 
pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

Page 1 of 1 

