भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MRD2/DCAP/CIR/P/2020/149    
 
 
 
All recognized Clearing Corporations in International Financial Services Centres (IFSC) 

  August 07, 2020
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Subject:  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (International  Financial 
Services Centres) Guidelines, 2015 - Amendment 

Kindly refer to SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 which were notified by SEBI on March 27, 

2015 and SEBI Circular SEBI/HO/CIR/P/2017/85 dated July 27, 2017. 

 

2.  In order to further streamline the operations at IFSC, based on consultations held 

with the stakeholders, it has been decided to amend clause 4 (2) of SEBI (IFSC) 

Guidelines, 2015 to read as follows:  

“4. 2A) Eligibility and shareholding limit for clearing corporations desirous of 

operating in IFSC 

Any Indian recognized stock exchange or clearing corporation, or, any recognized 

stock  exchange  or  clearing  corporation  of  a  foreign  jurisdiction  shall  form  a 

subsidiary to provide the services of clearing corporation in IFSC wherein at least 

fifty one per cent. of paid up equity share capital is held by such stock exchange or 

clearing corporation.  

 

2B)  The  remaining  share  capital  may  be  acquired  or  held  by  any  other  person 

(whether  Indian  or  of  foreign  jurisdiction)  and  such  person  shall  not  at  any  time, 

directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting in concert, 

acquire  or  hold  more  than  five  per  cent  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  in  a 

recognised clearing corporation in IFSC, subject to applicable law: 

 

Provided further that 

i)  any other stock exchange, 

ii)  a clearing corporation,  

iii)  a depository,  

iv)  a banking company,  

v)  an insurance company, 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

whether Indian or of foreign jurisdiction for (i) to (v)  

vi)  a public financial institution of Indian jurisdiction, 

vii) a foreign commodity derivatives exchange; and 

viii)a  bilateral  or  multilateral  financial  institution  approved  by  the  Central 

Government, 

may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with  

persons acting in concert, upto fifteen per cent. of the  paid  up  equity  share  capital 

of such clearing corporation: 

 

2C) For the purpose of clause 2A) and 2B) above, that the provisions of Regulation 

19,  19A  and  20  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and 

Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018 should be, mutatis mutandis, complied 

with”.  

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

 
 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Amit Tandon 
General Manager 
Market Regulation Department 
Email: amitt@sebi.gov.in  
 

 
 

 

