 

CIRCULAR 
 

 

August 06, 2020 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2020/148  
 

All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
 
 
Sir / Madam 
 

Subject: Administration and Supervision of Investment Advisers 

 

1.  SEBI, vide Circular SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2016/113 dated October 19, 2016, allowed 
registered  Investment  Advisers  (IAs)  to  use  infrastructure  of  the  stock  exchanges  to 
purchase and redeem MF units directly from Asset Management Companies on behalf of 
their clients. 
 

2.  As  per  Regulation  14  of  the  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers)  Regulations  2013  (hereinafter 
referred  to  as  “IA  Regulations”),  SEBI  can  recognize  any  body/body  corporate  for  the 
purpose of regulating IAs. It further provides that SEBI may, at the time of recognition of 
such body or body corporate, delegate administration and supervision of IAs to such body 
or body corporate on such terms and conditions as may be specified. 
 

3.  Further, the second proviso to Regulation 38 (2) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
(Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018 states, inter alia, that a 
recognized  stock  exchange  may  engage  in  activities,  whether  involving  deployment  of 
funds or otherwise that are unrelated or not incidental to its activity as a stock exchange, 
through a separate legal entity and subject to approval of the Board. 
 

4.  Considering  the  growing  number  of  registered  investment  advisers  and  the  above 
mentioned provisions, it is decided to recognize a wholly-owned subsidiary of the stock 
exchange  (stock  exchange  subsidiary)  to  administer  and  supervise  IAs  registered  with 
SEBI.  

 
A.  Criteria  for  grant  of  recognition-  The  recognition  of  stock  exchange  subsidiary,  in 
terms  of  the  aforesaid  Regulation  14,  shall  be  based  on  the  eligibility  of  the  parent 
entity, i.e. the stock exchange, for which the following eligibility criteria is laid down: 
i.  Number of years of existence: Minimum 15 years 
ii.  Stock exchanges having a minimum networth of INR 200 crores  
iii.  Stock exchanges having nation-wide terminals 
iv.  Investor grievance redressal mechanism including Arbitration 
v.  Capacity  for  investor  service  management  gauged  through  reach  of  Investor 

Service Centers (ISCs)- Stock exchanges having ISCs in at least 20 cities 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

B.  Setting up of requisite systems by stock exchanges for the purpose- 

i.  The  stock  exchange  shall  either  form  a  subsidiary  or  designate  an  existing 

subsidiary for the purpose of regulating IAs. 

ii.  The subsidiary shall include in its MoA, AoA and bye-laws, requisite provisions to 

fulfil the below mentioned responsibilities. 

iii.  The  subsidiary  shall  put  in  place  systems/process  for  grievance  redressal, 
administrative  action  against  IAs,  governing  IAs,  maintaining  data,  sharing  of 
information with SEBI etc.  

iv.  The subsidiary shall have the necessary infrastructure like adequate office space, 
equipment and manpower to effectively discharge the below mentioned activities. 
Infrastructure may be shared with other group entities where required.  
  

C.  Responsibilities  of  subsidiary  of  a  stock  exchange-  The  subsidiary  of  a  stock 

exchange shall have following responsibilities: 
i.  Supervision of IAs including both on-site and offsite  
ii.  Grievance redressal of clients and IAs 
iii.  Administrative  action  including  issuing  warning  and  referring  to  SEBI  for 

enforcement action 

iv.  Monitoring activities of IAs by obtaining periodical reports 
v.  Submission of periodical reports to SEBI  
vi.  Maintenance of database of IAs 

 

5.  The stock exchanges, fulfilling the criteria stated at para 4 (A) above, may submit the 
detailed proposal incorporating requisite systems stated at para 4 (B) and mechanism 
to discharge responsibilities, to SEBI within 30 days from the date of this circular.   
 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 14(2) of IA Regulations to 
protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market.  

 

7.  The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Info for 

– Investment Advisers” and "Legal framework - Circulars". 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Naveen Sharma 
General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Ph: 022-26449709 
Email: naveens@sebi.gov.in 

Page 2 of 2 

 

 

