                              
 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2020/147 

August 3, 2020 

 

All SEBI registered Proxy Advisors  

 

Sir / Madam 

 

Subject: Procedural Guidelines for Proxy Advisors  

 

1.  Regulation 24(2) read with 23(1) of SEBI (Research Analyst) Regulations, 2014 mandates proxy 
advisors to abide by Code of Conduct specified therein. It is decided that proxy advisors shall also 
comply with the following procedural guidelines: 
 

(a)  Proxy  Advisors  shall  formulate  the  voting  recommendation  policies  and  disclose  the  updated 
voting recommendation policies to its clients. Proxy Advisors shall ensure that the policies should 
be reviewed at least once annually. The voting recommendation policies shall also disclose the 
circumstances when not to provide a voting recommendation.  
 

(b)  Proxy Advisors shall disclose the methodologies and processes followed in the development of 

their research and corresponding recommendations to its clients.  

 

(c)  Proxy Advisors shall alert clients, within 24 hours of receipt of information, about any factual errors 

or material revisions to the report. 
 

(d)  Proxy Advisors shall have a stated process to communicate with its clients and the company. 

 

(e)  Proxy Advisors shall share their report with its clients and the company at the same time. This 
sharing  policy  should  be  disclosed  by  proxy  advisors  on  their  website.  Timeline  to  receive 
comments  from  company  may  be  defined  by  proxy  advisors  and  all  comments/clarifications 
received from the company, within timeline, shall be included as an addendum to the report. If the 
company  has  a  different  viewpoint  on  the  recommendations  stated  in  the  report  of  the  proxy 
advisors, then proxy advisors, after taking into account the said viewpoint, may either revise the 
recommendation in the addendum report or issue an addendum to the report with its remarks, as 
considered appropriate. 
 

(f)  Proxy Advisors shall clearly disclose in their recommendations the legal requirement vis-a-vis 
higher  standard  they  are  suggesting  if  any,  and  the  rationale  behind  the  recommendation  of 
higher standards.  
 

1 | P a g e  

 

                              
 

 

(g)   Proxy Advisors shall disclose conflict of interest on every specific document where they are giving 
their advice. Further, the disclosures should especially address possible areas of potential conflict 
and the safeguards that have been put in place to mitigate possible conflicts of interest.  
 

(h)  Proxy Advisors shall establish clear procedures to disclose, manage and/or mitigate any potential 
conflicts of interest resulting from other business activities including consulting services, if any, 
undertaken by them and disclose the same to clients.   

 

2.  The provisions of this Circular shall be applicable with effect from September 1, 2020. 

 

3.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote 
the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

4.  The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories "Legal framework 

- Circulars" and "Info for – Research Analyst.” 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Naveen Sharma 
General Manager 
022-26449709 
Email: naveens@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

2 | P a g e  

