भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/119        
 
All listed entities that have listed their specified securities   
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
 
Madam / Sir, 
 

                                          August 04, 2020 

Subject: Grievance Resolution between listed entities and proxy advisers  

 
1.  Regulation  4(2)(a)  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations,  2015  (‘LODR’)  casts  certain  obligations  on  listed  entities  to  protect  and 
facilitate the exercise of the rights of shareholders, including:  
a.  right to participate in, and to be sufficiently informed of, decisions concerning 

fundamental corporate changes, 

b.  opportunity to participate effectively and vote in general shareholder meetings, 
c.  effective shareholder participation in key corporate governance decisions, such as the 

nomination and election of members of board of directors and 

d.  exercise of ownership rights by all shareholders, including institutional investors.  

 

2.  Proxy advisors, over the past few years, have played a key role in enabling shareholders to 
effectively  participate  in  corporate  governance  decisions  and  thus,  furthering  the 
achievement  of  the  above  objectives.  Proxy  advisors  provide  advice  to  institutional 
investors  /  shareholders  of  a  listed  entity,  in  relation  to  exercise  of  their  rights  in  the 
company including voting recommendation on agenda items. However, due to the inherent 
nature of the work, it is probable that proxy advisors and listed entities may have different 
views on any agenda item of the listed entity leading to grievances.  

 

3.  In order to facilitate resolution of such grievances of listed entities against SEBI registered 
proxy  advisors,  the  listed  entities may  approach  SEBI. SEBI  will examine  the  matter  for 
non-compliance  by  proxy  advisors  with  the  provisions  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  under 
regulation  24(2)  read  with  regulation  23(1)  of  the  SEBI  (Research  Analyst)  Regulations, 
2014  and  the  procedural  guidelines  for  proxy  advisors  issued  vide  SEBI  circular  no. 
SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2020/147 dated August 03, 2020.  

 

4.  The provisions of this Circular shall be applicable with effect from September 01, 2020. 

 

5.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulation 101 of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 

 

6.  This  Circular  is  available  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  link  “LegalCirculars”.  The 
recognized stock exchanges are advised to disseminate the contents of this Circular on 
their website. 

 
 
 
Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
General Manager  
Corporation Finance Department 
Compliance and Monitoring Division-1 
+91-22-26449246 
pradeepr@sebi.gov.in  

Page 1 of 1 

