 
SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/CIR/P/2020/152        

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

13 August, 2020 

 
 
 
To, 
All companies whose securities are listed on SEBI recognized Stock Exchanges (through 
Stock Exchanges) 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Depositories 
All Investor Associations 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 
Sub: Investor grievances redressal mechanism – Handling of SCORES complaints 
by  stock  exchanges  and  Standard  Operating  Procedure  for  non-redressal  of 
grievances by listed companies. 
 
1.  This 

nos. 
SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/CIR/P/2018/58  dated  26  March,  2018  regarding  redressal  of 
investor grievances through SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES) platform 
and SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/12 dated 22 January, 2020 on non-compliance 
with  certain  provisions  of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 ( Listing Regulations).  
 

continuation 

circular 

is 

of  SEBI 

circular 

issued 

in 

2.  In terms of SEBI circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/12 dated 22 January, 2020, 
Stock Exchanges shall, having regard to the interest of investors and the securities 
market, inter alia take action against listed companies for non- compliance with the 
provisions  of  the  Listing  Regulations  and  circulars/guidelines  issued  thereunder, 
including  failure  to  ensure  expeditious  redressal  of  investor  complaints  under 
Regulation 13 of the Listing Regulations.   

 

3.  This circular lays down the procedure for handling complaints by the stock exchanges 
as  well  as  standard  operating  procedure  for  actions  to  be  taken  against  listed 
companies for failure to redress investor grievances. 

 

 Handling of complaints by stock exchanges: 
 
4.  Stock exchanges will be the first recourse for certain categories of complaints against 
listed companies as provided in Annexure-2. The procedure and actions mentioned 
below will be applicable for these categories of complaints only. 

 

1 

5.  Investors  are  encouraged  to  initially  take  up  their  grievances  for  redressal  with  the   

concerned  listed  company  directly.  SCORES  platform  can  also  be  used  to  submit 
grievances  directly  to  the  company  for  resolution,  if  the  complainant  has  not 
approached the company earlier. Companies are expected to resolve the complaint 
directly.  
 

6.  In case the company does not redress the complaint within 30 days from the date of 
receipt  of  the  complaint,  such  direct  complaints  shall  be  forwarded  to  Designated 
Stock Exchange (DSE) through SCORES. 

 

7.  At  the  time  of  lodging  the  complaint  through  SCORES  platform,  in  case  the 
complainant  had  approached  the  company  earlier,  the  complainant  shall  submit  all 
such  details  of  the  complaint  in  SCORES  i.e.,  period  of  cause  of  event,  date  of 
grievance taken up with the entity, address of the company corresponded earlier, etc. 
Such complaints shall be forwarded to the DSE. 

 

8.  Upon receipt of the complaint through SCORES platform, the DSE shall take up the 
complaint with the company. The company is required to redress the complaint and 
submit an Action Taken Report (ATR) within 30 days from the date of receipt of such 
complaint.  

 

9.  In  case  the  ATR  is  not  submitted  by  the  company  within  30  days  or  DSE  is  of  the 
opinion  that  the  complaint  is  not  adequately  redressed  and  the  complaint  remains 
pending beyond 30 days, a reminder shall be issued by DSE to the listed company 
through SCORES directing expeditious redressal of the grievance within another 30 
days. 

 

10. On being adequately satisfied with the response of the company with respect to the 

complaint, the stock exchange shall submit an ATR to SEBI. 

 

11. For  any  failure  to  redress  investor  grievances  pending  beyond  60  days  by  listed 
companies,  stock  exchange  shall  initiate  appropriate  action  against  the  listed 
company as detailed below. 

 
Action for failure to redress investor complaints: 
 
12. Stock exchanges shall levy a fine of Rs. 1000 per day per complaint on the listed entity 
for violation of Regulation 13 (1) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 read with SEBI 
circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/12 dated 22 January, 2020. 
 

13. Fines shall also be levied on companies which are suspended from trading. 

 

14. DSE  shall  issue  a  notice  to  the  listed  entity  intimating  them  about  the  levy  of  fines 
while also directing them to submit ATRs on the pending complaints and payment of 
fines within 15 days from the date of such notice.  

 

15. In case the listed  entity  fails  to redress the grievances  and/or  pay  fine  levied  within  
15 days from the date of such notice, the concerned DSE  shall  issue notices  to  the 

 

2 

promoter(s)  of    such  entities,  to    ensure  submission  of  ATRs  on  the  pending 
complaints and payment of fines by the listed entity within 10 days from the date of 
such notice.  

 
16. In case the listed entity fails to comply with the aforesaid requirement and/ or pay fine 
levied within the stipulated period as per the notices, the DSE shall forthwith intimate 
the depositories to freeze the entire shareholding of the promoters and promoter group 
in such entity as well as all other securities held in the demat account of the promoter 
and promoter group. 

 

17. The  depository(ies)    shall    immediately    freeze    such    demat    accounts    and    also  
intimate the promoter(s) about the details of non-compliances resulting in freezing of 
their demat accounts. 

 
18. In case listed entity fails to pay the fine or resolve the complaint despite receipt of the 

notice as stated above, the DSE may initiate other action as deemed appropriate. 

 

19. While  issuing  the  aforementioned  notices,  the  DSE  shall also  send  intimation  to  
other recognized  stock  exchange(s)  where  the  shares of the non-compliant entity 
are listed. 

 

20. Once  stock  exchange(s)  has  exhausted  all  options  and  if  number  of  pending 
complaints  exceed  20  or  the  value  involved  is  more  than  Rs.  10  lakhs,  stock 
exchanges  shall  forward  the  complaints  against  such  listed  companies  to  SEBI  for 
further action, if any. 

 

21. Stock exchanges may deviate from the above (Para 12-20), if found necessary, only 

after recording reasons in writing. 

 

22. Stock exchanges shall intimate SEBI through SCORES about all actions taken against 

the listed company for non-resolution of the complaints and non-payment of fines. 

 

23. The time-line for handling complaints along with timelines on the actions to be taken 
by stock exchanges for non-resolution of investor grievances is provided in Annexure 
– 1. 
 

24. Fine  shall  be  computed  and  levied  on  a  monthly  basis  during  the  non-compliance 

period.  

 

25. Fine amount shall continue to accrue till the date of redressal of grievance /filing of 
ATR by the company or till the company is compulsorily delisted, whichever is earlier.  

 

Action after redressal of investor grievance by the company:  
 
26. Company will be treated as compliant if it has redressed investor’s complaint and has 

paid fines (if any) levied.  
 

 

3 

27. In case the promoters’ shareholding is frozen by the Exchange, an intimation shall be 
given to depositories to unfreeze the promoter / promoter group holdings from the date 
of such compliance.  
 

28. If the company has redressed the investor’s complaint but has not paid the accrued 
fines,  the  Exchange  shall  stop  levying  further  fines.  However,  the  promoters’ 
shareholdings shall remain frozen till the payment of accrued fines. 

 

29. If the company has not redressed the investor’s complaint but has paid the accrued 
fines, the Exchange shall continue to levy the fines and may initiate action as deemed 
appropriate. 

 

30. The recognized stock exchanges shall take necessary steps to implement this circular. 
The recognized stock exchanges shall disclose on their website the action(s) taken 
against   the   listed   entities   for   non-compliance(s) with grievances;  amount  of  
fine levied, details regarding the freezing of shares, compliance etc. 
 

31. The above provisions are without prejudice to the power of SEBI to take action under 

the securities laws. 
 

32. The recognized stock exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this Circular 
to the notice of listed entities and the listed entities shall in turn bring the same to the 
notice of their promoter/promoter group. 

 

33. The recognized stock exchanges may keep in abeyance the action against any non-
compliant entity or withdraw the action in specific cases where specific exemption from 
compliance  with  the  requirements  under  the  Listing  Regulations/moratorium  on 
enforcement proceedings has been provided for under any Act, Court/Tribunal Orders 
etc. 
 

34. The circular shall come into force from 01 September, 2020. 

 

35. This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the  
Securities    and    Exchange    Board    of    India    Act,    1992    to    protect    the    interests    of  
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the development   of,  and  to  regulate  the  
securities market. 

 

36. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category “Legal”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Medha Sonparote 
General Manager 
Investor Grievance Redressal Division 

Office of Investor Assistance and Education      

Tel No. 022 26449312 
Email id - medhad@sebi.gov.in 

4 

Timelines for handling of complaints and actions in case of non-compliances 
 

Annexure -1 

 

Activity 

Sr 
No. 

1. 

Complaint handling: 

a.  Complaint received in SCORES by the listed company 
b.  Response to be obtained from Listed Company 
c. 

If no response received, alert to Listed company in the form of 
reminder for non-redressal of complaint 

of 

No 
calendar 
days 

 
T 

 Within T+30 

T+31 

d.  Response to be obtained from Listed Company  

 Within T+60 

2. 

Action in case of non-compliances: 

a.  Notice to Listed company intimating the fine @ Rs. 1000/- per 
day, per complaint to be levied for not resolving the complaints 
within 60 days 

 

T+61 

b.  Notice to Promoters for non-resolution of complaints and non-

T+76 

T+86 

 

 

payment of fine to the stock exchange. 

c.  Freezing  of  promoters  shareholdings  (i.e.  entire  shareholding 
of the promoter and promoter group in listed company as well 
as all other securities held in the demat account of the promoter 
and promoter group) in demat account. 

d.  Stock  exchanges  may  take  any  other  actions,  as  deemed 

appropriate. 

e.  Once Stock exchange has exhausted all options and if number 
of pending complaints exceed 20 or the value involved is more 
than Rs. 10 lakhs, the Exchange to forward the details of such 
Listed companies to SEBI for further action, if any 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

5 

Annexure -2 

 

Nature of complaints for which the circular is applicable 

 

1.  Non updation of address /Signature or Corrections etc  
2.  Non-receipt of Bonus 
3.  Non receipt of Dividend  
4.  Non receipt duplicate debt securities certificate  
5.  Non-receipt of duplicate share certificate 
6.  Non receipt of fractional entitlement 
7.  Non receipt of interest for delay in dividend  
8.  Non receipt of interest for delay in payment of interest on debt security  
9.  Non receipt of interest for delay in redemption proceeds of debt security  
10. Non receipt of interest for delay in refunds  
11. Non receipt of interest on securities 
12. Non receipt of redemption amount of debt securities 
13. Non receipt of refund in Public/ Rights issue 
14. Non receipt of Rights Issue form 
15. Non receipt of securities after conversion/ endorsement/ consolidation/ splitting 
16. Non receipt of securities after transfer 
17. Non receipt of securities in public/ rights issue 
18. Non receipt of shares after conversion/ endorsement/ consolidation/ splitting 
19. Non receipt of shares after transfer 
20. Non receipt of shares after transmission 
21. Non receipt of shares in public/ rights issue (including allotment letter) 
22. Non-receipt of interest for delay in dispatch/credit of securities 
23. Receipt of refund/ dividend in physical mode instead of electronic mode 
24. Receipt of shares in physical mode instead of electronic mode 
25. Demat/Remat 
26. Any other nature as may be informed from time to time 

 

However,  the  stock  exchanges  shall  not  handle  the  following  type  of  complaints  and 
forward the complaints as directed below:- 

 

Sl. 
No. 
1.  

Grievances Pertaining to  

a.  Deposits u/s 73 & 74 of Companies Act, 2013 
b.  Complaint against Nidhi Companies. 
c.  All matters as delegated under overriding powers 

under Companies Act 2013 

d.  Complaints pertaining to dividend and securities 

transferred to IEPF 

2.   Pension funds 

Process for handling 
complaints 
Forward the complaint 
to MCA under 
intimation to 
Complainant. 

Forward the complaint 
to Pension Fund 
Regulatory and 

 

6 

Grievances Pertaining to  

Sl. 
No. 

3.    Monopoly and anti-competitive practices 

4.    Chit Funds 

5.   

Insurance Companies /Brokers/ Agents/products and 
Service 

6.    Housing Finance Companies 

7.    a.  Companies  where  moratorium  order  is  passed 
against  the  company  in  winding  up/  insolvency 
proceedings. 

 
b.  Companies  under  liquidation  and  official  liquidator 

has been appointed 

Process for handling 
complaints 
Development Authority 
(PFRDA) under 
intimation to 
Complainant. 
Forward the complaint 
to Competition 
Commission of India 
(CCI) under intimation 
to Complainant. 

Request complainant to 
approach Registrars  of  
Chit  Funds  of  the  
concerned state 
Forward the complaint 
to Insurance   
Regulatory   and   
Development Authority 
of India (IRDAI) under 
intimation to 
Complainant 
Request complainant to 
approach National 
Housing Bank (NHB)  
Request complainant 
to approach NCLT or 
the official liquidator 

 

 

7 

