 

CIRCULAR 

 

 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2020/158                                            August 27, 2020                               
 
To, 
 
All Depositories 

All Recognised Stock Exchanges 

 
Madam / Sir,  
 
Subject:  Execution  of  Power  of  Attorney  (PoA)  by  the  Client  in  favour  of  the 

Stock Broker / Stock Broker and Depository Participant 

  
1.  SEBI,  vide  circular  no.  CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2010  dated  April  23,  2010,  issued 

Guidelines for execution of Power of Attorney (PoA) by the client favouring Stock 

Broker  /  Stock  Broker  and  Depository  Participant  (hereinafter  referred  to  as 

“Guidelines”).  Certain  clarifications  were 

issued 

later  vide  circular  no. 

CIR/MRD/DMS/28/2010 dated August 31, 2010. 

 
2.  Paragraph 5 of the circular dated April 23, 2010, specifies the following: 

 

“Standardizing  the  norms  for  PoA  must  not  be  construed  as  making  the  PoA  a 

condition  precedent  or  mandatory  for  availing  broking  or  depository  participant 

services. PoA is merely an option available to the client for instructing his broker 

or depository participant to facilitate the delivery of shares and pay-in/pay-out of 

funds etc. No stock broker or depository participant shall deny services to the client 

if the client refuses to execute a PoA in their favour.” 

 
3.  Further, paragraph 12 – 20 of the Guidelines in SEBI circular dated April 23, 2010, 

also specifies that the PoA shall not facilitate the stock broker to do the following: 

3.1. Transfer of securities for off market trades.   

3.2. Transfer of funds from the bank account(s) of the Clients for trades executed 

by the clients through another stock broker.   

3.3. Open  a  broking  /  trading  facility  with  any  stock  broker  or  for  opening  a 

Beneficial Owner account with any Depository Participant.   

3.4. Execute trades in the name of the client(s) without the client(s) consent.   

3.5. Prohibit issue of Delivery Instruction Slips (DIS) to beneficial owner (client).   

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

3.6. Prohibit client(s) from operating the account.   

 

3.7. Merging of balances (dues) under various accounts to nullify debit in any other 

account.   

3.8. Open  an  email  ID  /  email  account  on  behalf  of  the  client(s)  for  receiving 

statement  of  transactions,  bills,  contract  notes  etc.  from  stock  broker  / 

depository participant.   

3.9. Renounce liability for any loss or claim that may arise due to any blocking of 

funds that may be erroneously instructed by the stock broker to the designated 

bank. 

 
4.  However, it has been observed that PoA is invariably obtained from the investors 

as part of the KYC and account opening process. Such PoA  executed by clients 

has  further  found  to  have  been  misused  by  the  stock  brokers  by  taking 

authorization even for activities as specified in paragraph 3 above. In this regard, 

it is reiterated that: 

4.1. PoA  is  optional and  should  not  be  insisted upon by  the  stock  broker  /  stock 

broker depository participant for opening of the client account.  

4.2. PoA executed in favour of stock broker / stock broker depository participant by 

the client shall be utilized 

4.2.1. For  transfer  of  securities  held  in  the  beneficial  owner  accounts  of  the 

client towards Stock Exchange related deliveries / settlement obligations 

arising out of trades executed by clients on the Stock Exchange through 

the same stock broker. 

4.2.2. For pledging / re-pledging of securities in favour of trading member (TM) 

/ clearing member (CM) for the purpose of meeting margin requirements 

of the clients in connection with the trades executed by the clients on the 

Stock Exchange. 

4.2.3. For  the  limited  purposes  as  specified  in  paragraph  1(iii)  and  2  of  the 

Guidelines.  

4.3. Paragraph 1(i) and 1(ii) of the Guidelines stands modified in accordance with 

paragraph  4.2.1  and  4.2.2  above.  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories  shall 

ensure  that  PoA  is  not  used  by  TM/CM/DPs  for  any  purpose  other  than  as 

specified  above  and  in  SEBI  circulars  dated  April  23,  2010  read  with  SEBI 

circular dated August 31, 2010. 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 

5.  It has also been decided that all off-market transfer of securities shall be permitted 

by  the  Depositories only  by  execution of  Physical  Delivery  Instruction  Slip  (DIS) 

duly signed by the client himself or by way of electronic DIS. The Depositories shall 

also  put  in  place  a  system  of  obtaining  client’s  consent  through  One  Time 

Password  (OTP)  for  such  off  market  transfer  of  securities  from  client’s  demat 

account. 

 
6.  All other provisions specified in SEBI circular dated April 23, 2010 read with SEBI 

circular  dated  August 31,  2010  shall  continue  to  remain  applicable.  The  circular 

shall be applicable with effect from November 01, 2020. 

 
7.  Stock Exchanges and Depositories are directed to  

7.1.  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  Bye-laws,  Rules  and 

Regulations for the implementation of the above decision; 

7.2.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  their  members  / 

participants and also disseminate the same on their websites; and  

7.3.  communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this 

circular in their monthly report.  

 
8.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  Section  19  of  the 

Depositories  Act,  1996,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 

promote the development of, and to regulate the securities markets. 

 

 

Yours faithfully 

 

Narendra Rawat 

General Manager 

Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department 

Page 3 of 3 

