 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2020/169 

September 09, 2020 

 

All Portfolio Managers 

 

Sir / Madam 

Subject: Operating Guidelines for Portfolio Managers in International Financial 

Services Centre (IFSC) 

1.  SEBI  has  issued  SEBI  (International  Financial  Services  Centres)  Guidelines,  2015 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  ‘IFSC  Guidelines’)  on  March  27,  2015  for  facilitating  and 
regulating financial services relating to securities market in an IFSC set up under section 
18(1) of Special Economic Zones Act, 2005. The IFSC Guidelines and related Circulars 
issued by SEBI from time to time provide for a broad framework for operation of various 
intermediaries (including Portfolio Managers) therein, as defined in Clause 2(1)(g) of the 
IFSC Guidelines. Further, in terms of Clause 3(1) of the IFSC Guidelines, SEBI can issue 
guidelines for any entity desirous of undertaking any other financial services relating to 
securities market. 

2.  Based on the representations received from various stakeholders, it has been decided to 
put  in  place  ‘Operating  Guidelines  for  Portfolio  Managers  in  IFSC’.  The  same  is  annexed 
herewith. 

3.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in 
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

4.  The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Info 

for – Portfolio Managers” and "Legal framework - Circulars". 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Naveen Sharma 
General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Ph: 022-26449709 
Email: naveens@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 
 

 

Annexure 

Operating Guidelines for  Portfolio Managers in International Financial  Services Centre 
(IFSC) 

1.  Applicability  

a.  SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 2020 (‘PMS Regulations') 

All provisions of the PMS Regulations, the guidelines and circulars issued thereunder, shall 
apply mutatis mutandis to Portfolio Managers setting up/ operating in IFSC subject to these 
operating  guidelines.  Further,  subsequent  amendments,  if  any,  in  PMS  Regulations, 
guidelines  and  circulars  issued  by  SEBI  for  portfolio  managers  shall  be  applicable  to 
Portfolio Managers in IFSC. 
 

b.  SEBI (International Financial Services Centres) Guidelines, 2015 (‘IFSC Guidelines’) 

The  provisions  of  IFSC  Guidelines  and  relevant  circulars  shall  also  apply  to  Portfolio 
Managers (PM) setting up/ operating in IFSC subject to these operating guidelines. 

2.  Registration of Portfolio Managers  

a. 

b. 

 

 
An application for grant of certificate of registration shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions  of  Chapter  II  of  the  PMS  Regulations,  accompanied  by  a  non-refundable 
application fee as stated in Clause 5 of this Annexure. 
 
An entity, being a company or a limited liability partnership (LLP), which has the minimum 
prescribed net worth as specified herein can act as a PM in IFSC, in the following forms- 

i.  Any SEBI-registered intermediary (except trading member or clearing member) or its 
international associates in collaboration with such SEBI-registered intermediary may 
provide portfolio management services in IFSC, by setting up a branch in IFSC, subject 
to the prior approval of the Board. Further, it shall ensure that: 

  Exclusive manpower shall be allocated for providing portfolio management services 

from the branch in IFSC. 

  The  branch  shall  comply  with  all  the  provisions  (except  obtaining  Registration) 

specified in the operating guidelines. 

  The  parent  entity  shall  be  required  to  ring  fence  its  domestic  operations,  legally, 

financially, operationally and technologically, from its operations at IFSC. 
 

 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 
 

 

ii.  Other entities (that is in the form of a corporate or LLP or any other similar structure 
recognised  under  the  laws  of  its  parent  jurisdiction),  based  in  India  or  in  a  foreign 
jurisdiction, desirous of operating in IFSC as a PM, may form a company or LLP to 
provide portfolio management services. However, the formation of a separate company 
or LLP shall not be applicable in case the applicant is already a company or LLP in 
IFSC.  
 

The  obligation  of  ensuring  that  the  branch  complies  with  PMS  Regulations,  IFSC 
Guidelines, and Circulars issued thereunder, shall be on the parent entity. 
 
The  Board  may  grant  certificate/  approval  if  it  is  satisfied  that  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements as specified in the PMS Regulations read with these operating guidelines. 
 
Where the PM in IFSC proposes to change its status or constitution, it shall obtain prior 
approval of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

 

3.  Operational Compliances  

 
a.  Certification Requirement  

Principal officer and employee having decision making authority related to fund management 
and  who  are  resident  outside  India  may  have  certification  from  any  other  organization  or 
institution or  association or  stock exchange  which  is recognized/ accredited by  a Financial 
Market regulator in that foreign jurisdiction. 

However, certification from NISM shall be mandatory in case the aforesaid persons deal in 
Indian securities markets. 

b.  Net Worth Requirement 

i.  Applicants referred to in para 2 shall have a net worth of not less than USD 750,000. 

ii. 

In case the PM is set up as a branch, the net worth requirement is to be met by the parent 
entity. 

iii. 

In case the PM is set up as a subsidiary, the net worth requirement is to be met by the 
subsidiary itself. However, if the subsidiary does not meet the criteria, the net worth of the 
parent entity will be considered. 

iv.  The  PM/  parent  entity  shall  fulfil  the  aforesaid  net  worth  requirement,  separately  and 

 

Page 3 of 4 

independently for each activity undertaken by it under the relevant regulations. 

 

c.  Eligibility of the client to avail portfolio management services 

 
 

 

PM  operating  in  IFSC  shall  provide  portfolio  management  services  only  to  those  persons 
referred in Clause 9(3) of the IFSC Guidelines. Further, PMs shall ensure that, when dealing 
with persons resident outside India and non-resident Indians seeking portfolio management 
services from them, the PM complies with the applicable guidelines issued by the relevant 
overseas regulator/ authority.  

d.  Minimum investment amount 
 

PM  operating  in  IFSC  shall  not  accept  from  the  client,  funds  or  securities  worth  less  than     
USD 70,000. 

e.  Segregation of funds 
 

PM operating in IFSC shall keep the funds of all clients in a separate account to be maintained 
by them in the IFSC Banking Unit (IBU) as permitted by RBI.  

4.  The applicability of these operating guidelines is subject to such conditions that may be prescribed 

by the Board, Reserve Bank of India and other appropriate authority from time to time. 

 

5.  Amount to be paid as fee 

 

Application fee 
Registration fee for grant of certificate 
Registration fee every three years from date of grant of certificate 

USD 1,500 
USD 15,000 
USD 7,500 

 

 

***** 

Page 4 of 4 

