 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

                    September 09, 2020 

SEBI/HO/ISD/ISD/CIR/P/2020/168 
 
To  

All Listed Companies 

All Depositories 

All Nationwide Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub:  Automation  of  Continual  Disclosures  under  Regulation  7(2)  of  SEBI 

(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 - System driven disclosures. 

 
1.  Vide  Gazette  Notification  No.  SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2020/23  dated  July  17,  2020, 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 

2015 (PIT Regulations) have been further amended. 

 
2.  SEBI,  vide  circular  no.  CIR/CFD/DCR/17/2015  dated  December  01,  2015, 

CFD/DCR/CIR/2016/139  dated  December  21,  2016  and  SEBI/HO/CFD/DCR1/CIR/ 

P/2018/85 dated May 28, 2018, implemented the system driven disclosures in phases, 

under SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 and 

PIT Regulations. 

 
3.  Pursuant to the aforesaid amendment of PIT Regulations and discussions held with 

the Stock Exchanges and  Depositories,  it has  now been  decided to  implement  the 

system driven disclosures for member(s) of promoter group and designated person(s) 

in  addition  to  the  promoter(s)  and  director(s)  of  company  (hereinafter  collectively 

referred to as entities) under Regulation 7(2) of PIT Regulations.  

 
4.  To begin with, the system driven disclosures shall pertain to trading in equity shares 

and  equity  derivative  instruments  i.e.  Futures  and  Options  of  the  listed  company 

(wherever applicable) by the entities.  

 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

 

5.  The  procedure  for  implementation  of  the  system  driven  disclosures  is  provided  at 

Annexure-A. 

 
6.  The Depositories and Stock Exchanges shall make necessary arrangements such that 

the  disclosures  pertaining  to  PIT  Regulations  are  disseminated  on  the  websites  of 

respective stock exchanges with effect from October 01, 2020. 

 
7.  The system would continue to run parallel with the existing system i.e. entities shall 

continue  to  independently  comply  with  the  disclosure  obligations  under  PIT 

Regulations as applicable to them till March 31, 2021. 

 
8.  As currently done, the disclosures generated through the system shall be displayed 

separately from the regular disclosures filed with the exchanges. 

 
9.  This circular supersedes the earlier circulars dated December 01, 2015, December 

21,  2016  and  May  28,  2018  with  respect  to  implementation  of  System  driven 

disclosures under PIT Regulations. 

 
10. Stock Exchanges are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of all 

listed companies and also disseminate the same on their websites. 

 
11. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with regulations 4(3) and 11 

of  the  PIT  Regulations  and  to  protect  the  interests of  investors  in securities and  to 

promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
12. A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “LegalCirculars”. 

Yours faithfully, 
 
N Sunil 
Deputy General Manager 
+91-22-26449317 
nsunil@sebi.gov.in 

 

Encl: as above 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 
ANNEXURE – A 
 

Steps/process required to be taken for implementation: 

 
1.  The various formats and timelines for sharing of data shall be standardized, 

as agreed upon by the depositories and exchanges.  

 
2.  Listed  company  shall  provide  the  information  including  PAN  number  of 
Promoter(s) including member(s) of the promoter group, designated person(s) 
and  director(s)  (hereinafter  collectively  referred  to  as  entities)  as  per  PIT 
Regulations to the designated depository (selected in terms of SEBI circular 
ref.  no.  SEBI/HO/CFD/DCR1/CIR/P/2018/85  dated  May  28,  2018)  in  the 
format and manner prescribed by the Depositories. For PAN exempt entities, 
the  Investor’s  Demat  account  number(s)  shall  be  specified  by  the  listed 
company. The information shall be provided within 10 days from the date of 
this circular. 

3.  The designated depository shall share the information received from the listed 

company with other depository. 

4.  In  case  of  any  subsequent  update  in  the  details  of  the  entities,  the  listed 
company shall update the information with the designated depository on the 
same  day.  The  designated  depository  shall  share  the  incremental  changes 
with the other depository on the day of receipt from the listed company. 

5.  Based on the PAN of First holder/Demat account number(s), the depositories 

shall tag such Demat accounts in their depository systems at ISIN level.  

6.  The  designated  depository  shall  also  share  with  the  stock  exchanges, 
company-wise  details  of  entities.  In  case  of  PAN  exempt  entity,  respective 
depository  shall  share  the  Demat  account  number(s)  details  with  the  stock 
exchanges.  Any  update  (additions  or  deletions) in  this  information  by  listed 
company  shall  be  updated  by  the  designated  depositories  with  the  stock 
exchanges  on  a  daily  basis.  The  information  shall  be  shared  via  system 
interface established between the depositories and stock exchanges. 

Page 3 of 4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7.  The  depositories  shall  provide  the  following  data  pertaining  to  the  tagged 

Demat account(s) separately to the stock exchanges on daily basis: 

 

  Details of transactions for pledge/revocation/invocation of shares and 

other encumbrances such as NDU etc. of the entities. 

  Details of off market transactions of the entities. 
  Details of transmission of shares of the entities.  
  Details of corporate actions such as ESOPs, Bonus, Rights, etc. of 

the entities 

  Additionally,  details  of  market  transfers  in  case  of  PAN  Exempt 

entities. 

8.  Based on the PAN information provided by the depositories, on daily basis, 
stock  exchanges  will  identify  the  transactions  carried  out  on  their  trading 
system  by  the  entities  in  the  equities  and  equity  derivative  instruments 
(wherever applicable) of the listed company/permitted to trade on the  stock 
exchange(s). 

9.  Such  identified trades shall be shared by the stock exchange  with  all other 

stock exchanges where the company is listed on daily basis. 

10. Each  stock  exchange  shall  consolidate  the  information  of  the  transactions 
identified  by  them  as well  as  received  from other stock exchanges  and  the 
depositories. On consolidation of the transactions, if the disclosure is triggered 
under  Regulation  7(2)  of  PIT  Regulations,  the  stock  exchanges  shall 
disseminate the same on their websites. The transaction(s) carried out on T 
day shall be disseminated on T+2 day basis. 

11. In  case  of  any  discrepancy,  the  issue  shall be  resolved  by  listed  company, 

stock exchanges and depositories in coordination with one another. 

 

 

***************** 

Page 4 of 4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

