                                 
 

    

 

                   CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2020/167   

 

              September 08, 2020 

 

To, 

All Recognized Stock Exchanges 

All Recognized Depositories 

Stock Brokers through Recognized Stock Exchanges 

Depository Participants through Depositories 

Association of Mutual Funds in India 

All Mutual funds and AMCs through AMFI 

Portfolio Managers 

KYC Registration Agencies (KRAs) 

Qualified Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents (QRTAs) 

Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 

Collective Investment Schemes (CIS) 

Custodians 

Investment Advisors 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 
Subject:        Entities  permitted  to  undertake  e-KYC  Aadhaar  Authentication 

service of UIDAI in Securities Market – Addition of NSE to the list 

1.  SEBI vide circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2020/80 dated May 12, 
2020 permitted eight entities to undertake Aadhaar Authentication service of 
UIDAI subject to compliance of the conditions as laid down in this regard. 

 

2.  Government  of  India,  Department  of  Revenue  (DoR),  vide  Gazette 
Notification  No.  G.S.R.  516(E)  dated  August  20,  2020,  notified  “National 
Stock  Exchange  of  India  Limited”  (NSE)  as  per  the  recommendation  by 
Unique  Identification  Authority  of  India  (UIDAI)  and  SEBI  to  undertake 

1 OF 2 

 

 

 

                                 
 

    

 

Aadhaar  authentication  service  of  the  UIDAI  under  section  11A  of  the 
Prevention  of  Money-laundering  Act,  2002.  In  view  of  the  same,  National 
Stock  Exchange  of  India  Limited  shall  undertake  Aadhaar  Authentication 
service of the UIDAI subject to compliance of the conditions as laid down in 
this regard. 

3.  The Stock Exchanges and Depositories are directed to:   

a.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  Stock  Brokers, 
Depository Participants and also disseminate the same on their websites.  
b.  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations for the implementation  of the above decision in co-ordination 
with one another to achieve uniformity in approach.  

c.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 
this circular in the Monthly Development Report of the following month; and  

d.  monitor the compliance of this circular. 

 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate 
the securities markets. 
 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Narendra Rawat 

General Manager 

Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department 

2 OF 2 

 

 

 

