 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

September 02, 2020 

SEBI/HO/CFD/DCR-2/CIR/P/2020/164 
 
 
To 
 

All Trading Members and Clearing Members through Stock Exchanges 

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub: Disclosures on Margin obligations given by way of Pledge/ Re-pledge in 

the Depository System 

1. Regulation  29  (4)  of  the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeover) 
Regulations, 2011 (herein after referred as “Takeover Regulations”) provides that for 
the purposes of disclosure under regulation 29(1) and (2), shares taken by way of 
encumbrance  shall  be  treated  as  an  acquisition,  shares  given  upon  release  of 
encumbrance shall be treated as a disposal, and disclosures shall be made by such 
person accordingly in such form as may be specified.  

2. SEBI  vide  circular  dated  February  25,  2020  issued  guidelines  on  acceptance  of 
collateral from  clients  in  the form  of  securities  by  Trading  Member(TM)  /  Clearing 
Member (CM), only by way of ‘margin pledge’, created in the Depository system. 

3. In  this  regard,  considering  the  representations  received  and  in  consultation  with 
market participants, for ease of doing business it has been decided that disclosures 
specified  under  Regulation  29(4)  of  Takeover  Regulations,  in  relation  to  shares 
encumbered  with  TM  /CM  as  a  collateral  from  clients  for  margin  obligation  in  the 
ordinary course of stock broking business are dispensed with.   

4. This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  section  11(1)  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  
the securities market.  

5. A  copy  of  this  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework/Circulars”. 

Yours faithfully, 

D. Rajesh Kumar  
General Manager  
Tel. No: 022 -26449242  
Email: rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in 
 

Page 1 of 1 

 

