CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2020/176                                  September 21, 2020 
 
To  
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All Clearing Corporations having Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Sir / Madam,  
 

Sub: Alternate Risk Management Framework Applicable in case of Near Zero 

and Negative Prices 

 
1.  SEBI,  vide  Circulars CIR/CDMRD/DRMP/01/2015 dated October  01,  2015 and 
SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2016/77 dated September  01,   2016, has, inter 
alia,    prescribed  the  Risk    Management    Framework    for    the    Commodity  
Derivatives    Segment   (CDS).  In  addition to circulars  issued  in the  interregnum, 
the  framework  was  further  strengthened  vide  circular  no.  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/ 
DRMP/CIR/P /2020/15 dated January 27, 2020. 
 

2.  In  recent  times,  extreme  volatility  has  been  observed  in  commodity  prices 
in  the  case  of  Crude  Oil,  wherein  the  prices  had 
globally,  particularly 
unprecedentedly gone down to zero and subsequently, even negative. In such a 
scenario,  margins  equivalent  to  even  100%  of  the  futures  price  would  not  have 
been  sufficient  to  cover  the  steep  upward  or  downward  price  variations  in  the 
futures market. 
 

3.  In order to enable risk management framework to handle such a scenario of ’near 
zero’  and  negative  prices,  SEBI  constituted  a  Task  Force  of  Clearing 
Corporations  (CCs)  and  market  participants  to  review  the  risk  management 
framework  in  such  cases.  The  following  has  been  decided  based  upon  the 
recommendations of the said Task Force: - 

 

3.1. Alternate  Risk  Management  Framework  (ARMF)  shall  be  applicable  in  such 
cases  of  near  zero  and  negative  prices 
for  any  underlying 
commodities/futures.  Details  of  the  ARMF  are  given  at  Annexure-I  to  this 
circular. 

 

3.2. To begin with, the commodities having the following characteristics may be in 
principle  treated  as  susceptible  to  the  possibility  of  near  zero  and  negative 
prices: - 
 

 

Page 1 of 5 

3.2.1. Commodities  that  need  specialized  storage  space  in  physical  markets, 
which,  if  not  followed,  may  cause  environmental  hazards  or  have  other 
external implications AND 

 

3.2.2. Commodities  that  can’t  be  disposed  of/  destroyed  with  ease  i.e. 
disposal/destruction  of  such  commodities  may  cause  an  environmental 
hazard or may incur significant cost. 

 

3.3. The  CCs  shall  ensure  the  readiness  of  their  systems  to  implement  the 

prescribed ARMF within 60 days of the date of this circular. 

 

3.4. However,  CCs  who  do  not  presently  provide for  the  clearing  and settlement 
services of any such susceptible commodity, are not required to update their 
systems for the prescribed ARMF. This is subject to certification by their Risk 
Management Committee that none of the products being presently cleared by 
the  CC  are  susceptible  to  near  zero  and  negative  prices  as  per  Clause  3.2 
above.  However, before the launch of any such susceptible commodities in 
future, they shall ensure that their systems are updated for the ARMF. 

 

4.  The exchanges are also advised to: 

 
4.1. take steps to make necessary amendments, if any, to the relevant bye-laws, 

rules and regulations for the implementation of the same. 

4.2. bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of their members and also to 

disseminate the same on their website. 

4.3. communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  implementation  of the provisions  of  this 

circular. 

 

5.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.  
 

6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

Yours faithfully 
 
Vishal V. Nair  
 

Deputy General Manager                                           

Division of Risk Management  
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
vishaln@sebi.gov.in

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

Alternate Risk Management Framework in the event of Near Zero and Negative 

Annexure - I 

 
A. Activation of Alternate Risk Management Framework (ARMF) 
 

Prices 

1.  In  case 

the  Clearing  Corporation 

the  possibility  of 
negative/near  zero  prices  in  any  commodity,  then  for  such  commodity 
derivatives,  it  shall  activate  an  ARMF.  This  framework  will  be  capable  of 
estimating  the  risk  in  the  event  of  negative/near  zero  prices  of  the 
underlying/futures. 

(CC) 

foresees 

 

 

2.  The  shift  to  the  ARMF  shall  be  conditional,  based  on  triggers  indicating  the 
likelihood of near zero/ negative prices. Some of the conditions/circumstances 
which are indicative in nature and may warrant the activation of the ARMF are 
illustrated below: -  
 
2.1. There is a fall in the commodity prices by more than 50% within 20 trading 

days, while comparing the intra-day highest and lowest prices.  

 

2.2. In case of internationally referenced contracts, the international exchange/ 
clearing  corporation  having  the  benchmark  contract  decides  to  introduce 
such measures for negative prices.  

2.3. Options  contracts  having  strike  price  values  of  near  zero/negative  are 

introduced by the stock exchange for trading.  

2.4. Price  of  the  underlying  commodity/futures  contract  comes  down  to  the 
level equal to or lower than the maximum price movement observed over 
the MPOR (Margin Period of Risk) in past 12 months. 

 

2.5. Any other conditions as per the discretion of the CC, which might indicate 

the likelihood of negative prices. 

 

3.  In case one or more of the above mentioned conditions or any other additional 
conditions  that  may  be  identified  by  the  CC  becomes  applicable,  the  CC  in 
consultation  with  their  respective  stock  Exchange  will  conduct  a  review  and 
take a formal decision on whether there is a need to activate the ARMF. The 
CC shall subsequently also communicate its decision to the market and other 
stock  Exchanges/CCs.  If  the  Lead  CC,  as  defined  in  SEBI  circular  no. 

Page 3 of 5 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DRMP/CIR/P/2020/15  dated  January  27,  2020,  has 
activated the ARMF, then the other CCs shall also follow the same. 
 

 

4.  The  CC  shall  strive  to  intimate  to  the  market,  well  in  advance,  the  threshold 

price level, below which the ARMF shall be activated. 

 

 

B.  Characteristics  of 
characteristics: - 

 

the  ARMF:  The  ARMF  shall  have 

the 

following 

5.  Normal  Distribution:  In  the  regular  risk  management framework,  prices  are 
assumed  to  be  log  normally  distributed  and  volatility  is  calculated  based  on 
the  difference  in  log  prices.  This  assumption  is  valid  only  for  positive  prices, 
as logarithm of zero or negative prices is not defined.  
 
In a scenario wherein the ARMF gets triggered, the prices shall be assumed 
to  follow  normal  distribution.  Therefore,  in  such  scenario,  volatility  shall  be 
based on the absolute differences in prices. This volatility shall be determined 
based  on  EWMA  (Exponentially  Weighted  Moving  Average)  as  per  the 
parameters of the regular framework. 
 

6.  Minimum Margin in Absolute terms: In the regular framework, a floor value 
for  initial  margin  is  prescribed  in  percentage  terms.  In  case  the  prices  turn 
negative,  floor  value  in  percentage  terms  shall  be  applied  on  the  absolute 
value of price levels. Further, floor value shall also be prescribed in absolute 
INR  terms.  The  higher  of  the  two  values  shall  be  the  applicable  floor  for  the 
initial  margin.  The  CC  shall  determine  and  notify  such  floor  value  based  on 
past price movements and past margin amounts observed in respect of such 
commodities. 
 

7.  Spread  margin  benefit:  The  correlation  between  different  contracts  on  the 
same  underlying  may  not  hold  in  the  event  of  near  zero/negative  prices. 
Therefore, margin  benefit on  spread positions  shall  be  completely  withdrawn 
upon the activation of the ARMF. 
 

8.  Option Pricing Model: The theoretical price determination of options shall be 
done  using  appropriate  models  like  the  Bachelier  model,  or any  other model 
which can be applied on negative underlying prices. 
 

 

Page 4 of 5 

9.  Pre-expiry margins: The appropriate pre-expiry margins shall also be levied 
by  CCs  on  cash  settled  contracts,  in  respect  of  those  commodities  in  which 
the ARMF is triggered. 
 

 

10. Extreme Loss Margin (ELM): In case the price of any futures contract goes 
below  a  threshold,  ELM  shall  be  levied  on  such  threshold  price  or  absolute 
price of the contract, whichever is higher. The CC shall decide threshold price 
in respect of each commodity on which ELM under the ARMF shall be made 
applicable. 
 

11. Other  margins:  CCs  may  levy  other  margins  such  as  additional  margins, 

special margins, concentration margins etc. as per their own discretion.  

 
C. Deactivation of ARMF 

 

12. The following principles shall be taken into account by CCs for deactivation of 
to  regular  risk  management 

from  alternate 

i.e.  switching 

the  ARMF 
framework: -  
 

12.1.  The  de-activation  of  the  ARMF  shall  be  done  when  the  conditions  that 
triggered  the  activation  of  the  ARMF  no  longer  prevail.  The  exit  from  the 
ARMF  shall  be  done  after  a  reasonable  time  lag  so  as  to  avoid  frequent 
switching between alternate and regular frameworks.  

12.2.  In case the entry and exit of the ARMF is defined in terms of specific price 
points,  the  exit  point  shall  be  kept  sufficiently  above  the  entry  point  to 
avoid frequent switching between alternate and regular frameworks.  

12.3.  The de-activation of the ARMF and re-activation of regular framework will 
be  done  when  the  margin  requirement  under  the  two  frameworks 
sufficiently converges. 

13. The observation  of  a zero  or  negative  prices  shall have  to be  excluded from 
model  under  regular  margin  framework  since  log  return  involving  zero  or 
negative price is not defined. 

 

******* 

 

Page 5 of 5 

