 

 

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/174        

 

 

         September 16, 2020      

                                                   
All Recognized Stock Exchanges in International Financial Services Centre 
All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) 
All Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) 
  

 

 

 

Sir/ Madam,  

Sub:  Listing and trading of units of Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) and 

Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts  (REITs)  on  recognized  stock  exchanges  in 

International Financial Services Centres (IFSC) 

  

1.  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (International  Financial  Services  Centre) 

Guidelines,  2015  were  notified  by  SEBI on March  27, 2015,  which  came  into force on 

April 01, 2015. 

 

2.  Clause  7  of  SEBI  (IFSC)  Guidelines,  2015  specifies  the  types  of  securities  in  which 

dealing may be permitted by stock exchanges operating in IFSC. It has been decided to 

permit  ‘Units  of  InvITs  and  REITs  by  whatever  name  called  in  the  Permissible 

Jurisdictions’ as permissible security under sub-clause (vi) of Clause 7 of SEBI (IFSC) 

Guidelines, 2015.  

 

3.  Accordingly,  ‘Units  of  InvITs  and  REITs  by  whatever  name  called  in  the  Permissible 

Jurisdictions’  meeting  the  following  conditions  may  be  permitted  to  list  on  stock 

exchanges operating in IFSC: 

 

 
 
 

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 

i.  Such InvITs and REITs which are incorporated/settled in Permissible Jurisdictions, 

as  may  be  notified  by  the  Government  of  India  from  time  to  time  pursuant  to 

notification no. G.S.R. 669(E) dated September 18, 2019 in respect of sub-rule 1 of 

rule 9 of Prevention of Money-Laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005; 

In this regard, the Government of India vide notification dated November 28, 2019, 

has notified the list of Permissible Jurisdictions in pursuance of notification dated 

September 18, 2019. Accordingly, a list of Permissible Jurisdictions for the purpose 

of this clause is placed at Annexure A. 

 

ii.  Such InvITs and REITs are regulated by the securities market regulator(s) in the 

Permissible Jurisdictions.  

 

iii.  Such InvITs and REITs are listed on any of the specified international exchanges 

in the Permissible Jurisdiction.  A list of International Exchanges for the purpose of 

this clause is also placed at Annexure A.  

 

4.  Stock  exchanges  in  IFSC  shall  evolve  a  detailed  framework  prescribing  the  initial  and 

continuous 

listing  requirements 

for  such 

InvITs  and  REITs  whose  units  are 

listed/proposed to be listed on stock exchanges in IFSC (based on para 3 above).  

 

5.  The applicability of this circular is subject to such conditions that may be prescribed by  

SEBI,  Reserve  Bank  of  India  and other  appropriate  authority from time to time. 

 

6.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in 

securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 
 
 

 

7.  This circular is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Board of India at 

www.sebi.gov.in under the sub-category “Circulars” under the category “Legal”.  

  

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 
 
Sabir Vasant Sawant 

Deputy General Manager   
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities  

Email id: sabirvs@sebi.gov.in

 

Page 3 of 3 

 

 
 

List of Permissible Jurisdictions and International Exchanges 

 

1. United States of America - NASDAQ, NYSE 
2. Japan - Tokyo Stock Exchange 
3. South Korea - Korea Exchange Inc. 
4. United Kingdom excluding British Overseas Territories- London   

 Stock Exchange 

5. France - Euronext Paris 
6. Germany - Frankfurt Stock Exchange 
7. Canada - Toronto Stock Exchange 

 

 
Annexure-A 

 

 
 

 

 

 

