 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

September 17, 2020 

 
SEBI/HO/IMD/DF2/CIR/P/2020/175  

 

All Mutual Funds (MFs)/  

Asset Management Companies (AMCs)/ 

Trustee Companies/ Boards of Trustees of Mutual Funds/ 

Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) 

 

Sir / Madam, 

 

Subject: Circular on Mutual Funds 

 

1.  Uniformity  in  applicability  of  Net  Asset  Value  (NAV)  across  various  schemes  upon 

realization of funds 

 

1.1. In  partial  modification  to  SEBI  Circular  No.  SEBI/IMD/DF/21/2012  dated  September  13, 

2012,  it  has  been  decided  that  in  respect  of  purchase  of  units  of  mutual  fund  schemes 

(except liquid and overnight schemes), closing NAV of the day shall be applicable on which 

the  funds  are  available  for  utilization  irrespective  of  the  size  and  time  of  receipt  of  such 

application. 

 

1.2. The existing provision on NAV applicability for liquid and overnight funds and cut-off timings 

for all schemes shall remain unchanged. 

 

2.  Trade Execution and Allocation 

 

2.1. It has been decided that AMCs shall put in place a written down policy which inter-alia detail 

the  specific  activities,  role  and  responsibilities  of  various  teams  engaged  in  fund 

management, dealing, compliance, risk management, back-office, etc., with regard to order 

placement, execution of order, trade allocation amongst various schemes and other related 

matters.  

 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

2.2. The aforesaid policy shall ensure that all the schemes and its investors are treated in a fair 

and equitable manner. Further, the policy shall be approved by the Board of AMC and the 

trustees and they shall ensure compliance with the following: 

 

2.2.1. For orders pertaining to equity and equity related instruments: 

 

a) AMCs  shall  use  an  automated  Order  Management  System  (hereinafter  referred  to  as 

‘OMS’),  wherein  the  orders  for  equity  and  equity  related  instruments  of  each  scheme 

shall be placed by the fund manager(s) of the respective schemes.  

 

b) In  case  a  fund  manager  is  managing  multiple  schemes,  the  fund  manager  shall 

necessarily place scheme wise order.   

 

c)  All regulatory limits and allocation limits as specified in SID shall be in-built in the OMS to 

ensure  that  orders  in  breach  of  such  limits  are  not  accepted  by  the  OMS.  AMCs  may 

further  place  soft  limits  for  internal  control  and  risk  management  based  on  its  internal 

policy. Further, any change in limits specified in OMS shall be subject to the approval of 

Compliance and Risk Officer. 

 

d) All  orders  of  fund  manager(s)  shall  be  received  by  dedicated  dealer(s)  responsible  for 

order placement and execution.  

 

e) The  internal  policy  of  AMC  may  also  provide  certain  scenarios  within  the  regulatory 

limits, wherein, prior approval of Compliance or Risk  Officer would be required through 

OMS before the order is received by the dealer. 

 

2.2.2. Requirements with respect to investments in all instruments:  

 

a) AMC shall ensure that the dealing desk is suitably staffed and comply with the following: 

 

i.  All  conversations  of  the  dealer  shall  be  only  through  the  dedicated  recorded 

telephone lines. 

 

ii.  No  mobile  phones  or  any  other  communication  devices  other  than  the  recorded 

telephone lines shall be allowed inside the dealing room. 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 

 

iii.  Restricted  access  to  internet  facilities  on  computers  and  other  devices  inside  the 

dealing room. It shall be used for activities related to trade execution only. 

 

iv.  No  sharing  of  information  by  dealer  through  any  mode,  except  for  trade  execution 

under the approved internal policy.  

 

b) Orders  by  dealer  can  be  placed  either  for  each  scheme  individually  or  pooled  on  the 

basis  of  orders  from  multiple  schemes.  The  trade  allocation  policy  of  the  AMCs  shall 

inter-alia detail (i) specific situations (not generic) wherein the orders by dealers shall be 

placed for each scheme individually or pooled from multiple schemes, (ii) the timeline to 

be considered for pooling of orders in case of multiple schemes.  

 

c)  In case of pooled orders, post allocation of trades shall be on pro-rata basis as per the 

size of the order placed. The said allocation shall be based on weighted average price. 

The policy shall clearly include scenarios / situations (e.g. redemption pressure) in which 

deviation  from  the  allotment  of  units  on  pro-rata  basis  would  be  permissible,  if  at  all. 

Further,  the  deviations  shall  be  on  account  of  exigency  only  and  require  prior  written 

approval  of  Chief  Investment  Officer,  Risk  Officer  and  the  Compliance  Officer  with 

detailed rationale for such deviation.  

 

d) In case of scenarios,  wherein, the mutual funds are required to place certain margins / 

collaterals in order to execute certain transactions, the policy shall include details on how 

such margins / collaterals shall be segregated / placed from amongst various schemes, 

without affecting the interest of investors of any scheme.  

 

2.3. Monitoring of Compliance  

 

2.3.1. AMC  shall  have  a  system  based  monitoring  mechanism  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 

requirements under paragraph 2.2.1 and 2.2.2. 

 

2.3.2. Audit  trail  of  activities  related  to  order  placement,  trade  execution  and  allocation  shall  be 

available in the system. Further, there should be time stamping with respect to order placed 

by fund manager, order placed by dealer, order execution and trade allocation. 

 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

2.3.3. Any non-compliance and all material information in this regard shall be reported to trustees 

on quarterly basis. Trustees shall inform the same to SEBI in their half yearly trustee report. 

 

3.  Applicability: 

The circular shall be applicable with effect from January 1, 2021. 

 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities 

and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with the provisions of Regulation 77 of SEBI 

(Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 

promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  

 

 

Hruda Ranjan Sahoo 

Deputy General Manager 

Tel no.:  022-26449586 

Email: hrsahoo@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 4 

