                              
 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2020/182 

 

 

 

 

  September 23, 2020 

All SEBI Registered Investment Advisers 

Sir/Madam, 

Subject: Guidelines for Investment Advisers 

1.  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI),  after  considering  the  inputs  from 
public  consultation,  reviewed  the framework  for  regulation  of Investment  Advisers 
(IA)  and  notified  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Investment  Advisers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020 (hereinafter referred as “amended IA Regulations”) 
on July 03, 2020. These amendments shall come into force on September 30, 2020. 
 

 

2.  In  addition  to  the  above,  Investment  Advisers  shall  ensure  compliance  with  the 

following guidelines:  
 

(i) 

Client Level Segregation of Advisory and Distribution Activities  
 
To ensure client level segregation at Investment Adviser’s group/family1 level, as 
per  Regulation  22  (5)  of  amended  IA  Regulations,  following  compliance  and 
monitoring process shall be adopted: 
 
a.  Existing  clients,  who  wish  to  take  advisory  services,  will  not  be  eligible  for 
availing distribution services within the group/family of IA. Similarly, existing 
clients who wish to take distribution services  will not be eligible for availing 
advisory services within the group/family of IA.  

b.  A  new  client  will  be  eligible  to  avail  either  advisory  or  distribution  services 
within  the  group/family  of  IA.  However,  the  option  to  avail  either  advisory 
services or distribution services shall be made available to such client at the 
time of on boarding.  

c.  Client under these guidelines shall include individual client or non-individual 

client. 

d.  The  client  shall  have  discretion  to  continue  holding  assets  prior  to  the 
applicability  of  this  segregation  under  the  existing  advisory/distribution 

                                                           
1 “Group” and “family of an individual investment adviser” shall be as per Regulation 22 (3) (iii) and Regulation 2(gc) 
respectively of the amended IA regulations 

Page 1 of 12 

 

                              
 

 

arrangement. However, the client shall not be forced to liquidate/switch such 
existing holdings. 

e.  PAN of each client shall be the control record for identification and client level 

f. 

segregation. 
In case of an individual client, “family of client”2 shall be reckoned as a single 
client and PAN of all members in “family of client” would jointly and severally 
be the control record. However, the same is not applicable for non-individual 
clients. 

g.  The  dependent  family  members  shall  be  those  members  whose  assets  on 
which  investment  advisory  is  sought/provided,  originate  from  income  of  a 
single entity i.e. earning individual client in the family. The client shall provide 
an annual declaration or periodic updation as the case maybe in respect of 
such dependent family members. 

h.  IA shall, wherever available, advice direct plans (non-commission based) of 

products only. 

i.  The investment adviser shall maintain on record an annual certificate from an 
auditor (in case of individual IA) and its statutory auditor (in case of a non-
individual  IA)  confirming  compliance  with  the  client  level  segregation 
requirements as specified in Regulation 22 of amended IA Regulations. Such 
annual certificate shall be obtained within 6 months of the end of the financial 
year and form part of compliance audit, in terms of Regulation 19(3) of  the 
amended IA Regulations. 
 

Agreement between IA and the client 
 
a.  Regulation 19 (1) (d) of the amended IA Regulations  provides that IA shall 
enter  into  an  investment  advisory  agreement  with  its  clients.  The  said 
agreement  shall  mandatorily  cover  the  terms  and  conditions  provided  in 
Annexure-A.  

b.  IA  can  include  additional  terms  and  conditions  in  the  agreement  without 
diluting the provisions of SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 and 
amendments thereto as well as circulars issued thereunder. 

c.  IA shall ensure that neither any investment advice is rendered nor any fee is 
charged  until  the  client  has  signed  the  aforesaid  agreement  and  provided 
copy of signed agreement to the client. 

d.  IA  shall  enter  into  investment  advisory  agreement  with  its  clients  including 
existing  clients  latest by  April  01, 2021 and submit  a  report,  confirming  the 
same to SEBI latest by June 30, 2021.  

(ii) 

 

 

                                                           
2 “Family of client” and “AUA” shall be as per as per Regulation 2 (gb) and Regulation 2(aa) respectively of the 
amended IA regulations 

Page 2 of 12 

 

                              
 

 

(iii) 

Fees 
 
Regulation 15 A of the amended IA Regulations provide that Investment Advisers 
shall be entitled to charge fees from a client in the manner as specified by SEBI, 
accordingly Investment Advisers shall charge fees from the clients in either of the 
two modes: 

(A) Assets under Advice (AUA) mode 

 

a.  The maximum fees that may be charged under this mode shall not exceed 

2.5 percent of AUA per annum per client across all services offered by IA.   

b.  IA  shall  be  required  to  demonstrate  AUA  with  supporting  documents  like 

demat statements, unit statements etc. of the client. 

c.  Any  portion  of  AUA  held  by  the  client  under  any  pre-existing  distribution 
arrangement with any entity shall be deducted from AUA for the purpose of 
charging fee by the IA. 

 
(B) Fixed fee mode 

The maximum fees that may be charged under this mode shall not exceed INR 
1,25,000 per annum per client across all services offered by IA. 

General conditions under both modes 

a.  In  case  “family  of  client”  is  reckoned  as  a  single  client,  the  fee  as  referred 

above shall be charged per “family of client”.  

b.  IA shall charge fees from a client under any one mode  i.e. (A) or (B) on an 
annual basis. The change of mode shall be effected only after 12 months of 
on boarding/last change of mode. 

c.  If  agreed  by  the  client,  IA  may  charge  fees  in  advance.  However,  such 

advance shall not exceed fees for 2 quarters. 

d.  In  the  event  of  pre-mature  termination  of  the  IA  services  in  terms  of 
agreement,  the  client  shall  be  refunded  the  fees  for  unexpired  period. 
However,  IA  may  retain  a  maximum  breakage  fee  of  not  greater  than  one 
quarter fee. 
 

(iv)  Qualification and certification requirement 

 

Regulation 7 of the amended IA Regulations specifies the minimum qualification 
and  certification  requirements  for  IAs.  Further,  in  terms  of  second  proviso  of 
regulation 7 (1), existing individual IAs above fifty years of age (as on September 
30,2020)  shall not be required  to  comply  with  the  qualification  and  experience 
requirements specified under Regulation 7(1)(a) and 7(1)(b) of the amended IA 
Regulations.  However,  such  IAs  shall  hold  NISM  accredited  certifications  and 

 

Page 3 of 12 

                              
 

 

comply with other conditions as specified under Regulation 7 (2) of the amended 
IA Regulations at all times. 

(v) 

Registration as Non Individual Investment Advisor 

 

a.  As per Regulation 13(e) of the amended IA Regulations, an individual IA shall 
apply  for  registration  as  non-individual  investment  adviser  on  or  before 
reaching 150 clients. 

b.  Such  application  for  registration  shall  be  made  in  FORM-A  as  per  the 
amended  IA  regulations,  along  with  the  requisite  fee  and  same  shall  be 
assessed  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  SEBI(Investment  Advisor) 
Regulations,  2013  and  amendments  thereto  as  well  as  circulars  issued 
thereunder. 

c.  Once number  of  clients  reaches 150  and  till grant  of  registration  as  a non-
individual IA, Individual IA shall not on-board fresh clients. However, during 
the period of examination of application by SEBI, individual IA shall continue 
to service existing clients. In case the aforesaid IA does not get registration 
as  non-individual  IA,such  IA  shall  continue  the  advisory  activities  as  an 
Individual IA while ensuring that the numbers of clients does not exceed 150 
in total. 

d.  As per Regulation 13(e) of the amended IA Regulations, existing Individual IA 
having more than 150 clients as on September 30, 2020 shall not on-board 
fresh  clients  and  such  Individual  IA  shall  apply  for  registration  as  non-
individual  IA  latest  by  April  01,  2021.  However,  during  the  period  of 
examination  of  application  by  SEBI,  individual  IA  shall  continue  to  service 
existing clients.  

e.  Existing Individual IA, having more than 150 clients on September 30, 2020, 
shall report their number of clients to SEBI through sebiria@sebi.gov.in, latest 
by October 15, 2020 in the following format: 
 

Name  of 
IA 

Registration 
No. 

No.  of  clients  as  on 
September 30, 2020 

Registered  office 
address 

 

 

 

 

 

(vi)  Maintenance of record 

 

Regulation 19 (1) of the SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 provides 
that  IA  shall  maintain  records  with  respect  to  his  activities  as  an  investment 
adviser. In this regard, it is clarified that: 

 

a.  IA shall maintain records of interactions ,with all clients including prospective 
clients  (prior  to  onboarding),  where  any  conversation  related  to  advice  has 
taken place inter alia, in the form of: 

 

Page 4 of 12 

                              
 

 

i.  Physical record written & signed by client, 
ii.  Telephone recording, 
iii.  Email from registered email id, 
iv.  Record of SMS messages, 
v.  Any other legally verifiable record.  

 

b.  Such records shall begin with first interaction with the client and shall continue 

till the completion of advisory services to the client. 

c.  IAs  shall  be  required  to  maintain  these  records  for  a  period  of  five  years. 
However, in case where dispute has been raised, such records shall be kept 
till  resolution  of  the  dispute  or  if  SEBI  desires  that  specific  records  be 
preserved, then such records shall be kept till further intimation from SEBI. 
 

(vii)  Audit 

 
a.  As per regulation 19 (3) of the amended IA Regulations, IA shall ensure that 
annual  audit  in  respect  of  compliance  of  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers) 
Regulations,  2013  and  circulars  issued  thereunder  is  conducted.  The  audit 
shall be completed within six months from the end of each financial year. 

b.  The adverse findings of the audit, if any, along with action taken thereof duly 
approved by the individual IA/management of the non-individual IA, shall be 
reported  to  respective  SEBI  office  (based  on  the  registered  address  of  IA) 
within a period of one month from the date of the audit report  but not later 
than October 31st of each year for the previous financial year starting with the 
financial year ending March 31,2021. 
 

(viii)  Risk profiling and suitability for non-individual clients 

 
a.  Regulation  16  and  17  of  SEBI  (Investment  Adviser)  Regulations,  2013 

mandates risk profiling and suitability for all categories of clients.  

b.  In order to further enhance the risk profiling and encompass suitable factors 
in  case  of  non-individual  clients,  IA  shall  use  the  investment  policy  as 
approved by board/management team of such non-individual clients for risk 
profiling and suitability analysis.  

c.  The discretion to share the investment policy/relevant excerpts of the policy 
shall lie with the non-individual client. However, IA shall have discretion not 
to onboard non-individual clients if they are unable to do risk profiling of the 
non-individual client in the absence of investment policy.  
 

(ix)  Display of details on website and in other communication channels 

 
In  order  to  protect  the  interest  of  investors  and  bring  more  transparency  in  the 
functioning  of  investment  advisers,  IAs  shall  display  the  following  information 
prominently on its website, mobile app, printed or electronic materials, know your 
client forms, client agreements and other correspondences with the clients: 

 

Page 5 of 12 

                              
 

 

  Complete name of Investment Adviser as registered with SEBI, 
  Type of Registration-Individual, Non-Individual, 
  Registration number, validity of registration,   
  Complete address with telephone numbers, 
  Contact details of the Principal Officer –contact no, email id etc., 
  Corresponding SEBI regional/local office address.   

 

3.  Applicability 

 

 

Client level segregation of advisory and distribution activities, agreement and fees 
to be charged are aligned together. IA shall ensure compliance with measures stated 
above at clause 2(i), 2(ii) and 2(iii) latest by April 01, 2021. 
 
Compliance with measures referred above at clause 2 (vi), 2(viii) and 2(ix) shall be 
ensured  latest  by  January  01,  2021.  Further  timelines  have  been  specified  under 
clause 2(iv), 2(v) and 2(vii).  
 

4.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 
 

5.  The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Info for – Investment Advisers” and "Legal framework - Circulars". 
 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 

Naveen Sharma 
General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Ph: 022-26449709 
Email: naveens@sebi.gov.in 
 

Page 6 of 12 

                              
 

Annexure-A 

 

Investment Adviser shall ensure that the following terms and conditions are incorporated in 
the Investment Advisory Agreement: 

1.  Appointment  of  the  Investment  Adviser:  In  accordance  with  the  applicable  laws, 
client hereby appoints, entirely at his / her / its risk, the Investment Adviser to provide 
the required services in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement 
as  mandated  under  Regulation19(1)(d)  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

 

2.  The agreement shall clearly provide for in the first page: 

(a) the consent of the client on the following understanding: 

 

“I  /  We  have  read  and  understood  the  terms  and  conditions  of 
Investment Advisory services provided by the Investment Adviser along 
with the fee structure and mechanism for charging and payment of fee. 

  Based on our written request to the Investment Adviser, an opportunity 
was provided by the Investment Adviser to ask questions and interact 
with ‘person(s) associated with the investment advice’”. 

(b) Declaration from the Investment Adviser that: 

 

 

 

 Investment Adviser shall neither render any investment advice nor 
charge any fee until the client has signed this agreement. 

Investment Adviser shall not manage funds and securities on behalf of 
the client and that it shall only receive such sums of monies from the 
client  as  are necessary  to  discharge  the  client’s  liability  towards  fees 
owed to the Investment Adviser. 

Investment Adviser shall not, in the course of performing its services to 
the client, hold out any investment advice implying any assured returns 
or minimum returns or target return or percentage accuracy or service 
provision till achievement of target returns or any other nomenclature 
that gives the impression to the client that the investment advice is risk-
free and/or not susceptible to market risks and or that it can generate 
returns with any level of assurance.  

(c) Fees specified under Investment Adviser Regulations and relevant circulars 

issued thereunder. (to be specifically mentioned here)  

(d) Fees charged to the client. (to be specifically mentioned here)  

 

Page 7 of 12 

                              
 

 

3.  Scope  of  services:  The  services  to  be  provided  by  the  Investment  Adviser  to  be 
described in detail. However, the same shall be subject to the activities permitted 
under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Investment  Advisers) 
Regulations, 2013. The Investment Adviser shall act in a fiduciary capacity towards 
its clients at all times. 

 

4.  Functions  of 

the 

Investment  Adviser:  Functions,  obligations,  duties  and 
responsibilities of the Investment Adviser (including principal officer and all persons 
associated with the investment advice), with specific provisions covering, inter alia,: 
(a) Terms  of  compliance  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 and its amendments, rules, circulars 
and notifications. 

(b) Compliance  with  the  eligibility  criteria  as  specified  under  the  Investment 

Adviser Regulations at all times. 

(c) Risk  assessment  procedure  of  client  including  their  risk  capacity  and  risk 

aversion. 

(d) Providing reports to clients on potential and current investments. 
(e) Maintenance  of  records  i.e.  client-wise  KYC,  risk  assessment,  analysis 
reports of investment advice and suitability, terms and conditions document, 
related books of accounts and a register containing list of clients along with 
dated investment advice and its rationale in compliance with the  Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

(f)  Provisions regarding audit as per the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

(g) Undertaking  to  abide  by  the  Code  of  Conduct  as  specified  in  the  Third 
Schedule  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Investment 
Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

 

5.  Investment objective and guidelines: 

(a) Types of securities in which investment advice would be provided, including 
an  undertaking 
to  recommend  direct 
implementation of advice i.e. through direct schemes/direct codes, and other 
client specifications / restrictions on investments, if any. 

investment  adviser 

from 

the 

(b) Particulars regarding financial plan or model or strategy as agreed with the 
client  (based  on  the  risk  profiling  conducted  for  the  client, total  AUA  of  the 
client and time period for deployment). 

(c) Tax related aspects pertaining to investment advice and as applicable on the 

investment adviser’s fee. 

 

6.  Risk Factors: A detailed statement of risks associated with each type of investment 
covering the standard risks associated with each type of investment in securities and 
investment products. 

 

Page 8 of 12 

                              
 

 

7.  Validity  of  advisory  services:  Minimum  period  if  any,  and  provision  for  renewal,  if 

any, along with terms and conditions for such renewal. 
 

8.  Amendments – The agreement may be amended by mutual written consent of the 

parties. 
 

9.  Termination  –  This  Agreement  may  be 

terminated  under 

the 

following 

circumstances, namely- 

(a) Voluntary / mandatory termination by the Investment Adviser. 
(b) Voluntary / mandatory termination by the client. 
(c) Suspension/Cancellation of registration of Investment Adviser by SEBI.  
(d) Any other action taken by other regulatory body/ Government authority. 

 

In case of a voluntary termination of the agreement, the client would be required to 
give a 30 days prior written notice while the Investment Adviser would be required 
to give a 30 days prior written notice. 
 
In case of suspension of the certificate of registration of the  IA, the client may be 
provided with the option to terminate the agreement. 

 

10. Implications  of  Amendments  and  termination:  The  implications  of  Amendment, 
Termination  and  assignment,  such  as  set  off  of  fees  received  by  the  Investment 
Adviser, refund of fees, completion/termination of investment-in-progress, transition 
support obligations of the Investment Adviser, etc. shall also be provided in detail. 
 

11. Relationship with related parties: The Investment Adviser to clearly declare that it is 
carrying  on  its  activities  independently,  at  an  arms-length  basis  with  its  related 
parties. Disclosures of conflicts to be made.  

 

 

12.  Investment Adviser engaged in other activities: 

(i) The  Investment  Adviser  (individual)  to  represent to  the  client  that  it  maintains an 
arms-length relationship between its activities as an investment adviser and other 
activities  and  to  covenant  that  this  arm’s  length  relationship  shall  be  maintained 
throughout the tenure of advisory service; 
 

(ii)  In case of Investment Adviser who are individuals: 

a.  to represent that they shall not provide any distribution services.  
b.  to  represent  that  the  family  of  an  individual  Investment  Adviser  shall  not 
provide distribution services to the client advised by the individual Investment 
Adviser, for securities and investment products. 

Page 9 of 12 

                              
 

 

c.  to  represent  that  they  shall  not  provide  investment  advisory  services,  for 
securities  and  investment  products,  to  a  client  who  is  receiving  distribution 
services from other family members; 

(iii)  The Investment Adviser (non-individual); 

a.  to represent that they shall not provide any distribution services, for securities 
and investment products, either directly or through their group to an advisory 
client. 

b. to  represent  that  they  shall  not  provide  investment  advisory  services,  for 
securities and investment products, either directly or through their group to 
the distribution client; 

13. Representation  to  client:  The  investment  adviser  to  ensure  that  it  will  take  all 
consents and permissions from the client prior to undertaking any actions in relation 
to the securities or investment product advised by the investment adviser. 

 

14. No right to seek Power of Attorney: The Investment Adviser to clearly declare that it 
shall  not  seek  any  power  of  attorney  or  authorizations  from  its  clients  for 
implementation of investment advice. 

 

15. No conflict of interest: The Investment Adviser to clearly declare that it will disclose 
all conflicts of interest as and when they arise and not derive any direct or indirect 
benefit out of the client’s securities/investment products. 

16. Maintenance of accounts and confidentiality: 

Investment Adviser shall be responsible for maintenance of client accounts and data 
as  mandated  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Investment 
Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

17. Terms of fees and billing: 

(a)  Provide specific details on the following: 

 

 

(i)  The  quantum  and  manner  of  payment  of  fees  for  investment  advice 

rendered.  

(ii)  Fee modalities and periodicity, by attaching a detailed fee schedule to 

the agreement; 

(iii)  Illustration(s) on how the fee will be determined; 
(iv) whether payment to be made in advance; 
(v)  type of documents evidencing receipt of payment of fee; 
(vi) Periodicity of billing with clear date and service period. 

 

Page 10 of 12 

                              
 

 

(b)  The payment of fees shall be through a mode which  shows traceability of 
funds. Such modes may include account payee crossed cheque/ Demand 
Drafts or by way of direct credit to the bank accounts through NEFT/ RTGS/ 
IMPS/ UPI or any other mode specified by SEBI from time to time. However, 
the fees shall not be accepted in cash. 

 

18. Liability of Investment Adviser. The agreement to clearly state that the Investment 
Adviser shall not incur any liability by reason of any loss, which a client may suffer 
by reason of any depletion in the value of the assets under advice, which may result 
by reason of fluctuation in asset value, or by reason of non-performance or under-
performance of the securities/funds or any other market conditions. 

 

19. Representations  and  covenants:  Adequate  and  appropriate  representations about 
qualifications of the adviser, principal officer, persons associated with the investment 
advice, receipt of all applicable approvals and consents (from regulatory / statutory 
bodies,  third  party  consents,  corporate  approvals  etc.)  and  covenant  to  maintain 
them throughout the validity of advisory service. 

 

20. Death or Disability of client: Provisions in relation to continuation / termination of the 
advisory  service  in  event  of  client's  death  /  disability,  succession,  nomination, 
representation etc. to be incorporated. 

 

21. Death or Disability of investment adviser: Every individual investment adviser must 
appoint  one  of  its  legal  heirs,  executor,  trustee,  administrator  of  estate  of  the 
deceased (the “Obligor”) as the person-in-charge in the event of investment adviser’s 
death / disability. The agreement must set out the full name, PAN and contact details 
of such Obligor. The agreement must disclose the steps to be taken by the Obligor 
in the event of the above eventuality in order to ensure protection of interest of the 
clients and redressal of clients’ claims, including but not limited to (a) giving notice 
to all clients of the occurrence of the eventuality and confirmation of having taken 
charge over by the Obligor (b) settlement of account with the client (fees payable 
and/or fees refundable), (c) completion of transition of any outstanding business to 
another duly registered investment adviser, (d) redressal of any outstanding or new 
disputes / claims of clients. 

 

22. Settlement  of  disputes  and  provision  for  arbitration:  Adequate  provisions  to  cover 
protection  of  acts  done  in  good  faith  as  well  as  for  dispute  resolution  mechanism 
including arbitration that may be specified under the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

 

23. Adherence to grievance redressal timelines: Investment Adviser shall be responsible 

to resolve the grievances within the timelines specified under SEBI circulars. 

 

Page 11 of 12 

                              
 

 

24. Severability  

 

If any provision of this Agreement shall be held or made invalid by a court decision, 
statute,  rule  or  otherwise,  the  remainder  of  this  Agreement  shall  not  be  affected 
thereby 
 

25. Force Majeure.  

The Investment Adviser shall not be liable for delays or errors occurring by reason 
of circumstances beyond its control, including but not limited to acts of civil or military 
authority,  national  emergencies,  work  stoppages,  fire,  flood,  catastrophe,  acts  of 
God, insurrection, war, riot, or failure of communication or power supply. In the event 
of equipment breakdowns beyond its control, the Advisor shall take reasonable steps 
to minimize service interruptions but shall have no liability with respect thereto 
 

26. Miscellaneous.  

Each  party  agrees  to  perform  such  further  actions  and  execute  such  further 
agreements as are necessary to effectuate the purposes hereof 

 

***** 

 

Page 12 of 12 

