 

 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

    October 01, 2020 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DCAP/CIR/P/2020/190 
 
To,  
1.  All recognized Stock Exchanges 
2.  All recognized Depositories  
3.  All recognized Custodians 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
    
Subject: Framework for monitoring of foreign holding in Depository Receipts  
 
1.  The framework for issuance of Depository Receipts (‘DRs’) by a Listed Company was 

notified by SEBI vide Circular dated October 10, 2019. 
 

2.  The said Circular, at Para 2.19 to 2.21, inter-alia, provided the obligations of  Indian 
Depository and Domestic Custodian, whereby, Indian Depositories were required to 
develop a system to monitor the foreign holding, including that held by way of DRs, as 
per  the  limits  prescribed  under  the  Foreign  Exchange  Management  Act,  1999  and 
applicable SEBI Regulations, and disseminate the information regarding outstanding 
DRs  and  available  limit  for  conversion.  For  this  purpose,  the  Circular  provided  that 
Indian Depositories shall have necessary arrangement with the Domestic Custodian 
and / or Foreign Depository. 
 

3.  Based on discussion with market participants, the broad operational guidelines for the 
above purpose are placed at Annexure. Indian Depositories, in consultation with each 
other and market participants, may prescribe the formats and other details, as may be 
necessary to operationalize the above. 
 

4.  Stock Exchanges and Depositories are advised to: 

a)  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for 

the implementation of the above circular; and 

b)  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  issuers,  Domestic 

Custodians and also to disseminate the same on the website. 

 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 
Yours faithfully,  
 
Sudeep Mishra 
General Manager  
+91-22-26449365 
sudeepm@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 1 of 7 

 

 

 

Annexure 
 
1.  Listed  Company  shall  appoint  one  of  the  Indian  Depository  as  the  Designated 

Depository for the purpose of monitoring of limits in respect of Depository Receipts. 
 

2.  The  Designated  Depository  in  co-ordination  with  Domestic  Custodian,  other 
Depository  and  Foreign  Depository  (if  required)  shall  compute,  monitor  and 
disseminate  the  Depository  Receipts  (DRs)  information  as  prescribed  in  the 
framework. The said information shall be disseminated on website of both the Indian 
Depositories.  For  this  purpose,  the  Designated  Depository  shall  act  as  a  Lead 
Depository and the other depository shall act as a Feed Depository. 

 

3.  Domestic Custodian shall:  

 

3.1. Provide one-time details of DRs in the format and manner as may be prescribed 

by the Indian Depositories. 
 

3.2. Provide the requisite information as may be prescribed by Designated Depository 
for the purpose of computation of information in respect of Depository Receipts 
as and when requested. 

 

3.3. Ensure that the underlying permissible securities, pertaining to a listed company, 
against which DRs are issued in the Permissible Jurisdiction, are held in a demat 
account,  under  a  separate  Type  &  Sub-Type  as  prescribed  by  the  Indian 
Depositories for the purpose of issue of DRs. 

 

3.4. Provide certificate / declaration / information, to the Designated Depository in the 
prescribed  format  upon  termination/cancellation  of  DR  program.  For  this,  the 
issuer  or  Foreign  Depository  shall  be  required  to  report  such  termination  / 
cancellation to the Domestic Custodian. 
 

4.  Procedure for the purpose of monitoring of limits  

 
4.1. The Designated  Depository shall forward the list of such companies (ISINs) for 
which it will be monitoring the DR issuance to Feed Depository. For any addition 
or deletion of ISINs, the Designated Depository shall communicate to the Feed 
Depository regarding the same through Incremental information sent on a periodic 
basis. 

 
4.2. Feed Depository shall provide the ISIN wise demat holdings of investors tagged 

with separate sub-type to the Designated Depository on a daily basis.  

 

 

 

Page 2 of 7 

 

 

 

4.3. The  Designated  Depository  shall  ascertain  the  details  of  holdings  pertaining  to 
Foreign  Depository  lying  under  demat  account(s)  tagged  under  such  separate 
Type  &  Sub-Type  as  well  as  other  investors  with  ‘DR’  sub  type  held  at  both 
depositories  and  consolidate  such  holdings  to  arrive  at  the  outstanding 
Permissible Securities against which the DRs are outstanding. 
 

4.4. Calculation of headroom i.e. ‘the limit up to which Permissible Securities can be 

converted to DRs’, may be undertaken in the following manner: 

 

(A) 

(B) 

Particulars 

Number  of  DRs  originally  issued  including  corporate 

action 

Outstanding  Permissible  Securities  against  which  the 

DRs are outstanding 

 (C) 

Re-issuance  approval  granted  by  Domestic  Custodian 

(unutilized) at End of Day 

Headroom =  

the  limit  up  to  which  Permissible  Securities  can  be 

A – (B + C) 

converted to DRs 

 

4.5. The  Indian  Depositories  shall  exchange  with  each  other  their  respective  list  of 
companies, for dissemination of DR headroom related information, which shall be 
consolidated  by  both  depositories  and  thereafter  published  on  their  respective 
websites. 
 

5.  Re-issuance mechanism 

 

5.1. For the purpose of re-issuance of permissible securities, a Foreign Investor shall 
request  SEBI  registered  Broker  with  requisite  quantity  of  securities  (based  on 
available headroom) required for re-issuance of depository receipts which shall 
be forwarded to the Domestic Custodian. 
 

5.2. Based on last available headroom disseminated by Designated Depository, the 
Domestic  Custodian  shall  grant  approval  (T-  day  where  T  is  date  of  approval 
granted by Domestic Custodian) to such request received from SEBI registered 
Broker for re-issuance purpose which shall be valid for a period of 3 trading days 
(T+3) from the date of approval of request granted by Domestic Custodian.  
 

5.3. The Domestic Custodian shall report such request approvals along with requisite 
quantity granted to Designated Depository on same day (i.e. T day) and based on 
which  the  Designated  Depository  shall  block  the  quantity  for  the  purpose  of 
calculation of Headroom. 

 

Page 3 of 7 

 

 

 

 

5.4. The  Domestic  Custodian  shall  report  the  status  of  utilisation  of  such  approved 
request  to  the  Designated  Depository  upon  receipt  of  securities  in  the  demat 
account of Foreign Depository for the purpose of calculation of Headroom. The 
domestic  custodian  shall  report  the  final  utilisation  status  of  such  approved 
request with respect to receipt of securities on D+1 basis (where D is a date of 
credit of security in the Foreign Depository’s account) before such time as may be 
prescribed by Designated Depository.  In case of non-receipt of securities within 
the specified timeline, Custodian shall unblock the requisite quantity of approval 
granted and report the same to Designated Depository.  

 

6.  Monitoring of Investor group limits 

 
6.1. FPI shall report the details of all such FPIs forming part of the same investor group 
as well as Offshore Derivative Instruments (ODI) subscribers and / or DR holders 
having common ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than fifty percent or on 
the basis of common control, to its Designated Depository Participant (DDP). The 
investor group may appoint one such FPI to act as a Nodal entity for reporting the 
aforesaid grouping information to its DDP in the format enclosed at Annexure A. 
Further,  such  Nodal  FPI  shall  report  the  investment  holding  in  the  underlying 
Indian  security  as  held  by  ODI  subscriber  and  /  or  as  DR  holder,  including 
securities  held  in  the  Depository  Receipt  account  upon  conversion  (‘DR 
conversion’ account), to its Domestic Custodian on a monthly basis (by the 10th of 
every month) in the format enclosed at Annexure B. Similarly, the FPIs who do 
not belong to the same investor group shall report such investment holding details 
in the underlying Indian security as ODI subscriber and / or as DR holder, including 
securities held in the ‘DR conversion’ account, to its Custodian in the aforesaid 
format on a monthly basis (by 10th of the month). 
 

6.2. The DDP shall report FPI grouping information as reported by Nodal FPI to such 
Indian  Depository  (by  17th  of  the  month)  where  FPI  group  demat  accounts  are 
held in the manner and format as specified by such Indian Depository. Similarly, 
the Custodian of Nodal entity (who also happen to be the DDP) shall report the 
investment  holdings  in  the  underlying  Indian  security  as  held  by  the  ODI 
subscriber and / or DR holder in respect of the aforesaid FPI group on monthly 
basis  to  such  Indian Depository  (by  17th  of the month)  where  FPI  group  demat 
accounts  are  held  in  the  manner  and  format  as  specified  by  such  Indian 
Depository.  

 

6.3. The  Depository  which  monitors  the  FPI  group  limits  shall  club  the  investment 
pertaining to DR holding, ODI holding and FPI holding of same investor group and 
monitor  the  investment  limits  as  applicable  to  FPI  group  in  a  Listed  Indian 
company on a monthly basis. However, in respect of FPIs which do not belong to 

 

Page 4 of 7 

 

 

 

 

 

the same investor group, responsibility of monitoring the investment limits of FPI 
shall  be  with  the  respective  DDP  /  Custodian.  The  Custodian  of  such  FPIs  not 
forming part of investor group shall club the investment as held by FPIs as well as 
investment  as  held  by  such  FPI  in  the  capacity  of  ODI  subscriber  and  /  or  DR 
holder and monitor the investment limits as applicable to single FPI. In case where 
the  investment  holding  breaches  the  prescribed  limits,  the  Indian  Depository  / 
Custodian,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  advise  the  concerned  investor  /  investor 
group, to divest the excess holding within 5  trading days similar to requirement 
prescribed  under  SEBI  Circular  dated  November  05,  2019  on  ‘Operational 
Guidelines for FPIs & DDPs under SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors), Regulations 
2019 and for Eligible Foreign Investors. 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 7 

 

 

 

Sr. 
No. 

Name of 
reporting 
FPI (Nodal 
Entity) 

Registration 
No. of 
Reporting FPI 
(Nodal Entity) 
mentioned in 
column B 

 

 

A 

B 

 

C 

 

 

 

Name of FPI 
/ ODI 
Subscriber 
with whom 
the applicant 
shares, 
ownership of 
more than 
50% 
common 
control 
D 

 

Registration 
No. of FPI 
mentioned at 
Column D 

Type of 
Client viz. 
FPI or ODI 
subscriber 
or DR 
holder 

Annexure – A 
 
Jurisdic
tion / 
Country 
of entity 
mention
ed at 
Column 
D 

If ODI 
subscri
ber, 
please 
mention 
name of 
dealing 
FPI 

LEI No. of 
entity 
mentioned 
at Column 
D (for ODI 
subscriber 
or DR 
holder) 

E 

F 

 

G 

 

H 

 

I 

 

 

 

Page 6 of 7 

 

 

 

Sr. 
No. 

Name 
of 
reportin
g FPI 
(Nodal 
Entity) 

Registratio
n No. of 
Reporting 
FPI (Nodal 
Entity) 
mentioned 
in column B 

Name of 
ODI 
Subscriber 
or DR holder 
having 
investment 
in Indian 
Securities 
through ODI 
or DR route 
D 

Annexure – B 
 

Value of 
securitie
s held 

As on 
date 
(DD-
MMM-
YYYY) 

ISIN of 
the 
Indian 
Security 

ISIN 
Descripti
on or 
name of 
the 
security 

Quantity 
of 
securities 
held (in 
ratio as 
being held 
in India) 

LEI No. 
of ODI 
subscrib
er or DR 
holder 
mention
ed at 
Column 
D 

E 

F 

 

G 

 

H 

 

I 

 

J 

 

 

A 

B 

 

C 

 

 

 

 
 
Note 
1.  Reference ISIN No. – ISIN of the underlying Indian Security (ISINs issued by NSDL 

for underlying security). 

2.  The quantity of securities in the requisite ISIN / or Indian Security shall be reported 

in the ration as being held in India. 

3.  The securities shall be reported as at the end of the month. 
4.  For the purpose of valuation, the closing price of such security as at the end of the 

month in India be considered for the computation of value of securities held. 

 

 

Page 7 of 7 

