 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 
                                                                                                              
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DPIEA/CIR/P/2020/186                      
 
 
To,  

     September 28, 2020 

All Recognised Stock Exchanges  

All Recognised Clearing Corporations 

 
 
Madam/Sir, 
 
 
Subject:  Recovery  of  assets  of  defaulter  member  and  recovery  of  funds  from 

debit balance clients of defaulter member for meeting the obligations of clients 

/ Stock Exchange / Clearing Corporation  

 
 
1.  SEBI  vide  circular  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2018/153  dated  December  17, 

2018  had  specified  Early  Warning  Mechanism  to  prevent  diversion  of  client’s 

securities  and  consequential  action(s)  to  be  initiated  by  the  Stock  Exchanges 

(“SEs”), Clearing Corporations (“CCs”) and Depositories were also specified in the 

said Circular. 

 

2.  Further, SEBI vide circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DPIEA/CIR/P/2020/115 dated July 01, 

2020 (“SOP Circular”) had specified Standard Operating Procedure in the cases of 

Trading Member (“TM”) / Clearing Member (“CM”) leading to default. SEBI circular 

CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/64  dated  June  22,  2017  and  the  SOP 

Circular have inter alia specified that all SE/CC shall initiate the process to settle 

debit balance client accounts by selling their securities if such clients fail to clear 

their debit balance after giving notice period for 5 days. 

 

3.  As per Section 2(j) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (“SCRA”) a 

stock  exchange  is  an  entity  which  is  established  for  the  purposes  of  assisting, 

regulating or controlling the business of buying, selling or dealing in securities. A 

Stock Exchange is recognised by SEBI in terms of Section 4 of SCRA. In terms of 

 

Page 1 of 3 

provisions of SCRA, a recognised stock exchange acts as a first level regulator in 

the securities market, in so far as trading on its platform by its members.  In terms 

of Section 9 of SCRA, a recognised stock exchange has been empowered to frame 

bye laws for the regulation and control of contracts in securities entered into by its 

members.  Sub-section  (2)  of  Section  9,  lays  down  a  list  of  matters  relating  to 

different aspects of contract in securities, for which Stock Exchanges can make bye 

laws.  These  bye  laws  inter  alia  provide  for  admission  of  members,  listing  of 

securities, declaring a member defaulter, resolution of disputes between member 

and  client  through  arbitration  and annulment  of  trade, etc. These provisions  also 

apply to a Clearing Corporation in terms of Section 8A of SCRA. 

 

4.  In the case of default by TM/CM, it has been noted that in certain cases there is 

shortfall of funds/securities with defaulter member to meet the obligation of clients 

/ SE / CC. The bye-laws of SE/CC provide for the procedure for declaring a member 

as  defaulter  when,  amongst  other  reasons,  the  member  is  not  able  to  fulfil  its 

obligations and also provide for initiation of proceedings in a court of law whenever 

a member is declared as a defaulter and there is a shortfall of funds/securities with 

the defaulter member.  

 

5.  The  SE/CC  are  advised  to  initiate  suitable  actions  for  liquidating  the  assets 

(movable  and  immovable)  of  defaulter  member  including  that  of  debit  balance 

clients (to the extent of debit balance), within six months of declaration of defaulter, 

for recovery of the assets not in possession of the SE/CC, before appropriate court 

of law. 

 

6.  Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations are further advised to:  
  

a)  draw attention of the provisions of this circular to the notice of their members 

and  participants,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  disseminate  the  same  on  their 

websites;  

b)  make amendments to their bye-laws, rules, regulations wherever necessary; 

c)  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular in their monthly development report. 

 

7.  This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11 

(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Section 10 of 

 

Page 2 of 3 

the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interests of investors 

in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 

market. 

 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Rachna Anand 
General Manager 
Market Intermediaries Regulations and Supervision Department 

 

Page 3 of 3 

