 

CIRCULAR 

  

                September 28, 2020   

 
SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/183 
 
To 
 
All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (“InvITs”)  
All Parties to InvITs  
All Recognised Stock Exchanges 
All Merchant Bankers 
 
Madam/Sir 
 
Sub:  Amendments  to  guidelines  for  preferential  issue  and  institutional 
placement of units by a listed InvIT 
 
1.  SEBI  issued  circular  SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2019/143  dated  November 
27, 2019 providing guidelines for preferential issue and institutional placement of 
units by listed InvITs (“Guidelines”). The guidelines were subsequently revised 
vide circular SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/36 dated March 13, 2020. 
  
In  view  of  the  situation  emerging  out  of  the  COVID-19  pandemic  SEBI  has 
granted certain relaxations for raising of equity capital. On similar lines the extant 
guidelines  for  preferential  issue  and  institutional  placement  of  units  by  listed 
InvITs stand modified as set out in the Annexure to this circular. 

2. 

 

This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Regulation 33 of 
the InvIT Regulations. 

 

This Circular is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India at www.sebi.gov.in under the category “Legal” and under the drop down 
“Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 

Deena Venu Sarangadharan 
Deputy General Manager  
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities  
Tel No.+91-22-2644 9266 
Email id - deenar@sebi.gov.in  

Page 1 of 2 

Annexure 

3. 

4. 

 

 

 

 
1.  Clause 2.6 of the Guidelines is modified as under: 

 
“The InvIT shall not make any subsequent institutional placement until the expiry 
of two weeks from the date of the prior institutional placement made pursuant to 
one or more special resolutions.” 
 

2.  After clause 2.1 and before clause 2.2 of sub-paragraph (A) of paragraph 2 of 

Annexure-I, the following provisos shall be inserted: 
 
“Provided that, for any preferential issue made between the date of this circular 
and December 31, 2020, the InvIT may opt for a pricing method where the price 
of the units to be allotted pursuant to the preferential issue shall not be less than 
the higher of the following: 
 
(a) the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average price 
of  the  related  units  quoted  on  the  recognised  stock  exchange  during  the 
twelve weeks preceding the relevant date; or 
 

(b) the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the  volume  weighted  average 
prices of the related units quoted on a recognised stock exchange during the 
two weeks preceding the relevant date. 

 

Provided  further  that,  units  allotted  on  a  preferential  basis  using  the  pricing 
method set out in the first proviso shall be locked-in for a period of three years: 
 
Provided further that, all allotments arising out of the same unitholders approval 
shall follow the same pricing method.” 
 

3.  After clause 3.1 of paragraph 3 of Annexure-I, the following explanation shall be 

inserted: 
 
Explanation: For the computation of the lock-in requirement, the units held by the 
sponsor(s) and locked-in for three years, in the past in terms of Regulation 12 (3) 
of the InvIT Regulations shall be taken into account. The units locked-in pursuant 
to Regulation 12(3) of the InvIT Regulations shall not be put under fresh lock-in 
again, even though they are considered for computing the lock-in requirement, 
in case the said units are free of lock-in at the time of the preferential issue. 

 

Page 2 of 2 

