 

 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/199   

 

 

 

       October 6, 2020 

 

To 

Recognised Stock Exchanges 

Registered Depositories 

Issuers of PNCPS and IPDIs/PDIs 

Merchant Bankers, Stock Brokers and Registrars to an Issue registered with SEBI 

 

Madam / Sir, 

 

 

Sub: 

Issuance,  listing  and  trading  of  Perpetual  Non-Cumulative  Preference 

Shares  (PNCPS)  and  Innovative  Perpetual  Debt  Instruments  (IPDIs)/ 

Perpetual  Debt  Instruments  (PDIs)  (commonly  referred  to  as  Additional 

Tier 1 (AT 1) instruments)  

1.  Perpetual  Non-Cumulative  Preference  Shares  (PNCPS’)  and  Innovative  Perpetual 

Debt Instruments (IPDIs) / Perpetual Debt Instruments (PDIs) (commonly referred to 

as AT 1 instruments) are essentially non-equity regulatory instruments, forming part of 

a bank’s capital, governed by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines and issued under 

the  issuance  and  listing  framework  given  under  Chapter  VI  of  the  SEBI  (Issue  and 

Listing  of  Non-Convertible  Redeemable  Preference  Shares)  Regulations,  2013 

(“NCRPS Regulations”). 

  

2.  These instruments have certain unique features which, inter-alia, grant the issuer (i.e. 

banks,  in  consultation with  RBI)  a  discretion  in  terms  of  writing  down  the  principal  / 

interest, to skip interest payments, to make an early recall etc. without commensurate 

 

1 

 

right for investors to legal recourse, even if such actions of the issuer might result in 

potential loss to investors. 

 

3.  Given the nature and contingency impact of these AT 1 instruments and the fact that 

full import of the discretion is available to an issuer, may not be understood in the truest 

form  by  retail  individual  investors,  the  matter  was  discussed  in  SEBI’s  advisory 

committee on the development of corporate bond market in India viz. Corporate Bonds 

and Securitization Advisory Committee (CoBoSAC). Based on the recommendations 

of the CoBoSAC, the following shall be the additional framework related to issuance, 

listing and trading of PNCPS and IPDIs which are proposed to be listed : 

 

a.  Manner of Issuance: 

i.  The  issuance  of  AT1  instruments  shall  be  done  mandatorily  on  the  Electronic 

Book  Provider  (EBP)  platform  irrespective  of  the  issue  size  in  terms  of  SEBI 

circulars  SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/05  dated  January  05,  2018  and 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/122 dated August 16, 2018. 

ii.  “Securities”  as  defined  in  clause  1.1.8  of  Schedule  A  of  SEBI  circular 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/05 dated January 05, 2018, shall include: 

i)  Perpetual non-cumulative preference shares (PNCPS)  

ii) 

Innovative perpetual debt instruments (IPDIs) and 

iii)  Perpetual debt instruments (PDIs) 

 

b.  Investors 

Issuers  and  Stock  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  only  QIBs  are  allowed  to 

participate in the issuance of AT1 instruments. 

 

c.  Allotment size 

The minimum allotment of AT1 instruments shall not be less than Rs.1 crore. 

 

d.  Trading lot size 

The minimum trading lot size for AT1 instruments shall be Rs.1 crore. 

 

 

 

2 

 
 

e.  Other requirements: 

Issuers, in addition to making disclosures as per Schedule I of the SEBI NCRPS 

Regulations, shall comply with the following: 

i.  Disclosures as specified in Annex I.  

ii.  Provisions of circulars as specified in Annex II. 

iii.  Specific disclosures about: 

a)  Details of all the conditions upon which the call option will be exercised by 

them  for  AT1  instruments,  in  the  Information  /Private  Placement 

Memorandum. 

b)  Risk factors, to include all the inherent features of these AT1 instruments 

highlighted at para 2 above. 

c)  Point of Non Viability (PONV) clause: The absolute right, given to the RBI, 

to  direct  a  bank  to  write  down  the  entire  value  of  its  outstanding  AT1 

instruments/bonds,  if  it  thinks  the  bank  has  passed  the  Point  of  Non 

Viability (PONV), or requires a public sector capital infusion to remain a 

going concern. 

 

4.  This circular shall come into force with effect from October 12, 2020.  

 

5.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  under  Section  11(1)  of  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  regulations  23(5)  and  26  of  the  SEBI 

(NCRPS) Regulations. 

 

6.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  categories 

“Legal Framework” and under “Circulars”. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 
Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
General Manager 
Department of Debt & Hybrid Securities 
Tel No.: 022-2644 9246 
Email: pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

3 

 

 

 

 

 

Annex I 

S.no 

1 

Description of disclosure 

An  undertaking from the  issuer  stating  that  the  necessary  documents for  the  creation  of the 
charge, where applicable, including the Trust Deed would be executed within the time frame 
prescribed  in  the  relevant  regulations/act/rules  etc.  and  uploaded  on  the  website  of  the 
Designated  Stock  exchange,  where  the  AT1  Instruments  have  been  listed,  within  5  working 
days of execution of the same. 

2 

3 

4 

An  undertaking  that  permission  /  consent  from  the  prior  creditor  for  a  second  or  pari  passu 
charge being created, where applicable, in favor of the trustees to the proposed issue has been 
obtained. 
Latest Audited / Limited Review Half Yearly Consolidated (wherever available) and Standalone 
Financial Information (Profit & Loss statement, Balance Sheet and Cash Flow statement) and 
auditor qualifications. 
A copy of the latest annual report to the Trustee and the Trustee shall be obliged to share the 
details  submitted  under  this  clause  with  all  ‘Qualified  Institutional  Buyers’  (QIBs)  within  180 
days  from  the  end  of  the  financial  year  and  other  existing  AT  1  instrument  holders  within  2 
working days of their specific request. 

5  Gross debt-equity ratio of the company, before and after the issuance of the AT1 instrument.  

6 

7 

8 

The names of the debenture trustee(s) with a statement to the effect that debenture trustee(s) 
has  given  its  consent  to  the  Issuer  for  its  appointment  and  in  all  the  subsequent  periodical 
communications sent to the holders of AT1 instruments. 
If the security is backed by a guarantee or letter of comfort or any other document / letter with 
similar intent, a copy of the same.  
 
In case such document does not contain detailed payment structure (procedure of invocation 
of  guarantee  and  receipt  of  payment  by  the  investor  along  with  timelines),  disclosure  of  the 
same in the placement memorandum. 
Copy of consent letter from the Debenture Trustee.  

9  Other details: 

i. Issue/instrument specific regulations - relevant details (Companies Act, RBI, guidelines etc.). 
ii. Application process. 

10  Other issue details:  

Coupon  rate,  Step  Up/Step  Down  Coupon  Rate,  Coupon  Payment  Frequency,  Coupon 
payment dates (Dates on which coupon will be paid.), Coupon Type (Fixed, floating or other 
coupon structure),Coupon Reset Process (including rates, spread, effective date, interest rate 
cap  and  floor  etc).  Day  Count  Basis(  Actual/  Actual),  Security  (where  applicable)  (Including 
description, type of security, type of charge, likely date of creation of security, minimum security 
cover, revaluation, replacement of security [", interest to the AT1 instruments holder over and 
above the coupon rate as specified in the Trust deed and disclosed in the IM/PPM, Roles and 
responsibility of Debenture Trustee. 

 

4 

 

S. 
no 
1 

Circular date 

Subject 

Cir.no 

October 22, 2013 

Centralized Database for Corporate 
Bonds/ Debentures 

CIR/IMD/DF/17/2013 

Annex II 

2 

October 29,2013 

3 

October 13, 2015 

Clause I of the Circular on Issues 
pertaining to primary issuance of 
debt securities 
Format of uniform Listing 
Agreement 

CIR/IMD/DF/18/2013 

CIR/CFD/CMD/6/2015 

 4 

November 11, 2016  Clarification on aspects related to 

CIR/IMD/DF-1/122/2016 

5 

June 30, 2017 

6 

March 28, 2018 

7 

January 05, 2018 

8 

August 16, 2018 

day count convention for debt 
securities issued under the SEBI 
ILDS Regulations,  
Specifications related  to 
International  Securities  
Identification  Number  (ISINs)  for 
debt  securities  issued  under  the  
SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  
Securities)  Regulations, 2008. 
Clarifications  with respect to 
circular on “Specifications  related  
to  International Securities 
Identification Number (ISINs) for 
debt securities issued under the 
SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt 
Securities) Regulations, 2008” 
Electronic book mechanism for 
issuance of securities on private 
placement basis 
Electronic book mechanism for 
issuance of securities on private 
placement basis-Clarification 

CIR/IMD/DF-1/ 67/2017 

CIR/DDHS/P/59/2018 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/05 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2018/122 

 

 

5 

