 

 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/198                                                            October 05, 2020

 

 

 

 

To   

All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Issuers  
All Depositories 
 

Dear Sir/Madam,  

Sub.:  Standardization  of  timeline  for  listing  of  securities  issued  on  a  private 

placement basis under: 

i.  SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 (SEBI ILDS),  
ii.  SEBI (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares) 

Regulations, 2013 (SEBI NCRPS), 

iii.  SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security 

Receipts) Regulations, 2008 (SEBI SDI) and  

iv.  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Municipal  Debt  Securities)  Regulations,  2015 

(SEBI ILDM). 

 

1.  SEBI has been receiving requests from various market participants for clarification on 

the time period within which securities issued on private placement basis under SEBI 

ILDS, SEBI NCPRS, SEBI SDI and  SEBI ILDM Regulations need to be listed after 

completion of allotment. 

 

2.  After discussions and taking feedback from market participants, it has been decided 

to stipulate the following timelines: 

 

Serial 

Details of Activities  

number 

 

1.    Closure of issue  

2.    Receipt of funds 

Due date  

 

T day 

To  be  completed  by  T+2 

3.    Allotment of securities 

trading day 

 

 

4.   

Issuer to make listing application to Stock 

To  be  completed  by  T+4 

Exchange(s)  

trading day 

5.   

Listing 

permission 

from 

Stock 

Exchange(s)  

3.  Depositories shall activate the ISINs of debt securities issued on private placement 

basis  only  after  the  Stock  Exchange(s)  have  accorded  approval  for  listing  of  such 

securities. 

 

Further, in order to facilitate re-issuances of new debt securities in an existing ISIN, 

Depositories are advised to allot such new debt securities under a new temporary ISIN 

which shall be kept frozen. Upon receipt of listing approval from Stock Exchange(s) 

for such new debt securities, the debt securities credited in the new temporary ISIN 

shall be debited and the same shall be credited in the pre-existing ISIN of the existing 

debt securities, before they become available for trading. 

 

Stock  Exchange(s)  are  advised  to  inform  the  listing  approval  details  to  the 

Depositories whenever listing permission is given to debt securities issued on private 

placement basis. 

 

4.  In case of delay in listing of securities issued on privately placement basis beyond the 

timelines specified in para 2 above, the issuer shall; 

 

4.1. pay penal interest of 1% p.a. over the coupon rate for the period of delay to the 

investor (i.e. from date of allotment to the date of listing) 

 

4.2. be permitted to utilise the issue proceeds of its subsequent two privately placed 

issuances  of  securities  only  after  receiving  final  listing  approval  from  Stock 

Exchanges. 

 

 

5.  Clause 4(a) (ii) of the SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOS3/CIR/P/2019/68 dated 

May 27, 2019 stands deleted. 

 

6.  The circular shall come into force with effect from December 01, 2020. 

 

7.  This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) 

of the Securities and Exchange  Board of India  Act, 1992 to protect  the interests of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities markets. 

 

8.  This  Circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Legal Framework”. 

 

Yours faithfully 

 

 

Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Tel No.022-2644 9246 
Email id - pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 
 
 

  

 

