 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/CRADT/CIR/P/2020/203 

                         

 

 October 13, 2020 

To, 

All  Issuers  who  have  listed  their  debt  securities  or 

propose to list their debt securities 

All Debenture Trustees (DTs) registered with SEBI  

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

Sub: Standardisation of procedure to be followed by Debenture Trustee(s) in case of 

‘Default’ by Issuers of listed debt securities 

1.  Representations were made by Debenture Trustee(s) regarding the process to be followed 

in case of ‘Default’ by issuers of listed debt securities. After consultation with stakeholders 

including investors, Debenture Trustee(s), Issuers etc., procedures to be followed by the 

Debenture  Trustee(s)  in  case  of  ‘Default’  by  issuers  of    listed  debt  securities  has  been 

decided. This circular prescribes the process to be followed by the Debenture Trustee(s) 

in case of ‘Default’ by issuers of listed debt securities including seeking consent from the 

investors  for  enforcement  of  security  and/or  entering  into  an  Inter-Creditor  Agreement 

(“ICA”).  

 

A.  Event of default 

 

2.  Regulation  51  read  with  the  Explanation  to  Clause  A  (11)  in  Part  B  of  Schedule  III  of 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India 

(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 

Requirements), 2015 (“LODR Regulations”) defines ‘default’ as non-payment of interest or 

principal  amount  in  full  on  the  pre-agreed  date  which  shall  be  recognized  at  the  first 

instance of delay in the servicing of any interest or principal on debt. 

 

3.  In the manner of calling ‘event of default’, due to the presence of multiple ISIN’s which may 

have been issued under the same Information Memorandum(s) (“IM(s)”) or a single ISIN 

which may have been split across multiple IM(s), it is clarified that ‘event of default’ shall 

be reckoned at the ISIN level, as all terms and conditions of issuance of security are same 

under a single ISIN even though it might have been issued under multiple IMs. 

 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 

B.  Consent of investors for enforcement of security and for signing the ICA 

 

4.  The Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”), vide Circular dated June 07, 2019 issued the Reserve 

Bank of India (Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions 2019 

which inter alia specified the mechanism for resolution of stressed assets by Lenders (viz. 

Scheduled Commercial Banks, All-India Term Financial Institutions, Small Finance Banks, 

Systemically  Important  Non-Deposit  Taking  Non-Banking  Finance  Companies  (NBFCs) 

as  well  as  Deposit Taking  NBFCs). In  terms  thereof,  investors in  debt  securities,  being 

financial creditors, are approached by other lenders to sign an agreement, referred to as 

the Inter Creditor Agreement  (“ICA”),  under specific  terms  detailed  in  the framework as 

stipulated by RBI. 

 

5.  Regulation 59 of LODR Regulations provides that material modification in the structure of 

debt securities shall be made only after obtaining the consent of the requisite majority of 

investors. Regulation 18 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issuer and Listing 

of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 (“ILDS Regulations”), applicable in case of public 

issue of debt securities, stipulates a period of fifteen days for giving notice in case of roll-

over of debt securities and further provides for approval to be obtained from not less than 

75% of the holders by value of such debt securities.  

 

6.  As  the  resolution  plan  in  the  ICA  may  involve  restructuring  including  roll-over  of  debt 

securities, requiring the consent of the investors, the process to be followed for seeking 

consent for enforcement of security and/or entering into an Inter-Creditor Agreement shall 

be as under:  

 

6.1.  The Debenture Trustee(s) shall send a notice to the investors within 3 days of the 

event  of  default  by 

registered  post/acknowledgement  due  or  speed 

post/acknowledgement due or courier or hand delivery with proof of delivery as also 

through email as a text or as an attachment to email  with a notification including a 

read receipt, and proof of dispatch of such notice or email, shall be maintained.  

 

6.2.  The notice shall contain the following: 

6.2.1.  negative consent for proceeding with the enforcement of security;  

6.2.2.  positive consent for signing the ICA;  

6.2.3.  the time period within which the consent needs to be provided, viz. consent to 

be given within 15 days from the date of notice; and 

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

6.2.4.  the date of meeting to be convened,  

 

6.3.  Debenture Trustee(s) shall convene the meeting of all investors within 30 days of the 

event of default (as per para 6.1 above):  

 

Provided that in case the default is cured between the date of notice and the date of 

meeting, then the convening of such a meeting may be dispensed with. 

 

6.4. 

In view of Regulation 15(2)(b) of  SEBI (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993, in 

case of debt securities issued by way of public issue, the notice sent by the Debenture 

Trustee(s)  in  para  6.2  shall  not  contain  the  consent  as  per  para  6.2.1  and  the 

requirement to convene a meeting for enforcement of security,  as per para 6.3, 

shall not be applicable.  

 

6.5.  The  Debenture  Trustee(s)  shall  take  necessary  action  to  enforce  security  or  enter 

into the ICA or as decided in the meeting of investors, subject to the following:  

 
6.5.1. In  case(s)  where  the  majority  of  investors  expressed  their  dissent  against 

enforcement of the security, the Debenture Trustee(s) shall not enforce security. 

 

6.5.2. In case(s) where majority of investors expressed their consent to enter into ICA, 

the Debenture Trustee(s) shall enter into the ICA.  

 
6.5.3. In case(s) consents are not received for enforcement of security and for signing 

ICA, Debenture Trustee(s) shall take further action, if any, as per the decision 

taken in the meeting of the investors. 

 
6.5.4. The Debenture Trustee(s) may form a representative committee of the investors 

to participate in the ICA or to enforce the security or as may be decided in the 

meeting. 

6.6.  The consent of the majority of investors shall mean the approval of not less than 75% 

of the investors by value of the outstanding debt and 60% of the investors by number 

at the ISIN level.  

Page 3 of 5 

 

 
 
 

 

 

C.  Conditions for signing of ICA by Debenture Trustee(s) on behalf of investors  

 

7.  The Debenture Trustee(s) may sign the ICA and consider the resolution plan on behalf of 

the investors upon compliance with the following conditions:  

 

7.1. The signing of the ICA and agreeing to the resolution plan is in the interest of investors 

and in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder, the 

Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 and the Securities and Exchange Board 

of India Act, 1992 and the rules, regulations and circulars issued thereunder from time 

to time.  

 

7.2. If the resolution plan imposes condition(s) on the Debenture Trustee(s) that are not in 

accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Companies  Act,  2013  and  the  rules  made 

thereunder, the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 and the Securities and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  the  rules,  regulations  and  circulars  issued 

thereunder from time to time, then the Debenture Trustee(s) shall be free to exit the 

ICA  altogether  with  the same  rights  as  if it  had never  signed  the  ICA. Under these 

circumstances, the resolution plan shall not be binding on the Debenture Trustee(s). 

 

7.3. The  resolution  plan  shall  be  finalized  within  180  days  from  the  end  of  the  review 

period. If the resolution plan is not finalized within 180 days from the end of the review 

period, then the Debenture Trustee(s) shall be free to exit the ICA altogether with the 

same  rights  as  if  it  had  never  signed  the  ICA  and  the  resolution  plan  shall  not  be 

binding on the Debenture Trustee(s). However, if the finalization of the resolution plan 

extends  beyond  180  days,  the  Debenture  Trustee(s)  may  consent  to  an  extension 

beyond 180 days subject to the approval of the investors regarding the total timeline. 

The total timeline shall not exceed 365 days from the date of commencement of the 

review period. 

 

7.4. If  any  of  the terms  of the  approved  Resolution Plan  are  contravened  by  any  of the 

signatories to the ICA, the Debenture Trustee(s) shall be free to exit the ICA and seek 

appropriate  legal  recourse  or  any  other  action  as  deemed  fit  in  the  interest  of  the 

investors.  

 

8.  The Debenture Trustee(s) shall ensure that the conditions mentioned in paragraphs 7.2, 

7.3 and 7.4 are suitably incorporated in the ICA, before signing of the ICA.  

 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

9.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred upon SEBI under Section 11 (1) 

of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  the  provisions  of 

Regulation  2A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Debenture  Trustees) 

Regulations, 1993, Regulation 31(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 

and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 and Regulation 101(1) or the Securities 

and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligation  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 

Regulations,  2015  to  protect  the  interest  of  investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the 

development of, and to regulate, the securities market. 

10. The provisions of this circular shall come into force with immediate effect.  

11. The circular is available on the SEBI Website at www.sebi.gov.in under the head “Legal 

Framework/Circulars” 

Yours faithfully, 

Richa G. Agarwal 

Deputy General Manager   

Market intermediaries Regulation & Supervision Department 

Email id: richag@sebi.gov.in  

Phone: +91-22-26449596 

 

Page 5 of 5 

