SEBI/HO/MIRSD/CRADT/CIR/P/2020/207 

                                                      October 22, 2020 

 

To  

 

All issuers who have listed or propose to list their debt securities 

All Recognized Stock Exchanges  

All Debenture Trustees registered with SEBI  

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

Sub:  Contribution  by  Issuers  of  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  debt  securities  towards 

creation of “Recovery Expense Fund”  

 

1.  In order to enable the Debenture Trustee(s) to take prompt action for enforcement of security 

in case of ‘default’ in listed debt securities, a ‘Recovery Expense Fund’ (REF) shall be created 

which shall be used in the manner as decided in the meeting of the holders of debt securities.  

 

A. Manner of creation and operation of REF  

2.  The  issuer  proposing  to  list  debt  securities  shall  deposit  an  amount  equal  to  0.01%  of  the 

issue size subject to maximum of Rs. 25 lakhs per issuer towards REF with the ‘Designated 

Stock  Exchange’,  as 

identified  and  disclosed 

in 

its  Offer  Document/ 

Information 

Memorandum.  

 

3.  The REF shall be created and maintained in the following form: 

 
a.  The  issuer  shall  deposit  cash  or  cash  equivalent(s)  including  Bank  Guarantees 

towards contribution to this fund at the time of making the application for listing of debt 

securities.  

b.  The  Designated  Stock  Exchange  shall  invest  cash  in  Government  Securities  or 

Treasury Bills or Fixed Deposit with a Scheduled commercial bank or gilt fund or debt 

mutual funds or debt Exchange Trade Funds and the income/interest earned thereof 

shall be added to the REF of the issuer.  

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

c.  The issuer shall ensure that the Bank Guarantee remains valid for a period of 6 months 

post  the  maturity  date  of  the  listed  debt  security.  The  issuer  shall  keep  the  bank 

guarantee in force and renew the Bank Guarantee at least 7 working days before its 

expiry,  failing  which  the  Designated  Stock  Exchange  shall  invoke  such  Bank 

 

Guarantee. 

 

4.  In case of any change in status of issuer of the listed debt securities on account of corporate 

restructuring by way of Scheme of Arrangement etc., the Designated Stock Exchange shall 

make  sure  that  the  amount  maintained  in  the  REF  is  available  as  per  paragraph  2  before 

issuing the ‘Observation letter’ in that regard. 

 

B. Manner of utilization of Recovery Expense Fund  

5.  In  the  event  of  default,  the  Debenture  Trustee/  Lead  Debenture  Trustee  shall  obtain  the 

consent of holders of debt securities for enforcement of security and shall inform the same to 

the Designated Stock Exchange. The Designated Stock Exchange shall release the amount 

lying in the REF to the Debenture Trustee/ Lead Debenture Trustee within 5 working days of 

receipt of such intimation.  

 

For the purpose of this Circular, Lead Debenture Trustee shall mean: 

a.  A Debenture Trustee who has been chosen to be the Lead Debenture Trustee by other 

Debenture Trustees or  

b.  A Debenture Trustee who is the Debenture Trustee of more than 50% of the outstanding 

value of debt securities.  

 

6.  The Debenture Trustee shall keep a proper account of all expenses incurred out of the funds 

received  from  REF  towards  Legal  expenses,  cost  for  hosting  meeting  etc.  towards 

enforcement of security.  

 

C. Refund of Recovery Expense Fund to the issuer 

7.  The balance in the Recovery Expense Fund shall be refunded to the issuer on repayment to 

holders of debt securities on their maturity or at the time of the exercise of call or put option, 

 

Page 2 of 3 

for which a ‘No Objection Certificate (NOC)’ shall be issued by the Debenture Trustee(s) to 

the  Designated  Stock  Exchange.  The  Debenture  Trustee(s)  shall  satisfy  that  there  is  no 

‘default’ on any other listed debt securities of the issuer before issuing the NOC.  

 

 

8.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred upon SEBI under Section 11 (1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with the provisions of Regulation 

2A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 

and Regulation 31(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt 

Securities) Regulations, 2008 to protect the interest of investors in securities and to promote 

the development of, and to regulate, the securities market. 

9.  Applicability: The provisions of this circular shall come into force w.e.f. January 01, 2021 and 

all the applications for listing of debt securities made on or after January 01, 2021 shall comply 

with the condition of creation of REF. The existing issuers whose debt securities are already 

listed on Stock Exchange(s) shall be given additional time period of 90 days to comply with 

this circular for creation of REF. 

10. The  circular  is  available  on  the  SEBI  Website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  head  “Legal 

Framework/Circulars” 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Richa G. Agarwal 

Deputy General Manager 

Tel. No: 022-26449596 

Email id: richag@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

