 

 

              October 22, 2020 

 
 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/IMD/DF6/CIR/P/2020/209                               
 
 
To, 
 
All Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 
 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam,   
 
 

Sub: Processing of applications for registrations of AIFs and launch of schemes  

2 

1  While processing applications for registration of AIFs and launch of new schemes, it 
has been observed that the Manager of AIF often proposes to set up an Investment 
Committee with the mandate to provide investment recommendations or advice to 
the  Manager.  In  some  applications,  the  Investment  Committee  is  mandated  to 
approve  the  investment  decisions  of  the  AIF.  Such  Investment  Committees  may 
consist of internal members (employees, directors or partners of the Manager) and/ 
or external members. 
  
Pursuant to the approval of SEBI Board, the  SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) 
Regulations,  2012  (“AIF  Regulations”)  have  been  amended  to  provide  that  the 
Manager may constitute Investment Committee (by whatever name it may be called) 
to  approve  investment  decisions  of  the  AIF,  subject  to  certain  conditions.  The 
amendment  to  AIF  Regulations  has  been  notified  on  October  19,  2020  and  is 
available at link. 
  
Further, SEBI has written to Government and RBI seeking clarity on the applicability 
of  clause  (4)  of  Schedule  VIII  under  FEM  (Non-debt  Instruments)  Rules,  2019  to 
investment  made  by  an  AIF  whose  Investment  Committee  approves  investment 
decisions and consists of external members who are not ‘resident Indian citizens’. 
 
Pending clarification as mentioned at Para 3, the applications for registration of AIFs 
and launch of new schemes shall be dealt with as under:  
 

3 

4 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 
 

 

The applications wherein Investment Committee proposed to be constituted 
to approve investment decisions of AIF includes external members who are 
‘resident Indian citizens', shall be duly processed. 

The applications wherein Investment Committee proposed to be constituted 
to approve investment decisions of AIF includes external members who are 
not  ‘resident  Indian  citizens’,  shall  be  considered  only  after  receipt  of 
clarification as stated in Para 3 above. 

(i) 

 
(ii) 

 

5 

6 

This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors 
in  securities  market  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 
 
The circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 
"Legal framework - Circulars" and "Info for - Alternative Investment Funds”. 

 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Sanjay Singh Bhati 
Deputy General Manager 
+91-22-26449222 
ssbhati@sebi.gov.in 
 
 

 

Page 2 of 2 

