 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DNPMP/CIR/P/2020/206 

 

  

         October 19, 2020 

 
To, 
 
The Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges having Commodity Derivatives Segment 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Utilization of Fund Created out of the Regulatory Fee Forgone by SEBI – 
Additional Guidelines 
 
1.  In  order  to  encourage  the  participation  of  Farmers  /  Farmers  Producers 
Organizations  (FPOs)  in  agricultural  commodity  derivatives  markets,  the  Stock 
Exchanges have created a separate fund, out of the regulatory fee so forgone by 
SEBI. The Stock Exchanges have been permitted by SEBI to utilize the said fund 
exclusively  for  the  benefit  of  and  easy  participation  by  Farmers  /  FPOs  in  the 
agricultural  commodity  derivatives  market,  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines 
specified  vide  SEBI  circular  no.  SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2019/40  dated 
March 20, 2019.  
 

2.  Due to low participation by Farmers / FPOs in agricultural commodity derivatives 
market coupled with the challenges posed by the pandemic situation, a sizeable 
portion of the fund has remained unutilized. The matter was, therefore, deliberated 
in  the  Commodity  Derivatives  Advisory  Committee  (CDAC)  and  based  on  the 
recommendations of CDAC, it has been decided to permit the Stock Exchanges to 
utilize the said fund for the following additional activities : 

 

2.1. Reimbursement  of  Mandi  tax:  Reimbursement  of  Mandi  tax  including  any 
other mandi cess or whatever name it may be called, levied against the goods 
deposited  in  warehouses  accredited  with  Clearing  Corporations  for  the 
purpose  of  delivering  on  Exchange  platform  for  which  exchange  specific 
Electronic Negotiable Warehouse Receipt (eNWR) is generated. 
 

2.2. Reimbursement  of  assaying,  cleaning,  drying,  sorting,  storage  and 
transportation  charges:  Farmers/FPOs  can  be  reimbursed  the  charges 
incurred 
towards  assaying,  cleaning,  drying,  sorting,  storage  and 
transportation  in  respect  of  goods  deposited  in  warehouses  accredited  with 
Clearing Corporations with an intention to deliver them on Exchange Platform 
for which exchange specific eNWR is generated.  
 

2.3. Incentivising Option Premium: The Farmers / FPOs can be incentivized to 
participate in “options in goods”. For this purpose, the Farmers / FPOs can be 

 

Page 1 of 2 

reimbursed a certain percentage or fixed amount of the premium paid by them, 
for purchasing “options in goods” on the exchange platform. 

 

 

 

2.4. Reimbursement of fees levied by Clearing Corporation: Fees/cost levied 
by  Clearing  Corporation,  if  any,  on  Farmers/FPOs  in  the  process  of  their 
participation in commodity derivatives trading can be reimbursed.  

 
3.  The Stock Exchanges can revise their action plan for utilisation of regulatory fee 
foregone by SEBI for FY 2020-21 incorporating the abovementioned activities and 
the revised plan, if any, shall be disseminated on their website.  

 

4.  Further, in order to enhance transparency, the  Stock Exchanges are advised to  
make  disclosure  regarding  the  corpus  of  the  fund  and  its  utilization,  on  their 
website, on a monthly basis. 

 
5.  The Stock Exchanges are further advised to include  the details of the corpus of 

the fund and its utilization in the Monthly Development Report (MDR). 

 
6.  All other extant provisions of the circular dated March 20, 2019 shall continue to 

remain in force. 
 

7.  The provisions of this circular shall be effective from the date of this circular.  

 

8.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 
 

9.  The Stock Exchanges are advised to:  
 

i. 

to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations; 

ii.  bring  the  provisions  of  this  circular  to  the  notice  of  the  stock  brokers  of  the 

Exchange and also to disseminate the same on their website; and 

iii.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this 

circular. 

 

10. This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the  category 

“Circulars” and “Info for Commodity Derivatives”. 

Yours faithfully, 

 
 

Vikas Sukhwal 
General Manager  
Division of New Products and Market Policy 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department  
Email: vikass@sebi.gov.in  

 

Page 2 of 2 

