 

 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOC/CIR/P/2020/226 

 

 

To, 

The Managing Director/Executive Director,  
All Stock Exchanges 
  
 
Dear Madam/Sir, 

 

        November 06, 2020 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subject: Investor Grievance Redressal Mechanism 

1.  In  order  to  further  strengthen  the  Investor  Grievance  Redressal  Mechanism,  based  on 

feedback received from market participants and Working Group constituted for the purpose, 

the following are issued as clarification to Circular No. CIR/MRD/DSA/24/2010 dated August 

11,  2010,  Circular  No.  CIR/MRD/DSA/2/2011  dated  February  09,  2011,  and  Circular  No. 

CIR/MRD/ICC/30/2013 dated September 26, 2013. 

 

2.  Resolution of complaints by Stock Exchange 

 

i.Timeline 

Stock  Exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  investor  complaints  shall  be  resolved  within  15 

working  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  complaint.  Additional  information,  if  any, 

required  from  the  complainant,  shall  be  sought  within  7  working  days  from  the  date  of 

receipt of the complaint. The period of 15 working days shall be counted from the date of 

receipt of additional information sought. 

Stock Exchange shall maintain a record of all the complaints addressed/redressed within 

15 working days from the date of receipt of the complaint/additional information. If complaint 

is not resolved within stipulated time frame, then the reason for non redressal in given time 

frame shall also be recorded. 

ii. Service related complaints 

Stock Exchange shall resolve service related complaints at its end. However, in case the 

complainant is not satisfied with the resolution, the same may be referred to the Investor 

Grievance  Redressal  Committee  (“IGRC”),  after  recording  the  reasons  in  writing  by  the 

Chief Regulatory Officer of the Stock Exchange or any other officer of the Stock Exchange 

 

Page 1 of 3 

authorized in this behalf by the Managing Director. Service related complaints shall include 

non-receipt/  delay  of  Account  statement,  non-receipt/  delay  of  bills,  closure  of  account/ 

branch, technological issues, shifting/closure of branch without intimation, improper service 

by staff, freezing of account, alleged debit in trading account, contact person not available 

in Trading member’s office, demat account transferred without permission etc.  

iii. Complaints to be referred to IGRC 

For Complaints related to trade, settlement and ‘deficiency in services’, resulting into any 

financial loss, the stock exchange shall resolve the complaint on its own as per the time 

lines prescribed. However, if complaint is not resolved amicably, the same shall be referred 

to the IGRC, after recording the reasons in writing by the Chief Regulatory Officer of the 

Stock Exchange or any other officer of the Stock Exchange authorized in this behalf by the 

Managing Director. 

It  shall  be  the  responsibility  of  the  Stock  Exchange  to  provide  documents/  necessary 

information after collecting the same from the member and/ or the complainant and provide 

necessary assistance to IGRC to ensure resolution of complaints in a timely manner. 

3.  Handling of complaints by IGRC 

 

i. IGRC  shall  have  a  time  of  15  working  days  to  amicably  resolve  the  investor  complaint 

through conciliation process. If IGRC needs additional information, then IGRC may request 

the Stock Exchange to provide the same before the initiation of the conciliation process. In 

such  case,  where  additional  information  is  sought,  the  timeline  for  resolution  of  the 

complaint by IGRC shall not exceed 30 working days. 

ii. IGRC  shall  not  dispose  the  complaint  citing  “Lack  of  Information  and  complexity  of  the   

case”. The IGRC shall give its recommendation to Stock Exchange. 

iii. IGRC  shall  decide  claim  value  admissible  to  the  complainant,  upon  conclusion  of  the 

proceedings  of IGRC.  In case  claim  is admissible to  the  complainant, Stock Exchanges 

shall block the admissible claim value from the deposit of the member as specified in this 

regard. 

iv. Expenses of IGRC shall be borne by the respective Stock Exchange and no fees shall be 

charged to the complainant/member. 

v. The  Stock  Exchange  shall  organize  regular  training  program  for  IGRC  members  in 

consultation  with  National  Institute  of  Securities  Markets  (“NISM”).  The  cost  of  such 

program shall be borne by Investor Service Fund (“ISF”) of the Stock Exchange. 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

4.  Arbitration 

For any dispute between the member and the client relating to or arising out of the transactions 

in  Stock  Exchange,  which  is  of  civil  nature,  the  complainant/  member  shall  first  refer  the 

complaint  to  the  IGRC  and/  or  to  arbitration  mechanism  provided  by  the  Stock  Exchange 

before resorting to other remedies available under any other law.For the removal of doubts, it 

is clarified that the sole arbitrator or the panel of arbitrators, as the case may be, appointed 

under  the  Stock  Exchange  arbitration  mechanism  shall  always  be  deemed  to  have  the 

competence to rule on its jurisdiction. 

A complainant/member, who is not satisfied with the recommendation of the IGRC, shall avail 

the  arbitration  mechanism  of  the  Stock  Exchange  for  settlement  of  complaints  within  six 

months from the date of IGRC recommendation.  

5.  The stock exchanges are advised to: - 

 

a)   make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations    for the 

implementation of the above decision immediately; 

b)  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the members of the stock exchange 

and also to disseminate the same through their website; and 

c)  communicate to SEBI, the status of implementation of the provisions of this      circular in 

the Monthly Development Reports to SEBI. 

6.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the     

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  read  with  Section  10  of  the  Securities 

Contract  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities  and  to 

promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market and shall come into effect 

from January 01, 2021. 

7. This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

Yours faithfully,  
 
 
 
Pranjal Jayaswal 

Deputy General Manager 

MIRSD 

Email - pranjal@sebi.gov.in 

Phone No. +91-22-2644 9402 

 

Page 3 of 3 

