  

  

CIRCULAR 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/223 

  

  

  

     November 04, 2020  

  

To,   

All Infrastructure Investment Trusts (“InvITs”) 

All Parties to InvITs  

  

Madam/Sir,   

  

Sub: Guidelines for rights issue of units by an unlisted Infrastructure Investment 

Trust (InvIT)  

  

Chapter VIA of the of SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 (InvIT 

Regulations) provides the framework for private placement of units by InvITs which are 

not  eligible  to  be  listed.  In  order  to  enable  unlisted  InvITs  to  raise  further  funds,  it  has 

been decided to provide a mechanism for raising of funds by unlisted InvITs through rights 

issue of units. 

 

For the purpose of this circular “rights issue” shall mean an offer of units by an unlisted 

InvIT to the unit holders of the InvIT as on the record date fixed for the said purpose. The 

guidelines in respect of a rights issue of units by an unlisted InvIT are given below.  

  

1.  Conditions for issuance  

1.1. No  InvIT  shall  make  a  rights  issue  of  units  unless  the  following  conditions  are 

satisfied:   

1.1.1.  A resolution of the board of directors of the investment manager approving 

the rights issue of units and determining the record date has been passed.  

1.1.2.  Units of the same class, which are proposed to be allotted are already issued 

by the InvIT.  

  

Page 1 of 10  

  

1.1.3.  None of the respective promoters or partners or directors of the sponsor(s) 

or investment manager or trustee of the InvIT is a fugitive economic offender 

declared under section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018 (17 

of 2018).  

1.1.4.  None of the respective promoters or partners or directors of the sponsor(s) 

or investment manager or trustee of the InvIT  

(a) 

 is debarred from accessing the securities market by the Board;  

(b) 

is a promoter, director or person in control of any other company or a 

sponsor,  investment  manager  or  trustee  of  any  other  InvIT  which  is 

debarred  from  accessing  the  capital  market  under  any  order  or 

directions made by the Board;  

  

2.  Underwriting  

2.1. If the InvIT desires to have the issue underwritten, it may appoint underwriters in 

accordance  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Underwriters) 

Regulations, 1993. 

  

3.  Letter of Offer  

3.1.  The investment manager, on behalf of the InvIT shall file a letter of offer with the 

Board at least 5 days prior to opening of the issue  

3.2.  The investment manager, on behalf of the InvIT, shall carry out the obligations 

relating to the issue. 

3.3.  The investment manager shall ensure that disclosures made in the letter of offer 

contains material, true, correct and adequate disclosures and are in accordance 

with the InvIT Regulations and guidelines or circulars issued thereunder. 

3.4.  The  letter  of  offer  shall  contain  disclosures  as  specified  in  Annexure  I  of  this 

Circular. 

3.5.  The letter of offer shall also be furnished to the Board in soft copy.  

  

  

Page 2 of 10  

  

4.  Application  

4.1. The application form for the issue shall be prepared by the investment manager 

and  the  investment  manager  shall  make  arrangements  for  distribution  of  the 

application form along with letter of offer to all unit holders as on the record date 

at least five days prior to the opening of the issue. 

  

5.  Pricing of Units  

5.1. The investment manager on behalf of the InvIT shall decide the issue price before 

determining the record date. 

5.2. The issue price shall be disclosed in the letter of offer.  

  

6.  Timelines 

6.1.  The rights issue shall open within three months from the record date. 

6.2. The rights issue shall be kept open for at least three working days but not more 

than fifteen working days.  

 

7.  Manner of issuance of units  

7.1. The units shall be allotted in the dematerialized form only. 

7.2. The rights entitlements shall be credited to the demat account of the unitholders 

before the date of opening of the issue. The rights entitlements shall include a right 

exercisable by the person concerned to renounce the units offered to him/her or 

any of them in favour of any other person and letter of offer and the notice sent to 

the unitholders shall contain a statement to this effect.  

  

8.  Allotment 

8.1. The minimum allotment to any investor shall be INR 1 crore.  

  

  

Page 3 of 10  

  

8.2. Allotment shall be made in the following manner:  

8.2.1.  full allotment to those eligible unitholders who have applied for their rights 

entitlement either in full or in part and also to the renouncee(s), who has/have 

applied for the units renounced in their favour, in full or in part, as adjusted 

for fractional entitlement.  

8.2.2.  allotment to eligible unitholders who having applied for the units in full to the 

extent of their rights  entitlement and have also applied for additional units 

shall be made as far as possible on an equitable basis, having due regard to 

the number of units held by them on the record date, provided there is an 

undersubscribed portion after making allotment in (a) above.  

8.2.3.  allotment to the renouncees, who having applied for the units renounced in 

their  favour  and  also  applied  for  additional  units,  provided  there  is  an 

undersubscribed portion after making full allotment specified in (a) and (b) 

above.  The  allotment  of  such  additional  units  may  be  made  on  a 

proportionate basis. 

8.2.4.  Allotment to the underwriter appointed for the issue, if any, at the discretion 

of the board of directors of the investment manager, subject to disclosure in 

the letter of offer as applicable.  

  

9.  Restriction on further capital issues  

9.1. The InvIT shall not make any further issue of units in any manner during the period 

between the date of filing the letter of offer with the Board and the allotment of the 

units offered through the letter of offer.  

9.2. The  InvIT  shall  file  an  allotment  report  with  the  Board  providing  details  of  the 

allottees and allotment made within 15 days of the issue closing date. 

  

10. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Regulation 33 of the InvIT 

Regulations.  

  

  

Page 4 of 10  

  

11. This Circular is available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

at www.sebi.gov.in under the category “Legal” and under the drop down “Circulars”.  

   

Yours faithfully,  

  

  

Deena Venu Sarangadharan  

Deputy General Manager  

Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities  

Tel No. 022-2644-9266  

Email Id – deenar@sebi.gov.in  

  

  

 

  

Page 5 of 10  

  

  

Annexure I  

Disclosures in a letter of offer  

  

1.  Disclaimer to the effect that the letter of offer relates to an issue being made to existing 

unit holders as on record date under the InvIT Regulations and these guidelines.  

  

2.  The letter of offer shall contain the disclosures as specified under Schedule III of the 

InvIT Regulations in the following manner:  

  

a)  The disclosures as per clauses 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7(a), 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 19 

shall be made in the letter of offer.  

  

b)  The  disclosures  in  clause  (a)  above  may  be  incorporated  by  reference  to 

disclosures  made  in  any  previous  placement  memorandum  or  placement 

document or annual report duly published by the InvIT:  

  

Provided  that  the  link(s)  to  such  document  wherever  available,  including  on  the 

website of the InvIT or SEBI, shall also be provided.  

  

Provided further that any modification/update in the information provided in such 

documents shall be suitably incorporated in the letter of offer.  

  

3.  Terms of the issue:  

a)  Objects of the issue.  

  

b) 

If the objects of the issue involve financing of any new asset(s), description of such 

asset(s) as per disclosures required under clause 6 of the Schedule III of the InvIT 

Regulations.  

  

  

Page 6 of 10  

  

c) 

If the objects are not being financed solely through the issue proceeds, the details 

of other financing arrangements for fulfilling the objects of the issue.  

  

  

4.  Related Party Transactions:  

  

a)  Disclosure as per clause 9 of the Schedule III of the InvIT Regulations, which may 

be  incorporated  by  reference  to  disclosures  made  in  any  previous  placement 

memorandum or placement document.  

  

b)  Any  disclosures  made  regarding  related  party  transactions  shall  also  be 

incorporated by reference to such disclosures.  

  

c)  Link(s) to document(s) at (a) and (b) above wherever available, including on the 

website of the InvIT shall be provided.  

  

5.  Valuation (latest available):  

  

a)  Summary of valuation of the assets proposed to be financed through proceeds of 

the issue  

  

b)  Valuation methodology.  

  

c)  Frequency of valuation and declaration of NAV.  

  

d)  Any  disclosures  made  regarding  valuation  since  the  initial  offer  shall  also  be 

incorporated by reference to such disclosures.  

  

e)  Link(s) to document(s) at (d) above wherever available, including on the website 

of the InvIT shall be provided.  

  

  

Page 7 of 10  

  

f)  The valuation report of the asset to be financed through proceeds of the issue, if 

any, shall be provided to Board along with the letter of offer.  

  

6.  Financials:  

  

a)  Disclosure as per clauses 11(a) to 11(c), 11(e) to 11(f) of the Schedule III of the 

InvIT Regulations:  

  

Provided if the InvIT has undertaken any acquisition or disposal of any material 

asset(s)after  the  latest  period  for  which  financial  information  is  disclosed  in  the 

letter  of  offer  but  before  the  date  of  filing  of  the  letter  of  offer,  the  financial 

information should be prepared on a pro forma basis certified by statutory auditors 

of the InvIT for the last completed financial year and the stub period (if any). 

  

b)  Disclosure as per clause (a) above may be incorporated by reference to any public 

disclosures of financials made under the InvIT Regulations or any circular issued 

thereunder, along with link(s) to such disclosure(s) wherever available, including 

on the website of the InvIT.  

  

c)  Summary of the audited standalone financial statements of the assets proposed 

to be acquired for the previous three years and the stub period (if any) 

  

7.  Distribution  including  the  manner  of  calculation  of  the  net  distributable  cash  flows, 

history of distributions made in the last three financial years or from the date of listing 

of the InvIT and the policy, if any.  

  

8.  Manner of Application and Allotment:  

  

a)  How  to  apply,  availability  of  application  forms  and  letter  of  offer  and  mode  of 

payment  

  

Page 8 of 10  

  

  

b)  Dealing with Fractional Entitlement: Manner of dealing with fractional entitlement, 

if any, of the fractional rights etc.  

  

9.  Other disclosures:  

  

a)  Unit holding pattern  

  

b)  Review of credit rating  

  

c)  Grievance redressal mechanism  

  

d)  The disclosures in clause (a), (b) and (c) above may be incorporated by reference 

to  any  disclosures  made  under  the  InvIT  Regulations  or  any  circular  issued 

thereunder, along with link(s) to such disclosure(s) wherever available, including 

on the website of the InvIT.  

  

e)  The letter of offer shall contain the process of credit of rights entitlements in the 

demat accounts and the renunciation thereof.   

  

f)  Any material development after the date of the latest balance sheet and its impact 

on the performance and prospects of the InvIT.  

  

10. Such other information as is material and appropriate to enable the investors to make 

an informed decision.  

  

11. Declarations (to be signed by the board of directors of the investment manager and 

sponsor)  

  

  

Page 9 of 10  

  

12. The investment manager shall ensure that the information contained in the letter of 

offer and the particulars as per audited financial statements in the letter of offer are 

not more than six months old from the issue opening date.  

  

Provided that InvITs which are in compliance  with InvIT Regulations and guidelines 

issued thereunder may file unaudited financials with limited review for the stub period 

in the current financial  year, subject to making  necessary disclosures in this regard 

including risk factors.  

  

Page 10 of 10  

