 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD2/DOR/CIR/P/2020/221 

 

 

 

November 03, 2020 

 

All Stock Brokers through exchanges 

All Depository Participants through Depositories 

All Merchant Bankers 

All Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent 

All Debenture Trustee 

All Credit Rating Agencies 

All Bankers to an issue 

All STP Service Providers 

All Approved Intermediaries 

 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Sub:  Advisory for Financial Sector Organizations regarding Software as a Service 

(SaaS) based solutions 

 

 

1.  Ministry  of  Electronics  &  Information  Technology,  Govt.  of  India  (MoE&IT),  has 

informed  SEBI  that  the  financial  sector  institutions  are  availing  or  thinking  of 

availing  Software  as  a  Service  (SaaS)  based  solution  for  managing  their 

Governance,  Risk  &  Compliance  (GRC)  functions  so  as  to  improve  their  cyber 

Security  Posture.  As  observed  by  MoE&IT,  though  SaaS  may  provide  ease  of 

doing business and quick turnaround, but it may bring significant risk to health of 

financial sector as many a time risk and compliance data of the institution moves 

beyond the legal and jurisdictional boundary of India due to nature of shared cloud 

SaaS, thereby posing risk to the data safety and security.  

 

2.  In this regard, Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-in) has issued 

an advisory for Financial Sector organizations. The advisory has been forwarded 

Page 1 of 2 

to SEBI for bringing the same to the notice of financial sector organization. The 

 

 

advisory is enclosed at Annexure A of this circular. 

 

3.  It is advised to ensure complete protection and seamless control over the critical 

systems at your organizations by continuous monitoring through direct control and 

supervision  protocol mechanisms  while  keeping  the  critical  data  within  the  legal 

boundary of India.  

 

4.  The compliance of the advisory shall be reported in the half yearly report by stock 

brokers and DP to stock exchanges and depositories respectively and by direct 

intermediaries to SEBI with an undertaking, “Compliance of the SEBI circular for 

Advisory  for  Financial  Sector  Organizations  regarding  Software  as  a  Service 

(SaaS) based solutions has been made.” 

 

5.  The advisory annexed with this circular shall be effective with immediate effect.  

 

6.  This circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 

securities market. 

 

 

Yours faithfully 

 

Anupma Chadha 

Dy. General Manager 

Phone:022-26449319 

                                                                            Email: anupmac@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

