 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL1/CIR/P/2020/215  

 

 

 

November 3, 2020 

 

To 

 

All Listed Entities who have listed their equity and convertibles 

 

All the Nationwide Stock Exchanges   

 

Dear Sir/Madam, 

 

Sub: Schemes of Arrangement by Listed Entities and (ii) Relaxation under Sub-

rule (7) of Rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 

 

1.  SEBI Circular No. CFD/DIL3/CIR/2017/21 dated March 10, 2017 has laid down the 

framework for Schemes of Arrangement by listed entities and relaxation under Rule 

19(7) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

 
2.  Empowering the stock exchanges: It has been decided to further streamline the 

processing  of  draft  schemes  filed  with  the  stock  exchanges,  and  make  certain 

amendments to the aforesaid Circular dated March 10, 2017, as provided in the 

Annexure  to  this  Circular.    These  amendments  are  aimed  at  ensuring  that  the 

recognized  stock  exchanges  refer  draft  schemes  to  SEBI  only  upon  being  fully 

convinced that the listed entity is in compliance with SEBI Act, Rules, Regulations 

and circulars issued thereunder.    

 

3.  Applicability of this Circular: This Circular shall be applicable for all the schemes 

filed with the stock exchanges after November 17, 2020.  

 

The  amendment  indicated  at  Para  7  of  the  Annexure  shall  be  applicable  for  all 

listed entities seeking listing and/or trading approval from the stock exchanges after 

November 3, 2020. 

 

 

Page 1 of 5 

4.  The recognized stock exchanges are directed to bring the provisions of this circular 

to  the notice  of  the  listed  companies  and also  to  disseminate the  same  on  their 

website. 

 

5.  This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  Section  11(1)  of  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and Regulations 11, 37 and 94 

read  with  Regulation  101(2)  of  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 

Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  and  Rule  19(7)  of  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation) Rules, 1957 to protect the interests of investors in securities and to 

promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

 

6.  A copy of this circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the 

categories “Legal Framework/Circulars”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

 

Yogita Jadhav 
General Manager 
yogitag@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 5 

 Annexure 
 
Amendment to Annexure 1 of Circular No.CFD/DIL3/CIR/2018/2 dated March 10, 
2017 (‘the circular’) 
 

1.  Amendment to Para I A(2)  

 
Para 2(c) of the Circular stands revised as follows: 
 
Report from the Audit Committee recommending the Draft Scheme, taking into 
consideration, interalia, the Valuation Report.  The Valuation Report is required 
to  be  placed  before  the  Audit  Committee  of  the  listed  entity.    The  Audit 
Committee report shall also comment on the following: 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 

Need for the merger/demerger/amalgamation/arrangement 
Rationale of the scheme 
Synergies of business of the entities involved in the scheme 
Impact of the scheme on the shareholders. 
Cost benefit analysis of the scheme. 

2.  Insertion of Para I A(2)(i) 

 
Following para shall be inserted in Para I A(2), Sr. No. (i) 
 
(i) Report  from  the  Committee  of  Independent  Directors  recommending  the 
draft  Scheme,  taking  into  consideration,  interalia,  that  the  scheme  is  not 
detrimental to the shareholders of the listed entity. 

 

 

3.  Amendment to Para 4  

Para 4(a) of the Circular shall be replaced with the following: 
 
(a) “All listed entities are required to submit a valuation report from a Registered 

Valuer.”  
 
For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  the  Registered  Valuer  shall  be  a  person, 
registered as a valuer, having such qualifications and experience and being 
a member of an organization recognized, as specified in Section 247 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with the applicable Rules issued thereunder. 

 

4.  Amendment to Para 9(b)(v) 

 
The explanation to Para 9(b)(v) of the Circular stands revised as follows: 
 
For the purpose of this clause, the expression “substantially the whole of the 
undertaking” in any financial year shall mean twenty percent or more of value 
of the company in terms of consolidated net worth or consolidated total income 

 

Page 3 of 5 

during  previous  financial  year  as  specified  in  Section  180(1)(a)(ii)  of  the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
 
For the purpose of this clause, the term ‘public’ shall carry the same meaning 
as defined under Rule 2 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 
 

5.  Amendment to Para B(4) 

 
Para B(4) of Annexure 1 shall be replaced with the following:  
 

“4. Stock Exchanges shall provide the ‘No-Objection’ letter to SEBI on the draft 
scheme; in co-ordination with each other. SEBI shall issue Comment letter upon 
receipt  of  ‘‘No-Objection’  letter  from  Stock  Exchanges  having  nationwide 
trading terminals. In other cases, SEBI shall issue Comment letter upon receipt 
of ‘‘No-Objection’ letter from the Designated Stock Exchange. 

6.  Amendment to Para C(1) and Para C(2c) 

 
The words ‘Observation letter or’ in Para C(1) and Para C(2c) stand deleted. 
 

7.  Amendment to Para III(A)(5) 

 
Para III(A)(5) of Annexure 1 stands revised as under: 
 
“5. It shall be ensured that steps for listing of specified securities are completed 
and trading in securities commences within sixty days of receipt of the order of 
the Hon’ble High Court/NCLT, simultaneously on all the stock exchanges where 
the equity shares of the listed entity (or transfer entity) are/were listed.  Before 
commencement  of  trading,  the  transferee  entity  in  addition  to  disclosing  the 
information in the form of an information document on the website of the stock 
exchange/s  shall  also  give  an  advertisement  in  one  English  and  one  Hindi 
newspaper with nationwide circulation and one regional newspaper with wide 
circulation  at  the  place  where  the  registered  office  of  the  transferee  entity  is 
situated, giving following details:” 
 

a.  Name of the Company;  
b.  Address of Registered Office and Corporate Office of Company; 
c.  Details of change of name and/or object clause;  
d.  Capital  structure  -  pre  and  post  scheme  of  amalgamation.  This  shall 
provide details of the authorized, issued, subscribed and paid up capital 
(Number of instruments, description, and aggregate nominal value);  

e.  Shareholding pattern giving details of its promoter group shareholding, 

group companies - pre and post scheme of amalgamation;  

f.  Names  of  its  ten  largest  shareholders  -  number  and  percentage  of 

shares held by each of them, their interest, if any; 

g.  Name and details of Promoters - educational qualifications, experience, 

address;  

Page 4 of 5 

 
 

 

h.  Name and details of Board of Directors (experience including current / 

past position held in other firms); 

i.  Business Model / Business Overview and Strategy; 
j.  Reason for the amalgamation;  
k.  Restated Audited Financials for the previous three financial years prior 

to the date of listing; 

l.  Latest restated audited financials along with notes to accounts and any 
audit qualifications.  (Financial statements should not be later than six 
months prior to the date of listing);  

m.  Change in accounting policies in the last three years and their effect on 

profits and reserves; 

n.  Summary  table  of  contingent  liabilities  as  disclosed  in  the  restated 

financial statements; 

o.  Summary table of related party transactions in last 3 years as disclosed 

in the restated financial statements; 

p.  Details of its other group companies including their capital structure and 

financial statements;  

q.  Internal Risk Factors (Minimum 5 and Maximum 10); 
r.  Outstanding litigations and defaults of the transferee entity, promoters, 

directors or any of the group companies; 

s.  Regulatory  Action,  if any  -    disciplinary  action  taken  by  SEBI or  Stock 

Exchanges against the Promoters in last 5 financial years; 

t.  Brief details of outstanding criminal proceedings against the Promoters;  
u.  Particulars  of  high,  low  and  average  prices  of  the  shares  of  the  listed 

transferor entity during the preceding three years;  

v.  Any material development after the date of the balance sheet; and  
w.  Such other information as may be specified by the Board from time to 

time.  
 

 

8.  Deletion of Para III(B) 

 
Para III B of Annexure I to the circular shall stand repealed.  

*********** 

Page 5 of 5 

 

 

