SEBI/HO/MIRSD/CRADT/CIR/P/2020/218                                                       November 03, 2020 

 

To, 

All issuers who propose to list their debt securities 

All Recognized Stock Exchanges  

All Debenture Trustees registered with SEBI 
 

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

Sub: Creation of Security in issuance of listed debt securities  and ‘due diligence’ by 

debenture trustee(s)  

 

1.  In order to secure the interest of investors in listed debt securities and to enable debenture 

trustee(s) to perform their duties effectively, amendments to the SEBI (Issue and Listing of 

Debt  Securities)  Regulations,  2008  (“ILDS  Regulations)  and  SEBI  (Debenture  Trustees) 

Regulations, 1993 (“DT Regulations”) were approved by SEBI Board and notified vide Gazette 

Notifications no. 34 and 35 dated October 08, 2020. Following guidelines are issued to give 

effect to above amendments:  

 

A.  Documents/  Consents  required  at  the  time  of  entering  into  debenture  trustee 

agreement  

 

2.  Regulations 17, 21 and 21B of ILDS Regulations require an Issuer to disclose a proposal to 

create  security  in  offer  document  (“OD”)  or  private  placement  memorandum  (“PPM”)/ 

information  memorandum  (“IM”).  Schedule  I  of  ILDS  Regulations  specifies  that  the  type  of 

security  (movable,  immovable,  tangible,  intangible  etc.)  and  type  of  charge  (pledge, 

hypothecation, mortgage etc.) shall be disclosed by the Issuer. 

 

3.  Regulation 13 of the DT Regulations stipulates that the debenture trustee shall enter into a 

written  agreement  (“debenture  trustee  agreement”)  with  the  Issuer  before  the  debenture 

trustee agrees to act as debenture trustee in respect of the said issue of debt securities. 

 

 

Page 1 of 8 

 

4.  In order to enable the debenture trustee to exercise due diligence with respect to creation of 

security, the Issuer at the time of entering into debenture trustee agreement shall provide the 

following information/ documents to the debenture trustee(s):  

 

4.1. Details of assets, movable property and immovable property on which charge is proposed 

to be created including title deeds (original/ certified true copy by issuers/ certified true 

copy by existing charge holders, as available) or title reports issued by a legal counsel/ 

advocates, copies of the relevant agreements/ Memorandum of Understanding, copy of 

evidence of registration with Sub-registrar, Registrar of Companies, Central Registry of 

Securitization Asset Reconstruction and Security Interest (CERSAI) etc.  

 

4.2. For unencumbered assets, an undertaking that the assets on which charge is proposed 

to be created are free from any encumbrances. 

 

4.3. For  encumbered  assets,  on  which  charge  is  proposed  to  be  created,  the  following 

consents along-with their validity as on date of their submission: 

(a)  Details of existing charge over the assets along with details of charge holders, value/ 

amount, copy of evidence of registration with Sub-registrar, Registrar of Companies, 

CERSAI, Information Utility (IU) registered with Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of 

India (IBBI) etc. as applicable; 

(b)  Consent/  No-objection  certificate  (NOC)  from  existing  charge  holders  for  further 

creation of charge on the assets or relevant transaction documents wherein existing 

charge  holders  have  given  conditional  consent/  permission  to  the  Issuer  to  create 

further  charge  on  the  assets,  along-with  terms  of  such  conditional  consent/ 

permission, if any; 

(c)  Consent/ NOC from existing unsecured lenders, in case, negative lien is created by 

Issuer in favour of unsecured lenders. 

 

4.4. In case of personal guarantee or any other document/ letter with similar intent is offered 

as security or a part of security:  

(a)  Details of guarantor viz. relationship with the Issuer; 

(b)  Net  worth  statement  (not  older  than  6  months  from  the  date  of  debenture  trustee 

agreement) certified by a chartered accountant of the guarantor; 

 

Page 2 of 8 

(c)  List of assets of the guarantor including undertakings/ consent/ NOC as per para 4.2 

and 4.3 above; 

(d)  Conditions  of  invocation  of  guarantee  including  details  of  put  options  or  any  other 

terms and conditions which may impact the security created; 

(e)  Executed  copies  of  previously  entered  agreements  for  providing  guarantee  to  any 

 

other person, if any. 

 

4.5. In case of corporate guarantee or any other document/ letter with similar intent is offered 

as security or a part of security:  

(a)  Details of guarantor viz. holding/ subsidiary/ associate company etc.; 

(b)  Audited  financial  statements  (not  older  than  6  months  from  the  date  of  debenture 

trustee agreement) of guarantor including details of all contingent liabilities; 

(c)  List of assets of the guarantor along-with undertakings/ consent/ NOC as per para 4.2 

and 4.3 above; 

(d)  Conditions  of  invocation  of  guarantee  including  details  of  put  options  or  any  other 

terms and conditions which may impact the security created; 

(e)  Impact on the security in case of restructuring activity of the guarantor; 

(f)  Undertaking  by  the  guarantor  that  the  guarantee  shall  be  disclosed  as  “contingent 

liability” in the “notes to accounts” of financial statement of the guarantor; 

(g)  Copy of Board resolution of the guarantor for the guarantee provided in respect of the 

debt securities of the Issuer; 

(h)  Executed  copies  of  previously  entered  agreements  for  providing  guarantee  to  any 

other person, if any. 

 

4.6. In  case  securities  (equity  shares  etc.)  are  being  offered  as  security  then  a  holding 

statement from the depository participant along-with an undertaking that these securities 

shall be pledged in favour of debenture trustee(s) in the depository system. 

 

4.7. Details of any other form of security being offered viz. Debt Service Reserve Account etc.; 

 

4.8. Any other information, documents or records required by debenture trustee with regard 

to creation of security and perfection of security. 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 8 

B.  Due diligence by debenture trustee for creation of security  

 

5.  Regulation 15(6) of SEBI (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 (DT Regulations) inter-alia 

requires debenture trustee, to exercise independent due diligence and Regulation 15(1)(i) of 

DT Regulations places obligations on the debenture trustee to ensure that the assets of the 

Issuers  are  sufficient  to  discharge  the  interest  and  principal  amount  with  respect  to  debt 

 

securities of the Issuers at all times.  

 

6.  Debenture trustee(s) by itself or through its advisers or experts shall independently carry out 

due diligence. The terms and conditions with respect to exercising due diligence shall also be 

included in the debenture trustee agreement. The due diligence to be exercised by debenture 

trustee(s) with respect to creation of security shall inter-alia include the following:  

 

6.1. Debenture trustee shall verify that the assets provided by Issuer for creation of security 

are  free  from  any  encumbrances  or  necessary  permissions  or  consents  has  been 

obtained from existing charge holders by carrying out the following checks:  

 

(a)  Verify from Registrar of Companies, Sub-registrar, CERSAI, IU or other sources 

where charge is registered/ disclosed as per terms. 

(b) 

In case of conditional consent/ permission received as per para 4.3(b) above: 

i.  Verify whether such conditional consent/ permission given to Issuer by existing 

charge holders is valid as per terms of transaction documents;  

ii. 

Intimate  to  existing  charge  holders  via  e-mail  about  the  proposal  to  create 

further charge on assets by Issuer seeking their comments/ objections, if any, 

to be communicated to debenture trustee within next 5 working days.  

 

6.2. In case of personal guarantee, corporate guarantee and any other guarantees/ form of 

security,  the  debenture  trustee  shall  verify  the  relevant  filings  made  on  websites  of 

Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs,  Stock  Exchange(s),  CIBIL,  IU  etc.  and  obtain  appraisal 

report,  necessary  financial  certificates  viz.  from  statutory  auditor  in  case  of  corporate 

guarantee,  certificate  from  Chartered  Accountant  in  case  of  personal  guarantee,  as 

applicable, of the guarantor/ Issuer.  

 

7.  Debenture trustee, by itself or through its appointed agencies viz. chartered accountant firm, 

registered valuer, legal counsel etc., shall prepare one or more reports viz. valuation report, 

 

Page 4 of 8 

ROC  search  report,  title  search  report/  appraisal  report,  asset  cover  certificate,  any  other 

report/ certificate as applicable etc. and shall independently assess that the assets for creation 

of security are adequate for the proposed issue of debt securities.  

 

 

8.  Debenture trustee shall issue ‘due-diligence certificate’ as per format specified in Annexure A 

to the Issuer subject to the following: 

8.1.  Information on consents/ permissions required for creation of further charge on assets 

are adequately disclosed in OD or PPM/ IM. 

8.2.  All  disclosures made in  the  OD  or  PPM/  IM  with  respect  to  creation  of security  are in 

confirmation with the clauses of debenture trustee agreement. 

8.3. All covenants proposed to be included in debenture trust deed (including any side letter, 

accelerated payment clause etc.) are disclosed in OD or PPM/ IM. 

 

9.  Debenture  trustee(s)  shall  maintain  records  and  documents  pertaining  to  due  diligence 

exercised for a minimum period of five years from redemption of the debt securities. 

 

C.  Disclosures  in  the  offer  document  or  private  placement  memorandum/  information 

memorandum and filing of OD or PPM/ IM by the Issuer  

 

10. The  Issuer,  in  addition  to  disclosures  made  under  Schedule  I  of  ILDS  Regulations  and 

circulars issued thereunder, shall also disclose the following in the OD or PPM/ IM:  

 

10.1.  “Debt securities shall be considered as secured only if the charged asset is registered 

with  Sub-registrar  and  Registrar  of  Companies  or  CERSAI  or  Depository  etc.,  as 

applicable, or is independently verifiable by the debenture trustee.”; 

10.2.  Terms  and  conditions  of  debenture  trustee  agreement  including  fees  charged  by 

debenture trustees(s),  details  of  security  to  be  created  and  process  of due  diligence 

carried out by the debenture trustee; 

10.3.  Due diligence certificate as per the format specified in Annexure A.  

 

11. An Issuer proposing to file draft OD or PPM/ IM for offering securities through electronic book 

mechanism or serially printing PPM/ IM as per Section 42 of Companies Act, 2013 and rules 

made  thereunder  shall submit  the  due  diligence certificate from  debenture  trustee to  stock 

exchange as per format specified in Annexure A.   

 

 

Page 5 of 8 

D.  Creation and registration of charge of security by Issuer 

 

12. Before making the application for listing of debt securities, the Issuer shall create charge as 

specified in the OD or PPM/ IM, in favour of the debenture trustee and also execute debenture 

 

trust deed (DTD) with the debenture trustee.  

 

13. The  Stock  Exchange(s)  shall  list  the  debt  securities  only  upon  receipt  of  a  due  diligence 

certificate as per format specified in Annexure B from debenture trustee confirming creation 

of charge and execution of the DTD. 

 

14. The charge created by Issuer shall be registered with Sub-registrar, Registrar of Companies, 

CERSAI, Depository etc., as applicable, within 30 days of creation of such charge. In case the 

charge is not registered anywhere or is not independently verifiable, then the same shall be 

considered a breach of covenants/ terms of the issue by the Issuer. 

 

15. This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred upon SEBI under Section 11 (1) of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with the provisions of Regulation 

2A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 

and Regulation 31(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt 

Securities) Regulations, 2008 to protect the interest of investors in securities and to promote 

the development of, and to regulate, the securities market. 

 

16.  Applicability: The provisions of this circular shall come into force w.e.f. January 01, 2021 i.e. 

for new issues proposed to be listed on or after January 01, 2021. 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Richa G. Agarwal 

Deputy General Manager   

Market intermediaries Regulation & Supervision Department 

Email id: richag@sebi.gov.in  

Phone: +91-22-26449596 

 
 
 

 
 

 

Page 6 of 8 

 

Annexure A 

 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE DEBENTURE 
TRUSTEE AT THE TIME OF FILING THE DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT OR PRIVATE 

PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM/ INFORMATION MEMORANDUM 

 
To, 
 
Stock Exchange 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________LTD. 
 
We, the debenture trustee(s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows: 
 

1)  We  have  examined  documents  pertaining  to  the  said  issue  and  other  such  relevant 

documents, reports and certifications. 
 

2)  On the basis of such examination and of the discussions with the Issuer, its directors and 
other  officers,  other  agencies  and  on  independent  verification  of  the  various  relevant 
documents, reports and certifications, WE CONFIRM that: 
 
a)  The  Issuer  has  made  adequate  provisions  for  and/or  has  taken  steps  to  provide  for 

adequate security for the debt securities to be issued. 
 

b)   The Issuer has obtained the permissions / consents necessary for creating security on 

the said property(ies). 
 

c)  The  Issuer  has  made  all  the  relevant  disclosures  about  the  security  and  also  its 

continued obligations towards the holders of debt securities. 
 

d)  Issuer  has  adequately  disclosed  all  consents/  permissions  required  for  creation  of 
further  charge  on  assets  in  offer  document  or  private  placement  memorandum/ 
information  memorandum  and  all  disclosures  made  in  the  offer  document  or  private 
placement memorandum/ information memorandum with respect to creation of security 
are in confirmation with the clauses of debenture trustee agreement. 
 

e)  Issuer  has  disclosed  all  covenants  proposed  to  be  included  in  debenture  trust  deed 
(including any side letter, accelerated payment clause etc.), offer document or private 
placement memorandum/ information memorandum. 
 
Issuer  has  given  an  undertaking  that  charge  shall  be  created in favour  of  debenture 
trustee as per terms of issue before filing of listing application. 

f) 

 

We have satisfied ourselves about the ability of the Issuer to service the debt securities. 
 
PLACE: 
DATE: 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH HIS STAMP 
 

Page 7 of 8 

 

 

Annexure B 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE DEBENTURE 

TRUSTEE AT THE TIME OF FILING OF LISTING APPLICATION BY ISSUER 

 

 
 

 

To, 
 
Stock Exchange 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________LTD. 
 
 
We, the debenture trustee(s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows: 
 

1)  We have examined documents pertaining to the creation of charge over assets of Issuer. 

 

2)  On the basis of such examination and of the discussions with the Issuer, its directors and 
other  officers,  other  agencies  and  of  independent  verification  of  the  various  relevant 
documents, WE CONFIRM that: 
 
a)  The Issuer  has  created charge  over its  assets in favour  of  debenture trustee  as  per 
terms of offer document or private placement memorandum/ information memorandum 
and debenture trustee agreement. 
 

b)  Issuer has executed the debenture trust deed as per terms of offer document or private 
placement memorandum/ information memorandum and debenture trustee agreement. 
 

c)  The Issuer has given an undertaking that charge shall be registered with Sub-registrar, 
Registrar of Companies, Central Registry of Securitization Asset Reconstruction and 
Security Interest (CERSAI), Depository etc., as applicable, within 30 days of creation 
of charge.  

 

We have satisfied ourselves about the ability of the Issuer to service the debt securities. 
 
PLACE: 
DATE: 
 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH HIS STAMP 

 

Page 8 of 8 

