 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

        November 06, 2020  

SEBI/HO/MRD2/DCAP/CIR/P/227 
 
To,  
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Recognized Clearing Corporations 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub:  Outsourcing  of  activities,  Business  Continuity  Plan  (BCP)  and  Disaster 
Recovery  (DR)  and  Cyber  Security  and  Cyber  Resilience  framework  -  Limited 
Purpose Clearing Corporation (LPCC) 
 
1.  The broad guidelines governing outsourcing of activities by Clearing Corporations 
have  been  prescribed  by  SEBI  vide  Circular  SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2017/101 
dated September 13, 2017.   
 

2.  Further, guidelines for Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and Disaster Recovery (DR) 
have been prescribed by SEBI vide Circular SEBI/HO/MRD/DMS1/CIR/P/2019/43 
dated March 26, 2019 and the framework for Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience 
has been prescribed vide Circular CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015 dated July 06, 2015 and 
Circular CIR/MRD/CSC/148/2018 dated December 07, 2018. 
 

3.  SEBI Board in its meeting held on September 29, 2020 permitted  setting up of a 
Limited  Purpose  Clearing  Corporation  (LPCC)  for  clearing  and  settling  repo 
transactions  in  debt  securities  and  accordingly  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation) 
(Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2020, 
have been notified on October 08, 2020 (SECC Amendment Regulations 2020). 
 

4.  Further, the LPCC has been permitted to enter into outsourcing agreements with 
existing Clearing Corporations for the purpose of using their core and critical IT 
support  infrastructure  /  activities  for  running  the  core  activities  (transaction 
process, clearing and settlement) of the LPCC and related operations.  

 

5.  For  the  purpose  of  execution  of  repo  in  corporate  bonds,  LPCC  shall  enter  into 
necessary agreements with the Stock Exchanges where it proposes to offer clearing 
/  settlement  of  repo  transactions  and  their  associated  Clearing  Corporations  for 
continuity purposes.  

 

 

 

Page 1 of 5 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
6.  Additionally, the LPCC has been permitted to have arrangements with any of the 
existing Clearing Corporations for the purposes of putting in place a BCP and DR 
mechanism, and Cyber Security. 
 

7.  In view of the above, towards compliance with requirement under Regulation 7 of 
SECC  Amendment  Regulations  2020,  the  framework  governing  the  outsourcing 
activities by the LPCC is placed at Annexure I.  
 

8.  The framework governing arrangements with existing Clearing Corporations for 

the purpose of BCP and DR, and Cyber Security is placed at Annexure II.  
 

9.  Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations, who enter into agreements with the 
LPCC,  are  directed  to  take  necessary  steps  to  put  in  place  systems  for 
implementation of the circular, including necessary amendments to the relevant 
bye-laws, rules, etc., if any. Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations are also 
advised to disseminate the provisions of this circular on their website. 

 
10. In 

respect 

of 

the 

the 

LPCC, 

Circular 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2017/101  dated  September  13,  2017,  Circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015 dated July 06, 2015, Circular CIR/MRD/CSC/148/2018 dated 
December  07,  2018  and  Circular  SEBI/HO/MRD/DMS1/CIR/P/2019/43  dated 
March 26, 2019, stand modified to the extent as mentioned above. 
 

provisions 

of 

11. This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework”  “Circulars”. 
 

12. This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market. 

 

 

 

 Yours faithfully,  
 
 
Amit Kapoor 
General Manager  

        Market Regulation Department      

      +91-22-2644 9374 
amitk@sebi.gov.in 
 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure I 

1.  The LPCC is permitted to enter into outsourcing agreements with existing Clearing 
Corporations  for  the  purpose  of  using  their  core  and  critical  IT  support 
infrastructure  /  activities  for  running  the  core  activities  (transaction  process, 
clearing and settlement) of the LPCC and related operations. 
 

2.  For the purpose of execution of repo in corporate bonds, the LPCC shall enter into 
necessary  agreements  with  Stock  Exchanges  and  their  associated  Clearing 
Corporations (CCs) for continuity purposes.  
 

3.  The transactions would be executed on the platform of exchanges. As part of the 
risk  management  process,  the  LPCC  would  define  the  risk  management 
parameters,  such  as  eligible  bonds  ISINs,  applicable  margins,  type  of  collateral, 
applicable haircuts, quantum of collateral, etc. Further, for the purpose of margin 
blocking,  collateral  management,  pay-in  and  pay-out  of  funds  and  securities, 
separate bank and demat account would be opened by the LPCC. 
 

4.  For clearing and settlement of repo transactions based on the parameters defined 
by  the  LPCC,  and  other  related  processes  /  operations,  the  infrastructure  of  the 
existing CCs shall be used. For availing such facility / service, the LPCC shall enter 
into comprehensive outsourcing agreements with the existing CCs. 
 
a.  Selection Process: The LPCC shall enter into outsourcing agreements with at 
least two existing CCs (Service Providers) so that there is complete redundancy 
and  business  continuity  in  place.    The  parameters  for  selection  of  Service 
Providers shall include at least the following parameters:  

 

i.  Proven technology and capacity to handle volume 
ii.  Experience of staff 
iii.  Compliance with cyber security requirements 
iv.  Speed  of  implementation  with  ability  to  adapt  the  existing  segments  / 

modules in place 

v.  Ability to undertake software enhancement and customization as per LPCC 

requirements 

vi.  Ongoing support 
 

b.  Fees  &  Charges:  In  determining  the  charges,  amongst  others,  the  following 

type of charges, shall be taken into account: 
i.  Customization of systems – based on time and material 
ii.  Dedicated team for operations – based on time and material  

 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

iii.  Platform fee – based on negotiation and subject to SEBI approval 
 
Further, the  existing transfer pricing between Stock Exchanges and  CCs and 
interoperability charges shall also be taken into consideration. 
 

c.  Role  and  Responsibility:  The  outsourcing  agreements  shall  encompass  the 

following underlying principles: 
i.  The  LPCC  shall  have  the  overall  responsibility  in  respect  of  all  the 

outsourced activities / operations. 

ii.  Service  Providers  (SPs)  themselves  being  MIIs,  shall  ensure  that  their 
platform,  system  and  processes  are  in  compliance  with  extant  regulatory 
framework. 

iii.  For  any  dispute  vis-a-vis  the  investors  /  participants  /  constituents  with 

respect to clearing and settlement, the LPCC shall be liable. 

iv.  For  any  dispute  with  respect  to  trading  in  repo,  the  respective  Stock 

Exchange shall be liable. 

v.  For  system  failure,  the  LPCC  shall  be  liable  and  appropriate  financial 
disincentive qua the repo segment may be imposed. The LPCC may in turn 
provide for necessary liability clauses in the contractual agreement with the 
Service Provider. 

vi.  Similarly, for any process failure, the LPCC shall remain liable, who may in 
turn provide for indemnity clauses in agreement with the Service Provider. 
vii.  In the event of any inter-se service disputes, between the LPCC and the SPs, 
neither  there  can  be  any  service  disruption,  nor  any  market  disruption, 
during the pendency of the said inter-se service disputes. Further, contracts 
should provide sufficient financial disincentive against market disruption 
and  both  the  LPCC  and  the  SP  shall  remain  committed  to  provide 
uninterrupted service to the market participants, irrespective of their inter-
se disputes pending for resolution before the competent authorities. 

viii.  There shall be no dilution in access of the regulator to the LPCC and its SPs 
in monitoring and inspecting the regulatory compliance by the LPCC and 
the SPs. For any violation of SEBI regulations the LPCC shall remain liable. 
 

5.  The LPCC shall handle the functions relating to risk management, rule setting viz. 
byelaws,  rules,  regulations  and  for  the  process  of  clearing  and  settlement, 
maintenance of SGF, decision making, default process, disciplinary proceedings, 
etc. 

 

 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Recovery 

(DR), 

and  Disaster 

Annexure II 
 
1.  In  order  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  guidelines  for  Business  Continuity  Plan 
(BCP) 
vide  Circular 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DMS1/CIR/P/2019/43 dated March 26, 2019, LPCC is permitted to 
have  arrangements  with  any  of  the  existing  Clearing  Corporations  who  are  in 
compliance with the existing regulatory BCP/DR requirements. However, for any 
issues / disputes arising on account of such arrangement, the LPCC shall be liable. 
Hence, the LPCC shall incorporate necessary provision into its agreement with the 
service providers for its BCP/DR arrangement with them. 
 

prescribed 

2.  Similarly, in order to ensure compliance with the requirements relating to Cyber 
Security  and  Cyber  Resilience 
framework  prescribed  vide  Circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015  dated  July  06,  2015  and  Circular  CIR/MRD/CSC/148/2018 
dated December 07, 2018, LPCC is permitted to have outsourcing arrangements 
for cyber security with any of the existing Clearing Corporations for the purposes 
of  Cyber  Security.  For  any  issues  /  disputes  arising  on  account  of  such 
arrangement, LPCC would be liable. 

 

 

Page 5 of 5 

