 

CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/HO/DDHS/CIR/P/2020/233                                         November 23, 2020 

 

To 

Recognised Stock Exchanges 

Registered Depositories 

National Payments Corporation of India 

Registered  Depository  Participants,  Stock  brokers,  Merchant  Bankers, 

Registrars  to  an  Issue  and  Share  Transfer  Agents,  Bankers  to  issues, 

Sponsor Banks 

Self-Certified Syndicate Banks 

Issuers who  propose  to  list  Debt  securities,  Non-convertible  redeemable 

preference  shares,  Securitised  Debt  Instruments  and  Municipal  Debt 

Securities issued under the respective Regulations 

 

Madam / Sir, 

Sub:    Introduction  of  Unified  Payments  Interface  (UPI)  mechanism  and 

Application  through  Online  interface  and  Streamlining  the  process  of 

Public issues of securities under: 

  SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 (ILDS 

Regulations),  

  SEBI (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference 

Shares) Regulations, 2013 (NCRPS Regulations),  

  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments  and 

Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008 (SDI Regulations) and  

  SEBI (Issue and Listing of Municipal Debt Securities) Regulations, 

2015 (ILDM Regulations) 

 

Page 1 of 14 

 

 

1.  SEBI Circular No. CIR/DDHS/P/121/2018 dated August 16, 2018 (hereinafter 

to  be  referred  as  ‘ASBA  Circular’)  lays  down  the  process  for  payment  for 

applications in public issue of debt securities through the facility of ASBA.  

 

2.  Introduction  of  Unified  Payments  Interface  (UPI)  mechanism  and  an 

additional mode for application through online (app / web) interface in 

public issues of securities captioned above: 

 

2.1. After consultation with stakeholders, it has been decided to introduce the 

following  in  addition  to  the  already  specified  modes  under  the  ASBA 

Circular: 

 

2.1.1.  Providing an option to investors to apply in public issues of debt 

securities through the app / web interface of Stock Exchange(s) 

with a facility to block funds through Unified Payments Interface 

(UPI) mechanism for application value upto Rs. 2 Lac; 

 

2.1.2.  Permitting the UPI mechanism to block funds for application value 

upto  Rs.  2  Lac  submitted  through  intermediaries  (Syndicate 

members,  Registered  Stock  Brokers,  Registrar  and  Transfer 

agent and Depository Participants). 

 

3.  The process flow for applying through online interface of stock exchanges or 

intermediaries  and  availing  the  option  of  blocking  funds  though  UPI 

mechanism is placed at Annex I to this Circular. 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 14 

 

4.  New entities / mechanisms part of the public issue process using UPI 

 

4.1. National  Payments  Corporation  of  India  (NPCI):  NPCI,  a  Reserve 

Bank  of  India  (RBI)  initiative,  is  an  umbrella  organization  for  all  retail 

payments in India. It has been set up with the guidance and support of 

the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Indian Banks Association (IBA); 

 

4.2. Unified  Payments  Interface  (UPI):  UPI  is  an  instant  payment  system 

developed  by  the  NPCI.  It  enables  merging  several  banking  features, 

seamless fund routing & merchant payments into one hood. UPI allows 

instant transfer of money between any two persons’ bank accounts using 

a payment address which uniquely identifies a person's bank account. 

 

4.3. Sponsor Bank: Sponsor Bank means a Banker to the Issue registered 

with SEBI which is appointed by the Issuer to act as a conduit between 

the  Stock  Exchanges  and  NPCI  in  order  to  push  the  mandate  collect 

requests and / or payment instructions of the retail investors into the UPI. 

 

5.  Validation by Stock Exchanges and Depositories 

5.1. The details of investor viz. PAN, DP ID / Client ID, entered on the Stock 

Exchange platform at the time of bidding, shall be validated by the Stock 

Exchange/s with the Depositories on real time basis. 

5.2. Stock Exchanges and Depositories shall put in place necessary 

infrastructure for this purpose.  

 

6.  Other requirements 

 

6.1. Stock  Exchanges  shall  update  demand  data  on  working  days  on  their 

websites which shall include all the UPI (accepted/pending) and ASBA 

bids; ‘Working day’ for this purpose shall be the working day of the Stock 

Exchange on which debt securities are listed.  

 

Page 3 of 14 

 

6.2. The  additional  text  of  data  fields  required  to  be  included  in  the 

Application-and-bidding-form relating to UPI is placed at Annex II to this 

Circular. The roles of the Issuer, Registrar and Collecting Banks is given 

at Annex III of this Circular. 

6.3. The  details  of  commission  and  processing  fees  payable  to  each 

intermediary and the timelines for payment shall be disclosed in the offer 

document.  

6.4. The intermediaries shall provide necessary guidance to their investors in 

use of UPI while making applications in public issues. 

6.5. All entities involved in the process shall co-ordinate with one another to 

ensure completion of listing of securities and commencement of trading 

by T+6 day. 

6.6. Stock Exchanges shall formulate and disclose the operational procedure 

for applying through the app / web based interface developed by them in 

order to apply in public issue on their websites.  

6.7. The Merchant Banker shall ensure that the process of applying through 

the app / web interface developed by the Stock Exchanges as well as the 

additional  payment  mechanism  through  UPI  is  disclosed  in  the  offer 

document.  

6.8. All entities involved in the process are advised to take necessary steps 

to ensure compliance with this circular.  

 

Applicability of this circular 

 

7.  The provisions of this circular shall be applicable to a public issue of securities 

under the captioned Regulations which opens on or after January 01, 2021. 

Stock Exchanges, NPCI, Sponsor Banks and Self Certified Syndicate Banks 

shall make required changes to implement the same from January 1, 2021. 

SEBI  Circular  no.  CIR/IMD/DF-1/20/2012  dated  July  27,  2012  shall  stand 

repealed from that date. 

 

 

Page 4 of 14 

 

8.  This circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 11(1) 

of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  protect  the 

interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 

regulate the securities markets. 

 

9.  This  circular  is  available  on  SEBI  website  at  www.sebi.gov.in  under  the 

categories “Legal Framework -> Circulars”. 

 

 

Yours faithfully,  

 

  

 

Pradeep Ramakrishnan 
General Manager 
Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities 
Tel No.022-2644 9246 
Email id - pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 5 of 14 

 

 

 

 

Annex I 

Process flow for applying though UPI mechanism 

 

1.  Modes of application in public issue of securities as mentioned in this 

circular:  

 

An investor may apply through any of the following modes: 

Through  Self-Certified  Syndicate  Bank  (SCSB)  or  intermediaries  (viz. 

Syndicate members, Registered Stock Brokers, Registrar and Transfer agent 

and Depository Participants) 

a.  An investor may submit the bid-cum-application form, with ASBA as the 

sole mechanism for making payment, physically at the branch of a SCSB, 

i.e.  investor’s  bank.  For  such  applications,  the  existing  process  of 

uploading of bid on the Stock Exchange bidding platform and blocking of 

funds in investors account by the SCSB would continue.  

b.  An  investor  may  submit  the  completed  bid-cum-application  form  to 

intermediaries  mentioned  above  along  with  details  of  his/her  bank 

account for blocking of funds. The intermediary  shall upload the bid  on 

the Stock Exchange bidding platform and forward the application form to 

a branch of a SCSB for blocking of funds. 

 

c.  An investor may submit the bid-cum-application form with a SCSB or the 

intermediaries  mentioned  above  and  use  his  /  her  bank  account  linked 

UPI ID for the purpose of blocking of funds, if the application value is Rs.2 

lac or less. The intermediary shall upload the bid on the Stock Exchange 

bidding platform. The application amount would be blocked through the 

UPI mechanism in this case. 

 

Page 6 of 14 

 

 

 

Through Stock Exchanges (App/ Web interface)  

d.  An investor may submit the bid-cum-application form through the App or 

web  interface  developed  by  Stock  Exchanges  wherein  the  bid  is 

automatically uploaded onto the Stock Exchange bidding platform and the 

amount is blocked using the UPI mechanism.  

 

 

2.  Process  for  investor  application  submitted  with  UPI  as  mode  of 

payment  

 

2.1.  Bidding and validation process 

i. 

Before  submission  of  the  application  with  the  intermediary,  the 

investor would be required to have / create a UPI ID, with a maximum 

length  of  45  characters 

including 

the  handle 

(Example: 

InvestorID@bankname). 

ii. 

An investor shall fill in the bid details in the application form along with 

his/ her bank account linked UPI ID and submit the application with 

any of the intermediaries or through the stock exchanges App/ Web 

interface. 

iii. 

The  intermediary,  upon  receipt  of form,  shall  upload  the  bid details 

along with the UPI ID on the stock exchange bidding platform using 

appropriate protocols. 

iv. 

Once  the  bid  has  been  entered  in  the  bidding  platform,  the  Stock 

Exchange shall undertake validation of the PAN and Demat account 

combination details of investor with the depository. 

v. 

The Depository shall validate the aforesaid PAN and Demat account 

details  on  a  near  real  time  basis  and  send  response  to  stock 

exchange  which  would  be  shared  by  stock  exchange  with 

intermediary through its platform, for corrections, if any. 

vi. 

Once the bid details are uploaded on the Stock Exchange platform, 

the  Stock  Exchange  shall  send  an  SMS  to  the  investor  regarding 

 

Page 7 of 14 

 

submission  of  his  /  her  application,  at  the  end  of  day,  during  the 

bidding period. For the last day of bidding, the SMS may be sent the 

next working day. 

 

2.2.  The Block process 

 

i. 

Post undertaking validation with the Depository, the Stock Exchange 

shall, on a continuous basis, electronically share the bid details along 

with investors UPI ID, with the Sponsor Bank appointed by the issuer. 

ii. 

The Sponsor Bank shall initiate a mandate request on the investor i.e. 

request  the  investor  to  authorize  blocking  of  funds  equivalent  to 

application  amount  and  subsequent  debit  of  funds  in  case  of 

allotment. 

iii. 

The  request  raised  by  the  Sponsor  Bank,  would  be  electronically 

received by the investor as a SMS / intimation on his / her mobile no. 

/ mobile app, associated with the UPI ID linked bank account. 

iv. 

The investor shall be able to view the amount to be blocked as per 

his / her bid in such intimation. The investor shall be able to view an 

attachment wherein the public issue bid details submitted by investor 

will be visible. After reviewing the details properly, the investor shall 

be  required  to  proceed  to  authorize  the  mandate.  Such  mandate 

raised  by  sponsor  bank  would  be  a  one-time  mandate  for  each 

application in the public issue. 

v. 

An investor is required to accept the UPI mandate latest by 5 pm on 

the third working day from the day of bidding on the stock exchange 

platform  except  for  the  last  day  of  the  issue  period  or  any  other 

modified  closure  date  of  the  issue  periodin  which  case,  he  /  she  is 

required to accept the UPI mandate latest by 5 pm the next working 

day. 

vi. 

An  investor  shall  not  be  allowed  to  add  or  modify  the  bid(s)  of  the 

application except for modification of either DP ID/Client ID, or PAN 

 

Page 8 of 14 

 

ID but not both. However, the investor can withdraw the bid(s) and 

reapply 

vii. 

For mismatch bids, on successful validation of PAN and DP ID/ Client 

ID  combination  during  T+1  modification  session,  such  bids  will  be 

sent to Sponsor Bank for further processing by the Exchange on T+1 

day till 1pm  

viii. 

The  facility  of  Re-initiation/  Resending  the  UPI  mandate  shall  be 

available only till 5 pm on the day of bidding. 

ix. 

Upon successful validation of block request by the investor, as above, 

the said information would be electronically received by the investors’ 

bank, where the funds, equivalent to application amount, would get 

blocked  in  investors  account.  Intimation  regarding  confirmation  of 

such block of funds in investors account would also be received by 

the investor. 

x. 

The  information  containing  status  of  block  request  (e.g.  accepted  / 

decline / pending) would also be shared with the Sponsor Bank, which 

in turn would be shared with the Stock Exchange. The block request 

status would also be displayed on the Stock Exchange platform for 

information of the intermediary. 

xi. 

The  information  received  from  Sponsor  Bank,  would  be  shared  by 

stock  exchange  with  RTA  in  the  form  of  a  file  for  the  purpose  of 

reconciliation. 

 

3.  Post issue closure 

3.1.  Post  closure  of  the  offer,  the  Stock  Exchange  shall  share  the  bid  

details with  RTA.  Further, the Stock Exchange shall also provide the 

RTA,    the    final    file  received    from  the  Sponsor    Bank,    containing  

status  of  blocked funds  or otherwise, along with the bank account 

details with respect to applications made using UPI ID. 

3.2.  The  allotment  of  debt securities  shall  be done  as  per  SEBI  Circular 

 

Page 9 of 14 

 

No. CIR/IMD/DF/18/2013 dated October 29, 2013. 

3.3.  The RTA, based on information of bidding and blocking received from 

the Stock Exchange, shall undertake reconciliation  of  the  bid  data  

and    block  confirmation  corresponding  to  the  bids  by  all  investor 

category applications (with and without the use of UPI) and prepare 

the basis of allotment.  

3.4.  Upon approval of the basis  of  allotment,  the RTA  shall share  the  

‘debit’    file    with  Sponsor    bank    (through    Stock    Exchange)    and  

SCSBs,  as  applicable,  for credit of funds in the public issue account 

and unblocking of excess funds in the investor’s account. The Sponsor 

Bank, based on the mandate approved by the investor at the time of 

blocking  of  funds,  shall  raise  the  debit  /  collect  request  from  the 

investor’s  bank  account,  whereupon  funds  will  be  transferred  from 

investor’s account to the public issue account and remaining funds, if 

any, will be unblocked without any manual intervention by investor or 

their bank.  

3.5.  Upon confirmation of receipt of funds  in  the  public  issue  account,  

the securities would be credited to the investor’s account. The investor 

will  be  notified  for  full/partial  allotment.  For  partial  allotment,  the 

remaining funds would be unblocked. For no allotment, mandate would 

be revoked and application amount would be unblocked for the investor.  

3.6.  Thereafter,  Stock  Exchanges  will  issue  the  listing  and  trading 

approval. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 10 of 14 

 

 Annex II 

Data fields required in Application-and-Bidding-Form relating to UPI 

 

1.  Main Application form 

1.1.  Payment details –UPI ID with maximum length of 45 characters 

1.2.  Acknowledgement Slip for SCSB / Broker / RTA / DP 

1.2.1.  Payment details to include UPI  

1.3.  Acknowledgement Slip for bidder 

1.3.1.  Payment details to include UPI ID 

2.  Overleaf of Main Application Form 

 

2.1.  UPI Mechanism for Blocking Fund would be available for Application 

value up to Rs.2 Lac 

2.2.  Bidder’s  Undertaking  and  confirmation  to  include  blocking  of  funds 

through UPI mode 

2.3.  Instructions with respect to payment / payment instrument to include 

instructions for blocking of funds through UPI mode.  

 

 

Page 11 of 14 

 

 

 

Annex III 

Role of Issuer, Registrar, Stock Exchange, Intermediaries and 

Collecting Bank 

 

1.  Issuer  

 

(a) 

Issuer shall use an on-line app based/ web based platform provided 

by stock exchange(s) for receiving applications in public issue of debt 

securities. 

(b)  For this purpose, the issuer and the stock exchange shall enter into an 

arrangement  which  shall  contain 

the 

inter  se  rights,  duties, 

responsibilities  and  obligations  of  the  issuer  and  stock  exchange(s) 

and  provide  for  a  dispute  resolution  mechanism  between  the  issuer 

and the stock exchange(s). 

(c) 

Issuer shall maintain a single escrow account for collecting application 

money through all the methods. The Sponsor Bank appointed by the 

issuer may be the same bank with whom the public issue account has 

been opened. 

(d) 

Issuer  shall  appoint  one  of  the  SCSBs  as  Sponsor  Bank  to  act  as 

conduit  between  the  Stock  exchanges  and  NPCI  in  order  to  push 

mandate,  collect  requests  and  /  or  payment  instructions  of  the 

investors in the UPI. 

2.  Registrar  

 

(a)  The registrar shall have an online or system driven interface with the 

Stock Exchange to get information/ data/ files pertaining to issue.  

(b)  The  Registrar  shall  collect  aggregate  applications  details  from  the 

stock  exchanges  platform  to  decide  the  eligible  applications  and 

process the allotment as per applicable SEBI Regulations. 

Page 12 of 14 

 

 

 

(c)  An  application  without  valid  application  amount  shall  be  treated  as 

invalid application by the Registrar.  

(d)  The Registrar shall credit securities to all valid allottees. 

(e)  The  Registrar  shall  ensure  refund  of  application  amount  or  excess 

application amount in the bank account of the applicant as stated in its 

demat account. 

 

3.  Stock Exchange 

 

3.1.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  provide  a  platform  for  making  applications 

through 

i. 

Intermediaries. 

ii.  App based/ web interface applications from investors with UPI mode 

for blocking the mode for application value up to Rs.2 Lacs 

 

3.2.  The Stock Exchanges shall be responsible for 

i.  accurate, timely and secured transmission of the electronic application 

file uploaded by all participants on the online platform, to the registrar. 

ii.  disseminating  the  issue  information  on  Exchange  web  site  on  a 

periodic basis across all categories. 

 

3.3.  Notwithstanding the responsibility of the Intermediaries as laid down 

in  SEBI  regulations,  the  Stock  Exchange  shall  be  responsible  for 

addressing  investor  grievances  arising  from  applications  submitted 

online  through  the  App  based/  web  interface  platform  of  stock 

exchange or through their Trading Members. 

 

4.  Intermediaries 

4.1.  The  Intermediaries  shall  be  responsible  for  addressing  any  investor 

grievances arising from the applications uploaded by them in respect 

of quantity, price or any other data entry or other errors made by them. 

 

Page 13 of 14 

 

4.2.  If the Intermediary has not entered any details correctly on the stock 

exchanges  platform  and  it  results  on  the  mismatch  with  the  data 

obtained by the Registrar from the Intermediary shall be responsible 

for rejection of such applications. 

 

5.  Collecting Bank 

The  Collecting  Bank  shall  be  responsible  for  addressing  any  investor 

grievances arising from non-confirmation of funds to the Registrar despite 

successful  realization  of  the  payment  instrument  in  favour  of  the  issuer’s 

Escrow Account, or any delay or operational lapse by the Collecting Bank 

in sending the forms to the Registrar. 

Page 14 of 14 

 

 

 

