 

 

भारतीय (cid:7079)ितभूित और िविनमय बोड(cid:6981)

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

November 24, 2020
 
 

SEBI/HO/MRD1/DSAP/CIR/P/2020/234 
 
All Recognised Stock Exchanges  
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Subject: Testing of software used in or related to Trading and Risk Management 
 
1.  SEBI  vide  Circulars  CIR/MRD/DP/24/2013  dated  August  19,  2013  and 
CIR/MRD/DP/06/2014 February 7, 2014 came out with  guidelines on ‘Testing of 
software used in or related to Trading and Risk management’. Subsequent to the 
above, SEBI has received various suggestions/ representation from stakeholders 
seeking  relaxation  from  the  requirement  of  software  testing,  prescribed  in  the 
aforementioned circulars. 

 
2.  After due examination and consultation with stakeholders, it has been decided that 
requirement  of  mandatory  mock  trading  sessions  to  facilitate  testing  of  new 
software or existing software that has undergone any change of functionality shall 
be optional if  a Stock Exchange  provides suitable simulated test environment to 
test  new  software  or  existing  software  that  has  undergone  any  change  of 
functionality and ensures the following: 
 
i) 
ii) 

The test environment shall be made available to all the members. 
The test environment shall be made  available for at least two  hours after 
market hours and at least on two trading days in a week.  
For the purpose of testing, Stock Exchange shall make available data from 
at least one trading day in all segments and the same shall not be older than 
one month from the day of the testing environment. 
All trading members (excluding those who use only Exchange provided front 
end  and/or  ASP  services)  having  approved  Algorithms  available  with  the 
member, irrespective of the algorithm having undergone change or not, shall 
participate in the Simulated Environment at least on one trading day during 
each calendar month at all the exchanges where they are members. This 
shall be audited and reported in the System Auditors report. 
Exchange  shall  provide  a  daily  log,  including  Algos  used,  of  members 
participation  in  Simulated  Environment  to  all  participating  members.  The 
Exchange  shall  provide  summary  report  of  such  activity  to  SEBI  in  the 
monthly development report (MDR). 

iii) 

iv) 

v) 

 
 

 

 
 

भारतीय (cid:7079)ितभूित और िविनमय बोड(cid:6981)

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

3.  Other conditions prescribed in SEBI Circulars dated August 19, 2013 and February 

07, 2014 shall remain unchanged. 
 

4.  Stock exchanges are directed to:  

 

4.1. take necessary steps and put in place necessary systems for implementation 

of the above.  

4.2. make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations 

for the implementation of the above decision.  

4.3. bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers/ trading 
members  of  the  stock  exchanges  and  also  disseminate  the  same  on  its 
websites.  

 

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of 
investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the 
securities market.  
 

6.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories 

“Legal Framework”  “Circulars” 
 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Amit Kapoor 
General Manager 
Market Regulation Department 
+91-22-2644 9374 
Email: amitk@sebi.gov.in 

 

