 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

  

December 08, 2020 

SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL1/CIR/238/2020 
 
To 
 
All Listed Entities  
All Recognized Stock Exchanges  
 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Additional Payment Mechanism (i.e. ASBA, etc.) for Payment of Balance 
Money in Calls for partly paid specified securities issued by the listed entity  

1.  SEBI, in its endeavour to protect investors’ interest and reduce investor grievances 
relating to refund, introduced Application Supported by Blocked Amount (ASBA) as 
the sole payment mechanism in the IPO and Rights issues. 

2.  Considering that payment through ASBA mechanism is investor friendly and enables 
faster completion of the process, it has been decided to introduce additional payment 
mechanism (i.e. ASBA, etc) for making subscription and/or payment of calls in respect 
of partly paid specified securities through SCSBs and intermediaries such as Trading 
Members/  Brokers  -  having  three  in  one  type  account  and  Registrar  and  Transfer 
agents (RTA). 
 

3.  Additional Channels for making subscription and/or paying call money  

3.1 For the purpose of making payment of balance money for calls in respect of partly 

paid specified securities, the additional channels are tabulated below: 

Additional Channels for making subscription and/or paying call money 
Channel I 
Online ASBA: Through 
an online portal of the 
SCSB. 
 
The SCSBs shall send 
the application to RTA 
and block funds in 
shareholders account. 

Channel II 
Physical ASBA: 
Physically at the branch 
of a SCSB  
 
The SCSBs shall send 
the application to RTA 
and block funds in 
shareholders account. 

Channel III 
Additional Online mode: 
using the facility of 
linked online trading, 
demat and bank 
account (3-in-1 type 
accounts), provided by 
some of the brokers. 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 
4.  Period of subscription: The payment period for payment of balance money in Calls 

 

shall be kept open for fifteen days. 

5.  Disclosures in the Letter of Offer: The intermediaries including the issuer company 
and its RTA shall provide necessary guidance to the specified security holders in use 
of ASBA mechanism while making payment of calls. 

6.  This circular shall be applicable for all Call Money Notice wherein the payment period 

opens on or after January 01, 2021. 

7.  Stock Exchanges are directed to: 

7.1 

7.2 

take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation of the circular, 
including  necessary  amendments 
the  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and 
regulations; 

to 

take  necessary  action  to  institute  additional  payment  channels  (electronic 
banking modes only) for making subscription and/or paying call money in respect 
of partly paid up specified securities. 

7.3  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the listed companies and their 

members and also disseminate the same on their websites;  

8.  The circular is issued in exercise of the powers conferred under sections 11 and 11A 

of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 read with Regulations 88 and   
299 of SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018. 

9.  This   circular   is   available   on   SEBI   website   at    www.sebi.gov.in  at “Legal 

Framework → Circulars” 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Yogita Jadhav 
General Manager  
Division of Issues and Listing -1 
Corporation Finance Department 
+91-22-26449583 
yogitag@sebi.gov.in 

 

Page 2 of 2 

