SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 

 

 

         

       

   December 09, 2020 

CIRCULAR 

 

To, 

All Recognized Depositories 
All Registered Depository Participants through Depositories 
All Listed Companies through recognized Stock Exchanges 
All E-voting Service Providers through listed companies. 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 

Sub:  e-Voting Facility Provided by Listed Entities  

1.  Under  Regulation  44  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, listed entities are required to provide remote e-
voting facility to its shareholders, in respect of all shareholders’ resolutions. However, it has 
been  observed  that  the  participation  by  the  public  non-institutional  shareholders/retail 
shareholders is at a negligible level.  
 

2.  Currently,  there  are multiple  e-voting  service  providers  (ESPs)  providing e-voting facility  to 
listed  entities  in  India.  This  necessitates  registration  on  various  ESPs  and  maintenance  of 
multiple user IDs and passwords by the shareholders.  

 

3.  In order to increase the efficiency of the voting process, pursuant to a public consultation, it 
has been decided to enable e-voting to all the demat account holders, by way of a single login 
credential, through their demat accounts/ websites of Depositories/ Depository Participants. 
Demat account holders would be able to cast their vote without having to register again with 
the ESPs, thereby, not only facilitating seamless authentication but also enhancing ease and 
convenience of participating in e-voting process. The same shall be implemented in a phased 
manner as under: 

 

Phase – 1  

Following process for e-voting shall be implemented within 6 months of the date of the circular.   

3.1.  Direct  registration  with  Depositories  –  Shareholders  can  register  directly  with  the 
depository.  Shareholders  would  be  able to  access the  e-voting  page  of various  ESPs 
through  the  websites  of  the  Depositories  without  further  authentication  by  ESPs  for 
participating in the e-voting process. 

OR 

3.2.  Through  Demat  Accounts  with  Depository  Participants  –  Demat  account  holders  will 

have the option of accessing various ESP portals directly from their demat accounts.  

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

They would be routed to the webpage of the respective Depositories from their demat 
accounts,  which  in  turn  would  enable  access  to  the  e-voting  portals  of  various  ESPs 
without further authentication by ESPs for participating in the e-voting process. 

4.  The authentication of shareholders would happen at the depository level and ESPs shall allow 
the  demat  account  holders  to  cast  their  vote  based  on  the  validation  carried  out  by  the 
Depository. 

 

5.  Depository shall send a confirmatory SMS to the shareholders that the vote has been cast 

based on the confirmation received from the ESP. 

 

6.  The  listed  entity  shall  provide  the  details  of  the  upcoming  AGMs  requiring  voting  to  the 
Depository. The depository shall send SMS/email alerts in this regard, to the demat account 
holders, atleast 2 days prior to the date of the commencement of e-voting. 

Phase – 2  

7.  In  order  to  further  enhance  the  convenience  and  security  of  the  e-voting  system,  the 
depository  shall  validate  the  demat  account  holder  through  a  One  Time  Password  (OTP) 
verification process as under.  
 
6.1  Direct registration with Depositories – Depositories shall allow login through registered 
Mobile number / E-mail based OTP verification as an alternate to login through username 
and password. 
 

6.2  Through Demat Accounts with Depository Participants –  A second factor authentication 
using Mobile / E-mail based OTP shall be introduced before the demat account holders 
can access the websites of the Depositories through their demat accounts. 

 

The above shall be implemented within 12 months from the completion of the process in 
phase 1. 
 

7  Depository may advise the demat account holders to update their mobile number and email 

ID in order to access the e-voting facility. 
 

8  Depositories  shall  establish  a  dedicated  helpline  to  resolve  technical  difficulties  faced  by 
shareholders relating to the e-voting facility. Further, the listed company shall ensure that the 
ESPs engaged by them also provide a dedicated helpline in this regard. 

 

9 

In order to enable better deliberation and decision making by the shareholders while casting 
their votes, ESP Portals shall provide specific weblinks to the following: 

  disclosures by the company on the websites of the stock exchanges 
 

report on the websites of the proxy advisors. 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 
Applicability 
 

 

10  The  aforementioned  facility  shall  be  available  to  all  individual  shareholders  holding  the 

securities in demat mode. 
  

11  ESPs may continue to provide the facility of e-voting as per the existing process to all physical 
shareholders and shareholders other than individuals viz. institutions/ corporate shareholders. 
 

12  Depositories and Exchanges are advised to bring the circular to the notice of its Depository 

Participants and listed companies respectively. 

 

13  All  listed  companies  are  advised  to  notify  the  above  process  available  to  demat  account 

holders for e-voting in the notice sent to the shareholders. 
 

14  This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11  (1)  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and shall be in addition to the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013. 

 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Surabhi Gupta 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Tel No. 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

  

 
 
 

 

Page 3 of 3 

