

Aug 27, 2003|

Circulars 



DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER
Market Regulation Department
E-mail: sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in
 
SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir- 33/2003/27/08
August 27, 2003
 
 
The Executive Directors/Managing Director/Administrators
Of All Stock Exchanges
 
Dear Sir / Madam,
Sub:- Mode of payment and delivery 
1.      Please refer to SEBI circular No.SMD/SED/CIR/93/23321 and letter No. SMD-1/23341 dated November 18, 1993  regarding regulation of transactions between clients and brokers. 
 
2.      It is reiterated that brokers and sub-brokers should not accept cash from the client whether against obligations or as margin for purchase of securities and / or give cash against sale of securities to the clients. 
 
3.      All payments shall be received / made by the brokers from / to the clients strictly by account payee crossed cheques / demand drafts or by way of direct credit into the bank account through EFT, or any other mode allowed by RBI. The brokers shall accept cheques drawn only by the clients and also issue cheques in favour of the clients only, for their transactions. However, in exceptional circumstances the broker or sub-broker may receive the amount in cash, to the extent not in violation of the Income Tax requirement as may be in force from time to time.
 
4.      Similarly in the case of securities also giving / taking delivery of securities in “demat mode” should be directly to / from the “beneficiary accounts” of the clients except delivery of securities to a recognized entity under the approved scheme of the stock exchange and / or SEBI. 
 
5.      The undersigned has been authorized to direct the exchanges to 
 
5.1.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for the implementation of the above decision immediately.
 
5.2.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers/clearing members of the Exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website.
 
5.3.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this circular in Section II, item no. 13 of the Monthly Development Report for the month of August, 2003.
 
6.      This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with Section 10 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act 1956, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.
 
 
Yours faithfully,
 
V S SUNDARESAN 
 


