

Sep 27, 1994|

Circulars 


DIVISION CHIEF SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENT
SMD/SED/N/JJ/5078/94 September 27, 1994
To,
The Executive Directors/President of all Stock Exchanges
Dear Sir,
Submission of B/S & details of utilisation of funds, etc.
Further to our letter no. SMD/SED/N/JJ/4984/94 dated September 23, 1994 you are advised to amend regulation 2.1 also by adding the sub-clause (b) to (e) to clause 24 of Listing Agreement as suggested in our letter.
Para 2 of page 2 of Letter of Application by companies not listed on the Exchange, attached with the above mentioned letter may be substituted as follows :
"We understand that in the event of our failure to submit the above documents or withdrawal of Acknowledgment Card by SEBI, we shall be liable to refund the subscription money to the investors immediately".
The Letter of Application by existing companies may also be amended as per copy enclosed.
Yours faithfully, sd/-
C. GUPTA
Annexure  
LETTER OF APPLICATION 
(Listed Companies for Further Issues)
 
From : Date :
To, The Secretary THE STOCK EXCHANGE,
Dear Sir,
In conformity with the listing requirements of the Stock Exchange, we hereby apply for admission of the following securities of the Company to dealings on the Exchange :
1.  2.  3.  4.    The securities are/are not identical* in all respects and are/are not identical* in all respects with the existing securities admitted to dealings on the Exchange.
The securities will become identical with the existing securities admitted to dealings on the Exchange in all respects on  and the documents of title will be enfaced with a note to this effect.
** The securities mentioned at ( ) above are proposed to be issued by Prospectus/Offer for Sale/Circular after vetting of the same by SEBI (conversion, exchange, rights, open offer, capitalisation of reserves) / Placing, full particulars of which are given in the statement sent herewith (together with the reasons for the procedure proposed when a Placing is intended).
** It is intended to make an Offer for Sale/a Placing of the securities mentioned at ( ) above which have been already issued. We enclose a statement giving full particulars of when, how and to whom the securities were issued and full details of the proposed Offer for Sale/Placing (together with the reasons for the procedure proposed when a Placing is intended).
We send herewith the Listing Application and  undertake to send ***
Agreement, Forms and the Distribution Schedules, duly completed. We also forward the documents (or drafts thereof) as per list attached and undertake to furnish such additional information and documents as may be required.
We further undertake to submit to the Exchange a copy of the Acknowledgment Card or letter indicating the observation on draft prospectus/letter of offer/offer documents by SEBI; and a certificate from a Merchant Banker acting as a lead manager to the issue reporting positive compliance by our company of the requirements on disclosure and investor protection issued by SEBI.
We understand that in the event of our failure to submit the above documents or withdrawal of Acknowledgment Card by SEBI, we shall be liable to refund the subscription money to the investors immediately.
Your faithfully,
---------------------------------------
(Signature of Managing Director)
*Please enumerate separately shares which are not identical in all respects. Share are identical in all respects only if -
i. they are of the same nominal value and the same amount per share has been called up;
ii. they are entitled to dividend at the same rate and for the same period so that at the next ensuing distribution the dividend payable on each share will amount to exactly the same sum net and gross; and
iii. they carry the same rights in all other respects.
** Applicable only when securities for which application for admission to dealings is made are proposed to be issued or having already been issued it is intended to make a placing or an offer for sale. Please strike out where not applicable.
*** Applicable to new companies only. Please strike out where not applicable.

