

Sep 26, 2006|

Circulars 


GENERAL MANAGER 
MARKET REGULATION DEPARTMENT 
 
MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-13/06 
September 26, 2006 
1. All Stock Exchanges
2. NSDL
3. CDSL
4. All Custodians
Dear Sirs, 
 
 
  
 
Sub: Mandatory requirement of Permanent Account Number (PAN) – Issues and clarifications 
  
 
1. This is further to SEBI Circular No. MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-8/2006 dated July 13, 2006 making, inter-alia, PAN mandatory for trading in the cash market with effect from October 1, 2006 and SEBI Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 dated July 20, 2006 offering clarifications pertaining to Mandatory requirement of PAN for operating Beneficiary Owner Account (BO) in the depository system. 
2. Subsequent to the issue of above-referred SEBI Circulars, market participants have made further representations and suggestions and sought clarifications on the various issues from SEBI. 
 
3. The further representations made and clarifications sought covered mainly the following aspects:
 
3.1. Exemption from the requirement of verification with the original PAN Card in respect of the institutional clients. Some of the brokers have expressed difficulty in verifying the PAN of institutional clients with the original PAN card as they are dealing through the custodians and not directly with their clients. 
3.2. Some of the Investors have represented to SEBI seeking exemption for the joint account holders from the mandatory requirement of PAN. 
3.3. Requests have also been received from various market participants for extending the present deadline of September 30, 2006 due to the following reasons:

  


  


 

Some of the BOs have PAN but not the PAN Card.

 
 

Many others have PAN Allotment Letter and have applied for duplicate PAN Card as earlier PAN card was reportedly not issued by the Income Tax Department.

 
 

Many investors have applied for PAN but have not received the same.

 
 

In respect of many investors, PAN has been captured, but verification is in process.

 





3.4.Further, brokers have requested that clarifications issued by SEBI vide SEBI Circular No.MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 dated July 20, 2006 may be made applicable to trading in the cash market also.
 

 

Upon careful consideration of the representations and discussions with the market participants, the clarifications are as under :

 

4.1. In view of the difficulties expressed by the stock brokers in verifying the PAN of the institutional clients with the original PAN card, the custodians are advised to verify the PAN details of the institutional clients with the original PAN card and provide copy of such verified PAN details to the brokers duly certified. This would be applicable in respect of institutional clients, namely, FIIs, MFs, VCFs, FVCIs, Scheduled Commercial Banks, Multilateral and Bilateral Development Financial Institutions, State Industrial Development Corporations, Insurance Companies registered with IRDA and Public Financial Institution as defined under section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956.
 
4.2. In the light of the practical difficulties expressed by various market participants as detailed above in adhering to the present deadline of September 30, 2006, the present deadline has been extended to December 31, 2006, as a one time measure.
 
4.3. The clarification contained in para 4.1 of the SEBI Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 dated July 20, 2006 providing a grace period of 30 days to the entities registered with SEBI u/s 12 of the SEBI Act, 1992 stands withdrawn. 
 
4.4. The clarifications as contained in Paras 4.2 to 4.9 of the SEBI Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 dated July 20, 2006 are also applicable to trading in the cash market. A copy of the said circular is enclosed as Annexure I.
 
5. The Depositories are advised to:- 
 
5.1. Bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the DPs of the Depositories and also to disseminate the same on the website; 
 
5.2. Include the aforesaid clarifications, as applicable, in the advertisement campaigns released by them from time to time for better understanding of the investors;
 
5.3. Make amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for the implementation of the above decision immediately, as may be applicable/necessary; 
 
5.4. Communicate to SEBI the status of the implementation of the provisions of this circular in the Monthly Development Report.
 
 
6. The Stock Exchanges are advised to :
 
6.1 Make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for the implementation of the above decision immediately.
 
6.2 Bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers/clearing members of the Exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website.
 
6.3 Communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this circular in Section II, item no. 13 of the Monthly Development Report.
7. This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 (1) of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, the securities market. 
 
Yours faithfully, 


V.S. SUNDARESAN

Encl: As above
 
Annexure I
GENERAL MANAGER 
MARKET REGULATION DEPARTMENT 
 
MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 
July 20, 2006 




The Chairman & Managing Director 
National Securities Depository Ltd. 
Trade World, 
Kamala Mills Compound, 
Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, 
Mumbai – 400 013


The Managing Director & CEO
Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, Fort, 
Mumbai 400 023




Dear Sirs, 
 
 
Sub: Mandatory requirement of Permanent Account Number (PAN) – Issues and clarifications 
 
 
1. This has reference to NSDL Circular No. NSDL/POLICY/2006/0007 dated March 03, 2006 and CDSL Communiqué No. CDSL/OPS/ DP/657 as well as CDSL/OPS/DP/666 dated February 07, 2006 and March 08, 2006, respectively, on the captioned subject. 
2. During the course of implementation of the aforesaid requirement, certain operational issues have arisen and accordingly, the market participants have made representations and suggestions and sought clarifications on the various operational issues from SEBI. 
3. The representations made and clarifications sought covered the following aspects:

  


 

Exemption to certain categories of entities registered with SEBI and verification of documents for proof of address.

 
 

Exemption to Non-Resident Indians (NRIs)/Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs).

 
 

Exemption to persons having PAN but not the PAN card.

 
 

Exemption to UN entities and multilateral agencies which are exempted from paying taxes/filing tax returns in India.

 
 

Exemption to investors residing in the State of Sikkim.

 
 

Verification of PAN card details in respect of accounts opened for HUF, AoP, Partnership Firm, Minor, etc.

 
 

Verification of PAN card details wherever slight mismatch appears as well as where there is a difference in maiden name and current name of the investors. 

 



4. Upon careful consideration of the representations and discussions with the market participants, the clarifications are as under :
 
4.1. All entities registered with SEBI under Section 12 of the SEBI Act, 1992 and having some difficulty in producing PAN card for verification at the time of opening the Beneficiary Owner (BO) account may be permitted to open a BO account without producing the PAN card. However, such entities would be required to submit the PAN card to the Depository Participants (DPs) within a period of 30 days from the date of opening of the BO account for verification, failing which the DPs shall freeze such accounts as "Suspended for Debit" till such time the PAN card is produced for verification.
4.2. As regards proof of address of FIIs/sub-accounts, a copy of the Power of Attorney (POA) given by the FIIs/FII sub-accounts to the Custodians (which are duly notarized and/or apostiled or consularised) that gives the registered address of the FIIs/sub-accounts can be accepted as proof of address. 
 
4.3. The NRIs/PIOs would be required to comply with the mandatory requirement of producing PAN Card at the time of opening a BO account. However, such NRIs/PIOs who are not able to obtain PAN for one reason or the other but are holding securities in physical form and desire to sell the same, may be permitted to open a "limited purpose BO account" without PAN. The operation of such BO accounts shall be subject to the following conditions :
 

  


 

These accounts will be "suspended for credit", which means, only credits arising out of corporate benefits and demat of physical certificates will be permitted. 

 
 

These accounts cannot be used for getting credit from IPOs, off-market transactions or any secondary market transactions, etc. 

 
 

These accounts can remain operational only for a limited period of 6 months from the date of opening of the account. Meanwhile, the account holders may be permitted to convert the account into a normal BO account subject to complying with the PAN requirements. If the Account holder fails to produce the PAN card within the stipulated period of 6 months, the DPs shall freeze such BO accounts. 

 
 

The account holders shall be permitted to sell the securities lying in these accounts only through a registered broker on the stock exchange. 

 



 
4.4. U.N. entities/multilateral agencies which are exempt from paying taxes/filing tax returns in India are exempted from the mandatory requirement of PAN. The exemption, however, would be subject to the DPs collecting documentary evidence in support of such claim of the investors.
 
4.5. Any investor who has PAN but not having the PAN card may be permitted to open BO Accounts subject to producing the PAN allotment letter. However, such investors would be required to produce the PAN Card on or before September 30, 2006 failing which the DPs shall freeze such accounts as "Suspended for Debit" till PAN card is produced for verification.
 
4.6. In case of HUF, Association of Persons (AoP), Partnership Firm, Unregistered Trust, etc. –- though the BO account would be in the name of natural persons, PAN of the respective HUF, AoP, Partnership Firm, Unregistered Trust, etc shall be obtained.
 
4.7. As regards Registered Trust, Corporate Bodies and minors, PAN of the respective entities shall be obtained when accounts are opened in their respective names.
 
4.8. In case where there is difference in the maiden name and current name of the investor (predominantly in the case of married women), DPs can collect the PAN card proof as submitted by the account holder. However, this would be subject to the DPs verifying the veracity of the claim of such investors by collecting sufficient documentary evidence in support of the identity of the investors as provided in the SEBI Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-29/2004 dated August 24, 2004.
 
4.9. In the light of the observations of the Hon’ble High Court of Sikkim in its Order dated March 31, 2006 as forwarded by the Sikkim Chamber of Commerce vide their letter No.See/52/06-07 dated May 11, 2006, the investors residing in the State of Sikkim are exempted from the mandatory requirement of PAN. However, this would be subject to the DPs verifying the veracity of the claim of the investors that they are residents of Sikkim, by collecting sufficient documentary evidence in support of their address as provided in the SEBI Circular No.MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-29/2004 dated August 24, 2004.
 
5. The Depositories are advised to:- 
 
5.1. Bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the DPs of the Depositories and also to disseminate the same on the website; 
 
5.2. Include the aforesaid clarifications in the advertisement campaigns released by them from time to time for better understanding of the investors;
 
5.3. Put up all such communications which may be useful for investors at large on their websites;
 
5.4. Ensure that proof of address (POA) is collected for all the account holders as is being done in the case of Proof of Identity (POI). 
 
5.5. Make amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for the implementation of the above decision immediately, as may be applicable/necessary; 
 
5.6. Communicate to SEBI the status of the implementation of the provisions of this circular in the Monthly Development Report for the month of August, 2006.
6. This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 (1) of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, the securities market. 
 
Yours faithfully 
V. S. SUNDARESAN

