

Jan 18, 2006|

Circulars 



CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER
INTEGRATD SURVEILLANCE DEPARTMENT 
EMAIL – ravi@sebi.gov.in 
TEL : 022 22835701
Fax : 022 22870966
ISD/CIR/RR/AML/1/06
January 18, 2006 
 
 
To all Intermediaries registered with SEBI u/s 12 of the SEBI Act.
(Through the stock exchanges for stock brokers, sub brokers and depositories for depository participants)
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,
 
Sub: - Guidelines on Anti Money Laundering Standards.
1.      The Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) has been brought into force with effect from 1st July 2005. Necessary Notifications / Rules under the said Act have been published in the Gazette of India on 1st July 2005 by the Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, Government of India. 
2.      As per the provisions of the Act, every banking company, financial institution (which includes chit fund company, a co-operative bank, a housing finance institution and a non-banking financial company) and intermediary (which includes a stock-broker, sub-broker, share transfer agent, banker to an issue, trustee to a trust deed, registrar to an issue, merchant banker, underwriter, portfolio manager, investment adviser and any other intermediary associated with securities market and registered under section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992) shall have to maintain a record of all the transactions; the nature and value of which has been prescribed in the Rules notified under the PMLA. Such transactions include : 
 
r    All cash transactions of the value of more than Rs 10 lakhs or its equivalent in foreign currency.
r    All series of cash transactions integrally connected to each other which have been valued below Rs 10 lakhs or its equivalent in foreign currency where such series of transactions take place within one calendar month.
r    All suspicious transactions whether or not made in cash. 
 
3.      The Guidelines enclosed herewith are being issued to the intermediaries as specified above, in the context of the recommendations made by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) on anti-money laundering standards. Compliance with these standards by all intermediaries and the country has become imperative for international financial 
relationships. It may be noted that these Guidelines lay down the minimum requirements / disclosures to be made in respect of clients. The intermediaries may, according to their requirements specify additional disclosures to be made by clients to address concerns of Money Laundering and suspicious transactions undertaken by clients. 
 
4.      All intermediaries are advised to ensure that a proper policy framework as per the Guidelines on anti-money laundering measures is put into place within one month from the date of the circular. The intermediaries are also advised to designate an officer as ‘Principal Officer’ who would be responsible for ensuring compliance of the provisions of the PMLA. Names, designation and addresses (including e-mail addresses) of ‘Principal Officer’ shall also be intimated to the Office of the Director-FIU, 6th Floor, Hotel Samrat, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi -110021, India on an immediate basis. 
 
5.      The detailed procedure incorporating the manner of maintaining information and matters incidental thereto for SEBI registered intermediaries, under the prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and the Rules made thereunder and formats for reporting by the intermediaries are being finalised and would be issued subsequently.
 
6.      This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.
 
 
Yours faithfully,
R RAVICHANDRAN
 
 
 
Encl: a/a


