

Oct 26, 2004|

Circulars 



 
Deputy General Manager
Market Regulation Department – Policy
Email:-sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in
MRD/DoP/SE/Cir- 35/2004
October 26, 2004
1.      The Executive Directors/Managing Directors/Administrators 
Of All Stock Exchanges
2.      All Mutual Funds registered with SEBI
3.      Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI)
4.      All Foreign Institutional Investors registered with SEBI and all Custodians of Securities
Dear Sir / Madam,
Sub: Unique Client Code for Mutual Funds and FIIs
1.      Please refer to circular No. SEBI/SMD/11/2003/31/03 dated March 31, 2003 which stipulates the usage of Unique Client Code for Mutual Funds (MFs) and FIIs. 
2.      In continuation of the above, it is clarified that the MFs and the FIIs shall henceforth enter the unique client codes pertaining to the parent MF and parent FII at the order entry level and do allocation to the individual schemes of the MFs and sub-accounts of the FIIs in the post closing session. 
3.      The Stock Exchanges are advised to put in place a suitable mechanism to enable the MFs and the FIIs to allocate the client codes to the individual schemes of the MFs and sub-accounts of the FIIs in the post closing session. 
4.      The Stock Exchanges are advised to
4.1.  make amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations for the implementation of the above decision immediately, as may be necessary/applicable.
4.2.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers/clearing members of the Exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website.
4.3.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this circular in Section II, item no. 13 of the Monthly Development Report.
5.      This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.
 
Yours faithfully,
 
V S SUNDARESAN


