

Aug 23, 1999|

Circulars 


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENT Mittal Court, A Wing, Gr. Floor, 224, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021
SMDRP/Policy/Cir-28/99 August 23, 1999



The Managing Director National Securities Depository Ltd Trade World, 4th Floor, Kamala Mills Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400 013
The Managing Director Central Depository Services (I) Limited P. J. Towers, 28th Floor, Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 023



Dear Sir,
SEBI had taken a meeting of Depositories, Depository Participants, Registrars and Share Transfer Agents and Registrar Association of India (RAIN) on August 16, 1999. As discussed in the meeting, it has been decided that:

In the case of inter-depository transfers of securities, the registrars would communicate their confirmation of transfer from one depository to the other depository within two hours, failing which it shall be deemed to have been confirmed. The registrars should not reject any inter depository transfer except on the ground that a depository did not have adequate balance of securities in its account or if there was mismatch of transfer requests from the depositories.
Every company shall appoint the same registrars and share transfer agents for both the depositories
The registrars and share transfer agents shall accept partial dematerialisation requests and will not reject or send back the complete lot of dematerialisation request to the DPs in cases where only a part of the request was to be rejected.
In cases where a DP has already sent information about dematerialisation electronically to a Registrar but physical shares have not received, the registrar will accept the demat request and carry out dematerialization on the indemnity given by the DP and proof of dispatch of document given by DP.

You are advised to inform all the companies admitted for dematerialisation and their Registrar & Share Transfer Agent accordingly for due compliance.
Yours faithfully,  
P. K. KURIACHEN DIVISION CHIEF SECONDARY MARKET, DEPOSITORY, RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT
cc. Shri A. V. Varma, Chairman, RAIN

