

Jan 02, 2004|

Circulars 


 
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER
 
Market Regulation Department
 
E-mail:  sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in 
 
Tel : 2216 4465 Fax: 2216 4394
  
MAPIN/Cir – 04/2004
 
January 2, 2004
 
 

All Registered


  
Merchant Bankers
 
Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents
 
Debenture Trustees
 
Bankers to an Issue
 
Underwriters
 
Credit Rating Agencies
 
All Mutual Funds
 
Venture Capital Funds
 
Portfolio Managers
 
Collective Investment Schemes
 
Custodian of Securities
 
Investors Association

 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Sirs,
 
Sub: SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) Regulations, 2003 
 

 

The SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) Regulations, 2003 were notified on November 20, 2003. Pursuant to clause (g-) of sub regulation (1) of Regulation 2 of the Regulations, SEBI has appointed the National Securities Depositories Limited (NSDL), as the designated service provider for the purposes of the said regulations. 
 

Further, pursuant to the Notifications dated November 25, 2003 and December 8, 2003, SEBI has specified the intermediaries ("Specified Intermediaries") and their related persons who are required to obtain a UIN before March 31, 2004. No specified intermediary shall act as an intermediary from April 1, 2004 if the UIN has not been obtained for itself and the related persons. The SEBI Regulations, Notifications and application forms are available on the SEBI Website 
www.sebi.gov.in as also on website http://mapin.nsdl.com.
  

The specified intermediaries and related persons (being natural persons) who are required to obtain an "Unique Identification Number" (UIN) under the said regulations may contact NSDL or any Point Of Service (POS) mentioned in the Annexure for the purpose of making application. While making the application, it is mandatory for the applicant who is a natural person to provide biometric impressions of the left thumb, left index finger, right thumb and right index finger and photograph electronically on the system of the Designated Service Provider. While making an application, an applicant shall ensure that he furnishes correct and true information. Attention is invited to Regulation 15 which prohibits a person from making a false statement or misrepresentation of any fact in any application made to the Designated Service Provider and Regulation 20 which specifies the action for false information. 

 

It may also be noted that the specified intermediary/ related persons have the following continuing obligations after he has been allotted a Unique Identification Number:

 

 

To intimate changes in the particulars submitted to the MAPIN Database within 30 days
 

To ensure that within 30 days of any person becoming a related person he has been allotted or has applied for a Unique Identification Number.

 

 

5.Contravention of the above would invite action as specified in Regulation 19 of the captioned Regulations. 
 
6.This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market. 

 
 
 

Yours faithfully,

 

Encl: Details of POS in Annexure (4 pages)


 V S SUNDARESAN

