

Mar 31, 2003|

Circulars 



General Manager
Secondary Market Department
e-mail : pkb@sebi.gov.in 
  SEBI/SMD/SE/11/2003/31/03
March 31, 2003
 
To 
Managing Directors and Executive Directors 
Of all the stock exchanges  
 
Dear Sir/Madam,  
Sub :-Issue of Unique Client Code by Exchanges for Mutual Funds and FIIs 
 
This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred by section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with section 10 of the Securities Contracts(regulation) Act 1956, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  
Please refer to SEBI circular no. SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-5/2003 dated February 12, 2003 regarding the activity schedule for the implementation of the T+2 rolling settlement at the exchanges w.e.f. April 01, 2003 and Para No. 6 of the circular relating to client code. 
As agreed, in the meeting with stock exchanges, depositories, market participants and RBI held on March 24, 2003 to take stock of the preparedness of the exchanges, depositories and the market participants in implementing the T+2 rolling settlement, it has been decided that the exchanges would generate a unique code for Mutual Funds and each scheme of a Mutual Fund, Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) and their sub-accounts. As this would require the exchanges to put in place adequate systems and carry out software changes the exchanges are provided with three months time to implement the system. Till such time the present practice of putting client IDs at the time of order entry in case of FIIs and mutual funds shall continue.  
The exchanges are directed to make necessary amendments to the bye-laws, rules and regulations for the implementation of the above decision immediately. 
The exchanges are directed to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member brokers/clearing members of the exchange and also to disseminate the same on the website for easy access to the investors. 
The exchanges are also directed to communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of this circular in Section II, item no. 13 of the Monthly Development Report for the month of March 2003.
 
Yours faithfully  
 
P K Bindlish


