

Jul 07, 1992|

Circulars 



  
Our ref:SE/6088 July 7, 1992
To,
The Presidents/Executive Directors of all recognised Stock Exchanges.
Dear Sir,
Disclosure in case of Listing of PSUs’ shares
Please refer to our letter No.SE/3050 dated April 09, 1992 advising you, inter alia, to inform the PSUs which approach your Exchange for listing of their shares to send a set of disclosure documents to SEBI and to your Exchange, particularly the relevant information required in the abridged prospectus ("Memorandum" under Section 56(3) of the Companies Act, 1956). In this connection, we advise that you may please inform the PSUs who have already been granted in principle approval for listing of their shares at your Exchange or PSUs which approach you for listing of their shares in future, to provide the information in the enclosed format and submit the same to SEBI as well as Stock Exchange. This is in lieu of requirement prescribed earlier to submit the abridged prospectus ("Memorandum" under Section 56(3) of the Companies Act, 1956). The requisite information should be furnished by the PSUs to SEBI and the Stock Exchanges before their shares are listed by the Stock Exchanges and traded. Please ensure compliance to the above instructions and meanwhile acknowledge receipt of this letter.
Yours faithfully, sd/-  
(U.C. DIKSHIT) HEAD - SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENT -I
Encl:a/a  
DISCLOSURE FORMAT FOR PUBLIC SECTOR UNITS
  1. Name
2. Address
    i. Registered Office
    ii. Corporate Office
    iii. Factory/works etc.
3. Date of Incorporation
4. Nature of product (S) and approach to Marketing
5. Licensed and installed Capacity
6. Listing at Stock Exchange
7. CAPITAL STRUCTURE
    7.1 Authorised Share Capital
    7.2 Issued Subscribed and Paid Up Capital
8.  Records of Bonus Issues
9. No. of Shares Disinvested
10. Names of the Mutual Funds/Banks/FIIs       (giving the no. and percentage of issued capital of the PSU shares held by each Fund)
11. Price per share at which the Shares were disinvested \        (if in different lots, state price of acquisition for each lot)
12. COMPANY AND MANAGEMENT
        1. Brief history
        2. Main Objects and present business
        3. Background of Chairman/Managing Director / Wholetime Director(s):
        4. Names of Nominee Director (s) of assisting institutions, if any, on the Board of Directors.
        5.Manpower/Personnel employed
13. Brief description of Plant and Machinery,
14. Brief description of Technology
15. Collaborators, if any,
16. Nature of assistance, from Collaborators, if any,
17. Infrastructure facilities
        17.1 Raw Materials,
        17.2 Electricity
18. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
        (last five years from Audited Annual Accounts)
        1.Gross Turnover
        2. Gross Profit/Loss
        3. Net Profit
        4. Dividend Record
        5. Reserve and Surplus
        (In case of revaluation reserve, the year of revaluation, value and amount of revaluation and its          monetary effect on assets)
19.  Book Value per Share
        1. Earnings per Share
        2. Contingent Liabilities
        3. Bank/FIIs Borrowings
20. FINANCIAL OUTSTANDINGS
        20. 1. Statutory dues
        20.2 Institutional dues
        20.3 Instrument holders like Debentures
        20.4 Fixed Deposits and
        20.5 Preference Shares  
21. Any material development after the date of the latest balance sheet and its impact on performance        and prospects of the Company.
22. Any change in accounting policies during the last three years and their effect on the profits and the        reserve of the company.
23. OUTSTANDING LITIGATIONS:-
        Particulars of default, if any,
        23.1 In matters likely to affect operation and finances of the Company                 including disputed tax liabilities
        23.2 Criminal prosecution launched against the Company and the directors                 for alleged offenses.
24. MANAGEMENT PERCEPTION OF THE RISK FACTORS
25. Any other matter which may be of interest to the investing public  
Place:  
Date:
sd/- Constituted Attorney
(Relevant PSU) (Relevant Mutual Fund,’ Investment Institution or Bank in whose favour the PSU shares have been disinvested)


