

May 10, 2002|

Circulars 


GENERAL MANAGER SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENT
SMD/Policy/Cir-11 /02 May 10, 2002
To,
The Executive Director/Managing Director Of all the Stock Exchanges Dear Sir/Madam,
SUB: Amendment to the Listing Agreement
The Accounting Standards Committee of SEBI has recommended certain amendments in the Clause 41 of the Listing Agreement.
It has been decided to implement the following recommendations of the Committee:

Amendment to Clause 41 of the Listing Agreement
 

The companies which opt to publish audited results for the entire year within 3 months instead of publishing un-audited results for the last quarter within 30 days shall be required to publish annual audited results in the format specified in Annexure I.
Disclosure of audit qualifications:

 
Audit qualifications shall be disclosed in the un-audited/audited financial results published by companies under Clause 41 of the Listing Agreement alongwith the impact of audit qualifications on the profit or loss
when there is an audit qualification in the accounts of a listed company, the stock exchange shall ask the company to explain



  


why there is audit qualification in their accounts,
why the company failed to publish accounts without audit qualifications and
when the company will remove the qualifications and publish account without qualifications.



The Exchanges are advised to incorporate the above amendments in the Listing Agreement immediately and also confirm compliance.
Yours faithfully,  
S RAVINDRAN
Encl.: as above.


ANNEXURE I
FORMAT FOR PUBLICATION ANNUAL AUDITED RESULTS
(Rs. in Lakhs)



Particulars
(1)
Figures for the 9 months

(2)
Figures for the last quarter

(3)
Figures for the corresponding quarter of the previous year

(4)
Audited figures for the current year

(5)
Audited figures for the previous year



1. Net Sales/Income 

from Operations 

 
 
 
 
 



Other Income

 
 
 
 
 



Total Expenditure

Increase/decrease in stock in trade
Consumption of raw materials
Staff cost 
Other expenditure
(Any item exceeding 10% of the total expenditure to be shown separately).  
 
 
 
 
 



Interest 

 
 
 
 
 



Depreciation 

 
 
 
 
 



Profit (+)/Loss(-) before tax (1+2-3-4-5)

 
 
 
 
 



Provision for taxation 

 
 
 
 
 



Net Profit (+)/Loss (-) (6-7)

 
 
 
 
 



Paid-up equity share capital (face value of the share shall be indicated)

 
 
 
 
 



Reserves excluding revaluation reserves (as per balance sheet) of previous accounting year to be given in column (5) 

 
 
 
 
 



Basic and diluted EPS for the period, for the year to date and for the previous year (not to be annualised)

 
 
 
 
 



(Applicable for half yearly financial results)aggregate of non promoting shareholding*

no. of shares 
percentage of shareholding


 
 
 
 
 



*Non promoters shareholding- as classified under category B in the shareholding pattern in the Clause 35 of Listing Agreement
Notes:
All the notes applicable to the format of un-audited quarterly financial results specified under Clause 41 of the Listing Agreement shall also be applicable to this format.
 

