

Nov 20, 2002|

Circulars 


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
PRIMARY MARKET DEPARTMENT 
MITTAL COURT, ‘A’ WING, GROUND FLOOR
NARIMAN POINT, MUMBAI - 400 021.
TEL NO. : 22850451- 56/ 22880962-70         FAX NO. :2204 5633
 
PRIMARY MARKET DEPARTMENT
RTI & STA DIVISION
PMD/RRTI/NB/ 22463 /2002
 20th November, 2002
SEBI/RRTI Circular No. 2 (2002-2003)
 
To all registered Registrars to an Issue and/or Share Transfer Agents
 
Dear Sirs,
 
Subject:           Application procedure for registration/renewal as Registrar to an Issue and/or Share Transfer Agent
 
An applicant is required to furnish the application in Form A as specified in SEBI (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Rules & Regulation, 1993, to SEBI for registration/renewal.  On receipt of ‘Form A’ , SEBI asks for more information vide 'Proforma 1-12' and 'Additional Information Sheet'  for further processing. The information asked therein is very detailed and is also required to be supported by the relevant supporting documents. It has been our experience that the applicants take a few months to furnish full information as per above-mentioned 'Proforma 1-12' and 'Additional Information Sheet'. Quite often processing of registration/renewal applications gets delayed for want of complete information. It is also felt that the information, which is required for processing of fresh registration case, may not be required in so many details, for processing of renewal application.
 
SEBI, in its endeavor, to make processing of application for registration/renewal simpler, speedier and effective, has reviewed the existing procedure in consultation with Registrar Association of India (RAIN).
 
Accordingly all the existing/prospective 'Registrar to an Issue'/'Share Transfer Agent' are advised to note the followings:
 

All entities, desirous to be registered as 'Registrar to an Issue'/'Share Transfer Agent' are required to furnish all the information as specified in 'Proforma 1-12' and 'Additional Information Sheet', available on SEBI website https://www.sebi.gov.in/, at the time of submitting registration application in 'Form A'. 
All registered 'Registrar to an Issue'/'Share Transfer Agent', desirous of renewal of their registration are required to furnish all the information as specified in ' Information Sheet for renewal application', available on SEBI website https://www.sebi.gov.in/, at the time of submitting registration application in 'Form A'.  
 
The information submitted to SEBI at the time of registration/renewal application, shall be full and complete in all respects, otherwise it may delay processing of the registration/renewal application. 

 
This circular shall come into force with immediate effect.
 
Yours faithfully,
NEELAM BHARDWAJ
DIVISION CHIEF

