

Jul 03, 2002|

Circulars 


Chief General Manager Secondary Market Department e-mail : parakh@sebi.gov.in

SMD/POLICY/Cir-17/02 July 3, 2002

The Executive Directors/ Managing Directors, All Stock Exchanges
Dear Sir/Madam,
Sub: Electronic Data Information Filing and Retrieval system (EDIFAR).
This is in continuation of our circular SMD/POLICY/Cir-13/02 dated June 20, 2002 on Electronic Data Information Filing and Retrieval system (EDIFAR). The additions/ changes to the earlier circular are indicated in bold/italics.

SEBI in association with National Informatics Center (NIC) has set up an Electronic Data Information Filing And Retrieval (EDIFAR) to facilitate filing of certain documents/statements by the listed companies on line on the web site to be maintained by NIC. The name of the web site for this electronic filing system is http://sebiedifar.nic.in. The website is also accessible through a hyperlink 'EDIFAR' from SEBI's official website, https://www.sebi.gov.in. The Companies which are required to file documents /statements on-line shall be specified by SEBI from time to time.
Clause 51(1) for EDIFAR filing has been substituted as under :

Clause 51: EDIFAR FILING (1) The company agrees that it shall file the following information, statements and reports on the Electronic Data Information Filing and Retrieval (EDIFAR) web site maintained by National Informatics Center (NIC), on-line, in such manner and format and within such time as may be specified by SEBI.

Full version of annual report including the balance sheet, profit and loss account, director’s report and auditor’s report; cash flow statements; half yearly financial statements quarterly financial statements.
Corporate governance report.
Shareholding pattern statement.
Statement of action taken against the company by any regulatory agency.
Such other statement, information or report as may be specified by SEBI from time to time in this regard.

Provided that the requirement of this clause shall be in addition to and not in derogation from the requirements of other clauses of this listing agreement, which may require filing of any statements, reports and information in the physical or other form with the exchange.
Yours faithfully,  
N. PARAKH

