

Jan 22, 2007|

Circulars 



DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER 
MARKET INTERMEDIARIES REGULATION AND SUPERVISION 
MIRSD/DPS III//Cir-01/07 
January 22, 2007
1.      Merchant Banker
2.      Registrar to an Issue/ Share Transfer Agent
3.      Debenture Trustee
4.      Bankers to Issue
5.      Underwriter
 
Dear Sir/s, 
Sub: Exclusive e-mail ID for redressel of Investor Complaints.
 
1.      SEBI has been mandated, inter-alia, under the SEBI Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in the Indian securities market. To this end, several investor protection measures and regulatory reforms have been initiated by SEBI from time to time for the benefit of investors and to make the Indian securities market a more transparent and safer place for their investments.
2.      In the recent past, SEBI has been receiving representations from various investors requesting for a direct and quicker forum for enabling them to register their complaints expeditiously with the intermediaries/listed companies/stock exchanges. It has also been observed in several cases that pursuant to registering a complaint, the investors do not have any mode for a follow-up or monitoring the processing of their complaints.
3.      In order to address the aforesaid representations, it is felt desirable to designate an exclusive e-mail ID of the grievance redressel division / compliance officer in which the investors would be able to register their complaints and also take necessary follow-up actions as necessary. Such a process would not only expedite the redressel of the complaints of the investors but also enable several investors across the country to register their complaints through a single, centralized, exclusive e-mail ID that is designated for the purpose.
 
4.      Accordingly, all registered Merchant Bankers, registered Registrars to an Issue/ Share Transfer Agents, registered Debenture Trustees, registered Bankers to Issue and registered Underwriters are advised to designate an e-mail ID of the grievance redressel division/compliance officer exclusively for the purpose of registering complaints by investors. The above entities are also advised to display the email ID and other relevant details prominently  on  their  websites  and  in  the various materials/pamphlets/advertisement campaigns initiated by them for creating investor awareness. 
  
5.      This circular is being issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 (1) of Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interest of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate, the securities market. 
 
 
Yours faithfully,  
PARAG JAIN
 
  
 


