 

 

GUIDANCE NOTE ON SEBI (ISSUE AND LISTING OF MUNICIPAL DEBT 

SECURITIES) REGULATIONS, 2015 

July 29, 2020 

 
Vide  notification  dated  September  27,  2019,  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of 
Municipal Debt Securities) Regulations, 2015 ("Municipal Regulations") were 
amended.  Subsequently,  SEBI  received  certain  queries 
from  market 
participants seeking guidance on interpretation of some of the provisions of the 
amended Regulations. In terms of Regulation 29 of the Municipal Regulations, 
following  guidance  is  being  provided  for  benefit  of  Issuers  and  market 
participants: 
 
Eligibility & Undertakings 
 
1.  Under  Regulation  4  of  the  Municipal  Regulations,  an  Eligible  issuer 

has to, inter alia, meet the following conditions: 
a.  no order or direction of restraint, prohibition or debarment by the 
Board is in force against the issuer or its promoters or its directors 
from accessing the securities market;  

b.  an  issuer  or  its  promoter,  group  company  or  director(s)  thereof, 

should not have been named in the list of the wilful defaulters; 

c.  any of its promoter or director(s) has not been declared as a fugitive 

economic offender(s) 

 
Non-corporate issuers do not have promoter or Board of Directors. In 
such a situation how would the above criteria be applied? 

 

Guidance:  The  above  criteria  shall  be  applicable  to  Issuers  who  are 
companies/body corporate incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013. In 
other cases viz. non-corporate Issuers, the eligibility conditions shall apply 
on  the  members  of  the  Bond  Issue  Committee,  which  shall  comprise  of 
senior  executive  officers  of  the  Issuer  and  headed  by  the  Municipal 
Commissioner or an officer of equivalent rank. 

 
2.  Para 11 of the Schedule I requires certain undertakings to be given by 
the Issuer. In case of non-corporate Municipalities, who can sign such 
undertakings? 

 

Guidance:  In  case  of  non-corporate  Issuers,  the  undertakings  specified 
under Para 11 of Schedule I shall be signed by a member of the Bond Issue 
Committee not below the rank of Additional Commissioner or an officer of 

Page 1 of 3 

 

equivalent  rank,  who  is  duly  authorised  by  the  Bond  Issue  Committee  to 
sign such undertakings.  

 

Due diligence & disclosure requirements  
 
3.  Can  the  Merchant  Banker(s)  rely  on  the  summarised  English 
translations  of  the  various  non-financial  documents,  legal  papers 
which  are  in  the  regional  language  of  the  respective  Issuers 
(Municipalities) or language other than English while carrying out due 
diligence? 
 
Guidance: Yes, Merchant Banker(s) may rely on the summarised English 
translations of the various non-financial documents, legal papers which are 
in  the  regional  language  of  the  respective  Issuers  while  carrying  out  due 
diligence provided that such summarised English translations are certified 
by the Bond Issue Committee of the Issuer. 
 

4.  Para  9  of  Schedule 

I  of  the  Municipal  Regulations  specifies 
disclosures  to  be  included  in  the  offer  document  w.r.t.  all  pending 
litigations involving the issuer/its directors/promoters/subsidiaries.  

 

Non-corporate  Municipalities  do  not  have  promoter  or  Board  of 
Directors.  In  such  a  situation  how  would  the  above  disclosures  be 
made? 
 
Guidance: For non-corporate Issuers, the disclosure of pending litigations 
under clause (a) of para 9 of Schedule I of Municipal Regulations may be 
limited  to  pending  litigations  involving  the  Issuer  only  after  taking  into 
account litigations which may have a material adverse impact on the Issuer 
or  the  projects  to  be  funded  from  the  proceeds  of  the  issue  of  municipal 
bonds.  The  thresholds  so  determined  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  Offer 
Document/ Placement Memorandum. 
 

5.  Clause (a) Para 9 of Schedule I of the Municipal Regulations specifies 
the disclosure to be included in the offer document w.r.t. all pending 
litigations  involving  the  Issuer/its  directors/promoters/subsidiaries. 
Whether all pending litigation needs to be disclosed? 
 
Guidance:  The  Merchant  Banker,  Issuer  and  the  Bond  Issue  Committee 
(wherever  applicable),  may  determine  the  materiality  thresholds  under 
clause (a) of para 9 of Schedule I of Municipal Regulations after taking into 
account litigations which may have a material adverse impact on the Issuer 
or  the  projects  to  be  funded  from  the  proceeds  of  the  issue  of  municipal 

Page 2 of 3 

 

bonds.  The  thresholds  so  determined  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  Offer 
Document/ Placement Memorandum. 
 

6.  How  will  the  threshold  of  materiality  for  disclosure  of  outstanding 
dues of creditors under clause (b) of para 9 of Schedule I of Municipal 
Regulations and identification of material contract under clause (e) of 
para 9 of Schedule I of Municipal Regulations be determined for non-
corporate Municipalities who do not have a Board of Directors? 

 

Guidance:  The  Merchant  Banker,  Issuer  and  the  Bond  Issue  Committee 
may  determine  the  materiality  thresholds  under  clause  (b)  para  9  of 
Schedule  I  of  Municipal  Regulations  after  taking  into  account  litigations 
which may have a material adverse impact on the Issuer or the projects to 
be  funded  from  the  proceeds  of  the  issue  of  municipal  bonds.  The 
thresholds 
the  offer 
document/placement memorandum. 

shall  be  disclosed 

so  determined 

in 

 
7.  Para  8(V)  of  Municipal  Regulations  requires  disclosure  of  details  of 
loan,  NCDs  Bonds, 

loan,  unsecured 

borrowings  viz.  secured 
commercial paper, rest of borrowings, etc. 

 

Municipalities generally have borrowings provided by the government 
over several years and it would be difficult to provide granular details 
of such loans. 

 

Guidance:  Issuers  shall  disclose  details  of  all  borrowings  along  with 
outstanding  amount  of  borrowings  during  the  three  years  for  which  the 
audited  financial  information  is being  included  in  the  Offer  Document/ 
Placement Memorandum. 
 
Further, revenue grant received and spent during the last three years along-
with separate disclosures of refundable grants shall also be disclosed in the 
Offer Document / Placement Memorandum. 
 
 

****** 

Page 3 of 3 

 

