»ããÀ¦ããè½ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã»ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã¼ã½ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

 

General Order No. 01 of 2012 under S. 11A of the Securities and Exchange 

Board of India Act 1992 

SEBI (Framework For Rejection Of Draft Offer Documents) Order, 2012 

In exercise of powers conferred under Section 11A(1)(b) read with Section 4(3) of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  Act,  1992,  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India ("the Board") hereby issues a General Order to lay down 
general criteria subject to which draft offer documents filed for issue of securities 
with  the  Board,  may  be  rejected,  where  the  Board  has  reasonable  grounds  to 
believe, for the protection of interest of investors, that the adequacy and quality of 
disclosures  in  such  offer  documents  are  not  satisfactory,  or  where  an  investor 
may not be able to assess the risks associated with the issue. 

Whereas the Board does not regulate on merits or approve, document of  offer / 
issue  of  securities,  but  only  mandates  true,  fair  and  adequate  disclosures 
including the possibility of a sanction where entities are put on notice for applying 
due  diligence  and  caution  while  taking  a  decision  to  subscribe  to  the  issue.  The 
Board issues a letter of observation(s) specifying changes about disclosures and 
accordingly, the offer document is required to be modified.  

Whereas,  in  case  of  rejection  of  draft  offer  document,  the  communication  in 
writing shall contain the reasons therefor. 

Therefore,  with  the  above  objective,  a  draft offer  document  would  be  scrutinized 
based on following broad criteria: 

1. Rejection Criteria 

1.1  Where Capital Structure involves any of the following; 
 

(i) 

Existence  of  circular  transactions  for  building  up  the  capital  /  net 
worth of the issuer. 

(ii)  Ultimate promoters are unidentifiable. 

(iii)  Promoters’  contribution  not  complying  with  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 in letter or in spirit.  

 
1.2  Where Object of the Issue; 
 

(i) 

Is  vague  for  which  a  major  portion  of  the  issue  proceeds  are 
proposed to be utilized .  

Page 1 of 4 

 

 

 

 
(ii) 

 
(iii) 

 
(iv) 

 
(v) 

Is  repayment  of  loan  or  inter  corporate  deposit  or  any  other 
borrowing  of  similar  nature,  and  the  issuer  is  not  in  a  position  to 
disclose  the  ultimate  purpose  for  which  the  loan  was  taken  or 
demonstrate utilization of the same for the disclosed purpose.  

the 

Is such where the major portion of the issue proceeds is proposed to 
be utilized for the purpose which does not create any tangible asset 
for 
towards  brand  building, 
advertisement, payment to consultants, etc., and there is not enough 
justification for creation of such assets in terms of past performance 
, experience and concrete business plan of the issuer. 

issuer,  such  as,  expenses 

Is  to  set  up  a  plant  and  the  issuer  has  not  received  crucial 
clearances  /  licenses  /  permissions  /  approvals  from  the  required 
competent  authority  which  is  necessary  for  commencement  of  the 
activity  and  because  of  such  non-receipt  of  clearances  /  licenses  / 
permissions  /  approvals,  the  issue  proceeds  might  not  be  utilized 
towards the stated objects of the issue.  

Is such where the time gap between raising the funds and proposed 
utilization of the same is unreasonably long.  

 
1.3   Where business model of an issuer is;  
 

Exaggerated,  complex  or  misleading  and  the  investors  may  not  be 
able to assess the risks associated with such business models.  

 
1.4  Where scrutiny of Financial Statements shows; 
 

(i) 

Sudden  spurt  in  the  business  just  before  filing  the  draft  offer 
document  and  reply  to  clarifications  sought  is  not  satisfactory.  This 
will  include  spurt  in  line  items  such  as  Income,  Debtors/Creditors, 
intangible assets, etc. 

 
(ii)  Qualified  audit  reports  or  the  reports  where  auditors  have  raised 
doubts  /  concerns  over  the  accounting  policies.  This  would  also  be 
applicable 
joint  ventures  and  associate 
companies  of  the  issuer  which  significantly  contributes  to  the 
business of the issuer. This would also be applicable for the entities 
where the issue proceeds are proposed to be utilized.  

the  subsidiaries, 

for 

 
(iv)  Change  in  accounting  policy  with  a  view  to  show  enhanced 

prospects for the issuer in contradiction with accounting norms.  

 
(iii)  Majority  of  the  business  is  with  related  parties  or  where  circular 
transactions  with  connected  /  group  entities  exist  with  a  view  to 
show enhanced prospects of the issuer. 
 

 

Page 2 of 4 

 
 

1.5  Where there exists litigation including regulatory action;  
 

(i)  Which  is  so  major  that  the  issuer’s  survival  is  dependent  on  the 

outcome of the pending litigation. 
 

(ii)  Which is willfully concealed or covered. 

1.6  Other General Criteria;  
 

(i) 

Failure to provide complete documentation in terms of requirements 
of  SEBI 
(Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009.   

(ii)  Non-furnishing of information or delay in furnishing of information or 
furnishing of Incorrect / vague / misleading / incomplete / false / non 
satisfactory information to the Board. 

(iii)  Failure  to  resolve  conflict  of  interest,  whether  direct  or  indirect, 
between the issuer and Merchant Banker appointed by the issuer to 
undertake  the  book  building  process.    Quantification  of  conflict  of 
interest  may  not  always  be  possible  but  it  would  largely  depend 
upon  the  Board's  assessment  on  whether  such  conflict  of  interest 
may  affect  the  judgment  and  ability  of  the  Merchant  Banker  in 
conducting due diligence activity of issuer.  

 

 

 

2. Applicability of the General Order  

(i)  The  General  Order  issued  herein  shall  be  applicable  to  all  the  draft  offer 

documents filed for issue of securities, with the Board.  

 

(ii)  The  criteria  specified  for  rejection  in  this  General  Order  is  illustrative  / 

indicative and prescribes only general standards.  

 

(iii)  Whereupon  the  Board  after  scrutinizing  the  draft  offer  document  is  of  the 
opinion that the criteria mentioned in this General Order are not adhered to 
by the issuer/Merchant Banker, it may reject the draft offer document filed 
with  the  Board.  Such  scrutiny  by  the  Board  may  be  based  on  relevant 
information pertaining to the period of past 5 years from the date of filing of 
the  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board  or  any  other  period  as  deemed 
appropriate by the Board in exceptional cases.  

 

(iv)  It  is  clarified  here  that  mere  triggering  of  any  or  few  criteria  mentioned  in 
this  General  Order  would  not  be  considered  as  an  automatic  case  for 
rejection  and  in  all  such  cases  a  final  view  on  rejection  shall  be  taken  by 
the  Board  after  considering  the  materiality  of  the  findings  and  facts  and 
circumstances of each case.  
 

 

Page 3 of 4 

 

3.  One Time Withdrawal Opportunity  

As  on  the  date  of  issuance  of  this  General  Order,  one-time  opportunity  for 
withdrawal  of  draft  offer  documents  is  allowed  to  the  issuers  whose  draft  offer 
documents are pending  with the Board. Draft offer documents  can be withdrawn 
within one month from the date of issuance of this General Order.  

4. Consequences of Rejection of Draft Offer Documents 

(i)  Entities  whose  draft  offer  documents  are  rejected  will  not  be      allowed  to 
access capital markets for at least one year from the date of such rejection 
and  the  same  may  be  increased  depending  upon  the  materiality  of  the 
omissions and commissions. 

 
(ii)  In cases where the Board rejects a draft offer document or where an issuer 
or  a  Merchant  Banker  to  an  issue  chooses  to  withdraw  the  draft  offer 
document, there shall be no refund of filing fees with the Board.   
 

(iii)  The  rejection  of  draft  offer  document  under  this  General  Order  shall  be 
without prejudice to the right of the Board to initiate any action  which may 
be undertaken against issuer or Merchant Banker, in accordance with law.  

 
(iv) The list of such draft offer documents rejected by the Board, along with the 
details of issuers / Merchant Bankers and the reasons for rejection, shall be 
disseminated by the Board in public domain by hosting on its website. 

 

5. This General Order shall come into force with immediate effect. 

 

 

DATE: OCTOBER 09, 2012 
PLACE: MUMBAI 

U. K. SINHA 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 
 

 

 
 

Page 4 of 4 

