 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

 

GENERAL ORDER NO 1 OF 2020 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (ISSUING OBSERVATIONS ON 

DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENTS PENDING REGULATORY ACTIONS) ORDER, 2020 

 

The Board is empowered under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 11A of the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India Act 1992 (“the Act”) to issue general or special orders for prohibiting 

any  company  from  issuing  prospectus,  any  offer  document,  or  advertisement  soliciting  money 

from  the  public  for  the  issue  of  securities  and  to  specify  the  conditions  subject  to  which  the 

prospectus, such offer document or advertisement, if not prohibited, may be issued.  

 

Accordingly, in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub-section 

(1) of section 11A of the Act, the Board hereby issues the following General Order to formalize 

the issuance of observations on draft offer documents filed with the Board, where an investigation, 

enquiry, adjudication, prosecution, disgorgement, recovery or other regulatory action is pending 

against the issuer or its promoter(s)/director(s)/group companies ("the entities").   

 

Short title and commencement.  

 

1.  This  General  Order  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issuing 

Observations on Draft Offer Documents Pending Regulatory Actions) Order, 2020 and shall come 

into force with immediate effect.  

 

2.  This  General  Order  shall  supersede  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issuing 

Observations on Draft Offer Documents Pending Regulatory Actions) Order, 2006, as amended 

on March 31, 2008 by the General Order no. 1 of 2008.  

 

 

 

Page 1 of 4 

 

 

Treatment  where  there  is  a  probable  cause  for  investigation  or  enquiry  or  when  an 

investigation or enquiry is in progress against the entities.  

 

3. (1) Where there is a probable cause for investigation, examination or enquiry against the entities, 

the observations on the draft offer document filed by the issuer with the Board shall be kept in 

abeyance for a period of thirty days after such probable cause arises or the date of filing of the 

draft offer document with the Board, whichever is later.    

(2) Where the Board is unable to conclude such investigation, examination or enquiry against the 

entities due to the reasons beyond its control or due to the conduct of the parties other than the 

entities, the observations on the draft offer document shall be kept in abeyance for a further period 

of thirty days.   

(3) Where the Board is unable to conclude such investigation, examination or enquiry against the 

entities due to the conduct of the entities, the observations on the draft offer document shall be 

kept in abeyance till the time such investigation, examination or enquiry is concluded.  

 

Treatment where show cause notice has been issued. 

 

4. (1) Where a show cause notice has been issued to the entities in an adjudication proceeding, the 

Board may process the draft offer document and issue observations and advice the entities to make 

necessary  disclosures  and  statements  in  respect  of  such  proceedings  and  the  possible  adverse 

impact of an order on the entities, in the offer document.     

(2) Where a show cause notice has been issued in respect of proceedings under sub-section (4) of 

section 11 or section 11B(1), the Board shall keep in abeyance the issuance of observations for a 

period of ninety days from the date of filing of the draft offer document with the Board.    

(3) Where the Board is unable to conclude the proceedings as referred to sub-clause (2) due to the 

reasons  beyond  its  control  or  due  to  the  conduct  of  the  parties  other  than  the  entities,  the 

observations on the draft offer document shall be kept in abeyance for a further period of forty five 

days.   

(4) Where the Board is unable to conclude the proceedings as referred to sub-clause (2) due to the 

conduct of the entities, the observations on the draft offer document shall be kept in abeyance till 

the time such proceedings are concluded.  

Page 2 of 4 

 

 

(5) Where no order is passed within the time period specified in clause (3), the Board may process 

the  draft  offer  document  and  issue  observations  and  advise  the  entities  to  make  necessary 

disclosures and statements in respect of such proceedings and the possible adverse impact of an 

order on the entities, in the offer document.         

 

Treatment where recovery proceedings have been initiated or an order for disgorgement or 

monetary penalty has not been complied with or in case of non-compliance with any direction 

issued by the Board.  

 

5. Where the Board has initiated proceedings for recovery against the entities or when an order for 

disgorgement or monetary penalty passed against the entities is not complied with or in case of 

non-compliance  with  any  direction  issued  by  the  Board,  the  observations  on  the  draft  offer 

document filed by the issuer with the Board shall be kept in abeyance till such proceedings are 

concluded or until the directions are complied with.   

 

Reconsideration of proceedings pursuant to remand by the Securities Appellate Tribunal or 

court.  

 

6. Where proceedings has been remanded by the Securities Appellate Tribunal or a court, the same 

shall  in  effect  be  treated  as  proceedings  covered  under  this  Order,  and  the  Board  may  take 

appropriate action in respect of the draft offer document under the provisions of this general order, 

subject to any order passed by the Securities Appellate Tribunal or a court,  as the case may be, 

while remanding the matter.   

 

Issuance of observations when the issuer is restrained by a court from making a public issue 

or filing of offer document:  

 

7. Where the issuer has been restrained by a court or tribunal from making an issue of securities 

or from issuing offer document to the public, the Board may examine the offer document and issue 

its observations thereof with a qualification that said observations are issued in accordance with 

the regulatory powers  conferred on the Board and  that the public issue or  issuance  of the offer 

Page 3 of 4 

 

document  to  the  public  by  the  issuer  shall  be  subject  to  the  orders  of  such  court  or  tribunal  or 

 

authority.  

 

Issuance of observations do not indicate exoneration:  

 

8.  Issuance of observations on draft offer document when an investigation or enquiry is pending 

or when any regulatory action is pending, does not indicate that the party has been exonerated in 

such proceedings or that action may not ultimately result from such proceedings.  

 

Removal of difficulties:  

 

9.  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties,  in  deserving  cases,  the  Competent  Authority  may  grant 

exemption from strict enforcement of any provision of the extant General Order. 

 

   

Date: February 05, 2020 

Place: Mumbai 

   

AJAY TYAGI 

CHAIRMAN 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

Page 4 of 4 

 

