Instance of complaint without disclosure of identity and furnishing supporting evidence
[In supersession of information to public on complaints dated December 06, 2019]

A person named Charul Singh made several complaints against a MII wherein he made grave allegations over certain issues and demanded investigation by SEBI into each allegation.
The complainant made these allegations without any supporting documentary evidence and without disclosing his/her real identity. The name turned out to be fake, the address and phone number nonexistent and there was no response from the e-mail ID. Also, while the complainant claimed to be serving employee of the MII, the MII stated that they don’t have any records of employee (ex or current) by the name “Charul Singh”. 
The complainant, also purported to be whistle blower, shared his unsubstantiated allegations with various news/media outlets, some of which taking cognizance of his allegations printed articles without any evidence.
Since it has not been possible to reach the complainant, it is important to bring to notice of general public that SEBI can entertain complaints where the concerned investor/complainant is reachable to substantiate any allegation and provide supporting documents or where the contents have verifiable details for the purpose of establishing the allegations made in the complaint. Any complaint where the allegations are not specific /substantiated may not be processed. 
SEBI may not take any action on complaints where SEBI is unable to reach back to the complainant or where the contents are not specific /substantiated or verifiable. 

SEBI has been receiving complaints on SCORES and also getting regular emails regarding complaints. These complaints are examined and are taken up with respective companies or intermediaries for redressal. Based on the action taken reports given by companies/regulated entities,  actions are taken by SEBI as per the prescribed  rules/regulation/circular etc. Thereafter, complaints are closed by SEBI. There are some complaints which are addressed as per the existing norms but these complaints are continuously referred back to SEBI despite having been addressed such as by advising complainants to approach appropriate authorities  or forums such as civil courts, consumer courts, arbitration mechanism, or to other regulators etc

In view of the above, the following information is given to general public.
1	Guidance to the general public about effective ways to redress their grievances
2 	How repeated complaints even after the matter has been resolved from SEBI's side do not help the system.
3	Instances of the type of repeats complaints are highlighted on website.

