 

 
 
Instances of the type of repeats complaints are highlighted on website. 
 
Following  are  some  of  the  instances  of  complaints  which  SEBI  has  been  repeatedly 
receiving.  These  complaints  have  been  addressed  and  disposed  of  advising  the 
complainants  to  adopt  appropriate  course  of  action  but  the  complainants  have  been 
writing to SEBI repeatedly without choosing to avail of the appropriate legal remedy from 
the competent forum. 
 
Instance  No  1:    A  complainant,  is  complaining  against  a  broker  for  non-payment  of 
brokerage commission, dividend, office rent, referral charges and other expenses due to 
him and also refund of arbitration charges. 
 
The  complaint  has  arisen  out  of  dispute  over  a  commercial  agreement  between  the 
complainant and broker, which does not fall under the purview of SEBI and as such no 
further  action  can  be  taken  on  the  complaint.  This  was  informed  to  the  complainant 
however the complainant repeatedly complains to SEBI. 
 

**** 

Instance No 2:  Another Complainant alleged that on a particular day, sometime before 
the close of the trading session; incorrect news was flashed in the TV media regarding 
the Quarterly results of the a company. Complainant didn’t find any press release of the 
company in the print media. Further, he alleged that TV channel in collusion with some 
big market players has misled the general public.  
 
In this regard: 
a) SEBI examined the trading in the scrip on the given date along with the disclosures 
made  by  the  company  and  no  adverse  movement  in  the  price  volume  of  the  script 
was noted.  

b) Subsequently, the issue of incorrect news flash was taken up with TV media channel. 
It  was  informed  by  them  that  any  inadvertent  error  that  might  have  occurred  in  the 
instant  case,  it  was  unintentional  without  any  malafide  on  their  part.  They  also 
informed that to make its systems more foolproof, the channel has now put in place 
more check and balances which include attributing the flashes to the concerned wires 
or  agencies  from  where  they  must  have  taken  the  same  and  this  has  already  been 
implemented. 

c) Further,  regarding  the  erroneous  news  flash  by  TV  media  channel,  the  complainant 
was  advised  to  take  up  the  matter  with  Broadcast  Content  Complaints  Council 
(BCCC),  since  such  matters  are  within  their  purview.  However  the  complainant  has 
been repeatedly asking SEBI for resolving his complaint.  

 

**** 

 
Instance  No  3:    Another  complainant  has  raised  the  issue  of  incorrect  information 
provided  by  a  broker  to  him  regarding  his  exposure  limits  and  squaring  off  positions 
without his consent. The broker has replied to complainant in the matter stating that the 
broker  reserves  the  right  to  change  the  exposure  limits  of  all  clients  and  the  same  is 
communicated to him at the time of account opening through client member agreement. 

As there was a debit in client's account and due to unavailability of funds, his positions 
were squared up. 

 

SEBI  also  met  the  officials  of  the  Broking  firm  and  the  broker  provided  relevant 
reference  copies  of  SMS  Logs,  Activity  Logs  of  internet  trading,  ECN  Logs,  Margin 
Reports,  Statement  of  Accounts  and  call  recordings  and  analyzed  the  relevant  logs, 
reports and statements. 
 
It was observed that 

a.  The  complainant  repeatedly  requested  the  broker  to  provide  him  very  huge 

exposure limits. 

b.  The complainant was also informed by one of the officials of the broker that they 

will square off the positions, if there is no sufficient margin in his account. 

c.  The complainant was repeatedly requested by one of the officials of the broker to 
pay  in  additional  funds  in  his  account  to  enable  them  to  grant  him  additional 
exposure limits and to avoid the unnecessary square off of positions. 

d.  The  complainant  repeatedly  objected  that  he  should  be  granted  additional  limits 
and in no case his positions should be squared off, but was not at ready to pay in 
required margin. 

e.  Finally,  the  broker  squared  off  the  positions.  The  same  is  communicated  to  the 
complainant over a phone call to the complainant that his positions were squared 
off. 
 

In  above  instance,  it  is  seen  that  the  complainant  was  well-informed  in  advance  about 
his  risk  exposure  limits  and  likely  square  off  of  positions  in  case  of  failure  to  deposit 
margin.  
 
Further  the  complainant  has  not  attached  copies  of  any  documents  in  support  of  his 
complaints nor attended IGRP (Investor Grievance Resolution Panel) meetings of NSE 
in spite of being specifically informed of the same. The IGRP advised the complainant to 
opt for arbitration, if he so desires.” 
 
However  the  complainant  instead  of  attending  IGRP  meeting  or  filing  for  arbitration  to 
resolve  his  case,  is  sending  frequent  emails  to  various  levels  in  SEBI  including 
Chairman  using  intemperate  language.  He  is  also  lodging  multiple  complaints  on 
SCORES.  Such  repeated  complaints  clog  the  capacity  of  the  system  and  prevents 
quicker response to other complainants. 
 

********************** 

