Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) 

Regulations, 2009 

No. LAD-NRO/GN/2009-10/05/163525. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely: - 

 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART –III– SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
NEW DELHI, MAY 19, 2009 

NOTIFICATION 

MUMBAI, the 19th May, 2009 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor 
Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
 
Definitions. 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: - 
(a) ‘Act’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b) ‘Board’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of 
the Act; 
(c)  ‘Committee’  means  the  advisory  committee  constituted  under  regulation  7  of  these 
regulations; 
(d) ‘financial year’ means the year commencing on the first day of April; 
(e)  ‘Fund’  means  the  Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  created  by  the  Board  under 
section 11 of the Act; 
(f) ‘investor’ means an investor in securities; 
(g) ‘legal proceedings’ means any proceedings before a court or tribunal where one thousand 
or more investors are affected or likely to be affected by:- 
(i)  mis-statement,  misrepresentation  or  omission  in  connection  with  the  issue,  sale  or 
purchase of securities; 
(ii) non-receipt of securities allotted or refund of application monies paid by them; 
(iii) non-payment of dividend; 
(iv)  default  in  redemption  of  securities  or  in  payment  of  interest  in  terms  of  the  offer 
document; 
(v) fraudulent and unfair trade practices or market manipulation; 
(vi)  such  other  market  misconduct  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  Board  may  be  deemed 
appropriate; 
but  does  not  include  any  proceeding  where  the  Board  is  a  party  or  where  the  Board  has 
initiated any enforcement action; 
(h) ‘Schedule’ means Schedule appended to these regulations. 
 
(2) Words and expressions not defined in these regulations, but defined in or under the Act or 
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or the Depositories Act, 1996 

(22 of 1996) or the regulations made thereunder or the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or 
any  statutory  modification  or  re-enactment  thereof,  shall  have  the  same  meanings  as  have 
been assigned to them by or under those enactments, unless the context requires otherwise. 

CHAPTER II 

INVESTOR PROTECTION AND EDUCATION FUND 

Establishment of Fund. 
3. (1) There shall be a Fund to be called the Investor Protection and Education Fund. 
(2) The Fund shall be deemed to have been established on 23rd day of July, 2007, by the order 
made by the Board under section 11 of the Act. 
 
Amounts to be credited to the Fund. 
4. The following amounts shall be credited to the Fund:- 
(a) contribution as may be made by the Board to the Fund; 
(b) grants and donations given to the Fund by the Central Government, State Government or 
any other entity approved by the Board for this purpose; 
1[(c)  proceeds  in  accordance  with  the  sub-clause  (ii)  of  clause(e)  of  sub-regulation  (10)  of 
regulation 17 and sub-regulation (3) of regulation 21 of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011]; 
(d) security deposits, if any, held by stock exchanges in respect of public issues and rights 
issues, in the event of de-recognition of such stock exchanges; 
(e) amounts in the Investor Protection Fund and Investor Services Fund of a stock exchange, 
in the event of de-recognition of such stock exchange; 
2[(f)  amounts  forfeited  for  non-fulfilment  of  obligations  specified  in  regulation  15B  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 1998; 
(g) monies transferred in accordance with sub-regulation (9) of regulation 45 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009; 
(h) amounts disgorged under section 11B of the Act or section 12A of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 or section 19 of the Depositories Act, 1996;]  
3 [(f)] interest or other income received out of any investments made from the Fund; 
4 [(g)] such other amount as the Board may specify in the interest of investors. 
 
Utilisation of Fund. 
5. (1) The Fund shall be utilised for the purpose of protection of investors and promotion of 
investor education and awareness in accordance with these regulations. 
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the object in sub-regulation (1), the Fund may be 
used for the following purposes, namely:- 
(a)  educational  activities  including  seminars,  training,  research  and  publications,  aimed  at 
investors; 
(b) awareness programmes including through media - print, electronic, aimed at investors; 
(c) funding investor education and awareness activities of Investors’ Associations recognized 
by the Board; 
                                                            
1 Substituted by  SEBI(Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e f. 09-01-
2014. Prior to substitution, it read as under: 
"(c) proceeds in accordance with the sub-clause (ii) of clause(e) of sub-regulation (12) and the sub- regulation 
(13)of  regulation  28  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 1997" 
2 Inserted  by  SEBI(Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e f. 09-01-
2014.  
3 Renumbered   by  SEBI(Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e f. 09-
01-2014.  
4 ibid.  

(d) aiding investors’ associations recognized by the Board to undertake legal proceedings in 
the interest of investors in securities that are listed or proposed to be listed; 
(e) refund of the security deposits which are held by stock exchanges and transferred to the 
Fund  consequent  on  derecognition  of  the  stock  exchange  as  mentioned  in  clause  (d)  of 
regulation 4, in case the concerned companies apply to the Board and fulfill the conditions for 
release of the deposit; 
(f) expenses on travel of members of the Committee, who are not officials of the Board, and 
special  invitees  to  the  meetings  of  the  Committee,  in  connection  with  the  work  of  the  
Committee; 
(g) salary, allowances and other expenses of office of Ombudsman; and 
(h) such other purposes as may be specified by the Board. 
5[(3)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  sub-regulations  (1)  and  (2),  amounts  disgorged  and 
credited to the Fund in accordance with clause (h) of regulation 4 of these regulations and the 
interest accrued thereon shall, in cases where the Board deems fit to make restitution to eligible 
and identifiable investors who have suffered losses resulting from violation of securities laws, be 
utilised only for the purposes of such restitution: 
Provided that monies left in the Fund after earmarking the amount for the process of restitution to 
eligible and identifiable investors may be utilised for the purposes of the Fund specified in sub-
regulations (1) and (2): 
Provided further that no claim for restitution from the disgorged amounts in a specific case shall 
be admissible after a period of seven years from the date of invitation of claims for disgorgement 
in the said case by the Board.] 
 
6. Conditions for Aid. 
The  aid  to  investors’  associations,  as  referred  to  in  clause  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of 
regulation 5, shall be given by the Board in accordance with the guidelines made by it and 
subject to the following conditions:- 
(a)  that  the  aid  shall  not  exceed  seventy  five  per  cent.  of  the  total  expenditure  on  legal 
proceedings; 
(b) such aid shall not be considered for more than one legal proceeding in a particular matter; 
(c)  if  more  than  one  investors’  association  applies  for  seeking  legal  aid,  the  investors’ 
association whose application is received first, shall be considered for such aid. 
 

CHAPTER III 

ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE FUND 

Constitution of the Committee. 
7. (1) The Board shall constitute an advisory committee for recommending investor education 
and protection activities that may be undertaken directly by the Board or through any other 
agency, for utilisation of the Fund for the purposes referred to in regulation 5. 
(2) The Committee shall consist of the following members, namely:- 
(a)  the  Executive  Director  of  the  Board  in  charge  of  Office  of  Investor  Assistance  and 
Education who shall be the convener of the Committee; 
(b) two other officials of the Board; 
(c)  five  other  members  who  have  expertise  about  the  securities  market  and  experience  in 
matters of investor grievance redressal or investor education. 
(3)    (a)  The  term  of  office  of  members  referred  in  clause  (c)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of 
regulation 7 shall be two years, which may be extended for a further period of two years. 

                                                            
5 Inserted  by  SEBI(Investor Protection and Education Fund) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e f. 09-01-
2014.  

(b) Any vacancy arising out of resignation, retirement or death of a member or for any other 
reason shall be filled by the Board for the remaining period of the term of such member. 
(4) The Board may dissolve and reconstitute the Committee if, at any time, the Board is of 
the opinion that the Committee is unable to discharge the functions and duties imposed on it 
by or under these regulations. 
 
Functions of the Committee. 
8. The Committee shall consider investor education and protection activities keeping in view 
the purposes mentioned in regulation 5 and the regulation 6 and submit its recommendations 
thereon to the Board. 
 
Meetings of the Committee. 
9.  (1)  Meetings  of  the  Committee  shall  be  convened  at  least  once  in  three  months  by  the 
convener or in his absence, by any member nominated by the convener, on his behalf. 
(2)  Four  members  of  the  Committee  shall  constitute  the  quorum  for  the  transaction  of 
business at a meeting of the Committee. 
(3)  Every  member,  who  is  directly  or  indirectly  interested  in  any  matter  coming  up  for 
consideration at a meeting of the Committee, shall disclose the nature of his interest at such 
meeting  and  such  disclosure  shall  be  recorded  in  the  proceedings  of  the  meeting  of  the 
Committee and such member shall not take part in any deliberation of the Committee with 
respect to that matter. 
 
Expenses of the Committee. 
10. (1) The expenses including travel and other allowances of members of the Committee, 
who are officials of the Board, and invitees who are officials of the Board, shall be borne by 
the Board in accordance with their entitlements. 
(2) The expenses including travel and other allowances of members of the Committee, who 
are not officials of the Board, and invitees who are not officials of the Board, may be borne 
by the Fund. 

CHAPTER IV 

INVESTMENT, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT 

Investment, maintenance of accounts and audit of accounts. 
11.  (1)  The  Board  shall  ensure  maintenance  of  proper  and  separate  accounts  and  other   
relevant  records  in  relation  to  the  Fund  giving  therein  the  details  of  all  receipts  to,  and, 
expenditure from, the Fund and other relevant particulars in accordance with the SEBI (Form 
of Annual Statement of Accounts and Records) Rules, 1994 as far as such rules apply. 
(2) The accounts referred to in sub regulation (1) shall be prepared and audited before the 
expiry of six months from the end of each financial year. 
(3) The investment of the Fund may be in the manner of investments of other funds of the 
Board. 
(4) The accounts of the Fund may be audited in the manner of audit of other accounts of the 
Board. 

CHAPTER V 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Power to relax regulations. 
12. If in the opinion of the Board, strict enforcement of any regulation needs to be relaxed to 
achieve the purpose of investor protection and education, the Board may relax the same. 
 
Delegation of powers. 
13. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by 

any  member  or  officer  of  the  Board  to  whom  such  powers  are  delegated  by  the  Board  by 
means of an order made under section 19 of the Act. 
 
Amendments to other Regulation. 
14.  The  regulation  mentioned  in  the  Schedule  shall  be  amended  in  the  manner  and  to  the 
extent specified therein. 
 
 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) 

SCHEDULE 

Regulations, 2009 
[See regulation 14] 

Amendments  to  other  regulation  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997. 
1. In regulation 28, 
(a) in sub-regulation (12) , for clause (e) , the following shall be substituted, namely:- 
“(e) the entire amount to the merchant banker, in the event of forfeiture for nonfulfillment of 
any of the obligations under the Regulations, for distribution in the following manner, after 
deduction of expenses, if any, of the merchant banker and the registrars to the offer, - 
(i) one third of the amount to the target company; 
(ii) one third of the amount to the Investor Protection and Education Fund established by the 
Board; 
(iii)  one  third  of  the  amount  to  be  distributed  pro-rata  among  the  shareholders  who  have 
accepted the offer.” 
(b)  in  sub-regulation  (13)  ,  for  the  words  “to  the  regional  stock  exchange  of  the  target 
company, for the credit of the Investor Protection Fund or any other similar fund” appearing 
after the words “ proceeds thereof” the words “to the Investor Protection and Education Fund 
established by the Board” shall be substituted. 
 

