 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART –III– SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
NEW DELHI, MAY 19, 2009 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

MUMBAI, the 19th May, 2009 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) 

Regulations, 2009 

No.  LAD-NRO/GN/2009-10/05/163525.  In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India hereby makes the following regulations, namely: - 
 

 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement.  
1.  (1)  These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor 

Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009. 

 

(2)  They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 
 

Definitions. 
2.  (1)     In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: - 

(a) 
(b) 

(c) 

(d) 
(e) 

(f) 
(g) 

‘Act’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of  1992); 
‘Board’  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  established  under 
section 3 of the Act; 
‘Committee’  means  the  advisory  committee  constituted  under  regulation  7  of 
these regulations; 
‘financial year’ means the year commencing on the first day of April;  
‘Fund’ means the Investor Protection and Education Fund created by the Board 
under section 11 of the Act; 
‘investor’ means an investor in securities; 
‘legal proceedings’ means any proceedings before a court or tribunal where one 
thousand or more investors are affected or likely to be affected by:- 
(i)  mis-statement,  misrepresentation  or  omission  in  connection  with  the  issue, 

sale or purchase of securities; 

(ii) non-receipt of securities allotted or refund of application monies paid by them; 
(iii) non-payment of dividend; 

 

1

(iv) default in redemption of securities or in payment of interest in terms of the               
offer document; 
(v) fraudulent and unfair trade practices or market manipulation; 
(vi)  such  other  market  misconduct  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  Board  may  be 
deemed appropriate; 
but  does  not  include  any  proceeding  where  the  Board  is  a  party  or  where  the 
Board has initiated any enforcement action; 

         (h) ‘Schedule’ means Schedule appended to these regulations. 

(2)  Words  and  expressions  not  defined  in  these  regulations,  but  defined  in  or  under  the   
Act or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) or the Depositories 
Act, 1996 (22 of 1996) or the regulations made thereunder or the Companies Act, 1956 
(1 of 1956) or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof, shall have the same 
meanings  as  have  been  assigned  to  them  by  or  under  those  enactments,  unless  the 
context requires otherwise. 

 

INVESTOR PROTECTION AND EDUCATION FUND 

CHAPTER II 

 

Establishment of Fund. 
3. (1) 
    (2)      The Fund shall be deemed to have been established on 23rd day of July, 2007, by the   

 There shall be a Fund to be called the Investor Protection and Education Fund.  

 order made by the Board under section 11 of the Act.  

 
Amounts to be credited to the Fund. 
4. 

The following amounts shall be credited to the Fund:-  

 

 

 

(a) contribution as may be made by the Board to the Fund; 
(b) grants  and  donations  given  to  the  Fund  by  the  Central  Government,  State 

Government or any other entity approved by the Board for this purpose; 

(c) proceeds in accordance with the  sub-clause (ii) of clause(e) of sub-regulation (12) 
and the sub- regulation (13)of regulation 28 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997; 

(d) security deposits, if any, held by stock exchanges in respect of public issues and 

rights issues, in the event of de-recognition of such stock exchanges; 

(e) amounts  in  the  Investor  Protection  Fund  and  Investor  Services  Fund  of  a  stock 

exchange, in the event of de-recognition of such stock exchange; 

(f)  interest or other income received out of any investments made from the Fund; 
(g) such other amount as the Board may specify in the interest of investors. 

 
Utilisation of Fund. 
5.  (1)   The Fund shall be utilised for the purpose of protection of investors and promotion of 

investor education and awareness in accordance with these regulations. 

(2)   Without prejudice to the generality of the object in sub-regulation (1), the Fund may be 

used for the following purposes, namely:- 

(a)  educational  activities  including  seminars,  training,  research  and  publications, 

aimed at  investors; 

2

 

(b)  awareness  programmes  including  through  media  -  print,  electronic,  aimed  at  

investors; 

recognized by the Board; 

   (c)  funding  investor  education  and  awareness  activities  of  Investors’  Associations 

   (d) aiding  investors’  associations  recognized  by  the  Board  to  undertake  legal 
proceedings in the interest of investors in securities that are listed or proposed to 
be listed; 

  (e)    refund of the security deposits which are held by stock exchanges and transferred 
to the Fund consequent on derecognition of the stock exchange as mentioned in 
clause (d) of regulation 4, in case the concerned companies apply to the Board 
and fulfill the conditions for release of the deposit; 

  (f)   expenses  on  travel  of  members  of  the  Committee,  who  are  not  officials  of  the 
Board, and special invitees to the meetings of the Committee, in connection with 
the work of the Committee; 

  (g)   salary, allowances and other expenses of office of Ombudsman; and 
  (h)   such other purposes as may be specified by the Board. 

 
6.  Conditions for Aid. 
         The  aid  to  investors’  associations,  as  referred  to  in  clause  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of 
regulation 5, shall be given by the Board in accordance with the guidelines made by it  and 
subject to the following conditions:-  

(a) that the aid shall not exceed seventy five per cent. of the total expenditure on legal 

(b) such aid shall not be considered for more than one legal proceeding in a particular 

(c) if more than one investors’ association applies for seeking legal aid, the investors’ 

association whose application is received first, shall be considered for such aid. 

proceedings; 

matter; 

 

  

ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR THE FUND 

CHAPTER III 

 

Constitution of the Committee. 
7.  (1)    The Board shall constitute an advisory committee for recommending investor education 
and protection activities that may be undertaken directly by the Board or through any 
other agency, for utilisation of the Fund for the purposes referred to in regulation 5. 

(2)     The Committee shall consist of the following members, namely:- 

(a)    the Executive Director of the Board in charge of Office of Investor Assistance and 

Education who shall be the convener of the Committee; 

 (b)   two other officials of the Board;  
 (c)  five  other  members  who  have  expertise  about  the  securities  market  and        

experience in matters of investor grievance redressal or investor education. 

 
(a)   The  term  of  office  of  members  referred  in  clause  (c)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of 
regulation 7 shall be two years, which may be extended for a further period of two 
years. 

(3) 

 

3

 

 

 

 

(b)  Any vacancy arising out of resignation, retirement or death of a member or for   
any other reason shall be filled by the Board for the remaining period of the term 
of such member. 

(4)  The Board may dissolve and reconstitute the Committee if, at any time, the Board is of 
the opinion that the Committee is unable to discharge the functions and duties imposed 
on it by or under these regulations. 

 
Functions of the Committee. 
8. 

The Committee shall consider investor education and protection activities keeping in view 
the  purposes  mentioned 
its 
recommendations thereon to the Board. 

the  regulation  6  and  submit 

in  regulation  5  and 

Meetings of the Committee. 
9.    (1)  Meetings  of  the  Committee  shall  be  convened  at  least  once  in  three  months  by  the     

convener or in his absence, by any member nominated by the convener, on his behalf. 

 (2)    Four  members  of  the  Committee  shall  constitute  the  quorum  for  the  transaction  of 

business at a meeting of the Committee. 

 (3)    Every  member,  who  is  directly  or  indirectly  interested  in  any  matter  coming  up  for 
consideration at a meeting of the Committee, shall disclose the nature of his interest at 
such meeting and such disclosure shall be recorded in the proceedings of the meeting of 
the  Committee  and  such  member  shall  not  take  part  in  any  deliberation  of  the 
Committee with respect to that matter. 

Expenses of the Committee. 
10. (1)   The expenses including travel and other allowances of members of the Committee, who 
are officials of the Board, and invitees who are officials of the Board, shall be borne by 
the Board in accordance with their entitlements. 

(2)  The expenses including travel and other allowances of members of the Committee, who 
are not officials of the Board, and invitees who are not officials of the Board, may be 
borne by the Fund. 

CHAPTER IV 

INVESTMENT, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT 

 

 
Investment, maintenance of accounts and audit of accounts. 
11.  (1)   The Board shall ensure maintenance of  proper and separate accounts and other relevant 
records  in  relation  to  the  Fund  giving  therein  the  details  of  all  receipts  to,  and, 
expenditure from, the Fund and other relevant particulars in accordance with the SEBI 
(Form of Annual Statement of Accounts and Records) Rules, 1994 as far as such rules 
apply. 

(2)    The accounts referred to in sub regulation (1) shall be prepared and audited before the 

expiry of six months from the end of each financial year. 

(3)   The investment of the Fund may be in the manner of investments of other funds of the 

Board.      

 

4

(4)   The accounts of the Fund may be audited in the manner of audit of other accounts of the 

Board.     

 

CHAPTER V 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 
Power to relax regulations.  
12.   If in the opinion of the Board, strict enforcement of any regulation needs to be relaxed to 

achieve the purpose of investor protection and education, the Board may relax the same.  

 

Delegation of powers. 
13.  The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by 
any member or officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Board by 
means of an order made under section 19 of the Act. 

 
Amendments to other Regulation. 
14.  The regulation mentioned in the Schedule shall be amended in the manner and to the extent 

specified therein. 

 

 

 

 

5

 

SCHEDULE  

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investor Protection and Education Fund) 

Regulations, 2009 

[See regulation 14] 

  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of 

Amendments to other regulation 

Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997.  

       1. In regulation 28,  

 (a) in sub-regulation (12) , for  clause (e) , the following shall be substituted, namely:- 

 “(e) the entire amount to the merchant banker, in the event of forfeiture for non-
fulfillment of any of the obligations under the Regulations, for distribution in the 
following manner, after deduction of expenses, if any, of the merchant banker and 
the registrars to the offer, -  

(i) one third of the amount to the target company; 

(ii) one third of the amount to the Investor Protection and Education Fund  
established by the Board; 

(iii)  one  third  of  the  amount  to  be  distributed  pro-rata  among  the 
shareholders who have accepted the offer.” 

 (b)  in sub-regulation  (13) , for the words  “to the regional stock exchange of the target 
company,  for  the  credit  of  the  Investor  Protection  Fund  or  any  other  similar  fund” 
appearing after the words “ proceeds thereof”  the words “to the Investor Protection and 
Education Fund  established by the Board” shall be substituted.  

 
 
 
 
 
C. B. BHAVE 
CHAIRMAN 

 
 

********** 

6

 

 

