 
 
Discussion  paper  on  proposals  relating  to  amendments  to  the  Listing 
Agreement 

 

1.  Background 

 

SEBI Committee on Disclosures and Accounting Standards (SCODA) is the standing 
Committee  of  SEBI  that  advises  on  matters  relating  to  disclosures  and  accounting 
standards. As part of a review of the extant norms relating to disclosure requirements 
and accounting standards for listed entities, the Committee has deliberated on certain 
issues, the details of which are elaborated as under.  
a.  Requirement  of  professional  qualifications/financial  literacy  for  Chief  Financial 

Officer (CFO) 

b.  Rotation of Audit firms / partners 
c.  Appointment of an external audit firm as internal auditor of the company 
d.  Modification in formats of limited review report and statutory auditor’s report 
e.  Voluntary adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) by listed 

entities having subsidiaries 
Interim disclosure of balance sheet items by listed entities 

f. 
g.  Timelines for submission of financial results by listed entities 

 
2.  Issues deliberated by SCODA and proposals 
 

a. Requirement of professional qualifications/financial literacy for CFO 

In  terms  of  the  present  requirements  of  Clause  49  of  the  Listing  Agreement 
pertaining  to  ‘Corporate  Governance’,  the  CEO  and  CFO  of  the  listed  entity  is 
required to certify that he has reviewed the financial statements and the cash flow 
statement  for  the  year  and  that  to  the  best  of  his  knowledge  and  belief,  these 
statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact 
or contain statements that might be misleading. The CEO and CFO is also required 
to  certify  that  these  statements  together  present  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the  listed 
entity’s affairs and are in compliance with existing accounting standards, applicable 
laws  and  regulations.  However,  the  present  norms  do  not  specify  any  kind  of 
educational qualification requirements or a certification for the CEO or the CFO.  
 
In the backdrop of the Satyam episode, SEBI Board had also desired that SEBI may 
examine whether the CFO of a listed entity, who certifies the financial statements, 
should be a chartered accountant so that in case of any irregularities committed in 
the  financial  statements,  action  may  be  taken  by  the  professional  institute  i.e. 
Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India.  The  Board  had  also  desired  that  it  be 
examined whether SEBI can prescribe certain professional accountability for CFOs.  
 
Therefore, a proposal was taken to the SCODA to deliberate on the need to have 
certain minimum professional qualifications and the requirement of financial literacy 
for the CEO and CFO. While deliberating on the said proposal, the SCODA felt that 
the  requirement  of  professional  qualifications  had  its  inherent  advantages,  as  it 
would  ensure  that  in  case  of  any  fraudulent  /  malpractices  by  the  CEO/CFO,  the 
respective  institute  which  has  accorded  the  professional  certification  can  take 
suitable  action  like  terminating  the  certificate  to  practice,  suspension  etc.  On  the 
other hand, the Committee also noted that various companies operating in different 
sectors/industries might require professionals with varied specialized expertise and 
so, it may not be possible to specify one particular qualification for companies in all 
industries.  
 

Page 1 of 7 

 
 

 

 

After  deliberations  on  the  issue,  the  SCODA  was  of  the  view  that  it  may  not  be 
appropriate for SEBI to specify a particular professional qualification for CEO, as the 
companies  prefer  CEOs  having  relevant  industry  experience.    As  regards  such 
requirements for the CFO, the SCODA  was of the  view that  the objective that the 
CFO has adequate financial expertise to review and certify the financial statements 
could be achieved by ensuring that the appointment of CFO is approved by the Audit 
Committee,  which  while  doing  so  shall  be  required  to  assess  the  qualifications, 
experience  &  background,  etc.  of 
the  SCODA 
recommended  that  the  appointment  of  CFO  for  all  listed  companies  shall  be 
approved by the Audit Committee of the listed entity. The objective behind the said 
recommendation is to cast on the Audit Committee, the responsibility to ensure that 
the CFO has  the necessary accounting or related financial  management expertise 
and  he  possesses  experience  in  financial  or  accounting  or  any  other  comparable 
experience or background which results in the individual’s financial sophistication.  
 
Views of the public are solicited on the aforesaid issue. 
 

the  candidate.  Accordingly, 

b. Rotation of Audit firms / partners 

The  quality  of  financials  reported  by  companies  and  the  true  and  fair  view  of  the 
financial statements submitted by listed entities to the stock exchanges have, of late, 
come  into  sharp  focus.  In  this  context,  it  was  felt  relevant  to  discuss  the  need  for 
independence of the statutory auditors with respect to the listed entity.  
 
Although  technically,  the  statutory  auditors  are  appointed  after  approval  by  the 
shareholders, in practice, the shareholders merely approve a set of names that are 
proposed/ nominated by the Board of Directors and the promoters, who may be a 
part of the Board. The Board of Directors and the promoters may ensure that the firm 
they wish to appoint is approved in the meeting, in view of the sheer strength of their 
voting powers. A longer association between a particular audit firm and a listed entity 
may lead to complacency and defeat the true sense of independence of the auditors.  
Mandatory  rotation  of  statutory  auditors  could  break  such  a  continued  long-term 
association of an audit firm with the management of the listed entity.  
 
Therefore,  a  proposal  was  taken  to  the  SCODA  as  to  whether  there  is  a  need  to 
specifically lay down norms regarding mandatory rotation of audit firms or mandatory 
rotation of the partners of an audit firm. After deliberations, the SCODA was of the 
view  that  mandatory  rotation  of  firms  may  not  be  practical  by  all  companies.  The 
Committee, accordingly, recommended as under:- 
(cid:190)  SEBI may mandate that the partner of the audit firm signing the audited accounts 

of a listed entity be mandatorily rotated every five years. 

 
(cid:190)  The Audit Committee shall be responsible for ensuring independence of the audit 

firm and its partners.  

The objective behind the above recommendation seeks to ensure that the statutory 
auditors are independent from management. It would also break any continued long-
term association of an audit partner with the management of a particular listed entity.  
  
Views of the public are solicited on the aforesaid issue. 
 
 
 

Page 2 of 7 

 
 

c. Role of internal auditor of the company 

 

Clause 49 of the listing agreement requires the audit committee to review with the 
management, the performance of statutory and internal auditors, and the adequacy 
of  the  internal  audit  function,  if  any,  including  the  structure  of  the  internal  audit 
department,  staffing  and  seniority  of  the  official  heading  the  department,  reporting 
structure coverage, frequency of internal audit. The Audit Committee is also required 
to  review  the  internal  audit  reports  relating  to  internal  control  weaknesses  and 
discuss the significant findings of the audit with the internal auditors and follow up 
there on. 
The  present  norms  also  specify  that  the  appointment,  removal  and  terms  of 
remuneration  of  the  Chief  internal  auditor  are  subject  to  review  by  the  Audit 
Committee. 
 
The recently witnessed accounting irregularities at Satyam Computer Services Ltd., 
re-iterates  the  need  for  having  greater  internal  checks  and  controls  in  an 
organisation.  However,  the  mere  existence  of  robust  internal  checks  and  controls 
may  not  suffice  the  purpose  of  having  an  internal  review  mechanism.  It  is  also 
pertinent  that  such  an  internal  control  mechanism  is  able  to  discharge  its 
responsibility independently without any restrictions from or fear of the management. 
It must also be able to evaluate the business processes and procedures rationally 
and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal controls to ensure optimal 
levels of productivity.  
 
In order to ensure that such internal control systems are truly independent and carry 
out their function without any influence from the management, it was proposed by 
SEBI  to  the  SCODA  that  in  the  case  of  listed  companies,  the  function  of  internal 
audit may be mandatorily carried out by an external audit firm.  
 
The  SCODA  deliberated  on  the  proposal  and  discussed  the  advantages  and  dis-
advantages  in  the  same.  The  Committee  agreed  that  commissioning  the  internal 
audit  in-house  may  ensure  that  the  internal  auditor  has  a  detailed  insight  on  the 
business of the organisation. However, it was also felt that such a practice would be 
more convenient for larger organizations with offices spread across various locations 
who can also afford to appoint a fulltime in house internal auditor. On the other hand, 
it  was  noted  that  an  external  audit  firm  being  an  internal  auditor  would  ensure 
greater independence of the internal audit function.  
 
After deliberations on the proposal, the Committee was of the view that the current 
mechanism  laid  down  under  Clause  49  of  the  Listing  Agreement  wherein  Audit 
Committee  is given the responsibility to review the performance of internal auditor 
was sufficient and provides adequate checks and balances as far as internal control 
mechanisms are concerned.  Therefore, the Committee recommended that it would 
not be prudent to mandate that the internal audit function may be carried out by an 
external audit firm.  
 
Views of the public are solicited on the aforesaid issue. 
 

d. Modification in formats of limited review report and statutory auditor’s report 

Clause 41 of the Listing Agreement provides for periodical disclosures to be made 
by the listed entities regarding financial results. Annexures to Clause 41 provide for 
the  formats  for  submission  of  (a)  periodical  financial  results  by  listed  entities,  (b) 

Page 3 of 7 

 
 

 

 

limited  review  reports  by  the  statutory  auditors  and  (c)  statutory  auditors’  reports 
wherein he expresses an unqualified opinion on the financial results.  
 
SEBI vide circular dated February 3, 2009 provided for certain periodical disclosures 
to be made by listed entities regarding the details of promoters and promoter group 
shareholding, including the details of pledged/encumbered promoters’ shareholding, 
as additional line items (Item Nos. 17 and 18 of the format) alongwith the periodical 
disclosures of financial results provided as annexures to Clause 41.  
 
Certain concerns were raised as to whether inclusion of such disclosures alongwith 
the financial results may lead investors to presume that information about pledge by 
promoters  /promoter  group  is  also  reviewed  and  certified  by  the  auditors.  The 
SCODA  discussed  the  modifications  that  are  required  to  the  limited  review  report 
and the statutory auditor’s report that have been provided as annexures to Clause 
41 of the Listing Agreement. After deliberations, the SCODA recommended that the 
following may be added at an appropriate place in the limited review report and in 
the statutory auditor’s report:- 
“except  for  disclosures  in  item  No.  17  and  18  namely,  ‘Public  Shareholding’  and 
‘Promoter  and  Promoter  Group  Shareholding’  which  have  been  traced  from 
disclosures made by the management.” 
 
The  above  disclosure  recommended  by  the  SCODA  would  clarify  that  the  details 
regarding  disclosure  of  pledged  shares  have  not  been  verified  by  the  auditor  and 
have  been  drawn  from  the  disclosures  made  by  promoters/promoter  group  of  the 
listed  entity.  Verification  of  details  of  pledged/encumbered  shares  of 
the 
promoters/promoter group may not be within the scope of the statutory auditors of 
listed entities wherein the opinion is given by them on the financial results.  
 
Views of the public are solicited on the aforesaid issue. 
 

e.  Voluntary  adoption  of  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards  (IFRS)  by 

listed entities having subsidiaries 

With  increasing  globalization  trends  witnessed  in  the  Indian  economy,  more 
particularly in the corporate sector, there is a felt need to align the financial reporting 
standards  for  Indian  companies  with  internationally  accepted  reporting  standards 
that have been specified for this purpose. In an era of trans-national companies and 
businesses,  it  is  essential  to  have  uniform  financial  reporting  standards  to  enable 
global comparison of financials of companies across various industries and sectors. 
This  is  also  critical  from  the  perspective  of  stakeholders,  whether  in  India  or 
overseas. 
 
Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs  has  recognized  this  need  to  harmonize  the  financial 
reporting  standards  for  Indian  companies  with  the  IFRS  and  have  tentatively 
announced  that  the  Indian  financial  reporting  standards  be  converged  with  IFRS 
from  the  accounting  periods  commencing  on  or  after  1st  April,  2011  for  all  public 
interest entities.  
 
In order to be prepared by the above timeline, it was felt necessary to give sufficient 
lead time to listed entities for coming to terms with IFRS requirements so that any 
glitches  in  the  processes  are  identified  at  an  early  stage  and  suitably  ironed  out. 
Accordingly, voluntary adoption of IFRS by listed entities for consolidated accounts 

Page 4 of 7 

 
 

f. 

 

first  step 

the  SCODA  as  a  possible 

was  discussed  by 
towards  phased 
implementation of IFRS for listed entities. An issue that came up for debate in this 
context was whether all listed entities should be permitted to present consolidated 
accounts  in  IFRS  or  only  those  entities  that  have  foreign  subsidiaries  should  be 
permitted to do so.  
 
During the deliberations, the following two alternative views emerged in this regard:- 
Only  those  listed  entities  which  have  overseas  subsidiaries  contributing  to  a 
i. 
major portion, say atleast 50% of the total revenue of the consolidated entity, 
should be given the option to voluntarily adopt IFRS, the logic being that the 
financials of the overseas subsidiaries are often prepared in IFRS and requiring 
them to recast accounts in Indian GAAP for purposes of consolidation may be 
retrograde, especially when India is contemplating migration to IFRS by 2011. 
Therefore, it was suggested that such listed entities may be given an option to 
submit their consolidated financial results in IFRS on a voluntary basis, subject 
to the condition that they submit reconciliation as per IFRS 1 and IAS 34.  

 
ii.  Restricting the aforesaid option to submit consolidated financial results in IFRS 
to only those listed entities with overseas subsidiaries may not be viewed as 
fair and  the  option  may  be extended  to all  listed  entities having subsidiaries, 
especially if the objective of voluntary adoption is to enable entities to prepare 
themselves for mandatory convergence with IFRS by 2011.  

 
Views of the public are solicited on the aforesaid issue. 
 
Interim disclosure of balance sheet by listed entities 
Presently,  all  registered  companies  in  India  are  required,  inter-alia,  under  section 
210  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  to  lay  down  before  its  share  holders,  during  its 
annual  general  meeting,  a  balance  sheet,  providing  a  statement  of  assets  and 
liabilities of the company as at the end of the financial year. In terms of the above 
requirement, the shareholders of a company have access to the statement of assets 
and liabilities of the company and its solvency position on an annual basis. Clause 
31 of the Listing Agreement requires listed entities to forward copies of their balance 
sheets to the stock exchanges. However, neither the Companies Act nor the Listing 
Agreement requires companies to submit interim disclosures of balance sheet items 
on quarterly or half-yearly basis.  
 
Internationally, it has been observed that most of the jurisdictions have disclosure of 
balance sheet items on an interim basis. 
 
In  the  wake  of  the  recent  global  financial  crisis  and  subsequent  cases  of  global 
corporations  going  bust,  the  issue  of  solvency  and  not  merely  the  profitability  of 
entities come to the forefront from the shareholders’ perspective. It was felt that a 
more frequent disclosure of the asset-liability position of companies would assist the 
shareholders  in  assessing  the  financial  health  of  the  companies,  thereby  helping 
them  in  making informed investment  decisions.  Accordingly,  the SCODA  reviewed 
the  frequency  of  submission  of  balance  sheet  items  by  listed  entities  to  stock 
exchanges. After deliberations, the SCODA recommended that the audited figures of 
the major heads of the balance sheet prepared in accordance with Schedule VI to 
the  Companies  Act  or  its  equivalent  in  other  statutes  may  be  disclosed  by  listed 
entities on a half-yearly basis. 
 

Page 5 of 7 

 
 

 

The above recommendation of the SCODA seeks to disclose the solvency position 
of  listed  entities  to  the  shareholders  on  a  half-yearly  basis  which  would  be  in  the 
larger interest of the shareholders.  
 
Views of the public are solicited on the aforesaid issue. 

 
g.  Timelines for Submission of financial results by listed entities 

Presently, listed entities can submit either audited or un-audited quarterly and year 
to date financial results within one month from the end of each quarter (other than 
the last quarter). If the entity  opts to submit un-audited financial results, the  same 
shall be subject to a limited review by the auditors and a copy of the limited review 
report shall also be submitted within two months from the end of the quarter.  
 
As regards the last quarter, listed entities can either submit un-audited results for the 
quarter within one month from the end of the quarter or submit audited results for the 
entire  financial  year  within  three  months  from  the  end  of  the  financial  year.  If  the 
company  opts  to  submit  un-audited  results  for  the  last  quarter,  the  same  shall  be 
subject to a limited review by the auditors, a copy of which shall also be submitted 
within two months from the end of the quarter. It shall also submit audited financial 
results for the entire financial year, as soon as they are approved by the Board. 
 
If a listed entity has subsidiaries, in addition to submitting stand-alone quarterly and 
year to date financial results within one month from the end of the quarter, they may 
also  submit  consolidated  quarterly  and  year  to  date  financial  results  within  two 
months  from  end  of  quarter.  Further,  in  addition  to  submitting  annual  audited 
financial  results  on  a  stand-alone  basis,  listed  entities  are  also  required  to  submit 
consolidated  annual  audited  financial  results  to  the  stock  exchanges.  As  regards 
publishing  the  financial  results,  listed  entities  that  have  submitted  consolidated 
financial  results  in  addition  to  standalone  financial  results,  are  required  to  publish 
only consolidated financial results in the newspapers.  
 
In the light of the various options given to listed entities as mentioned above, it was 
seen that several categories of financial results in respect of a particular period for 
an entity were disseminated in public domain which tends to confuse the investors at 
large. Further, at the end of the last quarter, listed entities have been given an option 
to either submit un-audited last quarter financial results within one month from the 
end of the last quarter. Hence, if a company opts to submit annual audited results in 
lieu of last quarter financial results, there is no information available in public domain 
about its financials for about five months or more, which could make the shares of 
the company more prone to insider trading.   
 
In  view  of  the  above,  SCODA  reviewed  the  extant  requirements  relating  to 
submission and publishing of financial results by listed entities. After deliberations, 
the SCODA made the following recommendations:- 
i.  Listed  entities  shall  be  required  to  submit  their  (a)  quarterly  and  year  to  date 
audited stand-alone financial results or (b) quarterly and year to date un-audited 
stand-alone financial results accompanied by limited review report of the auditor, 
within 45 days from the end of the quarter. This shall be applicable for all quarters 
other than the last quarter.  

 
ii. Listed entities which have subsidiaries, may, along with the quarterly and year to 
date  stand-alone  financial  results  as  mentioned  at  (i)  above,  also  submit 

Page 6 of 7 

 

consolidated  audited  quarterly  and  year  to  date  financial  results  or  un-audited 
quarterly and year to date financial results accompanied by limited review report, 
as  the  case  may  be,  within  45  days  from  the  end  of  the  quarter.  This  shall  be 
applicable for all quarters other than the last quarter.  

iii. Listed entities having subsidiaries which submit consolidated quarterly and year to 
date  financial  results  in  addition  to  stand-alone  results  shall  continue  to  publish 
only  consolidated  financial  results.  However,  the  following  items  shall  also  be 
additionally  published  on  a  stand-alone  basis,  as  a  foot  note:-  (a)  Turnover  (b) 
Profit before tax (c) Profit after tax. 

iv.Listed entities which opt to submit their annual audited results on a stand-alone 
basis in lieu of the last quarter un-audited financial results subject to limited review 
report by the auditors shall submit the annual audited results within 60 days from 
the end of the financial year.  

v. Listed entities having subsidiaries shall, in addition to submission of stand-alone 
annual  audited  financial  results  as  mentioned  at  (iv)  above,  submit  their 
consolidated annual audited financial results within 60 days from the end of  the 
financial year. 

vi.Listed  entities  that  do  not  opt  to  submit  their  annual  audited  financials  results 
within 60 days from end of financial year as mentioned at (iv) and (v) above shall 
submit their last quarter un-audited financial results accompanied by limited review 
within 45 days from the end of the quarter. 

 
The above recommendations seek to streamline the submission of financial results 
by listed entities by making it uniform and to reduce the timeline for submission of 
the same to the stock exchanges.  
 
Views of the public are solicited on the aforesaid issue. 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

3.  Public comments 

As  part  of  the  consultative  decision  making  process  followed  by  SEBI  in  policy 
formulation,  the  above  proposals  are  placed  on  SEBI  website  for  public  comments.  
Comments, if any, on the same may be e-mailed on or before September 25, 2009 to 
aparnat@sebi.gov.in.  

*********** 

 

 

Page 7 of 7 

