 

PROPOSED POLICY FOR CLIENT REGISTRATION & TRADING 

OPERATIONS 

  
INTRODUCTION  
This  is  a  proposal  for  framing  guidelines  for  handling  Running  Account 
authorisation  taken  by  the  brokers  and  issuance  of  Electronic  Contract  notes 
(ECN).  The  matter  has  been  discussed  with  the  representatives  of  Stock 
Exchanges, Depositories, Brokers and Investors associations. 
  
BACKGROUND 
There  is  market  practice  of  taking  ‘Running  Account  Authorisation’  by  the 
brokers from their clients. By virtue of such authorisation taken from the clients, 
the broker gets the right to retain the funds and securities of the clients with itself 
on ongoing basis which are supposed to be utilized for meeting the settlement / 
margin obligations of the clients as and when required. Such funds and securities 
are  expected  to  be  paid/transferred  over  to  the  clients  as  and  when  they 
desire/request.  However,  it  has  been  observed  that  such  practice  is  bring 
misused  by  some  of  the  brokers.  The  funds  and  securities  of  the  clients  lying 
with the brokers are prone to several risks.   
 
Further,  most  brokers  are  forcing  clients  to  opt  for  ECN  and  are  also  creating 
email  ids  instead  of  using  the  email  ids  created  and  provided  by  the  clients. 
There  are  also  concerns  regarding  actual  receipt  of  e-mail  id  and  password  by 
clients.  
 
SEBI has been receiving many complaints on the above aspects.  
 
PROPOSALS  

It is proposed to stipulate a set of guidelines to prevent the possible misuse of the 
above mentioned practices. 
 
A.  Running Account Authorisation 
The  ‘running  account  authorisation’  should  be  dated  and  also  contain  a  clause 
that the client can revoke the authorization at any time. There should be a clause 
in  the  authorisation  mentioning  that  actual  settlement  of  funds  and  securities 
should  be  done  by  both  the  parties,  on  the  last  day  of  every  calendar  month. 
However,  some  clients  may  be  having  outstanding  transactions/positions  in 
cash/derivative segment on the running account settlement date. In such cases, 
the broker may make due adjustment by retaining the requisite securities/funds 
from the running account towards such obligations of clients and may also retain 
the funds expected to be required to meet margin obligations for next 5 working 
days by which time the client would replenish/supplement the funds with the 
broker.  
 
In addition to the settlement of the running account, the broker should send all 
the clients a monthly statement to that effect. The retention of funds/securities, if 
any, by the broker (in the case as stated above) should be duly explained in the 
statement. In case of any dispute arising out of the settlement so made, the client 
should bring it to the notice of the broker within 7 working days of receiving the 
statement.  The broker/client may decide not to take any fresh position pending 
the dispute. 

 

Further,  if  the  client  requests  for  return  of  securities/funds  lying  to  his  credit 
with the broker, at any time in the interim period, the same shall be transferred 
by  the  broker  within  one  working  day  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  client’s 
request. There shall be no inter-client adjustments for the purpose of settlement 
of the running account. 

B. Issuance of Electronic Contract Notes (ECN) 

The  practice  of  creating  the  email  id  by  the  broker  may  be  discontinued.  The 
authorization for receiving ECN should be signed by the client only and not by 
any authorised entity or attorney holder. The authorization should have a clause 
mentioning that any change in the email-id will be communicated by the client 
through a physical letter to the broker. In respect of clients trading through the 
internet,  the  request  for  change  of  email  id  may  be  made  through  the  secured 
access by way of client-specific user id and password. 

 

Comments  are  invited  from  the  public  on  the  above  proposal.  The  comments 
may  be  sent  up  to  August  15,  2009  by  e-mail  at  anuradhag@sebi.gov.in  or 
ankurb@sebi.gov.in. A hard copy may also be sent at the given address with the 
subject line indicating ‘Comments on proposed policy for Client Registration & 
Trading Operations’ so as to reach the SEBI office latest by August 15, 2009: 

The General Manager 

Division of Policy and Supervision- 1 

MIRSD 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No: C – 4A, G Block,   

Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), 
 
Mumbai - 400 051 

  

********* 

