Discussion Paper on Execution of Power of Attorney by Clients 

Favoring Stock Brokers/Depository Participants 

 
 
INTRODUCTION: 

This discussion paper outlines the guidelines for incorporating conditions/clauses 
in  the  Power  of  Attorney  (PoA)  given  by  clients  to  their  Stock  Brokers  and/or 
Depository  Participants  in  the  context  of  possible  risks  for  the  clients  in  this 
regard. 
 
BACKGROUND: 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee (SMAC) of SEBI discussed the proposed 
conditions/clauses  in  the  Power  of  Attorney  given  by  clients  to  their  Stock 
Brokers and/or Depository Participants. 
 
The proposed guidelines have been finalized as per the discussions between the 
representatives  of  Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories,  Brokers, 
Investors 
associations and the deliberations in the meeting of SMAC. 
 
PROPOSED GUIDELINES:  

The  proposed  guidelines  for  execution  of  PoA  by  clients  favoring  Stock 
Brokers/Depository are given below: 
 
I.  PoA favoring Stock Brokers: 
 

1.  A specific PoA should be executed in favor of a stock broker to 

facilitate the following:  

 

 

a)  Transfer of securities held in the beneficial owner account(s) of 
the  client(s)  for  stock  exchange  related  margin  /  delivery 
obligations arising out of trades executed by the Client(s) on the 
stock exchange through the same stock broker. 

- 1 - 

b)  Transfer of funds from the bank account(s) of the clients for the 
limited  purpose  of  meeting  the  settlement  obligations  of  the 
client(s) / margin requirements of the client(s) in connection with 
the  trades  executed  by  the  clients  on  the  stock  exchange 
through the same stock broker. 

c)  Identify/provide 

the  particulars  of 

the  beneficial  owner 
account(s) and the bank account(s) of the client(s) that the stock 
broker is entitled to operate. 

 

 

d)  Transfer  of  securities  to  the  Clearing  Member  Pool  account  / 

Client Margin account of the stock broker only.  

 
 
II.  PoA favoring Stock Brokers and Depository Participants: 
 

2.  The  PoA  shall  not  be  executed  in  the  name  of  any  employee  or 
representative  of  the  stock  broker/Depository  Participant,  but  only 
in the name of the concerned entity. 

 
3.  The  PoA  should  be  executed  and stamped as per the rules / law 
prevailing  in  the  place  where  the  PoA  is  executed  or  the  place 
where the PoA is kept as a record, as applicable. 

 
4.  The stock broker /Depository Participant will provide to the Client(s) 

an original/a certified true copy of the PoA after execution.  

 
5.  The PoA shall authorize the Stock Broker/Depository Participant to 
send  SMS  alerts  regarding  broking  transactions/debits  to  the 
Beneficial Owner accounts of the Client. 

 

 

- 2 - 

6.  The  PoA  should  provide  for  a  clause  for  settlement  of  disputes 
arising out of the operations of the PoA. Broking disputes will have 
to be settled under the Bye Laws of the concerned Stock Exchange 
where  the  trades  have  been  executed  and  depository  related 
issues under the Bye Laws of the concerned Depository, where the 
concerned beneficial owner demat account is held. 

 
7.  In  case  of  merger/demerger  of  the  Stock  Broker/Depository 
Participant  with  another  entity/into  another  entity,  if  the  PoA  does 
not  provide  the  authority  to  continue  the  rights  in  favor  of 
assignees, 
the  Stock 
Broker/Depository  Participant,  the  new  Stock  Broker/Depository 
Participant  will  have  to  obtain  a  written  confirmation  from  the 
Client(s) to continue to use the PoA.  

transferees, 

of 

nominees, 

etc. 

 

Comments are invited from the public on the above proposal. The comments 
may be sent by e-mail on or before November 30, 2009 to nitins@sebi.gov.in 
or  meenakshij@sebi.gov.in.  Comments  may  also  be  sent  to  the  following 
address, so as to reach latest by November 30, 2009. 

The General Manager 

Market Regulation Department – Division of Market Supervision 

Securities and Exchange Board of India, 

SEBI Bhavan, 

C-4A, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 

Mumbai- 400 051 

 

- 3 - 

