Proposal on Variable Entry Load  

 
Mutual funds are sold to investors through entities variously known as distributors / 
agents / brokers (referred to as ‘distributors’ hereafter).  These distributors perform 
two functions.  They act as agents of the Asset Management Companies (AMCs) in 
helping them sell their schemes.  They also act as advisors to investors in helping 
the investors choose a scheme suited to their needs. 
 
The distributors are compensated for their services in two ways.  A fixed charge is 
deducted from the investor’s subscription by the AMC (known as entry load) and is 
paid  to  the  distributor.    In  equity  schemes  this  is  generally  around  2.25%  of  the 
subscription.  In addition, the AMC is free to pay the distributors amounts considered 
appropriate by them. 
 
The practice of deducting a certain percentage from the investors’ subscription has 
led to a criticism on one hand by the investors that they have no control over what 
they pay for the advice rendered to them.  On the other hand, while, SEBI circular 
prohibits  sharing  of  the  distributor’s  commission  with  the  investors,  complaints 
regarding such practices are voiced without any evidence being available. 
 
As  a  partial  solution  to  this  problem,  SEBI  mandated  a  zero  entry  load,  in  cases 
where  investors  apply  directly  for  the  schemes  of  mutual  funds  with  effect  from 
January 4, 2008.  This has received a moderately good response with about 4%-5% 
mutual fund applications being made in this mode.  
 
However, investors making investments other than through the direct mode are still 
not able to exercise control over the commission paid to the distributor as the charge 
(load)  is  levied  by  the  AMC  and  collected  by  the  distributor  from  the  AMC.  
Additionally,  the  entry  load  which  is  utilized  towards  meeting  the  distributor 
commission  is  linked  to  the  size  of  the  investment  and  has  no  correlation  to  the 
service provided by the distributor.   
 
We have received suggestions from various stakeholders that the commission paid 
to  the  distributor  should  be  determined  by  the  investor  in  consultation  with  the 
distributor depending on the service provided by the distributor i.e. to have a variable 

Page 1 of 3 

entry load structure. Variable load structure would also bring in greater transparency 
with regard to the commission paid to the distributor/agent/broker. 
 
The Advisory Committee of Mutual Funds deliberated on the issue and the following 
options  emerged  for  consideration  to  operationalise  the  issue  of  implementing 
variable entry loads:  
 

a)  Separate section in the application form: Within the application form itself, 
there  could  be  a  section  where  the  investor  could  indicate  the  commission 
payable to the distributor which would be signed off jointly by the investor and 
the distributor.  The AMC would then deduct the amount payable and pay the 
distributor.  

 
b)  Separate  cheque  issued  by  the  investor  towards  commission:  In  this 
mode the investor issues two cheques – one for his investment in the name 
of  the  scheme  and  the  second  one  in  the  favour  of  distributor  towards  the 
commission agreed to be paid.  

 

In both the above options, the process for making the investment application remains the 
same  except  for  the  entry  load  being  decided  in  terms  of  the  agreement  between  the 
investor and the distributor. However, the mode of payment of the commission differs. In 
option (a) the investor would indicate the commission payable in the application form 
and  the  AMC  would  pay  the  commission  payable  to  the  distributor  from  the  amount 
received from the investor, whereas in option (b) the investor would be directly paying 
the distributor. 
 
The downside of option (a) above could be that some complaints may come up between 
what the investor has indicated and what the distributor has agreed to.  The probability 
of  such  a  scenario  would  arise  due  to  an  oversight  by  either  parties  (investor  and 
distributor)  while  filling  up  the  form  or  due  to  any  differences  that  may  arise  between 
them post the investment process. 
 
In  option  (b)  there  is  an  element  of  inconvenience  to  the  investor  who  has  to  write 
separate  cheques  every  time  he  invests  through  a  distributor.    Concerns  of  the 
distributors regarding non receipt of payment from the investor have been expressed by 
some quarters.   

Page 2 of 3 

 
As regards the payments made by AMCs to the distributors for the services rendered to 
the  AMC,  investors  have  raised  issues  regarding  transparency.    The  question  raised 
relates  to  varied  commissions  available  on  different  schemes  and  by  different  AMCs.  
Due to such variations, the question arises as to whether the advice rendered is in the 
interest  of  the  investor  or  whether  it  is  influenced  by  the  quantum  of  commissions.    It 
has, therefore, been suggested that it should be mandatory for distributors to disclose 
the  commission  being  paid  to  them  for  the  different  schemes  which  are  being 
recommended to the investor.  Transparency in this area will work to the benefit of the 
investors. 
 
Comments  /  suggestions  are  invited  on  the  best  option  for  implementing  the  variable 
entry  load  structure  as  well  as  the  issue  of  mandatory  disclosure  of  commissions. 
Comments/suggestions  may  be  emailed  to  mfcomments@sebi.gov.in    or  sent  to  the 
address  mentioned  below  before  March  6,  2009  with  the  subject  line  indicating 
“Comments on Proposal on Variable Entry Load” 
 

Investment Management Department – DoF2, 

Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C-4A, G Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), 

Mumbai – 400051 

 

 

*********** 

Page 3 of 3 

