 

DISCUSSION PAPER  

INCREASE IN MARKET HOURS OF TRADING IN EXCHANGES 

 

 
1.  Background  

With  the  increased  integration  of  the  global  markets,  information  originating 
from different countries has a bearing on Indian securities market. While the 
Asian  markets  are  ahead  of  Indian  time  zone,  the  European  and  American 
markets  extend  much  beyond  the  Indian  market  timings.  Some  of  the 
Exchanges in these countries have adopted longer trading hours, sometimes 
even  extending  up  to  23  hours.  This  has  facilitated  market  participants  in 
these countries to hedge their risk that might arise due to global information 
flow. 
 
Extending  the  trade  timings  of  the  domestic  exchanges  may,  therefore, 
enable  the  domestic  market  participants  to  take  advantage  of  such  global 
information  flows.  Additionally,  Indian  markets  have  been  in  the  pursuit  of 
matching the best international standards and practices, and the extension of 
market hours would, perhaps, be a further step in this direction.  
 
While  the  benefits  of  increasing  market  hours  of  trading  in  exchanges  are 
evident, at the same time, issues with market wide implications such as those 
pertaining 
infrastructural 
constraints  etc.  as  well  as  the  perception  of  the  market  participants  and 
stakeholders  would  also  play  an  important  role  in  determining  optimum 
market timing.  
 
This  discussion  paper  aims  to  elicit  the  response  /  views  of  the  various 
stakeholders  on  the  different  aspects  related  to  extending  market  hours  of 
trading on exchanges.  
  
 
 

to  risk  management,  collateral  management, 

 

1 of 7

 

 
2.  Market Timings 
 
2.1 In India 

Presently,  the  exchange-traded  equity  derivatives  market  is  open  from  9:55 
am  to  3:30  pm  and  the  market  timings  are  co-terminus  with  those  of  the 
underlying cash market.  
 
While exchange-traded currency derivatives market operates from 9:00 am to 
5:00 pm, exchange-traded commodity futures market operates from 8:00 am 
till 11:30 pm. 
A  comparison  of  market  timings  of  various  products  /  markets  is  given  in 
Table 1. 

Table 1- Market timings of various products / markets in India 

 

Product / Market 

Cash Market 
Equity Derivatives 
Currency Derivatives 
Commodity Derivatives 
Power Exchange 

 

Timing 

9:55 am to 3:30 pm 
9:55 am to 3:30 pm 
9:00 am to 5:00 pm 
8:00 am to 11:30 pm 

10:00 am to 12:00 noon 

2.2 In Other Countries 
timing 

followed  by 

The  market 
the  exchanges 
corresponding underlying securities is given in Table 2. 
 

for  derivatives  and 

Table 2- Market timings of exchanges for derivatives and underlying 
Underlying Market 

Derivatives Market 

Exchange  Products traded  Market hours 

Exchange 

Market 
Hours 

Asia-Pacific 
Osaka 
Stock 
Exchange 

Tokyo 
Stock 
Exchange 

 

Stock Index 
Options and 
Futures on 
NIKKEI 225  
Stock Index 
Options and 
Futures on 
TOPIX 

9:00 am-3:10 pm 
4:30 pm-8:00 pm 
JST 

9:00 am-11:00 
am 
2:30 pm-3:10 pm 
4:30 pm-7:00 pm 

Osaka Stock 
Exchange 

9:00 am-3:10 
pm JST 

Tokyo Stock 
Exchange 

9:00 am-
3:00pm JST 

2 of 7

 

JST 

9:45 am - 12:30 
pm 2:30 pm - 
4:30 pm 
6:30 am – 1:30 
pm IST 

5:10 pm-7:00 am; 
9:50 am-4:30 pm 
Sydney Local 
time 

Hong Kong 
Exchange 

10:00 am to 
4:00 pm 

National 
Stock 
Exchange  
Australian 
Securities 
Exchange 

9:55 am-3:30 
pm IST 

7:00 am-9:30 
pm Sydney 
Local time 

8:30 am-3:15 pm 
3:30 pm-8:15am 
UST 

New York  
Stock 
Exchange 

4:00 am-8:00 
pm UST 

7:50 am-10:00 
pm (CET) 

Frankfurt 
Stock 
Exchange 

9:00 am–5:30 
pm (CET) 

 

Hong 
Kong 
Exchange 
Singapore 
Stock 
Exchange 
Australian 
Securities 
Exchange 

US 
Chicago 
Mercentile 
Exchange 

Europe 
Eurex 

Hang Seng Index 
Futures 

Stock Index 
Futures on Nifty 

Stock Index 
Options and 
Futures on ASX 
SPI 200 

Stock Index 
Options and 
Futures on S&P 
500 

DAX futures 

 
3.  Need for Increased Market Hours 

The need for extension of market hours includes the following: 
a.  With 

integration  of 

the 

increased 

the  global  markets, 

information 
originating  from  one  country  /  market  has  a  bearing  on  the  markets  in 
other country / market and India is no exception to this phenomenon. It is 
important  to  align  Indian  markets,  as  far  as  possible,  with  those  of  the 
international  markets  to  facilitate  the  assimilation  of  any  economic 
information  that  may  flow  in  from  other  global  markets.  One  such 
alignment could be in the area of market timing. 

 
b.  Quick  and  effective  assimilation  of  information  makes  markets  more 
efficient in terms of better price discovery, reduction in volatility and impact 
cost.  The  extension  of  market  hours  may  help  in  effectively  assimilating 
information  and  thereby  make  Indian  markets  efficient,  benefiting  Indian 
investors. 

 

 

3 of 7

 

 

 

c.  In  a  world  where  different  exchanges  are  competing  with  each  other  to 
increase  participation,  it  is  imperative  that  the  Indian  markets  align 
themselves to global markets to attract such trading interest. Extension of 
market  hours  would  enable  market  participants  to  execute  trading 
strategies  in  Indian  markets  based  on  information  flowing  in,  which 
otherwise would have been executed outside India.   

d.  The extension in market hours enables participants to take positions over 
a  longer  time  window.  This  enables  them  to  take  advantage  of  market 
movements overseas. 

 
4.  Issues for Consideration 

The salient issues that need to be considered may include the following: 

 
4.1 Risk Management 

In  case  the  market  hours  are  increased,  appropriate  risk  management 
systems need to be put in place. One of the aspects of the risk management 
framework relates to updation of volatility for VaR margin calculation. With the 
longer market hours, the volatility needs to be updated more times.  
 
Presently, volatility is updated five times during the period of trading with the 
first updation taking place at the beginning of trading hours, i.e., 9:55 am and 
subsequently at 11:00 am, 12:30 pm, 2:00 pm and 3:30 pm. However, with 
the  extension  of  market  hours,  it  may  be  required  to  update  volatility  at 
appropriate times during the period of trading.  
 

4.2 Posting of Margins 

Early  opening  of  the  market  would  require  the  trading  members/clients 
wanting to take exposure to bring in additional capital for margining/collateral 
purposes. Further, as margins for VaR purposes get adjusted out of the liquid 
net worth deposited with the Exchange, any adverse movement in the market 
caused by increase in volatility may result in erosion of the liquid net worth / 

 

4 of 7

 

 

collateral  kept  with  the  Exchange  leading  to  temporary  shutting  down  of 
terminals of the trading members.  
The members may, therefore, be required to put up higher margins, since the 
timing of the opening of clearing banks/custodians will not coincide with the 
proposed  opening  time  of  the  market  so  as  to  enable  fund  transfer  and 
mobilization of additional margin/collateral requirement. 
 

4.3 Infrastructural Constraints 

Extension  of  trading  hours  may  put  pressure  on  infrastructure  for  the 
Exchanges  as  well  as  market  intermediaries.  Especially,  broking  firms  may 
have  to  incur  additional  operating  costs  besides  causing  inconvenience  to 
their  employees.  Moreover,  in  order  to  obligate  the  margin  /  collateral 
requirement of the investors, the banks / Financial Institutions may also need 
to  keep  their  offices  open  for  the  extended  duration.  As  regards  investors, 
they  would  also  have  to  put  in  extra  effort  to  keep  a  track  of  the  market 
movements  for  extended  market  hours.  The  existing  technology  may  also 
need to be upgraded to handle the resultant rise in volumes, if any. 
 

4.4 Other Segments / Products 

On  most  of  the  international  exchanges,  the  trade  timing  of  the  derivatives 
market is independent of the trade timing of the cash market. In other words, 
the derivative segment is open even during those time periods in a day when 
the underlying cash market is closed. Given the above, extending the trade 
timing  either  in  the  derivatives  segment  or  the  cash  segment  or  both  the 
segments could be thought of.  
Extending the market timing of the derivative segment without the underlying 
cash market being open may limit arbitrage opportunities. While this aspect 
may  be  particularly  true  in  the  case  of  individual  stock-based  derivative 
products, this may not be much relevant for index-based derivative products.  
 
Alternatively,  therefore,  within  a  segment  there  could  be  different  trade 
timings for different products. For instance, to begin with, extending the trade 

 

5 of 7

 

 

timings  for  index  products  in  the  derivatives  segment  may  be  considered 
while  the  other  products  in  the  derivatives  segment  and  the  cash  segment 
continue to trade as per the existing time schedule.  

 
4.5 Total Trading Hours / Number of Sessions 

On  some  of  the  international  exchanges  trading  in  the  derivatives  is 
conducted  for  approximately  10-15  hours  in  a  day,  while  in  a  few  cases 
market timings go up to 24 hours, through multiple trading sessions. In India, 
however, trading takes place for 51/2 hours in a single trading session. With 
extension of trade timing, there may be a case for dividing the total trade time 
into different trading sessions.  
 

5.  Comments/Feedback 

Given the above, comment(s)/feedback is requested on the following 
questions: 
a.  Should the market hours be increased? If so, by how much? 
b.  Should the increase be in early opening session or late closing session or 

both? 

c.  Should  the  market  hours  be  increased  for  all  segments  or  only  for  one 

segment? 

d.  Should the market hours be increased for one product or for all products in 

a segment? 

e.  Should the market hours be increased through more than one session or 

by having a longer duration of a session? 

 
 
Timeline  
Comments/feedback may be sent before April 10, 2009 to Derivatives and New 
Products Department, SEBI at the following address - 
Derivatives and New Products Department 
SEBI Bhavan, 3rd Floor, A-Wing 
Plot No. C4-A, “G” Block 

 

6 of 7

 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Mumbai-400 051 
The comments / feedback may also be e-mailed to 
 feedback-dnpd@sebi.gov.in        

 

 

7 of 7

