PROPOSED POLICY FOR IMPROVEMENT IN SALES PRACTICE BY THE 

MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGES 

 

Introduction 
SEBI  has  received  suggestions  for  further  improvement  in  sales  practices 
followed by the trading members of the Stock Exchanges. It is observed that the 
code  of  conduct  mentioned  in  the  SEBI  (Stock-brokers  and  Sub-brokers) 
Regulations,  1992  as  well  as  the  bye  laws/circulars/rules/regulations  of  the 
exchanges lay down guidelines in respect of sales practices. 
The matter was discussed with the Stock exchanges. It is felt that there is a need 
to enhance the regulatory framework and also to create a sense of awareness 
among investors in this regard. Accordingly, based on the suggestions received 
from  exchanges,  it  is  proposed  that  brokers  adopt  the  guidelines  prescribed 
below: 
1.  Strengthening KYC Norms  

a)  The Exposure/Turnover limit given by the trading members should be 
commensurate  with  the  financial  details  of  the  clients  reported  in  the 
KYC. The said limit to be specified in the KYC and strictly adhered to 
or the details in KYC to be suitably modified. 

b)  Only person with financial standing at least comparable to that of the 
client  he  is  introducing  should  be  accepted  as  introducer.  The 
documents such as PAN Card, Income Tax Return / Proof of residence 
etc  to  be  maintained  alongwith  the  KYC  of  the  client  to  whom  he  is 
introducing.   

2.  Work history & background of the Trading Member  

a)  Trading Members may be required to inform the clients (upfront at the 
time of entering into Member-Client agreement) about work history & 
background of their firm. 

b)  Actions  against  the  trading  member  for  non-compliance/breach  of 
regulatory requirements, investor grievances & arbitration cases filed, 
pending etc. may be disclosed. 

3.  Sales practices  

a)  Trading  members  owe  their  clients  a  duty  to  provide  suitable 
investment advice in the best interest of the clients. The basis of sales 
efforts  should  reasonably  represent  fair  treatment  for  the  persons 
towards whom the sales efforts are directed. 

b)  While  recommending  purchase  or  sale  of  any  security  /  derivatives 
contract to a client, trading member shall have reasonable grounds for 
believing  that  the  recommendation  is  suitable  for  such  client  on  the 
basis  of  the  facts  disclosed  by  such  client  as  to  his  /  her  financial 
position, other security holdings, past investment experience & pattern 
and investment needs.  

Page 1 of 4 

c)  Prior  to  the  execution  of  transactions  on  behalf  of  a  non-institutional 
client,  trading  member  shall  make  reasonable  efforts  to  obtain  the 
following information regarding the client 

Investment objectives  

•  Financial status  
• 
•  Past investment experience & pattern 
•  Risk appetite of the client. 
•  Such  other  information  considered  to  be  reasonable  by  the 

trading member  

d)  Trading members shall not recommend to any client any transactions 
unless  they  have  reasonable  grounds  for  believing  that  the  entire 
recommended transaction is not unsuitable for the client, based on the 
information provided by the client and after reasonable enquiry by the 
trading member. 

e)  Trading members shall ensure that the client is adequately informed of 
the  nature  and  the  implication  of  the  recommended  transactions  and 
the facts or circumstances which the client needs to know in order to 
make informed purchase or sale decision.   

f)  Trading  members  shall  also  assure  themselves  that  the  client 
understands  the  risks  involved  in  such  orders  and  has  sufficient 
networth to be able to assume the risks and bear the potential losses if 
such orders result in trades. 

g)  Trading  members  shall  not  recommend  to  their  clients  securities  or 
derivative  contracts  on  such  securities  in  a  concentrated  manner, 
which represents a subjective or arbitrary supply of information. 

h)  Trading  members  shall  also  ensure 

timely  execution  of  such 
transactions of their clients so as to ensure best available price for the 
client.  

4.  Excessive trading activity 

a)  Trading members shall not encourage or induce excessive trading or 
speculative activity in a client’s account which is not in accordance with 
the  objectives,  risk  appetite  and  financial  situation  of  the  client 
involved.  

5.  Fair dealing with customers with regard to derivative products or new 

financial products 

a)  Trading  members  shall  ensure  fair  dealing  with  customers  when 
making recommendations or accepting orders for derivatives contracts 
and new financial products.  

b)  As new products are introduced from time to time, it is imperative that 
trading members make every effort to familiarize themselves with each 

Page 2 of 4 

customer’s  financial  situation,  trading  experience,  and  ability  to  meet 
the risks involved with such products and to make every effort to make 
customers aware of the pertinent information regarding such products. 
c)  The clients may be required to have certain minimum amount of net-
worth  (e.g.5  lacs)  for  trading  in  Derivative  Segment.  A  net-worth 
certificate from a practicing Chartered Accountant or acknowledgement 
for I.T. return filed should be accepted in this regard. 

d)  While registering any client for Derivative Segment, apart from signing 
a Risk Disclosure Document, the trading member also should ensure 
that  adequate  training  vis-à-vis  risk  associated  (including  margin 
requirement) with Derivative Segment is imparted to the clients.   

6.  Conflicts of interest 

a)  Trading  members  must  maintain  Chinese  wall  among  its  various 
activities such as proprietary trading, investment banking, research etc. 
b)  No trading member may directly or indirectly offer favorable research 
or a specific price target to a company as consideration or inducement 
for the receipt of business or compensation. 

c)  Trading members shall ensure that no research analyst may purchase 
or  sell  any  security  issued  by  a  company  that  the  research  analyst 
follows  or  derivative  of  such  security,  for  a  period  beginning  30 
calendar days before and five calendar days after the publication of a 
research report concerning the company.  

d)  Trading member shall ensure that no research analyst may purchase 
or  sell  any  security  or  derivative  of  such  security  in  a  manner 
inconsistent  with  the  research  analyst’s  recommendation  as  reflected 
in the most recent research report published by the member.  

e)  A member must disclose in research reports and a research analyst of 

the trading member must disclose in public appearances:  

(a) if  the  research  analyst  or  a  member  of  the  research  analyst’s 
household has a financial interest in the securities of the subject 
company,  and  the  nature  of  the  financial  interest  (including, 
without  limitation,  whether  it  consists  of  any  option,  right, 
warrant, future, long or short position) 

(b) any  other  actual,  material  conflict  of  interest  of  the  trading 
member or research analyst of which the trading member knows 
or has reason to know at the time of publication of the research 
report. 

7.  Record Keeping 

a)  Trading  members  shall  establish  and  maintain  procedures  to  ensure 
that sufficient information is recorded and retained about their business 

Page 3 of 4 

and clients for enabling themselves to justify the risk profiling of their 
clients and the suitability of any advice given. 

8.  General obligations  

a)  Fictitious accounts: Trading members shall not allow establishment of 
fictitious  accounts  in  order  to  execute  transactions  which  otherwise 
would be prohibited or to disguise such transactions.  

b)  Unauthorized  transactions:  Trading  members  shall  not  cause  to 
execute  transactions  which  are  not  explicitly  authorized  by  the  client 
concerned.  

c)  Misuse  of  customers’  funds  or  securities:  Trading  members  shall  not 
use  clients’  funds  and  /  or  securities  otherwise  than  as  prescribed  in 
the rules, bye-laws, regulations and circulars issued there under. 

d)  Front running: Trading members shall not execute transactions for own 
account in securities ahead of making recommendations to their clients 
in such securities. Trading members shall also have adequate systems 
in  place  to  maintain  the  confidentiality  of  the  information  about  their 
dealing by their clients.  

e)  Trading  members  or  their  representatives  shall  not  indulge  in  any 
fraudulent  activities,  such  as  forgery,  non-disclosure  or  misstatement 
of  material  facts,  manipulations  and  various  deceptions.  Making, 
directly  or  indirectly,  any  false  or  misleading  advertisement  or  any 
untrue statement of a material fact, constitutes a fraudulent, deceptive 
or manipulative act on the part of trading members. 

Comments/suggestions 
proposals. 
Comments/suggestions  may  be  sent  to  the  address  mentioned  below  to  Mr. 
Susanta  Kumar  Das,  Assistant  General  Manager,  Integrated  Surveillance 
Department, SEBI before April 15, 2008. 

invited 

above 

are 

on 

the 

Integrated Surveillance Department 
SEBI Bhavan, 6th Floor, A-Wing 
Plot No.: C4-A, “G” Block 
Bandra Kurla complex 
Mumbai-400 051 

Comments/suggestions  may  also  be  emailed  to  susantad@sebi.gov.in  or  to 
sunilk@sebi.gov.in before April 15, 2008. 

****** 

Page 4 of 4 

