Discussion paper on developing a market for 

 Small and Medium Enterprises in India 

 

1.  Background 

The  Small  and  Medium  Enterprises  (SMEs)  play  a  catalytic  role  in  the 
development process of most economies as they constitute a major part of the 
industrial  activity  in  these  economies.  This  is  reflected  in  the  form  of  their 
increasing  number  and  rising  proportion  in  the  overall  product  manufacturing, 
employment, technical innovations and promotion of entrepreneurial skills.  

 

The  contribution  of  SMEs  in  the  development  of  Indian  economy  has  been 
significant,  both  in  terms  of  contribution  to  GDP  and  creation  of  employment 
opportunities. They contribute around 20% of GDP and are the largest generator 
of  employment  (approximately  25  million).  In  India,  SME  sector  is  the  second 
largest  employer,  after  agriculture.  With  the  Indian  economy  growing  at  more 
than 9 per cent and size of the economy crossing the $1 trillion mark, the need of 
SMEs to raise capital is becoming increasingly critical. 
 

2.  Industry Concerns 

Discussions  were  held  with  various  market  participants  and 
industry 
representatives to seek their comments / suggestions on the subject. During the 
course  of  the  discussions,  certain  areas  of  concern  on  the  subject  were 
expressed by them, which are as under -  
 

(cid:190)  The cost of raising capital for SMEs is quite high.  
(cid:190)  The current means of financing for SMEs are not adequate as they do not 

have easy access to funds from Angel Investors, VCs and PE players.  

(cid:190)  Most  costs  of  compliance  in  raising  capital  under  the  existing  guidelines 
are  fixed.  As  a  result,  the  costs  become  burdensome  for  smaller  issues 
(SMEs).  

(cid:190)  The  SMEs  should  be  provided  a  framework  that  would  enable  them  to 

raise capital quickly and at a low cost. 

 

1

(cid:190)  Owing to small size and less affordability, the eligibility conditions, listing 
requirements, corporate governance norms and disclosure standards may 
need to be suitably relaxed for SMEs.  

 
3.  Need for a separate dedicated SME stock exchange 

In  view  of  the  aforesaid  concerns  raised  by  the  market  participants  /  industry 
representatives, there is a felt need for developing a dedicated stock exchange 
for the SME sector so that SMEs can access capital markets easily, quickly and 
at  lower  costs.  Such  dedicated  SME  exchange  is  expected  to  provide  better, 
focused and cost effective service to the SME sector. 
 
The  need  for  having  a  separate  exchange  /  platform  for  SMEs  was  also 
discussed  during  the  32nd  Annual  Conference  of  IOSCO  held  in  April  2007  in 
Mumbai  and  it  was  felt  that  the  same  would  be  necessary  for  the  focused 
development of the SME sector. 

 

Efforts  had  already  been  made  in  the  past  for  catering  to  the  needs  of  small 
companies. Towards this end, OTCEI was set up in 1989 and the INDO NEXT 
Platform  of  the  BSE  was  launched  in  2005.  However,  both  these  experiments 
failed to achieve the desired results. 
 

4.  International experience 

Internationally  also  countries  have  provided  for  a  separate  exchange  /  trading 
platform  to  facilitate  listing  of  securities  of  growth  companies  /  new  economy 
companies / small and medium companies. Some of the cases in point are the 
Alternative  Investment  Market  (AIM),  London,  the  Growth  Enterprises  Market 
(GEM),  Hong  Kong  and  MOTHERS,  JAPAN.  Out  of  these,  the  GEM  is  a 
separate  dedicated  stock  exchange  whereas  the  AIM  and  the  MOTHERS  are 
trading platforms of their respective main stock exchanges.  
 
AIM  provides  for  ease  of  entry  and  less  onerous  disclosure  requirements  but 
appropriate  level  of  regulation  for  smaller  companies.  It  also  provides  faster 
admission process and no pre-vetting by regulator. 

 

2

  
GEM operates on the philosophy of "buyers beware" and "let the market decide" 
based  on  a  strong  disclosure  regime.  Here  the  rules  and  requirements  are 
designed  to  foster  a  culture  of  self  compliance  by  the  listed  issuers  in  the 
discharge of their responsibilities. 
  
In the case of MOTHERS, the emerging companies applying there must have the 
potential  for  high  growth  though  there  are  no  specific  numerical  criteria  for 
determining  growth  potential.  Further,  the  applicant  company  is  mandated  to 
make a public offering of at least 500 trading units. At the time of listing, it should 
have at least 2,000 trading units and the market capitalization of its listed shares 
should be more than 1 Billion Yen. The applicant must also have a continuous 
business  record  of  not  less  than  1  year  dating  back  from  the  day  on  which  it 
makes listing application. 
 

5.  Issues for consideration 

In view of the aforesaid concerns raised by the industry representatives / market 
participants, it may be necessary to have a fresh look on the listing norms and 
continuous disclosure requirements for the SME sector. Accordingly, SEBI is in 
the process of framing a suitable policy with regard to the above. In this regard, 
public comments are sought on certain important issues, mentioned below – 
 

Issues relevant to the Primary Markets 

a)  In  order  to  have  only  informed,  financially  sound  and  well-researched 
investors,  it  may  be  desirable  to  fix  a  minimum  investment  size,  say  Rs.  5 
lakhs, at the time of the IPO. 

b)  To facilitate retail participation in SMEs for investors having high-risk appetite, 

specific allocation through mutual funds may be permitted.  

c)  For being eligible to participate in the SME exchange, a company may have a 

maximum post-issue capital of Rs. 25 Crores.  

d)  Specialized Merchant Bankers may be licensed for exclusively catering to the 

needs of the SME segment.  

 

3

e)  There may not be any requirement of vetting of the offer document by SEBI 
since the intended investors are expected to make informed and calculated 
investments. 

f)  As per the existing DIP Guidelines, the issuer company is required to have 
net  tangible  assets  of  at  least  Rs.  3  Crores  in  each  of  the  preceding  3  full 
years, a track record of distributable profits for at least 3 out of immediately 
preceding  5  years  and  a  net  worth  of  at  least  Rs.  1  Crore  in  each  of  the 
preceding 3 years. These may be relaxed completely for SMEs.  

g)  There may not be any restriction on the number of investors as long as they 

are informed investors. 

h)  Price discovery may be made through fixed price mechanism or through the 

book building process.  

i)  Underwriting may be made mandatory and it may be also mandated that the 
merchant bankers for the IPO, be required to compulsorily fully underwrite the 
issue. 

j)  The merchant bankers/underwriters in the IPO may be compulsorily required 

to be market makers for the company.  

k)  The issue should be through electronic applications only, eliminating all costs 

associated with paper printing and processing. 

 

Issues relevant to the Secondary Markets 

a)  In order to ensure that the relaxed criterion for SMEs does not result in retail 
investors  being  drawn  in,  a  minimum  trading  lot  of  Rs.  5  lakhs  to  be 
prescribed. 

b)  Trading system may either be order driven or quote driven. In this regard, the 
settlement  may  either  be  on  rolling,  trade  for  trade  or  call  auction  basis. 
Flexibility may be given to the exchange concerned.  

 

Continuous Listing Requirements 

a)  Reporting of results by the companies listed on the SME exchange may be 
made on a half yearly basis instead of quarterly basis. Further, they may be 
required to file only unaudited results. 

 

4

b)  A  simplified  and  abridged  version  of  the  annual  report  may  be  prepared  by 
the  company  and  the  requirement  of  sending  full  annual  reports  to  all  the 
shareholders may be dispensed with. Instead, the companies may post their 
annual reports on their web-sites or of the exchange. Physical copies of the 
same may be provided to the shareholders only on specific request. 

c)  The  companies  listed  on  the  SME  exchange  may  migrate  to  the  bigger 
exchanges  as  and  when  they  meet  the  listing  requirements  of  the  bigger 
exchanges.  

 
Comments  /  suggestions  are  invited  on  the  above  proposal.  In  addition  to  the 
above, suggestions may be made on any other important policy issues as well. 
 
The same may be sent before June 6, 2008 to Mr. Bhartendra Kumar Gupta, Assistant 
General Manager, Market Regulation Department, SEBI at the following address -  
 

Market Regulation Department - Division of SRO Administration  
SEBI Bhavan, 2nd Floor, A-Wing 
Plot No. C4-A, “G” Block 
Bandra Kurla complex 
Mumbai-400 051 

also 

be 

e-mailed 

to 

 
The 
bhartendrakg@sebi.gov.in. 

comments 

/ 

suggestions  may 

 

 

 

****** 

5

