SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

          The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (the SEBI 
Act) was amended in the years 1995, 1999 and 2002 to meet the 
requirements  of  changing  needs  of  the  securities  market  and 
responding to the development in the securities market. Based on 
the  Report  of  Joint  Parliamentary  Committee  (JPC)  dated 
December  02,  2002  ,  the  SEBI  Act  was  amended  to  address 
certain shortcomings  in its provisions.  The mission of SEBI is to 
make India as one of the best securities market of the world and 
SEBI as one of the most respected regulator in the world. SEBI 
also endeavors to achieve the standards of IOSCO/FSAP. 

 
          In  this  background  ,  the  internal  group  constituted  by  SEBI 
consisting of its senior officers had proposed certain amendments 
to  the  SEBI  Act.  The  SEBI  Board  had  constituted  an Expert 
Group  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Mr  Justice  M.  H  .Kania 
(Former Chief Justice of India) to consider the proposals. 

 
            The  report  of  the  Expert  Group  is  placed  for  eliciting  public 
comments  on  the  recommendations.  It  may  be  noted  that  the 
Report  does  not  necessarily  reflect  the  views  of  SEBI  on  the 
various proposals and recommendations. SEBI would consider the 
comments received from various sources before taking any final 
view on the recommendations.  

 
          Public  comments  on  the  report  may  be  sent  to  Division  of 
Regulatory Assistance  – I ,  Legal Affairs Department, Securities 
and  Exchange    Board  of  India,  Mittal  Court,  ‘B’  Wing,    224, 
Nariman Point , Mumbai – 400021 or fax to 022- 22845470 or  E 
mail    to  santoshs@sebi.gov.in                                                        or 
vijayakrishnang@sebi.gov.in so as to reach SEBI on or before July 
26, 2005. 

 

 

************************************************************
*********** 

 

 

 
 
             
 
 

REPORT 

 
 

 
 

EXPERT GROUP HEADED BY MR. JUSTICE  
M. H. KANIA ( FORMER CHIEF JUSTICE OF 
INDIA) FOR SUGGESTING AMENDMENTS TO 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF 

INDIA ACT, 1992 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

REPORT OF THE EXPERT GROUP HEADED BY MR. 

M. H. KANIA (FORMER CHIEF JUSTICE OF INDIA) FOR 

SUGGESTING AMENDMENTS TO SECURITIES AND 

EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA ACT, 1992  

JUSTICE  

 

 
 

 

 

 

Background 

The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (the SEBI 
Act) has been enacted for the establishment of the Board  with the 
object of  protecting the interests of investors in securities  and to 
promote  the  development  and  to  regulate  the  securities  market 
and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.  

Securities market is very dynamic and the laws governing it have to 
be responsive to the market needs. The SEBI Act was amended in 
the  years  1995,  1999  and  2002  to  meet  the  requirements  of 
changing  needs  of  the  securities  market  and  responding  to  the 
development in the securities market. 

The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) have 
introduced  a  benchmark  i.e.,  Financial  Services  Assessment 
Programme  (FSAP)  to  strengthen  the  monitoring  of  financial 
systems in the context of the IMF’s bilateral surveillance and the 
World  Bank’s  financial  sector  development  work.  The  FSAP  is 
designed  to  help  countries  enhance  their  resilience  to  crisis  and 
cross-border  contagion,  and  to  foster  growth  by  promoting 
financial  system  soundness  and  financial  sector  diversity.  The 
mission  of  SEBI  is  to  make  India  as  one of the best securities 
market  of  the  world  and  SEBI  as  one  of  the  most  respected 
regulator in the world. SEBI endeavors to achieve the standards of 
IOSCO/FSAP. Amendments will be required to be made in the 
Securities Laws especially the SEBI Act, which will facilitate India 
and SEBI to achieve above objective.  

The  Report  of  Joint  Parliamentary  Committee  (JPC)  dated 
December  02,  2002  on  stock  market  scam  also  made  several 
recommendations  in  respect  of  the  securities  market.  These 
recommendations 
to 
aggrieved  investors,  the  concept  of  Ombudsman  in  the  capital 
market,  establishment  of  special  courts  for  financial  crimes, 
regulation  of  listed  companies  by  SEBI,  shifting  of  Investor 
Education and Protection Fund established under section 205C of 

include  provisions 

for  compensation 

 

 

 

 
 

 

the  companies  Act  to  SEBI,  etc. 
recommendations would require changes in the SEBI Act.  

  Many  of  the  above 

The amendments effected in 2002 have sought to address certain 
shortcomings in the provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992, particularly 
with  respect  to  matters  relating  to  inspection,  investigation  and 
enhancement  of  penalties  to  serve  as  effective  deterrants. 
However,  it  was  felt  that  some  of  the  amendments  effected  in 
2002 may also require amendments to remove ambiguities, if any.  

Constitution of the Group 

It is in this background, the SEBI Board had decided to constitute 
an Expert Group to identify the deficiencies / inconsistencies in 
the existing provisions of the SEBI Act and also to suggest new 
provisions that can be incorporated in the SEBI Act to make it 
more  effective  and 
into  account 
recommendations  of  the  JPC  as  also  recommendations  of  other 
expert  groups  constituted  by  SEBI  from  time  to  time  in  this 
regard.  

investor  friendly, 

taking 

The  SEBI  Board  in  its  meeting  held  on  August  05,  2004 
constituted the Expert Group with the following members.  

Sr.No. 

Name of the Member 

1  Mr. Justice M. H. Kania, ( Former Chief Justice of India)  

Chairman                                                    

2  Mr. Justice A. N. Mody ( Retd.) 
3  Mr. Justice S. M. Jhunjhunwala (Retd.) 
4  Ms. P. M. Umerji, Principal Secretary (Retd.)  (Legislation), 

5 

6 

Govt. of  Maharashtra 
Shri. Jitesh Khosla*, Joint Secretary –  
Representative of the Department of Company Affairs  
(Govt. of India)  
Shri. Prashant Saran , Chief General Manager, 
Representative of the Reserve Bank of India 

7  Ms Parimala Rao, Principal, Govt. Law College, Mumbai  
8 

Shri. PGR Prasad, Managing Director,  
SBI Funds ManagementPvt. Ltd.,  
Representative  of  the  Association  of  Mutual  Funds  of 
India(AMFI)  
Shri. N. K. Jain**, Secretary and Chief Executive Officer,  
the Institute of Company  Secretaries of India  

9 

 

 

 

10 

11 

(ICSI), Representative of ICSI 
Shri. Sushil Jiwrajka, Chairman,  
Western Regional Council , Federation of Indian  
Chambers and Commerce of Industry(FICCI)   
Representative of FICCI 
Shri. K.R. Chandratre, Practicing Company Secretary &  
Ex-President Institute of Company Secretaries of India  
12  Anil Singhvi, Director, Gujarat Ambuja Cements Ltd.  
13 
14 

Shri. Pratip Kar, Executive Director , SEBI 
Shri. R. S. Loona, (Member Secretary),  
Executive Director,  SEBI 

*  Shri.  R.  Vasudevan,  Director  (Inspection  and  Investigation) 
attended the meetings of the Group in the absence of Shri. Jitesh 
Khosla as a representative of the Department of Company Affairs.  

** Nominated in place of Shri. Mahesh Anant Athawale, who   was 

initially  nominated by ICSI as their representative. 

Deliberation and Examination by the Expert Group 
 
A paper containing few suggestions to amend the SEBI Act was 
prepared as a base material for discussion and deliberation by the 
Group.    The  said  paper  was  sent  to  the  representatives  of  all 
stakeholders  and  market  participants  inviting  their  comments 
thereon  and  further  suggestions  regarding  amendments  in  the 
SEBI Act. 
 
The names of the stakeholders from whom the comments were 
sought are given in the annexure ‘A’ hereto. The Group received 
detailed  comments  to  the  proposals  from  certain  stakeholders 
whose names are given in the annexure ‘B’ hereto. 
 
the  proposals  made  regarding 
The  Group  deliberated  on 
amendments  to  SEBI  Act  in  the  light  of  comments  thereon 
received  from  the  stakeholders  in  its  various  meetings  held  on 
October 27, 2004, December 20, 2004, February 04, 2005, March 
10, 2005, April 11, 2005,  May 03, 2005, June 14, 2005 and on June 
15, 2005 .  After deliberating on the said proposals and comments 
of  stakeholders,  the  Group  seeks  to  make  recommendations  in 
respect of the following proposals:- 
 

I  Proposed Amendments for incorporating new provisions in the 

SEBI Act. 

II  Proposed Amendments for changes in the existing provisions  
III  Consequential and related amendments in other Acts.   

 

Proposed Amendments for incorporating new provisions in the 

PART ONE 

SEBI Act. 

 

 
1.1  
 

 

Investor Protection Fund 

   SEBI has been created inter alia for the purpose of protecting the 
interests of investors in securities.  The investor education is more 
relevant in the context of complexities involved in various options 
and instruments of investments available in  the securities market. 
Retail investors are not in a position to identify and /or appreciate 
the risk factors associated with certain scrips or schemes. With the 
result  they  are  not  able  to  make  informed  investment  decisions. 
Since  development  of  securities  market  largely  depends  upon 
proper  education  of  investors,  SEBI  is  committed  to  spread 
awareness amongst them.     

   The Joint Parliamentary Report (JPC) on securities scam of 2001 
had  recommended  that  in  order  to  enable  SEBI  to  undertake 
investor  education  and  awareness  campaign  effectively,  the 
investor education and protection fund established under section 
205C of the Companies Act and investor education resources of 
RBI should be shifted to SEBI and a joint campaign for investor 
education  and  aware ness under the leadership of SEBI must be 
undertaken. 

 
  The Group noted that majority of the stakeholders have agreed for 
the  setting  up  of  a  separate  investor  protection  fund  under  the 
SEBI Act.  It is also suggested by the stakeholders that the said 
fund  should  be  utilized  exclusively  for  the  purpose  of  investor 
education,  conducting  awareness  programme  and  for  protecting 
the interest of investors.  

 

           The  Group  also  noted  that  the  proposed  Investor  Protection 
Fund  is  for  the  purpose  of  achieving  the  objective  of  Investor 
Education and awareness.   

 
          In terms of section 55A of the Companies Act, SEBI is required to 
administer the provisions of sections specified in section 55A in 
respect of issue of capital, transfer of securities and non payment 
of dividend in case of listed companies and the companies which 
intend to get their securities listed on the stock exchange.  Further, 

SEBI is required to protect the interest of investors and enforce 
redressal of grievances of investors by listed companies.   

In the light of the above provisions, the Group also discussed the 
proposition regarding payment of compensation to investors for 
the purpose of investor protection. In this regard, the Group also 
deliberated on the suggestion for setting up of a Fund on the lines 
of Fair Fund established under the Sarbanes Oxley Act, 2002 of 
United States which is used for compensating the investors out of 
the  penalties  received.  Another  view  was  expressed  during 
deliberations that the investors in the equity market invest in risk 
capital and no assured return or compensation for non fulfilment 
of  every  expectation  may  be  provided  in  the  statute.  However, 
compensation  in  respect  of  fraud  or  misrepresentations  or 
misstatements by companies or intermediaries may be considered. 
 

 

 
 

 
          Further the Group noted that the Pension Fund Regulatory and 
Development  Authority,  Ordinance,  2004  which  mandated  the 
Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) 
to protect the interest of subscribers to the schemes of pension 
funds has permitted PFRDA to set up the Subscriber Education 
and Protection Fund. The said Ordinance also specifies the monies 
which  should  be  credited  to  the  said  Subscriber  Education  and 
Protection Fund. The said Ordinance also provides  that all sums 
realised by way of penalties by PFRDA under the Ordinance shall 
be credited to the Subscriber Education and Protection Fund.   

 

The Group felt that to achieve the objective of investor protection 
by  investor  education  and  investor  awareness,  a  separate  fund 
under  the  SEBI  Act  on  the  lines  of  Subscriber  Education  and 
Protection  Fund  under  PFRDA  Ordinance  2004 
to  be 
administered by SEBI may be set up and administered by SEBI for 
investor education and awareness.  Further,  the  compensation  to 
small  investors  in  respect  of  fraud  or  misrepresentations  or 
misstatements by companies or intermediaries may be considered 
as  a  matter  of  investor  protection  out  of  the  said  Investor 
Protection Fund.  In this regard it is felt desirable that SEBI may 
specify  guidelines  and  parameters  for  administration  of  the 
Investor  Protection  Fund  the  for  the  purpose  of  Investor 
Education and Awareness and payment of compensation to small 
investors. In this regard, the guidelines issued by SEBI in respect 
of Investor Protection Fund of stock exchanges may be adopted 
with necessary changes.   

 

took 

the  Group 

into  consideration 

As  regards  the  monies  to  be  credited  to  the  said  Investor 
Protection  Fund, 
the 
representation of the National Stock Exchange that the big stock 
exchanges are utilising the monies for the purpose suitably.  The 
Group  also  noted  that  the  monies  lying  with  the  IPF  of  small 
stock exchanges are not being utilised to the full satisfaction.  It is 
considered that the monies lying unutilized for substantial period 
in the Investor Protection Fund of the stock exchanges should be 
transferred to the proposed Investor Protection Fund.   

The unclaimed dividend and interest lying with the mutual fund 
and Collective Investment Schemes or venture capital funds and 
the  unclaimed  monies  or  securities  of  the  clients  lying  with  the 
intermediaries  for  a  period  of  7  years  should  be  used  in  a 
purposeful manner.    

           Further,  all  sums  realised  by  way  of  penalties  imposed  by  the   
Adjudicating Officer under Chapter VIA of  the SEBI Act, should 
be credited to the proposed Investor Protection Fund.    

1.2  Recommendation of the Group:-  
 

The Group recommends that – 
 
A separate Investor Protection Fund under the SEBI Act, on the 
lines of Subscriber Education and Protection Fund under PFRDA 
Ordinance  2004  may  be  established  for  the  purpose  of  investor 
education  and  awareness  and  for  compensation  to  the  small 
investors 
fraud  or  misrepresentations  or 
misstatements by companies or intermediaries.  

respect  of 

in 

 

 

 

The  said  fund  be  administered by SEBI to protect the investors 
and take measures for investor education and awareness and for 
compensation  to  the  small  investors  in  accordance  with  the 
established guidelines or parameters specified by SEBI on the lines 
of the guidelines in respect of stock exchanges.   
 
There  shall  be  credited  to  the  said  fund  the  following  amounts, 
namely-  
 

a)  unclaimed  dividend  or  interest  under  any  mutual  fund  or 
Collective Investment Scheme (CIS) or venture capital fund 
scheme for more than 7 years; 

b)  any unclaimed money or securities of a client lying with an 

intermediary in securities market for more than 7 years; 

c)  monies lying unutilised in the Investor Protection Funds of 

the stock exchanges; 

d)  all sums realised by way of monetary penalty under Chapter 

VIA of SEBI Act.  

         
1.3  Nomination Facility 
 
 

 

The concept of nomination has been recognized under section 109 
of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  Section  45ZA  of  the  Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 39A of the UTI Act, 1963 (since 
repealed).  Under 
the  aforesaid  provisions,  nominee  of  a 
shareholder  or  debenture  holder,  depositor  or  unit  holder  is 
entitled to the rights in securities or money held by the deceased to 
the  exclusion  of  all  other  persons,  notwithstanding  anything 
contained in any other law for the time being in force including the 
testamentary laws. However, SEBI Act does not contain any such 
provision  of  nomination  facility  for  the  unit  holders  of  mutual 
funds and collective investment schemes.  

The  Group noted that SEBI (Mutual Funds)  Regulations, 1996 
provide for nomination facility to the unit holders. The Group felt 
that the provision for nomination facility is investor friendly but 
such  provision  should  exist  in  the  parent  Act  and  not  in  the 
Regulations.  
 
However,  the  Group  is  not  in  favour  of  giving  any  overriding 
effect as provided under section 109 of the Companies Act, 1956 
wherein the nominee’s rights can defeat the claim of a legal heir.  

 
1.4  Recommendation of the Group  
 

  In  view  of  the  above,  the  Group  recommends  for  a  suitable 
amendment in the SEBI Act for the incorporation of a provision 
to provide nomination facility to the unit holders of Mutual Funds 
and Collective Investment Schemes.   
 

1.5  Advance Ruling 
 

  The Group was informed that SEBI receives a number of requests 
from  various  market  participants  for  advance  guidance  on  the 
interpretation of the provisions of SEBI Act and Regulations. As 
SEBI Act does not contain specific provisions like section  245B 

 

 

to section  245N of the Income Tax Act, 1961 authorising SEBI to 
give  advance  ruling,  SEBI  has  evolved    a  system  of  giving 
interpretive letters/no action letters under the provisions of SEBI 
(Informal Guidance) Scheme, 2003.  However, the guidance given 
under the scheme does not equate with the advance ruling under 
the Income Tax Act as it is not binding on SEBI Board.   

  The advance ruling system for the securities market would    have 
the  advantage  of  a  market  participant  being  able  to  obtain  a 
binding  ruling  on  the  applicability  of  a  particular  provision  of 
Securities  Laws  to  a  proposed  transaction,  before  actually 
undertaking such transaction.  
 
The Group felt that the system of advance ruling is certainly better 
than that of informal guidance given under the said scheme as the 
advance ruling given by SEBI would be binding on its Board. The 
binding effect provides, not only more comfort for the market 
participants,  it  also  provides  better  legal  status  to  the  whole 
mechanism.   

     However, in view of the smooth and satisfactory functioning of 
the Informal Guidance Scheme in vogue, the Group felt that SEBI 
should  analyse  the  option  very  carefully  as  the  move  of  shifting 
from the scheme to advance ruling would require setting up of a 
separate department and infrastructure on the lines of Income Tax 
Act.  

 
1.6  Recommendations of the Group:  
 

The  Group  recommends  that  as  legally  the  advance  ruling  is 
preferable  the  adoption  of  the  same  may  be  considered  and  the 
Informal Guidance Scheme may also continue.    

 
1.7    Self Regulatory Organisation (SRO) 
 
 

The Group noted that  section 11(2) (d) of the SEBI Act provides 
for promoting and regulating SRO. SEBI Act, however does not 
have  specific  provision  for  empowering  SRO  to  make  bye-laws 
having statutory force for admission of members. Further, SEBI 
Act does not have provisions relating to supersession of governing 
boards  of  SROs  by  SEBI  or  restricting  the  voting  right  of 
members  of  SROs,  notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  the 
Companies Act, 1956. Proposed amendments seek to confer such 
powers on SEBI.    

The  Group  noted  that  SEBI  has  already  framed  regulations, 
namely,  SEBI  (Self  Regulatory  Organisations)  Regulations,  2004 
under section 30 read with section 11(2)(d) of the SEBI Act for 
regulating  the  SROs,  which  require  inter  alia  SROs  to  seek  
recognition from SEBI. The Regulations also empower the SRO’s 
to make rules and bye laws with the approval of SEBI.  Regulation 
23 of the Regulation governing SRO’s, provides for the power of 
SEBI to withdraw the recognition.  In view of the said power, the 
Group  felt  that  SEBI  is  already  having  the  requisite  power  to 
require the SROs to regulate their activities in accordance with the 
Regulations.  Consequently,  there  may  not  be  any  need  for  the 
amendment of the SEBI Act.   

The  Group  noted  that  there  is  no  provision  in  the  SEBI  Act, 
which  empowers  SEBI  to  rectify  the  clerical  or  typographical 
errors apparent in its own orders. A view was also expressed that 
SEBI does not have powers to review its own orders even in cases 
when orders are passed ex parte.  

The  Group  observed  that  “Review  of  orders”  appears  to  give 
substantive powers which are usually not available with Authorities 
having original jurisdiction. However, the Group felt that enabling 
SEBI  to  rectify  clerical  or  typographical  errors  apparent  on  the 
face of its order on the lines of section 26 (2) of the Recovery of 
Debts  Due  to  Banks  and  Financial  Institutions  Act,  1993  is 
desirable.   

 
1.10  Recommendation of the Group   
 

An amendment should be made in the SEBI Act to enable SEBI 
to  rectify clerical or typographical errors apparent on the face of 
its order, on the lines of section 26 (2) of the Recovery of Debts 
Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993.     

 
1.8  Recommendation of the Group   
 

The  Group  recommends  that  there  is  no  necessity  of  amending 
the  SEBI  Act  as  proposed.  The  Regulations  framed  by  SEBI 
should suffice to address the concern of SEBI, as a regulator of 
SROs.  

1.9  Rectification of errors in orders- 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The Group noted that the existing provisions of SEBI Act do not 
empower SEBI to frame the regulations with retrospective effect 
even  for  the  limited  purpose  of  giving  relief  to  the  market 
participants.  
 
The Group felt that SEBI may be empowered to make regulations 
with retrospective effect in respect of matters relating to charging 
of fees or procedural matters on the lines of the Income Tax Act 
for the limited purpose of giving relief and not for imposing new 
liabilities  and  obligations.  According  to  the  Group  such  a 
benevolent  provision  may  remove  undue  hardship  to  market 
participants  in  certain  cases  and  hence  should  be  viewed  with 
favour.    
 

1.12  Recommendation of the Group  
 

The Group recommends that the SEBI Act may be amended on 
the  lines  of  section  295(4)  of  the  Income  Tax  Act,  1961  to 
empower  SEBI  to  make  regulations  with  retrospective  effect  in 
respect  of  matters  relating  to  charging  of  fees  or  procedural 
matters for the limited purpose of giving relief and benefit and not 
for imposing new liabilities and obligations. 
 

1.13  Overriding Effect 
 

1.11  Retrospective effect 

The Group discussed the suggestion to amend SEBI Act in order 
to provide overriding effect to SEBI Act over other laws in the 
matter  of  securities.  In  order  to  assess  the  need  for  such  an 
amendment,  the  Group  tried  to  identify  those  substantive 
provisions of the SEBI Act that deserve to be given an overriding 
effect. After due consideration, the Group felt that SEBI Act does 
not contain any such substantive provisions which deserve to be 
given  an  overriding  effect.    It  also  noted  that  where  ever  the 
substantive provisions deserved to be given an overriding effect, 
the SEBI Act has already done by non obstante clause.   

 
1.14  Recommendation of the Group  
 

The Group recommends that SEBI Act may not be amended for 
giving an overriding effect to the SEBI Act over other laws. 
 

1.15  Power to issue circulars  

          

 

The  Group  examined  the  proposal  to  amend  the  provisions  of 
SEBI Act for giving statutory power to SEBI to issue circulars and 
guidelines.    

The  Group  noted  that  SEBI  has  been  issuing  circulars  and 
guidelines under section 11 of the SEBI Act. The Group felt that 
there is no legal infirmity in issuing circulars or guidelines under 
the  existing  provisions  of  section  11  which  is  the  source  of 
inherent powers of SEBI.   

 
1.16  Recommendation of the Group 
 

The Group recommends that SEBI Act may not be amended for  
inserting  a  specific  provision  for  the  issuance  of  circular  and 
guidelines as SEBI has inherent powers to do so under Section 11 
of the SEBI Act.  

 
1.17  Transaction / Issue of securities to be treated void in certain 

circumstances  

 

 

The  Group  was  informed  that  in  cases  of  fraudulent  issue  of 
securities, excess dematerialisation of securities etc. SEBI should 
be  empowered  to  declare  such  transactions  as  void.    For  this 
purpose suitable provisions in the SEBI Act on the lines of section 
9(3) & section 14 of the SCRA  may be made to provide that such 
transaction, if they are in violation of any specified regulation, shall 
be void.   

  The  Group  felt  that  such  power  should  be  performed  by  an 
independent body, preferably by the civil courts. Administrative 
bodies may not be conferred with such jurisdiction.  

1.18  Recommendation of the Group 

 
SEBI Act should not be amended as proposed. Such power should 
preferably be left to be exercised by a civil court. 
 

1.19  Winding up of intermediaries   
 

The Group was informed that one of the principles of Securities 
Regulations as specified by IOSCO/FSAP is that there should be 
procedures for dealing with the failure of a market intermediary in 
order  to  minimize  damage  and  loss  to  investors  and  to  contain 
systemic  risk.  The  Group  noted  that  there  is  no  specific  power 

 

 

conferred upon SEBI under SEBI Act for taking steps for winding 
up of an intermediary in case such intermediary goes bankrupt or 
the  continuance  of  such  intermediary  is  considered  to  be 
detrimental  to  the  interest  of  investors  or  clients  of  such 
intermediary.  

The Group noted that Reserve Bank of  India (RBI) has power to 
file winding up petitions against a Non Banking Finance Company 
under  section  45  MC  of  RBI  Act.    The  Group  felt  that  SEBI 
should have similar power to file winding up petition under SEBI 
Act.  

The Group further observed that in case of winding up of such 
intermediary  company,  the  claim  of  the  clients  of  such 
intermediary  should  have  priority  over  other  claims  or  debts  i.e. 
even  over  secured  creditors  and  sovereigns  authorities  such  as 
Income Tax.  The Group in this regard noted that under Section 
43A of Banking Regulation Act, 1949 there is a provision for the 
preferential  payment  to  depositors  in  priority  to  all  other  debts 
from out of assets of the Banking Company.  The Group felt that 
similar  provisions  should  also  be  made  in  respect  of  claims  of 
clients of intermediary companies while empowering SEBI to file a 
intermediary 
winding  up  petition  against  an 
in  case  such 
intermediary  goes  bankrupt  or 
the  continuance  of  such 
intermediary  is  considered  to  be  detrimental  to  the  interest  of 
investors or clients of such intermediary.  
 

1.20   Recommendation of the Group  
 

The Group recommends that suitable provision in the SEBI Act 
may be made to enable SEBI to file winding up petition in respect 
of the intermediary companies on the lines of section 45MC of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act and section 43A of Banking Regulation 
Act.        

 

1.21  Non attachment of assets of clients with intermediaries 
 

The Group noted that one of the IOSCO principles for securities 
market regulations is that the regulatory system should enable the 
pool of investors’ funds to be distinguished and segregated from 
the  assets  of  other  entities.  Further,  the  investors  should  be 
protected  from  misleading,  manipulative or fraudulent practices, 
including  insider  trading,  front  running  or  trading  ahead  of 
customers and the misuse of client assets. 

 
It was brought to the notice of the Group that by the Securities 
Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2003, a section 27B was proposed to be 
inserted  in  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  to  provide 
that  an  investor  may  entrust  his  money  or  securities  to  any 
intermediary who shall hold such money or securities in trust and 
shall deal with them as directed by the investors.  Such monies and 
securities shall not be part of the assets of the intermediaries and 
no  authority  shall  attach  or  seize  such  assets  of  investors.  
However,  in  the  Securities  Laws  (Amendment)  Act,  2005  this 
provision was omitted.      

The Group observed that the money or securities entrusted by an 
investor to an intermediary should be held by such intermediary in 
trust  of  such  investors.    Such  money  or  securities  of  investors 
should  not  form  part  of  asset  of  intermediary  and  no  authority 
shall attach or seize such assets of investors which are in custody 
or possession of such intermediary.   

Proposed amendments in the existing provisions of the SEBI 

PART –TWO 

Act 

 
1.22   Recommendation of the Group 
 

The Group recommends that there should be a specific provision 
in the SEBI Act to the effect that the monies or securities of the 
clients should be held in the form of a trust by intermediaries and 
no authority shall attach or seize such assets of investors which are 
in possession of the intermediary.  For this purpose the provisions 
as proposed in   the Securities Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2003 may 
be made.   

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

2.0  Registration  and  Regulation  of  Asset  Management 
Company,  Research  Analyst,  Clearing  Corporation,  STP 
Provider etc. 

The  Group  noted  that  at  present  certain  important  market 
intermediaries  such  as  Asset  Management  Company,  Research 
Analyst,  Clearing  Corporation,  clearing  bank,  stock  lender,  STP 
Service Provider are not expressly included in Section 12 of SEBI 
Act  although  they  operate  in  the  market  as intermediaries. The 
Group further noted that although such entities may be covered in 
the expression “persons associated with the securities market” so 
as to bring them in the ambit of sections 11 (2) (i), 11 (4), 11B, 
11C, 11D etc. they are not expressely covered for the purpose of 
registration and regulation under section 12.  Therefore, the Group 
felt that such other intermediaries may also be included in section 
12.     

It  was  noted  by  the  Group  that  by  amendment  to  Securities 
Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956  the stock exchanges are enabled 
to  transfer  the  activities  of  the  clearing  house  to  a  clearing 
corporation which is required to seek recognition from SEBI and 
make its rules, bye laws, etc. with prior approval of SEBI.  SEBI 
may  also  supersede  the  governing  Board  of  such  clearing 
corporation.  All incidences of regulating the activities of a clearing 
corporation  have  now  been  provided  in  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulations)  Act,  1956.  Therefore,  any  further  amendments  to 
SEBI  Act  may  not  be  re quired  to  include  clearing  house  and 
clearing  corporation 
the  Asset 
Management  Company,  Stock  Lender  and  STP  Service  Provider 
may  be  included  in  section  12  as  they  perform  the  functions  of 
intermediaries and deal with clients in securities.   

in  section  12.  However, 

As regards the Research Analysts, the Group felt that it may not 
be practicable to regulate them as an intermediary in view of the 
nature of their activity.  The major challenge would be to lay down 
the criteria that would require a person/entity to be registered as 
intermediary  with  SEBI.  In  this  regard,  the  Group  has  also 
deliberated on the difficulty involved in classifying certain activities 
such as opinions expressed by experts through electronic media or 
press as that of Research Analysts.  

 
 

 

 

 
2.1  Recommendation of the Group  
 

The Group recommends that the SEBI Act may be amended to 
include  Asset  Management  Company,  stock  lender  and  STP 
Service Provider in section 12 of SEBI Act.  

 

2.2  With regards to Powers to call for information 

The view was expressed that expression “persons associated with 
the  securities  market”  used  in  section  11  (2)  (i)  may  not  cover 
professionals such as auditors of a listed company / intermediary, 
who are only concerned with the auditing of the accounts of the 
listed  company  or  intermediary.  However,  for  the  purpose  of 
investigation  into  alleged  violations,  it  may  at  times  become 
essential to seek relevant information from them.  Therefore, the 
Group considered the necessity of amending section 11 (2) (i) to 
empower SEBI  to call information from ‘persons associated with 
securities market and the professionals engaged by them.  

information 

In this connection, the Group deliberated upon the right of certain 
professionals,  particularly,  advocates  for  not  parting  with  the 
privileged 
in  their  possession.  Recognizing  the 
professional  ethics  and  right  to  withhold  privileged  information, 
the Group observed that SEBI should respect such rights of the 
professionals  and  not  compel  furnishing  /  production  of 
information / documents when a right to privileged information is 
claimed by any professional. In other words, SEBI’s right to call 
for  information  from  professionals  shall  be  subject  to  the 
professional’s right to withhold the privileged information.      

 

 

 

 
2.3  Recommendation of the Group  
 

The Group recommends for an amendment in the SEBI Act to 
empower SEBI to call for information from professionals, subject 
to  the  professional’s  right  as  stated  above.    The  Group  also 
suggests  that  if  any  professional  while  rendering  his  services 
indulges in malpractices such as certifying false information etc., 
suitable  restrictions  like  debarring  him  from  appearing  before 
SEBI may be considered    

2.4  Monetary Penalty for false information. 
 

The Group noted that as per the provisions of Chapter VIA of 
SEBI Act, SEBI can impose monetary penalty for the failure to 
furnish information or delay in furnishing information. However, 

there  is  no  provision  for  monetary  penalty  for  giving  false 
information.  
 
The Group felt that during the course of investigation under the 
provision of SEBI Act, SEBI may come across situations, where 
intermediaries / persons associated with securities markets furnish 
false  information.    In  order  to  tackle  the  said  situation,  SEBI 
should  have  specific  power  under  the  SEBI  Act,  which  would 
empower SEBI to initiate adjudication proceedings for furnishing 
false information.  

The  Group  observed  that  section  11  (2)  (la)  of  the  SEBI  Act 
empowers SEBI to call from or furnish to any agency as may be 
specified  by  the  Board  such  information  as  may  be  considered 
necessary  by  it  for  the  efficient  discharge  of  its  functions.    It, 
however,  does  not  specifically  empower  SEBI  to      provide  for 
regulatory cooperation / sharing information among the overseas 
and domestic regulators. The Group was informed that in the era 
of  liberlisation  and  globalisation  the  SEBI  is  required  to  share 
information  and  cooperate  with  the  overseas  regulators  in  the 
course  of  investigations  conducted  by  the  other  regulators.    For 
this  purpose  SEBI  has  entered 
into  Memorandum  of 
Understanding  and  other  cooperation  arrangements  with  6 
overseas regulators to deal with the cross border misconduct as the 
same is not forbidden by law and is required for the purpose of 
regulatory  cooperation  as  the  matter  of  IOSCO  principles  for 
securities  market  regulators.    The  Group  felt  that  it  may  be 
desirable  to  have  specific  provision  in  the  SEBI  Act  authorising 
SEBI to assist the foreign regulators, seek information from them 
and  furnish  such  information  from  them  which  SEBI  is  not 
prevented from disclosing to them by law or Government in the 
matter of dealing with the subject of cross border transactions and 
misconduct. 

 
2.5  Recommendation of the Group 
 
 

The Group recommends that SEBI Act, may be amended so as to 
empower SEBI to initiate adjudication proceedings for furnishing 
false information knowingly.  

 
2.6  Power to share information with overseas regulators   

 

 

 

 

The Group also noted that sections 169 and 354 of the Financial 
Services  and  Markets  Act,  2000,  empowers  FSA  to  share 
information with overseas regulators. 

   
2.7  Recommendation of the Group 
 
 

The Group recommends for section 11(2) (la) may be amended to 
authorise  SEBI  to  share  information  on  reciprocal  basis  with 
overseas  regulators  on  the  lines  of  sections  169  and  354  of  the 
Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000 of UK.  

 
2.8  Power  to  prohibit  other  entities  from  issuing  any  offer 

document.   

The  Group  noted  that  under  section  11A  (b)  (i),  the    power  of 
SEBI  to  prohibit  issuance  of  offer  document    is  limited  to  a 
company. It was proposed that in section 11A (b) (i) the words 
‘any company’ be substituted by the words ‘any person’. 

The  Group  observed  that  even  the  mutual  funds  who  are 
established  in  the  form  of  trust  also  issue  offer  documents.  
Further, in case of an offer for sale in terms of section 64 of the 
Companies  Act  or  under  the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  the  offer 
document is issued by or on behalf of the persons making offer 
for sale of securities to public. Further, even the public sector bank 
or scheduled bank  or a financial institution which may not be a 
company within the meaning of the term in the Companies Act 
may  also  issue  prospectus  or  shelf  prospectus  inviting  public  to 
subscribe to their shares. All these entities have to comply with the 
disclosures requirements specified by SEBI.      

 

  
 

 
 

 
 

 

2.9  Recommendation of the Group 
 
 

The Group recommends to replace the words ‘any company’ used 
in the section 11A (b) (i) by the words ‘any person’.  

For the purpose of regulating or prohibiting prospectus, etc., SEBI 
may consider framing specific Guidelines even though section 11A 
(b)  (i)  lays  down  the  guiding  principle  namely,  protection  of 
investors. 
 

2.10  Amendment to section 11AA 
 

 

 

 

 

The Group noted that section 11AA (3) clause (viii) provides that 
any scheme under which contributions made are in the nature of 
subscription to a mutual fund shall not be a collective investment 
scheme.    However,  in  terms  of  section  12  (1B)  no  person  shall 
carry  on  an  activity  of  collective  investment  scheme  including 
mutual  funds.    From  section  12  (1B)  it  appears  that  the  mutual 
fund  is  one  of  the  forms  of  a  collective  investment  scheme.  In 
light of the same it was proposed to omit Clause (viii) of section 
11AA  (3)  which  provides  that  any  scheme  under  which 
contributions made are in the  nature of subscription to a mutual 
fund shall not be collective investment scheme.   

The Group felt that in section 11AA any scheme or arrangement 
in  the  form  of  a  Collective  Investment  Scheme  (CIS)  has  to  be 
promoted  by  a  company.    Since  the  mutual  funds  are  not 
established in the form of a company, any scheme promoted by 
them  shall  not  fall  within  the  ambit  of  Section  ibid.    Hence, 
Section  11AA  (3)  (viii)  rightly  provides  that  the  scheme  of  a 
mutual fund shall not be a CIS.  The Group also did not find any 
inconsistency between Section 11 AA (3) (viii) and Section 12(1B) 
as both the Sections operate in different fields.  
 

2.11  Recommendation of the Group 

 

 

 

 
 

The Group recommends that no amendment is required in Section 
11AA for the reasons stated above.  

2.12  With regard to inspection and investigation   
 
 

The Group noted that section 12A of the SEBI Act provides for 
prohibition in respect of manipulative or deceptive devices, insider 
trading, and acquisition of control of a listed company. However, 
in terms of section 11(2A) the Board may undertake the inspection 
of books and documents of the listed company or the company 
which intends to get its securities listed only if such company has 
been  indulging  in  insider  trading  or  fraudulent  and  unfair  trade 
practices relating to securities market. This Section does not refer 
to acquisition of control of a listed company.  

Further, section 11C (9)  empowers the Judicial Magistrate of the 
First Class to authorize the Investigating Authority appointed by 
the Board to enter and search the  place and to seize the books, 
registers etc.  of a listed company in case such company indulges in 
insider trading or market manipulation. 

Under section 11D the Board may order a listed company to cease 
and desist from committing or causing violation by indulging in 
insider trading or market manipulation. Section 11C (9) pertaining 
to SEBI’s power of Search and Seizure and section 11D for cease 
and desist order do not extend to substantial acquisition of shares 
and takeovers.  

The Group felt that above mentioned sections may be amended so 
as  to  empower  the  Board  to  undertake  inspection  of  any  book, 
register  or  document  if  the  Board  has  reasonable  apprehension 
that such company has violated section 12A of the SEBI Act.  

The  Group  felt  the  necessity  that  the  said  sections  may  be 
amended  to  bring  the  provisions  thereof  in  harmony  with  the 
provisions of section 12A. However, the Group felt that the words 
‘reasonable  ground  to  believe’  have  been  used 
in  several 
legislations  by  administrative  bodies  as  a  matter  of  control  on 
exercise of discretionary powers and SEBI Act should not deviate 
from them.  
 

2.13  Recommendation of the Group  
 

The Group recommends to amend sections 11 (2A), 11C (9) and 
11D so as to bring them in harmony with Section 12A of the SEBI 
Act.   

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
2.14  Attachment of bank accounts of intermediaries 
 

 
The Group noted that as per section 11 (4) of SEBI Act, SEBI 
Board may attach one or more bank accounts of the intermediary 
or the person associated with the securities market, pursuant to an 
order by the Judicial Magistrate of the First Class.  However, it is 
noted that the Board does not have power to directly attach the 
bank account, without the order of Judicial Magistrate of the First 
Class and that only such bank account / accounts can be attached 
which relates to proceeds actually involved in the violation.  The 
Group also noted that the said bank account can be attached only 
for a period not exceeding one month and that the attachment and 
impounding  ,etc.  in  respect  of  the  listed  companies  or  the 
companies which intend to get their securities listed can be done 

only in cases of indulging of such companies in insider trading and 
fraudulent and unfair trade practices. 
In  view  of  the  above,  the  Group  considered  the  following 
propositions , namely- 

(i)  whether the power of attachment should be subjected to an 

order of a Judicial Magistrate.  

(ii)  whether the period of attachment should be extended from 

one month (as stipulated now) to six months.  

(iii)  whether the bank account or accounts  may be attached only 
so  far  as  it  relate  to  the  proceeds  actually  involved  in  the 
alleged  violations  or  its  ambit  be  enhanced  so  as  to  enable 
investigating  authority  to  attach  any  bank  account  provided 
he records reasons in writing and also reasonably believes that 
the account relates to proceeds of violation. 

(iv)  whether the power of attachment and impounding should be 
extended  to  cases  of  acquisition  of  control  of  a  listed 
company in view of section 12A of the SEBI Act. 

The Group felt that empowering an administrative body like SEBI 
to directly attach the bank accounts may not be a legally desirable 
proposition  and  it  is  felt  that  such  power  has  to  be  exercised 
through  the  intervention  of  a  Judicial  Magistrate.  Further,  the 
power  of  attachment  and  impounding  may  not  be  extended  to 
cases  of  substantial  acquisition  of  shares  control  of  a  listed 
company as it may deter the takeovers of companies as a corporate 
action  which  is  regulated  by  the  regulations  keeping  in  view  the 
interest of the investors.   

 
2.15  Recommendation of the Group  
 

 

 

 

The Group recommends that Section 11(4) of SEBI Act may be 
amended  so  as  to  increase  the  period  of  attachment  from  one 
month  to  three  months  subject  to  further  extension  by  another 
three months upon the order of a Judicial Magistrate of First Class 
in writing.  

 
2.16  Regarding power of search and seizure 
 
 

The Group noted that in terms of section 11C (8) and (9) of SEBI 
Act –  
i) Search and seizure can be undertaken only after obtaining an   
order from a Judicial Magistrate of the first class,  

ii) Search and seizure is restricted to only the books, registers and 
other documents and records, 
iii) Search and seizure in respect of listed companies can be made 
only  if  such  companies  indulge  in  insider  trading  and  market 
manipulations.  

The Group noted that under section 133 of Income Tax Act 1961, 
the  competent  authority  can  issue  the  search-warrant  directly 
without waiting for an order from the Judicial Magistrate of First 
Class. 
The Group felt that the role of SEBI is different from the role of 
Income Tax Authorities under the Income Tax Act, 1961.  The 
Group is of the view that the said power of search and seizure is 
desirable to be exercised with the approval of Judicial Magistrate.  

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
2.17  Recommendation of the Group  

 
The Group recommends that no amendment is required in section 
11C (8) and (9) of SEBI Act.  
 

2.18  Dispensing with factors such as loss to investors etc. under 

section 15J - For monetary penalty       

The Group noted that, section 15I (2) of the SEBI Act   empowers 
the Adjudicating Officer to  impose such penalty as he thinks fit in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  SEBI  Act  under 
which  he  is  adjudicating.  The  Group  further  observed  that  the 
Adjudicating Officer while deciding the quantum of penalty under 
Section  15  I,  is  under  an  obligation  to  have  due  regard  to  the 
following factors – 

(a)  the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair 
advantage, wherever quantifiable, made as a result of the 
default, 

(b)  the amount of loss caused to the investors as a result of 

a default,  

(c)  the repetitive nature of the default. 

The Group, however, noted that , in certain cases it may not be 
possible for the Adjudicating Officer to consider all the aforesaid 3 
factors e.g. in the cases of insider trading violations there may not 
be any victim so as to ascertain the amount of loss caused to him 
as a result of said violation.   

  

 

 

The  Group  also  noted  that  in  some  cases  offences  may  not  be 
directed against any specific investors. In cases such as failure to 
disclose timely information, it may not be possible to ascertain loss 
caused to the investors or gain made by the defaulter.  The Group 
noted that, it is in these circumstances, the proposed amendments 
are being made. 

In view of the above, the Group felt the necessity of incorporating 
additional factors such as – 
(a). conduct of the persons  during the inspection or investigation;  
(b). seriousness of the violation; and  
(c). effect of violations on securities market, etc. in Section 15J 

The Group noted that the above additional factors are  in-built in 
existing  section  15J.    Further,  the  powers  of  the  Adjudicating 
Officers under section 15J are not limited by the factors specified 
under  section  15J.  Section  15J  only  requires  the  Adjudication 
Officer  to  have  due  regard  to  the  factors  specified therein. The 
Group noted that words ‘due regard’ existing in section 15J do not 
in any way restrict or fetter the power of the Adjudicating Officer 
to give due consideration to other factors also, as suggested above.   
 

 

2.19  Recommendation of the Group 
 

In  view  of  the  above  the  Group  felt  that  no  amendment  is 
required  as  suggested  as  the  said  factors  are  already  inherent  in 
section 15J.   

 
2.20  Maximum Penalty     
 

The Group noted that sections under Chapter VIA as they existed 
before  the  amendment  made  in  the year 2002 provided for the 
maximum  penalty  which  could  be  imposed  by  the  Adjudicating 
Officer. The words “not exceeding” appearing under each sections 
suggested that the Adjudicating Officer could impose any amount 
of penalty upto the amount prescribed under the relevant sections. 
In  other  words,  no  limit  on  minimum  penalty  was  specified.  
However, in the amended sections, the words “a penalty of one 
lakh rupees for each day during which such failure continues or 
one crore rupees, whichever is less” have been used. 
 
The Group, however felt that an argument can be taken that after 
the  amendment  in  the  said  sections,  the  Adjudicating  Officer  is 

bound to impose the penalty of one lakh rupees per day till default 
continues or one crore rupees, whichever is less.  In other words, 
the Adjudicating Officer cannot impose penalty less than Rupees 
One Lakh per day.  

In  view  of  the  above,  the  Group  considered  the  proposal  to 
replace the words “one lac rupees for each day during which such 
failure  continues  or  one  crore  rupees,  whichever  is  less”  by  the 
words “not exceeding one lac rupees for each day during which 
such failure continues subject to a maximum of one crore rupees” 
in the relevant sections of Chapter VIA. 

The  interpretation  that  Adjudicating  Officer  cannot  impose 
penalty less than Rupees One Lakh per day may however not hold 
good  when  the  said  penal  provisions  are  read  with  Section  15J, 
which would compel an adjudicating officer to look into various 
factors while deciding the contempt of penalty.    
 

2.21  Recommendation of the Group 
 

The Group recommends that in sections 15A to 15H of SEBI Act, 
the words “one lac rupees for each day during which such failure 
continues or one crore rupees, whichever is less” may be replaced 
by the words “not exceeding one lac rupees for each day during 
which such failure continues subject to a maximum of one crore 
rupees”, for the sake of clarity.  

 

 

  

 

 
2.22  Failure to comply with the order of SEBI 
 

The  Group  noted  that  section  15HB  provides  for  penalty  for 
violation of any provisions of the SEBI Act, Rules or Regulations 
made thereunder or directions issued by the Board for which no 
separate  penalty  has  been  provided.  The  Group  also  noted  that 
under sections 24 of the SEBI Act, prosecution proceedings can 
be  initiated  against  a  person  for  contravention  of  any  of  the 
provisions  of  the  SEBI  Act,  the  Rules  or  Regulations  made 
thereunder. 

The Group noted that under sub-section (2) of Section 24 of the 
SEBI  Act,  prosecution  proceedings  can  be  initiated  against  any 
person who fails to pay the penalty imposed by the Adjudicating 
Officer or fails to comply with any of his directions or orders.  

The Group felt that though it is possible to construe violation of 
SEBI  orders  as  violation  of  the  SEBI  Act,  the  Rules  and 
Regulations  made  thereunder, yet for the sake of clarity, the said 
sections may be amended in order to make the failure on the part 
of a person to comply with an order of SEBI an offence.    

 
2.23  Recommendation of the Group 
 

The Group recommends that section 15HB of SEBI Act, may be 
amended to provide for monetary penalty for the failure to comply 
with the orders of SEBI and to amend section 24 (2) to make non-
compliance of SEBI order an offence under the provisions of the 
said section. 
 

2.24  Monetary  Penalty  to  be  transferred  to  Investor  Protection 

Fund 
 
The Group noted that section 15JA of SEBI Act, provides that all 
sums realized by way of penalties under the respective Acts shall 
be credited to the Consolidated Fund of India.  

 
 

 

It was noted that the SEBI Act is for the purpose of protection of 
interests  of  investors.      Therefore, the sums realized by way of 
penalties under Chapter VIA of the SEBI Act, should be used for 
the  said  objectives  through  the  creation  of  Investor  Protection 
Fund as recommended in para. 1.2. The Group was also informed 
that  the  Pension  Fund  Regulatory  and  Development  Authority, 
Ordinance, 2004 has permitted the Pension Fund Regulatory and 
Development  Authority  (PFRDA)  to  set  up  the  Subscriber 
Education and Protection Fund.  Further, all the sums realized by 
way of penalty imposed by the PFRDA under the Ordinance shall 
be credited to the Subscriber Education and Protection Fund.  

The Group felt the necessity of amending the SEBI Act, on the 
lines  of  PFRDA  Ordinance  and  suitable  amendments  in  section 
15JA of the SEBI Act, should also be made. 
 

2.25  Recommendation of the Group 
 

The Group recommends that the SEBI Act, may be amended on 
the  lines  of  PFRDA  Ordinance  so  that  all  the  penalty  amounts 
realised  under  Chapter  VIA  SEBI  Act,  are  utilized  for  investors 
protection and education. Suitable amendments in section 15JA of 
the SEBI Act should also be made. 

  

2.26   Composition of Securities Appellate Tribunal 
  

The  Group  noted  that  section  15L  of  the  SEBI  Act  gives  the 
impression that all the matters could be heard only by all the three 
members present and otherwise the proceeding will not be valid. 
 
The Group noted that under the provisions of Income Tax Act 
and  Railways  Act,  the  Presiding  Officer  can  constitute  benches 
consisting of one member or two members for hearing any appeal 
or interim application.   
 
The Group felt that SEBI Act may be amended so as to empower 
the Presiding Officer to constitute any bench consisting of one 
member  or  two  members  for  hearing  an  appeal  or  interim 
application.  However, as the appeal against the order of the SAT 
lies before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, the Group is of 
the view that atleast one member of the bench should be a judicial 
member i.e. a retired judge of a High Court.   

 
2.27   Recommendation of the Group 
 
 

The Group recommends for an amendment in the SEBI Act, so as 
to empower the Presiding Officer to constitute benches consisting 
of one member or two members for hearing any appeal or interim 
application.  Provided  that  atleast  one  of  the  member  of  such 
bench shall be a judicial member.  

 
2.28   Tenure of the Member of SAT to be increased  
 
 

The Group noted that as per section 15N the tenure of members 
of SAT is up to 62 years and the same appears to be very short and 
would 
frequently. 
Therefore, the tenure of a member is required to be enhanced to 
avoid frequent reconstitution of SAT. 

require  appointment  of  new  members 

The Group supports the proposal to amend section 15N of the 
SEBI Act so as to increase the tenure of the member of SAT from 
62 years to 65 years. 

 
 

 
 
 
2.29   Recommendation of the Group 
 

 

 
 

The  Group  recommends  for  an  amendment  in  section  15N  to 
increase  the  tenure  of  a  member  to  65  years  in  order  to  avoid 
frequent reconstitution of SAT. 

 
2.30   Restriction on SEBI official to hold office in SAT be removed   
 
 

The  Group  noted  that  as  per  proviso  to  section  15M  (2),  a 
member of the Board or any person holding a post equivalent to 
Executive Director shall not be appointed as a presiding officer or 
a member of SAT during his service or tenure as such with the 
Board or within 2 years from the date on which he ceases to hold 
office as such in the Board.  It was observed that a member with 
knowledge  of  securities  market  may  be  in  a  better  position  to 
appreciate the complexities of securities market.   

However, the Group noted that the said restriction is considered 
to be necessary in order to avoid the conflict of interest.  However, 
the Group felt that the restriction of 2 years may be reduced to 1 
year.   
 

2.31   Recommendation of the Group 
 
 

The  Group  re commends that the proviso to section 15M (2) of 
the  Act  may  be  amended  and  the  period  of  two  years  may  be 
reduced to 1 year.   
 

2.32   Compounding of Offences 
 

The Group noted that as per section 24A of the SEBI Act, any 
offence  punishable  under  the  said  Ac ts,  not  being  an  offence 
punishable  with  imprisonment  only,  or  with  imprisonment  and 
also with fine, may be compounded.  In terms of sections 11C (6) 
and  24  of  the  SEBI  Act  the  offences  under  the  said  Acts  are 
punishable with imprisonment or with fine or with both.  There is 
no  identification  as  to  which  offences  will  be  punishable  with 
imprisonment only or with both. 
 
The Group noted that all offences under SEBI Act have to be 
compounded  under  section  24A.  However,  the  provisions  of 
compounding do not cover other violations for which civil action 
by way of enquiry or adjudication proceedings  has been initiated. 
The Group also noted that, at present, composition of offences 
can be made only by Securities Appellate Tribunal or a court and 

not by SEBI as is done by the Central Government in respect of 
certain offences under section 621A of the Companies Act, 1956.  
 
The Group felt that the Securities Appellate Tribunal being the 
Appellate  Authority  may  not  be  conferred  with  the  power  of 
compounding (original jurisdiction) and that the compounding has 
to be done by the Court having jurisdiction and not by an appellate 
body.  

 
2.33   Recommendation of the Group 

 
The  Group  recommends  that,  SEBI  Act  may  be  amended 
adopting  the  provisions  on  the  lines  of  Section  15  of  Foreign 
Exchange Management Act in terms of which any contravention 
may be compounded within one hundred and eighty days from the 
date of receipt of an application made by the person committing 
such contravention. The Group further recommends that the said 
section  may  be  amended  to  provide  for  compounding  of  all 
violations  and  not  only  offences,  on  the  lines  of  provisions 
contained in Section 279 (2) of Income Tax Act 1961. 
 

2.34   Filing of complaint by SEBI – Deemed Public Prosecutor for 

prosecution 

 

The  Group  noted  that  in  terms  of  section  26  of  SEBI  Act  no 
Court inferior to that of a Court of Sessions shall try any offence 
under the said Acts.  In terms of section 225 of Cr.P.C, in every 
trial before a court of sessions, prosecution shall be conducted by 
a Public Prosecutor. The Group observed that it would be in the 
interest  of  justice  that  the  counsels  who  are  appointed  by  SEBI 
should appear before the Court of Session.  
 
The  Group  noted  as  per  section  5(3)  of  the  Prevention  of 
Corruption Act, 1988 the  person conducting a prosecution before 
a special judge shall be deemed to be a public prosecutor, for the 
purpose of said prosecution.  

 
2.35   Recommendation of the Group 
 

The Group recommends that suitable amendment in section 26 of 
the SEBI Act, may be made to provide that the person conducting 
prosecution  on  behalf  of  SEBI,  under  SEBI  Act  before  the 
Sessions Court shall be deemed to be a public prosecutor. 
 

 
 
 

2.36   Presence of SEBI Official to be dispensed with  
 

The  Group  was  informed  that  as  per  the  existing provisions, 
SEBI’s officials are required to be personally present on each date 
of hearing of complaint filed by them before the judicial magistrate 
/ session judge.   It is observed that in order to avoid dismissal of 
such  cases  on  technical  ground  of  non-attendance  of  the 
complainant, it is desirable that SEBI officials are given exemption 
from attendance in complaint cases on the lines of section 621(1A) 
of the Companies Act, 1956 whereby personal attendance of the 
officials of the Central Government or RoC has been dispensed 
with.  

 
2.37   Recommendation of the Group 
 
 

The Group recommends for an amendment in section 26 of SEBI 
Act in order to dispense with the compulsory presence of SEBI 
officials at every stage of hearing during the prosecutions filed by 
SEBI, on the lines of section 621(1A) of the Companies Act.  
 

2.38   Office of Single Enquiry and Adjudicating Authority 
 
   

 It was noted that the SEBI Act provides inter alia penalties viz., 
(a) suspension or cancellation of certificates of registration and (b) 
monetary  penalty.  These  two  types  of  penalties  are  mutually 
exclusive. Under the enquiry proceedings, Board does not have 
power  to  impose  monetary  penalty  and  under  the  adjudication 
proceedings,  the  adjudicating  officer  does  not  have  power  to 
suspend or cancel a certificate of registration.  

 

The Group noted that prevalent practice is very rigid in nature as 
the  proposed  penalty  by  way  of  disciplinary  action  or  monetary 
penalty is decided on commencement of enquiry proceedings or 
adjudication proceedings, as the case may be. In order to impart 
flexibility  in  this  regard,  it  is  desirable  that  an  officer  may  be 
appointed as an Enquiry & Adjudicating Officer and he may after 
conducting  the  proceedings  decide  on  the  nature  of  penalty  i.e. 
whether by way of disciplinary action or monetary penalty.   

 
2.39   Recommendation of the Group 
 

The  Group  recommends  that  SEBI  Act  may  be  amended  to 
provide that an Enquiry and Adjudicating Officer appointed by the 
Chairman  /  Whole -time  Member  may  decide  the  matter  of 
imposition  of  any  type  of  penalty  namely,  suspension  or 
cancellation of certificates of registration to be imposed by SEBI 
or  monetary penalty under SEBI Act and Rules/Regulations made 
thereunder.  
 
The Group further recommends for the amendment  of SEBI Act 
to provide for constitution of a three member standing committee 
to review all the orders passed by the Enquiry and Adjudicating 
Officers. This will enable SEBI to consider granting inhouse relief 
to  the  parties  affected  by  the  Enquiry  &  Adjudicating Officers.  
Appeal  to SAT will lie from the orders passed by such a Review 
commission 
 

2.40   Administrative actions in case of technical violations  
 
 

The Group noted that in terms of section 12(3) of the SEBI Act 
the  Board  may  by  order,  suspend  or  cancel  a  certificate  of 
registration in such manner as may be determined by regulations. 
Under Section 24 of the SEBI Act, prosecution can also be filed 
for any violation of the provisions of the SEBI Act or of any rules 
or  regulations  made  there  under  or  failure  to  pay  the  penalty 
imposed by the Adjudicating Officer or failure to comply with any 
of his directions or orders. The Group felt that warning can be 
issued pursuant to the powers vested in SEBI under Section 4(3) 
read with Section 11(1) of the SEBI Act.   

 
2.41   Recommendation of the Group 

 
The Group recommends that the SEBI Act does not require any 
amendment for the purpose of empowering SEBI to issue warning 
etc. in respect of minor or technical violations.  

 
2.42    Composition of the Board  

 

The  Group  considered  the  proposal  to  amend  section  4  of  the 
SEBI Act to empower Government to appoint all members of the 
Board including Chairman and Wholetime Members best without 
any specific reservation in favour of any official of Government or 
RBI.  The proposed amendment will not take away or dilute any 
right  of  the  Government  and  the  Government  will  continue  to 
have a right to appoint any of its own officials or of RBI, if its so 

desires,  but  the  amendment  will  give  wider  option  to  the 
Government,  in  choosing  members  of  the  Board  from  different 
streams and fields relevant to the securities market. 

 
          The Group also noted that the proposal is in alignment with the 
current approach of the Indian Parliament as reflected from the 
recent legislations pe rtaining to other regulators, namely, Telecom 
Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997, Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority Act, 1999 and Pension Fund Regulatory 
and  Development  Authority  Ordinance,  2004.  In  all  the  above 
legislations,  though  the  Government  has  been  empowered  to 
appoint  all  members  of  the  said  regulatory  bodies,  no  specific 
reservation in favour of the officials of the Central Government or 
any other authority has been made. 

 
2.43   Recommendation of the Group  

 
2.45  Recommendation of the Group 

 

 
This  proposal  was  received  at  a  very  late  stage  and  could  be 
discussed only at a meeting where only some of the members of 
the Group were present.  Majority of the members present felt that 
the proposal deserves acceptance but it would be proper that the 
views  of  the  other  members  should  also  be  ascertained  before 
making  any  final  recommendation.   Views of the other members 
of the Group have been ascertained and the majority of them have 
agreed that section 4 of the SEBI Act be amended to give effect to 
the proposal.  
 

2.44    Amendment of section 19 
 
 

 
The Group noted that under section 19 of the SEBI Act, SEBI 
can delegate its powers and functions under the SEBI Act except 
the powers under section 29 to any of its officers, members etc.  
The  Group  observed  that  section  29  provides for power of the 
Central Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of 
the SEBI Act. As this power cannot be exercised by SEBI Board, 
the question of its delegation does not arise.  It was observed that 
reference  to  section  29  in  section  19  of  the  SEBI  Act  seems  to 
have been made wrongly.  The reference to section 29 should be 
replaced by     section 30 which empowers SEBI Board to frame 
regulations to carry out the purposes of the Act.   

The Group recommends that section 19 of the SEBI Act may be 
amended to replace the references to section 29, by section 30.     

3.0  Amendments to Companies Act 
3.1 

PART- THREE 

Jurisdiction  of  SEBI  over  listed  companies  and  Investor 
Education and Protection Fund.  
 
The  Group  note d  that  the  suggestions  regarding  conferring 
comprehensive  jurisdiction  to  SEBI  over  listed  companies  and 
administration  of  the  Investors’  Education  and  Protection  Fund 
set  up  under  section  205C  of  the  Companies  Act  may  be 
administered by SEBI are as per recommendations of the JPC, and 
as  such  this  Committee  would  like  to  leave  the  matter  to  the 
Central Government for taking a policy decision in this regard.  
 

 
The Group does not wish to make any recommendations in view 
of the above position and feels that the Central Government may 
consider  taking  further  necessary  steps  and  avoid  duplicity  of 
jurisdiction. 

3.2  Recommendation of the Group 

 

 

 
3.3  Power to amend schedule II of the Companies Act 
  

The  Group  considered  the  suggestion  that  SEBI  should  be 
authorised to amend Schedule II of the Companies Act specifying 
the  disclosures  to  be  made  by  the  companies  in  the  offer 
documents. The Group noted that Schedule II of the Companies 
Act provides for matters to be disclosed by the companies in the 
prospectus issued by them.   The power to alter the Schedules of 
the  Companies  Act  is  vested  in  the  Central  Government  under 
section 641 of the Companies Act.     
 
The  Group  noted  that  under  section  11A  of  the  SEBI  Act,  
without  prejudice to the provisions of the Companies Act, SEBI 
may  by  regulations  specify  the  disclosures  to  be  made  by  the 
companies in their offer documents. Under this provision SEBI 
may specify additional disclosures.   
 

3.4  Recommendation of the Group 

 
The Group recommends that SEBI may in exercise of its powers 
under section 11A of the SEBI Act, specify additional disclosures 
to be made by the companies and the power to amend Schedule II 
of the Companies Act may remain with the Central Government.  

3.7     Recommendation of the Group  

 
The  Group  feels  that  this  is  a  policy  matter  and  the  Central 
Government may decide as to whether to confer sole jurisdiction 
on SEBI under the SC (R) A.   
 

3.8  Delegation of powers under the SC(R)A and the Depositories 

Act  

 

3.5  Amendment in SC (R)A and Depositories Act, 1996–  
 
3.6 

SEBI to be sole authority to administer the provisions of the 
SC(R)A 

  

The Group considered the suggestion for making SEBI the sole 
authority  to  administer  the  provisions  of  SC(R)A.    In  this 
connection, the Group also noted the comments of RBI that by 
amendment  in  section  29A  of  the  SC(R)A  read  with  the 
notification  dated  March  1,  2000 
the  Central 
Government, the powers to regulate transactions in money market 
securities  including  repos  in  government  and  debt  securities, 
Government securities market, and gold related securities etc have 
been delegated to RBI. It was brought to the notice of the Group 
that  in  terms  of  section  29A  of  the  SC  (R)  A,  the  Central 
Government  may  delegate  its  powers  to  SEBI  and  in  certain 
matters to RBI.   

issued  by 

The Group considered the suggestions to amend SC(R)A and the 
Depositories  Act  empowering  the  SEBI  Board  to  delegate  its 
powers and functions under those Acts to its officers, members or 
other persons specified by an order on the lines of section 19 of 
the SEBI Act. 
 
The Group examined the provisions of the SC(R) A and the SEBI 
Act and the Depositories Act and noted that under the SC(R)A, 
the Central Government has delegated certain powers upon SEBI. 
Further, SEBI has certain substantive and direct powers under the 
SC(R)  A  and  the  Depositories  Act.  Under  the  SC(R)  A  and  the 
Depositories  Act  there  are  no  provisions  on  the  lines  of  the 
section 19 of the SEBI Act, authorizing the Board to delegate its 
functions to its officers, members, etc.   
 
The  Group  also  noted  that  in  terms  of  section 11(2) (j) of the 
SEBI Act, the Board can perform such other functions as may be 
delegated to it by Central Government under the SC(R)A. Such 

functions being functions under the SEBI Act, it may be possible 
to  delegate  such  functions  under  section  19  of  the  SEBI  Act.  
However, the substantive and direct functions and powers of the 
Board under the SC( R)A and the Depositories Act may not be 
delegated under section 19 of the SEBI Act as such powers and 
functions  are  not  powers  and  functions  under  the  SEBI  Act as 
contemplated by section 19 of the SEBI Act. However, this power 
may be conferred upon the Board by amending section 19 of the 
SEBI Act by including delegation of powers under SC(R)A and 
Depositories Act.        

 
3.9  Recommendation of the Group 

 
The Group recommends that section 19 of the SEBI Act may be 
amended to include delegation of powers under the SC(R)A and 
the Depositories Act. 
 

   
3.10  Consolidation of securities laws 
 

The Group considered the proposal for consolidation of securities 
laws  governing  primary  issues,  secondary  market,  Collective 
Investment Schemes and listed companies into one enactment on 
the lines of Financial Services and Market Act, 2000 of U.K. 

 
3.11   Recommendation of the Group 

 
The Group feels that though it is desirable to have consolidated 
legislation  as  proposed,  the  Group  would  not  like  to  make  any 
recommendation in this regard as the issue involves a policy matter 
on which only the Central Government can take a view.  

 
 

 

Sr. 
No. 

 
ANNEXURE ‘A’ 
Names of the stakeholders from whom the comments were sought 
 

Names 

 

1  Reserve Bank of India 
2  Department of Company Affairs 
3  Department of Economic Affairs 

Institute of Company Secretaries of India 

4 
5  National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 
6  The Stock Exchange, Mumbai 
7  Central Depository Services (India) Ltd 
8  National Securities Depository Ltd 
9  Consumer Education & Research Society  
10  Rajkot Sahar / Jilla Grahak Suraksha Mandal 
11  Consumer Unity & Trust Society  
12  Tamilnadu Investors Association 
13  Gujarat Investors & Shareholders Association 
14  Ghatkopar Investors Welfare Association 
15 
16  Kolhapur Investors Association 
17  Midas Touch Investors Association 
18  Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry 
19  The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
20  Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry 
21 
22  Association of Merchant Bankers in India 
23  Association of Mutual Funds in India 
24  Bombay Incorporated Law Society  

Investors Grievancies Forum 

Indian Merchant's Chambers 

Names of the stakeholders from whom the comments were 

ANNEXURE ‘B 

received 

 
Names 

Sr. 
No.
1  Reserve Bank of India 
2  Ministry of Company Affairs 
3  Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
4  National Stock Exchange 
5  Bombay Stock Exchange 
6  Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. 
7  National Securities Depository Ltd. 
8  Consumer Education & Research Society 
9  Rajkot Sahar / Jilla Grahak Suraksha Mandal 
10  Tamilnadu Investors Association 
11  Consumer Unity & Trust Society (CUTS) 
12  Gujarat Investors & Shareholders Association 
13  Kolhapur Investors Association 
14  Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry  
15  The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
16  Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry  
17  Indian Merchant's Chambers 
18  Association of Mutual Funds in India 
19  Bombay Incorporated Law Society 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Acknowledgements 

  
  
The  Group  acknowledges  the  support  provided  by  all  concerned  in 
completing  its  task  assigned  to  it  by  the  Board.    All  material  and 
documents  needed and desired by the Group  were promptly supplied 
by the Legal Affairs Department of SEBI, who also provided logistical 
and administrative support as well as secretarial assistance to the Group.  
The Group appreciates the work of the Officers and secretaries of SEBI 
who worked overtime in order to cope up with the task and who helped 
the Group in its deliberations and drafting of Minutes and Report. 
   
The Group would also like to acknowledge the in-depth analysis done in 
papers prepared by Officers of Legal Affairs Department of SEBI .The 
Group  records its deep appreciation of the valuable insights and inputs 
provided by Shri Santosh Kumar Shukla, Deputy Legal Advisor, SEBI. 
The Group also specially acknowledges the painstaking work put in by 
Shri R.Vasudevan, Director (Inspection and Investigation), Department 
of Company Affairs.  
  
The Group records its high appreciation of the hard work put in by the 
officials of SEBI who laboured ceaselessly to enable timely and smooth 
holding of meetings, making material available, collating and compiling 
comments from all stakeholders.   
 
Specific mention is to be made of the work put in by Shri Vijayakrishnan 
G., Assistant Legal Adviser, SEBI in assisting the Group. The Group also 
expresses its thanks to Mrs. Sandhya Santhosh Kumar and Mrs. Shwetha 
Shetty for providing necessary secretarial assistance. 

 
 
 

 

 

  

    

 

 

 

Mr. Justice M . H . Kania (Retd.)  

(Chairman)  

 
 
Mr. Justice A. N . Mody               
(Retd.) 
 
Mr. Justice S.M. Jhunjhunwala           
(Retd.)  

Mr. Jitesh Khosla                        
 
Mr.   P G R Prasad  
 
Mr. Sushil Jiwrajka          
 
Mr. Prashant Saran                                    
 
Ms. P. M . Umerji                     
 
Mr. N . K. Jain 
 
Mr. K . R . Chandratre           
 
Mr.  Anil Singhvi  
 
Ms. Parimala Rao                     
 
Mr. Pratip Kar                             
      

 

 

Mr. R. S. Loona 
(Member Secretary)  

