PAPER  ON  MEASURES 

DISCUSSION 
EXCESS 
DEMATERIALISATION OF SECURITIES  AND  PRE-LISTING  GREY  MARKET 
IN  SECURITIES  ISSUED  IN  INITIAL  PUBLIC  OFFERS  (IPOs)  –  PROPOSED 
AMENDMENTS  TO  THE  SEBI  (DEPOSITORIES  AND  PARTICIPANTS) 
REGULATIONS, 1996  

TO  CHECK 

 

I. 
 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
II 

 
1. 

BACKGROUND 

The  past  few  years  have  seen  a  phenomenal  growth  in  the  securities 
market,  leading  to  an  explosion  in  transaction  volumes  on  account  of 
changes in the market microstructure due to technological developments. 
The markets have also witnessed significant regulatory reforms. One such 
reform  includes  introduction  of  the  depository  system.  The  advent  of 
depositories  resolved  the  biggest  chunk  of  the  market  risk,  i.e.  bad 
deliveries, delayed transfers, fake certificates, loss/theft of certificates, etc.   

In the new system, the ownership of records is kept in electronic form and 
the physical movement of securities is replaced by a book entry system. 
This system was seen as a solution to the problems associated with the 
process  of  physical  movement,  such  as,  long  delays  in  transfer,  bad 
deliveries due to faulty completion of paper work, signature difference with 
the  specimen  on  record  with  the  listed  companies  and  other  procedural 
lapses. 

However,  certain  irregularities  have  also  been  observed  in  the  demat 
system like,   problem of securities having been issued in demat form by 
listed companies in excess of listed capital/issued capital and transfer of 
securities by the investors (through off-market) before trading permission 
was  given  by  all  the  stock  exchanges  to  whom  listing  application  was 
made  under  section  73(1)  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  by  the  issuer 
companies.  

PROBLEM  OF  SECURITIES  ISSUED  IN  DEMAT  FORM  BY  LISTED 
COMPANIES IN EXCESS OF LISTED CAPITAL/ISSUED CAPITAL 

In terms of section 9 (1) of the Depositories Act, 1996, all securities held 
by a depository shall be dematerialised and shall be in a fungible form. In 
the past, SEBI had come across some cases where the listed companies 
had  dematted  more  securities  than  their  listed/issued  capital.  As  the 
securities  in  the  dematerialized  environment  are  fungible,  once  these 
fungible  securities  enter  the  market,  it  has  been  found  to  be  almost 
impossible  to  distinguish  these  securities  from  the  other  securities.  This 
has enabled duplicate or fake securities to find way into the system.  This 

 

Page 1 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

is a matter of concern for the regulator and therefore, has been engaging 
the attention of SEBI for quite some time.  

There appears to be two kinds of “excess securities”  in the system. 

 
2. 
 

One is where the dematerialisation is in excess of listed capital 
of  a  listed  company.  This  may  be  a  temporary  phenomenon 
arising out of the fact that the company has made further issue 
of  securities  and  dematerialised  such  fresh  capital  without 
having received the listing approval from one or more or all of 
the  stock  exchanges  where  the  securities  of  the  company  are 
listed. The allotment of this “excess”  capital could be in demat or 
physical 
form.  This  “excess”  dematerialisation  may  get 
regularized  once  the  final  listing  approval/s  are  granted  by  all 
the  stock  exchanges.  However,  till  the  listing  approval  is 
granted, these securities are “technically unlisted”  and therefore, 
could not be delivered in the stock exchanges.  But due to the 
fungibility,  if  these  securities  are  delivered,  it  would  not  be 
possible to distinguish them from the original listed securities.  
The  other  kind  of  ‘excess  securities’ is  where  the  securities in 
existence (physical and demat) are in excess of issued capital 
of  a listed  company.  This  would  imply  that  duplicate  securities 
are in existence.   

(i) 

(ii) 

 

III.  MEASURES TAKEN IN THE PAST TO ADDRESS THE CONCERNS 
 
1. 

In  order  to  address  the  concerns  arising  out  of  ‘dematerialisation  of 
securities in excess of listed  capital’, SEBI had issued a circular on March 
8,  2001  advising  the  stock  exchanges  to  amend  the  listing  agreement, 
stating,  inter-alia,  that  “the  company  agrees  to  obtain  ‘in-principle’ 
approval  for  listing  from  the  exchange  before  issuing  further  shares  or 
securities”.  It  was  also  mandated in  the  said  circular  that  the  stock 
exchanges  shall  inform  depositories  the  grant  of  ‘in-principle’ 
listing 
approval  immediately.  The  stock  exchanges  having  connectivity  with  the 
depositories would upload this information electronically.  This circular was 
modified  by  a  Circular  dated  September  29,  2003,  stating  that  “if  a 
company  is  listed  on  any  stock  exchange  which  is  having  nationwide 
trading terminals, it would be a sufficient compliance of the SEBI circular 
(dated March 8, 2001), if it obtains ‘in-principle’  approval from such stock 
exchange(s) for further issue of shares or securities. Where the company 
is not so listed on any stock exchange having nationwide terminals, it shall 
continue to obtain ‘in-principle’  approval from all the exchanges where it is 
listed  as  was  provided  in  the  aforesaid  circular  dated  March  8,  2001”. 

 

Page 2 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

in  September  2003  vide  Regulation  54(5)  of 

Further, 
the  SEBI 
(D&P)(second Amendment) Regulations, 2003, it was provided that within 
15  days  of  receipt  of  the  certificate  of  security  from  the  participant,  the 
issuer shall confirm to the depository that securities comprised in the said 
certificate  have  been  listed  on  the  stock  exchange  or  exchanges  where 
the  earlier  issued  listed  securities  are  listed  and  shall  also  after  due 
verification immediately mutilate and cancel the certificate and substitute 
in its record the name of the depository as the registered owner and shall 
send  a  certificate  to  this  effect  to  the  depository  and  to  every  stock 
exchange  where  the  security  is  listed.  These  efforts  have  resulted  in 
considerable reduction in the number of cases where the dematerialized 
capital was in excess of the listed capital of a listed company.  However, a 
blanket  ban  on  dematerialization  of  any  unlisted  securities  of  a  listed 
company  was  not  feasible  in  view  of  the  provisions  of  section  8  of  the 
Depositories  Act,  1996,  in  terms  of  which  the  investor  has  the  option  to 
receive  security  certificate  or  hold  securities  with  depository  in  a 
dematerialised form.  

In  order  to  address  the  problem  arising  out  of  “’dematerialisation  of 
securities in excess of issued  capital of a listed company’, SEBI  issued a 
circular  dated  December  31,  2002,  mandating  all  companies  to  subject 
themselves to secretarial audit on a quarterly basis. With the objective of 
strengthening the regulatory framework to address the aforesaid problem, 
SEBI brought in changes in the manner of handling share registry work by 
inserting regulation 53A in SEBI (D&P) Regulations, 1996 with effect from  
September  2,  2003.  This  regulation  provides  that  “All  matters  relating  to 
transfer  of  securities,  maintenance  of  records  of  holders  of  securities, 
handling  of  physical  securities  and  establishing  connectivity  with  the 
depositories shall be handled and maintained at a single point i.e. either 
in-house  by  the  issuer  or  by  a  Share  Transfer  Agent  registered  with  the 
Board”.  Further,  with  the  insertion  of  Regulation  55A  in  SEBI  (D&P) 
Regulations, 1996, on September 2, 2003, the requirement of submission 
of  secretarial  audit  by  listed  companies  to  stock  exchanges,  with  effect 
from  September  30,  2003,  has  been  made  a  regulatory  requirement.    A 
circular  was  also  issued  on  March  3,  2004  re-emphasizing  the  need  to 
comply with the provisions of Regulation 55A.   

NEED FOR FURTHER PREVENTIVE STEPS 

Despite the various measures initiated by SEBI as enumerated above, the 
problems  arising  out  of  “excess  demat”  have  not  been completely 
resolved.  Therefore, it is felt that certain further preventive steps would be 
necessary, in the interest of securities market, to tackle this issue.  While 

 
2. 

 
IV 
 
1. 

 

Page 3 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

 
2.  

 

 

the  measures  taken  in  the  past  include  casting  a  responsibility  on  the 
listed  company  and  the  stock  exchanges,  the  issue  now  needs  a  fresh 
look from the point of systemic issues with the depositories.  One of the 
preventive steps could be to put certain responsibilities on the depositories 
to  ensure  that the  securities  are  not  dematted  in  excess  of  listed/issued 
capital. 

Section 23F of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 as inserted 
by Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 provides for the following:  

Penalty for excess dematerialisation or delivery of unlisted securities 
 
23F.  If  any  issuer  dematerialises  securities  more  than  the  issued 
securities of a company or delivers in the stock exchanges the securities 
which  are  not  listed  in  the  recognised  stock  exchange  or  delivers 
securities where no trading permission has been given by the recognised 
stock exchange, he shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding twenty-five 
crore rupees. 
 
The  aforesaid  section  deals  with  two  distinct  things,  and  provides  for 
imposition of deterrent penalty of upto Rs.25 crores.: 
i. 
ii. 

dematerialization in excess of issued capital; and, 
Delivering  unlisted  securities  or  securities  for  which  no  trading 
permission has been given in the stock exchanges. 

As far as improper dematerialization is concerned, the ‘person’  referred to 
above could mean those who are involved in the process, i.e. the issuer, 
its registrar, the depository participant and the depository, apart from the 
investor who holds the securities. As such, it is felt that the responsibility 
would be on each such person to ensure that dematerialization is not done 
in  excess  of  issued  capital.  For  this  purpose,  a  system  of  tracking 
distinctive numbers of securities admitted to a depository system seems to 
be a sine qua non – to ensure that certificates which have already been 
dematerialized are not again tendered and dematerialized. This provision 
needs  to  be  clarified  further  in  the  SEBI  (D&P)  Regulations,  1996,  by 
defining the responsibility of each such person in this regard.  
 
As regards delivery of unlisted securities on a stock exchange, though in 
terms  of  the  section  every  person  who  has  so  delivered  is  liable  for 
monetary penalty, it is felt that innocent parties such as clients or brokers, 
who may not be in the know, should not suffer penalty. The way to ensure 
that such securities are not delivered on the stock exchange would be to 
ensure  that  they  are  not  dematerialized  or  allotted  without  blocking 

 

Page 4 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

unlisted  securities  allotted  in  demat  form  in  the  first  instance  and  by 
making suitable provisions to prevent or lessen the possibility of fraudulent 
demat of physical securities which are unlisted or which are forged. The 
modalities  for  ensuring  this  have  been  discussed  in  the  subsequent 
paragraphs. Any person who manipulates and circumvents even the new 
system  (modalities)  and  delivers  unlisted  securities  could  then  be 
punished.  

The Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004 also inserted Section 19E in 
the Depositories Act, 1996 which reads as follows: 
 

 
3. 

Penalty for failure to reconcile records.—  

19E. If a depository or participant or any issuer or its agent or any person, 
who is registered as an intermediary under the provisions of Section 12 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), fails to 
reconcile  the  records  of  dematerilaised  securities  with  all  the  securities 
issued  by  the  issuer  as  specified  in  the  regulations,  such  depository  or 
participant or issuer or its agent or intermediary shall be liable to a penalty 
of one lakh rupees for each day during which such failure continues or one 
crore rupees, whichever is less. 
 
In  terms  of  the  aforesaid  provision,  the  primary  responsibility  for  correct 
reconciliation of total issued securities with those dematerialized is on the 
depository.  In  the  absence  of  further  clarification,  there  would  be 
indiscriminate liability to penalty under this section on all concerned, while 
there  would  be  no  system  whereby  the  other  players  would  be  able  to 
ensure  proper  reconciliation.  In  such  a  case,  levy  of  penalty  on  any 
innocent person other than the depository may not be justified. There is a 
need  for  correctly  identifying  the  respective  responsibilities  of  the 
depository,  depository  participant,  issuer,  share  transfer  agent  and  the 
investor in the dematerialization process and casting an obligation on the 
depository 
require  suitable 
amendments  to  SEBI  (D&P)  Regulations,  1996.  Once  the  system  is 
established  by  the  depository,  each  of  the  other  persons  will  be 
responsible to fulfill his part of the duty properly and will be liable for any 
lapse in his sphere of duty. 
 
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO SEBI (D&P) REGULATIONS, 1996 TO 
PREVENT THE EXCESS DEMAT 

the  systems.  This  would 

to  develop 

These issues were discussed by the Legal Advisory Committee of SEBI 
(LAC). In the light of the foregoing and based on the recommendations of 

V. 

 
1. 

 

Page 5 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

LAC,  it  has  been  proposed  to  make  certain  amendments  to  the  SEBI 
(D&P)  Regulations,  1996,  as  detailed  in  the  Annexure  hereto.  The 
proposed amendments cover three distinct classes of transactions which 
are explained below : 
(a) 

Preventing excess dematerialization – Cases of direct allotment of 
further securities in dematerialized form 
There  are  cases  where  demat  allotments  are  made  by  issuers 
which involve various irregularities and violations. At a later point of 
time,  the  stock  exchanges  while  examining  the  listing  application, 
detect  these  violations.  In  the  meantime,  the  securities,  being 
fungible  with  existing  regularly  allotted  securities,  are  offloaded  in 
the stock exchanges, even though listing permission is not given for 
them. This is sought to be prevented by regulations 53C(1), (3) and 
(4)  and  53D.  Post  amendment,  the  process  flow  of  a  demat 
allotment may be as follows: 

 

i.  The issuer takes in-principle approval from the stock exchanges 
where securities of the same kind are listed under clause 24(a) 
of the Listing Agreement.  Where such securities are listed on 
BSE  or  NSE  or  both,  among  other  exchanges,  it  would  be 
sufficient if the in-principle approval is taken only from BSE or 
NSE  or  both,  as  the  case  may  be.1  The  issuer  shall  complete 
other  approvals  and  other  pre-issue  procedures  before 
approaching the exchange for in-principle approval.   

ii.   The  issuer  makes  demat  allotment  of  the  securities  to  the 
allottees. The depositories give credit  to the demat accounts of 
the  allottees.  However,  they  will  be  required  to  block  /  freeze 
such securities in the said demat accounts until confirmation as 
in  (iv)  below  is  received  from  the  issuer  and  the  designated 
stock exchange [proposed regulation 53C(3)]. 

iii.  The issuer makes listing application for the new securities to all 
the  stock  exchanges  where  the  original  securities  are  listed. 
[clause 24(a) of the Listing Agreement]. 

iv.  Post allotment, listing and trading permission is either granted or 
refused by the exchanges.  If all the exchanges grant listing and 
trading  permission  to  the  new  securities,  the  issuer  and  the 
designated 
fact 
independently to the depositories with whom the issuer has an 
agreement  [proposed  regulation  53C(1)].    In  case  the  original 
securities  are  listed  in  BSE  or  NSE  or  both,  the  confirmation 

stock  exchange 

confirm 

such 

shall 

                                                
1 As per SEBI circular dated September 29, 2003, which has done away with the requirement of obtaining 
in-principle approval from smaller exchanges where the securities are listed in NSE or BSE. 

 

Page 6 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

 

ought to be given as soon as BSE or NSE or both, as the case 
may be, grant the permissions.2 

v.  After receipt of confirmations as above, the depositories shall lift 
the  freeze  /  block  and  the  demat  securities  will  become  freely 
transferable. 

As a corollary to the above, the issue of securities subject to lock-in 
period  also  arises.    At  present,  depositories  have  operational 
mechanisms  to  block  such  securities  in  the  relevant  demat 
accounts during the lock-in period.  But there is no obligation upon 
them to do so.  It may be recalled that during the physical regime, 
the  share  certificates  which  were  subject  to  lock-in  period  were 
inscribed with a seal mentioning ‘locked in till ___’, which enabled 
brokers  and  clearing  houses  to  identify  them.    In  the  demat  era, 
such identification is not possible and, in the absence of any legal 
obligation  on  the  depositories  to  block  such  securities  during  the 
lock-in  period,  there  is  a  possibility  of  such  securities  being  off 
loaded  in  the  market  before  expiry  of  the  lock-in  period,  as  has 
already happened in some cases.  Proposed regulation 53D seeks 
to  address 
this  situation  by  casting  suitable  obligation  on 
depositories. 
 

(b)  Preventing  excess  dematerialization  –  Subsequent  demat  of 

securities originally allotted in physical form 
i. 

It  is  more  difficult  to 
tackle  this  situation  since  such 
dematerialization  is  done  directly  by  the  issuer,  when  the 
certificate  is  forwarded  by  a  depository  participant.  The 
dematerialization process in existing provisions of regulation 
54  requires  that  an  investor  holding  physical  securities  may 
approach  a  depository  participant,  who  would  forward  the 
certificate  to  the  issuer.  The  issuer  would  then  destroy  the 
certificate  and  enter  the  name  of  depository  as  holder  of 
those  particular  securities  (by  their  distinctive  numbers  as 
required  by  section  150  of  the  Companies  Act)  in  its  books 
after  giving  confirmation  to  the  depository  as  regards  the 
listed status of those particular securities.  It has to be noted 
that the depository participant who forwards the certificate to 
the  issuer  would  have  to  forward  details  of  the  physical 
security  certificate  to  the  depository  and  maintain  record  of 
the details of such certificate and the investor who tendered 
them  [regulations  54(2)  &  (3)].  Thus,  it  is  seen  that  existing 

                                                
2 flowing from SEBI circular dated September 29, 2003. 

 

Page 7 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

provisions  require  the  depositories  to  maintain  details  of 
distinctive  numbers  at  least  of  the  securities  dematerialized 
with it. However –  

a)  There is no express provision saying so. 
b)  Even so distinctive numbers of securities of an issuer 
which are still in physical form are not required to be 
maintained by the depository. 

c)  The problem is compounded because of existence of 

two depositories, which may not have identical data. 

 

ii. 

It  is  seen  that  in  one  of  the  depositories  there  was  a 
mechanism  of  communication  between  the  depository 
participant  and  the  depository  even  before  forwarding  to 
the issuer and that non genuine cases such as demat of 
(duplicate  or  forged)  certificates  bearing  same  distinctive 
number  as  those  already  dematted  are  capable  of  being 
eliminated  at  the  first  stage  itself.  This  system  has  now 
been  discontinued.  It  is  felt  based  on  SEBI’s  experience 
that this system should be made compulsory for all demat 
requests  and  for  all  depositories  after  plugging  the 
loopholes  mentioned  in  (a)  to  (c)  above.  Any  other  view 
could  make  the  provisions  of  regulations  54(2)  and  (3) 
redundant  and  would  provide  no  means  of  checking 
whether  the  dematerialized  securities  are  within  the  limit 
of total issued capital.  Further, such a provision will only 
be  clarificatory  of  section  19E  of  the  Depositories  Act 
(Penalty for failure to reconcile records), which has been 
inserted by the Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004.   

iii.  Accordingly,  regulations  54(4A)  to  (4C)  and  54A  are 
proposed. Since the depositories do not have a system to 
track  distinctive  numbers  and  share  the  information  with 
depository  participants  today,  a  transitional  period  would 
have  to  be  provided  for  them  to  collect  the  requisite 
information 
issuers  (listed  companies).  A 
corresponding obligation is also sought to be imposed on 
issuers. The process flow could take place in two stages, 
as detailed below : 

from 

the 

Stage I – For establishment of the new system 
 

1)  The issuers would be required to provide information of 
are 

securities  which 

distinctive 

numbers 

of 

 

 

 

Page 8 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

dematerialized, in physical form, listed, unlisted, etc. as 
in  the  proposed  regulation  54A(4)  within  the  time 
specified  by  SEBI.  Flexibility  is  retained  for  SEBI  to 
specify  different  time  limits  for  different  classes  of 
issuers, so that this could be done in phases. 

2)  The  depositories  shall  use  the  above  information  and 
create  a  system  of  tracking  distinctive  numbers  of  the 
securities  which  are  dematerialized.  This  would  also 
require  tracking  distinctive  numbers  of  securities  which 
are  validly  issued  and  remaining  in  physical  form.  To 
prevent  fraudulent  demat  of  unlisted  securities,  they 
would  also 
track  distinctive  numbers  of  physical 
securities  which  have  been  allotted  but  not  listed  in  all 
stock exchanges where original securities are listed [or 
BSE  or  NSE  or  both  alone,  where  relevant.  This  data 
shall be made available online to depository participants 
and  shall  be  established  within  such  time  as  may  be 
specified  by  SEBI.  Flexibility  is  retained  for  SEBI  to 
specify  different  time  limits  for  creation  of  record  in 
respect  of  different  classes  of 
[proposed 
regulations 54A(2) & (3)]. 

issuers 

3)  Corresponding obligation is cast on the designated stock 
exchange  and 
to  continually  provide 
information  about  developments  regarding  the  listing 
status of the securities [proposed regulation 54A(5)].  

issuers 

4)  Companies  coming  out  with  initial  public  offers  (IPOs) 
shall be required to give this information while entering 
into  an  agreement  with 
for 
dematerialization of their securities.  

the  depositories 

5)  As far as requiring both depositories to set up a single 
online system is concerned, SEBI may supplement this 
with administrative instructions (circulars). 

the 

6)  It is to be noted that the depositories’  obligations do not 
end  with  creating  the  system  of  tracking  the  distinctive 
numbers. As in the proposed regulation 54A(1), it shall 
be their responsibility to “establish and maintain systems 
and safeguards designed to reconcile records of issued, 
listed  and  dematerialized  securities  of  each  class  of 
securities 
prevent 
dematerialization  of  securities  in  excess  of  total  issued 
and  listed  securities”  of  which  the  distinctive  number 
tracking  system  is  only  an  illustration.  SEBI  may 
supplement 
administrative 

provision  with 

issuer 

every 

and 

this 

of 

to 

 

Page 9 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

instructions  (circulars)  from  time  to  time,  if  found 
necessary. 

Stage II – Dematerialization after establishment of the new 
system 

1)  A  holder  of  physical 

securities  desirous  of 
dematerializing  them  has  to  surrender  the  physical 
security  certificates  to  a  depository  participant  with  the 
prescribed form [existing regulation  54(1)]. 

2)  The  depository  participant  shall  check  the  distinctive 
number  contained  in  the  certificate  with  the  data 
contained  in  the  online  record  maintained  by  the 
depository  under  proposed  regulation  54A(2)  to  verify 
whether  the  same  distinctive  numbers  have  been 
dematerialized earlier and whether they are listed on all 
relevant stock exchanges. 

3)  If the depository participant finds that the securities are 
not  already  dematerialized  and  are  duly  listed  in  the 
relevant  stock  exchanges,  it  shall  forward  the  security 
certificate  to  the  issuer  with  requisite  details,  after 
entering them in its record. It shall forward the details to 
the depository also [existing regulations 54(2) to (4) and 
proposed  regulation  54(4A)].    Where  the  depository 
participant  is  not  so  satisfied,  it  shall  not  forward  the 
security  to  the  issuer  but  shall  report  the  fact  to  the 
issuer and the depository [proposed regulation 54(4B)]. 

4)  The  issuer  upon  receipt  of  the  security  certificate 
forwarded by the depository participant shall confirm to 
the  depository  that  the  securities  comprised  in  the 
certificate  have  been  listed  on  stock  exchanges  where 
the  original  securities  are  listed  and  shall  after  due 
verification mutilate and cancel the certificate and enter 
the depositories name as the registered owner.  It shall 
send a confirmation to this effect to the depository and 
every  stock  exchange  where  the  security  is  listed  and 
update  its  record  of  dematerialized  securities  [existing 
regulations 54(5) and (7)]. 

5)  Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  as  above  from  the  issuer, 
the  depository  shall  enter  the  name  of  the  person  who 
has  surrendered  the  security  certificate,  as  beneficial 
owner in its records [existing regulation  54(6)]. 

 

 

 

 

Page 10 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

VI 

 
1. 

2.  

 
VII 
 
1. 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO SEBI (D&P) REGULATIONS, 1996 TO 
PREVENT PRE-LISTING GREY MARKET OPERATIONS IN IPOs 

Section 68B of the Companies Act requires that every IPO in excess of 
Rs.10 crores is to be made in demat form.  Practically all IPOs that take 
place today are in demat form. Having regard to the recent developments 
relating  to  transactions  in  the  grey  market  (off-market)  in  securities  of 
IPOs  before  grant  of  listing  and  trading  permissions  by  the  concerned 
stock  exchanges,  the  depositories  were  advised  by  SEBI  vide  circular 
dated  January  19,  2006  to  activate  the  ISINs  only  on  the  date  of 
commencement of trading on the stock exchanges. 
 
Regulation 53D is proposed to supplement this by casting an obligation on 
the depositories to prevent transfer of such securities till listing and trading 
permission  are  given  by  all  the  stock  exchanges  to  whom  listing 
application  is  made  under  section  73(1)  of  the  Companies  Act.  The 
process  flow  after  insertion  of  the  proposed  regulation  would  be  as 
follows: 

a)  The  issuer  allots  securities  in  an  IPO  after  following  due 

procedure.  

IPO.  

b)  The depositories give credit to the successful applicants in the 

c)  However,  the  depositories  block  /  freeze  the  securities  in  the 
demat  accounts  of  the  allottees  till  the  designated  stock 
exchange and the issuer confirm to them that listing and trading 
permissions have been granted by all stock exchanges to whom 
listing  application  was  made  under  section  73(1)  of  the 
Companies Act.  

d)  Once confirmation as above is received, the depositories lift the 

freeze and the securities will become freely transferable. 

CONCLUSION 

The above amendments broadly cover (a) capturing of distinctive numbers 
in  the  depository  system  (b)  casting  responsibility  of  the  depositories  to 
obtain  the  confirmation  from  the  issuer  and  the  designated  stock 
exchange  regarding  grant  of 
listing  permission,  before  permitting 
dematerialisation (c) casting responsibility on the depository to block the 
securities  in  the  demat  account  of  the  beneficiary  owner  till  trading 
permission  is  granted  by  the  stock  exchanges,  in  case  of  fresh  issue  of 
securities (d) casting responsibility on the depositories to reconcile records 
of issued, listed, and dematted securities.  These proposed amendments 
cast  responsibilities  on  the  depositories,  depository  participants,  issuer 

 

Page 11 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 

? 
 

companies,  etc.  The  process  of  implementation  would  require  system 
changes at the depositories, depository participants and RTI/STAs.    

SEBI  has  been  following  a  policy  of  extensive  public  consultation  and 
debate  before  formulating  and  implementing  any  new  regulation.  In 
accordance  with  this  policy,  this  Discussion  Paper,  along  with  proposed 
amendments  to  SEBI  (D&P)  Regulations,  1996,  is  being  made  available 
on SEBI’s web site at www.sebi.gov.in for public comments.  

All comments on this Discussion Paper should reach SEBI at the following 
address or may be sent by e-mail to excessdemat@sebi.gov.in by July 10, 
2006. 

Shri V.S. Sundaresan, General Manager, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
29th Floor, World Trade Centre, Centre 1 
Cuffe Parade, Mumbai 400005 
 
 

******************* 

ANNEXURE 

 

 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO SEBI (D&P) REGULATIONS, 1996 

“53C. Issue of securities in the dematerialised form 

 

(1)  Where an issuer allots further securities in dematerialized form of a 
class of securities which are already listed on any recognized stock 
exchange,  the  issuer  and  the  designated  stock  exchange  shall 
confirm to the depositories that listing and trading permissions have 
been  granted  for  the  further  securities  by  all  stock  exchanges  in 
which the existing securities of the same class are listed, forthwith 
upon grant of such permission: 
Provided that where such class of securities is listed on recognised 
stock  exchanges  which  have  nationwide  trading  terminals,  among 
others, it would be sufficient for the issuer and the designated stock 
exchange to provide the above confirmation in respect of listing and 
trading  permissions  granted  by  such  recognised  stock  exchanges 
having nationwide trading terminals alone. 

(2)  Where  an  issuer  makes  an  initial  public  offering  (IPO)  of  its 
securities,  the  issuer  and  the  designated  stock  exchange  shall 
confirm to the depositories that listing and trading permissions have 
been  granted  for  such  securities  by  all  stock  exchanges  to  which 

 

Page 12 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

listing applications were made under sub-section (1) of section 73 
of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  forthwith  upon  grant  of  such 
permission. 

(3)   The depository shall block the securities allotted in dematerialized 
form to any person in a case covered either by sub-regulation (1) or 
sub-regulation  (2),  in  the  demat  account  of  such  person  until  the 
confirmations as provided under those sub-regulations are received 
from the issuer and the designated stock exchange. 

(4)   For the purposes of this regulation –  

(a) ‘designated  stock  exchange’  shall  mean  the  stock  exchange 
designated as such by the issuer for its IPO or any subsequent 
issue of securities under the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 and 
if no such stock exchange is specified, then any stock exchange 
designated by the issuer for the purpose of these regulations: 
Provided  that  when  the  securities  of  the  issuer  are  listed  on 
stock  exchanges  which  have 
trading 
terminals,  the  issuer  shall  designate  one  of  them  under  the 
second part of this clause; and 

installed  nationwide 

(b) ‘stock  exchanges  which  have  installed  nationwide  trading 
terminals’  mean  the  Bombay  Stock  Exchange  Limited,  the 
National  Stock  Exchange  of  India  Limited  and  any  other  stock 
exchange which may be specified as such by the Board. 

 
53D. Issue of securities subject to lock-in period 
(1) Where any allotment of securities in an IPO or any allotment of further 
securities  made  in  dematerialized  form  is  subject  to  lock-in  period 
under any regulations or guidelines made under the Act, the depository 
shall block such securities in the demat account of the person to whom 
the allotment was made, till the lock-in period is over.  

(2) Sub-regulation (1) shall apply subject to such relaxation regarding the 
lock-in  period  as  may  be  available  under  the  relevant  regulations  or 
guidelines.” 

 
“54 (4A) The participant shall not furnish the certificate of security to the 
issuer under sub-regulation (4), unless it examines the online records of 
distinctive numbers of securities maintained by the depository under sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 54A and finds upon such examination –  
(a) 

that  the  securities  pertaining  to  the  certificate  have  not  already 
been dematerialized; and  
that  listing  and  trading  permissions  have  been  given  to  such 
securities by the stock exchanges mentioned in sub-regulation (1) 
of regulation 53C or the proviso thereto. 

(b) 

? 

? 

 

Page 13 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

? 

 
? 

 
? 

 
54(4B) 
If  upon  such  examination  the  participant  finds  that  the 
securities  pertaining  to  that  certificate  have  already  been  dematerialized 
or  that  they  have  not  been  listed  on  the  stock  exchanges  mentioned  in 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 53C, it shall forthwith – 
(a) 
(b) 

report the fact to the issuer and to the depository; and 
return  the  certificate  to  the  beneficial  owner  after  putting  an 
indelible  stamp  on  its  face  mentioning  ‘NOT  ELIGIBLE  FOR 
DEMATERIALISATION’. 

54(4C)  
Nothing  contained  in  sub-regulations  (4A)  and  (4B)  shall 
apply to any class of securities which is not listed on any recognized stock 
exchange.” 

to 

reconcile 

records  of 

“54A.  Systems 
dematerialized securities 
(1) Every depository shall establish and maintain systems and safeguards 
designed  to  reconcile  records  of  issued,  listed  and  dematerialized 
securities  of  each  class  of  securities  of  every  issuer  and  to  prevent 
dematerialization  of  securities  in  excess  of  total  issued  and  listed 
securities. 

listed  and 

issued, 

(2) The  systems  and  safeguards  shall  include  keeping  a  record  of  the 
distinctive  number  of  securities  which  have  been  already 
dematerialized, those which are existing in the physical form and out 
of  those,  the  securities  which  have  been  listed  on  all  the  stock 
exchanges  mentioned  in  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  53C  or  the 
proviso thereto and the securities which have been allotted but not so 
listed. 

(3) The record of distinctive number of shares mentioned in sub-regulation 
(2) shall be accessible online to all participants of the depository and 
shall be established by the depositories in respect of all issuers within 
such date as may be specified by the Board: 

 

Provided  that  the  Board  may  specify  different  dates  for  creation  of 
such record in respect of different issuers or classes of issuers. 

(4) All issuers shall provide the following information to the depositories, 

within such date as may be specified by the Board: 
(a) 

the  distinctive  numbers  of  their  securities  which  are  already 
dematerialized; 
the  distinctive  numbers  of  their  securities  which  are  in  physical 
form; 
the  distinctive  numbers  of  their  securities  for  which  listing 
permission have been granted by stock exchanges mentioned in 

(b) 

(c) 

 

Page 14 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

(d) 

sub-regulation (1) of regulation 53C or the proviso thereto, as the 
case may be; and 
the  distinctive  numbers  of  their  securities  for  which  listing 
permission  as  above  has  been  rejected  or  is  pending  or  is  not 
given for any other reason. 
 
Provided that different dates may be specified by the Board for 
different issuers or classes of issuers. 
Provided  further  that  the  information  mentioned  in  clauses  (c) 
and (d) shall be authenticated by the designated stock exchange. 

 
(5)  The designated stock exchange and the issuer shall forthwith provide 
information of all developments relating to issue of further securities in 
physical  form  made  after  commencement  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (Depositories and Participants) (Amendment) 
Regulations,  2006  and  the  status  of  their  listing  along  with  their 
distinctive numbers, to the depositories to enable them to update their 
records for the purpose mentioned in sub-regulation (1). 

 
(6)  Any issuer proposing to enter into an agreement with a depository for 
dematerialization  of 
the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
(Depositories  and 
Participants)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2006,  shall 
the 
information mentioned in sub-regulation (4) to the depositories prior to 
entering into the agreement. 

its  securities  after  commencement  of 

India 

furnish 

(7)  Nothing  contained  in  this  regulation  shall  apply  to  any  class  of 

securities which is not listed on any recognised stock exchange.” 

************************* 

 

 

 
 

 

Page 15 of 15 

 
 
 
 
Discussion paper to check excess demat 

