The comments on this report may please be e-mailed at anjariacom@sebi.gov.in on or before 
20th August 2005.  

 
 
 
 

Report of the Committee  

on  

Future Fee Structure for Stock Brokers 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

November 2003 

 

 

 

CONTENTS 

 
Chapters                                                                                           Page No. 
Part One – The Objectives and Methodologies 
 
1. Levy of Fees on Stock Brokers 
 
2. Constitution of the Committee 
 
3. Meetings of the Committee 
 
 
4. Present Fee Structure    
 
 
5. Suggestions from Participants  
 
6. Determination of Brokerage 
 
 
Part Two – Recommendations of the Committee  
 
7. Guiding Principles 
 
 
 
 
8. Nature of SEBI Fees Defined  
 
9. Basis of Calculation of SEBI Fees 
 
 
10. Recommended Level of SEBI Fees  
11. Summary of Recommendations 
 
 
 
Annexure I: Statement of Contract Inspected 
Annexure – II: Statement of turnover and Brokerage

 3 
 
 3 
 
           4 
 
 6 
           6 
           9 
          11 
 
16 
           17 
           18 
           19 
           20 
           23 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Part One – The Objectives and Methodologies 

 

1. Levy of Fees on Stock Brokers 
The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  authorises  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to levy fees for registering and regulating the market 
intermediaries, including stock brokers. It empowers SEBI to collect such fees as may 
be determined by the regulations from the applicants who seek registration. The SEBI 
(Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Rules, 1992, notified by the Central Government on 
August 8, 1992, requires a stock broker to pay registration fees in the manner provided 
in  the  regulations  framed  by  SEBI.  The  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers) 
Regulations,  1992,  notified  by  SEBI  on  23rd  October  1992  with  the  approval  of  the 
Central Government, enumerates the fees to be paid by the stock brokers. It relates the 
registration fees to the volumes of transactions effected by a stock broker and provides 
that such fees shall be payable for first five years based on the annual turnover relating 
to the preceding financial year. The brokers, aggrieved by the prescribed fee structure, 
represented to SEBI that the demand was excessive and the collection of same based on 
turnover was unreasonable and arbitrary. On such representations, SEBI appointed an 
Expert Committee (R. S. Bhatt Committee) to look into the interpretation of ‘turnover’ 
in the context of fees payable by stock brokers. The committee submitted its report on 
18th December 1992 and recommended concessional rates of fees for certain types of 
transactions.  It  observed  that  the  turnover  was  a  fair  basis  for  determination  of 
registration  fees  and  the  incidence  of  fees  prescribed  by  SEBI  was  not  unreasonable. 
The  Government  and  SEBI  accepted  the  recommendations  of  the  Committee  in 
principle.  SEBI  advised  the  brokers  on  January  7,  1993  to  pay  fees  in  the  manner 
prescribed by the Bhatt Committee. In meantime several writ petitions challenging the 
registration fees based on turnover, SEBI’s competence to levy fees, etc. were filed by 
the brokers in various High Courts. All these petitions were transferred to the Supreme 
Court which dismissed the transfer petition (No. 502/2000) on February 1, 2001 and 
upheld SEBI's powers to levy fees for carrying out the purposes of the SEBI Act. It also 

held that turnover can be a measure of the levy of fees. It, however, directed SEBI to 
incorporate  the  R.  S.  Bhatt  Committee  recommendations  in  the  regulations.  The 
regulations were amended on February 20, 2002 to provide for concessional rates for 
various  transactions  and  exclude  some  transactions  from  turnover.  Two  circulars 
clarifying the various issues raised in the representations of the brokers were issued on 
March 28, 2002 and September 30, 2002. The brokers have been paying the fees as per 
amended regulations.  
 
2. Constitution of the Committee 
The  fee  structure  for  the  brokers  prescribed  in  the  regulations  is  based  on  the 
recommendations  made  way  back  in  1992  by  the  R.  S.  Bhat  Committee.  The 
recommendations of the Committee were based on the then level of brokerage earned 
by the brokers. Since then the market structure has witnessed sea change, which coupled 
with  fierce  competition  among  brokers,  has  brought  down  the  level  of  brokerage 
drastically over the years. Hence the fee structure prescribed in 1992 is not in tune with 
the level of brokerage prevailing after a decade. This necessitated a review of the fee 
structure  for  stock  brokers.  Accordingly  SEBI  appointed  a  Committee  under  the 
Chairmanship of Mr. D. C. Anjaria to consider, in light of the present level of brokerage 
fees, a revision of future fee structure for the brokers, from the one laid down in the R. 
S.  Bhatt  Committee  Report,  to  be  applicable  prospectively.  The  Committee  was 
constituted on January 21, 2002 with the following members: 

i. Mr. D. C. Anjaria (Chairman of the Committee) 
ii.  Representative of the BSE Brokers’  Forum 
iii. Representative of the Securities Industries Association 
iv. President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
v.  Representative of the Investors’  Grievance Forum 
vi. Mr. Ravi Narain, MD, NSEIL 
vii. Mr. A. N. Joshi, ED, BSE 
viii.  Mr. Pratip Kar, ED, SEBI 

ix. Ms. D. N. Raval, ED, SEBI 
x.  Mr. Nagendra Parakh, CGM, SEBI 
xi. Mr. Ravi Kumar, GM, SEBI 
xii. Mr. P. K. Bindlish, GM, SEBI (Member Secretary of the Committee) 

During the term of the Committee, the composition of the committee changed as some 
of the members remained busy otherwise or left the organisation they represented on 
the committee and they were substituted by new members. At the time of drafting of 
this report, the following were members of the Commiittee: 

i.  Mr. D. C. Anjaria (Chairman of the Committee) 
ii.  Mr. Mohan Kumar Vijan, Chairman, BSE Brokers’  Forum 
iii. Ms. Deena A. Mehta, National convenor, Securities Industries Association 
iv. Mr. R. Bupathi, President, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
v.  Mr. Bharat Kotecha, Vice President, Investors’  Grievance Forum 
vi. Ms. Chitra Ramakrishna, DMD, NSEIL 
vii.  Dr. Manoj Vaish, ED, BSE 
viii.  Mr. Pratip Kar, ED, SEBI 
ix.  Mr. R. S. Loona, ED, SEBI 
x.  Mr. Nagendra Parakh, CGM, SEBI 
xi. Mr. P. K. Bindlish, GM, SEBI 
xii. Mr. M. S. Sahoo, CGM, SEBI (Member Secretary of the Committee) 

At  the  request  of  the  Association  of  NSE  Members  of  India  (ANMI),  their 
representative was invited to all the meetings of the Committee. Mr. V. D. Aggarwal, 
past  president  of  ANMI  attended  all  the  meetings.  Many  officials  /  office  bearers  of 
SEBI, NSE, BSE, ANMI, ICAI attended the meetings of the committee by invitation or 
represented  members  of  the  committee  in  the  meetings.  Ms.  Anita  Kenkare,  AGM, 
SEBI arranged and provided inputs required by the Committee. 

 
3. Meetings of the Committee 
The Committee held six meetings (September 03, 2002, September 18, 2002, October 
03, 2002, November 25, 2002, February 04, 2003 and August 18, 2003) to deliberate at 
length what would constitute a reasonable level of fees in the three market segments – 
Cash Equity, Cash Debt and Derivatives, so that fees payable by brokers are fair in the 
light of the present level of brokerage charged to their clients. 
 
4. Present Fee Structure 
The  Committee  reviewed  the  present  fee  structure.  SEBI  (Stock–Brokers  and  Sub-
brokers)  Regulations,  1992  prescribes  the  fees  to  be  paid  by  the  stock  brokers.  It 
originally provided that a stock broker shall pay a sum of: 

a.  Rs.  5,000  for  each  financial  year  where  the  annual  turnover  does  not 

exceed Rs. 1 crore during any financial year and 

b.  Rs. 5000 plus one hundredth of one percent of the turnover in excess of 

Rs. 1 crore for each financial year. 

After the expiry of five financial years from the date of initial registration as a stock -
broker, he shall pay Rs. 5,000 for a block of five financial years commencing from the 
sixth financial year after the date of grant of initial registration to keep his registration in 
force.  
Such  fees  shall  be  computed  with  reference  to  the  annual  turnover  relating  to  the 
preceding financial year. 
 
Several representatives / Presidents of the various stock exchanges sought clarification 
from  SEBI  on  the  meaning  of  ‘turnover’  as  mentioned  in  the  Schedule  III  of  the 
regulations. SEBI appointed the R. S. Bhatt Committee to look into various aspects of 
'turnover' in the context of fees payable by stock brokers. The  R. S. Bhatt Committee 
submitted its report on December 18, 1992. The recommendations of the R. S. Bhatt 

Committee  were  in  principle  accepted  by  SEBI  and  the  Central  Government.  The 
Committee concluded and recommended the following:- 

i.  Using  turnover  as  the  basis  of  payment  of  registration  fees  was  a  well 

established practice in a country like the US and that it was a fair basis. 

ii.  The incidence of fees was not unreasonable. 
iii.  For  jobbing  transactions  identified  and  included  in  the  turnover,  the  scale  of 

fees may be reduced to one two hundredth of one percent. 

iv.  In case of carry forward renewal or badla transactions, the off setting entries 

made by the Exchange may not be counted as part of the turnover. 

v.  For  Government  securities  and  PSU  bonds  and  units  traded  in  the  similar 

manner, the scale of fees may be reduced to one thousandth of one percent. 

vi.  Brokers  would  be  responsible  for  reporting  transactions  in  securities  not 

reported to the stock Exchanges for payment of registration fees. 

vii.  The Exchanges shall ensure that the registration fees are properly calculated and 

paid to SEBI. 

viii.  Trades  put  through  on  other  stock  Exchanges  would  be  included  in  the 

turnover of that Exchange. 

ix.  The  activities  such  as  underwriting  and  collection  of  deposits  would  not  be 

taken into account for the purpose of calculating the turnover of the brokers. 

As  stated  earlier,  while  dismissing  the  transfer  petition,  the  Supreme  Court  directed 
SEBI  to  incorporate  the  R.S.  Bhatt  Committee  recommendations  in  the  Regulations. 
This  was  done  by  SEBI  on  February  20,  2002.  Accordingly,  while  the  normal 
transactions  would  attract  a  fee  liability  of  one  hundredth  of  one  percent,  certain 
transactions would attract different rates as indicated below:  

(i) in respect of jobbing transactions (transactions which are squared off during the 
same day and which have not been undertaken by the broker on behalf of clients), 
the fees shall be computed at the rate of one two hundredth of one percent in 
respect of the sale side of such transactions;  

(ii)  in  respect  of  transactions  in  government  securities,  the  bonds  issued  by  any 
Public  Sector  Undertaking  and  the  units  traded  in  a  similar  manner,  the  fee 
payable shall be computed at the rate of one thousandth of one percent of the 
turnover;  
(iii)  in  case  of  carry  forward,  renewal  or  badla  transactions  the  fees  shall  be 
computed at the rate of one hundredth of one percent of the turnover and the 
reverse off setting transactions shall not be counted as part of the turnover.  
(iv) if  brokers are carrying out transactions in securities without reporting them to 
the stock exchange, those transactions shall be taken into account for the purpose 
of turnover and the fees shall be computed at the rate of one hundredth of one 
percent of the turnover; 
(v) the trade put through other stock exchanges shall be included in the  turnover 
of  that  exchange  if  market  for  that  security  does  not  exist  on  the  exchange  of 
which he is a member and the fees shall be computed at the rate of one hundredth 
of one percent of the turnover; 
(vi)  activities  such  as  underwriting  and  collection  of  deposits  shall  not  be  taken 
into account for the purpose of calculating the turnover. 

After the expiry of five financial years from the date of initial registration as a stock- 
broker, he shall pay a sum of rupees five thousand for every block of five financial years 
commencing from the sixth financial year after the date of grant of initial registration to 
keep his registration in force. 
Wherever fresh registration is granted, the broker shall be liable to pay fresh fees except 
in  case  of  conversions  into  corporate  form  where  fee  continuity  benefit  has  been 
granted on fulfilment of certain conditions. 
 
Need for further review was felt in relation to the fee structure in the cash market since 
it is no more aligned with the current brokerage rates, though it was aligned with the 
brokerage rates in 1992. Besides, it is a very complicated structure as it levies the fees at 
different  rates  for  different  types  of  transactions.  The  fee  structure  in  the  derivatives 

segment is also not aligned with the brokerage rates. Hence, a new committee was set up 
to review the fee structure. 
 
The  members  of  the  Anjaria  Committee  noted  that  highly  competitive  market 
conditions  were  driving  down  the  current  brokerage  rates  charged  to  the  clients.  It, 
however, was also noted that the brokerage income is sufficient in all cases to produce a 
positive gross margin after covering other major cost elements such as stamp duties and 
service tax. SEBI fees, to be reasonable, need to ensure that the brokers’  gross margin 
still remains positive. However, if brokers are subsequently unable to cover all of their 
other fixed costs of being in the business, they ought to reconsider their business model.  
 
5. Suggestions from Market Participants 
The members of the Committee were requested to put in writing their views in detail 
along with their analysis which could be deliberated in the meetings of the Committee. 
A  few  non-members  also  sent  their  suggestions  for  consideration  of  the  Committee. 
The suggestions were received from Fixed Income Brokers Association, ANMI, BSE 
Brokers’  Forum,  NSEIL,  BSE,  ICAI,  Investors’  Grievance  Forum.  The  main 
suggestions were: 

i.     Registration fee to be levied on stockbrokers should be reasonable and should be 
commensurate  with  the  services  rendered  by  the  regulator  either  directly  or 
indirectly for the stock brokers. 

ii.   Registration  fee  may  be  based  on  products  or  transactions,  but  the  incidence 
should be based on the premise of Bhatt Committee recommendations i.e. 1% 
of brokerage earned. 

iii.  The  revised  fees  should  be  calculated  by  the  Stock  Exchanges  and  directly 

debited to the Brokers’  account and passed on to SEBI.  

 

iv.  SEBI may review the registration fee every three years. However, there should be 
an  overall  cap  of  registration  fee  payable  by  the  brokers  on  all  segments  put 
together to ensure the least burden on the investors. 

v.   The  SEBI  Registration  Fee  should  be  payable  per  broker  and  not  per  stock 

exchange. 

vi.  SEBI may give one time exemption of interest and ask the brokers to pay their 
turnover fees till 31st March 2003. From 1st of April 2003 all new members and 
those members who have not paid the fees, may be required to pay the fees at 
the same rate as applicable in the derivatives segment of the Stock Exchange. 
Those members who have already paid the fees or would pay the fees till 31st 
March 2003, may continue to pay Rs. 5,000/- for a block of 5 financial years. 

vii.  The rate of interest on delayed payment should be reasonable, i.e. P.L.R.+1% or 

bank rate as announced by RBI plus 2%. 

viii.  SEBI can consider whether a lump sum fee for various categories of brokers can 
be levied or alternatively a variable fee based on transactions can be levied on 
brokers with an upper cap. 

ix.   It may be prudent to distinguish levy of turnover fee for delivery based vis-à-vis 
non delivery based transactions undertaken by the brokers in view of the fact 
that  the  monitoring  of  the  transactions  as  well  as  services  rendered  by  the 
brokers are higher in case of delivery based turnover, as clearly reflected in their 
brokerage rates. 

x.   In case, a common rate is to be prescribed to avoid complication of calculations, 
an average rate based on average brokerage earned by the brokers can be levied. 
xi.  If the corporate entity or the firm remains the same, any change in partner or 
directors or shareholders or transmission cases should attract a flat fee at a rate 
of Rs. 5,000/-.  

xii.  Registration fee may be annual and based on turnover, but may be segregated in 

two parts i.e. squared up turnover and non-squared up turnover. 

xiii.  Registration  fee  may  be  levied  for  initial  period  of  first  five  years  as  per 
prescribed rates and thereafter Rs.5000/- per annum till the registration is alive. 
xiv.  Registration fee should be on the broker and not on multiple membership cards. 
xv.  Keeping  in  mind  the  economic  and  commercial  realities  of  the  debt  market 
broking, and the developmental role SEBI has to perform, it is reasonable that a 
nominal fee of 0.01% of the gross revenue is charged as SEBI fees. 

The Committee discussed and gave serious consideration to the above suggestions. 
  
6. Determination of Brokerage Rates 
The present Committee felt that the fees to be charged on transactions should be such 
that  they  would  constitute  about  1%  of  the  normal  brokerage  rate.  Reliable  data  on 
current level of brokerage rates was, therefore, necessary to arrive at a reasonable  fee 
structure under the current market conditions. The market participants represented in 
the  Committee,  namely  the  Exchanges  and  brokers’  associations,  were  advised  to 
furnish the brokerage data in respect of some brokers.  BSE Brokers’  Forum, NSEIL 
and  BSE  furnished  the  brokerage  data  for  2001-01  and  2001-02  in  respect  of  some 
brokers.  The  Committee  analysed  the  data  but  found  that  the  brokerage  rates  varied 
widely across the exchanges and brokers and no meaningful conclusion about the level 
of brokerage could be arrived at. Under the circumstances, the Committee felt that only 
way  out  to  establish  authentic  brokerage  rates  was  to  inspect  the  books  of  a 
representative sample of brokers. The Committee therefore advised SEBI to inspect the 
books of about 200 brokers - 100 each of NSE and BSE for the financial years 2000-01 
and 2001-02 respectively. The Committee suggested that the sample may consist of 25% 
of the brokers doing only delivery based (institutional) business, another 25% doing only 
proprietary  business  and  the  balance  50%  carrying  on  both  square-off  as  well  as 
delivery-based businesses.  
 
In  pursuance  of  the  committee’s  recommendation,  SEBI  carried  out  inspections  of 
brokers’  books. The following principles were adopted in selecting the sample:  

i.  SEBI obtained two lists of brokers – one, institutional brokers (brokers having 
more  than  50%  institutional/  delivery  based  business)  and  two,  all  other 
brokers. It also obtained their total turnover figures for the financial year 2001-
02. 

ii.  The  brokers  were  arranged  in  the  descending  order  of  the  turnover  in  four 
categories, namely NSE-institutional, NSE-other, BSE-institutional, and BSE-
other.  

iii.  Since the delivery based business generally constitutes about 20% of the total 
turnover, it was decided that the ratio of institutional brokers to other brokers 
to be picked for inspection should be 1 : 4.  

iv.  Similarly, since the number of brokers of NSE is relatively higher than that of 

BSE, the ratio of NSE to BSE brokers should be 5 : 3. 

v.  Every  nth  broker  should  be  selected  from  each  category  following  the  rules  

(ii), (iii) and (iv) above, to get a sample of 200. 

From the information forwarded by the NSE and the BSE, it was observed that there 
were  only  28  brokers  of  NSE  and  40  brokers  of  BSE  falling  under  the  category  of 
‘Brokers having more than 50% institutional/ delivery based business’. Hence, all 68 
brokers  falling  in  this  category  were  short-listed  for  the  sample.  In  order  to  get  the 
balance sample of 150, NSE and BSE brokers from the ‘Other brokers’  category, as 
per  the  principle  laid  down  in  (iv)  above,  a  sample  of  94  brokers  of  NSE  and  56 
brokers of BSE were required to be selected. By applying the principle in (v) above, 
every 9th broker of NSE and BSE was selected from a total of 908 of NSE and 553 
brokers of BSE appearing in the “Other brokers’ 
list,  to get a sample of 101 NSE 
brokers and 62 BSE brokers. 
 
Chartered Accountants were appointed to inspect the books of the brokers. They were 
advised to inspect at least 1000 contract notes for 2001-02 and 1000 for 2002-03 from 
all categories of transactions for each broker. They were advised to submit for each 
broker:  

i.  a statement ( Statement – I as given at Annex - I) of 2000 contract 

notes inspected by them,  

ii.  a  statement  (Statement  –  II  as  given  at  annex  -  II)  indicating 

brokerage for each type of transactions inspected by them and  

iii.  a  report  indicating  high  low  range,  hidden  costs,  etc.  which  they 

gather from the inspection.  

 
A brief  on the manner of  carrying out the inspection and reporting is outlined below:  
i.  The Chartered Accountants were advised to find out the total turnover and the 
total  number  of   contracts  issued  under  each  category  of  transactions  (12 
categories were identified) for the financial years 2001-02 and 2002-03. 

ii.  They were then required to pick up at random a sample of  1000  contract notes 
each for the financial year 2001-02 and 2002-03 respectively, in such a way that 
each category of transaction gets represented in the sample in the same ratio that 
the sample size has to the total number of  contracts issued by the broker fo r that 
year, ignoring proprietary transactions.  

iii.  A Statement - I showing the value of  the contract and the brokerage charged by 

the broker contract note-wise for 2000 contracts was required to be prepared. 

iv.  A Statement – II showing the value of  the total tu rnover and total brokerage for 
each  category  of  contract  notes  inspected  for  each  year  was  required  to  be 
prepared based on Statement - I.  

v.  In  addition,  the  Chartered  Accountants  were  required  to  submit  a  report 
indicating their judgment about the brokerage rate/s being levied by the broker.  
vi.  It  was  advised  that  as  far  as  possible,  they  should  go  by  the  hard  copies  of  
contract notes and only in exceptional cases, where it may not be possible due to 
some genuine reason, the soft copy of  data may be used.   

vii.  As regards other charges such as service charge, stamp duty charges, handling 
charges, etc., if  any, passed on by the broker to the client, it was advised that only 
the actual amount charged by the broker as brokerage in the contract note may 
be incorporated in the statements under the head brokerage. However, a brief  on 
the nature and quantum of  other charges, if  any,  being passed on by the broker 
to the clientwas required to be given separately.  

viii.  In cases, where one contract note may comprise of  both deliv ery and square-off  
transactions and, hence, the brokerage may be clubbed, it was advised that under 
such  circumstances,  the  apportionment  of   brokerage  under  the  different 
categories  may  be  done  by  the  Chartered  Accountant  using  his  sense  of  
judgement.  

 
SEBI  could  get  175  inspection  reports.  These  were  compiled  by  internal  auditors  of  
SEBI to arrive at brokerage for each type of  transaction, each type of market and for 
the  market  as  a  whole  for  the  years  2001-02  and  2002-03.  They  found  out  from  the 
inspection reports the brokerage rate for each kind of  transaction for each broker, based 
on inspection of  sample contracts. They weighted this brokerage rate by the turnover of  
the  relevant  category  of  transaction  of  each  broker  and  averaged  it  to  arrive  at  the 
brokerage of  that category of  transaction for the market as a whole. Thereafter they 
found  out  weighted  average  of  brokerage  for  each  type  of  market  based  on  the 
brokerage rate of  each category of  transaction. Then they found out weighted average 
of  brokera ge of  the market as a whole based on the brokerage rate of  each type of  
market. Their findings are presented below: 

Type of Transaction 

Turnover of the inspected 

brokers 
(Rs. crore) 

2001-02 

2002-03 

72,296 
12,093 

74,563 
19,952 

Brokerage (%) 

2001-02 

0.3947 
0.3528 

2002-03 

0.3438 
0.3162 

66,403 

29,522 

95,582 

24,615 

0.0317 

0.1357 

0.0359 

0.1266 

1,80,314 
459,531 
4,319 
10,261 
474,111 
2,418 
377 
4,702 
2,345 
2,915 
12,757 
8,854 
676,036 

2,14,712 
614,343 
8,608 
13,259 
636,210 
7,223 
4,215 
27,423 
10,269 
11,126 
60,256 
33,105 
9,44,283 

0.2158 
0.0023 
0.0177 
0.0069 
0.0025 
0.0611 
0.0762 
0.0635 
0.0650 
0.0623 
0.0634 
0.0156 
0.0607 

0.1793 
0.0029 
0.0060 
0.0035 
0.0029 
0.0633 
0.0287 
0.0518 
0.0711 
0.0410 
0.0529 
0.0143 
0.0466 

 
 
Type of 
Market 

Equity 

Debt 

Derivatives 

Institutional Clients 
Retail Clients – 
Delivery 
Retail Clients - Non-
delivery 
Retail Clients – 
Delivery & Non-
delivery 
Total for Equity 
G-Secs 
PSU Bonds 
Other instruments 
Total for Debt 
Index Futures 
Index Options 
Stock Futures 
Stock Options 
Unclassified 
Total for Derivatives 

Off-market – Equity & Debt 

Total Market 

 
The brokerage rates presented above in respect of cash equity segment are average rates 
for non-proprietary transactions. In respect of the cash debt and derivatives segments 
they  are  average  brokerage  rates  for  all  types  of  transactions  taken  together.  Sample 
weights have been used to arrive at the average for each segment as well as for the entire 
market. 

Part Two – Recommendations of the Committee:  
 
The  Committee,  after  considering  the  results  of  the  above  analysis,  suggested  that 
following factors may be borne in mind while using the brokerage data for determining 
SEBI fees:  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Transactions done on account of FIIs have a funding element the charges 
for  which  are  recovered  as  part  of  the  brokerage.  Hence,  the  brokerage 
rates  for  institutional  brokers  need  to  be  discounted  to  arrive  at  the 
brokerage earned on transactions for FIIs.  
Average rate of brokerage for the equity segment may not be determined 
by using sample weights. Since the ratio of non-delivery based transactions 
to  delivery  based  transactions  in  the  market  is  generally  4:1,  the  average 
brokerage  rate  for  the  equity  segment  may  be  worked  out  by  using  the 
weights  of  4:1  to  brokerage  rates  for  these  two  groups  of  transactions 
respectively.  
The  average  brokerage  rates  for  debt  and  derivatives  segments  are 
underestimated as these include proprietary transactions which attract no 
brokerage.  

Taking the above factors into account, the ‘benchmark’  average brokerage rates for 
each segment per  Rs. 1 crore of turnover were worked out as follows: 
Market Segment 

Benchmark  Brokerage  per 
Rs. 1 crore of turnover 

Cash Equity Segment 
Cash Debt Segment  
Derivatives Segment 

 
 

10,000 
500 
5,000 

 
7. Guiding Principles 
After detailed deliberations over six meetings and considering the suggestions of market 
participants, the Committee adopted the following canons to evolve an appropriate fee 
structure for stock brokers: 

i. The structure should be fair to all the parties concerned - brokers, investors 
and the regulator. The basis and level of SEBI fees may be considered fair and 
reasonable if it passes all the following three tests: 

a.  Since the incidence of the fees is on the brokers, it should have 
some relationship to the level of brokerage earned in each market 
segment. Roughly 1% of brokerage is a fair level of fees. 

b.  The  fees  should  be  reasonable  in  relation  to  the  overall 
transaction cost borne by the investor in each market segment. 
It must also be transparent. 

c.  The fees must reflect the demands for supervision on SEBI and in 

particular, its cost of supervision of the secondary markets. 

ii. Fees should be simple to calculate and convenient to collect. The computation 
methodology  should  be  so  simple  and  unambiguous  that  it  is  intelligible  to 
everybody and any two persons would arrive at the same figure. It should also be 
cost effective for collection. A huge machinery should not be used to determine 
and collect fee liability from stock brokers.. 

iii. The basis of fee calculation should be unambiguous and easily determinable with 
precision.  The  brokerage  income,  which  varies  from  transaction  to  transaction, 
product  to  product,  customer  to  customer,  market  to  market,  is  not  an 
appropriate  basis  for  levy  of  fees.  The  turnover  on  exchanges,  which  is  a 
definite  figure,  is  more  appropriate  as  the  basis  for  levy  of  fee.  All 
transactions  executed  on  exchanges  irrespective  of  the  type  of  transaction, 
product or market segment may attract the fees. 

iv. The fees  should  be  perpetual as supervision of market is continuous. As the 
SEBI is required to supervise all transactions as and when they occur, the fees 
should accrue with every transaction. When  a broker undertakes a transaction 
on the market, it should attract of fees.  

v. The fee structure should have only  prospective  application. The stockbrokers 
who have paid fees at the prescribed rate for the first five years and are paying for 
every block of five years subsequently may not be subjected to perpetual fees.  

vi. The  structure  should  be  flexible  enough  to  adapt  to  changing  market 
environment. If the brokerage rate changes, the rate of fee should also change. 
This means that the level of fees should be reviewed every three years to ensure 
that the levy is realistic. 

 
8. Nature of SEBI Fees Defined 
a. SEBI is collecting fees from registered brokers based on their turnover. The fee is 
intended to cover the level of supervision and costs of regulation that SEBI incurs on 
the brokerage business. 
b.  It  is  a  normal  practice  in  developed  markets  that  the  securities  market  regulator 
collects  a  fee  from  brokers  (and  other  market  participants)  at  the  time  of  the  initial 
registration and at periodic renewals.  For clarity of purpose and to avoid unnecessary 
disputes between the regulator and the brokers, it is recommended that the fee may be 
called ‘Broker Registration Fee’. 
c.  The  current  market  usage  describing  SEBI  fees  as  ‘Turnover  Fee’    seems  to  be 
somewhat misleading as it emphasises the method of fee computation as opposed to the 
purpose of the fee. 
d.Similarly, the SEBI fees ought not to be called ‘Turnover Fee’, as it seems to give 
the impression that it is some kind of a tax on brokers’  business imposed by SEBI. In 
fact,  it  is  called  registration  fee  in  the  regulations,  but  the  market  participants  are 
accustomed to call it the turnover fee, as it is based on turnover. SEBI’s intention is not 

to impose a tax on brokers’  business turnover or revenues, but to collect a fee to cover 
the costs of regulating the registered brokers. 
e. Essentially, SEBI fees need to have a broad relation to the demands for supervision 
made on it. What more correctly reflects the workload of SEBI is the market turnover, 
not  brokers’  turnover.  The  number  and  value  of  transactions  determines  the  level  of 
supervisory task required. The task of supervision is not related to the level of brokerage 
charged – which is a commercial matter; the supervision depends on the turnover levels 
of the Exchanges which is determined by market conditions. Hence, the term Market 
Turnover  Fee is more appropriate, if at all, than brokers’  turnover fee. However, to 
avoid  all  confusion,  the  fee  in  question  ought  to  be  called  Brokers’  Registration  Fee, 
whether they are collected regularly or once. 
 
9.  Basis of Calculation of SEBI Fees 

a.  The current practice of basing SEBI’s registration fees for brokers on the turnover 
of brokers has caused inevitable confusion about the nature of this fee.  The fee has 
often been referred to as a tax, which it is not and ought not to be. Besides, using the 
turnover  of  brokers  as  the  basis  for  calculation  of  fees  has  caused  endless  and 
somewhat  futile  attempts  at  defining  the  term  ‘Turnover’.      In  the  interest  of  the 
investors, the market participants and the regulators, it is essential to have a simple 
basis of calculation. 
b. In  the  normal  circumstances,  brokers’ 
income,  stock  exchanges’  work-load,  and 
SEBI’s regulatory task - all depend upon the level of transactions executed on the 
market.  The Committee, therefore, believes that the  most  appropriate  basis  for 
calculation  of  the  regulatory  fees  for  brokers  is  the  “Number  and  Value  of 
transactions”  put  through  the  stock  market by  the  brokers.    The  higher  the 
transaction volumes, the higher is likely to be the broker’s income and SEBI’s costs.  
Therefore, basing SEBI’s fees on the transaction value of market turnover would be 
fair to brokers and SEBI alike.  The Committee, therefore, recommends that SEBI 

registration  fee  for  brokers  be  a  transaction  fee  based  on  the  value  of  the 
transactions that broker has executed on the market during a given period.    
c. The advantages of this basis of calculation are many.  Even for SEBI, there will be 
an incentive of sorts, as higher market transaction volumes will result in higher fees 
for them.  For the investors, the benefit is that the cost of the transaction on the 
securities  market  on  account  of  SEBI  fees  becomes  known  in  advance  and 
transparent.   For market analysts and researchers, the transaction cost will be easily 
calculable (subject of course, to other elements of cost of stockmarket transactions 
also  being  known).    The  Committee  recommends,  therefore,  that  the  SEBI 
registration fee not be a Broker Turnover Fee but a Market Turnover or Transaction 
Fee. 
d. Though a fee must have some relation to the services rendered, or the advantages 
conferred, such relation need not be direct; a mere casual relation may be enough. 
That others besides those paying the fees are also benefited does not detract from 
the  character  of  the  fee.  The  stock  brokers  form  an  integral  part  of  the  securities 
market and the services to be rendered by SEBI are in reality for the benefit of the 
entire broking community. The practice of levying fees on the basis of turnover is 
not new in as much as in the United States of America, the stockbrokers have been 
paying fees based on the volume of transactions for the last 50 years or so. 

 
10.  Recommended Level of SEBI Fees 
a. The next question is what percentage ought to be applied to the transaction amount 
that  would  result  in  the  amount  of  SEBI  fees  being  reasonable.      The  R.S.  Bhatt 
Committee had considered 1% of brokerage as a reasonable amount.  However, since 
the brokerage was to be applied to the brokers’  turnover, the committee had to go into 
the definitions of different types of transactions that constitute the brokers’  turnover.   
From the feedback received from the brokers’  organisations, it is clear that the broking 
community is not averse to paying 1% of brokerage received as fees to SEBI.   

b)  However, 1% of total brokerage income received cannot be the direct basis of 

determination of SEBI fees for the following reasons: 
i.  SEBI fees are for registration and supervision of brokers.   They are not a tax on 

the turnover or on the brokerage earned by the broking community. 

ii.  It is not advisable for SEBI to go into a determination of the brokerage income 
for each broker as the basis of determination of the fees.   It is difficult to track 
the  exact  brokerage  amount  earned  except  by  going  through  the  service  tax 
records  later  on.    Again  this  would  convert  the  SEBI  fees  into  a  tax  on 
brokerage income, which it ought not to be. 

iii.  The level of supervisory effort required by SEBI depends on the number and 
amount  of  transactions  put  through  the  Exchanges  and  not  whether  the 
transaction  was  intended  as  an  investment  transaction  or  only  as  a  trading 
transaction, or whether the transaction was for broker’s own account or for a 
client. Hence, the SEBI fees ought to be payable on all market transactions, not 
just on investor transactions that earn brokerage income. 

iv.  Investors pay higher fees when taking or giving deliveries against their market 
purchases and sales.   Relating SEBI fees directly to the brokerage earned for 
delivery  based  transactions  or  non-delivery  based  transactions  will  result  in 
higher  SEBI  fees  for  investors  who  pay  higher  brokerage,  while  brokers’ 
proprietary deals may be exempted from SEBI fees. This does not seem to a 
healthy or reasonable basis to treat investors or SEBI. 

c)  Based on above considerations, it is advisable to apply a uniform set of fees to 
all transactions in a given market segment. SEBI fees in each of the three 
segments  ought  to  be  based  on  a  “benchmark  brokerage  level”.  The 
benchmark brokerage level should be the brokerage as a percentage of the 
turnover in the particular market segment. 

d)  The suggestion of the broker members of the Committee was that the benchmark 
level of brokerage ought to be the current brokerage rates charged in the market. 
However, there is no uniform level of brokerage even in each of the three market 

segments.  Brokers  indicate  only  a  wide  range  of  percentage  rates  currently 
charged  to  clients.  At  the  further  suggestion  of  the  broker  members  of  the 
Committee, SEBI made considerable efforts to compute effective brokerage rates 
from the global brokerage and turnover amounts obtained from the Exchanges. 
However, it was not possible to obtain what the current levels of brokerage are in 
each  segment.  Total  turnover  figures  are  available  easily  and  reliably,  but  total 
brokerage  figures  are  not.  Hence,  a  direct  relationship  between  turnover  and 
brokerage currently prevalent in the market could not be established with even 
reasonable accuracy. This could be done with an inspection of the books of about 
200 brokers of NSE and BSE. 

e)  Following the principle of levying 1% of brokerage charges as SEBI fees, 
and  based  on  the  brokerage  arrived  at  through  inspection  of  brokers,  the 
following fee structure is recommended: 

(For every Rs. 1 crore of Turnover) 

Market Segment 

Present  Level  of 
Brokerage  

Present Rate*  

Rate 
Recommended  for 
Future (Perpetual)  
100 

10,000 

Cash Equity 
Cash Debt 
Derivatives 
* Five years for cash segments and perpetual for derivatives segment. These are the rates 
for normal transactions. 

1000 
100 
10 

5 

50 

500 

5,000 

 
11. Summary of Recommendations 

a)  The fees may be correctly named ‘SEBI Broker Registration Fee’. 
b)  Fees should be payable by brokers on all transactions put through or reported to 

any of the recognised Exchanges in India. 

c)  All  types  of  transactions  -  delivery  or  non-delivery,  proprietary  or  non-
proprietary  -  without  any  exception  should  attract  fees,  because  all  types  of 
transactions require the same level of SEBI’s supervision. 

d)  The fees may be different for each major market segment  – Cash Equity, Cash 
Debt and Derivatives, as each market segment is unique and requires a different 
level of supervision from SEBI. However, they should be uniform for all types 
of transactions in a given market segment.. 

e)  The  fees  may  roughly  constitute  1%  of  prevalent  average  brokerage  rates. 
However, there need not be any direct relationship between the level of fees and 
the brokerage income. Irrespective of the rate of brokerage, the transaction has 
to be supervised and  it is not practicable to track brokerage income earned on 
each and every transaction. 

f)  The brokers in cash equity, cash debt and derivative segments may pay fees at 
the  rate  of  Rs.  100,  Rs.  5  and  Rs.  50  respectively  per  Rs.  1  crore  of  market 
turnover (value of transactions put through or reported by the broker to any of 
the  Exchanges).  Since  the  recommended  rate  in  the  derivative  segment  is 
substantially  higher  than  the  current  level  of  Rs.  10/-  per  Rs.  1  crore  of 
turnover, SEBI may consider the upward revision of fees in a phased manner by 
increasing from Rs. 10/- per Rs. 1 crore of broker turnover as currently defined 
to  Rs.  20/-  per  Rs.  1  crore  of  market  turnover  as  now  defined  by  the 
Committee, in the first instance. Over a period of time, it may be increased to 
Rs. 50 per Rs. 1 crore of market turnover. 

g)  In future, SEBI may modify the fee structure if it is significantly different from 
1%  of  the  brokerage  levied  from  clients.  A  review  every  three  years  is 
recommended. 

h)  The Exchanges should be asked to collect the fees directly from the brokers by 
debiting  the  brokers’  account  on  a  monthly  basis,  and  to  remit  the  same  to 
SEBI. 
It is for the broker to decide whether to pass on the fee liability to their clients. 
SEBI should not prescribe anything in this regard. 

i) 

j)  The recommended fee structure may apply to new brokers in cash equity and 
debt  segments.  SEBI  may  clearly  define  who  would  be  construed  as  new 
brokers. All brokers who obtain fresh registration certificates after the issue of 
regulations incorporating the recommended fee structure may be considered as 
new brokers. The recommended fee structure may apply to all brokers, existing 
or new, in the derivatives segment.  

k)  SEBI may consider formulating a scheme which provides an option to switch to 
the  recommended  fee  structure  for  the  existing  brokers,  who  have  not 
completed  their  payments  for  the  first  five  years  period  in  the  cash  equity 
segment or who have completed but not paid for first five years fully.. 

 
 
Date: November 28, 2003  
Place: Mumbai  
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

                     (D. C. Anjaria) 
                           Chairman 

Statement 1: Details of Contracts Inspected                                          Annex - I 
2001-02 

2002-03 

Brokerage (Rs.) 

Contract No. 

Value of Contract 
(Rs.) 

Brokerage (Rs.) 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Contract No. 

Value of Contract 
(Rs.) 
Equity -Institutional Clients 
1 
2 
. 
Total 
Equity - Retail - Delivery 
1 
2 
. 
Total 
Equity - Retail  - Non-Delivery 
1 
2 
. 
Total 
Equity – Proprietary 
1 
 
2 
 
. 
 
Total 
 
Debt – Govt securities 
 
 
 
 
Debt – PSU Bonds 
1 
2 
. 
Total 
Debt – Other instruments 
1 
2 
. 
Total 
Derivatives – Index Futures 
1 
2 
. 
Total 
Derivatives – Index Options 
1 
2 
. 
Total 
Derivative – Stock Futures 
1 
2 
. 
Total 
Derivatives – Stock Options 
1 
2 
. 
Total 
Off Market Transactions (Equity and Debt) 
1 
2 
. 
Total 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

Type of Transaction 

Statement I1: Details of Turnover and Brokerage   

2001-02 

Annex - II 

Turnover 

Total Turnover 
No. of 
Contracts 

(Rs.) 

Inspected  

No. of 
Contracts 

Turnover 

(Rs.) 

Brokerage 

(Rs.) 

Rate of 
Brokerage 

Total Turnover

Turnover 

(Rs.) 

No. of 
Contracts

8 

9 

2 
10000 
5000 
10000 
20000 
25000 
5000 
2000 
5000 
3000 
10000 
5000 
0 
100000 

3 
1200 
2345 
4352 
NA 
500 
2719 
4560 
654 
567 
2456 
647 
0 
20000 

4 

60 
117 
218 
NA 
25 
136 
228 
33 
28 
123 
32 
0 
1000 

5 
480 
270 
530 
NA  
1248 
237 
145 
253 
146 
348 
221 
0 
3878 

6 

9 
4 
8 
NA  
12 
4 
3 
9 
5 
16 
4 
0 
74 

(%) 
7 
1.88 
1.48 
1.51 
 NA 
0.96 
1.69 
2.07 
3.56 
3.42 
4.60 
1.81 
  
1.91 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  
 NA 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

Equity 

Debt 

Derivatives 

1 

Institutional Clients 
Retail 
Delivery 
Clients  Non-Delivery 
Proprietary Trades 
Government Securities 
PSU Bonds 
Other instruments 
Index Futures 
Index Options 
Stock Futures 
Stock Options 

Off market turnover (Equities and Debt) 
Total 
* Turnover in options is calculated by (Strike Price + Premium)*Quantity 
 
Objective:  
To ascertain the brokerages being charged by the broker for different types of transactions. This will be arrived at for 
each member by examining 1000 contract notes for the year 2001-02 and 1000 for 2002-03.  
 
Turnover: 
Obtain category wise total turnover in column 2 and 8 for the respective years and add them. 
Obtain category wise total number of contracts in column 3 and 9 for the respective years and add them. 
 
Inspection: 
Pick  up  1,000  contracts  from  all  categories  of  transactions  for  each  year.  Assuming  total  number  of  contracts 
(transactions)  for  2001-02  is  20,000,  pick  up  randomly  5%  (1,000/20,000*100)  of  contracts  from  each  category. 
Number of contracts picked up in each category would appear in columns 4 and 10 respectively. Prepare statement 2 
detailing these 1000 contracts. Find out value of turnover and brokerage of the contracts of each category and input in 
columns 5, 6, 11 and 12 in statement 1. Find out values in Column 7 by dividing the column 6 by column 5. Similarly 
for column 13.  
   

 

 

