 
 
 
 
 
 

REPORT OF THE SEBI  COMMITTEE 

TO RE-EXAMINE THE ISSUES 

RELATING TO MAPIN 

INTRODUCTION 

Investors' Concern 

Inventory of Investors 

8 
8 
10 
11 
11 
11 
12 
12 
13 
13 
13 
13 
14 
14 

Information on Associates & Linkages 
Intermediaries  

 
TABLE OF CONTENTS     
                                                                                             Page No. 
 
1. 
1.1  Preamble 
1.2  The  Developments 
1.3  Committee for Review of MAPIN  
1.4  Approach of the Committee  
 
2.  REVIEW OF MAPIN  
2.1  Biometrics for Creation of Unique Investor IDs  
2.2 
2.3  Expansion of Investor Base 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6  Listed Companies (Issuers) 
2.7 
2.8  Selection of POS 
2.9 
Investor Profiles  
2.10 Updation 
2.11 Validation 
2.12 Regulatory Actions 
2.13 Conclusion 
 
3.   SEARCH FOR AN ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM 
3.1  Objectives 
3.2  Preamble to Unique Investor ID  
3.3  Proposed New System for Creating  Unique ID without Biometrics 
3.4  Execution 
 
4. COVERAGE AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NEW MAPIN SYSTEM 
4.1 The Approach 
4.2  Phase I: Capital market Unique ID covering Domestic Investors in Debt,  
 
4.3  Phase II: Domestic Investors in Mutual Funds 
4.4  Phase III: Intermediaries 
4.5  Phase IV: Listed Companies (including New Issuers) 
4.6  Phase V: Resident Personnel of Foreign institutional investors 
4.7 
4.8  New Features in the New Form  
4.9  Updation 
4.10 Data Entry/Data Capture 
 
5.  OTHER MATTERS 
5.1  Advertising/Publicity of the New System 
5.2  Penalties for Wrong Disclosures  
5.3  Exemptions  
5.4  Costs 
5.5  Scheme Name 
5.6  Discontinuation of Fresh Registrations 

Equity and Derivatives market 

Integrating Existing MAPIN 

4 
4 
4 
6 
7 

15 
15 
17 
19 
21 

22 
22 

22 
26 
29 
30 
31 
31 
31 
34 
34 

35 
35 
36 
36 
36 
36 
36 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          2 

5.7  Constitution of a Technical Group  
5.8  Acknowledgements 
 
Annexures  
Annexure I : Trade & Investors Data from Stock Exchanges and Depositories 
Annexure II : Data Updation- Some Issues in the Current MAPIN system 
Annexure III : Draft : Application Form for Natural Persons 
 

37 
37 

38 
41 
44 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          3 

1. INTRODUCTION 
 
1.1 Preamble 
 
1.1.1  The  Central  Database  of  Securities  Market  Participants’  and 

Investors’ 

Identification  Numbers  (MAP IN) was set up by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India  (SEBI)  under  the  SEBI  (Central  Database  of  Market  Participants)  Regulations, 
2003 (MAPIN) and was notified by SEBI on November 20, 2003.  MAPIN is proposed to 
be  a  central  electronic  integrated  database  of  market  participants  and  investors, 
comprising key descriptors of all persons participating in the Indian securities market. 
 
1.1.2 The main objectives of MAPIN were: 
 

a)  create a unique non-duplicable ID for all investors in order to establish an 
audit trail for any specific transaction. In the absence of a unique investor 
ID,  it  was  found  difficult  to  identify  a  person  when  he  operated  through 
multiple exchanges, multiple brokers, multiple Unique Client Codes (UCCs) 
/Depository  Participant  (DP)  acc ounts,  multiple  related  entities  and 
sometimes  even  through  slightly  different  names  identify  investors  who 
have taken large exposures in the market and/or who are trading through a 
large number of different brokers, as also enable adequate risk containment 
measures such as imposition of margins, trading or exposure limits etc.  

b)  cover public disclosure of actions taken by SEBI against entities/individuals   
participants 
c)  develop 

inventory 

market 

an 

of 

all 

(issuers/intermediaries/investors). 

 
1.2 The  Developments 
 
1.2.1  Since its launch in November 2003, i.e. nearly 18 months ago, only about three 
lakh MAPIN UINs have been issued, compared to over 70 lakh demat accounts (even 
recognizing  multiple  demat  accounts,  the  number  would  still  be  very  large).  This is 
because  of  considerable  opposition  to  the  MAPIN  system  entailing  fingerprinting.  It  is 
also  because  of  lack  of  clarity  on  several  aspects  of  the  Regulations  (leading  to  a 
couple  of  amendments  to  the  Regulations),  non-notification  of  certain  categories of 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          4 

and 

non-investing 

employees 

non-investing 

family  members 

market participants and several extensions to the last date leading to people deferring 
their plan to obtain the UIN (presently extended to 31st December, 2005). Significantly, 
many of even the three lakh cards issued may not have been issued to investors, these 
being 
of 
intermediaries/companies. 
 
1.2.2 The process of information capturing for a natural person involves live scanning of 
his  fingerprints  and  capturing  his  photograph  and  signature .  Though  several  market 
intermediaries,  their  employees,  institutional  and  corporate  investors  (and  some 
individual  investors  too)  have  registered  in  the  MAPIN  database,  most  individual 
investors as well as many other market participants have resisted and have expressed 
serious apprehensions and concerns on the biometrics-based system.  
 
1.2.3  There  also  exists  confusion  regarding  many  aspects  of  usage/applicability  of 
MAPIN: 

•  SEBI  circular  of  16.7.2004  states  that  the  effective  date  for  use  of  MAPIN  is 
2.8.2004  for  intermediaries  and  related  persons.    All  such  entities,  however, 
have not obtained a UIN. 

•  There  exists  a  grey  area  regarding  coverage  of  employees  of  intermediaries. 
While  the  initial  Regulation  mandated  coverage  of  all  employees,  it  was 
subseque ntly amended to include only the top three layers.  There is now a view 
that  this  3-layer  concept  is  confusing  and  subjective.  Instead  of  this,  the 
Regulation  should  have  listed  out  a  set  of  functions  and  any  one  who  is 
performing these functions in full or in part should have been mandated to obtain 
a  MAPIN.  There  is  an  alternative  suggestion  that  each  intermediary  should 
define  the  three  layers  and  to  this,  the  CEO  of  the  intermediary  can  add  such 
employees that he deems fit. 

•  Brokers are currently insisting on MAPIN from their corporate investors. Trades 
are, however, not being rejected in case MAPIN is not provided for corporates 
and other mandated categories. 

•  Several  brokers  are  also  currently  insisting  on  MAPIN  from  all  individual 
investors because there is no on-line system for calculating the value of a trade 
and  in  case  it  exceeds  Rs.  1  lakh,  the  broker  does  not  wish  to  incur  a  liability 
/penalty from SEBI.  

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          5 

•  Current application forms of IPOs have a field for MAPIN. However, applications 
are  not  being  rejected  in  case  MAPIN  is  not  provided  even  by  the  notified 
categories of investors. 

 
1.3 Committee for Review of MAPIN 
 
1.3.1  In order to address the various issues and concerns, SEBI, vide Press Release 

No 51/2005 dated March 7, 2005, set up a Committee..The members of the Committee 
are: 

 

 

Chairman 
Shri Jagdish Capoor  
Former Dy. Governor of RBI and present Chairman of HDFC Bank Ltd.  
 
Members 
Shri C. B. Bhave * 
Chairman & Managing Director, National Securities Depository Ltd., 
 
Shri Prithvi Haldea  
Managing Director, PRIME Database 
 
Shri A. P. Kurian 
Chairman, Association of Mutual Funds in India                
 
Ms. Deena Mehta 
Director, Securities Industry Association of India 
 
Shri A. K. Narayan  
President, Tamilnadu Investors Association 
 
*ceased to be a Member of the Committee w.e.f. 24th May,2005  
 
Shri V.S.Sundaresan, General Manager, Securities and Exchange Board 
of India acted as Secretary to the Committee. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          6 

1.3.2 The terms of reference of the Committee were as under: 

i)  Re-examine  the  coverage  of  the  MAPIN,  i.e.  the  category  of  market 
participants  and  investors  who  would  be  required  to  obtain  Unique 
Identification Number (UIN)  

ii)  Suggest future implementation schedule based on the coverage 
iii)  Review the cost of obtaining the UIN for the market participants and investors 

 
1.3.3  In a subsequent discussion with SEBI, it was clarified by SEBI  that the Committee 
may also examine any other related matter with respect to creation of unique IDs. 
 
1.4. Approach of the Committee 
 
1.4.1  A detailed analysis of the current issues and procedures concerning MAPIN was 
undertaken  by  the  Committee  over  eight  meetings.  The  Committee,  through  a  press 
release, invited suggestions from market participants including investors. Moreover, the 
Committee also met representatives of market participants like ANMI, DPAI, Investors 
Grievances Forum, ASSOCHAM, FICCI and CII to understand their viewpoints. Finally, 
presentations  were  invited  by  the  Committee  from  four  software  firms  with  a  view  to 
better understand the uniqueness that can be achieved both by a biometrics based and 
a non-biometrics based system.  
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          7 

2. REVIEW OF MAPIN  
 
2.1  Biometrics for Creation of Unique Investor IDs 
 
2.1.1  Convergence of identity in India continues to be a dream. Several bodies in the 

past  have  gone  ahead  and  issued  multiple  and  independent  IDs,  without  any 
integration,  and  many  more  are  in  the  offing.  Even  in  the  capital  market,  two  efforts 
have been made in the past to allot an ID to the investors -DP Client ID and UCC (which 
is  in  addition  to  the  folio  numbers  assigned  to  investors  by  mutual  funds  and  by 
companies).  However,  for  a  variety  of  reasons,  an  investor  was  permitted  to  obtain 
multiple IDs both times -while he could obtain multiple IDs from a particular depository 
and  also  from  the  second  depository,  he  could  obtain  multiple  UCCs  with  different 
brokers  of  an  exchange  or  across  multiple  exchanges  and  as  such,  it  is  not  that  the 
investors  attempted  to  defraud  the  system  to  obtain  multiple  IDs.  A  unique  ID  for 
investors  was  once  again  considered  essential  and  hence  MAPIN  was  conceived.  It 
may be pointed out here that in respect of companies, while the securities of all listed 
companies  have  a  unique  ISIN  code  assigned  to  them  by  the  depositories,  all 
registered  companies  have  a  unique  CIN  code  assigned  to  them  by  the  Ministry  of 
Company Affairs. 
 
2.1.2  Instead of using and building upon the existing information resources which would 
have led to lesser time and costs both to the system and to the investors, a biometrics-
based system was set up and MAPIN proceeded to establish a brand new process to 
create unique IDs.  
 
2.1.3  The  key  objective  of  biometrics  in  the  existing  MAPIN  system  is  to  arrive  at 
uniqueness, and there is no proposal to use biometrics to enable a trade, i.e. capturing 
transactions  in  the  capital  market  through  biometrics  (which  incidentally  shall  then 
require  all  investors  to  have  a  physical  access  to  a  trading  terminal).  As  such,  the 
Committee  felt  that  a  simple  biometric  identification  limited  only  to  the  capital  market 
may not be sufficient enough to establish identity and ensure audit trail of transactions 
of  a  particular  person.    The  argument  that  all  investors  and  associates  should  be 
covered through biometrics because it is not possible to ascertain who would later turn 
out to be a manipulator does not also stand to reason. 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          8 

 
2.1.4  It  may  be  emphasized  that  all  trades  are  done  by  human  beings,  and  not  by 
invisibles, and each trade can even presently be traced back to the investor in at least 
three or four ways: through his depository account, through his broker, through his PAN 
number and through his bank account (the former two in any case being under SEBI’s 
domain). If with all these, the erring investor cannot be traced, there is no guarantee 
that he will be traceable with MAPIN. In any case, the biometrics-based ID c an only at 
best  prevent  a  fraudster  from  trading  and  that  too  if  he  is  naive  enough  to  do 
manipulative trades under his own ID; it cannot help in tracing him. 
 
2.1.5  As the past has shown, fraudsters will always invent new ways of manipulation, 
and the biometrics-based system too may end up with identities only of honest people. 
Moreover,  if  there  is  a  concern  that  fake  identities  can  be  created  under  the non-
biometrics based system, it should be recognized that benami entities can be created 
under  the  biometrics-based  system  and  that  the  biometrics-based  system  is  also  not 
error-free.  
 
2.1.6 The fingerprint-based MAPIN has led to a widely prevalent view in the market that 
every investor is believed to be a criminal unless proven otherwise. The small investor 
is  also  being  unnecessarily  led  to  believe  that  the  market  is  dominated  by  criminals, 
which has necessitated such a biometrics-based system. It should be recognized that 
no  scam  has  ever  occurred  because  of  the  manipulation  by  the  small  investor,  who 
most often is in fact the victim and not the culprit. As such, for the misdeeds of a few, 
lakhs of investors should not be put to inconvenience and cost. Nor should the exercise 
become so gigantic as to lose focus on the few manipulators.  
 
2.1.7 Significantly, fingerprinting  is associated with identification of criminals and an act 
of invasion of privacy. 
 
2.1.8 In this regard, it may also be mentioned here that there is an increasing concern 
about the uniqueness of biometrics-based IDs itself.  According to the noted expert on 
biometrics, Mr. Simson Garfinkel, as extracted from his book “ Database Nation: The 
Death of Privacy in 21st Century”… “Once a biometric is stored inside a computer, all of 
the  security  provided  by  biometric  impression  is  lost.  A  stored biometric could easily 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          9 

have been copied from another computer, rather than being directly measured. This is 
a  critical  distinction  to  understand  when  using  biometrics.  It  is  a  distinction  so  subtle 
that it is frequently overlooked by the people implementing and using biometrics-based 
systems”.  
 
2.2 Investors’ Concerns 
 
2.2.1  Fingerprinting:  Fingerprinting  is  perceived,  by  and  large,  as  an  invasion  of 
privacy  and  often  associated  with  identification  of  criminals  and  thus  a  humiliating 
experience. It also militates against a free market spirit. The Committee is not aware of 
fingerprinting being used in any country for identification of investors.   There are also 
concerns about the security of fingerprints data. 
 
2.2.2 Multiple IDs: Investors have questioned the need of yet another capital market ID 
besides DP Client ID and Unique Client Codes. This is in addition to the several IDs 
that a person has-PAN, Passport Number, Bank Account Number/s, Voter Identity and 
Driving License. 
 
2.2.3 Cost:  The cost of obtaining UIN of Rs. 300 is considered high by the investors, 
further  compounded  by  hidden  indirect  costs  like  DD  charges,  travel/conveyance 
(multiple  visits)  etc.      It  is  also  argued  by  a  section  of  investors  that  anything  that 
becomes  mandatory  becomes  “public  good”  and  therefore,  cannot  become  a  pure 
commercial, profit-making operation. 
 
2.2.4  Reach:  The  infrastructure  and  reach  of  Points  of  Service  (POS)  has  been 

inadequate, leading to severe hardships and costs to the investors. For small investors 
living in small towns, to take MAPIN through biometric system, they have to travel to a 
closest  district  headquarter  and  they  have  to  wait  and  incur  costs.  Moreover,  the 
biometric system requires presence of the persons, unlike other systems, for taking IDs. 
This makes it practically difficult for several sections of the investing class like senior 
citizens, physically challenged persons  etc.  
 
 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          10 

2.3 Expansion of Investor Base 
 
2.3.1  While  on  one  hand,  efforts  are  being  made  to  broaden  and  deepen  the  capital 

market  by  motivating  small  investors  to  invest  in  capital  market  instruments,  the 
biometric system of generating IDs militates against this broad national objective. 
 
2.4 Information on Associates & Linkages 
 
2.4.1  While  MAPIN  recognized  the  need  to  capture  information  about  ‘associates’ 
(refers to family members, employees, etc.), it sought to do so through biometrics (and 
not  through  disclosures)  and  that  too  irrespective  of  whether  the  associates  were 
investors  or  not.  Accordingly,  the  initial  MAPIN  UINs  were  issued  to  associates  also 
(including  to  minor  children  who  were  not  even  investors).    However,  due  to  the 
objections raised by the intermediaries and the consequent intervention of the Hon’ble 
Delhi High Court, the provisions of the Regulations were modified with the result that 
the key issue of linkages to associates (especially with the family members) got put on 
the backburner. Thus, many MAPINs have been subsequently issued without covering 
the associates at all-neither through biometrics nor through disclosures. This has also 
led to a peculiar situation of having two sets of MAPIN holders. There is also another 
problem with the data on associates -  the  present  form C is required to be submitted 
not at the time of registration but at an unspecified later date, and many investors may 
not even go back to this form to fulfil their obligation. 
 
2.4.2 The MAPIN form also does not seek information on the applicant’s existing capital 
market  IDs  like  DP  Client  ID  or  UCC  and  as  such,  the  database  without  these  basic 
details may not be useful for conducting any linkages, studies or historical analysis.  
 
2.5 SEBI-registered Intermediaries  
 
2.5.1  The  present  approach  and  application  form  have  also  led  to  some  amount  of 
confusion because the focus is not just on the investors. It is also on the intermediaries 
and their employees, whether investors or not (there also exists a grey area regarding 
coverage of employees of intermedia ries) and on creating employees’ profile database.  
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          11 

2.6 Listed Companies (Issuers) 
 
2.6.1  Moreover, there is further confusion as the present form aims to cover not only 

the  investor  companies  but  also  listed  companies  and  promoter  companies,  whether 
they are investors or not. Incidentally, listed companies are yet to be notified. 
 
2.7 Inventory of Investors 
 
2.7.1  The  objective  of  MAPIN  of  creating  an  inventory  of  all  investors  has  also  got 
diluted due to provision of several exemption categories, including  cut-off limit for the 
small  investors,  and  would  be  more  so  if  the  demand  for  exclusion  of  mutual  fund 
investors  is  accepted.    Looking  at  the  present  pace  and  the  need  to  phase  out 
exemptions, it may be several years before an all-investors database is built up. 
 
2.7.2 An examination of the present dispensation exempting all investors who enter into 
transactions of Rs. 1 lakh or less from having a MAPIN or even raising  this cut-off limit 
to provide relief to the small investors is very alarming. The data provided by NSE and 
BSE reveals that there are only 1.62 lakh and 0.76 lakh investors respectively whose 
single order entry was above Rs.1 lakh (during the period January  – February 2005). 
This means that most of the investors who have been issued  UIN  may not  fall  in  the 
presently applicable exempted category. If the present exemption of Rs.1 lakh cut-off 
limit was to continue, there would hardly be a need for any further registrations and only 
a very small investing population would stand covered. If the cut-off limit was raised to 
Rs.  5  lakhs  or  to  Rs.  10  lakhs,  the  number  of  investors  requiring  MAPIN  shall  fall 
significantly. (see Annexure I) 
 
2.7.3  Significantly,  any  cut-off  limit  shall  exclude  a  large  body  of  investors  thereby 
preventing  creation  of  an  all-investors  database.  It  shall  also  tempt  manipulators  to 
execute trades below the cut-off limit. On the other hand, brokers shall continue to insist 
on  investors  on  providing  UIN  because  there  is  no  on-line  system  for  calculating  the 
value of a trade, and in case it exceeds Rs. 1 lakh, the broker does not wish to attract a 
penalty from SEBI for not obtaining the MAPIN ID from the investors.  
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          12 

2.7.4 There has been a demand to exclude mutual fund investors from the provisions of 
MAPIN since these are passive investors. This demand appears valid. However, such 
exclusion shall adversely affect the creation of the all-investors database. 
 
2.8 Selection of POS 
 
2.8.1  There  have  also  been  questions  raised  by  several  intermediaries  about  the 
selection process of POS and fears of losing client data, as most of the present POS 
are market participants.  
 
2.9 Investor Profiles 
 
2.9.1  MAPIN  has  not  been  designed  to  generate  data  on  investors,  their  distribution 
summaries,  their  investment  choices/  patterns  and  their  geographical  locations  nor 
allow development of investor profiles, which may be useful to frame effective policies 
and processes. 
 
2.10 Updation 
 
2.10.1 The information that has been captured by MAPIN till now is not being updated, 
thereby  weakening  the  database.  For  example,  many  individual  investors  must  have 
changed  addresses 
thousands  of  employees  at 
intermediaries must have changed jobs.  As such, these investors will not be locatable, 
when required, at least at the address they have given at the time of registration. Due to 
lack of guidance, investors do not even know that the onus of notifying changes rests 
with them. The penalties on registrants for not informing changes are very huge ranging 
from debarment from the capital market to penalties extending to up to Rs.1.00 crore, 
and though these have till now not been enforced, the liability exists on the investors. 
(see Annexure II)  
 
2.11 Validation 
 
2.11.1 Despite nearly three lakh UINs having been issued, these have not been put to 
any use. Logically, as the stakes are high, all large investors must have obtained UIN 

the  normal  course,  while 

in 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          13 

is 

yet 

to 

is 

now 

available 

information 

start).  This 

by now, as the risk and cost of exclusion from the market is very high. Consequentially, 
a majority of trades in the market is already being done by the MAPIN holders. Testing 
of  the  database  should  have  been  done  to  validate  its  usefulness,  thereby  also 
ensuring its acceptance. 
 
2.12 Regulatory Actions 
 
2.12.1  MAPIN aims to cover regulatory actions of SEBI to enable market participants to 
check the credentials of other participants before dealing with them (The work on this 
incidentally 
at 
www.watchoutinvestors.com ,  that  covers  regulatory  actions  of  not  only  SEBI  but  of 
several other regulators and, therefore, there now seems little need for duplication of 
efforts. 
 
2.13 Conclusion 
 
2.13.1  Subs tantive  concerns  of  fingerprinting,  cost  and  reach  and  the  design  of  the 
present system    which  has  resulted/will  result  in  some  missing/outdated  information 
would defeat the objectives .,The Committee, therefore,    is of the view that the present 
system  should  not  be  continued.  If  continued,  it  would  require  major  modifications  to 
meet  the  objectives  and  would  still  not  be  able  to  address  the  investors’  concerns. 
Moreover,  if  the  exemptions  approach  is  continued,  the  present  system  will  end  up 
covering  only  a  small  part  of  the  total  investing  population,  that  would  defeat  the 
objective of creating an inventory of all investors.  
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          14 

3.  SEARCH FOR AN ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM 
 
3.1 Objectives 
 
Before  deliberating  on  alternative  systems, the Committee first finalized the following 
objectives of a unique ID, which not only cover all the objectives of the present MAPIN 
but also meets other requirements.    
 
3.1.1  Create  a  new  unique  ID  for  all  investors,  across  all  markets  (primary  market, 
secondary  market)  and  across  all  forms  of  instruments  (equity,  debt,  derivatives  and 
mutual funds) in order to 
    

a) Arrive at the number of investors (and investing households), their distribution 
summary and their geographical locations and develop investor profiles in order 
to frame effective policies and processes. It is very important to have a database 
of  all  investors  across  all  instruments.    Today,  we  do  not  know  how  many 
investors  does  India  have…70  lakh  or  4  crore  (as  claimed  by  different  bodies, 
and the reality being that there are only about 70 lakh, and that too non-unique 
depository  accounts  across  both  depositories  and  that  there  are  only  24  lakh 
non-unique UCCs at NSE and BSE), We do not know how many of these are 
‘small investors’. Or how many invest only in equity or only in mutual funds or 
how many in both? It is also not known where the investors are located or what 
is their portfolio or levels of activity or buying patterns? Almost all investors today 
are  unprofiled  entities.    A  major  challenge  today  is  to  develop  and  deliver 
focussed policies, products and services as also simple communication to clearly 
identified targeted audience. This is important because without clear information 
on  the  audience,  any  policy/service/communication  effort  shall  have  only  a 
marginal impact, as there may be a serious mismatch between the offer and its 
recipient’s needs.  
 
b) Identify investors who have taken large exposures in the market and/or who 
are trading through multiple brokers. 
                         

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          15 

c) Enable adequate risk containment measures such as imposition of margins, 
trading or exposure limits etc. 
 
d) Assist the government with insights on investors’ profiles for designing 
focussed taxation policies for the capital market.  
 
e) Assist in conducting opinion polls and surveys on a wide variety of issues   
 

3.1.2 Enable SEBI’s surveillance system to identify linkages between investors in cases 
of  concerted/unusual  trades.  The  new  unique  ID,  through  disclosures,  shall  help  to 
establish  linkages  among  investors  and  thereby  establish  concerted  trades  within  a 
group  of  persons  (relatives  and  associates).  It  should  be  recognized  that  most 
manipulators  do  not  trade  any  more  in  their  own  names,  specially  after  the  dawn  of 
electronic trading and depositories, and they would rather trade through  

investment  companies/other  entities  or 

i)  

relatives,  associates, 
employees  
friends, neighbours, suppliers, customers  

ii)  
iii)   benami accounts  
iv)   dabba accounts  

 

The  links  with  i)  can  be  easily  established  and  the  new  system  is  designed  in  that 
direction.  This  itself  shall  be  a  significant  achievement  as  that  shall,  for  reasons  of 
convenience of the manipulators, constitute the largest segment of traders. For ii) and 
iii),  the  new  system’s  recommendation  of  incorporation  of  bank  accounts  in  the 
database shall help establish a trail and will assist the surveillance system to identify 
any patterns that need to be investigated. As far as iv) is concerned, the same can be 
tackled only through surveillance. 
 
The argument that all investors and associates should be covered through biometrics 
because it is not possible to ascertain who would later turn out to be a manipulator does 
not stand to reason. Moreover, the present system in any case is not including linkages 
in most cases (while the new system is proposing the same). Even for tracking down 
market manipulators, instead of the present design that is reactive (i.e. after a fraud is 
reported  or  a  deal  appears  suspect),  the  new  system  shall  allow  for  a  proactive 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          16 

investigation. Whenever any unusual pattern is thrown up by the system, the investor 
IDs integrated with surveillance shall be able to identify entities and their linkages. 
 
3.1.3 Enable investors to make investments and trade through a single ID. The 
investors would find this very helpful as currently they are required to quote various 
numbers/IDs. 
 
3.1.4 Enable intermediaries to check the credentials of investors/other intermediaries  
 
3.1.5 Create a database of financial professionals employed at the  intermediaries. This 

database  would  assist  SEBI  in  not  only  taking  a  stock  of  the  competency  levels,  but 
also find gaps to be filled by education/ training. 
 
3.1.6  Create  a  database  of  listed  companies.  Presently,  there  is  no  consolidation  of 
such  information and it is lying scattered at various exchanges. A consolidation would 
not  only  be  of  help  to  SEBI  but  also  hugely  to  the  investors  and  other  market 
participants. To begin with, this database should cover the following for each company: 

•  Addresses of registered offices, head offices and plants  
•  Office and residence addresses of all promoters and directors 
•  Phone numbers, Fax numbers, Email IDs and website addresses  
•  Name of Compliance Officer and contact details 
•  Registrar/share transfer agent of the company with contact details 
•  Capital History 
•  All name changes of the company 

 

3.2 Preamble to Unique Investor ID  
 
3.2.1 The Committee is of the view that the entire orientation and approach should be a 
positive one.  
 
3.2.2  The  Committee  is  concerned  about  the  declining  participation  of  the  small 
investors in the market and feels impediments of this kind shall only deter them further. 
Today, anyone who wants to sell an equity share has to have a DP account for which 
the person does not have to be physically present anywhere. The DP account is well 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          17 

accepted,  spread  all  across  the  country,  is  efficiently  organized  and  managed.  The 
Committee,  therefore,  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  DP  system  should  be  the  base  for 
building  a  new  ID.  The  objective  of  the  system  should  really  be  of  creating  an  all-
investors’  database,  one  of  the  focus  areas  of  which  would  be  to  track  market 
miscreants. 
 

 

3.2.3 The Committee is unanimous that the capital market requires a unique ID for each 
participant for a variety of purposes. It is mindful of the popular belief that  a fingerprint-
based  ID  provides  a  unique  ID.  The  key  question  is  whether  the  unique  ID  for  the 
purposes  for  which  it  is  sought  to  be  created  can  not  be  obtained  through  a  non-
biometrics  based  system,  which  shall  also  address  the  concerns  of  huge  cost,  effort 
and  mental  resistance  in  covering  millions  of  small  investors  and  their  associates 
through  a  biometrics -based  ID  system,  and  also  the  huge  challenge  of  continually 
updating such a database in an environment where most persons are not electronically 
connected (including many IPO investors who do not have a broker). 
 
3.2.4  The  review  of  existing  MAPIN  initially  led  the  Committee  to  suggest  only  some 
modifications. However, with revelations of huge deficiencies, the Committee decided 
to explore the possibility of an alternative new system for creating unique IDs, which will 
address the core concern of duplicate IDs that can be issued/ obtained.  
 
3.2.5 Various alternatives of creating a system to generate a unique ID were discussed 
by the Committee. These were: 

•  A biometrics-based MAPIN for all investors  
•  A biometrics-based MAPIN for all investors and for all their associates  
•  A biometrics-based MAPIN for all investors plus only disclosures about their 

associates 

•  A  biometrics-based MAPIN only for selected inve stors (for example, above 

a threshold)  

•  A  biometrics-based MAPIN only for selected investors (for example, above 

a threshold) and for all their associates  

•  A  biometrics-based MAPIN only for selected investors (for example, above 

a threshold) plus only disclosures about their associates 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          18 

•  A combination of biometrics-based MAPIN for the corporate sector and the 
intermediaries and a non-biometrics based MAPIN for small investors plus 
only disclosures about the associates of all above 

•  A  non-biometrics  based  MAPIN  for  all  market  participants,  with   only 

disclosures about their associates  

 
3.3 Proposed New System for Creating Unique ID without Biometrics 
 
3.3.1  While  exploring  various  options,  the  Committee  decided  to  understand  the 
systems presently used by the financial sector worldwide to create unique IDs. This led 
the Committee to the dedupe software which is being extensively used for many years 
for creating unique client IDs by the financial sector across the world as well as in India 
for credit cards, loans etc. CIBIL is also using this software in India to aggregate data of 
individuals  across  various  banks  and  credit  card  companies.  The  dedupe  software 
essentially uses a combination of parameters, in one or more databases, to arrive at 
unique identities. 
 
3.3.2  The  Committee  sought  presentations  from  four  leading  software  firms  (TCS, 

Mphasis,  Nucleus  and  Polaris)  who  cater  to  the  financial  sector  to  understand  the 
feasibility of creating non-biometrics based IDs. Though all these firms were unanimous 
that  the  biometrics-based  ID  is  truly  unique,  it  was  also  agreed  by  all  of  them  that 
unique IDs can also be generated through the dedupe software and other related tools 
with a very high degree of reliability. It was also pointed out that if unique IDs can be 
created  for  corporates  without  biometrics  by  using  the  dedupe  software,  the  same  is 
also  possible  for  individuals.  The  key,  of  course,  lies  in  the  number  of  parameters 
available;  the  larger  the  number,  the  better  would  be  the  outcome.  As  the  present 
captured  data does not have a comfortable number of parameters, investors would be 
required to provide the same through a new form.  Since the key objective of biometrics 
is to arrive at uniqueness (as compared to using biometrics to enable a trade which in 
any cas e is not being planned as that shall then require all investors to physically visit a 
trading terminal), the objective of uniqueness can be met without biometrics.  
 
3.3.3 The risks and impact of duplicate IDs through this software are minimal and within 
tolerable limits. Moreover, if a person does obtain a duplicate ID and deals with multiple 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          19 

brokers, the design of the surveillance system should be such as to be able to identify if 
the same person was behind the deal/s as all deals can be tracked to his depository 
account, his broker, his PAN number and his bank account. In any case, if a person 
obtains  duplicate  IDs  under  the  new  system,  he  would  do  so  in  connivance  with  the 
DPs (who are required to verify the proof of identity) and more so at the risk of making 
wrong  disclosures  punishable  with  huge  financial  penalties  and  debarment  from  the 
capital market. 
 
3.3.4 After evaluating all options, the Committee has reached a conclusion that to meet 
the desired objectives, a non-biometrics system is indeed feas ible.  
 
3.3.5 The Committee, therefore, recommends that a new system should be introduced 
which  is  able  to  create  an  all-investors  database  utilizing  the  existing  information 
resources/ infrastructure, including the data already captured by the MAPIN system, in 
an  effective,  cost-efficient,  investor-friendly,  easily  updateable  manner  and  which  can 
also  incorporate  some  new  critical  features  including  information  on  associates.  The 
new system should also be designed to ensure that this is the last time a capital market 
ID shall be issued.  
 
3.3.6  The  Committee  also  took  the  view  that  the  fact  that  several  UINs  have  already 
been issued should not act as a constraint because only a small population of existing 
investors- about three lakhs - has been allotted UINs, and, therefore, there is a need to 
think  long  term  for  the  millions  of  present  uncovered  investors  as  well  as  those  who 
shall keep joining the fold. The existence of the infrastructure and its costs should also 
not  be  a  constraint.  The  Committee  proposes  that  the  database  and  infrastructure 
already created for MAPIN should be put to maximum use in the new system.   
 
3.3.7  A  potential  argument  against  the  new  system  could  be  that  it  would  require  a 
massive exercise of getting the forms filled from millions of investors. In this regard, it 
may be mentioned that the present MAPIN form too would be required to be filled up 
(both the individual information as well as the linkages information) by almost the same 
millions of investors (as only a small number of  investors have been covered till now) 
and  would  additionally  require  the  investors  to  travel  to  the  POS.  Moreover,  even  the 
persons who have already been issued a UIN would be required to fill the forms for not 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          20 

only obtaining updated information (which in  many cases might have by now become 
outdated) but also to get the critical information on linkages which is presently missing 
in a very large number of cases. 
 
3.4 Execution 
 
3.4.1  SEBI  should  select  a  firm  for  developing  the  dedupe  software  for  generation of 
unique IDs. This software should then be handed over to the Implementing Agency (IA) 
to  be  appointed  by  SEBI.  The  IA  shall  undertake  the  exercise  of  combining  the 
databases  and  then  generating  the  new  Unique  IDs  (and  cards  with  photograph  and 
signature of registrant) to the existing investors.  The IA shall also be entrusted with the 
task  of  assigning  unique  IDs  to  new  investors  and  for  maintaining  and  updating  the 
database.  

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          21 

 
4. COVERAGE AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NEW MAPIN 
SYSTEM 

 

4.1 The Approach 
 
4.1.1  To  arrive  at  an  effective  policy  and  implementation,  different  parameters  and 
processes  for  the  three  categories  (issuers,  intermediaries  and  investors)  have  been 
clearly defined. The Committee also suggests a phased implementation of the project. 
The  new  system  also  integrates  the  existing  data  at  depositories,  mutual  funds  and 
brokers, and further makes it integratable with the surveillance system.   
 
4.2 Phase I: Capital Market Unique ID covering Domestic Investors in Debt, Equity 
and Derivatives Market 
 
4.2.1  The  new  system  is  based  on  the  reality  that  every  investor  has  an  electronic 
account and as such, the investors’ data can be used and built upon to assign unique 
IDs through the time-tested dedupe software.  
 
4.2.2 The investors covered shall be investors, whether they are individual investors or 
are  companies  /  entities  (including  intermediaries  and  their  employees,  companies, 
trusts,  firms,  HUFs,  banks,  primary  dealer  etc).  This  essentially  means  that  any  one 
who  has  a  depository  account  is  an  investor.  In  the  case  of  a  company  that  is  an 
investor and entities like banks, primary dealers etc., the individuals who are authorized 
to transact on behalf of the entity shall also be covered. However, a listed company, or 
a bank or a primary dealer etc. if it does not trade in its own name and, therefore, does 
not have a depository account, shall not be covered under this system.  
 
4.2.3  Accordingly,  for  the  capital  market  investors,  the  existing  database  of  the  two 

depositories shall be used as a starting point, integrating also the UCC and the extant 
MAPIN data. The information available with the depositories as already captured from 
the depository account opening form or as updated subsequently with the depositories 
by  the  investors  is  available  in  electronic  form.    Significantly,  information  available 
under  some  key  parameters  is  reliable,  as  the  depository  account  opening  form 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          22 

ensures  that  the  concerned  depository  participant  has  verified  a  person’s  identity 
through various proofs of identity. On the other hand, because of the need to receive 
account  statements,  ECS  credits  etc,  there  is  enough  reason  to  believe  that  the 
information, at least for most of the active investors, is current and valid. 
 
4.2.4  Such  parameters  shall  be  extracted  from  these files as have been mandatorily 
required. However, an initial study of these parameters shows that these may not be 
enough to be able to proceed with generation of the unique ID right away. In view of 
this,  as  a  first  step,  an  interim  unique  file  will  be  generated  through  the  dedupe 
software, after combining the files of the two depositories. 
 
4.2.5  All  beneficiary  account  holders  shall  be  requested  to  update  their  current 
information  as  well  as  provide  information  on  additional  mandatory  fields.  In  addition, 
detailed  information  shall  be  sought  on  associates  as  the  Committee  recognizes  that 
most manipulators do not trade any more in their own names, specially after the dawn 
of  electronic  trading  and  depositories,  and  they  would  rather  trade  through  relatives, 
associates,  investment  companies/other  entities  or  employees.  It  is,  therefore, 
important  to  create  linkages  to  associates  in  the  system,  which  shall  be  achieved 
through  disclosures.  The  system  shall  also  seek  information  on  the  present  capital 
market  IDs  - DP Client IDs and UCCs. It shall also seek information on bank account 
numbers that the investor will use for capital market operations (as these will assist in 
better  audit  trail).  Accordingly,  a  draft  of  the  new  form  has  been  designed  (Annexure 
III). 
 
4.2.6  The  first  part  of  the  new  form  shall  have  the  key  information  pre-printed  as  is 

already  obtained  in  the  new  system  through  the  combined  depositories’  databases. 
Wherever  uniquing  is  arrived  at  with  certainty  through  the  initial  dedupe  exercise,  a 
single  form  shall  be  printed  for  even  such  investors  who  have  several  depository 
accounts.  The  second  part  of  the  form  shall  require  investors  to  disclose  personal 
details-covering  both  existing  as  well  as  additional  parameters.    This  will  help  the 
system  achieve  current  updation.  The  third  part  of  the  form  shall  require  disclosures 
about associates (about only such associates who already have a DP Client ID and/or 
who have already been assigned a MAPIN number under the extant system). A recent 
photograph shall also be required to be submitted.  

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          23 

 
4.2.7  The  new  form  shall  be  sent  by  the  IA  to  all  DPs/  brokers  asking  them  to  have 
these  updated/filled  by  the  investors.  In  both  options,  an  investor  who  deals  with 
multiple DPs/brokers may receive several forms. This shall be taken care of by giving 
clear instructions on the form that an investor should fill this form only once.  
 

 Option 1:Using DPs 
 
The  benefit  of  using  DPs  is  that  an  investor  has  to  be  in  touch  with  his  DP 
because the DP is the front-end custodian for his holdings and he receives the 
statement of accounts from the DP and also pays various kinds of depository 
charges  to  the  DP,  even  when  he  is  not  transacting  in  the  market  (including 
many IPO investors).  
 
Option 2: Using Brokers  
 
The benefit of using brokers is that an investor is more actively in touch with 
his  broker  than  with  his  DP  for  transacting.  However,  a  big  negative  is  that 
there may be several investors who either do not trade at all and thus have no 
broker  to  work  with  (including  several  IPO  investors)  or  they  deal  with  sub-
brokers.  
 
The Committee recommends using the DP network.  

 
4.2.8  Moreover,  since  the  new  system  proposes  to  use  the  existing  infrastructure  of 

DPs for interfacing with the investors for filling up the new forms, there shall be no more 
any concerns of reach. In any case, the registrants shall be encouraged to file the form 
electronically  through  the  net,  thereby  saving  the  system  to  that  extent  from  a  huge 
data entry exercise. 

 

4.2.9  A  deadline  shall  be  prescribed  for  the  investors  to  return  the  new  form  duly 
completed. Only such investors who submit the form before the specified date shall be 
allocated the new ID and the new ID shall become mandatory for trade after another 
specified date. This will ensure that all trades in the market are done only by ID holders, 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          24 

thereby  also  allowing  the  system  to  track  them  down  when  necessary.  This  deadline 
system shall ensure that all active investors are covered as the cost of exclusion from 
the  market  for  them  will  be  very  high.  The  existing  investors  who  miss  the  deadline 
would  be  allowed  to  come  into  the  system  after  payment  of  a  penalty  and  would  be 
subjected to the same process of filling up the preprinted form. 
 
 
4.2.10 Once the forms are received back from the investors, the combined database file 
shall  be  updated  and  the  new  information  received  from  the  investors  (additional 
parameters, linkages etc.) shall be created. The dedupe software shall then be used to 
generate unique identities. Investors who are already holding MAPINs shall retain the 
same ID number and they shall be able to use the existing card for identification. The 
other  investors  shall  be  issued  new  ID  cards,  which  shall  also  have  their  photograph 
and signatures. 
 
4.2.11  Joint depository accounts shall not be assigned a unique ID, and the individual 
IDs of the joint holders shall be required to be quoted in the transactions. Investors shall 
still be allowed to have multiple DP accounts but all such accounts shall be linked to the 
new ID number.  
 
4.2.12 While transacting, only the DP Client ID shall be required, and the system shall 
itself import the relevant MAPIN ID. As such, no change shall be required in the existing 
depository software/system, except for provision of the fields of MAPIN ID and UCC.  
 
4.2.13  All new investors would be required to fill in the MAPIN form at the same time 

when they open a depository account or a trading account with a broker, thus saving 
them from duplication of efforts. The completed MAPIN forms shall be forwarded by the 
depository participants to the IA. As such, the MAPIN application shall be simultaneous, 
avoiding  inconvenience  to  the  investors  and  also  save  the  system  from  additional 
infrastructure/efforts. This new form shall be processed by the IA for allocation of the 
unique ID. In doing so, the new database  shall first check for duplication through the 
dedupe software, thereby easily detecting if a person is trying to obtain a duplicate ID. 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          25 

 

4.2.14  The new system is based on proof of identities and also on disclosures. While 
adequate  care  needs  to  be  exercised  on  verifying  proof  of  identities,  heavy  penalties 
should be prescribed for wrong disclosure which shall also act as a deterrent.  As such, 
the incidence of duplicate IDs can be brought down to a very minimal level. If there are 
still some cases where a  person is allocated a duplicate ID, the onus of this shall fully 
rest with the investor as it would be made very clear that having two IDs is illegal and 
would attract a very heavy penalty.  In any case, the number of such duplicate IDs and 
the  consequent  damage  shall  be  insignificant,  compared  to  the  cost  and  effort  of 
creating the biometrics-based MAPIN. 
 
4.3 Phase II: Domestic Investors in Mutual Funds 
 
4.3.1 The new system is based on the reality that every mutual fund investor has a folio 
account with a mutual fund  or with its  registrar. The information with the mutual funds 
as captured from the mutual funds application form or as updated subsequently by the 
investors  is  available  in  electronic  form.    Because  of  the  need  to  receive  account 
statements, ECS credits etc, there is enough reason to believe that the information, at 
least for most of the active investors, is current and valid. The database on mutual fund 
investors shall be developed by combining the existing electronic records of investors 
with the mutual funds into one file and then merging it with the unique file created under 
the depository system.  
 
4.3.2  The  investors  covered  here  shall  be  investors,  whether  they  are  individual 
investors  or  are  companies  /  entities  (including  intermediaries  and  their  employees,  
trusts,  firms,  HUFs,  banks,  primary  dealer  etc).  This  essentially  means  that  any  one 
who  has  a  mutual  fund  account  is  an  investor.  In  the  case  of  a  company  that  is  an 
investor and entities like banks, primary dealers etc., the individuals who are authorized 
to transact on behalf of the entity shall also be covered. However, a listed company, or 
a bank or a primary dealer etc. if it does not invest in mutual funds and, therefore, does 
not have a mutual fund account, shall not be covered under the system.  
 
4.3.3 The information available with all the mutual funds shall become the starting base 

for this exercise. Such parameters shall be extracted as are mandatorily required by the 
mutual funds. The data captured in the MAPIN system till date as well as unique IDs 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          26 

created  through  the  depository  system  shall  be  integrated  with  this  file.  An  interim 
unique file will be generated through the dedupe software, after combining the files of 
all the mutual funds.    
 
4.3.4  A  new  form  shall  be  designed.  The  first  part  of  this  form  shall  have  the  key 
information pre-printed as is already obtained in the new system through the combined 
mutual funds database. Wherever uniquing is arrived at with certainty through the initial 
dedupe  exercise,  a  single  form  shall  be  printed  even  for  such  investors  who  have 
several  mutual  fund  accounts.  The  second  part  of  the  form  shall  require  investors  to 
disclose personal details-covering both existing as well as additional parameters.  This 
will help the system achieve current updation. The third part of the form shall require 
disclosures  about  associates  (about  only  such  associates  who  already  have  a  DP 
Client  ID  and/or  who  have  already  been  assigned  a  MAPIN  number).  A  recent 
photograph shall also be required to be submitted.  
 
4.3.5 The new form shall be sent by the IA to all the mutual funds asking them to have 
these filled and updated by the investors. Investors who wish to file this electronically 
shall be encouraged to do so.   
 
4.3.6 The form shall state that an investor shall fill up this form only once, even if he is 
dealing with several mutual funds. If an investor has already submitted this form under 
the capital market system, the investor would still submit the form after filling only the ID 
number that has already been assigned to him.  
 
4.3.7  A deadline shall be prescribed for investors to return this form duly completed. It 

will be stated that only such investors who have submitted the form before the specified 
date  shall  be  allocated  the  new  ID  and  that  the  new  ID  shall  be  mandatory  for  trade 
after another specified date. This will ensure that all trades in the market are done only 
by  MAPIN  holders,  thereby  also  allowing  the  system  to  track  them  down  when 
necessary.  This  deadline  system  shall ensure that all active investors are covered as 
the cost of exclusion from the market for them will be very high. The existing investors 
who miss this deadline would be allowed to come into the system after payment of a 
penalty  and  they  would  be  subjected  to  the  same  process  of  filling  up  the  preprinted 
form. 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          27 

 
 
4.3.8 Once the forms are received back from the investors, the combined database file 

shall  be  updated  and  the  new  information  received  from  the  investors  (additional 
parameters,  linkages  etc.)  shall  be  created.  The  data  of  the  investors  who  have 
indicated that they already have been assigned a capital market ID shall be segregated. 
For  the  balance  file,  the  dedupe  software  shall  then  be  used  to  generate  unique 
identities.  Investors  who  are  already  holding  MAPINs  shall  retain  the  same  ID  number 
and  they  shall  be  able  to  use  the  existing  card  for  identification.  The  other  investors 
shall be issued new ID cards which shall also have their photograph and signatures. 
 
4.3.9  Joint mutual fund accounts shall not be assigned a unique ID, and the individual 
IDs of the joint holders shall be required to be quoted in the transactions. Investors shall 
still  be  allowed  to  have  multiple  mutual  fund  accounts  but  all  such  accounts  shall  be 
linked to the new ID number.  
 
4.3.10 While transacting, only the folio number shall be required, and the system shall 
itself import the relevant MAPIN ID. As such, no change shall be required in the existing 
mutual funds software/system except for provision of the field of MAPIN ID.  
 
4.3.11 All new investors registering with the mutual funds after a specified date shall be 
required to submit the new form. The new form shall be mandated to be filled at the 
time of opening of the mutual fund account itself and the mutual fund shall be required 
to send the completed MAPIN form to the IA. As such, the MAPIN application shall be 
simultaneous, avoiding inconvenience to the investors and also save the system from 
additional  infrastructure/efforts.  This  new  form  shall  be  processed  by  the  IA  for 
allocation of the unique ID. For allocating IDs to new applicants, the new database shall 
first  check  for  duplication  through  the  dedupe  software,  thereby  easily  detecting  if  a 
person is trying to obtain a duplicate ID.  
 
4.3.12  In order to ensure that authentic information is provided by  the registrant in the 
form, there should be a deterrent in the form of a heavy penalty for wrong disclosures. 
As such, the incidence of duplicate IDs can be brought down to a very minimal level. If 
there are still some cases where a person is allocated a duplicate ID, the onus of this 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          28 

shall fully rest with the investor as it would be made very clear that having two IDs is 
illegal  and  would  attract  a  very  heavy  penalty.    In  any  case,  the  number  of  such 
duplicate IDs and the consequent damage shall be insignificant, compared to the cost 
and effort of creating the biometrics-based MAPIN. 
 
4.3.13  Depending  upon  the  feasibility,  the  exercise  of  assigning  unique  IDs  to  the 
capital market investors as well as the mutual fund investors can be combined, instead 
of one after the other. 
 
4.4 Phase III: Intermediaries 

 
4.4.1  Since  the  objective  of  creating  a  database  of  intermediaries  is  entirely  different 
and  there  is  also  a  need  for  capturing  data  of  all  persons  employed  with  the 
intermediaries,  all  intermediaries  as  well  as  all  their  promoters/  directors/  employees 
shall be covered by this system, whether they are investors or not. 

 

4.4.2 Accordingly, in the case of intermediaries, the following shall be the coverage: 

a)  
b)  

c)  

intermediary shall be assigned unique ID 
in case the promoters are individuals, the promoters of the intermediary 
shall be assigned unique ID, and there shall be a disclosure about their 
associates  
in case the promoters are companies, the promoter company and the 
promoters and directors of the promoting company shall be assigned 
unique ID, and there shall be a disclosure about their associates  

d)   directors of the intermediary shall be assigned unique ID, and there 

shall be a disclosure about their associates 

e)   all employees at the intermediary shall be assigned unique ID, and there 

shall be a disclosure about their associates 

 

4.4.3  All  intermediaries  and  such  of  their  employees  who  already  have  a  depository 
account or a mutual fund account would have been covered by Phase I & Phase II. The 
intermediaries  shall  then  be  asked  to  obtain  unique  IDs  for  all  their  uncovered 
employees/associates. 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          29 

4.4.4  To  integrate  the  data  further,  the  ISIN  codes  and  the  CIN  codes  of  the 
intermediaries, if any, shall also be captured by the system. 

 

4.4.5  The employees’ database shall be extended, through a separate form, to cover 
the  qualifications  and  experience  of  each  employee  to  be  able  to  create  a  financial 
professionals database. This database would assist SEBI in not only taking a stock of 
the competency levels, but also find gaps to be filled by education/ training. 
 
4.5 Phase IV: Listed Companies (including New Issuers) 
 
4.5.1  In the case of listed companies, including new issuers, the following  shall be the 
coverage, irrespective of whether they are investors or not: 

a)   company shall be assigned unique ID 
b)  

in  case  the  promoters  are  individuals,  the  promoters  of  the  company 
shall be assigned unique ID, and there shall be a disclosure about their 
associates  
in  case  the  promoters  are  companies,  the  promoter  company  and  the 
promoters  and  directors  of  the  promoting  company  shall  be  assigned 
unique ID, and there shall be a disclosure about their associates  

c)  

d)   directors of the listed company shall be assigned unique ID, and there 

shall be a disclosure about their associates 

e)   personnel  at  the  listed  company  who  are  involved  with  securities 
transactions  shall  be  assigned  unique  ID,  and  there  shall  be  a 
disclosure about their associates  

 
4.5.2  All  listed  companies  and  such  of  their  entities/persons  who  already  have  a 
depository account or a mutual fund account would have been covered by Phase I and 
Phase  II.  The  listed  companies  shall  then  be  asked  to  obtain  unique  IDs  for  all  their 
uncovered persons/associates.  
 
4.5.3  To  integrate  the  data  further,  the  ISIN  codes  and  the  CIN  codes  of  the  listed 
companies shall also be captured by the system. 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          30 

4.5.4 The listed companies database shall also include addresses of registered offices, 
head offices and plants, office and residence addresses of all promoters and directors, 
phone numbers, fax numbers, email IDs and website addresses, name of compliance 
officer and contact details, registrar/share transfer agent of the company with contact 
details, capital history and all name changes of the company. 
 
4.6 Phase V: Resident Personnel of Foreign institutional investors 
 
4.6.1  It is widely accepted that foreign investors are now playing a dominating role in 
the Indian capital market. It is therefore imperative that these investors are also covered 
well  by  the  new  system.  On  the  one  hand,  all  FIIs  registered  by  SEBI  should  be 
assigned the new unique ID. This should be extended to all sub-accounts of these FIIs, 
which is akin to having an ID for the mutual fund investors, who operate through a fund. 
There  may  be  additionally  a  need  to  register  the  resident  personnel  of  the  FIIs.  The 
methodology  and  forms  for  providing  IDs  to  the  FIIs,  their  sub-accounts  and  their 
resident personnel may be appropriately designed. 
 
4.7 Integrating Existing MAPIN  
 
The existing MAPIN database and system will be integrated into the new system. To 
maintain consistency, the number generation logic and format/series shall be the same 
as in the existing MAPIN database. MAPIN IDs already issued shall continue to remain 
valid. The name of the scheme will remain MAPIN. The new form shall be sent to all 
existing MAPIN holders in order to obtain information from them on additional fields and 
on associates. 
 
4.8 New Features in the New Form  
 
4.8.1  The  new  form  shall  incorporate  the  existing  information  as  well  as  seek 
information  on  additional  parameters.  The  draft  of  the  new  form  is  enclosed  as 
Annexure  III.  (This  is  only  indicative  and  the  format,  spaces  etc.  would  be  finalized 
later).    This  form  has  presently  been  designed  only  for  Natural  Persons  - individual 
investors as also persons at intermediaries, investing companies and listed companies. 
This form, among others, has the following new features: 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          31 

 
•  Relatives and Associates 
      Based  on  the  premise  that  many  manipulative  trades  are  done  through 
relatives/ associates, a disclosure on such entities is proposed, but shall be 
limited to only such entities who already, as on the date of application, have 
the new MAPIN ID. Such relatives have been included as are defined by The 
Companies Act and by the SEBI Insider Trading Regulations. The Committee 
recognized  the  practical  difficulties  with  regard  to  capturing  information  on 
date  of  birth  and  MAPIN/DP  numbers  of  some  of  the  relatives  in  the  list. 
Hence,  SEBI  may  take  an  appropriate  view  on  the  same. Information shall 
also  be  sought  on  the  individual’s  links/association  with  corporate  entities.   
(Incidentally, the present MAPIN form also asks for disclosures on relatives -
though only a few of  them- and associates and their MAPIN IDs, and not at 
the time of application but at a later stage).  

 
•  Promoters’ Definition  

While examining the coverage of entities related to an investor, the issue of 
promoters’ definition was  discussed  and it was noted that there are different 
definitions  in  various  SEBI  regulations.  The  Committee  felt  that  a  re -look at 
the promoters’ definition may be made by SEBI to make the MAPIN database 
more relevant for the purposes of investigations. 

 
•  Bank Account Numbers 
      As per the present law, all payments of above Rs. 20,000 have to be made 
by cheques only. As such, all transactions can be traced to a bank account 
with  the  requisite  accountholder-photograph-address  proof  requirements  in 
place.  This  has,  however,  not  been  of  much  help  in  establishing  audit 
trails/identifying  ultimate  beneficiaries.  This  is  also  because  of  people 
operating  multiple  accounts  within  a  bank  and  across  banks  and  many  of 
these accounts may not even be disclosed in the Income Tax returns, though 
these may be used for capital market operations.  

 
      The new application form shall have disclosures of all such bank account 
numbers  that  the  investor  shall  use  for  capital  market  operations,  including 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          32 

for  ECS,  whether  in  single  name  or  in  joint  names. Whenever the system 
locates a payment by an investor from a bank account different from the ones 
disclosed by him, it shall become a matter of concern and appropriate action, 
including investigations, for this could be considered. (A sample action could 
be  a  penalty  in  terms  of  a  percentage  of  the  amount  paid  through  such 
accounts, where amounts involved are below a  specified limit). 

 
      The disclosure of bank account numbers shall help the audit trail and also 
help in tracking benami transactions. In  the  present  system,  a  person  (non-
intermediary)  can  still  operate  100  shell  companies  or  use  100  employees, 
each with a different MAPIN or do multiple transactions below the cut-off limit. 
Numerous concerted transactions shall still not be traceable to that person, 
as  the  transactions  shall  appear  to  be  from  hundreds  of  different  and 
apparently unrelated entities. It shall take a determined effort to probe deeper 
into the second and deeper layers of information and unravel cross holdings 
to discover the common manipulator.  

 
•  DP Client IDs 

The new application form shall have disclosures of all DP Client IDs of the 
investor, whether in single name or in joint names. 
 

•  Unique Client Codes 

The new application form shall have disclosures of all UCCs that an investor 
has  been  allotted  by  various  brokers,  whether  in  single  name  or  in  joint 
names. 

 
4.8.2 The new form as such shall establish a link between the MAPIN ID and the other 
existing  capital  market  IDs  -  DP  Client  ID  and  UCC-and  therefore  allow  for  historical 
analysis and investigation when necessary. It will also lead to quoting of only one ID  - 
the DP Client ID - in the trades. 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          33 

 
 
4.9 Updation 

 
4.9.1 Any database is of value only if it remains continually updated and, therefore, the 
Committee  is  proposing  a  simple,  cost-effective  updation  system.  In  the  case  of 
investors, the obligation for updation shall rest entirely with him. The updation shall be 
provided  by  them  to  their  DPs/brokers  on  occurrence  of  a  change  and  in  any  case 
every  6  months  (through  an  updation  from  which  the  DP/broker  would  give  out  to  all 
their investors) failing which his trading shall be disenabled.  
 
4.9.2 An updation form shall be required to be submitted by the investor to his DP who 
would then forward it to the IA. In the case of intermediaries and listed companies, the 
updation form shall be submitted by them directly to the IA. The updation forms shall 
also be available for filing on the Internet. 
 
4.9.3 The photograph shall be updated every  10 years, upon which a new card shall be 
issued. 
 
4.9.4 A system can also be developed where it becomes mandatory for companies and 
intermediaries  to  report  to  the  IA  the  details  of  undelivered  dividend  warrants ,  letters  
etc., to enable updation of the database. 
 
4.10 Data Entry/Data Capture 
 
4.10.1  The  registrants  shall  be  encouraged  to  file  the  application  form  electronically 
though the net, after providing them with a password (which shall be their DP Client ID). 
This shall save the system from a huge data entry/ verification exercise. This provision 
of  electronic  filing  shall  help  in  covering  all  corporates,  all  intermediaries  and  a  large 
number of investors. Paper form, of course, shall be made available for investors who 
are not net-enabled. 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          34 

5. OTHER MATTERS 
 
5.1 Advertising/Publicity of the New System 
 
5.1.1 One of the reasons why the present MAPIN has met with resistance is the lack of 

investor  education  about  this  system.  Virtually  no  advertising  was  done,  neither  any 
investor  seminars  were  conducted.  This  has  also  led  the  investors not knowing their 
rights  and  obligations  under  the  new  system.  It  may  be  recalled  that  when  the 
depository  system  was  launched,  it  was  supported  by  a  huge  investor  education 
programme.  
 
5.1.2  The new system should be widely advertised to make the investors familiar with 
the  same.  Subsequently,  advertisements  relating  to  the  deadlines  should  also  be 
released.  
 
5.1.3 

Investor  seminars  should  also  be  conducted  by  SEBI/IA/AMFI/stock 

exchanges/investor  associations  to  educate  the  investors  about  the  new  system, 
highlighting that the new system is in fact a huge simplification of the existing MAPIN 
system. 
 
5.1.4 A Dos and Don’ts booklet should be handed out to each investor at the time of 
issuing him the ID card. This booklet for example, can cover the following: 
•  Places where to quote this number and the effective date 
•  Notifying change of address or any other particulars 
•  Notifying dissociation with an organization 
•  Warning  that  a  second  MAPIN  UIN  is  an  offence,  and  describe  the 

penalties thereto 

•  Action to be taken on loss of the MAPIN card and how to get a duplicate 

card 

 
 
 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          35 

5.2 Penalties for Wrong Disclosures 
 
5.2.1  The  new  system  is  based  on  proof  of  identities  and  also  on  disclosures.  While 

adequate care needs be exercised on verifying proof of identities, a very heavy penalty 
should be prescribed for wrong disclosures, which shall also act as a deterrent. 
 
5.3 Exemptions 
 
5.3.1  In order to create an all-investors database, the new system should not provide 
for any exemptions –neither a cut-off limit nor by type of investors (individual/corporate) 
or by type of instrument (equity/debt/mutual funds) or by segment (cash/derivatives) or 
by  type  of  market  (primary/secondary)  or  by  physical  condition  (old/  physically 
challenged/ seriously ill persons) or by location (remote area).  
 
5.4 Costs 
 
5.4.1 Though quotations have not been called for, it is estimated that the cost involved 
in generating the new unique ID, maintenance of database, issuance of cards etc, shall 
be significantly lower than the present system.  Since  the  main  objective  of  MAPIN  is 
aimed  at  regulation  and  at  creation  of  a  single  database  of  investors,  issuers  and 
intermediaries, the Committee is of the view that SEBI could consider bearing the cost. 
However, if necessary, a very nominal fee may be levied on the applicant. 
 
5.5 Scheme Name  
 
5.5.1 The name of the new scheme shall remain MAPIN. 
 
 
5.6 Discontinuation of Fresh Registrations 
 
5.6.1  Continuing the registrations under MAPIN in its existing format may be of limited 
use and, as such, till a final view is taken on MAPIN by SEBI, all fresh registrations and 
the need for mandatory disclosure of UIN  may be suspended forthwith. 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          36 

 
5.7 Constitution of a Technical Group  
 
5.7.1  Since  database  design  is  a  highly  technical  subject,  a  technical  group  may  be 
formed by SEBI to examine the implementation feasibility, cost, logistics and schedule 
involved in creating the suggested database. 
 
5.8 Acknowledgements  
 
5.7.1  The  Committee  acknowledges  the  contributions  made  by  various  fora  namely 

ANMI,  DPAI,  IGF,  ASSOCHAM, FICCI and CII as well as members of the public who 
submitted their views on the subject. The Committee places on record its appreciation 
for  the  assistance  rendered  to  the  Committee  by  Shri  V.S.  Sundaresan,  General 
Manager, SEBI and Shri Narendra Rawat, Asst. General Manager,SEBI. 
 
 
 
 

Jagdish Capoor 

Chairman 

 
 

Prithvi Haldea                                  
 
 
 
Deena Mehta 
 
 

23rd June,2005 

                    A.P. Kurian                                                      
 
 
 
                  A.K.Narayan                                                                     

Members 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          37 

 Annexure I 

 
TRADE & INVESTORS DATA FROM STOCK EXCHANGES AND DEPOSITORIES 
(Period Jan 2005 to February 2005) 
  
Capital market Segment  - NSE 
 

 

Trade  order 
of value of Rs 
1 
lakh  and 
above 

> Rs 5 lakh   > Rs 10 lakh  

> Rs 15 lakh 

 

 

 

32,783 

15,653 

10,341  

 

21,944 

 

8,041  

 

4,318  

 

 

1,41,337 

1,61,777 

Total  No  of  distinct 
Unique  Client  Codes 
(UCC)  
Distinct  Unique  Client 
Codes 
of 
individual investors.  
  
Capital market Segment  - BSE 
 

(UCC) 

 

Trade order of 
value of Rs 1 
lakh 
and 
above 

> Rs 5 lakh  

> Rs 10 lakh 

> Rs 15 lakh 

Total no. of distinct 
unique client codes 
(UCC) for the trade 
order 

Total no. of distinct 
unique client 
codes(UCC) of 
individual investors for 
the trade order. 

 

 

Jan-65,276 

13,280 

 

 

Feb-76,583 

15,738 

 

 

Jan-63,716 

11,604 

 

 

Feb-74,998 

14,014 

 

6,363 

 

7,738 

 

4,830 

 

6,140 

 

4,179  

 

5,174  

 

2,817  

 

3,731 

 
 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          38 

Derivatives Segment - NSE 
 

 

Trade  order 
of  value  of 
Rs  1 
lakh 
and above  

> Rs 5 lakh   > Rs 10 lakh 

> Rs 15 lakh  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(UCC) 

72,765 

80,242 

51,509 

17,314 

25,075 

57,810 

Total  No  of  distinct 
Unique  Client  Codes 
(UCC)  
Distinct  Unique  Client 
Codes 
of 
individual Investors.  
 
The above data is on the basis of the details uploaded by the trading members in UCI data 
base. Wherever the category of the client is not uploaded by trading member such clients are 
considered as individual investors. 
 
Segment & Category wise Unique Client Codes  
 

22,732 

13,764 

Category 
 

 

 

 

Capital Market 
Segment-NSE 

Capital Market 
Segment-BSE 

Derivatives 

Segment -NSE 

7,74,002  
12,143 
20,828 
N.A 
15311  
7614 
11041  
8,40,939  

16,80,083 
16,891 
43,065 
139 
N.A 
N.A 
63,070 
18,03,248 

Individual 
Mutual Fund 
Body Corporate  
Non Tax Paying entity 
HUF 
FII 
Others 
Total 
 
Except for FIIs & mutual funds, UCC are given by brokers. The same clients may have different UCC for 
all  the  brokers  he  deals  with.  As  per  NSE  if  by  mistake,  a  broker  gives  a  wrong  UCC  while  entering  a 
trade  and  later  corrects  it,  the  database  would  have  2  records  of  UCC.  These  are  error  records.  The 
exchanges are not aware how many error records are there in the database. 
 
 

7,28,504  
1547 
11,902 
18 
 
 
19,186 
7,61,157 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          39 

Depository Accounts - Body Corporates 
 

 

NSDL 

CDSL 

8087(includes FI 
and FII) 
681 

 
 
8,786  

Category 
 
Body Corporate  

Mutual Fund  
Trust 
FI 
FII 
Total 
 
 
Number of Companies 
(as on October 31, 2004) 
  

Category of Companies 

Number of Companies 

Companies Limited by Shares 

Guarantee Companies 

Unlimited Liability Companies 

Website - Ministry of Companies Affairs  

Total 
Source : 
 
 
 
 

59,105 

1,355  
5,571  
154 
2,181  
68,366 

6,61,371  

3,354  

496 

6,65,221  

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          40 

Annexure II 

 
DATA UPDATION- SOME ISSUES IN THE CURRENT MAPIN SYSTEM 

 
Regulation  17(1):  “Every  person  who  has  been  allotted  a  UIN  shall  intimate  the 
changes,  if  any,  in  the  particulars  submitted by him in the application to DSP in such 
electronic  or  other  manner  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Board,  within  30  days  of 
occurrence of change.”  
 
17(2):  “Every  intermediary  shall  exercise  due  diligence  to  satisfy  itself  that  its  clients, 
have complied with regulation 17(1).” 
 
The  investing  population  is  a  mobile  population.  People  change  jobs,  addresses, 
telephone  numbers,  etc.  Until  a  system  is  put  in  place  for  continuing  updation,  the 
database will become obsolete very fast and again tracking of persons would become 
very difficult. Since the process of updation is not clear to most people, we are probably 
already at a stage where the database is not uptodate. 
 
The onus of notifying changes should rest with the registrant and does rest with him as 
per the Regulations, but he should be clearly told so. The onus of informing changes is 
also on the intermediary as per the Regulations. What systems/processes have been 
put at the intermediaries’ end to ensure this? Also has the method of informing changes 
been prescribed by SEBI?  
 
Part  C  of  Form  B  is  for  notifying  Dissociation  and  the  onus  for  this  is  on  the 
intermediary. There is also an onus on the individual as required under Part C of Form 
A. Is this not duplication of efforts? 
 
Also, for notifying changes, the same format of Application Form is required to be used 
and  submitted  as  for  a  new  application  (Form  A  Part  A  and  Form  B  Part  A).  Is  the 
person  required  to  fill  the  complete  form  all  over  again  even  if  there  is  a  change,  for 
example, only  in  the  address  or  in  the  telephone  number?  Does  he  have  to  all  over 
again also submit proof of identity etc? 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          41 

Regarding the penalty for not notifying changes, as per the Regulation, action will be 
taken by SEBI under sub-section (4) of Section 11 of the SEBI  Act.  According  to  this 
sub-section, SEBI may take any of the following measures:  

a.  suspend the trading of any security ;  
b.  restrain persons from accessing the securities market and prohibit any person 

associated with securities market to buy, sell or deal in securities;  

c.  suspend any office-bearer of any stock exchange or self-regulatory organization 

from holding such position;  

d.  impound and retain the proceeds or securities in respect of any transaction ;  
e.  attach,  after  passing  of  an  order  on  an  application  made  for  approval,  by  the 
Judicial Magistrate one or more bank account or accounts of any intermediary or 
any person associated with the securities market;  

f.  direct  any  intermediary  or  any  person  associated  with  the  securities  market  in 
any manner not to dispose of or alienate an asset forming part of any transaction 
which is under investigation. 
and/or 
debar the person/entity from acting in any capacity in any security market related 
transactions  
and/or 
such other action as may be deemed appropriate by SEBI.  
and 
action  will  also  be  taken  by  SEBI  under  clause  (b)  of  Section  15A  of  the  Act 
.According to this, if any person fails to file any return or furnish any information, 
books  or  other  documents  within  the  time  specified  therefor  in  the  regulations, 
fails  to  file  return  or  furnish  the  same  within  the  time  specified  therefor  in  the 
regulations, he shall be liable to a penalty of one lakh rupees for each day during 
which such failure continues or one crore rupees, whichever is less. 

 
The penalties as described above are very severe.  
 
The  fact  is  that  a  large  number  of  persons  may  already  be  in  default  and  face  the 
prospects of penalties by SEBI. 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          42 

To avoid defaults in notification of changes, there should be some point of action where 
the investor is automatically obliged to notify changes. Since the broker is electronically 
connected, he would be the best point for the updation mechanism.  
 
Since the procedure for updation is not well known, and since a large number of people 
are  already  in  default,  SEBI  should  come  out  with  an  exemption  scheme  for  such 
defaulters  and  make  the  requirement  for  notifying  changes  mandatory  from  a  given 
date, after duly advertising the same. 
 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          43 

Draft 

THE SCHEDULE 

Annexure III 

[See regulation 12 of SEBI [Central Database of Market Participants] Regulations, 2003] 

FORM A : APPLICATION FORM  FOR NATURAL PERSONS 

Each individual should submit this form only once to the DP, even in case of multiple DP accounts. 

By signing these forms, the individual declares that the inform ation given herein is true and correct 
and that the concerned authority shall be informed of any changes forthwith. 

Declaration 

DP ID No. 
Name of Account Holder 

PART A – PRE-PRINTED 

DP Client ID No. 

MAPIN UIN  

Date of Birth   Day 

 

 

Month 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gender  Male 

Female 

PART B - PERSONAL DETAILS  
Please fill in BLOCK LETTERS  

 
Year 

Last Name 
 
 
 
 

 
Names (Full, no initials allowed)) 
 
Self 
Father 
Mother 
Spouse 
 
Correspondence Address 
House No./Apt Name/Block No. 
Road/Street/Lane 
Area 
City/Post/Taluka 
 
Telephone: Office 
STD Code 
Telephone: Residence  STD Code 
Mobile No. 
 

 

 
 
 
 

Middle Name 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

First Name 
 
 
 
 

PIN 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Telephone No. 
Telephone No. 

Email IDs 

 (1) 

 

 (2) 

 (1) 

 

 Current : 

 

 

 

PAN Nos. 

 

Passport Nos.   
 

 

 

DP Client ID 
 
 
 

 

DP ID 
 
 
 

 (2) 

 Previous : 

Joint Nam e (1) if any 
 
 
 

 

Joint Name (2), if any 
 
 
 

 
Bank Account Numbers (that will be used for capital market operations) 
Bank Account Nos.  Bank Name  9 digits MICR 

Branch Address 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

No. 
 
 
 

 
 
 

UCC Nos. 

Brokers Full Name  Broker ID 

Joint Name (1), if any 

 
 

 
 
I certify that the information given by me in this form is true and correct 
Signature : 

Date : 

 
 

 
 

 

Joint Name (1), 
if any 
 
 
 

Joint Name (2), 
if any 
 
 
 

Joint Name (2), if 
any 
 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          44 

PART C : RELATIVES/ASSOCIATES  

 

 
 

 
Name of the Applicant 
DP Client ID No. 
I notify the association between me and the entities listed here below : 
(Please fill details of only those persons who as on the date of this application already have a MAPIN UIN and/ or 
DP Client ID Number. 
RELATIVES (refer to para 4.8.1 of this Report) 
 

 

FULL NAME (No initials allowed) 

First Name  Middle Name  Last Name 

Date of 
Birth  

MAPIN 
UIN  

Father 
Mother (including step-mother) 
Sons (including step-sons) 
Son’s wife 
Daughters (including step-daughters) 
Father’s father 
Father’s mother 
Mother’s mother 
Mother’s father 
Son’s sons  
Son’s son’s wife 
Son’s daughters 
Son’s daughter’s husband 
Daughter’s husband 
Daughter’s sons  
Daughter’s son’s wife 
Daughter’s daughters 
Daughter’s daughter’s husband 
Brothers (including step -brothers) 
Brother’s wife 
Sisters (including step -sisters) 
Sister’s husband 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
ASSOCIATES  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

COMPANY /ENTITY FULL NAME 

TYPE  OF ASSOCIATION  

(e.g. Promoter/ Director/ Employee etc.) 

MAPIN 
UIN  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

DP 
Client 
ID No. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

DP 
Client 
ID No. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

I declare and state that the information given by me in this form is true and correct. I undertake to inform the 
concerned authority of any changes in the information provided by me. 
Signature : 

Date : 

 

Declaration 

 
 

MAPIN Committee Report                                                                                                                                          45 

