 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Report of the Committee  

on  
 
 

'Review of Ownership and  

Governance of Market Infrastructure Institutions'  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 
 

November 2010 

 

1 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Contents 

 
 
 
CHAPTER 

 

 

 

   

 

                  Page. No 

Background  ………………………………………………………...   3 

Introduction  ……………………………………………………… ..   6 

Ownership norms  ……………………………………………...     33 

Governance norms  ……………………………………………… ..  51 

Measures for conflicts resolution  ………………………………..   57 

Other issues  ……………………………………………………….    61 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

 

 
 

Annexures  

A   -  Sample Questionnaire  

B   -  Number of responses received  

 

  C  -  Shareholding restrictions in select countries 

D   -  Details of shareholding in select countries 

E   -  Abbreviations 

Endnotes  

2 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Background 

 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India constituted a Committee under the 
Chairmanship of Dr. Bimal Jalan, (Former Governor, Reserve Bank of India) to 
examine  issues  arising  from  the  ownership  and  governance  of  Market 
Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs). The other members of the Committee were: 

a.  Dr.  K.P.  Krishnan,  Joint  Secretary,  Ministry  of  Finance  Secretary  (till 
June  30,  2010),  Secretary,  Economic  Advisory  Council  to  the  Prime 
Minister  of India (from July 1, 2010) 

b.  Shri. Kishor Chaukar, Managing Director, Tata Industries 
c.  Shri. Uday Kotak, Managing Director, Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd 
d.  Prof. G. Sethu, Officer on Special Duty, National Institute of Securities 

Markets   

e.  Dr. K. M. Abraham, Whole Time Member, SEBI 
f.  Shri J.N. Gupta, Executive Director, SEBI (Member Secretary). 

 
Under  the  terms  of  reference,  the  Committee  needed  to  review  and  make 
recommendations on the following issues: 

a.  Ownership structure of stock exchanges and clearing corporations 
b.  Board composition of stock exchanges and clearing corporations 
c.  Listing and governance of stock exchanges and clearing corporations 
d.  Balance  between  regulatory  and  business  functions  of  stock  exchanges 

and clearing corporations, with reference to their ‘for profit’ status 

e.  Relationship between stock exchanges and clearing corporations 
f.  Relationship between stock exchanges and technology providers, and 
g.  Competition policy for stock exchanges and clearing corporations 

 

 

3 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Since  Depositories  form  an  important  part  of  securities  market  infrastructure, 
subsequently, Depositories were included under the scope of the Committee. 
 
Methodology 
The committee examined the overall evolution of Indian markets over the years 
and  noted  that  Indian  markets  have  progressed  and  responded  to  its  specific 
needs and socio–economic demands; in addition, there has been a commensurate 
development  in  the  regulatory  framework  in  line  with  this  evolution.  The 
committee  noted  that  each  market  has  its  unique  characteristics  and  Indian 
markets are no exception and they too have undergone significant changes over 
the  years.  This  process  has  also  encompassed  changes  inter-alia  in  ownership 
and  governance  norms  of  the  MIIs.  However,  the  committee  recognised  that 
participation  and  contribution  from  all  stakeholders  has  almost  invariably 
preceded any successful change. 
 
Therefore, the Committee decided to adopt a consultative approach to have the 
benefit  of  views  of  all  the  stakeholders,  viz.  market  infrastructure  institutions 
(MII), market participants, shareholders of MIIs, industry associations, investors 
and  general  public,  on  the  relevant  issues.  Accordingly,  a  consultative    sub-
committee was formed which sought comments of stakeholders by sending them 
a  questionnaire  (Annexure  –  A  to  this  report).    This  questionnaire  was  also 
placed on SEBI’s website.  
 
Subsequently,  this  sub-committee  also  held  discussions  with  representatives  of 
NSE, BSE, MCX-SX, NSDL, CDSL, ANMI, BSE Broker Forum, DPAI, LIC, UBS, 
Deloitte, Financial Technologies and others. The consolidated views of the MIIs 
and  various  stakeholders  were  placed  for  deliberation  before  the  Committee.  
The responses received have been tabulated and placed at Annexure – B to this 
report.  

 

4 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
In  addition,  the  Committee  also  examined  the  global  experience  concerning 
ownership and governance norms of MIIs. Several papers published by World 
Bank, IOSCO and other such institutions were studied.  
 
This  report  brings  out  the  recommendations  of  the  Committee.  The  committee 
while framing its recommendations, has taken into account the views expressed 
by  different  stakeholders,  MIIs  as  well  as  the  Indian  experience  and  global 
experience concerning the working of the MIIs.  
 
The committee recommends that the report may be placed on SEBI’s website for 
public  comments  and  take  the  comments  received  into  account  before 
implementing the recommendations. 
 
 

 

5 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Chapter   I 

Introduction 

 
1.1.  STABILITY VERSUS GROWTH – THE PERENNIAL DEBATE 
The  financial  crisis  over  the  last  three  years  impacted  world  economies  in 
varying degrees and forced them to act in different ways to meet the challenges 
that  emerged.  Since  then,  almost  all  world  economies  in  some  manner,  have 
subjected  their  historically  settled  views  on  financial  stability  to  a  rigorous  re-
examination.  In the process, many of them have critically revisited the role of 
important  financial  institutions  and  the  risks  arising  to  the  economy  from  the 
operations  of  such  institutions.    Consequently,  public  policy  on  important 
financial institutions has refocused around the realization that: 

a.  There are financial institutions and markets, which have systemic impact 

across their local economies and often beyond that. 

b.  If  the  failure  or  malfunction  of  such  institutions  is  not  contained,  it  can 
engender  widespread  distress,  either  through  its  direct  impact  or  as  a 
trigger for broader contagion. 

c.  Such contagion will impact the financial system primarily, however, it can 

have significant impact on the real economy as well. 

 
The  Committee  has  taken  into  account  these  lessons  learnt  since  the  financial 
crisis  and  recognises  that  in  the  evolutionary  process  characterizing  a  growing 
market,  changes  are  inevitable;  however,  these  changes  should  not  cause 
instability.    Broadly,  the  point  of  view  adopted  by  the  Committee  is  that,  any 
change  in  the  financial  regulatory  approach  to  a  structure  or  functioning  of 
institutions  such  as  stock  exchanges,  clearing  corporations  and  depositories 
should be introduced in a calibrated manner.   At the same time, the Committee 
recognises  that  conditions  conducive  to  innovation  in  these  institutions  are 

 

6 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

necessary for the growth of an economy like India.  Therefore, the governance 
and ownership norms for such institutions need to be tailored carefully so that 
on the one hand, it ensures safety and reliability of markets, and on the other, 
MIIs retain their ability to innovate on the products, processes and the range of 
services they offer. 
 
1.2.  MARKET INFRASTRUCTURE INSTITUTIONS 
Stock exchanges, depositories and clearing corporations are collectively referred 
to  as  securities  Market  Infrastructure  Institutions  (MIIs).  Literally,  the  term 
‘infrastructure’  would  mean  the  basic,  underlying  framework  or  features  of  a 
system; and the term ‘market infrastructure’ denotes such fundamental facilities 
and  systems  serving  this  market.  The  primary  purpose  of  securities  /capital 
market  is  to  enable  allocation/reallocation  of  capital/financial  resources.  This 
movement  helps  optimal  use  of  money  in  the  economy  and  fosters  economic 
development. Well-functioning MIIs have a net positive effect on society like any 
other infrastructure institutions. 
 
The committee posed a question to itself whether these institutions can be called 
Market  Infrastructure  Institutions.  Broadly,  there  are  no  set  parameters  drawn 
up  to  define  an  infrastructure  institution  and  the  same  holds  true  for 
infrastructure institutions in the context of the securities markets.   However, the 
research on attributes of infrastructure institutions yields distinct considerations 
that set apart an infrastructure institution from others.   
 
The  key  attributes  of  an  infrastructure  institution1  are  listed  below.  These 
attributes are not mutually exclusive. Often, there can be a significant degree of 
overlap between the attributes.   
 

 

7 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

1.  Essential 

facility  doctrine:  A  commonly  accepted  attribute  of 
infrastructure  institutions  is  that  the  goods  or  services  they  produce  are 
essential  in  some  manner.  A  legal  doctrine  has  been  evolved  under  US 
anti-trust law called the “essential facility doctrine”. The key thrust of this 
doctrine  is  that  a  monopolistic  operator  of  an  essential  facility  may  be 
obliged to provide access to a competitor.  
 
Under the Indian Competition Act, 20022, it has been recognised that any 
application of the essential facilities doctrine should satisfy the following: 
(cid:131)  The facility must be controlled by a dominant firm in the relevant 

market 

(cid:131)  Competing  enterprises/persons  should  lack  a  realistic  ability  to 

reproduce the facility 

(cid:131)  Access  to  the  facility  is  necessary  in  order  to  compete  in  the 

relevant market; and 
It must be feasible to provide access to the facility. 

(cid:131) 

 
 

2.  Networks:  Externalities,  Switching  Costs  and  Standards:  An 
infrastructure  institution  is  often  thought  to  be  or  to  provide  a  network. 
Four key characteristics of network industries have been identified3 which 
distinguish them from other types of markets: 

(cid:131)  consumption externalities 
(cid:131)  switching costs and lock-in 
(cid:131)  complementarity, compatibility and standards and  
(cid:131)  significant economies of scale in production  

 

 

Infrastructure  institutions  may  enjoy  market  power  because  of  different 
network effects.  The dependence of customer demand on the choices of 

8 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

other  customers 
is  known  as  “participation”,  “consumption”  or 
sometimes a “network” externality.  A positive consumption externality is 
an  advantage  that  an  incumbent  firm  has  over  potential  competitors  for 
providing a network and is a benefit that accrues to the users of such a 
network, which is dependent on the condition that other participants are 
already using the same network.  
 
As  seen  from  the  related  literature4,  switching  costs  and  product 
standards  can  also  affect  the  economies  of  networks.    Switching  costs 
affect  price  competition  in  two  opposing  ways.  First,  if  consumers  are 
already  locked  into  using  a  specific  product,  firms  may  raise  prices 
knowing  that  consumers  will  not  switch  unless  the  price  difference 
exceeds the switching cost to a competing brand. Second, if consumers are 
not locked in, brand-producing firms will compete intensively by offering 
discounts  and  complimentary  products  and  services  in  order  to  attract 
consumers who later on will be locked in the technology.  
 

 

3.  Economies of Scale:  Infrastructure institutions often exhibit economies of 
scale. These occur when the average cost of producing a good or service 
decline  with  the  number  of  units  produced.  A  common  reason  for  the 
existence of economies of scale is the presence of fixed costs of production 
or marketing.  

In  theory,  the  presence  of  high  fixed  costs  of  production  may  make  it 
impossible for any new entrant to cater to  a market and cover its long-run 
average  costs  while  providing  competition  to  existing  players.  Other 
effects  are  more  common  with  high  fixed  costs  of  production.  One  is  a 
scale monopoly, in which a single incumbent firm is able to cover its costs 
and  is  not  threatened  by  new  entry  because  the  market  is  too  small  to 

9 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

support  two  firms.  Another  is  a  concentrated  or  oligopolistic  market, 
where the market is able to support two or three firms.  
 
If  competition  is  effective,  however,  it  may  drive  average  pricing  below 
the  long  run  average  costs,  leading  to  one  or  more  firms  exiting  the 
market.  The  eventual  outcome  may  thus  be  competitively  inefficient,  as 
the continuing exit of firms may result in a monopoly. Even though it may 
appear that, while industries with high fixed costs and low variable costs 
may  be  competitively  efficient,  even  if  there  are  only  two  or  three 
competing  firms,  the  most  likely  outcome  would  still  be  competitive 
inefficiency. 

 
4.  Sunk  Costs:  Infrastructure  institutions  are  often  characterized  by  the 
presence of sunk costs. Such costs are expenses, which a firm needs to incur 
to enter a market, but cannot recover if it leaves the market. Sunk costs are 
barriers  to  exit  and  prevent  “hit  and  run”  entrants  who  exploit  any 
inefficiency present, and then leave the market when such inefficiency has 
been exploited. 

5.  “Natural” Monopoly: Infrastructure institutions are frequently referred to 
as being, or operating, natural monopolies. This term has historically been 
used to describe situations where it was believed that only one firm was 
able  to  operate  in  a  specific  market,  with  the  implication  that  any  such 
firm  should  be  subject  to  special  regulatory  arrangements.  The  most 
common  reason  for  the  perceived  existence  of  a  natural  monopoly  was 
that  it  was  uneconomic  to  replicate  expensive  infrastructure,  given  the 
presence of economies of scale.  

10

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

The word “natural” in the phrase “natural monopoly” is misleading, as it 
implies that a particular structure of the relevant industry is natural and 
inevitable.   This has frequently been shown to be not true.  Economies of 
scale need not give rise to monopolies inevitably.  A competitor may be 
able to enter the relevant market and force the incumbent firm to exit; the 
threat  of  potential  entry  too  can  impose  a  significant  competitive 
discipline. Technological developments also have allowed competition to 
threaten many monopolies previously considered “natural”.  

 
Stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  are  subject  to  significant  network 
externalities.      In  case  of  stock  exchanges,  ‘liquidity  begets  liquidity’  is  a  well-
known fact.  The probability of an order being executed is higher in a liquid stock 
exchange. Moreover, the bid-ask spread will be lesser which will result in a lesser 
impact cost for a transaction executed on a liquid stock exchange. Similarly, the 
benefits  of  netting  will  result  in  lesser  margins  and  collateral  requirements  for 
clearing members transacting through larger clearing corporations. Other factors 
that increase market power for MIIs are economies of scale and law/regulation 
that deny access to new entities, switching costs, etc.  
 
The  observations  above  also  seem  to  suggest  that  a  single  trading  system, 
clearing corporation and depository is likely to gain and keep market power in 
the provision of services in any one market.     
 
1.3.  MIIs AS SYSTEMICALLY IMPORTANT INSTITUTIONS 
MIIs are systemically important institutions in any economy. In India, this can be 
observed from the phenomenal growth of these institutions in terms of market 
capitalization  of  listed  companies,  amount  of  capital  raised  and  number  of 
investor accounts with brokers and depositories and value of assets held in the 
depositories’ account. Market capitalization of listed companies in the securities 

 

11

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

market has grown many folds as compared to growth in non-food bank credit 
(which  is  taken  as  an  indicator  of  economic  growth)  in  last  decade.  MIIs 
constitute  the  nucleus  of  capital  allocation  system  and  are  indispensable  for 
economic growth. They are therefore, ‘vital economic infrastructure’. The recent 
financial  crisis  has  shown  the  importance  of  financial  institutions  to  economic 
stability.  Unlike  typical  financial  institutions,  the  number  of  stock  exchanges  / 
depositories / clearing corporations in an economy is limited due to the nature of 
its business, although catering to the entire marketplace. Any failure of such an 
MII could lead to even bigger cataclysmic collapses that may result in an overall 
economic downfall that could potentially extend beyond the boundaries of the 
securities  market/country.  Therefore,  such  MIIs  are  considered  systemically 
important institutions.  

 

1.4.  MIIs AS PRODUCERS OF PUBLIC GOOD 
The price signals produced by the MIIs partake of the character of public good as 
these  are  something  that  must  be  provided  and  accessible  to  every  one  and 
cannot be withheld from anyone who seeks it.  Therefore, essentially, the three 
MIIs  in  the  securities  holding-trading-clearing-settlement  chain  are  engaged  in 
the  business  of  producing  a  valuable  public  good  for  society,  which  are 
essentially  the  price  signals  produced  by  a  transparent  and  efficient  market 
mechanism.    The  product  that  flows  from  the  coordinated  functioning  of  the 
three MIIs is at the core of modern financial systems. They are the vital to the 
functioning of the market.  
 
The prices discovered through the operation of these MIIs have to be fair, failing 
which, they will result in the expropriation of unjust profits by any one side of 
the  transaction.    Corporates  and  Investment  Funds  use  these  price  signals  to 
value  their  investments  and  mark  them  to  market.  The  Net  Asset  Value  of  a 
Mutual Fund, which guides investments and redemptions by investors, directly 

 

12

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

reads off the prices discovered.  The valuation of securities collaterals pledged in 
most modern day credit based finance is inextricably linked to the public good 
that these MIIs produce.  
 
These are but a few of the numerous ways in which the efficient functioning of 
these  institutions  underpins  a  modern  financial  market.  These  institutions, 
though recognised for providing the markets with the necessary infrastructure, 
cannot be treated mechanically merely as suppliers of ‘infrastructure’, however, 
they  are  to  be  viewed  more  as  institutions  which  are  suppliers  of  an 
indispensable public good for modern society.  Needless to say, the ‘public good’ 
product that is supplied collectively by the MIIs is exclusively dependent on the 
quality and integrity of the process that accompanies the production of the same. 
Hence,  to  ensure  dependability  of  the  process  to  the  fullest  extent  possible, 
certain  degree  of  regulatory  powers  have  to  necessarily  reside  in  each  of  the 
MIIs, albeit in varying degrees.  Therefore, the Committee is of the view that it is 
not possible to sever the regulatory role of the MIIs from their more obvious role 
of serving as providers of infrastructure of the market.  
 
Having  observed  this,  it  will  be  useful,  in  this  context,  to  examine  the 
characteristics  and  function  of  each  class  of  MII  first,  before  taking  up  the 
governance and ownership structures appropriate to them. 
 
1.5.   STOCK EXCHANGE 
Stock  exchanges  provide  transaction  facility  to  investors  and  thus  discover  the 
price  of  securities  traded  on  them.  Prices  provide  the  signal  for  efficient 
allocation  of  financial  resources  across  corporations.  In  this  sense,  the  role  of 
stock  exchanges  in  efficient  allocation  of  resource  in  the  economy  is  of  great 
significance. 
 

 

13

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

A  “stock  exchange”  under  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘SCRA’) means: 

(a)  “any body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, constituted before 

corporatisation and demutualisation under sections 4A and 4B, or 

(b)  a  body  corporate  incorporated  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956  whether 
under a scheme of corporatisation and demutualisation or otherwise, for the 
purpose  of  assisting,  regulating  or  controlling  the  business  of  buying, 
selling or dealing in securities. “ 
 

Traditionally, under the open outcry system, a stock exchange was understood to 
be  a  place  where  buyers  and  sellers  met  in  order  to  buy/sell  securities.  Over 
time,  technology  has  replaced  the  open  outcry  system  and  automated  trade 
engines execute trades based on a price time priority or any other algorithm. To 
trade  through  a  stock  exchange,  the  investor  has  to  become  a  client  of  a 
registered trading member of a particular stock exchange. Stock exchanges have 
been  entrusted  with  various  regulatory  responsibilities  for  ensuring  market 
integrity and for protecting the interest of investors.   Stock exchanges therefore 
cannot be seen only as providers of electronic platforms for executing trades.  
 
A stock exchange apart from providing electronic platforms for executing trades 
performs a number of other functions such as: 

(cid:131) 

regulation 

issuer 
dissemination of information)  

(listing,  monitoring 

listing 

compliances, 

(cid:131)  member  regulation  (registration  of  members,  inspection  and 

(cid:131) 

(cid:131) 

enforcement action)  
trading  regulation  (setting  and  enforcing  trading  rules,  market 
surveillance) and 
investor  protection 
investor protection fund)  

(dispute  resolution,  grievance  redressal, 

 

14

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(cid:131)  product design 

 

Stock  exchanges  also  undertake  support  functions  such  as  training  and 
education, technology solutions, data/information services and index services.  
 
Evolution 
Stock exchanges in India have a history of more than 160 years and have evolved 
over  a  long  period.  The  first  and  oldest  stock  exchange  in  Asia  was  set  up  in 
1850s, as the records reveal, by indigenous brokers under a Banyan tree which 
later on in 1875 became what is known today as Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE). 
National  Stock  Exchange  of  India  Ltd.  (NSE)  was  recognised  in  the  year  1993.  
Recently, two stock exchanges – MCX Stock Exchange Limited (MCX-SX) (2008) 
and United Stock Exchange of India Limited (USE) (2010) have been recognised 
and have been permitted for trading in currency derivatives.  In addition, there 
are 17 regional stock exchanges that have negligible or no trading, at present.  
 
The governance of stock exchanges has also undergone significant changes over 
time.  Except  for  NSE,  OTCEI,  MCX-SX  and  USE,  all  other  stock  exchanges  in 
India were initially set up as associations of persons. These four stock exchanges 
were set up ab initio as companies with limited liability. During the period 2000-
06,  stock  exchanges  worldwide  underwent  a  process  of  corporatisation  and 
demutualisation. Mutual stock exchanges that were owned by its members were 
restructured  in  order  to  reduce  the  trading  member’s  influence  over  the 
management  of  the  stock  exchange  and  open  up  stock  exchanges  to  greater 
public  ownership.  It  was  felt  that  diversified  public  ownership  is  the  way 
forward. These mutual stock exchanges were formed as associations of persons, 
wherein the membership card bestowed both ownership and trading rights on 
the  brokers;  the  brokers  because  of  their  ownership  rights  invariably  exercised 
control over the management of the stock exchanges too.  The stock exchanges 

 

15

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

were in dire need of professional and independent management. The corporate 
structure was therefore chosen because it is intrinsically a form that allows wider 
participation of shareholders, is backed by an established legal framework under 
the Companies Act, 1956 and above all enables a clear-cut three-way segregation 
of ownership, management and trading rights.  
 
The  SCRA  was  amended  in  the  year  2004  for  mandating  corporatisation  and 
demutualisation of stock exchanges in India. The Securities Contracts (Manner of 
Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholding in Recognised Stock Exchanges) 
Regulations,  2006  (referred  to  as  ‘MIMPS’  hereinafter)  was  notified,  wherein, 
shareholding  limits  were  inter  alia,  prescribed  in  order  to  ensure  diversified 
ownership (including public shareholding) of stock exchanges, and the manner 
in which such diversification has to be achieved were also laid down.  
 
MIMPS prescribed representation of various participants on the board of stock 
exchanges and restricted the collective representation of trading members on the 
board of a stock exchange upto a maximum of 25%.   
 
1.6.  CLEARING CORPORATION 
As per the draft5 Rules, “’clearing corporation’ means a company incorporated 
under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) for the purpose of-  

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 

the periodical settlement of contracts and differences there under;  
the delivery of, and payment for, securities;  
any other matter incidental to, or connected with, such transfer and 
recognised as a clearing corporation under these rules. “ 

 
A  clearing  corporation  performs  the  functions  of  clearing  and  settlement  of 
trades  that  are  executed  on  the  stock  exchange  platform.  Settlement  of  trades 
involves  ensuring  that  the  net  obligations  that  have  been  determined  at  the 

 

16

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

clearing member level (a clearing member clears and settles trades on behalf of 
self and other trading members) are settled. As per the terms of the transaction 
executed  on  the  stock  exchange,  the  clearing  corporation  interposes  itself 
between  the  buyer  and  the  seller  and  undertakes  to  fulfill  the  obligations  on 
behalf  of  the  counterparties  to  the  transaction.  For  ensuring  settlement,  the 
clearing  corporation  adopts  stringent  risk  management  practices  to  ensure 
settlement  of  obligations.  The  risk  management  function  aims  to  reduce  the 
chances of default during settlement. However, no system howsoever robust it 
may be, is fail proof. By its role, even if there is failure/default  by any member  
to meet its liability, the clearing corporation has to meet its liability to all others. 
In such an eventuality, it  makes pay-out of funds on behalf of the defaulter (in 
case of funds shortage) and obtains securities through auction buy-in (in case of 
securities  shortage).  Thus  ensuring  that  the  system  does  not  have  any 
counterparty risk. 
 
A  well  functioning  clearing  corporation  is  the  most  important  element  of  risk 
management  in  the  securities  markets.  The  regulatory  responsibilities  of  a 
clearing corporation include: 

(cid:131)  settlement guarantee/ novation 
(cid:131)  sound risk management 
(cid:131)  member  regulation  (registration  of  members,  inspection  and 

enforcement action)  

Evolution 
Under the open outcry system, the stock exchange was a place where buyers and 
sellers used to negotiate the terms of trade and the transactions were bilaterally 
settled between the parties to the trade. With the emergence of technology and 
sound  risk  management  measures,  multilateral  clearing  and  settlement  and 
guaranteeing  of  trades  is  now  carried  out  by  the  clearing  corporation/clearing 

 

17

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

house,  while  the  stock  exchange  provides  electronic,  anonymous,  order  driven 
platforms for execution of trades.    
 
Presently  clearing  and  settlement  for  trades  executed  on  stock  exchanges  is 
undertaken either by a clearing house or by a clearing corporation. Sound risk 
management  practices  have  been  adopted  by  both  clearing  houses  (of 
functioning stock exchanges) and clearing corporations in India. However, since 
the clearing corporation/ clearing house guarantees the settlement of the trades, 
its net worth can also be utilized in the event of insufficiency of funds during a 
default.  In  extreme  scenarios,  the  impact  on  the  networth  could  be  very  high. 
Such depletion of networth may call for infusion of new capital or otherwise may 
lead to winding down of the entity. In such an event, if the clearing function is 
vested with a separate independent entity, it can facilitate usage of its net worth 
in extreme scenarios without having an adverse impact on the stock exchange. 
Whereas, in case it is part of the stock exchange, the net worth of stock exchange 
is directly and automatically impacted under such extreme scenarios of default. 
This will affect normal operation/functioning of stock exchange.  If the clearing 
corporation  is  a  separate  legal  entity,  the  risk  to  the  capital  of  the  clearing 
corporation  will  be  segregated  and  will  not  spillover  to  the  stock  exchange, 
which appears to be a distinct improvement over the clearing house model.  
 
Traditionally,  stock  exchanges  in  India  set  up  their  own  clearing  houses  for 
clearing  and  settlement  of  their  trades.    NSE  and  MCX-SX  have  set  up 
independent  entities  for  clearing  their  trades.  BSE  has  also  recently  set  up  an 
independent  entity  for  clearing  and  settlement  of  certain  classes  of  securities 
traded at BSE and clears and settles for USE too.  
 
 The  SCRA  was  amended  in  2004  for  providing  for  recognition  of  clearing 
corporations.  The  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957  (hereinafter 

 

18

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

referred to as ‘SCRR’) are in the process of being amended. Comprehensive legal 
framework in being put in place for prescribing the eligibility criteria, procedure 
for  recognition,  terms  of  recognition,  membership  conditions,  etc  for  clearing 
corporations.  
 
1.7.  DEPOSITORY 
A "Depository" is an entity facilitating holding securities in electronic form and 
enables transfer of securities by book entry. It interacts with its clients through a 
`Depository  Participant',  with  whom  the  client  is  required  to  open  a  demat 
account.  The  main  objective  of  depository  is  to  provide  maintenance  of 
ownership  or  transfer  records  of  securities  in  an  electronic  book  entry  form 
resulting  in  paper-less  trading  rather  than  paper-based  trading  and  to  ensure 
transferability of securities with speed, accuracy and safety.   
 
As  per  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  a  “’depository’  means  a  company  formed  and 
registered  under  the  Companies  Act,  1956  and  which  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of 
registration under sub-section (1A) of section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);” 
 
A depository performs the following regulatory functions; 

(cid:131)  depository  participants’  regulation 

(registration, 

inspection  and 

enforcement action)  

(cid:131)  admission of securities, dematerialisation, rematerialisation  
(cid:131)  maintenance  of  register  of  beneficial  owners,  record  keeping  /  book 

entry of transfers  
investor protection (dispute resolution and grievance redressal) 

(cid:131) 

Evolution 
Limitations  and  problems  associated  with  paper  based  ownership  of  securities 
and settlement necessitated setting up of depositories. The paper based trading 

 

19

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

system was neither investor friendly nor scalable and was riddled with problems 
of  bad  deliveries,  delays,  forgery  and  failure  of  settlements  occasionally. 
Movement of large volume of papers required longer settlement cycles and was 
not cost effective. 
 
The enactment of the Depositories Act, 1996 paved the way for the establishment 
of depositories for the purpose of electronic record of ownership. Following the 
notification  of  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations,  1996, 
National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL), a company sponsored by the NSE, 
IDBI and UTI was granted a certificate of registration as a depository on June 7, 
1996.    Central  Depository  Services  (India)  Ltd  (CDSL),  the  second  depository, 
which  was  promoted  by  BSE  along  with  financial  institutions  and  banks,  was 
granted certificate of registration on August 19, 1998.  Inter-depository transfer 
through on-line connectivity between CDSL and NSDL was established in 1999. 
With  the  introduction  of  the  depository  system,  problems  associated  with  the 
paper based trading and settlement system were resolved and it paved way to 
growth  in  the  securities  market  and  was  a  step  forward  in  making  the  market 
place safe and secure. 
 
1.8.  APPROACH  
Functionally,  MIIs  provide  the  basic  network  of  equipment,  facility,  system  or 
services for the securities market, hence, MIIs are seen as “public utilities”.  As 
regards  ownership  of  MIIs,  all  of  them  are  privately  owned  and  structured  as 
companies with limited liability. Although MIIs are seen as public utilities, most 
MIIs  are  profit-oriented.    In  addition,  being  in  direct  proximity  to  the  market, 
MIIs are treated as ‘first-level’ regulators and have been vested with regulatory 
responsibilities by various statutes. Countries differ in the manner in which they 
view  MIIs  in  their  jurisdictions.    Many  jurisdictions  across  the  world  see  these 
MIIs  as  regulatory  institutions,  which  have  to  be  economically  viable  as  well.  

 

20

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Other  jurisdictions  that  see  them  more  as  commercial  entities,  also  exercise  an 
incidental regulatory role.  It would appear that these differences are rooted in 
the  history  of  the  evolution  of  individual  securities  markets,  the  governance 
mechanisms,  the  levels  of  transparency  and  integrity  that  a  jurisdiction  has 
inherited  historically  and  the  evolution  of  legislative  action  and  jurisprudence 
pertinent  to  institutions.  These  differences  are  more  discernible  in  the  case  of 
stock exchanges and clearing corporations and less so in the case of depositories.   
 
While the Committee agrees that the MIIs are economic entities that have to be 
capable of sustaining themselves, the core facets to MIIs are as follows:  

1.  In general, MIIs are in the nature of public utilities.   
2.  All of them are vested with regulatory responsibilities, in varying degrees. 
3.  They have systemic importance to the economy. 

 
The three attributes listed above have differing and sometimes conflicting goals. 
As  a public  utility, an  MII  becomes  an  organization 
that  maintains 
the infrastructure  (the  trading  avenues  and  platforms  and  other  services 
incidental to this) for a public service (running a market for securities trading). 
Clearly6,  the  goals  of  profit  maximization  for  an  MII  and  that  of  welfare 
maximization  for  the  public  (in  this  case,  the  investors  that  make  up  the 
securities market) may not always run parallel and the MII may be tempted to 
charge prices well in excess of costs from its users.  Moreover, at least in the short 
run,  the  regulatory  goals  may  be  in  conflict  with  the  economic  interests  7  of  a 
stock  exchange.    As  it  may,  in  many  instances,  be  required  to  discipline  its 
members  and  issuers  who  are  the  source  of  its  income.    However,  in  the  long 
run, it may actually be economically prudent for the MII if it establishes itself as a 
provider of safe and reliable market place.  
 

 

21

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

A concern has been expressed that post-demutualization, stock exchanges have 
become  for-profit  companies  and  have  therefore,  become  free  to  pursue  their 
economic interest objectives and hence, their focus on regulatory activities have 
been diluted. However, this view does not go uncontested as there are persons 
who  believe  that  the  demutualization  of  a  stock  exchange  is  not  necessarily 
incompatible with self-regulation.  The ability of the stock exchange to meet the 
standards  set  for  it  and  deliver  key  regulatory  and  public  interest  objectives 
depends  on  a  range  of  factors  including  the  overall  regulatory  framework,  the 
stock exchange’s obligations under the law, the formulation, administration and 
enforcement of its listing and trading rules, its formal and informal arrangements 
with  the  statutory  regulator,  its  management  structure,  the  de  facto  versus  de 
jure  control  within  it,  the  transparency  of  its  decision  making  processes,  its 
allocation of resources for particular regulatory functions and the experience and 
quality of its staff.  In addition, the capacity and the willingness of the statutory 
regulator to perform its supervisory role are key to the success of the regulatory 
framework8.  
 
Nevertheless,  the  multiple  roles  played  by  the  stock  exchange  could  pose 
conflicts of interests in its operations. Regulators across the globe have adopted 
different methods9 to address these conflicts.  
(i) 

Government  (Statutory)  Model:  Regulation  is  performed  by  a  public 
authority. Formal SROs do not exist. Stock exchanges are responsible for 
very  limited  supervision  of  their  markets.  Examples:  UK(FSA),  France 
(AMF). 
Limited  Exchange  SRO  Model:  A  public  authority  is  the  primary 
regulator;  it  relies  on  stock  exchange(s)  to  perform  certain  regulatory 
functions tied to the operation of its market. The function of regulating 
its members is not performed by the stock exchange. The stock exchange 

(ii) 

 

22

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

only performs surveillance functions.  Examples: Hong Kong, Singapore, 
Dubai, Sweden. 
Strong  Exchange  SRO  Model:  A  public  authority  is  the  primary 
regulator,  it  relies  on  Exchange(s)  to  perform  extensive  regulatory 
functions that extend beyond its market operations, including regulating 
member’s  business  conduct.  Examples:  US  (CME),  Australia  (ASX), 
Japan (TSE, OSE), Malaysia (Bursa Malaysia). 
Independent SRO Model: A public authority is the primary regulator, it 
relies extensively on an independent SRO (a member organization that is 
not  a  market  operator)  to  perform  extensive  regulatory  functions. 
Examples:  US  (FINRA&  NFA),  Canada  (IDA  &  MFDA),  Japan  (JSDA), 
Columbia (AMV). 

(iii) 

(iv) 

 

These  four  models  represent  various  points  along  a  continuum.  The  specific 
choice  is  governed  by  several  factors  including  the  size  of  the  market  and  the 
history of development of markets and financial institutions.  
 
India has adopted the strong exchange SRO model. It is premature to think of the 
‘independent SRO model’ in the Indian context given its evolution over a period 
to  its  present  state;  the  government  model  may  not  be  entirely  possible  in  the 
Indian context considering the size of the market. However, due to the potential 
conflict of interest in the strong exchange SRO model, the Committee is of the 
view  that  SEBI  must  take  a  more  active  role  in  setting  a  level  playing  field 
with regard to fees, entry, etc. of members of MIIs.  
 
1.9.  DESIRABLE FEATURES OF MIIs 
Market  outcomes  that  are  desirable  should  be  the  guiding  parameters  for 
formulating the ownership and governance norms for MIIs.  The discussion in 

 

23

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

the preceding paragraphs leads one to believe that the following outcomes are 
desirable: 

1.  National interest and economic security should be safeguarded 
2.  The  MIIs  should  serve  as  elements  of vital economic infrastructure for 

efficient resource allocation in the economy 

3.  MIIs should serve as instruments of managing market risks and to the 

extent possible prevent market failure 

4.  There should be desire/motivation/incentives for the operators of MII 
to support orderly market development that provides long term market 
stability 

5.  The  MIIs  should  reduce  the  regulatory  burden  of  the  market  by 

effectively supporting the market regulator 

6.  The systems adopted by the MII should provide transparency and equal 

access to its participants.  

In line with the approach outlined above on the nature of MIIs, the Committee 
feels that in the current state of market development in India, following are the 
appropriate features of a well functioning MII: 
 

(i) 

Self-financing: A well managed MII should be capable of financing itself 
and providing for its sustenance in the near future. 

(ii)  Make  reasonable  profits:  The  MII  should  endeavor  to  generate 
reasonable  profits  in  order  to  be  self-sustaining.  The  MII  should  levy 
reasonable  charges  on  its  users  without  abusing  its  dominant  or 
regulatory position. 

(iii)  Regulatory  function:  The  MII  should  be  capable  of  undertaking 
adequate level of regulatory activities in an unbiased manner. The MII 
should  not  shy  away  from  investing  adequately  in  its  regulatory 
activities. The MII must establish itself as a fair and strong regulator and 

 

24

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(iv) 

earn  the  trust  and  goodwill  of  the  marketplace  so  that  it  is  actually 
profitable for the MII to be a good regulator in its domain of business.  
Settlement  guarantee  fund/investor  protection  fund:  The  MII  should 
provide  adequate  safety  to  the  market  place  by  having  a  sufficiently 
capitalized  settlement  guarantee  fund/investor  protection  fund.  This 
fund  should  be  adequate  to  meet  perceived  contingencies  and  “black 
swan” events. 

(vi) 

(v)  Net  worth:  The  MII  should  be  a  well-capitalized  entity  so  that  the  net 
worth  of  the  MII  is  available  as  a  last  resort  to  meet  exigencies  and 
ensure that it is able to remain as a going concern.  
Professional  standards  and  competitive  practices:  The  MII  must 
maintain  the  same  professional  standards  in  all  its  dealings  including 
dealings  with  its  competitors,  its  technology  providers  and  related 
entities. It must be able to maintain its integrity by being unbiased while 
dealing with all such entities. 

(vii)  Transparency:  The  MII  should  maintain  utmost  transparency  in  its 
operations. The MII on its website should at least make disclosures that 
are mandated for a listed company.  

(viii)  Technology:  All  the  three  MIIs  are  heavily  dependent  on  technology. 
The  MII  should  be  willing  to  invest  in  technology  for  increasing 
efficiency, reach and economies of scale. 

 
1.10. CONCERNS 
The regulatory framework for the securities market in India has evolved over the 
years.    However,  in  this  progression,  the  markets  have  seen  two  events  of 
significant market failure.  Parliament has intervened in both these instances to 
constitute a Joint Parliamentary Committees (JPC) to look into various aspects, 
regulatory  and  otherwise.    The  recommendations  of  these  committees  have 
contributed  to  further  strengthening  the  regulatory  framework  associated  with 

 

25

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

securities markets.  Certain fundamental issues need to be revisited in the light of 
existing  market  scenario  to  ensure  that  the  regulatory  framework  keeps  pace 
with the challenges posed by developments of securities markets. 
 

1.  Need for strategic investors/owners in the MIIs:  

There  is  no  established  opinion  in  the  literature  to  arrive  at  what 
would  be  the  optimum  number  of  each  class  of  MII  in  a  given 
securities  market.  However,  as  mentioned  before,  MIIs  share 
several  characteristics  of  ‘natural  monopolies’.      Hence,  it  is  very 
important to create enabling conditions that allow new entrants to 
enter  the  market,  albeit,  after  satisfying  regulatory  preconditions.   
At present, the shareholding rights are restricted to 5% for a single 
entity and extended to 15% for specific classes of institutions.  This 
was done to obviate the possibility of concentration of ownership in 
a few hands. The cap on shareholding (at 5 and 15 %) has led to a 
situation where a single entity may not be interested in furthering 
the growth of the stock exchange because of its limited ownership 
interest in the stock exchange. Due to relatively low shareholding 
limit,  the 
incentive  (in  terms  of  management  control  and 
commercial benefit) that is available to a single investor may not be 
sufficient for it to devote the requisite time and energy to further 
the operational interests of the stock exchange.  Consequently, this 
could hinder the growth of the securities market.  At the same time, 
the need to encourage strategic investors has to be balanced against 
the need for ensuring the profit maximization behavior of the MII 
or any shareholder does not jeopardize the safety of the market. 

2.  MIIs as ‘for profit’ organizations: 

As elaborated earlier, the role of the MII as a public utility and ‘first 
level’  regulator  may  sometimes  not  be  in  harmony  with  its 

 

26

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

of 

for 

expectation 

long  periods, 

economic  interests  of  maximizing  its  profits.  On  the  contrary,  the 
motivation  of  the  owners  of  MIIs  should  be  to  make  only 
reasonable  profits.  Motivation  should  arise  from  the  desire  to 
establish  the  market  infrastructure  and  run  it  in  a  clean,  efficient 
fashion.  This  calls  for  credible  players,  willingness  to  remain 
invested 
reasonable 
dividends/returns, inclination to reinvest excess profits in the MII 
with a view to provide a safety net to the market to meet even the 
most adverse market disturbance. It is also necessary to ensure that 
no  shareholder  dominates  the  MII  in  terms  of  ownership  or 
management  control.  There  should  be  predominance  of  desire  on 
the part of the shareholders of an MII to play an institutional role 
rather than seeking commercial gains in the short/long run.  Given 
the importance of the MIIs as components of social infrastructure, 
national 
specifying 
should  be 
ownership/management control. 
 
Recently,  new  products  such  as  currency  derivatives  and  interest 
rate  derivatives  have  increased  the  number  of  players  in  the  MII 
space and the competition among these players. In an increasingly 
competitive environment, stock exchanges may even be tempted to 
misuse  their  regulatory  powers  while  regulating/dealing  with  its 
competitors (when the competitor is registered as its member or is a  
potential  technology  provider,  etc),  under-invest  in  regulatory 
activities,  use  its  regulatory  income  for  unrelated  commercial 
purposes10,  etc.  The  question  under  consideration  is  whether  the 
governance  structure  of  the  MII  needs  to  be  altered  for  ensuring 
that it serves the purpose for which it was created. 

interest 

safeguarded 

in 

 

 

27

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Further,  the  following  developments  also  raise  questions  on  the 
suitability of the existing organizational structure:-  

(cid:131)  new market structures involving alliances of stock exchanges,  
(cid:131)  outsourcing of clearing and settlement,  
(cid:131)  proposals to bring OTC transactions on to the stock exchange 

platform,   

(cid:131)  stock  exchanges  setting  up  technology  and  other  related 

businesses 

3.  Separation of clearing function of a Stock Exchange and entrusting it to an 

independent clearing corporation: 

It  is  to  be  examined  whether  the  close  relationship  between  the 
stock  exchange  and  clearing  corporation  is  an  issue.  Other 
questions related to a clearing corporation are its eligibility criteria 
such as net worth requirements.  

4.  Self listing by a stock exchange and possible conflicts of interest: 

Privately held stock exchanges seek to be listed in order to provide 
an  exit  route  to  its  shareholders.    However,  listing  of  stock 
exchange gives rise to a host of other issues, the most pertinent one 
being  the  issue  of  who  would  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the 
listing  compliances.  The  committee  deliberated  on  the  issue  as  to 
whether an MII be allowed to list in view of the inherent conflict of 
interest. 

5.  Likelihood of unfair practices in allowing selective access to price sensitive 

data to market participants and stock exchange resources: 

The present board composition for stock exchanges permits up to 
25% of the board of the stock exchange to be represented by trading 
members.  At  least  25%  of  the  board  is  to  be  comprised  of  public 
interest  directors  (PID)  and  the  balance  is  to  be  represented  by 
shareholder  directors.    The  trading  members  on  the  board  of  the 

 

28

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

stock  exchange  are  in  a  privileged  position  as  compared  to  other 
trading members and may gain access to confidential information, 
which is not available to others. The Committee deliberated on the 
governing board structure prescribed for stock exchanges and felt 
that it needs to be reviewed.   

6.  Management compensation and accountability of senior management: 

There  is  a  general  belief  that  among  others,  the  compensation 
practices  at  financial  institutions  was  one  of  the  factors  that 
contributed  to  the  global  financial  crisis.  Certain  compensation 
related  incentive  structures  encouraged  excessive  risk  taking, 
particularly those of senior management, without adequate regard 
to the resultant longer-term risks on the institutions.  This incentive 
structure  had  the  effect  of  privatizing  profits  while  socializing 
losses. This excessive risk-taking left institutions with lower levels 
of resources to absorb losses as risks actually devolved.   It has to be 
examined  in  the  context  of  MIIs  as  to  whether  the  incentive 
structures for key management personnel needs to be regulated by 
specifying certain broad parameters / guidelines.  
 
1.11. ISSUES 
Based on the above concerns, the Committee has identified the following issues 
for deliberation with respect to the ownership and governance norms for MIIs:- 

 
1.  What is a stock exchange? Does the definition of stock exchange need any 

modification? 

2.  Do  the  present  ownership  restrictions  on  MIIs  need  review?  Do  FII/FDI 

norms on ownership in an MII need to be reviewed? 

 

29

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.  Which is a better model for ownership? – (a) Diversified ownership (as in 
the case of stock exchanges) or (b) anchor/strategic investor approach (as in 
the case of depositories)  

a.  In case (b) is suitable for MIIs, what classes of entities can be permitted 

to be anchor investors?  

b.  Should there be lock-in stipulations for anchor investor?  
c.  What are the conflicts arising out of private entities becoming anchor 

investors? 

4. 

 Does the present Board composition (including manner of appointment of 
the Board) prescribed by SEBI for stock exchanges need a review? Should 
the same be extended to other MIIs?  

5.  Trading Members on the Board of the Stock Exchange can potentially have 
access  to  confidential  information  with  respect  to  trading  information 
pertaining to other members as well as sensitive information. Should there 
be any trading member representation on the Board of the Stock Exchange, 
or alternatively, can they be put on a separate Advisory Board to the main 
Board?  

6.  What should be the organizational structure for an MII that is suitable for 
fulfilling  the  objectives  of  an  MII  including  its  regulatory  goals?  Can  the 
conflicts of interest be eliminated through specific stipulations of structure 
and governance of MIIs? (For e.g., erection of Chinese wall between the two 
functions  or  hiving  it  off  to  a  subsidiary  or  transferring  to  a  regulatory 
body)? 

7.  What other businesses should an MII be allowed to perform? Can they set 
up another MII with 100% shareholding? What kind of non-MII businesses 
can they perform? Can they set up related businesses such as independent 
software vendors?  
In  the  light  of  the  recent  global  financial  crisis  and  the  debate  on 
management  compensation,  is  there  a  case  for  enunciating  principles  for 

8. 

 

30

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

management  compensation  of  MIIs?  What  should  the  management  be 
accountable for – profitability, regulatory efficiency, etc.? 

9.  What should be the process of appointment of senior management in MIIs? 

What other safeguards are to be put in the management structure?  

10.  What will be an optimal number of MIIs for the Indian Securities Market? 

What should be entry and exit norms applicable to MIIs?  

11.  There are twin dangers for all MIIs – ‘regulatory race to the bottom in the 
face of competition’ or ‘becoming too big to fail’. What safeguards can be 
built to prevent the same?   

12.  Are  there  any  regulatory  issues  arising  out  of  competition  such  as 
discrimination by an MII against a competing MII or any intermediary or 
technology provider that needs to be regulated? What should be the norms 
to  regulate  the  relationship  of  MII  with  technology  providers  and 
intermediaries? 

13.  To  what  extent  should  commercial  functions  of  an  MII  be  regulated? 
Specifically,  should  charges  and  fees  levied  by  MIIs  be  regulated  in  a 
competitive environment? Is there a case for capping the charges on a ‘cost 
plus’ basis and/or for capping distribution of profits?  

14.  Whether listing of an MII should be permitted? If so, what would be best 
model  that  may  be  permitted  –  self-listing,  cross  listing  or  dual  listing? 
What are the alternatives to achieve these objectives? Are there any issues 
arising out of listing of a subsidiary of the MII on the same MII? 

15.  Should clearing corporations be subsidiaries of stock exchanges or should 
they  be  completely  separate  entities?  What  should  be  the  ownership 
restrictions for clearing corporations?  

16.  What should be net worth requirement for a clearing corporation?  
17. 

Is it desirable to allow Stock Exchanges, by virtue of being a sponsor of the 
depository  to  own  more  than  50%  of  the  ownership  of  Depositories,  thus 

 

31

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

leading  to  a  situation  where  the  depository  becomes  a  subsidiary/  group 
company of the Stock Exchange?  

 
1.12. STRUCTURE OF THE REPORT 
The above issues have been grouped under the following chapters in this report:- 
I.  Ownership  norms:  This  chapter  reviews  the  existing  ownership  norms 
including  foreign  participation  in  stock  exchanges  and  depositories  and 
also proposes norms for clearing corporations. 

II.  Governance norms: The board composition for the three MIIs is examined 

in this Chapter. 

III.  Measures  for  conflicts  resolution:  This  chapter  deals  with  appointment 
and compensation for senior management, measures to ensure autonomy 
of regulatory departments and requirements for a compliance officer. 

IV.  Other  issues:  This  chapter  deals  with  listing  of  MIIs,  net  worth 
requirements , requirement on MIIs to generate only reasonable profits , 
related  businesses  that  can  be  entered  into  by  MIIs,  replacement  of 
MIMPS Regulations and powers to SEBI in matters relating to MIIs.     

 
In each of the following chapters, the three MIIs are dealt with separately so that 
issues  can  be  examined  in  context  to  the  specific  nuances  of  each  MII.  The 
recommendations  of  the  Committee  on  each  issue  are  stated  at  the  end  of  the 
relevant section.  

 

32

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Chapter   II 

Ownership norms 

2.1  MARKET STRUCTURE  
A  discussion  on  ownership  norms  for  MIIs  has  necessarily  to  be  placed  in  the 
backdrop of the broad market structure that determines the inter-MIIs linkages 
in terms of their ownership and control.   
 
Generally  two  types  of  market  structures  are  observed  i.e.,  vertical  silos  or 
horizontal integration. Silo models imply vertical integration across the trading 
and  post-trading  value  chain  (trading  systems,  clearing  houses  and  central 
depositories). Historically, in most markets, this has been the case in the initial 
stages of their evolution.  This was so because the stock exchanges took the first 
steps in building post-trade infrastructures to replace bilateral and paper based 
settlement arrangements for formalized and multilateral clearing and settlement 
schemes.  Horizontal models in most cases, have been the result of the merger of 
institutions  providing  the  same  layer  of  services  in  the  trade  value  chain  (e.g. 
trade matching, clearing, settlement, central depository). The distinctive feature 
is that they are designed to interact with multiple providers of trade and post-
trade services11.  
 
Competition between stock exchanges may be precluded if potential new entrant 
stock exchanges and trading systems are restricted from having the same access 
to  clearing  and  settlement  facilities  as  incumbent  stock  exchanges.  This  may 
occur  if  competition  for  the  provisions  of  clearing  or  settlement  services  is 
limited or non-existent and the incumbent stock exchange operates a vertical silo, 
in which it owns the clearing corporation and the depository.  If an incumbent 
stock exchange operates a vertical silo, but competition at both the clearing and 

 

33

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

settlement  level  is  viable,  then  a  new  entrant  stock  exchange  has  the  option  of 
creating  its  own  vertical  silo  with  a  clearing  corporation  and  a  depository  or 
alternatively  seek  the  services  of  a  clearing  corporation  and  depository  other 
than  those  owned  by  the  incumbent  stock  exchange.    If  an  incumbent  stock 
exchange  operates  a  vertical  silo  and  the  provision  of  clearing  and  settlement 
services is not competitive, it may choose to be restrictive in offering access to its 
clearing  corporation  and  depository  to  a  competing  stock  exchange  thereby 
hindering competition at the trading level12. 
 
However, the question as to whether a vertically integrated stock exchange will 
seek  to  restrict  access  to  its  clearing  corporation  to  another  stock  exchange  is 
debatable. A major concern expressed by many market participants is that in a 
world  where  outsourced  clearing  is  becoming  increasingly  common,  there  is  a 
real  fear  that  a  clearing  corporation  may  be  biased  toward  its  dominant  stock 
exchange  customers.  This  concern  is  arguably  greater  for  those  clearing 
corporations that remain captive to one major stock exchange or group of stock 
exchanges  but  provide  outsourced  clearing  on  a  selective  basis  to  outsiders.  A 
captive  clearing  corporation,  for  example,  might  be  tempted  to  approve  new 
contracts  much  faster  for  its  primary  stock  exchange  affiliate  than  for  its 
outsourcing  customers.  This  would  suggest  that  there  is  merit  in  encouraging 
setting up of a fully independent clearing corporation that caters to more than 
one stock exchange13.  
 
In practice, however, the concerns expressed above have not manifested in any 
significant  manner  as  seen  from  several  instances  in  the  securities  markets  in 
different jurisdictions.14  It has also been argued15 that if one were to assume that 
execution  is  potentially  highly  competitive  and  if  clearing  were  a  natural 
monopoly,  then  the  monopoly  clearing  entity  would  encourage  competition  in 
execution  rather  than  insist  that  market  users  use  the  trading  system  of  the 

 

34

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

associated  stock  exchange.  If  other  execution  venues  are  more  efficient  and  if 
competition  between  them  drives  down  the  price  of  execution  services,  the 
clearing  monopolist  would  be  better  off  not  integrating  execution  and  clearing 
and instead allowing customers to obtain execution services from the lowest-cost 
provider.  
 
Vertical integration – the combination of both clearing and execution activities in 
a single firm as a vertical silo – eliminates double markups and can be a means to 
economize  on  transaction  costs16.    Thus,  typically,  fundamental  economic 
considerations appear to that make vertical integration a more prevalent route in 
comparison  to  the  alternative  of  trading  and  post-trading  services  being 
provided by separate for-profit entities. 
 
In  India,  vertical  silos  have  so  far  emerged  in  both  clearing  and  depository 
services. NSE has a 100% owned subsidiary NSCCL for clearing and settlement 
services.  NSE  also  holds  25%  in  NSDL.  Similarly,  BSE  has  a  clearinghouse  for 
clearing and settlement of its products. It has also set up an independent 100% 
owned  clearing  corporation,  ICCL,  for  clearing  and  settlement  of  some  of  its 
segments. BSE has 54% shareholding in CDSL. However, this arrangement has 
not  precluded  access  to  the  respective  depositories.  Inter-connectivity  between 
NSDL  and  CDSL  has  been  achieved  in  1999,  albeit  through  regulatory 
intervention.  MCX-SX has also set up a 100% owned subsidiary MCX-SX’CCL 
for  clearing  and  settlement.    However,  USE,  the  latest  stock  exchange  in  the 
securities  market,  has  outsourced  clearing  and  settlement  to  ICCL.    BSE  holds 
15% of the paid up equity capital of USE .  
 
From  the  above,  it  is  evident  that  both  trade  execution  and  post-trade  services 
have  proven  to  be  competitively  viable  in  the  Indian  scenario17.    Moreover, 
outsourcing of clearing and settlement is also gradually emerging in the Indian 

 

35

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

market.    It  appears  that  there  is  no  pressing  need  to  alter  the  exiting  market 
structure  of  arrangement  between  stock  exchanges,  clearing  corporation  and 
depository solely to address the issue of competition. 
 
The ownership requirements of each MII are examined below. 
 
2.2 
STOCK EXCHANGES: The ownership requirements for stock exchanges 
were  notified  by  Government  of  India  vide  SCR  (Manner  of  Increasing  and 
Maintaining  Public  Shareholding)  Regulations,  2006  (“MIMPS”).  The  following 
limits are applicable as per the MIMPS Regulations:- 
 

Category 

Maximum Permitted Holding 

Person resident in India – individual 
limit 
Stock exchange, depository, clearing 
corporation, banking company and a 
public  financial  institution  defined 
under Sec. 4 A of the Companies Act 
195618 
Persons  residing  outside  India  – 
individual limit 
Limit  on  cumulative  holding  by 
trading members 
Persons  residing  outside  India  – 
cumulative limit 

5% 

15% 

5% 

49% 

through 

the  FDI 

49%, subject further to the following:- 
a)  26% 
approval) 
b)  23%  for  FII’s    (No  initial  allotment 
through an IPO/FPO)  
 

(via  FIPB 

• 
If  the  stock  exchanges  are  not 
listed,  acquisition  by  FII  is  permitted 
through off market transactions but not 
through initial allotment. 
• 
If  the  stock  exchange  is  listed, 
acquisition  by  FII  is  permitted  only 
through on market. 

 

 

36

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Annexure – C & Annexure –D of this report depict the ownership restrictions in 
select countries and details of ownership of stock exchanges in select countries, 
respectively.  It  is  seen  that  the  existing  shareholding  restrictions  in  India 
generally are similar to that of most other countries. However, from the tables in 
Annexure  –D,  it  is  seen  that  in  most  of  the other  stock  exchanges,  at  least  one 
shareholder has been permitted to hold more than 15% but less than 30% of the 
equity share capital.  
 
Imposing restrictions on ownership is one of the ways of exercising regulatory 
control over a stock exchange.  Dispersed ownership structure has been adopted 
for stock exchanges so that no single entity becomes a dominant shareholder in 
an entity that is entrusted with vital economic and regulatory functions. It has 
been felt that for public policy reasons19, it is desirable to encourage widespread 
ownership,  encompassing  both  institutional  and  retail  investors.  This  helps  to 
reduce  the  likelihood  of  decisions  being  made  in  the  interests  of  any  one 
particular segment of the market. 
 
However,  there  have  also  been  contrary  views  expressed  in  this  regard. 
Demutualization was aimed at allowing a stock exchange to operate as an entity 
in  its  own  right  –  rather  than  as  an  extension  of  its  members/users  business. 
Ownership and control in the stock exchange of the trading members has been 
restricted  severely.    This  in  a  sense  has  shifted  the  governance  fulcrum  away 
from the trading members to the shareholders and public interest directors. But 
some observers20 have noted that limiting the maximum permissible holding by 
other entities (to limits as low as 5 percent of share capital of that stock exchange) 
might have led to the lack of interest on the part of shareholders to take adequate 
interest  in  the  management  and  governance  of  the  stock  exchanges.  Thus  the 
limits  on  shareholding  of  a  stock  exchange,  could  defeat  the  purpose  of 

 

37

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

demutualization. Indeed, in the case of some stock exchanges, it appears that in 
spite  of  demutualising,  they  have  been  unable  to  shake  the  conflicts  between 
members who have different interests.  
 
It has also been suggested21 that there are number of factors that could influence 
a stock exchange to seek to limit diversified ownership, including: 
 

(i)  Very  widely  dispersed  ownership,  where  investors  are  more  likely  than 
not, to suffer from “rational apathy” in their decision-making, which may 
possibly have adverse consequences on occasions when a requisite level of 
extant  shareholders  is  needed,  for  example,  where  a  change  to  a  stock 
exchange’s constitution is required, and  

 

(ii)  Relatively  large  shareholder  bases  are  likely  to  impose  significant  on-
going  costs  on  stock  exchange  which  arise  from  the  need  to  service  
shareholders,  for  example,  by  providing  them  with  annual  reports, 
general meeting venues and so on;  

 
On  examining  the  above  arguments,  the  Committee  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
concept of dispersed ownership is to be favored for the well functioning of the 
stock exchanges.  However, institutions fulfilling stringent eligibility criteria may 
be permitted to hold a higher percentage of shareholding in stock exchanges. In 
India,  the  shareholding  restrictions  prescribed  under  MIMPs  were  increased 
from 5% to 15% for certain class of investors in 2008. The question now under 
consideration is whether a further step in that direction is warranted. This issue 
is being considered mainly because there may be certain shareholders fulfilling 
stringent eligibility, fit and proper criteria, who take an interest in the working of 
the  stock  exchange,  and  may  be  interested  to  obtain  higher  shareholding. 
Further, possibly there is still scope for new stock exchanges to be set up in India, 

 

38

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

given the huge expected potential of its markets.  It is desirable to ensure that fair 
competition  is  available  to  avoid  perverse  monopoly.  At  the  same  time,  the 
Committee is of the opinion that the optimal number of stock exchanges required 
in India cannot be arrived at with any degree of precision. Moreover, entry of a 
large number of stock exchanges will fragment liquidity to such an extent that 
this might stifle growth and innovation in the process.  Also, too frequent exits of 
stock  exchanges  will  jeopardize  the  interests  of  the  investors  and  disrupt  the 
stability of the markets themselves.  Further, technology has altered the market 
place so much that need for multiple stock exchanges has been reduced largely.  
 
The concept of anchor investors is not alien to Indian securities market, as it has 
been introduced by SEBI on July 9, 2009, in public issues, to help the issuer to 
raise  funds.    The  Committee  therefore  proposes  to  support  the  concept  of 
‘Anchor Institutional Investor’ who will take the lead role of setting up a stock 
exchange. However, the implementation of the above proposal should not result 
in the dilution of dispersed ownership norms for stock exchanges. Therefore, it is 
suggested that there should be a cap on the maximum shareholding held by all 
anchor institutional investors put together. In addition, the anchor institutional 
investor should bring down his shareholding within a prescribed period. 
 
At present, the MIMPS Regulations permit the following entities to hold up to 
15%, after seeking prior approval from SEBI:- 
 

(i) 

Stock Exchange 

(ii)  Depository 

(iii)  Clearing corporation 

 

39

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

Banking  company  as  defined  under  clause  (c)  of  section  5  of  the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 

Insurance company as defined under sub-section (8) of section 2 of the 
Insurance Act, 1938  

Public financial institution defined under section 4A of the Companies 
Act, 1956 

Of  the  above  entities,  well-capitalized  public  financial  institutions  and  banks 
may only be permitted to be anchor institutional investors for stock exchanges. 
While in Section 5.5 of the report the Committee has proposed the replacement of 
the MIMPS Regulations by a comprehensive set of regulations on the ownership 
and governance of stock exchange, the following changes are recommended to 
the  current  set  of  provisions  of  the  MIMPS  Regulations  applicable  to  stock 
exchanges:- 
 

I.  ANCHOR INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR (AII) 

a)  Domestic institutions registered in India having a net worth of  ` 1000 

crores or more and falling under the category of: 

(i) 

Public  Financial  institutions  defined  under  section  4A  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 and with national jurisdiction,  

(ii)  Banking company as defined under clause (c) of section 5 of the 

Banking Regulation Act, 1949 

may  be  permitted  to  be  anchor  institutional  investors  for  stock 
exchanges for a period of 10 years from the date of recognition as an AII 
of the exchange. 
 

 

40

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

b)  Public  financial  institutions  and  banking  companies  fulfilling  the 
conditions  prescribed  under  (a)  above  can  be  anchor  institutional 
investors even if their subsidiary/ associates have trading interests. 

 
c)  A  single  anchor  institutional  investor  may  be  permitted  to  hold  up  to 
24% of the total equity capital of an exchange, along with persons acting 
in concert.  

d)  Every anchor institutional investor will have to bring down its holding 
to 15% or less in ten years from the time it is recognised as an anchor. 
During  the  allowed  holding  period  of  ten  years,  if  an  AII  desires  to 
offload the stake to another eligible AII, the holding period for new AII 
would be deemed to have commenced from the date when original AII 
acquired shares and became AII.  In summary, the total holding period 
allowed  will  be  only  10  years  for  the  initial  AII  and  its  subsequent 
AII’s.    SEBI  may  extend  such  period  in  case  the  AII  makes  an 
application  for  the  extension  in  time  and  the  same  is  a  fit  case  for 
extension.  

 
e)  Anchor  Institutional  Investor  for  new  stock  exchanges:  At  the  time  of 
filing  the  application  for  recognition  as  a  stock  exchange,  anchor 
institutional  investors  shall  be  identified,  by  the  entity  seeking 
recognition, from amongst the shareholders holding more than 15% and 
up to 24% of the equity capital of the exchange.  

f)  Anchor Institutional Investor for existing stock exchanges: Entities at (a) 
above desirous of holding more than 15% and up to 24% for becoming 
anchor institutional investors in a recognised stock exchange will have 
to make an application to SEBI for the same after getting the approval of 

41

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

the  shareholders  in  the  AGM  of  the  stock  exchange  through  a  special 
resolution. 

 
g)  All anchor institutional investors put together shall not hold more than 

49% of the total equity capital of an exchange. 

h)  The present procedure of obtaining ‘fit and proper’ approval from SEBI, 

for entities holding more than 5% shall continue. 

 

II.  OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL OF AN MII IN ANOTHER CLASS OF 

MII 

In the securities market in India, the evolution of vertical silos with stock 
exchanges  holding  stakes  in  clearing  corporation  and  depositories  has 
become  quite  prevalent.    The  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  clearing 
corporations and depositories perform specialized post-trade services.  It is 
ideal for these MIIs (clearing corporations and depositories) to function as 
public  utilities  and  focus  on  improving  the  safety  of  the  market  and 
reducing the costs to users. The Committee is of the view that on account of 
the discussions in section 2.1 above, there is no need to permit a clearing 
corporation or depository to invest in other class of MIIs. Hence, clearing 
corporations and depositories may not be allowed to invest in other class 
of MIIs .  

42

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

To  sum  up,  the  model  proposed  for  restriction  on  shareholding  of  stock 
exchanges is as follows:- 
 

 

 

ANCHOR INSTITUTIONAL 

Upto 5% 

>5% and upto 15% 

person 

Any 
both 
resident  in  India  and 
outside 
India 
including those having 
trading interests 

a.  Stock Exchange 
b.  Banking company  
c.  Insurance company  
d.  Public 

financial 
institution defined under 
section 
the 
Companies Act, 1956 

4A 

of 

is 

proposed 

 
that 
(It 
depositories  and 
clearing 
corporations  shall  not  be 
allowed  to  invest  in  stock 
exchanges) 

INVESTOR 

>15% and upto 24% 

Domestic  institutions22    having  a  net 
worth  of  `  1000  crores  or  more  and 
falling under the category of; 
a.  Public  Financial  institutions  defined 
under  section  4A  of  the  Companies 
Act, 
1956 
and  with  national 
jurisdiction, 

b.  Banking  company  as  defined  under 
clause (c) of section 5 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 

institutional 

 
All  anchor 
investors  put 
together may not hold more than 49% of 
the total equity capital of an exchange. 
 
Every  anchor  institutional  investor  will 
have to bring down its holding to 15% in 
ten years from the time it is recognised as 
an anchor. 
 

 
The  category  based  restrictions  for  trading  members,  FII,  FDI  and  cumulative 
foreign holding will continue as before.  
 

 

43

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

2.3 
CLEARING CORPORATIONS: Clearing corporations / clearing houses  
are the most important link for orderly settlement and risk containment. A single 
independent  clearing  corporation  is  ideal  for  obtaining  the  benefits  of  netting 
and for position monitoring purposes as well. However, it would also increase 
the  systemic  risk  in  the  market.  A  mid-way  would  be  to  have  multiple 
independent clearing corporations, which are connected to each other and to the 
exchanges  and  depositories.  This  would  necessitate  interoperability  among 
clearing corporations.  As established by the example of depositories in India, a 
majority  holding  by  a  stock  exchange  does  not  preclude  successful  linkages 
between the depositories. Moreover, from a market power perspective, a single 
clearing corporation may levy excessive charges on its users.  
 
As  regards  ownership  issues,  while  stock  exchanges  are  required  to  increase 
penetration  and  turnover,  the  business  of  a  clearing  corporation  is  only  a 
function of the turnover at the exchange(s). The primary objective of a clearing 
corporation  is  to  ensure  orderly  settlement  of  trades  and  to  safeguard  the 
security and stability of the settlement system.  Keeping in mind the pivotal role 
of clearing corporations in settling the trades and risk management of the stock 
markets,  it  would  be  detrimental  to  place  the  commercial  objectives  of  the 
shareholders of the clearing corporation in the forefront. Therefore, while private 
participation is permitted for stock exchanges, it is felt that clearing corporations 
being at the core of the settlement system must continue to be promoted by stock 
exchange(s),  whose  interest  would  also  be  to  ensure  orderly  clearing  and 
settlement  of  trades  executed  on  their  platforms.    Moreover,  the  processes  of 
trade matching, margining, clearing and settlement are so interlinked with each 
other that separating the entities may lead to an increase in legal and operational 
risks.   
 

 

44

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

One view that has been held by some experts in this field is that stock exchanges 
and  clearing  corporations  should  be  completely  separated.    This  view  would 
entail that stock exchanges thereafter should be freed without any restrictions on 
their  ownership.    It  has  also  been  argued  in  this  context  that  the  surveillance 
functions of SEBI as the regulator should be strengthened further instead of the 
regulator  having  to  depend  on  the  surveillance  mechanisms  of  the  stock 
exchange.  The Committee noticed a few difficulties with these arguments.  It has 
to  be  first  recognised  that  on  a  value  chain  consideration,  from  the  trading 
transaction to clearing and all the way to settlement of the trades, the most risky 
element  (and  therefore,  the  highest  in  value  as  a  proportion  of  the  total 
transaction  costs)  would  have  to  be  attached  to  the  clearing  and  settlement 
function.   Shorn of the clearing and settlement function, the stock exchange is 
merely  a  provider  of  an  electronic  trading  platform.    Hence,  the  first  difficulty 
that the Committee sees in this arrangement is that clearing corporations being at 
the  core  of  the  clearing  and  settlement  function  of  the  exchange,  such  a 
separation  between  the  stock  exchange  and  clearing  corporation  would  simply 
shift  the  debate  of  ownership  and  governance  to  the  level  of  clearing 
corporations,  without  achieving  commensurate  benefits  to  the  marketplace.  
Secondly,  divesting  the  stock  exchanges  of  their  surveillance  function  and 
treating them on the same level as any other financial intermediary, would mean 
that  the  market  loses  the  benefit  of  a  second  layer  of  surveillance.    Thirdly, 
entrusting the stock exchanges with a surveillance (regulatory) function means 
that  surveillance  begins  right  at  the  interface  between  the  client  (through  the 
broker)  and  the  trading  and  settlement  system  –  clearly  a  sounder  basis  for  a 
well-regulated marketplace.  Finally, when any regulatory role is attached to a 
profit  making  public  utility  like  the  stock  exchange,  despite  the  conflicts  of 
interests we have referred to herein, it confers a certain status to it as a defender 
of the market thereby making the market more secure for the investor.  Hence, 
the Committee is not in favor of a complete separation of the clearing corporation 

 

45

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

from  the  stock  exchange.  The  Committee  favours  a  situation  where  stock 
exchanges have a significant relationship with the clearing corporation as anchor 
investors. 
 
The Committee therefore, recommends that at least 51% of the paid-up equity 
capital of the clearing corporation should be held by one or more recognised 
stock exchanges.  
 
2.4  DEPOSITORIES:  In  the  case  of  depositories,  the  concept  of  anchor 
investors has already been adopted. Such investor(s) are called as sponsors in the 
context  of  depositories.  “Sponsor”,  as  per  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and 
Participants) Regulations, 1996, means “any person or persons who, acting alone or 
in combination with another proposes to establish a depository and undertakes to perform 
the obligations of a sponsor under these regulations.” 
 
Presently, sponsors belonging to any of the following categories, are required to 
hold  at  least  51%  of  the  equity  share  capital  in  the  depository,  either  alone  or 
together:-  

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

A  public  financial  institution  as  defined  in  section  4A  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);  

a  bank  included  for  the  time  being  in  the  Second  Schedule  to  the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934);  

a  foreign  bank  operating  in  India  with  the  approval  of  the  Reserve 
Bank of India; 

a  recognised  stock  exchange  within  the  meaning  of  clause  (j)  of 
section  2  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  (42  of 
1956);  

a body corporate engaged in providing financial services where not 
less than seventy-five per cent of the equity capital is held by any of 

 

46

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(vi) 

the institutions mentioned in sub-clause (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) jointly or 
severally;  

a  body  corporate  constituted  or  recognised  under  any  law  for  the 
time  being  in  force  in  a  foreign  country  for  providing  custodial, 
clearing or settlement services in the securities market and approved 
by the Central Government;  

(vii) 

an  institution  engaged  in  providing  financial  services  established 
outside India and approved by the Central Government; or 

(viii) 

 the applicant is a fit and proper person. 

 

Besides  sponsors,  no  person  whether  resident  in  India  or  not,  including 
depository  participants,  are  allowed  to  hold  more  than  5%  of  the  equity  share 
capital in the depositories.  

 

The higher shareholding (of at least 51%) by sponsors, including stock exchanges 
in depositories was permitted in the initial stages for facilitating the setting up of 
depositories.  Therefore,  currently,  when  two  depositories  have  successfully 
established themselves, it is felt that the independence of depositories has to be 
ensured by reducing the holding of stock exchanges in depositories. Moreover, 
depositories in India perform only record keeping activity, unlike some Central 
Securities  Depositories  (CSDs)  abroad  that  undertake  both  settlement  and 
electronic record keeping of securities. The activities performed by depositories 
in  India  are  therefore,  not  entwined  with  the  stock  exchange  (unlike  that  of 
clearing  corporations).  Most  importantly,  the  Committee  recognises  that  stock 
exchanges  and  depositories  both  have  a  surveillance  and  regulatory 
function.  Each, in its own way serves as a surveillance layer in the market.  The 
Committee has been apprised of the fact that SEBI as the market regulator often 
uses records of depositories for its surveillance function, independent of the data 

 

47

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

  For  obvious  reasons,  one  surveillance 
collected  from  stock  exchanges. 
mechanism  desirably  should  not  be 
in  control  of  another  surveillance 
mechanism.  While,  in  the  context  of  just  two  depositories  and  three  or  four 
exchanges  in  India,  this  problem  may  not  appear  grave  in  line.  However,  the 
Committee is of the opinion that the integrity of the surveillance mechanism in 
each  entity  should  be  maintained  and  in  the  process  insulate  the  market  from 
systemic risks to the extent possible. The Committee therefore, feels that a stock 
exchange should not be allowed to take a position of control in a depository. It is 
recommended  that  the  holding  of  stock  exchanges  in  depositories  may  be 
restricted to a maximum of 24%.  
 
Further, the sponsors shall be subject to a ‘fit and proper’ approval from SEBI 
in  the  manner  similar  to  the  shareholders  of  stock  exchanges  holding  more 
than 5%.  
 
2.5 
FOREIGN  PARTICIPATION:  At  present,  the  combined  holding  of  all 
persons residing outside India in the equity share capital of an MII is capped at 
49% subject to the following: 

(cid:131)  The combined holding through FDI and FII routes are capped at 26% 

and 23%, respectively. 

(cid:131)  FIIs  can  acquire  the  equity  shares  of  an  MII  only  through  the 

secondary market.  

(cid:131)  An FII cannot have representation on the board of an MII. 
(cid:131)  No person outside India, either individually or with persons acting in 
concert with him can hold more than 5% of the equity share capital of 
an MII. 

 
The Government has clarified that with respect to exchanges that are not listed, 
FII  purchase  of  shares  of  such  exchanges  can  only  be  through  transactions 

 

48

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

outside of the exchange provided it is not an initial allotment and that however, 
if  the  exchange  is  listed,  transactions  by  FIIs  should  be  done  on  the  exchange 
alone.  Therefore, technically, it would follow that an FII cannot be a part of the 
group that applies for a new exchange but immediately after SEBI approves the 
exchange, the FII can take ownership up to 5% through a direct purchase from 
any  one  of  the  promoters  of  the  exchange.    It  is  felt  that  there  is  no  ostensible 
justification for retaining this distinction. It may also be noted that all MIIs are at 
present unlisted and the question of FIIs purchasing shares of stock exchanges 
through a stock exchange transaction does not arise.  
 
Therefore,  it  is  recommended  that  in  the  case  of  all  MIIs,  an  FII  should  be 
allowed  to  acquire  the  shares  through  off  market  transactions  including 
through  initial  allotment,  as  allowed  for  other  shareholder,  subject  to  the 
limits  specified  by  the  Government  from  time  to  time.  The  same  may  be 
suggested to the Government by SEBI.  
 
2.6  ALL  EXPOSURES  TO  BE  COUNTED: 
  The  shareholding  limits 
described  above  shall  be  inclusive  of  all  exposures  (both  on  and  off  the 
balance  sheet)  of  the  shareholder  to  the  MII.    The  Committee  feels  that  it 
would  be  counter  intuitive  to  prescribe  shareholding  limits  and  allow 
participation of a shareholder through other means as a creditor or holder of 
other  instruments  issued  by  the  MII.      In  other  words,  the  maximum 
permissible  limit  will  be  computed  based  on  the  equity  share  capital  of  the 
MII and in case the entity (along with persons acting in concert) has any other 
direct or indirect exposure in the MII,  such exposure in value terms shall be 
included while determining the total exposure of the shareholder to the MII.  
This would help maintain a transparent and cleaner separation of ownership 
and governance – an essential consideration for avoiding conflicts of interests 
referred to above. 

 

49

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
2.7 
TIME FOR COMPLIANCE: New stock exchanges must comply with the 
ownership restrictions ab initio. Similarly, the ownership restrictions for clearing 
corporations are in line with market practice, therefore, they must comply with 
the same ab initio. In case of existing depositories, stock exchanges may be given 
a time limit of 3 years for reducing their holding in depositories to 24%.  

 

50

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Chapter   III 

Governance norms  

An institution’s board of directors plays a central role in its governance. In the 
case of MIIs, the board decides on important aspects such as: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

Investments in critical functions such as surveillance, risk management, 
up-gradation of systems for exchange/depository operations, testing of 
disaster recovery sites, etc 

Nomination/  selection  of  Public 
directors  

Interest  Directors/Independent 

Some of the directors may be part of the selection committee that selects 
key personnel, including the ED of the Exchange/Depository. 

Tightening  of  norms  such  as  imposition  and  collection  of  margins, 
member/ depository participant compliance, and resolution of investor 
grievances,  which  may  lead  to  deployment  of  more  resources  by  the 
member/ depository participant. 

Surveillance matters such as shifting of scrips from Trade for Trade to 
Normal Segment, relaxation of filters, etc 

such 

as 

security  deposit 

from 
Financial  matters 
members/depository 
upon 
members/depository  participants,  investments  and  deployment  of 
surplus funds in property/building/ land. 

collected 
levied 

participants, 

charges 

Matters  pertaining  to  inspection,  selection  of  members/  depository 
participants for the same.  

Investor related issues such as increasing arbitration centers, increasing 
manpower for redressal of investor grievances, etc    

 

51

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

9. 

Penalty structure, collection of penalty etc 

10.  Appointment/  composition  of  various  executive  committees,  statutory 

committees, including the arbitration panel   

11.  Amending rules/byelaws/regulations of the MII 

 
By  being  on  the  board  of  an  MII,  the  directors  can  potentially  influence  the 
decisions of the board and in extreme circumstances may even prevent the MII 
from fulfilling the primary objectives for which it was created.  
 
3.1.  BOARD  COMPOSITION  FOR  STOCK  EXCHANGES:  Pursuant  to 
corporatisation  and  demutualisation,  SEBI,  has  prescribed  that  in  the  case  of 
stock  exchanges,  not  more  than  25%  of  the  board  can  be  composed  of  trading 
member  directors,  a  minimum  of  25%  is  to  be  comprised  of  public  interest 
directors and balance should consist of shareholder directors. 
 
Trading  members  on  the  board  of  a  stock  exchange  are  privy  to  confidential 
information.  This therefore can give rise to conflict of interest when the entity 
regulated  by  the  stock  exchange  is  also  on  the  board  of  the  stock  exchange. 
Conflict of interest also arises when shareholders with commercial motives form 
a majority in an entity which also has regulatory functions to perform.  
 
Moreover, 
to  dispersed  shareholding 
requirements or where the shareholders consist of mainly public sector financial 
institutions, the board may end up being a little more than a ‘rubber stamp’ for 
management’s decisions. 
 
Internationally,  the  appointment  of  independent  directors  (previously  public 
interest  directors)23  to  the  board  of  a  market  infrastructure  institutions  SRO  is 

institutions  which  are  subject 

in 

 

52

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

undertaken typically to ensure that the board responds to inherent conflicts that 
is  a  consequence  of  the  entity  pursuing  both  private  and  public  interests 
simultaneously.  In  order  to  effect  this,  such  directors  need  to  be  independent 
both of the market infrastructure institution on whose board they sit and also of 
other  relevant  parties,  including  participants  using  the  facilities  of  the  market 
infrastructure  institution  and  issuers  listed  or  whose  stock  is  traded  on  the 
exchange.24 More number of PIDs on the Board of the exchange would enable the 
PIDs to have a stronger voice in the governance of exchanges.  
 
It is therefore, recommended that no trading /clearing member (irrespective of 
exchange where he operates) shall be allowed on the board of any of the stock 
exchange and the number of public interest directors on the board of a stock 
exchange shall at least be equal to the number of shareholder directors without 
trading/ clearing  interest. The appointment of the Chairperson of the Board 
shall be with prior approval of SEBI. Terms and conditions of appointment of 
Chairperson should be subject to SEBI’s approval. The sitting fees payable to 
the PIDs shall be as per the Companies Act, 1956. They shall not be paid any 
commission or any other remuneration.  
 
The committee feels that trading members bring rich practical experience and 
the  same  should  be  utilized  in  a  manner  which  doesn’t  conflict  with 
governance.  Therefore  in  order  to  utilize  the  experience  and  expertise  of 
trading  members  in  the  securities  market,  an  advisory  committee  shall  be 
constituted  by  the  board  of  the  stock  exchange,  comprising  of  trading 
members. Trading members shall not be permitted participation in any other 
committee  of  the  exchange.  The  advisory  committee  to  the  board  may  deal 
with non-regulatory, operational matters such as product design, technology, 
etc. The board of the exchange shall consult the advisory committee on these 
issues.  The  Chairman  of  the  board  shall  head  the  advisory  committee.  The 

 

53

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

advisory  committee  shall  meet  a  minimum  of  4  times  a  year.  The 
recommendations of the advisory committee shall necessarily be placed before 
the ensuing meeting of the board of the exchange and shall be disclosed on 
exchange’s website.  

 

3.2.  BOARD  COMPOSITION  FOR  CLEARING  CORPORATIONS:  The 
existing board structure at NSCCL, ICCL and MCX-SX’CCL are as follows:- 
 

NSCCL 

Chairman – 1 
MD/CEO – 1 
Other  non  executive 
directors – 5 

ICCL 
MD/CEO - 2  
Independent 
directors – 2 
BSE 
officers – 3 

executive 

MCX-SX ‘CCL 

Shareholder  directors  -  3 
Independent  directors  -  3 
Executive director   - 1 

 
 As of now, there is no directive for board composition of clearing corporations. 
It may be because few outside experts are available given the complex nature of 
activities performed by clearing corporations. As G30 recommends, clearing and 
settlement  institutions  may  seek  to  appoint  senior  managers  from  their  users 
who have proven managerial experience, wide industry expertise, an ability to 
assess complex situations and make key strategic decisions. 25 
 
In order to utilise the expertise of clearing members, it is recommended that the 
model adopted for stock exchanges may be extended to clearing corporations as 
well.  It is therefore recommended that the number of public interest directors 
on the board of a clearing corporation shall at least be equal to the number of 
shareholder  directors  without  trading/clearing  interest.  Further,  an  advisory 
committee  shall  be  constituted  by  the  board  of  the  clearing  corporation, 
comprising  mainly  of  clearing  members.  Clearing  members  shall  not  be 

 

54

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

permitted  participation  in  any  other  committee  of  the  clearing  corporation. 
The  advisory  committee  to  the  board  shall  deal  with  non-regulatory, 
operational  matters  such  as  procedure  related  to  clearing  and  settlement, 
technology,  etc.  The  board  of  the  clearing  corporation  shall  consult  the 
advisory committee on these issues. The Chairman of the board shall head the 
advisory committee. The advisory committee shall meet a minimum of 4 times 
a year. The recommendations of the advisory committee shall be placed before 
the  ensuing  meeting  of  the  board  of  the  clearing  corporation  and  shall  be 
disclosed on clearing corporation’s website.  
 
3.3.  BOARD  COMPOSITION  FOR  DEPOSITORIES:  The  existing  board 
structure at NSDL and CDSL are as follows:- 
 

NSDL 

CDSL 

Independent Directors – 5 
Shareholder directors – 5 
MD/CEO – 1 

Independent directors – 2 
Shareholder directors – 5 
Whole-time directors – 1 

 
Both  internationally  and  in  India,  the  board  structure  for  depositories  is  not 
subject to stringent norms as compared to those of stock exchanges. It has been 
felt that the conflicts of interests faced by depositories are not same as those faced 
by  stock  exchanges.  Moreover,  only 
institutions/banks/stock 
exchanges, etc. can be sponsors of a depository and these are mostly nominated 
as shareholder directors.   
 
However,  in  order  to  ensure  that  depositories  are  also  subjected  to  sound 
corporate governance norms, it is recommended that the board composition in 
depositories  should  be  the  same  as  prescribed  for  listed  companies  under 
clause 49 of the listing agreement.  

financial 

 

55

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
3.4.  DISCLOSURES  BY  BOARD  MEMBERS:  All  transactions  in  securities 
of the board members of the MII and their family have to be disclosed to the 
board of the MII. 
 
3.5. 
EMPLOYEE(S) ON THE BOARD OF THE MII: The MD/CEO of the MII 
shall be ex-officio member on the board of the MII. The MD/CEO shall not be 
included  in  either  the  category  of  public  interest  directors  or  shareholder 
directors.  In case the MII wishes to appoint any other official on its Board in 
addition  to  the  MD/CEO,  the  same  shall  be  subject  to  the  approval  of 
shareholders and SEBI, in that order. The additional official shall be counted 
in the category of shareholder directors.  
 
3.6.  TIME  FOR  COMPLIANCE:  All  MIIs  may  be  given  time  until  the  next 
AGM for implementing the recommendations on board composition. In case the 
next AGM falls within three months, the recommendations shall be implemented 
before the subsequent AGM. 

 

56

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Chapter   IV 

Measures for conflicts resolution 

SEBI  has  so  far  restricted  the  trading  member  representation  on  the  board  of 
stock  exchanges  and  has  prescribed  the  minimum  number  of  public  interest 
directors  on  the  board  as  a  means  of  reducing  the  conflicts  of  interests  in  the 
governance of stock exchanges.  These governance arrangements are intended to 
ensure that decisions taken by the board have the benefit of unbiased advice and 
to  prevent  the  concentration  of  decision-making  power  in  a  few  hands.  
However, it must also be realized that conflicts of interests may also permeate to 
the  lower  levels  of  hierarchy  in  an  MII,  which  may  impair  the  regulatory 
efficiency of the organization.  
 
Internationally, as a best practice, stock exchanges have chosen to segregate the 
regulatory  functions  from  their  commercial  functions  and  have  put  in  place 
measures  to  ensure  autonomy  to  the  regulatory  departments.  The  degree  of 
separation  ranges  from  outsourcing  the  regulatory  function  to  an  independent 
SRO, hiving off those departments to a separate subsidiary and putting in place 
measures  such  as  ‘Chinese  walls’  between  the  commercial  and  regulatory 
departments.  
 
Ideally,  from  a  regulatory  perspective,  it  is  felt  that  it  is  important  to  have 
complete  segregation  of  commercial  activities  from  the  regulatory  activities. 
However,  it  is  not  an  easy  task  to  identify  cases  where  commercial  and 
regulatory functions are joined or overlapping. Especially in the case of conflicts 
that  arise  due  to  competition,  the  commercial  activities  are  sometimes  so 
commingled with the regulatory function that they are difficult to separate into 
watertight compartments.  For instance, the competitor may not register himself 

 

57

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

as  a  member  of  the  exchange;  instead,  the  competitor  may  even  be  a  technical 
provider, in which case such measures may fail.   
 
The following measures are therefore, suggested as means to address some of the 
conflicts arising from commercial and regulatory activities of an MII: 
 
4.1.  MECHANISM  TO  ENSURE  AUTONOMY  OF  REGULATORY 
DEPARTMENTS:  In  order  to  ensure  that  regulatory  functions  are  carried  out 
satisfactorily, it is recommended that;  

The  senior  executives  heading  risk  management,  surveillance,  listing, 
registration,  compliance,  inspection,  enforcement,  arbitration,  default,  etc. 
shall report directly to an independent committee of the board consisting of a 
majority of public interest directors and also to the MD/CEO (dual reporting).  

 

The remuneration of such executives, including the annual increment indexed 
for inflation, should be a fixed sum without any variable component linked to 
the commercial performance of the MII. Further, the compensation should not 
include  any  form  of  equity  /  equity  linked  or  stock  options  in  the  MII.  It 
should also be ensured that the remuneration is determined after giving due 
regard  to  the  average  levels  of  compensation  given  to  employees  in  similar 
rank. The remuneration package will be subject to review of the remuneration 
committee/management compensation committee.  
 
The initial appointment of the above employees shall be for a fixed tenure, as 
may be decided by the independent committee. In case any action against such 
senior executives is taken, it should be subject to appeal to the independent 
committee, up to two years after being relieved from such department.  
 

 

58

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Chinese  walls  in  terms  of  work  area,  infrastructure,  personnel  etc,  shall  be 
maintained  between  the  regulatory  and  commercial  departments.  The 
definition  and  details  regarding  ‘Chinese  walls’  shall  be  as  per  SEBI 
(Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  1992.  The  MII  should  have  an 
internal  manual  covering  the  management  of  conflicts  for  both  commercial 
and regulatory functions of the MII, supported by comprehensive training and 
awareness.  Further,  the  entire  conflict  management  framework  should 
periodically  be  reviewed  and  be  strengthened  based  on  the  observations  of 
such review.  
 
4.2.  APPOINTMENT OF MD/CEO: At present, the appointment of MD/CEO 
of  a  stock  exchange  is  subject  to  approval  by  SEBI;  however,  the  terms  and 
conditions, including remuneration of such MD/CEO are decided by the board 
of  the  stock  exchange.  No  such  requirements  have  been  prescribed  for 
depositories.  The  present  procedure  for  appointment  of  MD/CEO  of  a  stock 
exchange  shall  continue  and  the  same  shall  be  extended  to  the  MD/CEO  of 
clearing  corporations  and  depositories.  SEBI  shall  ensure  that  the  CEO  is 
appointed for a reasonable tenure, say between 3-5 years.  
 
4.3.  COMPENSATION  OF  KEY  MANAGEMENT  PERSONNEL:  The 
compensation of key management personnel, including the MD/CEO/ED and 
others as may be identified by the board, should be decided by a remuneration 
committee/management compensation committee appointed by the board.  It 
should also be ensured that the remuneration is determined after giving due 
regard  to  the  industry  standards  for  the  same.  The  remuneration  of  such 
executives, including the annual increment indexed for inflation, should be a 
fixed  sum  without  any  variable  component  linked  to  the  commercial 
performance  of  the  MII.    Further,  the  compensation  should  not  include  any 
form of equity / equity linked or stock options in the MII. 
 

 

59

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.4.  APPOINTMENT  OF  COMPLIANCE  OFFICER:  The  Committee  noted 
that  SEBI  has  mandated  various  registered  intermediaries  to  appoint  a 
compliance  officer  to  ensure  that  the  intermediary  complies  with  the  rules, 
regulations, circulars and directives of SEBI. Similar requirements have also been 
mandated for depositories.  
 
It is recommended that appointment of compliance officer shall be mandatory 
for stock exchanges and clearing corporations. The compliance officer shall be 
responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations, 
notifications,  guidelines,  instructions  etc.  issued  by  SEBI  or  the  Central 
Government  and  for  redressal  of  investor's  grievances.  The  compliance  officer 
shall  immediately  and  independently  report  to  SEBI  any  instance  of  non-
compliance observed. 

 

60

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Chapter V 

Other issues 

 
5.1. 
LISTING: Listing of an MII brings with it advantages and disadvantages.  
On one hand, listing of an MII provides an exit route to its shareholders, bringing 
transparency and better governance to the functioning of the MII. However, on 
the other hand, listing may also usher in more conflict of interests for the stock 
exchange,  since  monitoring  its  own  listing  related  compliances  or  that  of  a 
related/competing MII will be an issue. 
 
On  balance,  shareholders  of  an  MII  need  to  be  long-term  investors  who  are 
sufficiently motivated to take a keen interest in the functioning of the MII and to 
contribute  to  its  growth  by  providing  the  necessary  value  addition  in  terms  of 
technology, market/product design, managerial inputs, etc.  An MII should not 
become  a  vehicle  for  attracting  speculative  investments.    Further,  MIIs  being 
public institutions, any downward movement in its share prices may lead to a 
loss  of  credibility  and  this  may  be  detrimental  to  the  market  as  a  whole.  
Therefore,  the  Committee  is  not  in  favor  of  permitting  listing  of  MIIs.  
However, the disclosures and corporate governance requirements of the listing 
agreement  applicable  to  listed  companies  shall  be  made  applicable  to  MIIs 
too. The information required to be disclosed shall be posted on the website of 
the MII.  
 
Further,  if  there  is  an  entity,  which  chooses  to  get  itself  listed  on  a  stock 
exchange  and  is  substantially  owned  (i.e.  24%  or  more  of  equity  capital)  by 
that stock exchange or by an MII in which that stock exchange holds shares, 
then such entity shall seek prior approval from SEBI before listing.  
 

 

61

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

5.2.  NET  WORTH  REQUIREMENTS:  MIIs  by  their  very  nature  necessitate 
huge,  long-term,  sunk  investments.  Hence,  net  worth  is  one  of  the  important 
eligibility  criteria  for  setting  up  an  MII.  It  is  required  for  meeting  the  initial 
capital  required  towards  infrastructure  and  ensures  that  only  serious  players 
enter this arena.  
 
SEBI  has  already  prescribed  a  net  worth  requirement  of  `  100  crores  for 
depositories.  Further,  SEBI  Board  in  its  meeting  held  on  December  22,  2009, 
stipulated  a  net  worth  requirement  of  `  100  crores  for  setting  up  a  new  stock 
exchange, while a net worth requirement of ` 100 crores is being contemplated 
for  clearing  corporations.    The  committee  deliberated  and  recommended  the 
following: 
 
5.2.1. 
Stock  Exchanges:  Stock  exchanges  shall  be  required  to  have  a  net 
worth of ` 100 crores at all times. From the date of notification of the net worth 
requirement,  exchanges  not  meeting  the  said  net  worth  requirement,  i.e., 
exchanges not having nationwide trading terminals / as may be decided by SEBI 
may be given a period of 10 years to comply with the same.  While computing 
the  net  worth,  investments  in  MIIs  can  be  included,  whereas,  all  other  non-
core investments in related, unrelated/other business shall be excluded.   
 
5.2.2. 
Depositories: The present net worth requirement of ` 100 crores for 
depositories  may  be  retained.  However,  all  other  investments  in  related, 
unrelated/other business shall be excluded while computing the net worth.   
 
5.2.3. 
Clearing Corporations: A Clearing Corporation provides clearing and 
settlement to the trades executed on a stock exchange by becoming the counter 
party for every buy and sell transaction. It provides novation and guarantees the 
settlement  of  every  trade.  While  in  the  equity  segment,  the  guarantee  extends 

 

62

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

only  for  a  few  days  over  the  settlement  period,  in  the  derivatives  segment,  it 
extends for months and even years (as in the case of long term options).  
 
In the event of a major default, if the clearing corporation is unable to meet its 
obligations,  it  could  even  lead  to  a  systemic  collapse  of  the  financial  market. 
Keeping in view the clearing and settlement function, a need is felt to prescribe a 
higher  net  worth  requirement  for  clearing  corporations,  as  compared  to  stock 
exchanges  and  depositories.    The  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  net  worth 
requirement  of  `  100  crores  for  a  clearing  corporation  is  inadequate.  It  is 
recommended that the net worth requirement for a Clearing Corporation may 
be fixed at ` 300 crores. The clearing corporation shall meet relevant networth 
criteria on an ongoing basis.   
 
It is also suggested that while initially a clearing corporation may be permitted to 
be set up with a net worth of ` 100 crores, they may be required to increase it to ` 
300  crores  within  a  period  of  3  years  (or  any  other  time  limit  as  may  be 
prescribed by SEBI). Further, in order that such a net worth is available, in a 
worst case scenario, it is suggested that it may be maintained in the form of 
liquid  assets  at  all  times.    Liquid  assets  would  be  those  assets  that  are 
permitted  to  be  deposited  by  a  stockbroker  in  a  stock  exchange  (clearing 
corporation)  towards  margin  obligations.  Until  such  time  the  clearing 
corporation achieves the prescribed net worth, it shall not be permitted to pay 
any dividend to its shareholders.  
 
5.3.  MIIs TO GENERATE ONLY REASONABLE PROFITS: The MII being a 
public utility should endeavor to earn only reasonable profits at par with average 
earnings of the corporate sector in India. Therefore, it is recommended that a cap 
may be fixed on the maximum return that can be earned by MII on its net worth 
and  can  be  distributed  /  allocated  to  the  shareholders  of  MII  out  of  the  total 

 

63

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

returns  earned  by  MII.    Any  return/profits  above  such  maximum  attributable 
amount  would  be  transferred  to  IPF  or  SGF  as  the  case  may  be  and  the  same 
would  not  form  part  of  shareholders  funds/  net  worth  for  the  purposes  of 
determining returns and book value of the shares. This would strengthen the MII 
to withstand shocks, make them robust and may lead to reduction of the charges 
levied  by  MIIs  on  the  users.    The  cap  may  be  fixed  by  SEBI  after  taking  into 
consideration ‘risk free return’ based on the yield on a 10 year GOI bond and a 
‘risk  premium’  to  account  for  the  risks  faced  by  MIIs  including    equity  risk 
premium and  liquidity risk due to non listing of MIIs.  It should also take into 
account differential tax rate applicable to unlisted entities as the Committee has 
recommended that the MIIs should not be permitted to list.  
 
It  is  therefore,  recommended  that  maximum  profit  available  for  distribution  / 
allocation to shareholders which can be utilized for payment of dividends and 
for appropriation to general reserves, balances of profit & loss account should be 
capped  at  a  certain  percentage  of  annual  return  on  net  worth  of  the  previous 
year. This cap will be determined by SEBI based on factors enumerated above. 
Net  worth  for  this  purpose  would  mean  paid-up  capital,  balance  of  general 
reserves, profit & loss account and share premium account.  The MII will be free 
to  pay  dividend  to  shareholders  out  of  profit  earned  or  out  of  free 
reserves/balance  of  profit  and  loss  account  and  share  premium  account  in 
accordance  with  Company’s  act  1956.    Any  profit  earned  over  and  above  the 
prescribed return on net worth shall be transferred to IPF or SGF as the case may 
be and shall not be available for distribution to shareholders nor will it become 
part of shareholder’s funds.  The ceiling on rate of return in all cases will be on 
profits  after  providing  for  taxes.    The  rate  of  return  may  be  reset  by  SEBI 
considering the change in risk free rate of return, inflation etc. 

 
 

 

64

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

RELATED  BUSINESS  OF  MIIs:  The  SEBI  (Depositories  and 

5.4. 
Participants) Regulations, 1996, provides that;  
“the depository shall not carry on any activity other than that of a depository unless the 
activity is incidental to the activity of the depository: 
provided that a depository may carry out such activity not incidental to its activities as a 
depository,  as  may  be  assigned  to  the  depository,  by  the  Central  Government  or  by  a 
regulator in the financial sector, through the establishment of Strategic Business Unit(s) 
specific  to  each  activity  with  the  prior  approval  of  the  Board  and  subject  to  such 
conditions  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Board,  including  transfer  of  such  activity  to  a 
separate company within such time as may be specified by the Board, having regard to the 
matters  which  are  relevant  to  the  efficient  and  orderly  function  of  the  depository  as 
mentioned in regulation 13.  
Explanation  –  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause,  a  strategic  Business  Unit  shall  be  an 
organizational unit of a company with its own mission, objectives and business strategy 
that is given the responsibility to serve the particular demands of one business area with 
appropriate technological, financial and other segregations.” 
 
It is felt that the risks of taking up activities that are not incidental or those that 
are unrelated to the activities of the MII must be segregated to a separate legal 
entity or as may be permitted by SEBI. Such restrictions shall be made applicable 
to all MIIs.   
 
Further, when a related business of an MII delivers a service to another MII, it 
should be ensured that there is equal, unrestricted, transparent and fair access 
to all without any bias towards its affiliated entity.   SEBI should step in to 
investigate complaints in this regard and fasten liability on the MII who owns 
the related business.  SEBI should even go as far as prohibiting an MII from 
using  services  supplied  by  its  related  business,  should  it  detect  any 
discriminatory practices. Further, all commercial arrangements such as listing 

 

65

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

of  international  indices,  etc.  which  provide  for  exclusive  rights  should  be 
subject  to  prior  approval  of  SEBI.    SEBI  may  grant  its  approval  for  such 
exclusivity  for  a  limited  period  on  a  case-to-case  basis,  after  examining  the 
proposal. 
 
5.5.  REPLACEMENT  OF  SCR(MIMPS)  REGULATIONS:  The  MIMPS 
Regulations were notified at the time of corporatisation and demutualisation and 
Regulation 3 of the MIMPS Regulations reads as under:-  
 
“These  Regulations  shall  be  applicable  to  all  recognised  stock  exchanges  in  respect  of 
which the scheme of corporatisation and demutualisation has been approved by the Board 
under section 4B of the Act.”  
 
In  order  to  make  the  chapters  on  ownership  norms  applicable  to  other  Stock 
Exchange, SEBI has issued separate notifications to those stock exchanges (NSE 
and  OTCEI)  which  did  not  undergo  a  process  of  corporatisation  and 
demutualisation. Further, for new stock exchanges, SEBI has adopted the practice 
of  imposing  the  compliance  with  MIMPS  Regulations  as  a  condition  while 
granting recognition.  
 
Moreover, the MIMPS Regulations were framed with the objective of increasing 
the  public  shareholding  in  the  stock  exchanges.  With  all  the  exchanges  having 
increased their public holding to meet the prescribed limit, the Committee feels 
that  the  MIMPS  Regulations  have  served  their  purpose.  It  is  therefore, 
recommended  that  a  new  regulations  may  replace  the  MIMPS  Regulations  for 
regulating  ‘Ownership  and  Governance  Regulations  for  Stock  Exchanges  and 
Clearing  Corporations’  and  consequent amendments  (as  required)  may  also  be 
carried out. The concept of ‘persons acting in concert’ also needs to be separately 
defined  in  the  new  Regulations  for  the  purpose  of  ownership  norms.    The 

 

66

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

existing Regulations for depositories may continue and be suitably amended to 
give effect to the recommendations of the Committee. 

 
5.6. 
EXIT  NORMS:  The  exit  norms  for  stock  exchanges  have  already  been 
prescribed by SEBI; it may be examined by SEBI in light or recommendation of 
this report whether these norms needs to be reviewed. Exit norms may also be 
prescribed for clearing corporations and depositories to provide for orderly exit 
of these important institutions. 
 
5.7. 
POWERS TO SEBI IN MATTERS RELATING TO MIIs: The Committee 
noted that SEBI has powers to regulate the MIIs. However, it felt that powers of 
SEBI needs to be further augmented since it has to discharge the responsibility of 
regulating MIIs by way of direct supervision and monitoring of their activities. 
The  Committee  reviewed  Section  3(1)  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act, 
1956, which reads as under: 
 
 “Any stock exchange, which is desirous of being recognised for the purposes of this Act, 
may make an application in the prescribed manner to the Central Government.” 

 

The Committee was of the view that SEBI must be invested with more powers 
for  accepting/rejecting  applications  for  recognition  of  stock  exchanges.  The 
Committee  therefore,  recommends  that  the  above  provision  may  be  rephrased 
explicitly  to  the  effect  that  unless  and  until  SEBI  grants  recognition,  an  entity 
cannot call itself a stock exchange.   SEBI should have the discretion to limit the 
number  of  MIIs  operating  in  the  market,  in  the  interest  of  the  market  and  in 
public interest.  It is pertinent to note that this would be similar to the treatment 
afforded by the Reserve Bank with respect to new banks. 
 

 

67

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Further, the SC(R)R prescribes the procedure for seeking recognition, period for 
recognition,  form  of  application  for  recognition,  etc.  for  stock  exchanges.  The 
Committee  is  of  the  view  that  detailed  requirements  for  clearing  corporations 
should be prescribed by SEBI under its own regulations, so that it is in a position 
to  regulate  effectively  and  carry  out  amendments  in  a  timely  manner  to  keep 
pace with the needs of the market.   SEBI may undertake this exercise and take it 
up  with  the  Ministry  of  Finance.    A  similar  exercise  may  be  undertaken  with 
regard to stock exchanges as well.  
 
5.8 
REVIEW AFTER FIVE YEARS: Finally, the Committee recommends that 
the working of the MII should be reviewed again by SEBI after five years, once 
the  suggestion  made  by  this  committee  is  implemented.  The  stock  market  is 
evolving  and  a  review  may  be  inevitable  in  the  light  of  the  new  technological 
developments, introduction of new products, growth of financial markets, trade 
and capital flows and global integration.  
 
In light of the above, it would be desirable to keep a close watch on the working 
of the MII so that the gains from well-tuned markets result in the growth of the 
real economy and maintenance of financial stability.  

 

68

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure –A 

Sample Questionnaire 

 

Part –A 

 

(Applicable to all three categories of MIIs) 

 

 
Functions 

 

1.  Do  you  view  MIIs  largely  as  commercial,  public  utility  or  regulatory 
institutions? What kind of ownership and governance norms would enable 
MIIs in discharging the functions for which they were created? 

 
2.  What  should  be  the  regulatory  function  of  MIIs  in  terms  of  regulating  its 

members/ market/ participants/users, etc? 

3.  Which  are  the  functional  areas  that  could  be  solely  demarcated  as  falling 
under  regulator’s  supervision  vis-à-vis  those  that  falling  under  the  MIIs’ 
purview?  

4.  Do  MIIs  typically  perform  the  functions  of  a  SRO  as  recognised 
internationally?  Do  you  see  any  potential  conflict  of  interest  between  the 
regulatory function and the commercial interest of MIIs? Can the conflict of 
interest  be  eliminated  through  specific  stipulations  on  structure  and 
governance  of  MIIs?  (For  e.g.  erection  of  Chinese  wall  between  the  two 
functions  or  hiving  it  off  to  a  subsidiary  or  transferring  to  a  regulatory 
body)? 

 

69

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

5.  What  other  businesses  should  a  MII  be  allowed  to  do?  Can  they  set  up 
another MII with 100% shareholding? What kind of non-MII businesses can 
they  perform?  Can  they  set  up  related  businesses  such  as  independent 
software vendors?  

 
Ownership and governance 
 

6.  How do you place MIIs in India vis-à-vis their international counterparts? 
What  are  the  major  differences  in  ownership/governance  between  Indian 
MIIs and their international counterparts? What is your recommendation? 

7.  Does the present ownership restrictions on MIIs need review?  

 

8.  Which is a better model for ownership? – (a) Diversified ownership (as in 
the case of stock exchanges) or (b) anchor/strategic investor approach (as in 
the case of depositories).  

a.  In case (b) is suitable for MIIs, what classes of entities can be permitted to 

be anchor investors?  

b.  Should there be lock-in restrictions for anchor investor?  
c.  What  are  conflicts  arising  out  of  private  entities  becoming  anchor 

investors? Please recommend measures to address them. 

  

9.  Should  the  shares  of  MIIs  be  with  differential  voting  rights  so  that  the 

control is separated from economic interest?   

 
10. In  the  light  of  the  recent  global  financial  crisis,  and  the  debate  on 
management  compensation,  is  there  a  case  for  enunciating  principles  for 
management  compensation  of  MIIs?  Should  the  fixation  of  management 
compensation  be  entrusted  to  an  independent  Appointments  Committee 

70

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

which  reports  to  the  Board  of  the  MII  and/or  to  the  Regulator?    What 
should  the  management  be  accountable  for  –  profitability,  regulatory 
efficiency, etc? Please specify. 

 
11. What  should  be  process  of  appointment  of  Senior  Management  in  MIIs? 
Should  the  regulator  be  involved  in  it?  Can  this  task  be  entrusted  to  an 
independent  Selection  Committee  which  reports  to  the  Board  of  the  MII 
and/or  to  the  Regulator?  What  other  safeguards  are  to  be  put  in  the 
management  framework?  Can  there  be  an  independent  risk  management 
Committee (please identify other such sensitive areas) reporting directly to 
the Board of the MII and/or to the Regulator?  

 

Market structure for MIIs 

 

12. Do you perceive an optimal number of MIIs (Number of stock exchanges; 
number  of  depositories;  number  of  clearing  corporations),  for  the  Indian 
Securities Market, taking into account the present status as well as growth 
possibilities in the future? 

13. What should be entry and exit norms applicable to MIIs? 

14.  Are  there  any  regulatory  issues  arising  out  of  competition  such  as 
discrimination  by  a  MII  against  a  competing  MII  or  any  intermediary  or 
technology provider, that needs to be regulated? What should be the norms 
to 
technology  providers  and 
intermediaries? 

relationship  of  MII  with 

regulate 

71

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

15. To  what  extent  should  commercial  functions  of  a  MII  be  regulated? 
Specifically,  should  charges  and  fees  levied  by  MIIs  be  regulated  in  a 
competitive environment?  

 

16. Is  there  a  case  for  capping  the  charges  on  a  ‘cost  plus’  basis  and/or  for 

capping distribution of profits?  

 

17. There are twin dangers for all MIIs – ‘regulatory race to the bottom in the 
face of competition’ or ‘becoming too big to fail’. What safeguards can be 
built to prevent the same. In the case of clearing corporations, are rigorous 
‘stress tests’ adequate to address the same? 

 
Listing 
 

18. What is the primary objective of listing a MII? What are the alternatives to 

achieve these objectives (transparency being one of the objectives)?  

Part - B  

(Only for Stock Exchanges) 

1.  Should separate requirements be put in place for QIBs participating in the 
primary issue of stock exchanges and should they be granted positions on 
the Boards of Exchanges?  

2.  Should foreign stock exchanges be permitted to hold upto 15% or more of 

the equity shares in the Indian stock exchanges?  

72

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.  Whether the current limit for FII in stock exchanges need a review? What 
should  be  the  manner  of  participation  of  FIIs  in  the  equity  of  stock 
exchange? 

4.  Should  FIIs  also  be  permitted  to  participate  in  IPO  or  FPO  of  stock 

exchanges?   

 
5.  What are the issues arising out of the listing of shares of a stock exchange on 

itself?  

6.  What are the issues arising out of an MII which has a substantial stake in a 

stock exchange listing on the same stock exchange? 

7.  Should  dual  listing  (including  listing  of  shares  of  the  stock  exchange  on 

itself) of shares may be considered?  

8.  Whether cross listing is desirable? 

In  respect  of  the  above  queries  on  listing,  suggestions/comments  may  be 
provided  after  considering  the  various  models  viz:  committee  model, 
company model26 etc used internationally to address the issue of ‘conflict of 
interest’.     
 

9.  SEBI  broadly  prescribes  the  Board  composition  in  the  case  of  stock 
exchanges.  Currently there is a restriction on the extent of representation by 
trading members on the Board (maximum 25%). The PIDs (minimum 25%) 
are empanelled by SEBI. The balance are shareholder directors. 

73

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

a.  Does the present Board composition (including manner of appointment of 
the Board) prescribed by SEBI for stock exchanges need a review? If yes, 
how should separation of members, owners and management of MIIs be 
ensured  to  avoid  conflicts  of  interest  and  also  ensure  independence  of 
Board? 

b.  Further, should the same be extended to other MIIs?  

10. Trading Members on the Board of the Exchange can potentially have access 
to confidential information in respect  of trading information pertaining to 
other members as well as sensitive information. In light of the above, 

a.  Please elucidate your view on the role of trading members on the Board of 

the Exchange.   

b.  Should there be any trading member representation on the Board of the 
Exchange or alternatively, can they be put on a separate Advisory Board 
to the main Board? 

c.  Should  safeguards  similar  to  Insider  trading  rules  be  prescribed  for 

trading members on the Board of the Exchange?  

d.  What  should  be  the  extent  of  participation  of  trading  members  on  the 

various committees of the Exchanges? 
 

 

 

 

Part – C 

(Only for Clearing Corporations) 
 

1.  Should clearing corporations be subsidiaries of exchanges or a completely 
separate  entity?  What  should  be  the  ownership  restrictions  for  clearing 
corporations? Which model is preferred and why?  

2.  Is  there  a  case  for  stipulating  the  same  networth  requirement  for  clearing 
corporation and exchanges and depositories (i.e., ` 100 crores) or is there a 

74

 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

case for it to be higher? Alternatively, a minimum amount of ` 100 crores 
may  be  prescribed  plus  an  additional  multiplier  based  on  the  number  of 
exchanges or volumes or products that are cleared and settled through the 
clearing corporation. If the second alternative is preferred, kindly suggest a 
suitable formula for determining the same.  

 

Part – D 

(Only for Depositories) 

1.  Is  it  desirable  to  allow  Exchanges,  (who  are  in  a  related  business)  to  own 
more  than  50%  of  the  ownership  of  Depositories,  by  virtue  of  being  a 
sponsor  of  the  depository  in  effect  leading  to  the  depository  becoming  a 
subsidiary/ group company of the Exchange?  

 

75

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure – B 
 

Number of responses received 

Stock Exchanges  

Depositories 

Associations 

 

Nation‐wide 

Regional 

Of regional stock 
exchanges 

Depository 
Participants 

Brokers 

Of Industry bodies 

Intermediaries (including foreign institutional 
investors) 
  

Consultancy firm/academic body 

Individuals 

Investor association  

Domestic institutional investor  

Shareholder of MII 

Total 

 

3 

2 

2 

1 

1 

3 

2 

4 

2 

6 

1 

1 

1 

29 

 

76

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 Annexure – C 

Shareholding Restrictions in select countries27 

Country 

Exchange/ 
Exchange 
Operator 

Australia  SFE28 

 

Shareholder 
disclosure 

requirement* 
5% 

Shareholder 
ownership 
restriction 

15% 

Notification/ disclosure of 
change 
in ownership* 
Written notice when a person has, 
or ceases to have, 15%. 
Written notice when a person has, 
or ceases to have, 15%. 
Notice and approval by regulator 
to own more than 10%. 
The Bourse shall inform the AMF 
immediately if it becomes aware 
that any person owns or exercises 
control, either directly or 
indirectly, over more than 10% of 
any class or series of voting shares 
of the Bourse and shall take the 
necessary steps to immediately 
remedy the situation. 
Disclosure to regulator when 
thresholds reached. 

After notification of thresholds, 
regulator has discretion to 
prohibit acquisition. 
Disclose where increase or 
decrease is across a whole 
percentage (e.g. 6%, 7%, etc.). 
Persons acting in concert cannot 
hold more than 15%. 

15% 

10% 
10% 

ASX 

5% 

TSX Group 
Bourse de 
Montréal 

5% 
The Bourse 
shall submit to 
the AMF a list 
of its 
shareholders 
on a semi- 
annual basis 

10% 

Fitness and 
propriety 

Euronext Paris 
Additional 
requirements 
apply under 
Dutch law to 
EuronextNV, 
the Dutch 
holding 
company 
listed 
on Euronext 
Paris. 

 
Canada 

France 

Hong 
Kong 

India 

 

Germany  Deutsche 

Borse 

5% (first 
threshold) 

HKEx 

5% 

10% 

5% 

BSE Limited  More than 5%  5% 

 
 
 
 

77

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Country 

Italy 

Exchange/ 
Exchange 
Operator 

Borsa Italiana  5% 

Shareholder 
disclosure 

requirement* 

Japan 

Malaysia 

Mexico 

TSE, OSE, 
NSE, Jasdaq 

Bursa 
Malaysia 
Mexican Stock 
Exchange 

5% 

5% 

10% 

Singapore  SGX 

5% 

Shareholder 
ownership 
restriction 

fitness and 
propriety 
requirements 

20% 

5% 

10%; foreign investors 
that have government 
powers; or individuals 
that directly or 
indirectly possess more 
than 10% of a financial 
institutions equity. 
5% 

Notification/ disclosure of change 
in ownership* 

Notification to regulator of 5% 
threshold reached 

Person who retains shares in 
excess of 20% require approval of 
regulator29; notification if 5% 
ownership. 
Approval by Minister of Finance to 
own 5% or more. 
N/A 

A substantial shareholder (5%) 
must advise the listed entity and 
the exchange of change in 
percentage or it ceases to be a 
substantial shareholder. 
Notified at certain thresholds 
above 
1%. 
Notification of all changes 
affecting governance. 

Exchanges have different standards 
that have been approved by the 
SEC. 
If the exchange is a publicly-traded 
company, shareholders also must 
file amendments to initial 
disclosure reports filed with the 
Commission under Section 13(d) 
of the Exchange Act.30 

Spain 

BME 

U.K. 

U.S. 

All listed 
exchanges 

CHX, ISE, 
Nasdaq, NSX, 
NYSE Group 
(NYSE and 
NYSE 
Arca,Inc.) 
Phlx 

1% (significant 
shareholding) 
Not required by 
law. Restrictions 
would be likely 
to contravene UK 
listing rules. 
Exchanges have 
different 
standards that 
have been 
approved by the 
SEC. 

1% (first 
threshold) 
3% (and 
additional 1% 
increments) 

Exchanges have different 
standards that have been 
approved by the SEC. 
If the exchange is a  
publicly- traded company, a 
shareholder that owns more 
than 5% of any class of 
equity securities must 
file a disclosure report with
the  U.S.  Securities  and 
Exchange Commission 
pursuant to Section 13(d) 
of the Exchange Act. 

 
* Please note that, in some jurisdictions, the disclosure requirements may not be specific to 
exchanges but may apply generally to all listed companies. 

 

78

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Details of shareholding in select countries31 

Annexure – D 

Bursa Malaysia 

Top 10 Shareholders 
Capita Market Development Fund 
Miniser of Finance Incorporate 
Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd 
Exempt AN for Mellon Bank (ABNAMRO 
mellon) 
CIMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn 
Bhd Minister of Finance Incorporated 
(ESOS Pool Account) 
Kumpulan Wang Persaraan 
(Diperbadankan) 
Employees Provident Fund Board 
Valuecap Sdn Bhd 
Lembaga Tambung Angkatan Tentara 
HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd 
TNTC for Saudi Arabian Monetary 
Agency 
Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd 
Exempt AN for Mellon Bank (Mellon) 
Total 

Top 10 Shareholders 
Sel Holdings Pte Ltd 
DBS Nominee Pte Ltd 
Citibank Nominees Singapore Pte Ltd 
HSBC (Singapore) Nominees Pte Ltd 
Nomura Singapore Limited 
DBSN Services Pte Ltd 
United Overseas Bank Nominees Pte Ltd 
Raffles Nominees Pte. Ltd. 
DB Nominees (S) Pte Ltd 
Philip Securities Pte Ltd. 
Total 

Singapore Exchange Limited 

% of total 

18.58 
14.30 

5.00 

4.75 

4.17 
3.73 
2.98 
1.43 

1.36 

1.18 
57.48 

% of total 

23.51 
17.63 
9.89 
5.50 
4.99 
4.29 
3.10 
2.68 
2.68 
0.71 
74.98 

79

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Tokyo Stock Exchange 

Top 10 Shareholders 
Govt. & Local Govt. 
Financial Institutions 
City & Regional Banks 
Trust Banks 
Life Insurance Cos. 
Non-Life Insurance Cos. 
Other Finances Inst. 
Securities Companies 
Business Corporations 
Foreigners 
Individuals 
Total 

Australia Stock Exchange 

Top 10 Shareholders 
HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) 
Limited 
National Nominees Limited 

JP Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 
Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 
RBC Dexia Investor Services Australia 
Nominees Pty Limitex 
ANZ Nominees Limited 
UBS Nominees Pty Limited 
Cogent Nominees Pty Limited 
Bond Street Custodians Limited 
UBS Wealth Management Australia 
Nominees Pty Limited 
Total 

NYSE EURONEXT 

Name 
Legg Mason Capital Management, Inc. 
Barclays Global Investors, N.A. 
State Street Global Advisors (USA) 
Horizon Assets Management, Inc. 
Vanguard Gropu, Inc. 
General Atlantic LLC 
Aronson + Johnson + Ortiz, L.P. 
Fred Alger Management, Inc. 
Legg Mason Value Trust, Inc. 
Atticus Capital, L.P. 

% of total 
0.00 
0.28 
0.05 
0.11 
0.06 
0.01 
0.06 
0.18 
1.89 
0.68 
96.68 
100.00 

% of total 

12.28 
9.03 

7.56 
4.92 

3.33 
2.78 
2.54 
2.21 
1.43 

0.97 
47.05 

3.84 
3.71 
3.51 
3.16 
2.67 
2.21 
1.81 
1.62 
1.39 
1.38 

% age 

80

 

 

 
 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

NASDAQ OMX GROUP 

Name 
 
Borse Dubai, Ltd. 
Horizon Assets Management, Inc 
Wellington Management Company, LLP 
Clearbridge Advisors 
Barclays Global Investors, N.A. 
Vanguard Group, Inc. 
State Street Global Advisors (US) 
Alliance Bernstein l.P. 
BNP Paribas Assets Management S.A.S. 
Aletheia Research and Management, Inc. 

% age 

29.87 
5.67 
4.38 
4.28 
3.80 
3.63 
2.60 
1.57 
1.52 
1.47 

LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE 

Name 
Borse Dubai Limited 
Qatar Investment Authority 
Horizon Asset Management Inc. 
Unicredito Italiana SPA 
Intesa Sanpalo SPA 
Kinetic Asset Management Inc 

% age 

20.60 
15.10 
7.20 
6.00 
5.30 
3.10 

81

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure – E 
 

 

Abbreviations 
 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
Association of National Exchange Members of India (ANMI)  
Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) 
Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF) 
Bombay Stock Exchange Limited (BSE) 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) 
Central Securities Depositories (CSDs) 
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
Depository Participants Association of India (DPAI)  
Executive Director (ED) 
Federation of Indian Stock Exchanges (FISE) 
Financial Services Authority (FSA) 
Follow-on Public Offer (FPO) 
Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) 
Foreign Institutional Investor (FII) 
Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) 
Indian Clearing Corporation Limited (ICCL) 
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)  
Initial Public Offer (IPO) 
Investment Dealers Association (IDA) 
Japan Securities Dealers Association (JSDA) 
Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) 
Managing Director (MD) 
Market Infrastructure Institution (MII) 

 

82

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

MCX Stock Exchange Limited (MCX-SX) 
MCX-SX Clearing Corporation Limited (MCX-SX’CCL) 
Ministry of Finance (MoF) 
Mutual Fund Dealers Association (MFDA) 
National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) 
National Futures Association (NFA) 
National Securities Clearing Corporation Limited (NSCCL) 
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) 
Osaka Securities Exchange (OSE) 
OTC Exchange of India (OTCEI) 
Public Interest Director (PID) 
Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
Securities Contracts (Manner of Increasing and Maintaining Public Shareholding 
in Recognised Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006 (MIMPS) 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (SCRA)   
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (SCRR) 
Self Regulatory Organisation (SRO) 
Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) 
Unit Trust of India (UTI)  
United Stock Exchange of India Limited (USE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

83

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

                                                                                                                                                 
1 From the Indian Competition Act, 2002 and from “The Governance of Financial Market Infrastructure”, 
Ruben Lee, January 2010 
2 http://www.competition-commission-india.nic.in/advocacy/Booklet_AbuseOfDominance11032008.pdf 
3 Shy (2001) 
4 Shy (2001) 
5 Rules are yet to be notified.  
6 Agenda note for SEBI Board meeting Agenda note for SEBI Board meeting held on December 22, 2009 
available on www.sebi.gov.in  
7 OICU-IOSCO Report on ‘Regulatory issues arising out of Exchange evolution’, November 2006 
8 Demutualisation of Exchanges – The conflicts of Interest (Hong Kong), by William Pearson, 2001 
9 World Bank Note: India: Role of Self-Regulatory Organizations in Securities Market Regulation, June 
2007  
10 OICU-IOSCO Report on ‘Regulatory issues arising out of Exchange evolution’, November 2006 
11  World  Bank  Discussion  paper  titled,  ‘Institutional  Organization  of  Securities  Clearing  Houses:  Finding  the 
Balance between Diverse Industry Objectives and Public Policies’ dated August, 2009 
12 “The Governance of Financial Market Infrastructure”, Ruben Lee, January 2010 
13 ‘Clearing: A Risk Assessment’, by Christopher L. Culp, Futures Industry Magazine, July/August 2002 
14 Deutsche Börse has aggressively pursued an integration strategy in which its own exchanges clear and 
settle  through  clearing  organizations  owned  and  operated  by  Deutsche  Börse.  This  does  not  mean  that 
Deutsche Börse clearing affiliates eschew clearing for hire. On the contrary, Clearstream International is 
still a dominant settlement agent for cross-border cash market transactions conducted outside the Deutsche 
Börse organization - ‘Clearing: A Risk Assessment’, by Christopher L. Culp, Futures Industry Magazine, 
July/August 2002 
15 “Clearing up misconceptions on clearing”, Craig Pirong, Regulation Fall 2008 
16 “Clearing up misconceptions on clearing”, Craig Pirong, Regulation Fall 2008 
17  As  per  the  World  Bank  Discussion  paper  titled,  ‘Institutional  Organization  of  Securities  Clearing  Houses: 
Finding the Balance between Diverse Industry Objectives and Public Policies’ dated August, 2009, India is the 
only  case  with  several  clearing  houses  for  the  same  assets  (for  private  securities)  among  the 
group that includes developed market and the largest emerging markets.  
18  The  limit  was  increased  from  5%  to  15%  to  the  specified  entities  vide  amendment  dated 
December 23, 2008 
19  From  “The  Structures  of  a  Demutualized  Exchange”  by  David  Holthouse,  National  Manager, 
International Affairs, Australian Stock Exchange 
20  IMF  working  paper,  “Demutualization  of  Securities  Exchanges:  A  Regulatory  Perspective:,  Jenniffer 
Elloitt, 09/18/02 
21  From  “The  Structures  of  a  Demutualized  Exchange”  by  David  Holthouse,  National  Manager, 
International Affairs, Australian Stock Exchange 
22 Institutions regiestered in India 
23For  demutualised  exchanges,  especially  listed  companies,  the  concept  of  public  directors  has 
been  supplanted  by  independent  directors  in  most  jurisdictions.  This  is  more  suitable  for  a 
business  corporation  as  the  concept  of  a  “public  director” is  arguably  foreign  to  a  commercial 
company where directors represent the shareholders. But Hong Kong, Singapore and India have 

 

84

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

                                                                                                                                                 
retained the category of public interest directors appointed by Government or the regulator even 
after  demutualisation  and  listing;  in  recognition  of  the  Exchanges’  express  public  interest 
obligations  -  World  Bank  Note:  India:  Role  of  Self-Regulatory  Organizations  in  Securities  Market 
Regulation, June 2007  
24 “The Governance of Financial Market Infrastructure”, Ruben Lee, January 2010 
25 “The Governance of Financial Market Infrastructure”, Ruben Lee, January 2010 
26  For  details  regarding  various  models,  please  refer  to  Annexure  V  of  the  agenda  note    available  at 
http://www.sebi.gov.in/boardmeetings/129/corpgovern.html 
27  Table  taken  from  OICU-IOSCO  Report  on  ‘Regulatory  issues  arising  out  of  Exchange  evolution’, 
November 2006 
28 ASX and SFE merged, effective July 25, 2006 and ASX obtained the necessary approval to acquire all of 
the issued capital of SFE. 
29 Holding 20% or more will be, in principle, prohibited in Japan when the 2006 law amendment is in force in 2007. 
30  If  the  exchange  is  a  publicly-traded  company,  the  rules  and  regulations  of  the  U.S.  Securities  and 
Exchange Commission require a shareholder of the exchange who owns more than 5% of a class of equity 
security to promptly file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission notice of any material 
increase  or  decrease  in  the  percentage  of  the  class  beneficially  owned,  unless  at  the  time  of  the 
initial filing the shareholder satisfied certain passive investor requirements, in which case the shareholder 
only would need to file annually (unless such shareholder's ownership increases to more than 10% of the 
class of securities outstanding). 
31 Agenda note for SEBI Board meeting Agenda note for SEBI Board meeting held on December 22, 2009 
available on www.sebi.gov.in  

 

85

 

