DISCUSSION PAPER  ON OUTSOURCING OF ACTIVITIES RELATED TO  

INTERMEDIATION SERVICES  

SEBI  has  prepared  a  discussion  paper  on  outsourcing  of  activities  related  to  the 
intermediation services. The paper proposes certain principles for outsourcing, and indicates 
activities presently being outsourced by the intermediaries along with the suggested list of 
activities which should not be outsourced by them.  
 
Specific comments / suggestions are sought on the following: 

a.  The principles for outsourcing, 
b.  The activities which can be outsourced, 
c.  The activities which cannot be outsourced, 
d.  To whom the activities can be outsourced, 
e.  The terms of outsourcing,  
f.  Responsibilities and obligations of the intermediary and the third party in respect of 

the outsourced activity towards clients, regulator and market,  

 
The comments / suggestions may be mailed at the following e-mail addresses  
Comments may be mailed at  
On recommendations related to  
Mutual Funds 
sanchitj@sebi.gov.in 
sksingh@sebi.gov.in 
Portfolio Managers 
Other Intermediaries 
manaswinim@sebi.gov.in 
 
or to the following address  
The Deputy General Manager, 
Market Intermediaries Regulations and Supervision Department – 4, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
SEBI Bhavan, 
C-4A, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Mumbai- 400 051 
 
so as to reach latest by February 05, 2011 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Outsourcing  refers  to  use  of  a  third  party  –  either  within  or  outside  the  group  -  by  a 
registered intermediary to perform the activities associated with intermediation services. A 
third party may be used to perform one or more activities or one or more third parties may 
be used to perform different activities associated with the intermediation service. Such use 
may be for a specified period or on a continuing basis. In an extreme form, the third parties 
may be used to perform all the activities associated with the intermediation service, including 
legal and regulatory compliances and risk management. This includes use of successive third 
parties, where the first third party may use the second third party to perform the activities 
and so on. Over time, the outsourcing arrangements are becoming increasingly complex.  

Page 1 of 18 

intermediaries 

in  many 

jurisdictions  are 

 
Securities  market 
increasingly  resorting  to 
outsourcing with a view to reduce costs, and at  times,  for  strategic  reasons.  This  benefits 
market in terms of better access and better expertise. However, since the third parties may 
not be subject to the regulatory discipline and the activities and, not the accountability, can 
be  outsourced,  outsourcing  raises  a  variety  of  concerns  both  for  the  regulator  and  the 
outsourcing  intermediary.  While  it  is  not  desirable  to  ban  outsourcing  completely  for 
obvious  reasons,  the  concerns  need  to  be  addressed  and  the  outsourcing  needs  to  be 
organized  in  an  orderly  manner.  This  paper  is  an  attempt  to  develop  guidelines  for 
outsourcing by an intermediary, and not by markets.   
 
2. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUTSOURCING 
The  risks  attached  to  outsourcing  are  numerous.  They  can  be  grouped  into  three  broad 
categories: operational, reputational, and legal risks. The operational risks arise because the 
intermediary loses direct control over the activities and the processes, procedures, systems 
and people engaged in these activities. Therefore, it fails to exercise due care and diligence if 
the activity / service falls short of the regulatory standards. The reputational risks arise from 
failure by the third party to deliver as per regulatory standards  which may invite regulatory 
actions.  The  legal  risks  emanate  from  the  failure  to  enforce  the  contractual  obligations 
particularly when the contractual relationship is not redefined with every change in basket of 
activities outsourced or the way these are discharged.  
Besides,  an  intermediary  faces  a  few  other  potential  risks  in  specific  circumstances.  For 
example, it faces country risk if the activities are outsourced to a foreign third party. Changes 
in foreign government policies as well as political, social, economic and legal conditions in 
the country where the third party is based or where the contractual relationship has been 
established could materially affect the outsourcing arrangement. Similarly, the intermediary 
runs the strategic risk if the third party acquires the necessary skills and infrastructure and 
develops clientele and then starts intermediation services on its own by acquiring registration 
from the regulator. It also runs exit-strategy risk as it loses relevant skills and infrastructure 
preventing it from bringing the activity back in-house. It runs counter party risks if the third 
party makes inappropriate credit assessments. There is also concentration and systemic risk 
if a large number of market intermediaries rely upon one or a few third parties for the same 
activity.  

Page 2 of 18 

 
On  being  satisfied  that  a  person  has  the  required  infrastructure  and  is  a  fit  and  proper 
person,  the  regulator  registers  him  as  an  intermediary  eligible  to  render  intermediation 
services. However, the intermediary may outsource the activities to a third person who does 
not  have  the  infrastructure  or  may  not  be  a  fit  and  proper  person.  This  may  lead  to  a 
situation where the market has only third parties to provide intermediation services while the 
registered intermediaries confine themselves to earning rent. This creates risk for the entire 
market.  
 
3. INTERNATIONAL SUPERVISORY PRINCIPLES 
International  Organization  of  Securities  Commission  (IOSCO)  has  prescribed  a  few 
principles  on  outsourcing  of  financial  services  for  intermediaries.  These  include  principles 
on:  the  selection  of  third  party,  outsourcing  contracts,  client  confidentiality  and  security 
concerns,  risks  associated  due  to  concentration  of  outsourced  functions,  termination 
procedures,  accountability  and  scope  of  outsourcing,  and  the  right  to  access  books  and 
records by market intermediary and by the Regulators. These principles are designed to assist 
an intermediary in determining the steps it should take and factors it should consider when 
considering outsourcing of activities. These require a regulator to monitor and react to the 
risks posed by outsourcing of activities by intermediaries.  
 
The  seven  high-level  principles  formulated  by  IOSCO  can  be  grouped  broadly  into  three 
categories. The first category refers to the policies that registered intermediaries should have 
in  place  even  before  entering  an  outsourcing  agreement.  For  example,  the  entity  should 
establish  a  comprehensive  policy  for  assessing  whether  and  how  certain  activities  can  be 
outsourced, and the intermediary’s board of directors should retain direct responsibility for 
that  policy  etc.  In  addition,  intermediaries  should  establish  a  comprehensive    risk-
management  programme  to  monitor  and  address  issues  arising  from  the  outsourced 
activities and relationships with the outsourced entities. 
 
The  second  category  addresses  concerns  surrounding  specific  outsourcing  arrangements. 
Outsourcing relationships should be governed by written contracts / agreements that clearly 
describe  all  material  aspects  of  the  outsourcing  arrangement,  including  the  rights, 
responsibilities,  and  expectations  of  the  parties.  The  intermediary  should  also  maintain 

Page 3 of 18 

adequate  contingency  plans  and  take  appropriate  steps  to  ensure  that  outsourced  entity 
protects  the  confidential  information,  particularly  of  the  clients,  from  intentional  or 
inadvertent disclosure. 
 
The third category addresses concerns specific to supervisors. Supervisors should take into 
account  outsourcing  activities  as  an  integral  part  of  their  monitoring  responsibilities. 
Supervisors  in  charge  of  the  market  intermediaries  should  assure  themselves  that 
outsourcing  arrangements  do  not  hamper  the  ability  of  the  intermediary  to  meet  its 
supervisory requirements; that is, supervisors should be able to obtain promptly any relevant 
materials regarding outsourced activities and take appropriate enforcement actions. 
 
4.  PRINCIPLES FOR OUTSOURCING 
Based on the principles advocated by the IOSCO and the experience of Indian market, it is 
proposed to have the following nine principles for outsourcing of any intermediation service: 
I.  An  intermediary  seeking  to  outsource  activities  should  have  in  place  a 
comprehensive  policy  to  guide  the  assessment  of  whether  and  how  those  activities 
can  be  appropriately  outsourced.  The  board  of  directors  or  equivalent  body 
representing  the  market 
intermediary  shall  have  the  responsibility  for  the 
outsourcing policy and related overall responsibility for activities undertaken under 
that policy. 
 
The  Board  of  the  intermediary  (or  a  delegated  body)  should  lay  down  a  comprehensive 
policy relating to outsourcing and its implementation. The policy should cover activities or 
the nature of activities that can be outsourced, the authorities who can approve outsourcing 
of such activities, and the type of third party to whom it can be outsourced. For example, an 
activity  should  not  be  outsourced  if  it  would  impair  the  supervisory  authority’s  right  to 
assess,  or  its  ability  to  supervise,  the  business  of  the  intermediary.  The  policy  should  be 
based  on  an  evaluation  of  risk  concentrations,  limits  on  the  acceptable  overall  level  of 
outsourced activities, risks arising from outsourcing multiple activities to the same entity, etc. 
Further, the Board should mandate a regular review of outsourcing policy for such activities 
and  the  arrangements  made  in  that  regard  by  the  intermedairy,  especially  the  factors  in 
deciding  the  soundness  of  continuing  with  the  existing  policies  in  the  wake  of  changing 
business environment. It should also have overall responsibility for ensuring that all ongoing 
outsourcing decisions taken by the intermediary and the activities undertaken by the third-
party, are in keeping with its outsourcing policy. 

Page 4 of 18 

 
The intermediary must also have in place policies that ensure its ability to oversee effectively 
the activity being outsourced. An appropriate governance structure with clearly defined roles 
and responsibilities on the part of the intermediary should exist throughout the engagement 
process and the contract term.  The intermediary must take appropriate steps to ensure its 
ability  to  comply  with  the  legal  and  regulatory  requirements,  in  both  its  home  and  host 
countries, as applicable.  
 
Once the policy for outsourcing has been laid down by the Board of the intermediary, its 
senior  management  should  review  the  policies  and  the  outsourcing  arrangements 
periodically,  including  the  quality  of  work  rendered  by  the  third  party  in  the  past  and 
emergence of new material risks, and submit a feedback to the Board. It is the responsibility 
of  the  senior  management  to  check  and  ensure  that  appropriate  contingency  plans  and 
procedures, based on realistic and probable disruptive scenarios, are in place with the third 
party and the same are appropriately tested.  
 

intermediary  should  establish  a  comprehensive  outsourcing 

II.  The 
risk 
management  programme  to  address  the  outsourced  activities  and  the  relationship 
with the third party. 
 
An intermediary should make an assessment of outsourcing risk which depends on several 
factors,  including  the  scope  and  materiality  of  the  outsourced  activity,  how  well  the 
intermediary manages, monitors and controls outsourcing risk, and how well the third party 
manages and controls the potential risks of the operation, etc. The factors that could help in 
considering materiality in a risk management programme include: 
a. The impact of failure of a third party to adequately perform the activity on the financial, 
reputational  and  operational  performance  of  the  intermediary  and  on  the  customers  and 
their counterparts; 
b. Ability of the intermediary to cope up with the pressures, in case of non performance or 
failure by a third party;  
c. Consequences of outsourcing on the ability and capacity of the intermediary to conform 
to regulatory requirements and changes in requirements, inter relationship of the outsourced 
activity with other activities within the intermediary;  
d. Affiliation or other relationship between the intermediary and the third party;  

Page 5 of 18 

e. Regulatory status of the third party, including its fitness and probity status;  
f.  Degree  of  difficulty  and  time  required  to  select  an  alternate  third  party  or  to  bring  the 
business activity in-house, if necessary;  
g. Complexity of the outsourcing arrangement. For example, the ability to control the risks 
where more than one third party collaborates to deliver an end-to-end outsourcing solution. 
h. Situations involving conflict of interest between the intermediary and the third party. The 
measures put in place by the intermediary to address such potential conflicts, etc. 
 
Data  protection,  security  and  other  risks  may  be  adversely  affected  by  the  geographical 
location  of  the  third  party.  To  this  end,  specific  risk  management  expertise  in  assessing 
country  risk  related,  for  example,  to  political  or  legal  conditions,  could  be  required  when 
entering  into  and  managing  outsourcing  arrangements  that  are  taken  outside  of  the  home 
country. More generally, a comprehensive outsourcing risk management programme  and a 
need to conduct enhanced due diligence that focuses on special compliance risks, including 
the ability to effectively monitor the activities of the foreign outsourced entities, the ability to 
maintain  the  confidentiality  of  the  intermediary  and  its  customers,  the  ability  to  execute 
contingency plans and exit strategies where the service is being performed on a cross-border 
basis should be scrupulously studied by the market intermediary before outsourcing activities 
to foreign third parties.    
 
While  there should not be any prohibition on a group entity / associate of the intermediary 
to act as the third party, systems should be put in place to have an arm’s length distance 
between the intermediary and the third party in terms of infrastructure, manpower, decision-
making,  record  keeping,    etc.  for  avoidance  of  potential  conflict  of  interests.  Further, 
necessary disclosures in this regard should be made as part of the contractual agreement. It 
should be kept in mind that the risk management practices expected to be adopted by an 
intermediary while outsourcing to a related party or an associate would be identical to those 
followed while outsourcing to an unrelated party. 
 
The outsourcing contracts should clearly contain provisions which address the monitoring 
and control of the third party. The records relating to  all activities outsourced should be 
preserved  centrally  so  that  the  same  is  readily  accessible  for  review  by  the  Board  of  the 
intermediary and / or its senior management, as and when needed. Such records should be 

Page 6 of 18 

regularly  updated  and  may  also  form  part  of  the  corporate  governance  review  by  the 
management of the intermediary. 
 
Regular reviews by internal or external auditors of the outsourcing policies, risk management 
system  and  requirements  of  the  regulator  should  be  mandated.  Additionally,  intermediary 
should  at  least  on  an  annual  basis,  review  the  financial  and  operational  capabilities  of  the 
third party in order to assess its ability to continue to meet its outsourcing obligations. Such 
due diligence reviews and checks, which can be based on all available information about the 
third  party  should  highlight  any  deterioration  or  breach  in  the  performance  standards, 
confidentiality  and  security  lapses  and  lacunae  in  business  continuity  preparedness.  In  the 
event of termination of the outsourcing contract by any intermediary, it is expected that the 
concerned  intermediary  makes  such  information  about  the  termination  of  the  third  party 
public knowledge so that any clients / customers of the intermediary do not continue to take 
the services of the third party.  As part of monitoring and control of outsourcing activities, 
the intermediary should: 

a.  Clearly  define  parameters  that  will  assess  the  performance  levels  or  specify  what 

performance levels are required / expected from the third party;   

b.  Establish  measures  to 

instances  of  non-compliance  or 
unsatisfactory performance of the third party and also the ability to assess the quality 
of services provided on a regular basis; and 

identify  and  report 

c.  Lay  down  procedures  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  third  party  is  compliant  with  the 
applicable laws/regulatory requirements at all points in time and in case of any non-
compliance that is noticed by the intermediary, the same should be reported to the 
regulator.  The  procedures  for  ensuring  compliance  can  include  internal  /  external 
auditor’s reports on a regular basis, specifying service performance levels or any kind 
of adverse reports against the third party which has been brought to the notice of the 
intermediary.  

 
III. The intermediary should ensure that outsourcing arrangements neither diminish 
its ability to fulfill its obligations to customers and regulators, nor impede effective 
supervision by the regulators. 
 
Outsourcing  arrangements  should  not  affect  the  rights  of  a  customer  against  the 
intermediary in any manner. The intermediary would be liable to the investors for the loss 

Page 7 of 18 

incurred by them due to the failure of the third party and also be responsible for redressal of 
the grievances received from investors arising out of activities rendered by the third party. 
The  facilities  /  premises  of  third  party  will  be  deemed  to  be  those  of  the  registered 
intermediary and the Regulator should have the right to access the same at any point of time. 
Outsourcing arrangements should not impair the regulator's ability to exercise its regulatory 
responsibilities  such  as  proper  supervision  of  the  intermediary.  The  intermediary  should 
ensure  that  it  has  a  robust  investor    grievance  redressal  mechanism,  which  is  not 
compromised in any way due to part of the activities being outsourced to a third-party. The 
investor grievance redressal mechanism should redress any grievance pertaining to any of the 
outsourced activities carried out by the third party. 
 
IV.  The  intermediary  should  conduct  appropriate  due  diligence  in  selecting  the  
third party and in monitoring of its performance. 
 
It is important that the intermediary exercises due care, skill, and diligence in the selection of 
the third party to ensure that the third party has the ability and capacity to undertake the 
provision of the service effectively. An intermediary must develop criteria that enable it to 
assess,  prior  to  selection,  the  third-party’s  capacity  and  ability  to  perform  the  outsourced 
functions effectively, reliably and of a high standard, together with any potential risk factors 
associated  with  using  a  particular  third  party.  An  intermediary  may  of  course  pursue  any 
applicable legal rights it may have against a third-party.  
 
The due diligence undertaken by an intermediary should include assessment of: 

a. 

third party’s resources and capabilities, including financial soundness, to perform the 
outsourcing work within the timelines fixed;  

b.  compatibility of the practices and systems of the third party with the intermediary’s 

requirements and objectives;  

c.  market feedback of the prospective third party’s business reputation and track record 

of their services rendered in the past;   

the environment of the foreign country where the third party is located.  

      d.   level of concentration of the outsourced arrangements with a single third party; and 
      e. 
 
Any special needs, such as servicing geographically dispersed activities, must be determined 
and  met  by  using  third  parties  with  similar  reach  or  capability.  Activities  should  not  be 

Page 8 of 18 

outsourced  to  a  third  party  that  does  not  meet  the  criteria.  If  a  third  party  fails,  or  is 
otherwise unable to perform the outsourced activity, it may be costly or problematic for the 
intermediary to find alternative solutions. Transition costs and potential business disruptions 
should also be considered before an intermediary decides to outsource activities. Additional 
concerns exist when an intermediary decides to outsource activities to foreign third party. 
For  example,  in  an  emergency,  the  intermediary  may  find  it  more  difficult  to  implement 
appropriate  responses  in  a  timely  fashion.  Accordingly,  senior  management  of  the 
intermediary  may  assess  the  economic,  legal  and  political  conditions  that  might  adversely 
impact the third party’s ability to perform effectively the functions for the intermediary. 
 
V. Outsourcing relationships should be governed by written contracts / agreements 
that clearly describe all material aspects of the outsourcing arrangement, including 
the  rights,  responsibilities  and  expectations  of  the  parties  to  the  contract,  client 
confidentiality issues, termination procedures, etc. 
 
Outsourcing  arrangements  should  be  governed  by  a  clearly  defined  and  legally  binding 
written contract between the intermediary and each of the third parties, the nature and detail 
of which should be appropriate to the materiality of the outsourced activity in relation to the 
ongoing business of the intermediary. A written contract is an important management tool 
and  appropriate  contractual  provisions  can  reduce  the  risk  of  non-performance  or 
disagreements regarding the scope, nature and quality of the service to be provided. Every 
such agreement should address the risks and risk mitigation strategies. The contract should 
be  sufficiently  flexible  so  as  to  allow  the  intermediary  to  retain  an  appropriate  level  of 
control over the outsourcing and the right to intervene with appropriate measures to meet 
legal  and  regulatory  obligations.  A  written  contract  also  facilitates  the  monitoring  of  the 
outsourced entities. The care should be taken to ensure that the outsourcing contract: 

a.  clearly  defines  what  activities  are  going  to  be  outsourced,  including  appropriate 

service and performance levels; 

b.  provides for mutual rights, obligations and responsibilities of the intermediary and 

the third party, including indemnity by the parties; 

c.  provides for the continuous monitoring and assessment by the intermediary of the 
third party so that any necessary corrective measures can be taken up immediately, 
i.e.,  the  contract  should  enable  the  intermediary  to  retain  an  appropriate  level  of 

Page 9 of 18 

d. 

control over the outsourcing and the right to intervene with appropriate measures to 
meet legal and regulatory obligations;  
includes, where necessary, conditions of sub-contracting by the third-party, i.e. the 
contract should enable intermediary to maintain a similar control over the risks when 
a third party outsources to further third parties as in the original direct outsourcing; 

e.  has  unambiguous  confidentiality  clauses  to  ensure  protection  of  proprietary  and 
customer  data  during  the  tenure  of  the  contract  and  also  after  the  expiry  of  the 
contract;   
specifies  the  responsibilities  of  the  third  party  with  respect  to  the  IT  security  and 
contingency plans, insurance cover, business continuity and disaster recovery plans, 
force majeure clause, etc.; 

f. 

g.  provides for  preservation of the documents and data by third party; 

 

h.  provides for the mechanisms to resolve disputes arising from implementation of the 

outsourcing contract; 

i.  provides for the circumstances and manner of termination and renewal of contract; 
j. 

addresses  additional  issues  arising  from  country  risks  and  potential  obstacles  in 
exercising  oversight  and  management  of  the  arrangements  when  intermediary 
outsources  its  activities  to  foreign  third  party.    For  example,  the  contract  should 
include  choice-of-law  provisions  and  agreement  covenants  and  jurisdictional 
covenants  that  provide  for  adjudication  of  disputes  between  the  parties  under  the 
laws of a specific jurisdiction;  

k.  neither prevents nor impedes the intermediary from meeting its respective regulatory 

obligations, nor the regulator from exercising its regulatory powers; and 

l.  provides for the intermediary  and /or the regulator to have the ability to access all 
books,  records  and  information  relevant  to  the  outsourced  activity  with  the  third 
party. 

 
VI. The intermediary and its third parties should establish and maintain contingency 
plans, including a plan for disaster recovery and periodic testing of backup facilities. 
 
While  intermediaries  should  have  a  global  institutional  policy  addressing  contingency 
planning,  more  specific  contingency  plans  should  be  separately  developed  for  each 
outsourcing arrangement, as is done in individual business lines. An intermediary should take 

Page 10 of 18 

appropriate steps to assess and address the potential consequence of a business disruption or 
other problems at the third party level. Notably, it should consider contingency plans at the 
third party; co-ordination of contingency plans at both the intermediary and the third party; 
and  contingency  plans  of  the  intermediary  in  the  event  of  non-performance  by  the  third 
party.  Recurring  performance  problems  coupled  with  the  absence  of  a  comprehensive 
contingency plan by the third party and the intermediary may result in unintended financial 
losses, missed business opportunities, reputational and legal concerns. 
 
To  ensure  business  continuity,  robust  information  technology  security  is  a  necessity.  A 
breakdown  in  the  IT  capacity  may  impair  the  ability  of  the  intermediary  to  fulfill  its 
obligations to other market participants/clients/regulators  and could undermine the privacy 
interests of its customers, harm the intermediary’s reputation, and may ultimately impact on 
its overall operational risk profile. Intermediaries should, therefore, seek to ensure that third 
party  maintains  appropriate  IT  security  and  robust  disaster  recovery  capabilities.  The 
intermediary  can  specify  the  security  requirements  in  the  third  party’s  systems,  including 
software specifications, so as to protect the privacy of data entrusted to the third party. The 
rights  of  the  parties  concerned  to  alter  the  security  arrangements  should  also  be  clearly 
specified. Special care may be needed where the security arrangements are sub-contracted, so 
that the risks arising out of subcontracting are minimized.  
 
The entities should have an appropriate level of control over the third party’s with a right to 
intervene in certain cases. Periodic tests of the critical security procedures and systems and 
review  of  the  back-up  facilities  should  be  undertaken  by  the  third  party  to  confirm  the 
adequacy  of  the  third  party’s  systems.  Contingency  plans,  in  the  event  of  deteriorating 
performance, must account for the costs of alternative options. In the face of unsatisfactory 
responsiveness  from  the  third  party,  an  intermediary’s  option  include  changing  the  third 
party and shifting the activities to alternate third party, moving the activity internally to the 
institution, i.e., exploring the possibility of bringing the outsourced activity back in-house, or 
sometimes even exiting the business. These could be very costly options, which are often 
taken only as a last measure. Nevertheless, these eventualities and associated costs should be 
studied during the negotiation process and specified in the contract which is entered into 
with the third party. Additional issues arising out of undertaking services of a foreign third 
party should also be suitably addressed. The intermediary should have its own contingency 

Page 11 of 18 

procedures and systems to address situations of failure of third party. This can be ensured by 
devising a system of taking regular feedbacks from the third party to ascertain adequacy of 
latter’s procedures and systems.   
 
VII.  The  intermediary  should  take  appropriate  steps  to  require  that  third  party’s 
protect  confidential  information  of  both  the  intermediary  and  its  customers  from 
intentional or inadvertent disclosure to unauthorised persons. 
 
An intermediary that engages in outsourcing is expected to take appropriate steps to protect 
its proprietary and confidential customer information and ensure that it is not misused or 
misappropriated. Such steps should include provisions in the contract with the third party 
prohibiting  the  third  party  and  its  agents  from  using  or  disclosing  the  intermediary’s 
proprietary  information  or  that  of  its  customers,  except  as  necessary  to  provide  the 
contracted  services  and  to  meet  regulatory  and  statutory  provisions.  The  terms  and 
conditions  for  protection  of 
information  should  also  govern  the  sub-contracting 
arrangements, wherever applicable. An intermediary should notify customers that customer 
data  may  be  transmitted  to  a  third  party,  taking  into  account  any  regulatory  or  statutory 
provisions  that  may  be  applicable.  The  details  of  outsourced  activities  and  the  terms  of 
outsourcing  to  a  third-party  should  be  suitably  disclosed  by  the  intermediary  in  a  public 
domain for the information of its customers and the regulator. 
 
The intermediary should prevail upon the third party to ensure that the employees of the 
third party have limited access to the data handled and only on a “need to know” basis. The 
third party should have adequate checks and balances  to  ensure  limited  data  access  by  its 
staff.  In  cases  where  the  third  party  is  providing  similar  services  to  multiple  entities,  the 
intermediary should ensure that adequate care is taken by the third party to build safeguards 
for data security and confidentiality. The security practices and the control process should be 
reviewed by the intermediary through an internal / external auditor on a regular basis. In 
case  of  any  breach,  the  same  should  be  immediately  notified  to  the  regulator.  The 
intermediary is liable for damages in case of any eventualities. 
 
VIII. Regulators should take into account outsourcing activities as an integral part of 
their  ongoing  assessment  of  the  regulated  entity.  Regulators  should  assure 
themselves by appropriate means that any outsourcing arrangements do not hamper 
the ability of the intermediary to meet its regulatory requirements. 
 

Page 12 of 18 

Regulators should consider outsourcing activities as part of their overall risk assessment of 
an intermediary. In order to be able to assess and monitor the outsourcing policy and the 
risk management programme of a intermediary, regulators should be able, upon request, to 
obtain  promptly  any  relevant  books  and  records  pertaining  to  the  outsourced  activity, 
irrespective of whether they are in the possession of the intermediary or the third-party and 
to obtain additional information concerning outsourced activities.  
 
A  regulator’s  access  to  such  books  and  records  may  be  direct  or  indirect,  though  the 
intermediary  should  always  maintain  direct  access  to  such  books  and  records.  This  may 
include  a  requirement  that  the  books  and  records  be  maintained  in  the  regulator’s 
jurisdiction,  or  that  the  third  party  agrees  to  send  originals  or  copies  of  the  books  and 
records  to  the  regulator’s  jurisdiction  upon  request.    In  this  regard,  the  outsourcing 
agreement  or  contract  that  is  entered  into  between  the  intermediary  and  the  third  party 
should inter alia specify  provisions for preservation of records and data by third party in 
accordance with the legal /regulatory obligations vested upon the intermediary  under the 
law.   
 
Regulators  should  consider  implementation  of  appropriate  regulations  and  measures 
designed to support access to books, records and information of the third party about the 
performance of outsourced activities. This may include the requirement that intermediaries 
include contractual provisions that provide the intermediary with access to, and a right of 
inspection  of  the  third  party’s  books  and  records  dealing  with  outsourced  activities  and 
similar  access  to  the  books  and  records  of  any  subcontractor,  as  well  as  contractual 
provisions  by  which  the  third  party  is  required  to  make  books,  records  and  other 
information  about  outsourced  activities  by  the  third  party  available  to  the  regulator  upon 
request. 
 
IX.  Regulators  should  be  aware  of  the  potential  risks  posed  where  the  outsourced 
activities of multiple intermediaries are concentrated with a limited number of third 
parties. 
 
When a limited number of third parties (sometimes just one) provide outsourcing services to 
multiple  intermediaries,  operational  risks  concentrate  which  may  pose  a  systemic  threat. 
Similarly,  if  multiple  third  parties  depend  upon  the  same  provider  for  business  continuity 

Page 13 of 18 

services (e.g., a common disaster recovery site), a disruption that affects a large number of 
those entities may result in a lack of capacity for the business continuity services. Accepting 
that  some  form  of  concentration  risk  is  inevitable  as  firms  use  outsourcing  to  search  for 
improved efficiency and economies of scale, when assessing and monitoring the outsourcing 
policy  and  risk  management  programme  of  an  intermediary,  regulators  should  pay  special 
attention to the way in which the intermediary takes account of the potential risk posed by 
such concentration. 
 
In instances, where the third party acts as an outsourcing agent for multiple intermediaries, it 
is the duty of the third party and the intermediary to ensure that strong safeguards are put in 
place  so  that  there  is  no  commingling  of  information  /documents,  records  and  assets.  
Whilst  concentration  risks  may  exist,  there  are  mitigating  tools  available  to  address  the 
potential  systemic  risk  attached  to  such  concentration  of  activities  at  third  party’s  level. 
These include, primarily, adequate contingency planning within the intermediary as well as 
other supervisory mitigating tools such as ongoing monitoring and awareness programmes, 
adapting supervisory programmes, risk assessments and other actions, etc. 
 
5. OTHER GENERAL ISSUES 
Reporting  To  FIU  -  The  intermediaries  would  be  responsible  for  reporting  of  any 
suspicious  transactions  /  reports  to  FIU  or  any  other  competent  authority  in  respect  of 
activities carried out by the third parties. 
List Of Defaulters - A caution list of third parties who have defaulted while servicing any 
of the intermediaries should be informed to the regulator and the same may also be shared 
among the intermediaries.  
Need  for  Self  Assessment  of  existing  /  Proposed    Outsourcing  Arrangements  –  In 
view  of  the  changing  business  activities  and  complexities  of  various  financial  products, 
intermediaries may conduct a self assessment of their existing outsourcing agreements within 
a time bound plan and bring them in line with  the requirements of the above guidelines 
expeditiously. 
 
6. ACTIVITIES THAT ARE PRESENTLY OUTSOURCED 
There is no study to ascertain the level of outsourcing in Indian securities market. Based on 
informal feedback, it is understood that a few intermediaries are currently outsourcing some 

Page 14 of 18 

of  their  activities  related  to  data  entry,  record  keeping,  despatch,  front-desk  customer 
services,  KYC  verification,  etc.  The  intermediary-wise  activities  which  are  presently 
outsourced by a few intermediaries are as under:- 
 

I. DEPOSITORY PARTICIPANT (DPs) 

•  Capturing of client data  
•  Record keeping  
•  Attending to client queries through phone banking services  
•  Printing and packing of welcome kits  
•  Despatch of statement of accounts and DIS booklets etc. 

II. REGISTRAR & SHARE TRANSFER AGENTS (R & T AGENTS) 

•  Data capturing work for public issues / right issues.  
•  Despatch of dividends, refunds orders etc.  
•  Packing and franking activities  

III. BANKERS TO AN ISSUE (BTIs) 

•  Courier pick up of applications from the syndicate members in the book built IPOs 
•  Processing  of  applications  collected  -  data  capturing,  encoding  of  cheques, 

scheduling etc.  

IV. STOCK BROKERS 

•  Data entry and opening of trading accounts  
•  Scanning and storage of account opening forms 
•  Printing  and  despatch  of  welcome  kits  and  despatch  of  quarterly  transaction 

statements 

•  Customer services  
•  Despatch of contract notes  
•  Stock  brokers  acting  as  distributors  for  Mutual  Funds  schemes  -  distribution, 
maintenance of nomination details by distributors for the various schemes of Asset 
Management Companies, etc. 

V. PORTFOLIO MANAGERS 

•  Client servicing 
•  Fund accounting 

Page 15 of 18 

•  Custodian services 
•  Research activity 
•  Financial accounting 
•  Account opening 
•  Data entry 
•  Operational Activity 

 
7. ACTIVITIES THAT SHOULD NOT BE OUTSOURCED 
Since the intermediaries are registered based on their strength, outsourcing of key activities 
by them to unregistered third parties defeats the purpose of regulation. It is therefore felt 
that the key activities which are crucial to the intermediation service may be delivered by the 
intermediary itself. The informal feedback indicates that the compliance with securities laws, 
investor  grievance  redressal  and  KYC  must  not  be  outsourced  under  any  circumstance. 
Besides, the following activities ought not be outsourced to third parties:  
 
I. DEPOSITORY PARTICIPANT (DPs) 

•  Core  management  functions  such  as  defining  organisation  structure,  formulating 
policies  and  procedures,  monitoring  internal  control  mechanism  &  supervision  of 
outsourced activities. 

•  Authorization for issue of DIS booklets 
•  “Checker”  activity  (as  in  “maker-checker”  concept)  esp.  checker  of  instructions 

including debit instructions, pledge instructions, BO modifications etc  

•  Analysis of PMLA alerts and other surveillance activities and decision based on such 

analysis. 

II. REGISTRAR & SHARE TRANSFER AGENTS (R & T AGENTS) 

•  Electronic record keeping of the investor database 
•  Basic IT infrastructure, as declared at the time of registration 
•  PMLA obligations 
•  Finance and Accounts 
•  Computational / validation activities relating to corporate actions, like dividends / 

bonus, transactional activities, statutory activities like TDS, STT etc. 

Page 16 of 18 

•  Data  validation  with  respect  to  the  bid  data  captured  by  the  SM/SSM  and  ASBA 
bankers  with  the  demographic  details  obtained  from  the  Depositories,  in  a  public 
issue, mutatis mutandis in a rights issue.   

•  Finalisation of allottees and non-allottees  
•  Comparison of specimen signature available with the STA with the request received 

from investors.   

•  Processing of demat/remat/physical transfer of securities  
•  Other requests of investors like transmission of shares, issue of duplicate shares etc.   
•  Reconciliation of issued capital.  

III. BANKERS TO AN ISSUE (BTIs) 

•  Processing  of  applications  collected  which  includes  data  capturing,  preparation  of 

bank schedules, etc. 

•  Clearing of instruments 
•  Controls over processes 
•  Tallying of Instruments and Reconciliation 

IV. STOCK BROKERS 

•  Creation of user id/login id, password generation for internet clients 
•  Order management 
•  Operation of trading terminals 
•  Operations & Monitoring of Bank A/cs & DP A/cs 
•  Pay in / pay out of funds and securities 
•  Generation  &  dispatch  of  contract  notes,  quarterly  statement  of  accounts,  daily 

margin statement and monitoring of the said activities. 

•  Control of servers and online trading platform 
•  Maintenance & monitoring of client database & client financial information 
•  Surveillance function 
•  Allotment / surrender of trading terminals, opening & closing of branches 
• 
•  Risk  Management  system  (which  includes  margins,  trading  limits,  scrip  /  terminal 

Implementation of PMLA policies 

enablement etc. 
IT Technology Infrastructure 

• 

Page 17 of 18 

•  Printing of contract notes 
V. PORTFOLIO MANAGERS 

•  Fund management/ portfolio management. 

VI. MERCHANT BANKERS 

•  Due diligence of all nature except :- 

To the extent of outsourcing legal and financial due diligence and obtaining expert 
opinion on specialist areas 
(However the responsibilities in terms of disclosure and due diligence shall lie with 
the Merchant Banker only even in the above matters) 

•  Pricing of the issue.  
•  Supervision of other intermediaries (viz. Registrars to the issue, Bankers to the issue, 

etc.) 

 

VII. MUTUAL FUNDS 

•  All investment related activities including trading. 
 

8. GUIDELINES 
Keeping  in  view  the  principles  enunciated  in  Section  4  above  and  current  practice  of 
outsourcing  in  the  market,  it  is  proposed  to  streamline  outsourcing  by  intermediaries 
through appropriate guidelines. The guidelines may provide for: 

a.  The activities which can be outsourced, 
b.  The activities which cannot be outsourced, 
c.  To whom the activities can be outsourced, 
d.  The terms of outsourcing,  
e.  Responsibilities and obligations of the intermediary and the third party in respect of 

the outsourced activity towards clients, regulator and market,  
 

************************** 

 

Page 18 of 18 

