 

 

 

National	Strategy	for	Financial	

2012

Education	

 

 

 
 
 

2 

National Strategy for Financial Education 

Section I 

A.  Introduction and Background 

 
1.  The first decade of the twenty-first century has seen a universal recognition for 
spreading  financial  literacy  among  people.    The  concept  of  improving  financial 
literacy as a national project has been gradually building.  Most of the countries 
are adopting a unified and coordinated national strategy for financial education. 
Given the fact that India is having large population, a fast growing economy with 
national focus on inclusive growth and an urgent need to develop a vibrant and 
stable  financial  system,  it  is  all  the  more  necessary  to  quickly  formulate  and 
implement  a  national  strategy.  Also  since  a  large  number  of  stakeholders 
including  the  central  and  state  governments,  financial  regulators,  financial 
institutions,  civil  society,  educationists  and  others  are  involved  in  spreading 
financial literacy; a broad national strategy is a prerequisite to ensure that they 
work  in  tandem  according  to  the  strategy  and  not  at  cross  purposes.  The 
formulation and implementation of National Strategy for Financial Education  will 
reap rich benefits to the country and can be attributed to following reasons: 
 
a)  Inclusive  Growth,  Financial  Inclusion  &  Financial  Education:    Financial 
education play a vital role in making demand side respond to the initiatives of 
the supply side interventions. Financial inclusion is one of the top most policy 
priorities of the Government of India. One of the most visible aspects of the 
governance has been agenda of social inclusion of which financial inclusion is 
an  integral  part.  ‘Financial  literacy,  and  education,  plays  a  crucial  role  in 
financial inclusion, inclusive growth and sustainable prosperity’*.  
 
b)  Knowledge  and  skill:  Increasing  range  and  complexity  of  products  has 
made it very difficult for an ordinary person to take an informed decision. 
Financial  literacy  develops  confidence,  knowledge  and  skills  to  manage 

*From speech delivered by Hon’ble Union Finance Minister, Shri Pranab Mukherjee during RBI‐ OECD Workshop on 
Delivering Financial Literacy in March 2010 

 

 

3 

financial products and services enabling them to have more control of their 
present and future circumstances 

c)  Freedom  from  exploitation:  Financial  literacy  will  help  in  protecting 
financial  schemes  and 

individuals  against  exploitative 

society  and 
exorbitant interest rate charged by moneylenders.  

d)  Avoidance of over indebtedness: Financial education will help to avoid 
over-indebtedness,  improve  quality  of  services  and  make  wise  financial 
decisions. 

e)  Promoting  entrepreneurship:  Small  entrepreneurs  who  would  be 
educated  and  already  have  a  business  sense  will  benefit  through 
awareness about new financial products and help them to understand the 
dynamics of market mechanism and improve their business dealings. 

f)  Positive  Spill-over  effects:  Financial  education  can  lead  to  multiplier 
effects in the economy. A well educated household would resort to regular 
savings,  which  in  turn  would  lead  to  investment  in  right  channels  and 
income  generation.  The  financial  well  being  of  individuals  will  in  turn 
increase the welfare of the society. 

  
g)  Shifting  of  Pension  Responsibility  from  State  /  Corporations  to 
Individuals:  A financially educated person would be in a better position 
to  assess  his/her  own  requirements  and  make  savings  in  appropriate 
schemes.  It  reduces  strain  on  social  programs  and  pension  plans,  and 
fosters an economy that is more resilient. 

 
h)  Behavioral Change: The proliferation of financial products has led to its 
indiscriminate  usage  without  realizing  its  financial  implications  by  the 
user.’  In  fact,  the  recent  global  financial  crisis  has  raised  the  question 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 

whether  individuals’  lack  of  financial  knowledge  led  them  to  take  out 
adjustable rate mortgages or incur credit card debt they could not afford.‘* 
Financial Education can become an agent of behavioral change. 

 
i)  Deeper participation in Financial Markets: In India, we need to convert 
savers  into  investors.  More  participation  of  domestic  retail  investors  in 
securities  market  will  give  dividends  by  Increasing  depth  of  securities 
market,  reducing  dependence  on  foreign  investors  and  domestic  savers 
reaping benefits of Corporate Growth and reducing strain on Government 
Treasury for investment in National Infrastructure. 

 

2.  OECD  defines  Financial  Literacy  as  a  combination  of  financial  awareness, 
knowledge,  skills,  attitude  and  behaviour  necessary  to  make  sound  financial 
decisions and ultimately achieve individual financial well being. People achieve 
financial literacy through a process of financial education. 
 

3.  OECD  defines  Financial  education  as  “the  process  by  which 

financial 
consumers/investors improve their understanding of financial products, concepts 
and risks and, through information, instruction  and/or  objective  advice,  develop 
the  skills  and  confidence  to  become  more  aware  of  financial  risks  and 
opportunities,  to  make  informed  choices,  to  know  where  to  go  for  help,  and  to 
take other effective actions to improve their financial well-being”. 
 

4.  According  to  OECD,  framework  of  National  Strategy  for  Financial  Education 
promotes a smoother and more sustainable co-operation between regulators and 
stakeholders,  avoids  duplication  of  resources  and  allows  development  of 
articulated and tailored roadmaps with measurable and realistic objectives based 
on dedicated national assessments.  
Globally, Countries like Czech Republic, Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, and 
UK  have  already  implemented  National  Strategy  for  Financial  Education,  while 
many other countries are in the process of formulation and implementation.  
 

* From speech delivered by Hon’ble Union Finance Minister, Shri Pranab Mukherjee during RBI‐ OECD Workshop on Delivering Financial 
Literacy in March 2010 

 

 

5 

5.  In  India  where    majority  of  its  population  is  financially  excluded  and  coexisting 
with  various  other  financially  included  sections  of  population  which  invest  in 
capital  markets  and  use  other  advanced  financial  products,  we  need  a    tiered 
approach under National  strategy for spreading awareness about basic financial 
products to link them to the formal financial sector, educating  the existing users 
of financial products and services to make the informed choices and  ensuring 
consumer protection for all the users of financial products and services. Based 
on the above trilogy of needs the key components of the national strategy could 
be a continuum of financial literacy-financial education and consumer protection. 

 
6.  The  key  components  of  financial  literacy  efforts  could  be  to  spread  across 

country some of the following simple messages of day to day finance. 
(cid:190)  Why Save? 
(cid:190)  Why invest? 
(cid:190)  Why insure? 
(cid:190)  Why you will need regular stream of income post working life –pension? 
(cid:190)  Why save or invest regularly and consistently? 
(cid:190)  Why insure fully? 
(cid:190)  Why save with banks? 
(cid:190)  Why borrow within Limits? 
(cid:190)  Why borrow from banks? 
(cid:190)  What is the difference between saving and investment? 
(cid:190)  Why borrow for income generating purposes? 
(cid:190)  Why repay loans? 
(cid:190)  Why repay loans in time? 
(cid:190)  Why do you need insurance? 
(cid:190)  What is interest? How moneylenders charge very high interest rates? 

7.  The key components of financial education efforts could be  

 

 

 

 

6 

a)  Understanding  the  key  financial  products  one  may  need  throughout 
one’s life – including bank accounts, insurance, retirement savings plans and 
securities market investments like stocks, bonds and mutual funds. 

b)  Understanding  basic  financial  concepts  like  compound  interest,  present 
and  future  value  of  money,  annuity,  investment  return,  risk,  protection  and 
diversification and so on. 

c)  Developing  skills  and  confidence  to  be  aware  of  financial  risk  and 

opportunities and to benefit from them.  

d)  Making  good  financial  choices  about  saving,  spending,  insurance, 
investing  and  managing  debt  throughout  one’s  life:  for  example,  when 
getting an education, starting a job, buying a house, starting a family, getting 
ready to retire and living out the senior years. 

8.  The  key  component  of  consumer  protection  efforts  at  the  higher  end  of  the 

national strategy continuum could be 

 
a)  Creation  of  awareness  about  district,  State  and  National  Level  Consumer 
protection  foras  and  providing  quick  and  easy  access  to  users  of  financial 
products and services to these bodies 

b)  Providing  quick  and  easy  access  to  various  financial  sector  ombudsmen  and 

strengthening their network and reach across country. 
 
In view of the above, we need to clearly articulate a national strategy for financial 
education to get everyone on board.  

 

 

 

B.  Vision, Mission, Goals, Strategic Action Plan and Stakeholders 

 

1.  Vision - A financially aware and empowered India 

 
The  vision  entails  provision  of  financial  education  for  all  Indians  that  could  enable 
individuals, at their level of need, to understand the role of money in their life, the need 

 

7 

 
and  use  of  savings,  the  advantages  of  using  the  formal  financial  sector  and  various 
options  to  convert  their  savings  into  investments,  protection  through  insurance  and  a 
realistic recognition of the attributes of these options. 
                                                                                                                                                                  

2.  Mission-  To  undertake  massive  Financial  Education  campaign  to  help  people 
manage  money  more  effectively  to  achieve  financial  well  being  by  accessing 
appropriate  financial  products  and  services  through  regulated  entities  with  fair 
and transparent machinery for consumer protection and grievance redressal.  

 

To  conduct  financial  education  campaign  across  the  country  for  all  sections  of  the 
population along with awareness campaigns at different levels for existing and potential 
customers  so  as  to  improve  the  knowledge,  understanding,  skills  and  competence  of 
theirs  in  managing  money  effectively  to  improve  his/her  financial  status  by  taking 
informed decision. 
 
The  mission  will  be  accomplished  through  provision  of  financial  education  throughout 
the life cycle of an individual starting from the school level.  The endeavour is to ensure 
well being of individuals through financial inclusion.  
 

3.  Goals-  National  Strategy  for  Financial  Education  has  been  prepared  with  the 

following objectives  

a)  Create  awareness  and  educate  consumers  on  access  to  financial  services, 

availability of various types of products and their features. 

b)  Change attitudes to translate knowledge into behaviour. 
c)  Make  consumers  understand  their  rights  and  responsibilities  as  clients  of 

financial services. 

4.  Action  Plan  with  Timeframe-  Given  the  fast  pace  of  changes  in  the  financial 
world, it will be reasonable to have a five year timeframe for implementation of 
the  strategy.  The  above  mission  will  be  accomplished  only  through  Strategic 
Action Plan to be executed in the five year period. 

  

 

8 

a)  To set up the structure as envisaged in this document 
b)  To  incorporate  basic  financial  education  in  school  curricula  up  to  senior 

secondary level  

c)  Create  awareness  about  consumer  protection  and  grievances  redressal 

machinery available in the country 

d)  The  Financial  Education  to  be  delivered  by  trained  persons  in  a  format 
suitable to each target group with the content that has been developed by 
rigorous research 

e)  All 

the  above  measures  would  be  undertaken 

through  various 
stakeholders  including  NGOs,  civil  society  and  by  using  all  channels  of 
mass communication 

f)  To establish initial contact with 500 million adults, educating them on key 
saving,  protection  and  investment  related  products  so  that  they  are 
empowered to take prudent financial decisions 

 

5.  Stake-holders-  The  strategy  recognises  the  following  stakeholders.  The  list  is 

indicative, not exhaustive.  
a)  Financial Consumers-Individuals resident in India 
b)  Financial Market players-Financial Institutions that act as savings aggregators 
viz.  banks,  non  banking  financial  companies,  mutual  funds,  pension  funds, 
insurance companies etc and Financial Institutions that act as intermediaries 
such  as  brokers,  merchant  bankers,  registrars,  depositories,  exchanges, 
insurance brokers, corporate agents etc. 

c)  Educational Institutions 
d)  Non Governmental Organizations 
e)  Financial Sector Regulators 
f)  Government- both Central and State 
g)  Multilateral international players like OECD, G-20, INFE, etc. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9 

 

Section II 

Assessment of the need of Financial Education   

A.  National Survey on Financial Education 

Several  Countries  such  as  Australia,  New  Zealand,  France  and  the  USA  have 
conducted  detailed  survey  on  the  state  of  financial  literacy  in  their  countries.  These 
surveys  mainly  concern  topics  related  to  money  management,  financial  planning, 
choosing and buying products. International Network on Financial Education (INFE) has 
also  conducted  a  survey  on  Financial  Literacy  across  12  countries.  Further,  cross 
country surveys have been carried out for School students and adults. The results of the 
survey serve various purposes viz. 
 
a)  Identifying the needs and gaps. 
b)  Establishing the direction of the effort.  
c) 
d)  Serving  as  an  evaluation  and  benchmarking  standard  as  the  result  of  future 

Identifying special groups such as women and illiterates that need attention  

initiatives can be measured by comparing with the baseline numbers.  
 

While the Groups in India may be different in view of large scale financial exclusion,  it is 
necessary that as a very first step towards financial literacy, a nationwide sample survey 
may  be  by  different  regulators  through  an  outside  agency  like  NCAER  etc.,  shall  be 
carried  out  for  assessing  the  state  of  financial  inclusion  and  financial  literacy.  The 
survey should have the following elements: 
 

a)  The state of financial inclusion i.e. Whether the person has Saving Account, Loan 

Account, Mutual Fund Investment, Insurance Policy, Pension plan etc. 

b)  The state of awareness of financial products viz. how many types of savings and 

investments options are available to him. 

c)  The  state  of  financial  competency  viz.  whether  he  understands  the  concept  of 

compound interest, Present Value of Money, annuity etc. 

 

 

10 

d)  His/her attitude towards money viz. whether he prepares a budget, or consider 

drawl from credit cards as normal means of financing.  

e)  His/her attitude towards risk 
f)  Whether  the  person  has  any  pension  coverage  for  old  age  and  if  so,  the  nature  of 

pension that is available 

Once the initial assessment is done the incremental progress can be assessed through 
reporting  by  market  players  to  regulators.  An  effort  in  this  regard  is  underway  across 
regulators through Technical Group of Sub Committee of FSDC. 
 

B.  Assessment through Complaints and Creation of Complaint Repository 

 
The  repository  of  complaints  available  with  regulators  gives  an  insight  of  the  areas 
where  financial  education  would  be  able  to  improve  consumer  awareness    of  various 
products and also help in addressing gaps in consumer protection.,  
To use this repository effectively, there is need of 

a)  Systematic collection 
b)  Monitoring, and 
c)  Analytical study  
of the collected complaints. 

 

C.  Assessment of Needs through International Experience  

 
While in India, in view of large scale financial exclusion the needs of financially illiterate 
and excluded may be different from other countries where large sections of populations 
are financially included, a cursory look at the literature shows that the basic issues in 
financial education for those already included are not different in most countries. Even 
as we do not have the results of our survey, a study of international survey will indicate 
the broad directions that our nation should take. A systemic study by a dedicated team 
will be necessary.  
 

 

11 

 
Ideally, the work of designing the campaigns should be carried out after the results of 
the survey are available. However, we may follow parallel routes to some extent in view 
of the following: 

1.  We  are  starting  on  our  efforts  years  after  other  countries  have  already 
conducted some surveys. A preliminary look at the survey clearly shows 
the  direction  in  which  we  should  proceed.  Even  in  developed  countries, 
the  state  of  financial  inclusion  is  far  from  satisfactory,  the  financial 
knowledge  quite  limited  and  attitudes  either  too  cavalier  or  totally  risk 
averse.  

 2.    Large quantity of anecdotal material is available through the work carried 
out by regulators such as RBI, SEBI, IRDA, PFRDA etc. on the one hand 
and  by  NGOs  and  Microfinance  Institutions  on  the  other  hand.  For 
determining the initial approach, this data bank should be sufficient.  

  

D.  Efforts made so far in the field of Financial Education 

1.  RBI’s initiatives on Financial Education 
Reserve Bank of India has undertaken a project titled “Project Financial Literacy”.  
The objective of this project is to disseminate information regarding the central 
bank  and  general  banking  concepts  to  various  target  groups,  including  school 
and  college  students,  women,  rural  and  urban  poor,  defense  personnel  and 
senior  citizens.    The  project  envisages  a  multi  pronged  approach.  The  project 
has been designed to be implemented in two modules, one module focusing on 
the  economy,  RBI  and  its  activities,  and  the  other  module  on  general  banking.  
The  material  is  created  in  English  and  other  vernacular  languages.    It  is 
disseminated  to  the  target  audience  with  the  help  of  banks,  local  government 
machinery,  schools  and  colleges  through  presentations,  pamphlets,  brochures, 
films and also through RBI’s website. 

2.  SEBI’s Initiatives on Financial Education 
Securities  Exchange  Board  of  India  has  embarked  financial  education  on  a 
nationwide  campaign.  To  undertake  financial  education  to  various  target 
segments  viz.  school  students,  college  students,  working  executives,  middle 

 

 

12 

income group, home makers, retired personnel, self help groups etc., SEBI has 
empanelled  Resource  Persons  throughout  India.  The  Resource  Persons  are 
given  training  on  various  aspects  of  finance  and  equipped  with  the  knowledge 
about  the  financial  markets.  These  SEBI  Certified  Resource  Persons  organise 
workshops to these target segments on various aspects viz. savings, investment, 
financial planning, banking, insurance, retirement planning etc. More than 3500 
workshops have been already conducted in various states covering around two 
lakh and sixty thousand participants. 

through 

investor 
Investor  education  programs  are  conducted  by  SEBI 
associations  all  over  the  country.  Regional  seminars  are  conducted  by  SEBI 
through various stakeholders viz. Stock Exchanges, Depositories, Mutual Funds 
Association, Association of Merchant Bankers etc. SEBI has a dedicated website 
for  investor  education  wherein  study  materials  are  available  for  dissemination. 
SEBI also publishes study materials in English and vernacular languages. Under 
‘Visit  SEBI’  programme,  School  and  college  students  are  encouraged  to  visit 
SEBI and understand its functioning.   SEBI has recently set up SEBI Helpline in 
14 languages wherein through a toll free number, investors across the country 
can access and seek information for redressal of their grievances and guidance 
on various issues. 

3.  IRDA’S Initiatives on Financial Education 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority has taken various initiatives in 
the area of financial literacy. Awareness programmes have been conducted on 
television  and  radio  and  simple  messages  about  the  rights  and  duties  of 
policyholders,  channels  available 
redressal  etc  have  been 
disseminated  through  television  and  radio  as  well  as  the  print  media  through 
sustained  campaigns  in  English,  Hindi  and  11  other  Indian  languages.  IRDA 
conducts  an  annual  seminar  on  policy  holder  protection  and  welfare  and  also 
partially sponsors seminars on insurance by consumer bodies. IRDA has got a 
pan  India  survey  on  awareness  levels  about  insurance  carried  out  through  the 

for  dispute 

 

 

 

 

13 

NCAER in a bid to improve on its strategy of crating insurance awareness. IRDA 
has also brought out publications of ‘Policyholder Handbooks’ as well as a comic 
book  series  on  insurance.  A  dedicated  website  for  consumer  education  in 
insurance is on the verge of launch 
 
IRDA’s  Integrated  Grievance  Management  System  (IGMS)  creates  a  central 
repository of grievances across the country and provides for various analyses of 
data indicative of areas of concern to the insurance policyholder. 
 
4.  PFRDA Initiatives on Financial Education 
The  Pension  Fund  Regulatory  and  Development  Authority,  India’s  youngest 
regulator has been engaged in spreading social security messages to the public.  
PFRDA has developed FAQ on pension related topics on its web, and has been 
associated  with  various  non  government  organizations  in  India  in  taking  the 
pension services to the disadvantaged community. 
 
PFRDA’s initiatives have become more broad-based with direct mass publicity on 
NPS  –  both  as  individual  model  through  POPs  and  group  models  through 
Aggregators.  PFRDA  has  issued  advertisements  in  print  media  and  electronic 
media through radio and television. PFRDA appointed intermediaries are called 
Aggregators  who  are  directly  responsible  for  pension  awareness  mostly  in 
vernacular languages and in line with socio-economic sensibilities 

5.  Market players Initiatives on Financial Education 
Commercial banks are increasingly realizing that they are missing out on large 
segment of financially illiterate and excluded segment of prospective customers. 
Also,  in  view  of  the  national  emphasis  on  electronic  benefit  transfer  the 
commercial  banks  have  initiated  various  measures  for  creating  awareness 
through Financial Literacy and Counseling Centers and Rural Self Employment 
Training Institutes on financial literacy. The objective of these centers is to advise 
people  on  gaining  access  to  the  financial  system  including  banks,  creating 

 

 

 

14 

awareness  among  the  public  about  financial  management,  counseling  people 
who  are  struggling  to  meet  their  repayment  obligations  and  help  them  resolve 
their problems of indebtedness, helping in rehabilitation of borrowers in distress 
etc.  Some of these credit counseling centers even train farmers/women groups 
to  enable  them  to  start  their  own  income  generating  activities  to  earn  a 
reasonable livelihood. Even top management of commercial banks is undertaking 
Outreach visits to villages with a view to spread financial literacy. 
 
Similarly,  many  Stock  Exchanges,  Broking  Houses  and  Mutual  Funds  have 
initiatives in the field of financial education that spawns conducting of seminars, 
issuance  of  do’s  and  don’ts,  and  newspaper  campaigns.  Insurance  companies 
too, carry out campaigns and other educational activities for generic education in 
insurance. 
 
It will be necessary to collate all the material developed by these institutions and 
classify it in the light of the approach outlined in this strategy paper. The cleaned 
material  suitably  augmented  should  form  the  kernel  of  knowledge  base 
envisaged in the strategy.  

E.  Mapping of Financial Education Content in the School Curricula 

The most effective way is to weave financial education in the normal content of 
curriculum. For example, compound interest is taught in Arithmetic as an abstract 
concept of, A lending to B at some interest rate compounded annually. This can 
be turned into an opportunity of financial education by weaving into a problem of 
a  company  that  borrows  from  a  bank  or  a  bank  customer  who  opens  a 
Cumulative  Deposit  Account  instead  of  a  simple  Fixed  Deposit  Account. 
Similarly, there are opportunities available in the syllabi of Social Studies, Moral 
Science etc.  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15 

Section III 

Policy Design 

A.  Components of Financial Education 

1.  Basic Financial Education  

The basic financial education consists of fundamental tenets of financial well being such 
as  importance  and  advantages  of  savings,  necessity  of  staying  out  of  unproductive 
loans  that  are  beyond  the  capacity  to  repay,  borrowing  with  formal  financial  sector, 
concept of interest and the power of compounding, time value of money, inflation, the 
need to insure, role of major financial sector institutions such as ministries, regulators, 
banks, stock exchanges and insurance companies and basic concept regarding relation 
between risks and rewards. An attempt has to be made to convey these basic concepts 
to everyone especially to those who are financially excluded at present. However, the 
modes of delivery can be different depending upon who is the recipient. School children 
can  be  reached  best  through  school  curricula,  employees  can  be  reached  through 
employers,  home  makers  through  NGOs  and  so  on.  The  content  and  method  of 
presentation has also to be tailored according to the target groups. A large number of 
financially  excluded  rural  folk  will  have  to  be  reached  through  the  network  of  rural 
branches of banks and Lead district managers of Lead banks. 
 
However, it has to be kept in mind that the content has to be sector neutral. The general 
lessons in prudent financial behavior need to be imparted. 
Considering  the  scale  of  efforts  involved,  Ministry  of  Human  Resources  Development 
(MHRD), Government of India should be responsible and take lead in ensuring inclusion 
of financial literacy material in school curriculum across India through coordination with 
various  boards,  ministries  and  state  governments.  The  Ministry  of  Finance  (MOF), 
Government  of  India  shall  be  facilitator  for  the  inclusion  of  financial  literacy  in  school 
curriculum  through  MHRD.  Support  for  course  content  development  and  monitoring 
shall be provided by all concerned as envisaged in Section IV. 
 

 

 

16 

2.  Sector Focused Financial Education 

 
This  component  is  to  be  targeted  to  largely  already  financially  included  actual 
consumers. To begin with four sectors can be identified viz. banking, securities market, 
insurance  and  retirement  planning.  Education  for  the  actual  and  potential  securities 
market  investor  may  consist  of  basics  of  stock  exchange  mechanism,  clearing  and 
settlement  mechanism,  dematerialization  and  depositories,  and  role  of  various 
intermediaries  such  as  brokers,  merchant  bankers,  registrars, 
transfer  agents, 
underwriters etc. Potentially risky areas such as margin trading and derivatives need to 
be flagged. Various instruments such as shares, mutual funds units, corporate bonds, 
pension plans etc. needs to be explained.  
 
In  the  same  way,  bank  related  financial  education  should  consist  of  details  such  as 
responsibilities under Negotiable Instruments Act, precautions while dealing with ATMs 
and net banking, fundamentals of payment system, lockers and safe custody, loans and 
guarantees,  fixed  versus  floating  rates  of  loans  etc.  Insurance  has  to  cover  the  basic 
concepts  related  to  Insurance  Sector;  life  and  non  life  including  adequacy  of  cover, 
need to pay regular premium etc. Retirement planning should be targeted to all persons 
in  earning  age  bracket  with  roles  of  Pension  Fund  Manager  (PFM)  /  annuity  service 
providers. The composition of various investment portfolio mix e.g. equity, debt, mutual 
funds  etc.  need  to  be  explained.  Sector  focused  financial  education  has  to  be  totally 
product neutral. This could be achieved by carefully designing the content. The risk of 
misselling and steps to ensure understanding of appropriate and suitable products and 
services also need to be highlighted in sector focused financial education. 
 
Considering  their  expertise  and  mandate,  each  regulator  shall  be  responsible  for   
designing/monitoring  of  study  material  and  implementation  of  this  objective  in  their 
respective areas. For example, RBI shall be responsible for banking sector while SEBI 
shall  be  responsible  for  securities  markets.  Similarly,  IRDA  and  PFRDA  would  be 
responsible  for  insurance  and  pension  related  education  efforts.  Support  for  content 
development and monitoring shall be provided as envisaged in Section IV. 

 

 
 

3.  Product Education 

17 

 
Finally, when a financial sector consumer is buying a product or is being convinced to 
buy a product, it is necessary that he may be educated about the particular product that 
is being sold. Product education has to be neutral between the various available options 
within that product range. In view of the above the best agency for delivery of product 
education  would  be  the  respective  industry  association.  Thus  IBA,  AMFI,  FIMMDA, 
FEDAI etc have to play an important role in this through general campaigns or through 
ensuring availability of comparative knowledge at points of sale. 
  
The  more  important  part  of  the  product  education  lies  with  the  manufacturer  of  the 
product  himself.  In  the  financial  products,  it  will  translate  into  the  manufacturer  i.e. 
banks,  insurance  companies,  Mutual  Funds,  Stock  Exchanges,  Pension  Funds  etc 
taking  the  responsibility  of  educating  the  buyer  about  the  appropriateness  of  the 
product, performance under various possible scenarios, charge structure through simple 
examples. It may be noted that the product education can be and should be delivered 
primarily at the point of sale.  
 
The  role  of  the  respective  regulator  will  be  to  ensure  that  the  product  manufacturers 
impart product education in general and at the point of sale in particular. Further, the 
regulators will have to ensure that the product education is comprehensive while being 
simple and true. 
Awareness  of  Consumer  protection  and  grievance  redressal  measures:  This  would 
primarily  be  the  responsibility  of  regulators,  Ministry  of  Finance  and  Ministry  of 
Consumer affairs etc. All stakeholders need to provide knowledge about and access to 
various consumer protection and grievance redressal machinery like sector ombudsman 
and consumer courts etc. 
 
 
 

 

 

18 

B.  Content of Financial Education 

 
1.  Attitude  
Attitude  training  should  also  form  a  part  of  financial  education.  In  certain  population 
groups, not caring for the future and living for the moment might be dominating values. 
Such attitudes are inimical to long term financial well being. Financial education must 
seek to impart responsible attitudes. 
 
2.  Financial Competencies 
A core group of financial competencies such as interest calculation, compounding, time 
value of money etc. needs to be identified and suitably incorporated. Achieving these 
will be the primary aim of financial education. 
 
3.  Risk Assessment and Confidence 
Most  of  the  time  people  are  not  able  to  achieve  financial  well  being  because  of  their 
inability to properly assess the true risk in a deal. They lack the confidence to take a 
well thought out risk and their financial assets consistently under perform. Building such 
confidence should be part of financial education. 
 

C.  Financial Education for the Illiterate 

 
Illiterate persons are in most dire need of financial education. Illiterate people need not 
have to wait for alphabet knowledge as money has its own language, in the sense that 
even illiterates understand the importance, value and uses of money. In our attempt to 
spread financial education we usually target the literate persons. The illiterate go under 
the  radar.  The  traditional  curriculum,  methodology  and  delivery  channels  have  to  be 
different and innovative for giving financial education to the illiterate. As argued earlier 
we need to impart simple messages of financial prudence like importance of savings, 
borrowing  within  limits  and  using  formal  financial  intermediaries.  Adult  education 
methodologies  like  Role  plays,  charts,  informal  discussions,  games,  and  other  audio 
visual modes of communication would also be ideal for such groups. 

 

 
 

19 

D.  Delivery Channels for Financial Education 

 
1.  School Curriculum  
Governments have recognized that financial education should start at school and that 
people  should  be  educated  about  financial  matters  as  early  as  possible  in  their  lives. 
OECD  has  developed  Guidelines  aimed  at  providing  high-level  international  and  non 
binding  guidance  to  assist  policymakers  and  interested  stakeholders  in  designing, 
introducing  and  developing  efficient  financial  education  programmes  in  schools.  Such 
Guidelines  can  thus  be  adapted  as  necessary  to  national  or  other  jurisdictional 
circumstances and in particular curriculum and diversity of educational systems.  

The guidelines specify a consistent and suitable framework for integration of financial 
education  into  school  curricula.  It  includes  making  financial  education  in  school 
programmes,  developing  appropriate,  tailored  and  quantifiable  goals,  keeping  the 
implementation flexible, identifying suitability and sustainability of resources, monitoring 
progress and impact, ensuring suitable involvement of important key stakeholders, like 
government, public authorities and educational systems. 
 
It needs to clearly be specified that the financial education would not be another subject 
taught  in  the  schools.  What  is  needed  is  appropriate  integration  in  the  school 
curriculum.  For  example,  arithmetic  curriculum  in  school  already  has  elements  of 
financial  education  such  as  percentage,  interest,  compounding,  discount  etc.  these 
need to be presented in a  modern setting that the students and the teachers will be 
able  to  identify  with.  Similarly,  moral  science  courses  could  have  content  which  are 
based on day to day financial transactions. 
 
Financial  education  is  important  life  skill.  Therefore,  our  educational  system  should 
equip  students  with  these  necessary  life  skills,  without  which,  education  will  be 
incomplete. In our country there are many students who do not get opportunity to study 
beyond school level. This is truer in case of girl students. One must keep it in mind that 
for  such  students,  this  could  be  the  last  opportunity  in  life  to  get  formal  inputs  on 

 

20 

 
Financial  Education.  An  annexure  indicating  probable  topics  for  school  curriculum  is 
enclosed. 
The  Central  Board  of  Secondary  Education  (CBSE)  has  appreciated  the  need  of 
financial literacy as an important step to handle personal finance in present and adult 
life in an informed and skilful way. The CBSE has agreed, in principle, to introduce it in 
an  integral  manner  in  school  education  (Post  Primary  Level)  and  to  facilitate  the 
process, a committee of experts has been constituted. 
 
2.  Social Marketing  
Various ministries of Government of India have undertaken commendable programs of 
social marketing such as polio and small pox eradication, prevention of child marriage, 
preventing female foeticide etc. These campaigns can serve as models for conducting 
social marketing initiatives in financial education. 
 
There is possibility of making use of  

•  Dedicated Financial Education websites 
•  News papers 
•  Radio and Television 
•  Use of Social Networking Websites like Facebook and Twitter 
•  Books / magazines in ‘Cartoon Format’ for young people 

 
3.  Resource Persons  
The model undertaken by SEBI to impart financial education is by engaging Resource 
Persons across the country for various target groups. This initiative needs to be taken 
further and scaled up exponentially. Another easily scalable model as mentioned earlier 
for large sections of poor people could be conducting literacy courses across country 
through rural branches and LDMs of banks. 
 
4.  Adult Education 
Financial education should form an integral part of the adult education. 
 

 

21 

Integrated communication channels 

 
5.  Self Help Groups and others 
Some  of  the  Self  Help  Groups  have  helped  in  spread  of  financial  education  as  its 
discipline requires the groups to maintain accounts and make budgets. The good work 
needs to be carried forward and put on a firm basis. 
 
6.  Microfinance Institutions  
Many  NGOs  have  been  running  successful  financial  education  programs  for  their 
borrowers.  These  programs  need  to  be  dovetailed  into  overall  strategy  for  people  in 
other areas. 
 
7. 
While the channels like TV, Radio, Print and internet should be exploited fully; there is a 
need  to  leverage  the  existing  extension  works  and  projects  carried  out  by  various 
ministries  such  as  efforts  of  agriculture  ministry  to  spread  knowledge  through 
panchayats etc.  
 
8.  Helpline 
There is a need of multi lingual, toll free helpline where an investor/ customer / client 
can call and get friendly assistance / support. It should be like a friend who is available 
to guide you in case of difficulties. All regulators can think of such initiative, if they have 
not already thought of it. It can play an important role in Financial Education. 
 
9.  Other Channels 
 There is possibility of making use of other established channels 

Investors Associations 

•  Consumers Associations 
• 
•  Association of Policy Holders 
•  Deposit holders association 

Above  mentioned  associations  are  already  doing  work  related  to  making  their 
association  members  aware  of  their  rights  and  responsibilities  in  a  particular 
product category. They can further the cause of Financial Education. 

 

22 

•  Stock Exchanges, AMFI, ANMI, SROs associated with regulators 
•  Regulated  intermediaries  like  Banks,  DPs,  brokers,  PFMs,  Annuity  service 
providers  etc.  can  play  important  part  in  making  a  person financially educated. 
They  can  make  their  consumers/  clients  /  investors  aware  of  their  rights  and 
responsibilities. This can be done as part of product selling process. 

 

 

 

23 

Section IV 

A.  Institutional Arrangement 

The entire policy is sought to be implemented through existing institutional mechanism  

The existing technical Group of Sub-Committee of FSDC on Financial Inclusion and 
Financial Literacy could be morphed into this. This group shall be responsible for 
periodic monitoring and implementation of National Strategy for Financial Education 
 
National  Institute  of  Financial  Education  (NIFE)  could  be  a  specialized  institute 
under    National  Institute  of  Securities  Markets  (NISM)  reporting  to  the  Technical 
group for implementation of National Strategy for Financial Education.  
 
Representative of relevant regulators shall be members of the NIFE. All regulators 
shall provide funds and manpower to NIFE for implementation of National Strategy 
for Financial Education 

The main role of NIFE shall be to create financial education material for respective 
financial  sectors.  NIFE  shall  also  create  and  maintain  a  website  exclusively  for 
financial  education.  All  the  regulators  and  ministries  websites  shall  have  a  link  to 
the  NIFE  website.  NIFE  website  shall  have  the  details  of  various  education 
programmes  conducted  across  the  country,  financial  education  material  including 
brochures,  FAQs,  videos  etc.  All  educative  materials  prepared  by  individual 
organizations  shall  also  be  made  available  on  the  NIFE  website.  The  website 
should  be  a  one  stop  repository  for  all  financial  education  activities  and  material. 
The website should also be made available in various regional languages.  

 

 

 
The proposed institutional flow chart is given below 

24 

 

 

 

 

 

FSDC 

Sub-Committee of 

FSDC

Technical group on Financial 
Inclusion and Financial Literacy 

MoF for 

Facilitation /  
MHRD for 

Implementation 

 

Basic Financial 
Education (FE) 
through schools 

Other 

Ministries 

RBI 

Basic (FE) for 

adults 

Sector specific 

Product 
specific 

SEBI 

IRDA 

PFRDA 

Basic (FE) for 

adults 

Basic (FE) 
for adults 

Basic (FE) 
for adults 

Sector specific 

Sector specific 

Sector specific 

Product 
specific 

Product 
specific 

Product 
specific 

 
Representatives from 
 
CBSE, NCERT and 

two SCERTs 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NIFE under 

NISM 

Data collection 
and monitoring 

of FE 

Development 

of content 

Research 

 

 

 

 

 

Maintenance of 

financial education 

website 

 

 

 

 

Guidance to Regulators 

25 

Section V 

Guidance 

•  Extend  help  to  National  Institute  of  Financial  Education  (NIFE  in  design  of 

content of Basic Financial Literacy programmes. 

•  Extend help to NIFE by way of domain expertise by way of deputing experts for 

short duration. 

•  Extend help to NIFE by acting as interlocutor and facilitator between NIFE and 

the regulated entities. 

•  Use  its  resources  for  spreading  Financial  Education,  both  Basic  Financial 

Literacy and Sector Specific Financial Education through various channels.  

•  Create a Financial Education Cell or Department to lay down the content of the 
sector  specific  financial  education  that  would  act  as  source  material  both  for 
NIFE  and  the  Commercial  Financial  Institutions  while  spreading  Financial 
Education. In areas where there is no active Industry Associations, the regulators 
will also develop the content of the Financial Education.  

•  Create  clear  guidelines  for  product  development  by  Commercial  Financial 

Institutions and lay down parameters for product education. 

•  They should submit reports in prescribed formats to NIFE on a regular basis on 

their activities in the field of Financial Education. 

 

Guidance to Industry Associations 

•  To  develop  the  content  of  the  sector  specific  financial  education  within  the 
framework  laid  down  by  the  sectoral  regulator.  The  content  should  be  freely 
shared through a website open for all.  

•  Use  its  resources  for  spreading  Financial  Education,  both  Basic  Financial 
Literacy  and  Sector  Specific  Financial  Education  through  various  channels  on 
their own accord and through the good offices of their members. 

•  While conducting a programme on Basic Financial Literacy, to use the content 

developed by NIFE. 

•  To ensure that their resources are not used for promoting specific products.  
•  They should submit reports in prescribed formats to NIFE on a regular basis on 

their activities in the field of Financial Education. 
  

Guidance to Commercial Financial Institutions including Microfinance Institutions 

 

26 

•  To  understand  that  their  most  important  contribution  to  Financial  Education  is 
through  a  professional  level  product  education  that  will  allow  the  consumer  to 
make informed choices. 

•  They  may  as  a  part  of  their  corporate  social  responsibility  help  the  Industry 
Association  in  spreading  both  the  Basic  Financial  Literacy  and  Sector  Specific 
Financial  Education.  However,  they  have  to  strictly  adhere  to  the  content 
developed  by  NIFE  and  the  Industry  Associations  /  Sectoral  Regulator 
respectively.  

•  They should submit reports in prescribed formats to NIFE on a regular basis on 

their activities in the field of Financial Education. 

 

 

Guidance to Self Help Groups and other Groups 

•  They may participate in spreading Financial Education, both the Basic Financial 
Literacy  and  the  Sector  Specific  Education  according  to  their  inclination. 
However, they should strictly stick to the content developed by the NIFE and the 
Industry Association / Sectoral Regulator respectively. 

•  They should submit reports in prescribed formats to NIFE on a regular basis on 

their activities in the field of Financial Education. 

Guidance to Other Authorities 

•  Other authorities such as education authorities, agricultural and health extension 
services  may  like  to  participate  and  to  extend  their  infrastructure  in  spreading 
Financial  Education.  While  making  these  efforts  they  should,  however,  stick  to 
the content developed by NIFE or the Industry Association/ Sectoral Regulator. 

 

 

 

 

27 

List of Topics for School Curriculum 

 

Annexure 

1.  Money 

 

a.  History of Money 
b.  Barter System 
c.  Importance and Concept of money 
d.  Coins 
e.  Paper money 
f.  Plastic Money 
g.  E –Money 
 

2.  Household Economics 

 

a.  Earnings 
b.  Nature of Earnings 
c.  Needs and Wants 
d.  List your expenses 
e.  Find Simple ways to save money 
f.  Expenditure, Cost and Prices, Inflation 
g.  Savings & Thrift 
h.  What you save is what you earn 
i.  Borrowing   - Mild Definition 
j. 
Investment - Mild Definition 
k.  Interest -- Mild Definition 
l. 

Interest rate -- Mild Definition 

 

3.  Banking   

a.  Definition 
b.  Role of a Bank - in growth of saving and Investment 
c.  Types of banks 
d.  Services offered by banks 
e.  Deposits and Loans 
f.  Types of A/c 
g.  Opening a bank A/c 
h.  How to Transact with banks 
i.  KYC norms - (A/c opening form, Address Proof) 
j.  How to read bank statement 
k.  Banking products and services 
l.  Net Banking 
m. Calculating Interest --Saving, FD, Simple and Compound Interest 
n.  Power of compounding 
o.  Loans 

 

 

28 

p.  Types of loans 
q.  Definition of EMI 
r.  Calculation of EMI 
s.  Difference between Banks and Money lenders 
t.  Micro Finance 
u.  How to make a complaint -Banking complaints 
v.  Ombudsman 
w.  Basic of Foreign Exchange 
x.  Importance and Use of Foreign Exchange 
y.  Check Counterfeit Currency 
z.  CIBIL 
aa. Regulator – Role of RBI 
 

4.  Investment 

 

a.  Piggy bank 
b.  Principles of Investment- Safety, liquidity and return 
c.  Bank saving 
d.  FD, RD, Post Office Savings 
e.  POMIS, NSC 
f.  PPF 
g.  NPS 
h.  Bonds and debentures 
i.  Shares 
j.  Mutual funds 
k.  Gold and Silver 
l.  Real estate 
m. Arts and other investments 
n.  Commodities 
o.  Asset allocation 
p.  Risk and Return 
q.  Basics of Investment- liquidity, credit 
r.  Compounding and Time value of money 
s.  Nominal and Real Return(Inflation) 
t.  Effect of taxes 
u.  Long term v/s Short term 
 

5.  Behaviour Aspects 

a.  Concept of Needs and wants 
b.  Helping the needy 
c.  Spend wisely v/s waste spending 
d.  Conspicuous Consumption-lavish 
e.  Impulsive spending 
f.  What you save is what you earn 
g.  Using money responsibly 
h.  Avoiding cash payments 

 

29 

Insisting on bills 

i. 
j.  Dangers of excessive borrowing 
k.  Repayment of loans 
l.  Make informed choices 
m. Ownership of your financial decision 
n.  Take care of your old ones 
o.  Tax payment 
p.  Insider Trading 
q.  Up Keep your Financial records 
r.  Free advise may be injurious 
 

6.  Financial Planning  

a.  Meaning 
b.  Household financial health check up 
c.  Important life stages 
d.  Education 
e.  Medical and other Emergencies 
f.  Social obligations 
g.  Goal setting 
h.  Budgeting 
i.  Marriage 
j.  Buying a house 
k.  Buying a vehicle 
l.  Plan a vacation 
m. Retirement planning 
n.  Price of procrastination 

7.  Insurance 

a.  Meaning 
b.  Need and Purpose 
c.  Loss protection 
d.  Life ,non life and health 
e.  Benefits of Insurance 
f.  Term plans 
g.  Investment plans 
h.  Hybrid plans -Ulip etc 
i.  Agents, advisors 
j.  Role of Insurance companies 
k.  Regulator - IRDA 
l.  Ombudsman 
m. How to take a new policy 
n.  How to revive old policy 
o.  Transaction cycle 
p.  Nomination 
q.  Assignment 

 

 

 

30 

r.  Claims settlement 
s.  Exclusions 
t.  Difference between Insurance and Investment 

 

 

8.  Retirement and Estate planning 

 

a.  Concept 
b.  PPF, EPF, Gratuity, NPS, SCSS 
c.  Financial need after retirement 
d.  Three Stages -Saving, Accumulating and Dis-saving  
e.  Calculation of Corpus required after retirement 
f.  Protection from Inflation 
g.  Reverse Mortgage 
h.  Definition of will 
i.  Making a will 
 

9. Securities markets 

 

a.  Entrepreneurship 
b.  Forms of Business enterprises 
c.  Company definition 
d.  Shares 
e.  Primary market - Reading a prospectus, what to read 
f.  Secondary market 
g.  Issuers, Investor and Intermediaries 
h.  Regulator - Role of SEBI 
i.  Dealing in Securities market 
j.  Demat account and Depository 
k.  ASBA 
l.  Broker 
m. Stock exchange 
n.  Grievance and Redressal 
o.  Financial Advisor, CA, CFP, CPFA 
p.  Basic terms and processes in Securities Market 
q.  Market rumors and tips 
r.  Sources of reliable information 
s.  What are indices ( Sensex and Nifty) 
t. 

 Investment v/s Speculation 

 

10. Use of Technology Do and Don'ts 

a.  Password protection 
b.  NEFT and RTGS 
c.  ATM  
d.  Online trading 
e.  Internet banking 
f.  Need for keeping mobile number with banks 

 

31 

g.  Three in one account 
h.  Need of protecting your online account 
i.  Functioning of stock exchanges 
j.  Depository working mechanism 
k.  Algorithmic trading 
l.  Financial functions using excel 

 

 

11. Scams, Frauds and Ponzi Schemes 

a.  Free tips 
b.  Insider trading 
c.  Money laundering 
d.  Phishing mail about winning a lottery 
e.  Price rigging 
f.  Dabba trading 
g.  Bogus companies 
h.  Multi level marketing 
i.  Schemes not regulated by anyone 
j.  Real Estate frauds 
k.  Banking and credit card scams 
l.  Preventive measures from getting duped 

12. Borrowings Need for borrowing 

a.  Need for borrowing Source of borrowing 
b.  Merit and demerits of borrowing 
c.  How much to borrow 
d.  Avoid life of credit 
e.  Comparing interest rate on loan offering 
f. 
g.  Avoid default 
h.  Avoid borrowing for conspicuous consumption 
i.  Credit cards - Merits and Demerits 
 

Importance of timely payment 

13. Consumer protection and redressal mechanism 

a.  Rights of Consumers 
b.  Applicable to Financial services  
c.  Filing a complaint 
d.  Complain to entity concerned 
e.  Ombudsman 
f.  Regulators 
g.  Arbitration 
h.  Consumer courts 
i.  Govt. Websites -(PG Portals) 
j. 

Investor Associations 

 

 

 

 
14. Taxes 

 

32 

a.  Meaning 
b.  Need of taxes 
c.  Types of taxes 
d.  How taxes impact income 
e.  Income, wealth and gift tax 
f.  Service tax, STT, Stamp Duty 
g.  Tax planning v/s tax evasion 
h.  Tax rates 
i.  Tax free bonds  
j.  Tax saving investment 

 

15. Importance of maintaining financial records 

a.  PAN and its utility 
b.  Aadhar card 
c.  Demat Account 
d.  Bank statements and passbooks 
e.  Insurance policies 
f.  Tax return 
g.  Property documents 
h.  Helpline numbers of service providers 

 

 

