Discussion paper on 'Proposed modifications to the existing framework for 

buy back through open market purchase' 

 

 

 

Background 

(I) 

 

(II) 

Section  77A  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  contains  the  basic  framework  for 
companies to buy back its own securities. Section 77A (5) provides the methods 
of buy back .Excerpts from the same are reproduced below: 

“The buy-back under sub-section (1) may be - 
(a) from the existing security holders on a proportionate basis ; or 
(b) from the open market ; or 
(c)  from  odd  lots,  that  is  to  say,  where  the  lot  of  securities  of  a  public 
company,  whose  shares  are  listed  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange,  is 
smaller than such marketable lot, as may be specified by the stock exchange 
; or 
(d)  by  purchasing  the  securities  issued  to  employees  of  the  company 
pursuant to a scheme of stock option or sweat equity.” 
 

Further,  Section  77A  (2)  (f)  gives  power  to  SEBI  to  frame  regulations  in  this 
regard.  Accordingly,  the  existing  framework  for  buy  back  through  open  market 
purchase is being reviewed. 
 

Buy back is usually resorted to due to following reasons: 

  Return surplus cash to the shareholders 
  Support share price during periods of temporary weakness 
 

Increase the underlying share value 
 

 

Reasons for review 
It  has  been  observed  that  buy  back  through  open  market  has  failed  to  achieve  its 
objectives in spirit, due to the following reasons: 

a)  Section 77A(4) of the Companies Act, 1956 specifies that every buy back shall 
be  completed  within  a  period  of  12  months.  Companies,  instead  of  fixing  a 
definitive period for buyback, usually keep the buyback offer open for the entire 
period  of  12  months.  However,  even  after  keeping  the  buyback  offer  open  for 

 

1 | P a g e  

such  a  long  time,  there  have  been  instances  where  companies  did  not  buy  a 
single  share  or  failed  to  achieve  the  minimum  buyback  quantity.  It  has  been 
observed  that  the  companies  place  buy  orders  at  their  discretion  instead  of 
placing them on regular basis and that too at a price away from the market price. 
 

b)  There are no explicit provisions in the Companies Act, 1956 or in the SEBI (Buy 
back  of  Securities)  Regulations,  1998  regarding  the  price  or  quantity  for  which 
the  company  shall  place  orders  for  buying  back  its  shares  or  the  periodicity  of 
placement of such orders. Therefore, on which days, for how long and in what 
quantity the company will buy back its shares is entirely at the discretion of the 
company’s management. This lack of clarity is further burdened with the fact that 
disclosure is not made to the public shareholders as to how the discretion will be 
exercised  and  what  are  consideration/basis  guiding  the  management  in  this 
regard. 
 

c)  It  has  also  been  observed  that  many  companies  took  shareholders/board 
approval for buyback proposals and in some cases even published public notice 
but did not take a single step to buy the shares.  
 

d)  The  company  discloses  the  maximum  price  only  and  eventually  purchases  the 
shares near market price which could be significantly lower than the announced 
price.  This  may  convey  a  misleading  message  to  the  shareholders  and  to  the 
market. Moreover, buy back from open market has not proved to be beneficial to 
the shareholders as against the tender offer method in which the company buys 
back shares at a premium to the market price. 
 

e)  It has been observed that in 75 buyback cases through open market purchases, 
which closed during the last three financial years (from April 01, 2007 to March 
31,  2010),  an  average  of  49.91%  of  the  maximum  offer  size  (as  disclosed  in 
public announcement to shareholders) was utilized by the companies for the buy 
back.  This  suggests  that  despite  the  intention  disclosed  by  companies  to  their 
shareholders at the time of making buyback offer, the buyback offer is not used 
as an opportunity for enhancing the book value of the shares of the company.  
 

f)  In view of the above, the following 'Modifications to the existing framework for 

buy back through open market purchase are proposed: 

 

 

Proposed Broad Framework for buy back through open market purchase 
 
 

 

2 | P a g e  

1.  Minimum buy back quantity: 

1.1  Pursuant  to  the  order  of  the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  dated 
26.09.2008 in the matter of Sasken Communications Limited and after 
observing instances of companies not buying a single share or buying 
negligible  quantity  after  buy-back  announcement, 
the  Merchant 
Bankers  are  being  advised  to  ensure  that  a  minimum  of  25%  of 
maximum buy-back proposed/disclosed n bought back.  
 
The  aforesaid  measure  has  resulted  in  significant  increase  in  the 
percentage  of  buy-back  quantity  as  may  be  seen  from  the  following 
table : 

1.2 

 

 

Year wise data on Buy-back offers made through Open Market 
Purchase method: 

Year 
(Financial) 

No. 
of 
buy-back 
offers 
in 
open 
market 
purchase  

2007-08 

2008-09 

2009-10 

05 

46 

19 

Maximum 
number 
shares 
proposed 
be 
back 

of 

to 
bought 

Actual 
number 
shares 
bought back 

of 

GAP 

of 

% 
actual 
number 
of 
shares 
bought 
back 

565,274,864 

  35,315,529 

6.25%  93.75% 

207,831,628 

100,916,878 

48.56%  51.44% 

127,777,318 

50,262,919 

39.34%  60.66% 

117,506,824 

20010-11  12 
Note:  In  two  cases  of  buy-back  offers  in  2009-10,  companies  failed  to 
purchase even single share as market price was higher than maximum price 
of offer and hence, excluded from the data.  

60.58%  39.42% 

  71,183,267 

1.3 

 
From the above table, it can be inferred that companies on an average 
have bought back 49.96% of the maximum quantity proposed for buy-
back  in  the  financial  years  2009  -10  and  2010-11  after  the  aforesaid 
prescription.  Taking  the  above  into  consideration,  it  is  proposed  to 
mandate 50% as the minimum quantity. 

 

3 | P a g e  

2.  Maximum period to complete the  buy back: 

 
2.1.  Section 77A(4) of the Companies Act, 1956 prescribes that every buy 
back shall be completed within twelve months from the date of passing 
the  special  resolution  or    a  resolution  passed  by  the  Board  under 
clause  (b)  of  sub  section  (2).  It  has  been  observed  from  the  data 
pertaining to buy back for FY 2009-10 and 2010-11 that the companies 
on  an  average,  have  bought  back  around  62%  of  the  proposed 
buyback size. Of the above, around 49% have been bought back in the 
first 3 months itself. 
 
In  view  of  the  above,  it  can  be  inferred  that  the  companies  may  not 
need  such  a  long  period  to  complete  the  buyback  offer  although 
Companies Act,1956  provides for 12 months. Moreover, it is evident 
that  the  companies  which  were  serious  about  the  buyback  program 
have  been  able  to  buy  back  a  significant  portion  of  the  proposed 
buyback within first 3 months.  
 

2.2. 

2.3.  Thus, it is proposed that companies complete the buy back in 3 
months.  To  ensure  that  only  serious  companies  launch  the 
buyback program, it is further proposed that these companies be 
mandated to put 25% of the maximum amount proposed for buy 
back in an escrow account. 
 
 

3.  Post  buy back obligations 

 
3.1. Section 77A(8) states that where a company completes a buy back of its 
shares or other specified securities , it shall not make further issue of the 
same kind of shares (including allotment of further shares under Section 
81(1)(a) ) within a period of six months except by way of bonus issue or 
in the discharge of subsisting obligations such as conversion of warrants , 
stock option schemes , sweat equity or conversion of preference shares 
or debentures into equity shares. 
 

3.2. It  is  understood  that  the  companies  usually  launch  buyback  programs 
when  they  have  idle  cash  resources  and  there  are  no  attractive 
investment  opportunities  in  the  foreseeable  future.  Section  77A  (8)  of 
Companies Act, 1956 prohibited raising  additional capital for a period of 
to  6  months  vide 
24  months  which  was  subsequently  reduced 

 

4 | P a g e  

amendment dated October 23,2001.and the same was only amended in 
2001.  
 

3.3. It  is  therefore,  proposed  that  listed  companies  coming  out  with 
buyback programs may not be allowed to raise further capital for a 
period of two years. 
 
 

4.  Disincentive for not completing the buyback program successfully  

 
4.1. Section  77A(2)  of  the  Companies  Act,1956  prohibits  only  back  to  back 
buy  backs  through  board  resolution  i.e.  a  company  can  come  for 
subsequent buy backs through shareholder’ resolution. 
 

4.2. In  order  to  ensure  that  the  companies  do  not  launch  buyback 
programs  for  stabilizing  the  share  price,  it  is  proposed  that 
companies  who  are  not  able  to  buy  back  100%  of  the  proposed 
amount (or the proposed maximum number of shares) may not be 
allowed  to  come  with  another  buyback  for  a  period  of  atleast  one 
year irrespective of the mode of approval for buy back.  
 
 

5. Rationalisation of ongoing disclosure requirements: 

 
5.1. The extant regulations prescribe the following disclosure requirements for    

i.  Shares bought back, to the stock exchanges on daily basis by merchant 

open market purchase method: 

banker as well as the company 

ii.  Shares bought back on fortnightly basis and every time an additional 5% 
of  maximum  shares  on  offer  were  bought  back  through  publication  in 
national daily. 

iii.  Disclosure of post buy-back details on completion of buy back through 

publication in national daily. 
 

5.2. It  is  noted  that  other  jurisdictions  require  detailed  disclosures  regarding 
the number of shares yet to be bought back, the amount yet to be utilized 
and the average price paid per share, etc., during the buy-back process. 
The  aforesaid  disclosures  also  form  part  of  the  quarterly  filings,  annual 
filings, and director’s report and along with the disclosure of any material 
event  during  the  buy-back  program  by  the  companies.  It  appears  that 

 

5 | P a g e  

such  disclosure  requirements  have  also  contributed 
the  high 
percentage of buy-back quantity with respect to the proposed quantity in 
other jurisdictions. 
 

to 

5.3. In view of the same, the following is proposed: 
i.  The company shall disclose the number of shares purchased and the 

amount utilized to the exchanges on daily basis. 

ii.  The  company shall disclose the following details regarding the buy- 
back offer  to the exchanges on monthly basis and also include the 
same while publishing quarterly and annual results –  

a.  Total number of shares proposed to be bought back in the offer. 
b.  Cumulative number of shares bought back till the end of previous 

reporting period and amount utilised for the same. 

c.  Number of shares bought back during the current reporting period 

and amount utilised for the same.  

d.  Cumulative  number  of  shares  bought  back  till  the  end  of  the 

current reporting period and amount utilised for the same (b+c).  

e.  Number  of  shares  yet  to  be  bought  back  and  amount  yet  to  be 

utilised. 

f.  Cumulative  number  of  shares  extinguished  and  destroyed  till  the 

end of previous reporting period. 

g.  Number  of  shares  extinguished  and  destroyed  during  the  current 

reporting period  

h.  Cumulative  number  of  shares  extinguished  and  destroyed  till  the 

end of the current reporting period (f+g). 
 

iii.  It  is  felt  that  the  current  requirement  of  publishing  the  disclosures  in  the 
news  papers  on  fortnightly  basis  and  every  time  an  additional  5%  of 
maximum shares on offer were bought back only adds to the cost of buy-
back  program.  In  view  of  the  above  and  in  view  of  the  same  being 
included  as  part  of  quarterly  financial  results  which  are  published,  it  is 
proposed to do away with the requirement of fortnightly publication. 
  

iv.  In addition, the companies have to disclose on a monthly basis why the 
proportionate  quantity  was  not  bought  during  the  month,  wherever 
applicable.  
 
 
 
 

 

6 | P a g e  

6.  Limit for open market method: 

 

6.1. In  open  market  purchase  method  of  buy-back,  which  spans  over  a 
maximum  period  of  12  months,  the  shares  are  bought  back  at  the 
prevailing  market  price,  which  changes  with  the  market  conditions. 
However  in  tender  offer  method,  all  shares  are  bought  back  at  a  fixed 
price which is generally at a premium to the market price. Thus, the tender 
offer  method  of  buy-back  is  more  equitable  way  of  distributing  surplus 
funds with the companies to its shareholders.  
 

6.2. It  is  thus,  desirable  to  encourage  buy-back  using  tender  method  when 
larger  amount  of  the  company’s  surplus  funds  is  proposed  to  be 
distributed to its shareholders.  
 

6.3. In  view  of  the  above,  it  is  proposed  that  buy-back  of  15%  or  more  of 
(paid up capital + free reserves) must be only by way of a tender offer 
method. 
 

7.  Procedure  for  buy-back  of  physical  shares  (odd  lot)  in  Open  Market 

Purchase Method: 
 

7.1. The  extant  provisions  provide  that  provisions  pertaining  to  buyback 
through  tender  offer  shall  be  applicable  mutatis  mutandis  to  odd  lot 
shares. The physical shares are traded in a separate (Odd Lot) segment 
on the exchange. The Buy-back program requires companies to buy-back 
demat  as  well  as  physical  shares  and  accordingly  the  companies  place 
orders in normal as well as odd lot segment. However, data revealed that 
there  is  hardly  any  response  in  odd  lot  segment.  Physical  shares  in  the 
system  increase  regulatory  as  well  as  servicing  cost  for  the  company. 
SEBI's efforts have also been in the direction to reduce physical shares in 
the  system.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to  encourage  and  facilitate 
participation of shareholders holding physical shares in buy-back program, 
more so when open market buy-back is more popular among companies. 
 

7.2. In  tender  offer  method,  physical  share  certificates  are  accepted  directly 
and  after  necessary  verifications,  the  payment  is  made  and  the  share 
certificates are extinguished. Whereas in open market purchase method of 
buy-back,  there  are  many  barriers  for  holders  of  physical  shares  to 
participate in buy-back program which are given below: 

a.  Open market process is akin to trading in the secondary market.   

7 | P a g e  

 

Shareholders  have  to  approach  a  broker  for  placing  his  order  on 
the  exchange  for  participating  in  the  buy-back  program.  In  case 
holder of physical shares does not have a trading account, which 
would be most likely as such holders are not active investors, the 
person has to open a trading account first by complying with KYC 
norms before order can be placed. Moreover, the window for such 
purchases may be restricted to few centres, 
 

b.  Due to the fear of bad delivery of physical shares, the brokers too   
         may be reluctant to  put through such transactions. 
 

7.3. In order to mitigate the aforementioned problems in open market process, 

following changes are proposed – 
i.  Creation  of  separate  window  in  trading  system  for  buying 
physical  shares.  This  window  will  remain  open  only  during  the 
buy-back program. 
 

ii.   Shareholders holding 500 shares or less in physical form will be 
eligible to tender their shares in this window (It may be noted that 
the trading in Odd Lot Segment on the exchange is also limited to 
500 shares). 
 

iii.  Such shareholders may be permitted to tender shares to a broker 
designated for the purpose by the company, without the need to 
open  a  trading  account  or  strict  compliance  with  KYC  norms. 
However, 
the  requirement  of  PAN/Aadhar  may  be  made 
mandatory for such shareholders holding shares in the physical 
form. 
 

iv.  The shareholder can tender the shares to the designated broker 
directly  or  to  the  company,  who  can  then  put  the  transaction 
through the designated broker. 
 

v.  Buy-back  price  for  such  shareholders  may  be  volume  weighted 
average  price  (VWAP)  of  the  shares  bought  (in  the  normal 
segment)  during  the  calendar  week  in  which  such  shares  were 
received by the broker. In case no shares were bought back in the 
normal market during the aforesaid week, the last week when the 
company has bought may be considered. 
 

 

8 | P a g e  

vi.  The  Public  Announcement  shall  contain  information  mentioned 

above. 
 
 

8.  Removal  of  restriction  on  issuance  of  shares  pursuant  to  Employee 

Stock Option (ESOP) schemes during the buy-back offer: 
 

8.1  Companies  Act,1956  provides  that  a  company  shall  not  make 
issuance of  shares for a period of six months after completion of buy-back 
except by way of bonus or in discharge of subsisting obligations such as 
conversion of warrants, stock option schemes, sweat equity or conversion 
of preference shares or debentures into equity shares during this period.  
 
8.2 The Companies Act, 1956 is, however, silent about issuance of shares 
during buyback period. The regulations provide that the companies shall 
not issue any shares including by way of bonus till the date of closure of 
the  buy-back  offer.  There  have  been  requests  that  SEBI  may  consider 
relaxing the same at least in respect of Employees Stock Option (ESOP) 
schemes so that the employees can also participate. 
 
8.3  In  view  of  the  above,  it  is  proposed  that  the  issuance  of  shares 
pursuant  to  obligations  arising  out  of  Employee  Stock  Option 
schemes may be allowed during the buy-back period subject to the 
following- 
 
a)  the  shares  are  not  allotted  to  directors  and  key  managerial 

personnel of the company. 

b)  there is no acceleration in the vesting period. 

9.  Extinguishment of shares in buyback process: 

 

9.1. Companies  Act,  1956  provides  that  the  shares  bought  back  shall  be 
extinguished  within  seven  days  from  the  last  date  of  completion  of  buy-
back. The Regulations provides that extinguishment shall be done within 
fifteen  days  from  the  date  of  acceptance  subject  to  companies  ensuring 
that all shares bought back are extinguished within seven days from the 
last  date  of  completion  as  provided  in  the  Companies  Act,  1956.    The 
regulations  further  provide  that  the  companies  shall  furnish  a  certificate 
complying 
the  certificates 
extinguished to SEBI on a monthly basis. 

the  aforesaid  provision  and  details  of 

9 | P a g e  

 

 

 

9.2. In open market purchase method which spans over a period of up to 12 
months  companies  generally  extinguish  within  seven  to  fifteen  days  of 
payout  during  the  buy-back  period.  It  is  noted  that  in  open  market 
purchase  the  fifteen  days  time  period  for  extinguishment  and  frequent 
reporting requirements may be one of the reasons for the companies not 
purchasing frequently from the market. 
 

9.3. In  view  of 

the 

following 

the  above, 

is  proposed  regarding 
extinguishment  of  shares  in  open  market  purchase  method  of  buy-
back- 
 
i.  The companies shall extinguish/destroy shares bought back during 
the  month,  on  or  before  fifteenth  day  of  the  succeeding  month 
subject to the companies destroying the bought back shares in the 
last month within seven days of the completion of the offer. 
 

ii.  As detailed disclosure regarding extinguishment and destruction of 
shares  have  been  proposed  above,  the  existing  requirement  of 
furnishing  a  separate  certificate  by  the  company  to  SEBI  in  this 
regard may be done away with. 
 
 

10. Dealing in shares or other specified securities in the stock exchange 

during the period of buy back.  
 

as under: 

10.1.  Section 19(1)(e) of SEBI(Buy back of Securities) regulations, 1998 reads 

“The  company  shall  ensure  that  the  promoter  or  the  person  shall  not  deal  in 
the shares  or  other  specified  securities  of  the  company  in  the  stock  exchange 
during the period the buy-back offer is open.” 

10.2. This  regulation  prohibits  the  promoters  of  the  company  in  dealing  in  the 
securities of the company during the period when buy back is open. This 
restriction  has  been  imposed  as  the  promoters,  being  part  of  the 
management of the company, are generally in a position to influence the 
time and price in placing the orders during the buyback period.  
 

10.3. It is proposed to extend this restriction to dealing in the securities of 

the company in off –market as well. 

 

 

10 | P a g e  

 

Public Comments 

Comments  on  the  above  framework  may  be  emailed  on  or  before  January 
31,2013  to chitrab@sebi.gov.in/anindyakd@sebi.gov.in  or sent by post to:- 

Anindya Kumar Das 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department - Division of Corporate Restructuring 
Securities & Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East) 
Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +912226449616 

 

11 | P a g e  

