 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

Discussion Paper 

Discussion Paper : Risk Management – Safer Markets for Investors 

The core of risk management for any clearing corporation (CC) is collaterals (minimum of 50% in 

cash/cash equivalents including fixed deposits) deposited by the stockbroker or TMCM with the 

CC.  Participants  bring  risk  to  the  system  by  way  of  trades  which  the  CC  is  obligated  to  settle 

with  guarantee  and  the  CC  in  turn  tries  to  mitigate  this  risk  by  collateralization.  The  present 

system in India, as it has evolved, still has various unaddressed risks and there is scope to take 

further steps to mitigate them.  

Risk Management System in Indian Stock Exchanges 

The risk management system in case of Indian stock exchanges is based on two pillars. While 

margins calculated on open positions and collateral deposited against it forms the first line of 

defence,  deposit  based  capital  (base  minimum  capital,  liquid  networth)  given  by  trading 

member  (TM)/clearing  member  (CM)  becomes  the  second  line  of  defence  against  failure  of 

any market participant. 

As against net positions serving as the basis for levying margins on brokers for positions taken 

by  them  and  their  clients  as  implemented  in  other  jurisdictions,  in  India  VaR  (Value  at  Risk) 

based margins are imposed at a client level i.e. net for a client and gross across all clients for 

the  broker,  thereby  ignoring  any  netting-off  that  may  occur  between  client-client  and  client-

proprietary  positions.  VaR  based  margins  are  updated  5  times  per  day  to  keep  the  margin 

requirements in sync with the current level of market volatility. In addition to VaR based initial 

margins there are additional requirements specified, as a second level of defence, in the form 

of  an  exposure  margin/extreme  loss  margins  which  provides  extra  cushion  in  case  of  tail  risk 

events and finally mark-to-market losses are collected and paid in cash on a daily basis. 

Indian  stock  exchanges  have  a  deposit  based  capital  requirement  over  and  above  entry  level 

and  continuing  networth  criteria  for  market  participants  undertaking  the  trading/clearing 

activity.  Such  net  worth  requirements  vary  based  on  the  nature  of  the  business  activity, 

trading  or  clearing  or  both,  of  the  participant.  Further  in  addition  to  the  minimum  capital 

requirements,  Stock  Exchanges/Clearing  Corporations  have  been  empowered  to  collect 

additional deposits in order to satisfy itself on the parameter of credit risk. This is as against a 

balance  sheet  based  capital  adequacy  requirement  prevalent  in  many  other  jurisdictions.  In 

Europe,  market  participants  are  subject  to  European  Union  Capital  Adequacy  Directive  (an 

equivalent  of  the  Basel  Accord),  while  jurisdictions  like  the  U.S  and  Canada  practice  a  capital 

adequacy  regime  which  is  based  on  the  liquidity  or  net  capital  requirement  -an  approach 

requiring  securities  firms  to  maintain  minimum  levels  of  highly  liquid  assets  to  adequately 

satisfy all their obligations and provide a cushion against potential losses arising from general 

risks. 

 

Page 1 of 10 

 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

Discussion Paper 

Further,  the  extant  system  of  risk  management  could  be  fine  tuned  for  more  efficient  use  of 

capital  and  enhancing  safety  of  investors.  The  paper  highlights  four  such  steps  that  can  be 

considered: 

Incentivising Internet Based Trading models posing minimal risk 
Mitigation of risk to client collateral 
T+1 settlement as a measure to reduce overall risk in the system 

A. 
B. 
C. 
 
While it is true in general that trades pose risk to the CC which is mitigated by way of margins 

levied  against  which  collateral  is  collected,  the  risk  posed  by  trades  of  various  categories  of 

clients varies across categories of clients. An example of this is the category of internet based 

trading  (IBT)  clients  in  the  cash  segment  where  the  funds  or  securities  of  clients  are  upfront 

blocked  at  the  time  of  order  itself  thereby  posing  no  further  settlement  risk  to  the  CC.  The 

margining framework that has evolved for mitigation of risk to CC has given rise to another risk, 

the  risk  of  clients  losing  their  collateral  in  the  event  of  default/bankruptcy  of  the  broker  or 

TMCM, and accordingly there is a need to take steps to mitigate this.  

Further,  the  overall  risk  in  the  system  is  dependent  on  the  number  of  unsettled  trades  in  the 

system at any point of time. A shorter settlement cycle can go a long way in reducing the risk in 

the system.  

Each  of  these  issues  is  further  discussed  below  with  questions  formulated  to  elicit  responses 

from the reader. 

A.  Internet Based Trading model 

The  risk  management  practice  followed  for  non-leveraged  products  like  those  in  equity  cash 

segment, by some brokers offering Internet Based Trading (IBT) facility to their clients leads to 

such  trades  posing  minimal  risk  to  CC.  Typically,  such  brokers  are  financial  institutions  that 

operate as bank, broker and Depository Participant. The framework followed involves checking 

for availability of and blocking either 100% cash in the connected bank account in case of buy 

orders  or  shares  in  the  connected  demat  account  in  case  of  sell  orders.  Thus,  risk  posed  by 

trades  of  such  clients  to  the  broker  is  zero  as  there  is  an  order  level  check  for  availability  of 

funds/securities as well as blocking of the same on execution of the trades. However, broker is 

still required to post margin to CC for such trades as the funds or securities are with the broker 

and not the CC. Thus CC is still exposed to risk of default by the broker till the time pay-in has 

been made to CC. Even if the broker does an early pay-in of securities/funds, the margin freed 

up  by  such  early  pay-in  is  returned  back  by  the  CC  after  a  lag  of  time  and  not  as  soon  as  the 

early pay-in  has been made (though fresh positions can be taken on margin freed up). Also at 

times  the  brokers  hesitate  in  making  the  early  pay-in  during  the  day  till  the  end  of  trading  to 

 

Page 2 of 10 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

Discussion Paper 

ascertain  if  actual  pay-in  is  required  to  be  made  to  the  CC  as  the  final  obligations  to  CC  are 

computed on a net basis across obligations of all clients and proprietary positions. 

Since  the  funds  and  securities  of  clients  in  IBT  model  are  blocked  in  segregated  accounts  of 

clients, an arrangement for such zero risk trades with the CC may lead to potential lower costs. 

This will require that the CC has immediate visibility of the funds or securities blocked for pay-in 

as well as legal certainty of lien over such blocked funds or securities or that it will without fail 

be  tendered  at  the  time  of  pay-in.    Further,  as  the  model  involves  client  assets  kept  in 

segregated bank or demat account, the model also accords greater protection of client assets. 

Such a system may provide enormous benefit to such clients that are not doing day trading and 

only  investment  activity  both  in  terms  of  lower  trading  costs  and  high  safety  towards  their 

assets. 

Since  this  trade  model  brings  no  additional  risk  to  the  system,  there  is  a  case  to  incentivize 

more and more investors to use this model so as to reduce the overall risk in the system. Some 

of the incentives in this regard can be as follows: 

i.  Waiver  of  any  margin  requirements  by  the  CC  for  such  trade  model  as  the 

funds/securities are already blocked on behalf of CC.  

ii.  CC to release any blocked margin for IBT trades as soon as the early pay-in is made. 

iii.  As  IBT  trades  bring  no  risk  to  the  system,  such  trades  may  be  charged  lower  clearing 

charges by the CC. 

The  savings  due  to  such  incentives  may  then  be  passed  on  to  the  end  clients  in  the  form  of 

lower  brokerage  charges  or  deposit  charges  thereby  incentivizing  investors  to  use  the  IBT 

model. It is understood that in certain jurisdictions IBT has facilitated the spread of investment 

culture among retail investors. 

Issues for discussion 

1.  What  arrangement  can  be  put  in  place  by  designated  large  financial  institutions  in 
coordination  with  CC  to  ensure  legal  certainty  that  funds/securities  blocked  by  broker 

are without fail made available to CC at the time of pay-in? 

2.  Which of the above/combination of the above three incentives would be most effective 

in incentivising IBT mode in equity cash segment? 

3.  Are there any other suggestions in this regard? 
4.  Any other incentive mechanism for the same? 

 

Page 3 of 10 

 

 

 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

B.  Mitigation of risk to client collateral 

 
 

Discussion Paper 

While  Brokers/TMCMs  participate  in  securities  market  for  their  business,  clients  access 

securities  market  to  invest  their  savings.  The  risk  that  clients  face  in  securities  market  is  the 

price risk/market risk of the securities they invest in. Market structure should be sound enough 

not to expose clients to other risks (operational risk, credit risk of broker/TM). Changes to this 

effect  will  go  a  long  way  in  further  instilling  confidence  among  the  investors  in  the  securities 

market  framework  and  facilitate  greater  market  penetration.  One  such  risk  incidental  to 

participating in the securities market is the risk to client collateral, and needs to be mitigated. 

 

Extant SEBI guidelines for client collateral protection 

SEBI  has  mandated  segregation  of  client  money's/securities,  deposited  as  collateral  with 

broker/TMCM,  who  are  required  to  ensure  that  client  collateral  is  not  used  for  any  purposes 

other  than  meeting  the  respective  client’s  margin  requirements/pay-ins  while  maintaining 

records to ensure proper audit trail of client collateral. Further, broker/TMCMs are required to 

issue  a  daily  statement  of  collateral  utilization  to  clients for  their  transactions  in  cash  and 

derivative  segments  and  report  to  Exchange/CC,  the  margins  collected  for  client  trades  in 

derivatives segments. 

 

Recent events 

The debacles of MF Global and Peregrine have caused investors to lose their confidence in the 

present regulatory framework and regulatory bodies all over the world are considering various 

alternatives to safeguard client’s money effectively.  

 

In  this  regard,  the  recently  notified  CPSS-IOSCO  Principles  for  Financial  Market  Infrastructures 

(FMIs) cast the responsibility on CC to "effectively protect a  participant’s  customers’ positions 

and related collateral from the default or insolvency of that participant" by having segregation 

and portability arrangements. The following has been inter-alia recommended by CPSS-IOSCO: 

 

 

A  CCP  should,  at  a  minimum,  have  segregation  and  portability  arrangements  that 

effectively  protect  a  participant’s  customers’  positions  and  related  collateral  from  the 

default  or  insolvency  of  that  participant.  If  the  CCP  additionally  offers  protection  of  such 

customer  positions  and  collateral  against  the  concurrent  default  of  the  participant  and  a 

fellow customer, the CCP should take steps to ensure that such protection is effective.  

Collateral framework 

In the derivatives segments, for any client trade, client is mandated to give collateral, under the 

pain of penalty, to its broker/TMCM who in turn gives collateral to CC. This is in contrast to the 

 

Page 4 of 10 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

Discussion Paper 

cash  segment  where  no  such  stipulation  exists  upon  the  client.  Despite  the  daily  certification 

provided by CM to the CC that collateral placed against margin of each client has been collected 

from the client, the system of acknowledging the same by the CC does not exist. CCs in India do 

not  recognize  clients/client  collateral  and  obtain  an  undertaking  from  broker/TMCM  that  the 

collateral  provided  by  them  even  for  client  trades  belongs  to  the  broker/TMCM.  Thus,  for  a 

client trade, broker/TMCM can either: 

 a)  give  separate  collateral  to  CC  and  back-to-back  keep  the  client  collateral  with  itself.  It  is 

found  that  several  brokers  follow  a  good  practice  of  keeping  client  collateral  in  segregated 

accounts; or,  

b)  can  pass  on  the  collateral  received  from  client  to  CC  as  own  (broker’s/TMCM’s)  collateral 

after authorization from the client in this regard.  

 

While alternative (a) is sub-optimal in terms of costs due to maintaining twice the collateral as 

required (both at broker/TMCM end and at CC end), alternative (b) does not protect interests 

of  client  due  to  the  possibility  that  its  collateral  can  be  utilised  by  CC  on  default  of  the 

Broker/TMCM even when the client has fulfilled his obligation. Even in alternative (a), in view of 

the  fact  that  the  collateral  deposited  by  the  client  is  with  the  broker/TMCM  and  not  with  the 

CC,  protection  of  client’s  money  is  not  accorded  any  priority  within  the  Exchange/CC  system 

and  client  only  has  normal  legal  recourse  to  get  back  its  collateral.  The  framework  appears 

biased against clients in that while the interests of Broker/TMCM and CC are protected within 

the  CC  framework,  client  may  have  to  take  recourse  outside  the  CC  framework  to  protect  its 

interests which would also be at a higher cost and time delay. 

 

The  issue  of  client  collateral  protection  appears  to  be  in  a  trade-off  with  capital  efficiency  as 

seen in the alternatives (a) and (b) above. This trade-off may be due to the interpretation that 

client  securities  (one  part  of  client  collateral)  placed  with  the  broker  through  a  pledge  in  the 

Depository system cannot be reassigned to the CC thereby forcing clients to transfer securities 

to  the  demat  account  of  the  broker  for  onward  transmission  to  CC,  which  leaves  the  legal 

ownership of the client over its securities tenuous and unprotected. 

 

Proposed models  

Model A (with client collateral at an arm's length distance from broker/TM) 

CCs  to  provide  a  facility  wherein  clients  can  deposit  collateral  with  designated  Professional 

Clearing Members (PCMs) (PCMs are those Clearing Members who do not have trading rights) 

which can be utilised only on account of specific clients' obligations. In case of broker/TM/PCM 

default, the positions and collateral of the non-defaulting clients are amenable to be ported to 
another broker/TM/PCM. 

 

Page 5 of 10 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Structure 

 
 

Discussion Paper 

•  PCM to keep client collateral in segregated accounts. 

•  Broker/TM of the client to have information of the client collateral kept with PCM. 

•  CC/PCM  to  allocate  limit  to  the  broker/TM  against  collateral  deposited  by  client  with 

PCM to be utilised towards positions of the specific client. Broker/TM to ensure that the 

positions of clients allowed by it are commensurate with the collateral deposited by the 

client with the PCM. 

•  The responsibility to fulfill all obligations arising out of client trades (margins and pay-in 

obligations) to rest with broker/TM and finally with PCM. 

•  Collaterals  deposited  by  clients  availing  such  facility  shall  be  utilized  towards  the 

margin/pay-in requirements of the specific client only and will be readily made available 

to broker/TM by the PCM in case of non-performance of  obligations (default/shortfall) 

by the client. 

•  At the time of non-performance of broker/TM of its obligations, CC to port positions of 

non-defaulting clients of such broker/TM to another broker/TM under the PCM. In case 

of  non-performance  of  PCM  of  its  obligations,  CC  shall  utilise  the  margins  backing 

positions of non-defaulting clients to another PCM. In case of close-out of any positions 

by CC, the margins will be returned by CC to the respective clients after adjusting with 

the loss/gain due to close-out, if any. 

Features 

•  Portability:  In  case  of  default  by  a  Broker/TM,  since  client  collateral  is  segregated  at 

PCM end, client positions can be easily ported to another Broker/TM who will then have 

to  risk  manage  the  ported  client’s  positions  as  per  the  available  collateral.  In  case  of 

PCM default, porting of positions and corresponding margins by CC can be done. 

•  Practicality:  

o  This model seems to be suitable for big clients with large positions/collateral. 

o  Limitation  of  reach  may  make  it  difficult  for  clients  to  post  monies/securities 

directly with PCM.  

o  This model will also entail additional costs of maintaining segregated accounts at 

PCM end.  

 

Model B (with CC enshrining margins backing client trades as client margins in value terms) 

CC to recognize collateral against margin as deposited by Broker/TMCM with CC on account of 

each individual client’s positions as client collateral. CC shall not utilise the collateral deposited 

with it on any client account for fulfilling the dues which a CM may owe to the CC in respect of 

trades  of  the  member  on  its  own  account  or  on  account  of  trades  of  any  other  client  of  the 

member.  Further,  in  case  of  CM  default,  collateral  deposited  by  the  defaulting  member  on 

account of any client’s trades will be available to be used by the CC only when the specific client 

 

Page 6 of 10 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

Discussion Paper 

is in default. This proposed practice is immediately possible in the derivative segment wherein 

the  collection  of  collateral  against  margin  is  explicitly  acknowledged  as  having  been  collected 

from each individual client. Such one-to-one correspondence may be offered by CCs in the cash 

segment too for similar arrangements wherein a certification is provided by the CM to the CC. 

The  IBT  mode,  as  discussed  earlier,  is  devoid  of  such  risks  and  is  amenable  to  a  zero  margin 

regime.  

Structure 

•  Broker/TMCM to collect collateral from clients. 
•  Broker/TMCM to pay margin for client as well as proprietary trades to CC. 
• 

In India, a CC has real time data of client level positions on PAN basis and of the required 

margin for each client on a broker-client code basis that is mapped to the PAN. 

•  CC  to  keep  collateral  provided  for  proprietary  trades  and  collateral  provided  for  each 
client’s trades segregated from each other, either physically or operationally, say legally 

segregated operationally commingled (LSOC). 

•  On  Broker/TMCM  default,  CC  to  use  only  collateral  provided  against  margins  for 
proprietary trades by Broker/TMCM. Further, Broker/TMCM is responsible to inform CC 

within a stipulated time to identify and inform CC the client(s) who are in default, if any, 

after which CC may use collateral against margins corresponding to trades of clients in 

default too. 

•  Positions  and  related  margin  of  non-defaulting  clients  in  case  of  Broker/TMCM  default 
to  be  ported  to  another  Broker/TMCM  so  as  to  enable  non-defaulting  clients  to 

continue  keeping  their  positions  and  the  related  collateral.  In  such  a  case,  non-

defaulting  client  will  need  normal  legal  recourse  only  for  the  purpose  of  getting  their 

excess collateral from the defaulting Broker/TMCM. 

Features 

•  Portability:  In  case  of  default  by  a  Broker/TMCM,  since  positions  and  corresponding 
margin is recognized client wise at CC end, positions and margins of client is amenable 

to porting by CC to another Broker/TMCM.  

•  Practicality:  Since  the  model  does  not  require  any  significant  change  in  account 

structures,  it  is  more  practical  and  can  be  implemented  for  all  clients  that  have  an 

arrangement of giving collateral against margin to the broker before/upon the trade. It 

will separate such clients from those that have funding arrangements with a broker and 

therefore  bear  the  risk  of  getting  clubbed  along  with  the  proprietary  positions  of  the 

broker upon a situation of default.  

•  Costs:  The  incremental  costs  involved  in  implementing  the  model  might  be  less  as 

compared to the incremental benefits of the model (the model would be able to accord 

protection of client margins for millions of clients within the CC framework).  

 

 

Page 7 of 10 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

Discussion Paper 

Issues for discussion  

5.  Since rules for segregation of client collateral, usage of client monies by broker/TMCM, 
and arbitration/legal recourse in case of improper usage and loss to client are already 

in place, is there need to take further steps for protection of client collateral? 

6.   The proposed models try to protect client from credit risk of broker/TMCM. Wouldn't 

this be akin to allowing client to participate in the market without taking any risks? 

7.  While  model  A  accords  protection  to  entire  collateral  of  client,  model  B  only  protects 
margin of client backing client positions. However, model B is easier to implement than 

model A. Which model should be implemented – model A, model B, both or none? 

8.  Currently,  client  collateral 

is  recognized  only  at  broker/TM 

level  and  not  at 

CM/PCM/CC  level.  In  case  of  any  attachment  order  by  any  authority  (courts/other 

bodies)  of  client  assets,  this  lack  of  client  level  recognition  of  assets  at  PCM/CC  level 

protects  the  assets  at  PCM/CC  level  thereby  limiting  any  hindrance  to  settlement 

process.  However,  with  the  proposed  models  requiring  recognition  of  client  assets  at 

PCM/CC level, would this pose risk to the settlement process at CC? If yes, what could 

be the possible solutions to allay this risk?  

Model A specific 

9.  While the model protects interests of client on broker/TM default, it  should not be at 
the  cost  of  ignoring  broker/TM  interests  on  client  default.  Thus,  the  model  should 

ensure  both  -(i)  that  client  collateral  is  protected  in  case  client  has  fulfilled  its 

obligations and (ii) that client collateral is definitely available to broker/TM in case of 

non-performance of obligations by client. How should PCM determine the event of non-

performance of obligation by client – (i) take broker/TM’s word as true (ii)Take client’s 

confirmation too (iii) Cast responsibility on TM/broker to prove client non-performance 

(iv)  Cast  responsibility  on  client  to  prove performance  of  obligation  within  a  specified 

time failing which collateral will be released? 

10. Currently,  in  case  of  dispute,  since  the  client  collateral  is  with  broker/TM,  the 

broker/TM  uses  that  to  fulfill  any  obligation  towards  CC  on  account  of  client  trades 

pending  decision  on  dispute.  In  case  decision  of  dispute  goes  in  favour  of  client, 

TM/broker settles client claim. Thus, regardless of which party was at fault, the cost till 

decision  of  litigation  is  borne  by  the  client.  In  case  in  the  proposed  model,  PCM  does 

not  release  collateral  to broker/TM  pending  dispute,  broker/TM  will  have  to  use  own 

assets to fulfill obligation towards CC on account of client trades. It will be fair not to 

release  collateral  even  to  client  in  case  of  dispute,  thereby  affecting  both  the  parties 

equally. Will this be unfair to broker/TM? 

 

Page 8 of 10 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

Discussion Paper 

Issues for discussion 

 

11. Should  the  pay-in/pay-out  to  client  be  done  through  the  broker/TM  or  directly 
through PCM? While a direct pay-in/pay-out through PCM would obviate the need for 

PCM  to  depend  on  TM  for  information  on  client  non-performance  in  most  cases, 

however,  there  may  be  practical  limitations  to  achieve  this  in  terms of  reach  to  end 

client for daily pay-in/pay-out. 

12. Should  it  be  made  mandatory  for  all  TMs  to  tie-up  with  a  designated  PCM  for 
providing  this  service  to  its  desiring  clients  or  should  clients  desiring  such  facility  be 

asked to trade through TMs of designated PCMs providing this service? 

Model B specific 

13. Though  positions  and  margins  are  segregated  at  CC  end  to  enable  portability  to 
another Broker/TMCM, however, this new entity  must have contractual relationship 

with the ported client so as to enable it to risk manage the ported positions as well as 

to  undertake  obligations  from  ported  client.  Such  interim  or  transition  period  may 

require an empanelled group of broker/TMCMs to temporarily risk manage positions 

of such clients with certain conditions? 

14. Whether  it  is  feasible  to  legally  enshrine  that  margin  posted  for  client  trades  by 
Broker/TMCM  can  be  used  by  CC  only  in  case  of  concerned  client  default  and  be 

ported along with client positions, even though the ownership title of the collateral, 

when in securities form, is not clear and that the ability of broker to reassign these to 

CC in the first instance is itself in doubt. The legality of providing benefit of collateral 

related  to  client  positions  to  the  client,  irrespective  of  collateral  being  that  of 

broker/TMCM or client is a related question. 

15. Currently,  in  the  event  of  a  default/shortfall,  the  CC  has  available  to  it  all  the 

collateral  deposited  by  the  concerned  member  to  fulfill  its  settlement  guarantee 

obligation  regardless  of  whether  it  was  to  cover  client  positions  or  proprietary 

positions  of  the  member.  Will  such  a  model  restricting  CC  from  using  collaterals 

backing  client  trades  to  fulfill  its  settlement  guarantee  obligation  lead  to  unsettling 

the soundness of the CC/greater systemic risk? 

 

 
C.  T+1 settlement 

The  financial  crisis  of  2008  has  brought  into  focus  the  risks  prevalent  in  the  system,  the 

magnitude of which also relates to the length of the settlement cycle. A shortened settlement 

 

Page 9 of 10 

 
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

Discussion Paper 

cycle  not  only  reduces  that  but  also  reduces  and  frees  up  the  capital  required  to  collateralize 

that risk. Some of the arguments for a shortened settlement cycle are as follows: 

•  The value (and thus the risk) by which a position can diverge from the original contract 

terms is proportional to the time to settlement. A 2 day VaR is 1.414 times a 1 day VaR. 

•  A shortened settlement cycle of T+1 also reduces the number of outstanding unsettled 

trades at any instant of time and thus decreases the unsettled exposure to CC by 50%. 

•  Narrower  the  settlement  cycle,  narrower  is  the  time  window  for  a  counterparty 

insolvency/bankruptcy to impact the settlement of a trade.  

•  The  capital  blocked  in  the  system  to  cover  the  risk  of  trades  will  get  proportionately 

reduced with the number of outstanding unsettled trades at any point of time. 

•  Systemic risk depends on the number of outstanding trades and concentration of risk at 
critical  institutions  as  CCPs  and  becomes  critical  when  this  magnitude  of  outstanding 

transactions  increases.  Thus,  in  this  era  of  increasing  trade  volumes,  a  shortened 

settlement cycle will help in reducing systemic risk. 

•  A  by-product  of  the  risk  management system  in  the  securities  market  is the  credit  risk 
that  end  clients  take  on  their  market  intermediaries  which  depends  on  the  amount  of 

collateral  deposited  by  them  with  the  market  intermediaries.  A  shortened  settlement 

cycle reduces the amount of collateral and thereby the resulting risk. 

•  Saving in operational costs as many processes move from manual to automation mode. 

Issues for discussion 

16. Since retail clients make use of payment by cheque, is implementation of T+1 feasible? 
17. Will the cost of modifications of existing trading and settlement systems for increased 

automation and efficiency be lesser than the benefits envisaged by the move? 

18. How  will  time-zone 

issues  for  foreign 

investors  and  cost  of  standardizing 

communications of institutional trades be handled? 

 

The comments / suggestions on this paper may be emailed to feedback-drmnp@sebi.gov.in  
or may be sent to the following address, latest by May 20, 2013: 

 

Deputy General Manager 
Market Regulation Department – Division of Risk Management and New Products 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, SEBI Bhavan 
C4-A, G-Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Mumbai- 400051 

 

Page 10 of 10 

