¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Discussion paper on Co-location / Proximity hosting facility offered by the stock 

exchanges 

Objective  

To  seek  public  comments  on  a  possible  solution  to  provide  greater  equality  and  fairness  in 
order handling to the participants that do not use co-location services vis-à-vis participants that 
place orders using automated trading system and are co-located at the stock exchange. 

1.  Introduction 

Adoption of various technological advancements in the Indian securities market has 
1.1. 
transformed the way trading takes place and has, in turn, resulted in the process becoming 
easier, faster, transparent, and safer for the investors.  

1.2.  However,  adoption  of  technological  advancements  in  securities  market  has  also 
brought  to  fore  certain  new  challenges  for  market  participants,  investors  and  regulators. 
This  paper  seeks  views  on  issues  related  to  one  such  recent  development  wherein  stock 
exchanges  allow  stock  brokers  to  locate  their  trading  related  equipments  within  stock 
exchange’s premises. 

2.  Co-location 

2.1. 
Co-location  or  Co-hosting  is  a  service  offered  by  the  stock  exchange  (or  by  third-
parties  appointed  by  the  stock  exchange)  to  its  stock  brokers  and  data  vendors  to  locate 
their trading or data-vending systems within the stock exchange’s premises.  

2.2. 
The  concept  of  co-location  in  today’s  world  is  comparable  to  the  old  day’s  stock 
exchange  trading  pit  /  floor  where  stock  brokers  used  to  locate  themselves  within  the 
exchange premises to trade. Trading pits have been replaced with server farms which host 
the  servers  of  the  trading  members.  The  facility  of  co-location  is  typically  subscribed  by 
market  participants  that  deploy  latency  sensitive  strategies  viz.  High  Frequency  Traders, 
Market Makers, etc.  

2.3. 
A  variant  of  co-location  facility,  commonly  known  as  Proximity  Hosting,  is  also 
offered by the stock exchange or by third-party data centers wherein the trading or data-
vending systems of the stock brokers / data vendors are located at close proximity to the 
stock exchange’s premises and have a direct connectivity with the stock exchange trading 
platform. 

2.4. 
Co-location is many times equated with high frequency trading as it has emerged as 
a  solution  to  the  low-latency  requirement  of  High  Frequency  Traders.  The  growth  and 

Page 1 of 6 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

success of the high frequency trading is largely attributed to their ability to react to trading 
opportunities that may last only for a very small fraction of a second, and co-location with 
its low latency has helped high frequency traders to capture such trading opportunities. 

2.5.  Globally,  stock  exchanges  such  as  Tokyo  Stock  Exchange,  London  Stock  Exchange, 
NASDAQ  OMX,  CBOE  Stock  Exchange,  Johannesburg  Stock  Exchange,  Taiwan  Stock 
Exchange,  New  York  Stock  Exchange,  BM&FBovespa,  etc.,  offer  co-location  /  proximity 
hosting to its stock brokers.  

In  India,  BSE,  MCX-SX  and  NSE  lease  racks  to  their  stock  brokers  to  locate  trading 

2.6. 
servers within the exchange premises. 

3.  Need For Speed? 

3.1. 
The  requirement  of  speedy  completion  of  the  process  of  trading  (i.e.  from  order 
initiation to delivery of securities / funds) has propelled adoption of technology in securities 
market. It may not be incorrect to say that the lesser time it takes to complete the process 
of trading, the higher the probability of a trade going through.  Further, ‘speed’ at times is 
also employed as a factor to create point-of-difference in the broking industry. The success 
of trading and business models of some of the market participants such as high frequency 
traders lies in the ability to receive information from and send orders to the stock exchange 
as  fast  as  possible.  It  has  been  observed  that  investors,  apart  from  the  factor  of  cost 
(brokerage), regard speed of access to the trading platform as an important factor in short-
listing a stock broker.  

3.2. 
Typically, the time taken to place an order (TTotal) can be represented as summation 
of time taken from dissemination of market data by the stock exchange till receipt of order 
by the stock exchange from the stock broker.  

TTotal =  Tdata + Tanalysis + Torder, 

Where, Tdata = Time taken for the data disseminated by the stock exchange to reach stock 

broker; 

Tanalysis = Time taken by the stock broker to analyze the data and place order; 
Torder = Time taken by the order of the stock broker to reach stock exchange. 

3.3. 
In cases where none of the participants use algorithmic trading (as was the case few 
years  back  before  the  advent  of  algorithmic  trading),  Tanalysis  >>  Tdata  +  Torder,  as  Tanalysis  is 
usually  in  the  range  of  seconds  while  Tdata  +  Torder  is  usually  in  milliseconds.  In  such  a 
scenario  investors  are  not  highly  dependent  /  affected  by  the  latency  between  the  stock 
broker  and  the  stock  exchange.  The  prime  focus  of  the  trading  community  till  some  time 
back  was  to  reduce  Tanalysis  in  order  to  minimize  TTotal.  Usage  of  computers  /  trading 

Page 2 of 6 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

algorithms has resulted in significant reduction in Tanalysis. As a result, the scenario changed 
such that Tanalysis has became << Tdata + Torder.  

3.4. 
Algorithms used for the purpose of trading require fast connectivity with the stock 
exchange in order to correctly price  orders and manage execution risk, and thereby, have 
required minimizing the latency in receiving market data and transmitting order messages. 
In  order  to  further  reduce  TTotal,  the  focus  of  the  trading  community  has  now  shifted  on 
minimizing (Tdata + Torder). Co-location is being offered by the stock exchanges as a means to 
further reduce such latency (Tdata + Torder).  

3.5.  Until few years back, the stock brokers (and therefore the investors) broadly had the 
following options to connect to the electronic trading platforms of the stock exchanges: (a) 
Leased  line  connection  to  the  stock  exchange’s  PoP  (Point-of-Presence),  and,  (b)  VSAT 
connection. It may be noted that the  different connectivity options demonstrate different 
‘latency’  or  ‘roundtrip  latency’ on  account  of  multiple  factors  such  as  physical  distance  of 
the stock broker from the stock exchange, nature of the transmission medium, number of 
nodes between the source and the destination, amount of traffic, etc. (Roundtrip Latency is 
the time taken from initiation of the order from the stock broker’s server till receipt of order 
acceptance  confirmation  from  the  stock  exchange).  Distance  of the  stock  broker  from the 
trading  engine  of  the  stock  exchange  is  considered  to  be  the  most  important  factor  that 
determines latency between the stock broker and the stock exchange.  

Right  from  the  days  of  pit-based  open  outcry  system,  investors  residing  at  places 
3.6. 
closer to the trading pit have enjoyed ‘low latency’ on account of physical proximity to the 
stock  exchange’s  trading  system.  It  has  been  observed  that  a  stock  broker  situated  in 
Mumbai  and  connected  through  leased  line  observes  an  average  roundtrip  latency  of  8 
milliseconds.  Similar  figure  for  a  stock  broker  situated  in  New  Delhi  is  approximately  33 
milliseconds  on  an  average.  VSAT  provides  a  relatively  slower  connection  as  average 
roundtrip  latency  associated  with  it  is  approximately  680  milliseconds.  Thus,  even  before 
co-location was introduced, parity with respect to latency did not exist. 

3.7. 
As  mentioned  above,  the  facility  of  co-location  /  proximity  hosting  envisages 
minimizing the latency with a direct and / or private network connection to provide shortest 
available  physical  distance  (cable  length)  between  the  trading  platform  of  the  stock 
exchange and the trading / data vending systems of the stock brokers and data vendors. It is 
observed  that  the  average  roundtrip  latency  associated  with  co-location  facility  is  2 
milliseconds at one of the leading nationwide stock exchanges.  

4.  Statistics on orders generated from the co-located space 

4.1. 
Advances in technology have fundamentally changed the way orders are generated 
and executed in the market. A sizeable proportion of the total orders received by the stock 

Page 3 of 6 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

exchanges  are  now  being  generated  by  algorithms.  Further,  such  increase  in  orders  from 
trading algorithms is being contributed by orders generated from the co-located space. 

4.2. 
As may be seen from the following sample data sourced from the stock exchanges 
for the month of February 2013, it is observed that  orders placed from terminals of stock 
brokers  located  at  co-located  space  form  a  sizeable  chunk  of  the  total orders  received  by 
the stock exchanges. 

 

Orders  received  from  co-location  as  percentage  of  the  total  orders  received  by  the  stock 
exchanges in their various segments in the month of February 2013 

                                  Exchange 
Segment 

NSE 

Cash Market (Equity) segment  73.88% 

Equity Derivatives segment 

94.16% 

Currency Derivatives segment  26.05% 

BSE 

MCX-SX 

7.06% 

17.96% 

N.A. 

6.55% 

15.71% 

27.34% 

5.   Perception of the market participants / regulators on co-location / proximity hosting 

5.1.  High Frequency Trading and Co-location have received a lot of media and regulatory 
attention  in the  recent past,  especially  post  the  May  06,  2010  Flash  Crash  in  US  Markets.  
The discussions have primarily revolved around on whether high-frequency trading and Co-
location add value to market quality. 

5.2.  While  various  studies  across  the  world  have  indicated  that  such  technological 
advances  improve  liquidity,  tighten  spreads,  etc.,  some  of  the  commonly  held  negative 
perceptions with regard to the facility of co-location / proximity hosting are: 

(a)  Co-located  market  participants  that  deploy  high  frequency  trading  algorithms  are 
perceived  by  a  section  of  the  market  to  crowd-out  the  orders  of  participants  who  are 
not  co-located.  They  also  hold the  view  that the  low-latency  advantage  when  coupled 
with the capability of the high frequency algorithms to generate large number of orders 
in a small time period has the potential to deny opportunity to the participants who are 
not co-located.  

(b) Further,  the  factor  of  closeness  to  the  stock  exchange’s  matching  engine  provides  co-
located  trading  members  with  an  advantage  of  being  the  first  recipient  of  the  market 
data and being among the first to place orders.  

(c)  A section of the market views co-location facility as expensive and beyond the reach of 

small participants on account of high fees charged by stock exchanges. 

Page 4 of 6 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

(d) In addition to the above,  high frequency trading and co-location have been viewed by 

some to contribute to the increased volatility in the securities market.  

5.3. 
Regulators  across  the  world  appear  to  be  broadly  considering  two  options  with 
regard  to  co-location  –  (a)  prohibit  stock  exchanges  from  offering  co-location,  or  (b) 
regulate the facility to ensure that the same is provided in fair, transparent and equitable 
basis. Regulators in other jurisdictions such as SEC, CFTC, ESMA, ASIC, etc have engaged in 
consultations  and  examination  of  the  various  issues  associated  with  the  facility  of  co-
location.  International  Organization  of  Securities  Commissions  (IOSCO)  in  its  report 
‘Regulatory Issues Raised by the Impact of Technological Changes on Market Integrity and 
Efficiency’ dated October 2011, has discussed some of the concerns associated with the ‘co-
location’.  IOSCO  has  inter-alia  recommended  in  the  said  report  that  regulators  should 
require  the  trading  venue  operators  to  provide  fair,  transparent  and  non-discriminatory 
access  to  their  markets  and  to  associated  products  and  services  (including  co-location 
services). With regard to India, Forward Markets Commission (FMC) has recently prohibited 
usage of co-location facility by the members of the commodities derivatives exchanges. 

5.4. 
SEBI has endeavoured that developments / innovations that may have market-wide 
implications are not left unregulated and proper guidelines are in place to serve the interest 
of  investors.  Given  the  vast  expanse of  our  country,  it  may not  be  incorrect  to  state  that, 
irrespective of whether a stock exchange offers co-location or not, dissimilar latencies will 
always  be  experienced  by  the  stock  brokers  /  investor  based  on  their  location.  As  it  is 
understood  that  not  all  stock  brokers  /  investors  would  opt  for  co-location,  it  is  felt  that 
focus should be to ensure that: 

(a)  the facility is made available on a fair basis and on transparent terms.  

(b) orders  generated  from  a  non-colocated  space,  on  reaching  the  stock  exchange,  are 
provided  with  a  fair  chance  of  execution  vis-à-vis  orders  generated  from  co-located 
space. 

6.  Proposals 

In view the above, comments are requested on the following proposals for the facility of co-
location / proximity hosting: 

6.1.  Stock exchange shall provide co-location / proximity hosting in a fair, transparent and 
equitable manner, including ensuring that all stock brokers and data vendors located at co-
location / proximity hosting experience similar latency between their systems and the stock 
exchange’s trading platform. 

6.2.  Stock exchange shall ensure that the size of the co-located / proximity hosting space 
is  sufficient  to  accommodate  all  the  stock  brokers  and  data  vendors  that  are  desirous  of 

Page 5 of 6 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

availing the facility. Stock exchange shall also avoid situation of monopolizing of rack space 
by certain stock brokers or data vendors. 

6.3.  With the view to ensure that stock brokers (and thereby the investors)  who are not 
co-located  have  fair  and  equitable  access  to  the  stock  exchange’s  trading  systems,  stock 
exchanges  facilitating  co-location  /  proximity  hosting  shall  implement  an  order  handling 
architecture  comprising  of  two  separate  queues  for  co-located  and  non-colocated  orders 
such  that  orders  are  picked  up  from  each  queue  alternatively.  It  is  expected  that  such 
architecture  will  provide  orders  generated  from  a  non-colocated  space  a  fair  chance  of 
execution  and  address  concerns  related  to  being  crowded-out  by  orders  placed  from  co-
location. The proposed architecture is as described below: 

6.3.1. 
Stock exchange shall identify and categorize orders as (a) orders emanating 
from servers of the stock broker placed at the co-location / proximity hosting facility, 
and, (b) orders emanating from other terminals / servers of the stock brokers. 

6.3.2. 
maintained for each of the aforementioned categories of orders. 

Separate  order-validation  mechanism  and  a  separate  queue  shall  be 

6.3.3. 
A  round-robin  methodology  shall  be  used  to  time-stamp  and  forward 
validated  orders  from  the  two  order-queues  to  the  order-book,  i.e.,  if  an  order  is 
taken  from  the  queue  of  orders  emanating  from  co-location  /  proximity  hosting 
facility, then the next  order  shall be  from  the  other  queue.  In  the  event  any of  the 
order-queues are empty, orders can be sequentially taken from the other queue till a 
valid order arrives in the empty queue. 

6.3.4. 
the time priority during matching of orders.  

The time-stamp given as per para 6.3.3 above shall be used to determine 

Request for Public Comments 

Public comments are invited on the above proposals. The comments may be emailed latest by 
May 31, 2013 to maninderc@sebi.gov.in or sent by post to:- 

Ms. Maninder Cheema 
Deputy General Manager, 
Market Regulation Department - Division of Policy, 
Securities & Exchange Board of India, 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), 
Mumbai, India - 400 051. 

Page 6 of 6 

