Consultation paper on draft SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) 

Regulations, 2013 

1.  Background 

1.  India’s  real  estate  sector  has  witnessed  rapid  growth  in  recent  years  underlined 
by robust economic growth in the country. The growing scale of operations of the 
corporate sector has increased the demand for commercial  buildings and space 
including  modern  offices,  warehouses,  shopping  centres,  conference  centres, 
etc. For such rapidly growing industry, it is crucial that investment vehicles such 
as Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) evolve in the country.  

2.  Globally,  REITs  invest  primarily  in  completed,  revenue  generating  real  estate 
assets  and  distribute  major  part  of  the  earning  among  their  investors.  Typically, 
most  of  such  investments  are  in  completed  properties  which  provide  regular 
income to the investors from the rentals received from such properties.  

3.  By the very nature of REITs, it is beneficial to both the investors and the industry 
in  different  ways.  On  one  hand,  REITs  provide  the  investors  with  an  investment 
avenue,  which  is  comparatively  less  risky  than  investing  in  under-construction 
properties  and  provides  regular  income.  On  the  other  hand,  REITs  provide  the 
sponsor  (usually  a  developer  or  a  private  equity  fund)  avenues  of  exit  thus 
providing liquidity and enable them to invest in other projects.  

4.  Globally,  framework  for  REIT  exists  in  several  countries  including  United  States 
of America, Australia, Singapore, Japan, France, United Kingdom, etc. In most of 
these countries, REITs appear to have the following features: 

a.  REITs are managed by professional managers which usually have diverse 
skill  bases  in  property  development,  redevelopment,  acquisitions,  leasing 
and management, etc.  

b.  In countries where REITs are available for retail investors, they provide an 
avenue  to  such  investors  in  properties  which  they  otherwise  would  not 
have been able to take an exposure.  

c.  REITs are  also  a  popular investment  option for long term pools of capital 
such  as  pension  funds  and  insurance  companies  primarily  since  the 
regular stream of income helps them in managing regular outflow to their 
investors.  

d.  Listed REITs provide liquidity thus providing easy exit to the investors.  

e.  REITs bring in transparency and accountability in the real estate sector.  

All  these  reasons  have  made  REIT  one  of  the  preferred  investment  vehicles 
around the world.  

2.  Proposed regulatory framework 

Considering  the  important  role  that  REITs  play,  a  separate  regulatory  framework 
under draft  SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2013 (referred to as 
"Regulations"  hereafter)  has  been  proposed  for  introducing  REITs  in  India.  Salient 
features of the proposed framework are as under: 
 

a.  Structure of the REIT 

1.  The  REIT  shall  be  set  up  as  a  Trust  under  the  provisions  of  the  Indian 

Trusts Act, 1882. REITs shall not launch any schemes. 

2.  The  REIT  shall  have  parties  such  as  trustee  (registered  with  SEBI), 

sponsor, manager and principal valuer.  

b.  Registration of REIT 

1.  The  Trust  shall  initially  apply  for  registration  with  SEBI  as  a  REIT  in  the 
specified  format.  It  shall  fulfil  eligibility  criteria  as  specified  in  the  draft 
Regulations. 

2.  SEBI,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  eligibility  conditions  are  satisfied,  shall 

grant the REIT certificate of registration.  

c.  Offer of units to the public and listing of units 

1.  After registration, the REIT shall raise funds initially through an initial offer 

and once listed, may subsequently raise funds through follow-on offers. 

2.  Listing  of  units  shall  be  mandatory  for  all  REITs.  The  units  of  the  REIT 
shall  continue  to  be  listed  on  the  exchange  unless  delisted  under  the 
Regulations.  Provisions  for  delisting  have  also  been  specified  in  the 
Regulations.  

3.  For  coming  out  with  initial  offer,  it  has  been  specified  that  the  size  of  the 
assets  under  the  REIT  shall  not  be  less  than  Rs.  1000  crore  which  is 
expected to ensure that initially only large assets and established players 
enter the market.  

4.  Further,  minimum  initial  offer  size  of  Rs.  250  crore  and  minimum  public 
float of 25% is  specified to  ensure  adequate public participation  and float 
in the units.  

5.  General procedure for initial/follow-on offer, filing of offer document/follow-
on offer document, allotment and listing of units has been  specified in the 
Regulations. Detailed disclosures required in the offer document/follow-on 
offer document have also been specified in the Regulations.  

6.  The  REIT  may  raise  funds  from  any  investors,  resident  or  foreign. 
However,  initially,  till  the  market  develops,  it  is  proposed  that  the  units  of 
the  REITs  may  be  offered  only  to  HNIs/institutions  and  therefore,  it  is 

proposed that the minimum subscription size shall be Rs. 2 lakhs and the 
unit size shall be Rs. 1 lakh.  

d.  Responsibilities of various parties to the REIT 

 

i.  Responsibilities of the Trustee 

1.  The  Trustee  shall  be  independent  of  sponsor  and  manager  and  hold  the 
REIT  assets  in  the  name  of  the  REIT  for  the  benefit  of  the  investors  in 
accordance with the Trust Deed and the proposed Regulations. The role of 
Trustee is primarily supervisory in nature. 

2.  The Trustee shall ensure that the activity of the REIT is being operated in 
accordance  with  the  proposed  Regulations.  For  achieving  the  same, 
certain  specific  obligations  are  also  imposed  on  the  Trustee,  details  of 
which have been provided in the proposed Regulations. 

3.  The right and obligation to convene meetings of the investors shall lie with 
the  Trustee  and  he  shall  follow  procedures  for  holding  such  meetings  as 
specified in the proposed Regulations.  

ii.  Responsibilities of the manager 

1.  The  manager  shall  primarily  assume  all  the  operational  responsibilities 
with  respect  to  the  activity  of  the  REIT.  Roles  and  responsibilities  of  the 
manager  shall  be  specified  in  the  agreement  entered  into  between  the 
trustee and the manager. 

2.  To ensure that the activities of the REIT are managed professionally, it has 
been specified that  the manager needs to have atleast 5  years of related 
experience  coupled  with  other  requirements  such  as  minimum  networth, 
manpower with sufficient relevant experience, etc. 

3.  Responsibilities  of  manager  shall  range  throughout  the  life  of  the  REIT 
right from the application for registration, issue and listing of units of REIT, 
day  to  day  operation  and  management  of  the  assets  of  REIT  till  the 
delisting  of  units,  if  any.  Manager  shall  be  responsible  for  various 
operational  aspects  including  appointment  of  various  parties  to  the  REIT, 
procedural  aspects  of  issue  and  listing  of  the  REIT  units,  investment 
decisions, disclosures and reporting, distribution of dividends etc. 

iii.  Responsibilities of sponsor and the valuers 

1.  The  sponsor’s  responsibilities  shall  primarily  pertain  to  setting  up  of  the 
REIT  including  appointment  of  the  Trustee.  The  sponsor  shall  also  be 
obligated to maintain a certain percentage holding in the REIT to ensure a 
‘skin-in-the-game’  at  all  times.  Even  in  those  cases  where  the  sponsor 
sells  its  units  it  shall  arrange  for  another  person/entity  to  act  as  the  re-
designated sponsor.  

2.  Further, a minimum net worth and experience criteria have also been laid 

down for the sponsor in the proposed Regulations.  

3.  For ensuring fair and transparent valuation of the assets, the valuers have 
been obligated to follow valuation principles, have robust internal controls, 
have manpower with sufficient relevant experience, etc. 

e.  Investment conditions and dividend policy 

1.  In line with the nature of the REIT to invest primarily in completed revenue 
generating properties, it has been mandated that at least 90% of the value 
of the REIT assets shall be in completed revenue generating properties. In 
order to provide flexibility, it has been allowed to invest the remaining 10% 
in other assets as specified in the proposed Regulations. 

2.  To  ensure  regular  income  to  the  investors,  it  has  been  mandated  to 
distribute atleast 90% of the net distributable income after tax of the REIT 
to the investors.  

3.  REITs  have  been  allowed  to  invest  in  the  properties  directly  or  through 
special  purpose  vehicles,  wherein  such  special  purpose  vehicles  (SPV) 
hold not less than 90% of their assets directly in such properties. However, 
in such cases, it has been mandated that REIT shall have control over the 
SPV so that the interest of the investors of the REIT are not jeopardised.  

4.  The REIT shall not invest in vacant land or agricultural land or mortgages 
other than mortgage backed securities. Further, the REIT shall only invest 
in assets based in India.  

5.  Investment upto100% of the corpus of the REIT has been permitted in one 
project subject to the condition that minimum size of such asset is not less 
than Rs. 1000 crore.  

6.  Other  detailed  investment  conditions  are  provided  in  the  proposed 

Regulations.  

f.  Related party transactions 

1.  All related party transactions shall be on an arms-length basis, in the best 
interest  of  the  investors,  consistent  with  the  strategy  &  investment 
objectives  of  the  REIT  and  shall  be  disclosed  to  the  exchanges  and 
investors  periodically  in  accordance  with  the  listing  agreement  and  the 
proposed Regulations. 

2.  Stringent  conditions  have  been  imposed  on  related  party  transactions 
including  detailed  disclosures,  valuation  requirements,  approval  from 
majority  of  investors,  related  party  abstaining  from  voting,  restrictions  on 
leasing  of  assets  to  related  parties,  requirement  of  fairness  opinion  for 
lease, etc. 

3.  For  any  related  party  transactions  for  acquisitions/sale  of  properties, 
valuation  reports  from  2  independent  valuers  shall  be  obtained  and  the 
transaction  for  purchase/sale  of  such  properties  shall  be  at  a  price  not 
greater / less than average of the two independent valuations. 

4.  Investors' approval is required for all the related party transactions wherein 

the value is above a threshold as provided in the proposed regulations. 

g.  Borrowings and deferred payments 

To  avoid  excessive leverage, the  aggregate consolidated  borrowings and 
deferred payments of the REIT  have been capped at 50% of the value of 
the  REIT  assets.  If  the  same  exceeds  25%,  requirement  of  credit  rating 
from a credit rating agency and approval of majority of investors has been 
specified. 

h.  Valuation of assets  

1.  To  ensure  that  the  underlying  assets  of  REIT  are  valued  accurately, 
requirement  of  a  full  valuation  including  a  physical  inspection  of  the 
properties has been specified at least once a year. Further, a six monthly 
updation in the valuation capturing key changes in the last six months has 
also  been  specified.  Consequently,  the  NAV  shall  be  declared  at  least 
twice in a  year. Provisions have  also been specified for valuation in case 
of any material development.  

2.  Detailed  disclosures  have  been  specified  for  the  annual  and  half-yearly 

valuation reports.  

3.  Further, for any purchase of a new property or sale of an existing property, 
it  has  been  required  that  a  full  valuation  be  undertaken  and  the  value  of 
the  transaction  shall  be  not  less  than  90%/  not  more  than  110%  of  the 
assessed value of the property for sale/purchase of assets respectively.  

i.  Rights of investors 

1.  In order to ensure safeguarding of interests of the investors, several rights 

have been provided to the investors in order to empower them.  

2.  The  investors  shall  have  right  to  remove  the  manager,  auditor,  principal 

valuer, seek delisting of units, apply to SEBI for change in trustee, etc. 

3.  Further,  an  annual  meeting  of  all  investors  is  mandatory  to  be  convened 
by the Trustee  wherein matters such as latest annual accounts, valuation 
reports,  performance  of  the  REIT,  approval  of  auditors  &  their  fees, 
appointment of principal valuer, etc. shall be discussed.  

4.  Further, approval of investors has been made mandatory in special cases 
such  as  certain  related  party  transactions,  any  transaction  with  value 
exceeding 15% of the REIT assets, borrowing exceeding 25%, change in 
manager/ sponsor, change in investment strategy, delisting of units, etc.  

5.  In  order  to  ensure  that  a  related  party  does  not  influence  the  decision,  it 
has  been  specified  that  any  person  who  is  a  party  to  any  transaction  as 
well as associates  of such  person(s) shall not participate in voting on the 
specific issue. 

j.  Disclosures 

1.  Keeping  in  mind  that  transparency  has  been  a  cornerstone  of  the  REIT 
industry  globally, detailed disclosure requirements have been  specified in 
the proposed Regulations.   

2.  Minimum  disclosure  requirements  in  the  offer  document/follow-on  offer 
document  have  been  specified  in  the  proposed  Regulations.  Further, 
minimum  disclosures  have  also  been  specified  for  the  annual  and  half-
yearly reports to be sent to the investors.  

3.  Certain  event-based  disclosures  have  also  been  specified.  Further,  the 
REIT  shall  additionally  be  bound  by  periodical  disclosure  requirements 
required under the listing agreement with the exchanges. 

3.  Draft REIT Regulations for Public Comments 

1.  In  the  light  of  the  above,  SEBI  proposes  to  frame  SEBI  (Real  Estate 
Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2013,  draft  of  which  is  enclosed.  Public 
comments are invited on the consultative paper and the draft Regulations. 
Comments  may  be  forwarded  by  email  to  Ms.  Nila  Salil  Khanolkar, 
Assistant  General  Manager  (nila@sebi.gov.in)  or  Mr.  Naveen  Gupta, 
Assistant Manager (naveeng@sebi.gov.in) latest by October 31, 2013. 

2.   Comments should be given in the following format: 

Pertains  to  which  Regulation  /sub 
regulation  

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary: 
Sr.
No
. 
 
 

 

Proposed/ 
suggested 
changes 
 

Rationale 

 

Issued on: October 10, 2013 

 

 

DRAFT REGULATIONS 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, October       , 2013 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the     th   October, 2013 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS) REGULATIONS, 2013 

 

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 30 read with Section 11 
and  12  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  hereby,  makes  the  following  regulations, 
namely, — 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short  title  and 
commencement 

1. 

 (1) These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Real  Estate  Investment 
Trusts) Regulations, 2013. 

Definitions 

2. 

(2) These  regulations  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of 

their notification in the Gazette of India. 

 (1)  In  these  regulations,  unless  the  context  otherwise 
requires,  the  terms  defined  herein  shall  bear  the 
meanings  assigned  to  them  below,  and  their  cognate 
expressions shall be construed accordingly,–   

(a) “Act”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 

(b)  “Associate” of any person includes: 

(i)  any  person  controlled,  directly  or  indirectly,  by 

the said person;  

(ii)  any  person  who  controls,  directly  or  indirectly, 

the said person,  

(iii) any  entity  or  person  under  common  control 

with the said person;  

(iv) where  the  said  person  is  a  company,  any 
person(s)  who is designated as promoter(s) of 
the  company  and  any  other  company  with  the 
same promoter(s); 

(v) where  the  said  person  is  an  individual,  any 

relative of the individual;  

(vi) where the said  person is a body corporate, its 

group companies;  

(vii) 

companies 

under 

the 

same 

management;  

(viii) 

where the said person is a REIT, related 

parties to the REIT; 

(c) “Parties  to  the  REIT”  shall  include  the  sponsor,  re-
the 

trustee  and 

designated  sponsor,  manager, 
principal valuer; 

(d)  “Related parties of the REIT” shall include: 

(i)  Parties to the REIT 

(ii)  Any  unit  holder  holding,  directly  or  indirectly, 

more than 20% of the units of the REIT; 

(iii) Any associates of the persons mentioned at (i) 

and (ii) above; 

(iv) any  promoter  or  director  of 
included at (i), (ii) and (iii) above; 

the  persons 

(v) Any associates of the persons included in point 

(iv) above; 

(e) "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India established under section 3 of the Act; 

(f)  “body corporate” shall have  the meaning assigned to 
it  in  or  under  sub-section  (11)  of  section  2  of  the 
Companies Act, 2013; 

(g) “certificate” means a certificate of registration granted 

under these regulations; 

(h) “company”  means  a  company  as  defined  under  sub-

section (20) of section 2 the Companies Act, 2013. 

(i)  "change in control" in relation to a company or a body 

corporate, means: 

in  control  within 

(i)  if its shares are listed on any recognized stock 
the 
exchange,  change 
meaning  of  clause  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of 
regulation  2  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of 
India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of 
Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 

(ii)  in  any  other  case,  change  in  the  controlling 

interest or change in legal form. 

Explanation.─  For  the  purpose  of  sub-clause  (ii),  the 
expression  “controlling  interest”  means  an  interest, 
whether  direct  or  indirect,  to  the  extent  of  more  than 
fifty percent of voting rights or interest; 

(j)  “form”  means  any  of  the  forms  set  out  in  the  First 

Schedule of these Regulations. 

(k)  “inspecting authority” means any one or more person 
appointed by the Board  to exercise powers conferred 
under Chapter V of these Regulations; 

(l)  “Real  Estate”  or  “property”  means  land  and  any 
permanently  attached  improvements  to  it,  whether 
leasehold  or  freehold  and  includes  buildings,  sheds, 
garages, 
fixtures,  warehouses, 
carparks,  etc.  and  any  other  assets  incidental  to  the 
ownership  of  real  estate  and  does  not  include 
mortgage and Transferable Development Rights; 

fences, 

fittings, 

(m)“REIT”  means  a  Real  Estate 

Investment  Trust 

registered under these Regulations; 

(n) “Real  Estate  assets”  means  properties  held  by  REIT 
through  a  Special  Purpose 

whether  directly  or 
Vehicle; 

(o) “REIT  assets”  means  real  estate  and  other  assets 
held  by  the  REIT  whether  directly  or  through  a 
Special Purpose Vehicle; 

(p) "Special Purpose Vehicle" means any body corporate 
to  hold 

the  REIT  holds  or  proposes 

in  which 
controlling interest; 

(q) “sponsor”  means  any  person  and  its  associates,  if 
any, who set(s) up the REIT and assigned as such at 
the time of application made to SEBI and who hold(s) 
not less than 25% of the units of the REIT at the time 
of making application to SEBI for registration; 

if  any,  who  has/have  assumed 

(r)  "Re-designated  sponsor"  means  any  person  and  its 
associates, 
the 
responsibility  of  the  sponsor  from  the  person  as 
designated  under  clause  (q)  of  sub-regulation  (1) 
above or any re-designated sponsor thereafter;  

(s) “Manager” means a company which manages assets 

and investments of the REIT; 

(t)  “Trustee” means a person who holds the REIT assets 
in  trust  for  the  benefit  of  the  unit  holders,  in 
accordance with these regulations; 

(u) “Custodian”  means  a  person  registered  with  SEBI 
under the SEBI (Custodian of Securities Regulations), 
1996; 

(v) “Initial  Offer”  means  the  first  offer  of  units  of REIT  to 

the public for subscription; 

(w) “Follow–on Offer” means offer of units of REIT to the 

public for subscription subsequent to Initial Offer; 

(x) “Offer document” means any document or documents 

by which initial offer is made to the public; 

(y) “Follow-on  Offer  Document”  means  any  document  or 
documents  by  which  follow-on    offer  is  made  to  the 
public; 

(z)  “Recognised  stock  exchange”  means  any  stock 
exchange which is recognised under section 4 of the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  (42  of 
1956); 

(aa)  “Unit”  means  beneficial  interest  of  the  Real  Estate 

Investment Trust; 

(bb)  “Unit holder” means any person holding units of the 

REIT; 

(cc)  “Principal  Valuer”  means  any  person  who  is  a 
the 
"registered  valuer"  under  Section  247  of 
Companies Act, 2013 and assigned as such and who 
has  been  appointed  by  the  manager  to  undertake 

valuation of the real estate assets; 

(dd)  "Value  of  the  REIT"  means  value    of  the  REIT  as 
assessed  by  the  valuer  excluding  any  debt/liabilities 
thereof; 

(ee)  "Value of the REIT assets" means aggregate value  
of  all  the  assets  under  the  REIT  as  assessed  by  the 
valuer; 

(ff) "Net  Asset  Value”  means  by  value  of  the  REIT  as 
calculated  by  the  valuer  divided  by  the  number  of 
outstanding units as on a particular date;  

(gg)   “Right-of-first-Refusal” or "ROFR" of a REIT means 
the right given to the REIT by a person to enter into a 
transaction  with  it  before  the  person  is  entitled  to 
enter that transaction with any other party; 

(hh)   “Investment  Management  Agreement”  means  an 
agreement  between  the  Trustee  and  the  manager 
which  lays  down  the  roles  and  responsibilities  of  the 
manager towards the REIT; 

(ii)  “Completed  property”  means  property 

for  which 
occupancy  certificate  has  been  received  from  the 
relevant authority; 

(jj)   “Developmental property” means a property which is 
under-construction property and for which occupancy 
certificate has not been received; 

 (2)  The  words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in 
these  regulations  but  defined  in  the  Act,  the  Securities 
Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  (42  of  1956),  the 
Companies  Act,  2013  (18  of  2013),  or  any  rules  or 
regulations  made  thereunder  shall  have  the  same 
meanings  respectively  assigned  to  them  in  those  Acts, 
rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder  or  any  statutory 
modification  or  re-enactment  thereto,  as  the  case  may 
be. 

 

 

 

CHAPTER II 

REGISTRATION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS 

Registration 
of                Real 
Estate 
Investment 
Trusts 

3. 

 (1)  No person shall carry out any activity as a REIT unless 
it is registered with the Board under these regulations;  

(2)  An  application  for  grant  of  certificate  of  registration 
under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  made  in  Form  A  as 
specified  in  the  Schedule  I  to  these  regulations  and 
shall be accompanied by  a non-refundable application 
fee  of  such  amount  and  in  the  manner  as  specified  in 
Schedule II to these regulations;  

(3)  The  Board  may,  in  order  to  protect  the  interests  of 
investors,  appoint  any  person  to  take  charge  of 
records,  documents  of  the  applicant  and  for  this 
purpose,  also  determine  the  terms  and  conditions  of 
such an appointment.  

(4)  The  Board  shall  take  into  account  requirements  as 
specified  in  these  regulations  for  the  purpose  of 
considering grant of registration.  

Eligibility 
Criteria.  

4. 

 

4 (1)  For  the  purpose  of  the  grant  of  certificate  to  an 
applicant, the Board shall consider any matter which it 
deems relevant to the activities as a REIT; 

(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  foregoing 

provisions, the Board shall consider whether: 

(a) Whether the applicant is a Trust and the instrument of 
trust  is  in  the  form  of  a  deed  duly  registered  in  India 
under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908; 

(b) Whether  the  Trust  Deed  has  its  main  objective  as 
undertaking  activity  of  REIT  in  accordance  with  these 
Regulations  and 
the 
Trustee  in  accordance  with  Regulation  9  of  these 
Regulations; 

responsibilities  of 

includes 

(c) Whether persons have been designated as sponsor(s), 
manager(s),  trustee  and  the  principal  valuer  under 
these  Regulations  and  all  such  persons  are  separate 
entities; 

(d) Whether the sponsor(s) has/have a net worth of atleast 

rupees 20 crore on a consolidated basis;  

(e) Whether  the  sponsor(s)  has/  have  not  less  than  5 

years  experience  in  the  real  estate  industry  on  an 
individual basis.  

(f)  Whether the manager has: 

(i)  net worth of not less than Rs. 5 crore; and 

(ii)  not  less  than  5  years  experience  in  fund 
services/property 
management/ 
management  in  the  real  estate  industry  or  in 
development of real estate; and 

advisory 

(iii) not less than 2 key personnel in its Investment 
Committee  who  each  have  not  less  than  5 
years  experience 
fund  management/ 
advisory  services/property  management  in  the 
real  estate  industry  or  in  development  of  real 
estate;  

in 

(g) Whether  not  less  than  half  of  members  of  the 
are 

Investment  Committee 
independent and are not related parties to the REIT; 

the  manager 

of 

(h) Whether  the  trustee  is  registered  with  SEBI  under 
SEBI(Debenture  Trustees)  Regulations,  1993,  is  not 
an  associate  of  the  sponsor/manager/principal  valuer 
and not less than 50% of its directors are independent 
and are not related parties to the REIT; 

(i)  Whether the principal valuer is not an associate of the 
sponsor/manager/trustee  and  has  not  less  than  5 
years of experience in valuation of real estate; 

(j)  Whether 

the 

investment  management  agreement 
provides  for  the  responsibilities  of  the  manager  in 
accordance with regulation 10 of these Regulations; 

(k)  Whether  all  unit  holders  of  the  REIT  enjoy  equal 

voting rights; 

(l)  Whether  the  applicant  and  parties  to  the  REIT  are  fit 
and proper persons based on the criteria as specified 
in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board 
of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 

(m) Whether  any  previous  application 

for  grant  of 
certificate made by the applicant or any related  party 
has been rejected by the Board;  

(n)  Whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the 
Board  or  any  other  regulatory  authority  against  the 

applicant  or  any  related  party  under  any  Act  or  the 
Regulations/guidelines made thereunder; 

Furnishing  of 
further 
information, 
clarification 
and  personal 
representation 

 

Procedure  for 
grant 
of 
certificate 

 

 

 

 

5. 

 

5 
(1) The Board may require the applicant to furnish any such 
information  or  clarification  as  may  be  required  by  it  for 
the purpose of processing of the application. 

(2) The  Board,  if  it  so  desires,  may  ask  the  applicant  or  its 
authorized representative to appear before the Board for 
personal  representation  in  connection  with  the  grant  of 
certificate. 

6. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 
(1) The Board on being satisfied that the applicant fulfils, the 
requirements  specified 
in  Regulation  4  shall  send 
intimation  to  the  applicant  and  on  receipt  of  the  payment 
of  registration  fees  as  specified  in  Schedule  II,  grant 
certificate of registration. 

(2) The Board shall, on receipt of the registration fees, grant 

a certificate of registration in Form B under Schedule I. 

(3) The  registration  may  be  granted  with  such  conditions  as 

may be deemed appropriate by the Board. 

Conditions  of 
certificate 

7. 

7 The certificate granted under regulation 6 shall, inter-alia, be 

subject to the following conditions:-   

(a) the  REIT  shall  abide  by  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and 

these regulations;  

(b) the  REIT  shall  forthwith  inform  the  Board  in  writing,  if 
any  information  or  particulars  previously  submitted  to 
the  Board  are  found  to  be  false  or  misleading  in  any 
material particular or if there is any material change in 
the information already submitted; 

(c) The REIT and parties to the REIT shall satisfy with the 

conditions specified in Regulation 4 at all times; 

(d) The  REIT and  parties  to the REIT shall comply, at  all 
times,  with  the  Code  of  conduct  as  specified  in  the 
Schedule VI, wherever applicable; 

8. 

Procedure 
where 
registration is 
refused 

8 (1) After  considering  an  application  made  under  Regulation 
3,  if the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  a  certificate  should 
not  be  granted  to  the  applicant,  it  may  reject  the 
application  after  giving 
the  applicant  a  reasonable 
opportunity of being heard. 

(2) The  decision  of  the  Board  to  reject  the  application  shall 
be  communicated  to  the  applicant  within  thirty  days  of 
such decision. 

 

CHAPTER III 

RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTIES TO THE REIT 

and 

Rights 
Responsibility 
of Trustee 

9. 

 (1) The Trustee shall hold the REIT assets in the name of the 
REIT for the benefit of the unit holders in accordance with 
the Trust Deed and these Regulations;  

(2) The Trustee shall ensure that the real estate assets of the 
REIT  have  proper  legal  and  marketable  titles  and  that  all 
the  material  contracts  including  rental/  lease  agreements 
entered  into  on  behalf  of  REITs  are  legal,  valid,  binding 
and enforceable by and on behalf of the REIT.  

(3) The  Trustee  shall  enter  into  the  investment  management 

agreement with the manager on behalf of the REIT; 

(4) The  Trustee  shall  supervise  activities  of  the  manager  in 
the  interest  of  the  unit  holders,  ensure  that  the  manager 
complies  with  Regulation  10  of  these  Regulations  and 
shall obtain compliance certificate from the manager every 
quarter for the purpose;   

(5) The Trustee shall ensure that the manager undertakes the 
reporting  and  disclosures 
these 
Regulations  and  in  case  of  any  delay  or  discrepancy, 
require  the  manager  to  rectify  the  same  on  an  urgent 
basis; 

in  accordance  with 

(6) The  Trustee  shall  review  the  transactions  carried  out 
between  the  manager  and  its  associates  and  where  the 
manager  has  advised  that  there  may  be  a  conflict  of 
interest,  shall  confirm  that  such  transaction  is  on  arm's 
length basis; 

(7) The  Trustee  shall  periodically  review  the  status  of  unit 
holders'  complaints  and  their  redressal  undertaken  by  the 
Manager; 

(8) The  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  manager  makes  timely 

payment of the dividend to unit holders;  

(9) The  Trustee  may  require  the  Manager  to  set  up  such 
systems  and  submit  such  reports  to  the  trustees,  as  may 

be  necessary  for  effective  monitoring  of  the  performance 
and functioning of the REIT; 

(10)  The  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  subscription  amount  is 
kept in a separate bank account in name of the REIT and 
is only utilized for adjustment against allotment of units or 
refund  of  money  to  the  applicants  till  the  time  such  units 
are listed;  

(11)  The  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  remuneration  of  the 
principal valuer/ valuer is not be linked to or based on the 
value of the property being valued; 

(12)  The Trustee shall convene meetings of the unit holders 
these  Regulations  and  maintain 
these 

in  accordance  with  regulation  26  of 

in  accordance  with 
records 
Regulations; 

(13)  The  Trustee  may  take  up  with  SEBI  or  with  the 
exchange,  any  issue  which  has  been  approved  in  an 
annual meeting/ special meeting, if the issue requires such 
action; 

(14) 

In  case  of  any  change  in  manager  due  to  removal  or 

otherwise: 

(a) Prior  to  such  change,  the  Trustee  shall  obtain 
approval  from  unit  holders  in  accordance  with  sub 
regulation (6) of regulation 22 of these Regulations 
and approval from the Board; 

(b) The Trustee shall appoint the new manager within 3 
months  from  the  date  of  termination  of  the  earlier 
manager; 

(c) The previous Manager shall continue to act as such 
at  the  discretion  of  trustee  till  such  time  as  new 
manager is appointed.  

(d) The trustee shall ensure that the new manager shall 
stand substituted as a party in all the documents to 
which the earlier manager was a party.  

(e) The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  earlier  manager 
continues  to  be  liable  for  all  its  acts  of  omissions 
and commissions notwithstanding such termination. 

(15)  The  Trustee  shall  obtain  prior  approval  from  the    unit 
holders in accordance with sub-regulation (6) of regulation 
22  of  these  Regulations  the  Board  in  case  of  change  in 

and 

Rights 
Responsibility 
of manager 

control of the manager;  

(16)  The Trustee shall not invest in units of the REIT;  

(17)  The Trustee shall ensure that the activity of the REIT is 
being  operated  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Trust  Deed,  these  Regulations  and  the  Offer  Document 
and if any discrepancy is noticed, shall inform the same to 
the Board immediately in writing; 

(18)  The  Trustee  shall  immediately  inform  to  the  Board  in 
case  any  action  which is detrimental to the interest  of the 
unit holders is observed;  

10. 

 (1) The  manager  shall  identify  and  recommend  investment 

opportunities for investment by the REIT;  

(2) The  manager  shall  ensure  that  the  investments  made  by 
the REIT are in accordance with the investment conditions 
specified  in  regulation  18  of  these  Regulations  and  in 
accordance with the investment strategy of the REIT;  

(3) The  manager  shall  undertake  management  of  the  REIT 
assets including making  arrangements for the  appropriate 
maintenance  either  directly  or  through  the  appointment 
and supervision of appropriate agents;  

(4) The  manager  shall  appoint  the  principal  valuer,  any  other 
valuer(s),  auditor,  registrar  and  transfer  agent,  merchant 
banker,  custodian  and  any  other  intermediary/service 
provider/agent for managing the assets of the REIT or for 
offer and listing of its units or any other  activity pertaining 
to  the  REIT  in  a  timely  manner  and  in  accordance  with 
these Regulations; 

(5) The  manager  shall  appoint  an  auditor  for  a  period  of  not 

more than 3 years; 

Provided that the auditor may further be reappointed for a 
period  of  another  3  years,  subject  to  approval  of  unit-
holders in the annual meeting.  

Provided  further  that an auditor cannot be consecutively 
appointed for a period of more than 6 years;  

(6) The  manager  shall  undertake  lease  management  either 
directly  or  through  the  appointment  and  supervision  of 
appropriate agents for the purpose;  

(7) The  manager  shall  arrange 

for  adequate 

insurance 

coverage for the real estate assets of the REIT; 

(8) If  the  REIT  invests  in  developmental  assets  as  per  these 

Regulations, the manager : 

(a) May  undertake  the  development  of  the  assets  or 
for 

appoint  a  project  management  company 
development of such assets; 

(b) Shall  oversee 

the  progress  of  development, 
approval  status  and  other  aspects  of  the  assets 
upto completion of the assets; 

(c) Shall  ensure 

leasing  out  of 

the  assets  after 

completion;  

(9) The  manager  shall  ensure  that  it  has  sufficient  key 
personnel  with  adequate  experience  and  qualification  to 
undertake management of the REIT at all times;  

(10)  The manager shall constitute an Investment Committee 
having not less than 5 members which shall take the final 
decision  on  recommendation  of  the  manager  in  any 
investment opportunity to the REIT; 

(11)  The manager shall be responsible for: 

(a) Filing the draft and final offer document and follow- 
the 

on  offer  document  with 
exchanges within the prescribed time period; 

the  Board  and 

(b) Obtaining in-principle approval from the recognized 
stock exchange(s)  where the units are proposed to 
be listed for an initial offer/follow-on offer; 

(c) Dealing with all matters relating to issue and listing 
of the units of the REIT as specified under Chapter 
IV of these Regulations; 

(12)  The manager shall ensure that disclosures made in the 
offer document/ follow-on offer document represent a true 
and 
these 
Regulations and guidelines/circulars issued thereunder; 

in  accordance  with 

fair  view  and  are 

(13)  The  manager  shall  declare  and  distribute  dividend  to 
the unit holders in accordance with the sub-regulations 12 
and 13 of regulation 18 of these Regulations; 

(14)  The  manager  shall  ensure  adequate  and 

timely 
redressal  of  all  unit  holders'  grievances  pertaining  to 
activities of the REIT; 

(15)  The 

shall 

that 

  manager 

the 
disclosures/reporting  to  the  unit  holders,  Board,  trustees 
and recognized stock exchanges are adequate, timely and 
in 
and 
guidelines/circulars issued thereunder; 

Regulations 

ensure 

accordance 

with 

these 

(16)  The  manager  shall  provide  to  the  Board  and  to  the 
stock exchange any such information as may be sought by 
the  Board  or  the  stock  exchange  pertaining  to  the  activity 
of the REIT; 

(17)  The manager shall ensure that adequate controls are in 
place  to  ensure  segregation  of  its  activity  as  manager  of 
the REIT from its other activities; 

(18)  The manager shall submit to the trustee: 

(a) quarterly  reports  on  the  activities  of  the  REIT 
including receipts for all funds received by it and for 
all  payments  made,  valuation  reports,  position  on 
compliance  with 
these  Regulations,  specifically 
including compliance with regulations 18,19 and 20, 
etc.; 

(b) decision  to  acquire  or  sell  any  asset  along  with 

rationale for the same; 

(c) details  of  any  action  which  requires  approval  from 
the  unit  holders  as  maybe  required  under  the 
Regulations; 

its  directors,  change  of  members 

(d) details of any other material issue including change 
of 
the 
Investment  Committee,  any  legal  proceedings  that 
may have a significant bearing on the activity of the 
REIT, etc. 

in 

(19) 

In case the manager fails to timely submit to the trustee 
information/reports  as  specified  under  sub-regulation  (18) 
above  or  sub-regulation  (9)  of  Regulation  (9)  above,  the 
trustee shall intimate the same to the Board and the Board 
may take action, as it deems fit.  

(19)  The manager shall ensure that the valuation of the real 
estate  assets  is  done  by  the  principal  valuer/  valuer  in 
accordance with regulation 21 of these Regulations; 

(20)  The manager shall ensure computation and declaration 
of  NAV  of  the  REIT  based  on  the  valuation  done  by  the 
valuer/principal valuer no later than 15 days from the date 

of  valuation  and  such  computation  shall  be  done  and 
declared not less than once every six months;  

(21)  The manager shall ensure that the audit of accounts of 
the  REIT  by  the  auditor  is  done  not  less  than  twice  every 
year and such report is submitted to the exchanges within 
45 days of end of such half-year; 

Provided that such half-yearly audit shall be conducted as 
at the end of the six months ending March and September; 

(22)  The  manager  shall  supervise  the  activities  of  the 

custodian; 

(23)  The manager shall place before its Board of Directors a 
report  on  activity  and  performance  of  the  REIT  every  six 
months; 

(24)  The  manager  shall  designate  an  employee/director  as 
the  compliance  officer  for  monitoring  of  compliance  with 
these  Regulations  and  circulars  issued  thereunder  and 
intimating the Board in case of any violation; 

(25)  The  manager  shall  ensure 

that  all  activities  of 
management  of  assets  of  the  REIT  and  activities  of  the 
intermediaries/agents/service  providers  appointed  by  the 
manager are in accordance with these Regulations; 

and 

Rights 
Responsibility 
of sponsor 

11. 

 (1) The sponsor shall set up the REIT and appoint the trustee 

of the REIT; 

(2) With  respect  to  holding  of  units  in  the  REIT,  the  sponsor 

shall: 

(a) hold not less than 25% of the total units of the REIT 

prior to initial offer of which : 

(i)  25% of the units shall be held for a period 
of not less than 3 years from the date of the 
listing of such units;  

(ii)  Units  exceeding  25%  shall  be  held  for  a 
period  of  not  less  than  1  year  from  the  date 
of listing of such units; 

(b) hold  not  less  than  15%  of  the  outstanding  units  of 

the REIT at all times; 

(3) If  the  sponsor  proposes  to  sell  its  units  below  the  limit 

prescribed in clause (b) of sub-regulation (2) above: 

(a) Such  units  shall  be  sold  only  after  a  period  of  3 

and 

Rights 
Responsibility 
of the valuer 

years from the date of listing of the units;  

(b) The sponsor shall arrange for another person/entity 
to  act  as  the  re-designated  sponsor  and  obtain 
approval of the unit holders in accordance with sub-
regulation (11) of regulation 22 for the same. 

(4) Re-designated  sponsors  shall  hold,  after  such 

re-
designation,  not  less  than  15%  of  the  of  the  outstanding 
units of the REIT at all times; 

12. 

 All valuers including the principal valuer shall comply with the 
following conditions at all times; 

(1) The valuer shall ensure that the valuation of the real estate 
assets  is  impartial,  true  and  fair  and  is  in  accordance  with 
regulation 21 of these Regulations; 

(2) The  valuer  shall  ensure  adequate  and  robust  internal 

controls to ensure the integrity of its valuation reports; 

(3) The valuer shall ensure that it has sufficient key personnel 
with  adequate  experience  and  qualification  to  perform 
property valuations at all times;  

(4) The valuer shall not invest in units of the REIT; 

(5) The  valuer  shall  conduct  his  business  with  utmost  
transparency and fairness and shall render at all times high 
standards of service, exercise due diligence, ensure proper 
care and exercise independent professional judgment; 

(6) The  valuer  shall  act  with  the  strictest  independence, 

objectivity and impartiality in performing the valuation; 

(7) The valuer shall discharge its duties towards the REIT in an 
efficient  and  competent  manner,  utilizing  its  knowledge, 
skills  and  experience  in  best  possible  way  to  complete 
given assignment; 

(8) The  valuer  shall  not  accept  remuneration,  in  any  form,  for 
performing a valuation of the REIT assets from any person 
other than the REIT or its authorized representative; 

(9) The valuer shall before accepting any assignment, disclose 
to the REIT the existence of any direct or indirect monetary 
interest  which  the  valuer  may  have  in  respect  of  such 
assignment;  

(10)  The valuer shall verify all critical information relevant to 
the  valuation,  supplied  by  the  REIT  or  any  other  person, 

including  appropriate  qualification  or  confirmation  from  an 
independent source;  

(11)  The  valuer  shall  not  make 

false,  misleading  or 

exaggerated claims in order to secure assignments; 

(12)  The valuer shall not provide misleading valuation, either 
by providing incorrect information or by withholding relevant 
information; 

(13)  The valuer shall not accept an assignment that includes 
reporting of the outcome based on predetermined opinions 
and conclusions required by the REIT; 

(14)  The  valuer  shall,  prior  to  performing  a  valuation,  will 
acquaint  itself  in  terms  of  all  laws/regulations  relevant  to 
such valuation. 

and 

Rights 
Responsibility 
of the auditor 

13. 

 (1) The Auditor shall conduct audit of the accounts of the REIT 
and draft the audit report based on the accounts examined 
by  him  and  after 
the  relevant 
accounting and auditing standards, as may be applicable;  

into  account 

taking 

that 

(2) The  Auditor  shall,  to  the  best  of  his  information  and 
knowledge,  ensure 
financial 
statements  give  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the  state  of  the 
affairs  as  at  the  end  of  the  period  and  profit  or  loss  and 
cash flow for the period and such other matters as may be 
prescribed. 

the  accounts  and 

(3) The Auditor shall have a right of access at all times to the 
books  of  accounts  and  vouchers  pertaining  to  activities  of 
the REIT; 

(4) The  Auditor  shall  have  a  right  to  require  such  information 
and  explanation  pertaining  to  activities  of  the  REIT  as  he 
may  consider  necessary  for  the  performance  of  his  duties 
as  auditor  from  the  employees  of  REIT  or  parties  to  the 
REIT  or  any  other  person 
in  possession  of  such 
information.  

 

CHAPTER IV 

OFFER OF UNITS TO THE PUBLIC AND LISTING OF UNITS 

 

offer/ 
Initial 
offer 
follow-on 
and  allotment  of 
units 

14. 

 (1) No initial offer of units by the REIT shall be made unless: 

(a) The  REIT  is  registered  with  the  Board  under 

these Regulations; 

(b) the value of REIT assets is not less than Rs. 1000 

crore; 

(c) the  value  of  the  units  proposed  to  be  offered  to 
the public is not less than 25% of the value of the 
REIT;  

(d) the offer size is not less than Rs. 250 crore; 

(2) No  offer  of  units  of  REIT  shall  be  made  unless  a  initial 
offer/follow-on  offer  document 
the 
designated  Stock  Exchange  and  the  Board  within  five 
working days before opening of the offer and such filing 
with  the  Board  shall  be  accompanied  by  filing  fees  as 
specified under Schedule II; 

filed  with 

is 

(3) REIT,  through  the  manager,  shall  file  a  draft  offer 
document/follow-on  offer  document  with  the  designated 
stock  exchange,(s)not  less  than  thirty  days  before  filing 
the    initial  offer/follow-on  offer  document  with  the 
designated stock exchange; 

(4) Such draft offer document/follow-on offer document shall 
be hosted by the Exchanges on their websites for public 
comments for a period not less than 10 days;  

(5) A  copy  of  the  draft  and  initial  offer/follow-on  offer 
document  shall  be  filed  with  the  Board  for  its  records 
along  with  a  Due  Diligence  Certificate  signed  by  the 
Trustee;  

(6) The  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors,  require  the 
REIT  to  carry  out  such  modifications  in  the  draft  offer 
document/follow-on offer document as it deems fit;  

(7) The  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  all  comments  from  the 
public  or  from  the  Board  received  on  the  draft  offer 
document are suitably addressed prior to the filing of the 
offer  document/follow  on  offer  document  with  the  Stock 

Exchange; 

(8) In  case  no  modifications  are  suggested  by  the  Board  in 
the draft offer document/follow-on  offer document within 
21  days  from  the  date  of  filing,  the  REIT  may  issue  the 
final  offer  document/follow-on  offer  document  to  the 
public; 

Provided  that  prior 
final  offer 
document/follow  on  offer  document,  they  shall  be  filed 
with the stock exchange and with the Board; 

issue  of  such 

to 

(9) The  REIT  shall  undertake  an  initial  offer  or  follow-on 
offer  within  6  months  from  the  date  of  last  issuance  of 
observations  by  the  Board,  if  any  or  if  no  observations 
have  been  issued  by  the  Board,  within  6  months  from 
the  date  of  filing  of  Offer  document/follow-on  offer 
document with the Stock Exchange; 

(10)  The  REIT  may  invite  for  subscriptions  and  allot  units 

to any person, whether resident or foreign; 

in  case  of 

investors,  such 
Provided  that 
investment  shall  be  subject  to  guidelines  as  may  be 
specified by RBI and the government from time to time. 

foreign 

(11)  The application for subscription shall be accompanied 
by  a  statement  containing  the  abridged  version  of  the 
offer document, detailing the risk factors and summary of 
the terms of issue; 

(12)  Size of one unit of the REIT shall be rupees one lakh; 

(13)  Under  both  the  initial  offer  and  follow-on  public  offer, 
the REIT shall not accept subscription of an amount less 
than rupees two lakhs from every applicant; 

(14) 

Initial  offer  and  follow-on  offer  shall  not  be  open  for 
subscription  for  a  period  of  more  than  45  days  and  30 
days respectively; 

(15) 

In  case  of  over-subscriptions,  the  REIT  shall  allot 
units to the applicants on a proportionate basis rounded 
off 
to  minimum 
subscription  amount  per  subscriber  as  specified  in  sub-
regulation (13) above;  

integer  subject 

the  nearest 

to 

(16)  The  REIT  shall  allot  units  /refund  money  within  10 

working days from the date of closing of the issue; 

(17)  The  REIT  shall  issue  units  in  only  in  dematerialized 

form to all the applicants; 

(18)  The REIT shall refund money to the applicants within 

fifteen days from the closure of the offer, in case: 

(i)  it fails  to  collect  subscription  of  amount  less  than 
75%  of  the  issue  size  as  specified  in  the  offer 
document/follow-on offer document, where money 
shall be refunded to all applicants; 

(ii)  the moneys received is in excess of the extent of 
the  offer 
over-subscription  as  specified 
document/follow-on offer document, where money 
shall be refunded to applicants to the extent of the 
oversubscription; 

in 

Provided 
retain  such  over 
subscription cannot exceed 25% of the issue size.  

right 

that 

to 

(iii) the  number  of  subscribers  to  the  initial  offer,  not 
including    any  related  party  to  the  REIT,  is  less 
than  20,  where  money  shall  be  refunded  to  all 
applicants; 

(19) 

If  the  REIT  fails  to  allot  or  list  the  units  within  fifteen 
days  from  the  closure  of  the  issue,  then  it  shall  pay 
interest to the unit holders @15% per annum, till it allots 
or lists the units; 

(20) 

If  the  REIT  fails to  undertake  its initial  offer  within  18 
months  from  the  date  of  registration  with  SEBI,  it  shall 
surrender  its  certificate  of  registration  to  the  Board  and 
cease to operate as a REIT. 

Provided  that the Board, if it deems fit, may extend the 
period by another six months. 

Provided  further  that  the  REIT  may  later  re-apply  for 
registration, if it so desires. 

(21)  The 

by 

Board  may 

of 
guidelines/circulars any other requirements, as it deems 
fit, pertaining to Initial offer/ follow-on offer and allotment 
of units by a REIT; 

specify 

issue 

15. 

Offer 
document/follow-
on 
offer 
and 
document 

 (1) The  offer  document/follow-on  offer  document  of  the 
REIT  shall  contain  material,  true,  correct  and  adequate 
disclosures to enable the investors to make an informed 
decision.  

advertisements 

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-regulation (1), 

the offer document/follow-on offer document shall: 

(i)  Include  all 

information  as  specified  under 

Schedule III to these Regulations;  

(ii)  not  be  misleading  and  not  contain  any  untrue 

statements or mis-statements; 

(iii) not  provide  any  guaranteed  returns 

to 

the 

investors  

(iv) include  such  other  disclosures  as  may  be 

specified by the Board; 

(3) Any  advertisement  material  relating  to  the  initial  offer/ 
follow-on  offer  shall  not  be  misleading  and  shall  not 
contain  anything  extraneous  to  the  contents  of  the  offer 
document/ follow-on offer document; 

(4) if  an  advertisement  contains  highlights,  it  shall  also 
contain  risk  factors  with  equal  importance  in  all  aspects 
including print size; 

(5) The advertisements shall be in accordance with the offer 
document/  follow-on  offer  document  and  any  guidelines 
as may be prescribed by the Board in this regard; 

 (1) It shall be mandatory for all units of REITs to be listed on 
a  recognized  stock  exchange  after  the  initial  offer  no 
later  than  expiry  of  15  days  from  the  date  of  closure  of 
the offer; 

Provided  that  this  sub-regulation  shall  not  apply  if  the 
initial  offer  does  not  satisfy  the  minimum  subscription 
requirements  or  the  minimum  number  of  subscribers 
under Regulation 14 (18) (i) and (iii) above; 

(2) The  listing  of  the  units  of  the  REIT  shall  be  in 
accordance  with  the  listing  agreement  entered  into 
between the REIT and the recognized stock exchange;  

(3) The  units  of  the  REIT  listed  in  recognized  stock 
exchanges  shall  be  traded,  cleared  and  settled  in 
accordance  with 
the  bye-laws  of  concerned  stock 
exchanges,  Depositories  Act  and  such  conditions  as 
may be specified by the Board. 

(4) Unit holders proposing to sell their units shall be able to 

do so only on the stock exchange; 

Listing 
trading of units 

and 

16. 

Provided  that  this  clause  shall  not  apply  in  case  of 
regulation 17 and sub-regulation (10) of regulation 22 for 
which  separate  guidelines  may  be  issued  by  the  Board 
or the stock exchanges. 

(5) The units of REIT shall be listed on the stock exchange 
unless delisted under regulation 17 of these Regulations;  

(6) The minimum public float for the REIT units shall be 25% 
at all times failing which action may be taken as may be 
specified  by  the  Board  and  by  the  Stock  Exchange 
including  delisting  of  units  under  regulation  17  of  these 
Regulations; 

Explanation: For the purpose of this clause, ‘public’ shall 
not include  any  related party to the REIT or any  person 
as may be specified by the Board.  

(7) The  Board  and  exchanges  may  specify  any  other 
requirements  pertaining  to  listing  and  trading  of  units  of 
the REIT by issue of guidelines/circulars or in any other 
form, as deemed fit; 

Delisting of units 

17. 

 (1) The Trustee shall apply for delisting of  units of the REIT 

to the Board and the stock exchanges if: 

(a) the  public  float  falls  below  the  prescribed  limit  under 
these 

(6)  of  Regulation  16  of 

sub-regulation 
Regulations; 

(b) the  number  of  unit  holders  of  the  REIT  other  than 

related parties to the REIT falls below 20; 

(c) the  Board  or  the  Stock  exchange  requires  such 
delisting for violation of the listing agreement or these 
Regulations or the Act;  

(d) the  sponsor/manager  requests  such  delisting  and 
such  request  has  been  approved  by  unit  holders  in 
accordance with sub-regulation (6) of regulation 22 of 
these Regulations; 

(e) unit  holders  apply  for  such  delisting  in  accordance 
with  clause  (d)  of  sub-regulation  (7)  of  regulation  22 
of these Regulations; 

(f)  the  Board  or  the  stock  exchange  require  such 

delisting in the interest of the unit holders; 

(2) The Board  and the Stock exchanges may consider such 

application 
appropriate in the interest of the unit holders; 

for  approval  or 

rejection  as  may  be 

(3) The Board, instead of delisting of the units, if it deems fit,  
may provide additional time to the REIT or parties to the 
REIT to comply with the Regulations; 

(4) The Board may reject the application of delisting and take 
any other action, as it deems fit, under these Regulations 
or  the  Act  for  violation  of  the  listing  agreement  or  these 
Regulations  or  the  Act  including  clauses  (a)  and  (b)  of 
sub-regulation (1) above. 

(5) The  procedure  for  delisting  of  units  of  REIT  shall  be  in 
accordance with the listing agreement and in accordance 
with procedure as may be specified by the Board and by 
the stock exchange from time to time; 

(6) After  delisting  of  its  units,  the  REIT  shall  surrender  its 
certificate  of  registration  to  SEBI  and  shall  no  longer 
undertake activity of a REIT; 

Provided  that  the  REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall 
continue  to  be  liable  for  all  their  acts  of  omissions  and 
commissions notwithstanding such surrender.  

 

CHAPTER V 

INVESTMENT CONDITIONS, RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS, BORROWING 

AND VALUATION OF ASSETS  

18. 

Investment 
Conditions and 
Dividend 
policy 

 (1) The  Investment  by  a  REIT  shall  only  be  in  securities  or 
properties in India and such investments shall be made in 
accordance  with  the  Offer  Document/Follow-on  Offer 
Document; 

(2) The  REIT  shall  not  invest  in  vacant  land  or  agricultural 
land or mortgages other than mortgage backed securities;  

(3) The  REIT  may  invest  in  properties  through  Special 

Purpose Vehicles subject to the following: 

(a) Such  Special  Purpose  Vehicles  shall  hold  not  less 
than 90% of their assets directly in such properties 
and  shall  not  invest  in  other  Special  Purpose 
Vehicles;; 

(b) The REIT shall hold controlling interest and not less 
than 51%  of the equity share capital of the Special 

Purpose Vehicle; 

(c) No  other  shareholder  of  the  Special  Purpose 
Vehicle  shall  have  any  rights  that  shall  prevent  the 
REIT  from  complying  with  the  provisions  of  these 
Regulations; 

(d) The Manager, in consultation with the Trustee, shall 
appoint not less than one authorized representative 
on the Board of such Special Purpose Vehicles; 

(4) Not  less  than  90%  of  value  of  the  REIT  assets  shall  be 

invested in completed and rent generating properties. 

Provided  that  for  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  if  the 
investment  has  been  made  through  a  Special  Purpose 
Vehicle,  only  the  proportion  of  direct  investments  in 
properties  by  such  Special  Purpose  Vehicles  shall  be 
considered  and  the  remaining  portion  shall  be  included 
under sub-regulation (5) under. 

Explanation:  For 
‘rent 
generating property’ shall mean property of which not less 
than 75% of the area has been rented/leased out. 

the  purpose  of 

this  clause, 

(5) Not  more  than  10%  of  value  of  the  REIT  assets  shall  be 

invested in:   

(a) Developmental properties; 

Provided  that  such  investment  shall  only  be  in 
properties  which  shall  be  held  by  the  REIT  for  not 
less than three  years after completion and shall be 
leased out; 

(b) Listed or unlisted debt of companies; 

(c) mortgage backed securities;  

(d) Equity  shares  of  companies  listed  on  a  recognized 
stock  exchange  in  India  which  derive  not  less  than 
75% of their revenues from Real Estate activity; 

(e) Government securities; 

(f)  Money market instruments or Cash equivalents; 

(6) If  the  conditions  specified  in  sub-regulations  above  are 
breached on account of market movements of the price of 
the  underlying assets/securities, the manager shall inform 
the  same  to  the  trustee  and  ensure  that  the  investment 
conditions as specified above are satisfied within 6 months 

of such breach.  

(7) Investment  upto  100%  of  the  corpus  of  REIT  shall  be 
permitted  in  a  single  project  subject  to  the  minimum  size 
as  specified  under  clause  (b)  of  sub-regulation  1  of 
regulation  14  of  these  regulations  and  disclosures  to  the 
unit holders to that effect; 

(8) Not less than 75% of the revenues of the REIT other than 
gains  arising  from  disposal  of  properties  shall  be  from 
rental, leasing and letting real estate assets at all times; 

(9) A REIT shall not invest in units of other REITs; 

(10)  With  respect  to  investment  in  leasehold  properties,  the 
manager  shall  consider  the  remaining  term  of  the  lease, 
the  objectives  of  the  REIT,  and  the  lease  profile  of  the 
REIT’s  existing  real  estate  assets  prior  to  making  such 
investment; 

(11) 

In case of any co-investment with any person(s) in any 

transaction:  

(a) the investment by the other person(s) shall not be at 

terms more favourable than those to the REIT; 

(b) the  investment  shall  not  provide  any  rights  to  the 
person(s)  which  shall  prevent 
from 
complying with the provisions of these Regulations; 

the  REIT 

(c) the agreement with such person(s) shall include the 
minimum percentage of distributable profits that will 
be distributed and entitlement of the REIT to receive 
not  less  than  pro  rata  distributions  and  mode  for 
resolution  of  any  disputes  between  the  REIT  and 
the other person(s); 

(12)  Not  less  than  90%  of net  distributable  income  after  tax 
of  the  REIT  shall  be  distributed  as  dividend  to  the  unit 
holders; 

(13)  Such  dividend  shall  be  declared  and  distributed  as 
mentioned in the offer document/follow-on offer document;  

Provided  that  such  distribution  shall  be  made  not  more 
than 15 days from the date of such declaration; 

(14)  No schemes shall be launched under the REIT;  

Related  Party 
transactions 

19. 

 (1) All  related  party  transactions  shall  be  on  an  arms-length 
basis,  in  the  best  interest  of  the  unit  holders,  consistent 

with the strategy & investment objectives of the REIT and 
shall  be  disclosed  to  the  exchanges  and  unit  holders 
periodically  in  accordance  with  the  listing  agreement  and 
these Regulations; 

(2) A REIT may acquire assets from or sell assets to or lease 
assets  to  or  invest  in  securities  issued  by  or  borrow  from 
related  parties  subject 
the  conditions  specified 
hereunder. 

to 

(3) With respect to purchase or sale of properties both prior to 

and after initial offer: 

(a) 2  valuation 

reports 

from  2  different  valuers, 

independent of each other, shall be obtained; 

Provided  that  one  of  the  two  valuers  may  be  the 
principal valuer; 

(b) Such  valuers  shall  undertake  a  full  valuation  of  the 
assets  proposed  to  be  purchased/sold  as  specified 
under regulation 21 of these Regulations; 

(c) Transactions for purchase/sale of such assets shall 
be at a price not greater / less than average of the 
two independent valuations respectively;  

(4) In case of any related party transactions entered into prior 

to making the initial offer: 

(a) adequate disclosures to that effect shall be made in 
the  Offer  document  including  a  consolidated  full 
valuation  report  of  all  such  assets  in  accordance 
with clause (a) of sub-regulation (3) above, as may 
be applicable; 

(b) the  REIT  shall  enter 

into  proper  and  valid 
agreements  with  such  related  parties  at  the  price/ 
interest  rate/rental  value  mentioned  in  the  Offer 
document;  

(c) If  the  transactions  are  conditional  upon  the  REIT 
receiving  a  minimum  amount  of  subscription, 
adequate  disclosures  shall  be  made  in  the  offer 
document and the agreements to that effect; 

(5) In case of any related party transactions entered into after 

the initial offer: 

(a) Adequate  disclosures  shall  be  made  to  the  unit 

holders and to the exchange; 

(b) In case: 

(i) 

the  total  value  of  all  the  related  party 
transactions  pertaining  to  acquisition/sale  of 
properties  or 
into  securities 
exceeds 5% of the value of REIT; or 

investments 

(ii) 

the  rentals  from  all  assets  leased  to 
related  parties  exceeds  5%  of  the  total 
rentals of the REIT; or 

(iii)  the  value  of  the  funds  borrowed  from  any 
total 

related  party  exceeds  5%  of 
consolidated borrowings of the REIT; 

the 

the  unit  holders  shall  be 
from 
approval 
obtained  prior 
into  any  such 
to  entering 
subsequent transaction with any related party; 

(c) If  the  value  of  a  single  related  party  transaction 
exceeds the value specified in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) 
above, approval of unit holders shall be required for 
such  transaction  in  accordance  with  clause  (d) 
below.  

(d) For  the  purpose  of  obtaining  approval  for  such 
transactions,  the  trustee  shall  obtain  approval  in 
accordance  with sub-regulation (6)  of regulation 22 
and 
shall  be 
accompanied by a transaction document; 

such  approval 

request 

for 

(6) The  disclosures  in  the  offer  document,  follow-on  offer 
document  and  transaction  document  shall  include  the 
following, as may be applicable: 

(a) Identity  of  the  related  parties  and  their  relationship 

with the REIT/parties to the REIT; 

(b) Nature  and  details  of  the  transactions  entered  into/ 
proposed  to  be  entered  into  with  such  related 
parties including description and location; 

(c) The 

the 

assets/securities 
price/value 
bought/sold/leased 
be 
bought/sold/leased and if leased or proposed to be 
leased, value of the lease; 

proposed 

of 
or 

to 

(d) Ready  reckoner  rate  of  the  real  estate  asset  being 

bought/sold; 

(e) Valuation report(s); 

(f)  The current and expected rental yield; 

(g) If  the  transactions  are  conditional  upon  the  REIT 
receiving  a  stated  amount  of  subscriptions,  the 
minimum  amount  of  such  subscriptions  to  be 
received; 

(h) Amount  and  rate  of  interest  in  case  of  borrowing 

from any related party; 

(i)  Any  other  information  that  is  required  for  the 

investor to take an informed decision;  

(7) Any  properties leased  to related  parties to the REIT, both 
before  and  after  initial  offer,  shall  be  subject  to  the 
following : 

(a) Such  lease  area  shall  not  exceed  20%  of  the 

underlying area of the assets; 

(b) Value  of  assets  under  such  lease  shall  not  exceed 

20% of the value of the total underlying assets; 

(c) Rental  income  obtained  from  such  leased  assets 
shall  not  exceed  20%  of  the  value  of  the  rental 
income of all underlying assets; 

(d) For  such  transactions,  a  fairness  opinion  from  an 
the 

independent  valuer  shall  be  obtained  by 
manager and submitted to the Trustee;  

(8) For any related party transaction requiring approval of the 
unit  holders  or  proposed  to  be  undertaken  immediately 
after  the  initial  offer,  the  agreement  shall  be  entered  into 
within  6  months  from  date  of  close  of  initial  offer  or  from 
date of approval of the unit holders, as the case may be; 

Provided that in case of the agreement is not entered into 
within such period, approval from the unit holders may be 
sought  for  extension  for  another  6  months  in  accordance 
with  sub-regulation  (6)  of  regulation  22  with  the  updated 
valuation report(s). 

(9) Adequate  disclosures  of  all  related  party  transactions  that 
have been entered into prior to the follow-on offer shall be 
made in the follow-on offer document; 

(10)  Transaction  between  two  or  more  of  the  REIT’s  with  a 
common  manager  or  sponsor,  transactions  between  such 
REITs shall be deemed to be related party transactions for 
each  of  the  REITs  and  provisions  of  regulation  (19)  shall 

apply.  

that 

this  clause  shall  also  apply 

Provided 
the 
managers/sponsors  of  the  REITs  are  different  entities  but 
are associates.  

if 

(11)  With respect to any related  party transaction, details of 
any  fees/commissions  received/to  be  received  by  any 
person/entity  which  is  an  associate  of  the  related  party 
pursuant to such transaction shall be adequately disclosed 
to the unit holders and to the exchange; 

(12)  No related party shall retain cash or other rebates from 
referring 

any  property  agent 
transactions in REIT assets to the property agent; 

in  consideration 

for 

(13)  Where  any  of  the  related  parties  has  an  interest  in  a 
business  which  competes  or  is  likely  to  compete,  either 
directly  or  indirectly,  with  the  activities  of  the  REIT,  the 
following  details  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document/ 
follow-on offer document: 

(a) details  of 

the  such  business 

including  an 
explanation as to how such business shall compete 
with the REIT; 

(b) a declaration that the related party shall perform its 
duty  in  relation  to  the  REIT  independent  of  its 
related business; 

(c) declaration  as  to  whether  any  acquisition  of  such 
business  by  the  REIT  is  intended  and  if  so,  details 
of the same thereof;  

(14)  Any  arrangement/transaction/contract  with  any  related 
party  other  than  as  included  above  shall  be  disclosed  to 
the unit holders and to the exchange; 

Borrowings 
and 
payments 

deferred 

20. 

 (1) The  aggregate  consolidated  borrowings  and  deferred 
payments of the REIT shall never exceed 50% of the value 
of the REIT assets; 

(2) If  the  aggregate  consolidated  borrowings  and  deferred 
payments  of  the  REIT  exceed  25%  of  the  value  of  the 
REIT assets, for any further borrowing: 

(a) credit  rating  shall  be  obtained  from  a  credit  rating 

agency registered with SEBI; and 

(b) approval  of  unit  holders  shall  be  obtained  in  the 

Valuation 
assets 

of 

21. 

manner  as  specified 
regulation 22 of these Regulations; 

in  sub-regulation  (6)  of 

(3) If  the  conditions  specified  in  sub-regulations  above  are 
breached on account of market movements of the price of 
the  underlying assets/securities, the manager shall inform 
the same to the trustee and ensure that the conditions as 
specified  above  are  satisfied  within  3  months  of  such 
breach.  

 (1) The principal valuer shall be changed not less than every 2 
years  and  the  new  principal  valuer,  who  shall  not  be  an 
associate of the earlier principal valuer, shall be appointed 
in the annual meeting of the unit holders in the manner as 
specified under sub-regulation (4) of regulation 22 of these 
Regulations  or  in  any  other  meeting  held  for  the  purpose 
thereof; 

(2) Full valuation includes a detailed valuation of all assets by 
the  valuer/principal  valuer  including  physical  inspection  of 
every property by the valuer; 

(3) Full  valuation  report  shall  include  minimum  of  the  clauses 

as specified in Schedule V to these Regulations; 

(4)  A  full  valuation  shall  be  conducted  by  the  principal  valuer 
not  less  than  once  every  year  and  the  full  valuation  report 
shall  be  included  in  the  annual  report  provided  to  the  unit 
holders; 

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  every  REIT 
shall mandatorily submit valuation reports to the exchange 
and  to  the  unit  holders  as  at  the  end  of  the  financial  year 
ending  March  every  year  and  such  reports  shall  be 
submitted  not  less  than  two  months  from  the  end  of  the 
financial year. 

(5) A  half  yearly  valuation  of  the  real  estate  assets  shall  be 
conducted by the principal valuer not less than once every 
six  months  for  incorporating  any  key  changes  in  the  past 
six months; 

(6) Such  half  yearly  valuation  report  shall  be  submitted  to  the 
exchange within not more than one month from the date of 
end of the every half year ending March and September.  

(7) Prior  to initial  offer  and  follow-on  offer, the  principal  valuer 
shall  undertake  full  valuation  of  all  the  REIT  assets  and 
include  the  same  in  the  offer  document/follow-on  offer 

document; 

Provided that such valuation report shall not be more than 
6 months old at the time of such offer; 

(8) For  any 

transaction  of  purchase,  sale  or 

lease  of 

properties: 

(a) If  the  transaction  is  a  related  party  transaction,  the 
valuation  shall  be  in  accordance  with  Regulation  19  of 
these Regulations; 

(b) If the transaction is not a related party transaction: 

(i) A full valuation of the specific property shall be 

undertaken by the principal valuer; 

(ii) In case of a purchase transaction, the property 
shall  not  be  purchased  at    a  value  greater  than 
110%  of  the  value  of  the  property  as  assessed 
by the principal valuer; 

(iii)  In  case  of  a  sale  transaction,  the  property 
shall not be purchased at  a value less than 90% 
of  the  value  of  the  property  as  assessed  by  the 
principal valuer; 

(9) No  valuer  shall  undertake  valuation  of  the  same  property 

for more than four years; 

(10) Any  valuation  undertaken  by  any  valuer  shall  abide  by 
international  valuation  standards  and  valuation  standards 
as may be prescribed by Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (ICAI) for valuation of real estate; 

Provided that in case of any conflict, standards prescribed 
by ICAI shall prevail.  

(11) In  case  of  any  material  development  that  may  have  an 
impact  on  the  valuation  of the  REIT  assets, then  manager 
shall  require  the  valuer  to  undertake  full  valuation  of  the 
property under consideration and disclose the same to the 
trustee, investors and the exchange; 

 

 

 

RIGHTS OF UNIT HOLDERS, GENERAL OBLIGATIONS, DISCLOSURES AND 

REPORTING  

CHAPTER IV 

22. 

Rights  of  unit 
holders 
including 
meetings 

 (1) The  unit  holder  shall  have 

receive 
income/distributions as provided for in the offer document/ 
follow on offer document;  

to 

the 

rights 

(2) An annual meeting of all unit holders shall be held not less 
than once a year and the time between two meetings shall 
not exceed 18 months; 

(3) Such annual meeting shall be convened by the trustee by 
giving a notice of not less than 21 working days to the unit 
holders; 

(4) Any information that is required to be disclosed to the unit 
holders and any issue that may require approval of the unit 
holders may be taken up in the annual meeting including: 

(a) Placing  of  latest  annual  accounts  and  performance 

of the REIT with the unit holders; 

(b) Approval  of  auditor  and  fees  of  such  auditor,  as 

may be required; 

(c) Placing  of  latest  valuation  reports  with  the  unit 

holders; 

(d) Approval  of  valuer/principal  valuer,  as  may  be 

required; 

(e) Any other issue as may be required; 

(5) For  any  issue  taken  up  in  such  annual  meetings  which 
require approval from the unit holders, approval of not less 
than 60% of the unit holders by value and by number shall 
be obtained. 

(6) Approval  through  a  positive  consent  from the  unit  holders 
shall  be  obtained  from  not  less  than  75%  of  the  unit 
holders by value and by number in case of the following: 

(a) Any 

related  party 

transactions  which 

require 

approval of the unit holders; 

(b) Any  transaction,  value  of  which  is  equal  to  or 

greater than 15% of the REIT assets; 

(c) Any  borrowing  in  excess  of  prescribed  limit  as 
required  under  sub-regulation  2  of  regulation  20  of 

these Regulations; 

(d) Any  change  in  manager  including  removal  of  the 

manager or change in control of the manager; 

(e) Any change in investment strategy of the REIT; 

(f)  In  case  the  sponsor/manager  propose  to  seek 

delisting of units of the REIT; 

(g) In  case  the  value  of  the  units  held  by  a  person 
along with its associates other than the sponsor and 
its  associates  exceed  50%  of 
the  value  of 
outstanding  REIT  units,  approval  may  be  sought 
prior to acquiring any further units; 

(h) Any issue which in the opinion of the sponsor or the 

manager requires approval of the unit holders; 

(i)  Any  issue,  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  trustee,  is 
material and requires approval of the unit holders, if 
any; 

(j)  When  the  Board  or  the  exchange  requires  such 

approval for any issue as it deems fit; 

(k) When any issue needs to be taken up on request of 
the  unit  holders  in  accordance  with  the  sub-
regulation (7) as under; 

(7) The unit holders have a right to: 

(a) Remove  the  manager  and  seek  appointment  of 

another manager to the REIT; 

(b) Remove  the  auditor  and  seek  appointment  of 

another auditor to the REIT; 

(c) Remove the principal valuer  and seek appointment 

of another principal valuer to the REIT; 

(d) Request  delisting  of  the  REIT  if  the  unit  holders 
have sufficient reason to believe that such delisting 
would act in the interest of the unit holders; 

(e) Take  up  any  issue  with  the  trustee  which  the  unit 
holders  have  sufficient  reason  to  believe  that  acts 
detrimental to the interest of the unit holders;  

(f)  Apply  to  SEBI  for  change  in  the  trustee  if  the  unit 
holders have sufficient reason to believe that acts of 
such trustee is detrimental to the interest of the unit 

holders;  

(8) For  exercising  the  aforesaid  right(s)  under  clauses  (a)  to 
(e)  of  sub-regulation  (7)  above,  not  less  than  60%  of  the 
unit holders by value and by number, other than any party 
related  to  the  transactions  and  its  associates,  shall  apply, 
in writing, to the trustee for the purpose.  

(9) For  exercising  the  aforesaid  right(s)  under  clause  (f)  of 
sub-regulation  (7)  above,  not  less  than  60%  of  the  unit 
holders  by value  and  by number shall apply, in writing, to 
the manager for the purpose.  

(10) 

In case of any change in sponsor or change in control of 

sponsor: 

(a) Prior  to  such  changes,  approval  of  not  less  than 
60% of all the unit holders by value and by number 
other  than  the  sponsor,  proposed  re-designated 
sponsor and their associates shall be taken. 

(b) If  such  change  does  not  receive  the  required 
approval, the proposed re-designated sponsor shall 
provide all the unit holders an option to exit by sale 
of 
re-designated 
sponsor; 

the  proposed 

their  units 

to 

(c) Provided that if on account of such sale, the holding 
of  unit  holders  which  are  not  related  parties  to  the 
REIT falls below 20 or the minimum public float falls 
below  25%,  the  Trustee  shall  apply  for  delisting  of 
the units of the REIT in accordance  with regulation 
17 of these Regulations;  

(11)  Special  meetings  may  be  convened  by  the  trustee  for 

any issue which requires approval of the unit holders.  

(12)  With  respect  to  any  approval  sought  from  the  unit 
holders,  voting  by  any  person  who  is  a  related  party  in 
such  transaction  as  well  as  associates  of  such  person(s) 
shall not be considered on the specific issue.  

 (1) The  REIT  shall  ensure  that  the  disclosures  in  the  offer 
in 

follow-on  offer  document  are 
document  and 
accordance with the Schedule III to these Regulations; 

the 

(2) The  REIT  shall  submit  an  annual  report  to  all  its  unit 
holders  not  less  than  2  months  from  the  end  of  the 
financial year. 

Disclosures 

23. 

(3) The  REIT  shall  submit  a  half-yearly  report  to  all  its  unit 
holders  not  less  than  1  month  from  the  end  of  the  every 
half year ending March and September. 

(4) Such  annual  and  half  yearly  reports  shall  contain 
disclosures  as  specified  under  Schedule  IV  to  these 
Regulations; 

(5) The  REIT  shall  disclose  to  the  stock  exchanges  any 
information  having  bearing  on  the  operation/performance 
of  the  REIT  as  well  as  price  sensitive  information  which 
includes but is not restricted to the following: 

(a) acquisition  or  disposal  of  any  properties,  value  of 

which exceeds 5% of value of the REIT assets; 

(b) Additional  borrowing  or  raising  of  funds  by  the 

REIT; 

(c) Details of any credit rating obtained by the REIT; 

(d) Any  issue  which  requires  approval  of  the  unit 

holders; 

(e) Any  legal  proceedings  which  may  have  significant 

bearing on the functioning of the REIT; 

(f)  Notices and results of meetings of unit holders,  

(g) Any 

instance  of  non-compliance  with 

these 

Regulations; 

(h) Any  material  issue  that  in  the  opinion  of  the 
manager/trustee  needs  to  be  disclosed  to  the  unit 
holders; 

(6) The  REIT  shall  submit  such  information  to  the  stock 
exchanges  and  unit  holders  on  a  periodical  basis  as  may 
be required under the listing agreement; 

(7) The  REIT  shall  disclose  such  information  to  the  stock 
exchanges,  unit  holders  and  the  Board  as  may  be 
specified  by 
the  manner  prescribed 
thereunder; 

the  Board, 

in 

Submission  of 
reports  to  the 
Board 

24. 

The  Board  may  at  any  time  call  upon  the  REIT  or  parties  to 
 
the  REIT  to  file  such  reports,  as  the  Board  may  desire,  with 
respect to the activities relating to the REIT. 

Power 
for information 

to  call 

25. 

 (1) The  Board  may  at  any  time  call  for  any  information  from 
the  REIT  or  parties  to  the  REIT  or  an  unit  holder  or  any 

other person with respect to any matter relating to activity 
of the REIT. 

(2) Where any information is called for under sub  - regulation 
(1),  it  shall  be  furnished  within  the  time  specified  by  the 
Board. 

Maintenance  of 
Records 

26. 

 (1) The  manager  shall  maintain  records  pertaining  to  the 

activity of the REIT including: 

(a) Recommendations  of  the  manager  for  investments 

and documents supporting the same; 

(b) Details  of  investments  made  by  the  REIT  and 

documents supporting the same; 

(c) Agreements  entered  into  by  the  REIT  or  on  behalf 

of the REIT; 

(d) Documents  relating  to  appointment  of  persons  as 

specified in Reg 10 (4); 

(e) Insurance policies for real estate assets 

(f)  Investment Management Agreement 

(g) Registered Trust Deed 

(h) Documents pertaining to application to the Board for 

registration as a REIT; 

Offer 

(i)  Documents  pertaining  to  issue  and  listing  of  units 
including 
offer 
document(s),  in-principle  approval  by  exchanges, 
listing  agreement  with  the  exchanges,  details  of 
subscriptions, allotment of units, etc. 

Document/Follow-on 

(j)  Dividends declared and paid to the unit holders 

(k) Disclosures  and  periodical  reporting  made  to  the 
trustee,  Board,  unit  holders  and  to  the  exchange 
including annual reports, half yearly reports, etc.; 

(l)  Valuation 
valuation; 

reports 

including  methodology  of 

(m)Audit reports 

(n) Minutes of Investment Committee meetings; 

(o) Reports  relating  to  activities  of  the  REIT  placed 

before the Board of Directors of the manager; 

(p) Unit  holders'  grievances  and  actions  taken  thereof 

including  copies  of  correspondences  with  the  unit 
holder and the Board, if any; 

(q) Any other material documents; 

(2) The Trustee shall maintain records pertaining to: 

(a) Certificate of registration granted by the Board  

(b) Titles of the real estate assets; 

(c) Notices  and  agenda  send  to  unit  holders  for 

meetings held; 

(d) Minutes  of 

such  meeting  and 

resolutions 

undertaken therein; 

(e) Periodical  reports  and  disclosures  received  by  the 

Trustee from the manager; 

(f)  Disclosures,  periodically  or  otherwise,  made  to  the 

Board, unit holders and to the exchange; 

(g) Any other material documents; 

(3) The  aforesaid  records  may  be  maintained  in  physical  or 

electronic form; 

Provided  that  where  records  are  required  to  be  duly 
signed  and  are  maintained  in  the  electronic  form,  such 
records shall be digitally signed.  

 

 

 

CHAPTER V 

INSPECTION 

 The  Board  may suo  motu  or  upon  receipt  of  information  or 
complaint  appoint  one  or  more  persons  as  inspecting  officers 
to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records and 
documents  relating  to  activity  of  the  REIT  for  any  of  the 
following reasons, namely: -   

(a) to  ensure 

that 

the  books  of  account,  records  and 
documents are being maintained by the REIT or parties to 
the REIT in the manner specified in these regulations;   

(b) to  inspect  into  complaints  received  from  unit  holders, 
clients or any other person, on any matter having a bearing 
on the activities of the REIT;   

(c) to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and  these 
regulations  are  being  complied  with  by  the  REIT  and 
parties to the REIT; and   

(d) to  inspect  suo-motu  into  the  affairs  of  the  REIT,  in  the 
interest  of  the  securities  market  or  in  the  interest  of 
investors. 

Boards right to 
inspect  

27. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Notice 
inspection  

before 

28. 

 

 (1)  Before  ordering  an  inspection  under  regulation  26,  the 
Board shall give not less than ten days notice to the trustee 
of the REIT.   

(2)    Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1), 
where  the  Board  is  satisfied  that  in  the  interest  of  the 
investors  no  such  notice  should  be  given,  it  may,  by  an 
order  in  writing,  direct  that  the  inspection  of  the  affairs  of 
the REIT be taken up without such notice.   

(3)  During the course of an inspection, the REIT against whom 
the inspection is being carried out and parties to the REIT 
shall be bound to discharge their obligations as provided in 
regulation 29.   

29. 

Obligation 
of 
REIT,  parties  to 
the  REIT  and 
any 
other 
associate 
persons 
inspection  

on 

 (1) It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  REIT  in  respect  of  whom  an 
inspection  has  been  ordered  under  the  regulation  27  and 
parties to the REIT and any other associate person who is 
in possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct 
and affairs of such REIT, including representative of REIT, 
if  any,  to  produce  to  the  Inspecting  Officer  such  books, 
accounts  and  other  documents  in  his  custody  or  control 

 

and  furnish  him  with  such  statements  and  information  as 
the said Officer may require for the purposes of inspection.   

(2) It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT 
and  any  other  associate  person  who  is  in  possession  of 
relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of the 
REIT  to  give  to  the  Inspecting  Officer  all  such  assistance 
and shall extend all such co-operation as may be required 
in  connection  with  the  inspection  and  shall  furnish  such 
information  sought  by  the  inspecting  officer  in  connection 
with the inspection.   

(3) The Inspecting Officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, 
have  power  to  examine  on  oath  and  record  the  statement 
of  any  employees  and  directors  of  the  REIT/parties  to  the 
REIT  or  any  person  responsible  for  or  connected  with  the 
activities  of  REIT  or  any  other  associated  person  having 
relevant information pertaining to such REIT. 

(4) The Inspecting Officer shall, for the purposes of inspection, 
have  power  to  obtain  authenticated  copies  of  documents, 
books, accounts of REIT, from any person having control or 
custody of such documents, books or accounts.  

Submission  of 
Report 
the 
Board  

to 

30. 

 The 
inspecting  officer  shall,  as  soon  as  possible,  on 
completion of the inspection submit an inspection report to the 
Board. 

 

Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit 
an interim report.   

Communication 
of  findings  etc. 
to the REIT 

31. 

 

 The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and 
after giving reasonable opportunity of hearing to the REITs or 
parties to the REIT or its representatives or  any such  person, 
issue such directions as it deems fit in the interest of securities 
market or the investors in the nature of;  

(a) requiring  the  REIT  to  delist  its  units  from  the  stock 

exchanges and surrender its certificate of registration; 

(b) requiring the REIT to sell its assets; 

(c) requiring  the  REIT  or  parties  to  the  REIT  to  take  such 

action as may be in the interest of the investors; 

(d) prohibiting  the  REIT  or  parties  to  the  REIT  from 
operating  in  the  capital  market  or  from  accessing  the 
capital market for a specified period.  

CHAPTER V 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

for 
Liability 
action  in  case 
of default. 

32. 

 

(1) A REIT or parties to the REIT or any other person involved 
in  the  activity  of  the  REIT  who  contravenes  any  of  the 
provisions  of  the  Act  or  these  regulations  or  notifications, 
guidelines,  circulars,  instructions,  etc.  issued  thereunder  by 
the  Board  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions  specified 
therein  including  any  action  provided  under  the  Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008.  

(2) Sub-regulation  (1)  shall  not  prejudice  the  operation  of 
sections 11, 11B, 11D or 24 or Chapter VIA of the Act or of 
any other law for the time being in force. 

CHAPTER VI 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Power  of 
the 
Board  to  issue 
clarifications. 

33. 

 In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or 
interpretation  of  these  regulations,  the  Board  may  issue 
clarifications  and  guidelines 
the  manner  as  may  be 
appropriate. 

in 

Delegation 
powers 

of 

34. 

 The  powers  exercisable  by  the  Board  under  these  regulations 
shall  also  be  exercisable  by  any  officer  of  the  Board  to  whom 
such powers are delegated by the Board by means of an order 
made  under section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992).  

 

 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

CHAIRMAN 

 

SCHEDULE I 

[see Regulation 3(2) ] 

FORMS 

FORM A 

 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts) 
Regulations, 2013 

Application for grant of certificate 

 

(To be finalized) 

 

                                           

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FORM B 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2013 

[See regulation 6(2)] 

Certificate of registration as a Real Estate Investment Trust  

I.  In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of  section  12  of  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  read  with  the 
regulations made there under, the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to  

_______________________________________________________________  

as a Real Estate Investment Trust  subject to the conditions specified in the Act and 
in the regulations made thereunder.  

 

II. The Registration Number of the Real Estate Investment Trust is: 

_____________.  

 

Date :  

Place :  

 

 

 

 

By Order  

Sd/-  

For and on behalf of  

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SCHEDULE II 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate Investment 

Trusts) Regulations, 2013 

[See Regulation 3(2), 6(1) and 14(2)] 

 

FEES 

1.  Every  applicant  shall  pay  non-refundable  application  fees  of  one  lakh 

rupees along with the application for grant of certificate of registration. 
 

2.  Every applicant shall pay as non-refundable registration fees a sum of ten 
lakh  rupees  at  the  time  of  grant  of  certificate  by  the  Board  within  fifteen 
days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board. 
 

3.  REIT shall pay non-refundable filing fees of 0.05% of the total issue size 
as at the time of filing of offer document/follow-on offer document with the 
Board. 
 

4.  Such  application,  registration  and  filing  fees  shall  be  paid  by  the 
applicant/REIT  by  a  demand  draft  in  favor  of  'Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India' payable at Mumbai or at respective regional or local office, 
as may be required. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE III 

[See Regulations 14, 15, 19 and 21] 

MANDATORY  DISCLOSURES  IN  OFFER  DOCUMENT/FOLLOW  ON  OFFER 
DOCUMENT 

1.  Introduction 

a.  Name  of 

the  REIT,  registered  office  address,  correspondence 

address, contact person (s), contact details and email id of the REIT 

b.  Place and date of creation of the REIT 
c.  Registration number and date of the REIT with SEBI  

2.  Details of parties to the REIT 

a.  Sponsor  

i.  Name, 

registered  addresses,  correspondence  addresses, 

Contact person (s), contact details, email id 

ii.  Background  of 

the  sponsor 

including  activities  being 

undertaken by the sponsor with respect to real estate 

b.  Manager 

i.  Background  of  the  manager  including  past  experience  in 

management/advisory services in real estate 

ii.  Brief functions, duties and responsibilities of the manager 
iii.  Brief  profiles  of  members  of  the  Investment  Committee  and 
directors of the manager and units held by them in the REIT, if 
any 

c.  Trustee 

i.  Background  of  the  trustee  including  details  of  registration  with 

SEBI 

ii.  Names and profiles of the Board of Directors 
iii.  Functions, duties and responsibilities of the Trustee 

d.  Principal Valuer  

i.  Background of the principal valuer including past experience in 

management/advisory services in real estate  

ii.  Policy of appointment and removal 

 

3.  Brief background of the REIT 

a.  Glossary of terms/abbreviations 
b.  Structure and description of the REIT 

c.  Details of Property Management / Lease Management and any other 
arrangements  pertaining  to  underlying  REIT  assets,  entered  into  with 
various parties prior to the issue; 

d.  Holding  structure  of  the  REIT  prior  to  the  issue  including  breakup  of 
the  units  held  by  the  sponsor,  manager,  any  other  party  to  the  REIT 
and  any  other  unit  holder  holding  greater  than  5%  of  the  units  of  the 
REIT prior to such issue;  

e.  Proposed holding structure by the aforesaid parties post-issue; 
f.  Fee  and  expenses charged/chargeable to the unit holders by various 
parties  including  fees  charged  by  the  manager,  valuer,  auditor, 
trustees  and  any  other  third  party  and  shall  also  include  any  set-up 
costs; 

4.  Terms of the issue 

a.  Terms  of  the  offer  including  number  of  units,  price,  issue  opening 
date,  issue  closing  date,  terms  and  conditions  and  any  other 
information  as  may  be  required  for  the  investor  to  make  an  informed 
decision. 

b.  Policy  of  distribution  of  Dividend  including  method  of  calculation  and 

the frequency for distribution 

c.  Listing of units 

i.  Exchanges where listing is proposed 
ii.  Timelines for listing 
iii.  Declaration  that  prior  in-principle  approval  obtained  from  the 
recognized stock exchange(s), where units are proposed  to be 
listed in accordance with these Regulations 

5.  Market overview  

6.  Description of the assets under the REIT 

a.  Breakup/proposed breakup of REIT assets in terms of Reg __  
b.  Description  of  real  estate  assets  of  the  REIT  including  the  general 
character  and  competitive  conditions  of  all  the  properties  held  or 
intended  to  be  acquired  by  the  REIT  including  pictures  of  the 
properties.  

c.  Key statistics of the properties (area, occupancy, location, etc.) 
d.  Special features of the properties, if any  
e.  Details of the SPVs through which the properties are held/proposed to 
be held including holding pattern, holding of REIT in the SPV, rights of 
REIT in the SPV, etc. 
In case the properties are held directly by the REIT, details of holding 
of all the owners of the properties including % of ownership, rights of 
REIT vis-à-vis other owners, etc. 

f. 

g.  Confirmation of adequate Insurance by the Trustee  
h.  For  leased  out  properties  (property-wise),  the  following  additional 

disclosures shall be made: 

i.  Total number of tenants 
ii.  Names of top 10 tenants on the basis of value of the lease, and 
the  percentage  of  gross  rental  income  attributable  to  each  of 
these top 10 tenants 

iii.  Lease-maturity profile, in terms of the percentage of total gross 

rental income, for each of the next five years 

iv.  a  summary  of  the  terms  of  any  sub-leases  or    tenancies, 
including  repair  obligation,  granted  to  the  tenants  of  the 
property 

v.  the existing monthly rental before tax from the property which is 
wholly or partly let, together with the amount and a description 
of any outgoings or disbursements from the rent 

vi.  the estimated current monthly market rental obtainable, on the 
basis that the property was available to let on the effective date 
as at which the property was valued 

vii.  a summary of any rent review provisions 

i.  For  under-construction  properties 
additional disclosures shall be made: 

(property-wise), 

the 

following 

i.  Stage  of  development/construction  along  with  %  of  completed 

construction as at the end of the year 

ii.  Progress of development 
iii.  Expected completion  
iv.  Status  of  approval/assessment 

from  various  authorities 
including  statutory  assessment  &  environment  considerations 
with respect to development regulations and planning norms 

7.  Business Details and Strategy 

a.  Investment strategy 

  Description  of 

including  category, 

type, 
geography, allocation to each type, co-investment in properties, etc.  

investment  strategy 

  Description of ROFR with respect to any properties 
  Capital and risk management strategy 

b.  Use of proceeds: 

  purpose of the issue; 
 

Issue Expenses 

c.  Projections of income by REIT over next three years 

8.  Leverage 

a.  Capital structure of the REIT assets including any borrowings/deferred 
payments with respect to the REIT assets prior to the issue and post-
issue (Standalone and consolidated) 

b.  Borrowing policy   

9.  Related party transactions 

a.  Procedure for dealing with related party transactions 
b.  Details  of  any  related  party  transactions  undertaken  prior  to  the  offer 

as well as any such transactions proposed in the future.  

10. Valuation 

a.  Summary of valuation as per the full valuation report 
b.  Valuation methodology  
c.  Frequency of valuation and declaration of NAV 

11. Financials 

a.  Operating  cash  flow  from  the  properties  (property-wise)  under  the 

REIT for the previous 3 years;  

b.  Summary  of  the  financial  statements  of  the  REIT,  manager  and 

sponsor for the previous 3 years, as  applicable  

c.  Management’s  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  factors  affecting  financial 

condition and results of operations 

12. Rights of Unit Holders  

a.  Rights of unit holders  
b.  Proposed  disclosures  to  the  unit  holders  either  directly  or  by  public 

dissemination on the stock exchange website 

c.  Frequency and manner of meetings of unit holders 

13. Title disclosures, litigations and regulatory actions  

a.  Title  disclosure  of  the  properties  including  any  material  litigations 

pertaining to the properties; 

b.  Brief  description  of  the  material  litigations  and  regulatory  actions, 
whether  completed  or  pending,  against  the  REIT,  sponsor,  manager, 
trustee, principal valuer or any of their associates, if any 

14. Risk factors 

15. Brief details on taxation and regulatory aspects to enable the investors 

to make an informed decision 

16. Other general information 

a.  Policy of appointment of auditor and auditing standards to be followed 

17. Supporting Documents 

a.  Full Valuation Report 
b.  Auditors Report 
c.  Any other such report 

18. Such  other  information  as  is  material  and  appropriate  to  enable  the 

investors to make an informed decision 

19. Declarations 

 

SCHEDULE IV 

[See Regulation 23(4)] 

MANDATORY DISCLOSURES 

 

Mandatory Disclosures in the Annual Report 

1.  Brief  manager's  report  of  activities  of  the  REIT  and  summary  of  the  audited 

consolidated financial statements for the year of the REIT 

2.  Management  discussion  and  analysis  by  the  directors  of  the  manager  on 

activities of the REIT during the year, forecasts and future course of action. 

3.  Brief  details  of  all  the  assets  of  the  REIT  including  a  break-up  of  real  estate 
assets and other assets, location of the properties, area of the properties, current 
tenants (not less than top 10 tenants as per value of lease), lease maturity profile, 
details of under-construction properties, if any, etc. 

4.  Brief  summary  of  the  valuation  as  per  full  valuation  report  as  at  the  end  of  the 

year 

5.  Details of changes during the year pertaining to: 

a.  Addition  and  divestment  of  assets  including  the  identity  of  the  buyers  or 
for  such 

sellers,  purchase/sale  prices  and  brief  details  of  valuation 
transactions. 

b.  Valuation of assets and NAV (as per the full valuation reports) 

c.  Letting of assets, occupancy, lease maturity, key tenants, etc. 

d.  Borrowings/ repayment of borrowings(standalone and consolidated) 

e.  Sponsor, manager, trustee, principal valuer, directors/members of investment 

committee of manager, directors of the Trustee/manager/sponsor, etc. 

f.  Clauses  in  trust  deed,  investment  management  agreement  or  any  other 

agreement entered into pertaining to activities of REIT 

g.  Any other material change during the year 

6.  Update on development of under-construction properties, if any 

7.  Details  of  outstanding  borrowings  and  deferred  payments  of  REIT including  any 
credit rating(s), debt maturity profile, gearing ratios of the REIT on a consolidated 
and standalone basis as at the end of the year;  

8.  The total operating expenses of the REIT, including all fees and charges paid to 

the manager  and any other parties, if any during the year 

9.  Past performance of the REIT with respect to unit price, dividend paid  and yield 

for the last 5 years, as applicable;  

10. Unit price quoted on the exchange at the beginning and end of the financial year, 
the highest and lowest unit price and the average daily volume traded during the 
financial year, . 

11. Details of all related party  transactions during the year 

12. Details of fund raising during the year, if any 

13. Brief report on corporate governance  

14. Brief  details  of  material  litigations  and  regulatory  actions,  whether  completed  or 
pending, against the REIT, parties to the REIT or any of their associates, if any, 
as at the end of the year. 

15. Risk factors  

16. Information of the contact person of the REIT 

 

Mandatory annexure to the annual report 

1.  Full valuation report 
2.  Auditor's report 

 

 

Mandatory disclosures in the Half-yearly report 

1.  All  details  as  provided  above  (other  than  clause  (2)  and  mandatory  annexures) 
for  annual  report  for  the  previous  half-year  or  as  at  the  end  of  the  half-year  as 
applicable; 

2.  Audited financial statements for the half year; (Standalone and consolidated) 

3.  Updated  valuation  report  by  the  valuer  taking  into  account  any  material 

developments during the previous half-year; 

4.  Any other material events during the half-year; 

 

 

SCHEDULE V 

[See Regulation 21(3)] 

MANDATORY MINIMUM DISCLOSURES IN FULL VALUATION REPORT 

The full valuation report shall include as a minimum of following:  

a.  Name and brief details of the valuer 

b.  all material details in relation to the basis of valuation;  

c.  Description  and  explanation  of  the  valuation  methodologies  adopted  including 
assumptions  used,  justification  of  the  assumptions,  explanation  of  the  rationale 
for choosing the particular valuation method if more than one method is or could 
have been adopted, etc.   

d.  overall structure and condition of the relevant market including an analysis of the 

supply-demand situation, the market trend and investment activities;  

e.  For every property, the following details shall be mentioned,:  

i.  Address of the property, ownership and title details including whether the 

transaction is a related party transaction; 

ii.  Location of the property (include latest pictures), formal site identification, 

physical features (e.g. size, configuration, frontage, topography) site 
services, town planning, etc.  

iii.  the existing use of the property; 

iv.  a brief description of the property including age of the building, the site 

area, gross floor area, net lettable floor area etc. 

v.  the options or rights of pre-emption and other encumbrances concerning 

or affecting the property;  

vi.  occupancy rate; 

vii.  the nature of the interest the REIT holds/proposes to hold in the property 

whether freehold or leasehold, percentage of interest of the REIT in the 
property, remainder of the term in case of leasehold property;  

viii.  Date of inspection and date of valuation 

ix.  Qualifications and assumptions 

x.  Method used for valuation  

xi.  Valuation standards adopted for valuation of real estate assets 

xii.  Extent of valuer's investigations and nature and source of data to be relied 

upon 

xiii.  Purchase price of the property by the REIT(for existing properties of the 

REIT) 

xiv.  Valuation of the property in the previous 3 years; (for existing properties of 

the REIT) 

xv.  Detailed valuation of the property as calculated by the valuer;  

xvi.  Latest ready reckoner rate (as published by the state government)  

f.  material information regarding the title of the subject property as contained in the 
relevant  legal  opinion,  and  a  discussion  as  to  whether  any  and  how  the  legal 
opinions  have  been  taken  into  consideration  in  the  valuation  of  the  relevant 
property;  

g.  any other matters which may affect the property or its value;  

h.  a declaration by the valuer that: 

i.  the valuer is competent to undertake the valuation;  

ii.  the  valuer  is  independent  and  has  prepared  the  report  on  a  fair  and 

unbiased basis;  

iii.  the valuer has valued the properties based on the valuation standards as 

specified under sub-regulation 10 of regulation 20 of these Regulations;  

 

SCHEDULE VI 

[See Regulation 7(d)] 

 

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR REIT AND PARTIES TO THE REIT 

1.  REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  conduct  all  affairs  of  the  REIT  in  the 

interest of all the unit-holders of the REIT.   

2.  REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  make  adequate,  accurate,  explicit  and 
timely  disclosure  of  relevant  material  information  to  all  unit  holders, 
exchanges and the Board in accordance with these Regulations and as may 
be specified by the stock exchanges from time to time.  

3.  REIT and parties to the REIT shall try to avoid conflicts of interest, as far as 
possible, in managing the affairs of the REIT and keep the interest of all unit 
holders paramount in all matters. In case such events cannot be avoided, it 
shall  be  ensured  that  appropriate  disclosures  are  made  to  the  unit-holders 
and they are fairly treated.  

4.  The REIT and parties  to the REIT shall ensure that the fees charged to the 
unit-holders  by  the  respective  persons  shall  be  fair  and  reasonable  in  the 
circumstances and shall be characterized by good faith  

5.  Manager  shall  carry  out  the  business  of  the  REIT  and  invest  in  accordance 
with  the  investment  objectives  stated  in  the  offer  document  and  take 
investment decisions solely in the interest of unit holders.   

6.  REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  not  use  any  unethical  means  to  sell, 
market  or  induce  any  person  to  buy  their  REITs  and  the  manager  shall  be 
responsible  for  including  such  prohibited  acts  in  the  agreement  entered  to 
with a third party who may be appointed by the manager for the purpose.   

7.  REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity  and 

fairness in all their dealings and in the conduct of their business,  

8.  REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  render  at  all  times  high  standards  of 
service,  exercise  due  diligence,  ensure  proper  care  and  exercise 
independent professional judgment.  

9.  REIT  and  parties  to  the  REIT  shall  not  make  any  exaggerated  statement, 
their 

whether 
either 
qualifications/capabilities/experience/ achievements.  

written, 

oral 

or 

about 

 

