Consultation paper on draft SEBI (Settlement of Administrative and Civil 

Proceedings) Regulations, 2013. 

 

1. The President of India has promulgated the Securities Laws (Amendment) Second 

Ordinance, 2013 on September 16, 2013 conferring explicit  powers on SEBI to settle 

administrative  and  civil  proceedings  under  section  15JB  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992(SEBI  Act),  section  23JA  of  the  Securities 

Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and section 19-IA of the Depositories Act, 1996.  

 

2.  The  said  Ordinance  provides  that  SEBI  may,  after  taking  into  consideration  the 

nature,  gravity  and  impact  of  defaults,  agree  to  the  proposal  for  settlement,  on 

payment of such sum by the defaulter or on such other terms as may determined by 

SEBI in accordance with the regulations made under SEBI  Act. The said Ordinance 

further provides that the settlement proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with 

the  procedure  specified  in  the  regulations  made  under  SEBI  Act.  A  corresponding 

provision as clause (da) has also been inserted in sub-section (2) of section 30 of SEBI 

Act enabling the Board to frame regulations providing for the terms and procedure for 

settlement of administrative and civil proceedings. 

 

3.  In  the  light  of  the  above,  SEBI  proposes  to  frame  SEBI  (Settlement  of 

Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2013,  a  draft  of  which  is 

annexued. Public comments are invited on the said draft Regulations. Comments may 

be  forwarded  by  email  to 

'comments_settlementregs@sebi.gov.in'  latest  by 

October 30, 2013. 

 

Comments should be given in the following format: 

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary: 

Sr.No. 

Pertains to which 

Proposed/ 

Rationale 

regulation/sub-regulation 

suggested changes 

 

 

1 

 

 

 

 

Issued on: October 14, 2013 

 

 

 

 

DRAFT REGULATIONS 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, October        , 2013 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the       October, 2013 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (SETTLEMENT OF 

ADMINISTRATIVE AND CIVIL PROCEEDINGS) REGULATIONS, 2013 

 

 

 

 

No.  
.-In exercise of the powers conferred by section 15JB of 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  section  23JA  of  the  Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and section 19-IA of the Depositories Act, 1996 read with 
sections  11  and  30 of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India Act,  1992,  the  Securities 
and Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations to provide for the terms 
of settlement and the procedure of settlement proceedings and matters connected therewith or 
incidental thereto, namely:—  

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and commencement. 
1.  (1)  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2013.  
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Gazette of India.     
 
Definitions. 
2.  (1)  In  these  regulations,  unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the  terms  defined  herein 
shall  bear  the  meanings  assigned  to  them  below,  and  their  cognate  expressions  shall  be 
construed accordingly,–           

(a)  "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 

 

 

(b) “alleged  default”  means  an  alleged  or  probable  non-compliance  of  any  provision  of 

securities laws; 
 

(c)  "Board"  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  established  under  the 
provisions  of  section  3  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992 
(15 of 1992); 
 

(d) "high  powered  advisory  committee"  means  a  committee  constituted  by  the  Board 

under  regulation 7; 
 

(e)  "internal committee" means a committee constituted by the Board under  regulation 8; 

 

(f)  “first  time  applicant”  means  an  applicant  who  has  not  obtained  a  settlement  order 

where he is a party as on the date of receipt of his application by the Board: 

2 

           Provided that any applicant who has filed another application under regulation 
3 which is pending before the Board shall not be a first time applicant; 
 

(g) "proceedings" means proceedings which have been initiated or may be initiated under 
section 11, section 11B, section 11D, sub-section (3) of section 12 or section 15-I of 
the    Act  or  section  12A  or  section  23-I  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)Act, 
1956 or section 19 or section 19H of the Depositories Act, 1996, as the case may be; 
 

(h) "specified" means specified by the Board through circulars or guidelines;   

(i)  "Tribunal" means the Securities Appellate Tribunal established under section 15K of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

 
(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act, 
the  Companies  Act,  1956,  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  and  the 
Depositories  Act,  1996  or  any  rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder  shall  have  the  same 
meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules or regulations made thereunder or 
any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be.   
 

CHAPTER II 

APPLICATION FOR  SETTLEMENT 

 

Application.  
3.  (1) Any person, against whom ay proceedings have been initiated or may be initiated, may 
file an application to the Board in the Form specified in Part-A of the Schedule. 
(2) The application made under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable 
application fee to be paid in the manner specified in Part-B of the Schedule. 
(3)  The  applicant  shall  submit  the  waivers  and  undertakings  as  specified  in  Part-C  of  the 
Schedule with the application. 
(4) The applicant shall make one application for settlement of all the proceedings where more 
than one proceedings arising out of the same cause of action is pending. 
(5)  An  application  which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  or  does  not  conform  to  the 
requirements of these regulations shall be rejected by the Board: 
Provided  that  an  applicant  shall  be  granted  not  more  than  one  opportunity  to  submit  a 
rectified  application  which  conforms  to  the  requirements  of  the  these  regulations  within 
fifteen days from the date of communication in this regard. 
(6)  On  receipt  of  an  application  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the  Board  or  the  adjudicating 
officer,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  keep  the  passing  of  the  final  order  in  abeyance  in  the 
respective proceeding, till such application is disposed of. 
(7)  Where  the  settlement  proposal  of  an  application  is  rejected,  the  proceedings  kept  in 
abeyance in terms of sub-regulation (6) shall revive from the stage where it was pending.  
 
Limitation.  
4. (1) No application shall be considered if it is made after sixty days from the date of service 
of show cause notice or supplementary show cause notices, if any, issued by the Board. 
(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  panel  of  whole  time 
members constituted under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 12 may condone the delay, if it is 
satisfied  that  there  was  sufficient  cause  for  not  filing  the  application  within  the  period 
specified in sub-regulation (1). 

 

3 

(3) This regulation shall not apply in the case of proceedings pending before the Tribunal or 
any court.   
Explanation.-  For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  where  multiple  proceedings  have  been 
initiated  for  the  same  cause  of  action,  the  application  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  filed 
within the limitation period, if the application filed for any one proceeding is filed within the 
limitation period specified in this regulation.  

 

CHAPTER III 

SCOPE OF SETTLEMENT  

 

Scope of settlement proceedings. 

(a)  5. (1) No application shall be made, for settlement of any proceedings – if the 
alleged default was committed within a period of two years from the date of 
the last settlement order where the applicant is a party;  
(b) if the applicant has been party to two settlement orders; 
(c)  for  proceedings  arising out  of  non-compliance  of  the    settlement terms  of an 

earlier settlement order.  

(d) if the application seeking settlement of the same alleged default has been filed 

earlier and withdrawn; 

(e)  if  an  earlier  application  with  regard  to  the  same  alleged  default  had  been 

rejected by the Board. 

 

(2) The Board may not settle a proceeding if it involves any of the following alleged defaults, 
namely,- 

(a)  commission  of  insider  trading  or  communication  of  unpublished  price  sensitive 
information in contravention of the provisions of the Act and the regulations made 
thereunder; 

(b) fraudulent and unfair trade practices including front running, which are serious and 
which  in  the  opinion  of  the  Board,  has  a  market  wide  impact  or,  has  caused 
substantial  losses  or  affects  the  rights  of  investors  in  securities,  especially  retail 
investors and small shareholders: 

Provided that where the applicant has made or intends to make good the losses 

due to the investors, his application may be considered.  
Explanation.-  For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  front  running  means  usage  of  non-
public  information  to  directly  or  indirectly,  buy  or  sell  securities  or  enter  into 
options  or  futures  contracts,  in  advance  of  a  substantial  order,  on  an  impending 
transaction,  in  the  same  or  related  securities  or  futures  or  options  contracts,  in 
anticipation that when the information becomes public; the price of such securities 
or contracts may change;  

(c)  failure to make an open offer in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the 

regulations made thereunder: 

Provided  that  where  the  applicant  intends  to  make  the  open  offer  or  where 
making  the  open  offer  is  found  to  be  not  beneficial  to  the  shareholders,  his 
application may be considered; 

(d) defaults  or  manipulative  practices  by  mutual  funds,  their  sponsors  or  asset 
management  companies  that  result  in  substantial  losses  to  unitholders,  except  in 
cases  where  the  applicant  has  compensated  the  unitholders  for  the  losses,  to  the 
satisfaction of the Board; 

(e)  failure to redress investor grievances except where the alleged default is of delayed 

redressal; 

 

4 

(f)  failure  to  make  disclosures  required  under  the  regulations  framed  by  the  Board 
dealing  with  issue  and  listing  of  securities,  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  Board 
materially affect the right of the investors; 

(g) raising  of  monies  by  issuance  of  securities  or  pooling  of  funds,  in  violation  of 

securities laws where  the remedy is refund of such monies;   

(h) non-compliance of notices and summons issued by the Board or summons issued 

by the adjudicating officer; 

(i)  non-compliance of an order passed by the Board or by an adjudicating officer. 

  
(3)  An  application  in  respect  of  proceedings  involving  alleged  defaults  referred  to  in  sub-
regulation  (2)  may  be  rejected  by  the Board, without  examination  by  internal committee  or 
high powered advisory committee.    
(4)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  regulation,  the  Board  may  in  the  interest  of 
the investors and the development and regulation of securities market, consider an application 
for settlement of the alleged defaults referred to in sub-regulation (2). 
(5) No application shall be considered if the investigation or inspection, if any, in respect of 
the alleged default, is not complete. 
(6) No application under these regulations shall be considered if a criminal complaint is filed 
by the Board under sub-section (6) of section 11C or section 24 of the Act, or section 23 or 
23M of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or section 20 of Depositories Act, 

1996.CHAPTER IV 

TERMS OF SETTLEMENT 

Settlement terms.  
6.  (1)  The  settlement  terms  shall  include  settlement  amount  or  appropriate  directions  or 
voluntary suspension of certificate of registration or closure of business or a combination of 
settlement amount and other such action, in accordance with the guidelines specified by the 
Board.  
(2) Settlement amount shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of India: 
 
to the Securities and Exchange Board of India General Fund: 
 
Provided  further  that  where  illegal  gains  are  disgorged  as  part  of  the  settlement 
amount,  such  disgorged  amounts  shall  be  credited  to  the  Investor  Protection and  Education 
Fund of the Board. 

Provided that legal costs, if any, forming part of settlement amount shall be credited 

 

CHAPTER V 

COMMITTEES 

 

High powered advisory committee. 
7.   (1) The Board shall constitute a high powered advisory committee for the consideration 
and recommendation of the terms of settlement.  
(2) The high powered advisory committee shall consist of a retired Judge of a High Court and 
three  external  experts  having  expertise  in  the  securities  market  or  for  matters  connected 
therewith or incidental thereto. 
(3) The quorum of the high powered advisory committee shall be three members. 
(4)  The  term  of  the  members  of  the  high  powered  advisory  committee  shall  be  three  years 
which shall be extendable upto a period of two years. 
(5) The high powered advisory committee shall conduct its meetings in the manner specified 
by the Board in this regard. 
 
 
 

 

5 

Internal committee.  
8.  (1)  The  Board  shall  constitute  internal  committee(s)  for  assisting  the  high  powered 
advisory committee. 
(2) The internal committee shall comprise an officer of the Board not below the rank of Chief 
General Manager and one Division Chief each of the division handling the case in respective 
operations department and lagal or enforcement department of the Board.  
(3) The internal committee shall conduct its meetings in the manner specified by the Board in 
this regard. 

Factors to be considered to arrive at the settlement terms.   
9.  While considering the application, the internal committee and the high powered advisory 
committee  shall  have  due  regard  to  the  objective  of  the  securities  laws,  the  interests  of 
investors and securities market and factors including but not limited to the following:  

 

(a)  whether the alleged default is intentional;  
(b) conduct of the applicant in the investigation and disclosures made thereof;  
(c)  the  role  played  by  the  applicant  in  case  the  alleged  default  is  done  by  a  group  of 

persons 

(d) nature, gravity and impact of alleged defaults;  
(e)  whether any other proceeding against the applicant for non-compliance of securities 

laws is pending or concluded; 

(f)  whether there were circumstances beyond the control of the applicant; 
(g) whether  the  alleged  default  is  technical  and/or  minor  in  nature  and  whether  it 

warrants penalty; 

(h) consideration of the amount of investors’ harm/loss or applicant’s gain;  
(i)  processes  which  have  been  introduced  since the alleged  default  to  minimize  future 

defaults/lapses;  

(j)  compliance schedule proposed by the applicant; 
(k) economic benefits accruing to any person from delayed or avoided compliance;  
(l)  conditions  which  are  necessary,  to  deter  future  non-compliance  by  the  same  or 

another person; 

(m) satisfaction  of  claim  of  investors  regarding  payment  of  money  due  to  them  or 

delivery of securities to them;  

(n) compliance of the civil enforcement action by the applicant, if he is an accused in a 

prosecution launched by the Board; 

(o) applicant  has  undergone  any  other  regulatory  enforcement  action  for  the  same 

violation;  

(p) any other factors necessary in the facts and circumstances of the case.  

 

CHAPTER VI 

PROCEDURE OF SETTLEMENT 

Proceedings before internal committee. 
10.  (1)  The  application(s)  shall  be  referred  to  internal  committee  for  determination  of  the 
settlement terms. 
(2) For the purpose of determination of the settlement terms, the internal committee may:  

a.  call for relevant records pertaining to the alleged default(s) in the custody of 

the applicant; 

b.  permit personal appearance of the applicant in the internal committee meeting: 

 

6 

Provided that a duly authorized representative of the applicant may be 
permitted to make representation on behalf of the applicant upon receipt of a 
written request from the applicant: 

Provided further that the applicant or his representative shall confirm, 
to  the  Enforcement  department,  his  attendance  in  the  internal  committee 
meeting atleast three days prior to the scheduled date of such meeting.   

c.  permit the applicant to revise settlement terms within a period not exceeding 

ten working days from the date of the internal committee meeting. 

(3) The internal committee shall place its proposal including the settlement terms, if any, its 
views on the nature, gravity and impact of the alleged default and reasons for such proposal 
before the high powered advisory committee.  
 
Proceedings before high powered advisory committee.  
11.    (1)  The  High  Powered  Advisory  Committee  shall  consider  the  following  for  making 
recommendations to the Board on an application placed before it by the internal committee: 

(a)  undertaking and waivers of the applicant; 
(b) factors specified in regulation 9; 
(c)  settlement terms or revised settlement terms proposed by the applicant; 
(d) proposal of the internal committee;  
(e)  relevant material available on record. 

(2)  Prior  to  making  a  recommendation  under  sub-regulation (3),  the high  powered  advisory 
committee  may  ask  the  applicant  to  revise  the  settlement  amount  and  refer  the  application 
back to the internal committee. 
(3) The high powered advisory committee vide its proceedings shall recommend to the Board 
that  an  application  is  fit  for  passing  a  settlement  order  upon  acceptance  of  the  settlement 
terms or the application may be rejected. 
 
Action on recommendation of high powered advisory committee.  
12. (1) The Board may by general or special order assign a panel of two whole time members 
of the Board to consider the recommendations of the high powered advisory committee and 
to pass settlement orders. 
(2)  Where  the  panel  of  whole  time  members  chooses  to  accept  the  recommendation  of  the 
high  powered  advisory  committee  to  pass  settlement  order  in  an  application,  the  applicant 
shall  remit  the  amount  of  money  as  per  the  settlement  terms  as  communicated  by  the 
Enforcement Department within ten days from the date of receipt of such communication. 
(3)  Where  the  panel  of  whole  time  members  chooses  to  accept  the  recommendation  of  the 
high powered advisory committee to reject an application, the Enforcement Department shall 
issue a notice of such rejection to the applicant. 
(4)Where the panel of whole time members chooses to reject the recommendation of the high 
powered advisory committee, the panel of whole time members may: 
      (a)  return the application to internal committee for revision of settlement amount; 
      (b)  direct rejection of the application as per sub-regulation (3). 
 

CHAPTER VII 

SETTLEMENT ORDERS 

 

Settlement orders by the adjudicating officer and the Board.  
13.  (1)  An  adjudicating  officer  may  pass  settlement  orders  with  respect  to  proceedings 
initiated  for  alleged  default(s)  wherein  he  is  appointed  as  the  adjudicating  officer  under 
section 15-I of the Act or section 23-I of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or 

 

7 

section  19H  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,    by  an  order  providing  for  the  settlement  terms 
thereof. 
(2)  The  panel  of  the  whole  time  members  may  pass  settlement  orders  with  respect  to 
proceedings  initiated  or  proposed  to  be  initiated  for  alleged  default(s)  other  than  the 
proceedings referred to in sub-regulation (1), by an order providing for the settlement terms 
thereof.(3)  The  settlement  order  under  sub-regulations  (1)  and  (2)  shall  contain,  inter  alia, 
details of the alleged default(s) including relevant provisions of the securities laws, facts and 
circumstances relevant to the alleged default and the settlement terms.  
 
Settlement order by the Tribunal or by any court.   
14. Where a proceeding is pending before the Tribunal or court, settlement terms arrived at 
by  the  Board  shall  be  placed  before  such  Tribunal  or  court  for  its  consideration  and 
appropriate orders.  
 
Service of settlement order and publication. 
15. Settlement orders under regulation 13 shall be served on the applicant and the same shall 
be published on the website of the Board.   
 
Non-compliance of settlement order. 
16. (1) Where the applicant fails to comply with the settlement order under regulation 13 or 
regulation 14, the Board shall revive the proceedings with respect to which settlement order 
had been passed.     
(2)  An  applicant  who  fails  to  comply  with  settlement  order  shall  be  proceeded  against  in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act or the Securities Contracts(Regulation)Act, 1956 or 
Depositories Act, 1996.  
 

CHAPTER VIII 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 
Power to remove difficulties. 
17. In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of 
these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes 
or circulars. 

Power to specify procedures, etc.,  and issue clarifications. 
18.  For  the  purposes  of  implementation  of  these  regulations  and  matters  incidental  thereto, 
the  Board  may  specify  norms,  procedures,  processes  or  manners  as  specified  in  these 
regulations, by way of circulars or guidelines.  
 
Pending Applications. 
19. Applications pending under circulars issued by the Board dated April 20, 2007 and May 
25,  2012  shall  be  dealt  with  in  accordance  with  the  corresponding  provisions  of  these 
regulations. 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 

8 

 

SCHEDULE  

(See regulation 3) 

 

Part-A 

FORM-A 

Application for Consent  

(For Office use only) 

Date of receipt of the application : 

Application Registration Number : 

(Instructions: All the particulars must be filled. Enclosures indicated as “*” are mandatory. 
Put ‘NA’ wherever necessary.) 

Before the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

In the matter of ………………………….. 

1. Name/Trade name of the applicant: 

(a) Registration no., if applicable :  
(b) Date of Registration, if applicable :  

2. If stock broker, name of the stock exchange: 

3. If sub-broker, name of stock broker with whom affiliated and name of the stock 

exchange: 

4. Name of the segment (Cash/derivative etc.): 

5. Form of organization: corporate body/ sole proprietorship / partnership / LLP/ financial 

institution (if listed co., details of listing) :  

6. Names of promoters/directors/proprietors/partners: 

7. Key management personnel(s) : 

8. Address/correspondence address, contact no./fax no. and email(any changes in 

aforesaid details shall be communicated to the Board promptly): 

9. Name and contact details (including e-mail) of the contact person (s): 

10. Other registration(s) with the Board, if applicable : 

(a) Trade name : 
(b) Registration type : 
(c) Registration no. : 

 

9 

     11. Case(s) pending with the Board/SAT/Court (Pl. specify) : 

     12. Case(s) pending under 11B/Adjudication/Enquiry/others (pl. specify): 

     13. Stage at which pending: 

     14. Last order in the pending proceedings (gist of the orders passed), if any : 

     15. Other actions pending/taken by the Board, if any (with their status) 

(a) Against the applicant 
(b) Against its associates 
(c) Against its key management personnel(s) : 
(d) Against its other promoters/directors; 
(e) Other details, if any: 

 : 
 : 

 

  16. Date of show cause notice/summons/communication indicating probable cause of action, 

if any, against which the settlement is sought (PLEASE ENCLOSE COPIES)*:  

  17. Facts of the case, in brief: 

  18. Specific charges alleged: 

  19. Terms of settlement: 

  20. Original documents to be enclosed:  

(a) Undertakings* (as per enclosed Format). 
(b) Authority letter/Board resolution*. 

 

 21. List of other enclosures:  

(a)  A  copy  of  the  notice  to  show  cause/summons/communication/other  notices 
indicating the probable cause of action, if any, against which the settlement is sought;  
(b) Complete Annual Reports/ Income-tax Returns (of the applicant) / other financial 
details for the last three  financial years and the current year*;  
(c) In the case of brokers/sub-brokers/Mutual Funds/Venture Capital Fund/Merchant  
Bankers/Portfolio  Managers  etc,  the  applicant  must  enclose  details  of  brokerage 
earned/ 
fee received during the period of default*;  
(d) A statement showing net worth of the applicant, gross annual income before tax, 
the    amount  of  gross  profit  made/loss  avoided,  including  the  gross  brokerage,  fees,  
management/performance/transaction  fee,  carried  interest,  compensation,  etc,  earned 
by  it    in  respect  of  the  said  default  (only  for  applicants  who  are  required  to  comply 
with the networth requirements as specified by the Board or by the stock exchanges);  
(e)Copy of PAN*;  
(f) Any other relevant document (s)/submissions. 

 (Signature of the applicant) 

 

10 

Verification 

(Stamp/Seal) 

I, ………………………………………………son/daughter/wife of (Name in block letters) 

Shri  …………………………………..being  the  applicant/authorised  representative  (in  case 
of corporate entity) of ……………………. do hereby verify and affirm on oath that I have 
been authorised by  …………to  make this  application  and  the  contents  of paras  1  to  21  are 
true to my personal knowledge and belief and that I have not suppressed any material facts. 

(Signature of the applicant) 

Date: 
Place :  

Part-B 

Every  applicant  shall  pay  fees  of  five  thousand  rupees  by  a  demand  draft  in  favour  of 
'Securities and Exchange Board of India" payable at Mumbai. 

Part-C 

Undertakings and Waivers  

Format of Undertaking 

Undertaking to be submitted alongwith the application on Rs. 200/- non-judicial stamp 
paper-duly notarized. 

Undertakings/Waivers: 

I/We,  …………………,  the  applicant(s)  herein,  as  a  condition  for  making  the  enclosed 
application to the Board for passing of appropriate settlement order, hereby declare that I/we 
agree and undertake that: 

1.  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  may  enforce  any  claims  against  me/us 
arising  from  or  relating  to  any  violation  of  the  settlement  order  passed pursuant  to  this 
application. 

2.  Nothing  in  this  settlement  order  shall  preclude  any  investor  from  pursuing  any  other 

legal remedy to which the investor may be entitled against me/us. 

3.  The  amount  of  settlement  including  settlement  charges/legal  expenses,  if  any,  shall  be 

paid by me/us to the Board within the period as may be specified. 

 

11 

4.  If  I/we  fail  to  comply  with  the  settlement  order,  the  Board  may  vacate  the  settlement 
order  at  its  sole  discretion,  after  giving  fifteen  days  notice  in  this  regard  without 
opportunity for any hearing.  

5.  For any person or entity not a party to these proceedings, Securities and Exchange Board 
of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2013  does 
not limit or create any private rights or remedies against me/us.  

6.  The Order and any dispute related thereto shall be construed and enforced in accordance, 

and governed by, the relevant laws: 

Provided, however, that the Board may enforce any claims against me/us arising from or 
relating to any violation of the settlement order as contained herein. 

7.  The  settlement  order  passed  pursuant  to  this  application  shall  conclude  any/all 
disciplinary action  the Board could bring against me/us for the conduct (cause of action) 
set forth in this application.  

8.  I/We  agree  that  once  the  settlement  order  is  passed  in  terms  of  the  settlement  terms 
accepted by me, I/We shall not take any action or make or permit to be made any public 
statement denying, directly or indirectly, any finding recorded in the settlement order or 
creating the impression that the order is without factual basis. Nothing in this paragraph 
however  affects  my/our  (i)  testimonial  obligations  or  (ii)  right  to  take  legal  or  factual 
positions  in  defence  of  litigation  or  in  defence  of  a  claim  or  other  legal  proceeding  in 
which the the Board is not a party. 

9.  I/We admit the jurisdiction of the Board on the alleged default. 
10. I/We neither admit nor deny the findings of fact and conclusions of law to be part of the 
settlement order, and consent to enter into the settlement order as may be passed by the 
Board/adjudicating officer as settlement of the proceedings contained in this application, 
in lines with the settlement terms agreed by me/us. 

11. I/We  understand  that  the  Board  may  issue  a  press  release  or  any  other  mode  of 
communiqué  for  public  information  about  the  settlement  order  passed  in  these 
proceedings or the rejection of the application and the subject matter thereof as the Board 
may deem appropriate. 

Further,  

I/We shall waive my/our right of taking any legal proceedings against the Board concerning 
any of the issues covered by the settlement order, as more particularly setout herein : 

12. All hearings pursuant to the statutory provisions under which the proceeding is to be or 

has been instituted; 

13. The filing of proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law; 
14. Proceedings before S or any officer; 
15. All post-hearing procedures; and 
16. Appeal/review before/by Tribunal/ courts. 
17. Applicability of such provisions of the regulations or other requirements of law as may 
be construed to prevent any officer of the Board from participating in the preparation of, 
or  advising  the  competent  authority  as  to,  any  order,  opinion,  finding  of  fact,  or 
conclusion of law to be entered pursuant to the application;  

18. Any  right  to  claim  bias  or  prejudgment  by  the  Board  based  on  the  consideration  of  or 

discussions concerning settlement of all or any part of the internal proceedings; 

 

12 

19. Any  plea  of  limitation  for  reopening  the  case,  if  I/we  violate/do  not  comply  with  the 
settlement  order  subsequently, and  the  Board  shall  be free  to  take any  action  including 
initiation of adjudication / prosecution proceedings against me/us for such violation/non-
compliance of the settlement order. 

20. Any  plea  of  limitation  for  restarting  the  case  if  the  matter  is  not  settled  by  passing  of 
settlement order by the Board or adjudicating officer. I further undertake that in such a 
case, the time spent during the settlement proceedings shall be excluded for computing 
the limitation for initiating any legal proceedings against me/us.  

(Signature of the applicant with stamp/seal) 

before me.  

 

Notary. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

13 

