 

 

 

REPORT OF 

THE HIGH LEVEL COMMITTEE TO REVIEW THE 

SEBI (PROHIBITION OF INSIDER TRADING)  

REGULATIONS, 1992 

 

 

 

UNDER THE CHAIRMANSHIP OF 

N. K. SODHI, 

Former Chief Justice 

  

  

  

  

 

DECEMBER 7, 2013  

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 
 

SR. NO. 
 

PARTICULARS 

1. 

  Preface and Note from the Chairman 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Methodology and Approach 

Structure of the Report 

Legislative Notes 

Acknowledgements  

2. 

  Part I:   Salient Features of the Proposed Regulations 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

General Aspects 

Charging Prohibitions 

Disclosure Obligations 

Codes of Disclosure and Conduct 
 

3. 

  Part II:  Key Recommendations: Deliberations and Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Reach of the Regulations 

Who is an Insider? 

Connected Person 

Generally Available Information and Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information 
 

Trading versus Dealing 

Charging Provisions 

Due Diligence 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE NO. 

1 

3 

6 

6 

7 

9 

9 

10 

12 

12 

14 

15 

17 

18 

20 

24 

26 

27 

SR. NO. 
 

PARTICULARS 

PAGE NO. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Valid Defences 

Trading Plan 

Disclosure of Trades 

Code of Conduct 

Principles of Fair Disclosure 

Onus of Proof 

4. 

  Part III:  Draft of the Proposed Regulations 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chapter I: Preliminary 

Chapter II: Restrictions on Communication and 
Trading by Insiders 

Chapter III: Disclosures of Trading by Insiders 
 

Chapter IV: Codes of Fair Disclosure and Conduct 
 

Chapter V: Miscellaneous 
 
Schedule A: Principles of Fair Disclosure for 
Purposes of Code of Practices and Procedures for 
Fair Disclosure of Material Information 
 
Schedule B: Minimum Standards for Code of 
Conduct to Regulate, Monitor and Report Trading 
by Insiders 
 

30 

34 

37 

40 

42 

43 

45 

45 

52 

62 

65 

67 

69 

70 

5. 

  Annexure: List of persons who provided their inputs to the 

73 

Committee 
 

 

 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN THE REPORT 

 

Sr. No 

1.   

Terms Used 
 
ICDR Regulations 

2.   

IOSCO 

3.   
4.   

IPO 
PIT Regulations, 1992 

5.   

Proposed Regulations 

6.   

7.   

8.   

SCRA 

SEBI 

SEBI Act 

9.   

Takeover Regulations 

10.  

The Committee 

11.  

UPSI 

 

 
 
Meaning 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009 

International Organisation of Securities 
Commissions 
 

initial public offering 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
1992 
 
The proposed regulations i.e. the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2013 
 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992  
 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 
 
The High Level Committee to Review the SEBI 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
1992 
 

unpublished price sensitive information  
 

 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

PREFACE AND NOTE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 

 
 
1. 

 

Insider  trading  –  essentially  the  wrong  of  trading  in  securities  with  the  advantage  of 

having  asymmetrical  access  to  unpublished  information  which  when  published  would 

impact  the  price  of  securities  in  the  market  –  has  been  attracting  regulatory  attention 

worldwide.    While  jurisdictions  across  the  world  are  unambiguously  unanimous  in  the 

resolve  to  fight  insider  trading  by  ensuring  a  level-playing  field  for  trading  in  the 

securities market primarily on the ground that it erodes investor confidence in the market 

and  the  integrity  of  price  discovery,  legal  treatment  of  what  precisely  should  be  the 

measure  to  determine  whether  an  act  of  trading  by  an  insider  is  illegal  varies  across 

jurisdictions.   

 

2. 

In any good legal system, in dealing with any form of wrong or misconduct, it is critical 

that  the  law  draws  a  clear  line  making  it  evident  as  to  what  the  treatment  of  persons 

falling on either side of the line will be.  Unless the law and its implications are set out in 

a  clear,  specific  and  predictable  manner,  it  would  not  be  possible  to  provide  a  just  and 

transparent regulatory system that is respected and adhered to.   

 

3. 

In India, insider trading is not only a tort i.e. a civil wrong but also a crime1.  The SEBI 

Act  does not  define the  term  by itself although it  refers to the term ―insider trading‖ in 

many provisions2.  However, using the powers to make regulations and in discharge of its 

functions, SEBI has made regulations prohibiting insider trading in  the form of the PIT 

Regulations,  1992,  which  have  defined  various  terms  such  as  ―connected  person‖, 

―dealing in securities‖, ―insider‖, ―price sensitive information‖, ―unpublished‖, to name a 

few, to build up a framework of the prohibition on insider trading. 

 

                                                           
1 Section 24 of the SEBI Act criminalizes insider trading, punishable with imprisonment of up to ten years, or with 
fine of up to Rs. 25 crores, or both.  
2 Sections 11(2)(g), 11(2A)  and 11(4) (power to take measures and issue directions in the interests of the market); 
Section  11D  (power  to  issue  cease  and  desist  directions);  Section  12A(d)  (prohibition  on  directly  or  indirectly 
engaging  in  insider  trading);  Section  15G  (power  to  impose  civil  monetary  penalty  for  trading  on  the  basis  of 
unpublished price sensitive information) 

 

Page 1 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

4. 

Who  is  an  ―insider‖,  when  and  what  form  of  dealings  should  get  prohibited,  what 

restrictions  the  regulations  should  impose  in  its  attempt  to  prevent  violative  insider 

trading,  the  safeguards  within  which  insiders  may  trade  in  securities  in  a  compliant 

manner and the administrative aspects of how to review, monitor and achieve compliance 

are all critical to a workable and deterrent insider trading regulatory regime.   

 
The Committee feels that by its very nature, insider trading is difficult to prove and the 

5. 

initial  burden  to  bring  home  a  charge  could  be  heavy.    However,  where  the  charge  is 

indeed  established,  the  delinquent  should  be  dealt  with  severely  and  in  an  exemplary 

manner in accordance with the rule of law.  Such an approach would send a proper signal 

to the market about the seriousness of the issue, and about the approach of the regulator 

within the parameters of what can be justified in law.  

 
The PIT Regulations, 1992 have had their challenges in their drafting, interpretation and 

6. 

reach.    Besides,  the  felt  need  to  ensure  a  clear  regulatory  policy  that  is  not  only  easily 

comprehendible but is also comprehensive led to this Committee being set up under the 

chairmanship of Justice N. K. Sodhi, Former Chief Justice of the High Courts of Kerala 

and Karnataka and a Former Presiding Officer of the Securities Appellate Tribunal.   The 

members of the Committee are:- 

 

1.  

2.  

3. 

4. 

5. 

6.  

7.  

Darius Khambata, Advocate General of Maharashtra  

Somasekhar Sundaresan, Partner, J. Sagar Associates, Advocates & Solicitors 

Rajeev Luthra, Managing Partner, Luthra & Luthra Law Offices  

Subodh Kumar Agrawal, President, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 

K. Venkataramanan, CEO & MD, Larsen & Toubro  

Suresh Senapaty, Chief Financial Officer, Wipro Ltd. 

Nirmal Jain, Chairman and MD, India Infoline Ltd.  

8.   Motilal Oswal, Chairman & MD, Motilal Oswal Financial Services  

9.  

Rashesh Shah, Chairman & CEO, Edelweiss Group  

10.   Milind Barve, Chairman, AMFI & MD, HDFC AMC Ltd.  

11.   Arundhati Bhattacharya, MD& CEO, SBI Capital Markets Ltd 

12.   Deepak Kumar Chatterjee, MD & CEO, SBI Mutual Fund  

 

Page 2 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

13.   Mobis Philipose, Columnist, Mint, HT Media Limited  

14.   Menaka Doshi, Journalist, CNBC TV 18  

15.   A. P. Bakliwal, The Bombay Shareholders’ Association  

16.  

S. Ramann, Executive Director (Surveillance), SEBI  

17.   R. K. Padmanabhan, Executive Director (Investigations), SEBI  

18.  

J. Ranganayakulu, Executive Director (Law), SEBI - Member Secretary  

 

7. 

Mr. S. Ramann left the Committee on July 8, 2013 upon repatriation to his parent cadre 

and was replaced by Mr. S. Ravindran, Executive Director (Surveillance), SEBI.   

 

Methodology and Approach: 

 

8. 

The Committee had its first sitting on April 12, 2013, and finalized this report at its last 

sitting  on  December  7,  2013.    At  the  outset,  the  Committee  decided  to  invite  public 

comments on any and every aspect of the regulations dealing with insider trading which 

enabled a review of all aspects of the PIT Regulations, 1992 including those where it was 

felt  the  provisions  are  inadequate  and  those  where  Indian  regulations  are  superior  to 

regimes  elsewhere  in  the  world.  The  Committee  received  comments  and  contributions 

from various persons whose inputs were compiled and collated for review by it. A list of 

the persons who provided their inputs to the Committee is contained in the Annexure.    

 

9. 

The  Committee  is  grateful  for  such  participation  and  contribution  by  members  of  the 

public.  Without their inputs, the burden of the Committee would have been much heavier 

and  the  Committee  would  not  have  had  the  benefit  of  public  participation,  articulation 

and  the  feedback  of  society  on  various  aspects  of  the  regulations.  Thereafter,  the 

Committee  met  on  several  occasions  to  deliberate  upon  various  issues  and  aspects  of 

insider trading and what good law to deal with insider trading should be along with the 

appropriate regulatory response as a matter of policy.   

 

10. 

The Committee has drafted the Proposed Regulations dealing with insider trading so that 

its  recommendations  are  spelt  out  in  complete  detail  including  the  language  of  the 

 

Page 3 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

regulatory  formulation.    The  Committee  recommends  that  these  regulations  be  notified, 

repealing and replacing the PIT Regulations, 1992.   

 

11. 

The  Committee  formed  a  core  drafting  sub-group  to  prepare  working  drafts  of  the 

Proposed Regulations to enable the Committee to specifically focus on issues to be dealt 

with in ideal regulations, and this enabled reviewing the adequacy or lack thereof in the 

PIT  Regulations,  1992  in  achieving  the  regulatory  objectives.    Various  members  of  the 

Committee  provided  both  written  inputs  and  contributions  during  deliberations, 

challenging one another in the inputs given, reconciling differences, and working towards 

addressing  the  regulatory  and  societal  concerns  connected  with  insider  trading.    The 

members of this sub-group were:- 

 
1.  

2. 

3.  

4. 

5.  

6. 

 

Justice N.K. Sodhi 

Darius Khambata 

Somasekhar Sundaresan 

R. K. Padmanabhan  

J. Ranganayakulu  

S. Ramann (replaced by S. Ravindran) 

12. 

The following officers were invited to assist the sub-group in its work:- 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

 

Amit Pradhan, Legal Advisor, SEBI 

Sumit Agrawal, Assistant Legal Advisor, SEBI 

Vaneesa Abhishek, Legal Officer, SEBI 

The Committee would like to place on record its deep appreciation of the valuable inputs 

that  these  young  officers  who  have  been  associated  with  the  Committee  from  the  very 

beginning,  have  provided  from  time  to  time.    Without  their  able  support  and  assistance 

and  the  timely  provision  of  data  and  co-ordination  across  all  Committee  members,  it 

would not have been possible to achieve completion of the Committee’s task. 

 

 

Page 4 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

13. 

Insider trading is an evocative subject.  Drafting regulations in precise, unambiguous and 

predictable  terms  necessarily  entails  balancing  multiple,  and  at  times,  conflicting 

perceptions  of  various  stakeholders  in  the  market  system.    For  example,  the  easiest  but 

most simplistic approach would be to prohibit any trading by an insider.  However, such 

an approach would not only be as ineffective as any blanket prohibition policy but would 

also be unrealistic and out of sync with economic and regulatory realities. For example, 

rewarding and incentivizing employees with stock options on securities of a listed issuer 

is well recognized in the securities regulatory policy – SEBI has even made guidelines on 

the subject.   A simplistic prohibition on all forms of trading by all insiders would mean 

that stock options would be rendered impossible to implement. 

 

14. 

In drafting these regulations, the Committee has done its best to take into account every 

contribution  received  in  response  to  the  invitation  of  public  inputs.    In  writing  any 

legislation, it is not possible to accept and adopt every single suggestion and contribution.  

Therefore,  the  omission  of  any  input  received  from  the  public  is  a  conscious  and 

deliberate  one.    An  ideal  approach  to  legislation  would  be  to  address  every  regulatory 

concern raised, taking into account the effectiveness of the regulatory measure adopted, 

the  cost  and  burden  imposed  by  the  regulation  on  the  market  place  and  whether  the 

corresponding benefit outweighs the burdens imposed.  The Committee has had to walk a 

very  nuanced  and  tight  rope  –  as  indeed  would  be  the  case  with  any  legislation  –  in 

balancing and calibrating various conflicting inputs. Nevertheless, the non-acceptance of 

any  contribution  received  from  the  public  can  never  dilute  the  value  of  the  suggestion 

received and the Committee is grateful for every suggestion received.   

 

15. 

In  so  balancing  the  multiple  objectives,  the  Committee  wishes  to  emphasize  and 

underline that trading by insiders to extract undue benefit out of their possession of UPSI, 

stealing  a  march  over  the  rest  of  the  market  owing  to  asymmetrical  access  to  such 

information  ought  to  be  strictly  prohibited.  Such  trading  affects  the  integrity  of  the 

market  and  results  in  investors  who  do  not  have  such  access  being  deprived  of  an 

informed  investment  or  divestment  decision.  In  drafting  the  Proposed  Regulations,  the 

Committee has factored in the regulatory regime obtaining in various other jurisdictions 

 

Page 5 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

across  the  world.  It  is  immensely  grateful  to  the  literature  from  IOSCO  and  also  that 

published  by  in  various  jurisdictions  such  as  Australia,  Canada,  Israel,  Malaysia,  New 

Zealand, Singapore, United Kingdom and United States of America.   

 

16.  With  the  benefit  of  having  examined  the  literature  available  on  the  subject  from  across 

the globe, the Committee applied its mind to ground realities in India to develop the most 

appropriate regulatory policy that should be made applicable in India to address specific 

conditions prevalent in  India.  The review of how other markets have dealt with similar 

issues enabled a reference point to analyze the rich experience available in India. Such an 

approach enabled formulating the Proposed Regulations balancing the needs of the Indian 

market and investors in India with international standards and best practices. 

 

Structure of the Report: 

 

17. 

This Report is divided in to the following parts:- 

 

a. 

Part  I,  containing  the  salient  features  and  key  highlights  of  the  Proposed 

Regulations; 

 

b. 

Part  II,  discussing  the  key  recommendations  of  the  Committee,  articulating  the 

Committee’s deliberations on these issues and what weighed with the Committee in 

arriving at its final recommendations; and  

 

Part III, containing the draft of the Proposed Regulations. 

c. 

 

Legislative Notes: 

 

18. 

The  Committee  wishes  to  highlight  a  very  important  recommendation  that  it  has  made 

and  hopes  that  not  only  SEBI  but  every  regulator  adopts  this  recommendation  in  their 

law-making  role.  The  Proposed  Regulations  contain  specific  notes  on  each  provision 

setting  out  the  legislative  intent  for  which  that  provision  has  been  formulated.  These 

 

Page 6 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

notes are meant  to  be  an integral  and operative part of the  regulations and are  aimed at 

telling society what role the regulatory system expects the provision of the regulation to 

perform and help in their interpretation. 

 

19. 

The Committee believes that in  formulating regulatory policy, the authors of legislation 

should  take  courage  not  to  stop  short  of  articulating  what  the  legislation  was  meant  to 

achieve and intended to mean. The Supreme Court of India has observed3 that authors of 

subordinate  legislation  ought  to  articulate  what  they  intended  to  legislate  when  writing 

regulations. The Committee believes that this is even more necessary in the case of any 

complex  specialized  legislation  which  has  quasi-criminal  implications  such  as  the 

Proposed Regulations.   

 

20. 

Penal provisions should be precise and should not impose an unfair burden on Courts by 

expecting  that  ambiguities  would  be  ironed  out  during  legal  proceedings.  In  fact,  the 

Committee believes that articulating the legislative intent behind each provision would be 

a  powerful  tool  in  nudging  society  towards  a  greater  understanding  of  the  law  and  a 

superior  degree  of  compliance  thereby  minimizing  the  scope  for  litigation  for 

controversies to be adjudicated by courts of law.   

 

Acknowledgements: 

 

21. 

Finally, the Committee wishes to acknowledge and thank every officer of SEBI involved 

in assisting the Committee in its work.  In addition to those already named above, the co-

ordination  and  support  from  Mr.  D.V.  Sekhar,  Deputy  Legal  Advisor,  SEBI  and  Mr. 

Rajeev  Rastogi,  Assistant  Legal  Advisor,  SEBI  too  deserves  mention.    Without  the 

tireless contribution and support of the SEBI officers ranging from organizing logistics to 

help collate information and data, it would not have been possible to complete this work 

within the relatively short timeframe in which this report is delivered. 

 

                                                           
3 AIR 2010 SC 3089 | (2010) 7 SCC 449 

 

Page 7 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

22. 

Before parting, my heartfelt gratitude for the vital inputs and most cherished cooperation 

by  each  and  every  member  of  the  Committee,  thus  enabling  us  to  complete  the  task  of 

formulating  new  insider  trading  regulations  in  just  a  few  months.  Special  efforts  have 

been put in by the core group including the learned Advocate General of Maharashtra Mr. 

Darius  Khambata  and  Mr.  Somasekhar  Sundaresan,  Advocate  and  Partner,  J.  Sagar 

Associates,  and  I  will  be  ever  grateful  for  their  walking  that  extra  mile.  But  for  their 

efforts,  the  completion  of  this  challenging  task  would  not  have  been  possible.  Their 

immaculate  drafting  of  the  regulations  and  the  involved  deliberations  by  the  full 

Committee  helped  us  evolve  this  work  product  as  reflected  in  the  final  draft  of  the 

Proposed Regulations. 

 

 

 

 

 

Sd/- 

N.K. Sodhi 

Chairman 

Page 8 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

 

 

PART I 

SALIENT FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED REGULATIONS  

The salient features of the Proposed Regulations are set out below:-  

 

 

General Aspects: 

 

1. 

The regulations will cover securities listed or proposed to be listed on stock exchanges4. 

 

2. 

The  term  ―connected  person‖  is  defined  to  explicitly  include  public  servants  who  handle 

UPSI relating to listed companies5.  

 

3. 

The  term  ―generally  available  information‖  is  defined  to  identify  what  is  not  UPSI  and 

formulate a test based on whether the information in question is accessible to the public on 

a non-discriminatory basis6.   

 

4. 

The term ―immediate relative‖ is defined to cover close relatives who are either financially 

dependent or consult the insider in connection with their trading in securities7.  

 

5. 

The term ―unpublished price sensitive information‖ is defined to mean information that is 

not  generally  available  but  which  upon  becoming  so  available  could  materially  affect  the 

price of securities specifying types of information that will ordinarily be regarded as UPSI 

being listed out8. 

 

6. 

Every  provision  of  any  importance  (except  for  provisions  such  as  definitions  of  other 

regulations  cross-referenced)  has  been  annotated  with  legislative  notes  with  a  view  to  set 

out the legislative intent and scope of the provision and more importantly, the principles on 

                                                           
4 Regulation 2(1)(c) 
5 Regulation 2(1)(e) 
6 Regulation 2(1)(f) 
7 Regulation 2(1)(g) 
8 Regulation 2(1)(p) 

 

Page 9 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

which  the  regulation  is  based.  The  legislative  notes  are  an  integral  part  of  the  Proposed 

Regulations9. 

 

Charging Prohibitions: 

 

 

Communication of information 

 

7. 

 

Insiders are prohibited from communicating, providing or allowing access to UPSI unless 

required for discharge of duties10. 

8.  A  general  prohibition 

is 

imposed  on  all  persons  from  procuring  and  causing 

communication of UPSI unless required for discharge of duties11. 

 

Due diligence12 

 

9.  Conducting  due  diligence  on  listed  companies  is  permissible  for  purposes  of  transactions 

entailing an obligation to make an open offer under the Takeover Regulations.  

 

10.  Due  diligence  is  permissible  in  other  cases  subject  to  making  diligence  findings 

constituting  UPSI  ―generally  available‖  at  least  two  trading  days  prior  to  the  proposed 

trading.  

 

11.  The board of directors of the listed company will have to opine that permitting the conduct 

of  due  diligence  is  in  the  best  interests  of  the  company  and  will  also  have  to  ensure 

execution of non-disclosure and non-dealing agreements.  

 

Trading with possession of information 

 

                                                           
9 Regulation 1(3) 
10 Regulation 3(1) 
11 Regulation 3(2) 
12 Regulations 3(3) & 3(4) 

 

Page 10 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

12.  Trading in listed securities when in possession of UPSI is prohibited13.  

 

13.  Various  specific  defences14  are  provided  since  the  prohibition  is  wide-ranging  and 

expansive.  By  clearly  enumerating  the  defences,  the  prohibition  has  been  made  more 

effective.  The defences include:- 

 

 

the trades being contrary to the nature of UPSI15; 

 

 

the insider being an innocent recipient of UPSI or placed reliance on information not 

believed to be UPSI16; 

 

 

the trade was between counterparties having parity in possession of the UPSI17;  

 

 

the exercise of stock options entailing a pre-determined price18; 

 

 

 

 

the trades were decided upon and executed by authorized persons / agents of a ―blind 

trust‖ without access to the UPSI that the insider had19; and 

the  trades  were  pursuant  to  a  trading  plan  compliant  with  the  requirements  of  the 

regulations20. 

 

Trading plans 

 

14. 

Insiders who are liable to possess UPSI round the  year are permitted to formulate trading 

plans with appropriate safeguards21.  

                                                           
13 Regulation 4(1) 
14 Regulation 4(3)  
15 Regulation 4(3)(i) 
16 Regulations 4(3)(ii)  
17 Regulation 4(3)(iii) 
18 Regulation 4(3)(iv) 
19 Regulations 4(3)(v) & (vi) 
20 Regulation 4(3)(vii) 
21 Regulation 5(1) 

 

Page 11 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

15.  The  compliance  officer’s  role  in  monitoring  and  approving  a  trading  plan  has  been  made 

important22.  

 

Disclosure Obligations: 

 

16.  Trades by promoters, employees, directors and their immediate relatives are required to be 

disclosed to the company23. 

 

17.  Trades of a value beyond certain materiality thresholds are required to be disclosed in the 

public domain24. 

 

18.  Company to keep record of all holdings by all employees25. 

 

19.  Companies are entitled to require third-party connected persons who are not employees to 

disclose their trading and holdings in securities of the company26. 

 

Codes of Disclosure and Conduct: 

 

20.  Every company whose securities are listed or proposed to be listed is required to formulate 

and publish a code of fair disclosure governing disclosure of events and circumstances that 

would impact price discovery of its securities27. 

 

21.  Every listed company and market intermediary is required to formulate a code of conduct 

to  regulate,  monitor  and  report  trading  in  securities  by  employees  and  other  connected 

persons28. 

 

                                                           
22 Regulation 5  
23 Regulation 7(1) & 7(2) 
24 Regulation 7(3) 
25 Regulation 6(3) 
26 Regulation 7(5) 
27 Regulation 8(1) 
28 Regulation 9(1) 

 

Page 12 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

22.  All other persons who handle UPSI in their ordinary course of work may formulate a code 

of conduct to enable compliance, monitoring and administration29. 

 
 

 

 

                                                           
29 Regulation 9(2) 

 

Page 13 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

PART II 

 

KEY RECOMMENDATIONS: DELIBERATIONS AND RATIONALE 

 

1. 

Part III of this Report contains the recommended draft of the Proposed Regulations.  The 

Committee hopes that a plain reading of the regulatory provisions along with the legislative 

notes annotated with every material provision would set out the scope, reach and meaning 

in precise terms of the prohibitory provisions on insider trading.  In this part of the Report, 

the Committee has articulated the key issues and concepts that were debated in connection 

with the Proposed Regulations set out in Part III. 

 

2. 

 

Simply  put,  the  Proposed  Regulations  entail  a  prohibition  on  trading  by  insiders  in 

securities when in possession of UPSI, thus obtaining an unfair advantage.  They also entail 

outlawing  communication  of  UPSI  by  any  insider  except  where  such  communication  is 

legitimately necessary for performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations.  Towards 

this  end,  it  is  necessary  to  define  who  an  ―insider‖  is;  how  a  ―connected  person‖  has  to 

shoulder a higher burden than those who receive UPSI and thereby attract the prohibition 

on  trading;  when  information  takes  the  character  of  ―unpublished  price  sensitive 

information‖; when information can be regarded as ―generally available information‖; what 

type of securities are covered by the prohibition against insider trading; how insiders may 

arrange  their  affairs  in  a  compliant  manner  to  have  the  capacity  to  trade  in  securities; 

recording and disclosing trades by connected persons; and most importantly, what defences 

may  be  available  validly  pressed  considering  the  nature  of  the  prohibition  on  trading  by 

insiders when in possession of UPSI.  

3.  Against  this  backdrop,  some  of  the  key  issues  debated  have  been  articulated  to  give  the 

reader  a  glimpse  of  the  nature  of  the  deliberations  and  issues  that  weighed  with  the 

Committee. More important than this Part II are the legislative notes appended to the actual 

provisions drafted and set out in Part III. The Committee was unanimously of the view that 

there would be little point in writing a conceptual report that has later to be translated into 

regulations leaving scope for loss of meaning in translation. Therefore, the Committee has 

 

Page 14 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

drafted  the  Proposed  Regulations  with  legislative  notes  that  would  explain  the  legislative 

intent and the regulatory policy behind each provision.  

 

Reach of the Regulations: 

 

4. 

The prohibitions contained in the Proposed Regulations would apply to trading in securities 

issued by a company which are listed on a stock exchange.  The term ―company‖ is defined 

notionally  inasmuch  as  it  would  bring  within  its  scope  entities  that  are  technically  not 

companies  incorporated  under  the  Indian  company  law  but  entities  that  issue  securities 

listed on stock exchanges in India.  For example, a mutual fund set up as a trust, that can 

issue  units  of  close-ended  schemes  which  are  traded  in  the  market  would  also  be  a 

―company‖ for purposes of the Proposed Regulations. 

 

5. 

The  Committee  was  mindful  of  the  need  for  a  price-discovery  platform  for  a  security  for 

the  wrong  of  insider  trading  to  be  prosecuted  as  a  crime  or  punished  as  a  civil  wrong.  If 

securities  are  not  listed,  they  would  not  be  amenable  to  price  discovery.  Consequently, 

price  discovery  for  the  security  would  not  be  exposed  to  the  prospect  of  an  insider 

benefitting  from  trading  when  in  possession  of  UPSI.  In  the  absence  of  the  ability  to 

discover  price  in  a  market  through  an  inter-play  of  demand  and  supply,  it  would  not  be 

possible to envisage an insider benefitting from his possession of UPSI and the lack of such 

information in possession of the others in the market.   

 

6. 

The  Companies  Act,  2013  was  passed  by  Parliament  during  the  term  of  the  Committee. 

Section 195 of this legislation covers insider trading and the Committee notes that there is 

no conceptual inconsistency between the generic provisions in that legislation and what the 

Proposed  Regulations  provide  for.  Section  458  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  delegates 

powers  to  SEBI  to  prosecute  insider  trading  in  securities  of  listed  companies  and 

companies  which  intend  to  get  their  securities  listed.  Therefore,  the  definition  of 

―company‖  has  been  extended  to  cover  entities  that  intend  to  get  their  securities  listed. 

Since  the  ICDR  Regulations  mandate  disclosure  of  all  material  information  necessary  for 

making an informed decision about applying for securities in an IPO, insider trading could 

 

Page 15 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

occur  in  relation  to  the  price  discovery  process  in  the  book-building  under  the  ICDR 

Regulations,  and  would  therefore  be  punishable  by  SEBI.    These  provisions  may 

particularly get attracted in the case of an offer for sale as part of the IPO, where an insider 

could take advantage of his access to UPSI and trade with the investors in the IPO without 

making such UPSI generally available in the prospectus of the company. 

 

7. 

The  Committee  was  also  mindful  that  it  is  possible  that  without  a  market  for  price-

discovery being in place there could be abuse of asymmetry of information leading to fraud 

or cheating in connection with dealing in securities – such market abuse would be squarely 

covered by the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to the 

Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 and other legal provisions on fraud, cheating, breach 

of trust etc. but it is not intended that every form of cheating and fraud would be regarded 

as ―insider trading‖. 

 

8.  With  this  approach,  the  Committee  deliberated  upon  what  the  term  ―securities‖  would 

mean.  Various suggestions were dealt with including whether one should look at over-the-

counter  derivatives  based  on  listed  securities,  which  could  be  the  conduit  for  committing 

insider  trading  without  seemingly  trading  in  listed  securities.    The  Committee  concluded 

that the term  ―securities‖ is  well defined in  the  SCRA and that therefore, it would not  be 

necessary to  re-invent  the wheel.    For example,  an interest  in  a security  is  also  a security 

under that definition.  Moreover, the Committee was cognizant  of the scope and reach of 

Section  12A  of  the  SEBI  Act  which  outlaws  insider  trading  committed  directly  or 

indirectly.   

 

9. 

This definition of ―securities‖ is time tested and is used across all securities regulations and 

it would not  be appropriate to  re-define the term solely  for purposes of these regulations.  

Such an approach would also  enable bringing insider trading in  listed derivatives that are 

not issued by any company but is an interest in securities issued by a listed company within 

the scope and reach of the Proposed Regulations. 

 

 

Page 16 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

10. 

In future, other price-discovery platforms that are not ―stock exchanges‖ may emerge under 

extant  securities  laws.  It  would  not  be  possible  for  envisaging  future  hypotheses  and 

legislating today for those scenarios.  Therefore, having adopted a principle-based approach 

to regulation, the Committee is of the view that any security listed on any public platform 

for  price  discovery  would  come  within  the  scope  and  reach  of  the  provisions  of  the 

Proposed Regulations. 

 

11.  To  conclude,  any  security  that  fits  the  definition  of  the  term  under  the  SCRA  and  is 

amenable  to  price  discovery  on  a  market  platform  would  be  amenable  to  insider  trading.  

Such a security may be issued by any entity – ranging from a company that issues shares, 

debentures  or  other  securities,  to  a  trust,  for  example,  a  mutual  fund  or  an  alternative 

investment fund that issues units that are listed on a stock exchange.  The provisions in the 

Proposed Regulations that define the terms ―company‖ and ―securities‖ have been drafted 

in the light of the aforesaid discussion. 

 

Who is an Insider? 

 

12.  Various  suggestions  were  received  on  what  the  scope  of  the  term  ―insider‖  ought  to  be.  

The Committee reviewed the legislative policy in various jurisdictions.  Some suggestions 

were to the effect that whether a person is an insider should be determined on the basis of 

whether he is connected with an insider to the issuer of the securities while others were of 

the view that any person who gets connected to the UPSI would become an insider so long 

as the information has the character of UPSI.  

 

13.  The Committee had substantive deliberations on this aspect.  The Committee took  note of 

jurisdictions  such  as  the  United  States  where  a  breach  of  a  duty  owed  to  keep  the  UPSI 

confidential or not to trade when in possession of the UPSI was necessary for the trading to 

become illegal. Other jurisdictions, such as New Zealand have adopted a different approach 

i.e.  of  not  having  to  prove  that  there  was  a  breach  of  duty  involved  in  the  course  of  the 

information  coming  into  possession  of  the  person  who  has  traded.  Therefore,  the 

 

Page 17 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

Committee  felt  that  it  was  important  to  keep  the  scope  of  the  prohibition  as  being 

applicable to ―insiders‖ with a clear definition of who an ―insider‖ would be.   

 

14.  The Committee built consensus around the view that anyone who is in possession of UPSI 

should be an insider provided the terms ―UPSI‖ and ―generally available information‖ are 

well  defined.    For  further  discussion  of  this  issue  please  the  discussion  under  the  head 

―Information: Generally Available / Unpublished Price Sensitive‖ in this Report. 

 

15.  The Committee therefore concluded that the term ―insider‖ should be defined to mean all 

―connected  person‖  and  those  in  possession  of  UPSI  leaving  it  to  the  definitions  of 

―generally  available  information‖  to  safeguard  against  an  over-reach  of  the  prohibition 

being read as a ban on ―informed trading‖ as opposed to ―insider trading‖.  The Committee 

has also provided robust defences against bringing a charge without satisfying the essential 

ingredient and rationale behind the prohibition on insider trading.   

 

Connected Person: 

 

16.  The  definition  of  ―connected  person‖  is  crucial  for  purposes  of  defining  an  ―insider‖.    It 

was  felt  that  although  the  approach  of  rendering  any  person  in  receipt  of  UPSI  has  been 

adopted, it is important to have a framework that has an enhanced set of responsibilities for 

a  ―connected  person‖.  The  Committee  was  cognizant  of  the  difficulties  arising  from 

unintended punctuation and syntax errors in the current regulations in this regard.   

 

17.  Any person associated with a company in any capacity that would allow such person access 

to UPSI relating to the company or whose association is reasonably expected to allow such 

access  would  be  a  ―connected  person‖.  Such  association  with  the  company  and  access  to 

UPSI may arise owing to the connected person  holding any position  of  employment with 

the company or being in any contractual or fiduciary relationship with the company.   

 

18.  The  Committee  was  conscious  that  merely  because  a  person  does  not  hold  any  official 

position with a listed company but is otherwise completely involved with its operations and 

 

Page 18 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

is  an  insider  to  decision-making  should  not  escape  the  scope  and  reach  of  the  definition.  

Consequently, it was felt that even those persons who are in frequent communication with 

the officers of the company would also be connected persons.  This would necessarily be a 

question of fact and when evidence is brought to bear to demonstrate such close contact, it 

should  not  be  required  to  shut  one’s  eyes  to  his  being  an  insider,  and  have  to  look  for  a 

smoking gun i.e. demonstrate an actual communication of UPSI. 

 

19.  Whether  or  not  a  person  is  a  connected  person  will  always  and  necessarily  be  a  mixed 

question  of  fact  and  law  to  be  answered  from  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  case.  

Whether  the  association  of  a  person  with  a  company  would  put  him  in  a  position  of 

accessing  UPSI  would  also  be  a  mixed  question  of  fact  and  law.    The  Committee  was 

conscious that if it were not possible to have direct evidence of actual access to UPSI, the 

test  to  be  applied  would  be  to  consider  whether  the  person  in  question  is  reasonably 

expected to have such access as a reasonable inference that a reasonable man would draw 

from the facts and circumstances of the case.   

 

20.  The Committee was also conscious of the fact that once a person is a ―connected person‖, 

he  should  ideally  not  be  regarded  forever  as  being  a  connected  person.  After  much 

deliberation  it  was  felt  that  any  person  who  has  been  a  connected  person  during  the  six-

month period prior to an act of trading should still be regarded as a connected person. This 

is only a bright line for attracting the deeming and notional implications in the eyes of the 

regulations. Indeed, if it can be shown that despite the passage of six months there had been 

contact  that  would  lead  to  a  reasonable  prospect  of  UPSI  having  been  accessed,  and  the 

consequence of trading when in possession of UPSI would follow. 

 

21. 

Immediate  relatives  of  connected  persons  have  also  been  included  in  the  category  of 

connected  persons  provided  they  are  either  financially  dependent  or  if  their  trading 

decisions  involve  consultation  with  a  connected  person.  Frequent  communication  with  a 

connected person who is in possession of UPSI and trading during such possession would 

point  to  consultation  with  the  connected  person  for  purposes  of  trading  decisions.  

However, the Committee was of the view that such immediate relatives should indeed have 

 

Page 19 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

an opportunity to demonstrate that despite being an immediate relative in such a position, 

the immediate relative could not reasonably be expected to have had access to the UPSI.   

 

22.  A new feature of the Proposed Regulations is  that  of treating public servants  and persons 

holding  statutory  positions  that  are  reasonably  expected  to  have  access  to  UPSI  as 

―connected persons‖ and thereby prohibit them from trading when in possession of UPSI.  

For example, a judge who has heard arguments in a complex tax proceedings the outcome 

of which would be materially adverse or materially positive to the price of securities of a 

company would be a ―connected person‖ until he pronounces the order.  Another example 

will make it clear. A public servant who is actively involved in formulating policy on any 

matter that could  result in a material impact on the price discovery for securities of listed 

companies – say, pricing policy for a natural resource, or the cap on foreign investment in a 

specific sector, would be a connected person in the eyes of the regulations. Therefore, the 

restrictions on trading that would apply to connected persons would apply to such persons 

as well.   

 

23.  Accordingly,  the  Committee  has  drafted  the  definition  of  the  term  ―connected  person‖  in 

Regulation  2(1)(e)  of  the  Proposed  Regulations  by  factoring  in  the  analysis  set  out 

above. 

 

Generally Available Information and Unpublished Price Sensitive Information: 

 

24.  At the core of any regulations that regulate and prohibit insider trading lies the concept of 

―unpublished  price  sensitive 

information‖.  Jurisdictions  worldwide  use  varying 

nomenclatures – mostly, ―material non public information‖. The SEBI Act specifically uses 

the  term  ―UPSI‖  in  Section  15G  to  impose  monetary  penalties  connected  with  insider 

trading.  Therefore, the Committee decided to adopt the same phraseology, so long as the 

concept is well understood and well aligned with the regulatory objectives viz. of outlawing 

the abuse of UPSI to the detriment of the general investors in the market.  The Committee 

believes  that  notwithstanding  the  nomenclature  the  terms  ―unpublished  price  sensitive 

 

Page 20 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

information‖  or  ―material  non  public  information‖  connote  the  same  meaning  and  would 

not make a difference so long as the concept is well defined and understood. 

 

25.  UPSI is essentially information that is not generally available which on becoming generally 

available, would materially affect the price of securities to which it relates. The Committee 

decided  to  define  the  concept  of  ―generally  available  information‖  and  lay  down  the 

principle of how general availability should be ascertained. Essentially, information that is 

accessible  to  the  public  on  a  non-discriminatory  basis  would  be  considered  generally 

available  information.  Analysis  and  research  based  on  generally  available  information 

would also be generally available information.  

 

26.  The Committee deliberated upon how one should understand ―non-discriminatory  access‖ 

and it was felt that one should not over-stipulate how this should be understood since that 

could risk narrowing the scope of that term.  For example, a research report that is priced 

for purchase and is made available to all clients of a stock broker would be considered non-

discriminatory  inasmuch  as  any  client  of  the  broker  or  any  class  of  clients  of  a  broker 

having a certain risk profile may acquire that research report. Merely because the report is 

priced  and  needs  to  be  purchased  would  by  itself  mean  that  access  to  it  is  non-

discriminatory. However, if one were to find extraordinary and peculiar structures such as 

pricing  a  research  report  at  a  level  not  in  line  with  market  practice  such  that  only  some 

identified persons may be able to acquire it and hope to rely on it by way of ostensible non-

discriminatory  access,  it  would  not  be  non-discriminatory.  Therefore,  whether  some 

information  is  available  on  a  non-discriminatory  basis  would  be  a  question  of  fact  to  be 

answered adopting the standard of a reasonable man. 

 

27. 

Information  that  is  capable  of  being  accessed  by  any  person  without  breach  of  any  law 

would  be  considered  generally  available.  Various  examples  were  discussed  by  the 

Committee.  One  interesting  example  was  this:    If  one  were  to  see  the  chief  executive 

officer  of  a  listed  company  who  is  also  the  company’s  alter  ego  collapse  with  a  heart 

seizure  at  the  reception  of  a  doctor’s  clinic  and  were  to  call  up  the  broker  to  sell  shares, 

would  the  information  be  UPSI  or  generally  available  information?  The  Committee 

 

Page 21 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

concluded  that  such  information  would  indeed  be  considered  ―generally  available‖  since 

the reception at the doctor’s clinic would be a public place and anyone who happens to be 

there  could  have  seen  it  and  could  have  reacted.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  same  chief 

executive  officer  were  to  have  collapsed  with  a  heart  seizure  in  the  midst  of  a  small 

meeting and his colleagues were to sell the shares before the news could reach the market, 

they would have been in possession of the information owing to their presence at a private 

meeting in the line of duty and the news of the ill-health would not be generally available 

information and would therefore be UPSI. 

 

28.  Another example is of a person standing outside the gates of the most material factories of 

a  listed  company  and  determining  the  movement  and  quantum  of  goods  by  counting  the 

trucks  entering  and  exiting  the  factory  gates  to  analyze  and  assess  the  company’s 

performance  beyond  the  stated  numbers.  Since  such  an  activity  would  not  involve  any 

breach  of  any  obligation  under  the  Proposed  Regulations  it  would  be  legitimate  activity 

since the information being collected and processed is generally available and anyone with 

enterprise  could  have  done  the  same.  However,  if  one  were  to  bribe  the  officials  of  the 

factory  to  provide  such  data,  or  if  one  were  to  hack  into  the  computer  systems  of  the 

factory  to  procure  the  information,  such  access  would  not  be  accessing  of  generally 

available information. 

 

29.  While  these  principles  are  also  backed  by  the  provisions  containing  the  prohibition  on 

communication of UPSI and the inducement of communication of UPSI in Regulation 3, it 

is  important  to  also  articulate  how  the  concepts  of  ―generally  available  information‖  and 

―unpublished price sensitive information‖ are intended to be understood.  

 

30.  A piece of research work that is available on a discriminatory basis but is based entirely on 

generally available information would not change the character of the research work from 

being  ―generally  available‖  to  being  ―UPSI‖.  The  Committee  is  conscious  that  generally 

available  information  well  analyzed  by  an  insightful  mind  would  not  be  transformed  into 

UPSI.  Therefore,  the  regulation  explicitly  provides  that  conclusions,  deductions  and 

 

Page 22 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

analyses  of  generally  available  information  too  would  be  regarded  as  generally  available 

information. 

 

31.  The Committee also felt that some illustrative examples of what would ordinarily constitute 

UPSI should be set out to clearly understand the concept. It would be important to ensure 

that  regardless  of  whether  the  information  in  question  is  price-sensitive,  no  piece  of 

information  should  mandatorily  be  regarded  as  ―UPSI‖.  Towards  this  end,  examples  of 

events and developments information about which would ordinarily be regarded as UPSI, 

are listed – such as financial results, dividends, mergers and acquisitions, changes in capital 

structure etc. 

 

32.  Some  members  of  the  Committee  felt  that  the  Proposed  Regulations  ought  to  prescribe 

specific forums in which publication would be mandatory for information to be regarded as 

being  generally  available.  Specifically,  the  suggestion  was  that  unless  information  is 

published  on  the  website  of  the  stock  exchange,  it  would  not  be  regarded  as  generally 

available  and  therefore,  if  price  sensitive  in  nature,  it  would  be  regarded  as  UPSI.  The 

problem with this approach would be that even if large newspapers and television channels 

were to have published a piece of news and market participants were already factoring in 

the news in price discovery, an insider who trades when in possession of such news would 

be regarded as violating the law merely because the stock exchange website does not carry 

the news. The Committee believes that it would be inappropriate to regard information that 

is  widely  available  in  the  public  domain  as  UPSI.  On  the  other  hand,  some  members  felt 

that one could register a newspaper in a remote region in the country, publish news there, 

and  then  trade  despite  the  news  not  truly  being  publicly  accessible.  It  was  felt  that  such 

extreme  and  convoluted  structures  would  be  regarded  as  contrivances  and  devices  to 

circumvent the Proposed Regulations in terms of Section 12A of the SEBI Act. Moreover, 

it  is  settled  law  that  such  regulations  ought  to  be  purposively  construed  and  if  two  views 

were  possible,  the  view  that  furthers  the  legislative  objective  would  need  to  be  adopted 

over a view that makes a mockery of the legal provisions. 

 

 

Page 23 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

33.  To conclude, whether or not a piece of information is generally available or is unpublished 

would necessarily be a mixed question of fact and law.  A bright line indicating the types of 

matters  that  would  ordinarily  give  rise  to  UPSI  are  listed  to  give  illustrative  guidance.  It 

could  well  also  be  possible  that  information  from  such  events  could  be  routine  in  nature 

and  consistent  with  a  long  history.  Information  about  the  repetition  of  the  same  event  on 

predictable  lines  would  not  render  it  to  be  UPSI  unless  deviated  from.  For  example,  the 

declaration of dividend at the same rate at which a company has declared dividend for the 

several  years as per publicly stated dividend policy. Therefore, the Committee has drafted 

the definition of ―generally available information‖ in  Regulation 2(1)(f) of the Proposed 

Regulations and that of ―unpublished price sensitive information‖ in Regulation 2(1)(p) of 

the Proposed Regulations bearing in mind the analysis articulated above. 

 

   

Trading versus Dealing: 

 

34.  There was considerable  debate in  the Committee about  whether the term  ―dealing‖ or the 

term ―trading‖ should be adopted for purposes of prohibiting insider trading. It was felt that 

the  term  ―dealing‖  is  extremely  wide  and  would  then  warrant  a  definitional  delineation 

which  in  turn  would  end  up  with  defining  ―dealing‖  as  ―trading‖.  Each  and  every  act  of 

doing  something  with  securities  would  constitute  ―dealing‖  –  for  example,  getting 

securities dematerialized, creating an encumbrance, agreeing not to dispose of the securities 

without  another  person’s  consent  such  as  a  lender,  would  all  be  acts  of  ―dealing‖  in 

securities.  The  Committee  believes  that  the  mandate  of  the  Parliament  is  to  prohibit 

―insider  trading‖  and  the  regulations  ought  to  focus  on  such  a  prohibition  and  not  inflict 

unintended and untold prohibitions on any and every activity connected with securities.   

 

35.  ―Trading‖  in  the  ordinary  English  meaning  of  the  term  would  entail  an  act  of  getting 

something in return for something else i.e. entailing an element of consideration changing 

hands. Even an act of subscription to securities would be an act of ―trading‖ inasmuch as 

the subscriber would trade his funds towards subscription money for the securities allotted 

to him. When one trades in securities by acquiring or disposing of an interest in securities 

 

Page 24 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

when  in  possession  of  UPSI  there  would  be  an  abuse  of  the  UPSI,  necessitating  the 

prohibition.   

 

36.  On  the  other  hand,  using  a  vague  and  open-ended  phrase  like  ―dealing‖  could  result  in 

outlawing  routine  bona  fide  transactions  that  have  no  nexus  with  the  objective  of  the 

Regulations.   For example, a prohibition  in  ―dealing‖ when in  possession of UPSI  would 

result in a prohibition on pledging of shares by any person in possession of UPSI.  In the 

ordinary  course  of  lending  activity,  substantial  shareholders  in  listed  companies  are 

routinely  required  to  provide  third  party  security  for  borrowings  by  them  or  by  the 

companies  whose  shares  they  hold.    Such  encumbrances  are  but  provision  of  security  for 

loans  advanced  and  as  such  cannot  be  justified  as  being  the  mischief  sought  to  be 

suppressed  by  these  regulations.    If  ―dealing  in  securities‖  were  to  be  prohibited  when  in 

possession  of  UPSI,  all  such  acts  of  providing  security  would  become  illegal.  Such  a 

prohibition would bring the activity of taking a pledge or encumbrance on listed securities 

to a standstill for the banking and finance industry with no real corresponding benefit to the 

market.   

 

 

37.  The Committee deliberated as to whether pledges and encumbrances could be created as a 

device for circumventing the prohibition and concluded that such a mischief is unrealistic 

and impractical and would in any case not go scot-free owing to Section 12A of the SEBI 

Act.  The Committee is mindful that this provision categorically outlaws any contrivance or 

a device that would enable a direct or indirect circumvention of any provision of the Act or 

regulations  made  thereunder  or  even  the  direct  or  indirect  commission  of  insider  trading.  

Therefore, if one were to construct a pledge or an encumbrance as a device to get around 

the  prohibition  on  insider  trading,  the  provisions  of  Section  12A  of  the  SEBI  Act  would 

adequately empower enforcement. 

 

38.  By  adopting  the  term  ―trading‖,  the  Proposed  Regulations  would  in  fact  ensure  that  the 

provisions  are  made  precise  rather  than  be  left  to  wide  and  potentially  ambiguous 

interpretation.  When  one  trades  securities  or  interest  in  securities  for  something  else,  one 

 

Page 25 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

would be trading in the security for consideration.  The Committee concluded that the more 

appropriate term to be used particularly for imposing the prohibition under the regulations 

would be that of ―trading‖ and not ―dealing‖. The Committee built consensus around using 

the term ―trading‖ instead of the term ―dealing‖. 

 

39.  The  Committee  has  therefore  dealt  with  the  drafting  of  the  Proposed  Regulations  in  line 

with  the  aforesaid  discussion  i.e.  by  adopting  the  term  ―trading‖  instead  of  the  term 

―dealing‖. 

 

Charging Provisions: 

 

40.  The Committee felt that an effective barrier to trading when in possession of UPSI should 

be  maintained  as  a  charging  principle.  This  should  be  the  general  rule  backed  by  the 

principle that no insider should gain undue benefit by trading with the benefit of possessing 

UPSI which the rest of the market does not have and therefore, gain an advantage over the 

market.  The  exceptions  to  the  rule  are  set  out  in  the  form  of  defences  that  are  available.  

The principle behind these defences can be summarized as situations and circumstances in 

which  this  general  charging  principle  would  not  be  applicable  –  for  example  where  both 

parties to a trade in fact have the same UPSI with them although the market may not have 

it.   

 

41.  One  core  principle  that  the  Committee  would  seek  to  highlight  is  that  the  purpose  of  the 

Proposed  Regulations  is  to  prohibit  violative  insider  trading  whereby  insiders  who  are  in 

possession of UPSI take undue advantage of such possession in their trades with the rest of 

the  market  that  does  not  have  a  level-playing  field  in  terms  of  access  to  material 

information.  Therefore,  the  identity  of  the  owner  of  the  mind  that  trades  in  securities  is 

what  the Proposed Regulations would look  to  rather than the identity of the owner of the 

title  to  the  securities  that  are  traded.  The  title  to  the  securities  would  point  to  the  person 

who traded, but if the person who traded and the person whose securities were traded are 

different  persons,  whether  the  person  who  traded  had  UPSI  would  be  the  key  issue  to  be 

determined. 

 

Page 26 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

42.  The  provisions  of  Regulation  4  of  the  Proposed  Regulations,  which  imposes  the 

prohibition  on  trading  by  insiders  when  in  possession  of  UPSI,  and  provide  specific 

defences, are drafted taking the aforesaid principles into account.  

 

43.  Likewise, to maintain hygiene in the market place it is necessary to ensure that UPSI is not 

handled  lightly  and  is  handled  only  on  a  need  to  know  basis  and  is  not  communicated 

except where necessary. Therefore, the Committee decided to retain the general prohibition 

on  communication  or  counseling  UPSI  and  has  also  introduced  conditions  on  which  due 

diligence  may  indeed  be  conducted  so  that  there  can  be  communication  of  UPSI  in  well-

regulated  circumstances.  The  provisions  of  Regulation  3  of  the  Proposed  Regulations, 

which imposes the prohibition on communication of UPSI and the obligation to treat UPSI 

on a need-to-know basis are drafted accordingly. 

 

Due Diligence: 

 

44.  Whether any exercise of due diligence inquiring into the affairs of a listed company should 

at  all  be  permitted  was  keenly  considered  particularly  since  this  is  a  question  that  keeps 

coming  up  under  the  current  regulations  in  the  context  of  transactions  involving  mergers 

and acquisitions.  There are doubts about this issue under the current regime and yet, there 

is  case  law  and  precedent  of  a  substantial  acquirer  being  told  that  he  ought  to  have 

conducted  an  exercise  of  due  diligence  before  taking  a  decision  to  acquire  a  substantial 

stake in a listed company particularly when he seeks to withdraw from the transaction. 

 

45. 

In  an ideal  world,  the information  that is  generally available about  any listed company in 

the  public  domain  ought  to  be  adequate  for  any  and  every  investment  in  its  securities.  

However,  that    is  neither  a  true  position  nor  a  correct  expectation  is  evidenced  by  even 

listed  companies  having  to  write  detailed  offer  documents  and  prospectuses  for  securities 

offerings  such  as  rights  issues  and  follow-on  public  offerings.  Banks  that  lend  for 

acquisitions  would  need  to  conduct  due  diligence  on  a  company’s  operations.  Substantial 

 

Page 27 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

investors  who  invest  in  a  company  to  enable  it  to  fund  its  businesses  may  need  to 

understand more than just what is publicly available to appraise the investment proposition. 

 

46.  Therefore, the Committee decided to squarely deal with the problem by clearly articulating 

the  principles  underlying  the  prohibition  on  communication  of  UPSI  and  stating  the 

principles  based  on  which  due  diligence  may  be  conducted  on  listed  companies.  The 

Committee  was  conscious  of  how  market  price  was  but  one  of  the  criteria  for  computing 

the  minimum  offer  price  under  the  Takeover  Regulations  but  there  were  other  criteria  as 

well  –  more  so  in  the  case  of  infrequently  traded  stocks.  The  Takeover  Regulations 

Advisory  Committee  commented  on  this  phenomenon  whilst  discussing  the  relevance  of 

market  price for computing the minimum  offer price for an open offer transaction.  In the 

circumstances  the  Committee  reached  a  consensus  around  permitting  due  diligence  in 

relation to material transactions but as a special exception to the general rule with a number 

of strings attached.   

 

47.  First,  the  board  of  directors  will  need  to  come  to  a  clear  view  that  permitting  exercise  of 

due diligence is in the best interests of the company. It is the company that is the owner of 

the  UPSI  relating  to  the  company  and  it  should  be  the  responsibility  of  its  board  of 

directors to justify permitting the conduct of a due diligence exercise. The dispensation for 

permitting  such  an  exception  has  been  differentiated  between  transactions  that  entail  an 

open  offer  under  the  Takeover  Regulations  and  other  transactions.  The  Committee 

recommends  that  in  transactions  not  involving  an  open  offer  under  the  Takeover 

Regulations  (where  the  UPSI  would  get  published  in  the  letter  of  offer  sent  to  all 

shareholders)  the  findings  of  the  diligence  that  constitute  UPSI  would  need  to  be  made 

generally available before the trade for which due diligence is permitted. 

 

48.  Mr. Mobis Philipose believes that making the UPSI public after conducting due diligence 

would  pose  challenges  –  particularly  one  of  reluctance  to  have  competitive  information 

disclosed  to  a  person  conducting  diligence  to  be  brought  into  the  public  domain  and  get 

accessed  by  competitors  although  it  may  be  necessary  to  share  such  information  to  large 

financial  investors  or  strategic  partners  who  are  prospective  traders  in  the  company’s 

 

Page 28 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

securities.    Consequently,  due  diligence  exercise  conducted  by  a  prospective  strategic 

partner  or  large  financial  investors  should  be  excluded  from  public  disclosure  of  findings 

with a minimum threshold of 10% of the equity being acquired by such investors.  On the 

other hand, Ms. Menaka Doshi has a diametrically opposite view i.e. that no due diligence 

exercise  should  at  all  be  allowed  if  an  open  offer  is  not  triggered  under  the  takeover 

regulations.  Even where an open offer is triggered, in her view, permission to conduct due 

diligence  is  unfair  to  the  other  investors.    According  to  her,  such  due  diligence  exercise 

would  disturb  the  level  playing  field  and  making  the  information  generally  available  two 

days before the trade is unrealistic and inadequate.   

 

49.  The  recommendation  of  the  Committee  is  based  on  the  premises  articulated  above.    As 

stated  earlier,  there  can  be  multiple  views  ranging  from  one  extreme  to  another  on  any 

aspect  of  law  and  policy.    However,  there  is  clearly  no  case  to  be  made  to  oppose  any 

conduct  of  any  due  diligence  since  it  is  indeed  true  that  due  diligence  before  public 

transactions is necessary since information in the public domain about listed companies is 

not  considered  fully  adequate.    It  would  only  stand  to  reason  that  one  should  provide  a 

predictable, clear and conditional framework to enable a due and proper acknowledgement 

of  market  and  regulatory  reality  and  to  have  an  orderly  environment  in  the  securities 

market to address these issues.  Mandating that the Board of Directors, which is the owner 

and custodian of the UPSI should have to sign off that there is a need for conduct of due 

diligence  to  serve  the  interests  of  the  company,  and  the  obligation  to  make  the  findings 

public before the trade takes place are counterbalancing measures towards reaching such an 

objective. 

 

50.  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  the  exercise  of  due  diligence  and  the 

consequent  enquiries  into  the  affairs  of  listed  companies  be  permitted  subject  to  the 

safeguards and conditions articulated above.  The provisions of Regulations 3(3) and 3(4) 

of the Proposed Regulations have been appropriately drafted to factor in the requirements 

articulated above. 

 

 

 

 

Page 29 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

Valid Defences: 

 

51.  As regards the blanket prohibition on trading in securities when in possession of UPSI, the 

Committee decided to articulate specific defences that would be available in line with the 

principle for which the blanket prohibition has been recommended.  Each of the defences 

articulated  is  based  on  a  specific  principle  that  would  demonstrably  counteract  against  a 

reasonable  charge  of  insider  trading  having  taken  place.  Therefore,  whether  the  relevant 

principle  is  evident  from  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  case  would  need  to  be  seen 

when any of these defences is adopted.  All actions relating to enforcement against insider 

trading  would  necessarily  depend  on  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  each  case.    Both  the 

charge and the defence would be a mixed question of fact and law.   

 

52.  The fundamental premise on which trading when in possession of UPSI is prohibited is that 

when an insider is in such possession, he would be assumed to be influenced by the nature 

of the UPSI in his possession, which others in the market would not have. Such a position 

would  place  him  at  an  unfair  advantage  over  the  others  in  the  market.  However,  it  is 

noteworthy  that  insider  trading  is  not  only  a  tort  (a  civil  wrong)  but  is  also  a  punishable 

crime  that  could  lead  to  an  insider  being  imprisoned  for  a  period  of  upto  10  years.  

Therefore, a charge of insider trading should be clear, precise and reasonable.   

 

Contrary to nature of UPSI  

 

53.  Against this backdrop, it should be emphasized that insider trading is a wrong arising out of 

an  insider  taking  advantage  of  UPSI  in  his  possession  to  the  exclusion  of  the  others.  

Therefore,  if  the  insider’s  trades  were  in  fact  contrary  to  the  nature  of  the  UPSI  in  his 

possession,  such  trading  ought  not  to  be  treated  as  a  wrongful  act.  Therefore,  where  an 

insider has traded in a manner contrary to how a reasonable man who is seeking to benefit 

from the UPSI would act, it should follow that he has not committed a tort or a crime.  For 

example, if the information in possession of an insider were to be adverse in nature say, the 

denial  of  an  important  license  by  a  regulatory  agency  and  the  insider  had  actually 

purchased shares before the UPSI became generally available, it would but follow that the 

 

Page 30 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

UPSI  in  his  possession  did  not  motivate  his  trade.  Conversely,  where  the  UPSI  in 

possession of an insider is positive information say, the award of a material contract to the 

company which could impact the price positively and if the insider sold the shares before 

the good news came into the public domain, it would follow that he was not committing a 

tort or a crime.   

 

54. 

It would be quite difficult to establish but important to provide that where the insider was 

an  innocent  recipient  of  the  UPSI  and  despite  exercise  of  diligence  expected  of  a 

reasonable  man,  he  had  no  reason  to  believe  that  the  information  was  UPSI.    In  such  an 

event,  the  insider  who  has  traded  should  have  a  chance  to  demonstrate  that  he  did  no 

wrong. Needless to say, the insider would need to prove that he did everything reasonably 

in his power to assess whether the information in his possession was UPSI (i.e. exercise of 

diligence  expected  of  a  reasonable  man)  and  that  he  traded  bona  fide.  If  the  insider  can 

indeed demonstrate that he did not bona fide understand the nature of the UPSI or that the 

UPSI was price sensitive to attract the prohibition (in doing so, adopting the standard of a 

reasonable man), he should not be held to have violated the prohibition.   

 

Unaware of Tipper’s violation 

 

55. 

It  is  possible  that  an  insider  may  have  received  information  from  someone  who  is  not  a 

connected  person  and  he  did  not  have  reason  to  believe  that  the  person  providing  the 

information violated any law or confidentiality obligation owed by that person. Any person 

who receives UPSI would be immediately placed in the shoes of an ―insider‖ in view of the 

definition of the term. Therefore, if a person were to receive information about a company 

from  someone  who  is  not  a  connected  person,  but  such  person  had  procured  the 

information illegally, the recipient would be innocent if unaware of the tipper’s violation.  

Therefore  where  a  person  trades  on  the  basis  of  contents  of  a  research  report  which  later 

turns out to have contained UPSI illegally procured by the research analyst, the fact that a 

bona  fide  recipient  of  that  report  traded  when  in  possession  of  that  report  should  not  be 

visited with the charge of insider trading.   

 

 

Page 31 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

Parity of information 

 

56.  The Committee believes that in situations where both the buyer and the seller of securities 

are  in  possession  of  identical  information,  the  trade  by  itself  should  not  be  rendered 

violative.  Such a transaction between two identifiable persons who have identical access to 

UPSI ought  not  to  be outlawed. Had the information in  question been generally  available 

and  the  trade  had  been  in  the  open  market,  there  would  have  been  no  room  for  alleging 

insider trading.  Likewise, where the counterparty to the trade is clearly identifiable and in 

a bilateral trade the counterparty was indeed privy to the very same UPSI, the trade should 

be held to have wronged no one.  If such a principle were not to be followed, every inter se 

transfer  of  shares  among  promoters  could  get  regarded  as  insider  trading  since  promoters 

would be in possession of UPSI and although no third party has traded with the promoters.   

Therefore, it is important to provide the parity of information among the trading parties as a 

valid defence. 

 

57.  Ms.  Doshi  believes  that such  a  defence  should  only  be  available  to  transfers  of  securities 

between  persons  whose  ultimate  beneficial  owners  are  the  same,  and  that  not  doing  so 

would result in those who are not party to such a trade not enjoying a level-playing field.  

The Committee has refrained from such an approach not only because parity of information 

is not violative insider trading in many jurisdictions across the world, but also because even 

without  common  beneficial  ownership,  two  or  more  persons  could  have  parity  of 

information – say, joint venture partners.   

 

 

Stock Options 

 

58.  Stock  options  are  a  means  of  rewarding  and  incentivizing  performance  by  employees  of 

listed  companies.    The  exercise  price  for  a  stock  option  is  pre-determined  and  after  a 

certain  vesting  period,  the  option  that  is  granted  would  vest  and  may  be  exercised  to 

acquire the underlying shares.  SEBI administers specific guidelines to deal with employee 

stock options. Therefore, where an insider exercises a stock option when he is in possession 

 

Page 32 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

of  UPSI  but  the  price  for  the  stock  option  was  fixed  long  ago  and  he  had  no  role  in 

negotiating  any  such  price,  it  would  be  unfair  to  taint  such  an  insider-employee  with  the 

charge of insider trading.  Insider trading is fundamentally based on prohibiting the insider 

from  getting  a  price  advantage  over  the  others  in  the  market.  Where  the  price  is  pre-

determined as in the case of a stock option and the option is exercised at such price despite 

there  being  UPSI  in  possession  of  the  insider,  he  should  be  able  to  defend  himself  in  the 

ordinary course. 

 

Non-insider decision-maker for trades  

 

59.  While trading to take advantage of the possession of UPSI should be outlawed, it is equally 

important to make provision for the ability to disconnect the two aspects of the matter i.e. 

the possession of UPSI and the decision to trade at a certain price.  In any business group 

comprising  multiple  entities  discharging  multiple  roles,    if  it  is  possible  to  ring-fence  the 

persons  who  are  in  possession  of  UPSI  from  those  who  are  responsible  for  the  decision-

making necessary for the trades, the rationale underlying the prohibition of insider trading 

would not be attracted. In situations where the person in possession of the UPSI is different 

from  the  person  who  takes  the  trading  decisions  and  the  two  are  segregated  by  effective 

arrangements, the purpose of the prohibition would not be attracted.  Consequently, if it can 

be established that adequate arrangements  were  in  place to  ensure that the persons taking 

decisions  on  the  trade  are  different  from  the  persons  having  possession  of  the  UPSI  and 

there  is  no  evidence  of  such  arrangements  breaking  down,  a  valid  defence  ought  to  be 

available.  Likewise,  if  the  trades  are  made  by  a  duly  authorised  person  other  than  the 

insider without any reference to or prior knowledge of the insider although the trades may 

have  been  made  on  behalf  of  the  insider,  the  defence  ought  to  be  available.  This  is  the 

principle on which the concept of ―blind trust‖ is adopted worldwide i.e. where a person is 

given complete authority to  trade  – say,  a discretionary portfolio manager who is  himself 

not  in  possession  of  UPSI.  In  such  a  fact  situation,  the  Committee  believes  that  a  valid 

defence should be provided. 

 

 

Page 33 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

60. 

In the light of the foregoing discussion, the imposition of the prohibition in Regulation 4(1) 

and  the  provision  of  specific  and  narrow  valid  defences  in  Regulation  4(3)  have  been 

stipulated, factoring in the aforesaid analyses.  

 

Trading Plan: 

 

61.  Since the prohibition on trading when in possession of UPSI is a stringent one, it is quite 

possible  that  certain  persons  particularly  those  in  senior  management  and  those  who  are 

promoters  may  perpetually  be  in  possession  of  some  UPSI  or  the  other  rendering  such 

persons incapable of trading in securities throughout the year.  This would be so because at 

any point of time such persons may be involved in some decision-making or the other and 

be  privy  to  confidential  information  that  could  affect  the  discovery  of  price  if  such 

information  were  to  become  generally  available.  It  is  important  to  reconcile  the  need  to 

maintain the prohibition on trading in securities when in possession of UPSI with the need 

to  provide  a  regime  in  which  compliance-conscious  insiders  are  able  to  put  in  place  a 

compliant mechanism to trade in securities where they are insiders.  Towards this end, the 

Committee upon a review of provisions made in some other jurisdictions felt that it would 

be in the fitness of things for India to test the concept of a ―trading plan‖ that would enable 

compliant  trading  by  insiders  without  compromising  the  prohibitions  imposed  in  the 

Proposed Regulations. 

 

62.  There are jurisdictions that have not warmed up to the concept of a trading plan and there 

are  jurisdictions  where  the  concept  has  been  available  for  a  reasonably  long  time  and 

further improvements have been made on the basis of empirical evidence of how they have 

worked.    The  Committee  believes  that  there  is  merit  in  the  idea  and  with  appropriate 

safeguards  it  is  time  to  test  the  concept  in  India  to  enable  the  framework  of  compliant 

trading.  Such an experiment could well be utilised for compliant trading towards creeping 

acquisitions  by  promoters  (envisaged  under  the  Takeover  Regulations)  or  monetizing  of 

securities holdings by entrepreneurs who have listed their companies. 

 

 

Page 34 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

63.  The very concept of a trading plan is meant for those who are perpetually in possession of 

UPSI.   Therefore, it would not be possible to formulate a plan when the insider is not in 

possession of any UPSI. Instead, the regulatory framework for the trading plan would entail 

permitting an insider to formulate the plan in advance to effect trades at a subsequent date, 

by which time they he be in possession of new UPSI but the UPSI that would have been in 

his  possession  when  formulating  the  plan  would  have  become  generally  available.    The 

possession of new UPSI that was not even in existence when the trading plan is formulated 

should not act as a barrier to the trades being executed provided the safeguards stipulated 

are met.  The Committee took note of literature in the United States about the alleged abuse 

of  the  trading  plan  whereby  trades  may  be  pre-determined  but  the  making  of  UPSI 

generally available may be timed to profit the insider.  Therefore, the Committee decided 

that the trading plan would not provide absolute immunity from investigation into whether 

such  manipulation  of  timing  had  been  used  to  circumvent  the  prohibition  on  violative 

insider trading.  

 

64.  Some of the salient features of the safeguards are that the execution of the trading plan may 

commence only at least six months after the trading plan is publicly disclosed.  No trading 

plan should entail trading for the period between the twentieth trading day prior to the last 

date of a financial period for which results are to be announced and until the third day after 

the disclosure of the results.  Trading plans are required to  be in  place for at  least  twelve 

months,  no  two  trading  plans  should  overlap  and  a  trading  plan  should  be  reviewed  and 

approved by the compliance officer of the company and then publicly disclosed after which 

it  must  be  implemented.    Some  members  have  expressed  reservations  about  the  onerous 

nature of such requirements and feel that the concept of a trading plan may not find many 

takers.  Specifically, the suggestion  is  to  bring down the cooling off period to  commence 

the  trading  plan  to  90  days.  The  Committee  is  however  conscious  that  this  is  a  novel 

experiment being tested in  India.  Even in jurisdictions where the concept was introduced 

long ago, empirical evidence points to abuse with timing of the UPSI being made generally 

available  to  suit  the  trading  plan  of  those  who  manage  the  company.    It  is  felt  that  the 

concept should be introduced with sufficient safeguards and adequate care should be taken 

to  ensure  that  rampant  abuse  does  not  lead  to  this  significant  reform  measure  being 

 

Page 35 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

removed  in  the  near  future  as  a  reaction  to  abuse.    In  fact,  upon  review  of  empirical 

evidence and feedback after the concept is introduced, it would always be open to SEBI to 

dilute  or  enhance  the  regulatory  conditions  attached  to  trading  plans  under  the  Proposed 

Regulations. 

 

65.  A  trading  plan  may  set  out  either  the  value  of  the  trades  to  be  effected  or  the  number  of 

securities  to  be  traded.  It  should  also  set  out  the  nature  of  the  trade  and  the  intervals  at 

which or the dates on which the planned trades may be executed.   If it can be reasonably 

inferred that the UPSI that was in possession of the insider when formulating the plan is not 

yet  generally  available,  the  compliance  officer  would  be  empowered  to  defer  the 

commencement of the trading plan. However, the trading plan once commenced cannot be 

revoked and would have to mandatorily be implemented.  This is critical to ensure that the 

prospect of abuse by timing the publication of unpublished information is dis-incentivised. 

 

66.  A public disclosure of every trading plan is envisaged to make it clear to the market at large 

that such a planned set of trades would be effected and the public would be able to take an 

informed decision about trades in the same securities.  One member of the Committee is of 

the  view  that  the  trading  plan  should  not  be  disclosed  to  the  stock  exchange  at  all  while 

another is of the view that it may be disclosed provided the value of the trades envisaged in 

a  plan  is  beyond  a  material  threshold.    First,  the  Committee  feels  that  an  insider  would 

adopt  a trading plan only  for material  trades and if he does not truly need a material  pre-

programmed  compliant  trading  plan,  he  would  follow  the  pre-clearance  route  envisaged 

under  the  regulations,  as  is  the  case  under  the  PIT  Regulations,  1992.  Second,  the 

Committee  felt  that  disclosure  to  the  stock  exchange  is  an  important  measure  of 

transparency which would be welcome under Indian conditions.  The Committee is of the 

view that it would only be appropriate to entail a public disclosure and the market would be 

mature enough to absorb the news about the intended trades pursuant to a trading plan and 

draw appropriate conclusions. 

 

67.  Mr.  Philipose  believes  that  the  policy  preference  should  be  towards  trading  plans  rather 

than towards encouraging blind trusts, and that restrictions on the trading plans such as the 

 

Page 36 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

bar  on  transactions  being  contemplated  when  trading  windows  are  closed  on  a  pre-

scheduled  basis  should  be  considered  for  blind  trusts  as  well.    However,  it  is  noteworthy 

that the two concepts are different – the usage of a SEBI-registered discretionary portfolio 

manager on a blind trust basis involves shutting out the decision-maker from the owner of 

the  title  to  the  securities  being  traded.    On  the  other  hand,  the  trading  plan  involves 

formulation of a pre-scheduled plan by persons perpetually in possession of UPSI to trade, 

which may not be commenced until the UPSI in their possession while formulating the plan 

becomes  published  and  which  may  be  implemented  despite  their  being  in  possession  of 

new UPSI which was not in their possession when deciding on the trading plan.  Therefore, 

there is no specific policy preference on either route.  In any case, the onus of establishing a 

defence adopted would be on the person relying on it. 

 

68.  The provisions of Regulation 5 which comprehensively deal with the various requirements 

to be met for formulation of a trading plan have been drafted accordingly, factoring in the 

reasoning and analyses articulated in the foregoing paragraphs. 

 

Disclosure of Trades: 

 

69.  The Committee believes that it is  necessary to  make provision for disclosure of trades by 

employees  of  listed  companies  and  their  immediate  relatives  on  two  grounds.    Such 

disclosures  would  not  only  enable  the  administration  and  policing  of  the  Proposed 

Regulations  but  it  would  also  enable  the  market  at  large  to  take  an  informed  investment 

decision on the basis of dealings by the company’s insiders.  The Committee has carefully 

differentiated  between  internal  disclosures  and  external  disclosures  and  has  sought  to 

minimize  external  disclosures  unless  such  disclosures  serve  any  specific  regulatory 

purpose.  

 

70.  The Committee debated whether even in the internal disclosures there would be a need to 

restrict  disclosures  with  any  materiality  threshold  being  involved.    Some  members  of  the 

Committee felt that it may be onerous to keep records of all employees’ holdings and trades 

in securities.  However, it was felt that given the advancement in information technology, 

 

Page 37 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

keeping  a  repository  of  information  of  trades  internally  should  not  be  very  onerous  for 

listed companies.  It was also felt that providing for a routine maintenance of records would 

be a laudable legislative measure and should not be diluted.  However, if the value of trades 

were  to  cross  a  materiality  threshold  it  would  then  become  necessary  to  require  public 

disclosure of such trades. 

 

71.  The idea behind the provisions relating to disclosures to enable a smooth administration of 

the Proposed Regulations.  The provisions entailing disclosure by all employees impose an 

internal  requirement.    Introducing  a  provision  to  stipulate  such  requirement  only  for 

designated  employees  would  lead  to  a  difficulty  in  administration  inasmuch  as  even  the 

reach  and  jurisdiction  of  these  provisions  would  become  dependent  on  questions  of  fact.  

There  would  be  higher  prospect  of  regulatory  litigation  through  that  approach,  leading  to 

questions of whether a certain employee ought to have been designated or whether he was 

outside  the  scope  of  coverage.    Instead,  since  this  requirement  is  nothing  but  an  internal 

exercise,  it  would  be  eminently  feasible  for  companies  to  have  an  electronic  means  of 

providing such information and retaining the same in the records. 

 

72.  The  Committee  has  also  consciously  stipulated  value  thresholds  for  external  disclosures.  

While there can always  be a debate about  what  the value of such thresholds  should be, it 

was felt necessary to leave flexibility to SEBI to specify any value other than what is being 

stipulated in the Proposed Regulations. 

 

73.  The Committee believes that reference to voting rights as a threshold for disclosures as is 

the case with the PIT Regulations, 1992 is not really relevant. The regulatory objective of 

the Proposed Regulations, unlike the Takeover Regulations, is not aligned with making the 

voting power relevant.  What is of greater relevance is the scale and size of the trading by 

insiders particularly those who are expected to have access to UPSI.  Even the size of the 

company is  not relevant  in  this regard.   The disclosure obligations in  Chapter III  of  the 

Proposed Regulations have been drafted accordingly. 

 

74.  Mr. Suresh Senapaty and Mr. Subodh Kumar Agarwal have expressed their dissent to the 

requirement for coverage of disclosures of securities held and traded by all employees, and 

 

Page 38 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

to  public  disclosure  of  material  trades  by  all  employees.    Their  dissenting  view  is  also 

supported by Ms. Arundhati Bhattacharya, Mr. Nirmal Jain and Mr. K. Venkataramanan.   

 

75.  According to them, the correct approach would be to restrict the coverage of the disclosures 

only to those covered by the Code of Conduct i.e. to ―designated persons‖ (see the section 

on  Code  of  Conduct),  since  only  such  persons  are  ―insiders‖  and  not  each  and  every 

employee.  Their grounds of dissent on this issue are summarized below:- 

 
a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

f. 

a  company  would  need  to  educate  all  employees  and  their  relatives  about  these 

disclosure requirements; 

obtain accurate declaration from them; 

put in place mechanism to capture and track data on a real time basis; 

do a due diligence on the data integrity and compile such data accurately; 

retain audit trail of the same for reference in future; and  

timely report the same to the Stock Exchange.  

 

76.  They also believe that many companies have in their employee base as much as about 40% 

based  outside  India  and  about  another  40%  having  nationalities  outside  India.    Many 

companies  have  dual  listing  in  India  and  overseas.    Having  to  ensure  that  the  employees 

have  a  mechanism  to  track  such  data  accurately  for  themselves  and  their  immediate 

relatives and report in time would invite penalty on the company too.  They acknowledge 

that the number of transactions in excess of Rs. 10 lakhs may be infrequent, but   having to 

accurately report this would  necessitate tracking  and monitoring of all transactions which 

makes the activity very onerous considering it would need to cover all employees and their 

immediate relatives.  They are also opposed to public disclosure of all such trades that are 

above the thresholds on the premise that this would result in competition getting to know 

information  about  Indian 

listed  companies. 

  Consequently, 

in 

their  view, 

the 

recommendation  ought  to  be  that  only  directors  and  those  in  the  senior  management  of 

listed companies should be covered by the disclosure obligations.  The companies should 

be  required  to  keep  records  only  for  such  persons.    Such  records  should  be  available  to 

SEBI but should not be disclosed in the public domain.  They also believe that mandating 

disclosures  of  trades  and  holdings  in  securities  of  all  employees  and  not  just  ―designated 

 

Page 39 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

persons‖  would  go  beyond  the  mandate  of  this  Committee  since  it  should  only  make 

recommendations for insiders and not for those who are not insiders. 

 

77.  The majority view set out in Regulation 7 of the Proposed Regulations, and in particular, 

those  governing  disclosures  by  employees,  essentially  entail  imposing  obligations  on 

employees of listed companies.  The failure on their part to report to their employers would 

be  a  violation  of  law  by  them  and  not  by  their  employers.    Indeed,  increasing  awareness 

and educating employees to enable them to comply would only be a welcome measure and 

would  further  the  regulatory  objective  of  improving  hygiene  in  the  securities  market  in 

connection  with  insider  trading  and  quite  consistent  with  the  mandate  of  this  Committee.  

The threshold beyond which public disclosure is mandated has been materially enhanced.  

Currently, any trade of above a value of above Rs. 5,00,000 would in any case fall within 

public disclosure.  Public disclosure is also mandatory regardless of value if the securities 

traded are more than 2,500 in number, or if the share represent more than 1% of the total 

share  capital.    The  Committee  has  consciously  reviewed  such  thresholds  from  the 

standpoint  of  materiality  and  relevance  and  is  recommending  reform  to  rationalize  the 

trades disclosure threshold at a value of Rs. 10,00,000 or more in a calendar quarter. 

 

78.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  critical  to  ensure  that  employees,  regardless  of  their  designation 

should  report  to  their  employer  the  trades  they  execute  in  securities  of  the  employer.  

Considering there is no scope for penalty on a company on the ground of a violation by the 

employees, the Committee believes that this fundamental reform measure should indeed be 

recommended, taking note with respect, the dissenting voice of those representing industry. 

 

Code of Conduct: 

 

79.  The  Committee  believes  that  every  listed  company  and  every  market  intermediary 

registered with SEBI should have a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading 

by its employees and other connected persons with a view to monitor the administration of 

the  regulations,  and  their  enforcement.    The  Committee  has  set  out  mandatory  minimum 

standards  that  such  codes  of  conduct  would  need  to  have,  leaving  it  to  the  entities  in 

 

Page 40 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

question  to  formulate  the  actual  code  of  conduct  that  they  would  adopt.    The  Code  of 

Conduct  pursuant  to  the  Proposed  Regulations  are  not  meant  to  enhance  or  dilute  the 

charging  provisions  of  the  Proposed  Regulations.    The  Committee  strongly  believes  that 

replicating the provisions of the Proposed Regulations in another draft code of conduct can 

have unintended consequences such as the creation of conflicting requirements, provisions 

getting  out-dated  after  amendment  of  the  provisions  and  the  risk  of  being  too  narrowly 

prescriptive  rather  than  achieve  a  bigger  regulatory  mandate  of  nudging  such  entities  to 

think through what is best suited for them. 

 

80.  The  minimum  standards  stipulated  in  Schedule  B  to  the  Proposed  Regulations  entail  a 

serious  role  for  the  compliance  officer  who  would  need  to  police,  monitor  and  regulate 

trading  by  employees  and  connected  persons.    A  system  of  pre-clearance  of  trades,  post-

transaction reporting and recording of reasons for decisions has to be devised by each such 

entity.    In  addition,  one  of  the  standards  statutorily  prescribed  is  that  UPSI  should  be 

handled on a need to know basis. 

 

81.  The Committee felt that all other entities and agencies that would routinely be required to 

handle UPSI in the course of their business operations, and over which SEBI may not have 

jurisdiction should, in  any  case, be  given the  discretion and  a  clear policy nudge towards 

adopting such a code of conduct for their own internal organisation. The same principles as 

applicable  to  listed  companies  and  market  intermediaries  would  apply  to  such  codes  of 

conduct as well.  Some of such entities may be subject to their own regulatory oversight by 

different agencies such as the Bar Council of India, Institute of Chartered Accountants of 

India, Institute of Company Secretaries of India etc.. Therefore, enabling them to formulate 

such  a  code  of  conduct  would  put  at  rest  the  doubt  about  jurisdictional  issues  but  the 

existence of a code of conduct would point to the seriousness with which the entity treats 

compliance with matters relating to insider trading.  Such an approach would nudge society 

into a higher level of compliance and nudging of a social framework that is more conducive 

to eradicating insider trading. 

 

 

Page 41 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

82.  The  Committee’s  attention  was  also  drawn  to  a  circular  bearing  Ref.  No.  MFD/CIR  No. 

4/216/2001 dated May 8, 2001 issued by SEBI’s Mutual Fund Division governing, among 

others,  insider  trading-related  requirements  issued  to  mutual  funds.    It  was  felt  that  the 

SEBI Circular was issued even before the requirement to have a code of conduct for market 

intermediaries  was  introduced  in  the  PIT  Regulations,  1992.  There  is  no  longer  a  special 

need for  a special or separate  circular for  a specific class of market  intermediaries on the 

subject  of  insider  trading.    It  is  therefore  recommended  that  the  aforesaid  SEBI  Circular 

insofar  as  it  relates  to  insider  trading  be  withdrawn  by  SEBI  to  ensure  that  there  is  no 

inconsistency and the regulatory requirements are kept precise and clear. 

 

83.  The Committee has therefore spelt out provisions of Regulation 9 read with Schedule B 

of the Proposed  Regulations, relating to  the Code of Conduct  in  line with  the foregoing 

discussions. 

 

Principles of Fair Disclosure: 

 

84.  The  Committee  feels  that  the  market  looks  primarily  to  the  listing  agreement  in 

determining  the  obligations  on  disclosures.    However,  the  PIT  Regulations,  1992  indeed 

has a schedule on disclosures to be followed. It was felt that it is important to strengthen it 

and  provide  clear-cut  principles  on  how  a  listed  company  should  follow  best  practices 

relating  to  fair  disclosures  about  emergence  of  any  UPSI  that  warrants  public 

dissemination. 

 

85.  The Committee believes that it is necessary to statutorily lay down the principles that every 

such  code  should  conform  to  such  as  the  need  for  prompt  disclosure  of  material 

information  that  could  impact  price  discovery  no  sooner  than  credible  and  concrete 

information  comes  into  existence.  Speculative  disclosures  or  selective  disclosures  that 

could in fact have an adverse impact on the market and the price discovery process should 

be avoided.   Even if UPSI were to get disclosed selectively, inadvertently or otherwise, the 

Committee  believes  that  without  prejudice  to  punitive  consequences  for  violating  the 

 

Page 42 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

requirement not to communicate UPSI, the company should remedy the mistake by making 

the information available to the public. 

 

86. 

It  is  important  to  mention  that  any  remedial  action  such  as  dissemination  of  UPSI  that  is 

wrongly  disclosed  selectively  in  violation  of  the  prohibition  on  communication  and 

counseling  of  UPSI  other  than  for  discharge  of  legitimate  duties  and  purposes  would  not 

detract from the regulatory consequences of breaching the prohibition.   Such dissemination 

is meant to set right the mistake or the wrong but that would not be the ground for excusing 

a violator from  the consequences of the violation.   Indeed, whether to  punish and how to 

measure  the  penalty  should  be  independently  assessed  in  accordance  with  known  and 

settled  principles  of  imposition  of  penalty  with  the  considerations  mandated  in  law  being 

followed. 

 

87. 

In  view  of  the  foregoing,  the  provisions  of  Regulation  8  read  with  Schedule  A  of  the 

Proposed Regulations have been drafted. 

 

Onus of Proof: 

 

88.  Finally, it would be remiss if the Committee does not articulate a view on how the onus of 

proof would play out under the Proposed Regulations.  The onus of showing that a certain 

person  is  an  insider  and  that  he  was  in  possession  of  UPSI  at  the  time  of  trading  would 

naturally  be  on  the  person  leveling  the  charge.  To  bring  such  a  charge,  the  ingredients 

would  be  to  show  that  the  person  is  an  insider,  that  trading  indeed  took  place  and  that  a 

reasonable  inference  of  being  in  possession  of  UPSI  is  possible.    Thereafter,  the  alleged 

insider who has traded may demonstrate that he was not in possession of UPSI, or that he 

has not traded himself and that someone else took the decision to trade without reference to 

him, or indeed, that any of the available defences articulated above are attracted.  The onus 

of proving the defence would be on the person accused of violating the prohibition. 

 

89. 

It  was felt that in  the case of a  ―connected person‖ where the  connection is  stronger and, 

therefore, the access to information would be even more direct (as compared to any other 

person who becomes an insider by reason of receipt of the UPSI) the onus of demonstrating 

 

Page 43 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

that  the  connected  person  in  fact  did  not  have  access  to  the  UPSI  would  be  on  the 

connected person.  In other cases, it  would be important  for SEBI  to  demonstrate a  prima 

facie case that there had been possession of UPSI when the insider who is not a connected 

person has traded.   

 

90.  No law or regulation can envisage all future factual situations.  Therefore, it would not be 

possible  to  make  provisions  for  every  scenario.    It  is  important  to  lay  down  clear  and 

focused definitions and identify concepts and principles which would make it possible for 

society 

to  ascertain 

the  status  of  compliance  or  non-compliance  accordingly.  

Consequently,  the  Proposed  Regulations  provide  for  various  concepts  and  principles  to 

enable the regulator and the courts to arrive at a view on whether a transaction in question 

is compliant or violative in character.   The legislative notes attached to the provisions are 

intended  to  throw  light  on  the  principles  set  out  in  the  provisions.    The  Committee  is 

cognizant of the fact that India is a common law country where interpretation of statutes is 

not  always  literal  in  nature  but  is  founded  on  the  principles  of  justice,  equity  and  good 

conscience.  The  Committee  sincerely  hopes  that  its  effort  in  making  the  Proposed 

Regulations will lead to a clearer understanding of the issues involved in insider trading in 

India  and  how  best  it  can  be  tackled  –  both  by  way  of  regulations  that  nudge  society  to 

become more compliant and also by way of clarity and predictability of the regulations that 

will enable swift and clear enforcement. 

 

 

 

 

Page 44 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 
 

 

 

PART III 

DRAFT OF THE PROPOSED REGULATIONS 

 
 

CHAPTER – I 

 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and commencement. 

1. 

(1) 

These  regulations  may  be  called  the  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 

Regulations, 2013. 

 

(2) 

These regulations shall come into force on such date as may be specified by the Board. 

 

NOTE:  Since the scope of what is prohibited, what defences are available to an alleged breach of a prohibition and 

a new regime for enabling compliant trading by insiders is envisaged, it is intended that the Board be empowered to 

fix an appropriate prospective date to bring these regulations into effect giving the market and officials of the Board 

appropriate time to arrange their affairs to operate under the new regulations. 

 

(3) 

The  notes  set  out  along  with  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  are  an  integral  part 

thereof setting out the legislative intent to guide the interpretation of these regulations. 

 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  the  note  in  relation  to  any  provision  contained  herein  shall  guide  the  authorities 

administering  the  regulations  and  courts  interpreting  these  regulations  about  the  intent,  scope  and  legislative 

reasoning in connection with the provision to which it relates. 

 

Definitions. 

2. 

(1) 

In  these  regulations,  unless  the  context  otherwise  requires,  the  following  words, 

expressions and derivations therefrom shall have the meanings assigned to them as under:–  

 

NOTE:  These are the meanings that are intended to ordinarily apply to these defined terms for their usage in these 

regulations. If the context requires a different meaning to be given to any of these words to further the purpose of 

these regulations,  such different meaning could be adopted. 

 

Page 45 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

(a) 

―Act‖ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 

 

(b) 

―Board‖ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India; 

 

(c) 

"company" means any entity that has issued securities which are listed on a stock 

exchange or which are intended to be so listed; 

 

NOTE:  It is intended that securities should be capable of being traded for them to be amenable to price 

discovery  and  consequently  be  exposed  to  the  prospect  of  an  insider  benefitting  from  trading  when  in 

possession of unpublished price sensitive information.  In the absence of the ability to discover price in a 

market through an inter-play of demand and supply, it would not be possible to bring a charge of insider 

trading  i.e.  of  an  insider  benefitting  from  possession  of  unpublished-price  sensitive  information  to  the 

detriment of others in the market.  It  is possible that without a market for price-discovery being in place 

there could be abuse of asymmetry of information leading to fraud in connection with dealing in securities 

– such market abuse would be squarely covered by the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade 

Practices Relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 2003, and is not intended to be covered by these 

regulations.  

 

(d) 

―compliance  officer‖  means  any  senior  officer  who  is  financially  literate  and  is 

capable  of  appreciating  requirements  for  legal  and  regulatory  compliance  under  these 

regulations; 

 

NOTE:  Under  these  regulations,  every  issuer  and  market  intermediary  would  need  to  appoint  a 

compliance  officer.    It  is  intended  that  such  compliance  officer  should  be  one  who  is  capable  of 

appreciating regulatory and legal requirements and has the ability to read and understand basic financial 

statements so as to understand the impact of unpublished price sensitive information on price discovery for 

securities so that he is able to administer the regulations in an informed manner. 

 

(e) 

"connected person" means any person who is or has during the six months prior to 

the concerned trade been associated with a company in any capacity including by reason 

of  frequent  communication  with  its  officers  or  being  in  any  contractual,  fiduciary  or 

employment relationship and includes any person who is  a public servant  or occupies a 

 

Page 46 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

statutory  position  that  allows  such  person  access  to  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information relating to the company or is reasonably expected to allow such access; 

 

Provided that immediate relatives of connected persons shall be deemed to be connected 

persons  unless  such  immediate  relative  can  establish  absence  of  access  or  reasonable 

expectation of access to unpublished price sensitive information; 

 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  a  connected  person  is  one  who  has  a  connection  with  the  company  that  is 

expected to put him in possession of unpublished price sensitive information.  Immediate relatives of such 

persons are also presumed to be connected persons but such a presumption is a deeming legal fiction and 

is rebuttable.   

 

This definition is also intended to bring into its ambit persons who may not seemingly occupy any position 

in  a  company  but  are  in  regular  touch  with  the  company  and  its  officers  and  are  involved  in  how  the 

company  operates.    It  is  intended  to  bring  within  its  ambit  those  who  would  have  access  to  unpublished 

price  sensitive  information  about  any  company  or  class  of  companies  by  virtue  of  being  government 

servants and occupying official positions that would put them in possession of unpublished price sensitive 

information  –  for  example,  an  officer  in  the  government  who  would  know  ahead  of  the  market  about  a 

proposed policy change that would impact market price say, a proposed change in foreign ownership limit 

in specific sectors would be a connected person and thereby an insider.   

 

So also, it is intended to cover, for example, a judge whose decision in a litigation could have a material 

bearing on the price of the securities in the market when the judgement is made public, say, a decision on a 

dispute over whether the offer price for an open offer under the takeover regulations should be higher or 

lower.    All  such  persons  are  intended  to  be  “connected  persons”  and  thereby  insiders  who  would  be 

prohibited  from  trading  in  securities  of  the  company  when  in  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information. 

 

(f) 

"generally  available  information"  means  information  that  is  accessible  to  the 

public  on  a  non-discriminatory  basis  and  shall  include  research  and  analysis  based 

thereon; 

 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  to  define  what  constitutes  generally  available  information  so  that  it  is  easier  to 

crystallize and appreciate what unpublished price sensitive information is.  Information that is accessible 

to the public on a non-discriminatory basis say, information published on the website of a stock exchange, 

 

Page 47 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

would  normally  be  considered  generally  available.    Research,  deductions  and  conclusions  based  on 

generally  available  information  will  also  constitute  “generally  available  information”.      For  example, 

organisations that provide research reports may add value to the information because of their research and 

analysis  but  so  long  as  the  research  is  based  on  generally  available  information,  the  findings  of  such 

research  would  not  become  unpublished  price  sensitive  information.    Such  research  reports  may  be 

available  for  a  price  (to  compensate  for  their  enterprise  of  conducting  research)  and  so  long  as  such 

research is available for purchase by clients without discrimination, the fact that it has to be paid for would 

not make the access discriminatory.  So long as it can be shown that the research is based on information 

in the public domain, the findings would also be “generally available information”.   

 

So also, it is intended that information that is capable of being accessed by any one without breach of any 

law would be considered generally available.  For example, a person legitimately watching and counting 

the movement of goods from factories of a company and making his own analysis and assessment without 

involving  a  breach  of  the  obligations  under  these  regulations  would  be  accessing  information  that  is 

generally available. Such research would not render him to be in possession of unpublished price sensitive 

information. However, a person who procures such information by breaking into the company’s systems or 

by  reason  of  an  insider  passing  on  such  information  in  breach  of  the  obligation  to  keep  information 

confidential, would be regarded as having availed of publicly accessible information. 

 

(g)  

―immediate relative‖ means a spouse of a person, and includes parent, sibling, and 

child  of  such  person  or  of  the  spouse,  any  of  whom  is  either  dependent  financially  on 

such person, or consults such person in taking decisions relating to trading in securities; 

 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  to  presume  in  the  eyes  of  law  that  immediate  relatives,  who  are  closely 

connected  to  connected  persons,  are  deemed  to  have  access  to  the  mind  of  the  person  whose  immediate 

relatives they are.    Immediate relatives of any person are those who are financially dependent and also 

those  who  consult  the  person  concerned  in  taking  decisions  on  securities  trading.    It  is intended  that  the 

immediate  relatives  of  a  “connected  person”  too  become  connected  persons  for  purposes  of  these 

regulations.  Indeed,  this  too  is  rebuttable  akin  to  the  takeover  regulations  where  such  an  approach  has 

been  adopted  for  a  deeming  and  rebuttable  fiction  of  various  persons  having  a  common  objective  or 

purpose of acquisition. 

 

(h) 

"insider" means any person who is: 

 

i)  

a connected person; or  

 

Page 48 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

ii)  

in possession of unpublished price sensitive information;  

 

NOTE:  Since  “generally  available  information”  is  defined,  it  is  intended  that  anyone  in  possession  of 

unpublished price sensitive information should be considered an “insider” regardless of how one came in 

possession of such information. Various defences are provided for such a person to demonstrate that he has 

not indulged in insider trading.  Therefore, this definition is intended to bring within its reach any person 

who is in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information and the charging provisions would  deal with 

whether  or  not  the  prohibition  has  been  violated.    The  onus  of  showing  that  a  certain  person  was  in 

possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  at  the  time  of  trading  would,  therefore,  be  on  the 

person leveling the charge after which the person who has traded when in possession of unpublished price 

sensitive information may demonstrate that he was not in such possession or that he has not traded or that 

his trading when in possession of such information was squarely covered by the available defences.   

(i) 

"promoter"  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  under  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations, 

2009; 

 

(j) 

"public  servant"  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  under  the  Prevention  of 

Corruption Act, 1988 (49 of 1988); 

 

(k) 

"securities"  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  under  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 

 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  to  adopt  the  well-settled  and  well-interpreted  definition  of  “securities”.  Since  the 

possession  of  “unpublished  price  sensitive  information”  about  a  “company”  results  in  a  prohibition  on 

trading in securities, this definition should be read in conjunction with these definitions.  For purposes of 

what “securities” are, the time-tested definition of the term adopted across all securities laws is intended to 

be adopted. It is intended that read with other definitions and charging provisions of these regulations, any 

instrument that fits within the definition of “securities” would be covered by these regulations if they are 

listed and are amenable to price discovery on a market platform.  Therefore, a security such as a derivative 

instrument which is not issued by the company but which is based on an interest in a security issued by the 

company  and  is  traded  on  stock  exchanges  too  would  be  covered  within  the  scope  of  these  regulations. 

Securities  covered  would  be  those  that  are  listed  on  stock  exchanges  including  listed  securities  that  are 

issued by market intermediaries such as mutual funds and collective investment schemes. 

Page 49 of 74 

 

 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

(l) 

"specified" means specified by the Board in writing; 

 

NOTE:  It is intended that the Board be given flexibility to specify norms and guidance acting through the 

Chairman  or  Wholetime  Members  by  way  of  circulars  on  specific  areas  where  the  Board  may  require  to 

calibrate the regulatory measure provided for in these regulations.  Such specification should be in writing 

and disseminated publicly.   

 

(m) 

―takeover  regulations‖  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 

 

(n) 

"trading"  means  transacting  in  securities  whether  by  way  of  acquisition  or 

disposal; 

 

NOTE:  Since the regulations deal with insider trading, it is intended to use the term “trading” uniformly 

instead of the term “dealing” which is a very wide term.  The change of nomenclature from “dealing” does 

not mean that market abuse in the form of any dealing other than trading i.e. transacting in securities for 

consideration would not be covered by securities laws.  Other provisions such as the SEBI (Prohibition of 

Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 would cover 

the scope of such other forms of market abuse.  So also it should be noted that in any case, any contrivance 

or device that is aimed at executing an indirect act of insider trading without involving “trading” would 

fall foul of Section 12A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 

 

(o) 

―trading day‖ means a day on which the recognized stock exchanges are open for 

trading; 

 

(p) 

"unpublished  price  sensitive  information"  means  any  information  that  is  not 

generally  available  which  upon  becoming  generally  available,  is  likely  to  materially 

affect the price of the securities to which it relates and will ordinarily include information 

relating to the following: – 

 

(i) 

financial results; 

 

 

Page 50 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

(ii) 

dividends; 

 

(iii) 

change in capital structure;  

 

(iv)  mergers, de-mergers, acquisitions, delistings, disposals and expansion of business 

and such other transactions; and 

 

(v) 

changes in key management personnel; 

 

NOTE:  It is intended that information that is not generally available would be unpublished price sensitive 

information if it is likely to materially affect the price upon coming into the public domain. Since this will 

always  be  a  mixed  question  of  fact  and  law,  a  bright  line  indicating  the  types  of  matters  that  would 

ordinarily give rise to unpublished price sensitive information should be listed to give illustrative guidance 

about  the  nature  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  when  a  court  has  to  determine  whether  any 

piece of information is unpublished price sensitive information.  These listed illustrations are ordinarily in 

the nature of information that could affect the price upon becoming public and are not exhaustive. Merely 

because  a  particular  type  of  event  is  listed  above  it  should  not  lead  to  inexorably  being  regarded  as 

unpublished price sensitive information regardless of its potential price impact.  For example, where a very 

large  company  makes  a  non-material  and  inconsequential  acquisition  of  a  tiny  business,  or  where  a 

company  declares  the  same  rate  of  dividend  that  it  has  declared  for  several  years  as  per  publicly  stated 

dividend policy.  

 

(2)  Words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in  these  regulations  but  defined  in  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation)  Act,  1956  (42  of  1956)  or  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  (22  of  1996)  and  rules  and 

regulations  made  thereunder  shall  have  the  meanings  respectively  assigned  to  them  in  those 

legislation. 

 

 

 

Page 51 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

CHAPTER – II  

 

RESTRICTIONS ON COMMUNICATION AND TRADING BY INSIDERS 

 

Communication or procurement of unpublished price sensitive information. 

3. 

(1) 

No insider shall communicate, provide, or allow access to any unpublished price 

sensitive information to any person including other insiders except where such communication is 

in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of legal obligations.  

 

NOTE:  This provision is intended to cast an obligation on all insiders who are essentially persons in possession of 

unpublished price sensitive information to handle such information with care and to deal with the  information with 

them when transacting their business strictly on a need-to-know basis.  This provision is also intended to impose an 

obligation not to make selective disclosures of such information except within the framework for fair disclosure set 

out in these regulations.  This standard is intended to lead to organisations developing practices based on need-to-

know principles for treatment of information in their possession. 

 

(2) 

No person shall procure from or cause the communication by any insider of unpublished 

price sensitive information except in furtherance of legitimate purposes, performance of duties or 

discharge of legal obligations. 

 

NOTE:  This  provision  is  intended  to  impose  a  statutory  prohibition  on  unlawfully  procuring  possession  of 

unpublished  price  sensitive  information.    Inducement  and  procurement  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information 

not in furtherance of one’s legitimate duties and discharge of obligations would be illegal under this provision. 

  

(3) 

Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  regulation,  it  shall  be  legitimate  to  conduct 

due diligence on a company in connection with the assessment of any transaction that would:– 

 

(i) 

entail  an  obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  under  the  takeover  regulations  where 

the  board  of  directors  of  the  company  is  of  informed  opinion  that  the  proposed 

transaction and conduct of due diligence therefor are in the best interests of the company; 

 

NOTE:  It is intended to acknowledge the necessity for substantial transactions such as takeovers, mergers 

and  acquisitions  involving  trading  in  securities  and  change  of  control  to  entail  due  diligence  to  assess  a 

 

Page 52 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

potential  investment.    In  an open  offer  under  the  takeover regulations,  not  only  would  the  same  price  be 

made  available  to  all  shareholders  of  the  company  but  also  all  information  necessary  to  enable  an 

informed divestment or retention decision by the public shareholders is required to be made available to all 

shareholders in the letter of offer under those regulations.   

 

(ii) 

not attract the obligation to make an open offer under the takeover regulations but 

where  the  board  of  directors  of  the  company  is  of  informed  opinion  that  the  proposed 

transaction and conduct of due diligence therefor are in the best interests of the company 

and  the  diligence  findings  that  constitute  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  are 

disseminated  to  be  made  generally  available  at  least  two  trading  days  prior  to  the 

proposed transaction being effected in such form as the board of directors may determine. 

 

NOTE:  It is intended to permit conduct of due diligence for transactions that do not entail an open offer 

obligation  under  the  takeover  regulations  if  the  board  of  directors  of  the  company  are able  to  justify  the 

view  that  it  is  necessary  to  further  the  best  interests  of  the  company.    The  board  of  directors  would  also 

need  to  cause  public  disclosures  of  the  diligence  findings  constituting  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information so that there is no asymmetry of access to information in the market. 

 

(4) 

For  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (3),  the  board  of  directors  shall  require  the  parties 

conducting  due  diligence  to  execute  agreements  to  contract  confidentiality  and  non-disclosure 

obligations  on  the  part  of  such  parties  and  such  parties  shall  keep  information  so  received 

confidential,  save  and  except  for  conduct  of  due  diligence,  and  shall  not  otherwise  trade  in 

securities of the company when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. 

 

Trading when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information. 

4. 

(1) 

No  insider  shall  trade  in  securities  that  are  listed  on  a  stock  exchange  when  in 

possession of unpublished price sensitive information relating to such securities. 

 

NOTE:  This  is  the  primary  charging  prohibition  on  insider  trading.    It  is  intended  that  when  a  person  who  has 

traded in securities has been in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, his trades would be assumed 

to  have  been  motivated  by  the  knowledge  and  awareness  of  such  information  in  his  possession.    The  reasons  for 

which he trades or the purposes to which he applies the proceeds of the transactions are not intended to be relevant 

for  determining  whether  a  person  has  breached  the  prohibition.    Whether  he  traded  when  in  possession  is  what 

 

Page 53 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

would  need  to  be  demonstrated  at  the  outset  to  bring  a  charge.    Once  this  is  established,  it  would be  open  to  the 

insider to rely on the defences made available to him, failing which he would have violated the prohibition.  

 

(2)  Where  an  insider  who  has  traded  in  securities  is  a  connected  person,  the  onus  of 

establishing  that  he  was  not  in  breach  of  the  prohibition  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  on  such 

connected person. 

 

NOTE:  It is intended that when a connected person has traded, it is for him to demonstrate that he did not violate 

the prohibition under sub-regulation (1) – for example, by demonstrating that the information in his possession was 

not unpublished price sensitive information, or that the trades were not decided upon or executed by him, or that the 

trades were pursuant to a trading plan, or that any of the other defences available to him under sub-regulation (3) 

are  indeed  available  to  him.  This  standard  is  only  for  those  insiders  who  are  “connected  persons”  and  not  for 

others who are alleged to have committed insider trading.  In those cases, the onus would be on the Board to show a 

reasonable prospect of access to the information or to a connected person.   

 

(3) 

Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), it shall be open to the insider 

who has traded when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information to demonstrate as 

a valid defence that: –  

 

NOTE:  The onus of proving these defences would be on the person adopting the defence. 

 

(i) 

the  nature  of  his  trades  was  contrary  to  the  manner  in  which  any  person  acting 

reasonably  would  have  traded  when  seeking  to  take  advantage  of  the  nature  of  the 

unpublished price sensitive information in his possession; 

 

NOTE:  This  provision  is  intended  to  enable  a  person  who  has  traded  contrary  to  the  nature  of  the 

information in his possession to establish his innocence.  For example, a person in possession of positive 

information  may  demonstrate  that  he  has  actually  sold  securities  whereas  a  reasonable  man  seeking  to 

profit from the unpublished nature of such information would have actually acquired securities.  Likewise, 

a person who has acquired securities could show that the unpublished price sensitive information with him 

was actually adverse. 

 

(ii) 

he was an innocent  recipient of unpublished price sensitive information  and had 

no  reason  to  believe,  exercising  diligence  expected  of  a  reasonable  man,  that  the 

 

Page 54 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

information in his possession was unpublished price sensitive information or the person 

who communicated it to him violated any law or confidentiality obligation owed by such 

person; 

 

NOTE:  This  provision  is  intended  to  enable  a  person  who  has  traded  bona  fide  when  in  possession  of 

unpublished price sensitive information that he had no cause to believe that the information with him was 

unpublished price sensitive information.  For example, if a research report is in possession of a person who 

is  accused  of  insider  trading  and  it  turns  out  that  the  research  report  was  a  product  of  access  to 

unpublished price sensitive information, the person who has traded bona fide should demonstrate that he 

had no reason to believe that what he read in the research report was a product of violation of law and that 

he had no role in the violation that occurred in the authorship of the research report.  The person adopting 

the defence may also show that he did not have reason to believe that the person putting him in possession 

of  information  was  in  breach  of  a  duty  or  was  violating  these  regulations  in  giving  him  the  information.  

The nature of the information and whether any reasonable man would believe it not to be unpublished price 

sensitive information would be material in assessing this defence. 

  

(iii) 

the  counterparty  to  the  transaction  is  identifiable  and  such  counterparty  was  in 

possession  of the same  unpublished price sensitive information  without being  in  breach 

of regulation 3 and both parties had made a conscious and informed trade decision; 

 

NOTE:  This provision is intended to protect trades between two identically placed persons from violating 

sub-regulation  (1).    Two  insiders  who  are  identically  placed  in  terms  of  possession  of  unpublished  price 

sensitive  information  –  for  example,  transactions  involved  in  inter-promoter  or  inter-institutional  re-

arrangements of existing shareholding.  Such transactions would not be prohibited on the ground that both 

the  buyer  and  seller  are  in  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  since  both  would  be 

possession of the very same unpublished price sensitive information and one could not have been victimized 

by the other with disparity in access to information. 

 

(iv) 

the  trade  was  an  exercise  of  stock  options  for  which  the  exercise  price  was  pre-

determined in compliance with applicable regulations; 

 

NOTE:  This provision is intended to protect exercise of employee stock options that are granted with an 

exercise price upfront since stock options can be exercised only when the options have vested  – typically, 

one  year  after  the  grant.    The  price  for  exercise  of  the  stock  option  is  fixed  earlier  and  therefore,  the 

 

Page 55 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

exercise ought not to become violative because new unpublished price sensitive information comes into the 

possession of the employee who has been granted stock options at a pre-determined price formula. 

 

(v) 

in the case of non-individual insiders: –  

 

(a)  

the individuals who were in possession of such unpublished price sensitive 

information were different from the individuals taking trading decisions and such 

decision-making  individuals  were  not  in  possession  of  such  unpublished  price 

sensitive information when they took the decision to trade; and 

 

(b) 

appropriate and adequate arrangements were in place to ensure that these 

regulations  are  not  violated  and  that  no  unpublished  price  sensitive  information 

was  communicated  by  the  individuals  possessing  the  information  to  the 

individuals taking trading decisions and there is no evidence of such arrangements 

having been breached; 

 

NOTE:  This  provision  is  intended  to  enable  business  organisations  or  groups  of  entities  that  trade  in 

securities  to  put  in  place  arrangements  to  comply  with  these  regulations  such  as  Chinese  Walls  and 

segregation of roles to ensure that unpublished price sensitive information is cordoned off and other arms 

of the same organisation do not get access to the same. Therefore, if the organisation or group adheres to 

these safeguards, they would not violate the prohibition in sub-regulation (1). 

 
(vi) 

the trades of the insider were made by another person authorised to so trade on the 

insider’s behalf without reference to and without prior knowledge of the insider and that 

other  person  who  traded  was  not  in  possession  of  the  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information and appropriate and adequate arrangements were in place to ensure that these 

regulations are not violated; 

 

NOTE:  This  provision  is  intended  to  enable  insiders  to  create  a  blind  trust  or  appoint  discretionary 

portfolio managers or investment advisors who act on their behalf and are fully authorised to take trading 

decisions  of  their  own  accord  without  any  involvement  of  the  insider.    This  provision  is  also  intended  to 

protect an insider from a violation of sub-regulation (1) when a lender or trustee to whom the insider has 

pledged  or  encumbered  securities,  transacts  in  exercise  of  his  enforcement  rights.  The  creation  of  any 

 

Page 56 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

pledge  as  a  circumventing  contrivance  or  device  would  indeed  result  in  this  defence  not  being  available 

since that would be a violation of Section 12A of the Act. 

 

(vii) 

the trades were pursuant to a trading plan set up in accordance with regulation 5. 

 

NOTE:  This  provision  is  intended  to  enable  insiders  to  formulate  a  trading  plan  under  regulation  5 

pursuant to which trades may be effected in future by when the unpublished price sensitive information that 

may  have  been  in  their  possession  when  formulating  the  trading  plan  would  become  generally  available 

and  new  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  may  come  into  their  possession.    Since  the  decision  to 

trade would be taken without being in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, this shall be a 

valid defence. 

 

(4) 

The  Board  may  specify  such  standards  and  requirements  as  may  be  necessary  for 

arrangements referred to in these regulations to be regarded as being appropriate and adequate in 

respect of: –  

 

 

 

(i) 

standards for treatment of information on a need-to-know basis among insiders; 

 

(ii) 

execution of non-disclosure agreements between communicators and recipients of 

unpublished price sensitive information; 

 

(iii) 

procedures for binding any person who necessarily has to be put in possession of 

information to an obligation not to disclose further except on a need-to-know basis and in 

furtherance  of  legitimate  purposes,  performance  of  duties  and  discharge  of  legal 

obligations; and  

 

(iv)  model  codes  of  conduct  laying  down  minimum  standards  to  be  adopted  by 

companies and their insiders. 

 

 

Page 57 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

Trading Plans. 

5. 

(1) 

An  insider  shall  be  entitled  to  formulate  a  trading  plan  and  present  it  to  the 

compliance  officer  for  approval  and  public  disclosure  pursuant  to  which  trades  may  be  carried 

out on his behalf in accordance with such plan.  

 

NOTE:  This provision intends to give an option to persons who may be perpetually in possession of unpublished 

price sensitive information and enabling them to trade in securities in a compliant manner.  This provision would 

enable the formulation of a trading plan by an insider to enable him to plan for trades to be executed in future.  By 

doing  so,  the  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  when a  trade  under  a  trading  plan  is actually 

executed would not prohibit the execution of such trades that he had pre-decided even before the unpublished price 

sensitive  information  came  into  being.    Trading  on  the  basis  of  such  a  trading  plan  would  not  grant  absolute 

immunity  from  bringing  proceedings  for  market  abuse.  For  instance,  in  the  event  of  manipulative  timing  of  the 

release of unpublished price sensitive information to ensure that trading under a trading plan becomes lucrative in 

circumvention of regulation 4 being detected, it would be open to initiate proceedings for alleged breach of SEBI 

(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 2003.  

 

(2) 

Such trading plan shall:–  

 

(i) 

not  entail  commencement  of  trading  on  behalf  of  the  insider  earlier  than  six 

months from the public disclosure of the plan; 

 

NOTE:  It is intended that to get the benefit of a trading plan, a cool-off period of six months is necessary. 

Such  a  period  is  considered  reasonably  long  for  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  that  is  in 

possession  of  the  insider  when  formulating  the  trading  plan,  to  become  generally  available.    It  is  also 

considered to be a reasonable period for a time lag in which new unpublished price sensitive information 

may come into being without adversely affecting the trading plan formulated earlier. In any case, it should 

be remembered that this is only a statutory cool-off period and would not grant immunity from action if the 

insider  were  to  be  in  possession  of  the  same  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  both  at  the  time  of 

formulation of the plan and implementation of the same.  

  

(ii) 

not entail trading for the period between the twentieth trading day prior to the last 

day of any financial period for which results are required to be announced by the issuer of 

the securities and the second trading day after the disclosure of such financial results; 

 

 

Page 58 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

NOTE:  Since the trading plan is envisaged to be an exception to the general rule prohibiting trading by 

insiders when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, it is important that the trading plan 

does  not  entail  trading  for  a reasonable  period around  the  declaration  of  financial  results  as  that  would 

generate unpublished price sensitive information.  

 

(iii) 

entail trading for a period of not less than twelve months; 

 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  it  would  be  undesirable  to  have  frequent  announcements  of  trading  plans  for 

short periods of time rendering meaningless the defence of a reasonable time gap between the decision to 

trade and the actual trade.  Hence it is felt that a reasonable time would be twelve months.  

 

(iv) 

not  entail  overlap  of  any  period  for  which  another  trading  plan  is  already  in 

existence; and 

 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  it  would  be  undesirable  to  have  multiple  trading  plans  operating  during  the 

same time period.  Since it would be possible for an insider to time the publication of the unpublished price 

sensitive information to make it generally available instead of timing the trades, it is important not to have 

the ability to initiate more than one plan covering the same time period.  

 

(v) 

set out either the value of trades to be effected or the number of securities to be 

traded  along  with  the  nature  of  the  trade  and  the  intervals  at,  or  dates  on  which  such 

trades shall be effected.  

 

NOTE:  It is intended that while regulations should not be too prescriptive and rigid about what a trading 

plan  should  entail,  they  should  stipulate  certain  basic  parameters  that  a  trading  plan  should  conform  to 

and within which, the plan may be formulated with full flexibility.  The nature of the trades entailed in the 

trading  plan  i.e.  acquisition  or  disposal  should  be  set  out.  The  trading  plan  may  set  out  the  value  of 

securities or the number of securities to be invested or divested.  Specific dates or specific time intervals 

may be set out in the plan.  

  

(3) 

The  compliance  officer  shall  review  the  trading  plan  to  assess  whether  the  plan  would 

have  any  potential  for  violation  of  these  regulations  and  shall  be  entitled  to  seek  such  express 

 

Page 59 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

undertakings  as  may  be  necessary  to  enable  such  assessment  and  to  approve  and  monitor  the 

implementation of the plan.     

 

NOTE:  It is intended that the compliance officer would have to review and approve the plan.  For doing so, he may 

need the insider to declare that he is not in possession of unpublished price sensitive information or that he would 

ensure  that  any  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in  his  possession  becomes  generally  available  before  he 

commences  executing  his  trades.    Once  satisfied,  he  may  approve  the  trading  plan,  which  would  then  have  to  be 

implemented in accordance with these regulations.  

 

(4) 

The  trading  plan  once  approved  shall  be  irrevocable  and  the  insider  shall  mandatorily 

have  to  implement  the  plan,  without  being  entitled  to  either  deviate  from  it  or  to  execute  any 

trade in the securities outside the scope of the trading plan.  

 

Provided that the implementation of the trading plan shall not be commenced if any unpublished 

price sensitive information in possession of the insider at the time of formulation of the plan has 

not become generally available at the time of the commencement of implementation and in such 

event  the  compliance  officer  shall  confirm  that  the  commencement  ought  to  be  deferred  until 

such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  becomes  generally  available  information  so  as  to 

avoid a violation of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4. 

 

NOTE:  It is intended that since the trading plan is an exception to the general rule that an insider should not trade 

when in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, changing the plan or trading outside the same would 

negate the intent behind the exception.  Other investors in the market, too, would factor the impact of the trading 

plan  on  their  own  trading  decisions  and  in  price  discovery.    Therefore,  it  is  not  fair  or  desirable  to  permit  the 

insider  to  deviate  from  the  trading  plan  based  on  which  others  in  the  market  have  assessed  their  views  on  the 

securities.  

 

The  proviso  is  intended  to  address  the  prospect  that  despite  the  six-month  gap  between  the  formulation  of  the 

trading plan and its commencement, the unpublished price sensitive information in possession of the insider is still 

not generally available.  In such a situation, commencement of the plan would conflict with the over-riding principle 

that  trades  should  not  be  executed  when  in  possession  of  such  information.  If  the  very  same  unpublished  price 

sensitive information is still in the insider’s possession, the commencement of execution of the trading plan ought to 

be deferred.  

 

 

Page 60 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

(5) 

Upon  approval  of  the  trading  plan,  the  compliance  officer  shall  notify  the  plan  to  the 

stock exchanges on which the securities are listed.     

 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  given  the  material  exception  to  the  prohibitory  rule  in  regulation  4,  a  trading  plan  is 

required to be publicly disseminated.  Investors in the market at large would also factor the potential pointers in the 

trading  plan  in  their  own  assessment  of  the  securities  and  price  discovery  for  them  on  the  premise  of  how  the 

insiders perceive the prospects or approach the securities in their trading plan.  

 

 

 

Page 61 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

CHAPTER – III 

 

DISCLOSURES OF TRADING BY INSIDERS 

 
General provisions. 

6. 

(1) 

Every public disclosure under this Chapter shall be made in such form as may be 

specified. 

 

(2) 

The  disclosures  to  be  made  by  any  individual  under  this  Chapter  shall  include  those 

relating to trading by such person’s immediate relatives, and by any other person for whom such 

person takes trading decisions. 

 

NOTE:  It is intended that disclosure of trades would need to be of not only those executed by the person concerned 

but  also  by  the  immediate  relatives  and  of  other  persons  for  whom  the  person  concerned  takes  trading  decisions.  

These  regulations  are  primarily  aimed  at  preventing  abuse  by  trading  when  in  possession  of  unpublished  price 

sensitive information and therefore, what matters is whether the person who takes trading decisions is in possession 

of such information rather than whether the person who has title to the trades is in such possession. 

 

(3) 

The  disclosures  made  under  this  Chapter  shall  be  maintained  by  the  company  in  such 

form as may be specified. 

 

(4) 

The  disclosures  of  trading  in  securities  shall  also  include  trading  in  derivatives  of 

securities and the traded value of the derivatives shall be taken into account for purposes of this 

Chapter. 

 

Disclosures by certain persons. 

7. 

(1) 

Every  promoter,  employee  and  director  of  every  company  whose  securities  are 

listed on any recognised stock exchange shall disclose to the company within thirty days of these 

regulations taking effect, his holding of securities of the company. 

 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  these  specific  insiders  being  closely  connected  with  the  company  should  disclose  their 

holdings in securities of the company including derivatives positions to the company.  This is a one-time disclosure 

at the commencement of these regulations and this is internal to the company to help the compliance officer monitor 

 

Page 62 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

and  administer  compliance.    A  duty  is  cast  by  this  provision  on  the  employees  and  directors  to  make  accurate 

disclosures of their holdings to the company. This is not a public disclosure requirement. 

 

(2) 

Every  person  on  appointment  as  an  employee  or  a  director  of  the  company  or  upon 

becoming a promoter shall disclose to the company, within seven days of such appointment, his 

holding of securities of the company. 

 

NOTE:  This sub-regulation is intended to cover anyone who newly occupies such a position to make a disclosure 

within seven days. This disclosure is internal to the company to help the compliance officer monitor and administer 

compliance. A duty is cast by this provision on the employees and directors to  make accurate disclosures of their 

holdings to the company.  This is not a public disclosure requirement. 

 

(3) 

Every such person shall disclose to the company the number of such securities acquired 

or disposed of within two working days of such transaction if the value of the securities traded, 

whether in one transaction or a series of transactions over any calendar quarter, aggregates to a 

traded value in excess of Rs. 10,00,000 or such other value as may be specified. 

 

NOTE:  Since  such  persons  are  closely  connected  to  the  company,  material  trades  by  them  are  required  to  be 

disclosed to the company.  This is an internal disclosure within the company and not a public disclosure, and will 

help  the  compliance  officer  to  monitor  and  administer  the  regulations.  A  duty  is  cast  by  this  provision  on  the 

employees and directors to make accurate disclosures to the company if the thresholds for disclosures are triggered.  

Whether such thresholds are triggered is for the employees to track and report accurately to the employer. This is 

an internal requirement of disclosure from the employees and directors to the company. 

 

(4) 

Every  company  shall  notify  the  particulars  of  such  trading  to  the  stock  exchange  on 

which  the  securities  are  listed  within  two  working  days  of  receipt  of  the  disclosure  or  from 

becoming aware of such information. 

 

Explanation. — It is clarified for the avoidance of doubts that the disclosure of the incremental 

transactions after any disclosure under this sub-regulation, shall be made when the transactions 

effected after the prior disclosure cross the threshold specified in sub-regulation (3).  

 

 

Page 63 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

NOTE:  This  provision  is  intended  as  a  continual  disclosure  requirement.    As  and  when  the  trading  by  these 

insiders  crosses  the  material  thresholds  specified,  a  public  disclosure  would  have  to  be  made  within  the  time 

specified. A duty is cast by this provision on the company to make public disclosures of whatever has been disclosed 

to  it  under  sub-regulation  (3)  by  the  employees  and  directors  i.e.  disclosures  above  a  materiality  threshold.    The 

company is not required to audit the accuracy of the disclosures, particularly since it may not have the capacity to 

check trading particulars of immediate relatives of the employees and directors.  However, if the company becomes 

otherwise aware of such trading, it would be required to make the disclosures under this sub-regulation. 

 

(5) 

Any  company  whose  securities  are  listed  on  a  stock  exchange  may,  at  its  discretion 

require any other connected person or class of connected persons to make disclosures of holdings 

and  trading  in  securities  of  the  company  in  such  form  and  at  such  frequency  as  may  be 

determined by the company in order to monitor compliance with these regulations. 

 

NOTE: This is an enabling provision for listed companies to seek information from those to whom it has to provide 

unpublished  price  sensitive  information.    This  provision  confers  discretion  on  any  company  to  seek  such 

information. It is not mandatory to do so.  For example, a listed company may ask that a management consultant 

who would advise it on corporate strategy and would need to review unpublished price sensitive information, should 

make disclosures of his trades to the company.  This is an internal matter and will not result in a public disclosure.  

However, this would enable the listed company to internally review and keep a check on whether there has been any 

trading by persons who become connected persons by virtue of their association with the company. 

 

 

 

 

Page 64 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

CHAPTER – IV 

 

CODES OF FAIR DISCLOSURE AND CONDUCT 

 
Code of Fair Disclosure.  

8. 

(1) 

The  board  of  directors  of  every  company  shall  formulate  and  publish  on  its 

official  website,  a  code  of  practices  and  procedures  for  fair  disclosure  of  material  information 

that it would follow in  order to  adhere to  each of the principles set  out  in Schedule A to  these 

regulations. 

 

NOTE:  This provision intends to require every company whose shares are listed on stock exchanges to formulate a 

stated framework and policy for fair disclosure of events and occurrences that could impact price discovery in the 

market for its securities.  Principles such as, equality of access to information, publication of policies such as those 

on dividend, inorganic growth pursuits, calls and meetings with analysts, publication of transcripts of such calls and 

meetings, and the like are set out in the schedule. 

 

(2) 

Every such policy and every amendment thereto shall be promptly intimated to the stock 

exchanges where the securities are listed. 

 

NOTE:  This provision is aimed at requiring transparent disclosure of the policy formulated in sub-regulation (1). 

 

Code of Conduct. 

9. 

(1) 

The board of directors of every company and market intermediary shall formulate 

a code of conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading by its employees and other connected 

persons towards achieving compliance with  these  regulations, adopting the minimum  standards 

set out in Schedule B to these regulations. 

 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  every  company  whose  securities  are  listed  on  stock  exchanges  and  every  market 

intermediary registered with SEBI is mandatorily required to formulate a code of conduct governing trading by its 

employees.  The standards set out in the schedule are required to be addressed by such code of conduct. 

 

(2) 

Every other person who is required to handle unpublished price sensitive information in 

the  course  of  business  operations  may  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  to  regulate,  monitor  and 

 

Page 65 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

report  trading  by  employees  and  other  connected  persons  towards  achieving  compliance  with 

these regulations, adopting the minimum standards set out in Schedule B to these regulations. 

 

NOTE: This provision is intended to enable persons other than listed companies and market intermediaries that are 

required  to  handle  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to  formulate  a  code  of  conduct  governing  trading  in 

securities  by  their  employees.    Some  of  these  persons  may  also  be  regulated  by  other  agencies  while  some  others 

may themselves be playing the role of regulatory agencies.  Even entities that normally operate outside the capital 

market may handle unpublished price sensitive information. This provision would enable all of them to formulate a 

code  of  conduct.    The  existence  of  such  a  code  would  point  to  the  seriousness  with  which  the  organisations  treat 

compliance  requirements  under  these  regulations.    However,  the  existence  or  the  absence  of  a  code  of  conduct 

would not in any way alter the full force of applicability of these regulations including the prohibitions set out in 

regulations 3 and 4. 

 

(3) 

Every  company,  market  intermediary  and  other  persons  formulating  a  code  of  conduct 

under sub-regulation (2) shall identify and designate a compliance officer to administer the code 

of conduct and other requirements under these regulations. 

 

NOTE: This provision is intended to designate a senior officer as the compliance officer with  the responsibility to 

administer the code of conduct and monitor compliance with these regulations. 

 

 
 

 

Page 66 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

 

CHAPTER – V 

 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Sanction for violations. 

10. 

Any  contravention  of  these  regulations  shall  be  dealt  with  by  the  Board  following 

principles of natural justice and the Board may take remedial or punitive measures in exercise of 

its powers under the Act. 

 

NOTE:  The  Act  sets  out  various  powers  to  issue  remedial  directions,  impose  punitive  sanctions  and  to  initiate 

prosecution for the violation of these regulations.   

 

Repeal and Savings. 

11. 

(1) 

The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 

Regulations, 1992 are hereby repealed. 

 

NOTE:  These regulations are intended to replace the earlier regulations on the subject. 

 

(2)   Notwithstanding such repeal,— 

 

(a)  

the  previous  operation  of  the  repealed  regulations  or  anything  duly  done  or  suffered 

thereunder,  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or  liability  acquired,  accrued  or  incurred  under  the 

repealed  regulations,  any  penalty,  forfeiture  or  punishment  incurred  in  respect  of  any  offence 

committed against the repealed regulations, or any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in 

respect  of  any  such  right,  privilege,  obligation,  liability,  penalty,  forfeiture  or  punishment  as 

aforesaid, shall remain unaffected as if the repealed regulations had never been repealed; and  

 

(b) 

anything done or any action taken or purported to have been done or taken including any 

adjudication,  enquiry  or  investigation  commenced  or  show-cause  notice  issued  under  the 

repealed regulations prior to such repeal, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the 

corresponding provisions of these regulations; 

 

 

Page 67 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

NOTE:  This provision is intended to save actions, decisions, rights and liabilities that have already arisen under 

the repealed regulations so that they do not lapse. 

 

(3)   After  the  repeal  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Insider 

Trading)  Regulations,  1992,  any  reference  thereto  in  any  other  regulations  made,  guidelines  or 

circulars issued thereunder by the Board shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding 

provisions of these regulations. 

 

NOTE:  It  is  intended  that  any  reference  to  the  repealed  regulations  in  other  regulations,  guidelines  or  circulars 

does not need to be replaced with reference to these regulations and the references shall automatically be assumed 

to be references to the corresponding provisions of these regulations.  

 

 
 

 

Page 68 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

SCHEDULE A 

 

(See sub-regulation (1) of regulation 8) 

 

Principles of Fair Disclosure for purposes of Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair 

Disclosure of Material Information 

 

1. 

Prompt  public  disclosure  of  material  information  that  would  impact  price  discovery  no 

sooner  than  credible  and  concrete  information  comes  into  being  in  order  to  make  such 

information generally available. 

 

2. 

Uniform  and  universal  dissemination  of  material  information  to  avoid  selective 

disclosure. 

 

3. 

Designation  of  a  senior  officer  as  a  chief  investor  relations  officer  to  deal  with 

dissemination of information and disclosure of material information. 

 

4. 

Prompt  dissemination  of  material 

information 

that  gets  disclosed  selectively, 

inadvertently or otherwise to make such information generally available. 

 

5. 

Appropriate and fair response to queries on news reports and requests for verification of 

market rumours by regulatory authorities. 

 

6. 

Ensuring that information shared with analysts and research personnel is not unpublished 

price sensitive information. 

 

7. 

Developing best practices to make transcripts or records of proceedings of meetings with 

analysts  and  other  investor  relations  conferences  on  the  official  website  to  ensure  official 

confirmation and documentation of disclosures made. 

 

8. 

 
 

 

Handling of all unpublished price sensitive information on a need-to-know basis. 

 

Page 69 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

 

 
1. 

SCHEDULE B 

 

(See sub-regulation (1) and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9) 

Minimum Standards for Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor and Report Trading 

by Insiders 

The  compliance  officer  shall  report  to  the  board  of  directors  and  in  particular,  shall 

provide reports to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, if any, or to the Chairman of the board 

of directors at such frequency as may be stipulated by the board of directors. 

 

2. 

All information shall be handled within the organisation on a need-to-know basis and no 

unpublished  price  sensitive  information  shall  be  communicated  to  any  person  except  in 

furtherance of the insider’s legitimate purposes, performance of duties or discharge of his legal 

obligations. The code of conduct may contain norms for appropriate Chinese Walls procedures, 

and processes for permitting any designated person to ―cross the wall‖. 

 

3. 

Employees  and  connected  persons  designated  on  the  basis  of  their  functional  role 

(―designated  persons‖)  in  the  organisation  shall  be  governed  by  an  internal  code  of  conduct 

governing dealing in securities.  The board of directors shall in consultation with the compliance 

officer specify the designated persons to be covered by such code on the basis of their role and 

function in the organisation.   Due regard shall be had to  the access  that such role and function 

would  provide  to  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in  addition  to  seniority  and 

professional designation. 

 

4. 

Designated  persons  may  execute  trades  subject  to  compliance  with  these  regulations.  

Towards this end, a notional trading window shall be used as an instrument of monitoring trading 

by  the  designated  persons.    The  trading  window  shall  be  closed  when  the  compliance  officer 

determines that a designated person or class of designated persons can reasonably be expected to 

have  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information.    Such  closure  may  be  imposed  in 

relation  to  such  securities  to  which  such  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  relates.  

Designated  persons  and  their  immediate  relatives  may  trade  in  securities  when  the  trading 

window is not closed.   

 

Page 70 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

5. 

The timing for re-opening of the trading window shall be determined by the compliance 

officer taking into account various factors including the unpublished price sensitive information 

in question becoming generally available and being capable of assimilation by the market, which 

in  any  event  shall  be  earlier  than  twenty-four  hours  after  the  information  becomes  generally 

available. 

 

6. 

 When the trading window is open, trading by designated persons shall be subject to pre-

clearance by the compliance officer, if the value of the proposed trades is above such thresholds 

as  the  board  of  directors  may  stipulate.    No  designated  person  shall  apply  for  pre-clearance  of 

any  proposed  trade  if  such  designated  person  is  in  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information even if the trading window is not closed.   

 

7. 

The  compliance  officer  shall  confidentially  maintain  a  list  of  such  securities  as  a 

―restricted list‖ which shall be used as the basis for approving or rejecting applications for pre-

clearance of trades. 

 

8. 

Prior to approving any trades, the compliance officer shall be entitled to seek declarations 

to  the  effect  that  the  applicant  for  pre-clearance  is  not  in  possession  of  any  unpublished  price 

sensitive information.   He shall also  have regard  to  whether any such declaration is  reasonably 

capable of being rendered inaccurate. 

 

9. 

The code of conduct may specify any reasonable timeframe within which trades that have 

been pre-cleared have to be executed by the designated person, failing which fresh pre-clearance 

would be needed for the trades to be executed. 

 

10. 

The  code  of  conduct  may  specify  the  period  within  which  a  designated  person  who  is 

permitted to trade may not execute a contra trade.  The compliance officer may be empowered to 

grant  relaxation from  strict application of such restriction  for reasons  to  be recorded in  writing 

provided  that  such  relaxation  does  not  violate  these  regulations.    Should  a  contra  trade  be 

executed, inadvertently or otherwise, in violation of such a restriction, the profits from such trade 

 

Page 71 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

shall  be  liable  to  be  disgorged  for  remittance  to  the  Board  for  credit  to  the  Investor  Education 

and Protection Fund administered by the Board under the Act. 

 

11. 

The  code  of  conduct  may  stipulate  such  formats  as  the  board  of  directors  deems 

necessary  for  making  applications  for  pre-clearance,  reporting  of  trades  executed,  reporting  of 

decisions  not  to  trade  after  securing  pre-clearance,  recording  of  reasons  for  such  decisions  and 

for  reporting  level  of  holdings  in  securities  at  such  intervals  as  may  be  determined  as  being 

necessary to monitor compliance with these regulations. 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 72 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

 

ANNEXURE 

 

LIST OF PERSONS WHO PROVIDED THEIR INPUTS TO THE COMMITTEE  

 

(in alphabetical order) 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

 
Aimi Ramlee, Deputy Director, Asia Trader Forum 
 
Amol  Kulkarni,  Policy  Analyst,  Centre  for  Investment,  Competition  and  Economic 
Regulation; CUTS International 
 
Ashok Singh, Manager, Listing Compliance, Bombay Stock Exchange 
 
Anjali Aggarwal, Vice President, Corporate Professionals Capital Pvt. Ltd. 
 
Ankit Shah, Chartered Accountant 
 
Bharat Vasani, Chief, Legal & Group General Counsel, Tata Sons Ltd 
 
Compliance Legal 
 
Cyril Shroff, Partner, Amarchand & Mangaldas & Suresh A Shroff & Co 
 
Devang  Joshi,  Assistant  Manager,  Compliance-India,  Franklin  Templeton  Asset 
Management (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
 
Dinesh Bhakade 
 
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry   
 
Girish V. Koliyote, Company Secretary, HDFC Ltd 
 

13.  HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Pvt. Ltd.  

 
Krishnan Sitaraman, Senior Director-Compliance, CRISIL Ltd. 
 
Kritika Daga, AGM, ICICI Bank Ltd. 
 
Nidhi Sharma Wig, Company Secretary 
 
Padmaja Shirke, Union KBC Asset Management Company Private Limited 
 
Pankaj Mishra, AVP Compliance, Kotak Securities Ltd. 
 

 

14. 

15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

 

Page 73 of 74 

Report of the High Level Committee to Review the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 
 

Parmeshwaran N Swamy, Compliance, Equity and F&O, J.P. Morgan 
 
Pinky Talreja, Company Secretary and Lawyer 
 
Pritesh  Majumdar,  Compliance  Officer  &  Company  Secretary,  DSP  Blackrock 
Investment Managers Pvt. Ltd. 
 
S.C. Jain, Company Secretary, Xpro India Limited 
 
S.K Dixit, Director, Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
 
Sandeep Parekh, Partner, FINSEC Law Advisors  
 
Sandip Bhagat, Partner, S&R Associates 
 
Sanjay Dalmiya 
 
Umakanth Varottil, Assistant Professor, Faculty of Law, National University of 
Singapore 
 
Yogesh Chande, Advocate, Economic Laws Practice 

 

Page 74 of 74 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 
 
 

 

