Consultation paper on Infrastructure Investment Trusts 

 

1.  Infrastructure is the cornerstone of development of any country. According to the 12th 
Five Year Plan, India requires an investment in Infrastructure sector of around Rs. 65 
lakh  crores  over  the  duration  of  2012-2017.  A  significant  boost  is  required  to  the 
infrastructure sector in the country to help India achieve its target for the 12th Five 
Year Plan.  

2.  As  the  capital  market  regulator,  SEBI  actively  encourages  setting  of  varied 
frameworks  for  investment  in  infrastructure  sector  so  that  lack  of  structures  for 
financing  of  infrastructure  is  not  an  impediment  for  the  development  of  the  sector. 
Steps taken by SEBI in the recent past towards this end include providing framework 
for various structures such as Infrastructure Debt Fund (IDF-MF) under SEBI (Mutual 
Funds)  Regulations,  1996,  Category  I  AIF  –  Infrastructure  Fund  under  SEBI 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012, etc.  

3.  In addition, SEBI has provided special concessions for companies in infrastructure 
sector for the purpose of issue and listing of securities under SEBI (Issue of Capital 
and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009.    SEBI  has  also  simplified  the 
procedure for  public issue of bonds which  has  facilitated bond offerings  of  several 
infrastructure  companies.  Additionally,  SEBI  also  has  a  framework  for  public  offer 
and  listing  of  securitised  debt  instruments  under  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of 
Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008.  

4.  SEBI  has  received  various  suggestions  for  coming  out  with  a  framework  for 
‘Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts‘(InvITs)  in  the  country.  Based  on  suggestions 
received, SEBI is examining a structure which would provide an additional framework 
for investment in infrastructure in the country.  

5.  Globally as well, it has been observed that several financing/refinancing structures 
exist  which  have  provided  a  boost  to  infrastructure  sector/  specific  sub-sectors 
including  business  trust  model  in  Singapore  and  Hong  Kong,  Master  Limited 
Partnerships in the USA, various securitisation structures, etc.  

6.  The structure for InvITs is broadly proposed to address one or more of the following 

concerns: 

a.  Given the challenging phase of infrastructure in the country today, InvITs are 
financing/refinancing  of 

to  provide  a  suitable  structure 

for 

proposed 
infrastructure projects in the country. 

b.  Several existing infrastructure projects which are under development in India 
are delayed and ‘stressed’ on account of varied reasons including increasing 
debt  finance  costs,  lack  of/locked  up  equity  of  private  investors  in  projects 
precludes  them  from  an  interest  in  undertaking  new  projects,  lack  of 
international 
infrastructure  projects,  project 
implementation  delays  caused  by  various  factors  like  global  economic 

finance 

flowing 

to 

Indian 

 

1 

slowdown,  cost  overruns,  inability  of  concessionaire 
requirements on time, etc. InvITs, as an investment vehicle, may aid:  

to  meet  funding 

i.  To  provide  wider  and  long-term  re-finance  for  existing  infrastructure 

projects 

ii.  To  free  up  current  developer  capital  for  reinvestment  into  new 

infrastructure projects 

iii.  To  refinance/takeout  existing  high  cost  debt  with  long-term  low-cost 
capital  and  help  banks  free  up/reduce  loan  exposure,  and  thereby 
create bank headroom for  new funding requirements  

c.  There  are  several  infrastructure  companies  whose  funds  are  locked  up  in 
completed/substantially completed infrastructure projects which can otherwise 
be used for furthering infrastructure development in the country. InvITs may 
be  an  enabling  vehicle  for  refinancing  such  assets  as  well  as  creating  an 
investment option which may otherwise not be possible for smaller investors.  
d.  InvITs are proposed to be vehicles allowing for adding of projects in future in 
the same vehicle so that investors can benefit from diversification as well as 
growth in their portfolio.  

e.  InvITs are proposed to be suitable vehicles for attracting international finance 

into Indian infrastructure sector. 
InvITs are proposed to enable the investors to hold a diversified portfolio of 
infrastructure assets.  

f. 

g.  InvITs  are  also  proposed  to  bring  higher  standards  of  governance  into 
infrastructure development and management and distribution of income from 
assets so as to attract investor interest 

7.  In  line  with  the  above,  SEBI  is  exploring  appropriate  frameworks  for  introducing 
InvITs in the country. SEBI has received various proposals for such InvITs including 
bringing  InvITs  as  a  Mutual  Fund,  having  a  separate  set  of  Regulations  for  InvIT, 
bringing InvITs under REIT framework, etc.  

8.  With respect to REITs, SEBI had earlier explored frameworks such as Real Estate 
Mutual Funds (REMF), guidelines for which were issued in 2008. However, no REMF 
scheme has been launched till now. Subsequently, SEBI had placed a consultative 
paper  along  with  draft  REIT  Regulations  on  SEBI  website  for  public  comments  on 
October 10, 2013. Several comments were received on the consultative paper that 
Infrastructure  assets  may  be  included  as  a  part  of  the  REIT  framework.  However, 
bringing Infrastructure Investment Trusts under REIT framework may not be entirely 
suitable since: 

a.  The  inherent  nature  of  infrastructure  assets  is  different  from  real  estate 
assets.  Further,  every  sub-sector  has  its  own  unique  characteristics. 
Infrastructure  assets,  unlike  real  estate  assets,  have  unique  characteristics 
such as finite life in some cases (At the end of concession period, assets may 
get transferred back to government), only right to receive cash flows and no 

 

2 

asset ownership (E.g. in cases of roads, the ownership of the road stays with 
the  government  and  the  developer  only  has  right  to  receive  cash  flows), 
involvement  of various regulatory authorities, various  aspects  of  concession 
agreement in case of PPP projects, etc.  

b.  Infrastructure  sector  requires  different 

types  of  disclosures,  different 
restrictions on underlying assets, different leverage levels, etc. as compared 
to  REITs  considering  the  difference  between  underlying  nature  of  the 
infrastructure assets and real estate assets for which a separate framework 
may be more desirable. 

c.  REIT  is  essentially  a  framework  for  completed  and  revenue  generating 
assets.  Including  InvITs  under  REIT  framework  shall  mean  excluding  other 
types of assets that may be added to the framework.  

d.  The  International  Advisory  Board  of  SEBI  has  also  recommended  that 
framework  for  Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts  may  be  kept  separate  from 
REITs. 

9.  Therefore, it is proposed that the InvITs may be treated as a separate framework as 
compared to REITs. The other proposals are enumerated as under, including their 
pros and cons for better comprehension of the proposals. 

 

A. 						InvITs	as	Mutual	Funds	

The  proposal  suggests  that  Mutual  Fund  structure  being  an  already  established 
structure in India may be a suitable route for InvITs in the country. Framework for such 
InvITs  may  be  through  insertion  of  a  separate  chapter  in  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 
Regulations,  1996  or  through  separate  Regulations  called  SEBI  (InvIT  Mutual  Funds) 
Regulations.  
Salient features of the proposal are as under: 
a.  Structure and registration of the InvIT 

(ii) 

(i)  As any other Mutual Fund, an InvIT shall be set up as a Trust under the Indian 
Trusts  Act,  1882.  It  shall  have  parties  including  Trustee,  sponsor,  project 
managers, independent engineers, etc.  
The  Trust  shall  initially  apply  for  registration  with  SEBI  as  an  InvIT  and  be 
required to fulfill eligibility criteria as specified in the proposed Regulations.  
InvITs would acquire shares of SPVs in infrastructure projects mainly being PPP 
projects  between  government  and  private  sector.  The  structure  may  also  be 
expanded to include non-PPP projects.  

(iii) 

b.  Parties to the InvIT 

(i)  Sponsor  –  The  Sponsor  of  an  InvIT  will  be  an  Infrastructure  Developer  or  a 
special  purpose  vehicle  (SPV)  holding  a  concession  agreement.  The  Sponsor 
shall settle an InvIT Trust and transfer the majority shareholding of the SPV into 
the InvIT. The Sponsor will be required to maintain its commitment in an InvIT 

 

3 

structure, i.e. a ‘skin-in-the-game’, either through holding a minimum percentage 
of units in the trust or with a minimum shareholding in the SPV plus units in the 
Trust.  

 

(ii)  Project  Manager  –  The  original  concessionaire  of  an  infrastructure  project 
acquired by an InvIT will be appointed as a Project Manager by the InvIT with 
continuing  responsibilities 
for  achieving  project  milestones  as  originally 
envisaged  in  the  concession  documents.  Proposed  Regulations  shall  have  a 
provision for replacing project managers for non performance. 

(iii) 

Independent Engineer – An Independent Engineer shall be retained as laid down 
in  the  existing  Concession  Agreements.    It  is  advisable  that  parties  to  the 
concession  agreement  be  retained  as  far  as  possible.  In  case  of  change,  the 
procedure  laid  down  in  the  concession  agreement  or,  where  applicable, 
guidelines of the authority would need to be followed. 

(iv)  Advisory Board – The InvIT Trustee will be guided by an Independent Advisory 
Board comprising sector experts and other professionals to advise the Trustee in 
technical aspects, oversight of project managers and in other decision making. 

 

 

 

 

(v)  Authority – as relevant for the specific infrastructure sector, (e.g. NHAI for roads) 
the  new  concession  agreement  between  Sponsor 

will  be  party 
Concessionaire, Trust, Project Manager and Authority 

to 

Investment Conditions and Pay-out Policy 
(i)  Each InvIT shall  mandatorily bundle a portfolio of infrastructure projects, a mix 
of  pre-Commercial  Operations  Date  (‘COD’)  projects  (at  least  50%  developed) 
and post-COD projects (already generating cash flows). It is advisable to have a 
minimum 2 or 3 such projects in an InvIT at the start.  

(iv) 

(iii) 

(ii)  An  InvIT  set  up  by  one  developer  can  invest  in  projects not  only  from  its  own 
group  companies  but  also  from  other  project  developers.  Two  or  more 
developers can also jointly sponsor the creation of an InvIT. 
To start with, an InvIT shall initially be sector/sub-sector- specific (E.g. can invest 
only in road projects) and thus only infrastructure projects under one sector can 
be bundled together. 
The InvIT shall hold not less than 76% of the equity shares of the SPV. A second 
approach to creating an InvIT, through transfer of 100% of assets from an SPV 
to the InvIT Trust vehicle and dissolution of the SPV, could also be considered 
for non-PPP projects of the private sector subject to investible-grade ratings by 
RBI-notified  Rating  Agencies  and 
the  relevant 
authorities.  
InvITs shall invest at least 65% of net assets of the scheme in equity shares of 
companies in line with Equity Oriented Mutual Fund schemes.  

further  discussions  with 

(v) 

4 

c. 

 

(vi) 

(vii) 

InvIT shall be required to distribute at least 90% of its net distributable income 
after tax to its investors. 
The InvIT shall be an active role in development of the underlying projects.  

d.  Offer of units of the InvIT and listing of units  

(i)  After  registration  with  SEBI,  an  InvIT  shall  raise  funds  by  issuing  units  to 
investors  through  an  initial  offer  and  may  subsequently  raise  further  funds 
through  follow-on  offers.    InvITs  shall  be  allowed  to  raise  funds  from  both 
domestic  and  foreign  investors.  All  non-resident  investment  in  the  InvIT  units 
would, however, be subject to a lock in period of three years. However, all non-
resident  investors  can  trade  amongst  themselves  within  this  lock  in  period  of 
three years.  

(ii)  Part  of  the  funds  raised  by  an  InvIT  will  be  deployed  for  buying  out  minimum 
76%  equity  shares  in  the  SPV,  with  the  balance  funds  to  be  utilised  for 
refinancing SPV  debt.  An  InvIT  will  earn  interest  income  from  the  SPV  on  the 
loan  provided  by  the  InvIT  which  will  form  part  of  the  InvIT’s  net  distributable 
income to be paid out to investors.  Timelines for share transfer post closure of 
fund raising process to be specified in the proposed regulations. 

(iii)  General  procedure  for  initial/follow-on  offer,  filing  of  offer  document/follow-on 
offer document, allotment and listing of units (if required) will be specified in the 
proposed regulations to be drafted by SEBI. Detailed disclosures required in the 
offer  document  /  follow-on  offer  document  shall  also  be  specified  in  the 
regulations. 

(iv)  Units  of  an  InvIT  may  be  listed  on  the  stock  exchange.  While  listing  is  not 
mandatory, listing of MF units will allow certain taxation benefits. Once units of 
the InvIT are listed, it shall continue to be listed on the exchange unless delisted 
in  accordance  with  the  provisions  for  delisting  to  be  specified  in  the  proposed 
SEBI regulations. 

e.  Valuation  

(i) 

For  acquisition  of  shares  of  the  SPV,  valuation  would  be  based  on  the 
Discounted  Cash  Flow  (DCF)  method.  An  InvIT  would  acquire  a  post-COD 
project from a developer at a discount and a pre-COD project from a developer 
at  a  deeper  discount  rate,  subject  to  negotiations  and  a shadow  book-building 
exercise with potential investors.  

(ii)  Post  acquisition  of  Infrastructure  Assets  –  To  ensure  an  accurate  valuation  of 
underlying  InvIT  assets,  a  full  valuation  will  be  required  to  be  undertaken, 
including  physical  inspection,  at  least  once  a  year.  Further,  a  six  monthly 
valuation update capturing key changes in the previous 6 months would also be 
required.  Consequently,  the  net  asset  value  (NAV)  shall  be  declared  at  least 
once  a  year.  Provisions  to  be  specified  for  valuation  in  case  of  any  material 
developments. 
 

 

5 

f.  Disclosure and other requirements 

(i) 

To  ensure  transparency  and  governance  in  an  InvIT  structure,  detailed 
disclosure requirements shall be specified in the proposed regulations, which will 
be not be inferior to those required under the current contractual and statutory 
requirements  stipulated 
(model  bidding 
documents). 

the  contractual  documents 

in 

(iii) 

(ii)  A prospectus / offer document will mandatorily be developed by the InvIT, with 
disclosure requirements to be as specified by SEBI in the proposed regulations. 
Further, minimum disclosures have also been specified for the annual and half-
yearly reports to be sent to investors. 
The trust agreement will include the class of beneficiaries. The investors to the 
InvIT would be the beneficiaries to the Trust. The Agreement would also include 
detailed  provisions  setting  forth  the  purposes  of  the  InvIT  and  the  authority 
conferred to the trustees. 
The  Concessionaire  (the  originator),  also  appointed  as  Project  Manager  shall 
carry  out  development  and  operations  of  the  Trust  assets  as  also    provide 
management and collection services with respect to the receivables transferred 
to the Trust, with these services provided under service agreements. InvIT would 
enter into all financing agreements and other documents. If the financing is to be 
obtained  through  the  issuance  of  securities,  a  prospectus  would  need  to  be 
prepared and approved by SEBI. 

(iv) 

(v)  Safeguards  will  be  built  in  to  ensure  that  the  entity  acting  as  the  Trustee 
accounts  for  the  rights  transferred  and  maintains  them  separate  from  other 
assets it may hold. It will also be ensured that the assets that the InvIT holds by 
virtue of a trust agreement are dedicated exclusively to the specific purposes of 
the  trust,  and  that  they  are  not  available  to satisfy  other  liabilities  of  the  entity 
acting as trustee 

(vi)  Certain event-based disclosures shall also be specified. Further, the InvIT shall 
additionally be bound by periodical disclosure requirements required under the 
listing agreement with the exchanges 
There will be no limits on gearing of an InvIT. However, for qualification as an 
equity-oriented mutual fund, the deployment of funds raised by the InvIT shall, 
overall  on  an  annual  basis,  necessarily  have  to  ensure  that  at  least  65%  is 
deployed in the equity of the underlying assets. 

(vii) 

Advantages of the proposal: 

(i) 

(ii) 

The  proposal  is  expected  to  provide  a  boost  to  refinancing  of  stressed  and 
delayed projects in the country as well as providing exit to developers/lenders  of 
existing  completed  projects  thereby  freeing  up  developer  capital/bank  loan 
exposure for financing and developing new projects.  
The  proposal  is  expected  to  attract  international  finance  in  the  infrastructure 
sector in India. Further, the proposal, by mandating bundling of completed and 

 

6 

under-construction projects, shall also provide a risk-diversified portfolio for the 
investors.  

(iii)  Mutual  fund  is  an  established  structure  and  including  InvITs  as  Mutual  Funds 

would enable easy association of the investors with the vehicle.  

(iv)  With  other  enabling  frameworks  pertaining  to  Mutual  Funds  already  in  place 
including  framework  for  foreign  investments,  taxation  framework,  frameworks 
allowing institutional investors such as Banks, insurance companies and pension 
funds to invest in Mutual Funds, etc., further amendments required in such other 
laws would be marginal. 
InvITs as Equity Oriented Mutual Funds will have tax efficiencies built-in for the 
benefit of the investors. 

(v) 

Possible impediments in the proposal: 

(i) 

(ii) 

The  nature  of  InvIT,  being  different  from  general  nature  of  mutual  funds, 
conditions  applicable  to  general  mutual  funds  may  not  be  suitable  for  InvITs 
considering different objectives, structure, nature of assets, investments, parties 
involved, disclosures, etc.   
The  proposed  InvIT  framework  differs  from  mutual  funds  in  terms  that  it  is 
essentially a refinancing vehicle for existing identified infrastructure assets and 
will be set up primarily to buy out stakes in sponsor assets. Further, InvITs also 
differ  from  general  mutual  funds  in  aspects  such  as  investment  primarily  in 
unlisted  SPVs,  perpetual  nature  of  vehicle,  requirement  of  less  frequent 
valuation  and  NAV  declaration,  limited  structural  and  financial  flexibility  due  to 
categorisation as an Equity Oriented Mutual Fund, etc.  

(iii)  Mutual  Funds  are  essentially  financial  investors.  Allowing  InvITs  structured  as 
Mutual  Funds  to  undertake  operational  and  developmental  aspects  of  the 
projects as well as becoming a party to the concession agreement may not be in 
line with the general nature of Mutual Funds. 
The proposed structure mandates bundling of completed and under construction 
projects  and  does  not  allow  for  investments  only  in  completed  and  revenue 
generating  assets.    This  may  be  an  impediment  for  a  class  of  investors  who 
would like to take exposure only to completed and regular revenue generating 
infrastructure assets. 

(iv) 

	

B. 						InvITs	under	a	separate	framework		

This proposal envisages that infrastructure is a unique sector requiring special structures 
and concessions keeping in mind the nature of assets and importance of the sector to 
the economy. The proposal envisages a separate framework called SEBI (Infrastructure 
Investment Trusts) Regulations (“InvIT Regulations”), with a broad structure with various 
categories depending on the nature of underlying projects, stage of construction, type of 
investors, etc. The proposal envisages that any pooling vehicle formed for the purpose 
of investment in infrastructure sector may be included in the Regulations.  

 

7 

Salient features of the proposal are as under: 

a.  Structure of the InvIT 

(i) 

(ii) 

The InvIT shall be set up as a Trust under the provisions of the Indian Trusts Act, 
1882. InvITs shall raise funds by way of public issue/private placement, as may 
be applicable. The Trust shall not launch schemes.  
The InvIT shall have parties such as trustee, sponsor and manager. Apart from 
the manager at the InvIT level, the SPVs may have separate project managers 
for every project (especially for PPP projects). Further, there would be a sponsor 
for every project, together acting as co-sponsors at the InvIT level.  

(iii)  Other parties which may be required under the concession agreement such as 
independent  engineer,  etc.  may  also  be  appointed/  the  existing  person  may 
continue.    A  revised  concession  agreement,  if  required,  may  be  entered  into 
between the InvIT, the concessionaire (SPV), project manager (if different from 
SPV) and any regulatory authority (E.g. NHAI for roads) as may be relevant to 
the sector/ sub-sector.  
If  the  underlying  projects  are  non-PPP  projects,  appropriate  conditions  would 
accordingly be applicable.  

(iv) 

b.  Registration of InvIT 

(i) 

(ii) 

The  Trust  shall  initially  apply  for  registration  with  SEBI  as  an  InvIT  in  the 
specified  format.  SEBI,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  eligibility  conditions  are 
satisfied, shall grant the InvIT certificate of registration.  
The InvIT may apply for registration under either of the following 2 categories: 
1.  Category  I  InvIT-  where  the  InvIT  may  invest  in  multiple  infrastructure 

projects, whether pre or post-COD.  

2.  Category  II  InvIT-  where  the  InvIT  shall  invest  only  in  1  year  post-COD 

revenue generating projects  
(SEBI may notify any other categories as it may deem fit in future) 

c.  Raising of funds by the InvIT and listing of units 

(i)  After registration, the InvIT shall raise funds as under: 

1.  In case of Category I InvIT: 

a.  It shall raise funds only from institutional investors (domestic or foreign). 
This  is  keeping  in  mind  that  the  underlying  under-construction  projects 
shall be risky in nature.  

b.  Subscription amount by each investor shall be not less than Rs. 5 crore. 
c.  The funds shall be raised by way of private placement.  
d.  Category I InvIT may list its units on the recognized stock exchange, if it 

so desires, subject to trading lot of Rs. 1 crore.  
 

8 

 

2.  In case of Category II InvIT: 

a.  It may raise funds from any investor (domestic or foreign).  
b.  Subscription amount by each investor shall be not less than Rs. 10 lakhs. 
c.  The  funds  shall  be  raised  by  way  of  initial  offer  to  the  public.  Further 
issues  may  be  by  way  of  follow-on  offers,  right  issues,  bonus  issues, 
preferential allotments or any other route as may be prescribed by SEBI.  
d.  Units of Category II InvITs shall be listed on a recognized stock exchange 

with a trading lot of Rs. 5 lakhs. 

e.  Any further issue shall be subject to the minimum subscription size of Rs. 

10 lakhs. 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

If listed, the units of the InvIT shall continue to be listed on the exchange unless 
delisted under the Regulations. Provisions for delisting shall be specified in the 
Regulations  and  detailed  guidelines  may  be  specified  by  separate 
guidelines/circulars, etc.  
For any listed InvIT, if at any point, the InvIT reaches the end of the concession 
period for the last project under the InvIT and proposes to invest in no projects in 
future, it shall be  required to be delisted, to be  wound up and  to surrender its 
certificate  of  registration.  Application  for  such  delisting  shall  be  required  to  be 
made  at  least  6  months  prior  to  expiry  of  such  concession  period.  For  any 
unlisted InvIT, in the aforesaid case, the InvIT shall be wound up within 3 months 
from the last date of expiry of the concession period of the last project and would 
be required to surrender its certificate of registration.  
For the initial offering of any InvIT, the size of the proposed projects under the 
InvIT  shall  not  be  less  than  Rs.  1000  crore  (which  is  expected  to  ensure  that 
initially only large projects and established players enter the market). The size 
may  be  relaxed  in  future  as  the  market  develops.  Further,  the  minimum  issue 
size for such InvITs (Initial issue) shall be Rs. 250 crore.  
In case of Category II InvITs, the minimum public float post listing shall be 25% 
(on  post-issue  basis)  to  ensure  adequate  public  participation  and  float  in  the 
units.  

(vi)  General  procedure  for  initial/follow-on  offer/private  placement,  filing  of  offer 
document/follow-on  offer  document/placement  memorandum,  allotment  and 
listing  of  units,  if  any  shall  be  specified  in  the  Regulations.  Detailed  minimum 
disclosures  required  in  the  offer  document/follow-on  offer  document/placement 
memorandum shall also be specified in the Regulations.  

d.  Responsibilities of various parties to the InvIT 

(i)  Responsibilities of the Trustee 

1.  The Trustee shall be independent of sponsor and manager and hold the InvIT 
assets for the benefit of the investors in accordance with the Trust Deed and 
the proposed Regulations. The Trustee is primarily an overseeing entity. 

 

9 

2.  Certain  minimum  number  of  independent  directors  may  be  required  for  the 

Trustee for achieving its independent nature.  

(ii)  Responsibilities of the manager 

1.  In InvITs, there would typically be 2 sets of managers: 

a.  One  at  the  InvIT  level  who  would  assume  all  the  operational 
responsibilities  with  respect  to  the  activity  of  the  InvIT  (hereinafter 
referred to as ‘Manager’).  

b.  Several project managers at each project level (hereinafter referred to 
as  ‘Project  Managers’).This  may  be  the  concessionaire  SPV  itself  or 
any  other  project  manager  as  may  be  appointed  in  accordance  with 
the  concession  agreement.  Role  of  such  project  managers  shall  be 
restricted to the specific project.  

2.  Roles and responsibilities of the manager shall be specified in the agreement 
entered  into  between  the  trustee  and  the  manager.  Role  of  the  project 
managers shall typically be provided in the concession agreement/any other 
agreement entered for the purpose.  

3.  Certain  requirements  with  respect 

to  experience,  minimum  networth, 
manpower  with  sufficient  relevant  experience,  etc.  may  be  specified  for  the 
manager in the Regulations.  

from 

the 

4.  The manager may have an Advisory Board which may consist of independent 
experts 
from  regulatory  authorities, 
representatives of major stakeholders in the projects, representatives of major 
investors, etc. The Advisory Board would play an advisory role in managing 
activities of the InvIT. 

industry,  representatives 

5.  Responsibilities of manager shall range throughout the life of the InvIT right 
from  the  application  for  registration  to  any  other  procedural  activities  till 
delisting/winding  up  of  the  InvIT.  Manager  shall  be  responsible  for  various 
operational aspects including application for registration, issue and listing, if 
any,  of  units  of  the  InvIT,  appointment  of  any  parties/agents,  overseeing  of 
activities  of  the  project  managers,  investment  decisions  of  the  InvIT, 
disclosures and reporting, distributions to unit holders, etc. 

(iii)  Responsibilities of sponsor  

1.  In case of a project, the primary promoter of the SPV (typically lead member 
of the consortium which had bid for the project) would be the sponsor of the 
InvIT.  In  case  of  multiple  projects,  the  respective  promoters  would  be  co-
sponsors.  

2.  The sponsor would be mandated to flip all its shares in the SPV in exchange 
of  units  to  the  InvIT  prior  to  listing  so  that  the  sponsor  is  at  par  with  other 
investors in the InvIT. The sponsor shall hold, at all times, at least 24% of the 
number of units of the InvIT. In case of multiple sponsors, the aforesaid limit 
shall apply to the combined holding of all the sponsors. This is expected to 

 

10 

ensure  a  ‘skin-in-the-game’  for  the  sponsor  and  ensure  commitment  of  the 
sponsor to the project and the InvIT.  

3.  Net worth and experience criteria may also be laid down for the sponsor in the 

proposed Regulations.  

e. 

Investment conditions and distribution policy 
(i)  All  InvIT  can  invest  only  in  infrastructure  projects.  Un-invested  portion  may, 
however,  be  invested  in  liquid  instruments,  cash  equivalents,  government 
securities, etc. 

(ii)  Any InvIT shall invest in infrastructure projects belonging to only one sector/sub-

sector.This condition may be relaxed in future as the market develops. 

(iii)  Specifically  for  Category  I  and  II  InvITs,  investment  conditions  shall  apply  as 

under: 

1.  Category I InvITs: 

a.  may invest in pre-COD/post-COD projects. 
b.  shall invest in a minimum of at least 2 projects. 
c.  May have additional conditions for investment as may be specified in its 

offer document/placement memorandum. 

2.  Category II InvITs: 

a.  Shall invest only in 1 year post-COD revenue generating projects. 
b.  Shall invest in a minimum of at least 4 projects. 

To ensure regular income to the investors, the InvITs shall distribute atleast 90% 
of  the  net  distributable  income  after  tax  of  the  InvIT  to  its  investors.  If  the 
concession  agreement  does  not  provide  for  such  distribution,  the  same  may 
have  to  be  modified  to  that  extent.  An  agreement  may  be  entered  into  by  the 
InvIT  with  other  shareholders  in  the SPV  to  effect such  distribution.  This  may, 
however,  be  relaxed  for  Category  I  InvIT,  if  required,  especially  if  all  the 
underlying projects are incomplete. 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

InvITs  may  invest  in  the  projects  either  directly  or  through  special  purpose 
vehicles (SPVs). Such SPVs shall not undertake any other activity other than as 
specified in the concession agreement or in accordance with these Regulations 
or  in  accordance  with  any  other  relevant  laws/regulations/Acts  and  any  acts 
which are incidental to such activity.  
In case of SPV route, The InvIT shall have control over the SPV and hold not 
less than 51% of the shares of the SPV so that the interest of the investors of the 
InvIT are not jeopardised. If the concession agreement does not provide for such 
holding, then the same may have to be modified to that extent. 
The InvIT shall invest only in projects based in India.  

(vii) 
(viii)  Other  detailed  investment  conditions  may  be  provided  in  the  proposed 

Regulations.  

 

11 

f.  Related party transactions 

(i)  All  related  party  transactions  shall  be  on  an  arms-length  basis,  in  the  best 
interest of the investors, consistent with the strategy & investment objectives of 
the  InvIT  and  shall  be  disclosed  to  the  investors  (and  exchanges  if  listed) 
periodically  in  accordance  with  the  proposed  Regulations  (and  the  listing 
agreement, if listed). 

(ii)  Detailed disclosures, valuation requirements, approval from majority of investors, 
related  party  abstaining  from  voting,  etc.  may  be  required  for  related  party 
transactions.  However,  if  any  of  the  aforesaid  transactions  are  required  under 
the concession agreements, copy of which is provided to all the investors, then 
the conditions may not apply. Investors' approval may be required for the related 
party transactions wherein the value is above a threshold. 

g.  Borrowings and deferred payments 

(i) 

In  case  of  Category 
borrowings/deferred payments (consolidated) of the InvIT. 

there  shall  be  no 

I 

InvITs, 

restrictions  on 

(ii)  However, for Category II InvITs, keeping in mind the nature of investors and the 
projects, the aggregate consolidated borrowings and deferred payments of the 
InvIT  shall  be  capped  at  50%  of  the  value  of  the  InvIT  assets.  If  the  same 
exceeds  25%,  requirement  of  credit  rating  from  a  credit  rating  agency  and 
approval of majority of investors shall be required. 

h.  Valuation of assets  

(i) 

(ii) 

To  ensure  that  the  underlying  projects  of  InvIT  are  valued  accurately, 
requirement of a full valuation including a physical inspection of the project shall 
been  specified  at  least  once  a  year.  Further,  a  six  monthly  updation  in  the 
valuation  capturing  key  changes  in  the  last  six  months  shall  be  specified  for 
Category II InvIT. Consequently, the NAV shall be declared at least once/twice in 
a year as may be applicable. Provisions may also be specified for valuation in 
case of any material development.  
The valuer shall be required to have a minimum specific experience in valuation 
in  the  field/  have  minimum  number  of  people  with  adequate  experience  in 
valuation in the field or both.  

i.  Rights of investors 

(i) 

(ii) 

In order to ensure safeguarding of interests of the investors, certain rights shall 
be provided to the investors in order to empower them. The investors shall have 
right  to  remove  the  manager,  auditor,  valuer,  seek  delisting  of  units,  apply  to 
SEBI for change in trustee, etc. Approval of investors may be made mandatory 
in special cases.  
For  Category  II  InvITs,  an  annual  meeting  of  all  investors  shall  be  mandatory 
wherein matters such as latest annual accounts, valuation reports, performance 
of the InvIT, approval of auditors & their fees, appointment of valuer, etc. may be 
discussed.  

 

12 

(iii) 

In  order  to  ensure  that  a  related  party  does  not  influence  the  decision,  any 
person who is a party to any transaction as well as associates of such person(s) 
shall not participate in voting on the specific issue. 

j.  Disclosures 

(i)  Specific  minimum  disclosure  requirements  shall  be  required  under 

the 
Regulations.  The disclosure requirements shall be higher for Category II InvITs. 
Further,  for  Category  I  InvITs  which  are  listed  on  the  stock  exchanges, 
disclosure  requirements  would  be  higher  as  compared  to  unlisted  Category  I 
InvITs.   

(ii)  Minimum  disclosure  requirements 

the  offer  document/follow-on  offer 
document/placement  memorandum  shall  be  specified 
the  proposed 
Regulations. Further, minimum disclosures shall also be specified for the annual 
and half-yearly reports to be sent to the investors.  

in 

in 

(iii)  Certain event-based disclosures may also be specified. Further, the InvIT shall 
additionally be bound by periodical disclosure requirements required under the 
listing agreement with the exchanges, if its units are listed. 
The InvIT shall continue  to be subject to any other  disclosures required under 
the  concession  agreement  or  any  other  regulatory/statutory  requirements,  as 
may be applicable.  

(iv) 

(v)  Detailed  disclosures  may  also  be  required  pertaining  to  the  concession 
agreement,  completion  status  and  any  supporting  documents  for  the  same, 
Credit  enhancement  (if  any),  credit  rating  (if  any),  etc.  as  also  any  other 
disclosures that may be specific to the sub-sector.  

Advantages of the proposal 

The  proposal  allows  for  a  broad  framework  encompassing  multiple  possible 
types  of  structures  for  investment  in  infrastructure  sector.  The  framework  also 
allows for adding of future new and innovative structures as may be required. 
The  proposal  allows  for  targeting  of  specific  incentives  by  government/ 
regulators  for  the  infrastructure  sector  in  general  or  any  sector/sub-sector  in 
particular.  
The  proposal  envisages different nature  of  investments/projects  and  allows  for 
streamlining of the investment conditions, types of investors, conditions for issue 
of  units,  listing,  borrowings,  disclosures,  etc.  accordingly  by  segregating  such 
structures into various categories.  
The  proposal  allows  refinancing  of  existing  under-construction  projects  as  well 
as  refinancing  of  completed  revenue  generating  projects  thereby  freeing  up 
developer  capital/  bank  loan  exposure  for  investment  in  development  of  new 
projects. The structure may also be used in future, if required, for bidding for new 
infrastructure projects after gaining sufficient experience.  
 

13 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

 

Possible impediments to the proposal 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

The  proposed  InvIT,  not  being  an  established  framework,  may  require  the 
investors to develop a deep understanding of it.  
For InvITs to take off, amendments would be required in taxation laws as well as 
foreign investment guidelines to allow foreign investments in InvITs. Issues with 
respect  to  taxation  of  InvIT  including  clarity  in  taxation  aspects,  pass  through 
status in line with global best practices, etc. would be crucial for the success of 
InvITs in India. Sectoral Regulators may also need to issue/modify guidelines in 
order  to  allow  insurance  companies,  pension  funds,  banks,  etc.  to  invest  in 
InvITs.  
The  separate  InvIT  Regulations  added  to  IDF-MF  and  Category  I  AIF-
Infrastructure  Fund  may  result  in  confusion  in  minds  of  investor  in  terms  of 
overlapping aspects among the frameworks. 

(iv)  Having  multiple  categories  with  different  investors,  structures,  fund  raising 

modes, investment conditions, etc. may be confusing.  

Draft InvIT framework for Public Comments 

1.  Public comments are invited on the consultative paper on the aforesaid proposals. 
Comments may be forwarded by email to Ms. Nila Salil Khanolkar, Assistant General 
Manager 
(nila@sebi.gov.in)  or  Mr.  Naveen  Gupta,  Assistant  Manager 
(naveeng@sebi.gov.in) latest by January 20, 2014. 
2.   Comments should be given in the following format: 

a.  Name of entity/ person/ intermediary 

b.  Comments/ suggestions on the above proposals  

c.  Any other suggestions/comments 

 
 
Issued on: December 20, 2013 

 

14 

