                                                                                                                     

 

 

 

 

 

Report of the 

Working Group on Resolution 

Regime for Financial 

Institutions 

 

 

Reserve Bank of India 

January 2014

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 

 

 

CONTENTS 

 

List of Abbreviations 
Executive Summary 
Chapter 1 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 2 
 
 
 
 

Background 
Constitution of the Working Group 
Structure of the Report 
Acknowledgements 

Introduction 
 
 
 
 
International Practices and Global Initiatives 
 
 
 
 

Global financial crisis – Drawbacks and Shortcomings 
Need for an Effective Resolution Regime 
Reforms in Resolution Regimes 
Thematic  Peer  Review  on  Resolution  Regimes  across 
Jurisdictions 
Multilateral Global Initiatives 
FSB Work in Progress 

Brief Overview of FSB Key Attributes 
Indian Financial System 
Regulatory Framework for Indian Financial System 
Financial Stability 
Legal Framework for Resolution of Financial Institutions 
Existing Resolution Regime and Assessed Gaps 

 
 
Existing Resolution Regime for Indian Financial Institutions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Framework for Resolution of Financial Institutions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cross-border Cooperation, Coordination and Information 
Sharing 
 
 
 
 

Preparedness for Dealing with Failures 
Need for Resolution Framework for Financial Institutions 
Objectives of Resolution Framework 
Scope of Financial Resolution Framework 
Constitution of Resolution Authority and its Role 
Triggers for Entry into Resolution 
Resolution Tools  
Funding of Resolution 
Preventive and Contingency Planning 
Safeguards under Financial Resolution Framework 

Challenges in Crisis Resolution 
Need for Cooperation and Coordination 
Access to Information and Information Sharing 
Constitution  of  Crisis  Management  Groups  (CMGs)  and 
Institution-specific  cross-border  cooperation  Agreements 
(COAGs) 

 
 
Chapter 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 5 

 
 
 
 

Chapter 6  Way Forward 
Chapter 7 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Summary of Recommendations 
List of Annex 
 

Annex  1  –  Recent  Legislative  Reforms  in  Major  FSB 
Jurisdictions 
Annex  2  –  Thematic  Peer  Review  on  Resolution  Regime: 
Highlights 

 

i - iii 

iv - viii 
1 – 9 

1 
4 
8 
8 

10 – 32 

10 
16 
17 
20 

21 
27 

33 – 71 

33 
37 
38 
41 
42 
42 

72 – 134 

74 
76 
80 
82 
86 
90 
96 
107 
113 
123 

135 - 149 

136 
140 
144 
148 

150 

151 - 162 
163 - 241 

163 

190 

 

 
 

 

Annex  3  –  Draft  Annex  to  the  FSB  Key  Attributes: 
Resolution of Insurers 
Annex 4 – Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) Framework 
Annex  5  –  Recovery  Plan  -    An  Indicative  Methodology  for 
Banks 
Annex  6  –  Data  Template  for  Domestic  Systemically 
Important Banks 

197 

209 
215 

235 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

List of Abbreviations 

As Applicable to Co-operative 
Societies 
Asset Management Company 

American International Group 

CRA 

CPF 

Customer Protection Fund 

 

AACS 

AMC 

AIG 

BA 

BaFin 

BCBS 

BCCI 

Banking Act, 2009 

Bundesanstalt für 
Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht 
Basel Committee on Banking 
Supervision 
Bank of Credit and Commerce 
International (Overseas) 
Limited 

BENELUX  Belgium, Netherlands and 

BIP 

BIS 

BoE 

Luxemburg 
Bank Insolvency Procedure 

Bank of International 
Settlements 
Bank of England 

BR Act 

Banking Regulation Act 

BSBL 

BSE 

CBRG 

CCIL 

CCP 

CDIC 

CDS 

CDSL 

CET1 

CIMB 

CMG 

The Benaras State Bank 
Limited 
Bombay Stock Exchange 

Cross-border Bank Resolution 
Group 
Clearing Corporation of India 
Limited 
Central Counter Party 

Canada Deposit Insurance 
Corporation 
Credit Default Swap 

Central Depository Services 
Limited 
Common Equity Tier 1 

Centre International D’Etudes 
Monetatires Et Bancaires 
Crisis Management Group 

COAG 

Cooperation Agreement 

CoCo 

Contingent Convertible 

CPC 

Civil Procedure Code 

CPSS 

CRAR 

CRCS 

CSD 

CSE 

DBOD 

DCA 

DFIs 

DGS 

DICGC 

D-SIB 

D-SIFI 

EBA 

EEA 

EOI 

EU 

Committee on Payment and 
Settlement Systems 
Central Recordkeeping 
Agency 
Capital to Risk Weighted 
Assets Ratio 
Central Registrar of Co-
operative Societies 
Central Securities Depository 

Consolidated Supervised 
Entities 
Department of Banking 
Operations and Development 
Department of Company 
Affairs 
Development Financial 
Institutions 
Deposit Guarantee Scheme 

Deposit Insurance and Credit 
Guarantee Corporation 
Domestic Systemically 
Important Bank 
Domestic Systemically 
Important Financial Institutions 
European Banking Authority 

European Economic Area 

Expression of Interest 

European Union 

FATF 

Financial Action Task Force 

FC 

FDIC 

FDMC 

FMSA 

DGF 

FHC 

FIs 

Financial Conglomerate 

Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation 
Financial Data Management 
Centre 
Financial Market Stabilisation 
Authority 
Deposit Guarantee Fund 

Financial Holding Company 

Financial Institutions 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page i 

 

FINMA 

FMC 

FME 

FMI 

FROB 

FRA 

FSA 

FSB 

FSCS 

FSDC 

FSLRC 

G20 

GDP 

GFC 

G-SIBs 

G-SIFIs 

G-SIIs 

GTB 

HMT 

HRE 

IAIS 

ICCL 

ICMB 

IMF 

IOSCO 

IPF 

IRDA 

IRF 

JV 

Financial Market Supervisory 
Authority 
Forward Markets Commission 

Icelandic Financial 
Supervisory Authority 
Financial Market Infrastructure 

Fund for Orderly Bank 
Restructuring 
Financial Resolution Authority 

Financial Services Authority 

Financial Stability Board 

Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme 
Financial Stability and 
Development Council 
Financial Sector Legislative 
Reforms Commission 
The Group of Twenty 

Gross Domestic Product 

Global Financial Crisis 

Global Systemically Important 
Banks 
Global Systemically Important 
Financial Institutions 
Global Systemically Important 
Insurers 
Global Trust Bank Limited 

Her Majesty’s Treasury 

Hypo Real Estate 

International Association of 
Insurance Supervisors 
Indian Clearing Corporation 
Limited 
International Center for 
Monetary and Banking Studies 
International Monetary Fund 

International Organization of 
Securities Commissions 
Investor Protection Fund 

Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority 
Inter Regulatory Forum 

Joint Venture 

KAs 

KYC 

LAB 

LAC 

LBHI 

LBIE 

LCR 

LGD 

LIC 

MCX 

Key Attributes 

Know Your Customer 

Local Area Bank 

Loss Absorbing Capacity 

Lehman Brothers Holdings 
Inc. 
Lehman Brothers International 
(Europe) 
Liquidity Coverage Ratio 

Loss Given Default 

Life Insurance Corporation of 
India 
Multiple Commodity Exchange 

MCX-SX 

MCX Stock Exchange Limited 

MCX-
SXCCL 
MMCB 

MMOU 

MoU 

MPE 

MTM 

NABARD 

NBFCs 

NBFIs 

NDS-OM 

NHB 

NIC 

NOHC 

NPA 

NPS 

NSCCL 

NSDL 

NSE 

MCX SX Clearing Corporation 
Limited 
Madhavpura Mercantile Co-
operative Bank 
Multilateral Memorandum of 
Understanding 
Memorandum of 
Understanding 
Multiple Point of Entry 

Mark to Market 

National Bank for Agriculture 
and Rural Development 
Non-Banking Financial 
Companies 
Non-Bank Financial 
Institutions 
Negotiated Dealing System 
Order-Matching 
National Housing Bank 

National Insurance Company 

Non-Operating Holding 
Company 
Non Performing Assets 

National Pension System 

National Securities Clearing 
Corporation Limited 
National Securities Depository 
Limited 
National Stock Exchange 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page ii 

 

SBICI 

SEBI 

SEC 

SGF 

SIFI 

SIPA 

SPE 

SRR 

SSS 

SBI Commercial and 
International Bank Ltd. 
Securities and Exchange 
Board of India 
Securities and Exchange 
Commission 
Settlement Guarantee Fund 

Systemically Important 
Financial Institution 
Securities Investor Protection 
Act 
Single Point of Entry 

Special Resolution Regime 

Securities Settlement System 

TAFCUB 

TBTF 

Task Force on Urban Co-
operative Banks 
Too-Big-To-Fail 

TM 

TPO 

TR 

UCB 

UK 

USA 

USD 

Trading Member 

Temporary Public Ownership 

Trade Repository 

Urban Cooperative Bank 

United Kingdom 

United States of America 

United States Dollar 

WaMu 

Washington Mutual 

NSFR 

Net Stable Funding Ratio 

NTNI 

OBC 

OTS 

P&A 

PCA 

PD 

PDMA 

PFM 

PFMI 

PFRDA 

POP 

Non-Traditional and Non-
Insurance 
Oriental Bank of Commerce 

US Office of Thrift Supervision 

Purchase and Assumption 

Prompt Corrective Action 

Probability of Default 

Public Debt Management 
Agency 
Pension Fund Manager 

Principles for Financial Market 
Infrastructure 
Pension Fund Regulatory and 
Development Authority 
Points of Presence 

PONV 

Point of Non-Viability 

PRA 

PSS 

PSS Act 

QDP 

RBI 

RBS 

RC 

RCL 

RCS 

RoA 

RRB 

RRP 

Prudential Regulatory 
Authority 
Payment and Settlement 
System 
Payment and Settlement 
System Act, 2007 
Qualified Depository 
Participants 
Reserve Bank of India 

Royal Bank of Scotland 

Resolution Corporation 

Reliance Capital Limited 

Registrar of Co-operative 
Societies 
Return on Asset 

Regional Rural Bank 

Recovery and Resolution Plan 

RTGS 

Real Time Gross Settlement 

SARFAESI 
Act 

SBI 

Securitisation and 
Reconstruction of Financial 
Assets and Enforcement of 
Security Interest Act 
State Bank of India 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page iii 

 

 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

 
 
The global financial crisis, which began in 2007, forced countries to adopt ad hoc policies to 

stem  the  collapse  of  the  financial  system.  Faced  with  lack  of  adequate  resolution  tools, 

countries turned to large-scale government support and bailouts of the financial institutions 

to  preserve  financial  stability.  The  bailouts  highlighted  the  shortcomings  in  the  resolution 

mechanism of many jurisdictions, including inadequate powers and tools for resolving both 

bank  and  non-bank  financial  institutions,  especially  large  and  complex  ones  with  cross-

border  presence.  They  resulted  in  very  large  increases  in  exposures  for  the  public  sector, 

equivalent to about one quarter of world GDP, and distorted financial markets. 

 

In  order  to  address  the  situation,  many  jurisdictions  sought  to  improve  national  regulatory 

and  supervisory  frameworks  and  to  develop  more  effective  and  less  disruptive  resolution 

frameworks for addressing failures of systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs) in a 

manner  that  minimises  spillover  impact  on  the  real  economy.  A  critical  aspect  of  these  far 

reaching  legislative  changes  is  the  protection  of  taxpayers  from  exposure  to  losses  and 

containing the negative externalities posed by too-big-to-fail (TBTF) institutions.  

 

Following the crisis, the international standard setting bodies such as the Financial Stability 

Board (FSB), Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS), International Association of 

Insurance Supervisors (IAIS), International Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO), 

Committee  on  Payment  and  Settlement  Systems  (CPSS)  have  been  developing    policy 

proposals  to  address  the  moral  hazard  risks  posed  by  the  SIFIs.  One  of  the  important 

regulatory  reform  is  the  “Key  Attributes  of  Effective  Resolution  Regimes  for  Financial 

Institutions”, which set out the core elements for the resolution of financial institutions while 

limiting  taxpayers’  exposure  to  loss  and  protecting  vital  economic  functions.  The  Key 

Attributes  are  being  complemented  by  formulation  of  further  supporting  guidance  for  the 

resolution  of  non-bank  financial  institutions,  including  insurance  companies  and  financial 

market  infrastructures  (FMIs).  The  FSB  member  jurisdictions  are  expected  to  bring  their 

resolution regimes in line with the Key Attributes by end-2015.  

 

Following the lessons learnt from the financial crisis and the need to have an effective and 

credible resolution framework for distressed financial institutions in India, the Reserve Bank 

of  India  constituted,  as  decided  by  the  sub-Committee  of  the  Financial  Stability  and 

Development  Council  (FSDC),  a  high 

level  Working  Group 

to  suggest  extensive 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page iv 

 

strengthening  of  the  resolution  regime  taking  into  consideration  the  structure  of  Indian 

financial institutions. 

 

The  Group  began  by  acknowledging  the  importance  of  having  a  special  or  separate 

resolution framework for financial institutions from the corporate insolvency regime for such 

institutions.  The  financial  institutions  and  FMIs  are  special  because  of  their  close 

interconnectedness  and because  they  operate  on  the  basis  of  public  trust  and  confidence. 

This means that once problems develop in one institution, they can quickly spread to other 

sound  institutions.  The  loss  of  private  confidence  can,  in  turn,  create  a  domino  effect, 

spreading  contagion.  A  special  resolution  framework  is  needed  because  the  general 

corporate  bankruptcy  or 

insolvency  procedures  cannot  ensure  sufficient  speed  of 

intervention or the continuation of the critical functions, thus undermining financial stability.  

 

While  India  has  a  history  of  very  few  failures  of financial  institutions, the  financial  sector  is 

growing  in  depth  and  complexity.  Effective  regulation  and  supervision,  one  of the  pillars  of 

safety  net  framework,  can  help  in  substantially  reducing  the  risks  but  cannot  make  the 

financial system immune from failure of a financial institution.  

 

The  existing  resolution  powers  and  options  available  with  the  regulators,  adopted  to  deal 

with  any  problem  financial  institution,  have  several  gaps  in  comparison  with  the  Key 

Attributes. As a result, there is an urgent need to implement such a special resolution regime 

that provides a comprehensive framework for dealing with the failure of financial institutions 

so that if a crisis arose in a regulated financial institution or it were to fail, the Government, 

the regulators and supervisors, as well as the resolution authority have the powers needed 

to  deal  with  the  situation  efficiently,  swiftly  and  effectively  in  a  manner  that  maintains  the 

continuity of the critical functions and does not hamper the financial stability. The proposed 

financial  resolution  framework  will  require  a  separate  legal  framework  that  provides  the 

necessary  powers  and  tools  to  resolve  all  financial  institutions  and  FMIs  irrespective  of 

ownership  in  place  of  the  existing  separate  statutes  governing  various  types  of  financial 

institutions. 

 

The special resolution regime must extend to all financial institutions - banks and non-banks 

- and be robust enough to address failures of small and medium financial institutions as well 

as  failures  of  large  complex  financial  institutions.  Moreover,  the  resolution  regime  should 

also  extend  to  financial  groups/conglomerates.  Complex  financial  groups  will  pose 

increasing  risks  to  financial  stability  as  they  grow  and  become  embedded  in  the  financial 

system. Resolution of such groups requires specialized tools where  resolution is applied at 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page v 

 

the  level  of  the  group,  especially  the  parent  company,  rather  than  at  the  level  of  each 

individual  institution.  The  resolution  authority  would  essentially  require  coverage  of  all 

financial institutions and FMIs within the ambit of resolution framework.  

 

In order to function effectively, resolution regime must achieve certain economic objectives, 

i.e.,  avoid  creating  moral  hazard;  pursue  financial  stability  and  ensure  continuity  of  critical 

financial services and functions; provide protection to the depositors, insurance policyholders 

and  investors,  where  applicable  and  within  limits;  and  avoid  erosion  of  value  and  seek  to 

minimise the resolution costs.  

 

Resolution of a failed financial institution is a complex process that requires specialised skills 

and expertise. Prevention of contagion and preserving stability will require timely intervention 

and speedy implementation of resolution tools. The Group concluded that such a function is 

best implemented by a specialised institution, the Financial Resolution Authority (FRA). The 

FRA would be responsible for the resolution of all financial institutions, regardless of size or 

of  sector.  This  FRA  should  be  institutionally  independent  and  an  equal  player  with  other 

safety net agencies.  The kind of experience and expertise, even if limited, available with the 

Deposit  Insurance  and  Credit  Guarantee  Corporation  (DICGC)  in  dealing  with  failures  of 

banks could be leveraged. The FRA as a separate entity can be set by either transforming 

the present DICGC into FRA or by setting up a new authority namely FRA that will subsume 

DICGC. 

 

The  effective  resolution  framework  ought  to  provide  credible  set  of  tools  and  associated 

powers  to  the  resolution  authority  to  deal  with  failures  and  capabilities  to  intervene 

sufficiently early and quickly in a failing institution. These tools include: liquidation, purchase 

and  assumption,  bridge  institution,  good-bank  and  bad-bank,  bail-in  and  temporary  public 

ownership,  which  can  be  used  flexibly,  either  singly  or  in  combination.  What  is  common 

across  all  these  tools  is  each  of  the  resolution  paths  will  typically  impose  losses  on  the 

shareholders.  

 

Bail-in  is  a  statutory  power  that  enables  resolution  authorities  to  convert  existing  creditors 

into  shareholders,  thus  recapitalizing  the  failed  institution.  Bail-in  effectively  recapitalizes  a 

failed  institution,  creating  a  new,  solvent  institution  in  its  place  with  new  shareholders.  For 

example,  bail  in  can  be  used  in  the  case  of  a  bridge  bank  or  restructuring  and  sale  of  the 

original, failed institution. This tool is in contrast to such tools as purchase and assumption 

that sell performing assets and selected liabilities of a failed institution to another operating 

institution. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page vi 

 

Use of bail-in as a resolution tool has initiated considerable debate internationally. There are 

various pros and cons to the use of this tool. While it would give shareholders and creditors 

of  institutions  a  stronger  incentive  to  monitor  the  health  of  an  institution  during  normal 

circumstances,  it  could  simultaneously  raise  the  funding  costs  for  institutions.  Bail  in  could 

also cause contagion of financial distress in those cases where the senior debt instruments 

of a troubled institution are held by other financial institutions. Though the bail-in tool initially 

impinges  on  the  benefits  of  unsecured  creditors,  which  could  have  been  the  primary 

beneficiary in case of liquidation of the institution, it could create value by providing creditors 

with higher returns once bail-in succeeds in restoring the viability of the distressed institution. 

It is, however, important that this tool is invoked only in case of SIFIs because of its nature of 

imposing losses to even the senior unsecured creditors. 

 

In  situations  where  a financial  institution,  deemed  to  be  systemically  important,  comes  into 

financial distress and has the potential to trigger financial instability and cannot be resolved 

by sale to a third party because of its sheer size,  can best be resolved as a last  option by 

Government  taking  control  of  the  financial  institution.  This  tool,  however,  needs  to  be 

handled  with  due  care.  It  should  be  ensured  that  this  tool  is  operated  only  as  an  interim 

measure and the ultimate objective should be to arrange for a permanent solution such as, 

sale or transfer or merger with a private sector purchaser. 

 

While  resolution  action  gets  kicked  in  when  the  financial  position  of  the  institution  has 

weakened  substantially  but  still  has  positive  net  worth  and  all  its  equity  has  not  been  fully 

wiped out, the framework must be preceded by preventive measures and early intervention 

measures so as to identify the developing problems in these institutions and address them at 

an  early  stage.  Putting  in  place  a  prompt  corrective  action  (PCA)  framework  that 

incorporates graded triggers at pre-specified levels for taking early actions by the regulators 

is important for each of the financial sectors. It is only towards the final stage that the failing 

financial institution is turned over to the resolution authority.  

 

Complemented with the early intervention mechanism, contingency planning by the financial 

institutions is equally important both for supervisors as well as the resolution authority. Part 

of contingency planning involves development of recovery plans developed by the institution 

and aimed at detailing in advance the early but credible options/actions that would be taken 

by  the  concerned  financial  institution  to  restore  its  long-term  viability  if  the  institution’s 

financial  situation  deteriorated  due  to  idiosyncratic  and  market-wide  stress. In  contrast, the 

resolution plan sets out in advance a feasible strategy and detailed roadmap with options for 

orderly  resolution.  The  process  of  formulation  of  recovery  and  resolution  plans  in  advance 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page vii 

 

would  give  a  clear  picture  of  the  feasibility  of  resolvability  of  the  financial  institution.  It  is 

important that at least the domestic SIFIs are brought within the framework.  

 

For  proper  functioning  of  the  resolution  authority  in  achieving  the  objectives,  constant 

consultation, cooperation and coordination among the regulators/supervisors and the FRA is 

important.  This  calls  for  strengthening  the  cooperation  and  consultation  mechanism  by 

entering  into  MoUs.  In  case  of  financial  groups/conglomerates,  constitution  of  a  small  and 

cohesive group for on-going recovery and resolution planning, coordination and information 

sharing  could  help  to  contain  the  systemic  impact  of  the  problems  occurring  in  financial 

institutions.  

 

All  the  key  attributes  as  set  out  in  the  FSB  document  are  not  suitable  for  all  sectors  of 

financial system and during all circumstances as different types of financial institutions have 

distinct  features.  The  legal  framework  that  will  evolve  needs  to  take  into  account  the 

specificities and peculiarities of different segments of the financial sectors. 

 

In order to facilitate and support the implementation of Key Attributes across jurisdictions in a 

consistent manner, the FSB is in the process of developing wide-scale guidance and policies 

in  various  aspects  of  recovery  and  resolution  planning  for  banks  as  well  as  standards  for 

insurers  and  non-bank  financial  institutions  including  FMIs.  The  recommendations  of  the 

Group  are  based  on  the  final  guidance  documents  as  well  as  the  drafts  of  consultation 

documents published by the FSB and best international practices in this area. There would 

be need for a review of the recommendations made by this Group at an appropriate stage to 

take  into  account  the  documents  and  guidance  as  and  when  issued  by  FSB  and  other 

international standard setting bodies with respect to evolving areas, especially those relating 

to non-bank financial institutions including FMIs and cross-border issues. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page viii 

 

CHAPTER 1 

 

Introduction 

 

 

Background 

1.1 

The recent  global financial  crisis  demonstrated  the  shortcomings  of the frameworks 

to handle the failure of large and systemically important financial institutions, also known as 

“Too-Big-To-Fail” (TBTF) institutions1. There were no effective tools to deal with problems at 

an  early  stage,  nor  were  there  effective  solutions  to  be  applied  once  problems  became 

acute.  Majority  of  the  G20  jurisdictions  had  some  form  of  bank  insolvency  procedure  for 

exercising  resolution  measures  for  problem  banks  but  it  was  not  extended  to  large  and 

complex  institutions  and  non-banks.  Such  measures  may  have  worked  for  resolution  of 

smaller  and  domestically  oriented  banks  without  public  bailouts  and  without  catastrophic 

systemic consequences, but proved inadequate for resolving TBTF institutions.  

 

1.2 

The  jurisdictions  lacked  in  effective  resolution  mechanism  for  financial  institutions 

with  sufficient  powers  and  tools.  The  legislative  framework  for  resolution  was  ill-suited  to 

deal  with  the  failures  of  financial  institutions  of  a  large  scale  and  interconnectedness 

especially  when they operated across borders. The extent resolution toolkits were also  not 

specially designed to take into account the special and unique nature of financial institutions. 

 

1.3 

The  problem  became  more  acute 

in 

jurisdictions  where 

there  was  higher 

concentration  of  banking  assets  among  few  top  banks,  for  example  the  United  Kingdom 

where the combined assets of the top 5 banks represented 446% of gross domestic product 

(GDP) at the end of 2009, Netherlands (464%), Sweden (409%), or France (334%)2. In order 

to  contain  the  contagion  effect  that  could  seriously  undermine  the  financial  stability,  the 

authorities had to intervene and provide support with an unprecedented range of measures, 

including  takeover,  blanket  guarantee,  liquidity  infusion  and  expanded  deposit  insurance, 

together termed as government-funded bailouts. In some cases, authorities used corporate 

                                                           
1The term TBTF, though old in usage, assumed its significance from the recent actions of European as well as 
US  authorities  in  2008  in  rescuing  financial  institutions  as  diverse  as  AIG,  Dexia,  Fortis,  Hypo  Real  Estate, 
Icelandic  banks,  Washington  Mutual,  to  name  a  few,  as  well  as  the  consequences  of  the  failure  to  rescue 
Lehman  Brothers  in  September  2008.  TBTF  firms  are  institutions  of  such  size,  market  importance  and 
interconnectedness that their  distress or failure  would cause significant dislocation  in the financial  system and 
adverse economic consequences. 
2Patrick Kenadjian (2011) – Cross Border Resolution of Bank Failures. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 1 

 

insolvency  procedures  leading  to  disorderly  collapse,  which  undermined  public  confidence. 

The  amount  of  direct  and  indirect  public  support1,  estimated  to  be  about  25%  of  GDP,  to 

financial institutions during the crisis raised concerns about moral hazard. 

 

1.4 

The  global  financial  crisis  highlighted  the  urgent  need  to  improve  resolution 

framework  for  large  and  complex  financial  firms  so  as  to  enable  authorities  to  have  more 

effective tools, powers, capacity and information and accordingly resolve problem institutions 

quickly without destabilising the financial system or exposing taxpayers to loss. An effective 

resolution  framework  would  not  only  provide  the  tools  and  the  financial  means  to  take 

appropriate  action,  but  it  will  also  empower  the  resolution  authority  to  orderly  resolve  a 

financial institution in difficulty, while ensuring continuity of critical and important functions.  

 

1.5 

A  wide  variety  of  policy  proposals  to  address  the  moral  hazard  problem  have  been 

put  forward.  The  reform  agenda  has  been  driven  by  the  need  to  reduce  the  likelihood  of 

crisis  of  such  dimensions  by  strengthening  prudential  regulations,  making  financial 

infrastructure  more  robust,  improving  macro-prudential  oversight  and  by  developing  a 

framework  for  resolving  systemically  important  financial  institutions  (SIFIs).  Post-crisis,  the 

global  initiatives  to  strengthen  the financial  regulatory  system  are  driven  by  the  G20  under 

the  auspices  of  the  Financial  Stability  Board  (FSB)  and  the  Basel  Committee  on  Banking 

Supervision  (BCBS),  to  address,  among  others,  the  moral  hazard  posed  by  the  TBTF 

institutions. 

 

1.6 

In  November  2008,  G20  leaders  called  for  a  “review  of  resolution  regimes  and 

bankruptcy  laws  in  light  of  recent  experience  to  ensure  that  they  permit  an  orderly  wind-

down  of  large  complex  cross-border  institutions".  At  the  G20  summit  at  Pittsburgh  in 

September  2009,  they  called  on  FSB  to  propose  possible  measures  to  address  the  TBTF 

problems associated with the SIFIs. They also  committed to act together to "...create more 

powerful  tools  to  hold  large  global  firms  to  account  for  the  risks  they  take"  and,  more 

specifically,  to  "develop  resolution  tools  and  frameworks  for  the  effective  resolution  of 

financial  groups  to  help  mitigate  the  disruption  of  financial  institution  failures  and  reduce 

moral hazard in the future." 

 

                                                           
1The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has estimated that while the net direct fiscal cost of the crisis was on 
an  average  2.7%  of  GDP  for  advanced  G20  countries,  the  amount  pledged  including  guarantees  and  other 
contingent liabilities averaged 25% of GDP. Government debt in advanced G20 economies is projected to rise 
by almost 40 percentage points during 2008-15. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 2 

 

1.7 

Learning  the  lessons  from  the  crisis,  the  BCBS  also  published  its  Basel  III  Capital 

Regulations in December 2010. The objectives of Basel III are to ensure that a crisis of such 

magnitude does not recur. Towards this end, the Basel III has set its objectives to improve 

the shock absorbing capacity of each and every individual bank as the first order of defence 

and  address  systemic  risks.  In  the  worst  case  scenario,  if  it  is  inevitable  that  a  bank  fails, 

there  are  measures  to  effectively  and  efficiently  resolve  the  failing  institution  without 

involving taxpayers’ money so as to minimise its spill-over impact on the real economy.  

 

1.8 

In October 2011, based on the results and key findings  of the survey conducted by 

the  Cross-border  Bank  Resolution  Group  (CBRG)  of  BCBS,  and  drawing  on  the  CBRG 

Recommendations,  the  FSB  proposed  a  set  of  twelve  core  elements  viz.  the  “Key 

Attributes”,  as  essential  components  for  effective  resolution  of  financial  institutions.  At  the 

Cannes summit in November 2011, the G20 Leaders endorsed the FSB's "Key Attributes of 

Effective  Resolution  Regimes  for  Financial  Institutions"1  (the  Key  Attributes)  as  the 

international standard for resolution regimes.  

 

1.9 

The  FSB’s  Key  Attributes  set  out  the  core  elements  considered  to  be  necessary  to 

make feasible the resolution of financial institutions without  severe systemic disruption and 

without  exposing  taxpayers  to  loss,  while  protecting  vital  economic  functions  through 

mechanisms that make it possible for shareholders and unsecured and uninsured creditors 

to absorb losses in a manner that respects the hierarchy of  claims. The Key Attributes call 

for  an  effective  “Resolution  Regime”  to  be  in  place  in  all  jurisdictions  that  provide  the 

resolution  authority  with  a  broad range  of  powers, tools  and  options  to  resolve  a  variety  of 

firms that are no longer viable and have no reasonable prospect of becoming so. 

 

1.10  The G20 countries and the FSB jurisdictions are expected to fully implement the Key 

Attributes in substance and scope, and for all parts of the financial sector that could cause 

systemic problems, by end-2015. By end-2015, the jurisdictions are also expected to adopt 

resolution  regimes,  crisis  management  groups  (CMGs)  or  equivalent  arrangements,  and 

resolution planning, for financial market infrastructures (FMIs) that are systemically important 

in more than one jurisdiction and for systemically important insurers, consistent with the FSB 

Annexes  to  the  Key  Attributes  that  are  in  the  process  of  finalization  with  inputs  through  a 

process of dialogue with the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS). 

 

                                                           
1See http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_111104cc.pdf. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 3 

 

1.11  The FSB in association with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank is 

developing  assessment  criteria  and  methodologies  to  facilitate  country  assessments  with 

respect to the Key Attributes.  

 

Constitution of the Working Group 

1.12  The  sub-Committee  of  the  Financial  Stability  Development  Council  (FSDC)  had 

decided,  in  its  meeting  held  on  June  14,  2012,  to  set  up  a  Working  Group  in  order  to 

examine  and  assess  the  current  gaps,  vis-à-vis  the  FSB’s  Key  Attributes,  in  the  Indian 

resolution  framework  for  the  financial  sector  as  a  whole  and  to  recommend  the  legislative 

changes needed to address such gaps as also the required steps with anticipated timelines. 

Accordingly, the Reserve Bank of India, in January 2013, constituted a High Level Working 

Group  with  Shri  Anand  Sinha,  Deputy  Governor,  RBI  as  Chairperson  and  Dr.  Arvind 

Mayaram,  Secretary,  Department  of  Economic  Affairs,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Government  of 

India as co-Chairperson.  

 

Composition of Group 

1.13  The composition of the Working Group is as follows: 

 

1. 

2. 

Shri Anand Sinha 

Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank of India 

Chairperson 

Dr. Arvind Mayaram 

Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, 
Ministry of Finance, Government of India 

Co-Chairperson 

3. 

Shri M. J. Joseph1 

Additional Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
Government of India 

Member 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

Shri Ramesh Abhishek2  Chairman, Forward Markets Commission 

Shri P. Vijaya Bhaskar 

Executive Director, Reserve Bank of India 

Shri B. Mahapatra 

Executive Director, Reserve Bank of India 

Shri Jasbir Singh 

Executive Director, Deposit Insurance and Credit 
Guarantee Corporation (DICGC), Reserve Bank 
of India 

Member 

Member 

Member 

Member 

8. 

Dr. C. S. Mohapatra 

Adviser (FSDC), Department of Economic Affairs, 
Ministry of Finance, Government of India 

Member 

9. 

Shri Alok Nigam 

Joint Secretary, Department of Financial 
Services, Ministry of Finance, Government of 

Member 

                                                           
1Shri M. J. Joseph was nominated by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, as member to the 
Group to replace Smt. Renuka Kumar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs. Shri M. J. Joseph did not 
attend any of the meetings of the Group. 
2As  per  decisions  taken  in  the  first  meeting  of  the  Group  held  on  April  11,  2013,  the  Ministry  of  Consumer 
Affairs, Government of India nominated Shri Ramesh Abhishek as a member of the Working Group. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 4 

 

India 

10.  Shri P. K. Nagpal 

Executive Director, Securities and Exchange 
Board of India 

Member 

11.  Ms. Usha Suresh1 

Economic Adviser, Forward Markets Commission  Member 

12.  Shri G. S. Hegde 

Principal Legal adviser, Reserve Bank of India 

Member 

13.  Shri G. Jaganmohan 

Rao2 

Principal Chief General Manager, Department of 
Banking Supervision, Reserve Bank of India 

Member 

14.  Shri Vijay Chugh3 

Chief General Manager, Department of Payment 
and Settlement Systems, Reserve Bank of India 

Member 

15.  Dr. Mamta Suri 

Senior Joint Director, Insurance Regulatory and 
Development Authority 

16.  Ms. Deepa Kotnis 

Chief General Manager, Pension Fund 
Regulatory and Development Authority 

Member 

Member 

17.  Shri Chandan Sinha4 

Principal Chief General Manager, Department of 
Banking Operations and Development, Reserve 
Bank of India 

Member-
Secretary 

18.  Ms. Uma Subramaniam  Chief General Manager and Principal, Reserve 

Bank Staff College, Reserve Bank of India 

Permanent 
Invitee 

 

Terms of Reference of Group 

1.14  The terms of reference of the Working Group are as follows: 

(i)  To examine the existing resolution regime/framework for the entire financial sector as 

a  whole  (commercial  banks,  regional  rural  banks,  non-banking  financial  institutions, 

securities 

firms, 

insurance  companies,  pension 

funds  and 

financial  market 

infrastructure)  as  also  the  current  resolution  tools  and  powers  vested  with  the 

respective regulators of financial institutions/Government of India; 

(ii)  To identify the current gaps in the national resolution regime/framework vis-à-vis the 

FSB Key Attributes; 

(iii) To  study 

the  resolution  regimes/framework 

instituted/implemented  by  major 

jurisdictions; 

                                                           
1As  per  decisions  taken  in  the  first  meeting  of  the  Group  held  on  April  11,  2013,  The  Forward  Markets 
Commission nominated Ms. Usha Suresh as a member of the Working Group. 
2As  per  decisions  taken  in  the  first  meeting  of  the  Group  held  on  April  11,  2013,  the  RBI  (Department  of 
Banking  Supervision)  nominated  Shri  G.  Jaganmohan  Rao  as  a  member  of  the  Working  Group.  He  resigned 
from  Reserve  Bank  in  December  2013  to  join  as  Managing  Director  of  Bank  Note  Paper  Mill  India  Private 
Limited. He was replaced by Shri P. Vijaya Kumar, Chief General Manager, RBI. 
3As  per  decisions  taken  in  the  first  meeting  of  the  Group  held  on  April  11,  2013,  the  RBI  (Department  of 
Payment and Settlement Systems) nominated Shri Vijay Chugh as a member of the Working Group. 
4Consequent upon transfer of Shri Deepak Singhal, CGM-in-Charge to New Delhi Regional Office as Regional 
Director,  Shri  Chandan  Sinha,  Principal  Chief  General  Manager,  Department  of  Banking  Operations  and 
Development was nominated as Member-Secretary to the Working Group. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 5 

 

(iv) To  recommend  changes  in  the  legal  framework  to  facilitate  the  required  resolution 

regime including cross-border resolution;  

(v)  To make recommendations about the next steps to be taken in this regard along with 

anticipated timelines; and 

(vi) Any other matter germane to the issue. 

The  Group  was  required  to  submit  its  report  within  twelve  months  from  the  date  of  its  first 

meeting. 

 

1.15  The Working Group held six meetings on April 11, August 19, October 17, November 

7,  December  27,  2013  and  January  16,  2014.  The  Group  while  preparing  this  report  has 

drawn  primarily  from  the  FSB’s  Key  Attributes,  the  guidance  on  recovery  and  resolution 

planning  issued  by  the  FSB,  the  draft  Assessment  Methodology  of  resolution  regime,  the 

international practices and work in progress in major advanced jurisdictions, the extant legal 

framework in place in India and gaps in the resolution framework for financial institutions in 

India  vis-à-vis  the  Key  Attributes.  The  initial  work  done  by  the  Internal  Working  Group1  on 

Resolution  Regime  for  banks  and  other  RBI  regulated  entities  (Chairman:  Shri  B. 

Mahapatra)  has  greatly  helped  this  Group  to  frame  its  report.  The  Group  has  also 

considered  the  recommendations  given  by  the  Financial  Sector  Legislative  Reforms 

Commission (FSLRC)2 as far as it relates to resolution of financial institutions.  

 

1.16  The  Group  recognizes  the  fact  that  while  all  the  essential  features  of  a  sound  and 

effective resolution regime will be applicable in case of resolution of banks, many of them will 

not  be  applicable  in  resolution  of  other  types  of  financial  institutions  and  FMIs.  The  Key 

Attributes also consider this and have expressed that all resolution powers set out in the Key 

Attributes  are  not  suitable  for  all  sectors  and  all  circumstances.  In  this  context,  the  FSB, 

jointly with the other international standard-setting bodies, is in the process of extending its 

sector-specific standards on Key Attributes to cover a wider range of market participants in 

the  financial  sector,  including  FMIs,  insurance  companies  and  other  non-bank  financial 

institutions. 

 

                                                           
1The  members of the Internal  Working Group include  – Shri B. Mahapatra (Chairman),  Shri  Deepak  Singhal, 
Shri G. Jaganmohan Rao, Shri Vijay Chugh, Ms. Uma Subramaniam, Smt. Rekha Warrior, and Shri Sudhanshu 
Prasad (Member-Secretary). Permanent Invitees include – Shri A. Unnikrishnan, Ms. Kumudini Hajra, Shri I. S. 
Negi, and Shri M. Nandakumar. 
2The FSLRC (Chairman: Justice (Retd.) B. N. Srikrishna) was constituted by the Government of India in March 
2011  with  a  mandate  to  comprehensively  review  and  rewrite  and  clean-up  the  legislations  governing  India’s 
financial  system  to  bring  them  in  tune  with  current  requirements.  The  Commission  submitted  its  report  to  the 
Government in March 2013. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 6 

 

1.17 

In order to promote cross-border resolution planning for G-SIFIs and also to extend 

the  scope  of  national  resolution  regimes  beyond  banks  to  cover  non-bank  financial 

institutions, the FSB is in the process of developing policy documents and guidance on the 

following: 

  coordination and cooperation arrangements with home and host authorities; 

  effective  frameworks  for  information  sharing  including  common  data  template  for 

collection and sharing;  

  coordination and information sharing between CMGs and non-CMG host authorities; 

  detailed  parameters  for  effective  formulation  of  resolution  strategy  including  nature, 

location and type of gone-concern loss absorbing capacity in G-SIFIs;  

  methodologies to measure the funding requirements in resolution;  

 

treatment of financial contracts in a manner that supports effective implementation of 

resolution strategy and avoid contagion through early termination in resolution; 

 

framework for cross-border recognition of resolution actions, in particular bail-in and 

temporary stay of close-out rights; 

 

resolvability assessment process for G-SIFIs; and 

  application of Key Attributes to Non-Bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs)1. 

 

1.18  The international consensus on a number of areas is evolving. The European Union’s 

proposal for resolution framework is still in draft stage. This report, therefore, focuses more 

on banks, while making general recommendations for other financial institutions2 and FMIs3. 

Care needs to be taken to fine tune the recommendations on the basis of policy documents 

and  guidance  when  issued  by  the  FSB  and  other  international  standard  setting  bodies, for 

application to other financial institutions.  

 

1.19  Even in the case of banks, the Group observes that the important and big banks in 

India are in the public sector, i.e., majority ownership is with the Central Government. Public 

ownership  of  banks  has  advantage  of  implicit  government guarantee.  Depositors,  creditors 

and other stakeholders repose immense faith in these banks even if their financial positions 

may  not  be  satisfactory.  This  was  evidenced  in  late  1990s/early  2000s  when  three  public 

issued 

a 

for 

inviting 

in  August  2013 

consultative  document 

                                                           
1FSB  has 
http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_130812a.pdf. 
2 For the purpose of this report, the term “financial institutions” refers to banks (including public sector banks, 
private  sector  banks,  foreign  banks  having  branches  in  India,  regional  rural  banks,  state  co-operative  banks, 
district  central  co-operative  banks,  and  primary  urban  co-operative  banks),  insurance  companies,  securities 
firms, pension funds and commodity market. 
3For  the  purpose  of  this  report,  the  term  “financial  market  infrastructures”  refers  to  payment  systems,  central 
counterparties  (CCPs),  securities  settlement  systems  (SSSs),  central  securities  depositories  (CSDs),  and  trade 
repositories (TRs). 

comments.  See 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 7 

 

sector banks were identified as “weak” banks but could be turned around without the risk of 

run on these banks. The Group considers the issue of resolution of these banks on the same 

footing  with  other  banks.  The  issue  of  resolvability  of  a  financial  institution  stems  from  the 

basic  premise  of  ‘ownership-neutrality’,  and  equally  applies  to  government  owned  financial 

firms. 

 
Structure of the report 

1.20  The Report is organized into five chapters. After this introductory Chapter, Chapter 2 

discusses  the  global  initiatives  and  international  practices  in  relation  to  implementation  of 

Key Attributes. Chapter 3 presents in brief the Key Attributes and also identifies the current 

gaps  vis-à-vis  the  Key  Attributes  in  the  Indian  resolution  framework  for  all  financial 

institutions.  Chapter  4  describes  the  institutional  arrangements,  design,  coordination  and 

preparedness that are necessary for orderly resolution of financial institutions in India. Lastly, 

Chapter  5  deals  with  the  requirements  for  legal  framework  conditions  for  cross-border 

cooperation,  information  sharing,  institution-specific  cross-border  cooperation  agreements 

and crisis management groups.   

 

Acknowledgements 

1.21  The Group is grateful to the FSDC, its sub-Committee and the Reserve Bank of India 

for  entrusting  them  the  important  task  of  reviewing  the  existing  resolution  regime  for  all 

financial institutions, identifying gaps vis-à-vis the Key Attributes, and suggesting the nature 

and extent of legislative changes required to address the identified gaps.  

 

1.22 

As  this  Group  set  out  on  the  challenging  task  of  formulating  the  contours  of  the 

Financial  Resolution  Framework  for  all  financial  institutions  in  India  in  line  with  the  Key 

Attributes, it acknowledges the valuable suggestions provided by the permanent invitee, Ms. 

Uma Subramaniam. 

 

1.23  The  Group  appreciates  the  extra  ordinary  work  put  in  by  Shri  Sudhanshu  Prasad, 

Deputy  General  Manager,  Department  of  Banking  Operations  and  Development,  Reserve 

Bank  of  India  in  preparing  the  report  and  also  giving  it  the  final  shape.  The  Group  is 

immensely  grateful  to  Ms.  Kumudini  Hajra,  Director,  Deposit  Insurance  and  Credit 

Guarantee  Corporation  (DICGC)  for  sharing  her 

insight  on  resolution  frameworks, 

contributing  during  the  discussions  of  the  Group,  for  providing  information  on  international 

practices  and  resolution funding  arrangements for  orderly  resolution  of financial  institutions 

and  also  contributing  very  substantially  in  finalising  this  Report.  Finally,  the  Group 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 8 

 

acknowledges the efforts of Shri Jaikar Mishra, Manager, Department of Banking Operations 

and  Development,  Reserve  Bank  of  India  in  preparing  a  framework  of  the  existing  legal 

framework  as  well  as  resolution  regime  for  all  financial  institutions  in  India  and  also 

assessing the  existing  gaps  vis-à-vis  the  Key  Attributes. The  Group  is  also  grateful for  the 

contributions made by Shri B. S. Bohra, Assistant Legal Adviser, Legal Department, Reserve 

Bank of India on legal aspects of existing resolution framework for entities falling within the 

regulatory 

jurisdiction  of 

the  RBI.  The  Group 

thanks 

the  Secretariat  for  flawless 

arrangements for hosting the meetings. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 9 

 

CHAPTER 2 

 
 

International Practices and Global Initiatives 

 
 
 
Global Financial Crisis – Drawbacks and Shortcomings 

2.1 

The  global  financial  crisis  unfolding  in  August  2007  witnessed  failure  of  a  few  high 

profile banks and financial institutions, also known as “Too-Big-To-Fail” (TBTF) institutions. 

The failure of these TBTF institutions had a contagion impact on the whole financial system 

and  interrupted  the  financial  intermediation  process,  also  impacting  the  payment  and 

settlement  services  provided  by  the  financial  market  infrastructures  (FMIs).  The  failure  to 

perform the critical economic functions spilled over to the real economy. 

 

2.2 

The authorities had to intervene and bail out the TBTF institutions. In order to contain 

the  contagion  effect  and  avoid  the  spillover  that  could  undermine  financial  stability,  the 

authorities  introduced  an  unprecedented  range  of  support  measures,  including  blanket 

guarantees, liquidity provisions, recapitalization and expanded deposit insurance, which are 

together  termed  as  government-funded  bailouts.  In  case  of  some  non-bank  financial 

institutions,  the  authorities  tried  to  use  general  corporate  insolvency  procedures  leading  to 

disorderly collapse with widespread effects. 

 

2.3 

There  are  several  estimates  of  the  cost  of  the  crisis  to  the  public  exchequer.  The 

amount of support to the systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs)1 during the crisis 

was about 25% of the world’s GDP2. Capital injection and asset purchase in G20 countries 

are  estimated  at  around  2.1%  of  GDP.  Fiscal  cost  of  direct  support  for  advanced  G20 

countries  and  emerging  market  economies  has  typically  been  4%  and  11%  of  GDP 

respectively.  Cumulative  output  loss  in  the  countries  that  experienced  a  systemic  crisis  is 

estimated at about 27% of their GDP.  

 

                                                           
1  SIFIs  are  financial  institutions  whose  distress  or  disorderly  failure,  because  of  their  size,  complexity  and 
systemic  interconnectedness,  would  cause  significant  disruption  to  the  wider  financial  system  and  economic 
activity. 
2  IMF:  Laeven  and  Valencia  (2010),  Geneva  Reports  on  the  World  Economy  (2010)  jointly  published  by 
International Center for Monetary and Banking Studies (ICMB) and Centre International D’Etudes Monetatires 
Et Bancaires (CIMB). 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 10 

 

2.4 

A few examples here will not be out of place. Banks like Fortis, Dexia, HBOS, Royal 

Bank  of  Scotland  (RBS),  Lloyds,  etc.  were  hit  by  the  financial  crisis  and  were  rescued  by 

public  money  or  supported  by  state  guarantees.  The  Icelandic  banks  failed  because  their 

access to funding collapsed in light of global financial difficulties. The assets of these banks 

were  ring-fenced  by  a  policy  decision  by  the  parliament.  In  the  case  of  Fortis,  flaws  and 

inadequacies in the resolution tool kits resulted in the group being split along national lines. 

 

2.5 

The  chaotic  way  in  which  Lehman  Brothers  was  placed  into  bankruptcy  led  to  a 

significant loss of market confidence and caused uncertainties about the location and return 

of client assets. This case reveals legal problems with widespread cross country operations 

of a financial institution. Cross country coordination under prevailing legal conditions proved 

difficult as Lehman repatriated all liquid assets to the US and the foreign jurisdictions had no 

legal  claim  on  the  entity.  This  thus  shows  that  there  was  in  effect  a  clear  failure  of 

cooperation and information sharing at a critical moment: insolvency. The Lehman case also 

highlights how disorderly bankruptcy can lead to  a loss of access to key services,  such as 

payment and settlement services, and may cause a disruption in these systems and across 

borders. This also showed that the market was not well-placed to withstand the exit of large 

and heavily interconnected financial institutions due to the negative externalities they posed 

on the stability of national economies and the global financial system. 

 

2.6 

The case of the Anglo-Irish and Icelandic banks shows that solutions adopted were 

inefficient  and  bail-in  may  have  offered  some  alternative  depending  on  the  structure  of 

banks. The losses incurred by banks, like Dexia  for example,  could have been covered by 

bailing in shareholders and creditors, rather than employing public funds. 

 

2.7 

In  the  case  of  American  International  Group  (AIG),  the  losses  were  caused  by  the 

unregulated financial arm of AIG that operated like a hedge fund. The  systemic threat of a 

disorderly  bankruptcy  was  judged  to  be  too  large  and  the  US  authorities  opted  to  infuse 

public  funds.  On  being  approached  by  the  AIG’s  management,  the  US  Government  lent  a 

total  of  USD  183  billion1.  This  illustrates  how  public  support  can  lead  to  an  open-ended 

commitment, involving a large burden on the taxpayer.  

 

2.8 

At  the  time  of  start  of  Northern  Rock’s  problems,  the  UK  did  not  have  a  special 

resolution regime and relied on the traditional resolution tools. Northern Rock faced a severe 

liquidity problem, caused by the closure of its major funding market for residential mortgage 

                                                           
1Geneva Reports on the World Economy jointly published by ICMB and CIMB (2010). 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 11 

 

backed securities, and had a heightened probability of experiencing an insolvency problem. 

Because of the fear of contagion, Northern Rock was not allowed to fail in a way that could 

have jeopardised the large number of depositors. 

 

2.9 

The  cases  of  Fortis,  Northern  Rock,  and  Hypo  Real  Estate  (HRE)  also  display 

problems  associated  with  shareholders  delaying  or  blocking  the  resolution  path  chosen  by 

the authorities. After Fortis was split, the Belgian authorities sought to sell the Belgian entity 

to BNP Paribas. However, the legal battle involving the need for shareholder approval led to 

significant  delay  before  the  transaction  with  BNP  Paribas  could  be  achieved.  Similarly, 

Northern Rock was encouraged by the authorities to seek a takeover by a different banking 

group. However, the deal could not be struck because of the requirement  of approval from 

the  shareholders,  which  did  not  materialise  as  the  offers  were  considered  by  them  to  be 

materially below the traded share value. The takeover of HRE by the German Government 

also met with similar problems. 

 

2.10  The  financial  crisis  has  in  particular  illustrated  shortcomings  in  crisis  management 

frameworks  of  cross-border  financial  institutions,  in  addition  to  the  shortcomings  in  the 

domestic  national  resolution frameworks. The collapse  of the Icelandic  banks and  Fortis  in 

the  Benelux  countries,  as  also  the  Dexia  and  Lehman  Brothers  showed  that  resolution  of 

cross-border institutions may pose even more challenges. The reasons for this are manifold, 

making these institutions more difficult to resolve – (i) involvement of multiple home and host 

authorities;  (ii)  different  legal  systems;  (iii)  different  mandates  and  objectives  of  several 

national  authorities  involved,  and  (iv)  different  standards  for  cooperation  and  information 

sharing arrangements.  

 

2.11  The complexity of group structures also proved to be burdensome in the crisis for the 

regulatory and supervisory authorities. For example, Lehman Group consisted of 2,985 legal 

entities  that  operated  in  about  50  countries.  Many  of  these  entities  were  subject  to  host 

country regulations while supervision was done by the Securities and Exchange Commission 

(SEC), through the Consolidated Supervised Entities (CSE) programme in the United States. 

The  Lehman  structure  consisted  of  a  complicated  mix  of  both  regulated  and  unregulated 

entities  and  was  designed  to  optimise  economic  return  while  achieving  compliance  with 

legal,  regulatory  and  tax  requirements  throughout  the  world.  The  functioning  of  the  group 

was such that a trade performed in one company could be booked in another. The lines of 

business did not necessarily map to the legal entity lines of the companies. The group was 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 12 

 

so organised that some essential functions such as management of liquidity were centralised 

in parent holding company, Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. (LBHI).  

 

2.12  The above cases point towards limitations of extant resolution framework to deal with 

large-size  financial  institutions  with  complex  operations,  lack  of  cross  border  resolution 

arrangements, limitations of depositor protection arrangements and moral hazard associated 

with government bailouts. 

 

2.13  The  global  financial  crisis  also  illustrated  the  fact  that  there  were  no  effective 

resolution tools in place to deal with SIFIs at an early stage. Majority of the jurisdictions had 

some  form  of  bank  insolvency  procedure  for  exercising  resolution  measures  for  problem 

banks, but it was not extended to large and complex institutions. The prevailing bankruptcy 

framework that did exist in a number of jurisdictions may have worked well  for resolution of 

smaller  and  domestically  oriented  banks  as  the  authorities  could find  another  bank  to  take 

over the problem bank or the bank could be liquidated with losses to creditors and uninsured 

depositors.  The  extant  resolution  toolkits  were  also  not  designed  to  take  into  account  the 

special nature of credit institutions. 

 

2.14  This is clearly observable in the briefs given in Box 2.1, which details the resolution 

measures exercised in case of Fortis, Dexia, Washington Mutual and Icelandic banks.  

 

 

BOX 2.1 

Glitnir bank, Kaupthing bank and Landsbanki (Iceland)1 

 
The  Icelandic  banks  were  finding  difficulties  in  refinancing  their  short  term  debt.  The  banks  were 
under huge foreign debt, with three major banks holding more than €50 billion in debt. Further, there 
was  sharp  depreciation  in  the  Icelandic  currency  Króna,  further  adding  to  the  woes.  In  fact,  high 
interest  rates  in  the  period  resulted  in  carry  trading  in  the  Króna.  Central  bank’s  intervention  also 
could  not  stem  the  slide.  High  inflation  was  exacerbated  by  the  Central  Bank  of  Iceland  that  was 
increasing liquidity in the system. Other factors that were pivotal in the crisis were newspapers reports 
speculating  nationalisation  of  Glitnir,  high  leverage  of  Kaupthing  and  other  banks,  and  deteriorating 
Icelandic economy. Finally, Central Bank of Iceland and government could not guarantee payment of 
bank debts (especially depositors), leading to collapse of banks.  
Measures taken by the government 
 
The  government  package  provided  powers  to  the  Icelandic  Financial  Supervisory  Authority 
(FME) to take over the functioning of Icelandic banks without nationalisation. It accorded preferential 
treatment for depositors in the event of liquidation. The government also allowed full guarantee to the 
retail deposits for Icelandic branches of Icelandic banks. 
 
On  September  29,  2008  Icelandic  government  announced  nationalisation  of  Glitinir  bank  with 
the purchase of a 75% stake for €600 million. Government informed that in absence of intervention, 
the  bank  would  have  ceased  to  exist.  However,  Glitnir  was  subsequently  placed  in  receivership  on 
October 7, 2008 by the FME. 
                                                           
1 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (2010), Danielsson and Zoega (2009), and Geneva Reports on the 
World Economy jointly published by ICMB and CIMB (2010). 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 13 

 

The Icelandic government also directed substantial reduction in repayment to foreign investors 

On  October  7,  2008  the  FME  also  placed  Landsbanki  in  receivership,  though  the  operations 
 
were kept open for business as usual. The deposits of the UK arm of the Landsbanki, viz.,  Heritable 
Bank,  were  transferred  by  the  UK  government  (under  Banking  (Special  Provisions)  Act,  2008)  to  a 
Treasury holding company and then to ING Direct for GBP 1 million.   
 
that included investors from UK. 
 
In UK, the internet bank of the subsidiary of Kaupthing bank, viz., Kaupthing Edge was sold to 
ING Direct by the FSA after default on its obligations. The subsidiary Kaupthing Singer & Friedlander 
was put into administration. This resulted into a run on the bank and later, on October 9, 2008, FME 
placed Kaupthing bank into receivership.  
 
Due  to  fall  in  prices  of  stocks  of  these  banks,  their  collateral  value  estimated  at  300  billion 
krónur  (€2  billion)  also  got  eroded, and  on  October  21, 2008  the  Central  Bank  of  Iceland asked  the 
remaining  independent  financial  institutions  for  new  collateral  against  their  loans.  Sparisjóðabanki 
bank,  also  known  as  Icebank  expressed  its  inability  to  provide  for  new  collateral  and  turned  to  the 
government for help.  
Measures taken by the regulators 
 
For  continued  operations  of  Icelandic  banks,  FME  ring-fenced  the  operations  of  Landsbanki 
and Glitnir. NBI (known as  NýiLandsbanki) was set up on October 9, 2008 with 200 billion Krónur in 
equity  and  2,300  billion  Krónur  of  assets  and  NýiGlitnir  was  set  up  on  October  15,  2008  with  110 
billion  Krónur  in  equity  and  1,200  billion  Krónur  of  assets.  Kaupthing  bank  was  rechristened  as 
NýjaKaupþing  on October  22,  2008 with 75 billion Krónur  in equity and  700 billion  Krónur of assets. 
Icelandic government provided equity in the three banks. Glitnir and Kaupthing were provided relief in 
terms of moratorium on payments to creditors from the Court.  
 
In  UK,  deposit  insurance  was  paid  under  the  Financial  Services  Compensation  Scheme 
(FSCS)  for  transfer  of  deposits  from  the  subsidiaries  of  Landsbanki  and  Kaupthing  to  ING  Direct  as 
also for insuring retail deposits of these banks.  
 
The  FME  took  over  domestic  operations  of  the  three  largest  banks  though  the  international 
operations  of  these  banks  went  into  receivership.  The  country  could  resurrect  banking  system  that 
has  been  pruned  down  substantially.  The  result  of  such  austere  and  prudent  measures  has  reaped 
dividends as the banks were not affected by the recent European sovereign debt crisis. 

Washington Mutual (US)1 

 
Washington  Mutual  (WaMu)  business  model  was  to  cater  to  risky  consumers  of  lower  and  middle 
class.  It  provided  easy  access  to  the  least  creditworthy  borrowers  to  get  financing.  During  2007/08, 
the  bank  faced  sub-prime  losses.  The  problems  of  the  bank  and  resultant  apprehensions  of  the 
customers led to a run on the bank.  
Measures by the regulator and the government 
 
On September 25, 2008, the US Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) seized WaMu and placed it 
under the receivership of Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Thereafter, WaMu’s banking 
operations were acquired by JPMorgan Chase2. All depositors were fully protected and there was no 
cost to the deposit insurance funds.  
 
JPMorgan  Chase  acquired  the  assets,  assumed  the  qualified  financial  contracts  and  made  a 
payment of USD1.9 billion. Claims by equity, subordinated and senior debt holders were not acquired, 
hence,  the  bank’s  equity  holders  were  wiped  out  as  the  stock  prices  plummeted.  JPMorgan  Chase 
acquired all  assets but cherry  picked liabilities like deposits, covered bonds and other secured debt, 
as also, all banking operations of WaMu. The assets and liabilities of the parent holding company as 
also, uninsured deposits over the coverage limit of USD 100,000 were left behind.  
Further,  looking at the gravity  of the situation,  instead of  waiting for end  of business of Friday 
 
when generally the seizure of banks is carried out, the measure was carried out on Thursday. WaMu 
with more than USD 300 billion in assets was the largest bank failure in the US. 
 
A  certain  set  of  people  including  shareholders  of WaMu  felt  that  the  seizure  of  the  bank  and 
giving the assets and branches of WaMu to JPMorgan Chase was not proper. They also felt that the 
OTS acted arbitrarily and WaMu seizure was politically motivated for the benefit of JPMorgan Chase. 
 

                                                           
1Source: Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (2010). 
2FDIC press release dated September 25, 2008 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 14 

 

Fortis (Benelux)1 

Fortis N.V. was a company active in banking, insurance and investment management. It was active in 
Belgium,  Netherlands  and  Luxembourg  (Benelux  countries).  Fortis  was  one  of  the  members  of  the 
consortium that had announced acceptance of offer of 86% of the outstanding ABN AMRO stock. The 
acquisition  was  a  part  of  the  plan  for  rapid  expansion  of  business  operations.  Fortis  had  to  issue 
shares  (at  discount  to  existing  shareholders)  to  finance  this  takeover  bid.  Further,  to  shore  up  its 
capital due to international financial crisis, it had to issue more shares, and eliminate dividend payout. 
All these factors resulted in fall in share prices, and over a period of time, the deteriorating health of 
the bank added to the apprehensions of the customers and the resultant withdrawals caused serious 
liquidity problems for the bank.  
Measures by the regulator and the government 
 
The government of Luxembourg approached Fortis with an offer of assistance. Under the plan, 
Fortis would receive financial support from a private trust (Shanti Swami Privet Trust) against shares 
in Fortis bank. The plan also included selling off the Dutch ABN AMRO to the Dutch Government. 
 
Though  other  banks  showed  interest  in  taking  over  Fortis,  it  was  partially  nationalised  on 
September  28,  2008,  with  the  three  Benelux  countries  investing  a  total  of  €11.2  billion  (USD  16.3 
billion)  in  the  bank. Whereas  Belgium  took  49%  of  Fortis's  Belgian  banking  unit  for  €4.7  billion,  the 
Netherlands  paid  €4  billion  for  a similar  stake in  the  Dutch banking  business.  Luxembourg  provided 
€2.5  billion  loan  convertible  into  49%  of  Fortis's  banking  division  in  that  country2.  At  the  same  time, 
the initial plan to integrate the operations of ABN AMRO into Fortis was shelved.  
 
On  October  3,  2008,  the  Dutch  government  announced  purchase  of  the  Dutch  banking  and 
insurance divisions of Fortis for €16.8 billion (USD 23.3 billion). Thereafter, Luxembourg government 
& SS Trust also increased their control from 49% to 52%. Luxembourg also bought parts of the Fortis 
company for a symbolic price of €1.  
 
merger between ABN AMRO and Fortis Bank Netherlands. 
After  the  Dutch  action,  Belgian  government  arranged  merger  of  Fortis  Belgian  unit  (including 
 
the  insurance  and  banking  subsidiaries)  with  BNP  Paribas  as  a  majority  shareholder.  Though  the 
Belgian and Luxembourg governments were reduced to minority shareholding, they retained blocking 
power in exchange for shares in BNP Paribas. 
Thereafter  the  Belgian  government  purchased  the  remaining  shares  of  the  Fortis  Bank  from 
 
Fortis  Group  and  sold  75%  of  those  to  BNP  Paribas,  at  an  evaluation  of  €11  billion  for  the  total 
company,  to  be  paid  by  shares  of  BNP  Paribas,  thereby  becoming  the  biggest  shareholder  in  BNP 
Paribas (at 12%). 
 
It is reported that Dutch were left out of negotiations till a later date causing friction and distrust, 
and  that  if  all  three  countries  had  been  involved  from  the  start,  they  could  have  saved  Fortis  in  its 
entirety.  The  subsequent  Dutch  action  resulted  in  bad  press  for  Belgian  government  as  general 
feeling  was  that  Belgium  was  left  with  the  messy  parts  of  the  company.  Negotiations  with  BNP 
Paribas  did  not  go  smoothly,  as  they  wanted  only  the  banking  parts  and  not  the  'toxic'  structured 
products.  Belgium  government  had  to  agree  to  let  Fortis  Group  deal  with  the  'toxic'  structured 
products. The banking business was sold to BNP Paribas. 

On  October  21,  2008,  the  Dutch  government  created  a  strong  Dutch  bank  by  announcing 

Dexia (Belgium)3 

Dexia  N.V./S.A.,  is  a  Franco-Belgian  bank  active  in  banking,  asset  management,  and  insurance. 
During the sub-prime crisis, the bank faced losses at its US subsidiary FSA and from a huge loan to 
troubled  German  bank  Depfa.  It  applied  for  bailout  and  received  help  from  Belgian  government  in 
terms of capital injection and guarantees. The bank posted huge losses after writing down the Greek 
debt.  It  got  the  dubious  distinction  of  being  the  first  casualty  of  the  2011  European  sovereign  debt 
crisis. 
 
Measures by the regulator and the government 
Initial  discussions  pointed  towards  breakup  of  bank.  On  October  10,  2011,  Belgian  government 
announced purchase of the Belgian banking arm for Euro 4 billion. Luxemburg and French operations 
were  sold  to  other  financial  institutions.  For  the  remaining  troubled  assets,  the  governments  of 

                                                           
1Dewatripont and Rochet (2009), Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (2010), and Geneva Reports on the 
World Economy jointly published by ICMB and CIMB (2010). 
2Blomberg: Fortis Gets EU11.2 Billion Rescue From Governments. September 28, 2008. 
3Van  De  Woestyne  and  Van  Caloen  (2009),  Basel  Committee  on  Banking  Supervision  (2010),  and  Geneva 
Reports on the World Economy jointly published by ICMB and CIMB (2010). 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 15 

 

Belgium  (60.5%),  France  (36.5%)  and  Luxembourg  (3%)  provided  guarantees  up  to  €90  billion.  On 
July 27, 2012, 50% share in RBC Dexia Investor Services was sold to Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) 
and was renamed RBC Investor Services. 
 

Need for an Effective Resolution Regime 

2.15  A  sound  and  effective  resolution  regime  and  a  legal  framework  for  cross-border 

cooperation  could  address  shortcomings  mentioned  above.  Had  the  relevant  powers  and 

tools been available to the relevant authorities in the cases of banks and financial institutions 

that  were  bailed  out  with  public  money  and  a  legal  framework  for  cross-border  banks  was 

existent  and  enforceable,  the  authorities  could  have  achieved  solutions  that  were  less 

disruptive and did not involve use of taxpayers’ money for resolution of cross-border banking 

groups.  A  sound  resolution  regime  means  that  resolution  authority  adopts  resolution  tools 

that  provide  least  cost  solution  and  maintain  financial  stability  rather  than  simply  bail-out 

using taxpayers’ money.  

 

2.16  The  case  of  Bradford  &  Bingley  illustrates  such  an  example.  When,  in  September 

2008, the UK’s Financial Services Authority (FSA) determined that the bank no longer met 

threshold conditions, UK authorities took Bradford & Bingley into temporary public ownership 

in  terms  of  the  emergency  legislation,  the  Banking  Special  Provisions  Act,  which  later 

became the Banking Act, 2009. Thanks to extensive prior contingency planning, the UK was 

able,  over  the  space  of  a  single  weekend,  to  auction  Bradford  &  Bingley’s  retail  deposits, 

branches  and  associated  systems  to  Santander,  leaving  the  rest  (mortgage  operations)  in 

public ownership which was liquidated over time. The Bradford & Bingley branches opened 

for business as usual on Monday morning with no interruption in service. Another example is 

Denmark's  Amagerbanken  -  early  in  2011,  the  Danish  authorities  demonstrated  both  their 

willingness and capacity to use the recently created bank resolution framework, imposing a 

41%  write-down  of  senior  debt  and  unguaranteed  deposits,  and  in  so  doing  sent  a  strong 

signal  that  they  may  do  so  again  in  the  future.  Until  this  time,  the  Danish  authorities  had 

supported  the  unguaranteed  depositors  and  senior  creditors  of  failing  banks  via  blanket 

guarantees, guarantees on debt issuance by the banks, and hybrid capital injections. 

 

2.17  The  UK  used  its  special  resolution  regime  (Banking  Act,  2009)  first  on  the 

Dunfermline Building Society, which  was small in operations. This was a case where three 

resolution  tools  were  exercised  in  one  go  –  the  transfer  powers,  bank  administration 

procedure and bridge bank. During the weekend, depositors, branches and the head office, 

and  prime  mortgage  assets  were  transferred  to  Nationwide  Building  Society;  the  social 

housing loan book and some associated deposits were transferred to a bridge bank owned 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 16 

 

and run by the Bank of England; and worse quality assets, mainly commercial property loans 

and  bought-in  mortgages,  were  placed  into  a  building  society  special  administration 

procedure. The bridge bank was run for three months and finally  sold. With the exercise of 

timely effective resolution tools, the resolution of Dunfermline was a success and on Monday 

morning  depositors  knew  their  money  was  safe.  The  only  problem  was  the  lack  of  proper 

resolution funding arrangements. It is, however, not clear if the tools that can be applied in 

case of a small bank can work in resolving a big bank/financial institution. 

 

Reforms in Resolution Regimes 

2.18  The  financial  crisis  highlighted  the  need  to  significantly  enhance  existing  resolution 

regimes.  Many  jurisdictions  recognized  the  need  to  enhance  resolution  powers,  enforce 

recovery  and  resolution  planning  measures,  strengthen  arrangements  for  domestic  and 

cross-border  cooperation 

in  dealing  with 

failing 

financial 

institutions,  and  develop 

mechanisms to recoup any public funds used in resolution. Moreover, an effective resolution 

regime  would  enhance  market  discipline  by  encouraging  counterparties  to  focus  more 

closely on the financial risks of the institution, fixing responsibility on the senior management 

and imposing losses on shareholders and, where appropriate, other creditors. 

 

Action taken by jurisdictions 

2.19  Work  at  the  international  level  is  under  progress  to  address  not  only  the  issues  of 

having  effective  national  resolution  frameworks,  but  also  tackling  the  problems  of  complex 

group  structures  and  cross-border  crisis  resolution  mechanism.  The  reform  process  is  at 

various  stages  in  FSB  jurisdictions.  While  some  jurisdictions  that  were  directly  affected  by 

the  crisis  have  already  undertaken  major  legislative  reforms  since  the  financial  crisis  to 

develop new or revise their existing resolution regimes, several other jurisdictions are in the 

process of adopting or implementing or considering those reforms to further strengthen their 

resolution  regimes.  Nine  jurisdictions  have  recently  enacted  relevant  legislation  and  are 

preparing for implementation of the rules and regulations.  

 

2.20  Eight jurisdictions1 and the European Commission have issued documents for public 

consultation  and/or  are  in  the  process  of  preparing  draft  legislations  to  further  strengthen 

their  resolution  regimes,  including  by  extending  the  regime  to  insurers,  securities  or 

                                                           
1 Australia (banks, insurers and FMIs), Brazil (banks, securities firms and FMIs), France (banks and investment 
firms), Germany (banks and FMIs licensed as banks), Indonesia (banks and insurers), Singapore (all FIs), South 
Africa (all FIs), and EU (legislative proposal covers banks and investment firms, while its consultation covers 
the need for a recovery and resolution framework for insurers and FMIs). 
Source: FSB’s peer review report on thematic review on resolution regimes (2013). 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 17 

 

investment  firms  and/or  FMIs.  In  addition,  nine  jurisdictions1  are  considering  a  variety  of 

additional  reforms  to  their  resolution  regimes.  Several  others  are  still  planning  to  introduce 

reforms  requiring  enhanced  resolution  powers,  undertaking  more  formal  recovery  and 

resolution  planning,  strengthen  arrangements  for  domestic  and  cross-border  cooperation, 

etc. for financial institutions that could have a systemic impact. 

 

2.21  Switzerland  revised  its  existing  special  resolution  regime  contained  in  the  Banking 

Act2 in 2011 and 2012 to include specific requirements for systemically important banks and 

additional  restructuring  provisions.  The  provisions  in  the  Banking  law  became  effective  on 

September  1,  2011  and  March  1,  2012  respectively,  the  Banking  Insolvency  Ordinance 

became effective on November 1, 2012 and the Banking Ordinance on January 1, 2013. The 

UK  and  USA  have  enacted  separate  legislations,  i.e.  Banking  Act,  2009  and  Dodd-Frank 

Act,  2010  respectively  for  resolution  of  credit  institutions  and  SIFIs  respectively.  Germany 

has  enacted  the  Restructuring  and  Orderly  Liquidation  of  Credit  Institutions  in  December 

2010  for  resolution  of  banks.  Canada  amended  the  financial  institution  restructuring 

provisions  of  the  Canada  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation  Act  (CDIC  Act)  in  March  2008, 

allowing  the  CDIC  to  act  as  a  receiver,  to  assign  assets  and  liabilities  of  a  financial 

institution, including financial contracts, to a bridge institution. European Union is working to 

prepare a comprehensive resolution regime for all its  member States. It has, in June 2012, 

published the draft framework for crisis management in the financial sector. 

 

2.22  After the crisis, significant efforts have been made by the US in adopting a framework 

for  the  resolution  of  SIFIs  by  enacting  Dodd-Frank  Act  on  July  21,  2010.  A  framework  for 

resolution  for  banks  and  other  financial  institutions  existed  in  the  US  under  respective 

regulators and it worked well for relatively small and medium size institutions. The resolution 

framework  as  envisaged  under  Dodd  Frank  framework  makes  a  distinction  between 

systemic  and  non-systemic  institutions.  The  financial  firms  that  are  non-systemic  are 

resolved as per their respective laws, while the provisions of Dodd Frank Act apply in case of 

systemically determined firms. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for a framework for better 

coordination  among  authorities,  domestically  and  internationally,  in  recognition  of  the 

complexity  and  global  reach  of  many  SIFIs.  The  US  regulators  have  promulgated  rules 

implementing  certain  provisions  of  the  Dodd-Frank  Act  and  continue  to  develop  rules  to 

implement other provisions. 

 

                                                           
1Canada, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland and United Kingdom. 
2 FINMA position paper (2012) on Resolution of global systemically important banks. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 18 

 

2.23  Significant  reforms  have  been  initiated  in  the  UK  as  well,  with  clarification  in  roles 

played  by  different  agencies.  Pre-crisis,  the  resolution  of  UK  banks  had  relied  on  general 

corporate  insolvency  law.  The  Bank  of  England  (BoE)  now  acts  as  the  lead  resolution 

authority  for  failing  UK  banks  and  building  societies  under  the  Special  Resolution  Regime 

(SRR)  introduced  by  the  Banking  Act,  2009.  The  Banking  Act  establishes  a  permanent 

resolution  framework  built  around  a  SRR  for  resolving  banks,  which  includes  a  set  of 

directed transfer powers (referred to as “stabilization powers” in the Banking Act) and a Bank 

Insolvency  Procedure  (BIP)  for  winding  up  insolvent  banks  in  a  manner  protecting  insured 

depositors.  The  Banking  Act,  2009,  inter  alia,  sets  out  the  trigger  points  for  invoking  the 

SRR,  the  objectives  of  the  SRR,  the  various  stabilization  (i.e.,  transfer)  options  under  the 

SRR, and the tools for achieving the desired results. The Banking Act confers powers on the 

BoE  and  Her  Majesty’s  Treasury  (HMT)  to  effect  specific  stabilization  options  in  various 

situations and creates an obligation to consult with other authorities. 

 

2.24 

In  the  light  of  challenges  faced  in  the  European  Union  (EU)  region  because  of 

complex  cross-borders  operations  of  banks,  EU  has  proposed  a  Directive  establishing  a 

framework  for  the  recovery  and  resolution  of  credit  institutions  and  investment  firms.  The 

Directive establishes a regime relating to the recovery, resolution and orderly dissolution of 

failing credit institutions and certain investment firms and their subsidiary financial institutions 

and  firms  that  are  covered  by  the  supervision  of  the  parent  undertaking  on  a  consolidated 

basis.  The  regime  also  applies  to  financial  holding  companies,  mixed  financial  holding 

companies, mixed activity holding companies and branches of institutions having their head 

office outside the EU under the specific conditions laid down in the Directive. The proposed 

Directive requires EU member states to appoint one or more public administrative authorities 

as resolution authorities that can be central banks, financial supervisors, deposit insurance 

agency  or  special  authorities.  However,  if  a  resolution  authority  is  established  within  a 

supervisory institution, then the functional separation of two activities is suggested in order to 

minimise the risk of supervisory forbearance. In terms of institutional design for cross-border 

resolution,  the  proposed  Directive  envisages  that  group-level  resolution  authorities  shall 

establish  resolution  colleges  with  a  clear  leadership  and  with  the  participation  of  the 

European  Banking  Authority  (EBA).  All  the  national  authorities  involved  in  the  resolution of 

institutions should be represented in resolution colleges. 

 

2.25  The  progress  in  legislative  reforms  as  well  as  in  formulating  special  resolution 

regimes for financial institutions in various jurisdictions are detailed in Annex 1. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 19 

 

Thematic  Peer  Review1  on  Resolution  Regimes  across 

Jurisdictions 

2.26  The  Financial  Stability  Board  (FSB)  conducted  its  first  thematic  peer  review  of  all 

FSB  member  jurisdictions  to  evaluate  their  existing  resolution  regimes  and  any  planned 

changes to those regimes using the FSB Key Attributes of Effective Resolution Regimes for 

Financial  Institutions  (Key  Attributes)  as  a  benchmark.  The  review  provides  a  comparative 

analysis of the overall legal, institutional and policy framework of existing resolution regimes, 

both  across  individual  Key  Attributes  and  across  different  financial  sectors  (banking, 

insurance, securities or investment firms, and FMIs). The review focuses primarily on those 

Key Attributes that cover the core provisions of national resolution regimes applicable to any 

financial  institution  that  could  be  systemically  important  or  critical  if  it  fails.  As  such,  the 

review has not examined the implementation of those Key Attributes (Key Attribute 8 relating 

to  Crisis  Management  Groups,  and  Key  Attribute  9  relating  to  institution-specific  cross-

border agreements) that are relevant and apply only to the G-SIFIs. The peer review report 

was published on April 11, 2013. The key features of the findings of the thematic peer review 

are briefed in Annex 2. 

 

2.27  The  peer  review  highlights  that  while  major  legislative  reforms  have  already  been 

undertaken  by  some  FSB  jurisdictions  (particularly  those  that  got  directly  affected  by  the 

financial  crisis)  to  develop  special  resolution  regime,  several  jurisdictions  are  at  an  early 

stage  of  reforming  their  resolution  regimes.  The  resolution  regimes  are  generally  more 

developed  and  advanced  for  banks  and  progressively  less  for  insurers,  securities  or 

investment firms and FMIs. This shows that the mandates as well as powers as specified in 

the Key Attributes are not available for resolution of insurers, securities or investment firms 

and  FMIs.  Powers  for  non-bank  financial  institutions  are  often  supervisory  in  nature  or  are 

limited  to  firm  liquidation  or  wind  up  at  the  initiative  of  the  supervisor  or  in  some  cases 

through some form of specially adapted insolvency regime. 

 

2.28  Most of the jurisdictions lack powers to take control of the parent or affiliates of failed 

financial  institution  particularly  when  the  financial  holding  company  or  affiliates  are  un-

regulated.  Similarly,  cross-border  cooperation  and  coordination  is  less  well-developed 

                                                           
1Thematic reviews focus on the implementation and effectiveness, across the FSB membership, of international 
financial standards developed by standard-setting bodies and policies agreed within the FSB in a particular area 
important for global financial stability. The objective of peer reviews are to encourage consistent cross-country 
and cross-sector implementation; to evaluate the extent to which standards and policies have had their intended 
results,  and  to  identify  gaps  and  weaknesses  in  reviewed  areas  and  to  make  recommendations  for  potential 
follow-up by FSB members. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 20 

 

across  all  sectors  in  most  of  the  jurisdictions  owing  to  lack  of  consistency  in  national  legal 

frameworks. Moreover, very few jurisdictions have ability to give effect to foreign resolution 

actions,  which  can  undermine  the  legal  certainty  of  resolution  actions  initiated  in  home 

jurisdiction  in  case  of  a  cross-border  financial  institution.  Another  major  weakness 

highlighted  is  the  power  to  share  non-public  information  with  other  domestic  and  foreign 

authorities for the specific purpose of resolution of a particular financial institution. 

 

Multilateral Global Initiatives 

2.29  The financial institutions, especially the banks and insurance firms, have so far been 

considered to be the most heavily regulated sectors of the global economy. Given the central 

role banks play in any economy, a safety net framework has evolved over a period of time to 

prevent the failure of individual banks, or resolve it in a non-disruptive manner, if necessary. 

The safety net typically consists of prudential regulation and supervision, lender of last resort 

for  providing  temporary  liquidity  support,  resolution  framework  and  deposit  insurance.  The 

steps have also been taken to strengthen the regulation and supervision of other non-bank 

institutions, especially the insurance sector and the FMIs. These roles are played by different 

authorities or combined in one or more agencies. 

 

2.30  During the recent financial crisis, capital standards proved to be inadequate in terms 

of quantity as well as quality on a going concern basis.  The resolution framework for SIFIs 

did  not  exist,  though  the  regime  worked for  small  and  medium-sized  banks.  The  emphasis 

since the crisis has been on ensuring that every jurisdiction has an effective financial safety 

net  and  crisis  management  frameworks  in  place  and  development  of  additional  measures 

that could be taken to address the risk of failure of SIFIs, including banks and non-banks.  

 

2.31  Since  the  global  financial  crisis,  there  has  been  increased  focus  on  financial  crisis 

management.  A  consensus  has  emerged  that  addressing  the  “too-big-to-fail”  (TBTF) 

problem  requires  a  multipronged  approach  and  integrated  set  of  policies.  This  aspect 

prompted the G20 to initiate various initiatives to make the financial system more resilient as 

well  as  develop  methodologies  and  standards  to  resolve  the  moral  hazard  problems.  The 

global initiatives to strengthen the financial regulatory system have been driven by the G20 

under the auspices of the Financial Stability Board (FSB), the Basel Committee on Banking 

Supervision  (BCBS)  and  the  International  Association  of  Insurance  Supervisors  (IAIS),  to 

address, among others, the moral hazard risk posed by the TBTF institutions.  

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 21 

 

Policy Measures to address SIFIs 

2.32  The  BCBS,  based  on  an  extensive  stock-taking  of  legal  and  policy  frameworks  for 

cross-border  resolutions  and  follow-up  work  on  lessons  learnt  from  the  crisis,  published  in 

March  2010  a  set  of  recommendations  to  facilitate  effective  cross-border  bank  resolutions 

(BCBS Recommendations)1. 

 

2.33  Micro  prudential  regulations  and  enhancing  resiliency:  Learning  from  the  crisis,  the 

Basel  Committee  published  Basel  III  rules2  in  December  2010,  which  aim  at  strengthening 

micro  prudential  regulation  as  well  as  address  the  systemic  risk  which  had  not  been 

addressed  hitherto  in  financial  regulation.  The  objectives  of  Basel  III  are  to  ensure  that  a 

crisis of such magnitude does not recur.  

 

2.34  Reducing  moral  hazard  posed  by  SIFIs:  In  October  2010,  the  FSB,  addressing  the 

TBTF problem, released its Report on SIFI Framework for Reducing the Moral Hazard posed 

by Systemically Important Financial Institutions (SIFIs)3 with 51 recommendations in 5 areas 

including SIFI resolution, as under: 

  Global  SIFIs  must  have  higher  loss  absorbency  to  lower  probability  and  impact  of 

failure; 

  SIFI resolution must be a viable option without taxpayer solvency support; 

  SIFI  supervision  must  be  more  effective  to  ensure  proactive  detection  of  problems 

and early intervention; 

  Core financial infrastructures must be strengthened to lower contagion risk; and 

  Effective and consistent implementation of national SIFI policies must be assured. 

 

2.35  Effective resolution of financial institutions: The FSB, in October 2011, developed an 

international  standard  –  termed  as  Key  Attributes  of  Effective  Resolution  Regimes  for 

Financial  Institutions4  –  as    a  point  of  reference  for  reform  of  national  resolution  regimes, 

setting  out  the  responsibilities,  instruments  and  powers  that  all  national  resolution  regimes 

should have to enable authorities to resolve failing financial firms in an orderly manner and 

without  exposing  taxpayers  to  the  risk  of  loss.  In  Cannes  (November  2011),  the  G20 

endorsed  the  FSB's  core  recommendations  for  effective  resolution  (Key  Attributes  of 

Effective  Resolution  Regimes for  Financial  Institutions),  which  jurisdictions  are  expected  to 

implement to achieve these outcomes.  

                                                           
1See http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs189_dec2010.pdf. 
2See http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs169.pdf. 
3See http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_101111a.pdf. 
4See http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_111104cc.pdf. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 22 

 

2.36  With the adoption by the FSB Plenary and endorsement by the G20 Leaders at the 

Cannes  Summit,  the  FSB  has  laid  down  a  work  plan  for  full  implementation  of  the  Key 

Attributes  by  FSB  member  jurisdictions.  A  ‘Resolution  Steering  Group’  (ReSG)  has  been 

constituted  under  the  FSB  Steering  Committee  for  supporting  and  monitoring  the 

implementation of the FSB proposals. 

 

2.37 

Identification and higher loss absorbency requirements for SIFIs 

  Global  systemically  important  financial  institutions  (G-SIFIs):  The  SIFIs,  especially 

those that operate cross border, create negative externalities – failure or impairment 

of  large,  interconnected  global  financial  institutions  can  send  shocks  through  the 

financial  system,  which  in  turn  could  spill-over  to  the  real  economy  –  which  the 

current  regulatory  policies  do  not  fully  address.  In  order  to  limit  such  cross-border 

negative  externalities  on  the  global  financial  system  and  related  economies,  the 

BCBS, in November 2011, published the rules text1 on the assessment methodology 

for global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) and their additional loss absorbency 

requirements  beyond  the  minimum  Basel  III  standards.  The  additional  loss 

absorbency requirements for G-SIBs will begin to apply from January 2016, applying 

initially  to  G-SIBs  identified  in  November  2014,  with  full  implementation  by  January 

2019. 

  Domestic systemically important banks (D-SIBs): The FSB and BCBS have finalised 

and  published,  in  October  2012,  a  principles-based  minimum  framework  for 

addressing the externalities posed by D-SIBs2. The framework focuses on the impact 

that the distress or failure of D-SIBs will have on the domestic economy. The national 

authorities  are  required  to  apply  requirements  to  banks  identified  as  D-SIBs  in  line 

with the phase-in arrangements for the G-SIB framework, i.e. from January 2016. 

  Global  systemically  important  insurers  (G-SIIs):  The  International  Association  of 

Insurance  Supervisors  (IAIS)  has, 

in  July  2013,  published  an  assessment 

methodology for identification of G-SIIs3 and a set of policy measures that will apply 

to  them.  These  policy  measures,  that  are  consistent  with  the  policy  framework 

published  by  the  FSB  in  November  2011,  include  recovery  and  resolution  planning 

requirements under the FSB’s Key Attributes, enhanced group-wide supervision, and 

higher  loss  absorbency  requirements  for  non-traditional  and  non-insurance  (NTNI) 

                                                           
1See http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs207.pdf. 
2See http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs233.pdf. 
3See http://www.iaisweb.org/G-SIIs-988. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 23 

 

activities1. The assessment methodology comprises of 20 indicators segregated into 

five  categories,  viz.  size,  global  activity, 

interconnectedness,  NTNI  and 

interconnectedness (together 80-90%). Supervisory judgement will play an important 

role in such assessments.  

 

Guidance papers on recovery and resolution planning 

2.38  As a part of its overall objective of developing policy measures for  TBTF and moral 

hazard  issues,  and  considering  that  the  effective  recovery  and  resolution  planning  in 

advance  is  the  key  to  achieving  the  objective  of  effective  resolution  regime,  the  FSB 

published,  on  July  16,  2013,  three  guidance  papers  to  assist  authorities  and  financial 

institutions in implementing the recovery and resolution planning requirements under the Key 

Attributes.  These  documents  are  –  (i)  Guidance  on  Developing  Effective  Resolution 

Strategies2; (ii) Guidance on Identification of Critical Functions and Critical Shared Services3; 

and (iii) Guidance on Recovery Triggers and Stress Scenarios4. 

 

Guidance on Developing Effective Resolution Strategies 

2.39  The  guidance  is  aimed  at  national  authorities  to  assist  them  in  drawing  up, 

developing  and  maintaining  their  resolution  strategies  and  operational  resolution  plans  for 

SIFIs.  The  resolution  strategies  provide  the  key  elements  of  the  approach  to  resolution, 

which would involve use of one or in combination of resolution tools along with the relevant 

resolution  powers  in  order  to  maintain  financial  stability  and  protecting  critical  functions 

without  exposing  taxpayers  to  loss.  On  the  other  hand,  the  operational  resolution  plan 

provides more specific details regarding the entities or firms to which the resolution powers 

are to be applied by one or more national resolution authorities, the conditions under which 

the plan might be implemented, and funding arrangements as well as the actions needed to 

implement the resolution strategy. 

 

2.40  The guidance document lays down two general approaches, i.e. Single point of entry 

(SPE),  and  Multiple  point  of  entry  (MPE),  that  are  presently  followed  by  the  CMGs  for 

resolution planning. The SPE involves the application of resolution powers at the top holding 

or parent company level by a single resolution authority, mostly the jurisdiction responsible 

for  the  global  consolidated  supervision  of  a  group.  The  MPE  involves  the  application  of 

                                                           
1Examples  of  NTNI  activities  include  financial  guarantee  insurance,  capital  markets  activities  such  as  credit 
default swaps (CDS), transactions for non-hedging purposes, derivatives trading, or leveraging assets to enhance 
investment returns. 
2See http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_130716b.htm. 
3See http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_130716a.htm. 
4See http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_130716c.htm. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 24 

 

resolution  powers  by  two  or  more  resolution  authorities  to  multiple  parts  of  the  group 

simultaneously,  including  strategies  in  which  a  group  is  broken  into  two  or  more  separate 

parts. While  the  resolution  of  these  parts  would  be  under  the  direction  or  control  of  two  or 

more  national  authorities,  the  home  authority  should  play  a  role  on  ensuring  that  the 

resolution is coordinated, given the complexities and potential interdependencies. 

 

2.41  The  successful  implementation  of  a  chosen  resolution  strategy  will  depend  on  a 

range  of  factors  and  considerations.  The  authorities  should,  among  others,  consider 

sufficient  loss  absorbing  capacity,  position  of  loss  absorbing  capacity  in  the  creditor-

hierarchy, and the critical economic functions and shared services provided by the particular 

financial  institution.  The  loss  absorbing  capacity,  which  may  take  the  form  of  equity, 

subordinated debt, senior unsecured debt, and other unsecured uninsured liabilities, needs 

to be available in sufficient amounts and at the right location to facilitate a recapitalisation or 

orderly  wind  down  of  the  firm.  The  choice  of  the  strategy  needs  to  take  account  of  the 

existing structure and business model of the individual financial institution and its particular 

characteristics.  The  critical  procedural  requirements  and  conditions  as  well  as  legal 

enforceability for applying the resolution powers by home and host authorities, etc. are other 

important factors that should be considered in the choice of a preferred resolution strategy. It 

should also consider some fall-back options in case the preferred resolution strategy cannot 

be implemented. 

 

Guidance on identification of critical functions and critical shared services 

2.42  The  FSB’s  guidance  document  on  identification  of  critical  functions  and  critical 

shared  services  is  aimed  at  authorities  and  crisis  management  groups  (CMGs)  for  their 

evaluation of the criticality of functions that firms provide to the real economy and financial 

markets.  The  aim  is  to  promote  a  common  understanding  of  which  functions  and  shared 

services are critical by providing definitions and evaluation criteria. It should help to ensure 

that  the  resolution  strategy  and  operational  plan  include  appropriate  actions  that  help 

maintain continuity of these functions. 

 

2.43  Though  all  products  and  services  provided  by  financial  institutions  would  have  at 

least  some  impact  on  the  economy  and  on  financial  stability  if  suddenly  suspended,  focus 

should be on those activities that have the most significant impact on financial stability. Such 

identification would help in prioritization of the resources of the firm to support these critical 

areas  in  the  event  of  a  failure.  A  resolution  strategy  will  need  to  take  into  account  the 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 25 

 

materiality and the potential impact of failure of certain functions on the financial system and 

the broader economy. 

 

2.44  The  guidance  covers  the  functions  and  services  provided  by  banks,  but  does  not 

cover those provided by insurance firms1 or FMIs, though some elements may be relevant to 

these sectors. Even within banks, the guidance focuses primarily on G-SIBs, however many 

aspects will also be relevant for D-SIBs. 

 

2.45  The  guidance  document  proposes  a  two-part  definition  of  “critical”,  based  on  a 

distinction  between  “critical  functions”  and  “critical  shared  services”.  It  also  provides  an 

indicative list of functions that could exhibit some degree of criticality. Critical functions are 

activities performed for third parties,  where failure would lead to disruption of services vital 

for the functioning of the real economy and for financial stability due to the banking group’s 

size  or  market  share,  external  and  internal  interconnectedness,  complexity  or  cross-border 

activities - e.g. payments, custody, particular lending and deposit activities in the commercial 

or real sector, clearing and settling, limited segments of wholesale markets, market making 

in  certain  securities  and  highly  concentrated  specialty  lending  sectors.  Critical  shared 

services are activities performed within the firm or outsourced to third parties, where failure 

would lead to the inability to perform critical functions, and therefore to disruption of functions 

vital  for  the  functioning  of  the  real  economy  or  for  financial  stability,  e.g.  information 

technology, facility management and administrative services. 

 

Guidance on Recovery Triggers and Stress Scenarios 

2.46  Recovery  plans,  essentially  developed  and  maintained  by  the  financial  institution’s 

senior  management,  identify  options  to  restore  financial  strength  and  viability  when  the 

particular financial  institution  comes  under  severe  stress.  One  of the  essential  elements  of 

recovery  plans  is  that  they  should  define  clear  backstops  and  escalation  procedures, 

identifying  the  quantitative  and  qualitative  criteria  that  would  trigger  implementation  of  the 

recovery  plan  by  the  banking  group.  The  aim  of  triggers  in  recovery  planning  is  to  enable 

firms to restore their financial viability before regulatory authorities see the need to intervene 

or enforce recovery options. Such triggers are generally  in the form  of early signals, which 

require the FIs to notify senior management or the Board, and also the supervisory authority, 

so as to implement a discretionary response in accordance with the condition. The document 

thus focuses on two specific aspects of recovery plans, i.e.: 

                                                           
1The IAIS has forwarded its views and reasons why resolution in insurance is different from other segments of 
the financial sector and this is work in progress. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 26 

 

(a)  The  design  and  nature  of  criteria  triggering  senior  management  consideration  of 

recovery  actions,  a  firm’s  reactions  to  breached  triggers,  and  engagement  of 

supervisor and resolution authority following breached triggers; and 

(b)  The severity of the hypothetical stress scenarios and the design of stress scenarios 

more generally. 

 

2.47  The firms should not rely solely on well-defined quantitative triggers but should also 

incorporate qualitative criteria for initiating recovery actions. The supervisors should ensure 

that specific actions should be indicated in the recovery plans  when triggers are breached. 

The  document  also  specifies  that  the  supervisors  should  ensure  that  firms  use  an 

appropriate  number  of  market-wide  stress  scenarios  and  firm-specific  stress  scenarios  to 

test the robustness of their recovery plans and to assess which options would be effective in 

a  range  of  stress  situations.  The  scenarios  should  address  capital  shortfalls  and  liquidity 

pressures and be severe enough to be useful in establishing triggers, estimating impacts of 

adverse  situations,  and  contemplating  responses  to  remediate  adverse  situations.  The 

scenarios should be regularly updated and reviewed by the Board. The triggers and stress 

scenarios should be reviewed by supervisors as part of their general supervisory programme 

and review of the recovery plan. 

 

FSB Work in Progress 

2.48  The FSB jurisdictions are expected to fully implement the Key Attributes in substance 

and  scope,  and for  all  parts  of the financial  sector  that  could cause  systemic  problems,  by 

end-2015.  By  end-2015,  the  jurisdictions  are  also  expected  to  adopt  resolution  regimes, 

CMGs  or  equivalent  arrangements,  and  resolution  planning  for  FMIs  that  are  systemically 

important  in  more  than  one  jurisdiction  and  for  systemically  important  insurers,  consistent 

with the FSB Annexes to the Key Attributes that are in the process of finalization with inputs 

through a process of dialogue with the IAIS. 

 

2.49 

In  order  to  facilitate  and  support  the  implementation  of  the  Key  Attributes  across 

jurisdictions  in  a  consistent  manner,  the  FSB  is  in  the  process  of  developing  wide  scale 

guidance and policy developments in various aspects of recovery and resolution planning for 

banks  as  well  as  standards,  as  Annexes  to  the  Key  Attributes,  for  insurers  and  non-bank 

financial institutions including FMIs.  

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 27 

 

Application of the Key Attributes to non-bank financial institutions 

2.50  The Key Attributes constitute an umbrella standard for resolution regimes for all types 

of  financial  institutions.  However,  not  all  resolution  powers  and  features  set  out  in  the  Key 

Attributes  are  suitable  for  all  sectors  and  all  circumstances.  Different  types  of  financial 

institutions have distinctive features that need to be taken into consideration while applying 

the key attributes. Resolution regimes for FMIs need to give specific  priority to maintaining 

continuity of the critical functions that FMIs perform in financial markets and take account of 

the  loss  allocation  arrangements  under  the  rules  of  certain  FMIs;  resolution  regimes  for 

insurers need to protect the policyholder interest; and the resolution regimes need to ensure 

rapid transfer and return of client assets in case of resolution of FI holding the client assets. 

 

2.51  With  a  view  to  assisting  the  jurisdictions  and  authorities  in  implementing  the  Key 

Attributes for orderly resolution of insurers, FMIs and firms with holding of client and custody 

assets,  the  FSB  is  formulating  guidance  on  Application  of  Key  Attributes  of  Effective 

Resolution  Regimes  to  Non-Bank  Financial  Institutions  (NBFIs)1.  The  guidance  on 

finalisation would be adopted as new Annexes to the Key Attributes. The draft document of 

the  said  Annex  with  respect  to  insurers,  which  is  presently  under  consultation  stage,  is 

placed as Annex 3. 

 

2.52 

In  addition,  the  Committee  on  Payment  and  Settlement  Systems  (CPSS)  and  the 

International Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO) had jointly under the auspices 

of Bank for International Settlements (BIS) published, in July 2012, a consultative report on 

the  Recovery  and  Resolution  of  Financial  Market  Infrastructures2. The report  indicates  that 

the disorderly failure of an FMI can lead to severe systemic disruptions if it causes markets 

to cease to operate effectively.  

 

2.53  The  IAIS,  while  working  on  the  Paper  on  Global  Systemically  Important  Insurers: 

Initial  Assessment  Methodology3,  has  given  consideration  to  the  fact  that  the  traditional 

insurance business model is different from banking and does not involve payment systems, 

credit intermediation or investment banking services. In November 2011, the IAIS published 

a  report  entitled  Insurance  and  Financial  Stability  that  describes  the  IAIS’s  view  of  the 

relationship between the insurance sector and financial stability, stressing the importance of 

the  longer  timeframe  that  applies  to  insurance  liabilities  and  the  importance  of  insurance 

issued  a  consultative  document 

                                                           
1FSB  has 
http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_130812a.pdf. 
2 Document is available at www.bis.org/publ/cpss101.htm. 
3See IAIS paper on Global Systemically Important Insurers: Initial Assessment Methodology (July 18, 2013). 

in  August  2013  for 

inviting  comments.  Please  see 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 28 

 

techniques  that  rest  on  the  pooling  of  insurance  risks,  including  the  notion  of  insurable 

interest.  Insurance  is  founded  on  the  law  of  large  numbers,  i.e.  the  aggregation  of  a  large 

number of idiosyncratic risks ultimately results in a normal curve of distribution. The business 

model of insurance is based upon the assumption of a large number of ideally uncorrelated 

risks from policyholders to build up and maintain a well-diversified portfolio. In practice, this 

means that with an increasing portfolio there is less opportunity for unexpected results and a 

lower  probability  of  very  large  losses  (in  relation  to  the  entire  portfolio).  The  insurance 

business  underwrites  risks,  and  insurance  claims  become  due  upon  the  occurrence  of 

idiosyncratic claim events that relate to mortality, morbidity, property and liability risks. 

 

2.54 

In  general,  insurance  underwriting  risks  are  not  correlated  with  the  economic 

business  cycle  and  financial  market  risks  and  the  magnitude  of  insurance  events  is  not 

affected by financial market losses. Insurers are, however, exposed to risks faced by other 

financial institutions, including credit risk, operational risk, and market risk as well as interest 

rate  and  exchange  rate  risks.  Nevertheless,  the  unique  aspects  of  the  insurance  business 

model  enabled  most  insurers  to  withstand  the  financial  crisis  of  2008-09  better  than  other 

financial  institutions.  While  the  effects  of  the  crisis  were  certainly  felt  by  the  insurance 

industry, insurers engaged in traditional insurance activities in general were able to absorb 

the impact and demonstrated no impact on the broader financial system from a systemic risk 

perspective. 

 

2.55 

In contrast, insurance groups and conglomerates that engage in non-traditional and 

non-insurance  (NTNI)  activities  can  be  more  vulnerable  to  financial  market  developments 

and may therefore be more likely to amplify, or contribute to, systemic risk, than traditional 

insurers. Examples of NTNI activities include financial guarantee insurance, capital markets 

activities  such  as  credit  default  swaps  (CDS),  transactions  for  non-hedging  purposes, 

derivatives  trading  or  leveraging  assets  to  enhance  investment  returns.  In  addition,  the 

continually  evolving  marketplace  is  resulting  in  products  and  activities  that  blur  the  lines 

between traditional insurance and bank-type (or investment bank-type) activities. 

 

Information Sharing for Resolution Purposes 

2.56  Constraints  on  timely  sharing  of  non-public  information  between  home  and  host 

authorities have emerged as basic challenge in planning, preparation  and implementation of 

recovery  and  resolution  planning  as  well  as  resolvability  assessments.  Differing  terms  and 

conditions,  including  differences  in  the  confidentiality  regimes  that  apply  to  authorities,  as 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 29 

 

well  as  hurdles  in  sharing  of  supervisory  information  with  non-supervisory  authorities,  may 

impede or complicate cross-border information sharing for resolution purposes. 

 

2.57 

In  order  to  promote  adoption  of  effective  frameworks  for  information  sharing 

consistent with the Key Attributes, the FSB is in the process of developing a document1 to be 

incorporated as Annex to the Key Attributes. The document is intended to provide guidance 

on the standards for information sharing, confidentiality requirements, statutory safeguards, 

and  information  sharing  within  CMGs.  It  elaborates  on  the  principles  for  the  design  of 

national  legal  gateways  and  related  confidentiality  regimes  to  facilitate  effective  sharing  of 

non-public  information  between  domestic  and  foreign  authorities  for  resolution  related 

purposes.  

 

Workstream on Data Templates 

2.58  While  the  challenge  of  information  sharing  between  authorities  is  expected  to  be 

addressed  by  the  Guidance  Document  on  Information  Sharing  for  resolution  purposes,  in 

order  to  facilitate  effective  collection  of  data  in  the  cross-border  context  as  also  to  have  a 

common  platform  for  collection  of  data,  standardisation  of  data  templates  is  considered 

necessary  for  collection  of  information  for  firms.  Accordingly,  the  ReSG  has  constituted  a 

workstream with a mandate to prepare data templates for effective data collections for cross-

border resolution, both in normal times and in times of stress. The workstream is conducting 

a survey on firm-specific information needs for resolution planning purposes. 

 

Workstream on non-CMG Hosts 

2.59  Generally,  for  reasons  of  operational  efficiency,  practicality,  and  effective  decision-

making,  the  membership  of  CMGs  is  limited  to  those  jurisdictions  and  authorities  that  are 

material  and  significant  for  a  group-wide  resolution  of  the  firm.  Such  a  practice  could 

possibly  leave  out  some  jurisdictions,  where  operations  of the firm  are  locally  systemic  but 

not  material  in  the  context  of  the  overall  operations  of  the  financial  group,  from 

representation  in  the  CMG.  However,  the  Key  Attributes  also  require  cooperation  and 

information sharing between CMGs and authorities in other jurisdictions where the firm has a 

systemic  presence  locally  but  the  particular  jurisdiction  does  not  participate  in  the  CMG. 

Towards this end, a Workstream on non-CMG hosts, constituted by the Cross-Border Crisis 

Management  Group  to  work  on  cooperation  and  information  sharing  between  CMGs  and 

non-CMG  host  authorities,  is  currently  developing  a  guidance  note  on  processes  for 

                                                           
1FSB  has 
http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_130812b.pdf. 

issued  a  consultative  document 

in  August  2013  for 

inviting  comments.  Please  see 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 30 

 

identification of non-CMG host jurisdictions; criteria for assessing the systemic nature of G-

SIB’s presence in non-CMG host jurisdictions; types of cooperation and information sharing 

and minimum information to be exchanged between CMGs and non-CMG host authorities. 

 

Gone-concern loss absorbing capacity  

2.60  One  of  the  important  parameters  that  is  considered  essential  for  development  of 

effective  resolution  strategies  for  financial  institutions  include  sufficient  loss  absorbing 

capacity  and  position  of  loss  absorbing  capacity  in  the  creditor-hierarchy.  In  order  to  take 

forward the descriptive work on the nature, location and types of loss absorbing capacity and 

also  to  assess  its  effect  on  the  implementation  of  the  resolution  strategy,  the  FSB  is 

preparing, in consultation with the standard-setting bodies, a proposal on the nature, amount 

and location within a group-structure of G-SIFI loss absorbing capacity in resolution.  

 

Framework for cross-border recognition of resolution actions 

2.61  The thematic peer review revealed that the resolution authorities of most jurisdictions 

do  not  have  powers  to  give  effect  to  foreign  resolution  measures  in  their  jurisdiction.  The 

FSB  is  in  the  process  of  developing  proposals  on  methods for  enhancing  legal  certainty  in 

cross-border  resolution,  particularly  with  regard  to  bail-in  and  temporary  stay  of  close-out 

rights.  The  ReSG  is  establishing  a  group  of  legal  experts  with  a  mandate  to  develop  a 

proposal for a framework for the cross-border recognition of resolution actions. The mandate 

is  to  explore  both  statutory  (e.g.  mutual  recognition)  and  contractual  approaches  whereby 

counterparties that may not otherwise be subject to certain resolution measures (e.g. bail-in 

or temporary stay) agree contractually to be bound by these measures.  

 

Funding and liquidity in resolution 

2.62  The  CMGs  have  been  facing  challenges  in  practical  aspects  of  funding  of  firms  in 

resolution  in  a  cross-border  context.  The  ReSG  has  constituted  a  workstream  with  a 

mandate  to  develop  a  paper  on  the  role  that  the  funding  and  liquidity  play  in  supporting  a 

successful  resolution  of  a  SIFI,  both  before  and  during  the  resolution.  The  purpose  is  to 

identify  the  sources,  needs  and  shortfall  of  liquidity  in  resolution,  and  discuss  possible 

methodologies to measure the funding requirements to bridge the liquidity shortfalls. 

 

Assessment Methodology 

2.63  The FSB in association with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank is 

currently  developing  assessment  criteria  and  methodologies  to  facilitate  assessments 

against  the  Key  Attributes  as  well  as  to  promote  effective  and  consistent  implementation 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 31 

 

across  jurisdictions.  The  implementation  of  the  Key  Attributes  will  also  be  subject  to 

assessments under the IMF/ World Bank Financial Sector Assessment Program. 

 

2.64  The  purpose  of  the  methodology1  is  to  guide  the  assessment  of  a  jurisdiction's 

compliance  with  the  Key  Attributes  and  also  to  serve  as  guidance  to  jurisdictions  that  are 

adopting  or  amending  national  resolution  regimes  to  implement  the  Key  Attributes.  Once 

finalised, the methodology  will  enable  the  Key  Attributes to  be  included  in  the  FSB's  list of 

key  standards  for  sound  financial  systems  and  to  be  used  in  country  assessments  by  the 

IMF and World Bank under the Standards and Codes (S&C) Initiative. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
1FSB  has 
http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_130828.pdf. 

issued  a  consultative  document 

in  August  2013 

inviting  comments.  Please 

see 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 32 

 

CHAPTER 3 

 

Existing Resolution Regime for Indian Financial Institutions 

 

 

Brief Overview of FSB Key Attributes 

3.1 

The Financial Stability Board (FSB) has proposed a set of twelve core elements viz. 

the  Key  Attributes,  as  essential  components  of  an  effective  resolution  regime  for  financial 

institutions. These Key Attributes call for an effective “Resolution Regime” to be in place in 

all jurisdictions that provides the resolution authority with a broad range of powers/tools and 

options  to  resolve  a  firm  that  is  no  longer  viable  and  has  no  reasonable  prospect  of 

becoming so. As per FSB, a systemically important financial institution is ‘resolvable’ if it is 

feasible and credible for the resolution authorities to resolve it without losses to taxpayers on 

account of solvency support, while protecting vital economic functions. For resolution to be 

feasible, the authorities must have the necessary legal powers  – and the practical capacity 

to apply them – to ensure the continuity of functions critical to the economy. For resolution to 

be credible, the application of those resolution tools would not itself give rise to unacceptably 

adverse broader consequences for the financial system and the real economy. 

 

3.2 

The twelve Key Attributes that are expected to be part of the resolution regimes of all 

jurisdictions relate to the following: 

(i)  Scope - A resolution regime should necessarily cover all financial institutions that are 

systemically  significant  or  critical  if  it  fails  and  should  also  extend  to  the  holding 

companies  of  a  firm,  non-regulated  operational  entities  within  a  financial  group  or 

conglomerate, and branches of foreign firms1.  

(ii)  Resolution  authority  –  Each  jurisdiction  should  have  a  designated  administrative 

authority/authorities responsible for resolving the financial institutions by exercising the 

resolution  powers/tools  under  the  resolution  regime.  In  case  of  multiple  resolution 

authorities within a jurisdiction for resolving the financial institutions falling under their 

respective  regulatory/supervisory  jurisdiction,  their  roles  and  responsibilities  and 

mandates  should  be  clearly  defined  and  coordinated.  In  case  of  different  resolution 

authorities  for  resolving  entities  of  the  same  group  within  a  jurisdiction,  a  ‘Lead 

Authority’ should be identified for coordinating the resolution of the legal entities within 

                                                           
1This should not apply where jurisdictions are subject to a binding obligation to respect resolution of financial 
institutions under the authority of the home jurisdiction. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 33 

 

that jurisdiction. The resolution authority: (a) should have the expertise, resources and 

operational  capacity  to  implement  resolution  measures;  (b)  should  be  operationally 

independent  consistent  with  its  statutory  responsibilities;  (c)  should  be  subject  to 

rigorous  evaluation  and  accountability  mechanisms  to  assess  the  effectiveness  of 

resolution  actions;  (d)  should  be  protected  against  liability  for  actions  taken  and 

omissions  made  in  exercise  of  resolution  powers  in  good  faith;  and  (e)  should  have 

unimpeded access to firms for resolution planning. 

(iii) Resolution  powers  –  The  resolution  of  any  financial  institution  should  be  initiated 

when a financial institution is no longer viable or likely to be no longer viable, and has 

no  reasonable  prospect of  becoming  so,  and  before  it  is  balance-sheet  insolvent  and 

all  equity  has  been  fully  wiped  out.  In  order  to  take  decisions  for  initiating  resolution, 

clear standards or suitable indicators of non-viability need to be formulated. 

 

The  resolution  authorities  should  have  a  broad  range  of  resolution  powers,  including 

powers  to  (a)  remove  and  replace  senior  management  and  directors,  (b)  appoint 

administrator  to  take  control,  (c)  terminate,  continue  or  assign  contracts,  purchase  or 

sell  assets,  write  down  debt  and  any  other  action  to  restructure  or  wind-down  the 

financial  institution’s  operations,  (d)  ensure  continuity  of  essential  services  and 

functions,  (e)  override  rights  of  shareholders  to  effect  various  resolution  options,  (f) 

transfer or sell assets and liabilities including deposit liabilities to a solvent third party, 

(g)  establish  a  bridge  institution  to  take  over  and  continue  operating  certain  critical 

functions and viable operations of a failed financial institution, (h) establish a separate 

asset  management  vehicle  and  transfer  non-performing  loans  for  management  and 

run-down, (i) carry out bail-in within resolution, (j) temporarily stay the exercise of early 

termination  rights,  (k)  impose  a  moratorium,  (l)  effect  orderly  wind-down  with  timely 

pay-out, and (m) apply one or combination of resolution powers. 

(iv) Set-off,  netting,  collateralization,  segregation  of  client  assets  –  The  legal 

framework governing set-off rights, contractual netting and collateralization agreements 

and segregation of client assets should be clear, transparent and enforceable during a 

crisis or resolution of financial institutions. Initiation of any resolution should not trigger 

statutory or contractual set-off rights, or entitle any counterparty to exercise contractual 

acceleration or early termination rights, provided the substantive obligations under the 

contract continue to be performed. Even in case of exercise of contractual acceleration 

or  early  termination  rights,  the  resolution  authority  should  have  the  power  to  stay 

temporarily  such  rights  (strictly  limited  in  time)  arising  due  to  resolution  of  financial 

institutions. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 34 

 

(v)  Safeguards – Respect of creditor hierarchy and “no creditor worse off” principle 

–  Resolution  powers  should  respect  the  hierarchy  of  claims  and  also  provide  for 

flexibility  to  depart  from  the  general  principle  of  equal  treatment  of  creditors  of  the 

same class. Creditors should have a right to compensation where they do not receive 

at a minimum what they would have received in a liquidation of the financial institution 

under  the  applicable  insolvency  regime  (“no  creditor  worse  off  than  in  liquidation” 

safeguard).  The  legislation  establishing  resolution  regimes  should  not  provide  for 

judicial actions that could constrain the implementation of measures by the resolution 

authorities.  With  a  view  to  preserving  market  confidence,  the  resolution  authority 

should have the power to allow temporary exemptions from disclosure requirements or 

postponement of disclosures required by the financial institution. 

(vi) Funding of firms in resolution – Statutory or other policies should be in place so as 

to avoid relying on public ownership of bail-out funds as a means of resolving a failing 

firm.  A  privately-financed  deposit  insurance  or  resolution  funds,  or  a  funding 

mechanism  should  be  put  in  place  for  ex-post  recovery  of  the  costs  of  providing 

temporary  financing  by  the  resolution  authority  to  facilitate  the  resolution  of  the  firm. 

Provisions should also be made, either from shareholders and unsecured creditors or 

from  the  wider  financial  system,  for  recovery  of  any  losses  incurred  arising  out  of 

temporary funding by the resolution authority for orderly resolution. As a last resort, the 

resolution  authorities  could  have  power  to  place  the  firm  under  temporary  public 

ownership and control (nationalization) in order to continue critical operations and seek 

to  make  arrangement  for  a  permanent  solution  such  as  a  sale  or  merger.  Provision 

should strictly be made for recovery of losses from unsecured creditors or the financial 

system more widely. 

(vii) Legal  framework  conditions  for  cross-border  cooperation  –  The  resolution 

authority  should  have  the  power  to  enter  into  a  cooperative  solution  with  foreign 

resolution authorities. The legal provisions/regulations should not provide for automatic 

action  in  a  jurisdiction  as  a  result  of  initiation  of  resolution  proceedings  in  another 

jurisdiction,  but  the  particular  jurisdiction  should  have  the  discretionary  power  to  take 

action,  if  necessary,  to  achieve  domestic  stability  in  the  absence  of  effective 

international  co-operation  and  information  sharing.  The  resolution  authority  should 

have resolution powers over local branches of foreign firms and the capacity to use its 

powers either to support a resolution carried out by a foreign home authority or to take 

measures  on 

its  own 

initiative 

to  maintain 

financial  stability.  The  national 

laws/regulations  should  not  discriminate  against  creditors  on  the  basis  of  their 

nationality, location of their claims or the jurisdiction where it is payable, and should be 

transparent and properly disclosed to all creditors including depositors. The resolution 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 35 

 

authority should have the legal power, subject to adequate confidentiality requirements 

and protection for sensitive data, to share information including recovery and resolution 

plans (RRPs) pertaining to the financial group as a whole or to individual subsidiaries 

or  branches,  with  relevant  foreign  authorities  for  implementing  a  coordinated 

resolution.  Jurisdictions  should  also  provide  for  confidentiality  requirements  and 

statutory safeguards for the protection of information received from foreign authorities. 

(viii)  Crisis  Management  Groups  (CMGs)  –  With 

the  objective  of  enhancing 

preparedness  and  facilitating  the  management  and  resolution  of  a  cross-border 

financial  crisis,  both  home  and  host  authorities  of  all  global  systemically  important 

financial institutions (G-SIFIs) should constitute and maintain CMGs. The membership 

of  the  CMGs  should  include  the  supervisory  authorities,  central  banks,  resolution 

authorities,  finance  ministries  and  the  public  authorities  responsible  for  guarantee 

schemes.  The  CMGs  should  cooperate  closely  with  authorities  in  other  jurisdictions 

where firms have systemic presence.  

(ix) Institution-specific  cross-border  cooperation  agreements  (COAGs)  –  For  all  G-

SIFIs,  an  institution-specific  cooperation  agreement  should  be  in  place  and  made 

public  if  agreed  by  the  concerned  authorities,  between  the  home  and  relevant  host 

authorities that need to be involved in the planning and crisis resolution stages. 

(x)  Resolvability assessments – The resolution authorities should regularly assess and 

evaluate  the  feasibility  of  resolution  strategies  (continuity  of  critical  financial  services, 

extent  of  intra-group  exposures  and  its  impact  on  resolution,  capacity  of  the  firm  to 

furnish  detailed,  accurate  and  timely  information,  and  robustness  of  cross-border 

cooperation  and  information  sharing  arrangements)  at  least  for  G-SIFIs  and  their 

credibility  in  the  light  of  the  likely  impact  of  the  financial  institution’s  failure  on  the 

financial  system.  In  order  to  improve  a  financial  institution’s  resolvability,  the 

supervisory authorities or resolution authorities should have powers, where necessary, 

to change a financial institution’s business practices, structure or organization, reduce 

the complexity and cost of resolution, etc.  

(xi) Recovery  and  resolution  planning  –  Jurisdictions  should  put  in  place  a  robust  and 

credible Recovery and Resolution Plans (RRPs), containing the essential elements, for 

all G-SIFIs and those other financial institutions that could have an impact on financial 

stability  in  the  event  of  its  failure.  The  firm’s  senior  management  should  have  the 

responsibility  to  provide  the  necessary  input  to  the  resolution  authorities  for 

assessment  of  the  recovery  plans,  and  the  preparation  of  the resolution  plans  by  the 

resolution authority.  

(xii) Access  to  information  and  information  sharing  –  There  should  not  be  any  legal, 

regulatory  or  policy  impediments  hindering  the  appropriate  exchange  of  information, 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 36 

 

including  firm-specific  information,  between  supervisory  authorities,  central  banks, 

resolution  authorities,  finance  ministries  and  the  public  authorities  responsible  for 

guarantee  schemes.  Sharing  of  all  information  relevant  for  recovery  and  resolution 

planning  and  for  resolution  should  be  possible  in  normal  times  and  during  a  crisis  at 

domestic  as  well  as  cross-border  level.  However,  in  case  of  sensitive  information, 

information sharing may be restricted only among the top officials of the home and host 

authorities. 

 

Indian Financial System 

3.3 

India’s  financial  sector  is  diversified  and  expanding  rapidly.  It  comprises  banks, 

insurance  companies,  securities  firms,  non-banking  financial  institutions,  provident  and 

pension funds, mutual funds, and other financial entities.  

 

3.4 

Banks  dominate  the  Indian  financial  system1  with  63  per  cent  of  the  total  assets  of 

the  financial  system,  followed  by  insurance  companies  having  19  per  cent  of  financial 

assets.  Non-banking  Financial  Institutions,  Mutual  Funds,  and  Provident  and  Pension 

institutions  have  8  per  cent,  6  per  cent,  and  4  per  cent  of  the  total  financial  assets, 

respectively. Within banking system, the scheduled commercial banks account for  92.4 per 

cent of total banking assets (of which, public sector banks have 67.2 per cent, private sector 

banks  have  18.7  per  cent  and  foreign  banks  have  6.5  per  cent)  followed  by  co-operative 

banks (rural and urban), regional rural banks, and local area banks with 3.4 per cent, 2.7 per 

cent  and  1.5  per  cent,  respectively.  The  figures  show  that  within  the  banking  system,  the 

public sector banks dominate with 72.8 per cent of market share of banking assets and 83 

per cent of branches2. 

 

3.5 

The  Indian  banking  system  includes  commercial  banks,  regional  rural  banks 

(RRBs)3,  and  co-operative  banks  [State  Co-operative  Banks,  District  Central  Co-operative 

Banks and Primary (Urban) Co-operative Banks4]. As on March 31, 2013, the Indian banking 

system  comprised  93  scheduled  commercial  banks  [26  public  sector  banks,  24  private 

sector banks, and 43 foreign banks with branch presence], 64 RRBs, 31 state co-operative 

banks, 371 district central co-operative banks and 1,606 primary (urban) co-operative banks. 
                                                           
1Data pertains to end-March 2012. 
2Duvvuri Subbarao (August 2013) – Speech on “Banking structure in India – Looking ahead by looking back. 
3The  Regional  Rural  Banks  (RRBs)  were  constituted  in  terms  of  Regional  Rural  Banks  Act,  1976.  They  are 
small in size and have a limited area of operations extending from 1 to 15 districts. They do not give big ticket 
loans. 
4Urban Co-operative Banks (UCBs) are generally small banks having operations confined to a state. However, 
there  are  a  few  multi-state  co-operative  banks.  The  balance  sheet  size  of  these  banks  is  much  smaller  than 
banking companies and public sector banks.  

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 37 

 

In addition to the above deposit-taking institutions, there are other financial institutions, such 

as  12,225  Non-Banking  Financial  Companies  (NBFCs)1,  4  Development  Financial 

Institutions, and 21 Primary Dealers (13 PDs are departmentally conducted by banks and 8 

PDs are standalone) within the regulatory jurisdiction of the Reserve Bank of India.  

 

3.6 

The  Indian  insurance  sector2  comprises  24  life  insurance  companies,  28  general 

insurance  companies  and  one  reinsurer  company.  The  securities  market3  comprises  198 

merchant  bankers,  50  mutual  funds,  210  venture  capital  funds,  26  stock  exchanges,  2 

depositories,  867  depository  participants  (of  which  285  are  connected  with  NSDL  and  582 

with  CDSL),  62  Qualified  Depository  Participants,  9,532  stock  brokers  in  cash  segment, 

4,964 corporate stock brokers, 3,066 stock brokers in equity derivative segment, 2,372 stock 

brokers in currency derivative segment, 55,542 sub-brokers, 32 debenture trustees, 6 credit 

rating  agencies,  etc.  In  addition,  there  are  other  financial  institutions,  such  as  Housing 

Finance  Companies  (HFCs),  and  provident  &  pension  funds,  which  form  a  part  of  Indian 

financial  system.  The  Indian  financial  system  is  supplemented  by  the  financial  market 

infrastructures (FMIs)4 (payment systems, clearing houses, central counterparties, securities 

settlement systems, securities depositories, etc.). 

 

Regulatory Framework for Indian Financial System 

3.7 

The  regulation  and  supervision  of  the  financial  system  in  India  is  carried  out  by 

different regulatory authorities – the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Insurance Regulatory 

and Development Authority (IRDA), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Pension 

Fund  Regulatory  and  Development  Authority  (PFRDA),  and  Forward  Markets  Commission 

(FMC). 

 

Reserve Bank of India 

3.8 

Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is the country’s central banking authority and apart from 

the  usual  central  banking  functions  like  monetary  policy  formulation,  is  involved  in  the 

                                                           
1NBFCs  are  companies  registered  under  the  Company  Law,  engaged  in  the  business  of  loans  and  advances, 
acquisition of shares, stock, bonds, hire-purchase, insurance business, or chit business: but does not include any 
institution whose principal business is agriculture or industrial activity; or the sale, purchase or construction of 
immovable property. 
2Information furnished by IRDA. 
3Information furnished by SEBI and data pertain as on November 30, 2013. 
4  Financial  Market  Infrastructure  (FMI)  is  defined  as  a  multilateral  system  among  participating  financial 
institutions,  including  the  operator  of  the  system,  used  for  the  purpose  of  recording,  clearing  or  settling 
payments, securities, derivatives or other financial transactions. It includes the systemically important payment 
systems,  central  securities  depositories  (CSDs),  securities  settlement  systems  (SSSs),  central  counterparties 
(CCPs), and trade repositories (TRs). 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 38 

 

regulation and supervision of  commercial  banks, regional rural banks, co-operative banks1, 

non-banking  financial  companies,  development  finance  institutions  and  certain  FMIs  [Real 

Time  Gross  Settlement  (RTGS)  System,  Securities  Settlement  System  (SSS),  Clearing 

Corporation  of  India  Limited  (CCIL)  and  the  Negotiated  Dealing  System  Order-matching 

(NDS-OM)]2. 

 

3.9 

There 

is  a  dual  control  with  respect 

to  cooperative  banks. 

Incorporation, 

management  and  winding  up  of  primary  co-operative  banks3  is  regulated  either  by  the 

authorities  under  State  Cooperative  Societies  Acts  of  each  state  (if  the  societies  are 

operating in a single state) or the Central Act, namely, Multi-state Cooperative Societies Act, 

2002  (if  the  societies  are  operating  in  more  than  one  state).  Regulation  of  incorporation, 

management  and  winding  up  of  state  co-operative  banks  and  district  central  cooperative 

banks4 is with the authorities under the State Cooperative Societies Acts of each state. The 

banking functions of primary co-operative banks is regulated and supervised by RBI and that 

of  rural  cooperative  banks,  by  the  National  Bank  for  Agriculture  and  Rural  Development 

(NABARD).  

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.10  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)5  regulates  the  Indian  securities 

market, including merchant bankers, mutual funds, venture capital funds, stock brokers, sub-

brokers, debenture trustees, KYC Registration agencies, registrars and underwriters to stock 

issues, foreign institutional investors and credit rating agencies. In addition, it also regulates 

certain  FMIs  –  stock  exchanges (in  cash  market  and  derivatives  market),  depositories  and 

clearing corporations. 

 

Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) 

3.11 

Insurance  Regulatory  and  Development  Authority  (IRDA)6  is  the  statutory  body  for 

the  regulation  and  development  of  insurance  industry  in  India.  The  IRDA  regulates  life 

insurance  companies,  general  insurance  companies  and  reinsurance  companies.  In 

                                                           
1Supervision of state co-operative banks, district central co-operative banks and regional rural banks is carried 
out by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). 
2While RTGS and SSS are owned and operated by RBI, NDS-OM is owned by RBI and operated by CCIL. The 
CCIL acts as central counterparty for segments and also acts as trade repository in certain segments. 
3 Commonly referred to as Urban Cooperative Banks (UCBs). 
4Commonly referred to as Rural Cooperative Banks. 
5SEBI was constituted as an administrative organ in the Department of Economic Affairs vide a Resolution of 
the Government of India in April 1988, and later established in 1992 as the first statutory autonomous regulator 
in the Indian Securities Markets. 
6IRDA was constituted in terms of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 39 

 

addition, IRDA also regulates intermediaries such as agents, corporate agents, brokers, third 

party administrators, surveyors and loss assessors and web aggregators.  

 

Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority 

3.12  Pension  Fund  Regulatory  and  Development  Authority  (PFRDA)1  is  mandated  to 

regulate  the  ‘National  Pension  System’  (NPS)  for  government  employees  as  well  as  other 

citizens  of  India,  through  its  registered  intermediaries,  such  as  Central  Recordkeeping 

Agency  (CRA),  Pension  Fund  Managers  (PFMs)  for  professional  management  and 

investment  of  subscriber  funds,  Points  of  Presence  (POP’s)  for  distribution  of  the  product, 

Trustee  Bank,  Custodians,  NPS  Trust,  and  aggregators  as  per  the  agreement  with  these 

entities.  

 

Forward Markets Commission 

3.13  The  Forward  Markets  Commission  (FMC)2  regulates  the  commodity  derivative 

markets.  It  includes  six  national  exchanges  facilitating forward  trading  in  113  commodities, 

and  11  commodity  specific  regional  exchanges  recognized 

for 

trading 

in  various 

commodities  approved  by  the  Commission  under  the  Forward  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act, 

1952. 

 

Other regulators 

3.14  The housing finance companies are regulated by National Housing Bank (NHB). The 

Department  of  Company  Affairs  (DCA),  Government  of  India  regulates  deposit  taking 

activities of companies (other than NBFCs) registered under Companies Law. 

 

Regulation of Financial Conglomerates 

3.15 

In  India,  financial  groups  are  identified  as  Financial  Conglomerates  (FCs)  on  the 

basis  of  their  significant  presence  in  two  or  more  market  segments  (Banking,  Insurance, 

Securities,  Non-Banking  Finance  and  Pension).  RBI  has  limited  powers3  to  call  for 

information  and  to  inspect  jointly  with  other  financial  sector  supervisors,  the  associate 

enterprises  of  banks.  As  an  important  step  towards  a  more  effective  consolidated 

supervision of the FCs, the four financial sector regulators in India, viz. RBI, SEBI, IRDA and 

PFRDA, have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for cooperation in the field of 

consolidated  supervision  and  monitoring  of  FCs.  The  Inter  Regulatory  Forum  (IRF)  is 
                                                           
1 The PFRDA was originally established by the Government of India through a resolution dated 10th October, 
2003 & 14th November, 2008, has since attained a statutory status post the passage of Pension Fund Regulatory 
and Development Authority Act, 2013. 
2FMC was constituted as a statutory body in 1953 in terms of the Forward Contract (Regulation) Act, 1952. 
3 Section 29A of Banking Regulation Act, 1949 inserted by Act 4 of 2013 (w.e.f. 18-1-2013). 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 40 

 

structured  as  a  college  of  domestic  supervisors  by  adopting  the  lead/principal  regulator 

model,  with  a  mandate  to  carry  out  two  major  functions,  viz.  developing  supervisory 

cooperation for effective consolidated supervision of FCs and assessing the risk to systemic 

financial stability due to activities of the FCs.  

 

Financial Stability 
3.16  RBI’s main objective of regulation and supervision has been to maintain confidence 

in  the  financial  system  by  enhancing  its  soundness  and  efficiency.  The  objective  also 

encompasses to protect the public interest, or the interest of the banking policy, or to prevent 

the affairs of any banking company being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests 

of  the  depositors  or  in  a  manner  prejudicial  to  the  interests  of  the  banking  company,  or  to 

secure the proper management of any banking company. 

 

3.17 

IRDA’s  objective  is  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  policyholders  and  to  ensure  the 

orderly  growth  of  the  insurance  sector.  The  objective  of  SEBI  is  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors  in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities 

market and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. On the other hand, PFRDA 

promotes old age income security by establishing, developing and regulating pension funds, 

and  also  protects  the  interest  of  the  subscribers  to  the  schemes  of  pension  funds  and  for 

matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. 

 

3.18  The  existing  legal  framework  does  not  explicitly  provide  statutory  powers  to  any 

authority to maintain financial stability. With  a view to establishing a body to institutionalize 

and  strengthen 

the  mechanism 

for  maintaining 

financial  stability, 

financial  sector 

development and inter-regulatory coordination, the Government of India has, in consultation 

with  the  financial  sector  regulators,  set  up,  in  December  2010,  the  Financial  Stability  and 

Development  Council  (FSDC)  headed  by  the  Finance  Minister,  Government  of  India.  The 

Council  also  deals  with  issues  relating  to  financial  literacy,  financial  inclusion,  macro 

prudential  supervision  of 

the  economy 

including 

the  functioning  of 

large  financial 

conglomerates,  and  coordinating  lndia's  international  interface  with  financial  sector  bodies 

like  the  Financial  Action  Task  Force  (FATF),  Financial  Stability  Board  (FSB)  and  any  such 

body as may be decided by the Ministry of  Finance from time to time. A sub-Committee of 

FSDC, headed by the Governor of RBI, has been constituted with the mandate to maintain 

financial  stability  and  inter-regulatory  coordination.  The  sub-Committee  of  the  FSDC  has 

also  set  up  various  Working  Groups/Technical  Groups  to  deal  with  wide-ranging  issues 

connected  with  financial  stability.  These  include  –  (i)  Inter-regulatory  Technical  Group,  (ii) 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 41 

 

Technical Group on Financial Inclusion and Financial Literacy, (iii) Inter-regulatory forum for 

monitoring  financial  conglomerates,  (iv)  Early  Warning  Group,  and  (v)  Working  Group  on 

Resolution Regime for Financial Institutions. 

 

Legal Framework for Resolution of Financial Institutions  

3.19  As of now, India does not have a special resolution regime or comprehensive policy 

or law on bankruptcy exclusively for the financial institutions as a whole. However, there are 

some  provisions  contained 

in  various  Acts  which  empower 

the 

respective 

regulator/supervisor  and/or  the  central  government  to  resolve  different  types  of  problem 

financial institutions in India. These provisions are contained in – 

  Banking  Regulation  Act,  1949  and  Companies  Law  for  banking  companies  (private 

sector banks, foreign banks and Local Area Banks);  

  State  Bank  of  India  Act,  1955,  Banking  Companies  (Acquisition  and  Transfer  of 

Undertakings)  Act,  1970/1980,  SBI  (Subsidiary  Banks)  Act,  1959  and  Banking 

Regulation (BR) Act, 1949 for public sector banks including State Bank of India and 

its subsidiaries;  

  Banking  Regulation  Act  (As  Applicable  to  Co-operative  Societies),  1966,  the  Multi-

State Co-operative Societies Act, 2002 and respective State Co-operative Societies 

Acts for co-operative banks (State Co-operative Banks, District Central Co-operative 

Banks and Primary Co-operative Banks);  

  Regional  Rural  Banks  Act,  1976  and  Banking  Regulation  Act,  1949  for  Regional 

Rural Banks;  

 

Insurance  Act,  1938  ,  Insurance  Rules,  1939,  IRDA  Act,  1999  and  the  regulations 

framed thereunder for insurance companies;  

  The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Securities and Exchange Board 

of  India  Act,  1992  and  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations  Regulations, 

2012 for Securities companies/brokers and stock exchanges;  

  The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and Companies Law for Non-Banking Financial 

Companies; and 

  Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority, 2013 for pension companies. 

 

Existing Resolution Regime and Assessed Gaps 

3.20  The present status and the assessed gaps in the Indian resolution regime,  vis-à-vis 

the Key Attributes, in respect of all financial institutions, including banks, NBFCs, insurance 

companies, securities companies/brokers, pension funds and FMIs are given as under. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 42 

 

Scope of resolution regime 

3.21 

India  does  not  have  a  special  resolution  regime  or  comprehensive  policy  or  law  on 

bankruptcy  exclusively  for  the  financial  institutions  as  a  whole.  However,  there  are  some 

provisions  contained  in  various  Acts  which  empower  the  respective  regulator/supervisor 

and/or  the  central  government  to  resolve  different  types  of  problem  financial  institutions  in 

India.  Though  the  resolution  powers  are  limited  as  compared  to  FSB  Key  Attributes,  the 

existing  legal  provisions  contained  in  various  Acts  that  govern  the  functioning  of  financial 

institutions are applicable for resolving the private sector banks, branches of foreign banks, 

public  sector  banks,  co-operative  banks,  insurance  companies,  securities  companies,  non-

banking financial companies, and FMIs.  

 

3.22  The  powers,  however,  vary  from  institution  to  institution.  While  the  powers  are 

inadequate  and  required  to  be  enhanced  in  respect  of  banks  and  insurance  companies  to 

meet  global  best  practices,  they  are  absolutely  minimal  in  respect  of  FMIs.  The  existing 

resolution  regime  in  respect  of  co-operative  banks  is  in  the  form  of  a  supervisory  action 

framework  which  envisages  self-corrective  action  in  the  initial  stages  of  weakness  and 

involves stringent supervisory action in the event of financials not improving. Though there is 

no special resolution regime for FMIs, the provisions  of Company Law apply. Similarly, the 

provisions of Company Law apply to the NBFC sector. 

 

3.23  However,  the  resolution  powers  are  applicable  only  to  the  specific  categories  of 

licensed financial institutions on a solo basis and not to the institution's holding company or 

subsidiaries. As such, the existing legal framework does not permit the authorities to extend 

resolution  proceedings  to  regulated  or  unregulated  subsidiaries  of  a  regulated  entity  or 

subsidiaries of a regulated or un-regulated entity’s holding company. 

 

Resolution Authority 

3.24  There 

is  no  dedicated  resolution  authority  responsible 

for  overseeing  and 

implementing  resolutions  of  financial  institutions  as  a  whole.  However,  the  respective 

regulators/supervisors  and/or  the  central  government  have  been  exercising  their  powers 

under the statutes mentioned above, where considered necessary, for resolving the problem 

financial institutions falling under their respective regulatory jurisdictions and have been able 

to  achieve  their  regulatory  objectives,  without  involving  taxpayers’  money.  Even  for 

resolution  of  financial  groups,  there  is  no  lead  authority  as  of  now  though  the  FSDC  has 

been  institutionalized  by  the  Government  of  India  to  strengthen  the  mechanism  for 

maintaining financial stability, financial sector development and inter-regulatory coordination. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 43 

 

FSDC and its sub-committee are not statutory bodies and thus lack sufficient legal powers 

and backing to resolve a financial group in real time. 

 

Resolution Powers and Tools 

Banking Companies, Foreign Bank Branches and Public Sector Banks 

3.25  The legal provisions relating to the procedure and powers for amalgamation, merger 

or liquidation of entities is spread out in different enactments depending on the constitution 

of the entity. The foreign banks having presence in the form of branches are governed by the 

provisions of Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and to certain extent, the Indian Company Law. 

The provisions that provide powers to the RBI and/or the central government for resolution of 

commercial banks are detailed below. 

 

Power to appoint and remove directors 

3.26  RBI is empowered to remove1 any person who has been elected to be chairman of 

the Board of Directors or the Managing Director of a banking company, if it is of the opinion 

that such person is not a fit and proper person to hold such office.  In addition, RBI has the 

power to remove2 any chairman, director, chief executive officer or other officer or employee 

of the banking company (private sector banks, foreign banks and LABs) and appoint suitable 

person  in  that  place.  Additional  directors3  can  also  be  appointed  by  RBI  under  certain 

circumstances. 

 

3.27  The  Chairman  and  managing  directors  of  SBI4  and  whole-time  directors5  of 

nationalised  banks  are  appointed  by  Central  Government  in  consultation  with  RBI.  The 

central  government  has  the  power  to  remove  the  Chairman  or  Managing  Director  of  SBI6 

and its subsidiaries7 after consultation with the Reserve Bank. RBI is empowered8 to remove 

directors  of  nationalised  banks  under  certain  circumstances  and  appoint  additional 

directors9. The State Bank of India may, in consultation with the RBI and with the approval of 

central government, remove10 certain directors of its subsidiary banks. 

 

                                                           
1Section 10B (6) of BR Act, 1949. 
2Section 36AA of BR Act, 1949. 
3 Section 36AB of BR Act, 1949. 
4Clauses (a) and (b) of Section 19 of SBI Act, 1955. 
5 Section 9(3)(a) of Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Acts, 1970/1980. 
6Section 24 of SBI Act, 1955. 
7Section 29 of State Bank of India (Subsidiary banks) Act, 1959. 
8Section 9(3B)of Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Acts, 1970/1980. 
9 Section 9A of Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970/80. 
10Section 31 of SBI (subsidiary banks) Act, 1959. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 44 

 

Power to issue directions and prohibition from entering a particular business 

3.28  RBI  is  vested  with  the  power  to  give1  directions  to  banks  (banking  companies  and 

public  sector  banks)  in  public  interest  as  also  to  prevent  the  affairs  of  a  bank  from  being 

conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of its depositors or prejudicial to its own 

interests. RBI may caution2 or prohibit banks from entering into any particular transaction.  

 

Power to terminate contracts, write down debts, etc. 

3.29  The  power  to  terminate  contracts  or  write  down  debts,  etc.,  of  banks  has  not  been 

explicitly provided in the statutes. However, the powers under section 35A of BR Act, 1949 

and the scope of the scheme that may be made by RBI under section 45 of that Act when a 

banking  company  is  placed  under  moratorium  are  in  very  wide  terms.  It  may  therefore  be 

possible in extreme cases to provide for termination of contracts, etc., to resolve a banking 

company. 

 

Power to override rights of shareholders 

3.30  Shareholders of banks cannot come in the way of the exercise of any of the powers 

conferred  on  RBI  or  Central  Government  under  any  of  the  statutes  in  question.  However, 

they have the right to challenge the decisions of RBI and central government in courts if they 

are aggrieved in any manner.  

 

Power to acquire and/or transfer or sell assets and liabilities, legal rights and obligations 

3.31  The  central  government,  in  consultation  with  the  RBI,  is  empowered3  to  acquire 

undertakings of banking companies, if it is satisfied that such banking company has failed to 

comply with RBI directions relating to banking policy issued under Section 21 or Section 35A 

of  BR  Act,  1949;  or  is  being  managed  in  a  manner  detrimental  to  the  interests  of  its 

depositors.  If the  central  government  is  satisfied  that  the  undertaking  of the  acquired  bank 

and  its  assets  and  liabilities  should,  instead  of  vesting  in  itself,  be  vested4  in  a  company 

established under any scheme or in any corporation (referred to as the transferee bank), it 

may order the transfer of assets and liabilities of such undertaking to the transferee bank.  

 

3.32  Further,  the  Central  Government  can  make  a  scheme5,  after  consultation  with  the 

Reserve  Bank  of  India,  for  constitution  of  the  transferee  bank  in  relation  to  transfer  of  the 

                                                           
1Section 35A of BR Act, 1949. 
2 Section 36(1)(a) of BR Act, 1949. 
3Section 36AE of BR Act, 1949. 
4Section 36 AE (4) of BR Act, 1949. 
5Section 36AF of BR Act, 1949. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 45 

 

acquired  undertaking  including  the  property,  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  acquired  bank,  its 

capital, name and office, constitution of first Board of management, continuance of services 

of employees of the acquired bank, continuance of right of any person who is entitled to or is 

in receipt of, manner of payment of compensation to the shareholders of the acquired bank, 

etc. 

 

Power to supersede the Board and appoint administrators 

3.33  The RBI is empowered to supersede1, after consultation with the central government, 

the  Board  of  Directors  of  banking  companies  and  to  appoint2  an  Administrator.  On 

recommendation  of  RBI,  the  central  government  may  supersede  the  Board  of  Directors  of 

nationalized  banks3,  SBI4  and  subsidiary  banks5  of  SBI  under  certain  circumstances  and 

appoint Administrator. 

 

Power to apply for moratorium and prepare scheme of amalgamation 

3.34  RBI is empowered to apply to the central government for suspension6 of the business 

of a banking company and to prepare a scheme for its reconstruction or amalgamation with 

any other banking institution. The scheme may, inter-alia, contain provisions for the capital, 

assets, powers, rights, interests, authorities  and privileges, liabilities, duties and obligations 

of  banking  company  on  its  reconstruction  or  of  the  transferee  bank;  terms  &  conditions  of 

transfer of business, properties, assets and liabilities of a banking company to the transferee 

bank;  any  change  or  appointment  in/of  the  board  of  directors;  alteration  of  memorandum 

articles  of  association  of  banking  company  on  its  reconstruction  or  of  the  transferee  bank; 

reduction  of  interests  or rights  of  depositors and other  creditors;  allotment  of  shares  to  the 

members  of  the  banking  company  on  its  reconstruction  or  in  the  transferee  bank  on 

amalgamation, etc. 

 

3.35  As  regards  nationalised  banks,  the  central  government  may,  after  consultation  with 

the RBI, make a scheme7, inter-alia, for the reconstruction of any nationalised bank into two 

or more corporations or amalgamation of such banks. 

 

 

                                                           
1Section 36ACA of BR Act, 1949. 
2Section 36ACA (2) of BR Act, 1949. 
3Section 18A of Banking Companies (Acquisition and transfer of undertakings) Act, 1970/80. 
4Section 24A of SBI Act, 1955. 
5Section 35A of SBI (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959. 
6Section 45 of BR Act, 1949. 
7Section 9 (2) (c) of Banking Companies (Acquisition and transfer of undertakings) Act, 1970/80. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 46 

 

Liquidation and appointment of liquidators 

3.36  The RBI can make an application to the High Court1 for the winding up of the banking 

company, in respect of which an Order of Moratorium has been issued by the High Court.  

 

3.37  The Reserve Bank can also make an application to the High Court for winding up2 of 

a  banking  company,  if  the  banking  company  has  failed  to  comply  with  the  statutory 

requirements (i.e. non-compliance of requirement of minimum paid-up capital and reserves; 

non-compliance  of  other  statutory  provisions),  or  has  been  prohibited  from  accepting  fresh 

deposits,  or  if  in  the  opinion  of  the  RBI,  the  continuance  of  the  banking  company  is 

prejudicial to the interests of its depositors or is unable to pay its debts, or a compromise or 

arrangement sanctioned by a court cannot be worked satisfactorily. RBI, SBI and any other 

bank notified by the central government shall be appointed as the Official Liquidator3 in case 

of a banking company that is under any proceedings for the winding up by the High Court.  

 

3.38  The  SBI4,  subsidiary  banks5  of  SBI,  nationalised  banks6  and  RRBs7  cannot  be 

liquidated under company law but can be placed under liquidation by an order of the central 

government.  

 

3.39  An  analysis  of  various  provisions  of  BR  Act,  1949  shows  that  the  RBI/central 

government do have the capacity to use certain resolution tools like private sector purchase 

tool  (compulsory  amalgamation),  temporary  public  ownership  tool  and  bridge  bank  tool  in 

respect  of  private  sector  banks  and  branches  of  foreign  banks.  However,  the  existing 

legislation  does  not  provide  for  other  resolution  tools  like  bad-bank  and  good-bank,  bail-in 

within resolution, etc. for the resolution authority to exercise upon. As regards public sector 

banks, the existing legal framework does not provide any specific powers to the RBI or the 

central government to exercise any resolution tool, except for liquidation.  

 

3.40  The extant legal framework, however, does not specify or provide powers to the RBI 

or  the  central  government  to  ensure  continuity  of  essential  services  and  functions  of  the 

failing  banks.  Exercise  of  any  of  the  above  mentioned  powers  do  not  require  any  express 

approval from the shareholders of the concerned bank in resolution. 

                                                           
1 Section 37 of BR Act, 1949. 
2 Section 38 of BR Act, 1949. 
3 Section 39 of BR Act, 1949. 
4Section 45 of SBI Act, 1955. 
5Section 57 of SBI (Subsidiary banks) Act, 1959. 
6Section 18 of Banking Companies (Acquisition and transfer of undertakings) Act, 1970/80. 
7 Section 26 of RRB Act, 1976. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 47 

 

Urban Co-operative Banks 

3.41  RBI has the power to supersede1 the Board of Multi-State urban co-operative banks 

(UCBs).  For  UCBs  under  the  State  Co-operative  Societies  Acts,  the  RBI  can  request  the 

Registrar  of  Co-operative  Societies  (RCS)  to  supersede  the  Board  and  in  view  of  the 

provisions  of  the  Deposit  Insurance  and  Credit  Guarantee  Corporation  (DICGC)  Act,  1961 

such a requisition of the Reserve Bank has to be honoured by the RCS. However, in case of 

UCBs governed by the State Co-operative Societies Acts, the RBI can request the Registrar 

of  Co-operative  Societies  (RCS)  to  supersede2  their  board  and the  same is  binding  on  the 

RCS. RBI also has the powers to apply to Central Government for suspension of business 

and  issue  of  Order  of  Moratorium.  Accordingly,  the  Central  Registrar  of  Co-operative 

Societies  has  the  powers  to  prepare  a  scheme  of  amalgamation  for  such  co-operative 

banks.  

 

3.42  Guidelines  on  merger  of  UCBs  and  transfer  of  assets  and  liabilities  to  commercial 

banks  are  in  place  but  all  such  resolution  strategies  are  voluntary  and  need  consent  of 

General  Body  of  the  bank.  The  RBI  has  the  powers  to  restrict  the  activities  and  give 

directions3 to a UCB and to a limited extent these can be considered as resolution measures 

not amounting to liquidation. On cancellation of the banking license by RBI, the liquidator is 

appointed  by  the  State Government  who  carries  out  liquidation  under  the  provisions  of the 

State Co-operative Societies Act. The payment by DICGC in such situations is similar to that 

followed for commercial banks. 

 

3.43  The RBI does not have any other power or tools in order to effectively resolve these 

banks.  However,  within  the  existing  legal  framework,  Memorandum  of  Understandings 

(MoUs)  have  been  entered  into  by  RBI  with  all  the  State  Governments.  A  Task  Force  on 

Urban  Co-operative  Banks  (TAFCUB)  has  been  constituted  in  all  States  comprising  of 

representatives  from  RBI,  Government  and  the  Federation  with  a  mandate  to  find  revival 

path  for  the  viable  urban  co-operative  banks  and  non-disruptive  exit  for  the  non-viable 

entities. These TAFCUBs have no legal backing. 

 

 

                                                           
1Section 36AAA of BR Act, 1949 (AACS). 
2Second  proviso  of  Article  243ZL(1)  of  the  Constitution  of  India  introduced  by  the  97th  amendment  to  the 
Constitution  states  that  the  provisions  of  BR  Act  also  apply  to  supersession  of  boards  of  cooperative  banks. 
However, a Division Bench of Gujarat High Court has held in Rajendra Shah v. India being WP (PIL) 166 of 
2012 by order dated April 22, 2013 that the said 97th amendment is unconstitutional. The matter is pending in 
Supreme Court. 
3 Section 35A and 36 of BR Act, 1949 (AACS). 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 48 

 

Regional Rural Banks 

3.44 

In  terms  of  RRBs  Act,  1976,  no  provision  of  law  relating  to  the  winding  up1  of 

companies  shall  apply  to  a  RRB  except  by  order  of  the  Central  Government  and  in  such 

manner as it may direct. The sponsor bank of RRBs may, at any time remove the Chairman 

from office subject to some conditions.  

 

3.45  Thus, the existing legal framework does not provide any specific powers to the RBI or 

the  central  government  to  exercise  any  resolution  tool,  except  for  liquidation,  in  respect  of 

these banks. 

 

Non-Banking Financial Companies 

3.46  Merger,  amalgamation,  acquisition,  etc.  of  NBFCs  are  governed  by  Company  law 

and  there  is  no  specific  power  with  RBI  to  deal  with  such  matters.  The  RBI  Act,  1934, 

governing the activities of NBFCs, provides certain powers to the Reserve Bank of India for 

dealing with problem NBFCs. However, these are restricted to prohibition of deposit taking 

activities, alienation of assets and cancellation of Certificate of Registration for carrying out 

business. Under Section 45MC of RBI Act, the Reserve Bank may file a winding up petition 

to the judiciary. All provisions of company law are applicable to such winding up2. 

 

3.47  The Company Law provides that if the Central Government or the Reserve Bank of 

India,  inter-alia,  have  sufficient  reasons  to  believe  that  any  company  has  become,  for  the 

purposes  of  the  Act,  ibid,  a  sick  company3,  they  can  make  a  reference  in  respect  of  such 

company  to  the  Tribunal  for  determination  of  the  measures  which  may  be  adopted  with 

respect  to  such  company.  The  Tribunal  may,  in  turn,  after  considering  facts  in  the  matter, 

order for winding of the company. RBI Act also empowers RBI to call for information4 from 

financial  institutions  and  to  give  directions  to  those  and  to  prohibit  acceptance  of  deposit5 

and alienation of assets. The efficacy of these provisions for effecting resolution is doubtful. 

 

3.48  The above mentioned powers conferred upon the central government or the RBI do 

not relate in any way to the resolution powers as prescribed by the Key Attributes. 

 

 

                                                           
1 Section 26 RRB Act, 1976. 
2 Section 45MC(4) of RBI Act, 1934. 
3 Section 253(5) of Companies Act, 2013 
4 Section 45L of RBI Act, 1934. 
5 Section 45MB of RBI Act, 1934. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 49 

 

Insurance Sector  

Power to issue directions 

3.49  The IRDA is empowered to issue directions1 to insurers generally or to any insurer in 

particular, if it is satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest; or to prevent the affairs of 

any insurer being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of the policy-holders or 

in  a  manner  prejudicial  to  the  interests  of  the  insurer;  or  generally  to  secure  the  proper 

management of any insurer. 

 

Power to appoint and remove directors  

3.50 

IRDA  has  the  power  to  remove2  any  director  or  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the 

insurer, from office and appoint any suitable person in place of the director or chief executive 

officer who has been removed from his office. It is also empowered to appoint3 one or more 

persons to hold office as additional directors of the insurer, provided the number of additional 

directors shall not exceed five or one-third of the maximum strength fixed for the Board. 

 

Power to appoint Administrator 

3.51  The Central Government, based on the report of the IRDA, is empowered to appoint 

an Administrator4 to control the affairs and conduct the management of the business of the 

insurer. 

 

Power to acquire and/or transfer undertakings of insurers 

3.52  The  central  government  has  the  power  to  acquire5  the  undertaking  of  an  insurer, 

provided  the  government  is  satisfied  that  an  insurer  has  persistently  failed  to  comply  with 

directions given  under  Section  34,  34-F  or  Section  34-G  or  any  order  made  under  Section 

34-E, or is being managed detrimental to the public interest or to the interests of his policy-

holders or shareholders.  

 

Power of investigation and inspection by IRDA 

3.53  On receipt of report of investigation conducted under Section 33 of the Insurance Act, 

IRDA may, inter-alia, cancel the registration of insurer or direct any person to apply to court 

for the winding of the insurer. 

 

                                                           
1Section 34 of Insurance Act, 1938 
2Section 34B of Insurance Act, 1938. 
3Section 34C of Insurance Act, 1938. 
4Section 52A of Insurance Act, 1938. 
5Section 52H of Insurance Act, 1938. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 50 

 

Power to make scheme of amalgamation 

3.54  The IRDA may prepare a scheme1 for the amalgamation of an insurer with any other 

insurer,  provided  it  is  satisfied  that  it  is  necessary  to  do  so  in  the  public  interest,  or  in  the 

interests of the policy-holders, or in order to secure the proper management of an insurer, or 

in  the  interest  of  insurance  business  of  the  country  as  a  whole.  Such  scheme  shall  be 

sanctioned by the Central Government with or without any modification. 

 

Jurisdiction over foreign branches of Indian insurance firms 

3.55  The IRDA is empowered to direct any branch outside India of an insurer incorporated 

in  India,  to  stop  carrying  on  insurance  business2  in  the  country  in  which  such  branch  is 

situated within a specified period, not being less than one year, if it has reasons to believe 

that the working of any branch outside India of an insurer is generally resulting in a loss or 

that the affairs of that branch are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of 

the policyholders or the public interest.. 

 

Winding-up 

3.56  The central government is empowered3 to constitute a Tribunal, which shall have the 

powers of a civil court, for the purpose of Section 52H to 52J (that provide for acquisition of 

the undertaking of insurers in certain cases). The Tribunal may order the winding4 up of an 

insurer in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act which shall be subject to the 

provisions of the insurance Act, 1938 and shall apply accordingly.  

 

3.57  The IRDA can also apply to the Tribunal for the winding up of an insurance company 

in  specified  circumstances5,  namely  failing  to  hold  deposits  under  Section  7;  continued 

failure  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  Insurance  Act  for  a  period  of  three  months 

after issue of notice of such failure; company appears to be insolvent on the basis of returns 

filed/investigation  reports;  or  where  continuation  of  the  company  is  considered  to  be 

prejudicial to the interests of policyholders or public.  

 

Power of Tribunal to reduce contracts of insurance6 

3.58 

In case of winding up of an insurance company or in case of insolvency of any other 

insurer, the Tribunal may make an order for reducing the amount of the insurance contracts 

                                                           
1Section 52H of insurance Act, 1938. 
2Section 34G of Insurance Act, 1938. 
3 Section 52K of Insurance Act, 1938. 
4Section 53 of Insurance Act, 1938. 
5 Section 53(2)(b) of Insurance Act, 1938. 
6 Section 55(2) of Insurance Act, 1938. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 51 

 

of the company. For this purpose, the assets and liabilities of the company and all claims in 

respect of policies issued by it shall be ascertained in such manner and on such basis as the 

Tribunal considers appropriate.  

 

Segregation of client assets 

3.59  All  insurance companies  – both life and non-life – are required1 to keep a separate 

account of all receipts and payments in case of each class of insurance business carried on 

by them. In case of winding up/insolvency of an insurer, the value of assets and liabilities of 

the  life  insurance  business  shall  be  ascertained  separately  from  the  value  of  any  other 

assets or any other liabilities of the insurer. The Insurance Act provides that no assets shall 

be  applied  to  the  discharge  of  any  liabilities  other  than  those  in  respect  of  life  insurance 

business2, except in so far as those assets exceed the liabilities in respect of life-insurance 

business.  Thus,  the  assets,  liabilities  and  the  income  derived  from  the  assets  of  the 

‘policyholders’ are clearly identifiable.   

 

3.60  Various  provisions  of  Insurance  Act,  1938  empower  the  IRDA  and/or  the  central 

government  to  use  certain  resolution  powers  and  tools  like  private  sector  purchase  tool 

(compulsory  amalgamation),  and  temporary  public  ownership  tool  in  respect  of  insurance 

companies. However, the existing legislation does not provide for other resolution tools like 

bail-in3 within resolution, etc. for the resolution authority to exercise upon. 

 

Financial Market Infrastructures (FMIs) 

3.61  Financial  Market  Infrastructures  (FMIs)  are  defined  as  a  multilateral  system  among 

participating  institutions,  including  the  operator  of  the  system,  used  for  the  purposes  of 

clearing,  settling,  or  recording  payments,  securities,  derivatives,  or  other 

financial 

transactions.  FMIs  comprise  Central  Counter  Parties  (CCPs),  trade  repositories,  critical 

payment  systems,  securities  settlement  systems  and  central  securities  depositories.  FMIs 

facilitate  the  clearing  and  settlement  of  monetary  and  other  financial  transactions,  such  as 

payments,  securities  and  derivative  contracts 

(including  derivatives  contracts 

for 

commodities).  

 

FMIs under regulatory jurisdiction of RBI 

3.62  The  FMIs  that  are  within  the  regulatory  jurisdiction  of  the  RBI  are  the  Real  Time 

Gross  Settlement  (RTGS)  System,  Securities  Settlement  System  (SSS),  Clearing 
                                                           
1 Section 52K of Insurance Act, 1938. 
2 Section 56 of Insurance Act, 1938. 
3 The regulatory provisions presently do not permit insurance companies to leverage their balance sheet. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 52 

 

Corporation  of  India  Limited  (CCIL)  and  the  Negotiated  Dealing  System  Order-matching 

(NDS-OM). While the RTGS and the SSS are owned and operated by the RBI, the NDS-OM 

is owned by RBI but operated by the CCIL. CCIL is the central counterparty, authorised by 

RBI  under  the  Payment  and  Settlement  Systems  (PSS)  Act,  2007,  for  transactions  in 

government  securities,  CBLOs,  market  repo,  foreign  exchange  spot  trade  and  foreign 

exchange forward trade. CCIL is also a Trade Repository in the segments approved by the 

RBI.  

 

3.63  The PSS Act, 2007 designates the RBI as the authority for regulation and supervision 

of payment systems. However, the existing provisions of the PSS Act do not lay down any 

special  resolution framework for  payment  systems. There  is  no  provision  in  the  RBI  Act  or 

the  PSS  Act  at  the  moment  either  for  recapitalization  of  or  orderly  wind  down  or 

reorganization  of  FMIs  regulated  by  the  Reserve  Bank.  In  the  absence  of  a  specific  legal 

mandate,  the  insolvency  proceedings  as  laid  down  under  the  Company  Law  would  be 

applicable. 

 

FMIs under regulatory jurisdiction of SEBI 

3.64  SEBI regulates various types of FMIs, such as (i) stock exchanges – Bombay Stock 

Exchange,  National  Stock  Exchange,  MCX  SX, United  Stock  Exchange  and  other  regional 

stock exchanges, (ii) Clearing Corporations - Indian Clearing Corporation Ltd. (ICCL), MCX-

SX  Clearing  Corporation  Ltd.  (MCX-SXCCL),  National  Securities  Clearing  Corporation  Ltd. 

(NSCCL),  and  (iii)  the  depositories  –  Central  Depository  Services  Ltd.  (CDSL),  National 

Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL), etc. 

 

3.65  Various provisions of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Securities 

and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations 

Regulations,  2012,  Depositories  Act,  1996  as  well  as  Depository  and  Participants 

Regulations, 1996 give powers to SEBI to pass directions, appoint board members, remove 

board  members  and  take  such  action  as  provided  in  Acts/Regulations  against  stock 

exchanges, depositories and clearing corporations. 

 

3.66 

In  terms  of  Section  12A  of the  Securities  Contracts (Regulation)  Act,  1956,  SEBI  is 

empowered to issue directions to any stock exchange or clearing corporation or agency or 

person  providing  trading  or  clearing  or  settlement  facility  in  respect  of  securities,  or  to  any 

person or class of persons associated with the securities market, or to any company whose 

securities  are  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  in  a  recognized  stock  exchange,  if  SEBI  is 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 53 

 

satisfied that it is necessary in the interests of investors or orderly development of securities 

market, or to prevent the affairs of any recognized stock exchange or clearing corporation or 

such other agency or person being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of the 

investors or securities market, or to secure the proper management of any stock exchange 

or clearing corporation or agency or person. 

 

3.67  SEBI has taken following regulatory measures in respect of FMIs regulated by it: 

(i)  All  stock  exchanges  have  a  separate  legal  entity  as  a  clearing  corporation,  which 

ensures  that  any  risk  to  the  capital  of  a  clearing  corporation  will  not  spill  over  to  the 

stock  exchange.  These  clearing  corporations/houses  have  comprehensive  risk 

management  models  to protect  themselves  against  the  default  of  any  of  its  members. 

The  risk management  model followed  by  these  clearing  corporations  is  briefed  in  Box 

3.1. 

(ii)  With  a  view  to  ensuring  their  financial  capabilities  and  risk  absorbing  capacity,  the 

minimum  net  worth  requirement  of  stock  exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations  has 

been  enhanced.  The  net  worth  of  Clearing  Corporation  has  been  stipulated  as  `  300 

crore.  As  on  March  31,  2013,  networth  of  the  three  clearing  corporations  viz.,  ICCL, 

NSCCL  and  MCX-SX  CCL  was  `  420.99  crore,  `  949.8  core  and  `  28.06  crore 

respectively. In case of insufficiency of funds during a default, the net worth of Clearing 

Corporation may be utilised. 

(iii)  With  a  view  to  providing  timely  exit  to  non-operational  stock  exchanges  or  stock 

exchanges  where  the  annual  trading  turnover  on  its  own  platform  is  less  than  `  1000 

crore, guidelines have been spelt out for de-recognition and exit, avoiding any possible 

scenario of their resolution. 

(iv)  The  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants  Regulations),  1996  provide  for  insurance 

against  risks.  Every  depository  is  required  to  take  adequate  measures  including 

insurance  to  protect  the  interests  of  the  beneficial  owners  against  risks  likely  to  be 

incurred on account of its activities as a depository. 

(v)  As  per  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  the  depositories  are  required  to  indemnify  the  loss 

caused  to  the  beneficial  owner  due  to  the  negligence  of  the  depository  or  the 

participant. 

 
 

BOX 3.1 

 

Risk Management Model of Clearing Corporations 

 
The Clearing Corporations acting as CCPs impose different types of margins like initial margin, extreme loss 
margin,  mark  to  market  (MTM)  margin  and  other  types  of  margins  to  cover  their  exposures.  In  the 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 54 

 

derivatives  segment,  there  are  position  limits  prescribed  by  SEBI  to  mitigate  the  risk  arising  out  of 
concentration of positions. The initial margin on positions of a clearing member (CM) is computed on a real 
time  basis  i.e.  for  each  trade.  The  initial  margin  amount  is  reduced  from  the  effective  deposits  of  the  CM 
with  the  Clearing  Corporation.  For  this  purpose,  effective  deposits  are  computed  by  reducing  the  total 
deposits  of  the  CM  by  `  50  lakh  (referred  to  as  minimum  liquid  net  worth).  The  CM  receives  warning 
messages  on  his  terminal  when  70%,  80%,  and  90%  of  the  effective  deposits  are  utilised.  On  reaching 
100%, the clearing facility provided to the CM is withdrawn. Withdrawal of clearing facility of a CM in case of 
a  violation  will  lead  to  withdrawal  of  trading  facility  for  all  Trading  Members  (TM)  and/or  custodial 
participants clearing and settling through the CM. 
 
Similarly, the initial margins on positions taken by a TM are computed on  a real time  basis and compared 
with  the  TM  limits  set  by  his  CM.  The  initial  margin  amount  is  reduced  from  the  TM  limit  set  by  the  CM. 
Once the TM limit has been utilised to the extent of 70%, 80%, and 90%, a warning message is received by 
the TM on his terminal. At 100% utilization, the trading facility provided to the TM is withdrawn. 
 
Also, SEBI  has provided system of  Risk Reduction  Mode wherein the stock exchanges shall  ensure that 
the  stock  brokers  are  mandatorily  put  in  risk-reduction  mode  when  90%  of  the  stock  broker’s  collateral 
available for adjustment against margins gets utilized on account of trades that fall under a margin system. 
Such risk reduction mode shall include the following:  
 
a. All unexecuted orders shall be cancelled once stock broker breaches 90% collateral utilization level.  
b. Only orders with Immediate or Cancel attribute shall be permitted in this mode.  
c. All new orders shall be checked for sufficiency of margins.  
d. Non-margined orders shall not be accepted from the stock broker in risk reduction mode.  
e. The stock broker shall be moved back to the normal risk management mode as and when the collateral of 
the stock broker is lower than 90% utilization level 
 
The  margin  models  are  back  tested  on  a  quarterly  basis  in  order  to  assess  the  adequacy  vis-à-vis 
exposures of CCPs. In addition to the above, CCPs also maintain a  ‘Settlement Guarantee Fund’ (SGF). 
The  objective  of  SGF  is  to  ensure  that  there  is  no  delay  in  settlement  due  to  failure  of  any  member  to 
honour his commitment on time. While there is no fixed formula for estimating the corpus of the fund, SEBI 
has prescribed certain factors for assessing the fair quantum of SGF, which inter-alia includes track record 
of default of member in last 10 years; settlement liability of top 10 brokers in the highest settlement in last 
one year. For determining the minimum level of corpus, certain norms have been prescribed which inter-alia 
includes a simultaneous default by top 10 brokers for highest settlement in last one year settlement liability-
wise. CCPs regularly conduct stress tests to determine the adequacy of the SGF. 
 
Size of SGF 
As of October 31, 2013, the total size of SGF of Clearing Corporations of three stock exchanges is ` 44,381 
crore – (i) Clearing Corporation of BSE (ICCL) has ` 3,439 crore; (ii) Clearing Corporation of NSE (NSCCL) 
has ` 39,321 crore; and (iii)Clearing Corporation of MCX-SX (MCX-SX CCL) has ` 1,620 crore.  

Composition of SGF 
The Fund consists of: 

(a)  contributions from the Exchange; 
(b) 

interest, dividend or other income arising from investments of the Fund and from any utilisation from 
the Fund, 

(c)  accretions arising from investments of the Fund, 
(d)  any  money  or  property  which the  Relevant Authority is entitled to appropriate to the Fund, and  
(e)  any other funds, contribution (non-refundable) or penalties collected from Clearing Members, money 

or property which the Relevant Authority may decide to be the part of the fund from time to time, 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 55 

 

Utilisation of Fund 
In  the  event  of  a  clearing  member  being  declared  a  defaulter  and  the  clearing  member  fails  to  meet  the 
clearing  and  settlement  obligations  to  the  clearing  corporation  arising  out  of  clearing  and  settlement 
operations  of  such deals  as  provided  in  the  Rules,  Bye  Laws  and Regulations,  the  relevant  authority  may 
utilise the Fund and other monies to the extent necessary to meet the obligations. 
 
There are  a  few  instances  during the  last  10  years  when  the  brokers  faced  financial  difficulties.  However, 
the collaterals maintained by them with the stock exchanges adequately covered the position of members. 
The number of such instances is three each on BSE and NSE. On NSE, there were two more instances of 
default by the brokers, however, this was because of the reason of their not paying to clients and there was 
no default at the time of settlement in stock exchange 
 
According to information provided by BSE, in last 10 years, there has been no case of utilization of SGF on 
account of settlement default. However, NSE utilized members' deposits (given below) to recover settlement 
shortages on 3 instances totalling to about ` 16.23 crore, without using any funds from SGF.  
 

Year 

Segment  Member  deposit  utilized 

towards 

2004 
2007 
2013 

CM 
CM 
F&O 

settlement shortage (in ` crore) 
0.085 
0.024 
16.12 (approx.) 

No.  of  members  declared 
defaulter 
1 
1 
1 

Whether  SGF 
was utilized 
No 
No 
No 

 
Thus there was no occasion when the SGF was utilised by the stock exchanges. They could complete the 
settlements due to prompt corrective measures adopted by them. 
 
Investor Protection Fund 
In case a stock broker is declared defaulter, the interests of the investors are protected through the Investor 
Protection Fund (IPF)/Customer Protection Fund (CPF) set up by the stock exchanges. At present, National 
Stock Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) are providing protection subject to a maximum 
of  `  15  lakh  per  client/investor.  As  on  October  31,  2013,  the  corpuses  of  IPF  at  BSE,  NSE  and  MCX-SX 
were ` 647.70 crore, ` 380.97 crore, and ` 10.89 crore respectively. 
 

Securities Firms 

3.68  As  Securities  and  Exchanges  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  is  the  regulator  of  the  Indian 

securities market, it is vested with certain general powers and is responsible for regulation, 

registration,  supervision  of  market  participants,  market  surveillance,  enforcement  of  the 

securities law, investors' education and protection and policy framework. 

 

3.69 

In addition to certain FMIs described above, SEBI regulates various types of entities 

that  are  fee–based  and  fund-based.  For  the  fee-based  entities  that  do  not  take 

deposits/funds from investors/public in general and whose operations are limited to particular 

clients,  in  the  event  of  failure,  the  impact  may  not  be  widespread.  For  the  fund-based 

entities,  which  manage  public/third  party  funds,  such  as  mutual  funds,  asset  management 

companies,  etc., there  are  provisions  specific to each  such  regulated  entity  to  ensure  their 

smooth functioning.  

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 56 

 

3.70  Section  11B(iii)  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992  empowers  SEBI  to  issue  directions,  if  it  is 

satisfied that it is necessary to secure the proper management of any intermediary to protect 

the interests of investors in securities market and to ensure the orderly development of the 

securities  market.  Section  11(4)  empowers  SEBI 

to 

issue  direction  with  pending 

enquiry/investigation. 

 

3.71  SEBI  has  the  power  to  direct  transfer  of  clients/investors  to  other  intermediaries  in 

case of intermediaries who have been debarred or whose registration has been suspended 

or cancelled.  

 

Power to appoint administrator/supersede the Board 

3.72 

In  terms  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992,  SEBI  is  empowered  to  supersede  the  board  and 

appoint  administrators.  In  the  past,  SEBI  has  superseded  the  governing  boards  and 

appointed administrators in case of 6 stock exchanges. In case of CRB Mutual fund, based 

on the reports of financial irregularities by the sponsor, an administrator was appointed in the 

interest of unit holders. 

 

Mutual Funds: 

3.73  Asset Management Company (AMC) of a mutual fund needs to separately maintain 

proper  books  of  account,  records  and  documents,  for  each  scheme  so  as  to  explain  its 

transactions and to disclose at any point of time the financial position of each scheme and in 

particular give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the fund. Thus, change in viability 

position of the sponsors of the Mutual Fund does not per se affect the interest of mutual fund 

unit-holders, as the assets of Mutual Fund are separately held by Trust and are kept in safe 

custody of custodians appointed by Trustees.  

 

3.74  SEBI (Mutual  Funds) Regulations, 1996 require quarterly review of the net  worth of 

the  asset management company  by  the  trustees  and  in  case  of  any  shortfall,  it  is  ensured 

that the asset management company makes up for the shortfall. 

 

3.75  SEBI  may  direct  winding  up  of  a  scheme  of  a  mutual  fund,  in  the  interests  of  unit 

holders.  The  procedure  for  winding  up  including  priority  of  claims  is  also  mentioned  in 

regulations.  The  proceeds  of  sale  realised  shall  be  first  utilised  towards  discharge  of  such 

liabilities as are due and payable under the scheme and after making appropriate provision 

for meeting the expenses connected with such winding up, the balance shall be paid to the 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 57 

 

unit holders in proportion to their respective interest  in the assets of the scheme as on the 

date when the decision for winding up was taken. 

 

3.76  The existing legal framework is inadequate to effectively resolve the above financial 

institutions  in  line  with  the  FSB  Key  Attributes.  The  resolution  framework  for  securities 

markets  would  need  to  take  into  consideration  some  factors1,  i.e.  (i)  the  existing  funds 

(Settlement Guarantee Funds and Investor Protection Funds) created in securities markets; 

(ii)  the  insurance  schemes  already  prescribed  by  SEBI  for  different  intermediaries;  (iii)  risk 

profiles  of  different  types  of  intermediaries  in  securities  markets;  and  (iv)  international 

practices in securities markets in this area. 

 

Pension Fund Sector 

3.77  PFRDA  currently  regulates  National  Pension  System  (NPS)  through  its  registered 

intermediaries like Pension Funds Managers (PFM), Central Record Keeping Agency (CRA), 

POP,  Custodian,  Trustee  Bank,  NPS  Trust,  Aggregators,  etc.  as  per  the  agreement  with 

these entities. However, Section 12(1) (A & B) of the PFRDA Act, 2013 provides for inclusion 

of  any  other  pension  scheme  not  regulated  by  any  other  enactment  apart  from  NPS.  The 

agreement  with  the  institutions  under  NPS  architecture  is  applicable  to  a  particular  legal 

entity  and  not  to  the  institution's  holding  company  or  subsidiaries.  The  NPS  is  available  to 

Indian citizens through the intermediaries in India only. As per Section 25 of the Act ibid, no 

pension fund shall directly or indirectly invest outside India, the funds of the subscribers. 

 

3.78  PFRDA  has  the  authority  to  monitor,  take  corrective  action  and  also  terminate  the 

PFMs if they do not function as per the prescribed parameters to safeguard the interest of 

subscribers.  

 

3.79  PFRDA is required to submit a report2 to the central government where the affairs of 

CRA  or  Pension  Fund  are  conducted  in  a  manner  prejudicial  to  the  interest  of  the 

subscribers.  The  central  government  may  consider  the  report  and  appoint  Administrators. 

The  central  government  may,  on  a  complaint  received  by  PFRDA  or  suo-motu,  after 

conducting an enquiry, supersede the management/Board of the intermediary3 and appoint 

an Administrator. 

 

 
                                                           
1 SEBI has requested to include these comments in the Report. 
2Section 19(1) & (2) of PFRDA Act, 2013. 
3Section 31 (2) of PFRDA Act, 2013. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 58 

 

Power to take over management 

3.80  PFRDA  can  take  over  the  Board/Management1  of  an  intermediary  after  conducting 

an enquiry upon contravention of provisions of the Act 

 

3.81  There are wide gaps in respect of resolution of problem or non-viable pension funds. 

 

Resolution triggers 

3.82  The Reserve Bank has specified certain regulatory trigger points, as a part of prompt 

corrective action (PCA) Framework, in terms of three parameters, i.e. capital to risk weighted 

assets  ratio  (CRAR),  net  non-performing  assets  (NPA)  and  Return  on  Assets  (RoA),  for 

initiation  of  certain  structured  and  discretionary  actions  in  respect  of  banks  hitting  such 

trigger points. The PCA framework is applicable only to commercial banks and not extended 

to co-operative banks, non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and FMIs. This framework 

is  to  essentially  bring  about  timely  corrective  action  in  times  of  banks’  failure  to  meet 

prudential  requirements,  or  regulatory  violations  or  the  depositors’  interest  is  threatened  in 

any other way.  

 

3.83  The  RBI’s  regulatory  guidelines  on  Basel  III  norms,  applicable  only  to  commercial 

banks, provides that a non-viable bank will be a bank which, owing to its financial and other 

difficulties, may no longer remain a going concern on its own, in the opinion of the Reserve 

Bank, unless appropriate measures are taken to revive  its operations and thus enable it to 

continue as a going concern. The Point  of Non-Viability (PONV) trigger event is the earlier 

of: 

 

(a)  A decision that a conversion or temporary/permanent write-off, without which the firm 

would become non-viable, is necessary, as determined by the RBI; and 

(b)  The  decision  to  make  a  public  sector  injection2  of  capital,  or  equivalent  support, 

without which the firm would have become non-viable, as determined by the relevant 

authority. 

3.84  However, these triggers are not specific to taking actions in crisis resolution. 

 

3.85  Resolution  powers  of  the  IRDA  are  invoked  when  the  apprehensions  are  raised 

through the following triggers: 

                                                           
1 Section 31(2) of PFRDA Act, 2013. 
2 This action would imply that the write-off/conversion of non-equity regulatory capital instruments must occur 
prior to any public sector capital infusion. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 59 

 

(i)  All insurers are required to be compliant with the solvency requirements as stipulated 

for insurance companies. The regulatory framework provides that each insurer shall 

maintain  a  solvency  margin  of  150%  at  all  points  in  time.  In  case  of  an  insurer’s 

solvency  falling  below  the  stipulated  requirement,  the  resolution  trigger/  regulatory 

action would be triggered immediately. Under such circumstances, the IRDA would in 

the  first  instance  require  the  insurance  entity  to  take  steps  to  restore  the  solvency 

margin.  

(ii)  The second trigger for such action could be the promoters of the institution being in 

financial  difficulty  and  the  insurer’s financial  condition  being  impacted  as  a  result of 

the same.  

(iii) The third trigger could be regulatory action against the promoter company by another 

supervisor  (another  sector  regulator  within  the  jurisdiction  or  by  home  country 

regulator in case of the JV partner). 

(iv) The fourth trigger could be the insurance company continuously breaching the limits 

of expenses of management.  

 

3.86  The above triggers do indicate certain pre-specified points, the breach of which would 

prompt the RBI and/or IRDA to take necessary regulatory action to avoid any further viability 

problems  in  the  institutions.  However,  these  are  not  clear  triggers  that  would  prompt  the 

respective  regulators  to  handover  the  problem  institution  to  the  resolution  authority  for 

initiating  resolution  actions.  Even  such  a  regulatory  framework  is  practically  absent  in  the 

case of other types of banks (i.e. co-operative banks, RRBs), FMIs and securities firms and 

pension funds.  

 

Set-off netting, collateralisation, segregation of client assets 

Bilateral netting and set-off on default of particular claim 

3.87  The Contract Act, 1872 provides freedom to the contracting parties to structure their 

rights and obligations in the manner best suited for them, as long as such contracts are not 

unlawful or opposed to public policy. Thus, bilateral netting arrangement, including close-out 

netting contracts, on default of a particular claim would fall within the legal framework. 

 

Bilateral netting and set-off on bankruptcy of a party 

3.88  Section  47  of  the  Presidency  Towns  Insolvency  Act,  19091  and  Section  46  of 

Provincial Insolvency Act, 19201, provide that when there are mutual dealings between the 

                                                           
1Presidency  Towns  Insolvency  Act,  1909  govern  the  insolvency  proceedings  of  individuals  and  partnership 
firms in presidency towns, i.e. Calcutta, Bombay and Madras. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 60 

 

insolvent and the creditor, set-off is permissible and sum due from one party shall be set-off 

against any sum due from the other party and the creditor may prove only the net balance 

due  from  the  insolvent.  Further,  the  Company  Law  provides  that  in  the  winding  up  of  an 

insolvent company, the same rules regarding the (i) debts payable, (ii) valuation of annuities 

and future and contingent liabilities, and (iii) the respective rights of secured and unsecured 

creditors, shall prevail as in the case of law of insolvency relating to the insolvent persons. 

As the banking companies are registered under the Company Law, the same is applicable to 

private sector banks at the time of their winding up. As such, since the dealings between two 

banking  companies  would  be  mutual  in  nature,  they  can  set-off  the  amount  due  between 

them and only the net amount would be claimed by the creditor bank from the liquidator of 

the banking company in liquidation without reopening the earlier trades between each of the 

members. However, this will hold good only for those banks and other financial institutions 

that  are  governed  by  the  Company  Law  and  the  two  insolvency  legislations  mentioned 

above.  

 

3.89  The other banks (i.e. public sector banks and RRBs) that are statutory corporations 

(governed by their own statutes) and co-operative banks (governed by the respective State 

Co-operative Societies Acts and Multi-State Co-operative Societies Act, 2002) do not have 

similar provisions in their statutes permitting set-off of claims in liquidations. 

 

Bilateral close-out netting 

3.90  There  are  no  specific  provisions  for  close-out  netting  in  the  extant  legal framework. 

However, even if the liquidator refuses to acknowledge the liability as a currently enforceable 

liability  and  treats  it  as  a  future  liability,  the  fact  that  the  debt  has  not  matured  when  the 

insolvency commenced would not be of material consequence as the effect  of the banking 

company’s insolvency would accelerate the date on which the set-off should be effected and 

make the commencement of the winding-up/insolvency the time for that purpose. There are 

various court judgments2 (Madras and Kerala High Courts) which had acknowledged that a 

debt, although not presently payable, can be set off against moneys owing to a company in 

liquidation. These are, however, applicable only for those banks, NBFCs and FMIs that are 

covered  by  the  Company  Law,  the  Provincial  Insolvency  Act,  1920  and  the  Presidency 

Towns Insolvency Act, 1909. 

 

                                                                                                                                                                                     
1 Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920 governs insolvency proceedings of individuals and partnership firms in other 
places. 
2  (i)  K.  Anantaraman  v.  Official  Liquidator,  Travancore  National  &  Quilon  Bank  Ltd.  reported  in  [1939]  9 
Comp Cas 285 (Mad.); (ii) Isaac v. Palai Central Bank Ltd. reported in [1963] 33 Comp Cas 799 (Ker.). 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 61 

 

3.91  Close-out netting of contracts in respect of co-operative banks would be governed by 

the  provisions  contained  in  the  respective  State  Co-operative  Societies  Acts.  Under  the 

Maharashtra  Co-operative  Societies  Act,  1960,  the  liquidator  has  the  power  to  acquire 

custody  and  control  of  all  actionable  claims  to  which  the  society  is  entitled,  on  an  interim 

order directing a society to be wound up. It also has the power to investigate all claims and 

decide  on  priority  arising  out  of  such  claims  and  pay  to  any  class  of  creditors  in  full  or 

rateably according to the amount of such debts, compromise all debts and liabilities and all 

claims  present  or  future,  certain  or  contingent,  subsisting  or  supposed  to  subsist  between 

the  society  and  contributory  or  other  debtor,  etc.  on  such  terms  as  may  be  agreed.  The 

close-out netting of contracts  would,  therefore, depend on the liquidator whose powers are 

subject to the control of the RCS. 

 

Multilateral netting arrangements of banks 

3.92  Multilateral netting takes place where clearing/settlement services are involved. Such 

payment systems  are governed by the provisions of the Payment and Settlement Systems 

(PSS)  Act,  2007.  Section  23  of  the  PSS  Act,  2007  overrides  the  provisions  of  Companies 

Act,  1956,  BR  Act,  1949  and  all  other  Acts  and  confers  settlement  finality  in  the  case  of 

insolvency  of  a  system  participant.  It  provides  that  such  insolvency  shall  not  affect  a 

settlement that has become final and irrevocable.  Basically a netted settlement is final and 

irrevocable as soon as the money payable under that settlement is determined.  

 

3.93  However, arrangements not governed by the provisions of PSS Act, 2007 would not 

get the benefit of multilateral netting arrangements. An FMI like CCIL has powers to close-

out  positions.  Moreover,  segregation  of  client  assets  is  a  part  of  extant  regulations  as  is 

collateralization.  Special  provisions  are  being  suggested  to  be  provided  by  amendment  to 

the PSS Act, 2007 for closing out position in the event of resolution of the FMI. 

 

3.94  However,  the  extant  legal  framework,  being  not  uniform  for  all  banks  and  not 

providing  specific  provisions  thus  lacking  clarity  and  transparency,  falls  short  of  the 

provisions contained in the FSB Key Attributes. 

 

Temporary stay of early termination rights 

3.95  The  existing  legal  framework  does  not  empower  the  regulators  and/or  the  central 

government to impose temporary stay on exercise of early termination rights.  

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 62 

 

Safeguards regarding respect of creditor hierarchy 

3.96  Though  there  are  some  provisions  in  the  Company  Law  that  provide  seniority  of 

claims in liquidation, it is not clear for other banks. However, the RBI’s guidelines do indicate 

clear  framework  of  creditor  hierarchy  in  respect  of  failure  of  banks.  In  case  of  insurance 

companies,  the  scheme  formulated  under  section  37A  of  the  Insurance  Act,  1939,  to  the 

extent that the assets are available over and above the liabilities of the regulated entity, the 

shareholders and creditors would get a share of such assets in case of winding up.  

 

3.97 

In  case  of  acquiring  of  the  undertakings  of  banking  companies  by  the  Central 

Government or transferring the same to any company established for the purpose or in any 

corporation, every person, in terms of Section 36AG of Banking Regulation Act, 1949, who, 

immediately  before the appointed  day,  is  registered  as  a  shareholder  in the  acquired  bank 

or, where the acquired bank is a banking company incorporated outside India, the acquired 

bank, shall be given by the Central Government or the transferee bank, as the case may be, 

such compensation as is determined in accordance with the principal contained in the Fifth 

Schedule of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 

 

3.98  The  Central  Government  or  the  acquiring  insurer  is  required  to  make  payment  of 

compensation  to  the  acquired  insurer  in  respect  of  the  transfer  of  the  undertaking  of  the 

acquired insurer. The amount of compensation shall be decided by the central government 

or  the  acquiring  insurer.  If  the  amount  of  compensation  is  not  acceptable  to  the  acquired 

insurer,  the  matter  shall  be  examined  by  the  Tribunal,  constituted  for  the  purpose  by  the 

central government. The decision of the Tribunal shall be final. 

 

3.99  There are, however, no clear legal provisions that indicate safeguards that should be 

provided  to  the  creditors  of  the failing financial  institutions  in  case  of  initiation  of resolution 

actions/proceedings.  

 

Protection  by  law  from  actions  taken  for  complying  with  the  decisions  of 

resolution authority 

3.100  Since the directions issued by the Reserve Bank are statutory in nature, the directors 

and  officers  complying  with  such  directions  would  be  acting  as  per  the  legal  mandate. 

Unless  they  deviate  from  the  directions  in  their  actions,  they  would  be  getting  protection 

available  under  law.  Section  54  of  the  Banking  Regulation  Act,  1949  specifically  provides 

that  no  suit  or  other  legal  proceedings  shall  lie  against  the  Central  Government,  Reserve 

Bank  of  India  or  any  officer  for  anything  which  is  done  in  good  faith  or  intended  to  be  in 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 63 

 

pursuance of the provisions of that Act. No claim for damages also would lie against them. 

There is a similar provision in the Reserve Bank of India Act, 19341. 

 

3.101  No  suit,  prosecution  or  other  legal  proceedings  shall  lie2  against  the  central 

government  or  any  officer  of  the  central  government  or  any  member,  officer  or  other 

employee of the IRDA for anything which is done in good faith or intended to be done under 

this  Act  or  the  rules  or regulations made  thereunder.  However,  nothing  in  the  Act  exempts 

any person from any suit or other proceedings which might, apart from this Act, be brought 

against him. 

 

Funding of firms in resolution 

3.102  The extant legal framework does not provide for constitution of any resolution fund for 

use  in  resolving  a  failing  financial  institution,  or  for  ex-post  recovery  of  costs  of  providing 

temporary financing by the resolution authority to facilitate resolution.  

 
3.103  However, the DICGC Act, 1961 provides for setting up an ex-ante deposit insurance 

fund by the DICGC. The fund is primarily sourced out of the insurance premia collected from 

insured banks (commercial banks including branches of foreign banks, co-operative banks, 

and  RRBs),  repayments  received,  coupon  received  from  investment  in  central  government 

securities, etc. The fund does not provide insurance cover to the depositors of NBFCs. The 

fund is used to make payments to the depositors in cases of amalgamation, reconstruction, 

compromises,  arrangements  and  liquidation.  The  deposit  protection  provided  by  DICGC 

does not give any priority/preference to depositors of any insured banks, including branches 

of  foreign  banks  functioning  in  India.  However,  the  depositor  protection  is  not  provided  to 

depositors of foreign branches of Indian banks. Moreover, the existing set up of DICGC does 

not permit the use of deposit insurance fund to finance non-payout resolutions. 

 

3.104  In  case  a  stock  broker  is  declared  defaulter,  the  interests  of  the  investors  are 

protected  through  the  Investor  Protection  Fund  (IPF)/Customer  Protection  Fund  (CPF)  set 

up by the stock exchanges. At present, National Stock Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock 

Exchange  (BSE)  are  providing  protection  subject  to  a  maximum  of  `  15  lakh  per 

client/investor. As on October 31, 2013, the corpuses of IPF at BSE, NSE and MCX-SX were 

` 647.70 crore, ` 380.97 crore, and ` 10.89 crore respectively. 

 

                                                           
1Section 58A of RBI Act, 1934. 
2 Section 22 of IRDA Act, 1934. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 64 

 

Non-discrimination  among  creditors  on  the  basis  of  nationality,  location  of 

claim etc. 

3.105  The deposit insurance system operated in India by the DICGC provides for payment 

to  the  eligible  depositors  of  insured  banks  located  in  India,  including  the  foreign  bank 

branches located in India.  The depositor protection/ insurance is, however, not provided to 

depositors  of  foreign  branches  of  Indian  banks  by  DICGC.  In  terms  of  Section  21  (2)  of 

DICGC Act, 1961, DICGC has a first claim on bank’s liquidated assets up to the amount paid 

to the depositors. Since the depositors of foreign branches of Indian banks are not insured 

by  DICGC,  and  further  that  the  DICGC  has  a  first  claim  on  bank’s  liquidated  assets,  the 

regime indirectly provides for a preferential treatment to the depositors of bank branches in 

India as compared to the depositors of branches of Indian banks situated in other countries. 

 

3.106  In terms of Section 11(4) of the BR Act, 1949, in the event of a foreign bank ceasing 

to carry on banking business in India, the minimum paid up capital and reserves which it is 

required to maintain under Section 11(2) of the Act ibid shall be an asset of that company on 

which the creditors of the company in India shall have first charge. This, however, talks only 

about the capital and reserves kept with the Reserve Bank. The proceeds from other assets 

have to distributed as per the provisions of the Companies Act, which do not discriminate on 

the basis of nationality, location of claims or the jurisdiction where it is payable. 

 

Information sharing and cross-border cooperation 

3.107  There  is  no  specific  statutory  provision  enabling  or  prohibiting  the  Reserve  Bank  or 

the  central  government from  cooperating  with  foreign  resolution  authorities.  Further,  Indian 

law does not specifically recognize foreign bankruptcy proceedings.  However, Indian Courts 

on  reciprocity  basis  recognize  the  decrees  passed  by  the  foreign  courts,  subject  to  the 

exemptions provided in Section 13 of  the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (“CPC”). In terms of 

Section  44A  of  CPC,  the  certified  copy  of  a  decree  passed  by  a  foreign  court  of  any 

reciprocating territory has to be filed in a District Court and such decree may be executed in 

India as if it had been passed by the District Court.  

 

3.108  Further, Section 45E of the RBI Act, 1934 prohibits the Reserve Bank or any banking 

company from disclosure of credit information, except in the following circumstances: 

(i)  The disclosure by any banking company with the previous permission of the RBI of 

any information furnished to it under Section 45C; 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 65 

 

(ii)  Publication  by  RBI  of  any  information  collected  by  it  under  Section  45C  in  such 

consolidated  form  as  it  may  think  fit  without  disclosing  the  name  of  any  banking 

company or its borrowers in the public interest; 

(iii) The  disclosure  or  publication  by  the  banking  company  or  RBI  of  any  credit 

information  to  any  other  banking  company  or  in  accordance  with  the  practice  and 

usage  customary  among  the  bankers  or  as  permitted  or  required  under  any  other 

law; and 

(iv) Disclosure  of  any  credit  information  under  the  Credit  Information  Companies 

(Regulation) Act, 2005. 

 
3.109  Presently,  the  RBI  has  been  engaging  in  Memorandum  of  Understandings  (MoUs) 

with  various  Central  Banks  with  a  view  to  promoting  greater  co-operation  and  sharing  of 

supervisory  information  between  the  supervisors.  So  far,  the  Reserve  Bank  has  signed  19 

MoUs  with  regulators  of  various  jurisdictions.  However,  the  present  approved  MoU 

framework  does  not  envisage/provide  for  cooperation,  coordination  and  exchange  of 

information between/amongst resolution authorities or for crisis resolution. 

 

3.110  IRDA  has  become  a  signatory  to  the  Multilateral  Memorandum  of  Understanding 

(MMOU)  of  International  Association  of  Insurance  Supervisors  (IAIS)  which  provides  an 

international  platform  for  cooperation  and  sharing  of  information.  The  IRDA  (Sharing  of 

Confidential  Information  Concerning  Domestic  or  Foreign  Entity)  Regulations,  2013  are  in 

place, which provide for the manner in which/bodies with which confidential information can 

be  shared.  The  MMOU  with  the  IAIS  also  provides  a  framework  for  enhanced  supervisory 

cooperation  between  the  supervisory  authorities  and  has  also  envisaged/provided  for 

cooperation,  coordination  and  exchange  of  information  including  in  case  of  winding  up, 

liquidation and bankruptcy and administration of guarantee funds. 

 

3.111  However, the present approved MoU framework for banks for enhanced supervisory 

cooperation between the domestic regulatory/supervisory authorities and foreign authorities, 

does  not  envisage/provide  for  cooperation,  coordination  and  exchange  of  information 

between/amongst "resolution authorities" or on crisis resolution. 

 

Recovery and Resolution Planning and Resolvability Assessments 

3.112  Though there are various domestic financial institutions that could be considered as 

systemically important and that can impact the financial stability of the country, they are not 

mandated  by  the  regulator  or  the  supervisor  to  prepare  recovery  and  resolution  plans. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 66 

 

Moreover,  presently,  neither  the  respective  regulators  nor  the  central  government  assess 

and  evaluate  the  feasibility  and  credibility  of  resolution  strategies  for  Indian  financial 

institutions. The assessment is also not conducted for the financial conglomerate/groups. 

 

3.113  However,  the  frameworks  for  “Regulation  and  Supervision  of  Financial  Market 

Infrastructures  regulated  by  RBI  as  well  as  by  SEBI”  have  been  issued  in  July  2013. 

Accordingly, all FMIs have to comply with the Principles of  Financial Market Infrastructures 

(PFMI), which includes putting in place a Recovery and Resolution Plan. 

 

Crisis  management  groups  and  Institution-specific  cross-border  cooperation 

agreements 

3.114  Presently, the Indian financial institutions do not qualify for classification as G-SIFIs. 

However,  15  of  the  29  G-SIBs  and  eight  out  of  thirteen  Global  Systemically  Important 

Insurers  (G-SIIs)  have  presence  in  India  in  the  form  of  branches/joint  ventures.  The 

responsibility  for  constituting the  CMGs for G-SIFIs  lies  with  the  home  resolution  authority. 

So  far,  no  CMGs  have  been  constituted  by  the  Indian  authorities  in  respect  of  financial 

institutions  that  have  foreign  presence.  So  far,  India  has  not  signed  any  cross-border 

cooperation agreements for resolution of G-SIFIs. 

 

Problems in Financial Institutions in India 

Problems in banks 

3.115  In 

India,  during 

the  past  decade  nine  commercial  banks1  were  voluntarily 

amalgamated and five banks2 were compulsorily amalgamated. There has been no case of 

liquidation  of  commercial  banks  during  the  last  two  decades,  except  for  Bank  of  Karad  in 

1992, a part of which was later sold to another bank (Bank of India).  

 

3.116  Private  sector  banks  that  demonstrated  signs  of  weakness  were  compulsorily 

amalgamated with other strong banks in a timely manner in order to protect the interests of 

                                                           
1 (i) IDBI Bank Ltd. merged with IDBI Ltd. on April 2, 2005; (ii) Bank of Punjab Ltd. merged with Centurion 
Bank Ltd. on October 1, 2005; (iii) Sangli Bank Ltd. merged with ICICI Bank Ltd. on April 19, 2007; (iv) Lord 
Krishna  Bank  Ltd.  merged  with  Centurion  Bank  of  Punjab  Ltd.  on  August  29,  2007;  (v)  Centurion  Bank  of 
Punjab Ltd.  merged  with HDFC Bank  Ltd. on May 23, 2008; (vi) Bank of Rajasthan Ltd.  merged  with ICICI 
Bank Ltd. on August 12, 2010; (vii) State Bank of Saurashtra merged with State Bank of India on August 2008; 
(viii) State Bank of Indore merged with State Bank of India in July 2010; and (ix) SBICI Ltd. merged with State 
Bank of India on July 2011. 
2(i) Benares State Bank Ltd. (BSBL) amalgamated with Bank of Baroda on June 19, 2002; (ii) Nedungadi Bank 
Ltd.  amalgamated  with  PNB  on  February1,  2003;  (iii)  Global  Trust  Bank  merged  with  Oriental  Bank  of 
Commerce on August 14, 2004; (iv) Ganesh Bank of Kurundwad Ltd. amalgamated with the Federal Bank Ltd. 
on September 2, 2006; and (v) United Western Bank Ltd. amalgamated with IDBI Bank Ltd. on October 3, 2006 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 67 

 

depositors. However, these compulsory amalgamations took place only upon valuation and 

assessment by the transferee bank and did not involve any regulatory forbearance from RBI. 

The  transferee  banks  took  over  the  entire  liabilities  of  the  transferor  bank,  either  on  the 

assessed value or at a discount with the DICGC having to pay certain amount (in one case), 

or even made an upfront payment to the shareholders of the transferor bank (in one case). 

The compulsory amalgamations during the last decade have helped in avoiding liquidation of 

commercial banks that may have resulted in payments by DICGC and loss to the depositors. 

The  resolution  process  adopted  in  respect  of  the  above-mentioned  five  banks  is  given  in 

brief in Box 3.2. 

 

BOX 3.2 

Problems in banks in India – Use of resolution powers and tools 

The  Benaras  State  Bank  Ltd.  (BSBL),  a  scheduled  commercial  bank  with  a  network  of  100 
branches,  had  several  deficiencies  in  the  areas  of  credit  management  and  funds/investment 
management.  The  bank’s  net  worth  had  eroded  and  its  CRAR  had  turned  negative.  In  order  to 
prevent any run on the bank, RBI issued directions under Section 35A of the B. R. Act, 1949 placing 
restrictions  on  the  functioning  of  the  bank.  Meanwhile,  the  valuation  of  assets  and  liabilities  of  the 
bank was done by an independent firm of Chartered Accountants. The valuation ascertained the pro 
rata share at 85.85% and eligible depositors' accounts were credited  with a sum equal to 85.85% of 
the  value  of  their  deposits.  The  DICGC  had  to  settle  the  claims  to  the  extent  of  `  99.00  crore  on 
amalgamation  of  the  bank.  Finally,  in  terms  of  Government  notification,  Benares  State  Bank  Ltd. 
(BSBL)  was  amalgamated  with  Bank  of  Baroda  on  June  19,  2002.  While  in  the  resolution  process, 
there  was  no  regulatory  forbearance  granted  to  the  transferee  bank,  there  was  no  loss  to  the 
depositors  and  the  employees  of  the  transferor  bank.  However,  the  shareholders  of  the  transferor 
bank suffered the loss. 
 
The  Nedungadi  Bank  Ltd.,  a  scheduled  commercial  bank  with  a  network  of  171  branches,  was 
engaged  in  ‘arbitrage  trading  in  shares’  through  three  broking  firms,  which  envisaged  simultaneous 
purchase and sale of shares on different stock exchanges to take advantage of the price difference. 
With the stock market crash in 2000 and high level of NPAs (gross NPA and net NPA at 41.3% and 
26.0% respectively), the bank’s CRAR and net worth turned negative as on September 30, 2001 at (-) 
5.63% and (-) ` 45.56 crore respectively. The Chairman of the bank, being the approving authority for 
all such transactions, was removed by the RBI in terms of Section 36AA of BR Act, 1949, and a new 
Chairman was appointed. The assessment of the provisional results revealed a requirement of fresh 
infusion of capital of ` 112 crore and ` 170 crore to cleanse the balance sheet. Considering the bank's 
adverse  financial  position,  it  was  considered  doubtful  of  raising  capital  by  a  public  issue,  as  well  as 
the  feasibility  of  voluntary  merger.  Finally,  the  RBI  recommended  to  the  central  government  for 
placing the bank under moratorium, and was amalgamated with Punjab National Bank with effect from 
February  1,  2003.  This  resolution  process  did  not  envisage  any  loss  to  the  depositors  and  the 
employees of the bank, as also did not involve DICGC participation. The process did not provide any 
regulatory forbearance to the transferee bank, but the shareholders of the transferor bank suffered the 
losses. 
 
The Global Trust Bank Ltd. (GTB), a scheduled commercial bank with a network of 104 branches, 
had  a  very  high  capital  market  exposure  and  high  level  of  NPAs.  Noticing  an  unusual  rise  in  share 
price (34.86%) of GTB as compared to bank index (4.78%) and BSE Sensex (5.4%), RBI requested 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 68 

 

SEBI  in  November  2000  to  make  detailed  enquiries.  Quick  scrutiny  by  RBI  revealed  various 
deficiencies in capital market exposure, NPA and CRAR. The bank was put under monthly monitoring 
and was asked to draw up action plan to bring improvements in its functioning within a time frame of 
six  months.  The  bank  was  also  asked  to  submit  a  concrete  time  bound  action  plan  to  reduce  its 
exposure  to  capital  market  to  5%  by  March  31,  2002.  As  directed  by  BFS,  RBI  undertook,  through 
auditors, an independent assessment of quality of assets and determine true financial position. On the 
basis  of  the  assessment,  the  bank  was  issued  a  set  of  directions  relating  to  lending,  declaration  of 
dividend,  capital  market  exposure,  etc.  Due  to  non-improvement  and  further  deterioration  of  bank’s 
financial position, RBI placed the bank under moratorium and was finally merged with Oriental Bank 
of Commerce (OBC) in terms of Section 45 of BR Act, 1949. The merger was kind of a private sector 
purchase  by  OBC  and  there  was  no  loss  to  the  insured  depositors  as  well  as  employees  of  the 
transferor bank and no involvement of DICGC insurance fund. 
 
Ganesh Bank of Kurundwad Ltd., a scheduled commercial bank with a network of 32 branches, had 
very  low  capital  base  with  high  NPA  level  and  negative  networth.  The  bank  was  initially  put  under 
monthly  monitoring  system  and  subsequently  was  advised  to  take  structured  actions  under  Prompt 
Corrective Action (PCA) framework as its NPA had hit the trigger  point of above 10%. With signs of 
weaknesses  in  the  bank’s  financials  in  terms  of  high  gross  NPA  and  negative  networth,  the  RBI 
placed  the  bank  under  Moratorium  for  a  period  of  3  months  and  prepared  a  draft  Scheme  of 
Amalgamation of Ganesh Bank of Kurundwad Ltd. with the Federal Bank Ltd. which had forwarded its 
expression of interest and sought no regulatory forbearance on amalgamation. However, due to court 
cases  and  litigations,  the  amalgamation  could  not  be  effected  on  the  Government  notified  date.  On 
resolution of the court cases, the bank was finally amalgamated with Federal Bank Ltd on January 24, 
2006.  This  process  of  amalgamation,  though  did  not  envisage  any  loss  either  to  the  insured 
depositors  and  employees  of  the  transferor  bank  and  to  the  DICGC  Insurance  Fund,  indicated  a 
requirement of a special resolution regime for banks with sufficient tools and powers to the resolution 
authority and without the court process and shareholders’ approval. 
 
United Western Bank Ltd., a scheduled commercial bank with a network of 230 branches, had poor 
financials in various parameters such as, negative CRAR, high level of NPAs, high cost deposits, etc. 
Accordingly,  the  bank  was  placed  under  monthly  monitoring.  With  no  improvement  in  the  bank’s 
financials  inspite  of  close  monitoring  and  issuing  of  directions,  and  unsuccessful  raising  of  capital 
through  rights  issue,  RBI  applied  to  the  Central  Government  for  placing  the  bank  under  moratorium 
and prepared a scheme of amalgamation. Among the various Expressions of Interest (EOIs) received, 
IDBI Bank Limited’s proposal was accepted as the proposal provided for payment to depositors in full, 
it did not seek any regulatory forbearance and provided for an upfront  payment  of ` 28 per share to 
the  transferor  bank’s  shareholders.  The  bank  was  finally  amalgamated  with  IDBI  Bank  Ltd.  on 
October 3, 2006. 
 

Problems in insurance companies 

3.117  Post  opening up of the insurance sector to private participation in 1999, there have 

been no instances of failure of an insurance company in India. There have, however, been 

instances  where  the  regulator  (IRDA)  has  intervened  to  address  industry  wide/individual 

company  related  concerns  which  could  have  had  implications  for  the  industry  as  a  whole 

given the nascent stage of the industry and the concerns for the health of the industry. 

 

3.118  Until May 2013, insurers were permitted to have representative/liaison offices outside 

India. Exception to this requirement was public sector insurers that had presence in foreign 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 69 

 

countries in the nationalized set up, prior to the opening up of the sector in 1999. Effective 

from  May  2013,  Indian  insurance  companies  are  permitted  to  open  foreign  insurance 

company  (including  branch  office)  outside  India.  Simultaneously,  Section  34G  of  the 

Insurance Act, 1938, empowers IRDA to order for closure of any branch outside India of an 

insurer if it has reason to believe that the working of that branch is generally resulting in a 

loss  or  that  the  affairs  of  that  branch  are  being  conducted  in  a  manner  prejudicial  to  the 

interests  of  the  policy-holders  or  the  public  interest  within  such  period,  not  being  less  than 

one  year.  The  IRDA  is  also  empowered  to  intervene,  where  considered  necessary  to 

address  a  deteriorating  portfolio  of  business.  Brief  of  two  cases  of  problems  in  insurance 

sector are provided in Box 3.3. 

 

BOX 3.3 

 

Problems in insurance companies in India – Use of resolution powers 

 
National Insurance Company Ltd. – Hong Kong Branch 
The National Insurance Company (NIC), the oldest insurance company in India incorporated in 1906, 
started functioning as a subsidiary of the General Insurance Corporation of India from 1972 when its 
services  were  dedicated  to  the  nation  by  the  General  Insurance  Business  Nationalisation  Act.  The 
NIC, till 2002, had operations in two foreign markets (Nepal and Hong Kong) through local branches. 
In Hong Kong, business came mainly from Motor and Extended Coverage/Employer Liability Policies, 
where  chances  of  occurrence  of  losses  are  comparatively  more  than  other  types  of  insurance 
business.  The  Hong  Kong  branch  posted  net  losses  for  the  years  2001-02  and  2002-03. 
Consequently,  it  had  stopped  accepting  new  insurance  business  in  Hong  Kong  with  effect  from 
February  18,  2002.  However,  the  branch  continued  servicing  the  policies  in  force.  The  operations 
were  discontinued  and  went  into  run-off  portfolio  to  facilitate  settlement  of  liabilities.  The  run-off 
operations  were handed  over  to  New  India General  Insurance Company  Ltd.  through  creation of  an 
escrow  account.  The  arrangement  continued as  a pure  run-off  operation  until  the entire  outstanding 
liability was paid off. 
 
AMP Sanmar Life Insurance Company Ltd. 
AMP  Limited  of  Australia  and  Sanmar  Group,  formed  a  joint  venture  to  carry  on  life  insurance 
business  in  India.  AMP  Sanmar  Life  Insurance  Company  Ltd.,  was  granted  registration  by  the 
Authority  to  undertake  life  insurance  business  on  3rd  January,  2002.    The  company  commenced 
underwriting policies in a small way in the financial year 2001-02 with first year premium of Rs.27.73 
lakh  going  up  to  Rs.91.33  crore  in  2004-05.    Following  AMP’s  decision  to  stay  focused  on  its  core 
wealth management business in Australia and New Zealand and keep its Asian focus centred in asset 
management through AMP Capital investors, AMP Limited decided to sell its stake in the joint venture 
and  concurrently  Sanmar  decided  to  take  advantage  of  the  opportunity  to  review  its  stake  in  the 
business.  
 
When  the  IRDA  was  apprised  of  the  intent  of  the  promoters  to  effect  changes  in  the  ownership 
structure  for  obtaining  necessary  permission,  the  prime  concern  of  the  regulator  was  to  ensure  that 
the interests of policyholders continues to be protected and all the extant commitments made by the 
company continues to be honoured in the normal course despite ownership changes. It was also clear 
that  the  process  of  change  in  ownership  would  necessarily  involve  a  time  lag  during  which  various 
options  for  the  restructuring  of  the  company  had  to  be  explored  to  the  satisfaction  of  all  concerned.  
The company was asked by IRDA to establish regular weekly reporting systems to closely monitor the 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 70 

 

developments  to  safeguard  the  interests  of  the  policyholders.  Restrictions  were  placed  on  major 
expenses  and  in  particular  on  capital  expenditure,  changes  in  the  Board  of  Directors  and  on  the 
various committees of the Board, and any measures which could possibly weaken the company. The 
management  was  not  permitted  to  take  any  policy  decision  which  could  have  ramifications  on  the 
functioning of the company without the explicit concurrence of the IRDA. 
 
Though  in  the  initial  few  days  after  the  announcement  by  the  insurance  company,  there  was  a 
noticeable uptrend in redemptions combined with a slow down in the new premium underwritten, the 
anxiety  of  policyholder  on  the  future  of  the  company  reduced  after  the  IRDA  assured  through  the 
media that the interests of the policyholders would be fully protected as the company was compliant 
with the stipulations on solvency requirements.   
 
Since the process of amalgamation as  laid down in the  Act  was long drawn, the IRDA pursued with 
the owners other options to ensure that the identity of the insurance company was retained and those 
parties which were interested in acquiring the stake of the promoters could be short listed. 
  
Consequently  the  promoters  entered  into  an  agreement  on  31st  July,  2005  for  sale  of  their  100  per 
cent  holdings  to  Reliance  Capital  Ltd.  (RCL)  and  sought  regulatory  approval  for  the  proposal.  The 
Authority carried out the due diligence of  RCL, a Non-Banking Finance Company (NBFC) registered 
with  the Reserve  Bank  of  India (RBI),  in consultation  with  other  regulators  and  looked  specially  into 
the capability of the company to carry life insurance business, its ability to honour all the commitments 
made to the policyholders and to inject funds at periodic intervals to meet the requirements of capital 
funds.  On  being  satisfied  the  IRDA  granted  approval  to  the  transfer  of  shares  on  29th  September, 
2005. The new promoters affirmed, through the media, their commitment to honour all policyholders’ 
contracts and the insurer continued its normal activity without any restrictions thereafter. 
 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 71 

 

CHAPTER 4 

 

Framework for Resolution of Financial Institutions 

 
 

The  Key  Attributes  of  Effective  Resolution  Regime  for  Financial  Institutions 

laid down by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) define the scope of resolution 

regime to include any financial institution whose failure could be systemically 

significant. Each jurisdiction is expected to have a designated administrative 

authority  responsible  for  leading  and  exercising  resolution  powers,  with  the 

objective  of  pursuing  financial  stability,  ensuring  continuity  of  critical 

services  of  systemically 

important 

financial 

institutions,  protecting 

depositors,  insurance  policyholders  and  investors,  while  avoiding  destruction 

of  franchise  value  of  the  institution  and  adopting  speedy,  predictable  and 

least  cost  resolution  method.  Some  of  the  authority’s  key  powers  should 

include  the  ability  to  override  the  rights  of  shareholders,  replace 

management,  operate  a  bridge  institution  and  enforce  losses  on  senior 

unsecured  creditors  (bail-in),  where  warranted.  Recognizing  the  need  for 

advanced  planning,  the  FSB  emphasizes  the  importance  of  appropriate 

recovery and resolution plans for systemically important financial institutions 

(SIFIs),  whose  feasibility  and  credibility  would  be  regularly  assessed  by  the 

regulatory  authorities.  Authorities  should  have  arrangements  to  meet  the 

need  for  resolution  funding  without  relying  on  public  ownership  or  bailouts. 

Temporary  public  ownership  could,  however,  be  used  as  an  emergency  tool 

only when considered absolutely necessary to maintain financial stability and 

when all other resolution options do not appear feasible. Key Attributes also 

encourage domestic authorities to achieve a cooperative solution with foreign 

authorities in  resolving  a  cross-border  financial  institution.  India,  along  with 

other  FSB  member  jurisdictions,  is  committed  to  implementing  the  Key 

Attributes by end-2015. 

 

4.1 

Since the onset of the global financial crisis that involved failure and collapse of some 

large and complex financial institutions leading to unprecedented range of measures  taken 

by  the  authorities  to  avoid  disorderly  bankruptcies  that  could  have  severely  undermined 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 72 

 

financial  stability,  there  has  been  widespread  emphasis  on  ensuring  that  every  jurisdiction 

has  an  effective  financial  safety  net  including  a  robust  resolution  framework  and  crisis 

management framework in place. This is  especially important in jurisdictions that are home 

to sophisticated, complex and systemically important financial institutions.  

 

4.2 

Emerging practices suggest that a number of key features should be included in the 

financial  safety  net  and  crisis  management  framework,  such  as  sound  institutional 

arrangements  with  effective  regulation  and  supervision,  supervisory  mechanism  for  early 

intervention  in  a  problem  financial  institution  to  prevent  its  failure,  a  robust  resolution 

framework should it still fail, a well-designed guarantee  scheme for depositors,  and explicit 

inter-agency coordination and information sharing mechanism and legal basis for exchange 

of confidential information before and in times of distress. It is also recognized that financial 

support  by  the  government  may  be  provided  only  in  extraordinary  situations  to  avoid  any 

systemic crisis and for maintaining financial stability. 

 

4.3 

As mentioned in Chapter 2, the Financial Stability Board, in October 2011, published 

Key  Attributes  of  Effective  Resolution  Regime  for  Financial  Institutions  setting  out 

comprehensive  principles  on  the  resolution  of  SIFIs  and  other  financial  institutions.  These 

Key Attributes serve as international standards and call for an effective “resolution regime” to 

be put in place in all jurisdictions that provides the resolution authority with a broad range of 

powers and tools supported by adequate funding arrangements to resolve a firm that is no 

longer viable and has no reasonable prospect of becoming so. The basic objectives are to (i) 

make  feasible  the  resolution  of  financial  institutions  in  an  orderly  manner  without  severe 

systemic  disruption,  (ii)  maintain  continuity  of  vital  economic  functions  of  non-viable 

institutions, (iii) impose losses on the shareholders and uninsured and unsecured creditors, 

and (iv) avoid exposing taxpayers to loss.   

 

4.4 

The Key Attributes are not applicable for all sectors of the financial system and in all 

circumstances. In order to facilitate and support the implementation of Key Attributes across 

jurisdictions,  the  FSB  is  in  the  process  of  developing  guidance  and  providing  policy 

directions  on  various  aspects  for  banks,  insurance  companies,  other  non-bank  financial 

institutions  and  financial  market  infrastructures  (FMIs)  (as  detailed  in  Chapter  2).  While 

framing  the  recommendations,  this  Group  has  taken  into  consideration  the  documents 

released  so  far  as  well  as  consultation  documents  published  by  the  FSB.  The  Group  has 

also  been  guided  by  the  advancements  made  by  a  number  of  jurisdictions,  especially 

advanced  countries,  in  refining  and  developing  their  resolution  frameworks  to  prepare 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 73 

 

themselves to handle crises of dimensions such as the one that occurred in 2007/2008 in a 

less disruptive manner. 

 

Preparedness for Dealing with Failures 

4.5 

India  has  a  history  of  very  few  major  bank  failures  and  even  fewer  failures  of 

insurance  companies,  securities  firms,  or  FMIs.  Although  the  global  financial  crisis  did  not 

have  a  direct  impact  on  Indian  financial  institutions,  the  economy  experienced  stress  on 

account of increased integration with global economy through trade, finance and confidence 

channels.  The  impact  on  the  economy  on  account  of  a  combination  of  international  and 

domestic factors affected the financial institutions, which is being reflected in increased non-

performing and restructured assets, low net interest margin, and reduced returns on equity. 

Though  there  were  no  failures,  there  were  some  early  signs  of  problems  in  other  parts  of 

financial  system,  especially  the  mutual  funds  and  the  NBFCs.  Major  disruptions,  however, 

were  avoided  through  a  well-coordinated  response  by  the  government  and  regulators  that 

helped  maintain  financial  stability.  However,  the  stress  did  not  reach  a  stage  requiring 

resolution of any financial institution or FMI and hence these responses did not involve use 

of taxpayers’ money or any government guarantees in any manner. 

 

4.6  While major bank failures have not happened, there have been instances of failures 

in  the  co-operative  banks  owing  to  their  weaker  financial  conditions  partly  stemming  from 

governance  issues. While  the  co-operative  banks  are  too  small  to  have  a  major  impact  on 

financial stability, there have been instances in the past when failure of a co-operative bank, 

viz.,  Madhavpura  Mercantile  Co-operative  Bank  affected  the  entire  cooperative  banking 

sector and public confidence in them.  

 

4.7 

The  existing  resolution  powers  available  with 

the  regulators, 

i.e., 

imposing 

moratorium  and  facilitating  voluntary  and/or  compulsory  mergers  with  stronger  financial 

institutions, have served the purpose so far but are not equipped to deal with the failure of a 

large and complex institution and in a cross-border context.   

 

4.8 

The Indian financial system is dominated by banks, which account for 63 per cent of 

the  total  financial  assets,  followed  by  insurance  companies  with  19  per  cent,  non-banking 

financial  institutions  with  8  per  cent,  mutual  funds  with  6  per  cent  each  and  provident  and 

pension funds with 4 per cent. Thus, any discussion of SIFIs in India will largely tend to focus 

on banks as they are the major likely originator of system-wide risk.  

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 74 

 

4.9 

Historically,  even  internationally,  banks  have  generally  been  at  the  centre  of  the 

crisis. Banking crises are a common phenomenon in advanced economies. Such crises can 

result  in  large  costs  to  any  economy,  affect other  banks  in the system,  and  undermine  the 

stability and health of the financial system in general through contagion. The cost involved in 

bank failures could be varied and there could be  large fiscal expenditures depending upon 

factors  such  as  deposit  losses  and  loss  of  trust  in  the  financial  system,  etc.  which  in  turn 

could affect current as well as potential growth.  

 

4.10  Although effective regulation and supervision – a component of safety net framework 

-  increases  the  resiliency  of  the  financial  system,  it  does  not  eliminate  the  possibility  of 

failure. There are limits to what regulation and supervision can achieve in averting the failure 

of a financial institution and occurrence of a financial crisis. A study by IMF (2009c) shows 

that  banks  that  were  intervened  in  the  current  crisis  often showed  higher  capital  adequacy 

ratios  before  the  crisis  than  the  non-intervened  banks,  illustrating  the  inadequacies  in  risk 

measurement and thereby in identification of failing institutions partly because of data gaps. 

It is thus clear that prudential regulation alone cannot immune the financial institutions from 

the risk of failure. This has been evidenced not only in the recent global financial crisis but 

also in the past history that failures are bound to happen.  

 

4.11  There  needs  to  be  a  mechanism  in  place  which  allows  failure  of  weak  financial 

institutions, but limits the impact on the economy and protects essential and vital economic 

functions.  Simultaneously,  it  is  equally  important  to  instil  confidence  in  the  minds  of  the 

general public that if a crisis in a regulated financial institution were to occur, the respective 

regulators and supervisors, and the resolution authority have the powers needed to deal with 

the situation in a manner that preserves financial stability and limits, to the extent possible, 

the use of taxpayers’ money. 

 

4.12  The  Financial  Sector  Legislative  Reforms  Commission  (FSLRC)  is  also  of  the  view 

that elimination of all failures of financial institutions is neither feasible nor desirable, and that 

weak  firms  should  fail  and  in  the  process  free  up  labour  and  capital,  which  would  then  be 

utilized by better firms. Failure of firms is an integral part of the regenerative process of the 

market economies. 

 

4.13  As stated in Chapter 3, there are gaps in the financial safety net framework in India 

and  the  existing  provisions  for  resolution  of  financial  institutions  under  various  laws  do  not 

provide  adequate  powers  to  the  authorities.  Thus,  while  there  are  existing  regulatory 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 75 

 

provisions  to  deal  with  failing  financial 

institutions,  with  a  view  to  further 

strengthening the existing financial safety net framework and bridging the gaps in the 

resolution  framework  vis-à-vis  the  Key  Attributes,  the  Working  Group  recommends 

that  there  should  be  a  policy  framework  supported  by  law  to  deal with  the  failure  of 

financial  institutions1  and  financial  market  infrastructures2  that  are  nearing  non-

viability in a manner that avoids disruption to the supply of critical financial services.  

(Recommendation 1) 

 

Need for Resolution Framework for Financial Institutions 

Financial institutions are special 

4.14  The  financial  system,  especially  banks,  play  a  crucial  role  in  the  economy  and 

perform critical functions (e.g. provision of credit, deposit taking, and operation of payment 

systems)  that  are  necessary  and  essential  for  economic  activity  to  take  place.  Banks  also 

play an essential role in the transmission of monetary policy. Financial institutions provide a 

range of services, including, for example, facilitating trading in securities, providing insurance 

in various areas, infrastructure like functions as custodial, clearing, settlement and payment-

processing services etc., which, if interrupted, have the potential to affect the real economy 

adversely.  

 

4.15  An  important  characteristic  of  the  financial  sector  is  that  it  is  based  on  continued 

public  confidence  in  the  soundness  and  safety  of  its  institutions.  That  confidence  can  be 

easily  undermined,  which  may  lead  to  runs,  contagion  and  wider  systemic  consequences. 

Insolvency  of  a  bank,  particularly  one  with  a  large  number  of  depositors  and  financial 

counterparties, has the potential to generate wider costs or ‘negative externalities’ for society 

extending well beyond the losses to a bank’s immediate creditors. Unless checked in time, 

the  loss  of  confidence  in  one  or  a  few  banks  may  spread  through  contagion  to  many 

otherwise sound banks, affecting financial stability across financial system as a whole.  

 

4.16  The special characteristics of  banks make them different from other institutions and 

firms. Banks are special and the normal corporate insolvency frameworks do not work in the 

                                                           
1 The term “financial institutions” refers to banks (including public sector banks, private sector banks, foreign 
banks  having  branches  in  India,  regional  rural  banks,  state  co-operative  banks,  district  central  co-operative 
banks,  and  primary  urban  co-operative  banks),  non-banking  financial  companies,  insurance  companies, 
securities firms, commodities markets and pension schemes. 
2 The term “financial market infrastructures” refers to payment systems, central counterparties (CCPs) including 
clearing  houses,  securities  settlement  systems  (SSSs),  central  securities  depositories  (CSDs),  and  trade 
repositories (TRs), etc. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 76 

 

case  of  banks  because  (i)  banks  have  to  be  resolved  quickly,  (ii)  the  objectives  of  bank 

resolution  is  protection  of  depositors  (while  corporate  insolvency  is  about  protecting 

creditors,  owners  and  keeping  the  firms  functioning),  and  (iii)  interconnectedness  of  banks 

makes resolution a specialised task. 

 

4.17  Other  types  of  institutions  in  the  financial  system  can  also  pose  a  risk  to  financial 

stability.  The  disorderly  failure  of  FMIs  could  severely  disrupt  financial  markets  as  they 

facilitate the clearing, settlement and recording of monetary and other financial transactions, 

such as payments, securities and derivative contracts. These are critical financial services, 

the  disruption  of  which  can  have  significant  implications  for  the  stability  of  the  financial 

system.  

 

4.18  The FMIs are subject to a number of risks – legal, credit, liquidity, general business, 

custody,  investment  and  operational  risks  –  that  could  threaten  the  viability  and  financial 

strength  of  an  FMI.  For  some  FMIs  like,  central  counterparties  (CCPs),  significant  credit 

losses  or  liquidity  shortfalls  may  arise  from  default  of  one  or  more  market  participants  and 

lead to probable failure of the FMI. For FMIs that hold or invest cash or collateral posted by 

participants, the failure of a custodian bank or poorly performing investments1 could create 

losses  for  the  FMI.  General  business  risk2,  including  the  operational  and  legal  risks,  could 

also lead to unanticipated losses. These risks have the potential to result in an FMI’s failure, 

particularly  if  proper  risk  management  processes  are  not  in  place  ex-ante.  If  not  properly 

managed, the FMIs can be sources of financial shocks and these shocks can be transmitted 

across domestic and international financial markets. 

 

4.19  Though  there  is  less  probability  of  an  FMI  reaching  a  point  where  it  needs  to  be 

resolved, nevertheless the possibility of it reaching that stage cannot be ruled out. Moreover, 

occurrence  of  problems  in  any  of  the  financial  institutions  will  necessarily  affect  the  FMIs 

wherein  the  particular  problem  financial  institution  is  a  member.  Systemically  important 

FMIs3 play an essential role in the global financial systems and the disorderly failure of such 

                                                           
1 Investment risk is the risk of loss faced by an FMI when it invests its own or its participants’ resources, such as 
cash  or  other  collateral.  Similarly,  custody  risk  is  a  risk  of  loss  on  assets  held  in  custody  in  the  event  of  a 
custodian’s insolvency, negligence, fraud, poor administration or inadequate record-keeping. 

2  General  business  risk  refers  to  the  risks  and  potential  losses  arising  from  FMI’s  operations  as  business 
enterprise that is not related to participants’ default or to custody and investment risks. 

3  The  CPSS-IOSCO  document  on  “Principles  for  Financial  Market  Infrastructure”,  published  in  April  2012, 
considers a payment  system to be systemically important if it  has the potential to trigger or transmit systemic 
disruptions;  this  includes,  among  other  things,  systems  that  are  the  sole  payment  system  in  a  country  or  the 
principal  system  in  terms  of  the  aggregate  value  of  payments;  systems  that  mainly  handle  time-critical,  high-

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 77 

 

FMIs  could  lead  to  severe  systemic  disruption  if  it  caused  markets  to  cease  to  operate 

effectively.  Ensuring  that  FMIs  can  continue  to  provide  critical  services,  even  in  times  of 

extreme stress, is therefore central to financial stability. 

 

4.20  The  insurance  sector  –  general  and  life  insurance  –  provides  vital  services  needed 

for  the  management  of  risk.  Insurance  also  provides  an  important  source  of  funds  for 

investment  in  various  sectors  of  economy  through  receipt  and  investing  of  insurance 

premiums.  The  traditional  insurance  business  model  is  different  from  banking.  Insurance 

underwriting risks are not correlated with the economic business cycle and financial market 

risks. The nature of traditional insurance liabilities, where payment to policyholders arise only 

on occurrence of an insured event, is less likely to suffer sudden cash runs that would drain 

liquidity.  Though  traditional  insurers  do  not  generally  threaten  the  stability  of  the  financial 

system 

in 

the  same  way  as 

the  deposit-takers  and 

the  FMIs, 

the 

insurance 

groups/conglomerates engaged in non-traditional and non-insurance (NTNI) activities can be 

vulnerable  to  financial  market  developments  and  may  contribute  to  systemic  risk. 

Nonetheless, the failure of even traditional insurers that are large in size have the potential 

to affect the real economy adversely.  

 

4.21  The  International  Association  of  Insurance  Supervisors  (IAIS)  have,  in  their 

November  2011  report  on  ‘Insurance  and  Financial  Stability’,  concluded  that  insurers 

engaged  in  traditional  insurance  activities,  though  impacted  by  the  financial  crisis,  were 

largely  not  a  concern  from  a  systemic  risk  perspective.  However,  insurance  groups  and 

conglomerates that engage in non-traditional or non-insurance activities are more vulnerable 

to  financial  market  developments  and  are  more  likely  to  contribute  or  amplify  the  systemic 

risk. 

 

 

4.22  Along  with  banks,  FMIs  and  insurance  sectors,  other  categories  of  financial 

institutions  like  pension  funds  also  contribute  significantly  to  economic  growth  and 

development  by  mobilising  savings  and  providing  a  social  safety  net  for  the  elderly.  The 

source of funds of pension system includes compulsory superannuation contributions for the 

employees  and  voluntary  contributions  in  pension  schemes  offered  by  private  pension 

providers. The failure of pension funds and other saving vehicles can result in wiping out of 

savings and affect public and market confidence. 

                                                                                                                                                                                     
value  payments;  and  systems  that  settle  payments  used  to  effect  settlement  in  other  systemically  important 
FMIs.  The  presumption  is  that  all  CSDs,  SSSs,  CCPs,  and  TRs  are  systemically  important,  at  least  in  the 
jurisdiction where they are located, typically because of their critical roles in the markets they serve. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 78 

 

4.23  With the liberalisation in the financial sector, the Indian financial landscape has seen 

the  emergence  of  financial  conglomerates,  i.e.,  financial  services  groups  comprising  a 

number  of  legal  entities  each  operating  in  a  different  segment  of  the  financial  services 

sector.  Currently,  the  operating  financial  services  entities  are  the  parent  entities  or  holding 

companies,  though  in  some  cases,  industrial  companies  are  the  parent  entities  of  the 

financial  groups.  There  may,  however,  be  a  move  towards  a  Non-Operating  Holding 

Company (NOHC) structure as recommended in the report of Working Group on Introduction 

of Financial Holding Company Structure in India (Chairperson: Shyamala Gopinath) and the 

recent  discussion  paper  on  Banking  Structure  released  by  RBI  in  August  2013.  A  similar 

structure  has  been  adopted  for  the  New  Bank  Licensing  Process.  Thus,  the  NOHCs  may 

emerge  as  playing  an  important  role  in  the  financial  system  and  may  pose  threat  to  the 

financial stability and resolution challenges. 

 

Public support and moral hazard 

4.24  The  lack  of  a  credible  resolution  framework  poses  a  ‘moral  hazard’  problem 

especially among SIFIs by creating expectation among their management, shareholders and 

creditors that the institution will not be allowed to fail and they will not have to bear the cost 

of  risks  that  they  take.  The  implicit  government  guarantee generates  a  funding  subsidy  for 

financial  institutions  that  are  considered  too  big  or  important  to  fail.  In  turn,  this  lowers 

incentives for market discipline and encourages risky behavior. 

 

4.25  Effective  resolution  framework  must  ensure  protection  of  critical  stakeholders  and 

functions,  such  as  depositors,  insurance  policy  holders,  investors  and  payment  systems, 

while  other  parts  that  are  not  key  to  financial  stability,  may  be  allowed  to  fail.  In  order  to 

avoid moral hazard and use of taxpayers’ money, shareholder and  unsecured debt holders 

need to know that they will bear an appropriate share of the losses in the event of a failure 

and attribute a suitable price to this risk.  

 

4.26  The Working Group recognised that the consensus amongst policy makers globally is 

that  any  effective  resolution  framework  must  be  able  to  prevent  the  systemic  damage 

caused by a disorderly collapse while limiting the exposure of the taxpayer to the risk of loss. 

In order to achieve this, the resolution authority in India must be able to intervene quickly to 

ensure  the  continued  performance  of the firm’s essential financial  and  economic functions, 

including  uninterrupted  protection  of  insured  depositors,  insurance  policy  holders  and 

investors, and to transfer and sell viable portions of the firm while apportioning losses among 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 79 

 

the unsecured creditors in a manner that is fair and predictable and thus avoid panic in the 

financial markets. 

 

4.27  The  FSLRC  has  also  recommended  that  in  order  to  avoid  disruptive  failure  of  the 

financial institutions, a specialised ‘resolution mechanism’ should be established for dealing 

with the possible failures of financial firms and its consequences on the Indian economy.  

 

4.28  Due to separate statutes governing various types of financial institutions in India, the 

Group  recognizes  the  difficulties  in  bringing  all  financial  institutions  within  the  scope  of  a 

single  financial  resolution  framework  without  a  separate  legal  framework  that  overrides  all 

other relevant Acts. Considering the special nature of financial institutions, as well as 

limitations  in  applying  corporate  insolvency  laws  to  these  institutions,  the  Group 

recommends  that  there  should  be  a  separate  comprehensive  legal  framework  for 

resolving financial institutions and FMIs. (Recommendation 2) 

 

Objectives of Resolution Framework 

4.29  The use of the term ‘resolution’ is considerably broad in the international context. The 

IMF  defines  resolution  as  the  “full  range  of  recovery  and  resolution  activities  that  involve 

public  intervention  (either  privately  or  publicly  funded)  including,  for  example,  mergers  and 

acquisitions,  equity  recapitalisation,  debt  for  equity  conversions,  transfer  of  assets  and 

liabilities, temporary administration, reorganisation, and liquidation”. The Cross-Border Bank 

Resolution Group (CBRG) of Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) has defined 

resolution as “any action by a national authority, with or without private sector involvement, 

intended  to  maintain  financial  stability  and/or  address  serious  problems  in  a  financial 

institution that imperil its viability (e.g. a substantive condition of authorization) where, absent 

resolution,  the  institution  is  no  longer  viable  and  there  is  no  reasonable  prospect  of  it 

becoming  so”.  The  FSB  defines  resolution  as  “any  action  taken  by  a  public  authority  in 

respect of a firm that meets the conditions for entry into resolution, including in particular the 

exercise  of  a  resolution  power  specified  in  Key  Attribute  3,  with  or  without  private  sector 

involvement, with the aim of achieving one or more of the statutory objectives of resolution. 

Resolution may include the application of procedures under insolvency law to parts of a firm 

in resolution, in conjunction with the exercise of resolution powers”. 

 

4.30 

In  order  to  function  effectively,  it  is  recognized  that  the  resolution  framework  must 

achieve certain economic objectives: 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 80 

 

(i) 

The  foremost  objective  of  any  resolution  framework  is  to  safeguard  financial 

stability.  

(ii) 

The  confidence  of  general  public  is  of  particular  significance  in  maintaining 

stability  in  financial  system.  Public  confidence  can  be  enhanced  by  insurance 

systems  to  protect  the  interest  of  the  depositors,  insurance  policyholders  and 

investors  within  credible  limits,  normal  financial  services  will  continue  to  be 

made  available,  and  contagion  effect  of  problem  in  one  institution  will  be 

avoided.  

(iii) 

An  effective  resolution  framework  should  ensure  that  the  losses  are  absorbed 

by the firms’ owners (shareholders) and the uninsured and unsecured creditors, 

and still if not sufficient, by the wider financial system. 

(iv) 

As  with  any  insolvency  proceedings,  resolution  of  financial  institutions  should 

achieve  both  ex-post  and  ex-ante  efficient  outcomes.  While  ex-ante  efficiency 

necessitates penalizing managements and shareholders of financial institutions, 

the  ex-post  efficiency  requires  that  the  administrator/liquidator  maximises  the 

total value of the creditors through various resolution tools and options, in other 

words adopt resolution tool with least cost to the financial system. 

(v) 

Time  and  speed  are  of  particular  importance  in  resolving  financial  institutions, 

especially  banks,  as  compared  to  resolving  companies  in  general.  This  is 

because even solvent banks can face illiquidity if they experience a run due to 

real or  perceived problems affecting the bank.  If resolution is initiated too late, 

or moves too slowly, it could increase potential losses and heighten the risk of 

contagion to other financial institutions.  

(vi) 

The  resolution  action  must  respect  hierarchy  of claims  and  have  transparency 

about the manner in which losses would be absorbed by the shareholders and 

other general creditors. Equity should absorb losses first, and no loss should be 

imposed on senior debt holders until subordinated debt (including all regulatory 

capital instruments) has been written-off entirely.  

 

4.31  The  FSLRC  has  recommended  certain  objectives  that  will  guide  the  resolution 

framework for failed (or approaching the point  of failure) covered service providers1. These 

include – (a) to protect and enhance the stability and resilience of the financial system; (b) to 

enhance financial market efficiency through the efficient pricing and allocation of risk; (c) to 

                                                           
1  The  FSLRC  defines  ‘covered  service  providers’  as  those  financial  service  providers  that  make  covered 
obligations and also those that are designated as SIFI by the FSDC, that are eligible for obtaining insurance from 
Unified Resolution Corporation. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 81 

 

protect consumers of covered obligations up to a reasonable limit; and (d)  to protect public 

funds. 

 

4.32  While  the  broad  objectives  for  an  effective  resolution  framework  have  been 

indicated  above,  it  needs  to  be  reemphasised  that  the  aim  of  resolution  is  not  to 

preserve  the  failing institution,  but to  ensure  the  continuity  of  the  functions  that  are 

critical for the financial system as a whole and limit any use of taxpayers’ money. The 

Group  recommends  that  the  resolution  framework  in  India  should  be  guided  by  the 

following objectives: 

 

initiate resolution action in a timely and speedy manner; 

  avoid erosion of value and minimise the costs of resolution; 

  protect  and  maintain  stability  of  the  financial  system  as  well  as  public 

confidence in Indian financial system; 

  ensure continuity of essential financial services and critical functions such as 

payment, clearing and settlement functions; 

  protect  depositors,  insurance  policyholders,  and  client  funds/assets,  through 

protection schemes and other arrangements, within reasonable limits; 

  avoid  use  of  taxpayers’  money  and  not  create  an  expectation  that  public 

support will be made available, thus ensuring market discipline; 

  ensure  imposition  of  losses  to  shareholders  and  unsecured  creditors  in  a 

manner that respects hierarchy of claims; and 

  ensure  predictability  through  clear  legal  framework  and  procedural  clarity. 

(Recommendation 3) 

 

Scope of Financial Resolution Framework 

4.33 

Introduction of financial resolution framework requires careful reflection of the scope 

of the framework. Different jurisdictions, traditionally, have included very different institutions 

in  their  resolution  frameworks.  Following  the  global  crisis,  however,  an  international 

consensus  has  emerged,  suggesting  that  the  resolution  framework  must  be  broad  based 

and cover all significant financial institutions. Specifically: 

  The  Special  Resolution  Regime  (SRR)  of  United  Kingdom  extends  to  only  UK-

incorporated  banks  (deposit-taking  institutions  including  building  societies),  UK 

subsidiaries of foreign banks, and the branches of UK-incorporated banks outside the 

United  Kingdom.  The  UK  Government  has  set  out  proposals  for  broadening  its 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 82 

 

authority  to  include  systemically  important  non-banks,  i.e.  investment  firms  and 

parent 

undertakings, 

central 

counterparties, 

non-CCP 

financial  market 

infrastructures, and insurers. 

  The  United  States  enhanced  its  resolution  framework  through  enactment  of  Dodd-

Frank  Act,  2010.  The 

framework  distinguishes  systemic  and  non-systemic 

institutions.  Non-systemic 

institutions  are 

resolved  as  per 

their 

respective 

statutes/laws,  while  systemic  firms  (including  systemic  securities  firms,  insurance 

firms and FMIs) are resolved in terms of provisions of Dodd-Frank Act.  

  The Consultation Paper issued by European Commission in October 2010 and June 

2012,  proposes  a  resolution  framework  for  all  systemically  important  credit 

institutions  and  investment  firms.  The  Commission  is  working  on  expanding  the 

scope  of  the resolution framework  to  other financial  institutions,  including  insurance 

companies, investment funds and central counterparties. 

 

4.34  All  financial  institutions need  to  be  included  in  a  resolution framework.  Since  banks 

play the most unique role in any economy, it is clear that they need to be covered within the 

scope of the resolution framework. The functions carried out by the FMIs, either the CCPs or 

payment systems, securities settlement systems, stock exchanges, etc., clearly indicate that 

they also have an obvious potential to become systemic and could result in severe disruption 

to  financial  markets  and  on  wider  economic  activity.  The  FSB’s  consultative  document  on 

“Application  of  Key  Attributes  of  Effective  Resolution  Regimes  to  Non-Bank  Financial 

Institutions” has inter alia suggested that all FMIs that are systemically important, other than 

FMIs owned and operated by central banks, should,  in the event of failure, be subject to a 

resolution regime. Finally, the failure of insurer may not trigger financial instability but has the 

potential to stall the effective functioning of financial markets and economic activity. 

 

4.35  Over a period, the operations of non-bank financial companies (NBFCs) have grown 

rapidly, becoming one of the important elements of India's financial system. With tightening 

of the prudential regulatory norms for deposit taking companies, the NBFCs remain relatively 

less regulated. Moreover, they are expanding their operations through borrowings, especially 

from banks. This development further highlights the  interconnectedness within the financial 

system.  The  excessive  inter-institutional  exposure  could  make  the  financial  system 

vulnerable.  

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 83 

 

4.36  The failure of Madhavpura Mercantile Co-operative Bank (MMCB) and the extent of 

interconnectedness  of  various  urban  co-operative  banks  with  MMCB  indicates  the 

importance  of  co-operative  banks  in  the  financial  system.  Though  the  co-operative  banks 

constitute only 6 per cent of the total financial assets and their failure may not trigger major 

disruption in the financial system, the incidence of failures among co-operative banks is high 

and hence important from the angle of depositor protection.  

 

4.37  The present European crisis has shown that even a large number of small banks can 

be deemed as systemic and could create systemic risk, e.g. Cajas or savings banks in Spain 

and Landesbanken in Germany (Box 4.1).  

 

BOX 4.1 

 

Small banks could be systemic 

 

Cajas of Spain 
In Spain, Cajas are financial institutions  which specialize in accepting savings deposits and granting 
loans. Their original aim was to create the habit of thrift amongst the very poor but they have evolved 
to compete with and rival commercial banks. 
 
During the boom period, between 1999 to 2007, the Spanish economy grew at the rate of 3.7 per cent 
and the property prices during the period 2004-2008 grew by 44 per cent. Since the advent of recent 
crisis,  the  property  prices  fell  by  25  per  cent  leaving  banks  with  huge  stressed  assets.  Before  the 
credit crunch, the banks had been thriving  due to the rapid expansion of the property sector. But its 
collapse resulted in default from borrowers who were severely impacted by the plunge in the value of 
the assets on which the loans were based on. 
 
To cater to the problem many of Spain’s smaller, weaker banks have had to merge or were rescued 
by larger ones. Up to the end of April, the government had injected €34bn into its banks, according to 
the IMF. That is exclusive of the €19bn, Bankia, Spain's fourth-largest bank, asked for shortly before it 
was  nationalised.  Bankia  itself  was  formed  when  several  regional  banks,  or  Cajas,  were  brought 
together  because  they  were  too  small  to  bear  the  knock  from  the  economic  downturn.  Now  these 
smaller  banks,  which  were  individually  systemically  not  important,  post-merger  have  become 
systemically important and the Spanish government is forced to bail-out these banks. 
 
Landesbanken of Germany 
The  Savings  Bank  Finance  Group  of  Germany  comprises  approximately  660  member  institutions  – 
including  463  Sparkassen  (savings  banks),  11  Landesbanken,  11  Landesbausparkassen,  and  12 
public insurance companies and a number of asset management, leasing, and factoring companies – 
with combined total assets of Euro 3.2 trillion.  
 
Within the Savings Bank Finance Group, the Landesbanken act as centres for payment systems and 
liquidity  providers  for  the  savings  banks  in  their  regions  (states).  They  also  serve  as  a  link  between 
the savings banks and their customers when it would be less efficient or economically impossible for 
the savings banks to keep certain products in store for a small number of customers. Examples of this 
would be private banking services, capital markets products, international trade financing capabilities, 
or  instances  in  which  customers  pose  too  much  of  a  concentration  risk  for  the  savings  bank, 
especially in the lending business.  
 
The  Landesbanken  are  state  owned  banks  and  system  is  unique  to  Germany.  Landesbanken  are 
owned  by  their  respective  states  and  regional  savings  banks  (represented  by  the  regional 
associations  of  savings  banks).  They  are  regionally  organized  and  their  business  is  predominantly 
wholesale  banking.  They  are  also  the  head  banking  institution  of  the  local  and  regional  bases 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 84 

 

Sparkassen (or the saving banks) of Germany. 
 
As  commercial  banks  in  their  own  right,  Landesbanken  serve  medium-  to  large-sized  corporates  in 
their regions, as well as multinationals via their own branches and representative offices abroad and 
their  large  network  of  correspondent  banks.  Some  Landesbanken  also  command  retail  banking 
networks,  while  others  have  developed  niches  in  corporate  finance  (e.g.  financing  ship  or  aircraft 
projects). The majority of Landesbanken also service the financing needs of the public sector, not as 
development banks but more as lenders for large commercially driven projects, such as infrastructure 
projects. 
 
During the  global financial  crisis of 2008, a number of landesbanken institutions landed  in crisis and 
applied for funds  and loan  guarantees  from  the  German  bail-out fund. It has  been  criticized  that  the 
government needed to deregulate the industry and allow stronger banks to take over weaker players, 
particularly among the publicly-owned landesbanken. 
 

4.38  The  FSLRC  has  suggested  coverage  of  all  covered  service  providers  within  the 

scope of the resolution regime so as to avoid creating any perception of safety in the minds 

of  consumers  or  an  expectation  that  certain  specific  financial  institutions  (such  as  public 

sector  banks)  will  be  insulated  from  the  failure.  In  order  to  make  co-operative  banks, 

governed  by  state  legislations,  also  fall  within  the  scope  of  resolution  regime,  the 

Commission has recommended that the co-operative societies carrying on financial services 

should be subject to similar regulatory and supervisory framework as other entities carrying 

on similar activities. For this to happen, the State Governments should accept, using Article 

252  of  the  Constitution  of  India,  the  authority  of  the  Parliament  to  legislate  on  matters 

relating to resolution of failed co-operative banks. 

 

4.39  The  scope  of  the  financial  resolution  framework  in  India  should  cover  all 

financial  institutions  –  including  commercial  banks  (public  sector  banks,  private 

sector  banks,  and  foreign  banks  having  branch/subsidiaries  in  India),  co-operative 

banks,  regional  rural  banks;  non-banking  financial  companies,  firms/companies  in 

insurance, pension, securities and commodities markets; and FMIs including payment 

systems,  securities  settlement  systems,  central  counterparties,  securities 

depositories, etc. other than those owned and operated by the Reserve Bank of India, 

viz.  real  time  gross  settlement  system  and  securities  settlement  systems.  The 

proposed legislative framework for resolution should enable the resolution authority 

in  coordination  with  the  respective  regulator  to  designate  any  other  financial 

institution that will be covered by the framework. (Recommendation 4) 

 

Scope of resolution framework to cover parent undertaking or the holding company 

4.40  The  recent  global  financial  crisis  has  shown  that  the  complexity  of  the  operational 

structures that most national/international financial conglomerates have developed is itself a 

significant  source  of  systemic  risk.  Failures  of  such  institutions  can  cause  widespread 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 85 

 

damage  to  financial  sector  and  have  a  drastic  contagion  effect  in  an  economy.  Typically, 

these  legal  entities  would  be  subject  to  scores  of  different  regulatory  and  supervisory 

mechanisms, many of which may conflict or overlap. This was clearly evident in the case of 

Lehman  Brothers,  wherein  a  trade  performed  in  one  company  could  be  booked  in  another 

and the lines of business did not necessarily map to the legal entity lines of the companies. 

 

4.41  The  holding  company  acts  as  a  source  of  strength  and  support  to  the  subsidiaries 

and affiliates attached to it. However, in case of market-wide stress or due to the contagion 

effect  of  financial  distress  in  its  subsidiaries  or  affiliates,  the  holding  company  could  itself 

come under stress. There may, therefore, be a need to extend the resolution framework to 

cover the holding company also.   

 

4.42  The  Group  recommends  that  the  scope  of  the  proposed  financial  resolution 

framework  should  also  cover  the  parent  undertaking  or  the  holding  company 

regulated by the financial sector regulator, of the financial groups. (Recommendation 

5) 

 

Constitution of Resolution Authority and its Role 

4.43  The financial sector institutional framework of India primarily comprises five agencies 

with  clear  mandates  and  distinct  allocation  of  powers.  The  Reserve  Bank  of  India  (RBI) 

performs traditional central bank functions, including conducting monetary policy, regulation 

and  supervision  of  the  deposit-taking  institutions1  (commercial  banks,  co-operative  banks, 

and regional rural banks), NBFCs, development financial institutions (DFIs), primary dealers, 

and payment systems, and regulation of financial markets. The RBI also acts as the lender 

of  last  resort  and  has  an  implicit  mandate  to  preserve  financial  stability.  The  Insurance 

Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) is the prudential regulator and supervisor for 

companies providing insurance services and products. The Securities and Exchange Board 

of  India  (SEBI)  regulates  the  securities  market  as  well  as  the  stock  exchanges  and  the 

clearing  corporations  that  provide  trading  or  clearing  or  settlement  facilities  in  respect  of 

securities.  The  Pension  Fund  Regulatory  and  Development  Authority  (PFRDA)  regulates 

pension funds and the Forward Markets Commission (FMC) regulates the commodity futures 

market in India. 

 

                                                           
1Supervision of state co-operative banks, district central co-operative banks and regional rural banks is carried 
out by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 86 

 

4.44  Currently, different types of banks and financial institutions are resolved by separate 

sectoral authorities (the regulators) as per their respective laws. These regulators have only 

limited  powers1.  They  are  responsible  for  identifying  failed  institutions  and  either  finding 

merger partners or withdrawing the operating license and requesting the courts to appoint a 

liquidator for  eventual  liquidation.  Regulators  have  few  tools for  restructuring  the  institution 

into  a  solvent,  viable  institution.  Presently,  any  bank  or  insurer  that  is  facing  problem  of 

insolvency in India is either made to merge or amalgamate (voluntarily or compulsorily) with 

a  stronger  institution,  or  is  liquidated.  The  Government  of  India  has  the  authority  to  use 

public funds in support of resolution and crisis management of all financial institutions. The 

Government may take institutions into temporary public ownership.  

 

4.45 

India  has  only  limited  experience  in  resolving  failed  institutions.  During  the  past 

decade, while nine commercial banks2 were voluntarily amalgamated, there were five cases3 

of  compulsory  amalgamation.  However,  there  have  been  no  cases  of  liquidation  of 

commercial banks during the last two decades, except for Bank of Karad in 1992, a part of 

which was later sold to another bank (Bank of India).  

 

4.46  A critical lesson from the global crisis is that financial stability is strengthened when 

failed  institutions  can  be  restructured  and  performing  assets  and  critical  financial  services 

remain in the financial system. A resolution authority should have the capacity to intervene a 

failing  institution,  identify  performing  assets  and  critical  functions,  and  then  adopt  a 

resolution strategy that has least cost.  

 

4.47  The  FSB  Key  Attributes  provide  an  effective  framework  for  developing  appropriate 

resolution tools. The Key Attributes stress the importance of time and speed  in resolving a 

financial  institution.  Given  the  complexity  of  resolution  functions,  the  Key  Attributes  argue 

                                                           
1  The  existing  powers  of  various  financial  sector  regulators  in  respect  of  conducting  resolution  of  problem 
financial institutions have been detailed in Chapter 3. 

2 (i) IDBI Bank Ltd. merged with IDBI Ltd. on April 2, 2005; (ii) Bank of Punjab Ltd. merged with Centurion 
Bank Ltd. on October 1, 2005; (iii) Sangli Bank Ltd. merged with ICICI Bank Ltd. on April 19, 2007; (iv) Lord 
Krishna  Bank  Ltd.  merged  with  Centurion  Bank  of  Punjab  Ltd.  on  August  29,  2007;  (v)  Centurion  Bank  of 
Punjab Ltd.  merged  with HDFC Bank  Ltd. on May 23, 2008; (vi) Bank of Rajasthan Ltd.  merged  with ICICI 
Bank Ltd. on August 12, 2010; (vii) State Bank of Saurashtra merged with State Bank of India on August 2008; 
(viii) State Bank of Indore merged with State Bank of India in July 2010; and (ix) SBICI Ltd. merged with State 
Bank of India on July 2011. 

3 (i) Benares State Bank Ltd. (BSBL) amalgamated with Bank of Baroda on June 19, 2002; (ii) Nedungadi Bank 
Ltd.  amalgamated  with  PNB  on  February1,  2003;  (iii)  Global  Trust  Bank  merged  with  Oriental  Bank  of 
Commerce on August 14, 2004; (iv) Ganesh Bank of Kurundwad Ltd. amalgamated with the Federal Bank Ltd. 
on  September  2,  2006;  and  (v)  United  Western  Bank  Ltd.  amalgamated  with  IDBI  Bank  Ltd.  on  October  3, 
2006. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 87 

 

that  a  specialised  institution  is  needed  to  carry  out  the  resolution  activities.  Such  an 

institution will need to have the ability to analyze resolution options quickly, have adequate 

tools  for  implementing  the  resolution  and  be  able  to  engage  in  intensive  coordination, 

cooperation and information sharing between the authorities at each stage of the decision-

making  process.  These  characteristics  would  enable  prompt  and  coordinated  resolution 

action to be taken, specifically where a variety of financial entities are involved in a financial 

group/conglomerate as well as in case of cross-border financial institutions.  

 

4.48  The Group acknowledged that the financial regulators have the expertise, resources 

and  the  operational  capacity  and  the  know-how  of  the  respective  financial  institutions  they 

regulate and supervise. However, taking into account the emphasis laid in the Key Attributes 

on  a  specialized  resolution  authority,  the  Group  agreed  on  balance  that  since  resolution 

requires very specific techniques and specialization which regulators/supervisors are unlikely 

to  possess  besides 

the 

fact 

that 

there  are  moral  hazard 

issues 

involved 

in 

regulators/supervisors  handling  resolution,  the  resolution  agency  should  be  separate  from 

the  regulatory/supervisory  authorities  and  be  independent.  Establishment  of  a  resolution 

agency  raises  a  number  of  issues.  First,  creation  of  a  separate  resolution  authority  would 

require extensive set-up with the associated legal framework and institutional infrastructure 

for  proper  functioning.  Second,  a  decision  will  need  to  be  made  on  whether  a  single 

resolution  authority  is  required  to  be  established,  with  responsibility  for  all  financial 

institutions, or whether sector-specific resolution agencies are needed. Third, the resolution 

authority will need tools that are appropriate both for small and medium sized institutions as 

well as tools for the SIFIs.  

 

4.49  There are a number of advantages of a single resolution authority for all categories of 

financial institutions. Resolution being a specialized function, setting up resolution authority 

separately  from  regulators  and  supervisors  would  enable  development  of  the  expertise 

needed  for  such  a  function  to  be  performed  effectively.  Having  a  separate  resolution 

authority  for  all  sectors  would  also  enable  it  to  handle  financial  conglomerates  more 

effectively.  Further,  with  the funds for  resolution maintained  in  a single  entity,  use  of funds 

across  sectors  will  be  feasible  and  would  reduce  the  likelihood  of  relying  on  government 

support.  The  Group  recognises  that  the  resolution  authority  will  not  require  a  very  large 

establishment  as  respective  regulators/supervisors  provide  will  provide  the  first  line  of 

defense in the safety net framework. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 88 

 

4.50  The  FSLRC  has  recommended  setting  up  of  a  Unified  Resolution  Corporation  that 

will deal with an array of financial firms such as banks, insurance companies, defined benefit 

pension funds, and financial market infrastructure such as payment, settlement and clearing 

systems.  The  FSLRC  has  recommended  establishment  of  a  resolution  corporation  as  a 

statutory  body  to  carry  out  the  resolution  of  all  covered  service  providers.  It  also  specifies 

that the resolution corporation must have representation from across the financial regulatory 

architecture,  including  the  central  bank,  financial  regulators,  the  Central  Government,  and 

independent  experts.  Since  the  setting  up  of  an  independent  Resolution  Corporation  will 

require a statutory framework for its implementation, the Financial Stability and Development 

Committee  (FSDC),  in  its  meeting  held  on  October  24,  2013,  has  decided to  set  up  Task 

Force  to  lay  the  roadmap  for  the  setting  up  of  the  Resolution  Corporation  (RC),  Financial 

Sector Appellate Tribunal (FSAT), Public Debt Management Agency (PDMA) and Financial 

Data  Management  Centre  (FDMC). The  constitution  of  a Task  Force towards  creation  of  a 

Resolution  Corporation  has,  however,  been  postponed  till  this  Working  Group  submits  its 

report. 

 

4.51  The  Group  considered  the  pros  and  cons  of  having  a  single  resolution 

authority. The Group recommends that:  

(i) 

there  should  be  a  single  Financial  Resolution  Authority  (FRA)  mandated 

under  the 

law  for  resolving  all  financial 

institutions  and  FMIs, 

in 

coordination/cooperation with the respective financial sector regulators, as 

deemed necessary by the FRA, 

(ii) 

the 

FRA 

should 

be 

institutionally 

independent 

of 

the 

regulators/supervisors and the Government, 

(iii) 

the  FRA  should  be  the  sole  authority  responsible  for  operation  and 

implementation  of  the  financial  resolution  framework,  including  the 

decision  to  choose  the  appropriate  resolution  tool,  except  the  power  to 

take  an  institution  into  temporary  public  ownership  (TPO)  that  will  be 

invoked  by  the  Government  of  India  on  the  recommendation  of  the  FRA, 

and  

(iv) 

the  FRA  should  be  empowered  by  the  law  to  coordinate/cooperate  with 

financial  sector 

regulators/supervisors  and  establish  appropriate 

information 

sharing 

arrangements  with 

regulators/supervisors 

before/during the resolution of a financial institution. (Recommendation 6) 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 89 

 

4.52  The Group also recommends that the mandate of FRA will be to resolve failed 

financial  institutions  and  FMIs  (other  than  those  owned  and  operated  by  RBI)  along 

with  providing  deposit  insurance  and  protection  to  insurance  policy  holders  and 

investors/clients within limits, if required at the resolution stage. (Recommendation 7) 

 

4.53  The  Group  recognizes  that  creating  a  new  financial  resolution  authority  will  require 

creation of a separate infrastructure, and inculcating and developing new expertise will be a 

time  consuming  affair. The  Deposit  Insurance  and  Credit  Guarantee  Corporation  (DICGC), 

though presently acts just as a pay-box in liquidation of banks, has some kind of experience 

and expertise in dealing with failures of banks especially payouts to depositors post-failure. 

As noted in the FSB Peer Review on Deposit Insurance, out of 22 jurisdictions, only seven 

countries  have  designed  their  deposit  insurance  system  as  pure  ‘paybox’,  while  the 

remaining  countries  have  varying  degrees  of  responsibilities  in  resolution.    Some  of  the 

countries  that  have  a  broad  mandate  as  loss  minimizer  or  risk  minimizer1  are  the  US, 

France,  Canada,  Indonesia,  Italy,  Japan,  Korea,  Mexico,  Russia,  Spain  and  Turkey.  Some 

countries  like  UK  and  Russia  have  provided  additional  role  in  resolution  to  the  deposit 

insurer after the crisis. Kenya has recently enacted a law to vest resolution powers with the 

deposit insurance agency.  

 

4.54  Taking all factors into consideration, the Group recommends that the FRA as a 

separate  entity  can  be  set  by  either  transforming  the  present  DICGC  into  FRA  or  by 

setting  up  a  new  authority  namely  FRA  that  will  subsume  DICGC.  Either  option  will 

require  amendment  or  enactment  of  laws,  institutional  changes,  staffing,  and 

development of tools and options. (Recommendation 8) 

 

Triggers for Entry into Resolution 

4.55  As mentioned in the previous section, the financial sector regulators understand the 

risk  profiles  and  the  strengths  of  the  institutions  they  oversee.  The  respective  sector 

regulators  are  responsible  for  limiting  risks  taken  by  institutions  and,  when  excessive  risks 

build  up,  they  have  to  take  mitigating  actions.  The  regulators  are  also  responsible  for 

identifying  when  an  institution  does  not  turn  around  in  the  PCA  framework.  Once  such  a 

                                                           
1
  A  “loss  minimiser”  mandate  is  where  the  insurer  actively  engages  in  the  selection  from  a  full  suite  of 
appropriate  least-cost  resolution  strategies,  for  example  in  Canada,  France,  Indonesia,  Italy,  Japan,  Mexico, 
Russia, Spain, Turkey). A “risk minimiser” mandate is where the insurer has comprehensive risk minimization 
functions  that  include  a  full  suite  of  resolution  powers  as  well  as  prudential  oversight  responsibilities,  for 
example in Korea and United States.  
 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 90 

 

determination is made, the supervisors pass responsibility for resolving the institution to the 

resolution agency. Simply stated, resolution begins where prompt correction action or early 

intervention  ends.  Any  resolution  action  against  the  problem  financial  institution  should  be 

initiated when it is no longer viable or likely to be no longer viable,  and has no reasonable 

prospect of becoming so. The resolution framework needs to specify certain clear standards 

or thresholds or suitable indicators of non-viability, such that when the threshold is breached 

or  crossed,  the  resolution  authority  takes  control  of  the  financial  institution  and  commence 

the resolution process. 

 

4.56  Such threshold should be such that when the financial position of the institution has 

weakened  substantially,  it  still  has  positive  net  worth.  The  supervisors  would  at  this  stage 

hand  over  financial  institution  to  the  FRA.  Delaying  resolution  action  until  the  financial 

institution has reached the point of non-viability is likely to limit the choice of effective options 

for resolution and would prove expensive. 

 

4.57  Thresholds  for  initiating  resolution  can  be  either  quantitative  triggers  or  qualitative 

triggers or a combination of both. The resolution triggers vary across jurisdictions and may 

differ  according  to  the  type  of  financial  institution,  and  the  nature  of  the  powers  being 

exercised.  Generally,  triggers  are  based  on  qualitative  criteria  (i.e.,  breach  of  laws, 

prudential or regulatory thresholds, or supervisory orders). In some countries like the USA1, 

which  has  a  quantitative  criterion,  the  Federal  Deposit  Insurance  Corporation  (FDIC), 

specifies the trigger for resolution as a leverage ratio – tangible equity to total assets – of 2 

per  cent.  The  soft  thresholds  (i.e.  qualitative  criteria)  such  as  test  of  “likely  to  fail”  may  be 

difficult  to  apply.  The  supervisors  in  this  case  would  be  required  to  determine  that  an 

institution is, or is likely to become financially insolvent or fulfill its licensing conditions.  

 

4.58  Hard  thresholds  (quantitative  criteria) for  resolution  would  bring  transparency  to  the 

resolution framework by making it public to all stakeholders the time at which the resolution 

action  would  be  prompted.  Rules  also  limit  forbearance.  This  would  leave  little  room  for 

disputes  and  there  will  not  be  any  scope  for  divergence  in  practices  by  the  authorities. 

However,  rules  may  not  capture  all  considerations  that  may  be  indicative  of  problem  in  a 

financial institution. Incorporating soft triggers introduces some degree of judgment and can 

lead  to  a  near  complete  appraisal  of  the  situation.  Discretion,  at  times,  could  be  more 
                                                           
1Section  38  of  the  FDI  Act  requires  regulators  to  classify  depository  institutions  into  one  of  the  five  capital 
categories  based  on  their  level  of  capital  –  well-capitalized,  adequately  capitalized,  undercapitalized, 
significantly  undercapitalized,  and  critically  undercapitalized  –  and  take  increasingly  severe  actions  as  an 
institution’s  capital  deteriorates.  Regulators  are  generally  required  to  close  critically  undercapitalized 
institutions within a 90 day period. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 91 

 

appropriate and more suited for a rapid action, such as, when the condition of the financial 

institution is rapidly deteriorating as a result of loss of access to key funding markets. Such 

deterioration may not be well captured by the quantitative thresholds.  

 

4.59 

In  practice,  supervisors  use  a  combination  of  soft  and  hard  triggers  for  taking  a 

decision for intervention by the resolution authority. Once intervened, the resolution authority 

takes responsibility for resolving the institution. Shareholders and uninsured and unsecured 

debt  holders are written down and the resolution authority decides on the resolution option 

that maintains financial stability and imposes least cost on the economy. 

 

Early intervention process 

4.60  Before  any  resolution  action  is  initiated,  there  needs  to  be  a  framework  of  early 

intervention with the regulators/supervisors in order to address problems in the institution at 

an  early  stage.  Early  intervention  would  involve  several  measures,  i.e., requiring  additional 

capital,  improving  governance,  strengthening  systems  and  internal  control  framework, 

increase  regulatory  reserves,  limit  business  operations  and  other  risk  exposures,  to  avert 

major insolvency problems due to idiosyncratic or market wide stress events. To ensure the 

success  of  the  early  intervention  mechanism,  it  is  important  for  regulatory/supervisory 

authorities to have appropriate framework and powers at their disposal.  

 

4.61 

In India, although the financial regulators have a mechanism derived from respective 

statutes to take some early actions to put the operations of the financial firms in order, there 

is  no  clear  established  framework,  (except  for  commercial  banks)  for  early  intervention 

mechanism  and  the  associated  triggers  for  initiating  actions.  The  FDIC  has  established  a 

PCA  framework  of  supervisory  actions  for  insured  depository  institutions  that  are  not 

adequately  capitalized.  Many  other  jurisdictions  (Canada,  Denmark,  etc.  to  name  a  few) 

have  introduced  and/or  are  in  the  process  of  introducing  early  warning  signals  or  early 

supervisory  intervention  framework  to  address  the  problems  at  an  early  stage.  The  early 

intervention  frameworks  prescribed  by  USA,  Canada,  Denmark  and  India  (RBI)  are 

described  in  Annex  4,  which  could  help  other  regulators  to  devise  a  PCA  framework  for 

institutions  regulated  and  supervised  by  them  while  also  using  guidance  developed  by 

international  standard  setting  bodies  for  respective  sectors.  It  will  be  important  that 

regulators not only put in place a PCA framework but also implement it fully. 

 

4.62  With a view to ensuring proactive and timely intervention by the regulators as well as 

the resolution corporation for orderly resolution of covered service providers, the FSLRC has 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 92 

 

envisaged  a  framework  of  “prompt  corrective  action”  incorporating  a  series  of  intervention 

measures to be undertaken by the micro-prudential regulators and the resolution corporation 

to restore the financial health of the covered service providers. This would ensure enhanced 

regulatory intervention and reduced regulatory forbearance by linking regulatory response to 

a covered service provider’s financial condition. The Commission has prescribed five stages 

indicating  the  levels  or  measures  of  risk  assessment  by  the  regulators  –  (i)  low  risk  to 

viability;  (ii)  moderate  risk  to  viability;  (iii)  material  risk  to  viability;  (iv)  imminent  risk  to 

viability;  and  (v)  critical  risk  to  viability.  The  Commission  has  also  recommended  that  the 

resolution corporation would undertake a series of activities including the regular monitoring, 

supervision  and  evaluation  of  covered  service  providers;  prompt  corrective  action;  and 

transferring  and  disposing  assets  of  failing  or  failed  covered  service  providers.  While,  the 

financial institution upon reaching the first stage (low risk) would be monitored as usual by 

the  resolution  corporation,  it  would  be  subject  to  conduct  of  a  special  examination  by  the 

corporation  upon  reaching  the  second  stage  (moderate  risk).  In  the  third  stage  (material 

risk),  the  resolution  corporation  would  require  the  covered  service  provider  to  prepare  a 

resolution  plan  and  will  intensify  engagement  with  the  covered  service  provider.  Upon 

reaching  the  fourth  stage  (imminent  risk),  the  resolution  corporation  would  apply  for 

receivership of the concerned covered service provider, and in case of the last stage (critical 

risk) it will cancel or terminate all policies of insurance and apply for liquidation. 

 

4.63  Considering that the resolution needs to be initiated when a financial institution is no 

longer  viable  or  likely  to  be  no  longer  viable,  the  Group  is  of  the  view  that  any  crisis 

management  framework,  formulated  to  protect  the  public  interest,  or  the  interests  of  the 

depositors, insurance policy holders and investors needs to first focus on early intervention 

by  the  regulatory/supervisory  authorities  and  corrective  actions  by  the  institution.  Such 

mechanism  should  consist  of  preparatory  and  preventive  measures,  early  intervention 

measures/ tools, etc., so as to identify the developing problems and address the same at an 

early  stage.  The  early  intervention  framework  will  preserve  the  financial  institution’s  going 

concern value to the extent possible by way of intrusive supervisory intervention. 

 

4.64 

In  order  to  ensure  that  regulators/supervisors  can  intervene  at  a  sufficiently 

early stage with clear trigger levels to prevent the institution from reaching situation 

of 

non-viability, 

the  Group 

recommends 

that 

each 

financial 

sector 

regulator/supervisor  may  formulate  a  prompt  corrective  action  (PCA)  framework  for 

the institutions under their regulatory jurisdiction, which may be graded illustratively 

with  four levels  –  i.e.  (i)  Stage  1  : low  risk  to  viability;  (ii)  Stage  2  :  moderate  risk  to 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 93 

 

viability; (iii) Stage 3 : high risk to viability; (iv) Stage 4 : extreme risk to viability  - in  

terms of quantitative parameters on a risk-adjusted basis. (Recommendation 9)  

 

4.65  The proposed PCA framework and trigger for resolution is explained in Box 4.2. 

 

 

Box – 4.2  

 

PCA Framework  

Stage 1 – Low risk to viability 

 
 

Stage 2 – Moderate risk to viability; 

 
 

Stage 3 – High risk to viability; 

 
 

Stage 4 – Extreme risk to viability 

 
 

Institution in resolution 

 
PCA  framework  is  intended  to  catch  the  early  warning  signal  in  a  particular  financial  institution  and 
respond to emerging risks at an early stage. There will be four clearly demarcated stages and specific 
regulatory  discretionary  actions  in  respect  of  each  of  the  financial  sectors.  As  a  financial  institution 
moves in stages, the regulatory actions will be more severe. At Stage 3, the financial institution will be 
asked by the regulator to activate its recovery plan and take appropriate recovery actions. At stage 4, 
the  regulatory  authority  would  take  stern  action  against  the  financial  institution  and  prescribe  a  tight 
timeline to show improvement failing which the institution will be passed over to the FRA. It would also 
be  possible  for  the  regulator/supervisor  to  pass  on  a  distressed  financial  institution  to  the  FRA  for 
resolution at a stage even earlier than stage 4 if in its judgement there are factors due to which the 
distressed  financial  institution  may  no  longer  be  able  to  honor  its  obligations  as  a  going  concern  or 
meet  its  licensing  conditions.  The  regulator/supervisor  will  have  constant  coordination  and 
consultation with the FRA once the financial institution reaches stage 3 and thereafter. 
 

4.66  The  Group  also  recommends  that  when  an  institution  reaches  stage  4  (final 

stage)  and  is  not  able  to  demonstrate  or  take  corrective  action  within  a  given  tight 

timeline, then it should be passed on to the FRA. The FRA should be kept informed of 

all  actions  and  developments  relating  to  the  concerned  institution  once  the  PCA 

framework kicks in. Enhanced coordination with the FRA should begin at stage 3 and 

it would be open to the regulator/supervisor and FRA to take a distressed institution 

into resolution even at an earlier stage. (Recommendation 10) 

 

4.67  With  the  new  supervisory  intervention  strategy,  i.e.,  the  PCA  framework  and 

moreover  with  implementation  of  new  Basel  III  capital  regulations,  with  greater  focus  on 

common equity capital and on liquidity assessment, there is need for an extensive review of 

the  existing  PCA  framework  prescribed  by  the  RBI.  The  Group  recommends  that with  a 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 94 

 

view to detecting problems at an early stage and having suitable redressal and revival 

mechanisms, the RBI may devise an effective methodology for early intervention and 

structured actions in line with the recommended stages so as to make it compatible 

with the envisaged resolution framework while taking into account Basel III framework 

for commercial banks and other regulatory developments for other entities regulated 

by  RBI.  Other  sector  regulators  should  also  devise  a  PCA  framework  and  take  into 

account  international  best  practices  put  forth  by  respective  agencies  such  as 

International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS),  International Organization 

of  Securities  Commissions  (IOSCO)  and  Committee  on  Payment  and  Settlement 

Systems (CPSS), etc. (Recommendation 11) 

 

Early intervention for financial group/conglomerates 

4.68 

In  India,  big  financial  groups  identified  as  Financial  Conglomerates  (FCs)  on  the 

basis  of  their  significant  presence  in  two  or  more  market  segments  (banking,  insurance, 

securities,  non-banking  finance)  have  come  into  existence.  The  Inter  Regulatory  Forum 

(IRF)  is  structured  as  a  college  of  domestic  supervisors  by  adopting  the  lead/principal 

regulator model, with a mandate to carry out two major functions, viz. developing supervisory 

cooperation for effective consolidated supervision of FCs and assessing the risk to systemic 

stability  due  to  the  activities  of  the  FCs.  While  steps  have  been  taken  towards  a  more 

effective  consolidated  supervision,  there  is  minimal  framework  for  early  detection  and 

intervention  to  address  problems  occurring  at  the  holding  company  level  and  group  wide 

ramification of distress developing in part/s of the group. 

 

4.69  The Group considered that FCs are of systemic importance. There is a high risk that 

the distress of one part of the group will quickly affect other parts through various intra-group 

channels. This is particularly in the case of holding company structure, where a substantial 

proportion  of  assets  of  the  holding  company  of  a  group  comprise  its  investments  in  the 

regulated subsidiaries. A collapse in the value of shares in the regulated subsidiaries could 

cause the holding company to be in breach of its funding covenants or even itself become 

insolvent.  There  may  also  be  cross-defaults  and  intra-group  funding  stresses  that  could 

cause  multiple  entity  failures  across  the  group.  The  inability  to  resolve  the  group-wide 

distress as mentioned above could jeopardise financial stability given the wide links with the 

rest of the economy.  

 

4.70  The Lehman case illustrates how complexity of group structures can prove to be fatal 

in a crisis and an aggressive growth strategy by a financial firm to take on greater risk can 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 95 

 

undermine financial stability. Although the Secretary of the Treasury, warned shareholders of 

the need for raising more capital, the Treasury Department did nothing to prepare for such 

an  eventuality  to  intervene1.  This  shows  a  clear  failure  of  early  regulatory  or  supervisory 

actions. 

 

4.71  So  as  to  detect  problems  in  the  parent  company  including  the  group-wide 

ramifications  of  the  stress  developing  in  parts  of  the  group  at  an  early  stage,  the 

Group recommends that the Inter-Regulatory Technical Group of FSDC may set up a 

Group 

for 

formulation  of  a  PCA 

framework 

in 

respect  of 

financial 

groups/conglomerates. This framework should provide for clear and distinct triggers 

and  early  intervention  actions  in  line  with  the  stages  recommended  by  this  Group 

taking into account international standards. (Recommendation 12) 

 

Resolution Tools  

4.72 

In order  to achieve the objectives,  an effective resolution  framework should provide 

for various options (restructuring options2 and liquidation options3) and tools to the resolution 

authorities  to  exercise  powers  and  respond  rapidly,  flexibly  and  under  conditions  of  legal 

certainty to a wide variety of circumstances. While the restructuring options ensure continuity 

of critical and systemically important functions of the failing financial institution and insulating 

them  from  failure,  the  liquidation  options  ensure  orderly  closure  and  wind-down  of  the 

institution’s  business.  In  both  cases  and  in  case  of  any  resolution  tool  chosen,  losses  are 

always absorbed first by the shareholders and uninsured and unsecured creditors. 

 

4.73  There are different resolution tools to ensure continuity and to preserve the viability of 

a financial institution’s critical and systemically important functions, the choice of which  will 

depend  on  the  nature  of  the  function.  Continuity  of  critical  functions  may  be  achieved 

through one or a combination of tools/ mechanisms that include the following: 

                                                           
1  Source:  Geneva  Report  on  the  world  economy  prepared  by  International  Center  for  Monetary  and  Banking 
Studies (ICMB) and Centre International D’etudes Monetaires Et Bancaires (CIMB)  – A safer World Financial 
System: Improving the Resolution of Systemic Institutions. 
2 Restructuring options are policies that ensure and achieve continuity of critical functions of a failed institution. 
Specialized tools may be needed for critically important functions by way of a sale or transfer of the shares in 
the financial institution or of all or parts of the institution’s business to a third party, either directly or through a 
bridge  institution,  and/or  an  officially  mandated  creditor-financed  recapitalization  of  the  institution  that 
continues providing the financial functions. 
2Liquidation options are tools that provide for the orderly closure and wind-down of all or parts of the financial 
institution’s business in a manner that protects insured depositors, insurance policyholders, investors and other 
retail customers. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 96 

 

(i)  Liquidation:  This  is  the  simplest  form  of  resolution  that  protects  the  insured 

depositors, insurance policyholders and investors within defined limits. In liquidation, 

the  financial  institution  is  declared  insolvent,  closed,  its  license  is  withdrawn  and 

insured  depositors/insurance  policyholders/investors  are  paid  off.  A  liquidator  or 

receiver is appointed, which liquidates all assets and pays the proceeds on a pro rata 

basis to the creditors in a manner that respects hierarchy of claims in liquidation. In 

countries providing deposit insurance, the depositors are paid depositor claims up to 

an agreed amount and the deposit insurer may stand in their place in the hierarchy of 

claims.  This  tool  is  best  suited  where  other  resolution  options  may  turn  out  more 

costly  than  the  winding  up  of  the  financial  institution.  While  liquidation  provides  a 

strong financial discipline on various stakeholders and ensures market discipline, the 

process  is  generally  long  drawn  and  locks  up  money  of  non-depositor  creditors  for 

months or years. 

(ii)  Purchase  and  Assumption  (P  &  A):  This  is  one  of  the  most  efficient  methods  for 

resolving a troubled financial institution. The failed institution is closed, shareholders 

are wiped out, the license is revoked, and the failed financial institution’s performing 

assets are sold to an acquiring institution that also assumes a corresponding amount 

of the failed institution’s liabilities. This option provides continuity of services, protect 

the  public  money  and  at  the  same  time  protect  the  interest  of  depositors,  other 

creditors  and  counterparties,  whose  exposures  to  the failing  institution  are  replaced 

by  claims  on  a  stronger  institution.  This  is  also  favored  by  the  authorities  as  it 

provides the depositors access to their accounts without involving the insurance fund 

to pay out.  

There are several variations on P & A transactions, such as: 

(a)  Basic  P  &  A  –  The  private  sector  purchaser  generally  takes  on  only  limited 

assets,  usually  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  and  matching  liabilities  consisting 

mainly the insured deposits, either whole or part.  

(b)  Whole bank P & A – The private sector purchaser or the acquirer purchases the 

entire  portfolio  of  the  failed  financial  institution  on  an  “as-is”  basis  with  no 

guarantees. Such transaction minimizes the cash outlay and reduces the assets 

held for future liquidation. 

(c)  Loan Purchase P & A/Modified P & A – In addition to cash and cash equivalents, 

the acquiring institution will also acquire the performing loan portfolio and/or the 

mortgage loan portfolio of the failing financial institution. 

(d)  P & A with Put option – In order to create a greater incentive for acquirers to bid 

for  a  failed  financial  institution’s  assets,  the  resolution  authority  can  provide  a 

“put”  option  on some  of the  transferred  assets. This  would  allow  the  acquirer  to 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 97 

 

have a certain period of time, such as 60 or 90 days, to put back to the resolution 

authority  assets  it  determines  it  does  not  want  to  keep.  Such  option  could, 

however,  lead  to  deterioration  in  value  of  put  assets  due  to  lack  of  attention, 

thereby making them harder for the resolution authority to market or collect later. 

(e)  P & A with Asset Pools – This tool offers asset pools, divided into separate pools 

of like loan assets such as loans within the same geographic location or with the 

same payment terms. The pools could also be divided into performing and non-

performing  loans. The  pools  can  be marketed separately.  Bidders  are thus  able 

to bid on the parts of a failed financial institution’s business that fit best with their 

own business model. This arrangement allows for marketing to a great number of 

potential  acquirers,  which  can  lead  to  a  greater  number  of  assets  being 

transferred. 

(f)  Loss  Share  P  &  A  –  The  acquirer  and  the  resolution  authority  enter  into  an 

agreement to share any future losses on a defined set of assets. By limiting the 

risk for the acquirer, the resolution authority may be able to attract more bidders 

for the purchase of the failed financial institution’s assets. 

(iii) Good Bank – Bad Bank method: This method entails splitting of the failed financial 

institution  into  two,  i.e.  the  good  bank  and  the  bad  bank.  The  former  contains 

privileged liabilities and good and performing assets (that are systemically important 

or have franchise value) and the latter takes the remaining liabilities and toxic assets. 

The  good  bank  is  transferred  to  the  newly  licensed  institution  or  to  one  or  more 

sound  financial  institutions  willing  to  acquire  it  and  the  bad  bank  is  liquidated  and 

wound down. This method is different from Purchase and Assumption tool in that the 

Good  Bank-Bad  Bank  always  preserves  the  banking  business,  while  the  Purchase 

and Assumption do not keep the business unit going. This tool can also be used to 

facilitate  resolution  of  a  seriously  troubled,  but  still  solvent,  problem  financial 

institution.  

(iv) Bridge  bank1:  This  is  an  interim  solution  where  the  authorities  transfer  the 

performing  operations  and  functions  of  the  troubled  bank  or  financial  institution 

together with its liabilities to a bridge institution. The failing financial institution is then 

closed  and  liquidated.  This  tool  allows  the  resolution  authority  to  “bridge”  the  gap 

between  an  institution’s  failure  and  the  time  when  a  suitable  purchaser  is  found.  It 

also  allows  the  resolution  authority  to  leave  behind  any  contingent  liabilities  or  off 

balance  sheet  obligations  in  the  liquidated  institution.  This  involves  temporary 

                                                           
1“Bridge  banks”  or  “bridge  institutions”  are  temporary  institutions  created  by  the  resolution  authority  to  take 
over  and  continue  certain  critical  and  viable  operations  of  a  failed  financial  institution  during  the  resolution 
process for a limited period, with a view to onward sale to the private sector when market conditions stabilise. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 98 

 

administration either by the government or the resolution authority and also receives 

external support and funding for carrying on its functions. This tool may be attractive 

in  particular  for  large  and  complex  financial  institutions,  where  due  diligence 

examination of assets and liabilities by a private sector purchaser may take time and 

where it is utmost important to continue the critical services provided by the financial 

institution. 

(v)  Bail-in within resolution – Bail-in is a statutory power of the resolution authority to 

restructure  the  liabilities  of  a  distressed  SIFI  by  converting  and/or  writing  down 

unsecured debt  into equity. It differs from contractual contingent capital instruments 

with  write-off  or  conversion  features  (such  as  convertible  bonds  or  CoCos).  While 

both  involve  creditor-financed  recapitalization,  CoCos  are  private  financial  contracts 

with  principal  and  scheduled  coupon  payments that  can  be  automatically  converted 

into  equity  or  written  down  on  going  concern  basis  when  a  pre-determined  trigger 

event occurs, whereas bail-in is a statutory power used on a gone concern basis that 

enables resolution authorities to write down or convert in the order – any contractual 

capital instruments that have not already been converted to equity, subordinated debt 

or unsecured senior debt.  

(vi) Temporary Public Ownership - This tool involves assuming ownership of a financial 

institution  by  the  government.  In  the  process,  the  troubled  financial  institution  is 

preserved as a going concern, but effectively requires the government to guarantee 

the obligations of the failed institution and may require the government to inject new 

equity  into  it.  This  potentially  undermines  the  public  finances.  This  is  a  “tool  of  last 

resort”, which may be most appropriate if the financial system is highly concentrated 

and there are practically no suitable options for a sale to private purchaser. 

 

Resolution tools for FMIs 

4.74  FMIs are different from other players in the financial system. FMIs will typically have 

rules and procedures which are binding on their participants and which can enable them to 

establish  arrangements 

to 

recover 

from 

financial  shocks.  For  example,  Central 

Counterparties  (CCPs)  have  rules  and  procedures  to  allocate  uncovered  losses.  It  is, 

however, possible that an extreme and unforeseen event could create a situation where an 

FMI’s resources, rules and procedures may not be sufficient for it to remain viable as a going 

concern.  In  order  to  achieve  the  objective  of  effective  resolution  framework,  the  proposed 

FRA also needs to have appropriate tools and powers specific to resolve FMIs.  

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 99 

 

4.75 

In  cases  of  FMIs  that  do  not  principally  take  on  credit  risk  (such  as  TRs),  the 

appropriate tools for their resolution would be the use of transfer powers to transfer some or 

all  of  the  FMI’s  functions  and  operations  to  one  or  more  third  parties,  either  directly  or 

through  a  bridge  institution.  Alternatively,  the  FMI  could  be  placed  under  statutory 

management,  administration  or  conservatorship,  leading  to  direct  control  under  the 

resolution authority. Such administration or conservatorship would continue till the time they 

can be transferred or wound down in an orderly manner. 

 

4.76  FMIs  that  take  on  credit  risk  as  part  of  their  services,  such  as  CCPs,  SSSs,  are 

generally  required  to  have  clearly  defined  rules  and  procedures  to  manage  a  particular 

default. It involves maintenance of margin requirements, a default fund and liquid resources 

to cover its current and potential future exposures and liquidity needs. These FMIs generally 

have  in  place  “waterfall”  arrangements  that  determine  the  order  in  which  different  types  of 

resources  are  drawn  upon  to  absorb  losses.  This  arrangement  works  by  drawing  first  on 

margins,  collateral  and  default  fund  contributions  of  the  defaulting  participant  and 

subsequently on default fund contributions belonging to the non-defaulting participants. 

 

4.77  The  primary  resolution  tool  for  such  FMIs  includes  loss  allocation  mechanism 

supported by statutory powers. This could be implemented through haircutting of margin and 

by enforcing any outstanding obligations under the FMI’s rules to replenish default funds or 

respond to cash calls. Another important tool is the bail-in mechanism. In case if a FMI has 

issued debt securities or has significant loans or intra-group balances, loss allocation could 

potentially  also  extend  to  bail-in  of  these  liabilities.  Moreover,  as  in the case  of  other  FMIs 

that do not take on credit risk, the transfer tool could be used by the resolution authority to 

transfer some or all of the FMI’s operations or ownership to a third party purchaser or, if no 

appropriate  purchaser  is  available,  to  a  publicly  owned  bridge  institution  for  a  temporary 

period prior to eventual sale or wind-down. 

 

Resolution tool for insurance companies 

4.78  Generally  the  traditional  insurance  activities  and  some  non-traditional  insurance 

activities  that  are  no  longer  viable  could  typically  be  resolved  through  run-off  and  portfolio 

transfer procedures. Run-off is the process of discontinuing the writing of new business while 

continuing to administer existing contractual policy obligations for in-force business. Claims 

are  paid  against  the  existing reserves  of the  insurer.  A  run-off can  be  solvent  or  insolvent, 

depending on the sufficiency of reserves and capital to pay off all claims. Portfolio transfers 

enable the resolution authority to transfer all or certain of insurer’s business or contracts of 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 100 

 

insurance  and  reinsurance  to  another  insurer  without  the  consent  of  each  and  every 

policyholder subject to approval by the regulatory and resolution authorities. Such transfers 

may  allow  the  maintenance  of  insurance  contracts  beyond  insolvency  and  therefore 

safeguard the interest of the policyholders to a maximum. 

 

4.79 

It may not, however, be possible to rely on these traditional tools in all circumstances, 

especially where the business model of the insurer is complex. Run-off and portfolio transfer 

tools  may  not  be  sufficient  to  mitigate  the  systemic  impact  of  non-viable  large,  complex 

insurance  group  engaging  in  other  NTNI  activities  that  may  involve  bank-like  leverage  and 

maturity transformation intermediation. 

 

4.80 

In  addition  to  normal  winding-up  tool  and  those  mentioned  above,  the  resolution 

tools,  alike  those  for  banks,  such  as  bridge  institution  and  restructuring  of  liabilities  tools 

could  act  effectively  for  maximizing  the  value  for  policyholders  as  a  whole  and  providing 

continuity  of  insurance  coverage.  The  liabilities  restructuring  tool  would  allocate  losses  to 

creditors  and  policyholders  in  a  way  consistent  with  the  creditor  hierarchy,  subject  to 

safeguards detailed later (para 4.166). However, this could take variety of forms – reducing 

future benefits of policyholders, reducing the value of contracts upon surrender, reducing or 

terminating  guarantees  such  as  guaranteed  sum  assured  or  annuity  rate  provided, 

converting  an  annuity  into  a  lump  sum  payment,  converting  insurance  liabilities  from  one 

type  of  insurance  liability  into  another  (such  as,  with  profits  into  unit  linked)  in  order  to 

facilitate sale of business or ensuring its continuity, etc. 

 

4.81  The  FSLRC  has  recommended  adoption  of  at  least  three  resolution  tools  by  the 

resolution authority. These include  – resolution  by purchase and assumption,  resolution by 

bridge  bank,  and  resolution  by  temporary  public  ownership.  The  draft  code  on  resolution, 

suggested by the Commission, also lays down certain conditions for triggering these tools for 

resolution.  As regards use of temporary public ownership, the Commission has recognized 

that this tool should be used only as a last resort by the resolution authority and with the only 

intention to maintain financial stability. This tool should typically be used for a SIFI, including 

banking  service  providers,  and  the  resolution  authority  must  consult  and  obtain  the 

permission of the FSDC in order to use the TPO tool. 

 

4.82  The  Group  recommends  that with  a  view  to carrying  out  orderly  resolution  of 

failing  financial  institutions  and  FMIs  without  taxpayers’  support,  the  FRA  should 

have  a  variety  of  resolution  tools  mandated  by  the  proposed  statute,  such  as, 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 101 

 

liquidation;  purchase  and  assumption;  bridge  institution;  good-bank  and  bad-bank; 

bail-in and temporary public ownership, which can be used flexibly, either singly or in 

combination  with  others,  to  resolve  a  financial  institution  and  preserve  its  critical 

functions. (Recommendation 13) 

 

4.83  As  FSB,  IAIS,  CPSS  and  IOSCO  are  in  the  process  of  preparing  guidance  for 

extending Key Attributes to cover a wider range of market participants in the financial 

sector, 

including  FMIs, 

insurance  companies  and  other  non-bank 

financial 

institutions,  the  Group  recommends  that  while  the  proposed  financial  resolution 

framework would be applicable for all financial institutions, including FMIs, a detailed 

framework  may  be  formulated  at  a  later  stage  for  non-bank  financial  institutions 

based on the policy documents and guidance that are yet to be issued by the FSB and 

other international standard setting bodies. (Recommendation 14) 

 

Issues in bail-in resolution tool 

4.84  The  bail-in  tool  is  aimed  at  recapitalizing  a  failed  SIFI  or  its  corresponding  bridge 

bank by converting creditors into equity holders. In case of a large institution, it may be hard 

to  use  traditional  tools  like  selling  the  entity  to  other  financial  entities  or  to  a  third  party 

purchaser. Bail-in allows restructuring of a failed SIFI’s liabilities  and recapitalization of the 

institution from within rather than relying on public sector capital injections. Bail-in acts as a 

complementary tool to resolve SIFIs by providing a funding option. 

 

4.85  When  a  bail-in  by  creditors  takes  place,  legal  certainty  and  predictability  are 

essential.  The  existence  of  statutory  bail-in  tool  does  not  prevent  the  financial  institutions 

from issuing instruments that write-off or convert contractually, nor do they prevent national 

authorities from requiring them. However, the statutory framework for bail-in within resolution 

might  create  incentive  for  financial  institution  to  issue  such  contractual  instruments  that 

would reinforce their capacity to recover from distress without going into resolution.  

 

4.86  The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) has introduced bail-in as 

one of the resolution tools for resolving a SIFI. The special resolution regime of Switzerland 

makes  all  liabilities  –  with  a  few  clearly  defined  exceptions,  which  include  all  privileged 

claims  (such  as  the  claims  of  employees  in  particular),  insured  depositors,  secured  claims 

and  claims  after  applying  offset  –  subject  to  compulsory  conversion  of  debt  into  equity  or 

compulsory write down of claims. Thus, structured products, short-term debt and uninsured 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 102 

 

depositors  are  also  potentially  subject  to  bail-in,  provided  all  other  debt  has  already 

absorbed losses. 

 

4.87  The European Union’s draft Banking Recovery and Resolution Directive, published in 

June 2012, provides bail-in as one of the preferred resolution tool, which will be applicable to 

all  debt,  except  the  secured  liabilities,  repos,  guaranteed  deposits,  short  duration  liabilities 

(less  than  one  month  to  maturity)  and  derivatives  cleared  through  a  CCP.  The  Directive 

mandates that at least 8 per cent of the bank’s total liabilities should be subject to bail-in. In 

case the converted debt is not sufficient to absorb the losses, the resolution fund would be 

utilized  to  the  extent  of  5  per  cent  of  the  failed  bank’s  total  liabilities.  Canada  and  United 

Kingdom  are  also  following  suit  in  implementation  of  bail-in  tool  in  respect  of  SIFIs  only. 

However, the deposit liabilities are getting exempted from the coverage. 

 

4.88  While bail-in may be an effective resolution tool, the threat of bail-in powers could put 

strains on both the distressed bank’s funding as well as other banks’ funding, increasing the 

cost  of  replacing  the  maturing  debt.  This  is  more  so  in  times  of  stress  when  investor 

confidence is fragile. Structurally elevated funding costs over a long period of time could lead 

to lower bank margins and earnings, and could even reduce build-up of capital buffers. They 

could  prompt  the  bank  management  to  seek  riskier  assets  to  offset  expensive  funding  or 

extensively  rely  on  central  bank  funding.  This  in  turn  could  have  serious  negative 

repercussions for credit supply and real economic activities.  

 

4.89  Higher  funding  costs  for  unsecured  debt  could  result  in  changes  in  bank’s  liability 

structures  by  shifting  to  short-term  debt  and  secured  borrowing,  which  are  likely  to  be 

excluded from bail-in. Such a shift may go against the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) of 

the  Basel  III  framework  as  well  as  result  in  a  higher  maturity  mismatch  and  consequent 

liquidity  and  interest  rate  risks.  It  may  also  lead  to  a  shift  by  creditors  towards  holding 

deposits instead of unsecured debt, thus making the resolution very costly especially if there 

is general depositor preference. 

 

4.90 

In situations where the senior debt instruments of a troubled bank are held by other 

financial  institutions,  such  as  other  banks  or  mutual  funds  or  pension  funds  or  insurance 

companies, a write-down of senior debt can trigger systemic repercussions that an effective 

resolution regime is required to avoid. In the event of uninsured depositors coming within the 

scope of bail-in, a bank run could be triggered and even lead to contagion and systemic risk.  

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 103 

 

4.91  As  bail-in  allows the  resolution  authorities  greater flexibility  in  their  response 

to  the  failure  of  large  and  systemically  important  financial  institutions  (SIFIs)  in 

restoring  viability  and  disincentivize  becoming  “too-big-to-fail”, 

the  Group 

recommends  taking  into  account  all  factors,  adopting  the  bail-in  mechanism  as  a 

resolution  tool  in  case  of  global  systemically  important  banks  (G-SIBs)/domestic 

systemically important banks (D-SIBs). (Recommendation 15)  

 

4.92  The  Group  recognizes  that  practical  implications  of  bail-in  across  jurisdictions  still 

need  to  be  tested.  Since  banks  dominate  the financial  market  in India, inclusion  of  deposit 

liabilities,  inter-bank  liabilities,  and  short-term  debt  (such  as  repo),  in  addition  to  capital 

instruments,  within  the  ambit  of  bail-in  may  induce  a  run  and  result  in  instability  in  the 

financial  market.  Moreover,  the  Indian  banks  have  not  been  permitted  to  raise  unsecured 

debt  in  the  form  of  corporate  bonds  except  the  borrowings  under  Medium-Term  Note 

programme, Certificate of Deposits (CDs), short-term repos, infrastructure bonds and inter-

bank  borrowings.  Inclusion  of  such  instruments,  in  the  absence  of  contractual  clause  and 

likely different legal frameworks across jurisdictions,  may raise practical problems in actual 

implementation.  

 

4.93  The  Group,  further,  recommends  that  the  bail-in  framework  should  cover  the 

capital instruments (additional Tier 1 and Tier 2) as well as other unsecured creditors, 

while  deposit  liabilities,  inter-bank  liabilities,  and  all  short-term  debt,  which  if 

subjected to bail-in can induce financial instability, would be excluded from bail-in. In 

order to minimise the uncertainty generated by discretionary use of bail-in power and 

to  avoid  uncertainty  among  unsecured  creditors,  the  bail-in  power  should  be 

statutorily  placed  with  the  FRA.  With  developments  in  resolution  mechanisms 

internationally, 

this 

tool  may  be  extended 

to  other 

financial 

institutions. 

(Recommendation 16)  

 

4.94  Chart  4.1  below  shows  the  sequence  in  which  the  bail-in  would  be  applied  to  the 

financial institution debt categories: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 104 

 

Chart 4.1: Application of Bail-in 

Regulatory Capital 

  Old Regulatory Capital 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

   Tier 

2 

PONV 
Trigger 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

Style 
1 

   Old 
Tier 
capital 
instruments 

Style 
2 

   Old 
Tier 
Capital 
Instruments 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   AT1 

Capital 
Trigger 
6.125% 

at 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

   Senior 

Unsecured 
Liabilities 

Debt 

 

 
   Excluded 

i.e. 

claims, 
deposits, 
inter-bank 
liabilities, 
and  short-
term funds 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

CET 
equity 

1 

Full 
loss 
absorbency 

  Automatic 

 

Statutory Bail-in 

  No Bail-in 

 

loss 
absorbency 
or 
contractual 
bail-in 

Note: The height of bars in the Chart indicates the seniority of claims in liquidation, i.e., the bar with 
least height will absorb the losses first and the bar with more height will absorb the losses last. 

Source: Resolution of Global Systemically Important Banks – FINMA Position Paper, August 2013. 

 

Temporary public ownership 

4.95 

In  situations  where  a  financial  institution,  deemed  to  be  systemically  important, 

comes into financial distress and has the potential to trigger financial instability and cannot 

be resolved by sale to a third party because of its sheer size, can best be resolved as a last 

option by Government taking control of the financial institution. This essentially would result 

in  transfer  of  shares  to  the  Government.  There  are  various  advantages  as  well  as 

disadvantages  of  this  tool.  While  the  execution  of  this  tool  can  occur  without  any  delay,  it 

protects all creditors and maintains public confidence in a crisis like situation. Continuation of 

the financial institution’s operations ensures no disruption in the payment system even. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 105 

 

4.96  On  the  other  hand,  blanket  protection  of  all  creditors  erodes  market  discipline  and 

leaves no incentives to the creditors to monitor the financial institution. This being the case, it 

enhances the level of moral hazard and the creditors face incentives to take on greater risks.  

 

4.97  Several  jurisdictions  authorize  the  use  of  TPO.  The  Special  Resolution  Regime 

(SRR) of United Kingdom provides a TPO tool as an additional resolution tool. It involves the 

Treasury to take control and ownership of a failing banking institution through the transfer of 

shares, in order to provide a stable platform for restructuring. This tool is preferred where the 

Treasury has already provided a significant amount of public money to the failing institution 

or  where  it  is  considered  necessary  to  preserve  stability  of  the  UK’s  financial  system.  The 

EU’s draft proposal on Recovery and Resolution Directive also provides for a nationalization 

option,  preferably  a  last  one,  for  resolving  a  bank  to  avoid  contagion  and  reduce  risk  to 

financial stability. 

 

4.98  As temporary public ownership (TPO) may be important for ensuring financial 

stability  in  exceptional  situations,  the  Group  recommends  that  the  Government  of 

India (Ministry of Finance) may, on recommendation by FSDC, be empowered to place 

a financial institution under TPO and control on financial stability considerations and 

only if such action is necessary to protect public interest. There should be intensive 

consultation with the concerned regulator and the FRA before placing the institution 

under TPO. This tool should be only temporary in nature till a viable alternative such 

as, sale or transfer or merger is found. (Recommendation 17) 

 

Specific resolution powers  

4.99  Operation  of  any  one  tool  on  a  failing  financial  institution  would  require  a  host  of 

resolution  powers  to  be  vested  in  the  resolution  authority.  Taking  into  account  the 

international experience in this regard as also the requirements defined under the FSB Key 

Attributes, the FRA would need to have the following powers mandated by the statute so as 

to enable the authority to initiate resolution actions in an effective manner: 

(i) 

Power  to  remove  any  chairman,  director,  chief  executive  officer  or  other  officer  or 

employee of the financial institution 

(ii)  Power  to  appoint  an  administrator  to  take  control  of  and  manage  the  affected 

financial  institution  with  the  objective  of  restoring  the  institution,  or  parts  of  its 

business, to ongoing and sustainable viability 

(iii)  Power  to  override  rights  of  shareholders  of  the  financial  institution  in  resolution, 

including  requirements  for  approval  of  shareholders  of  particular  transactions,  in 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 106 

 

order  to  permit  merger,  acquisition,  sale  of  substantial  business  operations, 

recapitalization  or  other  measures  to  restructure  and  dispose  of  the  institution’s 

business or its liabilities and assets 

(iv)  Power  to  transfer  or  sell  whole  or  part  of  assets  and  liabilities,  legal  rights  and 

obligations, including deposit liabilities and ownership in shares, of a failing financial 

institution  to  a  solvent  third  party  institution  or  a  bridge  institution,  without  any 

requirement of consent from the shareholders or creditors; 

(v)  Power to establish one or more temporary bridge institution to take over and continue 

operating critical functions and viable operations of a failed financial institution; 

(vi) 

In  case  of  insurance  firms,  the  resolution  authority  should  also  have  the  powers  to 

undertake a portfolio transfer moving all or part of the insurance business to another 

insurer  without  the  consent  of  every  policyholder,  and  also  impose  restrictions  on 

insurers in resolution on writing new business, while continuing to administer existing 

contractual obligations (i.e., carry out a systematic run-off).  

(vii)  Power  to  transfer  non-performing  loans  or  difficult-to-value  assets  to  either  newly 

established or existing asset management vehicle; and 

(viii)  Power to impose a moratorium with suspension of payments to unsecured creditors 

and  customers  and  a  stay  on  creditor  actions  to  attach  assets  or  collect  money  or 

property  from  the  firm,  while  protecting  the  enforcement  of  eligible  netting  and 

collateral arrangements. 

 

Funding of Resolution 

4.100  The funding of resolution is vital to preserve the functioning of a financial institution. 

Key Attribute 6 requires jurisdictions to have statutory or other policies in place for adequate 

arrangements for funding resolution from private sources (such as privately-financed deposit 

insurance  or  resolution  funds)  or  temporary  public  funding  with  mechanism  for  ex  post 

recovery  from  the  industry  of  the  costs  of  providing  temporary  financing  to  facilitate  the 

resolution  of  the  firm.  In  order  to  reduce  moral  hazard,  any  provision  of  temporary  public 

funding for maintaining essential functions so as to accomplish orderly resolution, should be 

subject to conditions and mechanisms for recovery from the firm itself, its shareholders and 

uninsured creditors or from the financial system more widely. Any temporary  public funding 

should be exercised only if it is necessary to foster financial stability and to achieve orderly 

resolution  and  private  sources  of  funding  have  been  exhausted  or  cannot  achieve  the 

objectives.  

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 107 

 

4.101  International  experience  regarding funding  arrangements for resolution  of  large  and 

complex financial firms is in an early stage so far. Discussions are currently on-going within 

the  EU  on  the  merits  of  general  bank  resolution  funds,  financed  ex  ante  via  industry 

contributions. The  EU  Directive  on  Recovery  and  Resolution  has  placed  a  proposal  before 

the  member  countries  that  aims  to  establish  arrangements  for  financing  resolution 

measures,  i.e.,  a  European  System  of  Financing  Arrangements  that  would  ensure  that  all 

financial  institutions  that  operate  in  the  European  financial  markets  are  subject  to  equally 

effective  resolution  funding  arrangements  and  contribute  to  the  stability  of  the  single 

European  financial  markets.  The  European  System  of  Financing  Arrangements  consists  of 

national  financing  arrangements,  the  borrowing  between  national  financing  arrangements 

and  the  mutualisation  of  national  financing  arrangements.  Accordingly,  each  member  state 

would  set  up  resolution  financing  arrangements  to  ensure  efficient  implementation  of 

resolution  tools  and  powers.  In  this  respect,  any  losses  and  costs  incurred  by  the 

employment  of  the  financing  arrangements  shall  be  consecutively  borne  by  shareholders 

and  the  creditors  of  the  failed  institution.  The  financing  means  would  comprise  an  ex  ante 

contribution  as  well  as  the  possibility  to  raise  extraordinary  contributions.  They  would  also 

include  arrangements  to  contract  borrowings  on  the  capital  markets  or  with  financial 

institutions. The proposed Directive determines the optimal amount of money that needs to 

be  available  in  each  member  state  and  presents  a  model  for  ex  ante  contributions  to  the 

financing arrangements. According to the model, the calculation of contributions depends on 

the  decision  of  the  member  state  whether  or  not  to  use  the  funds  of  deposit  insurance 

scheme for financing resolution measures and the amount of institution’s liabilities. National 

financing  arrangements will  have  the  right  to  borrow  from  all  other financing  arrangements 

within  the  EU  when  the  amount  raised  is  not  sufficient  to  finance  the  resolution.  Each 

national financial arrangement has to contribute to the financing of group resolution together 

with  the  national  financing  arrangements  of  the  other  member  states,  in  accordance  with 

their shares.  

 

4.102  Currently, the United Kingdom does not have a general bank resolution fund and the 

bank levy, which has recently come into force, is a purely fiscal measure and is not intended 

specifically to fund public costs for resolving banks. In contrast to certain other jurisdictions 

(notably,  the  United  States  where  the  Dodd-Frank  legislation  explicitly  prohibits  public 

financial support), the UK framework implicitly acknowledges that in certain situations where 

systemic  stability  is  threatened,  public  support  for  ailing  banks  may  be  unavoidable.  The 

Banking Act, 2009 allows Her Majesty’s Treasury (HMT) to access the consolidated fund in 

order  to  provide  financial  assistance  to  banks  quickly,  if  HMT  considers  that  the  need  for 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 108 

 

funds  is  too  urgent  to  permit  arrangements  to  be  made  for  the  provision  of  money  by 

parliament. Under the SRR, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS - the UK’s 

deposit guarantee scheme) may participate in funding resolution. The role of the scheme is 

not limited to repayment in liquidation. FSCS may contribute to the funding of SRR resolution 

transactions  up  to  an  amount  not  exceeding  the  cost  to  the  FSCS,  net  of  recoveries,  of 

paying  out  to  insured  depositors  in  an  insolvency.  The  FSCS  is  funded  ex  post  and  has 

access to HMT finance. Normally, the costs for resolution would be met by sales and other 

proceeds  from  the  bank  itself.  However,  if  additional  funds  are  needed,  the  FSCS  has 

access to liquidity support via loans from the National Loan Fund. 

 

4.103  Spain  has  set  up  a  Fund  for  Orderly  Bank  Restructuring  (FROB)  with  the  goal  to 

manage  the  restructuring  and  resolution  processes  of  credit  institutions,  aimed  at  ensuring 

the  stability  of  the  financial  system,  depositor  protection  and  an  efficient  use  of  public 

resources.  The  objective  of  the  FROB  is  to  assist  and  foster  the  reorganization  of  the 

Spanish  banking  industry.  The  FROB  has  legal  personality  and  full  public  and  private 

capacity to implement its objectives. The initial capital of the FROB amounts to €9 billion, of 

which €2.25 billion were contributed by the Deposit Guarantee Fund (FGD) and the rest by 

the State. The FROB can issue securities guaranteed by the state (and/or it can seek other 

funding)  up  to  three  times  its  capital  (€27  billion),  but  it  can  leverage  up  to  10  times  (thus 

reaching  a  total  capacity  of  €99  billion)  with  the  approval  of  the  Ministry  of  Finance  and 

Public Administrations. In 2012, the capital of the FROB was raised to €15 billion, though its 

total borrowing capability has remained unchanged. 

 

4.104  Several issues arise while designing a fund for resolution. First, whether the fund be 

set  up  as  ex  ante  fund  or  ex  post  fund.  Views  amongst  countries  on  pre-funded,  general 

resolution funds appear to vary. Some are opposed, perceiving increased moral hazard (as 

bank creditors might regard such funds as an implicit guarantee that they would be rescued 

in  all  cases,  so  they  might  change  their  behaviour  in  ways  contrary  to  the  public  interest) 

while observing that amounts raised could be insufficient in any event. Opponents also note 

that  fiscal  costs  cannot  be  completely  eliminated  (much  of  a  pre-fund  would  sit  as 

government  paper,  whose  large-scale  liquidation  at  the  point  of  requiring  the  funds  could 

nudge  up  rates).  Conversely,  proponents  attach  value  to  the  political  signalling  effect  of 

raising general resolution funds, ex ante and via industry contributions, and some countries 

have  begun  to  build  up  such  funds.  The  European  Commission  has  taken  the  view  that 

resolution funds should be built up on the basis of contributions from banks ex ante. Fully ex 

post  funded  schemes  may  imply  upfront  taxpayer  funding  and  therefore  increase  the  risk 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 109 

 

that  banking  failures  would  be  accompanied  by  broader  negative  economic  impacts.  Such 

an approach may prove pro-cyclical, placing strains on the public budget during a financial 

crisis when the State is least equipped to provide additional financing. 

 

4.105  Second issue is, whether there should be a single fund for depositor protection and 

resolution. Some argue that single fund makes economic sense as deposit insurance funds 

are used in the event of bank liquidation and such pay-outs may not be required if bank is 

restructured  on  sound  lines.  However,  it  partly  depends  on  whether  the  deposit  insurer  is 

also  the  resolution  authority.  Further, there  is  the  risk  of  underfunding  the  resolution  if  one 

only  makes  use of  deposit  insurance fund for resolution  purposes. If  the  deposit  insurance 

agency has been granted additional mandate, then the fund base needs to be expanded to 

deal  with  the  additional  mandate.  Cover  both  resolution  and  deposit  insurance  under  one 

fund  would  also  require  that  the  ranking  of  claimants  is  clear  and  adequate.  Separate 

deposit  insurance  and  resolution  funds  are  considered  beneficial  from  an  accounting 

perspective as one can then clearly identify resolution costs.  

 

4.106  The  FSLRC  has  recommended  creation  of  a  resolution  fund  by  the  resolution 

corporation,  funded  through  premium  from  covered  service  providers  that  would  be 

proportional  to  their  financial  position,  for  the  purpose  of  resolution  related  expenses 

including  administrative  expenses,  payment  of  compensations  to  creditors,  etc.  The 

Commission  has  also  mandated  the  resolution  corporation  to  provide  insurance  to  the 

consumers of eligible covered service providers. The draft Code also enables the resolution 

corporation  to terminate the  Corporation  insurance  of  a  covered  service  provider  in  certain 

circumstances including when the covered service provider is determined to be at critical risk 

to  viability.  In  exceptional  circumstances,  the  Resolution  Corporation  could  avail  a  line  of 

credit from the Central Government for a period of five years. The Corporation may meet its 

repayment  obligations  against  that  line  of  credit  by  claiming  to  be  a  creditor  of  the  first 

priority of the particular covered service provider that is under liquidation or dissolved. 

 

4.107  Considering various options, the Group recommends that:  

(i)  the  resolution  fund would  be  different  from  deposit  insurance fund  and  other 

protection funds;  

(ii)  it  would  be  pre-funded  and  built  over  time  through  ex  ante  premiums 

determined on risk-based assessments;  

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 110 

 

(iii) in  the  event  a  systemic  institution  is  under  stress,  sufficient  backstops, 

including  temporary  funding  support  from  the  Government,  with  safeguards, 

may be provided to ensure adequate liquidity; 

(iv) the FRA may raise funds from the market through issue of bonds; government 

guarantee may have to be extended, if required; 

(v)  the  resolution  fund  would  have  arrangements  to  meet  shortfalls  in  fund 

through ex post levies on the financial institutions and FMIs; 

(vi) the fund would also be built up from recovery of assets from failed institutions; 

the  recoveries  may,  however,  first  accrue  to  deposit  insurance  or  other 

protection funds if and to the extend they have been used instead of resolution 

fund; 

(vii) 

the  fund  could  build  a  core  base  adopting  a  suitable  methodology  for 

collecting  a  surcharge  (one  time  capital  infusion)  from  financial  institutions 

and FMIs; 

(viii) 

the  fund  would  maintain  separate  accounts  for  different  types  of 

financial institutions, viz., banks, insurance firms, securities firms, FMIs, as the 

premium  rates  and  size  of  fund  requirement  for  different  sectors  would  vary; 

and  

(ix) inter-fund  borrowing  to  meet  shortfalls  in  one  or  the  other  fund  would  be 

allowed. (Recommendation 18) 

 

4.108  There  is  limited  experience  available  internationally  on  how  big  the  resolution  fund 

should be. While there is no well-established good practice for resolution funds, the typical 

target  size  for  deposit  insurance  funds  could  range  from  about  1–2  per  cent  of  insured 

deposits in large systems to 4–5 per cent in smaller systems, where the aim is to cover 2–3 

mid-sized  banks  and  4–6  small  banks.  The  target  size  also  varies  with  the  level  of  the 

institutional  environment  and  resolution  framework,  including  the  effectiveness  of  prompt 

corrective  action  and  early  intervention  mechanisms.  The  Group  feels  that  the  resolution 

fund in case of banks and other financial institutions could be relatively small to cover some 

individual failures. 

 

Deposit insurance and other protection funds 

4.109  Deposit  Insurance  and  Credit  Guarantee  Corporation  was  set  up  in  1961  with  an 

objective  of  providing  protection  to  small  depositors.  The  size  of  deposit  insurance  fund 

currently maintained by DICGC stands at ` 37,766 crore as on September 30, 2013, which 

works  out  to  1.7  per  cent  of  insured  deposits.  SEBI  also  maintains  an  investor  protection 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 111 

 

fund. In case a stock broker is declared defaulter, the interests of the investors are protected 

through  the  Investor  Protection  Fund  (IPF)/Customer  Protection  Fund  (CPF)  set  up  by  the 

stock exchanges. At present, National Stock Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange 

(BSE) are providing protection subject to a maximum of  `15 lakh per client/investor. As on 

October  31,  2013,  the  corpuses  of  IPF  at  BSE,  NSE  and  MCX-SX  were  `  647.70  crore,  ` 

380.97 crore, and ` 10.89 crore respectively. 

 

4.110  In  order  to  maintain  the  sanctity  of  existing  deposit  insurance  and  other 

protection funds, the Group recommends that the deposit insurance fund maintained 

presently  by  the  DICGC  and  other  funds,  if  any,  maintained  by  other  regulators  for 

protection of insurance policy holders and investors may be kept separate within the 

FRA. Only those funds will be  brought within FRA, which will be used for consumer 

protection pursuant to resolution action and not during stage of early intervention by 

the  regulator/supervisor.  Both  resolution  and  depositor/investor  protection  funds 

should be built up simultaneously till a well-defined target level is reached. It is also 

recommended  that  the  accretion  to  both  funds  by  way  of  premium  or  any  other 

method of contribution should be exempted from tax. (Recommendation 19) 

 

4.111  The Group feels that in view of the ground reality in India that a large proportion of 

depositors  are  small  depositors  (94%  of  depositors  currently  hold  deposits  of  less  than  or 

equal to Rupees 100,000 – the present deposit insurance coverage limit) and large presence 

of banking network that is also being used to promote financial inclusion, it is important that 

deposit  insurance  remains  an  important  and  specialized  component  of  the  proposed 

resolution  framework.  The  deposit  insurance  framework  existing  at  present  has  remained 

unchanged for  a  long time  (as  pointed  out  by  several  committees  in the  past).  The  Group 

recommends that along with setting up of a resolution framework, reforms in deposit 

insurance  may  also  be  taken  up  to  bring  the  system  on  the  lines  expected  by 

international  benchmarks,  viz.,  Core  Principles  for  Deposit  Insurance  Systems. 

Illustratively,  the  areas  where  reforms  in  deposit  insurance  in  India  are  important  to 

improve  its  effectiveness  are  –  reduction  in  timeframe  for  reimbursing  depositors, 

collection  of  depositor  information  in  a  ‘single  customer  view’  format,  review  of 

coverage limit, manner of sharing of recoveries, exemption from taxation of premium, 

review  of  instruments  permissible  for  investment,  back-up  funding  to  support 

shortfalls in deposit insurance fund and technologically advanced data systems and 

payment methods. (Recommendation 20) 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 112 

 

Preventive and Contingency Planning 

4.112  Contingency planning is important both for regulators/supervisors and the resolution 

authority  as  the  former  implements  preventive  measures  within  the  early  intervention 

framework and for the latter in the preparation for dealing with failed financial institutions.  

 

4.113  The  PCA 

framework 

is  a  methodology 

to 

take  early 

intervention  by 

the 

regulators/supervisors.  However,  there  is  a  need  to  require  the  financial  institutions 

themselves to be better prepared to recover from situations of severe stress. This could be 

achieved by requiring the institutions to formulate “Recovery and Resolution Plans (RRPs).” 

Such  planning  can  make  available  all 

types  of 

information  about 

the 

financial 

institution/group to the regulators/supervisors and the resolution authority. At the same time, 

the resolution authority needs to prepare a Resolution Plan for resolving the failing financial 

institution  in  terms  of  the  objectives  of  financial  resolution  framework.  Preparation  of  a 

resolution plan requires extensive information and data about the business and operational 

structure of the financial institution/group. 

 

4.114  RRPs  focus  on  solving  institution-specific  problems,  but  not  systemic  problems. 

RRPs  provide  in  advance  the  measures,  in  the  event  of  a  crisis,  that  a  financial  institution 

could  take  to  recover  as  a  going  concern  or  the  authorities  could  take  to  resolve  it  in  an 

orderly fashion. The RRPs aim to ensure that the financial institutions: 

  assess and document the range of credible recovery options that would be available 

to  them  under  severe  stress  scenarios  taking  into  account  the  nature,  complexity, 

interconnectedness, level of substitutability and size; 

  enable  the timely  and quick  implementation  of these  recovery  options  in  a  range  of 

stress situations; 

  supply  the  regulatory  authorities  with  information  and  strategic  analysis  on  their 

businesses,  organisations  and  structures  to  enable  the  authorities  to  carry  out  an 

orderly resolution in case the recovery options are ineffective and not feasible. 

 

There are two aspects to RRPs: 

(i) 

(ii) 

Recovery Plans; and 

Resolution Plans 

 

Recovery plans 

4.115  Recovery  plan  is  a  plan,  developed  and  maintained  by  the  financial  institution, 

detailing  the  early  action  it  would  take  to  restore  its  long-term  viability  if  the  institution’s 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 113 

 

financial  situation  deteriorated  due  to  idiosyncratic  and  market-wide  stress.  The  recovery 

plan  in  respect  of financial  institution  would  ideally  be  ensuring financial  continuity  –  i.e.  to 

maintain  adequate  capital  and  liquidity.  In  particular,  the  recovery  plans  aim  at  preserving 

the  continuity  of  critical  financial  services  under  severe  adverse  conditions  and  identifying 

the  necessary  measures  to  ensure  that  the  group  financial  institution  remains  a  “going 

concern”.  

 

4.116  Recovery  plans  could  help  regulators  and  supervisors  in  identifying  the  appropriate 

actions  that  can  restore  the  viability  of  financial  institutions  at  an  early  stage.  As  recovery 

plans would be prepared by financial firms, this process would help them in reviewing their 

operations,  risks,  and  necessary  actions  in  a  problematic  situation.  Recovery  plans  thus 

would  increase  the  preparedness  and  awareness  of  both  firms  and  their  supervisors  for 

dealing with problems at an early stage.  

 

4.117  Based  on  the  guidance  documents  issued  by  UK’s  FSA  (now  PRA)  and  US  FDIC 

and Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and also taking into consideration 

the  structure  and  operations  of  Indian  banks,  the  Group  has  prepared  an  indicative 

document  on  preparation  of  Recovery  Plan  by  banks,  which  is  given  in  Annex  5.  This 

document focuses on the key elements/components that a Recovery Plan of a bank should 

have.  

 

4.118  Recovery planning would enable a financial institution to restore its financial strength 

and viability through own efforts, i.e. before the conditions are met for regulatory authorities 

to enforce recovery measures. The institutions may, therefore, require calibrating triggers for 

initiation  of  recovery  measures  in  a  manner  that  negates  the  initiation  of  regulatory/ 

supervisory  intervention  measures.  This  means  that  the  institution  would  need  to  be  alert 

before PCA trigger levels so that there is time for the recovery plan to have an effect. This 

process could be aided by development of early warning signals prior to an actual breach of 

a trigger for alerting the financial institution’s management to emerging signs of distress. 

 

Resolution plans 

4.119  The  resolution  plans  or  “living  wills”  are  prepared  by  the  resolution  authority  in 

consultation  with  regulators/supervisors  and  concerned  financial  institution  during  normal 

times.  The  plan  sets  out  the  strategy  for  resolving  the  financial  institution  in  a  range  of 

plausible  scenarios.  The  objective  is  to  formulate/decide  in  advance  on  a  feasible  strategy 

and detailed roadmap that facilitates the effective use of resolution powers to resolve a failed 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 114 

 

financial  institution  or  group  in  a  manner  that  minimises  the  impact  on  financial  stability 

without  exposing  taxpayers  to  loss,  while  simultaneously  protecting  the  systemically 

important functions.  

 

4.120  The  resolution  plan,  therefore,  should  include  a  substantive  resolution  strategy 

agreed  by  the  top  management  of  financial  institution  and  an  operational  plan  for  its 

implementation and identify in particular: 

(i)  financial and economic functions for which continuity is critical; 

(ii)  suitable  resolution  options  to  preserve  those  functions  or  wind  them  down  in  an 

orderly manner; 

(iii) data  requirements  on  the  financial  institution’s  business  operations,  structures  and 

systemically important functions; 

(iv) potential barriers to effective resolution and actions to mitigate those barriers; 

(v)  actions to protect insured depositors and ensure the rapid return of segregated client 

assets; and 

(vi) clear options or principles for exit from the resolution process. 

 

4.121  The FSLRC has recommended preparation of restoration plan and resolution plan by 

all  covered  service  providers  as  soon  as  the  regulator  makes  a  decision  that  the  covered 

service provider has reached the 2nd stage (moderate risk to viability) and 3rd stage (material 

risk to viability) respectively, of the proposed PCA framework. As per the Commission, while 

the restoration plan needs to be approved by the regulator, the resolution plan needs to be 

approved by the Resolution Corporation. 

 

4.122  The Group recommends that:  

(i)  the RRPs, to start with, will apply only to those financial institutions that could 

be systemically significant or critical if they fail;  

(ii)  RRP requirement will also apply to all financial groups/conglomerates, whether 

they are systemically important or not; 

(iii) the  RRP  regime  could  be  extended  to  other  financial  institutions  in  a  phased 

manner; 

(iv) the recovery plan will be prepared on a regular basis by the institutions as per 

a pre-approved format and will be approved by the respective regulator;  

(v)  the  resolution  plan  containing  resolution  strategy  to  be  adopted  for  resolving 

the  institution will  be  prepared  by  the  institution  and  approved  by  the  FRA  in 

consultation with the concerned regulator;  

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 115 

 

(vi) the  regulator/supervisors  in  consultation with  the  FRA  may  prescribe  varying 

levels  of  collection  and  sharing  of  information  depending  upon  the  size  and 

complexity of the financial institution; and 

(vii) 

the  resolution  plan  must  be  reviewed  annually,  or  earlier  if  considered 

necessary,  by  the  resolution  authority  so  as  to  take  into  consideration  the 

incremental 

developments 

in 

the 

institution 

as  well 

as 

the 

regulatory/supervisory norms.  (Recommendation 21) 

 

RRP for FMIs 

4.123  The  FMIs  are  considerably  different  from  any  other  form  of  financial  institutions. 

Since they play a very critical role in the financial system and also that there are difficulties in 

transferring  critical  services  from  a  failed  FMI  to  a  viable  FMI  owing  to  scarcity  of  such 

entities and their capabilities, maintaining the continuity of an FMI’s critical services, even in 

times  of  extreme  market-wide  stress,  is  particularly  important  and  central  to  financial 

stability.  Thus  having  a  strong  recovery  plan  is  a  vital  element  in  enabling  the  continued 

provision  of  critical  services.  The  PFMIs  require  that  FMIs  have  effective  strategies,  rules 

and procedures to enable to recover from financial stresses. 

 

4.124  The  purpose  of  recovery  plan  for  FMIs  is  to  document  the  information  and 

procedures necessary to allow the FMI to effect recovery and continue to provide its critical 

services  when  its  viability  is  threatened.  The  plans  enable  the  FMIs,  its  participants  and 

other relevant stakeholders to prepare for extreme circumstances, and accordingly increase 

the  probability  that  the  most  effective  recovery  tools  to  deal  with  a  specific  stress  will  be 

used. 

 

4.125  In  order  to  ensure  continuity  of  critical  services  provided  by  the  FMIs,  the 

systemically important FMIs may prepare RRPs that would prescribe credible options 

to  recover  from  extreme  and  severe  stress  scenarios.  The  plans  may  essentially 

prescribe methodology to allocate uncovered losses and liquidity shortfalls to direct 

participants, indirect participants, third-party  institutions and/or owners on the basis 

of  and  to  the  extent  they  are  permitted  by  ex-ante  arrangements.  (Recommendation 

22) 

 

Criteria for determining systemically important financial institutions 

4.126  There are various factors that drive a particular financial institution to be classified as 

systemically  important,  i.e.  any  problem  or  failure  of  such  financial  institution  creates 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 116 

 

financial  instability.  These  factors  –  size  of  the  institution’s  balance  sheet,  its  exposures  to 

other  financial  institutions  (interconnectedness),  its  role  in  facilitating  wider  market 

operations, complexity in its operations – are critical in judgement of a financial institution to 

be  systemic  in  nature.  It  is  rather  difficult  to  define  what  is  ‘systemic’  in  statutes  and  may 

involve regulatory judgement. 

 

4.127  The  Basel  Committee  on  Banking  Supervision  (BCBS)  issued,  in  November  2011, 

the  rules  text  on  the  assessment  methodology  for  global  systemically  important  banks  (G-

SIBs)1 and their additional loss absorbency requirements. Paragraph 14 of the G-SIB rules 

text states that “global systemic importance should be measured in terms of the impact that 

a failure of a bank can have on the global financial system and wider economy rather than 

the risk that a failure can occur. This can be thought of as a global, system-wide, loss-given-

default (LGD) concept rather than a probability of default (PD) concept.” Consistent with the 

G-SIB methodology, the BCBS has, in October 2012, published the final policy proposals on 

dealing  with  domestic  systemically  important  banks  (D-SIBs)  in  a  document  entitled,  “A 

framework  for  dealing  with  D-SIBs”2.  The  document  provides  that  the  identification  of  a  D-

SIB should be based upon the potential impact of or externality imposed by its failure on the 

domestic  economy.  The  impact  of  a  D-SIB’s  failure  on  the  domestic  economy  should  be 

assessed 

in 

respect  of  bank-specific 

factors, 

i.e. 

size, 

interconnectedness, 

substitutability/financial  institution  infrastructure,  and  complexity.  In  addition,  the  national 

authorities could choose to also include some country-specific factors, such as size of bank 

relative to gross domestic product (GDP). The national jurisdictions also have the discretion 

as to the appropriate relative weights they place on these factors on national circumstances. 

 

4.128  Furthermore,  the  International  Association  of  Insurance  Supervisors  (IAIS)  has,  in 

July  2013,  published  an  assessment  methodology3  for  identification  of  global  systemically 

important  insurers  (G-SIIs)  and  a  set  of  policy  measures  that  will  apply  to  them.  The  IAIS 

assessment methodology identifies five categories to measure relative systemic importance 

–  non-traditional  insurance  and  non-insurance  (NTNI)  activities,  interconnectedness, 

substitutability,  size  and  global  activity.  The IAIS has  assigned  different  weights  to  each of 

the categories – 45% to NTNI; 40% to interconnectedness; 5% to substitutability; 5% to size 

and 5% to global activity.  

 

                                                           
1 See http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs207.pdf 
2 See http://www.bis.org/publ/bcbs233.pdf 
3 See http://www.iaisweb.org/G-SIIs-988. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 117 

 

4.129  The Reserve Bank of India has issued, on December 2, 2013, a draft framework1 for 

dealing  with  D-SIBs.  It  provides  the  methodology  to  be  adopted  by  the  reserve  Bank  for 

identification of the D-SIBs and also proposes regulatory/supervisory policies which D-SIBs 

would  be  subjected  to.  The  assessment  methodology  primarily  uses  various  indicators  – 

size,  interconnectedness,  substitutability  and  complexity  –  for  assessing  the  systemic 

importance.  

 

4.130  In view of the risks posed by SIFIs to the financial system, the parameters used 

for  assessing  systemic  importance  of  D-SIBs  could  be  employed  by  the  respective 

regulators  to  determine  the  systemic  importance  of  other  domestic  financial 

institutions  in  the  Indian  context.  In  this  context,  the  Group  recommends  that  other 

financial  sector  regulators  should,  based  on  the  framework  being  developed  by 

international  standard  setting  bodies,  formulate  a  framework  for  determining  SIFI 

falling under their respective regulatory jurisdiction. (Recommendation 23) 

 

Improving resolvability 

4.131  With  the  liberalization  of  the  Indian  financial  sector  over  the  years,  there  has  been 

significant  transformation  in  all  sectors  of  the  financial  system,  i.e.  banking,  non-banking 

finance,  securities/investment  business,  and  insurance.  Each  of  these  sectors  has  grown 

significantly accompanied by a process of restructuring among the market participants in the 

financial system. As a result, the Indian financial landscape has seen the emergence of FCs, 

i.e.,  financial  services  groups  comprising  a  number  of  legal  entities  each  operating  in  a 

different  segment  of  the  financial  services  sector.  Generally,  while  the  financial  services 

entity  is  the  parent  entity  of financial  groups,  in  some  cases,  the  industrial  company  is  the 

parent entity. 

 

4.132  The  Indian  financial  system,  being  dominated  by  banks,  has  expanded  into  non-

banking activities with the main objective to diversify its balance sheet and reap the benefits 

and economy of scale and scope to enhance incomes. Over the years, the banks have set 

up subsidiaries in almost all non-banking financial areas, such as NBFCs, housing finance, 

factoring  services,  insurance,  mutual  funds,  venture  capital  funds,  pension  funds,  stock 

broking, merchant banking, etc.  

 

4.133  Such a structure has necessitated development of consolidated supervision of such 

financial  groups  since  2003  to  facilitate  assessment  of risks  in  a  holistic  manner.  Complex 

                                                           
1 See http://www.rbi.org.in 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 118 

 

structures  can  make  assessment  of  risk  difficult.  Currently  there  have  been  discussions  in 

various  foreign  jurisdictions  that  TBTF  banks  can  cause  large  negative  externalities  to  an 

economy. Switzerland for example is trying to get its largest banks, UBS and Credit Suisse 

Group, to scale back and reduce the risks they pose to Swiss taxpayers and thus improve 

resolvability assessment. 

 

4.134  With  a  view  to  reducing  the  impediments  to  resolution  posed  by  complex 

financial institutions, the financial groups and the regulatory authorities should work 

together in reducing complexity in group structures, and ensure prudent, intra-group 

transactions  and  exposures.  The  financial  institutions  should  identify  areas  in  their 

existing  organizational  structure  that  could  pose  difficulties  in  consolidated  risk 

management/monitoring  and  take  suitable  measures  to  reduce  those  complexities. 

(Recommendation 24)  

 

4.135  Though the Indian financial sector regulators have been conservative in letting 

evolution  of  complex  structures,  the  Group  expects  innovative  developments  and 

complexities  that  could  evolve  in  the  light  of  increased  globalization  and  financial 

integration. 

In 

view  of 

this, 

the  Group 

recommends 

enabling 

the 

regulatory/supervisory  authorities  to  have  powers  for  taking  measures,  such  as 

restructuring  the  financial 

institution’s  business  practices  and  structure,  for 

improving  the  resolvability  of  systemically  important  financial  institutions.  Such 

actions could form part of the early intervention mechanism. (Recommendation 25) 

 

Holding company structure 

4.136  The Working Group on Introduction of Financial Holding Company (FHC) Structure in 

India  (Chairperson:  Shyamala  Gopinath),  constituted  by  the  Reserve  Bank  in  June  2010, 

examined  the  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  the  financial  holding  company  model  and 

the  bank-subsidiary  model  from  the  regulatory  and  supervisory  perspectives.  It  was 

conscious  of  the  fact  that  regardless  of  the  organizational  forms,  banks  cannot  be  totally 

insulated from the risks of non-banking activities undertaken by their affiliates. On balance of 

advantages and disadvantages, the Working Group recommended that the financial holding 

company  model  should  be  pursued  as  a  preferred  model  for  the  financial  sector  in  India. 

This  should  also  be  extended  to  all  large  financial  groups,  irrespective  of  whether  they 

contain a bank or not. One of the advantages of the FHC structure is the ease in resolution if 

any entity/group comes under stress. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 119 

 

4.137  Internationally,  the  preferred  resolution  strategy  for  holding  company  structure  wth 

ownership in branches and subsidiaries and where resolution is led by a single authority is 

emerging to be Single Point of Entry (SPE). The SPE approach envisions the conversion of 

creditor claims to equity and then the downstreaming of equity from the holding company to 

weak  or  insolvent  subsidiaries.  This  resolution  technique  requires  sufficient  creditors  with 

loss  absorbing  capacity,  shared  services  provided  by  the  institution,  an  appropriate 

operational and legal structure that allows for the intra-firm transfer of equity, enforceability 

and  implementation  of  bail-in  in  foreign  jurisdictions,  and  powers,  funding  arrangements 

especially in cross-border, etc. 

 

4.138  To  improve  resolvability  of  financial  conglomerates,  the  Group  recommends 

that  the  financial  holding  company  structure1  may  be  introduced  for  Indian  financial 

system. The appropriate method for resolving such institutions could be decided at a 

later  stage  as  policy  evolves  and  taking  into  account  international  developments. 

(Recommendation 26) 

 

Information requirements 

4.139  Production  and  maintenance  of  resolution  plans  requires  great  deal  of  information 

and advance planning. Resolution is an invasive form of surgery of the financial institutions, 

thus making it even more important that suitable arrangements and systems are in place for 

submission of information to the resolution authority. Up-to-date information on the business 

operations,  structures  and  critical  economic  functions  of  financial  institutions  serves  as  the 

basic raw material for the resolution authority to make appropriate decisions and implement 

an  effective  resolution  action  plan  when  resolution  is  imminent.  The  detailed  information 

would enable the resolution authority to form opinions on the resolvability as well as choose 

among  the  tools  that  would  be  suitable  for  each  financial  institution.  This  will  also  be  an 

important component for carrying out resolvability assessments of the financial institutions.  

 

4.140  The  type  of  information  the  resolution  authority  would  require  in  order  to  make  an 

informed  decision  about  the  choice  of resolution  method  includes the  legal  structure  of the 

financial  group,  mapping  of  its  principal  businesses  against  that  legal  structure  and 

identification  of  financial  and  operational  dependencies  among  various  elements  of  the 

group (such as core business operations and interconnectedness by reference to business 

lines,  legal  entities  and  jurisdictions;  intra-group  exposures  through  intra-group  guarantees 

                                                           
1This  structure  has  already  been  proposed  as  one  of  the  important  criteria  for  licensing  of  new  private  sector 
banks. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 120 

 

and  loans,  and  trades  booked  on  a  back-to-back  basis;  dependencies  of  the  firm’s  legal 

entities on other group entities for liquidity or capital support). It also includes the information 

concerning  the  bank’s  membership  in  payments,  clearing  and  settlement  infrastructures, 

information  concerning  the  segregation  of  client  assets  and  the  procedures  by  which  such 

segregated client assets could be transferred to third parties at short notice, and information 

on  dealing  room  operations  including  trade  booking  practices,  hedging  strategies  and 

custody of assets, etc.  

 

4.141  In  order  to  assess  the  potential  impact  of  disorderly  wind-down  or  resolution  of  a 

financial institution on other institutions, markets and infrastructures, the resolution authority 

will also need information on the inter-linkages within and between financial institutions, on 

both sides of the balance sheet. 

 

4.142  Finally, the authorities would need information concerning the bank’s deposit base – 

what is insured and what is not, as well as the maturity structure, terms and conditions of the 

deposits. The authorities need to know whether the deposit guarantee schemes in which the 

troubled bank is a member would be in a position to pay out insured depositors promptly in 

the  event  of  failure.  Moreover,  in  case  of  cross-border  firms,  the  authorities  would  need 

additional  information  on  the  legal  and  regulatory  frameworks  in  which  the  financial 

institution operates. This could include information on the relevant home and host authorities 

and  their  roles,  functions  and  responsibilities  in  financial  crisis  management;  the  relevant 

aspects of applicable corporate, commercial, insolvency and securities laws and insolvency 

regimes affecting major portions of the group; and liquidity sources. 

 

4.143  With a view to enabling the FRA to make appropriate decisions and implement 

an  effective  resolution  action  plan,  the  Group  suggests  an  indicative  template  that 

would facilitate financial institutions furnishing information relating to their structure 

to  the  concerned  regulators/supervisors,  who  in  turn  can  cooperate  and  coordinate 

with  the  FRA  in  finalization  of  resolution  plan  by  FRA.  (Recommendation  27)  An 

indicative template for RRP that includes parameters such as, organizational/financial group 

structure,  capital  structure  and  shareholding  pattern, 

funding  of  entities, 

financial 

interconnectedness (inter and intra financial assets  and liabilities), critical functions in each 

legal entity, etc.is given in Annex 6. 

 

4.144  While  the  above  suggested  data  template  would  help  the  FRA  to  prepare  effective 

and credible resolution plans for individual institutions, there is a need for real time financial 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 121 

 

data in the hands of the authority responsible for financial stability. The recent financial crisis 

has  revealed  important  gaps  in  data  collection  and  systemic  analysis  of  institutions  and 

markets.  Remedies  to  fill  those  gaps  are  critical  for  monitoring  systemic  risk  and  for 

enhanced  supervision  of  systemically  important  financial  institutions,  which  are  in  turn 

necessary to reduce the chances of such a serious crisis occurring in the future. 

 

4.145  The  Group  recommends  setting  up  of  an  integrated  financial  database 

management  centre,  which  would  function  as  a  centralized  database  wherein  all 

financial institutions and FMIs will submit regular financial information electronically. 

The  database  will  also  capture 

the 

information/  database  currently  being 

collected/managed by the respective regulators. In order to ensure availability of high-

quality and timely data (as high frequency as possible), the supervisory agencies and 

FRA  should  have  access  to  the  integrated  financial  database  in  respect  of  the  data 

that  they  are  authorized  to  collect  from  the  regulated  financial 

institutions. 

(Recommendation 28) 

 

Functioning of service level agreements 

4.146  Another  important  obstacle  in  sound  resolution  strategy  is  the  need  to  continue  the 

functioning  of  service  level  agreements  in  times  of  stress  as  well  as  after  exercise  of 

resolution  option.  In  many  financial  institutions,  for  reasons  of  efficiency  and  economies  of 

scale,  operational  functions  such  as  trade  settlements,  custody  of  securities,  payment 

operations,  information  technology  and  many  other  financial  services  are  outsourced.  The 

service  provider  could  be  either  a  separate  legal  entity  within  the  financial  institution,  or  a 

third-party. While outsourcing arrangements could bring about benefits in normal times, they 

may unnecessarily complicate resolution if the preconditions are not put in place to ensure 

continuity  of  the  services  in  a  resolution.  There  is,  therefore,  a  need  to  continue  the 

functioning  of  service  level  agreements  in  times  of  stress  as  well  as  after  exercise  of 

resolution option. 

 

4.147  In order to ensure continuity of essential functions in a resolution, for example, 

for  the  parts  of  a  financial  institution  transferred  to  a  bridge  institution  or  surviving 

parts  of  a  resolved  institution,  the  Group  recommends  that  key  service  level 

agreements  should  be  legally  enforceable  in  crisis  situations  and  also  in  resolution. 

This is,  however, feasible only through ensuring continuity of payment on the terms 

already agreed upon. In such cases, FRA would have to be duly empowered to ensure 

that  the  payments  to  the  service  providers  continue  to  be  un-affected  during 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 122 

 

resolution  or  there  are  powers  in  place  to  ensure  that  the  payments  to  service 

providers rank higher in the hierarchy of creditors/ payments to be made by the FRA. 

(Recommendation 29) 

 

Safeguards under Financial Resolution Framework 

4.148  Use of various resolution tools coupled with associated resolution powers in order to 

resolve the failed financial institutions could potentially have significant adverse implications 

as well as negative effects for the shareholders and creditors as well as counterparties of the 

concerned financial institution. The power of the resolution authority to transfer all or part of 

the assets of a financial institution to another entity (through purchase and assumption tool, 

the  bridge  institution  tool  or  good-bank  bad-bank  tool)  interferes  with  the  property  rights  of 

shareholders  as  these  resolution  actions  would  be  effected  without  the  consent  of  the 

shareholders that are normally required in a pre-insolvency phase. It is, therefore, important 

to  ensure  that  a  financial  resolution  framework  prescribes  appropriate  protections  and 

safeguards  for  the  affected  creditors  and  counterparties  on  one  hand  and  also  for  the 

resolution authority initiating resolution actions in good faith. Therefore, safeguards need to 

be built in the legal framework in order to protect the interest of shareholders and creditors if 

large-scale intrusive measures are effected in financial institutions. 

 

Set-off rights, contractual netting and collateralization agreements and segregation of 
client assets  

4.149  Generally, the netting or set-off rules operate under two modes – those that apply in 

the course of ordinary business among solvent counterparties termed as payment netting or 

settlement  netting  or  delivery  netting,  and  those  that  apply  in  resolutions  of  insolvent  firms 

termed  as  close-out  netting  or  default  netting  or  open  contract  netting  or  replacement 

contract  netting.  Set-off,  essentially  the  same  as  netting,  takes  place  during  the  normal 

business of a solvent firm, and involves combining offsetting cash flow obligations between 

two parties on a given day in a given currency into a single net payable of receivable. The 

concept of set-off applies only to parties with market debts of the same kind that are already 

due and payable, and that are legally distinct. 

 

4.150  Close-out  netting  applies  to  transactions  between  a  defaulting  firm  and  non-

defaulting  firm.  It  refers  to  a  process  involving  termination  of  obligations  under  a  contract 

with  a  defaulting  party  and  subsequent  combining  of  positive  and  negative  replacement 

values into a single net payable or receivable. It generally involves three steps: termination, 

valuation and determination of net balance. Termination means that the non-defaulting party 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 123 

 

puts an end to the obligations under the Agreement. Then valuation is done by determining 

the  replacement  cost  of  each  transaction  under  the  contract.  Finally,  the  net  balance,  i.e. 

final  net  amount,  is  determined  after  netting  the  positive  values  (those  owed  to  the  non-

defaulting  party)  and  negative  values  (those  owed  by  the  non-defaulting  party)  under  the 

single  agreement.  However,  in  case  the  defaulting  party  owes  the  close-out  amount  to the 

non-defaulting party, the non-defaulting party can apply the value of collateral posted by the 

defaulting party to the net  obligation; and collateral in excess of the net obligation must be 

returned to the insolvency administrator. On the other hand, if the non-defaulting party owes 

the close-out amount to the defaulting party, it may set-off the amount that  it owes against 

the amount owed to it by the defaulting party under other non-derivative contracts. The non-

defaulting party will pay to the insolvency administrator any net close-out amount remaining 

after the set-off. 

 

4.151  While  there  are  significant  benefits  of  legally  enforcing  set-off  rights,  contractual 

netting  and  collateralisation  agreements,  there  are  some  disadvantages  also.  The 

consensus  of  market  participants  and  their  regulators  has  been  that  the  special 

characteristics of derivative markets justify legal protection of close-out netting of derivative 

contracts. Enforceable netting (and collateral) provisions are a major contributor to the large 

size and substantial liquidity of derivative contracts. Since financial institutions are required 

to  hold  capital  against  their  risk  exposures  for  regulatory,  prudential  and/or  market 

disciplinary  reasons,  the  need  to  hold  capital  against  net  rather  than  gross  exposures  will 

incentivise  institutions  to  take  larger  positions  on  a  given  capital  base.  In  addition,  netting 

and  related  collateral  agreements  are  one  of  the  primary  tools  of  risk  management  in  the 

financial markets and have the effect of reducing the credit risk exposures as well as market 

risks of derivative market participants. Netting also enables the counterparties the ability to 

transfer and manage specific market risks more efficiently, while minimising their exposures 

to  counterparty  credit  risk.  Derivatives  are  potential  sources  of  systemic  risk  and  netting 

ameliorates this risk. 

 

4.152  On  the  other  hand,  this  has  also  raised  concerns  that  enforceable  netting  and 

collateral  agreements  might  reduce  the  incentives  of  derivatives  market  participants  to 

monitor  counterparty  risk-taking  and  to  influence  counterparties  to  limit  their  risk  taking 

appropriately.  

 

4.153  It is also a fact that if close-out netting is not enforceable, market participants would 

need  to  assume  the  gross  exposure  and  thus  a  probability  of  higher  counterparty  risk, 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 124 

 

significant  increase  in  capital  requirements  and  requirement  for  more  collaterals.  Another 

effect  would  be  the  inability  to  adjust  market  risk  positions  and  thus  lead  to  difficulty  in 

trading  or  managing  risk  with  certainty.  Market  participants,  as  well  as  clearing  houses, 

would face substantial incontrollable risks because they could neither replace nor unwind the 

defaulted  transactions  with  certainty.  Moreover,  the  market  participants  may  cut  back  or 

terminate  transactions  with  troubled  counterparties  earlier  than  would  be  the  case  with 

netting.  In  such  scenario,  it  will  be  difficult  to  manage  the  financial  difficulties  of  troubled 

firms, which would lead to an increase in overall insolvencies and a systemic crisis. 

 

4.154  Netting  and  collateral  facilitate  the  rebalancing  process  of  exposures,  netting  by 

reducing  the  exposure  that  needs  to  be  rebalanced  and  collateral  by  providing  resources 

that can be off-set against replacement costs. Inability to terminate or net contracts with an 

insolvent  firm  would  leave  surviving  firms  vulnerable  to  losses  caused  by  sudden  market 

changes. Moreover, changing the treatment of derivative and other financial contracts would 

represent  a  major  departure  from  the  trend  towards  cross-border  convergence  of  the 

treatment of derivatives and other financial contracts in insolvency and from the widespread 

acknowledgement by policy makers of the contribution of netting to financial stability.  

 

4.155  The crisis has revealed that, while the derivatives transactions entered into by large 

financial institutions can provide significant benefits, those activities on the same time could 

also be the source of significant risks. Thus, the importance of risk reduction and improved 

functioning of the financial markets for effective crisis management and resolution of cross-

border  financial  institutions  is  being  discussed  internationally.  Much  progress  has  already 

been  made  in  achieving  legal  certainty  for  close-out  netting  of  financial  contracts  and 

collateral  arrangements  and  legal  reforms  have  successfully  been  adopted  in  most  major 

jurisdictions, especially for the termination, liquidation and close-out netting of OTC bilateral 

financial contracts upon an event of default. As per the International Swaps and Derivatives 

Association (ISDA), 40 jurisdictions1 have enacted legislations that provide for enforceability 

of  close-out  netting. The  international  setting  bodies  (more  recently  FSB  and  Cross-border 

Bank  Resolution  Group  of  BCBS)  have  strongly  encouraged  the  use  of  such  close-out 

netting provisions (alongside collateral) because of their beneficial effects on the stability of 

the financial system.  

 

                                                           
1Andorra,  Anguilla,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium,  Brazil,  British  Virgin  Islands,  Canada,  Columbia,  Czech 
Republic,  Denmark,  Finland,  France,  Germany,  Greece,  Hungary,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,  Japan,  Luxembourg, 
Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, 
South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and US. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 125 

 

4.156  While  the  Indian  Contract  Act,  1872  provides  legal  framework  for  bilateral  netting, 

including close-out netting, the Companies Act, 1956 and Insolvency Acts of 1909 and 1920 

only provide for set-off in liquidation where any financial company is involved. There are no 

legal  provisions  for  other  banks  (i.e.  public  sector  banks  and  RRBs)  that  are  statutory 

corporations and co-operative banks. However, the Payment and Settlement Systems (PSS) 

Act,  2007  provides  legal  certainty,  even  in  case  of  resolution,  to  multilateral  netting 

arrangements in case of clearing/settlement services, that has become final and irrevocable. 

It also provides for overrides on the Companies Act, 1956, BR Act, 1949 and all other Acts in 

the case of insolvency of a system participant. However, arrangements not governed by the 

provisions of PSS Act, 2007 do not get the benefit of multilateral netting arrangements. 

 

4.157  The Supreme Court of India has held, in the case of Official Liquidator of High Court 

of Karnataka v. Smt. V. Lakshmikutty, AIR 1981 SC 1483, that whenever any creditor seeks 

to prove his debt against the company in liquidation, the amount that is ultimately found due 

from him at the foot of the account in respect of mutual dealings should be recoverable from 

him and not that the amount due from him should be recovered fully while the amount due to 

him  from  the  company  in  liquidation  should  rank  in  payment  after  the  preferential  claims 

provided  under  company  law  are  made.  The  same  principle  of  set  off  and  bilateral  netting 

will  apply  in  case  a  banking  company  goes  into  liquidation.  It  is  not  unambiguously  clear 

whether  the  said  principle  of  bilateral  netting  laid  down  by  the  Supreme Court  will  apply  in 

respect  of  public  sector  banks  if  they  are  placed  in  liquidation  by  an  order  of  Central 

Government  as  the  said  order  may  provide  otherwise.  There  are  no  specific  provisions  for 

close-out netting in the extant legal framework, except (in the event of insolvency or so) for 

transactions admitted for settlement by a system provider1. 

 

4.158  As regards banks created under special statutes, the winding up/liquidation would be 

governed by their respective statutes. These statutes generally provide that those banks will 

not be wound up except by an order of the central government and in such manner as it may 

direct. The central government  has  not,  so far,  exercised  this  option  and  the government’s 

stand  in  respect  of  set  off  of  mutual  claims,  including  close-out  netting  of  contracts,  will 

depend upon the manner in which liquidation is directed by the central government. 

                                                           
1Section 2(1)(e) of Payment and settlement systems (PSS) Act, 2007 - "‘netting’ means the determination by the 
system provider of the amount of money or securities, due or payable or deliverable, as a result of setting off or 
adjusting, the payment obligations or delivery obligations among the system participants,  including the claims 
and  obligations  arising  out  of  the  termination  by  the  system  provider,  on  the  insolvency  or  dissolution  or 
winding up of any system participant or such other circumstances as the system provider may specify in its rules 
or regulations or bye-laws (by whatever name called), of the transactions admitted for settlement at a future date 
so  that  only  a  net  claim  be  demanded  or  a  net  obligation  be  owned;”  (Emphasis  added  regarding  close  out 
netting though the expression close out netting is not used in the section.) 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 126 

 

4.159  As regards segregation of client assets by the financial institutions, though there are 

regulatory  guidelines  in  place  for  commercial  banks  to  necessarily  maintain  client  wise 

account/record  of  funds  accepted  and  investments  made  there  against,  there  are  no  legal 

framework in place that provides transparency and certainty.  

 

4.160  The  Group  considered  that  the  extant  legal  framework,  not  being  uniform  for  all 

financial  institutions  and  not  providing  specific  provisions,  lacks  in  clarity  and  transparency 

and  falls  short  of  the  provisions  contained  in  the  FSB  Key  Attributes.  In  order  to  have 

systems  in  place  that  reduce  systemic  risk  and  costs  for  the  institutions,  increase 

liquidity  in  the  financial  market  as  a  whole,  and  facilitate  resolution  of  individual 

financial  institutions,  the  proposed  financial  resolution  framework  or  the  existing 

statutes  governing  the  financial  institutions  and  FMIs  should  explicitly  provide  for 

rules,  laws  and  practices  governing  enforceability  of  contractual  set-off,  close-out 

netting  and  collateral  arrangements,  and  segregation  of  client  assets.  The  legal 

framework  should  be  clear,  transparent  and  enforceable  to  facilitate  the  effective 

implementation of resolution measures. (Recommendation 30) 

 

Stays on early termination rights1upon entry into resolution 

4.161  Under  the  normal  market  agreements  for  financial  contracts,  such  as  ISDA  master 

agreement,  upon  occurrence  of  an  event  of  default,  the  non-defaulting  party  has  the 

contractual  and  legal  right  to  terminate  the  contract  subject  to  the  netting  agreement. 

However, in case of initiation of formal resolution or insolvency procedures by the resolution 

authority  for  a  failing  bank,  the  contractual  acceleration,  termination  and  other  close-out 

rights  (collectively  termed  as  “early  termination  rights”)  may  be  triggered  in  financial 

contracts. In the case of a SIFI, the termination of large volume  of financial contracts could 

result  in  a  disorderly  rush  for  the  exits  and  destabilize  the  markets  and  impose  significant 

costs  on  the  institution  in  resolution  and  even  hamper  the  implementation  of  resolution 

measures. This may have the potential to create systemic instability. In these circumstances, 

financial stability may be better protected by transferring the debtor’s financial contracts to a 

solvent third party or a bridge bank through resolution procedures.  

 

4.162  Though close-out netting provisions are effective as a risk mitigation tool, in times of 

financial stress, the enforceability of  close-out netting provision might increase the risk that 

counterparties  of  a  distressed  financial  institution  rush  to  exercise  termination  rights  and 

                                                           
1Generally, early termination rights relate to the ability of one party to terminate a contract upon the occurrence 
of specific events, which relate to default and creditworthiness.  

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 127 

 

close out their positions, thereby exacerbating systemic risk. Hence, it is important to ensure 

that  in  the  event  a  financial  institution  has  been  put  under  resolution  by  the  resolution 

authority,  it  should  not  trigger  set-off  rights,  or  constitute  an  event  that  entitles  any 

counterparty  of  the  institution  in  resolution  to  exercise  contractual  acceleration  or  early 

termination rights. 

 

4.163  While recognizing the usefulness of close-out netting in general, there is a need for a 

brief  stay  on  the  netting  mechanism  in  situation  in  the  context  of  resolution  framework  for 

financial  institutions,  so  as  to  allow  the  resolution  authority  the  time  needed  to  decide 

whether  and  how  to  resolve  an  ailing  financial  institution  in  an  orderly  fashion  so  as  to 

mitigate  risk  to  financial  stability.  It  is  emphasized  in  the  Key  Attributes  that  the  temporary 

delay should be kept as short as possible. It has been observed that delays for longer days 

unnecessarily expose the market participants to market risks, especially if a failure were to 

occur during a period of market instability1.  

 

4.164  The  Group  recommends  that  in  order  to  allow  time  to  FRA  to  decide  a 

resolution action, the FRA should have clearly defined legal powers to impose a brief 

stay on the exercise of early termination and netting rights only in situation of entry of 

a firm into resolution. In order to contain the adverse impact on market of such a stay, 

the stay should generally be limited to two days (48 hours), which however could be 

extendable  by  a  maximum  of  another  three  days  after  specifying  the  reasons  in 

writing  by  the  FRA.  The  FRA  should  not  have  any  options  to  cherry-pick  individual 

contracts  with  the  same  counterparty  for  effecting  transfer.  Further,  following  the 

transfer of financial contracts, the early termination rights of the counterparty should 

be  preserved  against  the  acquiring  entity  (transferee)  in  respect  of  subsequent 

independent default by the transferee. It should also be ensured that the substantive 

obligations under the financial contracts, including payment and delivery obligations, 

and provision of collateral, continue to be performed. (Recommendation 31) 

 

4.165  The  Group  also  recommends  that  the  FRA  should  not  be  allowed  to  transfer 

those  assets  that  have  a  claim  of  secured  creditors.  It  implies  that,  for  example,  in 

case  of  a  bank  or  its  counterparty  having  a  security  interest  over  an  asset  that 

                                                           
1 A delay of 5 days would subject non-defaulting parties to up to 5 days of market exposure. Had such a delay 
occurred in November 2008, when the 10 year US dollar interest rate swap rate fell from 4.07% to 3.14% over a 
5  day  period,  the  credit  exposure  on  $1  billion  of  10-year  interest  rate  swap  would  have  increased  by  $77.3 
billion. Thus, if the counterparty to these swaps were to default at this time, the non-defaulting party could have 
faced additional losses of up to $77.3 billion. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 128 

 

secures a liability owed to it by the other party, the charged asset may not be split up 

from this liability under a partial transfer. This would mean that the secured creditors’ 

claims  cannot  be  separated  from  the  assets  securing  the  liabilities  in  a  partial 

property transfer (Recommendation 32) 

 

Respect of creditor hierarchy 

4.166  An  important  feature  of  effective  resolution  framework  is  to  make  it  possible  to 

impose  losses  on  shareholders  and  unsecured  and  uninsured  creditors  in  their  order  of 

seniority. It is also considered that resolution framework should promote market discipline by 

imposing  losses  on  shareholders,  subordinated  debt  holders,  and  if  appropriate  other 

creditors  and  counterparties  of  the  financial  institution,  while  providing  safeguards  for 

secured  and  other  senior  creditors,  and  protection  of  capital  market  transactions,  such  as 

securitization structures and covered bond programmes. 

 

4.167  Under  the  Indian  Company  Law,  there  are  certain  provisions  providing  for  certain 

types of preferential payments. Similarly, Section 43A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 

also  provides  for  preferential  payments  to  depositors,  though  in  a  limited  way.  Though  the 

regulatory guidelines on capital adequacy, specifying the terms and conditions of regulatory 

capital  instruments  of  financial  institutions,  especially  banks  and  insurance  companies, 

provide  for  seniority  of  claims  in  liquidation,  it  may,  however,  not  provide  legal  certainty. 

Clarity and predictability in respect of the order of seniority or statutory ranking of claims in 

insolvency  determines  the  allocation  of  losses  and  shapes  the  incentives  of  market 

participants and pricing of risk.  

 

4.168  Drawing from practices followed by other jurisdictions, a typical example of claims in 

bank bankruptcy would rank the creditors in the following manner:  

(i) 

(ii) 

Employee compensation, taxes and social contributions; 

Receivership  operational  expenses  and  administrative  costs  (all  costs 

pertaining to the liquidation process), including other obligations created during 

Conservatorship or liquidation; 

(iii) 

Claims by secured creditors, up to the value of their security; 

(iv) 

Claims by insured depositors, or the subrogated claims of a deposit insurance 

agency (in cases where a deposit insurance scheme exists); 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 129 

 

(v) 

Claims by uninsured depositors1 and other creditors; 

(vi) 

Claims by subordinated debt holders; 

(vii) 

Claims by shareholders. 

  

4.169  In certain situations, the deviation from general hierarchy of claims may be allowed. 

The  Dodd-Frank  Act  reaffirms  the  principle  that  all  claimants  that  are  similarly  situated 

should  be  treated  in  a  similar  manner.  However,  the  FDIC  can  exceptionally  differentiate 

between creditors within the same class, if it determines that it is necessary to maximize the 

value or minimize losses upon the sale or other disposition of assets or deemed essential to 

implementation of the receivership or any bridge financial company. 

 

4.170  With  a  view  to  fair  distribution  of  assets  from  assets  recovered  from  a  failed 

institution, the Group recommends that:  

(i)  the allocation of losses in the times of bankruptcy or application of resolution 

tools or use of any resolution powers should clearly be defined in the statute 

for financial resolution framework; 

(ii)  the highest ranking creditors should be repaid first and the lower priority ones 

should  be  repaid  only  after  all  the  senior  creditors  have  been  paid,  thus 

respecting the  hierarchy  of  claims (this  implies  that  the  equity  should  absorb 

the  losses  first,  and  then  the  subordinated  debt  holders,  including  all 

regulatory  capital  instruments  in  terms  of  seniority,  and  finally  to  the  senior 

debt holders);  

(iii) the  FRA  may  be  provided  flexibility  to  depart  from  the  general  principle  of 

equal  treatment  of  creditors  of  the  same  class,  for  example  in  case  of  bridge 

institution with limited assets or in use of bail-in authority, only in exceptional 

circumstances and by giving sufficient reasons. (Recommendation 33) 

 

Depositor preference 

4.171  The  Group  considered  the  issue  of  ‘depositor  preference’  in  insolvency.  The  retail 

depositors  are  generally  not  well  placed  as  other  senior  creditors  to  monitor  banks’  risk 

taking.  The  general  adoption  of  depositor  preference  could  help  in  avoiding  losses  to  the 

retail  depositors.  While  increasing  the  loss-absorbing  load  on  non-deposit  liabilities  and 

placing greater responsibility on senior unsecured creditors, depositor preference would add 

                                                           
1  Some  jurisdictions,  with  or  without  a  deposit  insurance  agency,  may  have  depositor  preference;  that  is,  all 
depositors’ claims (even uninsured, as applicable) have a higher claim priority than any other creditor. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 130 

 

a  layer  of  protection  for  the  uninsured  depositors  by  allowing  them  to  recover  their  claims 

before 

the 

lower  ranking  creditors.  Depositor  preference  would  also 

facilitate 

the 

implementation of resolution measures, such as a partial transfer or use of a good bank/bad 

bank approach, by making it easier to transfer all deposits to another entity or bridge bank 

while leaving the non-preferred debt behind. 

 

4.172  On  the  other  hand,  depositor  preference  also  has  drawbacks.  The  introduction  of 

depositor  preference  may  cause  non-deposit  funds  to  become  more  expensive  relative  to 

deposits.  Further,  the  institutions  may  reduce  their  funding  in  non-deposit  markets.  The 

senior  unsecured  creditors  might  also  reduce  the  average  maturity  of  their  claims.  This 

would then make a ‘run’ on the depository institution more likely if its condition deteriorated.  

 

4.173  In  the  absence  of  depositor  preference,  the  senior  unsecured  creditors  are  ranked 

pari-passu  with  the  uninsured  depositors  and  are  given  the  same  treatment  in  insolvency. 

Several  jurisdictions  like  Australia,  China,  United  States,  Switzerland  and  Hong  Kong, 

provide preference to depositors over other creditors in insolvency. However, in Switzerland 

and  Hong  Kong  the  preferred  amount  is  limited  to  the  insured  amount,  which  enables  the 

deposit insurance fund to recover compensation paid to depositors with priority. In India, the 

liquidator/transferee  bank  is  required  to repay  to  the  DICGC  on  a  preferential  basis,  out  of 

the amount recovered from the assets of the bank in liquidation/ transferor bank. 

 

4.174  The  Group  considered  that  granting  priority  status  to  the  claims  of  uninsured 

depositors  in  the  winding-up  of  failed  financial  institutions  would  send  clear  signal  that 

bondholders  and  other  creditors  are  subordinated  to  depositors  in  liquidation  proceeds  of 

banks’  assets  to  mitigate  their  losses.  In  case  of  insurance  policyholders,  the  assets 

supporting the policyholders’ funds cannot be utilized for any purpose other than to meet the 

policy  liabilities as and  when they fall due. These assets would be transferred in case of a 

resolution either to the acquirer in the event of a portfolio transfer or would support the run-

off. 

 

4.175  The deposit insurance system operated in India by the DICGC provides for payment 

to  the  eligible  depositors  of  insured  banks  located  in  India,  including  the  foreign  bank 

branches located in India up to the maximum limit of Rs.100,000. The depositor protection/ 

insurance  is  not  provided  to  depositors  of  foreign  branches  of  Indian  banks  by  DICGC. 

However, in terms of Section 21(2) of DICGC Act, 1961, DICGC has a first claim on bank’s 

liquidated  assets  up  to  the  amount  paid  to  the  depositors.  Since  the  depositors  of  foreign 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 131 

 

branches of Indian banks are not insured by DICGC, and further that the DICGC has a first 

claim  on  bank’s  liquidated  assets,  the  framework  indirectly  provides  for  a  preferential 

treatment  to  the  depositors  of  bank  branches  in  India  as  compared  to  the  depositors  of 

branches  of  Indian  banks  situated  in  other  countries.  Such  a  provision  in  the  DICGC  Act, 

1961 falls within the purview of the ‘national depositor preference framework’, and as such 

the depositors of foreign branches of Indian incorporated banks would not be treated at par 

with the domestic depositors. 

 

4.176  Such framework will also have an impact on deposit guarantee schemes (DGS) and 

the extent to which the institutions handling the DGS can recover funds in a resolution. If the 

home  jurisdiction  has  an  insured  depositor  preference  up  to  $100  and  the  host  jurisdiction 

has an insured depositor preference up to $200, then preferring deposits only up to the $100 

level  in  a  whole  bank  resolution  under  the  home  jurisdiction’s  resolution  framework  would 

leave the host DGS worse off than in the case of a local host proceedings, as the host DGS 

would have to compensate depositors up to the amount of $200 in its jurisdiction but would 

have preferred claims of only $100 in the home jurisdiction proceedings. 

 

4.177  The  Group  recommends  that  as  the  ultimate  objective  of  regulation  and 

supervision in India is to protect the interests of depositors, insurance policyholders, 

and  investors,  the  proposed  statute  for  financial  resolution  framework  should 

explicitly  provide  for  preference  to  be  given  to  depositors,  insurance  policyholders 

and  investors  over  other  unsecured  creditors  in  resolution  of  failed  financial 

institutions.  (Recommendation 34) 

 

4.178  Equal treatment may be provided to uninsured depositors of banks and claims 

of  DICGC  on  account  of  payments  made  to  insured  depositors.  This  would  require 

that the claims of DICGC rank pari-passu with other uninsured depositors in sharing 

the  distribution  of  proceeds  of  liquidated  assets  of  a  failed  bank.  (Recommendation 

35) 

 

Compensation safeguards and legal remedies 

4.179  It  is  likely  that  while  activating  the  resolution  action  and  adopting  certain  resolution 

tool, especially the partial transfer to a bridge institution or to a private sector purchaser or 

good-bank & bad-bank method, to orderly resolve a non-viable financial institution, the value 

of the assets transferred are greater than the value of the liabilities transferred. This is done 

to  ensure  solvency  and  recapitalization  of  the  new  entity,  in  whatever  form.  This  leads  to 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 132 

 

clear benefit to the depositors and other creditors whose claims are transferred to the new 

entity. They are able to continue as depositors of new institution with all of their transferred 

funds intact and with little or no disruption in their access to banking services. Similarly, the 

counterparties  of  the  failed  financial  institution  whose  contracts  are  transferred  to  the  new 

institution  are  able  to  carry  on  as  before  without  having  the  need  to  deal  with  the 

consequences of insolvency. 

 

4.180  While  recognizing  that  the  affected  parties  in  resolution  need  to  have  a  right  to 

compensation, it is important that such a right does not come in the way of resolution action. 

It  is  necessary  that  the  resolution  authority  has  the  capacity  to  exercise  the  resolution 

powers  with  the  necessary  speed  and  flexibility,  subject  to  constitutionally  protected  legal 

remedies and due process. 

 

4.181  The  FSLRC  has  recommended  compensation  arrangements  in  place  enabling  the 

resolution corporation to carry out the proceedings where persons or institutions need to be 

compensated  as  a  result  of  resolution  actions.  The  Commission  also  specified  that  the 

claimants would have the right under statute to appeal to the Appellate Tribunal for award of 

compensation by the resolution corporation. 

 

4.182  The Group recommends that the rights to judicial review of resolution actions 

and available remedies should be framed in a way that does not undermine effective 

resolution  (meaning  resolution  action  cannot  be  reversed)  and  the  necessary  legal 

certainty  of  resolution  actions.  However,  legal  remedies  should  be  available  for 

improper decision or action by the FRA, in the form of monetary compensation for the 

loss  suffered  by  the  stakeholders.  The  resolution  framework  may  also  provide  a 

suitable  mechanism  for  appeals  and  grievance  redressal  for  affected  stakeholders. 

(Recommendation 36) 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 133 

 

Different Stages of Bank Recovery and Resolution 

Bank  reaching  stage  3  of  PCA 
framework 

 
Bank put under close watch and 
radical restructuring 
 
Activation  of  Recovery  options 
under Recovery Plan 
 
Placed  under  moratorium  and 
merger  and  amalgamation  with 
healthier bank 

of 

by 

Plan 

Recovery 

in 
regulatory 

liquid,  sound,  solvent,  and 

Bank 
compliance  with  prudential 
requirements 
 
Intrusive supervision 
 
Preparation  of  Recovery  Plan  by  the  bank 
management 
Approval 
Regulator/Supervisor 
 
Preparation of Resolution Plan by FRA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Bank becoming insolvent and breaching Stage 4 of PCA framework 

Debt  write-down  or 
conversion 
into 
equity 

FRA takes complete control of the bank. 
 
1st  option  –  Ordinary  liquidation  (if  the  bank  does  not  provide  any  critical  financial  services  and 
functions) 
 
 
 
2nd option – Recovery measures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3rd option – Stabilization tools 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Purchase and Assumption tool - Sale of 
whole  or  part 
to  private  sector 
purchaser 

Sale  of  bridge  bank 
to  private 
sector 
purchaser 

Liquidation or toxic 
assets given to asset 
management vehicle 

Sale to private 
sector 

Good-bank 
bad-bank tool 

Bridge bank tool 

 

Good Bank 

and 

Bad 
Bank 

Preparation and Prevention measures by 

regulator/supervisor 

Early Intervention by 
regulator/supervisor 

Resolution by FRA 

 

 

 
 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

Page 134 

CHAPTER 5 

 
 

Cross-border Cooperation, Coordination and Information Sharing 

 
 
The  FSB  Key  Attributes  have  underscored  the  importance  of  cross-border 

cooperation  and  coordination  among  the  relevant  authorities  in  different 

jurisdictions  for  orderly  resolution  of  financial  institutions  with  cross-border 

operations.  Accordingly,  the  FSB  Key  Attributes  recommend  a  framework  for 

overcoming  the  national  legal  hindrances,  barriers  and  obstacles  and  to 

improve the effectiveness of cross-border resolution measures. The resolution 

authority should be empowered to achieve a cooperative solution with foreign 

resolution authorities. The legal framework should not provide for  unilateral 

action by the host jurisdiction as a result of official intervention or initiation 

of  resolution  actions  in  home  or  other  jurisdictions.  Recognizing  the 

importance  of  appropriate  exchange  of  information  between  relevant 

authorities  for  cross-border  resolution  of  large  and  systemically  important 

financial institutions, the key attributes provide for addressing and removing 

the  legal,  regulatory  or  policy  impediments  to  information  sharing,  while 

ensuring the confidentiality and protection of sensitive data. 

 
5.1 

Financial  conglomerates  and  large  and  complex  globally  active  financial  groups 

dominate the financial landscape in various countries. These institutions not only transcend 

national boundaries but also cross over the traditional business lines. The activities of these 

groups  have  expanded  beyond  traditional  deposit-taking  and  lending  to  include  a  range  of 

non-bank 

financial  activities,  encompassing  securities, 

insurance, 

funds  and  asset 

management. In addition, these global systemically important financial institutions (G-SIFIs) 

also  act  as  systemically  important  nodes  within  a  globalized  market  for  capital.  The 

development  of  these  institutions  has  been  spurred  by  financial  liberalization,  increased 

competition  in  the  financial  industry,  search  for  yield,  development  of  new  financial 

instruments  and  techniques  for  transfer  of  risk,  economies  of  scale  in  terms  of  product 

offerings  and  services,  and  the  removal  of  barriers  to  cross-functional  and  cross-border 

mergers and acquisitions.  

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 135 

 

5.2  Global  integration  and  greater  efficiency  do  not  necessarily  guarantee  greater 

financial  stability.  Larger  financial  institutions  may  have  a  greater  capacity  to  withstand 

stress;  their  operations  are  more  diversified;  they  tend  to  have  more  sophisticated  risk 

management  capabilities  and  they  have  bigger capital  cushions.  Yet,  they  pose  the  risk  of 

transferring shocks from one corner of the world to another in the event that they encounter 

financial  distress  due 

to  unforeseeable  economic  shocks,  risky  business  models, 

mismanagement, or fraud.  

 

5.3 

The  recent  global  financial  crisis  has  shown  that  the  complexity  of  the  corporate 

structure of most international financial conglomerates is in itself a significant source of risk. 

The  failure  of  a  large  and  complex  financial  institution  can  cause  widespread  damage  to 

financial sector in more than one jurisdiction. Since most of these institutions are managed in 

an integrated fashion along business lines with only minimal regard for legal entities, national 

borders or functional regulatory domains, mapping of an institution’s business activities into 

its  legal  entities  presents  a  formidable  challenge.  Moreover,  these  legal  entities  would  be 

subject to scores of different national regulatory and resolution mechanisms, which will not 

be harmonised. This was clearly evident in the Lehman Brothers, wherein a trade performed 

in  one  company  could  be  booked  in  another  and  the  lines  of  business  did  not  necessarily 

map to the legal entity lines of the companies.  

 

5.4  Whatever  may  be  the  powers  available  to  a  resolution  authority,  there  are  inherent 

difficulties in cross-border resolution of financial institutions, making it practically impossible 

to  resolve  them  smoothly.  Even  among  the  Benelux  countries,  what  started  out  as  a 

cooperative  effort  to  recapitalize  Fortis,  ended  up  in  a  strife  as  each  country  attempted  to 

protect its own national interest. In the case of Icelandic banks, the UK resorted to the use of 

anti-terrorist  legislation  to  protect  the  interests  of  UK  depositors,  which  was  against  the 

norms followed by the members of European Economic Area (EEA). 

 

Challenges in Crisis Resolution 

5.5 

The recent financial crisis illustrated the limitations of the national resolution regimes 

to  resolve  financial  institutions  that  are  global  in  nature.  Mervyn  King,  former  Governor  of 

Bank  of  England,  said  that  the  large  financial  groups  have  been  ‘international  in  life,  but 

national in death’. This was amply demonstrated in many of the financial institutions’ failures 

during  the  global  financial  crisis  that  suffered  due  to  the  absence  of  a  cross-border  crisis 

management framework. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 136 

 

5.6 

The various obstacles to the ability of the home and host authorities to cooperate in 

the resolution of the G-SIFIs amplified the recent crisis. Given the fact that resolution is itself 

highly  complex  and  cannot  be  achieved  by  mechanically  applying  pre-defined  resolution 

tools,  it  is  recognized  that  resolution  of  financial  institutions  across  the  boundaries  is  even 

harder to achieve. The barriers and challenges in effecting orderly resolution of G-SIFIs can 

be observed in the relatively simple resolution of Bank of Credit and Commerce International 

(Overseas)  Limited  [BCCI],  which  also  had  presence  in  India  in  the  form  of  a  single 

branch(Box 5.1). 

 

 

BOX 5.1 

Resolution of Bank of Credit and Commerce International (Overseas) Limited 

 
Bank  of  Credit  and  Commerce  International  (Overseas)  Limited  (BCCI)  was  a  foreign  bank 
incorporated in Grand Cayman Islands. The bank had presence in India in the form of a single branch 
at Bombay. On surfacing of viability problems, the bank was placed under control of a receiver (Mr. Ian 
Wight),  appointed  by  the  Governor  of  the  Cayman  Islands  by  an  order  dated  5th  July,  1991  under 
Section  18  of the Bankruptcy Law as  applicable in the Cayman  Islands. The said order directed and 
authorized the appointed Receiver to take charge of the properties of the BCCI wherever situated.  
 
On 6th July, 1991, the Manager-in-charge of BCCI, Bombay was advised by its head office to suspend 
all payments and other banking transactions. The Manager-in-charge of BCCI in Bombay forwarded a 
copy of the same to RBI. On receipt of information from BCCI, Bombay and also from the  Provisional 
Liquidators  of  the  UK  Branches  of  BCCI,  the  Reserve  Bank  issued  directives  to  BCCI,  Bombay  to 
safeguard the interests of the local depositors and also filed a petition before the Bombay High Court 
(BHC) on 15th July, 1991 under Section 38 (3) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (BR Act) read with 
Companies  Act,  1956  for  winding  up  of  BCCI,  Bombay  and  appointment  of  State  Bank  of  India, 
Central Office, Bombay as liquidator. 
 
The High Court on 15th July, 1991, as an interim measure, appointed SBI as Provisional Liquidators in 
respect of the assets of BCCI in Bombay, which was confirmed by the court on 22nd January, 1992. 
On 14th January,  1992, the Grant  Court  of  the  Cayman  Islands  confirmed  its  ad-interim  order  of  5th 
July, 1991.   
 
On  22nd  January,  1992,  the  Bombay  High  Court,  after  hearing  the  concerned  parties  including  the 
Joint  Provisional  Liquidators  of  BCCI,  appointed  by  the  Court  of  Cayman  Islands,  confirmed  its  ad-
interim  order  dated  15th  July,  1991  appointing  SBI  as  Provisional  Liquidators  of  BCCI,  Bombay 
branch. Consequently, all the business activities of BCCI Bombay branch was suspended. 
 
On 16th January,  1992, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)  was entered into  between the said 
Official Liquidator and RBI for disposal of the Bombay branch of BCCI, whereunder it was agreed that 
BCCI Bombay branch be sold to one of the buyers to be appointed by the RBI. The purchaser was to 
assume full  responsibility  of  both  the  depositors  and  creditors,  including  the  liabilities  of  the  staff,  so 
also all other existing as also future liabilities of BCCI, Bombay branch. Another option under the MoU 
was  to  sell  the  branch  to  SBI  and/or  its  subsidiary  in  accordance  with  the  law.  The  High  Court 
approved the arrangement by its order dated February 22, 1992. 
 
On  approval  by  Bombay  High  Court,  the  RBI  held  negotiations  with  all  concerned  including  Official 
Liquidators, Cayman Islands. The Joint Official Liquidators invited offers for sale of the undertaking of 
the  Bombay  branch  of  BCCI  to  which  SBI  responded  and  submitted  its  offer.  The  offer  of  SBI  was 
accepted by Official Liquidators, Cayman Islands and also got the approval from the Court of Granting 
Cayman for the sale. This was communicated by fax on February 24, 1993. 
 
The  Bombay  High  Court,  accepting  the  offer  of  SBI  for  the  purchase  of  BCCI  Bombay  branch  as  a 
going  concern,  gave  directions  for  safeguarding  the  interest  and  claims  of  all  concerned.  This  was 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 137 

 

taken  over  by  a  subsidiary  of  SBI  (SBICL).  The  High  Court  passed  its  final  order  on  November  12, 
1993 confirming the action. 
 

Supervisory responsibility 

5.7 

The  Basel  Accord  governs  the  supervisory  responsibilities  of  the  home  and  host 

country of the parent of a banking group and its subsidiary respectively. The Accord entrusts 

the  responsibility  of  supervision  of  the  group  on  a  consolidated  basis  to  the  home  country 

supervisor  (of  the  parent),  while  the  host  country  supervisor  is  responsible  for  subsidiaries 

authorized  in  the  host  country.  Further,  the  Accord  provides  that  the  responsibility  for  the 

supervision  of  the  branch  with  respect  to  solvency  resides  primarily  with  the  home 

supervisor.  However,  the  responsibility  with  respect  to  the  supervision  of  liquidity  resides 

with the host supervisor. 

 

5.8 

This  division  of  supervisory  responsibility  between  the  home  and  host  country 

supervisors may not necessarily be consistent with the division of responsibilities relating to 

crisis management and resolution. 

 

Misalignment of incentives of different national regulators  

5.9 

In  the  case  of  problems  in  a  G-SIFI  and  in  the  absence  of  effective  cross  border 

resolution  framework,  each  of  the  national  authorities  will  act  in  accordance  with  its  own 

statutory  obligations.  The  priorities  of  national  supervisors  and  resolution  authorities  are 

financial  stability  within  their  own  jurisdiction  as  also  protection  of  interests  of  national 

creditors,  depositors  and  taxpayers.  Thus,  the  obligation  to  protect  local  markets  and  local 

creditors’  interests  (ring  fencing)  will  take  precedence  over  a  more  global  perspective 

encompassing markets and creditors in other countries. There is, therefore, a high risk that 

the resolution procedure will be highly influenced by national interests. Moreover, the losses 

incurred by the creditors will not be uniform between jurisdictions. This is a central concern 

that lies behind moves towards ring-fencing and territorial approaches.  

 

5.10  Such  problems  have  led  to  host  countries’  inclination  towards  a  “subsidiarization” 

solution for local branches under which the local subsidiary is required to maintain sufficient 

capital and follow other prudential norms including sufficient assets to cover its liabilities. The 

UK  had  suggested  such  an  approach  under  the  label  of  “ring  fencing”  in  the  wake  of 

2007/2008 crisis. 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 138 

 

National resolution frameworks 

5.11  While  international financial  groups  operate globally,  the frameworks for addressing 

their distress and failure are local and apply to distinct parts of the group rather than to the 

group as a whole. Moreover, resolution frameworks are established by national laws and are 

enforceable  only  in  respect  of  those  institutions or  branches  of  institutions  operating  in  the 

national  territory.  In  the  absence  of  international  legal  framework,  the  resolutions  of  such 

financial groups are subject to different national frameworks that do not recognize the law of 

other  jurisdictions.  FSB  has  made  some  progress  in  setting  standards  for  cross-border 

resolution,  the  implementation  of  which  will  pose  challenges  in  modifying  national  regimes 

and their success will depend on quid pro quo from other countries. 

 

5.12  Further,  differences  between  home  and  host 

insolvency  regimes,  untested 

enforceability 

of 

netting 

and 

collateral 

arrangements, 

depositor/insurance 

policyholder/investor  protection  legislation,  ring  fencing  practices,  and  the  imposition  of 

governmental or judicial measures, such as moratoria, receivership measures, and financial 

sanctions, introduce significant uncertainty that makes it difficult to plan a resolution measure 

or  wind  down  in  a  cross-border  context.  Depending  on  the  location  of  the  assets  and 

determination  of  the  applicable  law,  different  rules  will  apply  with  respect  to  preference, 

ownership interests and set-off.  

 

Informational asymmetries and regulatory competition  

5.13  Effective  crisis  management  requires  access  to  timely,  accurate  and  relevant 

information about the G-SIFI and its operations. The usefulness of the information depends 

on how quickly it can be obtained and how up-to-date it is. In a crisis, if particular types of 

information  can  help  to  achieve  a  solution  that  is  more  advantageous  for  the  domestic 

jurisdiction, the regulator or the supervisor may not be inclined to share that information with 

the foreign authorities. 

 

5.14  The  legal  frameworks  of  many  jurisdictions  do  not  sufficiently  facilitate  coordination 

and  do  not  empower  their  supervisors  or  the  relevant  resolution  authority  to  share 

information with their counterparts in other jurisdictions. Some countries address information 

sharing  only  during  the  normal  times  of  supervision.  They  do  not  clearly  differentiate  the 

provisions  or  arrangements  in  place  for  information  sharing  in  crisis  situation.  Moreover, 

some  authorities  do  not  have  a  clear  authority  for,  or  are  prevented  by  law  from  sharing 

information  directly  with  a  foreign  authority  other  than  with  a  supervisor  restricted  for 

supervisory purposes. Moreover, even if the information is obtained, there are restrictions or 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 139 

 

requirements  as  to  the  approval  of  the  authority  that  furnished  information,  for  onward 

disclosure of information.  

 

Complexity of group structures  

5.15  The operation of large international group structure in multiple jurisdictions and their 

internal and external exposures and relationships creates opaqueness in the risk exposures 

and also makes crisis resolution difficult and costly. Further, the complexity of the business 

model  and/or  the  financial  products  provided  by  an  institution  contributes  to  its  systemic 

relevance, as it renders it very difficult for the market participants to assess the impact and 

the outcome of a crisis situation.  

 

Need for Cooperation and Coordination  

5.16  Establishment of an international treaty that would obligate countries to defer to the 

resolution  decisions  of  the  jurisdiction  where  the  financial  institution  or  group  has  its  main 

activities does not seem practically feasible.  An effective framework for resolution of cross-

border  financial  group  would  therefore,  require  enhanced  cooperation  and  coordination 

among  resolution  authorities  and  harmonization  of  methods  for  achieving  equitable  cross-

border  outcomes  based  on  legally  effective  crisis  management  agreements.  Such  crisis 

management  agreements  need  to  be  embedded  in  the  national  resolution  frameworks 

incorporating  a  number  of  provisions  designed  to  underpin  and  support  the  international 

market in financial services. 

 

5.17  A  suitable  framework  for  enhanced  cooperation  and  coordination  will  essentially 

involve  amendment  to  existing  national  laws  so  as  to  enable  national  authorities  to 

coordinate  resolution  efforts  with  their  counterparts  in  other  jurisdictions  to  the  maximum 

extent  consistent  with  the  interests  of  creditors  and  domestic  financial  stability.  In  such  a 

framework,  the  national  authorities  would  continue  to  retain  the  discretion  to  act 

independently,  if  in  their  judgment  such  action  is  more  consistent  with  these  objectives. 

Enhanced coordination mechanism will be substantiated between those countries that have 

sufficiently  aligned  resolution frameworks  and rules  (i.e.,  non-discrimination  against  foreign 

creditors,  appropriate  and  similar  resolution  tools,  appropriate  creditor  safeguards,  and 

robust  rules  on  depositor,  policyholder  and  investor  preference,  etc.),  robust  supervisory 

frameworks and institutional capacity to reorganize and implement an international solution.  

 

5.18  Considering  the  legal  hindrances,  barriers  and  obstacles  indicated  above,  the  FSB 

has sought to improve the cross-border effectiveness of resolution measures by specifying 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 140 

 

certain key attributes that the jurisdictions should follow. For this to work, both the home and 

host  authorities  must  have  the  requisite  powers  and  regimes  for  application  of  resolution 

measures  not  only  to  domestically  incorporated  financial  institutions  but  to  domestic 

branches of foreign institutions, and to assets, liabilities and contracts of foreign institutions 

located within a jurisdiction. At the minimum, this would require the authorities to be legally 

empowered with the capacity to cooperate with the foreign resolution authorities. 

 

Statutory mandates to foster cross-border cooperation 

5.19  The  FSB  has  suggested  that  in  order  to  achieve  orderly  resolution  of  financial 

institution  with  presence  in  multiple  jurisdictions,  the  resolution  authorities  should  be 

mandated statutorily with the powers to act for achieving a cooperative solution with foreign 

resolution authorities. The legal framework or the regulatory norms in a particular jurisdiction 

should  not  provide  for  triggering  of  unilateral  action  in  a  jurisdiction  on  initiation  of  any 

resolution  or  insolvency  proceedings  or  any  official  intervention  in  another  jurisdiction.  On 

the other hand, the statute should provide for extension of the perimeter of resolution powers 

of the resolution authority, in addition to the locally incorporated financial institutions, to the 

local  branches  of  foreign  institutions  and  to  use  its  powers  either  to  support  a  resolution 

carried out by a foreign home authority or to take measures on its own initiative.  

 

5.20 

In the absence of effective cross-border cooperation and information sharing or in the 

event  of  inaction  or  inappropriate  action  by  the  foreign  home  authority,  the  statutory 

framework should provide the right to the resolution authority for taking discretionary national 

action on its own initiative, if considered necessary, to achieve financial stability. In case of 

exercise  of  discretionary  national  resolution  action  by  the  host  resolution  authority,  they 

should have the capacity through cooperative arrangements for consultation with the foreign 

home  authority  to  assess  the  impact  of  resolution  action  on  financial  stability  in  other 

jurisdictions. In case of exercise/application of resolution powers to individual components of 

a financial group, the resolution authority needs to take into account the impact on the group 

as  a  whole.  The  host  authority  should  also  have  the  capacity  to  give  prior  notice  of 

discretionary  national  action  in  relation  to  the  local  branch  of  a  foreign  bank,  to  a  foreign 

home resolution authority. 

 

5.21  The  practice  of  having  legal  framework  mandating  the  national  authorities  to  seek 

cross-border  cooperation  with  foreign  authorities  for  the  purpose  of  crisis  resolution  is 

practically  uncommon  in  most  of  the  jurisdictions.  However,  eight  jurisdictions1  have 

                                                           
1Australia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Spain, Switzerland, UK and US. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 141 

 

statutory  provisions  that  explicitly  empower  or  strongly  encourage  resolution  authorities  to 

cooperate with foreign authorities.  

 

5.22  The Working Group noted that though the Indian banks or other financial institutions 

do not qualify as G-SIFIs, 15 out of 29 G-SIBs identified in November 2013have operational 

presence  in  India  in  the  form  of  branches1.  The  foreign  insurance  companies  also  have 

presence in India but in the form of joint  ventures2. On the other hand, the Indian financial 

institutions (banks as well as insurance companies)though mostly national in nature, do have 

presence  in  other  jurisdictions  in  the  form  of  branches  and/or  subsidiaries.  However,  the 

share  of  international  assets  as  a  percentage  of  total  consolidated assets of  such financial 

institutions is very low.  

 

5.23  The  FSLRC  is  of  the  view  that  an  un-coordinated  approach  by  the  home  and  host 

countries’ authorities would create difficulties in resolution of cross-border SIFIs in a manner 

that  protects  interests  of  consumers  and  prevents  the  risk  of  contagion.  The  Commission 

has also recognized the on-going deliberations in this area at international policy forums. It 

has suggested that India must participate in emerging global arrangements on cross-border 

resolution.  The  Commission  has,  however,  recommended  setting  up  of  a  Committee,  five 

years  from  now  (2013),  to  review  the  emerging  consensus  in  this  field  and  suggest 

amendments in the legal framework on resolution accordingly. 

 

5.24  The  group  recognizes  that  there  are  challenges  in  cross-border  coordination  and 

cooperation  due  to  separate  national  mandates,  legal  frameworks,  priorities,  etc.,  and 

internationally  work  is  in  progress  on  information  sharing  arrangements  for  resolution 

purposes,  development  of  data  template  for  information  sharing,  norms  for  cooperation, 

coordination  among  the  non-CMG  host  jurisdictions,  etc.  Keeping  in  view  plausible 

opening  up  of  the  Indian  financial  system  in  future  and  Indian  financial  institutions 

becoming  G-SIFIs  with  large  scale  cross-border  operations,  the  Group  recommends 

that  the  proposed  legislation  for  resolution  regime  for  financial  institutions  should 

                                                           
1  Among  the  foreign  banks,  Standard  Chartered  Bank  with  101  branches  has  the  largest  presence  in  India  in 
terms of outreach, followed by HSBC Ltd. with 50 branches, Citibank N.A. with 42 branches, The Royal Bank 
of Scotland N.V.  with 31 branches, Deutsche  Bank  with 18 branches, BNP Paribas  with 8 branches,  Barclays 
Bank Plc. with 7 branches, Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank and Bank of America with 5 branches 
each,  The  Bank  of  Tokyo-Mitsubishi  UFJ  Ltd.  with  4  branches,  Societe  Generale  with  3  branches,  Mizuho 
Corporate Bank  Ltd.  with  2 branches, UBS  AG, JP Morgan  Chase Bank N.A. and  Sumitomo Mitsui Banking 
Corporation with one branch each. 
2Foreign  insurance  entities  are  not  permitted  to  set  up  branch  operations  in  India.  However,  almost  all  G-SIIs 
have  domestic  presence  in  India  in  the  form  of  joint  ventures  with  holding  of  26%  equity  in  insurance 
companies. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 142 

 

enable  the  FRA  to  achieve  cooperative  solution  with  foreign  resolution  authorities. 

(Recommendation 37) 

 

Recognition to foreign resolution measures 

5.25  Generally,  the  resolution  tools/options  adopted  by  the  home  resolution  authority  in 

order  to  achieve  an  orderly  resolution  of  a  financial  institution,  will  not  have  an  automatic 

effect in the host jurisdiction. Most of these actions could involve court proceedings that may 

not  be  timely  for  effective  resolution.  In  order  to  reduce  or  remove  the  legal,  regulatory  or 

policy  impediments that hinder conduct of effective resolution,  the FSB has suggested that 

jurisdictions  should  have  transparent  and  expedited  processes  to  give  effect  to  foreign 

resolution measures,  either  by  way  of  a  mutual recognition  process  or  by  taking measures 

under  the  domestic  resolution  regime  that  support  and  are  consistent  with  the  resolution 

measures taken by the foreign home resolution authority.  

 

5.26  Such  a  process  would  enable  the  home  authority  to  gain  rapid  control  over  the 

financial institution or its assets that are located in the host jurisdiction, in cases where the 

institution is being resolved under the law of the home jurisdiction.  It stands to reason that 

recognition  or  support  of  the  foreign  measures  should  be  provided  only  when  the  home 

authority  extends  equitable  treatment  to  the  creditors  in  the  host  country  in  the  foreign 

resolution proceedings. 

 

5.27  So far, only the Swiss Resolution Authority (i.e., Swiss Financial Market Supervisory 

Authority  (FINMA))  is  vested  with  the  exclusive  authority  to  recognize  foreign  insolvency 

decrees  and  resolution  measures  that  seek  control  over  assets  and  operations  of  foreign 

financial  institutions  in  Switzerland.  Swiss  FINMA  has  the  power  to  recognize  resolution 

measures  ordered  by  a  foreign  authority.  A  condition  for  recognition  is  the  equitable 

treatment of creditors in Switzerland, taking into account the statutory preferences they enjoy 

under  Swiss  law.  The  scope  of  the  recognition  is  fairly  broad  and  covers  any  type  of 

restructuring  or  resolution  measures,  including  a  compulsory  debt-to-equity  conversion 

(“bail-in”)  or  order  transferring  assets,  liabilities  and  contracts  of  the  failed  institution  to  a 

bridge bank. FINMA can also give recognition to administrators or liquidators appointed by a 

foreign resolution authority. Alternatively, FINMA can resolve a branch of a foreign financial 

institution independently under its sole authority. 

 

5.28  Presently,  the  legal  framework  permits  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  and/or  the 

Government  of  India  to  initiate  resolution  actions  in  case  of  any  incipient  problems  in  the 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 143 

 

foreign bank branches situated in India. For all practical purposes, for regulation as well as 

resolution,  they  are  treated  on  par  with  private  sector  banks.  However,  the  provisions 

contained in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 provide for a ring-fencing clause1 in case of 

foreign banks operating in India. 

 

5.29 

Indian  law  also  does  not  specifically  recognize  foreign  bankruptcy  proceedings 

though  Indian  Courts  on  reciprocity  basis  to  honour  the  decrees  passed  by  the  foreign 

courts,  subject  to  the  exemptions  provided  in  Section  13  of  the  Code  of  Civil  Procedure, 

1908  (CPC).  In  terms  of  Section  44A  of  CPC,  the  certified  copy  of  a  decree  passed  by  a 

foreign court of any reciprocating territory has to be filed in a District Court and such decree 

may  be  executed  in  India  as  if  it  had  been  passed  by  the  District  Court.  As  regards 

supporting  the  resolution  carried  out  by  a  foreign  home  authority,  Indian  insolvency  laws 

neither have any extra-territorial jurisdiction, nor do they recognize the jurisdiction of foreign 

courts in respect of the branches of foreign banks operating in India. 

 

5.30  Since  the  stake  involved  is  very  high  and  could  have  serious  implications  on  the 

financial stability of host countries, the Group is of the view that in absence of a binding ex-

ante agreement or international legal structure, any cooperation and coordination, no matter 

how well it starts out, is most likely to fail in a real resolution scenario. There is, therefore, a 

need to wait for the experiences gained in different jurisdictions.  

 

Access to Information and Information Sharing  

5.31  For  making  appropriate  decisions  and  implementing  an  effective  action  plan  when 

resolution is imminent, the resolution authorities would not only require the provision of up-

to-date  information  on  the  business  operations,  structures  and  critical  economic  functions 

but  also  detailed  resolution  analysis  prepared  by  the  affected  financial  institution.  Such 

information and analysis will enable them to choose the resolution option under current laws 

and  regulations.  Moreover,  in  case  of  cross-border  firms,  the  authorities  would  need 

additional  information  on  the  legal  and  regulatory  frameworks  in  which  the  firm  operates. 

This  could  include  information  on  the  relevant  home  and  host  authorities  and  their  roles, 

functions  and  responsibilities  in  financial  crisis  management;  the  relevant  aspects  of 

applicable  corporate,  commercial,  insolvency  and  securities  laws  and  insolvency  regimes 

affecting major portions of the group, and liquidity sources. 
                                                           
1  According  to  Section  11(4)  of  BR  Act,  1949,  in  the  event  of  a  foreign  bank  ceasing  to  carry  on  banking 
business in India, the minimum paid up capital and reserves which it is required to maintain under Section 11(2) 
of  that  Act  shall  be  an  asset  of  that  company  on  which  the  creditors  of  the  company  in  India  shall  have  first 
charge. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 144 

 

5.32  The  Key  Attributes  provide  that  the  resolution  authority  should  have  legal  capacity, 

subject to adequate confidentiality requirements and protections for sensitive data, to share 

information, including RRPs, pertaining to the group as a whole or the individual subsidiaries 

or branches, with the relevant foreign authorities for the sole purpose of preparation of RRP 

for the financial group as a whole or for implementing a coordinated resolution. This would 

mean  sharing  of  information  with  the  foreign  supervisory  authorities,  central  banks, 

resolution authorities, finance ministries and the public authorities responsible for guarantee 

schemes,  not  only  in  normal  times  but  also  in  crisis  situations.  Such  information  sharing 

should be both at a domestic and cross-border level. 

 

5.33  The financial  crisis  has demonstrated  that  the  absence  of  a  process  of coordinated 

resolution  of  legal  entities  in  a  financial  group/conglomerate  limits  the  option  available  to 

home  or  host  country  authorities  for  managing  the  problem  in  an  orderly  manner.  The 

different regulatory and supervisory rules along with different accounting standards, liquidity 

requirements  and  regulatory  objectives  that  apply  to  different  legal  entities  of  a  financial 

group,  potentially  complicate  resolution  of  domestic  financial  groups.  This  becomes  more 

critical in case of cross-border financial groups in view of other challenges and obstacles. 

 

5.34  While 

the 

regulators/supervisors  have  been  engaging 

in  Memorandum  of 

Understandings (MoUs)1 with other jurisdictions’ authorities, such as the Central Banks and 

respective  financial  sector  regulators/supervisors  with  a  view  to  promoting  greater  co-

operation  and  sharing  of  supervisory  information  between  the  supervisors,  there  still  lies  a 

gap  in  coordination  and  information  sharing  for  crisis  resolution.  They  may  not  be  legally 

enforceable and do not indicate how supervisors might cooperate in actual crisis. 

 

5.35  However,  existing  national  legal  and  supervisory  arrangements  are  not  designed  to 

coordinate  the  resolution  of  problems  in  all  of  the  significant  legal  entities  of  a  financial 

group. Insolvency rules apply on a legal entity basis and may differ depending on the types 

of  businesses  within  the  financial  group.  There  are,  however,  exceptions  to  this  in  some 

jurisdictions.  In  a  crisis,  there  could  be  a  need  to  exchange  information  across  different 

authorities  domestically  as  well  as  with  the foreign  authorities. This  cannot  happen  without 

strong cooperation mechanism. 

 

                                                           
1  Reserve  Bank  of  India  has  so  far  entered  into  MoUs  with  19  jurisdictions  for  supervisory  coordination  and 
information sharing. IRDA has entered into a Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding with the IAIS, which 
provides  an  international  platform  for  cooperation  and  sharing  of  supervisory  information  between  regulators 
subject to confidentiality stipulations. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 145 

 

5.36  The objective of cooperation and information sharing among the domestic authorities 

in case of a domestic financial group may vary from cross-border financial group. In absence 

of  cooperation  among  the  various  domestic  regulators/supervisors  and  resolution  authority 

as  well  as  the  institutions  providing  protection  to  depositors,  insurance  policyholders  and 

investors, there is probability of spillover of problem in one legal entity of a group to the other 

due  to  contagion  and  reputation  risk.  Moreover,  in  case  of  a  cross-border  financial  group, 

where the host country authorities are unable to obtain information from the home authorities 

would in all probability be more inclined to take action to protect local creditors and thus ring-

fence  assets.  Better  cooperation  and  information  sharing  can  reduce  the  need  for  ring 

fencing. 

 

5.37  The  Group  has  suggested  earlier  (in  Chapter  4)  a  data  template  for  submission  of 

information  by  the  financial  institutions,  on  an  on-going  basis,  to  the  financial  resolution 

authority  (FRA)  and  the  regulators/supervisors  for  resolution  planning  and  assessment  of 

their resolvability and also institution of FDMC for on-line collection of financial data from all 

financial  institutions.  In  addition,  the  Group  has  also  suggested  earlier  (in  Chapter  4)  for 

entering into a MoU between the regulators/supervisors and FRA for effective and constant 

information  sharing.  This  mechanism  will  ensure  information  sharing  among  the  domestic 

authorities.  The  existing  legal  framework,  however,  restricts  the  domestic  financial 

institutions  and/or  the  regulatory  authorities  from  disclosure  of  customer  related  non-public 

information. For example, Section 45E of the RBI Act, 1934 prohibits the RBI or any banking 

company  from  disclosure  of  credit  information,  except  in  certain  circumstances,  viz.  the 

disclosure  by  any  banking  company  with  the  previous  permission  of  the  Reserve  Bank  of 

India of any information furnished to the RBI, publication by RBI of any information collected 

by it in such consolidated form1 as it may think fit without disclosing the name of any banking 

company or its borrowers in the public interest, the disclosure or publication by the banking 

company  or  RBI  of  any  credit  information  to  any  other  banking  company  or  in  accordance 

with the practice and usage customary among the bankers or as permitted or required under 

any  other  law  and  the  disclosure  of  any  credit  information  under  the  Credit  Information 

Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005. 

 

5.38  While work in the area of cross-border information sharing is underway, which 

is  being  enhanced  by  the  FSB  through  Resolution  Steering  Group,  the  Group 

recommends  that  the  resolution  framework  in  India  should  enable  the  FRA  to  share 

non-public  information  of  Indian  financial  institutions  with  foreign  home/host 

                                                           
1 Section 45C of RBI Act, 1934. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 146 

 

resolution authorities on reciprocal basis and subject to confidentiality requirements 

and protection for sensitivity. (Recommendation 38) 

 

Supervisory Colleges 

5.39  Supervisory  colleges  as  a  form  of  supervisory  tool  for  information  sharing  are 

operational in many jurisdictions. The primary objective of a supervisory college is to assess 

and develop an understanding of the risk profile of an international banking group of which 

the  home  supervisor  is  also  the  lead  supervisor.  Over  time,  the  supervisory  colleges  have 

developed  as  a  forum  for  broader  issues  such  as  discussions  and  planning  of  supervisory 

assessments and sharing information about the overall risk assessment of banking entities 

as well as the banking group.  

 

5.40  The  IRDA  is  in  the  process  of  setting  up  a  supervisory  college  for  effective 

supervision  of  the  Life  Insurance  Corporation  (LIC)  of  India,  a  financial  conglomerate  with 

wide  presence  in  various  financial  sectors  domestically  as  well  as  internationally1.On  the 

other hand, IRDA is also participating in the supervisory colleges set up in respect of foreign 

entities having presence in India in the insurance sector.  

 

5.41  Under  the  proposed  EU  resolution  framework,  cooperation  of  resolution  authorities 

within  the  European  Union  would  be  done  by  establishing  resolution  colleges  around  the 

core  of  the  existing  supervisory  colleges  with  enhancement  in  its  membership  to  include 

resolution  authorities.  Such  colleges  would  provide  a  platform  for  exchange  of  information 

between  the  national  authorities  and  serve  as  a  forum  for  discussing  and  deciding  joint  or 

coordinated  actions  in  case  of  cross-border  failing  banks  or  other  emergency  situations. 

Resolution  colleges  would  be  chaired  by  the  resolution  authority  responsible  for  the  EU 

parent  credit  institution  (the  group  level  resolution  authority)  and  would  be  responsible  for 

crisis planning and preparation of resolution plans.  

 

5.42  Considering  the  development  of  supervisory  colleges  as  a  forum  for  sharing 

information  on  the  overall  risk  assessment  of  individual  financial  entities  as  well  as 

the financial group and also the fact that the RBI and IRDA have signed MoUs/MMOUs 

with  various  jurisdictions/IAIS  for  sharing  of  supervisory  information,  the  Group 

recommends that  the supervisory  colleges  could  be  used  as  an  information  sharing 

platform  for  crisis  resolution  also.  However,  this  needs  to  be  taken  up  with  the 

relevant authorities and the parties to the supervisory colleges. (Recommendation 39) 

                                                           
1LIC of India has operations in Fiji, Mauritius, Bahrain, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Saudi Arabia and Kenya. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 147 

 

Constitution of Crisis Management Groups (CMGs) and Institution-

specific Cross-border Cooperation Agreements (COAGs) 

5.43  Given  the  legal  mandate  to  the  resolution  authority  for  achieving  a  cooperative 

solution  with  the  foreign  resolution  authorities  for  orderly  resolution,  the  FSB  feels  that  a 

policy  framework  for  cross-border  cooperation  between  resolution  authorities  needs  to  be 

developed  for  advance planning  and  to avoid  dealing  with  cross-border  issues  through  the 

courts. With a view to having an easy approach in the near term for such cooperation and 

enhancing  preparedness  for  and  facilitating  the  management  and  resolution  of  a  cross-

border  financial  institution,  the  FSB  has  suggested  constitution  of  Crisis  Management 

Groups (CMGs) for all G-SIFIs and institution-specific cross-border cooperation agreements 

(COAGs)  at  least  for  G-SIFIs.  CMGs  should  comprise  the  supervisory  authorities,  central 

banks,  resolution  authorities,  finance  ministries  and  the  public  authorities  responsible  for 

insurance guarantee schemes of jurisdictions that are home or host to entities of the group 

that are material to its resolution.  

 

5.44  Generally,  for  reasons  of  operational  efficiency,  practicality,  and  effective  decision-

making,  the  membership  of  CMGs  is  limited  to  those  jurisdictions  and  authorities  that  are 

material  and  significant  for  a  group-wide  resolution  of  the  firm.  Such  a  practice  could 

possibly  leave  out  some  jurisdictions,  where  operations  of the firm  are  locally  systemic  but 

not  material  in  the  context  of  the  overall  operations  of  the  financial  group,  from 

representation  in  the  CMG.  However,  the  Key  Attributes  also  require  cooperation  and 

information sharing between CMGs and authorities in other jurisdictions where the firm has a 

systemic  presence  locally  but  the  particular  jurisdiction  does  not  participate  in  the  CMG. 

Towards  this  end,  the  FSB  is  in  the  process  of  identifying  criteria  to  assess  jurisdictions 

where operations of a G-SIFI are locally systemic so as to provide guidance on cooperation 

and information sharing between CMGs and non-CMG host jurisdictions. The FSB considers 

that as a prerequisite for information sharing, the authorities need to demonstrate that they 

meet the standards set out in the Key Attributes 7.6, 7.7 and 12.1, and Annex on Information 

sharing for resolution purposes, which relates to having in place legal gateways and related 

confidentiality  regimes  to  facilitate  effective  sharing  of  non-public  information  between 

domestic and foreign authorities for resolution related purposes. 

 

5.45  The firm’s recovery plan is one such information that could be requested by the non-

CMG host authority from the home authority in order to assess the potential systemic impact 

of the recovery plan on the operations in its jurisdiction. Since the plan would generally not 

address the operation of the G-SIFI in non-CMG jurisdictions but for the critical functions and 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 148 

 

material operations only, this could serve as a barrier in advanced planning by the non-CMG 

host authorities.  

 
5.46  On the other hand, the main objective of the institution-specific COAG is to facilitate 

crisis management planning for the specific institution with proper cooperation between the 

relevant  authorities.  The  agreements  could  also  help  in  deciding  a  framework  for  possible 

solutions to the legal and other impediments that may exist in effecting an orderly resolution 

of  a  financial  institution  with  presence  in  multiple  jurisdictions.  Thus,  the  institution-specific 

COAGs establishes a framework for the development of RRPs, based on the conduct of pre-

crisis  resolvability  assessments,  and  for  cooperation  and  coordination  in  a  crisis  in 

accordance with the agreed RRPs. 

 
5.47  The essential elements that the institution-specific COAG should possess include: 

  Objectives, nature and scope of the agreement 

  Roles and responsibilities of authorities 

  Commitments of parties to cooperate 

 

 

Information sharing 

Implementation of cross-border resolution measures 

 
5.48  So far, CMGs have been established for all identified G-SIBs. Most jurisdictions that 

have  established  CMGs  for  domestically  incorporated  G-SIFIs  are  in  the  process  of 

concluding  institution-specific  COAGs  between  the  CMG  members.  Though  none  of  the 

Indian financial institutions qualify as G-SIFIs, India is a member of one CMG pertaining to 

Standard  Chartered  Bank.  These  key  attributes  are  generally  applicable  to  G-SIFIs  and 

would be applicable for India only to the extent of having representation in CMGs.  

 

5.49  The  CMGs  and  institution-specific  COAGs  are  generally  applicable  to  G-SIFIs.  In 

view of the fact that none of Indian banks are G-SIFIs, and even though 15 out of 29 G-SIBs 

and 8 out of 13 global systemically important insurers (G-SIIs) have presence in India in the 

form  of  branches/joint  ventures,  those  are  not  significant  and  material  in  the  context  of 

overall operations of the financial group. The Group recommends that in the situation of 

an  Indian  financial  institution  becoming  a  G-SIFI  in  future,  the  FRA  may  be 

empowered to form CMGs and COAGs. (Recommendation 40) 

 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 149 

 

CHAPTER 6 

 

Way Forward 

 

 

6.1 

The  Working  Group  has  taken  into  account  the  essential  features  of  a  sound  and 

effective  resolution  regime  as  prescribed  by  international  standard  setting  bodies.  It, 

however, needs to be recognized that the guidance on resolution regime is generally more 

developed  and  advanced  for  banks  and  progressively  less  for  insurers,  securities  or 

investment firms and FMIs. In addition, the cross-border issues are still evolving and being 

addressed. Therefore, FSDC may consider a review of the recommendations made by this 

Group  at  an  appropriate  stage  to  take  into  account  the  documents  and  guidance  as  and 

when issued by FSB and other international standard setting bodies with respect to evolving 

areas,  especially  those  relating to  non-bank financial  institutions  including  FMIs  and  cross-

border issues. 

 

6.2 

The  Group  also  recognises  that  different  types  of  financial  institutions  have  distinct 

features  and  thus  all  essential  features  of  a  resolution  framework  as  prescribed  by 

international standard setting bodies may not be relevant for all types of financial institutions. 

The  legal  framework  that  will  evolve  therefore  needs  to  take  into  account  the  specificities 

and peculiarities of different segments of the financial sectors. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 150 

 

CHAPTER 7 

 

Summary of Recommendations 

 

 

 

The  Working  Group  examined  the  existing  resolution  framework  for  the  entire  financial 

sector in India and identified gaps in the framework vis-à-vis FSB Key Attributes. The Group 

also reviewed international practices and the ongoing developments in major jurisdictions as 

well  as  work  in  progress  by  the  international  standard  setting  bodies.  Taking  these  into 

account,  the  Group  unanimously  offers  the  following  recommendations  on  the  policy 

framework  for  setting  up  a  resolution  regime  in  India  and  sets  a  direction  towards  further 

steps going forward. The recommendations of Working Group are summarised below.  

 

1. 

Policy framework to deal with failures 

While there are existing regulatory provisions to deal with failing financial institutions, with a 

view  to  further  strengthening  the  existing  financial  safety  net  framework  and  bridging  the 

gaps  in  the  resolution  framework  vis-à-vis  the  Key  Attributes,  the  Working  Group 

recommends  that  there  should  be  a  policy  framework  supported  by  law  to  deal  with  the 

failure  of  financial  institutions1  and  financial  market  infrastructures2  that  are  nearing  non-

viability in a manner that avoids disruption to the supply of critical financial services.  [Para 

4.13] 

 

2. 

Comprehensive legal framework  

Considering  the  special  nature  of  financial  institutions,  as  well  as  limitations  in  applying 

corporate insolvency laws to these institutions, the Group recommends that there should be 

a  separate  comprehensive  legal  framework  for  resolving  financial  institutions  and  FMIs. 

[Para 4.28] 

 

                                                           
1 The term “financial institutions” refers to banks (including public sector banks, private sector banks, foreign 
banks  having  branches  in  India,  regional  rural  banks,  state  co-operative  banks,  district  central  co-operative 
banks,  and  primary  urban  co-operative  banks),  non-banking  financial  companies,  insurance  companies, 
securities firms, commodities markets and pension schemes. 
2 The term “financial market infrastructures” refers to payment systems, central counterparties (CCPs) including 
clearing  houses,  securities  settlement  systems  (SSSs),  central  securities  depositories  (CSDs),  and  trade 
repositories (TRs), etc. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 151 

 

3. 

Objectives of resolution framework 

The aim of resolution is not to preserve the failing institution, but to ensure the continuity of 

the  functions  that  are  critical  for  the  financial  system  as  a  whole  and  limit  any  use  of 

taxpayers’ money. The Group recommends that the resolution framework in India should be 

guided by the following objectives: 

 

initiate resolution action in a timely and speedy manner; 

  avoid erosion of value and minimise the costs of resolution; 

  protect and maintain stability of the financial system as well as public confidence in 

Indian financial system; 

  ensure  continuity  of  essential  financial  services  and  critical  functions  such  as 

payment, clearing and settlement functions; 

  protect  depositors, 

insurance  policyholders,  and  client 

funds/assets, 

through 

protection schemes and other arrangements, within reasonable limits; 

  avoid use of taxpayers’ money and not create an expectation that public support will 

be made available, thus ensuring market discipline; 

  ensure imposition of losses to shareholders and unsecured creditors in a manner that 

respects hierarchy of claims; and 

  ensure predictability through clear legal framework and procedural clarity.  

[Para 4.32] 

 

4. 

Scope of resolution framework  

The scope of the financial resolution framework in India should cover all financial institutions 

– including commercial banks (public sector banks, private sector banks, and foreign banks 

having  branch/subsidiaries  in  India),  co-operative  banks,  regional  rural  banks;  non-banking 

financial  companies,  firms/companies  in  insurance,  pension,  securities  and  commodities 

markets;  and  FMIs  including  payment  systems,  securities  settlement  systems,  central 

counterparties,  securities  depositories,  etc.  other  than  those  owned  and  operated  by  the 

Reserve  Bank  of  India,  viz.  real  time  gross  settlement  system  and  securities  settlement 

systems.  The  proposed  legislative  framework  for  resolution  should  enable  the  resolution 

authority  in  coordination  with  the  respective  regulator  to  designate  any  other  financial 

institution that will be covered by the framework. [Para 4.39] 

 

The  scope  of  the  proposed  financial  resolution  framework  should  also  cover  the  parent 

undertaking  or  the  holding  company  regulated  by  the  financial  sector  regulator,  of  the 

financial groups. [Para 4.42] 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 152 

 

5. 

Structure of the resolution authority 

The Group considered the pros and cons of having a single resolution authority. The Group 

recommends that:  

(v) 

there  should  be  a  single  Financial  Resolution  Authority  (FRA)  mandated  under 

the 

law 

for 

resolving 

all 

financial 

institutions 

and  FMIs, 

in 

coordination/cooperation  with  the  respective  financial  sector  regulators,  as 

deemed necessary by the FRA, 

(vi) 

the  FRA  should  be  institutionally  independent  of the  regulators/supervisors  and 

the Government, 

(vii) 

the  FRA  should  be 

the  sole  authority  responsible 

for  operation  and 

implementation  of  the  financial  resolution  framework,  including  the  decision  to 

choose  the  appropriate  resolution  tool,  except  the  power  to  take  an  institution 

into temporary public ownership (TPO) that will be invoked by the Government of 

India on the recommendation of the FRA, and  

(viii)  the FRA should be empowered by the law to coordinate/cooperate with financial 

sector  regulators/supervisors  and  establish  appropriate  information  sharing 

arrangements  with  regulators/supervisors  before/during  the  resolution  of  a 

financial institution. [Para 4.51] 

 

6. 

Mandate of resolution authority 

the mandate of FRA will be to resolve failed financial institutions and FMIs (other than those 

owned  and  operated  by  RBI)  along  with  providing  deposit  insurance  and  protection  to 

insurance policy holders and investors/clients within limits, if required at the resolution stage. 

[Para 4.52] 

 

7. 

Setting up resolution authority 

Taking  all  factors  into  consideration,  the  Group  recommends  that  the  FRA  as  a  separate 

entity can be set by either transforming the present DICGC into FRA or by setting up a new 

authority  namely  FRA  that  will  subsume  DICGC.  Either  option  will  require  amendment  or 

enactment  of  laws,  institutional  changes,  staffing,  and  development  of  tools  and  options. 

[Para 4.54] 

 

8. 

Triggers of early intervention  

In order to ensure that regulators/supervisors can intervene at a sufficiently early stage with 

clear  trigger  levels  to  prevent  the  institution  from  reaching  situation  of  non-viability,  the 

Group recommends that each financial sector regulator/supervisor may formulate a prompt 

corrective  action  (PCA)  framework  for  the  institutions  under  their  regulatory  jurisdiction, 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 153 

 

which may be graded illustratively with four levels  – i.e. (i) Stage 1 : low risk to viability; (ii) 

Stage 2 : moderate risk to viability; (iii) Stage 3 : high risk to viability; (iv) Stage 4 : extreme 

risk to viability - in  terms of quantitative parameters on a risk-adjusted basis. [Para 4.64]  

 

9. 

Trigger for resolution 

When  an  institution  reaches  stage  4  (final  stage)  and  is  not  able  to  demonstrate  or  take 

corrective action within a given tight timeline, then it should be passed on to the FRA. The 

FRA  should  be  kept  informed  of  all  actions  and  developments  relating  to  the  concerned 

institution  once  the  PCA  framework  kicks  in.  Enhanced  coordination  with  the  FRA  should 

begin  at  stage  3  and  it  would  be  open  to  the  regulator/supervisor  and  FRA  to  take  a 

distressed institution into resolution even at an earlier stage. [Para 4.66] 

 

10. 

Review and development of PCA framework 

With a view to detecting problems at an early stage and having suitable redressal and revival 

mechanisms,  the  RBI  may  devise  an  effective  methodology  for  early  intervention  and 

structured actions in line with the recommended stages so as to make it compatible with the 

envisaged resolution framework while taking into account Basel III framework for commercial 

banks  and  other  regulatory  developments  for  other  entities  regulated  by  RBI.  Other  sector 

regulators  should  also  devise  a  PCA  framework  and  take  into  account  international  best 

practices  put  forth  by  respective  agencies  such  as  International  Association  of  Insurance 

Supervisors  (IAIS),    International  Organization  of  Securities  Commissions  (IOSCO)  and 

Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems (CPSS), etc. [Para 4.67] 

 

11. 

PCA framework for financial conglomerates 

So as to detect problems in the parent company including the group-wide ramifications of the 

stress  developing  in  parts  of  the  group  at  an  early  stage,  the  Group  recommends  that  the 

Inter-Regulatory  Technical  Group  of  FSDC  may  set  up  a  Group  for  formulation  of  a  PCA 

framework in respect of financial groups/conglomerates. This framework should provide for 

clear and distinct triggers and early intervention actions in line with the stages recommended 

by this Group taking into account international standards. [Para 4.71] 

 

12. 

Resolution tools  

The Group recommends that with a view to carrying out orderly resolution of failing financial 

institutions and FMIs without taxpayers’ support, the FRA should have a variety of resolution 

tools  mandated  by  the  proposed  statute,  such  as,  liquidation;  purchase  and  assumption; 

bridge  institution;  good-bank  and  bad-bank;  bail-in  and  temporary  public  ownership,  which 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 154 

 

can  be  used  flexibly,  either  singly  or  in  combination  with  others,  to  resolve  a  financial 

institution and preserve its critical functions. [Para 4.82] 

 

13. 

Framework for non-bank financial institutions 

As FSB, IAIS, CPSS and IOSCO are in the process of preparing guidance for extending Key 

Attributes  to  cover  a  wider  range  of  market  participants  in  the  financial  sector,  including 

FMIs, 

insurance  companies  and  other  non-bank 

financial 

institutions, 

the  Group 

recommends that while the proposed financial resolution framework would be applicable for 

all  financial  institutions,  including  FMIs,  a  detailed  framework  may  be  formulated  at  a  later 

stage  for  non-bank  financial  institutions  based  on  the  policy  documents  and  guidance  that 

are yet to be issued by the FSB and other international standard setting bodies. [Para 4.83] 

 

14. 

Use of bail-in as resolution tool 

As bail-in allows the resolution authorities greater flexibility in their response to the failure of 

large  and  systemically  important  financial  institutions  (SIFIs)  in  restoring  viability  and 

disincentivize  becoming  “too-big-to-fail”,  the  Group  recommends  taking  into  account  all 

factors,  adopting  the  bail-in  mechanism  as  a  resolution  tool  in  case  of  global  systemically 

important banks (G-SIBs)/domestic systemically important banks (D-SIBs). [Para 4.91] 

 

The  Group,  further,  recommends  that  the  bail-in  framework  should  cover  the  capital 

instruments (additional Tier 1 and Tier 2) as well as other unsecured creditors, while deposit 

liabilities, inter-bank liabilities, and all short-term debt, which if subjected to bail-in can induce 

financial  instability,  would  be  excluded  from  bail-in.  In  order  to  minimise  the  uncertainty 

generated by discretionary use of bail-in power and to avoid uncertainty among unsecured 

creditors, the bail-in power should be statutorily placed with the FRA. With developments in 

resolution  mechanisms  internationally,  this  tool  may  be  extended  to  other  financial 

institutions. [Para 4.93] 

 

15. 

Temporary public ownership 

As  temporary  public  ownership  (TPO)  may  be  important  for  ensuring  financial  stability  in 

exceptional  situations,  the  Group  recommends  that  the  Government  of  India  (Ministry  of 

Finance) may, on recommendation by FSDC, be empowered to place a financial institution 

under  TPO  and  control  on  financial  stability  considerations  and  only  if  such  action  is 

necessary  to  protect  public  interest.  There  should  be  intensive  consultation  with  the 

concerned regulator and the FRA before placing the institution under TPO. This tool should 

be  only  temporary  in  nature  till  a  viable  alternative  such  as,  sale  or  transfer  or  merger  is 

found. [Para 4.98] 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 155 

 

16. 

Features of resolution fund 

With respect to funding of resolution, the Group recommends that:  

(i)  the  resolution  fund  would  be  different  from  deposit  insurance  fund  and  other 

protection funds;  

(ii)  it would be pre-funded and built over time through ex ante premiums determined on 

risk-based assessments; 

(iii) in  the  event  a  systemic  institution  is  under  stress,  sufficient  backstops,  including 

temporary funding support from the Government, with safeguards, may be provided 

to ensure adequate liquidity; 

(iv) the  FRA  may  raise  funds  from  the  market  through  issue  of  bonds;  government 

guarantee may have to be extended, if required; 

(v)  the  resolution  fund  would  have  arrangements  to  meet  shortfalls  in  fund  through  ex 

post levies on the financial institutions and FMIs; 

(vi) the  fund  would  also  be  built  up  from  recovery  of  assets  from  failed  institutions;  the 

recoveries may, however, first accrue to deposit insurance or other protection funds if 

and to the extend they have been used instead of resolution fund; 

(vii) the  fund  could  build  a  core  base  adopting  a  suitable  methodology  for  collecting  a 

surcharge (one time capital infusion) from financial institutions and FMIs; 

(viii) 

the  fund  would  maintain  separate  accounts  for  different  types  of  financial 

institutions, viz., banks, insurance firms, securities firms, FMIs, as the premium rates 

and size of fund requirement for different sectors would vary; and  

(ix) inter-fund  borrowing  to  meet  shortfalls  in  one  or  the  other  fund  would  be  allowed. 

[Para 4.107] 

 

17. 

Deposit insurance and other protection funds 

In order to maintain the sanctity of existing deposit insurance and other protection funds, the 

Group recommends that the deposit insurance fund maintained presently by the DICGC and 

other funds, if any, maintained by other regulators for protection of insurance policy holders 

and investors may be kept separate within the FRA. Only those funds will be brought within 

FRA, which will be used for consumer protection pursuant to resolution action and not during 

stage of early intervention by the regulator/supervisor. Both resolution and depositor/investor 

protection funds should be built up simultaneously till a well-defined target level is reached. It 

is  also  recommended  that  the  accretion  to  both  funds  by  way  of  premium  or  any  other 

method of contribution should be exempted from tax. [Para 4.110]  

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 156 

 

18. 

Need for reforms in deposit insurance framework 

Along  with  setting  up  of  a  resolution  framework, reforms  in  deposit  insurance  may  also  be 

taken up to bring the system on the lines expected by international benchmarks, viz., Core 

Principles for Deposit Insurance Systems. Illustratively, the areas where  reforms in deposit 

insurance in India are important to improve its effectiveness are – reduction in timeframe for 

reimbursing depositors, collection of depositor information in a ‘single customer view’ format, 

review  of  coverage  limit,  manner  of  sharing  of  recoveries,  exemption  from  taxation  of 

premium,  review  of  instruments  permissible  for  investment,  back-up  funding  to  support 

shortfalls in deposit insurance fund and technologically advanced data systems and payment 

methods. [Para 4.111]    

 

19. 

Recovery and resolution planning 

The Group recommends that:  

(i)  the  RRPs,  to  start  with,  will  apply  only  to  those  financial  institutions  that  could  be 

systemically significant or critical if they fail;  

(ii)  RRP requirement will also apply to all financial groups/conglomerates, whether they 

are systemically important or not; 

(iii) the RRP regime could be extended to other financial institutions in a phased manner; 

(iv) the recovery plan will be prepared on a regular basis by the institutions as per a pre-

approved format and will be approved by the respective regulator;  

(v)  the  resolution  plan  containing  resolution  strategy  to  be  adopted  for  resolving  the 

institution will be prepared by the institution and approved by the FRA in consultation 

with the concerned regulator;  

(vi) the regulator/supervisors in consultation with the FRA may prescribe varying levels of 

collection and sharing of information depending upon the size and complexity of the 

financial institution; and 

(vii) the resolution plan must be reviewed annually, or earlier if considered necessary, by 

the  resolution  authority  so  as 

to 

take 

into  consideration 

the 

incremental 

developments in the institution as well as the regulatory/supervisory norms.  

[Para 4.122] 

 

20. 

RRPs for FMIs 

In  order  to  ensure  continuity  of  critical  services  provided  by  the  FMIs,  the  systemically 

important  FMIs  may  prepare  RRPs  that  would  prescribe  credible  options  to  recover  from 

extreme  and  severe  stress  scenarios. The  plans  may  essentially  prescribe  methodology  to 

allocate  uncovered  losses  and  liquidity  shortfalls  to  direct  participants,  indirect  participants, 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 157 

 

third-party institutions and/or owners on the basis of and to the extent they are permitted by 

ex-ante arrangements. [Para 4.125] 

 

21. 

Determination of SIFIs by regulators  

In  view  of  the  risks  posed  by  SIFIs  to  the  financial  system,  the  parameters  used  for 

assessing systemic importance of D-SIBs could be employed by the respective regulators to 

determine  the  systemic  importance  of  other  domestic  financial  institutions  in  the  Indian 

context. In this context, the Group recommends that other financial sector regulators should, 

based on the framework being developed by international standard setting bodies, formulate 

a framework for determining SIFI falling under their respective regulatory jurisdiction. [Para 

4.130]  

 

22. 

Improving resolvability 

With  a  view  to  reducing  the  impediments  to  resolution  posed  by  complex  financial 

institutions,  the  financial  groups  and  the  regulatory  authorities  should  work  together  in 

reducing  complexity  in  group  structures,  and  ensure  prudent,  intra-group  transactions  and 

exposures.  The  financial  institutions  should  identify  areas  in  their  existing  organizational 

structure  that  could  pose  difficulties  in  consolidated  risk  management/monitoring  and  take 

suitable measures to reduce those complexities. [Para 4.134]  

 

Though the Indian financial sector regulators have been conservative in letting evolution of 

complex structures, the Group expects innovative developments and complexities that could 

evolve  in  the  light  of  increased  globalization  and  financial  integration.  In  view  of  this,  the 

Group recommends enabling the regulatory/supervisory authorities to have powers for taking 

measures,  such  as  restructuring  the financial  institution’s  business  practices  and  structure, 

for  improving  the  resolvability  of  systemically  important  financial  institutions.  Such  actions 

could form part of the early intervention mechanism. [Para 4.135] 

 

23. 

Financial holding company structure 

To  improve  resolvability  of  financial  conglomerates,  the  Group  recommends  that  the 

Financial  holding  company  structure1  may  be  introduced  for  Indian  financial  system.  The 

appropriate method for resolving such institutions could be decided at a later stage as policy 

evolves and taking into account international developments. [Para 4.138] 

 

 

                                                           
1This  structure  has  already  been  proposed  as  one  of  the  important  criteria  for  licensing  of  new  private  sector 
banks. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 158 

 

24. 

Information sharing between FRA and regulators 

With a view to enabling the FRA to make appropriate decisions and implement an effective 

resolution  action  plan,  the  Group  suggests  an  indicative  template  that  would  facilitate 

financial  institutions  furnishing  information  relating  to  their  structure  to  the  concerned 

regulators/supervisors, who in turn can cooperate and coordinate with the FRA in finalization 

of resolution plan by FRA. [Para 4.143]  

 

25. 

Development and management of database 

The Group recommends setting up of an integrated financial database management centre, 

which would function as a centralized database wherein all financial institutions and FMIs will 

submit  regular  financial  information  electronically.  The  database  will  also  capture  the 

information/  database  currently  being  collected/managed  by  the  respective  regulators.  In 

order  to  ensure  availability  of  high-quality  and  timely  data  (as  high frequency  as  possible), 

the supervisory agencies and FRA should have access to the integrated financial database 

in  respect  of  the  data  that  they  are  authorized  to  collect  from  the  regulated  financial 

institutions. [Para 4.145] 

 

26. 

Service level agreements 

In order to ensure continuity of essential functions in a resolution, for example, for the parts 

of  a  financial  institution  transferred  to  a  bridge  institution  or  surviving  parts  of  a  resolved 

institution,  the  Group  recommends  that  key  service  level  agreements  should  be  legally 

enforceable in crisis situations and also in resolution. This is, however, feasible only through 

ensuring continuity of payment on the terms already agreed upon. In such cases, FRA would 

have to be duly empowered to ensure that the payments to the service providers continue to 

be un-affected during resolution or there are powers in place to ensure that the payments to 

service providers rank higher in the hierarchy of creditors/ payments to be made by the FRA. 

[Para 4.147] 

 

27. 

Framework for set-off, netting and collateral arrangements 

In  order  to  have  systems  in  place  that  reduce  systemic  risk  and  costs  for  the  institutions, 

increase  liquidity  in  the  financial  market  as  a  whole,  and  facilitate  resolution  of  individual 

financial  institutions,  the  proposed  financial  resolution  framework  or  the  existing  statutes 

governing  the  financial  institutions  and  FMIs  should  explicitly  provide  for  rules,  laws  and 

practices  governing  enforceability  of  contractual  set-off,  close-out  netting  and  collateral 

arrangements,  and  segregation  of  client  assets.  The  legal  framework  should  be  clear, 

transparent and enforceable to facilitate the effective implementation of resolution measures. 

[Para 4.160] 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 159 

 

28. 

Temporary stay on contractual obligations 

In  order  to  allow  time  to  FRA  to  decide  a  resolution  action,  the  FRA  should  have  clearly 

defined legal powers to impose a brief stay on the exercise of early termination and netting 

rights only in situation of entry of a firm into resolution. In order to contain the adverse impact 

on market of such a stay, the stay should generally be limited to two days (48 hours), which 

however  could  be  extendable  by  a  maximum  of  another  three  days  after  specifying  the 

reasons  in  writing  by  the  FRA.  The  FRA  should  not  have  any  options  to  cherry-pick 

individual  contracts  with  the  same  counterparty for  effecting  transfer.  Further, following  the 

transfer  of  financial  contracts,  the  early  termination  rights  of  the  counterparty  should  be 

preserved  against  the  acquiring  entity  (transferee)  in  respect  of  subsequent  independent 

default  by  the  transferee.  It  should  also  be  ensured  that  the  substantive  obligations  under 

the  financial  contracts,  including  payment  and  delivery  obligations,  and  provision  of 

collateral, continue to be performed. [Para 4.164] 

 

29. 

Claims of secured creditors 

The  FRA  should  not  be  allowed  to  transfer  those  assets  that  have  a  claim  of  secured 

creditors. It implies that, for example, in case of a bank or its counterparty having a security 

interest over an asset that secures a liability owed to it by the other party, the charged asset 

may  not  be  split  up  from  this  liability  under  a  partial  transfer.  This  would  mean  that  the 

secured  creditors’  claims  cannot  be  separated  from  the  assets  securing  the  liabilities  in  a 

partial property transfer. [Para 4.165] 

 

30. 

Hierarchy of claims in distribution of assets/allocation of losses 

With a view to fair distribution of assets from assets recovered from a failed institution, the 

Group recommends that:  

(i)  the allocation of losses in the times of bankruptcy or application of resolution tools or 

use  of  any  resolution  powers  should  clearly  be  defined  in  the  statute  for  financial 

resolution framework; 

(ii)  the highest ranking creditors should be repaid first and the lower priority ones should 

be  repaid  only  after  all  the  senior  creditors  have  been  paid,  thus  respecting  the 

hierarchy  of  claims  (this  implies  that  the  equity  should  absorb  the  losses  first,  and 

then  the  subordinated  debt  holders,  including  all  regulatory  capital  instruments  in 

terms of seniority, and finally to the senior debt holders);  

(iii) the  FRA  may  be  provided  flexibility  to  depart  from  the  general  principle  of  equal 

treatment of creditors of the same class, for example in case of bridge institution with 

limited assets or in use of bail-in authority, only in exceptional circumstances and by 

giving sufficient reasons. [Para 4.170]  

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 160 

 

31. 

Preference to depositors, insurance policy holders and investors  

The Group recommends that as the ultimate objective of regulation and supervision in India 

is to protect the interests of depositors, insurance policyholders, and investors, the proposed 

statute for financial resolution framework should explicitly provide for preference to be given 

to  depositors,  insurance  policyholders  and  investors  over  other  unsecured  creditors  in 

resolution of failed financial institutions. [Para 4.177] 

 

32. 

Claims of uninsured depositors vis-à-vis DICGC 

Equal treatment may be provided to uninsured depositors of banks and claims of DICGC on 

account  of  payments  made  to  insured  depositors.  This  would  require  that  the  claims  of 

DICGC  rank  pari-passu  with  other  uninsured  depositors  in  sharing  the  distribution  of 

proceeds of liquidated assets of a failed bank. [Para 4.178] 

 

33. 

Right to judicial review of resolution actions 

The Group recommends that the rights to judicial review of resolution actions and available 

remedies should be framed in a way that does not undermine effective resolution (meaning 

resolution action cannot be reversed) and the necessary legal certainty of resolution actions. 

However, legal remedies should be available for improper decision or action by the FRA, in 

the form of monetary compensation for the loss suffered by the stakeholders. The resolution 

framework may also provide a suitable mechanism for appeals and grievance redressal for 

affected stakeholders. [Para 4.182]  

 

34. 

Statutory mandates to foster cross-border cooperation 

Keeping  in  view  plausible  opening  up  of  the  Indian  financial  system  in  future  and  Indian 

financial  institutions  becoming  G-SIFIs  with  large  scale  cross-border  operations,  the  Group 

recommends  that  the  proposed  legislation  for  resolution  regime  for  financial  institutions 

should  enable  the  FRA  to  achieve  cooperative  solution  with  foreign  resolution  authorities. 

[Para 5.24] 

 

35. 

Access to information and information sharing 

While  work  in  the  area  of  cross-border  information  sharing  is  underway,  which  is  being 

enhanced by the FSB through Resolution Steering Group, the Group recommends that the 

resolution  framework  in  India  should  enable  the  FRA  to  share  non-public  information  of 

Indian financial institutions with foreign  home/host resolution authorities on reciprocal basis 

and subject to confidentiality requirements and protection for sensitivity. [Para 5.38] 

 
 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 161 

 

36. 

Supervisory Colleges 

Considering the development of supervisory colleges as a forum for sharing information on 

the overall risk assessment of individual financial entities as well as the financial group and 

also 

the 

fact 

that 

the  RBI  and 

IRDA  have  signed  MoUs/MMOUs  with  various 

jurisdictions/IAIS  for  sharing  of  supervisory  information,  the  Group  recommends  that  the 

supervisory  colleges  could  be  used  as  an  information  sharing  platform  for  crisis  resolution 

also. However, this needs to be taken up with the relevant authorities and the parties to the 

supervisory colleges. [Para 5.42] 

 

37. 

Constitution  of  Crisis  Management  Groups  (CMGs)  and  Institution-specific 

Cross-border Cooperation Agreements (COAGs) 

The Group recommends that in the situation of an Indian financial institution becoming a G-

SIFI in future, the FRA may be empowered to form CMGs and COAGs.  [Para 5.49] 

 

38.  Way Forward 

The Working Group has taken into account the essential features of a sound and effective 

resolution regime as prescribed by international standard setting bodies. It, however, needs 

to  be  recognized  that  the  guidance  on  resolution  regime  is  generally  more  developed  and 

advanced  for  banks  and  progressively  less  for  insurers,  securities  or  investment  firms  and 

FMIs. In addition, the cross-border issues are still evolving and being addressed. Therefore, 

FSDC may consider a review of the recommendations made by this Group at an appropriate 

stage  to  take  into  account  the  documents  and  guidance  as  and  when  issued  by  FSB  and 

other  international  standard  setting  bodies  with  respect  to  evolving  areas,  especially  those 

relating to non-bank financial institutions including FMIs and cross-border issues. [Para 6.1] 

 

The Group also recognises that different types of financial institutions have distinct features 

and  thus  all  essential  features  of  a  resolution  framework  as  prescribed  by  international 

standard  setting  bodies  may  not  be  relevant  for all  types  of  financial  institutions. The  legal 

framework  that  will  evolve  therefore  needs  to  take  into  account  the  specificities  and 

peculiarities of different segments of the financial sectors. [Para 6.2] 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 162 

 

Recent Legislative Reforms in Major FSB Jurisdictions 

Annex 1 

 

 

 

Resolution Framework in the United States 

1. 

The resolution framework in the US underwent changes in response to the financial 

crisis  by  enactment  of  the  Dodd-Frank  Act  on  July  21,  2010.  The  resolution  framework  as 

envisaged  under  Dodd  Frank  framework  makes  a  distinction  between  systemic  and  non-

systemic  institutions.  The  financial  firms  that  are  non-systemic  are  resolved  as  per  their 

respective laws, while the provisions of Dodd Frank apply in case of systemically determined 

firms.  The  Dodd-Frank  Act  also  provides  for  a  framework  for  better  coordination  among 

authorities, domestically and internationally, in recognition of the complexity and global reach 

of many systemically important financial institutions. U.S. regulators have promulgated rules 

implementing  certain  provisions  of  the  Dodd-Frank  Act,  and  continue  to  develop  rules  to 

implement other provisions. 

 

Scope and Coverage 

2. 

The applicability of Dodd-Frank Act and other laws in resolution of various financial 

firms (systemic as well as non-systemic) is given below:  

o  Banks and other insured deposit-taking institutions are resolved pursuant to the 

FDI  Act. 

In  addition,  domestic  branches  and  agencies  of 

foreign  banking 

organizations  are  resolved  under  federal  law  (for  federally  licensed  branches  and 

agencies)  or  applicable  State  law  (for  state-licensed  branches  or  agencies),  where 

not pre-empted by federal law. 

o  Brokers, dealers and other investment firms for which a systemic determination is 

made under Section 203 of the Dodd-Frank Act may be resolved under Title II of that 

Act. Registered brokers, dealers and other investment firms that are not deemed to 

be  systemic  are  generally  resolved  pursuant  to  Securities  Investor  Protection  Act 

(SIPA). Investment firms that are not registered brokers or dealers may be resolved 

under the Bankruptcy Code. 

o  Dodd-Frank Act applies to insurance companies for which a systemic determination 

is  made  under  Section  203  of  that  Act;  however,  insurance  companies  are  to  be 

liquidated  or  rehabilitated  as  provided  under  State  law.  Insurance  companies  for 

which no systemic determination is made under Section 203 of the Dodd-Frank Act 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 163 

 

are generally resolved in accordance with the applicable requirements of the State in 

which the insurer is legally domiciled.  

o  Privately owned and operated financial market infrastructures for which a systemic 

determination  is  made  under  Section  203  of  the  Dodd-Frank  Act  may  be  resolved 

under  Title 

II  of 

that  Act.  Privately  owned  and  operated 

financial  market 

infrastructures for which no systemic determination is made under Section 203 of the 

Dodd-Frank Act may be resolved under the Bankruptcy Code. 

o  The  orderly  liquidation  authority  under  Title  II  of  the  Dodd-Frank  Act  may  apply  to 

both financial holding companies and bank holding companies, including holding 

companies  of  insured  depository  institutions,  brokers  or  dealers,  or  insurance 

companies.  Under  the  FDI  Act,  the  resolution  authority  does  not  extend  to  holding 

companies of insured depository institutions. Under State law, the resolution authority 

does not extend to holding companies of regulated insurance entities.  

o  The  orderly  liquidation  authority  under  the  Dodd-Frank  Act  may  extend  to  certain 

subsidiaries  of  a  covered  financial  company  subject  to  the  orderly  liquidation 

authority. Under the FDI Act, the resolution authority does not extend to operational 

affiliates of insured depository institutions but the resolution authority would generally 

control  subsidiaries  as  an  equity  holder  of  such  entities.  Under  State  law,  the 

resolution  authority  does  not  extend  to  non-subsidiary  operational  affiliates  of 

regulated insurance entities. 

 

Scope of Dodd-Frank Act 

3. 

The orderly liquidation authority established in 2010 under Title II of the Dodd-Frank 

Act  applies  to  bank  holding  companies  and  certain  other  financial  companies  (including 

privately  owned  and  operated  financial  market  infrastructures)  and  certain  of  their 

subsidiaries whose “failure … and resolution under otherwise applicable Federal or State law 

would  have  serious  adverse  effects  on  financial  stability  in  the  United  States.”  “Financial 

companies”  include  bank  holding  companies,  nonbank  financial  companies  supervised  by 

the Federal Reserve Board, any company that is predominantly engaged in activities that the 

Federal Reserve Board has determined are financial in nature or incidental thereto, and any 

subsidiary thereof that is predominantly engaged in activities that the Federal Reserve Board 

has determined are financial in nature or incidental thereto (other than a subsidiary that is an 

insured depository institution or an insurance company). 

 

4. 

More specifically, the orderly liquidation authority under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act 

applies  to  a  financial  company  only  following,  among  other  things,  an  evaluation  by  the 

specified U.S. agencies as to why a case under the Bankruptcy Code is inappropriate and a 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 164 

 

determination by the Secretary, in consultation with the President of the United States, that 

such financial company’s failure and resolution under otherwise applicable Federal or State 

law would have serious adverse effects on U.S. financial stability.  Such a determination is 

made as part of the decision to put the financial company into resolution under the orderly 

liquidation authority of the Dodd-Frank Act. 

 

Role of FDIC 

5. 

The powers granted to the FDIC as receiver under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act are 

analogous to those the FDIC uses to resolve failed insured depository institutions under the 

FDI Act. The FDIC must exercise these powers in a manner which is intended to preserve 

financial stability while minimizing moral hazard. These authorities include  

(i) 

an  immediate  source  of  liquidity  for  an  orderly  liquidation,  which  allows 

continuation of essential functions and maintains asset values;  

(ii) 

the ability to make advance dividends on creditor claims and prompt distributions 

to creditors based upon expected recoveries;  

(iii) 

the  ability  to  continue  key,  systemically  important  operations,  including  through 

the formation of one or more bridge financial companies; and  

(iv) 

the ability to transfer all qualified financial contracts with a given counterparty to 

another  entity  (such  as  a  bridge  financial  company)  and  avoid  their  immediate 

termination and liquidation to preserve value and promote stability. 

 

6. 

Under  the  reforms,  the  FDIC’s  resolution  authority  is  significantly  expanded.  The 

FDIC is to be appointed receiver for failed systemically important financial companies under 

the  Dodd-Frank  Act  and  for  failed  insured  depository  institutions  under  the  FDI  Act.  The 

FDIC  must  be  appointed  as  receiver  for  insured  federal  savings  associations  and  national 

banks. For state chartered and Federal Reserve member banks, the chartering authority has 

the  option  of  appointing  the  FDIC  as  receiver,  although  rarely  has  another  entity  been 

appointed.  

 

7. 

In addition, the FDIC as receiver of a covered financial company under Title II of the 

Dodd-Frank Act may, in certain circumstances, appoint itself receiver for any of the covered 

financial  company’s  subsidiaries  that  are  not  themselves  insured  depository  institutions, 

insurance  companies,  or  certain  brokers  or  dealers.  In  the  event  of  multiple  resolution 

proceedings for separate legal entity subsidiaries of a parent holding company deemed to be 

systemically  significant,  the  FDIC  would  retain  the  role  as  lead  resolution  authority  for  the 

entire financial group.  

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 165 

 

8. 

Arrangements  for  cooperation  and  communication  are  typically  set  out  in  statutes. 

For example, the Dodd-Frank Act requires that when the FDIC acts as receiver for a covered 

broker  or  dealer,  the  FDIC  must  appoint  the  Securities  Investor  Protection  Corporation 

(SIPC) to act as trustee. Where the FDIC is appointed receiver for an insurance company, 

such  resolution  is  required  to  be  conducted  in  accordance  with  applicable  State  law.  The 

Dodd-Frank Act also contemplates consultation by the FDIC as receiver with SIPC and the 

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in connection with the determination of whether 

to  transfer  customer  accounts  of  a  covered  broker  or  dealer  to  another  broker  or  dealer 

rather than to a bridge financial company. 

 

Triggers for Resolution 

9. 

Under the FDI Act, the decision to resolve an insured depository institution is made 

by  its  Federal  or  State  chartering  authority.  If  the  chartering  authority  decides  to  place  the 

institution  into  receivership,  the  FDIC  must  be  appointed  receiver.  Under  the  FDI  Act, 

intervention  will  be  triggered  by  the  failure  of  an  insured  depository  institution  to  maintain 

adequate  capital,  and/or  operating  in  an  unsafe  or  unsound  condition.  Triggering  events 

include:  

(i) 

failure to maintain adequate capital (below a tangible capital to assets level of less 

than 2 per cent of assets under the prompt corrective action scheme);  

(ii) 

assets are less than the institution’s obligations;  

(iii) 

substantial dissipation of  assets due to any  violation of any statute or regulation, 

or any unsafe or unsound practice;  

(iv) 

an unsafe or unsound condition to transact business;  

(v) 

any wilful violation of a cease-and-desist order;  

(vi) 

any concealment of the institution’s books, papers, records, or assets;  

(vii) 

the  institution  is  likely  to  be  unable  to  pay  its  obligations  or  meet  its  depositors’ 

demands in the normal course of business;  

(viii) 

the  institution  has  incurred  or  is  likely  to  incur  losses  that  will  deplete  all  or 

substantially all of its capital, and there is no reasonable prospect for the institution 

to become adequately capitalized without federal assistance;  

(ix) 

any  violation  of  any  law  or  regulation,  or  any  unsafe  or  unsound  practice  or 

condition  that  is  likely  to  cause  insolvency  or  substantial  dissipation  of  assets  or 

earnings,  weaken  the  institution’s  condition  or  otherwise  seriously  prejudice  the 

interests of the institution’s depositors or the deposit insurance fund;  

(x) 

the institution consents to the appointment;  

(xi) 

the institution ceases to be an insured institution;  

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 166 

 

(xii) 

the institution is undercapitalized under the prompt corrective action scheme and 

(a)  has  no  reasonable  prospect  of  becoming  adequately  capitalized;  (b)  fails  to 

become adequately capitalized when required to do so; (c) fails to submit a capital 

restoration plan acceptable to its federal supervisor within the time prescribed; or 

(d) materially fails to implement a capital restoration plan;  

(xiii) 

the insured depository institution is critically undercapitalized;  

(xiv) 

for national banks, the bank has fewer than five directors;  

(xv) 

the  insured  depository  institution  has  been  found  guilty  of  a  money  laundering 

offense;  

(xvi)  under  the  Dodd-Frank  Act,  the  insured  depository  institution  defaults  on  an 

obligation guaranteed by the FDIC; and  

(xvii)  for a federally  licensed  branch  of  a  parent foreign  bank,  if the  Comptroller  of  the 

Currency  is  of  the  opinion  or  has  reason  to  believe  that  such  foreign  bank  has 

violated  or  failed  to  comply  with  any  of  the  relevant  provisions,  or  any  rules, 

regulations  or  orders  of  the  Comptroller  of  the  Currency,  or  a  conservator  is 

appointed for  such foreign  bank  or  a similar  proceeding  is  initiated  in the foreign 

bank’s country of organization. 

 

10. 

Under  the  Dodd-Frank  Act,  a  financial  company  is  subject  to  orderly  liquidation 

following  the  statutorily  prescribed  recommendation,  determination  and  expedited  judicial 

review process, which includes the requirement that the Secretary determine, among other 

things, that  the financial  company  is  in  default  or  in  danger  of  default.  Section  203(c)(4) of 

the Dodd-Frank Act provides that, for purposes of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, a financial 

company shall be considered to be in default or in danger of default if -  

a)  a case has been, or likely will promptly be, commenced with respect to the financial 

company under the Bankruptcy Code,  

b)  the financial company has incurred, or is likely to incur, losses that will deplete all or 

substantially all of its capital, and there is no reasonable prospect for the company to 

avoid such depletion,  

c)  the assets of the financial company are, or are likely to be, less than its obligations to 

creditors and others, or  

d)  the  financial  company  is,  or  is  likely  to  be,  unable  to  pay  its  obligations  (other  than 

those subject to a bona fide dispute) in the normal course of business. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 167 

 

11. 

In order for the FDIC to be appointed receiver under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act for 

a 

failed  or 

failing  systemically 

important 

financial  company,  a 

recommendation, 

determination  and  expedited  judicial  review  process  must  transpire.  The  recommendation 

process  is  initiated  at  the  Secretary’s  request  or  upon  the  initiative  of the  Federal  Reserve 

Board and the FDIC, in the case of a standard financial company. The recommendation to 

place a broker or dealer (or a financial company in which the largest domestic subsidiary is a 

broker or dealer) into receivership is made by the Federal Reserve Board and the SEC, in 

consultation  with  the  FDIC.  Similarly,  the  recommendation  to  place  an  insurance  company 

(or a financial company in which the largest domestic subsidiary is an insurance company) is 

made  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Board  and  the  Director  of  the  Federal  Insurance  Office,  in 

consultation with the FDIC. In each instance, the decision to resolve a financial company is 

simultaneously  a  decision  under  the  statute  to  appoint  the  FDIC  as  receiver  for  the  failed 

financial company. 

 

12. 

Upon a 2/3 vote by both boards (or a 2/3 vote by the Federal Reserve Board and the 

SEC in the case of a broker or dealer or a financial company in which the largest domestic 

subsidiary  is  a  broker  or  dealer,  or  a  2/3  vote  by  the  Federal  Reserve  Board  and  the 

approval of the Director of the Federal Insurance Office in the case of an insurance company 

or a financial company in which the largest domestic subsidiary is an insurance company), a 

written  recommendation  is  delivered  to  the  Secretary.  The  written  recommendation  must 

include:  an evaluation of whether the financial company is in default or danger of default; a 

description of the effect the failure of the financial company would have upon U.S. financial 

stability;  an  evaluation  of  why  a  case  under  the  Bankruptcy  Code  is  not  appropriate;  and 

certain other evaluations required by statute. 

 

13. 

The  Secretary,  in  consultation  with  the  President,  is  responsible  for  making  a 

determination as to whether the financial company should be placed into receivership under 

the Dodd-Frank Act. Such determination must include, among other things, the Secretary’s 

determination that the financial company is in default or in danger of default, that the failure 

of the financial company and its resolution under otherwise applicable Federal or State law 

would have serious adverse effects on U.S. financial stability, and that an orderly resolution 

under Title II would avoid or mitigate the adverse risks to U.S. financial stability. 

 

14. 

The  FDIC  is  appointed  receiver  of  the  financial  company  following  successful 

completion of an expedited judicial review process. Under that statutory process, the board 

of  directors  of  the  financial  company  may  acquiesce  to  the  appointment  of  the  FDIC  as 

receiver.  If  the  board  of  directors  does  not  acquiesce  to  the  appointment,  the  Secretary  is 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 168 

 

responsible  for  petitioning  the  District  Court  for  the  District  of  Columbia  for  a  hearing.  The 

hearing is confidential. Its results may be appealed, but there is no stay  pending any such 

appeal. 

 

15. 

If the District Court does not make a determination within 24 hours of receipt of the 

Secretary’s petition, the Secretary’s petition is granted by operation of law, and the FDIC is 

appointed receiver of the covered financial company. 

 

Resolution Tools 

Purchase and Assumption Transactions 

16. 

The most common resolution method used by FDIC for failing banks and thrifts is the 

purchase  and  assumption  (P&A)  transaction.  A  P&A  transaction  is  a  closed  institution 

transaction in which a healthy institution (generally referred to as either the acquirer or the 

“assuming” bank or thrift) purchases some or all of the assets of a failed bank or thrift and 

assumes  some  or  all  of  the  liabilities,  including  all  insured  deposits.  Occasionally,  an 

acquirer may receive assistance from the FDIC as insurer to complete the transaction. As a 

part  of  the  P&A  transaction,  the  acquirer  usually  pays  a  premium  to  the  FDIC  for  the 

assumed deposits, which decreases the total resolution cost.  

 

Deposit Payoffs 

17. 

A  deposit  payoff  is  only  executed  if  the  FDIC  does  not  receive  a  bid  for  a  P&A 

transaction that meets the least cost  test. There are two types  of deposit payoffs. The first 

type  is  a  straight  deposit  payoff,  in  which  the  FDIC  in  its  corporate  capacity  ensures  that 

each depositor is paid the amount due, up to the insured limit. The second type is an insured 

deposit transfer, in which insured deposits and secured liabilities of a failed bank or thrift are 

transferred to a healthy institution, and service to insured depositors is uninterrupted. 

 

Bridge tool 

18. 

Under  the  Dodd-Frank  Act  and  the  FDI  Act,  a  receiver  is  generally  appointed  in 

respect of a failed financial company or insured depository institution, respectively, at which 

time such institution is closed. The receiver has the authority to manage and operate assets 

and operations of the predecessor institution in resolution, including by use of a bridge entity. 

In addition, the FDIC is authorized under both the Dodd-Frank Act and the FDI Act to utilize 

private  persons  to,  among  other  things,  provide  management  services  in  respect  of  bridge 

institutions  and  entities  in  resolution.  The  FDIC can  repudiate  contracts,  transfer  contracts, 

purchase  and  sell  assets,  and  has  other  powers  necessary  to resolve  the failed  institution, 

including  by  establishing  a  bridge  institution.  In  addition,  the  FDIC  can  manage,  through  a 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 169 

 

receivership  or  one  or  more  bridge  entities,  the  assets  and  operations  of  the  failed  firm  in 

receivership. The FDIC is empowered to operate the failed insured depository institution or 

covered  financial  company  with  all  of  the  powers  of  the  members  or  shareholders,  the 

directors, and the officers of the entity, and to conduct all business of the entity.  

 

19. 

Under  both  the  Dodd-Frank  Act  and  the  FDI  Act,  a  bridge  institution  may  operate 

without any capital or surplus, or with such capital or surplus as the FDIC as receiver may in 

its discretion determine to be appropriate. The FDIC as receiver also has discretion to cause 

capital  stock  or  other  securities  of  a  bridge  institution  to  be  issued  and  offered  for  sale  in 

amounts and on terms and conditions as the Corporation may determine. Under the Dodd-

Frank  Act,  the  status  of  a  bridge  financial  company  shall  terminate  as  such  upon,  among 

other things, the sale of 80 per cent or more of its capital stock to a person or entity other 

than the FDIC or another bridge financial company. Under both the Dodd-Frank Act and the 

FDI  Act,  the  FDIC  as  receiver  may  in  its  discretion  either  raise  capital  or  make  funds 

available  for  the  operation  of  the  bridge  institution  in  lieu  of  capital.  Under  the  Dodd-Frank 

Act, the FDIC as receiver may authorize a bridge institution to obtain credit. 

 

20. 

The transfer of assets or liabilities from the institution in an FDIC receivership to the 

bridge  institution  is  typically  effectuated  through  purchase  and  assumption  agreements. 

Typically, the terms of the purchase and assumption agreements provide for only a limited 

period during which assets or liabilities transferred to a bridge institution may be put back to 

the receivership, and then only for purposes consistent with efficient resolution. 

 

Single Point Entry  

21. 

The  FDIC  has  developed  a  resolution  strategy  -  the  single  point  of  entry  creditor 

capitalization resolution strategy - that is being specifically tailored for use in the resolution of 

those  global  systemically  important  financial  institutions  (“G-SIFIs”)  that  are  potentially 

subject  to  the  FDIC’s  resolution  authority  under  Title  II.  Under  this  still-evolving  resolution 

strategy,  the  FDIC  will  be  appointed  as  receiver of  the  ultimate  parent  holding  company  of 

the  financial  group  following  the  company’s  failure  and  the  completion  of  the  appointment 

process set forth in Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act. Immediately following the parent holding 

company  being  placed  into  receivership,  a  bridge  financial  company  will  be  formed  into 

which  the  assets  of  the  failed  financial  company,  including  its  investments  in  and  loans  to 

subsidiaries,  will  be  transferred.  This  newly-formed  bridge  financial  company  will  allow  the 

enterprise to continue to perform the systemically important functions of the failed financial 

company,  thereby  minimizing  disruptions to the financial  system  and  minimizing  the  risk of 

spill over effects to counterparties. Subsidiaries - both domestic and foreign - of the financial 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 170 

 

company may remain open and operating. The Orderly Liquidation Fund will be available to 

provide  liquidity  and  guarantees,  as  necessary,  to  the  bridge financial  company,  which  will 

then  serve  as  a  source  of  strength  to  its  subsidiaries  by  arranging  for  necessary  funding. 

Following completion of a valuation and claims process, the enterprise may be recapitalized 

by creditors in the failed financial company receiving a combination of equity and new debt in 

the new financial company in satisfaction of their claims against the receivership. 

 

22. 

The  FDIC  has  broad  discretion  in  exercising  the  single  point  of  entry  creditor 

capitalization  resolution  strategy  (e.g.,  bail-in  within  resolution).  The  receiver  has  the 

authority to exercise this resolution strategy by satisfying creditor claims through provision of 

equity  in  a  newly  formed  bridge  entity.  The  FDIC  anticipates  that  in  most  cases,  general 

creditor claims such as long-term unsecured debt would be subject to conversion to equity. 

Such debt would not be limited to pre-defined instruments such as contingent capital. As part 

of  the  claims  administration  process,  the  receiver  is  required  to  administer  claims  in 

accordance with the statutory order of priorities. 

 

Funding for Operational Expenses 

23. 

The operations of the FDIC acting in its corporate capacity are generally funded by 

the  Deposit  Insurance  Fund,  which  is  funded  through  regular  assessments  on  insured 

depository institutions. With respect to operations of the FDIC in its capacity as receiver of 

failed insured depository institutions, such operations are funded by the assets of the failed 

insured depository institution and, if necessary, the Deposit Insurance Fund.   

 

24. 

Reasonable  implementation  expenses  of  the  FDIC  incurred  as  part  of  its  efforts  to 

implement Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, including expenses related to the development of 

policies,  procedures,  rules  and  regulations  and  other  planning  activities,  are  to  be 

reimbursed by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC). The FSOC’s expenses are 

funded  through  assessments  on  industry  participants  by  the  Office  of  Financial  Research. 

The FDIC’s operations relating to the resolution of covered financial companies under Title II 

of the Dodd-Frank Act are funded by the assets of the failed covered financial company and 

the Orderly Liquidation Fund. If the proceeds of the resolution of the failed covered financial 

company are insufficient to repay any amounts borrowed from the Orderly Liquidation Fund, 

such shortfall is funded through risk-based assessments on certain financial companies. By 

law, taxpayers shall bear no losses from the FDIC’s exercise of authority under Title II of the 

Dodd-Frank Act. 

 

25. 

The  Dodd-Frank  Act  amended  the  FDI  Act  to  prohibit  the  FDIC  from  providing 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 171 

 

assistance  to  an  open  insured  depository  institution.  Similarly,  Section  1101  of  the  Dodd-

Frank  Act  amended  the  FRA  to  prohibit  the  Federal  Reserve  Board  from  providing  certain 

emergency assistance to insolvent institutions.  

 

26.  With respect to securities investors, SIPA created a SIPA Fund, which may be used 

by SIPC in the resolution of a broker or dealer. SIPC uses the fund to advance to the trustee 

for the liquidation up to $500,000 for each customer of the broker or dealer with a claim for 

cash or securities as may be required to pay or otherwise satisfy customer claims when such 

customer claims exceed the pro rata share of customer property. With respect to insurance 

entities,  State-operated  guaranty  funds  compensate  claimants  according  to  the  limits  of 

State laws. Insurance guaranty funds are funded by assessments on the remaining industry 

participants offering coverage for that line of insurance in that State.   

 

Order of priorities in claims 

27. 

As  part  of  the  claims  administration  process,  the  receiver  is  required  to  administer 

claims  in  accordance  with  the  statutory  order  of  priorities.  Under  the  priority  scheme, 

subordinated claims, general creditor claims (which would include senior unsecured claims) 

are  subordinate  to  certain  other  claims,  including  administrative  claims,  and  therefore  may 

be  subject  to  loss.  Equity  interests  are  the  lowest  priority  claim.  Accordingly,  an  equity 

claimant would not be entitled to receive any remuneration (including any interest in a newly 

formed  bridge  entity)  until  all  other  creditors,  including  general  unsecured  creditors  and 

subordinated creditors, had been paid in full. 

 

Recovery and resolution planning 

28. 

Under  Title  II  of  the  Dodd-Frank  Act,  the  FDIC  is  the  resolution  authority  for  failing 

financial  companies for  which  a  systemic  determination  is  made  under  Section  203  of  that 

Act. Accordingly, the FDIC is preparing standby resolution plans and resolution strategies to 

be  able  to  exercise  this  authority,  if  necessary,  in  the  event  of  the  failure  of  such  an 

institution.  The  U.S.  banking  agencies,  under  their  supervisory  powers  and  safety-and-

soundness  authority,  requested  the  largest  globally  active  U.S.  banking  organizations  to 

develop  recovery  plans  beginning  in  2010.  The  Federal  Reserve  expects  to  provide 

additional guidance related to recovery planning and require all U.S. G-SIFIs to create and 

maintain recovery plans by the end of 2013. 

 

Information sharing arrangements 

29. 

The  U.S.  banking  agencies  have  authority  to  share  information  with  domestic  and 

foreign  regulatory  and  supervisory  agencies,  as  well  as  with  “any  person  that  the  Federal 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 172 

 

banking agency determines to be appropriate.” An authority would generally be considered 

an “appropriate” or “proper” recipient if it has supervisory or resolution responsibilities for a 

financial institution, it has a clear and legitimate need for the information in order to carry out 

those responsibilities, and it agrees to keep the information confidential to the fullest extent 

possible under applicable law. As a general matter, only information directly relevant to the 

specific statutory responsibilities of an authority would be shared with that authority. 

 

30. 

The  U.S.  banking  agencies  may  share  all  types  of  information  (including  customer 

and firm-specific data) related to the recipient’s responsibilities for supervision and resolution 

of  financial  institutions.  Customer  data  is  afforded  a  high  degree  of  protection  and  is 

generally  not  shared  unless  a  foreign  authority  has  a  specific  supervisory  or  resolution-

related need for such information. There are, however, no significant legal hurdles to sharing 

such information in appropriate circumstances.    

 

31. 

The  U.S.  banking  agencies  require  the  recipient  of  shared  information  to  agree  to 

maintain the confidentiality of the information under a fully adequate legal regime and to the 

fullest  extent  permitted by  law.  Before  providing  information  to foreign  authorities,  the  U.S. 

banking  agencies  generally  request  and  evaluate  information  about  the  legal  regime 

governing  protection  of  information  in  the  foreign  authority’s  jurisdiction.  The  U.S.  banking 

agencies  would  not  provide  information  (or  would  provide  more  limited  information)  if  the 

foreign legal regime did not appear adequate to protect it.  

 

32. 

Generally, the agency disclosing the information must determine that such disclosure 

will not prejudice the interests of the United States. Further, pursuant to the regulations cited 

above, the authority making the request must also demonstrate a need for the information.   

 

33.  Whether  an  MOU  is  necessary  or  appropriate  depends  on  the  circumstances.  For 

sharing  information  between  certain  agencies,  including  the  U.S.  banking  agencies,  MoUs 

are not required, but a recipient authority would generally be required to agree in writing to 

use information only for the purposes of supervision, recovery and resolution planning, and 

resolution,  and to keep  it  confidential  to the fullest  extent  permitted  by  law.  In  most  cases, 

reciprocity is not a requirement, but the U.S. banking agencies and the SEC would take into 

account an authority’s willingness to share relevant information on a reciprocal basis. 

 

34. 

Information  provided  to  an  agency  by  a  third  party  would  not  generally  be  shared 

unless  the  person that  provided  it  consents  or  such  information  is  of  a  nature  that  it  is  not 

protected  for  some  reason,  for  example,  it  is  the  subject  of  certain  law  enforcement 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 173 

 

investigations.  The  U.S.  banking  agencies  will  only  be  able  to  share  information  obtained 

from or produced jointly with other domestic authorities (e.g., state banking supervisors) with 

foreign  authorities  with  a  role  in  resolution  if  the  domestic  authority  that  provided  or  jointly 

produced the information agrees to such disclosure. 

 

Resolution Framework in the United Kingdom 

35. 

The  institutional  framework  for  regulation  of  financial  sector  and  bank  resolution  is 

governed by the following agencies: 

o  Her Majesty’s Treasury (HMT): in addition to the overall institutional structure of financial 

regulation  and  the  legislation  that  governs  it,  informs  to  parliament  regarding  the 

management  of  serious  disruptions  to  the  financial  system  and  measures  to  resolve 

them (including exceptional solvency support from HMT itself).  

o  Bank  of  England  (BoE):  acts  as  lender  of  last  resort  in  order  to  limit  risk  of  problems 

affecting a particular institution from spreading to other parts of the system. It acts as the 

lead  resolution  authority  for  failing  U.K.  banks  and  building  societies  under  the  special 

resolution regime introduced by the Banking Act, 2009 (BA).  

o  Financial  Services  Authority  (FSA):  Acts  as  prudential  supervisor  with  key  operational 

role  of  resolving  problems  at  firms  prior  to  resolution  via  capital  raising;  and  business 

disposals.  Triggers  the  Special  Resolution  Regime  (SRR)  and  is  responsible  for 

authorization and supervision of bridge banks created under the SRR.  

o  Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS): FSCS, an operationally independent 

body accountable to the FSA, manages a protection scheme with five sub-schemes for 

different categories of customers, one of those being insured depositors in deposit-taking 

institutions. 

 

Banking Act 2009 

36. 

Pre-crisis,  the  resolution  of  U.K.  banks  had  relied  on  general  corporate  insolvency 

law (codified largely in The Insolvency Act of 1986). Lacking an appropriate legal framework 

for  bank  resolution,  the  United  Kingdom  responded  to  the  failure  of  Northern  Rock  by 

adopting  the  Banking  (Special  Provisions)  Act,  2008  (BSPA)  in  February  2008  as  an 

emergency, temporary measure with a sunset clause of one year. The BSPA provided broad 

powers  (based  around  forced  changes  to  capital  structure  and  mandatory  transfers  of 

property) to HMT used in the resolution of Northern Rock and other problem banks. 

 

37. 

The  BA  establishes  a  permanent  resolution  framework  built  around  a  SRR  for 

resolving banks, which includes a set of directed transfer powers (referred to as “stabilization 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 174 

 

powers” in BA) and a Bank Insolvency Procedure (BIP) for winding up insolvent banks in a 

manner  protecting  insured  depositors.  The  BA,  inter  alia,  sets  out  the  trigger  points  for 

invoking the SRR, the objectives of the SRR, the various stabilization (i.e., transfer) options 

under the SRR, and the tools for achieving the desired results. The BA confers on the BoE 

and HMT powers to effect specific stabilization options in various situations and creates an 

obligation  to  consult  with  other  authorities.  Important  secondary  legislation  sets  out  the 

standards  for  compensation  to  stakeholders  affected  by  the  resolution  and  also  provides 

important creditor safeguards, preventing property transfer powers from being used in ways 

that  could  interfere  with  netting, security  interests,  and  collateral rights for  the mitigation  of 

credit risk, and ensuring that in partial property transfers creditors are left no worse off than if 

the whole bank had been liquidated. 

 

Special Resolution Regime 

Objectives 

38. 

The  SRR  provides  a  major  step  forward  in  U.K.  legislation  and  has  been  in  many 

respects the model for the current proposed resolution framework in the EU. When taking or 

contemplating  any  action  under  the  SRR,  the  authorities  must  have  regard  to  specified 

objectives.  The  objectives  are  not  ranked  according  to  any  priority  and  their  relative 

importance depends on the particular situation. 

o  Objective 1: to protect and enhance the stability of the financial systems of the United 

Kingdom 

o  Objective 2: to protect and enhance public confidence in the stability of the banking 

systems of the United Kingdom. 

o  Objective 3: to protect depositors 

o  Objective 4: to protect public funds 

o  Objective 5: to avoid interfering with property rights in contravention of a convention 

right (within the meaning of the Human Rights Act 1998). 

 

Resolution Tools 

39. 

The  SRR  comprises  three  ‘stabilization  options’  for  resolving  a  troubled  bank  (i) 

transfer to a private sector purchaser; (ii) transfer to a bridge bank; and (iii) temporary public 

ownership. In this context, a ‘bank’ is effectively defined as an authorized deposit taking firm 

(per  S2(1)  of  the  Act).  The  stabilization  options  are  effected  by  way  of  the  “stabilization 

powers” which are the share and property transfer powers. The property transfer powers can 

be used to transfer only part of the property of the bank. The legislation also includes: (i) a 

bank  insolvency  procedure  (BIP)  for  winding  up  a  bank  (in  a  manner  that  fully  protects 

insured  depositors)  that  is  not  resolved  using  a  stabilization  option;  and  (ii)  a  bank 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 175 

 

administration  procedure  (BAP)  to  govern  the  insolvency  of  a  residual  entity  that  is  left 

behind  after  the  use  of  the  property  transfer  powers  where  they  have  been  exercise  to 

transfer only part of the business of the BoE. 

 

40. 

Before any stabilization power is used, the FSA (now Prudential Regulation Authority 

(PRA)1)must  determine  that  both  of  the  following  ‘general  conditions’  have  been  satisfied: 

condition 1 is that the bank is failing, or is likely to fail, to satisfy the threshold conditions for 

holding a banking license; and condition 2 is that having regard to timing and other relevant 

circumstances it is not reasonably likely that (ignoring the stabilization powers) action will be 

taken  by  or  in  respect  of  the  bank  that  will  enable  the  bank  to  satisfy  the  threshold 

conditions.  The threshold  conditions  that  are  relevant  to  the  FSA’s  determination  are  all  of 

the  conditions that  an  entity  must fulfill  in  order to  be  authorized  to  carry  out  the regulated 

activity  of  deposit  taking.  While  this  covers  a  range  of  both  qualitative  and  quantitative 

criteria,  the  most  important  conditions  for  SRR  purposes  would  be  prudential  standards. 

Although the FSA makes the determination of the general conditions, the legislation requires 

it to consult with HMT and BoE. 

 

41. 

If  the  general  conditions  are  met,  either  the  BoE  (for  transfer  to  a  private  sector 

purchaser  or  bridge  bank)  or  HMT  (for  Temporary  Public  Ownership  (TPO))  may  use  a 

stabilization  option,  subject  to  the  relevant  ‘specific  conditions’.  Essentially,  the  specific 

conditions are public interest tests, where the relevant authority (whether the BoE or HMT) 

have to be satisfied that use of a stabilization option is necessary to counter a threat to U.K. 

financial  stability  or  to  protect  the  public  interest.  The  threshold  in the  legislation  is  highest 

for  TPO.  The  TPO  is  a  ‘last  resort’  option  depending  on  necessity  to  counter  a  “serious 

threat”  to  financial  stability.  (In  certain  situations,  the  TPO  power  may  also  permit  HMT  to 

place  a  holding  company  in  temporary  public  ownership).  While  the  BoE  and  HMT  have 

primary  responsibility  for  determining  if  specific  conditions  are  met,  the  legislation  requires 

that  they  consult  with  each  other  and  the  FSA.  If  no  specific  conditions  for  using  a 

stabilization  option  are  met,  the  bank  would  be  placed  into  the  bank  insolvency  procedure 

with  insured  deposits  being  transferred  to  another  bank,  or  FSCS  paying  out  to  insured 

depositors as rapidly as possible. It should be noted that even if the specific conditions are 

                                                           
1The Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), as part of the Bank of England, has become the United Kingdom’s 
prudential regulator for banks, building societies and credit unions (collectively called deposit-takers), insurers 
and  major  investment  firms.  Accordingly,  the  Financial  Services  Authority  (FSA)  now  ceases  to  exist.  The 
PRA,  whose objective is to  promote the safety and soundness of these firms, seeking to minimize the adverse 
effects  that  they  can  have  on  the  stability  of  the  UK  financial  system,  and  contribute  to  ensuring  that  the 
insurance  policyholders  are  appropriately  protected.  The  PRA  works  with  the  Bank  of  England’s  Special 
Resolution  Unit,  which  plans  for  and  implements  resolutions  of  failing  UK  banks  and  building  societies,  on 
resolution and operational resilience. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 176 

 

met for any of the stabilization options, the relevant authority need not take that action (i.e., 

the authority is not under a duty to do so, rather they have available the power to take the 

relevant action where the conditions are met). 

 

42. 

Upon  entry  into  the  SRR,  the  BoE  is  the  lead  authority  (except  for TPO—for  which 

HMT  leads)  conducting  any  sale  of  the  bank  to  private  parties  or,  as  an  intermediate 

measure,  by  establishing  a  bridge  bank.  After  transfer  powers  have  been  used,  the  SRR 

also  includes  a  bank  administration  process  for  the  insolvency  of  the  residual  entity.  An 

important  feature  of  the  bank  administration  process  is  a  requirement  for  the  residual 

institution  in  administration  to  provide  continued  services  and  facilities  as  needed  to  the 

recipient of the transferred business to enable it to operate effectively. 

 

Scope of SRR 

43. 

The SRR is applicable to commercial banks and, with some modifications to building 

societies that are authorized to accept  deposits in the United Kingdom. BA provisions may 

also  apply  to  credit  unions,  after  a  regulation  by  HMT  to  implement  this  provision  in  the 

legislation.  The  U.K.  holding  companies  of  banking groups  are  included  to  a  limited  extent 

(TPO  is  the  only  stabilization  option  to  which  holding  companies  may  be  subject).  Also 

certain  “continuity  obligations”  may  be  imposed  on  a  residual  bank  or  other  banking group 

companies to continue to provide services and facilities to a solvent transferee (including a 

bridge bank) to which part or all of the business of a failing bank has been transferred. But 

the stabilization powers of the SRR are largely orientated at deposit-taking entities. 

 

Triggers for the SRR 

44. 

The  triggers  for  initiation  of  the  key  powers  available  in  the  UK  SRR  are  set  out  in 

Section 7 of the Banking Act. They are twofold and both conditions must be satisfied. First, 

the bank must be failing, or likely to fail, to satisfy its ‘threshold conditions’. Second, it must 

not  be  reasonably  likely  that  action  will  be  taken  by  or  in  respect  of  the  bank  (other  than 

potentially  through  the  SRR)  that  would  enable  it  once  again  to  satisfy  the  threshold 

conditions.  

 

45. 

The main reason for using the threshold conditions as the trigger is that these are the 

regulatory  requirements  which  any  UK  bank  undertakes  to  meet  in  order  to  gain 

authorisation from the FSA to accept deposits and carry out regulated banking activities. It is 

appropriate,  therefore,  that  banks that  no  longer  meet  the  conditions for  authorisation,  and 

have  no  prospect  of  doing  so  in future,  should  be  placed  into  the  SRR  and  may  lose  their 

deposit-taking authority.   

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 177 

 

46. 

These decisions are in essence regulatory judgements and so are taken by the FSA 

in  the  United  Kingdom.  The  United  Kingdom  is  no  different  from  virtually  all  other  major 

countries with special regimes in assigning to the banking supervisors the right to trigger the 

SRR.  This  does  of  course  raise  the  generic  and  frequently  highlighted  risk  of  regulatory 

forbearance,  which  in  this  case  means  that the  banking  supervisors  may  delay  too  long  in 

triggering the regime. This risk is partly addressed in the United Kingdom by a key aspect of 

the design of the triggers, which is that they enable a failing bank to be placed into resolution 

before it is balance sheet insolvent. In addition, in UK, the Bank of England has been given 

the right to make a recommendation to the FSA to trigger the regime.  

 

Partial property transfers  

47. 

The  most  widely  commented-upon  aspect  of  the  UK  SRR  is  the  power  of  the 

authorities to  split  up  a  bank  and  effect  a  partial  property  transfer  (PPT).  The  PPT  powers 

are closely modelled on the US approach in particular. When the FDIC exercises its power 

to transfer part of the assets and liabilities (including financial contracts and derivatives) of a 

failed bank (either to a PSP or a bridge bank), it simultaneously establishes a ‘receivership’, 

into which the remaining assets and liabilities are placed. The receivership is very similar to 

the bank administration procedure (BAP) that comes into effect in a PPT under the UK SRR. 

In both cases, essential facilities or services that  has not been possible to transfer may be 

used to support the PSP or bridge bank as necessary, while assets can be moved between 

the  two  entities  in  order  to  maximise  the  chances  of  effecting  a  going  concern  sale  at  a 

premium of as many as possible of the failed bank’s assets.  

 

48. 

The current crisis has resulted in increasing interest in the use of PPTs, bridge banks 

and  good  bank/bad  bank  resolution  approaches,  given  the  cost  and  difficulty  of  arranging 

whole-bank  resolutions  when  there  are  no  current  buyers  for  substantial  parts  of  failed 

banks’ assets. In these circumstances, one of the key advantages of a PPT is that it makes it 

possible to effect a resolution at lower cost to the taxpayer, for example by allowing a greater 

proportion  of  the  losses  to  be  imposed  on  junior  creditors,  such  as  subordinated  debt 

holders,  whose  claims  may  be  left  behind  in  the  rump  of  the failed  bank  rather  than  being 

transferred to a private sector purchaser or bridge bank.  

 

Creditor and counterparty safeguards 

49. 

The UK SRR contains a number of explicit safeguards designed to protect creditors, 

counterparties  and  shareholders  of  a  failed  bank,  especially  in  a  PPT.  The  US  SRR  also 

features a version of the no creditor worse off safeguard, which was adopted in 1989. There 

is no depositor preference in the UK SRR, so the FSCS, when subrogated to the claims of 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 178 

 

eligible depositors, will rank equally with the non-depositor unsecured creditors in the BIP or 

BAP.  Further,  where  the  SRR  powers  are  exercised  in  a  way  that  would  interfere  with  a 

shareholder’s,  counterparty’s  or  creditor’s  rights  by  depriving  them  of  their  contractual  or 

property  rights,  the  shareholder,  counterparty  or  creditor  has  a  valid  claim  to  proportionate 

compensation under the Human Rights Act (enshrining the ECHR in UK law). The Banking 

Act provides a detailed framework for the payment of compensation to such claimants. 

 

Financing Bank Resolution 

50. 

The  FSCS  (the  U.K.’s  DGS)  may  participate  in  funding  resolution  under  the  SRR. 

The role of the scheme is not limited to repayment in liquidation. Indeed, it may contribute to 

the  funding  of  SRR  resolution  transactions  up  to  an  amount  not  exceeding  the  cost  to  the 

FSCS,  net  of  recoveries,  of  paying  out  to  insured  depositors  in  insolvency.  The  FSCS  is 

funded ex post and has access to HMT finance. Normally, the costs for resolution would be 

met  by  sales  and  other  proceeds  from  the  bank  itself.  However,  if  additional  funds  are 

needed, the FSCS has access to liquidity support via loans from the National Loan Fund.  

 

Financial Services Compensation Scheme 

51. 

The FSCS is an ex-post funded scheme so when the scheme has incurred costs, the 

membership,  which  consists  of  all  institutions  having  insured  deposits,  will  be  required  to 

cover  the  costs  on  a  pro  rata  basis  (respective  share  of  protected  deposits  up  to  the 

compensation limit per individual depositor per authorized bank). The principal costs for the 

pay-outs  during  2008  have  not  yet  been  allocated,  awaiting  the  liquidation  proceedings, 

which  will  decide  the  final  net  costs  to  the  FSCS.  In  the  meantime,  the  Treasury  has 

provided  the  FSCS  with  a  loan,  the  principal  of  which  will  be  repaid  from  2012  onwards 

(interest on the loans is currently being repaid). In winding up procedures, when the FSCS is 

subrogated  to  transferred  depositors,  the  FSCS  ranks  pari-passu  with  other  unsecured 

creditors. 

 

52. 

FSCS funds may be used for: 

(i) 

Pay-out to depositors in an application of the bank insolvency procedure. 

(ii)  Financing  the  transfer  of  insured  deposits  to  another  institution  under  the  bank 

insolvency procedure. 

(iii)  Contributing  to  a  non-payout  resolution  of  a  failed  bank  using  the  stabilization 

powers. In this case, the FSCS will only act upon the order of HMT and the FSCS; 

contribution  must  be  no  more  costly  to  the  FSCS,  net  of  recoveries,  than  if  the 

payout/liquidation option had been used. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 179 

 

Draft EU Framework for Bank Recovery and Resolution 

53. 

The  EU  bank  insolvency  regime  is  governed  by  Directive  2001/24/EC,  which 

provides exclusive competence for the home member state to take reorganisation measures 

and to initiate liquidation proceedings in order to resolve a parent bank and its branches in a 

single  insolvency  proceeding.  As  per  the  Directive,  a  credit  institution  is  to  be  resolved  in 

accordance with the laws and regulations applicable in its home member state (which is the 

competent  country)  insofar  as  the  Directive  does  not  provide  otherwise.  The  Directive 

determines the competency and applicable law in the case of cross-border bank insolvency, 

but it does not harmonise the substantive laws of member states. Further, the Directive only 

covers  insolvency  of  a  parent  bank  with  branches.  It  excludes  from  its  scope  the  banking 

and financial groups consisting of subsidiaries. The host country authorities are competent to 

deal with the insolvency of subsidiaries. 

 

Proposed EU Directive 

Scope and Objectives 

54. 

A  proposed  Directive  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of the  Council  establishing  a 

framework  for  the  recovery  and  resolution  of  credit  institutions  and  investment  firms 

establishes  a  regime  relating  to  the  recovery,  resolution  and  orderly  dissolution  of  failing 

credit institutions and certain investment firms and their subsidiary financial institutions and 

firms that are covered by the supervision of the parent undertaking on a consolidated basis. 

The regime also applies to financial holding companies, mixed financial holding companies, 

mixed  activity  holding  companies  and  branches  of  institutions  having  their  head  office 

outside  the  EU  under  the  specific  conditions  laid  down  in  the  Directive.  The  resolution 

objectives  are  to  ensure  the  continuity  of  critical  functions;  to  avoid  significant  adverse 

effects on financial stability and to protect public funds, insured depositors, client funds and 

client assets. 

 

Institutional Framework 

55. 

The  proposed  Directive  requires  EU  member  states  to  appoint  one  or  more  public 

administrative  authorities  as  resolution  authorities  that  should  have  sufficient  expertise  and 

resources  to  manage  bank  resolutions  at  national  and  cross-border  levels.  The  resolution 

authorities can be central banks, financial supervisors, deposit insurance agency or special 

authorities.  However,  if a  resolution  authority  is established  within  a  supervisory  institution, 

then the functional separation of two activities is suggested in order to minimise the risk of 

supervisory  forbearance.  In  terms  of  institutional  design  for  cross-border  resolution,  the 

proposed Directive envisages that group-level resolution authorities shall establish resolution 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 180 

 

colleges with a clear leadership and with the participation of the European Banking Authority 

(EBA).  All  the  national  authorities  involved  in  the  resolution  of  institutions  should  be 

represented in resolution colleges. 

 

Early intervention and trigger point 

56. 

The proposed Directive enhances the powers of supervisors to intervene at the early 

stage  of  financial  difficulties  where  an  institution  does  not  meet  or  is  likely  to  breach  the 

regulatory capital requirements. These powers essentially supplement the powers provided 

to  supervisors  under  EU  banking  legislation.  The  powers  comprise  the  capacity  to  require 

the  institution  to  implement  measures  set  out  in  the  recovery  plan;  to  prepare  an  action 

programme and a timetable for its implementation; to require the management to convene, 

or to convene directly, the shareholders’ meeting, to propose the agenda and the adoption of 

certain  decisions;  to  require  the  management  to  remove  and  replace  one  or  more  board 

members or managing directors; to require the institution to prepare a plan for restructuring 

of  debt  with  its  creditors;  to  acquire  all  necessary  information  in  order  to  prepare  the 

resolution  and  to  contact  potential  purchasers.  Moreover,  the  supervisors  will  have  the 

power to appoint a special manager to replace the management of the institution for a limited 

period with a duty to restore the financial situation of the institution and to ensure the sound 

and prudent management of its business. 

 

57. 

The  proposed  Directive  aims  to  harmonise  the  triggers  for  the  application  of 

resolution tools. It is recognised that regulatory forbearance until the point of insolvency will 

limit the choice of effective options for resolution or increase the costs of resolution and the 

losses incurred by creditors. Therefore, to protect financial stability, the trigger conditions for 

the  employment  of  resolution  tools  and  powers  ensure  that  authorities  can  take  actions 

without being required to establish that the institution in question is insolvent. Thus, it would 

be possible to place the institution into resolution before it is balance-sheet insolvent and all 

equity has been exhausted. However, failing to meet authorisation requirements should not 

justify per se initiating resolution proceedings, in particular if the institution is still or likely to 

be viable. In this respect, an institution is regarded as failing, or likely to fail, if the institution 

has incurred, or is likely to incur, losses that will deplete all or most of its capital, or its assets 

are, or are likely to be, less than its liabilities, or it is, or is likely to be, unable to pay its debts 

as they fall due or it requires extraordinary public financial support. 

 

Resolution Tools 

58. 

The proposed Directive provides resolution authorities with the power to apply certain 

resolution  tools  including  the  sale  of  business  tool,  the  bridge  institution  tool,  the  asset 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 181 

 

separation tool and the bail-in tool, when the trigger conditions for resolution are determined. 

The Directive presents a minimum set of resolution tools that should be adopted; however, 

member  states  will  be  able  to  additionally  retain  specific  national  tools  and  powers  to  deal 

with  failing  banks  when  they  are  compatible  with  the  principles  and  objectives  of  the  EU 

bank resolution framework.  

 

59. 

The  sale  of  business  tool  comprises  both  merger/acquisition  and  purchase  and 

assumption  transactions.  Thus,  resolution  authorities  will  be  able  to  affect  a  sale  of  the 

institution, or the whole or part of its business on commercial terms, without the consent of 

shareholders or complying with procedural requirements that would otherwise apply. In this 

regard,  disclosure  of  information  concerning  the  marketing  of  a  failed  institution  and  the 

negotiations with potential acquirers might be delayed to protect financial stability. 

 

60. 

Under the bridge institution tool, resolution authorities will have the power to transfer 

all  or  part  of  the  business  of  an  institution  to  a  publicly  controlled  bridge  institution  that 

operates  temporarily  to  ensure  that  essential  financial  services  continue  to  be  provided  to 

the customers and that essential financial activities continue to be performed. This institution 

should be put back on the market, or wound down when market conditions are appropriate.  

 

61. 

The  asset  separation  tool  refers  to  good-bank/bad-bank  separation,  in  which  the 

resolution  authorities  will  be  able  to  transfer  impaired  or  problem  assets  to  an  asset 

management vehicle or a bad bank to allow them to be managed and worked out over time. 

The  asset  separation  tool  should  only  be  employed  in  conjunction  with  another  resolution 

tool in order to minimise competitive distortions and risks of moral hazard. 

 

62. 

The  proposed  Directive  also  includes  the  bail-in  tool,  which  can  be  employed  to 

recapitalise  a  failing  institution,  allowing  authorities  to  restructure  it  through  an  open-bank 

resolution  as  a going concern.  It  may  also  be  employed  in  cases  where  the failing  bank  is 

closed,  for  instance,  to  convert  claims  of  creditors  against  the  failed  bank  into  equity  in  a 

bridge bank. This tool would provide resolution authorities a great flexibility in their response 

to the failure of large, complex financial institution, and would be accompanied by removal of 

management  responsible  for  the  problems  of  the  institution  and  the  implementation  of  a 

business reorganisation plan in cases where it is applied to restore the capital of the failing 

institution to enable it to continue its operation as a going concern. The bail-in tool should not 

be  applied  to  secured  claims  as  well  as  certain  type  of  unsecured  claims  such  as  insured 

deposits, liabilities to employees of the failing institution or commercial claims that relate to 

goods  and  services  necessary for the  daily functioning  of the  institution.  The  application  of 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 182 

 

bail-in  tool  should  respect  the  equal  treatment  of  creditors  and  the  statutory  ranking  of 

claims. 

 

Resolution powers and stakeholders safeguards 

63. 

The proposed Directive confers resolution authorities all necessary legal powers that 

may be exercised in the application of the resolution tools, including the powers to transfer 

shares  in,  or  assets,  rights  and  liabilities  of,  a  failing  institution  to  another  entity  such  as 

another credit institution or a bridge institution; powers to write off or cancel shares or write 

down or convert debt of a failing institution and power to replace the management. However, 

the  proposed  Directive  does  not  prescribe  the  exact  means  through  which  the  resolution 

authorities should intervene in the insolvent institutions.  

 

64. 

The effective implementation of resolution tools and transfer of assets and liabilities 

requires  allowing  resolution  authorities  to  impose  a  temporary  stay,  which  would  last  no 

longer until 17:00 on the next business day, on the exercise by creditors and counterparties 

of rights to enforce claims and close-out, accelerate or otherwise terminate contracts against 

a  failing  institution.  Such  a  temporary  stay  provides  authorities  a  period  of  time  to  identify 

and value those contracts that need to be transferred to a solvent third party, without the risk 

that  financial  contracts  would  change  in  value  and  scope  as  counterparties  exercised 

termination  rights.  Termination  rights  for  those  counterparties  remaining  with  the  failed 

institution  would  resume  at  the  end  of  the  stay. Nonetheless,  transfer  to  a  performing third 

party  should  not  qualify  as  an  event  of  default  that  triggers  termination  rights.  These 

necessary restrictions on contractual rights are balanced by safeguards for counterparties to 

prevent  authorities  from  splitting  linked  liabilities,  rights  and  contracts:  under  a  partial 

property  transfer,  linked arrangements  should  either  all  be  transferred  or  not  transferred  at 

all.  Arrangements  include  close-out  netting  agreements,  set-off  arrangements,  title  transfer 

financial  collateral  arrangements,  security  arrangements  and  structured 

finance 

arrangements. 

 

65. 

In  the  light  of  these  broad  resolution  tools  and  powers,  it  is  expected  that  the 

decisions and actions taken by the resolution authorities should be subject to judicial review. 

However, in order to ensure stability of the financial system and the efficiency of resolution 

process, the scope of the judicial review should be limited to the legality of the action and to 

the award of compensation for the damages suffered by the affected persons. 

 

Funding Arrangements  

66. 

The  funding  of  the  resolution  is  vital  to  preserve  the  functioning  of  the  systemically 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 183 

 

important part of a failing bank. Moreover, the effective application of certain resolution tools 

requires short-term funding, for instance, to provide necessary funding or capital for a bridge 

institution  or  the  provision  of  guarantees  to  potential  purchasers.  In  this  regard,  it  is 

necessary that member states establish financing arrangements to avoid the use of national 

budgets  to  finance  resolution.  The  proposed  Directive  aims  to  establish  arrangements  for 

financing  resolution  measures,  i.e.,  a  European  System  of  Financing  Arrangements  that 

consists  of  national  financing  arrangements,  the  borrowing  between  national  financing 

arrangements and the mutualisation of national financing arrangements.  

 

67. 

Accordingly, each member state should set up resolution financing arrangements to 

ensure efficient implementation of resolution tools and powers. These arrangements should 

solely  be  used  in  accordance  with  the  resolution  principles  and  objectives.  In  this  respect, 

any  losses  and  costs  incurred  by  the  employment  of  the  financing  arrangements  shall  be 

consecutively borne by shareholders and the creditors of the failed institution.  

 

68. 

The  proposed  Directive  determines  the  optimal  amount  of  money  that  needs  to  be 

available  in  each  member  state  and  presents  a  model  for  ex  ante  contributions  to  the 

financing arrangements. According to the model, the calculation of contributions depends on 

the  decision  of  the  member  state  whether  or  not  to  use  the  funds  of  deposit  insurance 

scheme for financing resolution measures and the amount of institution’s liabilities. National 

financing  arrangements will  have  the  right  to  borrow  from  all  other financing  arrangements 

within the EU when the amount raised is not sufficient to finance the resolution. In parallel to 

this  provision,  national  financing  arrangements  are  obliged  to  lend  to  other  financing 

arrangements  within  the  EU  under  certain  conditions.  Each  national  financial  arrangement 

has  to  contribute  to  the  financing  of  group  resolution  together  with  the  national  financing 

arrangements  of  the  other  member  states,  in  accordance  with  their  shares.  In  this  regard, 

the  group  level  resolution  authority,  in  consultation  with  the  other  relevant  resolution 

authorities,  should  establish  a  financing  plan  determining  the  total  financial  needs  for  the 

financing of the group resolution as well as the modalities for that financing.  

 

Resolution Framework in Australia 

69. 

The  Government  enacted  legislations  in  2008,  2009  and  2010  to  strengthen  its 

prudential  regulatory  framework  as  well  as  the  crisis  resolution  powers  available  to  the 

Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA). The legislation also includes with respect 

to  powers  of  direction,  business  transfer  powers,  statutory  management  for  authorised 

deposit-taking  institutions  (ADIs),  and  judicial  management  for  general  and  life  insurers. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 184 

 

Presently,  APRA  is  Australia’s  prudential  supervision  authority  and  the  primary  agency 

responsible  for  the  resolution  of  distressed  ADIs  and  insurers.  Accordingly,  the  APRA  can 

facilitate  recapitalisation  of  a  distressed  ADI  or  insurer  without  requiring  the  shareholders 

consent. It  can  also  appoint  a  statutory  manager  to  assume  control  and  implement  a  wide 

range  of  open  and  closed  resolutions.  The  APRA  is  also  empowered  to  establish  a  bridge 

ADI or insurer. 

 

70. 

The  Australian  Government  has  released  a  consultation  paper  in  September  2012 

with proposals for further reforms to APRA’s crisis management powers. Though APRA has 

the powers to authorise a Non-Operative Holding Company (NOHC), it is not empowered to 

appoint a statutory manager (SM) to an ADI’s NOHC and cannot apply to the Court for the 

appointment  of  a  judicial  manager  (JM)  to  an  insurer’s  authorised  NOHC.  Similarly,  APRA 

does not have the power to appoint a SM to the subsidiaries of an ADI or of an authorised 

NOHC, and does not have the power to apply to the Court for the appointment of a JM to the 

subsidiaries  of  an  insurer  or  of  an  authorised  NOHC.  In  order  to  effectively  and  quickly 

resolve  the  distress  of  a  financial  group,  with  a  minimum  cost  to  the  taxpayer,  the 

Government has set out various proposals to broaden the scope of its resolution regime to 

the authorised NOHC and the subsidiaries of an authorised NOHC and of a regulated entity. 

The proposals, among others, include: 

  enhancing  and  strengthening  APRA’s  decision  making  powers, 

including 

appointment  of  SM  or  JM,  over  authorised  NOHCs  and  related  entities  including 

insurers,  and  the  subsidiaries  of  an  authorised  NOHC  and  of  a  regulated  entity  – 

including in a receivership or liquidation situation; 

  empowering  APRA  to  impose  temporary  stay  on  claw  back  provisions  relating  to 

financial support provided by an authorised NOHC or member of a regulated entity’s 

group  to  a  regulated  entity  as  part  of  the  resolution  process  and  the  authorised 

NOHC or the member subsequently been placed into insolvency administration; 

  providing  APRA  with  a  specific  direction  power  to  temporarily  suspend  an  entity’s 

continuous disclosure obligations of information in certain circumstances for a limited 

period (capped at 48 hours); 

  protection  to  directors  and  other  officers  of  a  regulated  entity,  authorised  NOHC  or 

subsidiary  from  any  civil  or  criminal  liability  arising  out  of  compliance  of  directions 

given by APRA; 

  empowering APRA to direct a regulated entity, authorised NOHC and subsidiaries for 

facilitating  preparation  for  a  resolution  of  an  entity’s  distress,  including  making 

specified changes to its systems, functionality, operations and group structure; 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 185 

 

  empowering APRA to apply business transfer tool in resolution of a general insurer or 

life insurer, as already applicable in case of ADIs, to another body corporate; 

  extending the scope of resolution regime to foreign ADIs operating in Australia; 

  enabling  APRA  to  revoke  authorisation  of  a  foreign  ADI  or  insurer  operating  in 

Australia  where  the  foreign  regulated  entity’s  authorisation  has  been  revoked  in  its 

home jurisdiction; 

  empowering  APRA  to  issue  directions  to  the  foreign  insurers  operating  through 

branches in Australia not to transfer its Australian assets to an offshore head office or 

sister branch, and also not to transfer liabilities into the Australian branch, in line with 

the existing powers in case of foreign ADIs; 

  expanding  the  scope  of Financial  Claims  Scheme  to  insurers  in  case  of application 

made by APRA for winding up the insolvent general insurer; and 

  extending the crisis management powers of APRA to FMIs. 

 

Germany 

71. 

The  German  Restructuring  Act,  enacted  on  January  1,  2011,  included  three  main 

elements  for  restructuring  entities:  (i)  procedural  provisions  for  a  two-stage  restructuring 

procedure  for  credit  institutions;  (ii)  regulations  regarding  the  transfer  powers;  and  (iii) 

establishment of a Restructuring Fund.  

 

Restructuring procedure 

72. 

The  Act  introduced  two  procedures  that  could  be  applied  to  distressed  credit 

institutions.  These  include:  (i)  restructuring  procedure,  and  (ii)  reorganisation  procedure. 

Both procedures can be initiated only by the concerned credit institution at its own discretion. 

Under  the  restructuring  procedure,  which  does  not  affect  third  party  rights,  the  Federal 

Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) assesses the proposed restructuring plan as regards 

its  plausibility,  implementation  and  compliance  with  legal  requirements.  On  a  positive 

assessment,  the  BaFin  submits  the  plan  to  the  Higher  Regional  Court.  The  reorganisation 

procedure is applied if the credit institution is of the belief that there are no alternatives or the 

stability  of  the  financial  system  is  at  risk  and  could  affect  the  third  party  rights  (e.g. 

liquidation,  deferral  or  partial  write-down  of  liabilities,  debt  to  equity  swaps,  share  capital 

reduction, capital increase, etc.). 

 

Transfer Order 

73. 

The  German  Banking  Act  empowers  BaFin  to  issue  Transfer  Order  for  transferring 

the whole business, or a partial transfer of assets and liabilities, of credit institutions in case 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 186 

 

the non-viability of the bank presents a risk to the stability of the financial system, without the 

consent    of  the  bank’s  management,  creditors  and  shareholders.  The  Financial  Market 

Stabilisation  Authority  (FMSA),  in  coordination  with  BaFin,  is  responsible  for  measures, 

including  the  establishment  of  bridge  bank,  necessary  to  give  effect  to  the  transfer  of  the 

failed institution to the bridge bank and the valuation of assets. 

 

Restructuring Fund 

74. 

A  Restructuring  Fund,  to  be  administered  by  the  FMSA,  has  been  set  up  with 

contribution  from  all  credit  institutions  and  is  used  for  the  purpose  of  orderly  resolution, 

including establishment of bridge banks, acquisition of shares, issue guarantees and adopt 

recapitalisation and other measures. 

 

Switzerland 

75. 

Following the financial crisis, the Swiss Banking Act was revised in 2011 and 2012 to 

include  specific  requirements  for  resolution  of  systemically  important  banks  and  additional 

restructuring  mechanisms.  The  Banking  Act  provides  for  early  intervention  rights  and  an 

accelerated  restructuring  and  resolution  procedure  under  the  lead  of  Financial  Market 

Supervision Authority (FINMA) acting as resolution authority for banks and securities dealers 

including, in particular, bail-in powers and powers to transfer asset and liabilities to another 

legal  entity.  FINMA  generally  follows  a  Single  Point  of  Entry  (SPE)  resolution  strategy  for 

bail-in of problem G-SIBs and focuses on the parent bank and, where appropriate, also the 

highest-level  non-operating  holding  company.  The  strategy  provides  for  shareholders  and 

creditors  at  the  highest  level  of  the  financial  group  to  bear  the  losses  while  business 

operations are maintained. The group is recapitalised so as to make thorough restructuring 

possible.  The  group  structure  remains  intact,  business  operations  continue  without 

interruption,  and  the  continuity  of  economically  critical  functions  is  assured.  Recapitalising 

via bail-in buys time to address the necessary adjustments to the business model. 

 

76. 

FINMA has the powers to impose temporary stay on the early termination of financial 

contracts for a maximum of 48 hours, after which the counterparties are entitled to make use 

of their contractual termination rights to the extent that there has been a subsequent default. 

While  in  case  of  restructuring  and  liquidating  banks,  the  courts  have  powers  to  deal  with 

creditors  challenges  on  FINMA’s  decisions,  in  case  of  systemically  important  banks  the 

power  is  limited  to  ensuring  the  ex-post  balancing  of  interests,  e.g.  by  means  of  a 

compensation for a specific set of creditors. This would necessarily mean that the FINMA’s 

decisions cannot be reversed by the Courts. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 187 

 

77. 

The  resolution  action  is  triggered,  in  case  of  banks  in  Switzerland,  when  there  are 

reasonable  grounds  for  suspecting  that  a  bank  is  over-indebted  or  experiencing  serious 

liquidity problems or when it fails to meet its capital adequacy requirements within a deadline 

set by FINMA, referred to as ‘Point of non-viability (PONV)’. The capital trigger is activated 

for the financial group on a consolidated basis or at the individual parent bank entity level at 

the  latest  when  total  capital  reaches  8%  of  the  risk  weighted  assets  or  when  the  CET1 

reaches  or  falls  below  5%  of  the  RWA.  However,  FINMA  has  certain  discretion  in 

determining whether or not the trigger is hit. 

 

78. 

FINMA  decides  to  activate  bail-in  powers  in  respect  of  a  bank  in  case  it  considers 

that  there  is  a  clear  prospect  of  a  successful  bail-in  restoring  market  confidence  and 

returning  the  restructured  bank  to  a  “business-as-usual”  mode.  As  per  Swiss  Special 

Resolution Regime for banks, all claims, except those that are clearly defined, are subject to 

the regime of compulsory conversion of debt into equity or compulsory write-down of claims. 

However,  all  privileged  claims,  i.e.  claims  of  employees,  insured  deposits  up  to  the  limit of 

the guarantee of 100,000 Swiss Francs per depositor, secured claims and claims subject to 

offset,  are  not  eligible  for  activation  of  bail-in  or  subject  to  a  haircut.  This  means  that  the 

uninsured deposits are also potentially subject to bail-in, but only if all other debt has already 

absorbed losses. 

 

79. 

In a restructuring, any creditor has to receive at least what he would have received in 

liquidation.  If  the  “no  creditor  worse  off”  principle  does  not  lead  to  a  positive  result,  the 

creditors who are worse off would have to be compensated ex-post.  

 

80. 

The primary resolution objective of the Swiss authority is to rescue the problem bank 

by triggering the ‘bail-in’ and if it is not possible, then the emergency plan would be executed 

to protect critical functions. These functions would be maintained, sold off or wound down in 

an orderly manner. The remaining parts which are not systemically significant will be wound 

down or subject to liquidation. 

 

Netherlands 

81. 

The  Dutch  resolution  framework  was  broadened  to  address  the  risks  posed  by 

systemically relevant banks. The Dutch Intervention Act for Financial Institutions authorises 

the  Dutch  Central  Bank  (DNB)  to  issue  a  Transfer  Plan  for  transfer  of  a  problem  bank  or 

insurance  company,  when  a  bank  or  insurance  company  faces  difficulties  relating  to 

solvency, liquidity or compliance with regulatory technical provisions and cannot be reversed 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 188 

 

in a timely manner. The resolution powers of DNB are limited to banks and insurers, and do 

not  apply  to  foreign  branches  of  European  Economic  Area  (EEA)  banks  or  to  securities  or 

investment firms or financial market infrastructure. The scope of application is not limited by 

an  institution’s  size  or  systemic  importance.  However,  the  systemic  relevance  of  failure  is 

considered when selecting resolution options. 

 

82. 

The  Minister  of  Finance  is  empowered  to  intervene,  if  the  financial  stability  of  the 

financial system is at risk, in a financial firm or its parent company or expropriate assets or 

liabilities  of  a  bank,  insurance  company  or  any  other  financial  firm  or  the  parent  company. 

The  resolution  powers  of  the  Dutch  Minister  of  Finance  apply  to  all  financial  undertakings, 

i.e. banks, management company, collective investment scheme, investment firm, payment 

service  provider,  depository,  clearing  institution,  risk  accepting  entity,  financial  service 

provider, financial institution, pension depository, insurer or a money transaction office. 

 

Spain 

83. 

Following  the  financial  crisis,  the  Spanish  Government  strengthened  the  deposit 

insurance agency (FGD) to extend its powers to provide financial support in resolution, and 

in June 2009 created the Bank Resolution Authority (FROB) to assist the reorganisation  of 

the banking industry. In addition, the Government of Spain enacted a new legal framework 

for  bank  resolution  on  August  31,  2012.  The  framework  aims  at  improving  the  resolution 

regime that had been in force since 2009, and takes into account the EU legislative proposal 

on the recovery and resolution of banks and investment firms. Under the new framework, the 

FROB will be able to provide temporary financial support for the restructuring and resolution 

of problem banks. The support may take the form of guarantees, loans subordinated debt, or 

acquisition  of  assets  or  capital  injections.  The  FROB  has  various  resolution  tools  at  its 

disposal, that include sale to a third party purchaser, transfer of assets to a bridge bank or 

Sareb  (an  asset  management  company),  and  liability  management  exercises,  and  also  to 

take  over  managerial  functions  of  banks  in  resolution.  However,  the  resolution  can  be 

triggered  only  by  the  supervisory  authority,  who  also  happens  to  be  the  authority  for 

approving the resolution plan. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 189 

 

 
Thematic Peer Review on Resolution Regimes - Highlights 

Annex 2 

 
 
1. 

The  Financial  Stability  Board  (FSB)  conducted  its  first  thematic  peer  review  of  all 

FSB  member  jurisdictions  (24  countries)  to  evaluate  their  existing  resolution  regimes  and 

any planned changes to those regimes using the FSB Key Attributes of Effective Resolution 

Regimes for Financial Institutions (the Key Attributes) as a benchmark. The review provides 

a  comparative  analysis  of  the  overall  legal,  institutional  and  policy  framework  of  existing 

resolution  regimes,  both  across  individual  Key  Attributes  and  across  different  financial 

sectors 

(banking, 

insurance  securities  or 

investment 

firms  and 

financial  market 

infrastructures (FMIs)). The review focuses primarily on those Key Attributes that cover the 

core provisions of national resolution regimes applicable to any financial institution that could 

be systemically important or critical if it fails. 

 
Scope of resolution regime 

2. 

All  FSB  jurisdictions  have  resolution  regimes  with  specific  powers  to  restructure 

and/or wind up banks. These resolution regimes in most of the jurisdictions apply principally 

to  deposit-taking  institutions  (mainly  to  commercial  banks  and  other  deposit-taking 

institutions). 8 jurisdictions1 use certain powers specifically to systemically important banks. 

21 jurisdictions2 also have specially adapted insolvency regimes for insurance firms that rely 

on  combination  of  ordinary  insolvency  law  supplemented  by  powers  for  supervisory 

authorities.  While  13  jurisdictions3  have  specific  powers  to  restructure  and/or  wind  up 

securities  or  investment  firms  outside  the  ordinary  corporate  insolvency  laws,  only  8 

jurisdictions4 have sector-specific powers for all or some classes of FMIs.  

 

3. 

The range of powers available in many jurisdictions in respect of insurers, securities 

or investment firms and FMIs are not aligned with the KAs and they are either supervisory in 

nature and require shareholders’ consent or are limited to liquidation and winding up at the 

initiative  of  the  supervisors,  or  in  some  cases  through  some  form  of  specially  adapted 

insolvency regime. 

                                                           
1Germany,  Indonesia,  Japan,  Netherlands,  Russia,  Switzerland,  UK  and  USA.  In  the  case  of  Netherlands  and 
US, these powers apply to all SIFIs, including non-bank FIs. 
2Argentina,  Australia,  Brazil,  Canada,  China,  France,  Germany,  Hong  Kong,  Italy,  Japan,  Korea,  Mexico, 
Netherlands, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, UK and US. 
3Brazil, China, France, Italy, Korea, Russia, Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US. 
4France (only CCPs), Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Russia, Switzerland (if having a banking license), UK (only 
CCPs), US (systemic FMIs). 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 190 

 

4. 

Majority  of  jurisdictions  have  specific  powers  to  restructure  and  wind  up  holding 

companies  that  are  regulated  as  banking  or  insurance  groups.  However,  only  eight 

jurisdictions1  of  them  have  the  ability  to  use  those  powers  for  financial  holding  companies 

(FHCs)  that  are  not  bank  or  other  regulated  institution.  In  most  of  the  jurisdictions,  the 

resolution  regime  cannot  be  applied  to  non-regulated  operational  entities  within  a  financial 

group. Only seven  jurisdictions2 have direct  powers in relation to non-regulated operational 

entities  that  can  be  exercised  in  the  resolution  of  whole  or  a  part  of  the  financial  group  or 

conglomerate.  A  majority  of  jurisdictions  have  powers  over  branches  of  foreign  financial 

institutions. The  powers  in  respect  of foreign  branches  are  much  less  comprehensive  than 

those available for locally incorporated entities. 

 

Resolution Authority 

5. 

All  FSB  member  jurisdictions  have  conferred  responsibility  and  powers  for  the 

resolution of financial institutions to one or more public authorities.  Majority of jurisdictions3 

confer  the  primary  responsibility  and  powers  for  the  resolution  of  banks  on  supervisory 

authorities. For the insurance sector, almost all jurisdictions have prudential supervisors that 

can  intervene  in  failing  institutions  in  a  variety  of  ways  (such  as  license  withdrawal, 

appointment of administrator, or court petition for winding up), although most of them require 

the courts to appoint an administrator or liquidator to carry out the resolution. Majority of the 

jurisdictions4  do  not  have  any  administrative  authority  responsible  for  restructuring  and 

winding  up  securities  or  investment  firms  and  FMIs.  This  indicates  the  limited  scope  and 

powers for resolving systemically important non-bank SIFIs under the existing regimes. 

 

6. 

Only nine jurisdictions5 have a single resolution authority for resolution of all types of 

financial  institutions,  but  there  is  certain  kind  of  coordination  mechanism  with  sector 

regulators. In jurisdictions with multiple resolution authorities, though they have some form of 

coordination  arrangements  in  place  between  the  authorities,  several  jurisdictions,  except  a 

few, do not appoint any ‘Lead Authority’ to coordinate the resolution of domestic entities of 

the same financial group. 

                                                           
1Brazil, France, Germany, Italy, Korea, Netherlands, UK, US. 
2Brazil, Italy, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Switzerland, UK, US. 
3Argentina,  Australia,  Brazil,  China,  France,  Germany,  Hong  Kong,  Italy,  Japan,  Netherlands,  Russia,  Saudi 
Arabia,  Singapore,  Switzerland  and  Turkey.  In  Indonesia,  resolution  functions  are  divided  between  the 
supervisory  authority  and  the  deposit  insurance  agency.  In  UK,  the  resolution  powers  are  conferred  on  the 
Central Bank (or the Treasury in case of Temporary Public Ownership), while the supervisory authority (PRA) 
is an operationally independent subsidiary of central bank. 
4Argentina,  Australia,  Canada,  Hong  Kong,  India,  Indonesia,  Japan,  Mexico,  and  Singapore.  Germany  has  no 
dedicated  resolution  authority  for  securities  or  investment  firms.  Brazil,  China,  Korea,  Saudi  Arabia,  South 
Africa, Spain and Turkey have no dedicated resolution authority for FMIs. 
5Australia, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Singapore, Switzerland, UK and USA. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 191 

 

7. 

Almost  all  jurisdictions  do  not  have  statutory  objectives  in  place  for  their  resolution 

authorities  in  line  with  the  Key  Attributes.  Although  nearly  all  authorities  have  formal 

objectives to maintain financial stability and protect depositors or policyholders, many do not 

have mandates to avoid destruction of value or to consider the impact of resolution actions 

on other jurisdictions. 

 

Resolution triggers 

8. 

Most of the jurisdictions’ resolution regimes provide for timely entry into resolution or 

the exercise of resolution powers at or before the point of non-viability, and before the firm is 

balance-sheet  insolvent.  In  most  cases,  the  non-viability  triggers  for  insurers,  securities  or 

investment  firms  and  FMIs  apply  later  than  for  banks,  possible  due  to  the  fact  that  they 

reflect triggers available under corporate insolvency regimes. 

 

Resolution powers 

9. 

The resolution powers in most FSB jurisdictions are considerably more developed for 

banks  than  for  insurance  and,  especially,  for  securities  or  investment  firms  and  FMIs. 

Majority of the FSB jurisdictions have power to appoint an Administrator with varying powers, 

powers to transfer assets and liabilities from a failed bank (in many cases, these powers are 

exercised by the Administrator), powers to establish and operate a bridge institution in case 

of failed banks, powers to establish asset management company. A few jurisdictions1 have 

bridge  powers  for  insurers,  securities  or  investment  firms  or  FMIs.  Only  two  jurisdictions 

(Spain  and  Switzerland)  have  bail-in  powers  conferred  by  their  statutes  on  their  resolution 

authority,  while  US  is  able  to  write  down  or  convert  liabilities  within  resolution  using  other 

powers. Powers for a resolution authority to write down and convert liabilities are generally 

not  available  for  insurers,  securities  or  investment  firms  and  FMIs.  At  least  one  of  the  two 

specific resolution powers for insurers (portfolio transfer and ‘run-off’) is available in nearly all 

FSB jurisdictions2. 

 

10. 

The resolution powers are distributed across two or more authorities in many of the 

jurisdictions.  In  most  of  the  jurisdictions,  the  exercise  of  resolution  powers  may  require  a 

court  order  or  confirmation,  which  is  not  against  the  Key  Attribute,  but  could  impede  the 

timely resolution action. 

                                                           
1Australia  (insurers),  Japan  (insurers),  Saudi  Arabia  (insurers),  US  (insurers,  securities/investment  firms  and 
FMIs). 
2Australia, China, France, Germany (portfolio transfer for life and health insurance only), Italy, Korea, Mexico 
(run-off  by  liquidator),  Netherlands  (run-off  by  court),  Saudi  Arabia,  Singapore,  South  Africa,  Spain, 
Switzerland, Turkey, UK, US. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 192 

 

Set-off, collateralization, segregation of client assets 

11. 

Only four jurisdictions (Canada, Spain, Switzerland and US)1provide for imposition of 

a temporary stay on the exercise of contractual acceleration or early termination of rights in 

financial  contracts  involving  banks.  However,  only  3  jurisdictions  (Spain,  Switzerland  and 

US)  provide  for  safeguards  for  counterparties  to  financial  contracts.  Several  other  FSB 

jurisdictions, however, have other forms of stay, such as an indefinite stay triggered by entry 

into  insolvency  or  resolution  but  without  special  treatment for financial  contracts,  but  these 

lack features of Key Attributes. 

 

Safeguards for creditors affected by resolution actions 

12. 

The legal frameworks of all jurisdictions, except Canada, Germany, Turkey and US, 

require resolution authorities to respect the hierarchy of claims in resolution.  However, only 

five  jurisdictions2  have  the  power  to  depart  from  the  general  insolvency  principle  of  equal 

treatment  of  creditors  of  the  same  class,  for  reasons  of  financial  stability.  Only  seven 

jurisdictions3 provide an explicit statutory right to compensation for any creditor that is worse 

off in resolution than in normal liquidation. This right is particularly relevant where the regime 

permits  departure  from  the  principle  of  equal  treatment  of  creditors  of  the  same  class. 

Majority of jurisdictions provide a right to judicial review either under general administrative 

law  or  as  an  explicit  right  under  the  resolution  regime  and,  in  most  cases,  remedies  other 

than  monetary  compensation  are  available.  In  such  cases,  the  legal  framework  needs  to 

strike  an  appropriate  balance  between  legal  remedies  on  one  hand  and  the  certainty  of 

resolution action on the other. 

 

Funding of institutions in resolution 

13. 

Three  jurisdictions4  have  privately  funded  dedicated  resolution  funds,  while  15 

jurisdictions5  have  deposit  insurance  system  (funded  either  ex-ante  or  ex-post  by  industry 

levies) that may be drawn on to fund bank resolution, in addition to pay-out. Where deposit 

                                                           
1Under  the  US  framework,  the  temporary  stay  is  statutory  and  applies  in  all  cases  rather  than  it  being  a 
discretionary power of the resolution authority. In UK and  Dutch resolution regime, the  Bank of England and 
DNB  respectively  have  the  power  to  prohibit  the  exercise  of  early  termination  rights  in  connection  with  an 
exercise  of  transfer  powers.  However,  that  power  is  limited  to  termination  rights  under  contracts  that  are  not 
covered  by  the  EU  Financial  Collateral  Directive,  which  currently  prevents  EU  member  states  from  staying 
rights  under  financial  collateral  arrangements.  The  draft  EU  Directive  on  bank  recovery  and  resolution  is 
expected to remove that obstacle. 
2Australia, Canada, Germany, UK and US. 
3Australia, Canada, Germany, Spain, Switzerland, UK and US. 
4Germany (for limited purposes), Japan, and USA (the Orderly Liquidation Fund  is initially funded by the US 
Treasury, which then gets repaid from asset resolution and the industry over a period of 5 years). 
5Argentina, Brazil, Canada, France, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Netherlands, Russia, Spain, Turkey, 
UK, and US 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 193 

 

insurance fund is being used for funding resolution, there are limitations to which those funds 

may be used or caps in the amount that can be used for a specific resolution (e.g. not more 

than the amount that would have been available to pay out depositors).However, in certain 

jurisdictions  like  Belgium,  Hong  Kong,  India,  Singapore,  Sweden  and  Switzerland,  deposit 

protection  schemes  cannot  be  used  to  fund  resolution  measures,  except  indirectly  to  fund 

the repayment of retail deposits. 

 

14. 

Policyholder  or  investment  protection  funds  have  been  established  in  some 

jurisdictions  but  play  a  limited  role  in  funding  resolution  for  insurance  or  securities  or 

investment  firms.  14  jurisdictions1  have  a  protection  fund  for  insurance  policyholders  or 

investors, but several of them restrict its use for compensation of policyholders or investors 

in  a  liquidation  scenario  and  do  not  allow  the  fund  to  be  used  for  financing  resolution.  No 

jurisdictions have a resolution fund dedicated to FMIs. 

 

15.  Mechanisms for recovery of public funds from shareholders, participants, creditors of 

the  failed  firm,  or  the  wider  financial  industry  are  not  developed,  although  several 

jurisdictions (Australia, Netherlands, USA) have facilities for levies to recoup on an ex-post 

basis any public funds used in resolution. 

 

Legal framework for cross border cooperation 

16. 

National  legal  frameworks  for  cross-border  cooperation  in  resolution  are  less  well 

developed across all sectors than other areas of Key Attributes. The legal framework of most 

jurisdictions  neither  requires  nor  prohibits  cooperation  with  foreign  resolution  authorities. 

Eight  jurisdictions2  have  statutory  provisions  that  explicitly  empower  or  strongly  encourage 

resolution authorities to cooperate with foreign authorities, while several others indicate that 

it is their policy to cooperate where possible. No jurisdiction has comprehensive obligations 

for domestic authorities to avoid taking resolution actions that may have an adverse effect on 

the financial stability of other jurisdictions. Authorities in EU member  states are required to 

consider the impact of their actions on financial stability in other EU states. 

 

17.  While  the  legal  frameworks  in  the  majority  of  FSB  jurisdictions  do  not  provide  for 

differential treatment of creditors (including depositors and policyholders) by location of their 

claim  or  the  jurisdiction  in  which  the  claim  is  payable,  there  is  provision  for  differential 

                                                           
1Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Korea, Singapore, Spain, Turkey, UK, 
and US. 
2Australia  (trans-Tasman  cooperation  with  New  Zealand),  Hong  Kong,  Indonesia,  Japan,  Spain,  Switzerland, 
UK, US 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 194 

 

treatment  of  certain  claims  –  in  most  cases,  deposits  –  under  the  insolvency  or  resolution 

regime of eight jurisdictions1. 

 

18. 

Only the national resolution authority of Switzerland has the power to recognise the 

transfer  by  the  home  country  resolution  authority  of  local  assets  and  liabilities  of  a  foreign 

bank, and make that transfer effective under local law. In Canada, the exercise of resolution 

powers  by  foreign  authorities  in  other  countries  will  have  no  effect  in  Canada  unless 

approval or recognition is given by a Court in Canada. 

 

19.  Most jurisdictions report that they have some powers over branches of foreign banks. 

However, in most cases, those powers stem from the domestic insolvency framework or are 

much less comprehensive than the powers available for locally incorporated banks.  

 

Resolvability assessments 

20. 

Only  one  jurisdiction  (Switzerland)  has  in  place  a  formal  statutory  requirement  for 

resolvability assessments to be carried out. However, a majority of jurisdictions have shown 

their intention to undertake resolvability assessments as a core part of domestic resolution 

planning framework. Where resolvability assessments are being carried out or planned, the 

focus is generally on global or domestic systemically important banks rather than on a wider 

range  of  FIs.  Only  two  jurisdictions2  currently  require  resolvability  assessments  for 

institutions from other financial sectors.  

 

21. 

In  most  FSB  jurisdictions,  supervisory  authorities  have  some  powers  to  ask 

supervised  institutions  to  make  changes  to  their  business  organization  and  legal  structure, 

but the purposes for and circumstances under which authorities can exercise such powers 

vary across jurisdictions and financial sectors.  

 

Recovery and Resolution Planning 

22. 

Currently, only four jurisdictions3 have formal statutory requirements for development 

of  RRPs,  and  many  other  jurisdictions  are  in  the  process  of  developing  such  plans  for  G-

SIBs and D-SIBs. Jurisdictions that are home authorities of G-SIBs have started working on 

the  development  of  RRPs  through  supervisory  policy  and  many  jurisdictions  have  asked 

firms  to  prepare  recovery  plans  under  existing  supervisory  powers.  However,  the  RRP  is 

                                                           
1Australia,  (depositors  and  insurance  policyholders),  Indonesia,  Japan,  Korea  (depositors),  Singapore, 
Switzerland, Turkey (depositors), US (depositors). 
2UK (for large investment firms) and US (for non-bank SIFIs). 
3Spain, Switzerland, UK and US. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 195 

 

predominantly focused on banks. Only two jurisdictions (UK and US) have a framework for 

RRPs  for  other  categories  of  financial  institutions,  while  Canada  is  developing  RRPs  for 

insurers under general supervisory powers. 

 

Access to information and information sharing 

23. 

Domestic authorities with resolution functions are generally able to share non-public 

information with each other. This general principle is subject to a few exceptions, where the 

sharing  of  confidential  information  with  non-supervisory  domestic  authorities  for  both 

planning  and  carrying  out  resolution  is  either  not  permitted  (Brazil);  limited  to  specific 

circumstances, such as the entry of a firm into resolution (Italy) or conditional on a decision 

to undertake a resolution involving public funds (Switzerland).  

 

24. 

Cross-border  information  sharing  is  considerably  more  restricted.  Eight  FSB 

jurisdictions1  allow  domestic  authorities  to  share  non-public  information  with  foreign 

resolution  authorities  that  are  not  supervisors.  In  many  cases,  information  can  be  shared 

cross-border  between  supervisory  authorities  using  existing  supervisory  gateways,  but  not 

as  readily  through  other  channels  (Argentina,  Mexico,  Russia,  South  Africa,  Turkey). 

Supervisory gateways are not, however, sufficiently broad to allow confidential information to 

be  shared  with  all  foreign  authorities  that  have  a  responsibility  for  planning  or  carrying  out 

resolution of the firm in question.  

 

25. 

In  most  cases,  jurisdictions  do  not  require  a  memorandum  of  understanding  (MoU) 

as  a  condition  for  disclosure  of  information  under  existing  gateways,  but  a  number  of 

jurisdictions indicated that a MoU was in practice a prerequisite or seen as desirable. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
1Australia,  Canada,  France  (where  foreign  authorities  have  similar  functions  to  ACP  and  are  subject  to 
equivalent standards of professional secrecy), Hong Kong (subject to specified conditions set out in the relevant 
legislation), Saudi Arabia, Spain (in the case of non-EU resolution authorities, where the receiving authority is 
subject to equivalent standards of professional secrecy), UK, US 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 196 

 

Annex 3 
 

Draft Annex to the FSB Key Attributes: Resolution of Insurers 

 

The  FSB  Key  Attributes  of  Effective  Resolution  Regimes  for  Financial  Institutions  (the  Key 

Attributes) state that any financial institution that could be systemically significant or critical if 

it fails should be subject to a resolution regime consistent with the Key Attributes. 

 

The  systemic  impact  of  an  insurance  failure  can  materialise  in  various  ways,  including 

through contagion (where policyholders or markets consider that similar problems may exist 

in  similar  products  from  other  insurers)  and  financial  links  (for  example,  in  the  derivatives 

markets), and may have an impact on the broader economy through a failure to make good 

on  promises  to  policyholders  or  to  engage  in  new  transactions  that  would  foster  economic 

activity. 

 

The general assumption is that traditional insurance activities and even some non-traditional 

insurance  activities  that  are  no  longer  viable  will  typically  be  resolved  through  run-off  and 

portfolio  transfer  procedures.  It  may  not  be  possible,  however,  to  rely  on  these  tools  in  all 

circumstances, and particularly in those cases in which the business model, booking model 

or shared services model of a firm is complex. Run-off and portfolio transfer tools may not, 

for  example,  be  sufficient  to  mitigate  the  systemic  impact  of  a  sudden  deterioration  in  the 

viability of a larger, complex insurance group engaging in other non-traditional insurance and 

non-insurance  activities  that  may  involve  some  degree  of  bank-like  leverage  and  maturity 

transformation.  Insurance  companies,  insurance  groups  and  insurance  conglomerates, 

including reinsurance companies and reinsurance groups, (hereinafter “insurers”), that could 

be  systemically  significant  or  critical  if  they  fail  therefore  should  therefore  be  subject  to 

resolution regimes that meet the standard set out in the Key Attributes. 

 

This  Annex  provides  guidance  on  the  implementation  of  the  Key  Attributes  in  relation  to 

resolution regimes for insurers. It supplements the Key Attributes by indicating how particular 

Key Attributes, or elements of particular Key Attributes, should be interpreted when applied 

to resolution regimes for insurers. The guidance on individual Key Attributes should be read 

in conjunction with the Key Attribute to which it relates. 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 197 

 

1. 

Objectives 

1.1 

A resolution regime for insurers should meet the general objectives set out in the Key 

Attributes (Preamble and Key Attribute 2.3). It should make it feasible to resolve an insurer 

without  severe  systemic  disruption  or  exposing  taxpayers  to  loss,  while  protecting  vital 

economic  functions  through  mechanisms  which  make  it  possible  for  shareholders  and 

unsecured  creditors  to  absorb  losses  in  a  manner  that  respects  the  hierarchy  of  claims  in 

liquidation.  Additionally  the  resolution  regime  should  have  as  a  statutory  objective  the 

protection  of  insurance policyholders,  especially  retail  policyholders  who  are  dependent  on 

insurance benefit payments. 

 

1.2 

Functions  provided  by  insurers  that  may  constitute  vital  economic  functions  include 

risk transfer, risk pooling and the pooling of savings. The protection of these functions should 

include securing appropriate continuity of insurance coverage and payments. 

 

2. 

Scope of resolution regimes 

2.1 

Any insurer that could be systemically significant or critical if it fails and, in particular, 

all  insurers  designated  as  Globally  Systemically  Important  Insurers  (“G-SIIs”),  should  be 

subject to a resolution regime consistent with the Key Attributes. 

 

3. 

Resolution authority 

3.1 

As  part  of  its  statutory  objectives  and  functions,  the  authority  responsible  for  the 

resolution  of  insurers  should  exercise  its  resolution  functions  in  a  way  that  meets  the 

relevant  general  objectives  set  out  in  the  Preamble  and  Key  Attribute  2.3  and  the  specific 

objective of protecting policyholders. 

 

3.2 

To achieve its objectives, the resolution authority may need to interact with applicable 

schemes  for  the  protection  of  insurance  policyholders  (‘policyholder  protection  schemes’). 

The  respective  mandates,  roles  and  responsibilities  of  the  resolution  authority  and 

policyholder protection schemes should be clearly defined and coordinated. 

 

3.3 

The  resolution  powers  may  be  exercised  by  the  resolution  authority  directly  or 

through  a  special  administrator,  receiver,  conservator  or  other  official  subject  to  the  same 

objectives as the resolution authority. 

 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 198 

 

4. 

Resolution powers 

Entry into resolution (Key Attribute 3.1) 

4.1 

The  resolution  regime  should  set  out  clear  standards  or  suitable  indicators  of  non-

viability  to  guide  the  decision  as  to  whether  an  insurer  meets  the  conditions  for  entry  into 

resolution.  Such  standards  or  indicators  should  allow  for  timely  and  early  entry  into 

resolution before an insurer is balance-sheet insolvent. They may include a determination by 

the supervisory authority, in consultation with the resolution authority (where the supervisory 

authority is not also the resolution authority) that: 

(i)  there  is  an  unacceptably  low  probability  that  policyholders  will  receive  payments  as 

they fall due; 

(ii)  there  is  an  unacceptably  low  probability  that  policyholders  receive  payments  of  the 

total amount owed; 

(iii) recovery  measures  have  failed  to  return  the  insurer  to  sustainable  viability  or  have 

not been implemented in a timely manner; 

(iv) proposed recovery measures will not be sufficient to return the insurer to viability or 

cannot be implemented in a timely manner; and 

(v)  the resolution objectives cannot be achieved through ordinary insolvency, run-off or 

portfolio transfer procedures alone. 

 

Choice of resolution powers 

4.2 

Resolution  authorities  should  have  at  their  disposal  a  broad  range  of  resolution 

powers, but should in each case only use those powers that are suitable and necessary to 

meet the resolution objectives. The choice and application of the resolution powers provided 

for  in  KA  3  should  take  into  account  insurance  specificities  and,  in  particular,  the  types  of 

business the insurer engages in and the nature of its assets and liabilities. 

 

Control, manage and operate the insurer or bridge institution (Key Attribute 3.2 (ii, iii and iv)) 

4.3 

Resolution authorities should have the power to carry on some or all of the insurance 

business,  either  within  the  existing  entity  or  using  a  bridge  institution,  with  a  view  to 

maximising  value  for  policyholders  as  a  whole  and  providing  continuity  of  insurance 

coverage, including the power to: 

(i)  continue to fulfil in whole or in part existing obligations under contracts of insurance; 

(ii)  permit  the  exercise  of  options  under  existing  contracts  of  insurance,  including  the 

surrender or withdrawal of contract cash value; 

(iii) enter into new contracts of insurance and reinsurance; and 

(iv) buy reinsurance (or retrocession) coverage. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 199 

 

In each case, the costs of those obligations should be met either from the existing estate, the 

collection  of  premiums  due,  the  collection  of  recurring  premiums,  the  collection  of  new 

premiums or the support of the policyholder protection scheme. 

 

Restructuring of liabilities (Key Attribute 3.2 (iii)) 

4.4 

The  resolution  authority  should  have  the  power  to  restructure  or  limit  liabilities, 

including  insurance  and  reinsurance  liabilities,  and  allocate  losses  to  creditors  and 

policyholders  in  a  way  consistent  with  the  statutory  creditor  hierarchy,  subject  to  the 

safeguards  set  out  in  Key  Attribute  5.  Examples  of  a  restructuring  of  liabilities  include,  but 

are not limited to, the following: 

(i)  reducing  future  (or  contingent)  benefits,  such  as  the  sum  assured  or  the  annuity 

provided,  in  a  manner  that  allocates  losses  as  appropriate  to  policyholders  whilst 

maintaining continuity of insurance coverage and payments falling due; 

(ii)  reducing  the  value  of  contracts  upon  surrender,  where  insurance  contracts  have  a 

surrender value to enable losses to be imposed as appropriate on policyholders that 

seek to surrender their contracts; 

(iii) reducing or terminating guarantees, such as the guaranteed sum assured or annuity 

rate  provided  by  a  with-profits  policy,  to  enable  losses  to  be  imposed  on 

policyholders  that  participate  in  the  profits  and  losses  of  the  insurer  (or  a  fund)  as 

appropriate and remove uncertainty about the future value of such guarantees; 

(iv) terminating or restructuring options provided to policyholders, for example as part of 

a deferred or variable annuity contract (including to help facilitate a transfer); 

(v)  converting  an  annuity  into  a  lump  sum  payment  that  can  be  used  to  fund  the 

issuance  of  a  new  annuity  contract  or  be  paid  out  to  the  policyholder  in 

circumstances where continuity is not achievable; 

(vi) settling  crystallised  and  contingent  insurance  obligations  by  payment  of  an  amount 

calculated as a proportion of estimated present and future claims, to provide a more 

rapid  and  cost-effective  resolution  where  future  claims  are  uncertain  and  run-off  is 

not feasible or there is not time to carry out a detailed actuarial valuation; 

(vii) converting  insurance  liabilities  from  one  type  of  insurance  liability  into  another  (for 

instance  ‘with  profits’  into  ‘unit  linked’)  in  order  to  facilitate  a  sale  of  business  or 

ensure its continuity; 

(viii) 

reducing  the  value  of  inwards  reinsurance  contracts  or  restructuring  inwards 

reinsurance contracts, for example by imposing limits on a policy, to allow losses to 

be  imposed  on  cedants,  as  appropriate  and  where  this  does  not  compromise 

financial stability. This includes obligations under inwards reinsurance contracts. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 200 

 

Where  a  restructuring  of  insurance  liabilities  takes  place  and  the  values  of  insurance 

contracts are reduced, that restructuring may provide for the values of insurance contracts to 

be increased later in relation to the performance of the business following resolution so that 

creditors (including policyholders) benefit from any upside in a way that respects the creditor 

hierarchy. 

 

4.5 

The  resolution  authority  should  be  able  to  exercise  powers  of  conversion  or 

commutation,  subject  to  the  safeguards  set  out  in  KA  5,  without  being  required  to  identify 

every creditor or potential creditor or to provide notice to each one. 

 

4.6 

The powers should allow resolution actions to be taken effectively and in a way that 

binds unknown creditors where: 

(i)  claims have not yet arisen; 

(ii)  claims have arisen but have not yet been notified; 

(iii) claims have not yet been estimated; or 

(iv) the  identity  of  policyholders,  claimants  or  beneficiaries  is  not  known  (for  example 

because cover has been written by third  parties and the claim investigation has not 

progressed to the point whereby all relevant parties have been identified). 

 

Portfolio Transfer (Key Attribute 3.2(vi) and 3.7(i)) 

4.7 

Resolution authorities should have the power to transfer contracts of insurance and 

reinsurance, including the power to vary or reduce the value of those contracts transferred. 

Where  the  value  of  the  contract  of  insurance  or  reinsurance  is  uncertain  or  requires 

considerable  time  to  evaluate,  the  power  should  provide  for  a  pre-agreed  mechanism  to 

adjust the value of the contract after the transfer has been effected. 

 

4.8 

Resolution authorities should have the power to transfer any reinsurance associated 

with the transferred policies without the consent of the reinsurer. 

 

Power to suspend insurance policyholders’ surrender rights 

4.9 

In  order  to  achieve  an  effective  resolution,  the  power  of  the  resolution  authority  to 

suspend  creditor  rights  in  resolution  should  extend  to  the  ability  to  temporarily  restrict  or 

suspend  the  rights  of  insurance  policyholders  to  withdraw  from  or  change  their  insurance 

contracts  with  an  insurer.  The  exercise  of  the  power  and  duration  of  the  stay  should  be 

appropriate to the nature of the insurance product (for example, the distinction between life 

and non-life insurance). 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 201 

 

4.10  The resolution authority should have the power to stay rights of reinsurers of the firm 

to terminate coverage for periods relating to, or policies incepting, after the commencement 

of  resolution.  The  resolution  authority  should  also  have  the  power  to  stay  any  right  to  no 

longer reinstate reinsurance cover upon payment of a premium; however, that power should 

be accompanied by an arbitration or compensation mechanism to determine a fair value of 

reinsurance premium to be paid in relation to the continued period of reinsurance coverage. 

 

5. 

Safeguards 

Respect of creditor hierarchy and creditor status of policyholders 

5.1 

The hierarchy of claims in liquidation should give a high priority to policyholder claims 

so  that  shareholders  and  unsecured  creditors,  such  as  debt  holders,  absorb  losses  before 

policyholders. 

 

Pari-passu principle 

5.2 

The flexibility for the resolution authority to depart from the general principle of equal 

(pari-passu) treatment of creditors of the same class may extend to the treatment of classes 

of  policyholders  if  this  is  necessary  to  contain  the  potential  impact  of  a  firm’s  failure, 

maximise the value for creditors as a whole (including for policyholders) or to otherwise meet 

the  objectives  of  resolution,  subject  to  the  “no  creditor  worse  off  safeguard”  (Key  Attribute 

5.2).  A  resolution  authority  may  define  sub-classes  of  policyholders  (for  example, 

policyholders with the same insurance product or those covered by a policyholder protection 

scheme)  and  treat  those  sub-classes  of  policyholders  differently  in  resolution.  However, 

there  should  be  no  differential  treatment  of  policyholders  within  the  same  sub-class  (for 

example, same insurance product or policies). 

 

No creditor worse off safeguard 

5.3 

Any determination of whether any class or sub-class of policyholders is worse off as 

a  result  of  resolution  measures  than  in  liquidation  should  take  into  account  the  applicable 

legal regime and the contractual terms and conditions under the insurance policies. 

 

5.4 

Authorities  should  clarify  ex  ante  the  method  and  as-of  date  by  which  claims  in 

foreign currencies would be converted into the reporting currency of the failed entity. 

 

6. 

Funding resolution 

6.1 

Jurisdictions should have in place privately-financed policyholder protection schemes 

that can assist in: 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 202 

 

(i)  securing continuity of insurance coverage and payments by the transfer of insurance 

policies to a bridge insurer or third party or use of any other resolution powers; and 

(ii)  compensating policyholders or beneficiaries for their losses in the event of a wind-up 

or liquidation. 

 

7. 

Cross-border effectiveness 

7.1  Where contracts are written under a governing law other than that of the jurisdiction 

where  the  insurer  is  located,  authorities  should  be  satisfied  that  the  terms  of  transfer  and 

liability  restructuring  conducted  by  the  resolution  authority  will  be  effective,  for  example  by 

including recognition clauses in the insurance contracts. 

 

8. 

Crisis Management Groups (CMGs) and Cooperation Agreements (COAGs) 

8.1 

Crisis Management Groups (CMGs) and institution-specific cooperation agreements 

(COAGs)  should  be  maintained  or  developed  at  least  for  G-SIIs.  They  should  build  upon 

existing supervisory colleges and cooperation agreements. 

 

9. 

Resolvability assessments 

9.1 

All insurers that could be systemically significant or critical upon failure in a domestic 

or  cross-border  context,  at  a  minimum  all  global  systemically  important  insurers  (G-SIIs), 

should be subject to regular resolvability assessments that are conducted in accordance with 

Key Attribute 10 and Annex II. 

 

9.2 

In undertaking a resolvability assessment to evaluate the feasibility and credibility of 

implementing  the  resolution  strategy  and  operational  resolution  plan  developed  for  the 

insurer, resolution authorities,  in coordination with other relevant authorities,  should assess 

in  particular  whether  the  chosen  resolution  strategy  ensures  the  continuity  of  critical 

functions, including the continuity of  coverage and payment for critical insurance contracts, 

and can be implemented without severe systemic disruption and without exposing taxpayers 

to loss. 

 

9.3 

The  assessment  of  the  feasibility  of  the  resolution  strategy  should  cover  as 

appropriate: 

(i)  the likely availability of a transferee or purchaser for any insurance business that is to 

be sold as part of the resolution strategy, taking into consideration the ability to use a 

bridge institution to operate the business on a temporary basis; 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 203 

 

(ii)  the time needed to evaluate policyholder liabilities and the assets supporting, backing 

or  to  be  transferred  as  consideration for  assuming  the  liabilities,  and  for a  potential 

buyer to carry out due diligence; 

(iii) the  capacity  of  the  policyholder  protection  scheme  to  fund  its  share  of  any  transfer 

where  there  are  insufficient  assets  to  resolve  all  insurance  liabilities  in  a  timely 

manner; 

(iv) if  the  resolution  strategy  consists  of  or  includes  a  solvent  run-off,  the  risk  that 

policyholders with later maturing policies may not receive their benefits in full and are 

‘time-subordinated’  to  those  with  earlier-maturing  policies  and  short-term  non-

policyholder creditors; 

(v)  the quality of management information systems and the documentation of insurance 

contracts,  including  the  capacity  of  the  firm  to  deliver  detailed,  accurate  and  timely 

information about the types of insurance business it undertakes, the number and type 

of policyholders, the benefits due to each policyholder, the reinsurance in place and 

information about assets, especially assets backing the insurance liabilities; 

(vi) the  extent  to  which  corporate  structures  and  business  units  are  aligned  with  legal 

entities to ensure that the sale, transfer or wind down of different business units can 

be  accomplished  through  control  of  a  single  corporation  or  closely  related  group  of 

corporations; 

(vii) the  extent  to  which  corporate  capital  structures  would  permit  a  bail-in  within 

resolution in accordance with Key Attributes 3.5 and 3.6; 

(viii) 

the  legal,  operational  and  financial  separateness  of  traditional  insurance 

business from non-traditional insurance and non-insurance business; 

(ix) intercompany service agreements to ensure continuity of services; 

(x)  the effect of intra-group transactions (for example, reinsurance transactions, loans or 

letters  of  credit,  collateral  upgrades  or  other  liquidity  support  provided  to  banking 

entities,  guarantees  or  letters  of  support,  cost  sharing  or  profit  and  loss-sharing 

agreements among affiliates) in resolution; 

(xi) the extent to which any interconnections or interdependencies between group entities 

or with third-parties affect the implementation of the resolution strategy; 

(xii) how contractual termination events (including cross-default) in financial contracts with 

insurers are defined, including whether rating down-grades, restructuring or (solvent 

or  insolvent)  run-off,  in  particular  if  occurring  in  a  single  legal  entity  within  an 

insurance  group,  could  trigger  early  termination  of  contracts  of  the  relevant  legal 

entity or its affiliates; and 

(xiii) 

whether surplus assets in other jurisdiction may be ring fenced in resolution. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 204 

 

9.4  When  assessing  the  credibility  and  overall  impact  of  implementing  the  resolution 

strategy, consideration should be given to its effects on third parties and financial stability as 

a whole, including whether the resolution of the insurer would cause: 

(i)  a  material  adverse  impact  on  economic  activity  as  a  result  of  any  disruption  to 

continuity of insurance cover and payment, which will be greatest when insurance is 

a pre-requisite to day-to-day economic activity (for example, employers’ liability, trade 

credit  and  transport  liability  insurance);  where  a  disruption  in  insurance  claims  and 

benefit  payments  is  likely  to  cause  significant  and  widespread  financial  hardship  to 

households  and  businesses;  or  where  the  insurer  has  a  significant  share  of  the 

market; 

(ii)  a lack of confidence in other insurers triggering a policyholder run, particularly where 

other insurers provide insurance that resembles on-demand savings products; 

(iii) an  adverse  impact  on  the  resolvability  of  insurance  or  other  financial  operations 

undertaken elsewhere in the group; 

(iv) large  investment  losses  for  other  financial  institutions  that  could  affect  their  capital 

resources; 

(v)  the  termination  of  securities  lending  and  reverse  repo  operations  that  could  affect 

funding and liquidity for other parts of the financial system; and 

(vi) an  amplification  of  financial  market  disruption  owing  to  the  termination  of  financial 

guarantees or credit default swaps. 

 

10. 

Recovery and resolution planning 

10.1  All insurers that could be systemically significant or critical upon failure, at a minimum 

all  G-SIIs,  should  be  subject  to  a  requirement  for  an  ongoing  process  of  recovery  and 

resolution planning. 

 

10.2  Recovery  and  resolution  plans  (RRPs)  need  to  be  tailored  to  the  specific  risks  and 

systemic implications that each insurer may be exposed to or create and take into account 

the  types  of  business  the  insurer  engages  in,  its  derivatives  booking,  intercompany 

guarantees,  inter-affiliate  support  arrangements,  risk  pooling,  shared  services  and  risk 

management model and the nature of its assets and liabilities. 

 

10.3  A  key  component  of  RRPs  is  a  strategic  analysis  that  identifies  the  firm’s  essential 

and systemically important functions and sets out the key steps to maintaining them in both 

recovery and resolution scenarios. Elements of such analysis should include identification of 

essential and systemically important functions, mapped to the legal entities in which they are 

conducted. Such essential functions could include, but are not limited to: 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 205 

 

(i)  the provision of critical types of insurance policies, the continuity of which is a priority 

in resolution for reasons of policyholder protection or financial stability; 

(ii)  the  provision  of  services  (actuarial,  claims  handling,  policy  administration,  benefit 

payment,  etc.)  that  are  necessary  for  the  continuation  of  the  critical  insurance 

business; 

(iii) essential  hedging  activities  that  are  necessary  to  the  continuation  of  the  insurance 

business  (for  example,  hedging  for  variable  annuities  with  complex  embedded 

options and guarantees, or hedging to closely match annuity cash flows); 

(iv) liquidity  or  other  funding  support  provided  to  other  financial  institutions,  the  sudden 

withdrawal of which could have adverse effects on financial stability; 

(v)  intra-group  transactions,  for  example,  reinsurance  (including  captive  reinsurance 

arrangements),  funding,  liquidity  and  intra-group  support  and  guarantees,  that  are 

essential to the continuation of critical functions elsewhere in a group structure or that 

could  otherwise  significantly  affect  resolution  or  recovery  if  they  are  disrupted  or 

suspended; and 

(vi) credit  or  financial  guarantee  insurance,  or  non-insurance  (for  example,  CDS),  the 

withdrawal  of  which  could  have  adverse  effects  on  financial  stability  or  the  broader 

economy. 

 

Recovery plans 

10.4  Recovery  plans  should  be  developed  on  the  basis  of  severe  stress  scenarios  that 

combine  adverse  systemic  and  idiosyncratic  conditions.  They  need  to  take  into  account 

insurance  specificities  such  as  the  longer  pay-out  duration  and  the  liquidity  profile  of 

insurers. 

 

10.5  The  insurer’s  direct  supervisory  authority,  the  policyholder  protection  scheme  and 

relevant resolution authorities should cooperate in the review of the insurer’s recovery plan. 

 

10.6 

In the case of G-SIIs, the review of the recovery plan should be carried out within the 

insurer’s CMG. 

 

10.7  Firms should identify possible recovery measures and the necessary steps and time 

needed  to  implement  such  measures  and  assess  the  associated  risks  of  implementation. 

The range of possible recovery measures could include: 

(i)  actions  to  strengthen  the  capital  situation,  for  example,  recapitalisations  after 

extraordinary losses, capital conservation measures such as suspension of dividends 

and payments of variable remuneration; 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 206 

 

(ii)  triggering of contingent capital instruments; 

(iii) possible  sales  of  subsidiaries,  portfolios  of  insurance  contracts,  renewal  rights  and 

spin-off of business units; 

(iv) changes to the reinsurance programme; 

(v)  changes to the investment strategy and hedging programme; 

(vi) changes  to  business  mix,  sales  volumes  and  product  designs,  including  options  to 

close books of business to new underwriting; 

(vii) changes to underwriting and claims handling practices; and 

(viii) 

modifications to contract terms and conditions, the level of charges, fees and 

surrender  payments,  the  amount  and  timing  of  any  discretionary  benefits  and  the 

operation  of  discretionary  incentives  to  renew  contracts  (such  as  ‘no-claims 

discounts’ or contract renewals without new underwriting). 

 

10.8  A firm in solvent run-off should have a scheme of operations plan that sets out how 

all  liabilities  to  policyholders  will  be  met  in  full  as  they  fall  due  and  should  include,  for 

example, details on how expenses can be reduced as business volumes fall. 

 

Resolution strategies and plans 

10.9 

In the case of G-SIIs, the resolution strategies and plans should be developed within 

the insurer’s CMG. 

 

10.10  Resolution plans for insurers should contain the essential elements set out in Annex 

III and also include, as appropriate to the type of the insurer, the following: 

(i)  identification of policyholders that protected by a policyholder protection scheme and 

policyholders that are not eligible for benefits from such schemes; 

(ii)  the  actuarial  assumptions  used 

for  calculating 

insurance 

liabilities  and  an 

independent  exit  value  actuarial  valuation  of  the  technical  provisions  (policyholder 

liabilities); 

(iii) review of asset quality and concentration issues; 

(iv) preparation  of  insurance  portfolio  transfers,  including  a  determination  of  the 

acceptability  of  assets  to  be  transferred  to  any  insurer  assuming  liabilities  in  a 

portfolio transfer; 

(v)  sources of funding, including those from a policyholder protection scheme; 

(vi) provision for continuity or an orderly winding down of any derivatives portfolio; 

(vii) details  on  the  allocation  of  ceded  reinsurance  among  the  various  legal  entities  and 

impact on the recovery levels; 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 207 

 

(viii) 

an  estimate  of  the  outcome  for  each  class  of  policyholder  upon  winding  up 

(the  counter-factual  to  the  resolution  plan  and  the  basis  for  ‘no  creditor  worse  off’ 

considerations); and 

(ix) practical  arrangements  for  ensuring  continuity  of  coverage  and  payment  under 

certain types of insurance policies. 

 

11. 

Access to information and information sharing 

11.1 

In order to facilitate the implementation of resolution measures, insurers that could be 

systemically  significant  or  critical  upon  failure,  including  all  G-SIIs,  should  be  required  to 

maintain information systems and controls that can promptly produce, both in normal times 

and  during  resolution,  the  relevant  data  and  information  needed  for  the purposes  of  timely 

resolution planning and resolution, for example in particular, on the following: 

(i)  insurance activities where continuity of coverage and payment need to be maintained 

in resolution; 

(ii)  details of eligibility for protection under policyholder protection schemes and scope of 

protection for eligible policyholders; and 

(iii) deposit-like products and other financial products that could be prone to runs. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 208 

 

Annex 4 

 

Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) Framework  

 

Reserve Bank of India PCA Framework for commercial banks 

The  Reserve  Bank  has  specified  certain  regulatory  trigger  points,  as  a  part  of  prompt 

corrective action (PCA) Framework, in terms of three parameters, i.e. capital to risk weighted 

assets  ratio  (CRAR),  net  non-performing  assets  (NPA)  and  Return  on  Assets  (RoA),  for 

initiation  of  certain  structured  and  discretionary  actions  in  respect  of  banks  hitting  such 

trigger points. The PCA framework is applicable only to commercial banks and not extended 

to co-operative banks, non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and FMIs.  

 

The trigger points along with structured and discretionary actions that could be taken by the 

Reserve Bank are described below: 

1.  CRAR 

(i)  CRAR  less  than  9%,  but  equal  or  more  than  6%  -  bank  to  submit  capital 

restoration plan; restrictions on RWA expansion, entering into new lines of business, 

accessing/renewing costly deposits and CDs, and making dividend payments; order 

recapitalisation;  restrictions  on  borrowing from  inter-bank  market, reduction  of  stake 

in  subsidiaries,  reducing  its  exposure  to  sensitive  sectors  like  capital  market,  real 

estate or investment in non-SLR securities, etc. 

(ii)  CRAR less than 6%, but equal or more than 3% - in addition to actions in hitting 

the  first  trigger  point,  RBI  could  take  steps  to  bring  in  new  Management/  Board, 

appoint  consultants  for  business/  organizational  restructuring,  take  steps  to  change 

ownership, and also take steps to merge the bank if it fails to submit recapitalization 

plan. 

(iii) CRAR  less  than  3%  -  in  addition  to  actions  in  hitting  the  first  and  second  trigger 

points,  more  close  monitoring;  steps  to  merge/amalgamate/liquidate  the  bank  or 

impose moratorium on the bank if its CRAR does not improve beyond 3% within one 

year or within such extended period as agreed to. 

2.  Net NPAs 

(i)  Net  NPAs  over  10%  but  less  than  15%  -  special  drive  to  reduce  NPAs  and 

contain generation of fresh NPAs; review loan policy and take steps to strengthen 

credit  appraisal  skills,  follow-up  of  advances  and  suit-filed/decreed  debts,  put  in 

place  proper  credit-risk  management  policies;  reduce  loan  concentration; 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 209 

 

restrictions  in  entering  new  lines  of  business,  making  dividend  payments  and 

increasing its stake in subsidiaries. 

(ii) Net  NPAs  15%  and  above  –  In  addition  to  actions  on  hitting  the  above  trigger 

point, bank’s Board is called for discussion on corrective plan of action. 

3.  ROA less than 0.25% - restrictions on accessing/renewing costly deposits and CDs, 

entering  into  new  lines  of  business,  bank’s  borrowings  from  inter-bank  market, 

making  dividend  payments  and  expanding  its  staff;  steps  to  increase  fee-based 

income;  contain administrative expenses; special drive to reduce NPAs and contain 

generation of fresh NPAs; and restrictions on incurring any capital expenditure other 

than for technological upgradation and for some emergency situations. 

 

FDIC PCA Framework 

The PCA framework prescribes five levels of trigger points  based on capital measures, i.e. 

total  risk-based  capital  ratio,  Tier  1  risk-based  capital  ratio,  and  leverage  ratio,  for  insured 

state-chartered  non-member  banks.  The  five  PCA  categories  are  (i)  well  capitalized,  (ii) 

adequately  capitalized,  (iii)  undercapitalized,  (iv)  significantly  undercapitalized,  and  (v) 

critically undercapitalized. 

 

(i) Well capitalized –  

(a)  Total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater; and 

(b)  Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater; and 

(c)  Leverage ratio of 5% or greater. 

(ii) Adequately capitalized -  

(a)  Total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater; and 

(b)  Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4% or greater; and 

(c)  A leverage ratio of 4% or greater, OR a leverage ratio of 3% or greater if the bank is 

rated composite 1 under the CAMELS rating system in the most recent examination 

of the bank. 

(iii) Undercapitalized - 

(a)  Total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%; OR  

(b)  Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4%; OR 

(c)  A leverage ratio of less than 4%, OR a  leverage ratio of less than 3% if the bank is 

rated composite 1 under the CAMELS rating system in the most recent examination 

of the bank. 

(iv) Significantly undercapitalized - 

(a)  Total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%; OR  

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 210 

 

(b)  Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3%; OR 

(c)  A leverage ratio of less than 3%.  

(v) Critically undercapitalized - 

(a)  The tangible equity to total assets (leverage ratio) is equal to or less than 2%. 

 

For insured branches of foreign banks, the PCA framework has prescribed five categories in 

terms of pledged assets and maintenance of eligible assets. These are described below: 

 

(i) Well capitalized - 

(a)  Maintains the pledge of assets as per FDIC Rules and Regulations; and 

(b)  Maintains  eligible  assets  at  108%  or  more  of the  preceding quarter’s  average  book 

value of the branch’s third party liabilities; and 

(c)  Has  not  received  any  written  notification  from  OCC  to  increase  its  capital  or  asset 

management requirements. 

(ii) Adequately capitalized - 

(a)  Maintains the pledge of assets as per FDIC Rules and Regulations; and 

(b)  Maintains  eligible  assets  at  106%  or  more  of the  preceding quarter’s  average  book 

value of the branch’s third party liabilities; and 

(c)  Does not meet the definition of well capitalized branch. 

(iii) Undercapitalized - 

(a)  Fails to maintain the pledge of assets as per FDIC Rules and Regulations; OR 

(b)  Fails to maintain eligible assets at 108% or more of the preceding quarter’s average 

book value of the branch’s third party liabilities. 

(iv) Significantly undercapitalized - 

(a)  Fails to maintain eligible assets at 104% or more of the preceding quarter’s average 

book value of the branch’s third party liabilities. 

(v) Critically undercapitalized - 

(a)  Fails to maintain eligible assets at 102% or more of the preceding quarter’s average 

book value of the branch’s third party liabilities. 

 

On bank reaching the levels of undercapitalized, or significantly undercapitalized, or critically 

undercapitalized,  automatic  restrictions,  as  per  provisions  of  Section  38  of  FDI  Act,  are 

placed  on  the  concerned  bank  in  respect  of  (i)  payment  of  capital  distributions  and 

management fees, (ii) the growth of assets, (iii) requiring prior approval of certain expansion 

proposals, (iv) requiring that the FDIC monitor the condition of the bank, and (v)  requiring 

submission of a capital restoration plan. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 211 

 

In addition to the above  restrictions and close monitoring,  the significantly undercapitalized 

and critically undercapitalized banks are restricted to pay compensation to senior executive 

officers  of  the  institution.  The  critically  undercapitalized  bank  is,  in  addition  to  above, 

required  to  take  prior  approval  from  FDIC  in  respect  of  –  entering  into  any  material 

transaction other than in the usual course of business, such as any investment, expansion, 

acquisition, sale of assets, or other similar action; extending credit for any highly leveraged 

transaction;  amending  the  institution’s  charter  or  bylaws;  making  any  material  change  in 

accounting  methods;  paying  excessive  compensation  or  bonuses;  paying  significantly  high 

interest  on  new  or  renewed  liabilities;  making  any  principal  or  interest  payment  on 

subordinated  debt  beginning  60  days  after  becoming  critically  undercapitalized;  and 

engaging  in  any  covered  transaction.  In  addition,  FDIC  may  further  restrict  the  activities  of 

the critically undercapitalized bank. 

 

Early Intervention Framework in Canada 

The Canadian framework of early intervention (issued by the Office of the Superintendent of 

Financial  Institutions  (OSFI))  consists  of  four  stages  (in  addition  to  the  “all  normal”  stage). 

Each  stage  is  identified  by  a  set  of  conditions  and  a  number  of  options  for  supervisory 

measures.  The  framework  also  includes  guidelines  for  the  interaction  between  the 

authorities, including the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation (CDIC). 

 

(i) Stage 1 – Early Warning -  

(a)  The  combination  of  the  institution’s  overall  net  risk  and  its  capital  and  earnings 

compromises the institution’s resilience; and 

(b)  The  institution  has  issues  in  its  risk  management  or  has  control  deficiencies  that, 

although  not  serious  enough  to  present  a  threat  to  financial  viability  or  solvency, 

could deteriorate into more serious problems if not addressed. 

Supervisory  actions  include  –  meeting  the  bank’s  management,  conducting  more  frequent 

and intrusive on-site supervision, and requiring additional and more frequent reporting. The 

OSFI informs the CDIC about the institution’s position and actions intended to take. OSFI will 

also  send  intervention  reports  to the  CDIC  and  they  will  hold  joint  meetings  to  discuss the 

risk profile of the institution. 

 

(ii) Stage 2 – Risk to financial viability or solvency -  

(a)  The  combination  of  the  institution’s  overall  net  risk,  capital  and  earnings  makes  it 

vulnerable to adverse business and economic conditions which may pose a serious 

threat to its financial viability or solvency; and 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 212 

 

(b)  The institution has issues in its risk management that, although not serious enough to 

present  an  immediate  threat  to  financial  viability  or  solvency,  could  deteriorate  into 

more serious problems if not addressed. 

 

Supervisory  actions  include  –  requiring  the  institution  to  rectify  problems  within  a  specified 

timeframe, requiring the institution’s external auditor to extend the scope of the review of the 

financial statements or to conduct other procedures as specified by the OSFI, or developing 

a contingency plan to enable the OSFI to take rapid control of the assets of the institution in 

case  of  rapid  deterioration.  At  this  stage,  OSFI  will  inform  the  CDIC  of  results  and  data 

obtained  from  enhanced  supervisory  reviews,  expanded  audits,  and  enhanced  monitoring. 

The OSFI and CDIC will commence contingency planning. 

 

(iii) Stage 3 – Future financial stability in serious doubt -  

(a)  The  combination  of  the  institution’s  overall  net  risk,  capital  and  earnings  makes  it 

vulnerable to adverse business and economic conditions which pose a serious threat 

to its financial viability or solvency; and 

(b)  The  institution  has  significant  issues  in  its  risk  management  or  control  deficiencies, 

which  present  a  serious  threat  to  financial  viability  or  solvency,  unless  effective 

corrective action is promptly implemented. 

 

Supervisory  actions  include  –  directing  specialists  to  assess  specific  areas  such  as  the 

quality  of  loan  security,  asset  values,  and  sufficiency  of  reserves;  enhancing  the  scope  of 

business restrictions put on the institution; sending OSFI staff to the institution to monitor the 

situation  on  an  ongoing  basis;  expanding  contingency  planning;  and  communicating  to  the 

management  the  importance  of  considering  resolution  options,  including  seeking  a 

prospective  purchaser.  The  CDIC  and  OSFI  will  discuss  the  situation  of  the  institution  in 

depth. 

 

(iv) Stage 4 – Non-viability/insolvency imminent -  

(a)  The institution has failed to meet regulatory capital requirements in conjunction with 

an inability to rectify the situation on an immediate basis; 

(b)  The statutory conditions for taking control have been met; and 

(c)  The  institution  has  failed  to  develop  and  implement  an  acceptable  business  plan, 

resulting  in  either  of  the  two  preceding  circumstances  becoming  inevitable  within  a 

short period of time. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 213 

 

At this stage, OSFI has determined that the financial institution will become non-viable on an 

immediate  basis.  The  supervisory  actions  include  –  assuming  temporary  control  or  taking 

control of the assets; and requesting that the Attorney General apply for a winding-up order. 

 

Early Intervention Framework in Denmark 

The Danish framework consists of five quantitative  indicators. The supervisor is authorized 

to take remedial action in cases where the limits are breached. The five indicators are – 

 

(i)  Aggregate sum of all large exposures must not exceed 125 per cent of the bank’s core 

capital. (Large exposure is defined as the sum of exposures to a client or to a group of 

connected clients, if it exceeds 10% of the bank’s core capital); 

(ii)  Bank’s lending growth must not exceed 20% per year; 

(iii)  Amount of lending for real estate must not exceed 25% of total lending; 

(iv)  Bank’s funding ratio must not exceed 1. (Funding ratio is defined as aggregate lending 

divided by working capital (all shares, junior and senior debt, but excluding debt shorter 

than one year)). 

(v)  Liquidity coverage, defined as retail deposits in relation to wholesale funding must be at 

least 50%. In addition, the LCR and NSFR prescribed by Basel III will apply for liquidity 

and funding. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 214 

 

Recovery Plan – An Indicative Methodology for Banks 

Annex 5 

 

Introduction 

Recovery  Plan  is  a  plan,  which  needs  to  be  developed  and  maintained  in  advance  by  the 

senior management of the specified bank, detailing the steps that it would adopt to enable it 

to  take  early  action  to  restore  its  long-term  viability  if  the  bank’s  financial  situation 

deteriorated  due  to  the  extreme  stress  conditions.  These  stresses  could  be  caused  by  an 

idiosyncratic  problem,  a  market-wide  problem  or  a  combination  of  both,  and  could  extend 

beyond the current regulatory stress testing scenarios.  

 

In the recovery phase, the bank has not yet met the conditions for resolution or entered the 

resolution  regime.  Therefore,  the  recovery  plan  should  represent  a  reasonable  prospect  of 

recovery if appropriate recovery measures are taken. 

 

The banks will be required to prepare recovery plans that is integrated within its overall risk 

management framework and processes, and can be implemented and executed in a timely 

manner  in  case  of  need.  The  recovery  plan  should  include  measures  to  reduce  the  risk 

profile of the bank and conserve capital, as well as strategic and radical options, such as the 

exiting  particular  lines  of  business,  selling  subsidiaries  and  restructuring  of  liabilities,  or 

raising fresh capital, etc. 

 

The 

formulation  of 

the  plan  should 

take 

into  account 

the  nature,  complexity, 

interconnectedness, level of substitutability and size of the concerned bank.  

 

The recovery plan in respect of the bank would ideally be ensuring financial continuity – i.e. 

to maintain adequate capital and liquidity. In particular, the recovery plans aim at preserving 

the  continuity  of  critical  financial  services  under  severe  adverse  conditions  and  identifying 

the necessary measures to ensure that the bank group remains a “going concern”.  

 

The  recovery  plans  could  largely  help  supervisors/  regulators  in  identifying  the  appropriate 

actions that can restore the viability of banks at an early stage. As recovery plans would be 

prepared by banks, this process would also help them reviewing their operations, risks, and 

necessary actions in a problematic situation.  

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 215 

 

Recovery  plans  thus  would  increase  the  preparedness  and  awareness  of  both  banks  and 

their  supervisors/  regulators  for  and  about  problematic  financial  situations.  It  is  also  very 

critical that the banks take necessary measures to ensure that there are no impediments to 

the implementation of the plan in situations of financial stress. 

 

Key components of recovery plan 

The key components of recovery plan are given in Appendix 5.1. Banks should submit the 

information as a part of the recovery plan as detailed in the Annex. 

 

Governance framework for the recovery plan 

While  preparing  the  recovery  plan,  the  banks  will  be  required  to  plan  in  advance  what  it 

would  do  if  it  suffered  a  severe  stress  situation  that  could  threaten  its  survival  as  a  going 

concern.  In  doing  so,  the  banks  will  be  required  to  document  a  menu  of  various  credible 

options  from  which  it  would  select  the  most  appropriate  one  depending  upon  the 

circumstances of the stress situation. As the recovery action will depend upon the kind and 

severity of stress situation, the bank is not required to rank these menus of credible options 

or to prepare a pre-determined programme of recovery actions.  

 

The  banks  should  have  in  place  a  robust  governance  structure  and  sufficient  resources  to 

support the recovery and resolution planning process. This includes clear responsibilities of 

business units, senior management up to and including board members. The banks should 

also  identify  a  senior  level  executive  responsible  for  ensuring  that  the  institution  is  and 

remains  in  compliance  with  RRP  requirements.  The  responsibility  for  developing  and 

maintaining,  and  where  necessary,  executing  the  recovery  plans  would  lie  with  the  bank’s 

senior  management.  In  essence,  the  recovery  plan  should  be  subject  to  oversight  and 

approval by the Board of Directors. 

 

The recovery plan should be regularly reviewed and updated at regular intervals in case of 

occurrence of events that materially change the bank’s business structure or operations, its 

strategy or aggregated risk exposure. The bank should also regularly review the exogenous 

and  bank-specific  assumptions  a  recovery  plan  is  based  upon  and  assess  on  an  ongoing 

basis the relevance and applicability of the plans. It should ensure that the processes are in 

place for regular monitoring of early warning signals and triggers that prompt implementation 

of the recovery plan.  

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 216 

 

The bank should ensure that suitable processes are in place for timely decision-making and 

implementation of the recovery plan by its senior management and board of directors when 

triggers are breached. 

 

The  banks  should  have  in  place  systems  to  generate  on  a  timely  basis  the  information 

required  to  support  the  recovery  and  resolution  planning  process  to  enable  both  the  bank 

and the authorities to carry out recovery and resolution planning effectively. In addition, the 

bank  should  be  able  to  draw  up  concrete  bank-specific  stress  scenarios,  including  both 

idiosyncratic  and  market-wide  stress  and  also  be  in  a  position  to  furnish  the  strategy  and 

scenario analysis to the authorities on request. It should also be having the capabilities and 

position  to  carry  out  simulation  or  scenario  exercises  with  home  and  host  authorities  to 

assess the feasibility and credibility of the RRPs. 

 

The  banks  should  ensure  that  the  recovery  plan  is  integrated  into  its  existing  overall 

governance framework and processes. 

 

The recovery plans would be submitted to the Reserve Bank of India, which will review the 

adequacy of the plan as a part of the overall supervisory process, and assess its credibility 

and ability to be effectively implemented. 

 

Menu of key credible recovery options 

Linkage with existing prudential framework 

The  Reserve  Bank  of  India  has  issued  a  number  of  prudential  policies/  guidelines  which 

imbibe  the  banks  to  identify  various  types  of  risks  to  which  they  are  exposed  to,  and 

measure,  assess  and  monitor  them  so  as  to  avoid  the  threat  of  non-viability  in  case  of 

extreme eventualities. The Recovery and Resolution Plan needs to be seen as an extension 

of the existing prudential requirements. The recovery plan is not only identification of severe 

and plausible threat but also requires suitable and credible options to be in place for bringing 

back the institution to normalcy and financial continuity and viability. The resolution element, 

however, ensures an orderly failure of the bank in case of failure of the recovery options. 

 

Capital Adequacy 

The  extant  prudential  guidelines  on  capital  adequacy  prescribe  the  commercial  banks  in 

India to maintain a minimum capital to risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR) of 9 per cent on an 

ongoing basis. In order to address other risks exposed by the banks, in addition to the Pillar 

1  risks  (credit,  market  and  operational  risk)  covered  by  CRAR,  as  also  to  address  the 

possibility of some under-estimation of risks under Pillar 1 and the actual risk exposure of a 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 217 

 

bank  vis-à-vis  the  quality  of  its  risk  management  architecture,  the  banks  are  required  to 

make their own assessment of their various risk exposures, through a well-defined internal 

process  [called  as  Internal  Capital  Adequacy  and  Assessment  Process  (ICAAP)],  and 

maintain an adequate capital cushion for such risks. The ICAAP document should, inter alia, 

include  the  capital  adequacy  assessment  and  projections  of  capital  requirement  for  the 

ensuing year, along with the plans and strategies for meeting the capital requirement. 

 

Banks are also required to focus on effective and efficient capital planning, as well as long-

term  capital  maintenance.  An  effective  capital  planning  process  requires  a  bank  to  assess 

both the risks to which it is exposed and the risk management processes in place to manage 

and mitigate those risks; evaluate its capital adequacy relative to its risks; and consider the 

potential impact on earnings and capital from economic downturns. A bank’s capital planning 

process should incorporate rigorous, forward-looking stress testing, 

 

The  banks’  capital  plan  should  spell  out  the  institution's  objectives  in  regard  to  level  of 

capital,  the  time  horizon  for  achieving  those  objectives,  and  in  broad  terms,  the  capital 

planning process and allocate responsibilities for that process.  

 

Liquidity risk management 

The banks are required to establish a robust liquidity risk management framework, including 

a liquidity risk management policy spelling out the liquidity risk tolerance, funding strategies, 

prudential  limits,  systems  for  measuring,  assessing  and  reporting/  reviewing  liquidity,  etc. 

The  banks  are  also  required  to  establish  a  funding  strategy  that  provides  effective 

diversification  in  the  source  and  tenor  of  funding,  and  maintain  ongoing  presence  in  its 

chosen  funding  markets  and  counterparties,  and  address  inhibiting  factors.  The  banks 

should  identify  alternate  sources  of  funding  that  strengthen  their  capacity  to  withstand  a 

variety of severe bank specific and market-wide liquidity shocks. 

 

The banks are stipulated to have a formal contingency funding plan (CFP) that clearly sets 

out the strategies for addressing severe disruptions in liquidity which might affect the bank’s 

ability to fund some or all of its activities in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost. CFPs 

should  prepare  the  bank  to  manage  a  range  of  scenarios  of  severe  liquidity  stress  that 

include  both  bank  specific  and  market-wide  stress  and  should  be  commensurate  with  a 

bank’s complexity, risk profile, scope of operations. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 218 

 

In  addition,  the  extant  prudential  guidelines  on  liquidity  risk  management  also  prescribe 

banks  to  maintain  a  cushion  of  unencumbered,  high  quality  liquid  assets  to  be  held  as 

insurance against a range of liquidity stress scenarios. 

 

Stress testing 

Stress testing has become an integral element of a bank’s risk management system and is 

used  to  evaluate  its  vulnerability  to  certain  unlikely  but  plausible  events  or  movements  in 

financial  variables.  The  vulnerability  is  usually  measured  with  reference  to  the  bank’s 

profitability  and/  or  capital  adequacy.  The  results  bring  to  the  fore  the  inadequacies  in 

management  of  various  kinds  of  risks  on  the  basis  of  normal  business  conditions  and 

emphasizes  the  importance  of  robust  risk  management  systems  which  factor-in  a  forward 

looking element and recognise the need to manage risks over the economic cycle. 

 

Banks  have  been  advised  to  put  in  place  a  Board  approved  “Stress Testing framework”  to 

suit their individual requirements which would integrate into their risk management systems. 

Stress tests undertaken on a bank-wide basis enable the board and the senior management 

to  assess  the  potential  impact  of  the  stress  situations  on  the  bank’s  earnings  and  capital 

position,  and  enable  them  to  develop  or  choose  appropriate  strategies  for  mitigating  and 

managing the  impact  of those  situations.  The framework  also  helps  bank  managements  in 

understanding the bank’s risk profile and adjusting it in accordance with their risk appetites.  

 

Banks  are  required  to  identify  the  major  risks  to  which  they  are  exposed  to  with  regard  to 

their bank specific circumstances and portfolio. They should stress the relevant parameters 

at least at three levels of increasing adversity – minor, medium and major – with reference to 

the  normal  situation  and  estimate  the  financial  resources  needed  by  it  under  each  of  the 

circumstances to (a) meet the risk as it arises and for mitigating the impact of manifestation 

of  that  risk,  (b)  meet  the  liabilities  as  they  fall  due,  and  (c)  meet  the  minimum  CRAR 

requirements. 

 

A few examples of stress factors/ scenarios include: domestic economic downturn, economic 

downturn of major economies to which the bank is directly exposed or to which the domestic 

economy  is  related;  decline  in  the  prospects  of  sectors  to  which  the  banks  are  having 

significant exposures; increase in level of NPAs and provisioning levels; unexpected deposit 

withdrawals on account of sudden loss of depositors’ confidence; increase in level of rating 

downgrades;  failure  of  major  counterparties;  timing  difference  in  interest  rate  changes 

(repricing  risk);  unfavourable  differential  changes  in  key  interest  rates  (basis  risk);  parallel/ 

non  parallel  yield  curve  shifts  (yield  curve  risk);  changes  in  the  values  of  standalone  and 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 219 

 

embedded  options  (option  risk);  adverse  changes  in  exchange  rates  of  major  currencies; 

decline  in  market  liquidity  for  financial  instruments;  stock  market  declines;  tightening  of 

market liquidity; significant operational risk events, etc. 

 

The remedial actions that  are generally considered necessary to activate when the various 

stress tolerance levels are breached include: 

(a)  Reduction of risk limits; 

(b)  Reduction of risks by enhancing collateral requirements, seeking higher level of risk 

mitigants, undertaking securitisation, and hedging; 

(c)  Amend pricing policies to reflect enhanced risks or previously identified risks; 

(d)  Augmenting the capital levels to enhance the buffer to absorb shocks; 

(e)  Enhancing  sources  of  funds  through  credit  lines,  managing  the  liability  structure, 

altering the liquid asset profile, etc. 

 

The  linkage  of  the  need  for  preparation  of  the  recovery  plan  by  banks  and  the  existing 

prudential policies indicate the following: 

(i) 

The  results  of  the  stress  testing  exercises  prompts  the  Board  and  the  senior 

management to initiate certain potential management actions such as, reduce the 

risk  of  loss  through  better  internal  controls  or  robust  management  or  through 

reduction  in  the  particular  risk  exposure,  risk  mitigation  techniques,  etc.  These 

management actions could also form a part of options in the Recovery Plan. 

(ii) 

The objective of stress testing requirements is that banks should understand fully 

their risks and the potential impact of stressful events and circumstances on their 

financial condition and viability. The recovery plan has a common objective  with 

the stress testing towards restoring financial soundness and viability. 

(iii) 

Actions  identified  as  part  of  a  bank’s  capital  planning  and  contingency  funding 

plan  may  also  be  considered  as  options  for  the  Recovery  Plan.  However,  the 

recovery  plan  options/  actions  need  to  be  suitable  both  for  milder  stress 

scenarios as well as for severe stress scenarios. Therefore, the capital planning 

and  contingency  funding  planning  will  not  be  sufficient  for  preparation  of  the 

recovery plan. 

(iv) 

The  existing  capital  and  liquidity  stress  testing  requirements  could  serve  as 

essential inputs for the preparation of recovery plan. However, the recovery plan 

will require banks to plan for additional recovery options in circumstances where 

more  severe  than  the  existing  stress  scenarios  occur  and  affects  the  financial 

viability of bank. This is because the recovery plan should be such that it contains 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 220 

 

all options that could be initiated in case of severest of severe stress scenarios to 

recover. 

(v) 

The  recovery  plan  should,  therefore,  feature  options  that  the  firm  would  not 

consider in less severe circumstances, such as: 

(a)  disposal of business or entities; 

(b)  raising equity capital which has not been planned for in the bank’s business 

plan; 

(c)  complete elimination of dividends and variable remuneration; 

(d)  debt exchanges and other liquidity management actions; 

(e)  sale of the whole bank to a third party; etc. 

 

(vi) 

The recovery plans should cover forward-looking stress scenarios to incorporate 

different possibilities of multi-level stress tests, changes in portfolio composition, 

new  information  and  emerging  risk  possibilities. These  are  different from  relying 

on the normal historical risk management or replicating previous stress episodes. 

(vii) 

The  recovery  plans  should  cover  a  range  of  stress  scenarios  with  different 

severities including scenarios calibrated against the most adverse movements in 

individual risk drivers experienced over a long historical period, which may be up-

scaled to cover the benign economic cycle. 

 

Reverse stress testing 

Reverse stress testing is an useful method for developing effective stress scenarios that are 

not  identified  through  ordinary  stress  tests.  Reverse  stress  testing  basically  assumes  the 

failure  of  the  business  model  and  identifies  circumstances  in  which  this  may  occur,  rather 

than testing for outcomes arising from changes in circumstances of different likelihoods. The 

purpose of the reverse stress test is to identify and consider scenarios that would lead to a 

bank’s  business  model  becoming  non-viable.  In  the  case  of  scenarios  used  for  reverse 

stress-testing, the business model has already failed and recovery measures would not be 

effective. 

 

The aim of recovery planning is to describe options to restore financial strength and viability 

when  the  bank  comes  under  severe  stress.  Banks  should,  therefore,  consider  only  those 

scenarios that could lead to “near default” (and not a “default” or resolution scenario as used 

in  reverse  stress-testing).  The  reverse  stress  tests  should  therefore  be  seen  only  as  a 

starting point for developing scenarios to test the effectiveness of bank’s menu of recovery 

options. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 221 

 

The  banks  should  use  an  appropriate  number  of  market-wide  (systemic)  stress  scenarios 

and  bank-specific  (idiosyncratic)  stress  scenarios1  to  test  the  robustness  of  their  recovery 

plans and to assess which options would be effective in a range of stress situations. These 

scenarios should address capital shortfalls and liquidity pressures, and be severe enough to 

be  useful 

in  establishing 

triggers,  estimating 

impacts  of  adverse  situations,  and 

contemplating responses to remediate both slow-moving and fast-moving adverse situations. 

It  may  be  useful  for  a  bank  to  combine  market-wide  (systemic)  stress  scenario  with  more 

specific  macroeconomic  indicators  thereby  allowing  it  to  estimate  and  model  the  likely 

impacts upon its income statement, balance sheet, Tier 1 risk-based capital, regulatory Tier 

1 common equity, economic capital, and material lines of business. 

 

Banks should identify, assess and regularly update the scenarios most likely to cause their 

business model to become non-viable or to fail. 

 

The  recovery  plans  of  banks  should  take  into  account  of  the  specific  circumstances  of  its 

standing  in  the  market,  and  reflect  the  nature,  complexity,  interconnectedness,  level  of 

substitutability and size of the bank. As a result, different banks will have differing ranges of 

possible  recovery  actions/  options  depending  upon  their  size,  structure  and  activities.  The 

options  available  to  small  banks  are  likely  to  be  fewer  and  therefore  their  plans  will  be 

simpler as compared to large banks. Banks should include a range of credible options to be 

flexible  enough  to  be  effective  in  a  variety  of  idiosyncratic  and  market-wide  stress 

circumstances. 

 

The  banks  could,  therefore,  consider  the  following  possible  recovery  measures  while 

preparing their recovery  plans.  Banks  should  identify  the  necessary  steps  in  detail  and  the 

time  needed  to  implement  such  measures  and  assess  the  associated  risks.  The  banks 

                                                           
1The FSB has, in July 2013, published three guidance documents relating to Recovery and Resolution Planning 
for Systemically Important Financial Institutions  focusing  on regulators, supervisors and resolution authorities 
and  especially  those  that  participate  in  CMGs  for  future  strategies  in  recovery  and  resolution  planning.  These 
documents are titled “Guidance on Developing Effective Resolution Strategies”, “Guidance on Identification of 
Critical Functions and Critical Shared Services” and “Guidance on Recovery Triggers and Stress Scenarios”. to 
The guidance paper draws on the work undertaken by the CMGs in preparation of recovery and resolution plans 
of the G-SIBs.  
G-SIFIs typically use two to four stress scenarios for recovery planning purposes. They employ both systemic 
and  idiosyncratic  stress  scenarios,  and  in  many  case  a  combination  of  the  two  scenarios.  The  number  of 
scenarios  generally  depends  on  the  individual  G-SIFI  and  the  guidance  of  the  relevant  supervisory  authority. 
The scenarios range in severity and typically include a number of components, such as, significant capital and 
liquidity  impacts,  severe  losses  through  a  rogue  trader,  rating  downgrades,  a  Euro  or  US  dollar  crisis,  GDP 
growth  rates,  loss  of  goodwill,  exodus  of  talent,  significant  deposit  withdrawal  or  runoff,  collapse  of  global 
financial markets, currency rates, commodity prices, bank failures, fraud, reputational crises, etc. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 222 

 

should,  however,  ensure  that  the  recovery  options  do  not  in  any  way  interfere  with  their 

operational stability.  

 

The  dependencies  between  the  various  options  also  need  to  be  examined  and  structured 

into the Recovery Plan. The banks should assess the additional requirements to which they 

may potentially become subject during crisis situations in order to maintain their membership 

of  Financial  Market  Infrastructures  (FMIs),  for  example,  as  regards  pre-funding  or 

collateralising  of  positions,  and  identify  options  for  addressing  the  additional  requirements 

(for example,  plan for the sourcing of additional collateral, and assess potential constraints 

on the bank’s total payment flows). Banks should also have in place appropriate contingency 

arrangements  (for  example,  functioning  of  internal  processes,  IT  systems,  clearing  and 

settlement  facilities,  supplier  and  employee  contracts)  that  enable  them  to  continue  to 

operate  as  they  implement  recovery  measures.  The  range  of  possible  recovery  measures 

could include: 

  Actions  to  strengthen  the  capital  situation,  for  example,  recapitalisations  after 

extraordinary losses, capital conservation measures such as suspension of dividends 

and payments of variable remuneration; 

  Possible sale of subsidiaries and spin-off business units; 

  A possible voluntary restructuring of liabilities through debt-to-equity conversion; and 

  Measures  to  secure  sufficient  funding  while  ensuring  sufficient  diversification  of 

funding  sources  and  adequate  availability  of  collateral  in  terms  of  volume,  location 

and  quality.  Proper  consideration  should  also  be  given  to  possible  transfers  of 

liquidity and assets within the group. 

 

(i)  Capital, Liquidity and Profitability 

The recovery plans should invariably consider options that address capital shortfalls 

and  liquidity  pressures.  Banks  may,  therefore,  lay  stress  on  documenting  such 

options that focuses on sustaining and restoring their capital and liquidity resources 

and ultimately their profitability under a range of stress scenarios. 

 

The  plan  should  ensure  that  the  recovery  options  do  not  just  solve  the  short-term 

capital  or  liquidity  shortfalls  but  should  focus  on  the  bank’s  long-term  viability  once 

the particular stress scenario occurs. The ultimate objective should be to examine the 

effects on its profitability. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 223 

 

The banks are already required to make capital planning in lieu of its possible kinds 

of exposed risks as a part of its ICAAP document. The recovery plan should consider 

the  possibility  that  the  planned  capital  buffer  in  the  ICAAP  may  turn  out  to  be 

inadequate to absorb losses during a crisis. 

 

Banks  are  required  to  prepare  a  contingency  funding  plan  (CFP),  as  a  part  of  its 

normal liquidity risk management, for addressing severe disruptions in liquidity which 

might affect the bank’s ability to fund some or all of its activities in a timely manner 

and  at  a  reasonable  cost.  The  recovery  plan  should,  however,  consider  liquidity 

options that are over and above the requirements provided for in the CFP for facing 

the liquidity crisis that could be more severe than those projected in its liquidity stress 

tests. 

 

The  recovery  options  should  clearly  mention  the  details  of  available/  potential 

contingency  funding  sources  and  the  estimated  amount  which  can  be  drawn  from 

these  sources,  clear  escalation/  prioritisation  procedures  detailing  when  and  how 

each of the actions could be activated and effected and the lead time needed to tap 

additional  funds  from  each  of  the  contingency  sources.  Banks  could  also  enter  into 

agreements  with  different  banks/  financial  institutions  or  private  markets  for 

contingency  funding  lines  and  /  or  reciprocal  lines  of  credit  which  are  more  than 

estimated under the contingency finding plans.  

 

It is also very important that banks also take into account the potential simultaneous 

effect  of  capital  restoration  recovery  options  on  deterioration  of  the  liquidity 

resources. 

 

(ii)  Radical options 

With a view to preparing a robust recovery plan, especially in case of large banks, it 

is  necessary  that  banks  consider  certain  extreme  radical  options  such  as, 

restructuring of their business structure by either restructuring their liabilities portfolio 

(by debt-to-equity conversion or write-off) or selling a part or whole of their business 

line or even selling the entire bank to a private third party, as a part of their recovery 

plan.  Though  it  is  difficult  to  assess  the  value  of  such  extreme  options  in  advance 

without the severe event actually happening, banks should focus on such aspects in 

a broader way. The recovery plans with such options would also help the regulators/ 

supervisors and the resolution authorities in assessing the bank’s resolvability. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 224 

 

(iii)  Central Bank facilities 

While  assessing  the  effects  of  the  liquidity  stress  scenarios,  the  banks  should  also 

address,  as  a  part  of  its  recovery  plan,  when  and  how  to  contact  external  parties, 

such  as  regulators/  supervisors,  central  banks  or  payment  system  operators.  The 

recovery  plan  should  include  an  analysis  of  the  bank’s  plan  to  apply  for  the  use  of 

central  bank 

facilities 

in  stressed  conditions.  The  Reserve  Bank’s  Liquidity 

Adjustment  Facility  (LAF)  provides  liquidity  insurance  to  eligible  banks to  help  them 

tide  over  short-term  liquidity  mismatches  or  shocks.  In  terms  of  Section  17  of  the 

Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, the Reserve Bank acts as a “lender of last resort” 

and  also  provides  loans  to  eligible  banks  against  eligible  collateral  in  times  of 

extreme stress situations. 

 

The banks should, while preparing the recovery plan, should consider the appropriate 

amount of assets that could be collateralised in order to facilitate easy access of the 

central bank’s facilities. They should in effect analyse the types of assets that could 

be  collateralised,  as  also  estimate  their  drawing  capacity  taking  into  account  the 

applicable  haircuts  on  the  market  value  of  assets.  The  recovery  plan  should  also 

indicate  the  types  of  circumstances  in  which  such  a  central  bank  facility  would  be 

invoked. However, such assessments of central bank facility should be realistic. 

 

Trigger framework for implementation of recovery plan 

One of the essential elements of recovery plans is that they should define clear backstops 

and  escalation  procedures,  identifying  the  criteria  (both  quantitative  and  qualitative)  that 

would trigger the implementation of the recovery plan (or individual measures in the plan) by 

the  management  of  the  banking  group  or  in  consultation  with  the  regulatory/supervisory 

authorities. Such triggers should be designed to prevent undue delays in the implementation 

of recovery measures. 

 

A  key  component  of  the  RRP  framework  is  to  decide  on  when  the  particular  bank  will 

implement  aspects  of  its  recovery  plan  and  when  the  resolution  authority/  regulators/ 

supervisors  would  implement  the  resolution  plan  for  orderly  resolution  of  the  bank  without 

affecting  the  financial  stability.  It  is,  therefore,  necessary  that  banks  develop  their  own 

triggers, the breach of which would require implementation of the recovery plan. 

 

Linkage with existing prudential triggers for initiating regulatory/ supervisory action 

The  Reserve  Bank  has,  as  a  part  of  the  regulatory/  supervisory  intervention  framework, 

developed  a  framework  for  “Prompt  Corrective  Action  (PCA)”.  The  PCA  framework  links  the 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 225 

 

regulatory action to quantitative measures of performance, compliance and solvency, such as 

CRAR, NPA levels and profitability. Under the PCA framework, regulatory/ supervisory actions 

(certain  structured  and  discretionary  actions)  could  be  initiated  based  on  identified  trigger 

points including serious deterioration in CRAR, Net NPA and Return on Assets (RoA) beyond 

the tolerable limits. Such actions could result in placement of banks under supervisory regime 

for closer monitoring and handholding. The objective of the PCA framework has been to take 

timely corrective action when the bank still has adequate cushion of capital so as to minimize 

the  cost  to  the  insurance  fund/  public  exchequer  in  the  event  of  a  forced  liquidation  of  the 

bank.  As such, the discretionary actions taken under the PCA framework are taken not as a 

part of resolution regime but to put the bank’s operation in order. The corrective actions have 

been structured in various stages depending upon the deterioration in the three parameters. 

While  the  supervisory  action  generally  includes  measures  for  recovery  of  the  bank  to  viable 

position, it also includes actions leading to initiation of resolution proceedings. 

 

The  aim  of triggers  in  recovery  planning  is  to  enable  banks to  restore financial  strength  and 

viability through their own efforts, i.e. before the conditions are met for regulatory authorities to 

enforce recovery measures. The banks should, therefore,  calibrate their triggers for initiation 

of  recovery  measures  in  a  manner  that  negates  the  initiation  of  regulatory/  supervisory 

intervention  measures.  This  means  that  such  trigger  mechanism  should  be  early  enough  to 

give the bank time for the recovery plan to have an effect.  

 

Early Warning Signals 

In  addition  to  the  recovery  triggers  that  will  require  the  bank  to  initiate  recovery  actions  on 

breach of the triggers, banks could develop certain early warning signals or indicators, which 

could signal the developing problems at the very incipient stage for early action even before 

the breach of recovery plan triggers. These early warning signals could serve as the starting 

point for discussions within the bank to allow it to take pre-emptive actions against the stress. 

This could also serve as the starting point for reviewing the recovery plan triggers. The early 

warning signals prior to an actual breach of a trigger also may be useful for alerting the bank 

management to emerging signs of distress. 

 

Some examples of possible early warning signals (these are not exhaustive) are as follows: 

  an expectation of a drop in bank’s credit rating; 

  utilisation of bank’s capital planning buffer; 

  negative  market  sentiment  or  perception  towards  the  bank,  possibly  measured  by 

liquid market-based indicators, such as unexpected fall in share price relative to peers, 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 226 

 

etc. 

 

the invocation of the bank’s contingency funding plan has been triggered. 

 

This  has  been  one  of  the  areas  where  there  is  a  growing  consensus  among  most  of  the 

advanced  jurisdictions,  so  that  the  banks  are  able  to  act  well  in  advance.  The  G-SIFIs 

generally  view  triggers  as  a  pre-determined  point  in  time  at  which  the  firm  will  notify  senior 

management  and  its  board,  and  its  supervisory  authority.  They  also  use  early  warning 

indicators  to  signal  negative  trends  and  initiate  action  prior  to  a  potential  breach  of  an 

identified trigger point1. 

 

Characteristics of recovery plan trigger framework 

The recovery plan trigger framework should be based on the following elements: 

(i) 

Banks  should  use  both  quantitative2  and  qualitative  triggers  to  initiate  recovery 

actions. 

(ii) 

(iii) 

It should be clear when the triggers have been breached. 

The triggers should be well-defined and the required recovery actions in case of 

breach of triggers should be very clear. 

(iv) 

The triggers should be effective for a range of stressed situations, including bank-

specific (idiosyncratic), market-wide (systemic), as well as a combination of both. 

(v) 

The triggers should contain forward-looking elements (and not linked to inherently 

lagging  metrics)  to  ensure  that  there  is  no  time-lag  before  the  triggers  indicate 

severe stress in a bank. 

(vi) 

The  triggers  should  be  calibrated  in  a  manner  so  that  they  provide  sufficiently 

early  warning  to  allow  the  bank  to take  corrective  actions  and for  the resolution 

authority  to  begin  contingency  planning.  Banks  should  provide  regulators/ 

supervisors  and  resolution  authorities  with  an  explanation  of  how  the  trigger 

calibrations  were  determined,  as  well  as  an  analysis  that  demonstrates  that  the 

triggers would be breached early enough to be effective. 

(vii) 

There should be a proper reporting mechanism relating to breach of triggers. Any 

breach  of  triggers  should  automatically  cause  a  predetermined  escalation  and 

information process up to the senior management level within the bank. 

                                                           
1Some G-SIFIs do not identify triggers for the specific purpose of recovery planning, but rather use only triggers 
existing in the institution’s current risk management framework, or early warning indicators, which are part of 
the institution’s internal risk management processes. 
 
2G-SIFIs use both quantitative and qualitative triggers in their recovery plans. The number of triggers generally 
range  between  three  and  seven,  which  varies  from  institution  to  institution.  The  triggers  are  predominantly 
quantitative and are focused on institution-specific liquidity and capital measures. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 227 

 

(viii) 

Information  about  the  escalation  process  to  senior  management  or  board  of 

directors  when  triggers  are  breached,  as  well  as  information  about  the  decision 

making process by the senior management and the board, should be informed to 

the regulators/ supervisors and resolution authorities. 

(ix) 

There should be a proper communication system with the regulatory/supervisory 

authorities  (and  resolution  authorities  where  appropriate)  in  case  of  bank’s 

experience with high levels of stress or breach of recovery plan triggers. 

 

The quantitative triggers often focus on the extent of speed of change in different elements, 

such as: 

 

 

ratings downgrades; 

revenue reports or P & L (or components of these); 

  credit risk limits; 

  equity ratios; 

  per cent renewal of wholesale financing; 

  withdrawal of deposits and other funding; 

 

 

increased collateral requirements; 

rise in public debt; 

  GDP forecasts; 

  Senior debt spreads, etc. 

 

Qualitative  triggers  are  also  an  important  component,  though  the  use  of  such  triggers  in 

recovery plans is currently much less widespread than quantitative triggers. An example of a 

qualitative trigger is one based on counterparty risk, where different indicators are monitored 

to  signal  a  potential  counterparty  risk  event. The  indicators could  include,  in  respect  of  the 

bank:  requests  from  counterparties  for  early  redemption  of  liabilities,  difficulties  in  issuing 

liabilities  at  current  market  rates,  an  unexpected  loss  of  senior  management,  and  adverse 

court rulings. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 228 

 

Appendix 5.1 

Key components of Recovery Plan 

 

This Annex provides  the detail of information that is required to be submitted by the banks 

while submitting the Recovery Plan. This contains two Sections, i.e. Overview and Recovery 

Plan.  The  first  Section  gives  the  summary  of  the  Board  of  Director’s  oversight  over  the 

preparation  of the  Recovery  Plan,  as  well  as  the  summary  of  the stress  scenarios  and  the 

recovery actions the banks have identified to restore its financial strength and viability should 

a  stress  event  occur.  The  second  Section  details  about  the  requirement  of  furnishing 

information regarding the bank’s complete menu of credible options for addressing a range 

of  stress  scenarios  caused  by  bank-specific  (idiosyncratic),  market-wide  (systemic)  or  a 

combination of both.  

 

Though  this  guidance  relates  to  large  banks  with  complex  business  models,  the  smaller 

banks are expected to submit the information on best effort basis as much of the information 

may not be applicable to them. 

 

Section 1: Overview 

This  section  would  indicate  to  the  regulators/supervisors  and  the  resolution  authorities 

regarding  the  process  and  procedures  followed  in  preparation  of  the  recovery  plan.  It  also 

provides assurance to the authorities that the Board of Directors and senior management of 

the  bank  understand  and  support  the  information  contained  and  furnished  as  a  part  of  the 

recovery plan. The key elements of this Section are as under: 

  Confirmation that the Board of Directors and the senior management has approved 

and  reviewed  the  recovery  plan,  and  that  the  bank  has  established  appropriate 

governance framework for the recovery and resolution plan; 

  Views of the bank of its ability to recover from a severe stress event; 

  Summary  of  the  issues  and  recovery  actions  that  the  bank  has  identified  in 

consultation with the regulatory/ supervisory authorities; 

  Description of any material changes in the recovery plan since the last submission. 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 229 

 

Section 1: Overview 

 

S. No. 
1.1 

Subject matter 

Approval and quality control 

1.2 

Bank’s  views  on  ability 
recover 

to 

1.3 

Summary of recovery actions 

1.4 

Description 
changes 

of 

material 

Required information/ data 

Confirmation that the Board of Directors has approved and reviewed the recovery plan. 
Confirmation that the Board has understood the process adopted for preparation of the recovery 
plan, and that it is sound and robust. 
Nomination  of  the  chairman  of  the  Risk  Management  Committee  of  the  bank,  who  will  be 
responsible  for  the  bank’s  recovery  plan,  for  acting  as  the  bank’s  nodal  contact  point  with  the 
regulatory authorities. 
A  brief  on  bank’s  views  on  the  credibility  of the  recovery  options  contained  in  its  recovery  plan 
and the extent of the executability of the actions in a severe stress event. The brief should also 
explain why the bank considers that the range of recovery options is adequate enough to restore 
its financial strength and viability should the stress event happens. 
A  summary  of  the  issues  and  recovery  actions  the  bank  has  identified  that  it  will  take  in  the 
severe stress situations. 
A  summary  of  the  issues  and  the  recovery  actions  that  the  bank  has  added/  deleted  to  the 
existing recovery plan. 

 

 

 

 
 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

Page 230 

 

Section 2: Recovery Plan 

 

The recovery plan is a plan prepared and maintained by the bank that identifies a complete 

menu of credible options, to restore financial strength and viability, for addressing a range of 

financial stresses caused by the bank-specific, market-wide stress or a combination of both. 

The recovery plan should include all credible options for addressing both capital and liquidity 

problems. 

 

The key elements of the recovery plan are as under: 

  Brief  note  on  existing  risk  management  framework  put  in  place  by  the  bank  and 

integration  of  the  recovery  plan  with  the  risk  management  framework  and/  or  crisis 

management framework. 

  Detailed note with explanation on identification of quantitative and qualitative triggers 

that  would  prompt  the  bank  to  initiate  suitable  recovery  actions,  the  calibration 

process  with  the  kinds  of  stress  scenarios  adopted,  and  the  process  involved  in 

communicating  the  event  of  breach  of  trigger  to  the  senior  management/  board/ 

regulators/ supervisors as well as ways to recover from that event. 

  A  brief  summary  of  bank’s  complete  menu  of  credible  recovery  options  to  give  an 

overall view of the potential possibilities. 

  Detailed  description  of  each  recovery  option  and  potential  range  of  impact  of  each 

option  on  bank’s  capital/  liquidity/  balance  sheet,  on-going  business  operations,  its 

rating, etc., as well as the probability of success of such options. 

  A plan for accessing central bank liquidity facilities. 

  A  plan  of  taking  radical  actions  such  as,  selling  off  a  part  or  whole  of  a  particular 

business line, option of selling the entire bank to a private third party, etc. 

  A  list  of  key  officials  (preferably  at  a  higher  level)  who  will  be  involved  in  initiating/ 

implementing the recovery actions, along with their roles and responsibilities, as also 

the list of the supporting staff who would be supporting the implementation plan. 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 231 

 

Section 2: Recovery Plan 

 

S. No. 
2.1 

Subject matter 

Recovery Plan Overview 

2.1.1 

Integration  of  recovery  plan  with  risk 
management framework 

2.1.2 

Stress scenarios 

2.2 

Trigger framework for implementation 
of recovery plan 

2.2.1 

Identification process 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Required information/ data 

Bank  should  give  detailed  process  and  procedure  of  the  steps  followed  in  preparation  of  the 
recovery plan and taking approval of the Board, the oversight of the Board and the governance 
framework. 
Bank  should  prepare  a  brief  note  on  existing  risk  management  framework  in  place.  The  note 
should also detail how the recovery plan has been integrated with the existing risk management 
framework and/ or crisis management framework. 
Details  about  the  components/  elements  of  stress  testing.  Also  describe  the  stress  scenarios, 
explaining the assumptions in severity. 
A  key  component  of  a  recovery  plan  is  to  identify  the  criteria  that  would  trigger  the 
implementation  of  the  recovery  plan  by  the  bank’s  management  or  in  consultation  with  the 
regulatory/supervisory  authorities.  The  triggers  could  comprise  quantitative  or  qualitative  or  a 
combination  of  both.  The  triggers  need  to  be  designed  in  a  manner  so  as  to  prevent  undue 
delays in timely kicking off the implementation process of recovery actions. 
Bank  should  indicate  the  process  and  procedure  followed  in  identification  of  both  quantitative 
and qualitative triggers. It should also detail the procedure of breach of identified triggers and the 
actions needed to be taken. 
Has the bank identified early warning indicators for alerting the management of emerging signs 
of weakness. If Yes, describe the process and methodology followed to identify the early warning 
indicators.  The  early  warning  indicators  could  serve  as  a  starting  point  for  monitoring  the 
recovery triggers as well as taking pre-emptive actions well in advance before reaching the stage 
of breach of recovery triggers. 
Define 
that  should  contain  a  combination  of  qualitative  and  quantitative 
indicators/criteria.  The  quantitative  triggers  should  contain  forward-looking  elements  to  ensure 
that  there  is  no  time-lag  before  the  triggers  indicate  severe  stress  in  an  institution.  The  bank 
should also be prepared to activate its Recovery Plan if it has determined that its viability  is at 
risk, even though none of the triggers have been met. 

triggers 

the 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

Page 232 

2.2.2 

Details about early warning indicators 
and recovery triggers 

2.3 
2.3.1 

2.4 
2.4.1 

Recovery plan options 
Summary  of  complete  menu  of 
recovery options 
Detail of each recovery option 
Impact of each recovery option 

2.4.2 

Possible issues in execution 

2.4.3 

Credibility of recovery options 

Bank  should  separately  give  details  of  the  identified  early  warning  indicators  and  recovery 
triggers  (both  quantitative  and  qualitative  triggers)  with  threshold  levels  that  will  trigger  the 
recovery actions.  
Describe  the  threshold  levels  at  which  the  recovery  actions  would  be  triggered  taking  into 
account various stress scenarios. The particular actions that needs to be taken on breach of a 
particular trigger should also be clearly indicated. 
The  communication  strategy  followed  by  the  bank  on  breach  of  triggers  should  be  clearly 
indicated. 
 
A substantive summary of complete menu of credible options and the steps required to effect it, 
may be given. 
Description of each recovery option may be given in detail. 
A description on impact of implementing each recovery option may be given. 
Potential impact of each option on capital, liquidity and balance sheet. 
Impact of each option on the on-going business operations and support functions. 
Impact of each option on bank’s reputation. 
Impact of each option on bank’s rating. 
Impact of each option on the wider domestic financial system. 
Detailed framework describing the execution and implementation of each recovery option. 
Dependencies and assumptions made in each case of recovery option. 
Obstacles and hurdles in successful implementation of recovery option. 
Any  regulatory  and  legal  issues  that  could  arise  in  successful  implementation  of  the  recovery 
option and ways to overcome. 
Estimated time to realise the benefits of the recovery option. 
An assessment of credibility of each recovery option. 
Effectiveness of recovery option against the possible severe stress scenarios, both bank-specific 
(idiosyncratic) and market-wide (systemic stress). Details could also be given if in case of certain 
stress  scenarios,  a  combination  of  recovery  options  could  be  used.  An  assessment  of  the 
situations in which a particular recovery option may not be feasible to implement. 
Assessment  of  potential  factors  and  material  impediments  that  could  reduce  the  likelihood  of 

 
 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

Page 233 

2.5 

for  accessing  central  bank 

Plans 
liquidity facilities 

2.6 

Radical options 

 

 

2.7 

List  of  key  executives/  officials 
involved in the process 

successful and timely implementation of the recovery option and how these could be mitigated. 
Bank’s perception of the circumstances that would render the recovery options unavailable. 
Banks  should  prepare  plans  for  accessing  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India’s  liquidity  facilities  and 
overseas central bank liquidity facilities. 
The plans should indicate the nature of those facilities. 
Circumstances in which banks would access the central bank liquidity facilities. 
Conduct an assessment of the eligible assets and drawing capacity against these. Also assess 
the same in stress scenarios. 
Documentation on the process and procedure for accessing central bank liquidity facilities. 
Analyse the methods that would be adopted for repayment of the liquidity facilities availed from 
the central bank. 
A  plan  of  taking  all  possible  radical  actions  such  as,  selling  off  a  part  or  whole  of  a  particular 
business line, option of selling the entire bank to a private third party, etc. in the extreme stress 
events. 
The  plan  should  bring  out  in  detail  the  execution  plan  for  all  radical  options,  when  found 
necessary  to  implement.  This  should  form  a  part  of  the  recovery  plan.  It  is  understood  that 
requirement  to  implement  such  radical  options  would  mean  that  the  bank  has  more  or  less 
become non-viable. 
For each radical option, give outline of the potential strategic investor or purchaser. 
Analysis of any obstacle or barriers that could restrict the implementation of any particular radical 
option. 
Indicate the time required to effect such option. 
Explain in detail what due diligence information would be required in advance for effecting such 
radical options. 
Describe any legal hurdles, such as competition issues, etc. in implementing the radical options. 
A list of key officials (preferably at a higher level) who will be involved in initiating/ implementing 
the  recovery  actions,  as  also  the  list  of  the  supporting  staff  who  would  be  supporting  the 
implementation plan. 
Roles and responsibilities of these key officials for executing preparatory and recovery actions. 

 

 
 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

Page 234 

 

 

Data Template for Domestic Systemically Important 

Banks 

Annex 6 

I. General Information 
  
  

1 

Name  of  the 
bank 
Information 
as on  
Date 
reporting 
Reporting 
currency 

of 

  

  

  

  

  

2 

3 

4 

 

II. Organizational/Financial Group Structure and Key Legal Entity Information 
 
 
 

1. Organizational/Financial Group Structure 
 

1.1  Furnish  a  diagram  as  well  as  detailed  description  of  the  bank's 
organizational  structure  and  their  arrangement  in  hierarchical 
order 
(i)  Description of Organizational structure should include: 
 

legal  entities 

in 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the 

(a)  Total  Number  of  material 
organization/group 
(b)  Names  of  all  material  legal  entities  (including  all  legal  entities 
with banking license issued by RBI) within the bank's organization 
(c) Names of locations, jurisdiction of incorporation, licensing, and 
key  management  associated  with  each  material  legal  entity  and 
foreign office identified 
(d)  Mention in brief the relative size of each of the legal entities by 
indicating the total assets and total business made. 
(e) Name the parent of each of the legal entity with the percentage 
of voting and non-voting rights/equity shareholding the parent and 
the other legal entities within the organization/group holds. 
(f)  Describe  the  business  model/operations  as  also  the  business 
lines of each of the legal entities of the organization/group. 

 
1.2  Branches and Subsidiaries of legal entities 
 

(i) 

Furnish a list of branches and subsidiaries separately for each of 
the  legal  entities  of  the  organization/group  with  location  and 
geography, other than India. 

 

(ii)  Give  details  of  the  business  done  in  each  of  the  branch  and 
subsidiary  separately  with  a  summary  on  P  &  L  Statement  and 
balance sheet. 

 
1.3  Support Functions 
 

(i)  Give details of the support functions provided by the legal entities 
within  the  organization/group.  The  support  functions  include  IT 
services,  accounting and tax, internal audit and compliance,  data 
storage  and  maintenance,  and  other  support  functions.  The 
information  should  also  include  the  name  of  the  legal  entity 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 235 

 

providing a particular support function and to which legal entities, 
along with the procedure of providing the support. 

 
2. Capital Structure and Shareholding Pattern 
 
 
 

2.1  Capital Structure 
 

(i)  Give  information  on  minimum  regulatory  capital  requirements 
specified  by  the  sectoral  regulator/host  regulator  for  each  of  the 
material legal entity of the organization/group 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

(ii)  Furnish  details  of  authorized  capital,  paid-up  capital,  and  capital 
structure  split  into  components  of  CET1,  Tier  1,  Tier  2,  etc., 
including  the  analysis,  for  each  of  material  legal  entity  of 
organization/group. 

(iii)  Give details of sources of capital raised/to be raised by each legal 
entity, including details of sources outside the organization/group. 
(iv)  Amount  of  surplus  capital  maintained  vis-à-vis  current  regulatory 
requirements/prescriptions, by each legal entity and in aggregate. 
(v)  Give  information  on  each  of  outstanding  debt  securities  by  class 
(senior unsecured, lower Tier 1 subordinated debt, etc.) and type 
(medium  term  notes,  commercial  paper,  certificate  of  deposits, 
etc.). 
(a)  the  governing  law  for  the  contractual  terms  of  the  debt 
outstanding; 
(b) location of the debt; 
(c) terms and conditions of the concerned debt securities; 
(d) whether any guarantee exists for such debt outstanding; 
(e)  names  of 
the  persons/companies/institutions/trusts/etc. 
contributing  to  the  debt  of  the  particular  legal  entity,  along  with 
information on total amount, maturing date, etc. 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
2.1  Shareholding Pattern 
 

(i)  Give  names  of  major  equity  shareholders  in  each  legal  entity  of 
organization/group  along  with  details  of  total  number  of  equity 
shares, number of equity shares held by major shareholders (5% 
or  more  equity  holding),  percentage  shareholding  by  major 
shareholders. 
Information on amount of capital allocated by parent entity to each 
entity along with method of provision of capital to each entity. 

(ii) 

(iii)  Details  of  payment  of  dividend,  coupon,  maturity  cash  flows,  etc. 

(iv) 

by the legal entities to the parent entity. 
Information  on  restrictions,  if  any,  on  transfers  of  capital  to  other 
legal entities within the group. 

 

 

 

 
3. Funding of entities 
 

3.1  Give  details  of  sources  of  funding  for  each  of  the  legal  entity.  The 

details of deposits; 
certificate of deposits; 

information must include the names and amounts of funds provided:  
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii)  debt securities as part of capital; 
(iv)  off-balance sheet funding; 
(v)  access  to  central  bank  funding,  split  into  normal  and  special 

 
 
 
 
 

operations, where applicable. 

(vi)  other sources including short-term financing, repos, etc. 

 
 
3.2  Give  overview  of  funding  relationships  within  the  group.  The 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

information should include: 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 236 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

(i)  Current intra-group balances; 
(ii)  Current intra-group guarantees. This information should detail the 

following: 
(a)  total  exposures  under  intra-group guarantees,  including  types 
of guarantees extended and to which entity; 
(b) when can the guarantees be enforced; 

 

 

Furnish details of all other intra-group financial dependencies. 

 
 
 
 

 
 
3.3  Other financial dependencies 
 

 
 
 
 
 
III. Financial interconnectedness 
 
 
 

1. Intra-financial system assets 
 
 

(i) 

 

 
 
1.2 
 

1.1  Lending/deposits to/in financial institutions 
 

(i) 

Amount  lent  to  other  financial  institutions,  including  break-up  of 
names and amounts lent to each of the financial institution; 

(ii)  Amount deposited with other financial institutions, including break-
up  of  names  and  amounts  deposited  in  each  of  the  financial 
institution; 

(iii)  Undrawn committed lines extended to other financial institutions. 

Investments in securities issued by other financial institutions 
(i) 

Information  should  include  names  and  amount  of  investments 
made by the bank in each of the financial institutions: 
(a) Secured debt securities; 
(b) Senior unsecured debt securities; 
(c) Subordinated debt securities; 
(d) Commercial paper; 
(e) Certificate of deposits; 
(f) Equity including ordinary and preferred shares. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3  Securities  financing  transactions  with  other  financial  institutions 

 
 
 
 
 
 

(part of Collateralised Borrowing and Lending Obligations) 
(i)  Names and amount of net  positive current exposure of securities 

 

financing transactions with each of the other financial institutions. 

 
1.4  OTC derivatives with other financial institutions 
 
 
 
 
1.5  Total intra-financial system assets 

(i)  Net positive fair value 
(ii)  Potential future exposure using current exposure method 
(iii)  Fair value of collateral that is held for these derivatives 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Inter-financial system liabilities 
 
 

2.1  Deposits from other financial institutions 
 

(i) 

Information  should  include  break-up  of  names  and  amount  of 
deposits received from each of the financial institutions: 
(a) all funds deposited by other banks; 
(b) all funds deposited by non-bank financial institutions; 
(c)  undrawn  committed 
from  other 
institutions. 

lines  obtained 

financial 

 
2.2  Loans/borrowings from other financial institutions 
 

(i)  

Information  should  include  break-up  of  names  and  amount  of 
loans/borrowings received from each of the financial institutions: 
(a) loans/borrowings received from other banks; 
(b) loans/borrowings from non-bank financial institutions; 
(c)  undrawn  committed  lines  of  loans/borrowings  from  other 
financial institutions. 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 237 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

2.3  Marketable securities issued by the bank 
 

(i) 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

Information  should  include  break-up  of  names  and  amount  of 
securities issued to which financial institutions: 
(a)  secured  debt  securities  with  one  year  or  less  remaining  to 
maturity; 
(b)  senior  unsecured  debt  securities  with  one  year  or  less 
remaining to maturity; 
(c) Subordinated debt securities with one year or less remaining to 
maturity; 
(d) Commercial paper with one year or less remaining to maturity; 
(e)  Certificates  of  deposit  with  one  year  or  less  remaining  to 
maturity. 

 
2.4  Securities  financing  transactions  with  other  financial  institutions 

(part of CBLOs) 
(i)  Names and amount of net negative current exposure of securities 

 

financing transactions with each of the other financial institutions. 

 
2.5  OTC derivatives with other financial institutions 
 
 
 

(i)  Net negative fair value; 
(ii)  Potential future exposure using current exposure method; 
(iii)  Fair  value  of  collateral  provided  in  respect  of  these  derivative 

contracts. 

 
2.6  Total intra-financial system liabilities 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
3.  Critical  Functions  in  each 
legal entity 
 

Critical functions (as defined by FSB in its consultative document on Recovery and 
Resolution  Planning  –  Making  the  key  attributes  requirements  operational)  are 
activities  performed  for  third  parties,  where  failure  would  lead  to  disruption  of 
services vital for the functioning of the real economy and for financial stability due to 
the banking group’s size or market share, external and internal interconnectedness, 
complexity or cross-border activities. E.g. payments, custody, particular lending and 
deposit  activities  in  commercial  or  retail  sector,  clearing  and  settling,  limited 
segments  of  wholesale  markets,  market  making  in  certain  securities  and  highly 
concentrated specialty lending sectors. 
 
3.1  Deposit taking services (other than financial intermediaries) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

(i) 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii)  Total number and total amount of fixed deposit accounts, with  different 

Total number and total amount of savings accounts 
(a) Retail savings accounts 
 
(b) Corporate savings accounts 
 

Of which, insured by DICGC 

Of which, insured by DICGC 

Of which, insured by DICGC 

Of which, insured by DICGC 

maturity buckets 
(a) Retail fixed deposit accounts 
 
(b) Corporate fixed deposit accounts 
 

 
 
 
 
 
(iii)  Total number and total amount of current accounts 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2  Lending/credit services (other than financial intermediaries) 
 
 

(a) Retail current accounts; 
(b) Corporate current accounts 

(i) 
 

Total number and total amount of loans (outstanding) provided 
(a)  Retail  customers  -  with  bifurcation  on  short-term  and  long-term 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 238 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

lending 
 

 

Of which, secured loans by type of securities collaterals (such as 
mortgage, equipment, auto, etc.) 
Number  and  amount  of  approved  but  undrawn  loans  under  each 
of category 
Of which, unsecured loans 

Total outstanding amount 
Total undrawn lines 
Total number of cards issued and of which, how many are active 
Number of customers that have two credit cards 
Number of credit cards not paid within a month 

 
(b) Retail lending made available through credit card products 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)  Corporate  lending  -  with  bifurcation  on  short-term  and  long-term 
lending 
 
 
(d) Trade finance  
 
 

Of which, secured loans with details of nature of loans 
Of which, unsecured loans with details of nature of loans 

Long term investments in capital (on its own account) of: 
(a)  Other  financial  institutions  -  details  of  name  and  amount  of  each 
investee financial institution 
(b) Companies/corporates/venture capital - details of name and amount 
of each investee companies 
(c)  Government  securities  -  details  of  amount  and  maturity  of 
investments in State Government and Central Government securities 
(d) Commodities market 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3  Capital market exposures/activities 
 
 

Total outstanding amount 
Total undrawn lines 

(i) 
 

Investments in capital (on behalf of clients) of: 
(a) Other financial institutions 
(b) Companies/corporates/venture capital 
(c) Government securities 

 
 
(ii) 
 
 
 
 
(iii)  Advisory services on trading of securities 
 

(a)  Details  of  advisory  services  provided  to  companies/corporates 
relating to mergers and acquisitions, debt structure, etc. 

 
(iv)  

 

Is  the  bank  taking  part  as  primary  dealer  (departmentally  or  as  a 
subsidiary) in making of government securities market 
(a) Transaction volume and value for each of type of securities acquired 
along with the maturity 

 
3.4  Payment and settlement services 
 
 

(i) 
 

Services as a settlement bank in cheque clearing 
(a) Details on transaction volume and value for each location of clearing 
house managed by the bank 
(b)  Details  of  number  of  members  banks  of  each  clearing  house 
managed by the bank 
(c) Details of payment and settlement services provided to non-member 
banks (sub-members) for  each  location  of  clearing  house managed  by 
the bank 
(d)  Details  of  name  of  non-member  banks  for  which  the  bank  is 
providing settlement services in any of the cheque clearing houses (not 
managed by the bank) 

 

 
(ii)  Services for electronic payment and settlement 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 239 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

(a)  Details  on  number  of  locations  where  the  bank  is  managing  the 
electronic payment services 
(b)  Location-wise  transaction  volumes  and  value  separately  for  ECS  - 
Debit and Credit clearing 

 
(iii)  Transaction  volume  and  value  in  handling  fund  transfer  requests  from 

customers under RTGS  

 
(iv)  Credit card merchant services 
 

(a)  Transaction  volume  and  value  of  intermediary  payment  and 
settlement  services  provided  by  the  bank  between  merchants  and 
service providers and credit card networks 

 
(v)  Exchange services 
 

(a)  Details  on  access  provided  to  customers  to  stock  exchanges  as  a 
system member 
(b) Transaction volume and value of such access provided 

 
 
(vi)  Membership of securities settlement system 
 
 

(a) Is the bank maintaining a SGL account 
(b)  Names  and  details  of  the  institutions  for  which  the  bank  maintains 
CSGL account 

 
3.5  Cash services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Size of retail branch network and ATM network 
(a) State-wise details of number of branches of the bank 
(b) State-wise details of number of ATMs installed by the bank 
(c) Details of ATM service provided to other banks 

(i) 
 
 
 
 
(ii)  Details of currency chests managed by the bank 
 

 

 

 

 

(a) Number of currency chests managed by the bank, with geographical 
locations 
(b) Number of banks attached to each of the currency chests managed 
by the bank 
(c)  Transaction  volume  and  value  of  cash  deposits  and  withdrawals  in 
each of the currency chest 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
3.6  Critical shared services 
 

Critical  shared  services  are  activities  performed  within 
the  bank,  or 
outsourced to third parties, where failure would lead to the inability to perform 
critical  functions,  and  therefore  to  disruption  of  services  vital  for  the 
functioning  of  the  real  economy  or  for  financial  stability.  Examples  include 
information  technology  provisioning  given  the  dependency  of  core  banking 
services  on  IT  and  other  services  such  as,  facility  management  and/or 
administrative services. 
(i) 
 

Third party services 
(a) Services provided by the bank to other financial institutions, such as 
credit card systems, cheque processing, etc. 
 
(b)  Details  of  IT  services  provided  by  the  bank  to  other  financial 
institutions 
 

Names of financial institutions with details of services provided 

 
 

Data storage and processing 

 
 
(ii)  Functions outsourced by the bank 
 
 

(a) Details of financial services outsourced 
 

Names  of  the  service  provider  with  details  of  service  level 
agreements 

 
 

(b) Details of IT services outsourced 
 

Names  of  the  service  provider  with  details  of  service  level 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 240 

 

agreements 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

Data storage and processing 
Other IT infrastructure, workstations, telecoms, servers, data 
centres and related services 
Software  licences  and  application  software  source  code 
base 
Access to external providers 
Application  maintenance  (software  application  maintenance 
and related data flows) 
Report generation 
 
 
Disaster recovery solutions 
(c) Transaction processing outsourced 
 

Names  of  the  service  provider  with  details  of  service  level 
agreements 

 

 
 

 
 

(d) Legal services/compliance 
 
 
 

Details of corporate legal support 
Details of business/transactional legal services 
Details of compliance support 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W o r k i n g   G r o u p   o n   R e s o l u t i o n   R e g i m e   f o r   F i n a n c i a l   I n s t i t u t i o n s  

 
 

Page 241 

 

