Consultation Paper on Crowdfunding in India 

 

1.0 Introduction 
1.1 This consultation paper aims to provide a brief overview of the global scenario of 
crowdfunding including the  various prevalent models under it, the associated benefits 
and risks, the regulatory approaches in different jurisdictions etc. The paper also covers 
the extant legal structure governing the fund raising for start ups and SMEs in India. The 
paper  discusses  legal  and  regulatory  challenges  in  implementing  the  framework  for 
Crowdfunding. This paper proposes framework for ushering in crowdfunding by giving 
access to capital market to provide an additional channel of early stage funding to Start-
ups and SMEs and seeks to balance the same  with investor protection. Through this 
consultation paper SEBI intends to invite comments and suggestions from industry and 
market  participants  regarding  the  different  possible  structures  for  crowdfunding  within 
the existing legal framework and other associated issues. 
 
1.2  The  Consultation  Paper  has  been  put  forward  for  discussion  only  and  does  not 
necessarily mean that a Crowdfunding Regulation would be introduced in the form as 
proposed in the consultation paper or in any other form. 
 
2.0 What is Crowdfunding? 
2.1 Crowdfunding is solicitation of funds (small amount) from multiple investors through 
a web-based platform or social networking site for a specific project, business venture 
or social cause. 
 
2.2  Crowd  sourced  funding  is  a  means  of  raising  money  for  a  creative  project  (for 
instance,  music,  film,  book  publication),  a  benevolent  or  public-interest  cause  (for 
instance,  a  community  based  social  or  co-operative  initiative)  or  a  business  venture, 
through small financial contributions from persons who may number in the hundreds or 

 

Page 1 of 66 

thousands.  Those  contributions  are  sought  through  an  online  crowd-funding  platform, 
while the offer may also be promoted through social media.1
 
3.0 Types of Crowd-Funding 
3.1  As  per  IOSCO  Staff Working  Paper  -  Crowd-funding:  An  Infant  Industry  Growing 
Fast,  2014  ('IOSCO  Paper'),  Crowd-funding  can  be  divided  into  four  categories: 
donation  crowdfunding,  reward  crowdfunding,  peer-to-peer 
lending  and  equity 
crowdfunding. 

 

Social 

Lending/Donation 

Crowdfunding 

Crowdfunding 

Reward 

Crowdfunding 

Peer-to-Peer 

Lending 

Equity 

Crowdfunding 

 

 

 
 
 
Source: IOSCO Staff Working Paper - Crowd-funding: An Infant Industry Growing Fast , 2014 

Community Crowdfunding 

Financial Return Crowdfunding 

 

3.2  Donation Crowdfunding 
3.2.1 Donation crowdfunding denotes solicitation of funds for social, artistic, philanthropic 
 3.2.2  For example, In the US, Kickstarter, Indiegogo etc. are some of the platforms that 

or other purpose, and not in exchange for anything of tangible value. 

support donation based crowdfunding. 
 

                                                           
1 Crowd Based Equity Funding – Discussion Paper - Corporations and Markets Advisory Committee, Australia, September , 2013 

 

Page 2 of 66 

some existing or future tangible reward (such as an existing or future consumer product 
or a membership rewards scheme) as consideration. 

3.3   Reward Crowdfunding 
3.3.1    Reward  crowdfunding  refers  to  solicitation  of  funds,  wherein  investors  receive 
 3.3.2   Most  of  the  websites  which  support  donation  crowdfunding,  also  enable  reward 
3.4  Peer-to-Peer lending 
3.4.1      In  Peer-to-Peer  lending,  an  online  platform  matches  lenders/investors  with 

borrowers/issuers in order to provide unsecured loans and the interest rate is set by the 
platform. Some Peer-to-Peer platforms arrange loans between individuals, while other 
platforms pool funds which are then lent to small and medium-sized businesses.  

crowdfunding, e.g. Kicktstarter, Rockethub etc. 

 

from UK are Zopa, Funding Circle etc. 

and May 2013 some 49,000 investors in the UK funded peer-to-peer loans worth more 
than £378m. 2
 
 

 3.4.2 Some of  the  leading  examples from the  US  are  Lending  Club,  Prosper  etc.  and 
 3.4.3   A report by the Open Data Institute in July 2013 found that between October 2010 
3.4.4   Some of the platforms charge a fee based on the loan origination and have an 
 3.4.5  Though,  Peer-to-peer 

involve  securities, 
loan/notes/contracts can be traded on a peer-to-peer platform or a secondary market. 
Thus, these loans may become securities, with the contract between the lender and the 
borrower being the security note. 3
 
 
                                                           
2  Crowd Based Equity Funding – Discussion Paper - Corporations and Markets Advisory Committee, Australia, 
September , 2013 
3 IOSCO Staff Working Paper - Crowd-funding: An Infant Industry Growing Fast , 2014 

incentive to push investors into larger loans which may not suit an investor’s risk profile. 

lending  did  not  appear 

to 

 

Page 3 of 66 

3.4.6   In peer-to-peer lending, there is no investor protection by way of a compensation 

scheme to cover defaults in this market as there is with deposit guarantee schemes for 
bank deposits. Retail investors, who do not have the capacity to absorb defaults, may 
lose significant proportions of their investments, if there are any defaults.  

 

platforms  are  classified  as  banks  (due  to  their  credit  intermediation  function)  and  are 
therefore regulated as banks. 

 3.4.7   As per IOSCO paper, in some Jurisdiction like Germany and Italy, peer-to-peer 
3.5   Equity Based Crowdfunding 
3.5.1   In Equity Based Crowdfunding, in consideration of funds solicited from investors, 
 3.5.2    It refers  to fund raising by a business, particularly early-stage funding, through 

Equity Shares of the Company are issued. 

offering equity interests in the business to investors online. Businesses seeking to raise 
capital  through  this  mode  typically  advertise  online  through  a  crowdfunding  platform 
website,  which  serves  as  an  intermediary  between  investors  and  the  start-up 
companies. 

 3.5.3   Traditionally, Start-ups are funded through private equity, angel investor or loan 

arrangements with a financial institution. Any offering of public equity takes place only 
after the product or business becomes commercially viable. However, in Equity based 
Crowdfunding solicitation is done at an earlier stage. 
 
Some examples of equity crowdfunding platforms are Syndicate Room, Crowdcube and 
Seedrs.  

 3.5.4   In a few jurisdictions (like China), these platforms are restricted to offer this type 

of capital raising to sophisticated investors or to a limited number of individual investors. 
In China, an equity raising offer made to less than 200 individuals does not need to fulfil 
the public equity raising requirements.  

 

Page 4 of 66 

4.0 Benefits of Crowdfunding 

ii. 

i.  Crowdfunding provides a much needed new mode of financing for start-ups and 
SME  sector  and  increases flows  of  credit  to  SMEs  and  other  users  in  the  real 
economy. 
Financial crisis (2008) resulted in failure of number of Banks and, consequently 
the Basel III Capital adequacy norms have been made applicable to Banks. As a 
result, Banks have become increasingly constrained in their ability to lend money 
to the ventures or start-ups which may have high risk element. Hence, there is a 
need for funding for SME through alternative sources.  

iii.  SMEs are able to raise funds at lower cost of capital without undergoing through 

rigorous procedures in this mode. 

iv.  Crowdfunding provides new investment avenue and provides a new product for 

v. 

vi. 

portfolio diversification of Investors. 
It  increases  competition  in  a  space  traditionally  dominated  by  a  few  providers 
(providing finance to Start-ups and SMEs). 
The operators of a crowdfunding platform may engage in vetting or due diligence 
of  projects  to  be  included  on  their  website,  to  maintain  the  reputation  of  the 
website. 

 
5.0  Risks of Crowdfunding 

5.1  Substitution of Institutional Risk by Retail Risk 
5.1.1  Presently, the risk in financing Start-ups and SMEs is borne by the Venture Capital 

Funds (VCFs) and Private Equity (PE) Investors.  In crowdfunding, these entities solicit 
investments in smaller sums from large number of investors. Hence, the risk taking by 
VCF/PE  (informed  investors)  is  substituted  with  retail  investors,  whose  risk  tolerance 
level may be very low. Retail investors may not be able to understand the risk in these 
investments and will be unable to bear the loss of investments.  

 

5.1.2  This may be more dangerous, considering the fact that investments in SMEs and 

Start-up may involve high risk and low liquidity and are generally treated as aggressive 
and long term investments. VCF/PE Investors will be able to negotiate a better pricing 

 

Page 5 of 66 

and  some  influence  on  management,  which  would  be  absent  in  the  Crowdfunding 
Route, where smaller contributions are sought from multiple investors.  Uninformed and 
unsophisticated investors (retail investors) may act with a ‘herd mentality’.  

 

5.2  Risk of default  

5.2.1  There is no or less recourse to the investors against the issuer, in case of default 

or fraud. Funds are not directly solicited by the issuer and issuer also do not come out 
with any offer document. Funds are solicited by the platform and such platform may or 
may not conduct proper due diligence of the issuer.  If a platform is being temporarily 
shut down, or closed permanently, no recourse is available to the investors.  

 

5.2.2    There  is  no  collateral  (even  in  case  of  peer  to  peer  lending),  as  in  case  of 

Corporate Bonds. Further, in peer to peer lending, there are no investor protection by 
way of a compensation scheme to cover defaults like deposit guarantee schemes for 
bank deposits.   

 

5.2.3  Public funding is  sought on the basis of future possibilities as against the clear 

evidence  of  a  viable  existing  business  model,  which  is  needed  under  the  existing 
regulations. Investments in companies without viable business model increase the risk 
of failure and loss to equity investors.  

 

5.2.4  The risk of failure is further increased by the fact that the funding is potentially by 

participants who do not have the skills and experience needed to assess the risk before 
investing/lending,  as  compared  to  the  VCF/PE  Investors,  banks  or  other  financial 
institutions who provides funds under the traditional business model. 

 

 

Eg:  Bubble  and  Balm  was  a  fair  trade  soap  company,  who  were  also  the  first 
company  to  raise  funding  for  their  start-up  through  the  equity  crowd-funding 
platform Crowdcube, based in the UK, in 2011. It raised £75,000 in return for 15 
per cent of the company’s equity from 82 investors, who contributed between £10 
and £7,500 each.  In July 2013 the business closed overnight, leaving no way of 

Page 6 of 66 

contacting the company or a way to recover losses. The investors lost 100% of 
their investment.4
 

promoters  of  projects  or  of  false  websites  being  established,  simply  to  defraud  the 
investors or to entice individuals to provide credit card details etc. Thus, there is a risk of 
misuse as well as cyber-security and/or identity theft. 

5.3  Risk of Fraud 
5.3.1  There is possibility of genuine websites being used by fraudsters claiming to be 
5.4  Central role of the Internet:  
5.4.1  Crowdfunding platform is an internet based market place for issuers to sell their 

own securities to raise capital. Thus the central role of the Internet and its wide reach 
would  increase  the  number  of persons potentially  affected,  which  can  be  significantly 
greater than the traditional means of fundraising. Younger investors may get influenced 
simply because of its link to social media and the Internet. 

complying with requirement of local laws of various jurisdictions. 

 5.4.2    Funds  could  be  raised  from  investors  residing  at  various  countries  without 
5.5  Systemic Risk: 

a)  Due  to  the  “individual”  nature  of  crowdfunding,  there  is  a  possibility  that 

investors may not practice good diversification principles. 

b)  There  may  be  no  secondary  market  in  which  investors  can  sell  their 

investments and exit and hence, there is a risk of illiquidity.  

c)  There is also possibility of Money laundering. 
d)  These platforms could expose other financial sectors to the risk of default, as 
occurred during the subprime mortgage crisis. If the rapid growth rate in peer-
to-peer lending continues, these risks could become systemic.  

e)  There  are  Cross-border  implications,  if  the  funds  are  solicited  through 
internet, as there are disparities in Contract Act or securities law application in 
different jurisdictions. 

                                                           
4IOSCO Staff Working Paper - Crowd-funding: An Infant Industry Growing Fast , 2014 

 

Page 7 of 66 

5.6  Information Asymmetry 

a)  There  is  high  chance  of  information  asymmetry  associated  with  these 
platforms, where one party invests/trades based on some information which is 
unknown  to  other  set  of  investors.  Since  there  is  lack  of  hard  information, 
there is too much reliance on soft information based on the social networking 
platforms in this model, which increases the risks.  

b)  There  is  no  monitoring  of  these  platforms,  as  to  which  account  the  money 

goes. 

c)  There is lack of transparency and reporting obligations on issuers including 

with respect to the use of funds raised. 

d)  There  is  possibility  of  omission  of  information  and  misinformation  providing 
distorted view of the issuer or the actual investment, which may result in over-
estimation of the actual return. This may induce the investors to invest in a 
product that would not align with their risk tolerance.  

borrowers/issuers, without complying with any of the rigid requirements of Banks.  

5.7  Substitution of Existing Regulatory Framework 
5.7.1    Peer  to  Peer  Lending  acts  as  a  Bank  by  matching  lenders/investors  with 
 5.7.2    The  Disclosure and  due  diligence  involved  in  Crowdfunding  platform  cannot  be 

compared  with  existing  framework  of  public  offering  through  filing  of  Prospectus  with 
adequate information, which is also subject to the scrutiny of the Regulators. Further, 
other public issue requirements for equity shares like to have minimum track record for 
the  issuers,  minimum  promoters'  contribution,  lock  in,  and  for  debt  securities  like 
requirement  to  have  trustees,  rating  by  Credit  rating  agencies  etc.  may  not  be 
applicable in the crowdfunding platforms.  

 

5.7.3    Further,  even  private  placement  requirements  have  been  tightened  in  India 

recently i.e. requirement  to have Private Placement Offer Letter,  restriction on number 
of  investors  to  whom  it  can  be  made,  restrictions  on  mode  of  placements,  etc. 
Crowdfunding Platforms may not adhere to any of the said requirements. 

 

 

Page 8 of 66 

6.0 Regulatory framework for Crowdfunding in various Jurisdictions: 

Some  jurisdictions  are  in  the  initial  stages  of  introduction  with  concept  papers  for 
feedback of the industry. 

6.0.1  As of date, very few jurisdictions have come out with regulations for crowdfunding. 
 6.0.2  Two areas that have seen rapid growth in recent years are Peer-to-Peer Lending 

and  Equity  Crowdfunding.  Financial  Reward  (FR)  crowd-funding  globally  has  grown 
rapidly  in  the  last  5  years,  with  data  suggesting  that  the  peer-to-peer  lending  market 
doubles  each  year.  It  accounts  for  approximately  $6.4  billion  outstanding  globally. 
Collectively,  the  US,    UK  and  China  make  up  96%  of  the  overall  FR  crowdfunding 
market, with USA accounting for 51%, China for 28% and UK for 17%.5
. 
 

6.1  Regulatory Practices 

In  Donation  crowdfunding  and  Reward  crowdfunding,  only  donations  or  grants  are 
solicited and no financial return in the form of a yield or return on investment is expected 
by the donor/grantor. Hence, such funding mostly falls outside the purview of Securities 
market regulator. (In India, payment of  donations are mainly governed by the provisions 
of Income Tax Act). Peer-to-Peer Lending, depending upon whether pure lending or any 
debt  securities  are  issued,  are  regulated  by  Banking  or  Securities  market  regulator. 
Crowd Sourced Equity Funding are mostly regulated by Securities market regulator. 

 6.2  Regulation of Peer-to-Peer lending 
6.2.1  Peer-to-Peer lending is also termed as 'direct consumer lending' or 'marketplace 

lending'.  The  Peer-to-Peer  lending  is  approached  differently  by  various  regulators, 
treated as banking by some jurisdictions  and as an intermediary in some others, while 
some jurisdictions like Israel and Japan have prohibited it altogether. 

 6.2.2  As per IOSCO Paper5

Lending varies with nations, these can be broadly divided into different categories. 

, though the nature of regulations concerning Peer-to-Peer 

                                                           
5  'Crowd-funding: An Infant Industry Growing Fast' Staff Working paper of IOSCO Research Department  

 

Page 9 of 66 

Regulatory 
Regime 
Unregulated 

Intermediary 
Regulation 

Banking 
Regulations 

US Model 

Prohibited 

Description 

In these jurisdictions either  
the  regulation  has  classified  peer-to-peer  lending  as 
an exempt market  or there is a lack of definition in  
legislation 
This  regulates  peer-to-peer  lending  platforms  as  an 
intermediary. This usually requires registration of such 
platform  as  an  intermediary,  and  other  regulatory 
requirements depending on the jurisdiction. 
This  regulated  peer-to-peer 
banks. 

lending  platforms  as 

This is a two tier system. This requires the registration 
of  peer-to-peer    lending  platforms  with  the  SEC,  as 
well as applying for a licence to conduct business on a 
state by state basis.   
Both  peer-to-peer lending  
and equity crowd-funding are banned under legislation 

Countries 

Brazil, China, 
Egypt,  South 
Korea 

Australia, 
Argentina, 
Brazil,  New 
Zealand 
France, 
Germany, 
Italy 
USA 

Israel, Japan 

 6.3  Regulation of Equity Crowdfunding 

requirements 

regarding  public  solicitation 

In case of Equity Crowdfunding, most jurisdictions have enabled it as an exemption to 
general 
through  prospectus/offering 
memorandum. While in some jurisdictions such exemption is given only to offer made to 
“accredited/informed/wealthiest”  investors,  others    exempts  solicitation  made  through 
“Crowdfunding Platform” capping the amount that can be raised or the amount that can 
be invested by each investor. 

 

Page 10 of 66 

6.4  Regulation of Crowdfunding in various Jurisdictions: 
6.4.1   United States 

Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, 2012 or (JOBS Act) has already proposed a basic 
regulatory framework to regulate Crowdfunding Platforms.  
 
Previously, in U.S. there was a ban on ‘general solicitation’ or ‘general advertising’ of 
investment in securities, other than a prospectus-based offer.  
 
Title II of the JOBS Act deals with equity offers to accredited investors. Pursuant to SEC 
Rules under that Title, in effect from September 2013, US entrepreneurs may publicly 
advertise  and  market  their  company’s  investment  opportunity,  of  whatever  size,  to 
‘accredited  investors’  (in  effect,  individuals  with  over  $1 million  in  liquid  net  worth  or 
annual incomes over $200,000), including through the Internet or social media, as well 
as through print, radio or television. 
 
Title  III  of  the  JOBS  Act  deals  with  Crowd  Sourced  equity  Funding  (CSEF)  offers  to 
investors generally. It is intended to allow start-up and other companies to use online 
intermediaries to obtain modest amounts of capital. Title III of the Act, the crowdfunding 
provision, has not yet come into force.  
 
Under this act, for a transaction to be qualified as a crowdfunding transaction, it must 
meet specified requirements, including the following: 

• 

• 

the amount raised not to exceed $1 million in a 12-month period (this amount is 
to be adjusted for inflation at least every five years). 
individual investments in a 12-month period are limited to: 

o 

the greater of $2,000 or 5 percent of annual income or net worth, if annual 
income or net worth of the investor is less than $100,000; and  

o  10 percent of annual income or net worth (not to exceed an amount sold 
of $100,000), if annual income or net worth of the investor is $100,000 or 
more  (these  amounts  are  to  be  adjusted  for  inflation  at  least  every  five 
years); and  

 

Page 11 of 66 

• 

transactions must be conducted through an intermediary that either is registered 
as a broker or is registered as a new type of entity called a “funding platform.” 

•  Crowdfunding requires the issuing company (emerging growth company) to file a 
disclosure document with SEC at least 21 days prior to first sale, and requires 
scaled  financial  disclosure,  including  audited  financial  statements  for  raises  of 
over $500,000. 

•  Annual reports must be filed with SEC by the issuer company which completes a 

crowdfunding round. 

•  Funding  platforms  (but  not  broker-dealers)  cannot:  offer  investment  advice  or 
make  recommendations  to  investors.  They  cannot  solicit  transactions  for 
securities  offered  or  displayed  on  its  platform,  or  compensating  employees  or 
agents  for  doing  so.  They  cannot  hold  or  manage  any  investor  funds  or 
securities. 

 
In the US, Kickstarter enabled creative individuals—musicians, filmmakers, writers—to 
fund their work, often with the only return being an advance copy or limited edition of a 
DVD or other art work, concert tickets, or a signed thank-you note. 6
 

6.4.2   New Zealand 

The recently enacted Financial Markets Conduct Act, 2013 (the Act) contains provisions 
designed to facilitate CSEF.  
 
The new regulations in New Zealand enables companies to raise up to a maximum of $ 
2  Million  from  20  investors  in  a  year  through  crowdfunding  without  having  to  issue  a 
prospectus. It covers both the varieties of crowdfunding: Equity Crowdfunding and Peer-
to-Peer Lending.  
 
The  market  regulator,  Financial  Markets  Authority,  has  asked  both,  equity  crowd-
funding platforms and peer-to-peer lenders, to apply for a license to operate. 
 

                                                           
6 Crowd Based Equity Funding – Discussion Paper - Corporations and Markets Advisory Committee, Australia, September , 2013 

 

Page 12 of 66 

6.4.3   Australia 

6.4.4   Canada 

The  Corporations  and  Market  Advisory  Committee  (Australian  Government)  recently 
came  out  with  a  Concept  Paper  on  Crowdfunding  and  is  currently  in  the  process  of 
framing rules for equity based crowdfunding. 
 
The current regulations allow a startup to raise not more than $ 20 Million or transfer 
equity  to  more  than  20  people  in  any  given  12  months.  This  system  restricts  this 
channel to a set of sophisticated investors. These rules are under revision.   
 

Crowdfunding  is  divided  into  Non-Equity  and  Equity  Crowdfunding  platforms  in 
Canada. Equity Crowdfunding involves the issuance of securities and consist of peer-to-
peer (P2P) lending and equity transactions. 
 
Canadian  Securities  Administrators  (CSA),  an  umbrella  organization  for  different 
provincial  and  territorial  securities  regulators  in  Canada,  has  published  National 
Instrument  (in  2014)  involving  prospectus  exemptions  that  include  the  Offering 
Memorandum exemption (the OM exemption) which is used by registered dealers to sell 
securities on the internet to the public. The OM exemption is available in all jurisdictions 
in Canada, except Ontario, and has been in place for many years. 
 
There  are  registration  requirements  for  Crowd  Sourced  Equity  Funding  Platforms,  
including Integrity, proficiency and solvency requirements, and for the persons operating 
them. 
 
Registration  requirement  addresses  concerns  relating  to  possible  conflicts  of  interest 
and  self-dealing  by  intermediaries  and  to  avoid  fraudulent  offerings  of  securities  to 
investors through the Internet. 

 

Page 13 of 66 

6.4.5   United Kingdom 

In March, 2014 Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) came out with regulations governing 
the  crowdfunding  in  Britain.  The  new  regime  will  be  applicable  to  the  firms  operating 
loan-based crowdfunding platforms and investment-based crowdfunding platforms. 
 
Loan-Based Crowdfunding Platforms: These include peer-to-peer lending platforms 
or  peer-to-business  lending  platforms  on  which  consumers  can  invest  in  loan 
agreements. 
 
Investment-Based  Crowdfunding  Platforms:  These  include  the  platforms  on  which 
consumers can buy investments, such as equity or debt securities that are not listed or 
traded  on  a  recognized  exchange,  or  units  in  an  unregulated  collective  investment 
scheme. In other words, these are' non-readily realized securities'. 
 
Under the new regulation, investment-based crowdfunding platforms are treated slightly 
differently to loan-based crowdfunding platforms by the FCA. The new regulations have 
become effective from April 1, 2014. As a result, the regulation of the consumer credit 
market has been transferred from the Office of Fair Trading to the FCA. This includes 
responsibility for regulating loan-based crowdfunding. 
 
New Regulations: 
Loan-Based Crowdfunding Platforms:  
•  The  new  regulations  intend  to  safe  guard  the  interests  of  the  investors  by  ring 
fencing  the  investments  from  the  platform's  finances.  Therefore  in  case  anything 
happens to the platform, the investments would not be hurt. The platforms also need 
to have a contingency plan or a third party in place to ensure seamless operations. 

•  Platforms  must  also  have  capital  reserves  to  cushion  the  effect  of  defaults.  Each 
platform  will  need  to  hold  £20,000  from  October  this  year  and  £50,000  from  April 
2017.  

 

Page 14 of 66 

•  The new regulations also  take a robust view on disclosures. The marketing of the 
products  should  not  be  misleading  and  all  the  risks  should  be  adequately 
highlighted. 

•  Unlike savings or bank accounts, neither loan or investment-based crowdfunding is 
covered  by  the  £85,000  Financial  Services  Compensation  Scheme.  Thus  loan-
based crowdfunding is still very much an investment, rather than savings product. 
Investors can cancel their agreement without any penalty within a cooling period of 
14 days if the firm does not provide access to a secondary market. 

• 

•  The  new  regulations  provide  access  to  the  financial  services  ombudsman  for  all 

complaints. 

 

How are the new Rules different? 

Many established lending-based platforms are already regulated by FCA and therefore 
largely  compliant  to  the  new  regulations.  However,  the  regulations  put  a  structure  in 
place for the platforms to manage their risks properly and not promise some ludicrous 
return.   

Investment-Based Crowdfunding Platforms:  
Very  similar  rules  apply  to  investment-based  crowdfunding  as loan-based -  i.e.  the 
marketing  must  be  fair  and  not  misleading,  risks  should  be  highlighted  and  systems 
must be in place to separate your money from theirs - and ensure there are adequate 
capital reserves. 

The 14 day cooling off period and access to financial ombudsman also apply. 

Aside  from  systems  requirements,  there  are  new  rules  on  who  is  actually  allowed  to 
invest their money in crowdfunding. These include: 

retail clients who are advised, 
retail clients classified as corporate finance contacts or venture capital contacts, 
retail clients certified as sophisticated or high net worth, or 
retail clients who confirm that they will not invest more than 10 per cent of their net 
investible assets in these products.  

Page 15 of 66 

• 
• 
• 
• 

 

So the onus is really on the investor to ensure they fall into one of the above brackets, 
rather than the platform. Investors must to tick a box to confirm they fall into one of the 
above categories.  

The investors must also pass an online appropriateness test to prove they are aware of 
the risks. October 1, 2014 is the deadline for the platforms to launch investor tests.  

An investor can also reclassify herself as 'sophisticated' once he/she has made at least 
two investments in investment-based crowdfunding. 

How are the new Rules different? 

•  The  new  regulations  for  investment-based  crowdfunding  make  sure  that  investors 
don't  get  undue  exposure  and  at  the  same  time  there  is  a  scope  for  increasing 
exposures in incremental phase by following a learning curve. 

•  The definition of a 'sophisticated' investor is not just restricted to the net worth but 
also takes in consideration the experience and the confidence that an investor has in 
such investments.  

•  Disclosures by the investors play a very crucial role.  

6.4.6   France 

The old regulations in France allowed a company to raise up to $ 1,40,000 for equity. 
This amount has been raised to $ 14,00,000. But there is no maximum investment cap 
specified  for  a  particular  investor,  which  makes  the  investors  decide  on  their  risk 
appetite. 
 
The new laws allows  platforms to register as a crowdfunding investment advisor, which 
will enable platforms to get paid by companies as well as the investors. 
 
Like US, France has also brought in the concept of accredited investors. Previously, the 
companies were only able to give the complete information (valuation, dates, percent of 
ownership, etc.) concerning their fundraising to 150 potential investors. The new rules 
have done away with that cap, allowing for an unlimited number of investors to pitch in 
cash. 

 

Page 16 of 66 

The need for an external audit is done away, but there is a huge impetus on extensive 
disclosures by issuers both at the time of fund raising and periodically.  
 
Companies  will  also  be  allowed  to  take  loans  from  individuals  for  a  total  of  up  to  €1 
million, though the loan amount is capped at €1,000 per investor per company. 

Financial Services Agency (FSA), Japan has promulgated an amendment in Financial 
Instruments  and  Exchange  Act  on  May  23,  2014  to  facilitate  and  promote,  inter  alia, 
Equity Crowdfunding in Japan.  
 
The amendments pertinent to Crowdfunding are given as under: 
I.  Relaxation  of  entry  requirements  of  Financial 

Instruments  Business 

6.4.7   Japan 

 

Operators (FIBO). 

(FIBO:  An  entity  allowed  to  engage  in  the  activities  of  trading,  intermediation,  brokerage, 
undertaking in primary and secondary public offerings, and other businesses involving only the 
securities which they are authorized for.) 
 

Revised Regulations: 

•  Relaxation of Entry Requirements 

o  Restrictions  on  the  conduct  of  other  businesses  would  not  be  imposed  on 
crowdfunding  platform  operators  that  handle  only  'small  amounts'    and  the 
minimum capital required for registration would be reduced7
. 
'small amounts' mean that the total amount offered is less than 100 million yen 
and the amount of investment per person is 500,00 yen or less. 

o 

 
•  Establishment of Rules to protect Investors 

o  To  prevent  fraudulent  behavior,  crowdfunding  platform  operators  would  be 
obligated  to  conduct  checks on  the  businesses  of  the  start-ups  and  to  provide 
information of issuers, etc. appropriately through the Internet.  
 

                                                           
7 Type I FIBO: 50 million yen (current) reduced to 10 million yen, Type II FIBO: 10 million yen (current) reduced to 5 million yen 

 

Page 17 of 66 

7.0 Indian Scenario 

7.1.  Existing Legal Framework 
7.1.1  The provisions in the existing legal framework for raising funds by companies are 

regulated under Companies' Act 2013 and Securities Act i.e. SEBI Act, 1992, Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, Depositories Act, 1996. Raising of pooled managed 
investment funds by various entities such as Alternative Investment Fund (AIF), Mutual 
Fund (MF) etc. is regulated under Securities Laws. 

7.2.  Public Issue of Securities by Companies 
7.2.1    Companies  making  public  issue  of  securities  need  to  comply  with  public  issue 
 7.2.2  Companies Act requires a company proposing to make a public issue to make a 

requirements  prescribed  in  Companies  Act,  2013  and  Rules  made  thereunder,  apart 
from the requirements of SEBI Regulations. 

listing application to recognized stock exchanges. It requires the issuing company to file 
a Prospectus with Registrar of Companies. Further, detailed disclosure requirements for 
Prospectus are also specified. 

 7.2.3  Under Section 24 of the Companies Act, 2013, the provisions relating to issue and 

transfer of securities by listed companies or those companies which intend to get their 
securities  listed  on  any  recognized  stock  exchange  in  India  shall  be  administered  by 
SEBI.  Hence,  SEBI  regulates  public  issuance  of  securities  and  those  private 
placements which are proposed to be listed on stock exchange(s). 

 7.2.4  SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 (ICDR) 

requires issuers making public issue of specified securities to comply with requirements 
prescribed there-in which includes appointment of merchant banker, registrar to issue, 
filing  of  draft  offer  document  with  SEBI,  eligibility  requirement  such  as  track  record, 
minimum  promoter’s  contribution, 
to  have  a 
monitoring agency, etc., apart from detailed disclosure requirements. 
 

lock-in  requirements,  requirement 

 

Page 18 of 66 

7.2.5  However, in case of debt securities, there is a simpler regime and the issuer need 

to  comply  with  SEBI  (Issue  and Listing  of  Debt  Securities)  Regulations,  2008  (ILDS), 
which  requires  compliance  with  basic  requirements  like  having  a  Debenture  trustee, 
Credit Rating, disclosure requirements, etc. 
 
Further, once securities are listed in a Recognized Stock Exchange, the issuer has to 
comply with the continuous listing requirements. 

7.3.  Private Placements of Securities by Companies 
7.3.1    Taking  into  account  the  recent  misuse  of  private  placement  route  by  some 

companies  which  issued  huge  number  of  debt  securities  to  public  under  the  garb  of 
private placements, Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder, have put some 
restrictions on private placements, which was previously lightly regulated.  

 7.3.2    As  per  Chapter  III  -  The  Companies  (Prospectus  and  Allotment  of  Securities) 

Rules,  2014  ,  in  case  of  a  private  placement  of  securities,  private  placement  offer  or 
invitation cannot be made to more than 200 persons in the aggregate in a financial 
year  (excluding  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers  and  employees  of  the  company  being 
offered securities under a scheme of employees stock option). 

 7.3.3  Such offer can be made only to such persons whose names are recorded by 

the company prior to the invitation to subscribe, and that such persons shall receive 
the  offer  by  name,  and  that  a  complete  record  of  such  offers  shall  be  kept  by  the 
company  and  complete  information  about  such  offer  shall  be  filed  with  the  Registrar 
within a period of thirty days of circulation of relevant private placement offer letter. 

 7.3.4  All monies payable towards subscription of securities through private placement 

shall  be  paid  through  cheque  or  demand  draft  or  other  banking  channels  but  not  by 
cash. Further, rules require that the payment to be made for subscription to securities 
shall be made from the bank account of the person subscribing to such securities and 
the company shall keep a record of all such bank accounts. The company shall allot its 

 

Page 19 of 66 

securities within sixty days from the date of receipt of the application money for private 
placement, else money has to be repaid to the investors. 

public advertisements or utilize any media, marketing or distribution channels or 
agents to inform the public at large about such an offer. 

 7.3.5    Company  offering  securities  through  private  placement  shall  not  release  any 
 7.3.6    Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs  has  also  notified  Companies  (Prospectus  and 

Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014. As per the said Rules, a private placement offer 
letter  shall  be  accompanied  by  an  application  form  serially  numbered  and  addressed 
specifically  to  the  person  to  whom  the  offer  is  made  and  no  person  other  than  the 
person  so  addressed  in  the  application  form  shall  be  allowed  to  apply  through  such 
application  form.  The  value  of  such  offer  or  invitation  per  person  shall  be  with  an 
investment size of not less than Rs.20,000 of face  value of the securities. 

30 days of allotment along with a complete list of all security holders containing the full 
name, address, Permanent Account Number and E-mail ID of such security holder. 

 7.3.7  A return of allotment of securities shall be filed with Registrar of Companies within 
 7.3.8  Companies Act, 2013 mentions that any offer or invitation that is not in compliance 

with the provisions of Section 42 shall be treated as a public offer and all provisions of 
Companies  Act,  2013,  and  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  and  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 shall be required to be complied with, 
including the above mentioned requirements.  

 7.3.9    However,  as  mentioned  above,  Companies  Act,  2013  provides  a  window  for 

making private placement offers to Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) and the 'limit of 
200'  is  not  applicable  to  such  QIBs.  QIBs  are  the  entities  such  as  a  MF,  Foreign 
Portfolio Investor (FPI), AIF, Scheduled Commercial Bank, IRDA registered Insurance 
company  etc.  as  defined  in  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009. 

 

Page 20 of 66 

7.4.  Provisions regarding SME Funding 
7.4.1  SEBI has taken various steps in the recent past to enable Start-ups and SME to 

raise funds through various routes such as SME Segment of Exchanges, Institutional 
Trading Platform (ITP), Category I- SME Fund under AIF Regulations. These channels 
are briefly defined in the following sections: 

 7.4.2  SME Segment 
7.4.2.1    SEBI  has  specified  framework  for  a  SME  segment  (platform)  on  Recognized 

Stock Exchanges, where Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) can list their securities. 
A company which has its post-issue face value capital not exceeding ten crore rupees 
shall list only in SME platform. A company, which has its post issue face value capital 
more than ten crore rupees and upto twenty five crore rupees, has an option to list in 
SME  platform.  In  case  the  post-issue  face  value  capital  exceeds  Rupees  twenty  five 
crore  rupees,  the  issuer  should  compulsorily  list  only  on  main  board  of  the  Stock 
Exchanges.  

 7.4.2.2  However, a listed issuer whose post-issue face value capital is less than twenty 

five  crore  rupees  may  migrate  to  SME  platform  if  its  shareholders  approve  such 
migration by passing a special resolution through postal ballot. An issuer listed on SME 
exchange  proposing  to  issue  further  capital  pursuant  to  which  their  post-issue  face 
value capital may increase beyond Rs. 25 crore shall migrate to the main board, subject 
to obtaining in-principle approval of the main board before issue of such securities. 

 7.4.2.3  Various relaxations have been provided to SMEs listing on SME segment under 

SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009. Some of them 
are:   

•  Draft Offer document may be filed directly with the exchange and not necessarily 

with SEBI. 

•  Eligibility criteria for an issuer under Regulation 26 is not applicable to companies 

listing under SME segment. 

 

Page 21 of 66 

•  Minimum  application  value  of  Rs.5000-7000  is  not  applicable  (min.  application 

value shall not be less than Rs. one lakh per application). 

•  Minimum number of prospective allottees is fifty (instead of 1,000 in Main board). 

 7.4.2.4    Similarly,  relaxations  have  also  been  provided  with  respect  to  the  continuous 

listing requirements for Companies listed in SMEs: 

•  Requirement to file half yearly financial results instead of quarterly  
•  Exemption from publishing financial results in newspaper 
•  SME  companies  may  send  abridged  annual  report  to  their  shareholders. 
However,  the  same  need to be displayed  on  the  website of  the exchange  and 
company. 

 

companies listed on SME segment for a minimum period of three years from the date of 
listing to ensure liquidity in the market. 

 7.4.2.5    Apart  from  the  above,  there  is  a  compulsory  market  making  requirement  for 
7.4.2.6    SME  Segments  were  launched  on  BSE  and  NSE  on  December  14,  2012 and 
 7.4.3  Institutional Trading Platform (ITP) 
7.4.3.1    SEBI  has  permitted  listing  of  Small  and  Medium  Enterprises  (SME),  including 

September 18, 2012 respectively. There are 60 SMEs listed on the BSE SME Exchange 
and 5 SMEs listed on the NSE SME Exchange (Emerge) as on June 11, 2014. 

start-up companies, on the SME exchange Institutional Trading Platform (ITP), without 
being  required  to  make  an  initial  public  offer.  The  main  features  of  the  ITP  Platform 
following are: 

•  Only  such  SMEs  which  do  not  have  their  securities  listed  on  any  recognized 
stock exchange are permitted to list their specified securities exclusively on the 
ITP. 

•  The listing process of ITP does not involve an IPO, or private placement or any 

issue of securities.  

 

Page 22 of 66 

•  While such companies are listed on the platform, they are not permitted to raise 

capital.  

•  Since the trading lot has been mandated as 10 lakh, participation in this platform 

is restricted to informed investors.   

•  The companies listed in ITP are SMEs and start-up companies which get visibility 

by listing in the stock exchanges, without any public issue of their securities.  

•  The  regulatory  framework  for  ITP  also  envisages  that  the  SMEs  listed  in  this 
platform will mandatorily exit the platform if (a) a period of 10 years have elapsed 
since the company was listed in the ITP (b) the paid-up capital of the company is 
more than twenty five crore rupees (c) the revenue of the company is more than 
three hundred crore rupees (d) company reaches market capitalization of more 
than five hundred crore rupees.  
 

than a sustained listing over a long term horizon. 

7.4.3.2  This platform is merely meant to provide the initial impetus for such SMEs rather 
 7.4.3.3    In  addition  to  the  visibility  to  SMEs,  this  framework  also  provides  a  trading 

platform  for  the  scrips  of  Start-up  Companies  held  by  Alternative  Investment  Funds 
(AIFs),  VCFs  etc.  and  enhances  the  liquidity  in  such  scrips,  which  in-turn  provide 
enabling environment for SME and start-up enterprises to flourish.  
 
BSE launched its ITP on February 11, 2014. There are 6 companies listed on ITP of 
BSE. NSE launched its ITP on October 28, 2013 and there is 1 company listed on it as 
on June 11, 2014. 
 

7.5. Provisions related to Alternative Investment Funds: 
7.5.1    SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations (“VCF Regulations”) were framed in 

1996 to encourage funding by entrepreneurs’ early-stage companies in India. However, 
since registration of VCF was not mandatory under VCF Regulations, all players in the 
alternative funds industry were not registered with SEBI.  Hence, it was felt that there 
was  a  regulatory  gap  which  needed  to  be  addressed.  Further,  SEBI  Board  had 

 

Page 23 of 66 

approved the proposal for a clear regulatory framework for privately pooled investment 
vehicles under AIF framework to inter-alia pave way for increased investment in start-
ups, SMEs, etc. and also provide for a mechanism to monitor and assess systemic risks 
and  risks  to  financial  market  stability  posed  by  the  activities  of  some  funds  such  as 
Hedge funds. 

Alternative  Investment  Funds  (AIF)  through  SEBI  (Alternative  Investment  Funds) 
Regulations, 2012 on May 21, 2012. 

 7.5.2   Considering the same, SEBI notified the framework for registering and regulating 
 7.5.3   These Regulations cover all privately pooled investment vehicles in India raising 

funds  from  Indian  or  foreign  investors  for  investing  in  accordance  with  a  defined 
investment  policy  for  the  benefit  of  its  investors.  However,  Mutual  Funds,  Collective 
Investment Schemes, Family Trusts, Employee Welfare trusts, Securitization trusts, any 
other funds regulated by other regulators, etc. are exempted from the ambit of the AIF 
Regulations.  

 7.5.4   These regulations seek to cover the funds broadly under 3 categories.  

•  Category I – which includes Venture Capital Funds, SME Funds, Social Venture 
Funds,  Infrastructure  Fund,  etc.  (which  invests  in  sectors  or  areas  which  the 
government or regulators may consider as socially or economically desirable);  

•  Category II – which includes private equity funds or debt funds (which does not 
undertake  leverage  or  borrowing  other  than  to  meet  day-to-day  operational 
requirements) and  

•  Category III – which includes Hedge Funds - (employ leverage including through 

investment in derivatives) 

 7.5.5 

  As  per 

the  said  Regulations,  AIF  should  be  prohibited  by 

trust 
deed/memorandum  and  articles  of  association/partnership  deed  from  making  an 
invitation to the public to subscribe to its securities. AIF shall not accept from an investor 
an investment of value less than Rs. 1 Crore and no scheme of the AIF shall have more 

its 

 

Page 24 of 66 

than 1,000 investors. Further, each scheme of the AIF shall have a minimum corpus of 
Rs. 20 crore. Further, the manager or sponsor shall have a continuing interest in the AIF 
of certain percentage of the corpus.  

Funds (ii) Social Venture Funds, (iii) SME Funds, (iv) Infrastructure Funds.  

Social Venture Funds: 

 7.5.6    Category  I  AIFs  are  further  categorized  in  4  sub-categories:  (i)  Venture  Capital 
i. 

An  AIF  which  invests  primarily  in  securities  or  units  of  social  ventures  and  which 
satisfies  social  performance  norms  laid  down  by  the  fund  and  whose  investors  may 
agree  to  receive  restricted  or  muted  returns  may  get  itself  registered  as  a  Social 
Venture  Fund  under  SEBI  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012.  It  can 
accept investment which is not less than one crore and such investor may accept muted 
returns. Such funds are also entitled to accept grants, provided that utilization of such 
grants shall be restricted to social ventures. Further, the amount of grants that may be 
accepted by the fund from any person shall not be less than Rs. 25 Lakhs and no profits 
or gains shall accrue to the provider of such grants. 
 
There 
a corpus of Rs. 820-900 Crores as on June 11, 2014.  

are 

3 

Social 

SEBI  with  

Venture 

Funds 

registered  with 

ii. 

SME Funds: 

An investment fund which invests primarily in unlisted securities of investee companies 
which are SMEs or securities of those SMEs which are listed or proposed to be listed on 
a SME exchange or SME segment of an exchange may get itself registered as an SME 
Fund. Such funds: 

•  shall  invest  at  least  75%  of  the  investible  funds  in  unlisted  securities  or 
partnership interest of venture capital undertakings or investee companies which 
are SMEs or in companies listed or proposed to be listed on SME exchange or 
SME segment of an exchange 

•  may  enter  into  an  agreement  with  merchant  banker  to  subscribe  to  the 
unsubscribed portion of the issue or to receive or deliver securities in the process 

 

Page 25 of 66 

of  market  making  under  Chapter  XB  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 

 
There are 5  SME funds registered with SEBI with corpus in the range of Rs.  1,625 -
2,125 Crores as on June 11, 2014. 

iii.  Angel Funds:  

Under  SEBI  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012,  a  sub-category  has 
been  created  under  Category  I  –  Venture  Capital  Funds  called  “Angel  Funds”  vide 
amendment  dated  September  16,  2013.  Such  funds  can  raise  funds  from  angel 
investors and make investments in start-ups/early stage companies. 
 
In order to ensure that investment by such angel funds is genuine 'angel investment' in 
India, it is prescribed that the investee companies: 

a.  are incorporated in India and are not more than 3 years old; and 
b.  have a turnover not exceeding Rs 25 crore; and 
c.  are unlisted, and  
d.  are  not  promoted,  sponsored  or  related  to  an  Industrial  Group  whose  group 

turnover is in excess of Rs. 300 crore, and 

e.  has no  family connection with the investors proposing to invest in the company.  

 
Investment in an investee company by an angel fund shall not be less than Rs. 50 lakhs 
and more than Rs. 5 crore. Such conditions are expected to ensure that the investments 
are genuine investments in start-ups/ early stage companies in India.  
 
Minimum  Corpus  of  an  Angel  Fund  shall  be  Rs.10  Crores.  Minimum  investment from 
each investor shall be Rs. 25 Lakhs. As Angel investments are highly risky investments, 
necessary restrictions are imposed on the eligibility of the investors in order to ensure 
that  only 
investors  who  have  prior  experience/  adequate  awareness  of  such 
investments and who have sufficient capital invest in such funds. Reduced mandatory 
minimum sponsor/manager contribution is made applicable to Angel Funds comparing 
to other AIFs, i.e. 2.5% of the corpus/ Rs. 50 lakhs, whichever is lesser. 

 

Page 26 of 66 

There is 1 Angel Fund registered with SEBI as on June 11, 2014. 
 

8.0  Is Crowdfunding really needed ? 
8.1  As mentioned earlier, the 2008 financial crisis resulted in failure of number of Banks 
and, consequently, the new capital adequacy regulations for banks, such as Basel III 
were implemented. As a result, credit providers have become increasingly constrained 
in their ability to lend money to the real economy.  
 
8.2  IOSCO Paper states that the amount of bank loans made in Western Europe and 
the  USA  dropped  significantly  at  the  beginning  of  the  crisis.  While  there  have  been 
some  signs  of  recovery  in  the  US  (although  the  growth  rate  is  still  below  pre-crisis 
levels), in Western Europe the growth rate in loans to the non-financial corporate sector 
has been negative, especially to SMEs in the EU. In this funding vacuum, peer-to-peer 
lending and other Crowdfunding Platforms are growing in popularity, as bank liquidity is 
reduced and new regulatory requirements make obtaining loans for small and medium 
enterprises and individuals difficult. 
 
8.3    In  India,  during  the  last  few  years,  the  IPO  market  has  not  been  very  active. 
Though,  SEBI,  has  been  at  the  forefront  in  facilitating  fund  raising  by  SMEs  through 
measures like SME segment in Stock Exchanges, Category I- SME funds under AIF, 
Institutional  Trading  Platform,  etc.,  still  there  is  need  to  encourage  innovative  way  of 
fund  raising  to  provide  an  impetus  to  genuine  SMEs/Start-ups  and  to  explore  other 
alternative models of fund raising with appropriate framework in consonance with retail 
investor protection. 
 
8.4    Since  the  "Crowdfunding"  phenomenon  is  gaining  its  popularity,  its  importance 
cannot be ignored. To regulate crowdfunding, it is very important to take note that while 
it  is  necessary  to  ensure  that  Start-ups/SMEs  could  raise  funds  at  ease,  it  is  equally 
important to ensure that no systemic risks are created wherein retail investors are lured 
by some unscrupulous players by substituting the existing framework, which has been 
developed over a period of time through experience and observation.  Hence, there is 

 

Page 27 of 66 

necessity  to  strike  a  proper  balance  between  investor  protection  and  the  role  equity 
markets can play in supporting economic development and growth. 

8.5    While  some  regulators  are  criticized  by  media  from  “taking  the  crowd  out  of 
crowdfunding',8  there  are  also  media  reports  explaining  the  risks  in  the  model  and 
stating  that  regulators  who  are  today  denounced  for  their  intervention  will  then  be 
castigated for their neglect.9
 
 
8.6  IOSCO Paper states that "A risk posed by moving to regulate a previously exempt 
sector  is  the  perceived  rubber  stamping  of  the  industry  through  regulation,  creating 
credibility in the peer-to-peer lending and equity crowd-funding markets. 
 
This could attract less experienced investors to these markets who may not understand 
the risks involved in these types of investment. 

 
8.7  Therefore  it  would  be  appropriate for  regulators  to  take  appropriate  stand  in  this 
regard and send out a message to the various stakeholders recognizing this emerging 
route of funding. India, so far, does not face a significant exposure to crowdfunding but 
given that this mode of fund raising is growing at a scorching pace, it is important that 
regulators keep an open eye and a vigilant attitude.   
 

Question  1:  Given  that  Crowdfunding  is  still  in  nascent  stages  and  most  of  the 
jurisdictions  around  the  world  have  taken  a  guarded  view  by  allowing  it  in  a 
restricted manner, do you think India is ready for crowdfunding or is it premature 
to introduce such risky investment channel ? 

 

                                                           
8http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/mar/06/crowdfunding-regulator-10-percent-rule 
 
9http://www.johnkay.com/2014/03/25/regulators-will-get-the-blame-for-the-stupidity-of-crowds 

 

Page 28 of 66 

9.0  Proposal for Crowdfunding in India 

9.0.1   SEBI has provided various frameworks for raising of funds by startups, SMEs etc. 

as specified in the paragraph 7. In addition to the available frameworks, SEBI seeks to 
provide  fresh  avenues  for  startups  and  SMEs  set  up  by  young  entrepreneurs  and 
technology professionals to raise early stage funding through internet based platforms, 
potentially  more  efficiently  and  cost  effectively  than  through  public  issue  or  private 
placement offering. 

 9.0.2   Crowdfunding is an innovative way to provide modest amount of funding to young 

entrepreneurs  and  technology  professionals  needing  early  stage  or  seed  capital  for 
startup companies which may  spur entrepreneurship and ultimately  assist in boosting 
the growth of real economy.  

 9.0.3   A company raising funds through online crowdfunding platforms or websites offers 

equity  or  debt  interests  in  its  business  to  investors  who  make  small  contributions, 
through a crowdfunding platform or social media. In most of the cases funding is sought 
online on the basis of future projections rather than a viable business model in operation 
which increases the risk of failures and therefore loss to the investors. 

 9.0.4    If  the  costs  associated  with  regulatory  provisions  for  investor  protection  are 

excessive, crowdfunding may not become a viable capital raising method. At the same 
time  investors  would  be  concerned  about  the  risks  of  crowdfunding  and  may  not  be 
prepared to invest if there are no adequate safeguards in place. Therefore the proposal 
seeks to strike a balance between retail investor protection and capital market access to 
such  ventures  by  providing  adequate  investor  safeguard  without  creating  too  many 
entry barriers or significant regulatory burdens on the issuers.  

 9.0.5    Pure  Donation Based  Crowdfunding  (where  issuers  directly  seek  donation from 

the grantors), Reward Based Crowdfunding (where issuers directly offers rewards like 
movie tickets, new computer game, download of a book etc.) and Peer-to-Peer lending 
do  not  fall  within  the  regulatory  purview  of  SEBI,  as  they  do  not  generally  involve 

 

Page 29 of 66 

issuance  of  securities  for  financial  return,  and  may  require  authorization  from  other 
regulators. For example, Peer-to-Peer lending may fall under the purview of RBI.  

framework in other jurisdictions, this proposal seeks to explore the possibilities of having 
Security Based Crowdfunding framework in India within the existing legal framework. 

 9.0.6  Taking  into  account  various  provisions  under  the  Indian  law  and  crowdfunding 
 9.0.7   Crowdfunding is intended to facilitate raising of modest amount by startups and 

SMEs  for  early  stage  funding  and  it  is  not  necessary  or  appropriate  to  allow  certain 
complex  or  hybrid  products.  Under  the  Security  Based  Crowdfunding,  the  possible 
routes which are being explored are as follows: 
 

1.  Equity based Crowdfunding (EbC) 
2.  Debt based Crowdfunding (DbC) 
3.  Fund based Crowdfunding (FbC) 

 9.0.8      In  all  the  approaches,  the  Crowdfunding  Platform  plays  a  central  role  where 

investors  can  meet  promising  start  up  companies.  The  web  based  crowdfunding 
platform  will  facilitate  raising  of  capital  through  its  website  from  investors  who  have 
access to such platform. The first 2 routes are primarily based on the Private Placement 
route  as  defined  under  Section  42,  Companies  Act  2013.  The  FbC  route  is  primarily 
modeled on SEBI (AIF) Regulations, 2012.  

 9.0.9   Before dealing with these routes it is important that the following are established: 

the investors that are allowed to invest through the crowdfunding platforms, 
the types of entities that are allowed to raise funds through this channel and the 
disclosure requirements, 
the  types  of  entities  that  are  allowed  to  set  up  internet  based  Crowdfunding 
Platforms to enable online solicitation from such investors, 

• 
• 

• 

and the different associated aspects.  
 

 

Page 30 of 66 

9.1   Who can be the Investor? 
9.1.1  Various  jurisdictions  have  imposed  different  restrictions  on  investments  and 

categories of investors who are allowed to invest in companies which are displayed on 
such internet based crowdfunding websites or platforms, such as: 
 
Jurisdiction 

Limitations on Investment under Crowdfunding 

USA 

UK 

In a 12 month period, investors are allowed to invest 
•  $2,000 or 5 percent of their annual income or net worth, whichever is 
greater,  if  both  their  annual  income  and  net  worth  are  less  than 
$100,000. 

•  10 percent of their annual income or net worth, whichever is greater, 
if  either  their  annual  income  or  net  worth  is  equal  to  or more  than 
$100,000.  

•  No  limit  for  investors  advised  by  professionals,  linked  to  corporate 
finance or venture capital firms, or those certified as sophisticated or 
high net worth. 

•  Not more than 10% of assets - excluding homes and pensions, for 

other investors. 

Australia 

France 
Canada 

One  of  the  option  proposed  is  that  the  investor  needs  to  be 
sophisticated i.e. have assets of worth at least $ 2.5 million or have a 
gross income of at least $ 250,000 for each of the last 2 financial years.  
€1,000 per campaign 
A maximum of $2,500 in a single investment and $10,000 per year 

the inherent risks involved in the speculative nature of start-up companies and illiquid 
nature of their securities and can bear the loss of the entire investment. 

 9.1.2  It is necessary that the investors who seek to invest in crowdfunding understand 
 9.1.3  In Indian scenario, considering the necessity to provide alternative funding sources 

to Start-ups and at the same time to ensure that retail investors are not made to bear 

 

Page 31 of 66 

the  risks  of  Start-up  ventures,  it  is  proposed  to  permit  only  Accredited  Investors  to 
participate in crowdfunding. 

 9.1.4  The Accredited Investors: 
9.1.4.1  The  proposed  accredited  investors  who  may  be  allowed  to  invest  through 

crowdfunding platforms are as under: 

•  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers  (QIBs)  as  defined  in  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and 

Disclosure Requirements) regulations, 2009 as amended from time to time, 

•  Companies incorporated under the Companies Act of India, with a minimum net 

worth10

 of Rs. 20 Crore, 

•  High  Net  Worth  Individuals  (HNIs)  with  a  minimum  net  worth  Rs.  2  Crores  or 
more (excluding the value of the primary residence or any loan secured on such 
property), and 

•  Eligible Retail Investors (ERIs): 

o  who receive investment advice from an Investment Adviser, or 
o  who avail services of a Portfolio manager, or 
o  who  have  passed  an  Appropriateness  Test  (may  be  conducted  by  an 

institution accredited by NISM or the crowdfunding platforms), 

and 
o  who have a minimum annual gross income of Rs. 10 Lacs, 
o  who have filed Income Tax return for at least last 3 financial years, 
o  who  certify  that  they  will  not  invest  more  than  Rs.  60,000  in  an  issue 

through crowdfunding platform, 

o  who  certify  that  they  will  not  invest  more  than  10%  of  their  net  worth 
through  crowdfunding.  (Net  worth  excludes  the  value  of  the  primary 
residence or any loan secured on such property). 

 9.1.4.2  Thus those retail investors who have knowledge, experience or have access to 

investment advice and have resources to cope with the losses on their investments in a 
                                                           
10 Net Worth is calculated as the aggregate value of paid up equity capital plus free reserves (excluding reserves 
created  out  of  revaluation)  reduced  by  the  aggregate  value  of  accumulated  losses  and  deferred  expenditure  not 
written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written off. 

 

Page 32 of 66 

start up, are eligible to invest as ERI in crowdfunding and come within the category of 
accredited investors. 
 

Question 2: Are the Accredited Investors mentioned in paragraph 9.1.4 suitable to 
participate in the risky investments of crowdfunding? Is there a need to expand or 
reduce the categories of investors or expand or reduce safeguards? Specify along 
with the rationale. 

 9.1.5  Investment Limits: 
9.1.5.1   Chapter  III  -  The  Companies  (Prospectus  and  Allotment  of  Securities)  Rules, 

2014 specifies that in case of a private placement of securities the offer or invitation to 
subscribe shall not be made to more than 200 investors in a financial year. Any offer or 
invitation made to QIBs or to employees of the company under a scheme of employees 
stock option shall not be considered while calculating the limit of 200 persons.  
 
Therefore,  EbC  and  DbC  shall  allow  private  placement  offers  through  internet  based 
crowdfunding platforms to any number of QIBs and a maximum of 200 HNIs and ERIs 
combined.  

9.1.5.2  In some jurisdictions, e.g.in Italy professional investors must own at least 5% of 

the  equity  in  a  crowdfunded  venture.  The  apparent  intention  is  to  give  some  form  of 
comfort  to  retail  investors  that  the  issuer  is  genuine  as  one  or  more  sophisticated 
investors  have  chosen  to  invest.  It  is  therefore  proposed  that  QIBs,  Companies  and 
HNIs  should  be  required  to  own  at  least  a certain  percentage  in every  issue  through 
EbC and DbC. 

 9.1.5.3    Chapter  III  -  The  Companies  (Prospectus  and  Allotment  of  Securities)  Rules, 

2014  specifies  that  in  case  of  a  private  placement  of  securities,  the  minimum  offer 
value per person must be at least Rs. 20,000 of the face value of the securities. In 
view of the above, we propose that: 

 

Page 33 of 66 

•  A  QIB  is  required  to purchase  at  least  5 times  of  the  minimum  offer  value per 
person as specified in the aforementioned rule. Collectively all the QIBs shall 
hold a minimum of 5% of the securities issued. 

•  A Company is required to purchase at least 4 times of the minimum offer value 

per person as specified in the aforementioned rule. 

•  A  HNI  is  required  to  purchase  at  least  3  times  the  minimum  offer  value  per 

person. 

•  An ERI is required to purchase at least the minimum offer value per person. The 
maximum  investment  by  an  ERI  in  an  issue  shall  not  exceed  Rs.  60,000.  The 
total  of  all  investments  in  crowdfunding  for  an  eligible  retail  investor  in  a  year 
should not exceed 10% of its net worth. 

 

Question 3: Are the Investment Limits specified in paragraph 9.1.5 justifiable with 
respect to the respective investor classes? Are they too high or too low? Specify 
along with rationale. 

Question 4:  Is  the  limit of  investors  upto 200  besides  QIBs  or  employees  of  the 
company under a scheme of employees stock option, as specified in Chapter III - 
The Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014, adequate or 
is there a need to amend such rules to allow upto 1,000 investors, excluding QIBs 
or employees of the company under a scheme of employees stock option? 

 9.1.6  Investment Conditions: 

•  The ERIs and HNIs must sign a 'Risk Acknowledgement' that they understand 
the  risk  of  illiquid  nature  of  investment  and  potential  loss  of  entire  investment, 
and that they can bear the loss. 

•  The issue has to be in Demat form thus all the accredited investors need to hold 

a demat account. 

•  The payment  has to be made  through a  cheque  or  a demand  draft or  another 

banking channel. Payment by Cash and Credit Cards shall not be accepted. 

•  The ERIs must be an Indian citizen / NRI. 
•  ERIs must fulfill the eligibility requirements as specified in the paragraph 9.1.4.1. 

 

Page 34 of 66 

• 

Investments by foreign investors shall, however, be subject to guidelines as may 
be specified by RBI  and government of India from time to time. 

 

Question  5:  Are  the  Investment  Conditions  mentioned  in  the  paragraph  9.1.6 
enough to warn and guard investors regarding the risky nature of crowdfunding? 
Specify changes, if any, along with the rationale. 

 9.2  Who can raise funds from Crowdfunding Platform and Limitations on capital 
raised? 
9.2.1 Crowdfunding is intended to solve the funding problems of early stage startups and 
 9.2.2  As  crowdfunding  shall  entail  substitution  or  relaxation  of  requirements  of 

SMEs. The existing various sources of funding through capital markets for startups and 
SMEs in India have been summarized in paragraph 7. 

prospectus or listing etc. various jurisdictions have imposed different set of limitations 
on  the  amount  allowed  to  be  raised  through  online  crowdfunding  platforms  and  the 
conditions to be satisfied by the issuing companies. Some of these are listed as under: 
 
Jurisdiction 
USA 
UK 
New Zealand  NZ$2 million from 20 investors in any 12 month period 

Limitation on capital Raised 
$1,000,000 in a period of 12 months 
€2.5 million in a period of 12 months 

Australia 

France 
Canada 

Not more than $2 million or transfer equity to more than 20 people in a  
12 month period 
€1m (£827,951) per campaign per year 
$1.5 million over one year 

 9.2.3  Some  jurisdictions  have  also  imposed  restrictions  on  the  nature  of  companies 

which can raise capital from such crowdfunding platforms, e.g. in Italy crowdfunding is 
restricted  only  to  innovative  startups.  To  be  innovative  a  firm  must  be  recognized  as 

 

Page 35 of 66 

such by the Chamber of Commerce and to be startup a firm can be no more than 48 
months in existence.  

 9.2.4 Crowdfunding can provide an alternative source of capital for startups and SMEs 

that either have limited access to capital or have exhausted other available sources of 
capital. It is, therefore, proposed that the additional channel of crowdfunding platform to 
raise modest amount of funds is allowed to be accessed by early stage startup or SME 
which is an unlisted public company incorporated in India, under EbC or DbC routes as 
mentioned in paragraph 9.4, provided it is: 

•  a  company  intending  to  raise  capital    not  exceeding  Rs.  10  Crores  in  a  period  of  12 
months.  Companies  which  intend  to  make  issue  more  than  size  of  Rs.10  Crores  may 
raise funds by complying with the provisions of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations and list them 
on a SME Platform or main board of a recognized stock exchange, 

•  a company which is not promoted, sponsored or related to an industrial group which has 

a turnover in excess of Rs. 25 Crores or has an established business, 

•  a company which is not listed on any exchange, 
•  a company which is not more than 48 months old, 
•  a  company  which  proposes  to  engage  in  non-financing  ventures,  i.e.  funds  raised 
through  the  crowdfunding  platform  will  not  be  further  used  for  providing  loans  or 
investments in other entities, and 

•  a  company  which  is  not  engaged  in  real  estate  and  activities  which  are  not  permitted 

under industrial policy of Government of India. 

 9.2.5 Further, to ensure only genuine entities raise funds through this mode: 

•  The  issuing  company,  its  directors,  promoters  or  associates  have  not  been  prohibited 
from accessing or operating in the capital markets or restrained from buying, selling or 
dealing in securities under any order or direction passed by the SEBI. 

•  The  issuing  company,  its  directors,  promoters  or  associates  are  not  mentioned  as  a 

'defaulter' or a  'wilful defaulter' by RBI or CIBIL. 

•  The director(s) or promoter(s) are not disqualified to be appointed as director(s) under 

the Companies Act 2013. 

 

Page 36 of 66 

•  The issuing company, its directors, promoters or associates are 'fit and proper' persons 

as specified under the Schedule II of the SEBI (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 
 

9.2.6 In addition to above, the issuers must also comply with the following: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

In a given period of 12 months, Issuers shall not use multiple crowdfunding platforms to 
raise funds. 
Issuers shall not directly or indirectly advertise their offering to public in general or solicit 
investments from the public. 
Issuer  shall  compulsorily  route  all  crowdfunding  issues  through  a  SEBI  recognized 
Crowdfunding Platform. 
Issuers shall not directly or indirectly incentivize or compensate any person to promote 
its offering. 
Issuers  shall  provide  provisions  for  oversubscription.  This  may  include  maximum 
oversubscription  amount  to  be  retained,  which  should  not  exceed  25%  of  the  actual 
issue  size;  intended  usage  of  the  oversubscribed  amount.  The  total  amount  retained. 
including the actual issue size and oversubscription, shall not exceed the limit of Rs. 10 
Crores. 

 

Question  6:    Given  that  the  companies  coming  for  crowdfunding  lack  any 
significant  track  record,  are  the  conditions  and  requirements  mentioned  in 
paragraph  9.2  enough  to  fend  off  fraudulent  issuers?  Specify  changes,  if  any, 
along with the rationale. 

 9.3  Disclosure Requirements on Issuer 
9.3.1  It  is  proposed  that  Crowdfunding  follow  a  disclosure  based  regime.  It  is  very 

important that the companies seeking to raise funds through crowdfunding disclose true 
and  factual  information  to  facilitate  investors  in  an  informed  decision  making.  The 
disclosures are required (i) when an issuer approaches the crowdfunding platform with 
the intention of raising funds from the accredited investors registered with the platform, 
and (ii) at regular intervals on an ongoing basis. 

 

Page 37 of 66 

9.3.2  Though  different  jurisdictions  have  specified  different  set  of  disclosures  for  the 

issuers,  the  basic  spirit  behind  this  is  to  enable  the  investors  to  make  an  informed 
decision  regarding  their  investments  and  to  keep  a  track  of  the  growth  of  their 
investments on a continuing basis. The disclosure requirements in different jurisdictions 
are as follows: 

Jurisdiction  Required disclosures 

•  The name, legal status, physical address and Web site address of 

the issuer; 

•  The names of the directors and officers (and any persons occupying 

a similar status or performing a similar function), and each person 
holding more than 20 percent of the shares of the issuer; 

•  a description of the business of the issuer and the anticipated 

business plan of the issuer; 

•  a description of the financial condition of the issuer83; 
•  a description of the stated purpose and intended use of the proceeds 
of the offering sought by the issuer with respect to the target offering 
amount; 

USA 

•  statement on excess investment; 
•  description on other offerings, related party transactions and 

• 

• 

• 

financial condition; 
the target offering amount, the deadline to reach the target offering 
amount and regular updates regarding the progress of the issuer in 
meeting the target offering amount; 
intermediary identification and compensation; 
the price to the public of the securities or the method for determining 
the price; and 

•  a description of the ownership and capital structure of the issuer. 
In addition, Section 4A(b)(1)(I) specifies that the Commission may 
• 
require additional disclosures for the protection of investors and in 
the public interest. 

 

Page 38 of 66 

UK 

New 
Zealand 

France 

Canada 

Investors should be presented with information that is "fair, clear and 
not misleading" when deciding whether or not to make an investment. 
No specific disclosures mandated by the regulator. 
Issuers making Crowd Sourced Equity Funding(CSEF) offers through 
licensed CSEF intermediaries will be exempt from the normal 
requirements to register a product disclosure document. 
A document with information concerning the company, its activities and 
its financial situation. 
•  Detailed business plan 
•  Disclosure of the issuer’s cash with third party confirmation if the 

issuer has not incurred any expenditures and its only asset is cash; 
or 

•  Annual financial statements if the issuer has incurred expenditures; 

or 

•  Audited annual financial statements if the issuer has raised more 

than $500,000 under the crowdfunding prospectus exemption or any 
other prospectus exemption since its formation and has expended 
more than $150,000 since that time. 

 

9.3.3  Though the disclosures may not be as elaborate as IPO disclosures, which would 

increase  the  cost  of  compliance,  some  basic  details  of  the  company  need  to  be  
provided.  Therefore  it  is  proposed  that,  a  company  intending  to  raise  funds  through 
crowdfunding platform submit an Private Placement Offer Letter to the Crowdfunding 
Portal, which inter alia may contain the following: 

i.  Name of the company & Registered office address 
ii. 

A  description  of  the  current/new  venture  for  which  the  funds  are  being  raised 
(Anticipated Business Plan) 
Issue Size and specified target offering amount and intended usage of funds 
A description on the valuation of securities offered  
Past history of funding, if any 

iii. 
iv. 
v. 
vi.  History of any prior refusal from any Crowdfunding Platform  

 

Page 39 of 66 

vii. 

A  description  of  financial  condition  of  the  company  including  Audited  financial 
statements  of  1  year,  if  any  (Balance  sheet,  Profit  and  Loss  Account,  Cash  Flow 
Statements) 
Price of securities offered and the rights and liabilities attaching to the securities 

viii. 
ix.  Ownership details and capital structure 
x.  Details  regarding  Board,  Management  and  Group  entities,  persons  with  a 

shareholding of 20% or more, etc., 
Principal risks to the issuer's business 

xi. 
xii.  Grievance  redressal  and  Dispute  resolution  mechanism,  such  as  arbitration 

mechanism 
Such other information as SEBI may specify 

xiii. 

 

9.3.4   The  Private  Placement  Offer  Letter  submitted  by  the  issuer  shall  be  circulated 

online  only  to  those  selected  accredited  investors  who  are  registered  with  the 
crowdfunding platform and have made a commitment, not numbering more than 200, 
and excluding QIBs.  

 

Question 7: Are the disclosure requirements for a company interested in raising 
funds through crowdfunding platform mentioned in paragraph 9.3.3, enough to 
enable investors in an informed decision making ? Specify changes, if any, along 
with the rationale. 

 9.3.5  Though future projections are not allowed in offer document of a public issue, but 

in crowdfunding, owing to the lack of any meaningful business history or financial track 
record,  decision  making  is  significantly  based  on  the  future  projections  made  by  the 
issuer. So it becomes important that a realistic view into the future growth path of the 
issuer is provided to the prospective investors. These projections should be based on 
some trusted third party research and realistic assumptions. 

 

 

Question 8: Due to the lack of history and track record, it is important that the 
issuers  provide  future  projections  of  their  business  to  facilitate  investors  in 

Page 40 of 66 

decision making. What should be the criteria to ensure that the projections are 
realistic and achievable and not misguiding in nature? 

 

9.3.6  The issuing companies shall also be required to submit information on an ongoing 

basis.  It  is  proposed  that  the  issuing  companies  submit  biannual  disclosures  to  the 
Crowdfunding Platform, which inter alia may contain the following: 

i. 

Audited  financial  statements  (Balance  sheet,  Profit  &  Loss  statement,  Cash  flow 
statement etc.) 

ii.  Utilization of funds raised in accordance to the object of the issue as specified at the 

iii. 

iv. 
v. 

time of the issue  
A  detailed  view  of  the  current  state  of  business  and  the  progress made  since  last 
disclosure 
Any other funding raised since the last disclosure 
Any  penalty,  pending  litigation  or  regulatory  action  against  the  company  or 
promoter(s) or director(s) 
 
 

9.3.7  Such  ongoing  disclosures  shall  be  displayed  by  the  platform  on  its  website  and  will  be 

available to accredited investors who are registered with such platform.  
 

Question  9:  What  should  be  the  continuous  disclosure  requirements  for  a 
company once it gets displayed on the platform? How it should be ensured that 
there is no information asymmetry between various prospective investors?  

 9.4  Who can set up a Crowdfunding Platform? 
9.4.1  It  is  necessary  that  crowdfunding  platforms  are  not  established  or  not  used  to 

facilitate fund raising by fraudulent entities. It is therefore important to specify integrity, 
experience and solvency requirements applicable to crowdfunding platform owner and 
the key persons associated with it. Therefore it is proposed that any online offering or 
issue  or  sale  through  the  internet  can  be  made  only  through  a  SEBI  recognized 
crowdfunding platform.  

9.4.2 If it is intended to develop a framework for Crowdfunding Platform, the criteria for 

eligibility or recognition need to be specified. 

 

Page 41 of 66 

9.4.3  The entities who can set up a crowdfunding platform or website and their roles and 

responsibilities in different jurisdictions are as follows: 

Jurisdiction  Roles and Responsibilities of Crowdfunding Platform 
USA 

If the online platform just lists an entrepreneur’s or company’s pitch, uses 
a third party to manage the transfer of both cash and stock, and offers 
general support services that don’t fall into these categories of activities, 
it  can  register  as  a  crowdfund  investment  portal.  If  it  conducts  any  of 
these activities, it must register as a full broker-dealer. 
It has the following responsibilities: 

• 

•  directors, officers or  partners  (or any  person  occupying  a  similar 
status or performing a similar function) are prohibited from having 
any financial interest in an issuer using its services 
required  to  take  steps  to  reduce  the  risk  of  fraud  by  obtaining  a 
background  and  securities  enforcement  regulatory  history  check 
on each officer, director, and person holding more than 20 percent 
of  the  outstanding  equity  of  every  issuer  whose  securities  are 
offered by such intermediary 
Intermediary and its associated persons prohibited from accepting 
an  investment  commitment  unless  the  investor  has  opened  an 
account with the intermediary and the intermediary has obtained 
from the investor consent to electronic delivery of materials 
Intermediary  required  to  deliver  to  the  investors  educational 
materials at the time of account opening 
Intermediary required to disclose its compensation structure to the 
investor 
Intermediary  required  to  make  issuers'  information  available  at 
least 21 days prior to the issue 
Intermediary  to  ensure  that  an  investor's  investment  limit  is  not 
breached before it makes an investment 
Intermediary to provide communication channels on its website for 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

 

Page 42 of 66 

• 

investors  to  connect  amongst  themselves  as  well  as  for  an 
investor to connect to an issuer 
Intermediary to ensure that all proceeds are only provided to the 
issuer  when  the  aggregate  capital  raised  from  all  investors  is 
equal  to  or  greater  than  a  target  offering  amount,  in  case  it  is a 
broker. In case of funding portal, since it cannot receive funds, it 
would  direct  the  funds  to  a  qualified  third  party  like  bank,  which 
then makes the transfer to the issuer once the proceeds equal or 
exceed the target amount 

•  Funding  portals  required  to  maintain  a  fidelity  bond  as  a 

contingency fund 

Crowdfunding platforms will be able to make direct offers to retail clients 
for  a  period  of  12  months  so  long  as  the  investor  signs  a  Restricted 
Investor Statement. 
Crowdfunding  platforms  therefore  need  to  ensure  that  they  (a)  include 
the name of the firm; (b) provide accurate information on the firm and not 
emphasize potential benefits of the investment without also giving a fair 
indication  of 
in  an  easily 
understandable  way;  and  (d)  not  disguise  or  hide  any  important 
statements or warnings.  
The FCA does not prescribe the level of due diligence which needs to be 
undertaken  by  crowdfunding  platforms  to  assess  the  benefits  and  risks 
involved with each particular investment. 

the  risks;  (c)  present 

the 

information 

UK 

•  The  provider  has  fair,  orderly,  and  transparent  systems  and 

procedures for providing the service: 

•  The service is designed primarily for offers by persons other than 

New Zealand 

the provider and its associated persons: 

•  The provider has an adequate policy for identifying and managing 
the risk of fraud by issuers using the service (the anti-fraud policy) 
that, at a minimum— 

 

Page 43 of 66 

(i) checks, against publicly available and readily accessible 
information,  the  identity  of  the  issuer  and  information 
provided by the issuer relating to the identity and character 
of its directors and senior managers; and 
(ii)  excludes  an  issuer  from  using  the  service  if  the 
provider— 

(A) is not satisfied as to the identity of the issuer or 
of the issuer's directors and senior managers; or 
(B)  has  reason  to  believe  that  any  of  the  issuer's 
directors  or  senior  managers  are  not  of  good 
character; or 
(C)has reason to believe that the issuer is not likely 
to  comply  with  the  obligations  imposed  on  it  under 
the service 

•  The  provider  has  adequate  disclosure  arrangements  to  give 
investors,  or  to  enable  investors  to  readily  obtain,  timely  and 
understandable information to assist investors to decide whether 
to  acquire  the  shares  (for  example,  through  initial  disclosure,  or 
question  and  answer  forums,  or  other  information  that  is  made 
available) 

•  The  provider  has  an  adequate  policy  (a fair  dealing  policy)  for 
excluding  an  issuer  from  using  the  service  if  the  provider  has 
information  (for  example,  from  checks  or  assessments  it  carries 
out  (if  any))  that  gives  it  reason  to  believe  that  the  issuer,  in 
relation to any dealing in shares using the service, has— 

(i)  engaged  in  conduct  that  is  misleading  or  deceptive  or 
likely to mislead or deceive; or 
(ii)  made  a 
contravention of section 22 of the Act; or 
(iii)  made 
unsubstantiated 
contravention of section 23 of the Act: 

false  or  misleading 

representation 

representation 

in 

an 

in 

 

Page 44 of 66 

•  The  provider  has  adequate  systems  and  procedures 
implementing the anti-fraud policy and the fair dealing policy: 

for 

•  The provider has adequate systems and procedures for ensuring 
that  each  issuer  does  not  raise  more  than  $2 million  in  any  12-
month period under the service: 

•  The provider has adequate systems and procedures for handling 
conflicts between the commercial interests of the provider (or of its 
associated  persons)  and  the  need  for  the  provider  to  have  fair, 
orderly, and transparent systems and procedures for providing the 
service. 
If a broking service is to be provided by the provider in the course 
of providing the service, the provider is, or will be, registered under 
the Financial  Service  Providers 
(Registration  and  Dispute 
Resolution)  Act  2008 for  the  broking  service  on  and  from 
commencing to provide the broking service. 

• 

financial, 

(including 

•  The  website  operator needs  to  demonstrate  that  it  has  sufficient 
technological  and  human 
resources 
resources)  and  adequate  other  arrangements 
(including 
arrangements  for  handling  of  conflicts  of  interest  involving  the 
licensee)  to  ensure  that,  to  the  extent  that  it  is  reasonably 
practicable to do so, the market a fair, orderly and transparent. 
In  case,  a  CSEF  (Crowd  Sourced  Equity  Funding)    website  is 
promoter of a company seeking funds through that website, it can 
call  for  additional  disclosures  like  details  of  any  benefits  to  that 
promoter. 

• 

•  Advertising restrictions on the CSEF website. 
They are supposed to provide the following services: 

•  Non-guaranteed placement 
•  Order receipt-transmission on behalf of third parties (ORT) 
•  Order execution on behalf of third parties  

Page 45 of 66 

Australia 

France 

 

•  Operation of a multilateral trading facility 
• 

Investment advice 

Portals  must  comply  with  general  registrant  requirements  applicable  to 
EMDs  (with  certain  exceptions),  including  minimum  capital,  insurance, 
regulatory reporting, record-keeping and record-retention requirements. 
Portals will be required to: 

•  conduct  background  checks  on 

issuers,  directors,  officers, 

promoters and control persons, 

•  understand the general structure, features and risks of a security 

Canada 

• 

offered, 
review  the  information  presented  by  the  issuer  on  the  portal's 
website  to  confirm  that  the  information  adequately  sets  out  the 
general features and structure of the security, issuer-specific risks, 
parties  involved,  any  identified  conflicts  of  interest,  and  the 
intended use of funds, 

•  deny access to an issuer if it has reason to believe that the issuer 

or its offering is fraudulent, and 

•  provide investor education materials in plain language and obtain 

a signed risk acknowledgement form from investors 
  
  
  
  
  

 
 
 
 
 

 

  
 
 
 
 

 

to set up a crowdfunding platform. 

9.4.4 Recognition of Crowdfunding Platform  
9.4.4.1  It is proposed that the entities who fall in any of the following classes be allowed 
9.4.4.2  Class I Entities: 
9.4.4.3  In addition to the entities mentioned above, it is proposed that the another class of 

•  Recognized Stock Exchanges with nationwide terminal presence (RSEs) 
•  SEBI registered Depositories  

entities  with  relevant  experience  and   domain  knowledge  be  allowed  to  launch 

 

Page 46 of 66 

crowdfunding  platforms  to  ensure  a  healthy  competition  in  the  market,  provided  they 
satisfy the requirements specified by SEBI. 

9.4.4.4  Class II Entities: 

•  Technology Business Incubators(TBIs)  

o 

such  as  NSTEDB 

o  promoted  by  Central  Government  or  any  State  Government  through 
bodies 
(National  Science  &  Technology 
Entrepreneurship  Development  Board)  under  Department  of  Science  & 
Technology 
functioning  as  a  society  registered  under  societies  act  of  1860/or  as  a 
non-profit making section 8 company,  
o  having at least 5 years of experience, 
o  having a minimum net worth of Rs. 10 Crores 
o  should have attained self-sufficiency and, 
o  should display only those companies which share a common focus thrust 

areas as the TBI 

9.4.4.5    A  joint  venture  of  a  Class  I  entity  and  a  Class  II  entity  is  also  acceptable  for 

setting up a Crowdfunding Platform as this would bring the best of both classes.  

 

Question 10: While Class I entities are already under SEBI's purview and have a 
successful  track  record  in  securities  market,  Class  II  entities  have  a  specialized 
domain  knowledge  in  the  field  of  start  up  mentoring  and  funding.  Is  a  joint 
venture between the two classes a better idea than to allow them to launch their 
own crowdfunding platforms separately?  

Question  11:  Any  suggestions  on  some  other  possible  entities  which  can  be 
included in Class II with a tentative list of qualifying criteria?  

 9.4.4.6  To enable Fund based Crowdfunding (FbC), it is proposed that the new class of 

Crowd Fund AIFs be allowed to be displayed on the platforms launched by RSEs and 
depositories.  In  addition  to  these  platforms,  a  dedicated  class  of  platform  owners  is 

 

Page 47 of 66 

proposed  to  enable  FbC  launching  crowdfunding  platforms  provided  they  satisfy  the 
requirements specified by SEBI. 

9.4.4.7  Class III Entities: 

•  Associations and Networks of PE or Angel Investors 

o  with a track record of a minimum of 3 years 
o  with  a  minimum  member  strength  of  100  active  members  from  the 

o  which are registered as Section 8 companies under Companies Act 2013 

relevant industry 

with a paid up share capital of Rs. 2 Crores 

9.4.4.8   Thus the platforms launched by Class I & Class III Entities can enable the FbC. 

 

Question  12:  Any  suggestions  on  some  other  possible  candidates  which  can  be 
included in Class  III for the purpose of providing platform for FbC? Also specify 
their tentative qualifying criteria? 

 9.4.4.8    To  prevent  fraudulent  offering  of  securities  via  the  internet,  it  is  proposed  to 

provide  that  no  entity  can  raise  funds  through  crowdfunding  without  channeling  their 
issues  through  a  recognized  Crowdfunding  Platform,  subject  to  the  approval  of 
Screening Committee. 
 

9.4.5  Requirements on Crowdfunding Platform: 

Taking  into  consideration  the  risky  nature  of  securities  offered,  the  Crowdfunding 
platforms must play the role of a gatekeeper and take reasonable measures to reduce 
the risk of frauds. This requires adequate capital, technological and human resources to 
carry out the business in a complying manner. Thus it is proposed that the obligations of 
such platforms shall be as under:  

 

 

Page 48 of 66 

• 

• 

• 

• 

to conduct screening and basic due diligence of the business of the start up. 
However, no amount of due diligence can provide any form of guarantee of 
the commercial success. 
to  conduct  background  and  regulatory  checks  on  the  issuers,  whole  time 
directors, promoters, shareholders holding more than 20% of equity shares in 
the company 
review  the  information  presented  by  the  issuer  on  the  portal's  website  to 
confirm  that  the  information  adequately  sets  out  the  general  features  and 
structure of the security, issuer-specific risks, parties involved, any identified 
conflicts of interest, and the intended use of funds 
to conduct due diligence of investors such as net worth requirement and KYC 
requirement, if any, while maintaining the privacy of the investors 

•  deny  access  to  an  issuer  if  it  has  reason  to  believe  that  the  issuer  or  its 

offering is fraudulent 

•  maintain  a  record  of  all  the  issues  brought  by  the  companies  and 
subsequently  the  disclosures  of  the  issuing  companies  and  make  it  easily 
accessible to the investors 

•  collect and transmit information to SEBI as may be called for 

 

Question  13:  Any  suggestions  on  some  additional  or  reduced    requirements  on 
Crowdfunding Platforms? 

 9.4.6    Further,  to  ensure  a  seamless  operation  and  avoid  any  conflict  of  interest  a 

Crowdfunding Platform shall also be required to satisfy the following conditions: 
 

•  Platform needs to own the Domain ID/website/URL and mention the same in the 
application  for  recognition  with  SEBI  and  should  have  adequate  systems  and 
procedures to manage the daily operations as well as the emergency situations. 

•  Platform  needs  to  have  adequate  human,  technology  and  risk  management 

capabilities 

•  Platform needs to have fair, orderly and transparent processes 
•  Platform needs to have procedure to address possible conflicts which may arise 

between issuers and the platform 

•  Fund raising by subsidiaries/associates or other entities related to the Platform 

Owners shall not be allowed 

 

Page 49 of 66 

•  An elaborate contingency/termination plan need to be formulated with minimum 
impact on the investors, to ensure a seamless operation in the event of closure 
or financial distress in the crowdfunding platform 

•  Crowdfunding platforms shall not offer investment advice, solicit, manage funds 
or securities, incentivize employees for such sale of securities displayed on the 
platform or make recommendations to investors.  

•  Only  accredited  investors  registered  with  a  crowdfunding  platform  can  invest 
through that crowdfunding platform. Only Indian start-up companies or SMEs or 
Crowd Funds can raise funds through these crowdfunding platforms. 

•  Platform  shall  provide  a  Grievance  Redressal  mechanism  for  the  investors  as 

well as the issuers 

•  The task of due diligence of the issuing companies is very crucial to differentiate 
a genuine issuer from a fraud. The due diligence, among other things, will involve 
track  record  of  the  Promoters,  Directors,  Key  Managerial  Personnel,  business 
carried on by the company, proposed business plans, Opportunities, Strategies, 
Litigations, etc.  

•  Apart from the basic due diligence, it is important that the platform puts in place 
some sort of filtering mechanism to differentiate between the quality of ideas and 
business plans. For this purpose, it is proposed that every crowdfunding platform 
will  have  a  'Screening  Committee'  with  a  variety  of  experience  from  different 
domains and sectors. 

 

9.4.6.1  It is proposed that the Screening Committee of a Crowdfunding Platform may 

have  a  strength  of  a  minimum  of  10  persons,  which  may  have  follow  the  following 
composition: 

•  at least 40% of the committee should be composed of professional with expertise 

in mentoring of startups and early stage ventures, 

•  at  least  30%  of  the  committee  should  be  composed  of  professionals  with 

experience in banking or capital markets, 

 

Page 50 of 66 

 

•  not  more  than  30%  of  the  committee  should  be  composed  of  persons  of  high 
caliber and qualifications which are nominated by the owner of the crowdfunding 
portal, but not on its payrolls. 

Question 14: Are the measures mentioned in paragraph 9.4.6 enough to ensure a 
seamless operation of the Crowdfunding Platform and avoidance of any conflict 
of interest? Suggest changes, if any, along with the rationale. 

Question  15:  Any  suggestions  on  the  role  and  responsibility  of  the  screening 
committee and its composition etc.? 

intermediaries 

like  brokers,  depository  participants  (DP), 

 9.4.7    Along  with  the  companies  raising  fund  by  crowdfunding  platform,  the  investors 

also need to be subjected to a moderate level of due diligence. This is to make sure that 
investors, particularly ERIs, are accredited and that they invest in accordance to the net 
worth  conditions  specified  by  SEBI.  The  task  of  due  diligence  of  investors  in 
crowdfunding could be given to the platform or some third parties which can be SEBI 
registered 
Investment 
Advisers,  Portfolio  Managers  etc.  ERIs  and  HNIs  may  be  required  to  submit,  among 
other  things,  a  net  worth  certificate  from  a  Chartered  Accountant  to  Stock  Broker 
/Investment  Adviser/Portfolio  Manager  and  also  make  a  declaration  or  sign  a  'Risk 
Acknowledgement' regarding the understanding of risks in their investments.  

9.4.8    Crowdfunding  Platforms  may  charge  a  nominal  fee  from  the  company  seeking 

funds through the platform and the accredited investors looking for a good investment 
opportunity  in  the  companies  which  shall  be  displayed  on  the  website  only  after  a 
comprehensive due diligence and screening. 

 

 

Question  16:  Given  that  only  Accredited  Investors  may  be  allowed  to  invest 
through  Crowdfunding  Platforms,  it  is  important  that  their  due  diligence  is 
conducted  properly  to  confirm  their  eligibility.  Are  the  entities  mentioned  in 
paragraph 9.4.4 capable in doing the same? Any suggestions in this regard? 

Page 51 of 66 

Question 17: Making the platform's revenue directly dependent on the fee from 
the  issuers  may  lead  to  a  conflict  of  interest.  What  could  be  the  possible 
alternative revenue mechanisms for the platforms which may eliminate or reduce 
such conflicts? 

Question  18:  Should  there  be  any  restriction  on  the  fee  charged  by  a 
crowdfunding  platform  to  an  issuer  for  getting  access  to  the  platform  or  an 
accredited investor for registration or should this be left as a commercial decision 
by the platform based on market forces? 

 9.5  Equity based Crowdfunding (EbC) 
9.5.1  This route, as the name suggests, enables the issuers to raise upto Rs. 10 Crores 

online by issuing equity shares through a recognized crowdfunding platform and offering 
equity  stake  in  their  business  to  the  accredited  investors  who  are  registered  with  the 
platform. 

platform may do so after it duly satisfies the due diligence and screening criteria set by 
the platform.  

 9.5.2    A  company  desirous  of  raising  funds  by  EbC  route  through  a  crowdfunding 
 9.5.3  These issues shall be further subject to the following conditions: 

•  No single investor shall hold more than 25% stake in a company. 
•  The promoter(s) shall be required to maintain a minimum of 5% equity stake in 

the company for at least 3 years. 

follow the procedure as specified in paragraph 9.8. The Private Placement Offer Letter 
will contain, inter alia, the disclosures as mentioned in paragraph 9.3. 

 9.5.4    The  issuers  shall  comply  with  the  requirements  specified  in  paragraph  9.2  and 
 9.5.5   The investors who invest in equity issues through EbC shall have rights of a equity 

shareholder as given in the Companies Act. 
 

 

Page 52 of 66 

Question  19:  Any  suggestions  on  the  requirements  in  EbC  to  make  it  more 
transparent and investor friendly? 

online  by  issuing  debentures  or  debt  securities  through  a  recognized  crowdfunding 
platform to the accredited investors who are registered with the platform. 

 9.6  Debt based Crowdfunding (DbC) 
 9.6.1  This route, as the name suggests, enables the issuers to raise upto Rs. 10 Crores 
 9.6.2    A  company  desirous  of  issuing  debt  securities  by  DbC  route  through  a 
 9.6.3  These issues shall be further subject to the following conditions: 

crowdfunding platform may do so after it duly satisfies the due diligence and screening 
criteria set by the platform and fulfills requirements as specified in paragraph 9.2. 

•  The  debt  securities  issued  should  comply  with  requirements  specified  under 

Companies Act or rules made thereunder applicable to debentures or bonds. 

•  The issuer shall appoint a debenture trustee to hold the assets on behalf of the 

investors. 

•  The issuer shall need to create a Debenture Redemption Reserve (DRR) of 25% 

of the value of the debentures. 

 9.6.4  The issuers shall follow the procedure as specified in paragraph 9.8. The Private 

Placement Offer Letter in DbC shall contain, inter alia, the disclosures as mentioned in 
paragraph 9.3 and a summarized term sheet as specified in the SEBI (Issue and Listing 
of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008. 

 9.6.5  The debentures holders shall have rights as given under the Companies Act.   

 

Question  20:  Any  suggestions  on  the  requirements  in  DbC  to  make  it  more 
transparent and investor friendly? 

 

Page 53 of 66 

Question 21: Is there any need to prescribe the limit on the leverage a company 
can take through DbC? 

Question  22:  Is  there  a  need  to  change  the  rules  regarding  appointment  of 
Trustee  and  creation  of  Debenture  Redemption  Reserve  in  case  of  private 
placement  of  debt  with  no  intention  of  listing  which  seeks  to  issue  debentures 
through recognized crowdfunding platform? 

 9.7  Fund based Crowdfunding (FbC) 
9.7.1  Under this route, the funds of the accredited investors registered with a recognized 

platform will be collected online through the platform and pooled under the AIF to invest 
in  shares  or  debt  securities  in  crowdfunded  ventures  which  are  displayed  on  a 
recognized crowdfunding platform. 

 9.7.2    For  this  purpose,  it  is  proposed  to  provide  a  separate  class  of  funds  under 

Category I AIFs to offer Fund based Crowdfunding as Category I AIF- Crowd Funds. 
The minimum and maximum corpus of such funds would be Rs. 10 Crores and Rs. 25 
Crores respectively. 

 9.7.3  As per the SEBI (AIF) Regulations, 2012, such funds will be able to solicit funds 

online from a maximum of 1,000 accredited investors. The requirement of the minimum 
investment of Rs. 1 Crore by every investor for an AIF is also proposed to be relaxed for 
this new class and brought to Rs. 25 Lacs. Under the proposal, funds can be solicited 
online  from  upto  1,000  accredited  investors  registered  with  a  platform  by  displaying 
Crowd Funds on the crowdfunding platforms set up by class I or III entities as specified 
in paragraph 9.4.4.  

 9.7.4  All the accredited investors viz. QIBs, Companies, HNIs and ERIs will be able to 

invest in these funds. These pooled monies will be then invested by Crowd Fund AIFs 
into  start  ups  and  SMEs  displayed  on  a  recognized  crowdfunding  platform  under  the 
terms  or  objectives  of  the  scheme.  The  sponsor  or  manager  need  to  maintain  a 

 

Page 54 of 66 

continuing interest of at least 2.5% of the corpus in the form of investment in the fund 
and such interest shall not be through the waiver of management fees. 

 9.7.5    This  new  class  of  Category  I  AIF-Crowd  Funds,  can  also  solicit  funds  online 

through crowdfunding platforms from the registered accredited investors, for deploying 
them further into donation based crowdfunding. Thus Crowd Funds may also invest in 
those  companies  displayed  on  the  crowdfunding  platforms  which  are  incorporated  as 
not-for-profit  entities  or  social  enterprises  set  up  as  Section  8  companies  under 
Companies  Act  2013,  for  charitable  or  community  benefit  or  other  public  interest 
projects, with investors focusing more on altruistic reasons or general benefits, rather 
than any expectation of financial return to them.  

minimum per capita investment can be set at Rs. 50,000. The grantor of donation shall 
not be entitled to any dividend or profit or gain. 

 9.7.6    Further  for  accepting  donation  from  the  registered  accredited  investors,  the 
 9.7.7  These Category I AIF Crowd Funds shall register with SEBI under the SEBI (AIF) 

Regulations  and  the  application  shall  be  made  in  the  format  as  specified  in  the  First 
Schedule  to  the  said  regulation  under  Form  A.  The  disclosures  in  the  Placement 
Memorandum  of  the  Crowd  Funds  shall  be  similar  to  Category  I  AIF-  VCFs.  The 
ongoing disclosures and valuation requirements shall also be similar to the VCFs. The 
disclosures  are  mainly  related  to  disclosures  on  fees  and  charges,  management  of 
conflicts  of  interest,  investments  and  leverage,  a  prudent  spread  of  risk  and  other 
safeguards.  

 9.7.8  The  Crowd  Funds  can,  post  registration  with  SEBI,  get  displayed  on  any 

Crowdfunding Platform set up by either Class I or Class III entities,  to raise funds from 
a maximum of 1000 accredited investors (including QIBs, Companies, HNIs and ERIs) 
registered  with  the  platform  through  issue  of  placement  memorandum.  The  Crowd 
Funds may not be required to be subjected to the scrutiny of the Screening Committee 
of  the  platform.  The  Crowd  Funds  can  channel  the  funds  raised  from  its  investors 

 

Page 55 of 66 

through the platform into various companies which are displayed on the crowdfunding 
platform. Units of such funds may be issued only in dematerialized form. 

 9.7.9 In contrast to EbC where the accredited investors directly hold equity of issues and 

are  shareholders  of  the  company  and  therefore  have  legal  ownership,  in  FbC  the 
investments of registered accredited investors are pooled and routed online through a 
Crowd Fund. The fund holds the equity in its name on behalf of the investors who are 
issued units of the fund rather than equity of the issuer, and thus have only beneficial 
ownership in the equity of the company. 

 9.7.10  FbC  addresses  several  regulatory  issues  like  the  restriction  on  the  number  of 

offers  made  in  private  placement,  minimum  investment  of  Rs.  20,000  worth  of  face 
value of securities by every investor etc. It also transfers the duty of investment decision 
making  from  ERIs  and  HNIs,  who  are  not  well  versed  with  different  investment 
strategies, to the fund managers, who are experts in this type of investment analysis.  

 9.7.11  The  requirement  on  ERIs  to  be  consulted  by  a  SEBI  registered  Investment 

Adviser or Portfolio Manager may not be applicable for investment through FbC. 
 

Question  23:  Any  suggestions  on  the  requirements  in  FbC  to  make  it  more 
transparent and investor friendly? 

 9.8  Procedure for offering through a Crowdfunding Platform 
 9.8.1  There  is  restriction  on  public  offering  other  than  a  prospectus  based  offer  and 
9.8.2  A step-wise illustrative procedure is given as under: 

mandatory  listing  except  for  private  placement  of  securities.  Therefore  it  has  been 
proposed  that  the  offer  can  be  made  through  a  web  based  recognized  crowdfunding 
platform only to accredited investors who have been given access to the platform.  

 

Page 56 of 66 

•  An  issuer,  satisfying  the  requirements  as  specified  in  paragraph  9.2  and 
interested in raising funds, gets displayed on a recognized crowdfunding platform 
by submitting requisite documents and undergoing due diligence and screening 
by the platform. 

•  The crowdfunding platform also maintains a list of accredited investors who have 
been given access to the platform to invest in the companies displayed on it. The 
accredited  investors  are  allowed  to  register  only  after  examination  of  KYC 
compliances and fulfillment of other requirements like net worth, appropriateness 
test, signing of Risk Acknowledgement etc. as mentioned in paragraph 9.1. Post 
registration,  these  accredited  investors  are  given  a  Login  ID  and  password  to 
access the platform. 

•  Post  screening  by  the  Screening  Committee  of  the  crowdfunding  platform,  the 
companies interested in raising funds through the platform can put up a notice 
containing the brief of their business plan on the platform along with the funds 
required. 

•  This notice will be subjected to an open discussion on a forum or public board, 
like a chat room or chat board, provided by the platform, amongst the interested 
accredited investors and the issuer in which the proposed business plan will be 
analyzed  and  critiqued  from  different  perspectives.  This  feature  is  provided  to 
gauge the interest of the accredited investors and support an informed decision 
making by the prospective investors. 

•  The  notice  is  intended  to  draw  the  attention  of  accredited  investors  registered 
with the platform and not an invitation to subscription. After perusing the plan and 
discussing  it,  the  interested  accredited  investors  can  make  a  commitment  or 
pledge to the company about the funds they intend to invest.  

•  Once  adequate  demand  is  gauged,  the  issuer  may  make  the  formal  offer  for 
subscription to those who have made commitment, not numbering more than 200 
HNIs,  ERIs  and  Companies  collectively,  and  any  number  of  QIBs,  with  the 
detailed online Private Placement Offer Letter, which inter alia may contain the 
disclosures  mentioned  in  paragraph  9.7.  This  shall  amount  to  an  invitation  or 
offer  for  subscription  and  shall  be  in  compliance  with  the  Section  42  of  the 

 

Page 57 of 66 

Companies  Act,  2013  and  other  rules  and  regulations  pertaining  to  private 
placement of securities. 

•  Pursuant to perusing the Private Placement Offer Letter, the accredited investors 
may  choose  to  invest  in  the  company  or  may  decide  to  withdraw  their 
commitment.  

•  The  subscription  amount  shall  be  collected  from  the  accredited  investors  who 
choose  to  invest  pursuant  to  perusal  of  Private  Placement  Offer  Letter  of  the 
issuer and kept in a separate bank account. The crowdfund platform owner or a 
reputed designated third party shall open an escrow account with a Scheduled 
Commercial Bank to hold the subscription funds of the investors. 

•  The issue shall remain open for a maximum period of 15 days. 
•  The crowdfunding issue will be considered successful only if it is able to achieve 
a minimum pre-specified threshold, expressed in terms of percentage of original 
issue  size  as  mentioned  in  the  Private  Placement  Offer  Letter.  This  threshold 
shall never fall below 50%. The subscription amount shall be transferred to the 
issuer by the platform owner or the designated third party, only if the threshold is 
achieved. 

•  The  issuer  shall  allot  the  securities  to  the  accredited  investors  who  have 
subscribed to the issue within 15 days from the date of receipt of the subscription 
money. In case it fails to do so, it shall refund the entire sum to the subscribers 
within 15 days from the date of completion of 15 days. In case the issuer fails to 
refund  the  money  within  the  aforesaid  period,  it  shall  be  liable  to  refund  that 
money with interest at the rate of 12% per annum from the expiry of fifteenth day 
of securities allotment.  

•  The issuer shall file a return with RoC as required under Companies Act 2013. 
• 

In case of FbC, the procedure as mentioned in paragraph 9.7 and particularly in 
9.7.8, shall be applicable. 

 

 

Question 24: Any suggestion to simplify the procedure as specified in paragraph 
9.8 within the existing legal framework? 

Page 58 of 66 

9.9  Secondary Market 
9.9.1    Crowdfunding  is  intended  to  facilitate  capital  raising  through  online  medium  by 

startups and SMEs and not for the resale of securities. There is no requirement of listing 
for trading and no listing obligation on the issuer. Crowdfunding platforms only allow an 
issuer to sell its own securities to raise capital and seldom provide a secondary market 
for  such  securities.  Therefore  many  jurisdictions  have  imposed  restriction  on  a 
secondary market of securities issued through crowdfunding. 

9.9.2  However different jurisdictions have prescribed provisions for providing some exit 

to the securities holders of crowdfunded ventures as given under: 

Jurisdiction  Provisions for Secondary Market  

Securities  issued  in  crowdfunding  may  not  be  transferred  by  the  
purchaser  for  one  year  after  the  date  of  purchase,  except  when 
transferred:  (1)  To  the  issuer  of  the  securities;  (2)  to  an  accredited 
investor; (3) as part of an offering registered with the Commission; or (4) 
to a family member of the purchaser or the equivalent, or in connection 
with certain events, including death or divorce of the purchaser, or other 
similar circumstances, in the discretion of the Commission. 
After  purchasing  unlisted  equity  in  a  company,  even  if  it  remains  a 
going-concern,  investors  will  usually  find  there  is  no, or  only  a  limited, 
secondary  market  for  their  investments.  Consumers  investing  in  such 
equity need to understand that they will probably have to wait until an 
event occurs, such as the sale of the company, a management buy-out 
or a flotation, before getting a return. Consumers should realize that, in 
the  event  of  their  death,  ownership  of  these  investments  will  probably 
need to be transferred to their beneficiaries. 

This matter has not yet been clarified. Requested for public comments.  

This matter has not yet been clarified. Requested for public comments. 
• Securities of a reporting issuer are subject to a four-month hold period 
(subject to certain other conditions being met). 
•  Securities  of  a  non-reporting  issuer  are  subject  to  an  indefinite  hold 

Page 59 of 66 

USA 

UK 

New 
Zealand 
Australia 

Canada 

 

period and can only be resold under a prospectus exemption or under a 
prospectus. 

 

9.9.3    In  the  Indian  scenario  also,  it  is  difficult  to  provide  a  secondary  market  trading 

framework for the companies displayed on a crowdfunding platform, as then it would be 
treated as a Stock Exchange.  Hence, companies displayed on Crowdfunding Platforms 
will not be treated as “Listed Companies” and there will be no secondary market liquidity 
in such scrips and investors should be made aware about such risks before investing in 
such companies. 

9.9.4    The  securities  issued  in  crowdfunding  by  the  issuer  can  be  transferred  by  the 

investors as under: 

• 

• 
• 

to the issuer of the security in accordance with the provisions of Companies Act 
2013 and the rules made thereunder, pertaining to the buyback of securities by 
unlisted public limited companies, 
to another accredited investor registered with the platform, 
to  a  family  member  or  relative  or  friend  of  the  accredited  investor  or  the 
equivalent. 

stake in the company for at least three years from the date of the issue. 

9.9.5  The promoter(s), however, shall be required to maintain a minimum of 5% equity 
9.9.6    The investor may get exit only when there is sale of the company, a management 
9.9.7  If there is any shareholder agreement between promoters of the issuing company 

buyout or a floatation of IPO or listing of company on a recognized stock exchange in 
SME segment or main board. 

and any AIF giving rights to such shareholders to sell their shares to the promoters etc., 
same shall be disclosed to all the accredited investors. 

 

 

Page 60 of 66 

Question 25: Any suggestion on additional avenues of exit or liquidity of securities 
in crowdfunding? 

 9.10  Protection from Cybercrimes 
9.10.1  Crowdfunding  Platform/Website  is  the  center  point  of  interaction  between  the 

companies and the prospective investors. Moreover it will also function as the repository 
of  all  the  information  and  disclosures  provided  by  the  companies  periodically.  It 
occupies  a  very  crucial  position  in  the  entire  infrastructure.  Therefore  it  needs  to  be 
secure and safe from all types of cyber-attacks. 

necessary steps need to be taken by the owners of the Crowdfunding Platform.  

9.10.2  To  protect  the  Crowdfunding  platform  from  hacking/identity  theft,  etc.,  the 
9.10.3  To provide communication security over the Internet, the crowdfunding platforms 

should  be  layered  over  Transport  Layer  Security (TLS)/  Secure  Sockets  Layer (SSL). 
Platform  owner  should  ensure  safety,  secrecy,  integrity  and  retrievability  of  the  data. 
The  platform  owner  shall  have  a  adequate  back-up,  and  Disaster  management  and 
recovery and restoration plans. 

9.10.4  It is desirable that platform owners draft a security policy which shall, then, be put 

in public for comments and analysis. There shall be regular audits by reputed external 
auditors who is CISA (Certified Information Systems Auditor) or otherwise appropriately 
qualified that  the  security  measures  taken  by  the  Platform  Owners  are  adequate and 
meet the requirements and that risk management systems are in place to identify and 
mitigate the risks arising out of the regular operations. 

 

 

 

Question 26: What kind of security features and IT Policies should be put in place 
to  make  the  crowdfunding  platform  safe  and  secure  from  all  sorts  of  cyber 
crimes? 

Page 61 of 66 

9.11  Tax Treatment 

Taxation of funds raised through crowdfunding shall be in accordance with the current 
tax provisions applicable to the unlisted companies raising funds through equity or debt 
or an AIF. 

 

 

Question  27:  Crowdfunding  is  intended  to  perform  the  role  of  an  alternate 
funding option for entrepreneurs and investment option for investors in unlisted 
companies  or  Crowd  Funds.  With  this  view,  what  kind  of  taxation  treatment 
would be suitable for the different stakeholders involved? 

 Role of SEBI 

10.0 
10.1  SEBI  has  been  established  with  a  triple  mandate  of  protecting  the  investors' 
interests along with developing and regulating the Indian securities market. These are 
the guiding principles behind our policies and regulations. Therefore, to enable the small 
issuers  to  raise  funds  and  facilitate  the  investors  in  an  informed  decision  making, 
appropriate safeguards and disclosures are proposed to be put in place.  

10.2    SEBI's  role  in  crowdfunding,  which  is  proposed  to  provide  a  cost  effective  and 
efficient method of fund raising, will mainly be limited to: 

recognition of the Crowdfunding Portals 

• 
•  oversight and regulation of the Crowdfunding market in India 
•  playing  no  role  in  vetting  of  the  Private  Placement  Offer  letter  of  the  issuing 

• 

companies 
issuance of guidelines/circular regarding information required to be disclosed in 
Private  Placement  Offer  Letter  or  on  an  ongoing  basis  or  requirements  of  due 
diligence and screening or any other matter 

•  conduct  of  periodic  inspections  or  audits  of  Crowdfunding  Platforms  and 

enforcement of Crowdfunding Regulations 

 

 

Page 62 of 66 

11.0  Cost and Benefit Analysis of the Proposal 
11.1    The  proposed  structure  for  crowdfunding  will  provide  an  enabling  framework. 
Crowdfunding may provide  an alternative source of capital for entrepreneurs that either 
have limited access to capital or have exhausted other available sources of capital. This 
also saves the entrepreneur from a lot of effort required in  obtaining capital and allows 
him/her to focus on the business.  

11.2  One of the objectives of the regulations is to reduce the costs involved in raising 
funds  for  entrepreneurs.  Under  the  existing  regulations,  an  issuer  is  required  to  pay 
underwriter fees, legal and accounting fees, registrar and transfer agent fees, merchant 
banker  fees, marketing  &  advertising  fees  or  distribution  commissions  and  other  fees 
some of which may not be applicable in crowdfunding. 

11.3  Crowdfunding facilitates such entrepreneurs in raising funds without incurring too 
much  of  the  costs  by  doing  away  with  the    requirement  of  appointing  a  merchant 
banker, marketing & advertising expenses and book building etc. Further, there shall be 
no  listing  requirements  and  no  prospectus  needs  be  filed  with  SEBI.  However,  a 
company seeking display in recognized crowdfunding platform may be required to pay 
fees to such platform, which is expected to be substantially lower in comparison to the 
current issue expenditure. The fees to a platform may be dependent on various factors 
like number of platforms in the market, number of companies seeking display at such 
crowdfunding platforms etc.  

11.4  Crowdfunding not only helps the issuers to raise money but also serves as a way 
of  advertising  for  these  companies.  It  helps  in  increasing  their  visibility  which  can 
directly or indirectly lead to the growth in their businesses. Crowdfunding is expected to 
spur entrepreneurship and benefit the entire economy.  

11.5    Crowdfunding  also  enables  investors  to  make  relatively  modest  investments 
across a range of opportunities with relatively low transaction costs and obtain equity 
positions in companies that may eventually prove to be successful and profitable, which 
they  are  not  able  to  do  under  the  current  regulations.  Platforms  may  also  charge  a 
nominal  fee  to  its  registered  accredited  investors  for  carrying  out  their  due  diligence. 

 

Page 63 of 66 

Platforms may also be required to pay some fee for recognition. Consultation process 
may assist in crystallizing such charges for the new framework. 

 

12.0  Public comments: 
12.1. Public comments and suggestions are solicited on the consultation paper. It does 
not  necessarily  imply  that  all  or  any  of  the  comments  will  be  invariably  accepted  for 
formulation of regulation. Interested persons may send their comments by e-mail to Mr. 
Aditya Sarda (adityas@sebi.gov.in) or Mr. Ankit Goel (ankitg@sebi.gov.in) on or before 
July 16, 2014
 
12.2  Comments and suggestions should be given in the following format: 

.  

Name of Entity / Person / Intermediary 

Question  No./  Suggestion 
on Paragraph No. 
 
 
 
 
Issued on:  June 17, 2014
. 

Proposal 
Changes 
 
 
 

/ 

Suggested 

Rationale 

 
 
 

*********** 

 

 

 

 

 

Disclaimer:  References  to  various  jurisdictions  in  this  document  have  been  based  on  the  regulations/guidelines/consultation 
papers, etc. of the respective country regulators and news articles/websites and other secondary sources. The references in no way 
indicate validation of any country regulations on the subject. The purpose of the said references is only to provide the reader  a 
better picture of the global scenario with respect to crowdfunding. This paper should not be construed as a legal advice. Though 
utmost  care  has  been  taken  in  the  preparation  of  the  paper,  SEBI  takes  no  responsibility  for  the  accuracy  or  validity  of  the 
information provided. 

 

 

Page 64 of 66 

Annexure-1 

Consolidated List of all Questions  

Question 

Given that Crowdfunding is still in nascent stages and most of the jurisdictions around the world have 
taken a guarded view by allowing it in a restricted manner, do you think India is ready for crowdfunding or 
is it premature to introduce such risky investment channel ? 
Are the Accredited Investors mentioned in paragraph 9.1.4 suitable to participate in the risky investments 
of crowdfunding? Is there a need to expand or reduce the categories of investors or expand or reduce 
safeguards? Specify along with the rationale. 
Are the Investment Limits specified in paragraph 9.1.5 justifiable with respect to the respective investor 
classes? Are they too high or too low? Specify along with rationale. 
Is  the  limit  of  investors  upto  200  besides  QIBs  or  employees  of  the  company  under  a  scheme  of 
employees  stock  option,  as  specified  in  Chapter  III  -  The  Companies  (Prospectus  and  Allotment  of 
Securities) Rules, 2014, adequate or is there a need to amend such rules to allow upto 1,000 investors, 
excluding QIBs or employees of the company under a scheme of employees stock option? 
Are  the  Investment  Conditions  mentioned  in  the  paragraph  9.1.6  enough  to  warn  and  guard  investors 
regarding the risky nature of crowdfunding? Specify changes, if any, along with the rationale. 
Given that the companies coming for crowdfunding lack any significant track record, are the conditions 
and requirements mentioned in paragraph 9.2 enough to fend off fraudulent issuers? Specify changes, if 
any, along with the rationale. 
Are the disclosure requirements for a company interested in raising funds through crowdfunding platform 
mentioned  in  paragraph  9.3.3,  enough  to  enable  investors  in  an  informed  decision  making  ?  Specify 
changes, if any, along with the rationale. 
Due to the lack of history and track record, it is important that the issuers provide future projections of 
their  business to facilitate investors in decision making. What should be the criteria to ensure that the 
projections are realistic and achievable and not misguiding in nature? 
What  should  be  the  continuous  disclosure  requirements  for  a  company  once  it  gets  displayed  on  the 
platform? How it should be ensured that there is no information asymmetry between various prospective 
investors? 
While Class I entities are already under SEBI's purview and have a successful track record in managing 
issues  and  securities,  Class  II  entities  have  a  specialized  domain  knowledge  in  the  field  of  start  up 
mentoring and funding. Is  a joint venture between the two classes a better idea than to allow them to 
launch their own crowdfunding platforms separately? 
Any suggestions on some other possible entities which can be included in Class II with a tentative list of 
qualifying criteria? 

Page 65 of 66 

Question 

No. 

Q1 

Q2 

Q3 

Q4 

Q5 

Q6 

Q7 

Q8 

Q9 

Q10 

Q11 

 

Any suggestions on some other possible entities which can be included in Class  III for the purpose of 
providing platform for FbC? Also specify their tentative qualifying criteria? 
Any suggestions on some additional or reduced requirements on Crowdfunding Platforms? 
Are  the  measures  mentioned  in  paragraph  9.4.6  enough  to  ensure  a  seamless  operation  of  the 
Crowdfunding Platform and avoidance of any conflict of interest? Suggest changes, if any, along with the 
rationale. 
Any suggestions on the role and responsibility of the screening committee and its composition etc.? 
Given  that  only  Accredited  Investors  may  be  allowed  to  invest  through  Crowdfunding  Platforms,  it  is 
important  that  their  due  diligence  is  conducted  properly  to  confirm  their  eligibility.  Are  the  entities 
mentioned in paragraph 9.4.4 capable in doing the same? Any suggestions in this regard? 
Making the platform's revenue directly dependent on the fee from the issuers may lead to a conflict of 
interest.  What  could  be  the  possible  alternative  revenue  mechanisms  for  the  platforms  which  may 
eliminate or reduce such conflicts? 
Should there be any restriction on the fee charged by a crowdfunding platform to an issuer for getting 
access to the platform or an accredited investor for registration or should this  be left as a commercial 
decision by the platform based on market forces? 
Any suggestions on the requirements in EbC to make it more transparent and investor friendly? 
Any suggestions on the requirements in DbC to make it more transparent and investor friendly? 
Is there any need to prescribe the limit on the leverage a company can take through DbC? 
Is  there  a  need  to  change  the  rules  regarding  appointment  of  Trustee  and  creation  of  Debenture 
Redemption Reserve in case of private placement of debt with no intention of listing which seeks to issue 
debentures through recognized crowdfunding platform? 
Any suggestions on the requirements in FbC to make it more transparent and investor friendly? 
Any  suggestion  to  simplify  the  procedure  as  specified  in  paragraph  9.8  within  the  existing  legal 
framework? 
Any suggestion on additional avenues of exit or liquidity of securities in crowdfunding? 
What kind of security features and IT Policies should be put in place to make the crowdfunding platform 
safe and secure from all sorts of cyber crimes? 
Crowdfunding  is  intended  to  perform  the  role  of  an  alternate  funding  option  for  entrepreneurs  and 
investment  option  for  investors  in  unlisted  companies  or  Crowd  Funds.  With  this  view,  what  kind  of 
taxation treatment would be suitable for the different stakeholders involved? 

Page 66 of 66 

Q12 

Q13 

Q14 

Q15 

Q16 

Q17 

Q18 

Q19 
Q20 
Q21 

Q22 

Q23 

Q24 

Q25 

Q26 

Q27 

 

 

