 

 

 

 

 

 

Concept Paper 

Proposal 

for  having  a  Standardized  Term  Sheet 

for  Securitization 

Transactions;  Rationalization  &  Enhancement  of 

  Responsibilities  of 

Securitization Trustees. 

1.  SEBI  has  notified  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitized  Debt 

Instruments)  Regulations,  2008  (“SDI  Regulations”).  These  regulations  inter-

alia  specify  disclosures  requirements  for  public  issuance  and  listing  of 

Securitized  Debt  Instruments  (SDIs)  (both  publicly  issued  and  privately 

placed) and obligations of the parties involved in the transaction.  

 

2.  Schedule  III  of  the  SDI  Regulations  states  that  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the 

trustee  to  ensure  dissemination  of  adequate  information  to  all  investors  of 

adequate, accurate, explicit and timely information fairly presented in a simple 

language.  Further,  Schedule  V  of 

the  said  Regulations 

requires 

comprehensive disclosures in case of public issue including details regarding 

asset  pools,  transactions  &  arrangements  with  originator,  credit  enhancer, 

underwriter, liquidity provider, securitised debt instruments, financial position, 

credit  ratings  and  general  affairs  of  the  scheme  or  any  other  party  to  the 

securitisation or regulated activity. 

 

3.  The  securitisation  trustee  plays  a  key  role  in  securitisation  transactions 

including: 

-  Reporting and maintaining comprehensive records 

-  Collection and payouts 

-  Enforcement action where applicable 

 

4.  To  build  a  robust  and  vibrant  market  in  securitised  debt  instruments,  it  is 

proposed  to  further  rationalize  and  clarify  the  roles  &  responsibilities  of  the 

securitisation trustees and explore some other associated aspects. 

Indicative Guidelines are appended at Annexure  [1]. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.  In  addition 

to  existing  disclosure 

requirements 

for  securitized  debt 

instruments, it is also necessary to have a standardised term sheet format for 

securitisation transactions (for both public issues and private placement).  

A draft standardised securitisation term sheet is at Annexure [2]. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure 1 

Eligibility, Powers and Functions of Securitisation Trustee 

Consideration 

In addition to the requirements mentioned in the  SDI Regulations, a 

of Application 

securitisation  trustee  should  comply  with  the  following,  namely, 

whether: 

 

1.  It  has  in  his  employment  minimum  of  two  persons  who  have 

the  experience  in matters  that  are  relevant  to  a  securitisation 

trustee. 

 

2.  It  has  in  his  employment  at  least  one  person  who  possesses 

the 

professional 

qualification 

in 

law 

from 

an 

institution recognised by the Government 

Criteria 

for 

fit 

For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

and 

proper 

Securitisation trustee is a fit and proper person the Board may take 

person 

into account the criteria specified in the  schedule II of the Securities 

and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 

Eligibility 

In  addition  to  the  persons  mentioned  in  the  Regulation  4(2)  of  SDI 

Regulations,  the  following  persons  may  also  act  as  trustees  of 

special  purpose  distinct  entities  (SPDE)  without  having  to  obtain 

registration from SEBI: 

1.  a scheduled bank carrying on commercial activity; or 

 

2.  a  Public  Financial  Institution  within  the  meaning  of  section  2 

(72)  of the Companies Act, 2013 and 

 

3.  Any other person as may be specified by SEBI. 

 

Provided  further  that  the  aforesaid  persons  and  the  SPDE  in 

respect  of  which  they  are  trustees  shall  comply  with  all  other 

provisions of the SDI Regulations and any other as may be specified 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by SEBI. 

Capital 

The  capital  requirement  shall  not  be  less  than  the  net  worth  of  

Requirement 

two crore rupees. 

Obligation 

1.  Enters  into  a  written  agreement  with  the  SPDE  (before  the 

before 

opening  of 

the  subscription 

for 

issue  of  securitized  debt 

appointment  as 

instruments.) 

securitisation 

 

trustee 

2.  Agreement  shall inter  alia contain  details  that  the  securitisation 

 

trustee  has  agreed  to  act  as  such  under  the  trust  deed  for 

securing  an  issue  of  securitized  debt  instruments  for  the  SPDE 

and the time limit within which the security for the securitized debt 

instruments shall be created. 

Duties 

It shall be the duty of every securitisation trustee to: 

 

1.  Call for periodic reports from the sellers of the receivables or the 

assignors; 

 

2.  Take  possession  of  trust  property  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of the trust deed; 

 

3.  Supervise 

the 

implementation  of 

the  conditions  regarding 

creation of security for the securitized debt instruments; 

 

4.  Enforce security in the interest of the investors; 

 

5.  Do  such  acts  as  are  necessary  in  the  event  the  security 

becomes enforceable; 

 

6.  Carry  out  such  acts  as  are  necessary  for  the  protection  of  the 

investors and to do all things necessary in order to resolve their 

grievances  

 

7.  Ascertain and satisfy itself that the  securitized debt instruments 

 

 

 

 

 

 

have  been  duly  allotted  to  the  investors  and  that  amounts  are 

distributed to PTC holders in accordance with the trust deed. 

 

8.  Ensure on a continuous basis that the trust property is available 

and adequate at all times to pay the securitized debt instruments  

holders; 

 

9.  Exercise  due  diligence 

to  ensure  compliance  by 

the 

sellers/assignors, with the provisions of the Companies Act, the 

listing  agreements  (if  applicable),  the  trust  deed  or  other 

applicable laws; 

 

10.  Take  appropriate  measures  for  protecting  the  interest  of  the 

investors as soon as any breach of the trust deed or law comes 

to his notice; 

 

11.  Ascertain that the securitized debt instruments have been repaid 

or  redeemed  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  and  conditions 

under which they were offered to the investors; 

 

12.  Inform  the  investors    and  SEBI  immediately  of  any  breach  of 

trust deed or provision of any law; 

 

13.  Communicate  to  the  investors  on  [a  suitable  periodic  basis] 

compliance  by  the  Servicer  with  its  obligations  and  action 

taken therefor. 

 

14.  Carry out the following: 

(a)  discuss  and  finalise  the  reporting  requirements  with  the 

servicer,  keeping  in  mind  the  disclosure  and  requirements 

specified by SEBI and the risks identified in the transaction. 

(b)    obtain  reports  regarding  payments  of  the  securitized  debt 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

instruments and the performance of the underlying pool; 

(c)   report to investors as per the requirement of the transaction 

(d)  obtain  a  certificate  from  the  Sellers/Assignors  auditors 

regarding the underlying pool assigned to the securitisation trust. 

15.  Call a meeting of all the investors on: 

(a)    a  requisition  in  writing  signed  by  at  least  one-tenth  of 

investors in value for the time being outstanding; 

(b)    the  happening  of  any  event,  which  constitutes  a  servicer 

default  or  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  securitisation  trustees 

affects the interest of the investors 

 

16.  Not  relinquish  responsibility  as  securitisation  trustee  in  respect 

of  the  issue,  unless  and  until  another  securitisation  trustee  is 

appointed in its place. 

 

17.  Maintain 

the net  worth requirements  as  specified 

in 

these 

regulations  on  a  continuous  basis  and  shall  inform  SEBI 

immediately  in  respect  of  any  shortfall  in  the net  worth and  in 

such  a  case 

it  shall  not  be  entitled 

to  undertake  new 

assignments  until  it  restores  the net  worth to  the  level  of 

specified requirement within the time specified by SEBI. 

 

18.  Inspect  books  of  account, 

records, 

registers  of 

the 

Assignors/Seller  and  the  trust  property  to  the  extent  necessary 

for discharging its obligations 

Minimum 

A  securitisation  trustee  must  have  appropriate  systems  that  permit 

system 

the trustee to: 

requirements 

-  Enter  initial  transaction  information  and  subsequent  collection 

reports  

-  Generate  cash  flows,  payment  reports  and  meet  all  reporting 

 

 

 

 

 

 

requirements required under SEBI / RBI guidelines 

-  Record investor information 

-  Enter  and  maintain  data  for  the  SPDE,  including  cash  flows, 

audited financials, taxation aspects etc. 

-  Generate  cheques  /  demand  drafts  /  RTGS  requests  etc.  for 

online payments 

-  Sufficient access controls to ensure confidentiality of data 

-  Sufficient backup and disaster recovery 

-  Others as appropriate 

Trustees  may  indicate  to  SEBI  a  time  frame  (not  exceeding  12 

months) for implementing such a system. 

Appointment  of 

1.  Every  securitisation  trustee  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer 

compliance 

who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the 

officer. 

acts,  rules  and  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines,  instructions, 

etc., issued by SEBI or the Central Government and for redressal 

of investors’ grievances. 

 

2.  A compliance officer shall be  a member of Institute of  Chartered 

Accountants  of  India/  Institute  of  Company  Secretaries  of  India/ 

Institute  of  Cost  and  Works  Accountants  of  India  or  any  other 

professional body as may be specified by the Board. 

 

3.  The  compliance  officer  shall  report  any  non-compliance,  of  the 

requirements  specified  in  the  relevant  securitisation  transaction 

documents  and  listing  agreement,  if  applicable,  with  respect  to 

Securitized  Debt 

Instruments  and 

investors,  by 

the  body 

corporate to SEBI. 

Code 

of 

As Specified in Schedule 1 Below 

Conduct 

  

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE 1 

CODE OF CONDUCT 

1.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  make  all  efforts  to  protect  the  interest  of 

investors. 

2.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  fulfil  its  obligations  in  a  prompt,  ethical  and 

professional manner. 

3.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  take  all  reasonable  steps  to  establish  the  true 

and  full  identity  of  each  of  its  clients,  and  of  each  client’s  financial  situation 

and maintain record of the same. 

4.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  any  change  in  registration 

status/any  penal  action  taken  by  Board  or  any  material  change  in  financial 

position  which  may  adversely  affect  the  interests  of  clients/PTC  holders  is 

promptly  informed  to  the  clients  and  any  business  remaining  outstanding  is 

transferred  to  another  registered  intermediary  in  accordance  with  any 

instructions of the affected clients. 

5.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  avoid  conflict  of  interest  and  make  adequate 

disclosure of its interest. 

6.  A Securitisation Trustee shall not divulge to anybody either orally or in writing, 

directly  or  indirectly,  any  confidential  information  about  its  clients  which  has 

come  to  its  knowledge,  without  taking  prior  permission  of  its  clients,  except 

where  such  disclosures  are  required to  be made  in  compliance  with  any  law 

for the time being in force. 

7.   A Securitisation Trustee shall make appropriate disclosure to the client of its 

possible source or potential areas of conflict of duties and interest while acting 

as securitisation trustee which would impair its ability to render fair, objective 

and unbiased services. 

8.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  not  indulge  in  any  unfair  competition,  which  is 

likely  to  harm  the  interests  of  other  trustees  or  investors  or  is  likely  to  place 

such  other  Securitisation  trustees  in  a  disadvantageous  position  while 

competing for or executing any assignment nor shall it wean away the clients 

of another trustee on assurance of lower fees. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  share  information  available  with  it  regarding 

client companies, with registered credit rating agencies. 

10.  A Securitisation Trustee shall provide clients and investors with adequate and 

appropriate information about its business, including contact details, services 

available to clients, and the identity and status of employees and others acting 

on its behalf with whom the client may have to contact. 

11.  A Securitisation Trustee shall endeavour to ensure that— 

  (a)  inquiries from investors are adequately dealt with; 

  (b)  grievances of  are redressed in a timely and appropriate manner; 

  (c)  where a complaint is not remedied promptly, the investor is advised 

of any further steps which may be available under the regulatory system 

12.   A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  maintain  required  level  of  knowledge  and 

competency and abide by the provisions of the Act, regulations and circulars 

and guidelines. The securitisation trustee shall also comply with the award of 

the  Ombudsman  passed  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003. 

13.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  or  any  of  its  directors,  partners  or  manager  having 

the  management  of  the  whole  or  substantially  the  whole  of  affairs  of  the 

business,  shall  not  either  through  its  account  or  their  respective  accounts  or 

through their associates or family members, relatives or friends indulge in any 

insider trading. 

14.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  Board  is  promptly  informed 

about  any  action,  legal  proceeding,  etc.,  initiated  against  it  in  respect  of  any 

material  breach  or  non-compliance  by  it,  of  any  law,  rules,  regulations, 

directions of the Board or of any other regulatory body. 

15.  (a) A Securitisation Trustee or any of his employees shall not render, directly 

or  indirectly,  any  investment  advice  about  any  security  in  the  publicly 

accessible  media,  whether  real-time  or  non-real-time  unless  a  disclosure  of 

his  interest  including  long  or  short  position  in  the  said  security  has  been 

made, while rendering such advice. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(b) In case, an employee of the Securitisation Trustee is rendering such advice, 

the Securitisation  trustee  shall  ensure  that  he  discloses  his  interest,  the  interest 

of his dependent family members and that of the employer, including their long or 

short position in the said security, while rendering such advice.  

16. A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  any  person  it  employs  or  appoints  to 

conduct  business  is fit  and proper  and  otherwise  qualified  to act  in  the  capacity 

so  employed  or  appointed  (including  having  relevant  professional  training  or 

experience). 

17.  A Securitisation Trustee shall ensure that it has adequate resources to supervise 

diligently  and  does  supervise  diligently  persons  employed  or  appointed  by  it  to 

conduct business on its behalf. 

18.  A Securitisation Trustee shall have internal control procedures and financial and 

operational  capabilities  which  can  be  reasonably  expected  to  protect  its 

operations,  its  clients,  the  investors  and  other  registered  entities  from  financial 

loss  arising  from  theft,  fraud,  and  other  dishonest acts,  professional  misconduct 

or omissions. 

19.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  be  responsible  for  the  acts  or  omissions  of  its 

employees and agents in respect to the conduct of its business. 

20.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  provide  adequate  freedom  and  powers  to  its 

compliance officer for the effective discharge of its duties. 

21.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  senior  management,  particularly 

decision makers have access to all relevant information about the business on a 

timely basis. 

22.  A Securitisation Trustee shall ensure that good corporate policies and corporate 

governance is in place. 

23.  A  Securitisation  Trustee  shall  develop  its  own  internal  code  of  conduct  for 

governing  its  internal  operations  and  laying  down  its  standards  of  appropriate 

conduct for its employees and officers in the carrying out of their duties. Such a 

code may  extend  to  the  maintenance  of professional  excellence and  standards, 

integrity, confidentiality, objectivity, avoidance of conflict of interests, disclosure of 

shareholdings and interests, etc. 

24.  A Securitisation Trustee shall not be party to— 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(i)  creation of false market; 

(ii)  price rigging or manipulation; 

(iii)  passing  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in  respect  of  securities 

which  are  listed  and  proposed  to  be  listed  in  any  stock  exchange  to  any 

person or intermediary. 

25.  A  securitisation  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  Seller/Assignor/Servicer  (as 

appropriate) fulfils the following obligations: 

a.  to  keep  proper  books  of  account  open  for  inspection  by  the  Securitisation 

Trustee. 

b.  to furnish whatever required information to the Securitisation Trustee including 

copies of reports, balance sheets, profit and loss accounts etc. 

c.  to keep charged property/security adequately insured and in proper condition. 

d.  to  permit  the  Securitisation  Trustee  to  enter  and  inspect  the  state  and 

condition of charged assets. 

e.  to  pay  all 

taxes, cesses, 

insurance premia with 

respect 

to  charged 

property/security, on time. 

f. 

to comply with all guidelines/directions issued by any regulatory authority, with 

respect to the securitisation transaction. 

g.  to inform the Securitisation Trustee about any change in nature and conduct 

of business by itself before such change. 

h.  to keep the Securitisation Trustee informed of all orders, directions, notices, of 

court/Tribunal affecting or likely to affect the assigned assets. 

i. 

to inform the Securitisation Trustee of any major change in composition of its 

Board of Directors. 

j. 

to submit any such information, as required by the Securitisation Trustee. 

k.  to pay fee or commission of the Securitisation Trustee. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure-2 

Draft Terms and Conditions for Securitisation of ______________ 

 

Originators 

________,  __________ 

(each 

referred 

to  as  an 

“Originator”  and  collectively 

referred 

to  as 

the 

“Originators”) 

Trustee 

[name of trustee] 

Issuer 

[name of SPDE] 

Trust Property 

Includes, 

inter-alia, 

Initial  Contribution,  all  other 

contributions 

received  by 

the  Trustee 

including 

contributions 

received 

from 

the 

Investors 

towards 

subscription amounts for the  securitized debt instruments 

issued by the Issuer, the Receivables. 

Initial  Contribution  to 

INR [ ] 

the SPV 

Transaction Size  

INR [ ] 

Pool  Principal  on 

INR [ ] 

Settlement Date 

Pool Cut Off Date 

[date] 

[Specify future cut offs, if revolving in nature / purchase of 

future receivables] 

Settlement Date 

[date] 

Payout Dates 

As set out in Annexure 1 

Transaction Structure  Each  Originator  proposes  to  sell  the  following  assets  to 

the Issuer on the Settlement Date: 

[nature of assets] 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[description of assets] 

[amount] 

The  aggregate  of  the  assets  shall  be  referred  to  as  the 

“Total Pool”. 

Each  sale  will  be  by  way  of  a  legal  “True  Sale”  involving 

the  assignment of  the  Total  Pool  to  the  Issuer,  assigning 

thereby all the rights, title and interest of the Originators in 

the Total Receivables.  

The  assignment  shall  be  to  the  end  and  intent  that  the 

Issuer  shall  thereafter  be  deemed  to  be  the  full  and 

absolute legal and beneficial owner of the Total Pool. 

[specify if par / premium / discount deal] 

The Issuer intends to issue [ ] securitized debt instruments 

representing  an  undivided  beneficial 

interest 

in 

the 

Issuer's property including the Pool.  

[specify if there are future sales] 

Receivables 

[detailed  description  of  the  nature  of  the  assets  being 

sold] 

Total Receivables 

Mean the aggregate of all the Receivables. 

Disclosure  on  key 

LTV-based,  tenure-based,  ticket  size  based  distribution 

pool 

features  and 

etc 

composition 

Collection Period 

________________ 

Servicer 

_______,  _________    (individually  referred  to  as  a 

“Servicer” and collectively referred to as the “Servicers”) 

  Obligations  of  the  Servicer(s)  (including  reporting 

obligations) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  Events of default of the Servicer(s) 

  Right to change the Servicer(s) 

Servicer  Fee  and 

[] 

Incentives 

Legal Counsel 

_______________ 

[specify whom the Counsel represents] 

Credit  Enhancement 

 

Internal credit enhancement available for each class of 

for the Transaction 

securitized  debt  instruments,  expressed  in  absolute 

amounts and as a proportion of the Pool Principal 

  External  credit  enhancement  available  for  each  class 

of securitized debt instruments, expressed in absolute 

amounts and as a proportion of the Pool Principal 

  Annexure 

that 

indicates  how 

the  above  credit 

enhancement  has  been  calculated,  along  with 

assumptions 

  Provider of credit enhancement  

Utilisation 

process 

[ ] 

and  conditions 

for 

utilization  of  Credit 

Enhancement 

Name  of  Designated 

 

bank 

(with  which 

Cash Collateral and / 

or  Collection  and 

payment  Account  is 

maintained)  

Swap 

Nature of the swap 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Swap counterparty, rating of the swap counterparty 

Refund  /  top  up  of 

[ ] 

Credit Enhancement 

Clean-Up Call Option 

[ ] 

Listed / unlisted 

If listed: 

-  Timing for listing 

-  Conditions for remaining listed 

-  Consequence of de-listing 

Rating Agency(ies) 

[ ] 

Series  of  securitized 

[specify seniority and subordination] 

debt instruments 

Day 

count 

[ ] 

convention 

 

Series 

A1 

Series 

A2 

Series 

A3 

Securitized  Debt 

Securitized  Debt 

Securitized  Debt 

Instruments 

Instruments 

Instruments 

Seniority 

Notional 

Initial rating 

Final Maturity Date 

Expected Maturity 

Date 

Expected Yield 

Payment Schedule 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Expected 

payment 

 

schedule  

Promised 

payment 

 

schedule 

First Payout Date 

Portfolio Audit 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eligibility  Criteria  for 

Regulatory requirements 

the Receivables 

Investor requirements (concentration etc.) 

Minimum 

Holding 

Minimum  Holding  Period, 

if  any,  during  which 

the 

Period, if any  

receivables are held by the Originator 

Minimum  Retention 

Continuing  stake,  if  any,  of  Originator,  if  any,  on  the 

Requirement, if any 

receivables 

Transaction 

Documents 

 

Applicable  Law  and 

 

Jurisdiction 

Waterfall Mechanism  Rules 

for  cash 

flow 

to  each 

investors  and  swap 

counterparty,  and  treatment  of  excess  interest  /  residual 

cash  flows  and  treatment  ,  in  case  of  prepayment  of 

underlying loans or change in interest rate on loan  

 

Public Comments 

Public comments on aforesaid proposals are solicited.  Such comments may be e-mailed to 

Ms.  Vandana  Agarwal  (vandanaa@sebi.gov.in)  or  Mr.  Aditya  Sarda  (adityas@sebi.gov.in) 

on or before August 28, 2014. 

********** 

