Discussion Paper on review of clause 36 and related clauses of Equity Listing Agreement  

 

 

  
I.  Background 

 

1.  In order to ensure fairness and efficiency in the market, two factors generally apply :  

(a) Timely disclosure of relevant information by listed companies to investors and  

(b) Adequacy of the information disclosed.  

Thus,  ‘timely  and  adequate’  disclosure  is  one  of  the  defining  characteristic  of  efficient  securities 

markets across the globe. 

 

2.  Universally, securities regulations seek to ensure adequate disclosures by companies, both in initial 

filing as well as periodic / event based filings with the regulator  providing guidance on, the extent, 

manner and nature of disclosures.  

 

3.  While  initial  disclosures  provide  entry  level  transparency  requirements  for  companies  seeking 

listing, the continuous disclosure requirements strive to achieve the same transparency levels during 

the  lifetime  of  the  listed  entity.  In  India,  while  the  rules  governing  initial  listing  disclosures  are 

detailed and have provided comprehensive guidance to companies, it is felt that the rules governing 

continuous disclosures may be prescribed in more detail. The quality of disclosures that are currently 

being made by the listed entities under the existing provisions, also points to the need for detailed 

rules governing continuous disclosures. 

Continuous,  adequate,  accurate  and  timely  disclosure  of  information  on  an  ongoing  basis  would 

achieve parity while enabling investors to make informed investment decisions. 

  

4.  To  this  end,  this  discussion  paper  seeks  to  review  the  continuous  disclosure  regime  for  listed 

companies  in  India  and  provide  appropriate  regulatory  framework  to  assist  listed  entities  to 

understand  and  comply  with  their  disclosure  obligations  under  Equity  Listing  Agreement  / 

Regulations (proposed). 

 

 

Page 1 of 26 

 

 

 

II.  Current regulatory provisions 

 

5.  Clause 36 (“Clause 36”) was incorporated in the Equity Listing Agreement in April 1998.  

 

Clause 36, in its present form, requires a listed entity to disclose to Stock Exchange(s), details of all 

events which will have bearing on the performance/operations of the listed entity as well  as 'price 

sensitive  information'.  While  in  general,  the  company  is  required  to  keep  the  Stock  Exchange(s) 

informed of events such as strikes, lock-outs, closure on account of power cuts etc., the following 

material events are also prescribed for disclosure:  

5.1.  Change in the general character or nature of business 

5.2.  Disruption of operations due to natural calamity 

5.3.  Commencement of Commercial Production / Commercial Operations 

5.4.  Developments  with  respect  to  pricing/realization  arising  out  of  change  in  the  regulatory 

framework 

5.5.  Litigation / dispute with a material impact 

5.6.  Revision in Ratings 

5.7.  Any  other  information  having  bearing  on  the  operation/performance  of  the  listed  entity  as 

well as price sensitive information.  

 These disclosures were mandated on listed entities to enable the shareholders and the public to be 

appraised of the position of the Company and to avoid the establishment of a false market in its 

securities.  

 

6.  Apart from the above, various other clauses of Equity Listing Agreement, viz., Clauses 20, 22, 25, 27, 

29, 30, 31 and 53, require specific disclosures on events / information which may be material / price 

sensitive.  

 

III.  Need for review 

 

7.  Examination of disclosures made by listed entities under Clause 36 and other related clauses over a 

period has brought out disparities in disclosures across listed entities and Stock Exchange(s), leading 

 

Page 2 of 26 

to  unequal  information  being  available  with  the  investors.  Further,  the  material  information 

disseminated  by  listed  entities  through  various  modes  is,  at  times,  not  notified  to  the  Stock 

Exchange(s).  One  of  the  reason  for  such  disparity  appears  to  be  lack  of  sufficient  clarity  on 

'materiality' and ‘price sensitive information'. 

 

8.  Market  participants  in  various  forums  have  pointed  out  that  Clause  36  in  its  present  form  only 

highlights  certain ‘material events’ which  are  at best  an indicative  and  a  broad  list.  It  leaves to the 

discretion of the listed entity to determine whether a particular event would have a material bearing 

on  the  performance  of  such  listed  entity  or  whether  a  particular  information  is  price  sensitive, 

thereby, making requirements of Clause 36 voluntary in nature.  

 

9.  While the intent behind specifying an indicative list of events in Clause 36 was to give flexibility to 

the listed entity to determine events/information which are in its opinion material/price sensitive, it 

was not to leave the necessity of disclosure of these events to the absolute discretion of a listed entity.  

 

10.  Liberal 

interpretations,  on  what  constitutes 

'materiality'  and  whether 

to  disclose 

the 

event/information  to  the  Stock  Exchanges,  taken  by  listed  entities  has  resulted  in  inadequate 

disclosure  levels  in  the  securities  market.  Such  liberal  interpretations  have  also  led  to  lack  of 

uniformity in disclosures by various listed companies. 

 

11.  These provisions introduced in 1998, have not been reviewed so far. It is felt that Regulations should 

also  reflect  the  dynamism  of  the  changing  market  scenario.  Thus,  a  need  arose  to  review  the 

disclosure requirements under Clause 36 and other related clauses of the Equity Listing Agreement. 

 

IV.  Proposed revision to the disclosure clauses  

 

12.  For  the  purpose  of  the  review,  among  other  things,  the  practices  prevailing  in  some  of  the 

International  Jurisdictions  were  studied  to  ascertain  the  existing  regulatory  framework  and  the 

extent  of  disclosure  made  by  listed  entities.    Discussions  were  also  held  with  market  participants 

including Stock Exchanges, Law Firms, Academic bodies and Industry Representatives.   

 

 

Page 3 of 26 

13.  To clarify that the proposed review on disclosures proposes to achieve intent more than form, it has 

been  decided  to  provide  guidance  on  list  of  events  which  may  be  material  and/or  price  sensitive, 

guidance  on  determination  of  materiality  thresholds,  guidance  on  information  which  may  be 

considered  as  price  sensitive  and  also  indicative  list  of  information  which  may  be  disclosed  on 

occurrence of events / information that are /is material and/or price sensitive in order to comply with 

the intent.  

 

14.  Based  on  the  responses,  the  current  principles  on  disclosures  have  been  restructured  to  provide 

clarity  and  detail  wherever  required.  It  is  proposed  to  encompass  these  provisions  in  three 

documents as follows: 

 

14.1.  Annexure A containing the substantive portion of Proposed Clause 36 to be incorporated in 

Listing Agreement/draft SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 

2014 (hereinafter referred to as the ‚draft Listing Regulations‛). 

 

14.2.  Annexure  B  containing  the  guidelines  for  materiality,  price  sensitive  information  and 

occurrence of events/information 

 

14.3.  Annexure  C containing the indicative list  of  information  which may  be disclosed  in case  of 

occurrence of events which are material and/or information which is price sensitive. 

 

15.  The  above changes  if  prescribed  would  definitely  improve  the  quality  of  disclosures  being made. 

Hence, it was felt appropriate to seek wider consultation from all the stakeholders.  

 

V.  Public Comments 

 

16.  Considering the importance of Clause-36 for listed entities, public comments on Annexures A, B & 

C of the discussion paper are solicited. Specific comments/ suggestions in the format below would 

be highly appreciated:- 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 26 

 

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary:  
Name of Organisation (if applicable)/Investor: 
Sr.No 

Pertains to Annexure & Clause 

Proposed/ 

 
 

 

/Sub-Clause 

suggested changes 

 

 

Rationale 

 

17.  Such 

comments  may  please  be  emailed  on  or  before  September  12,  2014, 

to 

revisedclause36@sebi.gov.in or sent, by post, to:-  

Ms. Harini Balaji  
Deputy General Manager  
Corporation Finance Department  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block ,  
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051  
Ph: +912226449372/ +912226449596 / +912226449464 

 

Page 5 of 26 

 

 

Annexure- A   

 
Part A - Proposed Clause 36 to be incorporated in Equity Listing Agreement /draft Listing 
Regulations 
 
1.  The listed entity shall inform to the Stock Exchange(s) of all events which are material and/or 
all information which are price sensitive, and have bearing on performance/operation of the 
listed  entity,  unless  otherwise  expressly  stated,  within  one  day  from  the  occurrence  of  the 
event /information.  
 
Explanation (1): In cases where the disclosures are made after one day, listed entity shall, along with 
such disclosure provide suitable explanation for delay in making disclosure.  

 

Explanation (2): For the purpose of this part, events which are material and/or information which are 
price sensitive shall be as specified in Schedule.  
 

2.  The listed entity shall make above disclosures to Stock Exchange(s) at the time of occurrence 
of the event/information and where applicable, make periodic disclosures on the associated 
material developments till such time the event is resolved/closed 
 
Explanation (1): Periodic disclosure till the cessation of the event shall be applicable for events at Para 
3,5,6,7,8,10,12 etc of the Schedule and any other events in the opinion of the Board of Directors of the 
listed entity. 
 

3.  The listed entity shall inform to Stock Exchange(s) if there is a change in information after it 

has been disclosed to Stock Exchange(s) (including withdrawal/ cancellation of event). 
 

4.  The listed entity shall disclose on its website all material events and/or all information which 
is  price  sensitive,  which  has  been  disseminated  to  the  Stock  Exchange(s),  through  links  to 
Stock Exchange(s) website.  
 

5.  In case of listed subsidiary, the listed entity shall only  disclose the impact of such material 
events/information  on  its  operations  or  performance,  if  any,  along  with  a  reference  to  the 
link  on  Stock  Exchange(s)  website  where  announcement  made  by  listed  subsidiary  is 
available.  

 

6.  The listed entity shall make disclosures of all material event(s)/information/transaction(s) or 

arrangement(s) with respect to its unlisted subsidiaries.  
 
Explanation:  The  term  ‚material  transaction  or  arrangement‛  shall  mean  any  individual 
transaction  or  arrangement  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  listed 
entity, is significant to the operations or performance of listed entity.  

 

Page 6 of 26 

  
 
Part B - Schedule  
 
The  following  shall  be  deemed  to  be  events  which  are  material  and/or  information  which  are 
price sensitive in nature: 

 

1.  Commencement  or  any  postponement  in  the  date  of  commencement  of  commercial 

production and / or commercial operation of any material unit/division; 

 

2.  Change in the general character or nature of business brought about by:  

a)  arrangements for strategic, technical, manufacturing, marketing or financial tie-up;  
b)  adoption of new lines of business;  
c)  closure of operations of any unit(s)/division(s); 

 

3.  Acquisition(s),  Scheme  of  Arrangement  (amalgamation/merger/demerger/restructuring), 

or sale or disposal of any unit(s), division(s) or subsidiary of the listed entity: 
a)  acquisitions/agreement to acquire; 
b)  scheme of arrangement (amalgamation/merger/demerger/restructuring); 
c)  sale or disposal of any unit(s), division(s) or subsidiary of the listed entity; 

 

4.  Material capacity addition or material product launch; 

 

5.  Awarding,  bagging/  receiving  ,  amendment  or  termination  of  awarded/bagged  material 

order(s)/ contract(s); 

 

6.  Agreement(s) (viz. shareholder  agreement(s), joint venture agreement(s),  family  settlement 
agreement(s),  agreement(s)/treaty(ies)/contract(s)  with  media  companies)  or  material  loan 
agreement(s)  or  any  other  material  agreement(s)  which  are  binding  and  revision(s)  or 
amendment(s) or termination(s) thereof; 
 

7.  Issuance or forfeiture of securities, or  change in terms/structure of existing  securities or 

buy back of securities:  
 
a)  issuance of securities; 
b)  split/consolidation of shares; 
c)  bonus Issue; 
d)  buy back of securities; 
e)  options to purchase securities (including any ESOP/ESPS Scheme); 
f)  any restriction on transferability of securities ; 
g)  any  action,  which  will  result  in    alteration,  change  in  the  terms  or  structure  of  any 

existing securities, including, but not limited to: 

 

Page 7 of 26 

reissue of forfeited securities, or the issue of securities held in reserve for future 
issue or the creation in any form or manner of new securities or any other rights, 
privileges or benefits to subscribe to; 
proposal to issue any class of securities;  
sub-division of equity shares of listed entity; 
alterations of capital, including calls; 
change in the terms regarding redemption/cancellation/retirement in whole or in 
part of any securities issued by the listed entity; 

i. 

ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 

 

8.  Disruption of operations of any one or more units or division or subsidiary of the listed 
entity due to natural calamity (earthquake, flood, fire etc.), force majeure or events such as 
strikes, lockouts etc; 
 

9.  Material  effect(s)  arising  out  of  change  in  the  regulatory  framework  applicable  to  the 

listed entity; 
 

10. Litigation(s) / dispute(s) / regulatory action(s) with material impact; 

   

11. Revision in rating(s); 

 

12. Material frauds / defaults etc. by directors, employees, agents of the listed entity; 

 

13. Outcome  of  meeting(s)  of  the  board  of  directors:  The  listed  entity  shall  intimate  to  the 
Exchange(s), within 15 minutes of the closure of the meeting of its board of directors, held to 
consider or decide on the following :  
a.  dividends  and/or  cash  bonuses  recommended  or  declared  or  the  decision  to  pass  any 

b. 
c. 
d. 

e. 

dividend along with the date on which dividend shall be paid/dispatched; 
the decision on Buyback of securities; 
the decision with respect to fund raising proposed to be undertaken; 
increase in capital by issue  of bonus shares through capitalization including the date on 
which such bonus shares would be credited/dispatched; 
reissue of forfeited shares  or securities, or the issue of shares or securities held in reserve 
for future issue or the creation in any form or manner of new shares or securities or any 
other rights, privileges or benefits to subscribe to; 
short particulars of any other alterations of capital, including calls; 
financial results; 

f. 
g. 
h.  decision on voluntary delisting by the company from Stock Exchange(s); 

 

14. Miscellaneous events: 

a)  change in directors, key managerial personnel and others; 
b)  Grant, withdrawal,  surrender  , cancellation or suspension  of key licenses or regulatory 

approvals; 

 

Page 8 of 26 

c)  corporate debt restructuring (‚CDR‛) ;  
d)  one time settlement (OTS) ; 
e)  any cancellation of dividend; 
f)  notices,  call  letters,  resolutions  and  circulars  sent  to  shareholders, debenture  holders  or 

creditors or any class of them or advertised in the media by the listed entity; 

g)  proceedings of  annual and extraordinary general meetings of the listed entity, in brief; 
h)  amendments to memorandum and articles of association of listed entity;  
i)  any  other  major  development  that  is  likely  to  affect  business,  e.g.  emergence  of  new 

technologies, expiry of patents etc; 

 

15. Any  event  affecting  the  reputation  of  the  listed  entity  /group  e.g.  arrest  of  key  managerial 

personnel/promoters on charges involving moral turpitude, etc. 
 

16. Any other information viz. information which is exclusively known to the company which 
may  be  necessary  to  enable  the  holders  of  securities  of  the  listed  entity  to  appraise  its 
position and to avoid the establishment of a false market in such listed securities.  
 

Explanation (1): For the purpose of clauses (1), (4), (5), (6), (9), (10) and (12) of this Schedule, the 
listed entity shall apply the guidelines specified at Annexure B for determination of materiality.  
 
Explanation (2): For the purpose of this Schedule, the listed entity shall apply the guidelines as 
specified at Annexure B for determining whether the information is price sensitive.  
 
Explanation (3): In addition to above, an indicative list of information specified in Annexure C 
may be disclosed by the listed entity in case of occurrence of events/information at Clause (1) to 
(16) above. 
 
Note to Schedule : Clauses (1), (2), (3),(7) , (8), (9), (10), (11), (13), (14) - sub clauses (a), (e) to (i) 
above  are  already  contained  in  either  present  Clause  36  or  other  related  Clauses  of  Listing 
Agreement viz. present clause 13, 20, 22, 25, 30, 31.  
 
Clauses  (4),  (5),  (6),  (12),  (14)  -  sub  clauses  (b),  (c)  and  (d),  (15),  (16)  are  new  additions  to  the 
above list.  
 

 

 

Page 9 of 26 

Annexure B 
 

Guidelines for materiality, price sensitive information and occurrence of event(s)/ 

1.  Determination of Materiality:  

 

information  

 

1.1. Materiality has to be determined on a case to case basis depending on specific facts and 
circumstances  relating  to  the  information/event.  In  order  to  determine  whether  a 
particular  event/information  is  material  in  nature,  the  listed  entity  may  consider  the 
‘quantitative’ or ‘qualitative criteria(s) mentioned below. 

 

1.2. Quantitative  criteria  to  determine  materiality  shall  become  applicable  to  an  event  /  

information:  

 

1.2.1.  where  the  value  involved  or  the  impact  exceeds  5%  of  the  gross  turnover  or 
revenue or total income; or exceeds 20% of the net worth (lower threshold  shall be 
taken as a trigger); 

 

 

the  above  threshold  shall  be  determined  on  the  basis  of  audited  consolidated 
financial statements of last audited financial year. However if the company has 
not  prepared  consolidated  financial  statements  in  the  last  financial  year  the 
threshold may be determined on the basis of standalone financial statements.  
 

1.3. Qualitative  criteria  to  determine  materiality  shall  become  applicable  to  an    event  /  

information: 

 

1.3.1.  the omission of which is likely to : 

  result in a discontinuity of information already available publicly; or  
  result in significant market reaction if the said omission came to light at a later 

date; 

 
1.3.2.  if in the opinion of the Board of Directors of listed entity, the event / information is 

considered material   
 

1.4. In  circumstances  where  ‘quantitative’  test  may  not  be  applicable,  ‘qualitative,  test  may 

be applied to determine materiality.  

 

1.5. If  a  particular  information  or  event  in  question  satisfies  any  of  the  ‘qualitative’  or 
‘quantitative’ criteria, the listed entity shall be under an obligation to disclose the same 
to the stock exchanges.  
 

 

Page 10 of 26 

 

2.  Determination of ‘price sensitive information’:  

 

2.1. The  listed  entity  may  consider  the  following  test(s)  to  determine  whether  particular 

information is price sensitive:-  

 

2.1.1.  Price impact test:  

  any information which relates directly or indirectly to a listed entity and which 
if published is likely to materially affect the price of shares of the listed entity;  

 

2.1.2.  The reasonable investor test:  

  Whether  the  information  in  question  is  likely  to  be  used  by  a  reasonable 
investor as part of the basis of his investment decisions and therefore likely to 
have a significant effect on the price of  shares of the listed entity. 
 
It  is  to  be  noted  that,  ‘significant  effect  on  the  price’  cannot  be  quantified 
(percentage change or otherwise) due to various reasons. 
 
However,  the  following  information  is  likely  to  be  considered  relevant  to  a 
reasonable investor's decision i.e. any information which affects: 
 

o  the assets and liabilities of the listed entity; or 
o  the financial condition of the listed entity; or 
o  major developments in the business of the listed entity / the industry in 

o 

which the listed entity operates; or 
information previously disclosed to the market. 
 

2.1.3.  if in the opinion of the Board of Directors of listed entity, the event / information is 

considered price sensitive 

 

3.  When can an event/information be said to have occurred? 

 

3.1. The listed entity may be confronted with the question as to when an event/information 

can be said to have occurred.  
 
3.1.1.  In certain instances, the answer to above question would depend upon the stage of 
discussion, negotiation or approval and in other instances where there is no such 
discussion,  negotiation  or  approval  required  viz.  in  case  of  natural  calamities, 
disruptions etc, the answer to the above question would depend upon the timing 
when the listed entity became aware of the event/information. 

 

 

Page 11 of 26 

 

 

 
 

In the former, the events/information can be said to have occurred upon receipt 
of approval of Board of Directors e.g. further issue of capital by rights issuance 
and in certain events/information after receipt of approval of both i.e. Board of 
Directors and Shareholders.  

However,  considering  the  price  sensitivity  involved,  for  certain  events  e.g. 
decision  on  declaration  of  dividends,  disclosure  shall  be  made  on  receipt  of 
approval of Board of Directors pending Shareholder’s approval.  

In the latter, the events/information can be said to have occurred when a listed 
entity becomes aware of the events/information, or as soon as, an officer of the 
entity has, or ought to have reasonably come into possession of the information 
in the course of the performance of his duties.   

 

3.1.2.  In case of securities or the derivatives which are listed outside India by the listed 
entity,  parity  in  disclosures  shall  be  followed  and  whatever  is  disclosed  on 
overseas  Stock  Exchange(s)  by  the  listed  entity  shall  be  disclosed  on  the  Stock 
Exchange(s) where the entity is listed in India, at the same time.  

 

3.1.3.  At times the preliminary information about an event is such that the  listed entity 
or  the  officer  of  the  listed  entity  cannot  reasonably  determine  whether  the 
information  is  material  or  price  sensitive  or  not  and  may  need  to  wait  for  more 
information  or  seek  expert  advice  or  conduct  investigation/inquiry  in  order  to 
determine the nature of the information.  

 

the  event/information  when 

In  such  cases,  the  listed  entity  or  its  officer  shall  be  construed  to  have  become 
aware  of 
the 
event/information becomes known/ assessable to the extent of 75% of materiality 
threshold and not when the impact is finally and accurately assessed.  
 

the  probable 

impact  of 

Explanation: The term ‚officer‛ shall include a promoter, director or senior management 
personnel of the listed entity.  

 

4.  General obligation of disclosure 

 
4.1. It  is  the  responsibility  of  each  listed  entity  to  determine  what  event/information  is 
material  and  price  sensitive,  based  on  the  above  guideline(s)    and  make  appropriate 
disclosures.  
 

4.2. The  determination  of  materiality  of  event/information  and  whether  an  information  is 
price  sensitive or not, would vary from one company to another according to  its   size,  
profits,  assets  and  capitalization,  the  nature  of  its  operations  and  many  other  factors.  

 

Page 12 of 26 

Thus  the  listed  entity  itself  would  be  in  the  best  position  to  apply  the  definition  of 
materiality  and  whether  information  is  price  sensitive  or  not  to  its  own  unique 
circumstances. 

 

Page 13 of 26 

Annexure- C 

 

Indicative list of information which may be disclosed in case of occurrence of 

event/information which are material and/or price sensitive 

 
While  the  timely  dissemination  of  an  event/information  is  essential,  the  adequacy  of  the 
information  disseminated  determines  the  usefulness  of  the  information  disclosed.  Inadequate 
information disclosed is equivalent to non disclosure of information.  
 
Continuous  disclosure  is  a  mechanism  to  ensure  that  the  market  is  informed  of  all  material 
developments pertaining to listed entities at all times. While it enhances accountability of such 
companies  and  ensures  transparency,  it  also  helps  in  maintaining  parity  of  information 
disclosed so that all investors are able to make informed investment decisions and no investor is 
at a disadvantage against another.    
 
This Annexure aims to provide the indicative list of information which may be disclosed in case 
of  occurrence  of  events  /  information  which  are  material  and/or  price  sensitive.  However,  the 
list  is  indicative  and  not  exhaustive  and  the  necessity  or  obligation  to  make  the  requisite 
disclosure depends upon the facts of each case.  
 
1.  Commencement  or  any  postponement  in  the  date  of  commencement  of  commercial 

production or commercial operations of any material unit/division:  
 
The  listed  entity  shall  notify  the  Stock  Exchange(s)  regarding  the  commencement  of 
commercial  production  or  the  commencement  of  commercial  operations  of  any  material 
unit/division.  In  case  of  postponement  in  that  date  of  commencement  reasons  for  such 
postponement may be indicated along with a likely future date of such commencement.  
 

2.  Change  in  the  general  character  or  nature  of  business:  The  listed  entity  shall  notify  the 
Stock  Exchange(s)  of  the  details  of  any  change  in  the  general  character  or  nature  of  its 
business along with brief details, rationale behind such change and benefits expected from 
such change.  
 
2.1. Arrangements for strategic, technical, manufacturing, marketing or financial tie-up:   

 

2.1.1.  Agreement / joint venture (JV) with companies 

a)  name of the entity(ies) with whom agreement/ JV is signed; 
b)  area of agreement/JV; 
c)  domestic/International; 
d)  share exchange ratio / JV ratio; 
e)  scope of business operation of agreement / JV; 
f)  details of consideration  paid / received in agreement / JV;  

 

Page 14 of 26 

g)  significant terms and conditions of agreement / JV in brief; 
h)  whether the promoter/ promoter group/group companies have any interest in the 
entity/entity with whom the agreement / JV is signed? If yes, nature of interest and 
details thereof;  

i)  whether the same would fall within related party transactions? If yes, whether the 

same is done at ‚arms length‛ 

 

2.1.2.  In the event that any such arrangement is called off for any reason, the same shall 

be disclosed along with the reasons for calling off the proposal.  

 

2.2. Adoption of new lines of business   

a)  industry to which the new line of business belongs to 
b)  area of new line of business;  
c)  expected benefits; 
d)  date of such adoption; 
e)  estimated amount to be invested 

 

2.3. Closure of operations of any material unit/division - (entirety or piecemeal) 

a)  date  of  such  binding  agreement,  if  any,  entered  for  sale  of  such  material 

unit/division, if any. 

b)  amount & percentage of turnover or revenue or income and  net worth of the 
listed  entity  contributed  by  such  unit  or  division  during  the  last  financial 
year; 

c)  date of closure; 
d)  reasons for closure; 
e)  estimated time of closure  

 

3.  Acquisitions, Scheme of Arrangement (amalgamation/merger/demerger/ restructuring) or  

sale or disposal of any unit, division or subsidiary of the listed entity: 

 

 

3.1. Acquisition / agreement to acquire: 
a)  name of the target entity; 
b)  whether the promoter/ promoter group/ group companies have any interest 

in the entity being acquired? If yes, nature of interest and details thereof; 

c)  whether  the  acquisition  would  fall  within  related  party transactions?  If  yes, 

whether the same is done at ‚arms length‛; 

d)  industry to which the entity being acquired belongs; 
e)  objects and effects of  acquisition  (including  but not limited to, disclosure of 
reasons for acquisition of target entity, if its business is outside the main line 
of business of the listed entity); 

f)  brief  details  of  any  governmental  or  regulatory  approvals  required  for  the 

acquisition; 

Page 15 of 26 

g)  indicative time period for completion of the acquisition;  
h)  cost of acquisition or the price at which the shares are acquired; 
i)  nature  of  consideration  -  whether  cash  consideration  or  share  swap  and 

details of the same; 

j)  percentage  of  shareholding  /  control  acquired  and  /  or  number  of  shares 

acquired; 

k)  brief  background  about  the  entity  acquired  in  terms  of  products/line  of 
business  acquired,  date  of  incorporation,  history  of  last  3  years  turnover, 
country in which the acquired entity has presence and any other significant 
information (in brief); 
 
*Explanation: For the purpose of the above disclosures the term ‘acquisition’ 
shall have the same meaning as defined in the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011] 

 

3.2. Amalgamation/ Merger 

a)  name of the entity(ies) forming part of the amalgamation/merger; 
b)  whether the transaction would fall  within related party transactions? If yes, 

whether the same is done at ‚arms length‛; 

c)  area of business of the entity(ies); 
d)  rationale for amalgamation/ merger; 
e)  in 

cash 

case 

of 

consideration 

amount 

or 

otherwise 

share 

entitlement/exchange ratio in relation to the amalgamation/merger; 
brief details of change in shareholding pattern (if any)of listed entity; 

3.3. De-merger 

 

a)  brief details of the division to be demerged; 
b)  turnover of the demerged division and as percentage to the total turnover of 
the  listed  entity  in  the  immediately  preceding  financial  year  /  based  on 
financials of the last financial year; 

c)  rationale for demerger; 
d)  brief details of change in shareholding pattern (if any)of all entities; 
e)  in case of cash consideration – amount or otherwise share exchange ratio;  
f)  whether listing would be sought for the resulting entity; 

 
 

3.4. Sale or disposal of unit or division or subsidiary of the listed entity: 

 

 

a)  the amount and percentage of the turnover or revenue or income and  net 
worth contributed by such unit or division of the listed entity during the 
last financial year; ; 

b)  date on which the agreement for sale has been entered into 

Page 16 of 26 

c)  the expected date of completion of sale/disposal; 
d)  consideration received from such sale/disposal; 
e)  brief  details  of  buyers    and  whether  any  of  the  buyers  belong  to  the 

promoter/ promoter group/group companies. If yes, details thereof.  

f)  whether  the  transaction  would  fall  within  related  party  transactions?  If 

yes, whether the same is done at ‚arms length‛. 

g)  additionally,  in  case  of  a  slump  sale,  indicative  disclosures  provided  for 
amalgamation/merger, shall be disclosed by the listed entity with respect 
to such slump sale.  

 
For the purpose of this sub-clause, "slump sale" shall mean the transfer of one 
or  more  undertakings  as  a  result  of  the  sale  for  a  lump  sum  consideration 
without values being assigned to the individual assets and liabilities in such 
sales. 

 

3.5. Other Restructuring 

a)  details and reasons for restructuring; 
b)  quantitative and/ or qualitative effect of restructuring; 
c)  details  of  benefit,  if  any,  to  the  promoter/promoter  group/group  companies 

from such proposed restructuring; 

d)  brief details of change in shareholding pattern (if any)of all entities; 

4.  Material capacity addition or material product launch:  

 

 
4.1. Material capacity addition: 
a)  existing capacity; 
b)  existing capacity utilization; 
c)  the  amount  and  percentage  of  the  turnover  or  revenue  or  income  and    net 
worth contributed by existing utilized capacity during the last financial year; 

d)  proposed capacity addition;  
e)  period within which the proposed capacity is to be added; 
f)  investment required;  
g)  mode of financing;  
h)  rationale;  
 
 

4.2. Material product launch: 

a)  name of the product; 
b)  date of launch; 
c)  category of the product; 
d)  whether caters to domestic/ international market; 

 

Page 17 of 26 

e)  name  of  the  countries  in  which  the  product  is  launched  (in  case  of 

international). 

 

5.  Awarding,  bagging/  receiving,  amendment  or  termination  of  awarded/bagged  material 

orders/contracts:  
 
5.1. Awarding of material order(s)/contract(s) 

a)  name of the entity to which order(s)/contract(s) is awarded; 
b)  whether order(s) / contract(s) is awarded to  domestic/ international entity  
c)  significant terms and conditions of order(s)/contract(s) awarded, in brief; 
d)  time period, if any, associated with  the order(s)/contract(s); 
e)  broad commercial consideration for the order(s)/contract(s); 
f)  whether  the  promoter/  promoter  group/group  companies  have  any  interest 
in that entity to whom the order(s)/contract(s)  is awarded? If Yes, nature of 
interest and details thereof;  

g)  whether  the  same  would  fall  within  related  party  transactions?  If  yes, 

whether the same is done at ‚arms length‛. 
 

5.2. Bagging/Receiving  of material orders/contracts 

a)  name of the entity awarding the order(s)/contract(s); 
b)  significant terms and conditions of order(s)/contract(s) awarded in brief; 
c)  whether order(s) / contract(s) have been awarded by  domestic/ international 

entity; 

d)  nature of order(s) / contract(s); whether domestic or international.  
e)  time period by which the order(s)/contract(s) is to be executed; 
f)  broad consideration for the order(s)/contract(s); 
g)  whether the promoter/ promoter group / group companies have any interest 
in  the  entity  that  awarded  the  order(s)/contract(s)?  If  yes,  nature  of  interest 
and details thereof 

h)  whether the order(s)/contract(s) would fall within related party transactions? 

If yes, whether the same is done at ‚arms length‛. 

 
5.3. Amendment or termination of  material orders/contracts  

a)  name of parties to the order(s)/contract(s); 
b)  nature of the order(s)/contract(s); 
c)  date of execution of the order(s)/contract(s) 
d)  details of amendment or  reasons for  terminations and impact thereof (to the 

extent possible); 
 

6.  Agreements  (viz.  Shareholder  Agreement(s),  joint  venture  agreement(s),  family  settlement 
agreement(s),  agreement(s)/treaty(ies)/contract(s)  with  media  companies)  or  material  loan 

 

Page 18 of 26 

agreement(s)  or  any  other  material  agreement(s)  which  are  binding  and  revision(s)  or 
amendment(s) or termination(s) thereof:  
 

a)  name(s) of parties with whom the agreement is entered; 
b)  purpose of entering into the agreement; 
c)  shareholding, if any, in the entity with whom the agreement is executed; 
d)  significant terms of the agreement (in brief) special rights like right to appoint 
directors, first right to share subscription in case of issuance of shares, right to 
restrict any change in capital structure etc.; 

e)  whether,  the  said  parties  are  related  to  promoter/promoter  group/  group 

companies in any manner. If yes, nature of relationship; 

f)  whether  the  transaction  would  fall  within  related  party  transactions?  If  yes, 

whether the same is done at ‚arms length‛; 

g)  in case of issuance of shares to the parties, details of issue price, class of shares 

issued; 

h)  in  case of  material  loan  agreements,  details of  lender,  nature of the  loan, total 
amount of loan granted, total amount outstanding, date of execution of the loan 
agreement/sanction  letter,  details  of  the  security  provided  to  the  lenders  for 
such loan; 

j) 

i)  any other disclosures related to such agreements, viz., details of nominee on the 
board of directors of the listed entity, potential conflict of interest arising out of 
such agreements, etc; 
in  case of termination or  amendment  of  agreement,  listed entity  shall disclose 
additional details to the Stock Exchange(s):  
i.  name of parties to the agreement ; 
ii.  nature of the agreement; 
iii.  date of execution of the agreement;  
iv.  details  of  amendment  and  impact  thereof  or  reasons  of  termination  and 

impact thereof. 

 

7.  Issuance or forfeiture of securities, or  change in terms/ structure of existing securities or 

buy back of securities: 

 

7.1. Issuance of securities  

a) type of securities proposed to be issued (viz. equity shares, convertibles etc.);  
b) type  of 

issuance  (further  public  offering,  rights 

issue,  depository  receipts 

(ADR/GDR), qualified institutions placement, preferential allotment etc); 

c) total  number  of  securities  proposed  to  be  issued  or  the  total  amount  for  which  the 

securities will be issued (approximately); 
 

d) in  case  of  preferential  issue  the  listed  entity  shall  disclose  the  following  additional 

details to the Stock Exchange(s) 

Page 19 of 26 

 

i.  issue period; 
ii.  names of the investors. 
iii.  post  allotment  of  securities:  -outcome  of  the  subscription,  issue  price  / 

allotted price (in case of convertibles) , number of investors 

iv.  in case of convertibles; intimation on conversion of securities or on lapse of 

the tenure of the instrument; 
 

e) in case of issuance of depository receipts (ADR/GDR) or FCCB the listed entity shall 

disclose following additional details to the Stock Exchange(s): 
 

i.  name of the Stock Exchange(s) where ADR/GDR/FCCBs are listed (opening 

– closing status) / proposed to be listed; 

ii.  existing number of ADR/GDR/FCCBs and number of holders, if any; 
iii.  proposed no. of equity shares underlying the ADR/GDR  or on conversion 

of FCCBs; 

iv.  proposed date of allotment , tenure , date of maturity and coupon offered, if 

any of FCCB’s; 

v.  issue  price  of  ADR/GDR/FCCBs  (in  terms  of  USD  and  in  INR  after 

considering conversion rate );  

vi.  Change in terms of FCCBs, if any; 
vii.  details  of  defaults,  if  any,  by  the  listed  entity  in  payment  of  coupon  on 
FCCBs  &  subsequent  updates  in  relation  to  the  default,  including  the 
details of the corrective measures undertaken (if any); 
 

f) In  case  of  issuance  of  debt  securities  or  other  non  convertible  securities  the  listed 

entity shall disclose following additional details to the Stock Exchange(s): 
 

i.  whether proposed to be listed? If yes, name of the Stock Exchange(s); 
ii.  tenure of the instrument - date of allotment and date of maturity; 
iii.  coupon/interest  offered,  schedule  of  payment  of  coupon/interest  and 

principal; 

iv.  charge/security, if any, created over the assets; 
v.  special  right/interest/privileges  attached  to  the  instrument  and  changes 

thereof; 

vi.  delay/ default in payment of interest / principal amount for a period of more 

than three months from the due date;   

vii.  details  of  any  letter  or  comments  regarding  payment/non-payment  of 
interest, principal on due dates, or any other matter concerning the security 
and /or the assets along with its comments thereon, if any;   
 

g) Any  cancellation  or  termination  of  proposal  for  issuance  of  securities  including 

reasons thereof 

 

Page 20 of 26 

 
7.2. Split/consolidation of shares 

a) split/consolidation ratio; 
b) rationale behind the split/consolidation; 
c) pre and post share capital – authorized, paid-up and subscribed; 
d) expected time of completion; 
e) class of shares which are consolidated or subdivided; 
f) number of shares of each class pre and post split or consolidation; 
g) number  of  shareholders  who  did  not  get  any  shares  in  consolidation  and  their  pre-

consolidation shareholding 

 

7.3. Bonus Issue 

a) whether  bonus  is  out  of  free  reserves  created  out  of  profits  or  share  premium 

account; 

b) bonus ratio; 
c) details of share capital - pre and post bonus issue;  
d) free reserves and/ or share premium required for implementing the bonus issue; 
e) free  reserves  and/  or  share  premium  available  for  capitalization  and  the  date  as  on 

which such balance is available; 

f) whether the aforesaid figures are audited 
g) date on which such bonus shares would be credited/dispatched 

 

7.4. Buy back of securities 

a) number of securities proposed for buyback; 
b) number  of  securities  proposed  for  buyback  as  a  percentage  of  existing  paid  up 

capital;  

c) buyback price; 
d) actual securities in number and percentage of existing paid up capital bought back; 
e) pre & post shareholding pattern 

 

7.5. Options  to  purchase  securities  (including  any  ESOP/ESPS  Scheme)  at  the  time  of 

instituting the scheme and vesting or exercise of options. 
a)  brief details of options granted; 
b)  whether the scheme is in terms of SEBI ESOP/ESPS guidelines (if applicable); 
c)  total number of shares covered by these options; 
d)  pricing formula; 
e)  options vested; 
f)  time within which option may be exercised; 
g)  options exercised; 
h)  money realised by exercise of options; 
i)  the total number of shares arising as a result of exercise of option; 
j)  options lapsed; 

 

Page 21 of 26 

k)  variation of terms of options; 
l)  brief details of significant terms; 
m) subsequent changes or cancellation or exercise of such options; 
n)  diluted earnings per share pursuant to issue of equity shares on exercise of options 

 

7.6. Any restriction on transferability of securities  

a)  authority issuing attachment or prohibitory orders; 
b)  brief details and reasons for attachment or prohibitory orders; 
c)  name  of  registered  holders  against  whom  restriction  on  transferability  has  been 

placed; 

d)  total number of securities so affected; 
e)  distinctive numbers of such securities if applicable; 
f)  period for which order would be applicable (if stated) 

 

7.7. Any  action,  which  will  result  in  alteration  of    the  terms  or  structure  of  any  existing 

securities, including, but not limited to: 
a)  reissue  of  forfeited  shares  or  securities,  or  the  issue  of  shares  or  securities  held  in 
reserve  for  future  issue  or  the  creation  in  any  form  or  manner  of  new  shares  or 
securities or any other rights, privileges or benefits to subscribe to; 

b)  proposal to issue any class of securities;  
c)  sub-division of equity shares of listed entity; 
d)  alterations of capital, including calls;  
e)  change  in  the  terms  regarding  redemption/cancellation/retirement  in  whole  or  in 

part of any securities issued by the listed entity 

 

8.  Disruption of operations of any one or more units or division or subsidiary of the listed 
entity due to natural calamity (earthquake, flood or fire), force majeure and events such as 
strikes, lockouts etc.: .  

 

8.1. At the time of occurrence: 

a)  expected quantum of loss/damage caused; 
b)  whether loss/damage covered by insurance or not including amount; 
c)  impact on the production/operations in case of strikes/lock outs. Factory/unit 

where the strike/lock out takes place including reasons for such strike. 

 
 

8.2. Periodically, till complete normalcy is restored,: 

a)  insurance  amount  claimed  and  realized  by  the  listed  entity  for  the 

loss/damage; 

b)  the  actual  amount  of  damage  caused  due  to  the  natural  calamity  or  other 

force majeure events; 

 

Page 22 of 26 

c)  details  of  steps  taken  to  restore  normalcy  and  the  impact  of  the  natural 
calamity/other  force  majeure  events  on  production  or  service,  financials  of 
the entity. 

 

9.  Material effects arising out of change in the regulatory framework applicable to the listed 

entity. 
 

10. Litigation/dispute/regulatory  action  with  a  material  impact:  The  listed  entity  shall  notify 
the Stock Exchange(s) upon it  or its key management personnel or its promoter  / ultimate 
person  in  control  becoming  party  to  any  litigation,  assessment,  adjudication,  arbitration  or 
dispute  in  conciliation  proceedings  or  upon  institution  of  any  litigation,  assessment, 
adjudication,  arbitration  or  dispute  including  any  ad-interim  or  interim  orders  passed 
against or in favour of the listed entity, the outcome of which can reasonably be expected to 
have a material impact.  

 

10.1.  At the time of becoming the party 

a)  brief  details  of  litigation  viz.  name(s)  of  the  opposing  party,  court/ 

tribunal/agency where litigation is filed, brief details of dispute/litigation; 
b)  expected financial implications, if any, due to compensation, penalty etc; 

 

10.2.  Periodically till the litigation is concluded or dispute is resolved :- 

a)  the details of any change in the status and / or any material development in 

relation to such proceedings; 

b)  in  the  event  of  settlement  of  the  proceedings,  details  of  such  settlement 
including  -  material  terms  of  the  settlement,  compensation/penalty  paid  (if 
any)  and  impact  of  such  settlement  on  the  financial  position  of  the  listed 
entity.  

 
11. Rating / revision in ratings: The listed entity shall notify the Stock Exchange(s), the details 
of  any  rating  or  revision  in  rating  assigned  from  a  credit  rating  agency  to  any  debt 
instrument  of  the  listed  entity  or  to  any  fixed  deposit  programme  or  to  any  scheme  or 
proposal of the listed entity involving mobilisation of funds whether in India or abroad.  In 
case  of  a  downward  revision  in  ratings,  the  listed  entity  shall  also  intimate  the  reasons 
provided by the rating agency for such downward revision. 
 

12. Material fraud/defaults etc. by directors, employees, agents of the listed entity:  

  
12.1.  At the time of unearthing of fraud or occurrence of the default/litigation  

a)  nature of fraud/default/litigation; 
b)  estimated impact on the listed entity; 
c)  time of occurrence; 
d)  person(s) involved; 

 

Page 23 of 26 

e)  estimated amount involved (if any); 
f)  whether such fraud has been reported to appropriate authorities;  

 

12.2. Subsequently  intimate  the  Stock  Exchange(s)  further  details  regarding  the 

fraud/default/litigation, including: 

a)  actual amount involved in the fraud /default/litigation (if any); 
b)  actual  impact  of  such  fraud  /default/litigation  on  the  listed  entity  and  its 

financials; and 

c)  corrective measures taken by the listed entity on account of such fraud; 
d)  in  the  case  of  litigation  against  directors,  employees  or  agents,  regularly 
provide  details  of  any  change  in  the  status  and  /  or  any  material 
development in relation to such proceedings. 

 

13. Outcome  of  meetings  of  the  board  of  directors:The  listed  entity  shall  intimate  to  the 
Exchange(s), within 15 minutes of the closure of the meeting , held to consider or decide the 
following :  
 
13.1.  dividends and/or cash bonuses recommended or declared or the decision to pass any 
dividend and the date on which dividend shall be paid/dispatched; Any cancellation 
of dividend with reasons thereof; 

13.2.  the decision on buyback of securities; 
13.3.  the decision with respect to fund raising proposed to be undertaken  
13.4.  increase in capital by issue  of bonus shares through capitalization including the date 

on which such bonus shares would be credited/dispatched; 

13.5.  reissue  of  forfeited  shares    or  securities,  or  the  issue  of  shares  or  securities  held  in 
reserve  for  future  issue  or  the  creation  in  any  form  or  manner  of  new  shares  or 
securities or any other rights, privileges or benefits to subscribe to; 
13.6.  short particulars of any other alterations of capital, including calls; 
13.7.  financial results; 
13.8.  decision on voluntary delisting by the company from Stock Exchange(s); 

 

The  intimation  of  outcome  of  meeting  of  the  board  of  directors  shall  also  contain  the  time  of 
commencement and conclusion of the meeting.    

 

14. Miscellaneous events:  

 
14.1.  Change in directors, key managerial personnel (Managing Director, Chief Executive 

Officer, Chief Financial Officer ), Company Secretary Auditor, Compliance Officer,   

 

a)  reason for change viz. appointment,  resignation, removal, death or otherwise; 
b)  date of appointment/cessation (as applicable) & term of appointment; 
c)  brief profile (in case of appointment); 

 

Page 24 of 26 

d)  disclosure  of  relationships  between  directors  (in  case  of  appointment  of  a 

director); 

e)  letter of appointment of independent director along-with the detailed profile; 
f)  letter of resignation of directors along with the detailed reasons of resignation; 

 

Information  at  points  (d),(e)  and  (f)  shall  be  provided  to  Stock  Exchange(s)  for 
dissemination not later than one working day from the date of receipt. 

 

14.2.  Granting,  withdrawal  ,  surrender  ,  cancellation  or  suspension  of  key  licenses  or 

regulatory  approvals 

a)  name of the regulatory or licensing authority;  
b)  brief details of the approval/license obtained/ withdrawn/ surrendered;  
c)  impact/relevance of such approval/license to the listed entity ; 
d)  withdrawal/cancellation or suspension of licence/approval by the regulatory or 
licensing authority, with reasons for such action, estimated  impact (monetary 
or otherwise) on the listed entity and penalty, if any; 
e)  period for which such approval/license is/was valid; 
f)  Subsequently,  the  listed  entity  shall  inform  the  Stock  Exchange(s),  the  actual 
impact  (monetary  or  otherwise)  along  with  corrective  actions  taken  by  the 
listed entity pursuant to the withdrawal, cancellation or suspension of the key 
license/ approval.  
 

14.3.  Corporate debt restructuring (“CDR”) 

a)  whether  CDR  is  voluntary  or  referred  by  lenders/creditors  and  reasons  for 

opting; 

b)  details of the loan to be subjected to restructuring under CDR;  
c)  brief details of the CDR proposal (if any); 
d)  the  following  updates  to  be  provided  at  the  time  of    the  execution  and  at 

various stages of the implementation of the CDR scheme; 

i.  upon execution of any agreement in relation to the CDR proposal, disclose 
details  such  as  date  of  execution,  parties  to  the  agreement  and  principal 
terms; 

ii.  details of final CDR package as approved by RBI and the lenders; 
iii.   creditors involved; 
iv.  brief  summary  of  the  CDR  scheme  including  details  of  the  securities, 
interest  payment,  repayment  schedule,  negative  and  other  restrictive 
covenants. 

 

14.4.  One time settlement (OTS) 

a)  reasons for opting for OTS; 
b)  brief summary of the OTS 

 

 

Page 25 of 26 

14.5.  Notices,  call  letters,  resolutions  and  circulars  sent  to    shareholders,  debenture 
holders  or  creditors  or  any  class  of  them  or  advertised  in  the  media  by  the  listed 
entity and the following: 

a)  date of notice/call letters/resolutions etc 
b)  brief  details  viz.  agenda  (if  any)  proposed  to  be  taken  up,  resolution  to  be 

passed, manner of approval proposed etc.  
 

14.6.  Proceedings of  annual and extraordinary general meetings of the listed entity and 

the following details in brief: 

a)  date of the meeting  
b)  brief details of items deliberated ;  
c)  manner of approval proposed for certain items (e-voting etc) 

 

14.7.  Amendments to memorandum and articles of association of listed entity, in brief.  

 

14.8.  Any other major development that is like to affect business, e.g. emergence of new 

technologies, expiry of patents etc and brief details thereof. 

 

15. Any event affecting the reputation of the listed entity /group e.g. arrest of Key Managerial 

Personnel/Promoters on charges involving moral turpitude, etc. 

 

16. Any  other  information  necessary  to  enable  the  holders  of  listed  securities  of  the  listed 
entity to appraise their position and to avoid the establishment of a false market in such 
listed securities.  

 

******** 

 

 

Page 26 of 26 

