 

Discussion Paper on Proposed Amendments to Regulations framed under 

SEBI Act, 1992 for Imposing Restrictions on Wilful Defaulters 

I.  OBJECTIVE  

 

1.  To  review  the  Regulations  framed  under  SEBI  Act,  1992  with  a  view  to  impose 

restrictions on wilful defaulters from accessing the capital market.  

 

II.  BACKGROUND 

2.  The  term  'wilful  default'  is  defined  in  the  Master  Circular  (henceforth  referred  to  as 

"Master Circular") issued by the Reserve Bank of India (henceforth referred to as "RBI") 

dated July 12, 2012.  

 

3.  The term 'wilful default' broadly covers the following: 

a)  Deliberate non-payment of the dues despite adequate cash flow and good net worth;  

b)  Siphoning off of funds to the detriment of the defaulting unit; 

c)  Assets  financed  either  not  been  purchased  or  been  sold  and  proceeds  have  been 

misutilized;  

d)  Misrepresentation / falsification of records; 

e)  Disposal / removal of securities without bank's knowledge;  

f)  Fraudulent transactions by the borrower. 

 

4.  The Master Circular contains instructions on identification and other matters relating to 

wilful defaulters.  

 

Page 1 of 9 

5.  In order to prevent the access to the capital markets by the wilful defaulters, a copy of 

the  list  of  wilful  defaulters  (non-suit  filed  accounts  and  suit  filed  accounts)  are 

forwarded  to  SEBI  by  RBI  and  Credit  Information  Bureau  (India)  Ltd.  (CIBIL) 

respectively in terms of para 2.5 of the Master Circular.  

 

III.NEED FOR REVIEW 

6.  Regulation 4(2) of SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 

(henceforth referred to as "SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009") lays down conditions which 

debars an issuer company from making a public issue or rights issue.  

 

7.  Relevant extract of Regulation 4(2) of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009 reads as follows: 

4 (2) No issuer shall make a public issue or rights issue of specified securities: 

(a) ... 

(b) ... 

(c) if the issuer of convertible debt instruments is in the list of wilful defaulters 

published by the Reserve Bank of India or it is in default of payment of interest or 

repayment of principal amount in respect of debt instruments issued by it to the 

public, if any, for a period of more than six months; 

(d) ... 

(e) ... 

(f) ... 

(g) ... 

8.  Even though regulation 4(2)(c) of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009, debars wilful defaulter 

from  accessing  capital  market  by  way  of  public  issue  or  rights  issue,  the  same  is 

currently limited to the issuer of convertible debt instruments. 

 

 

Page 2 of 9 

9.  There  is  no  such  similar  provision  in  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities) 

Regulations, 2008 (henceforth referred to as "SEBI (ILDS) Regulations, 2008") and in SEBI 

(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulations, 2013 

(henceforth referred to as "SEBI (NCRPS) Regulations, 2013").  

 

10. This  is  to  imply  that  under  the  current  regulatory  framework  if  the  issuer  company  is 

intending to issue equity shares / debt security / non-convertible redeemable preference 

shares  (i.e.,  any  instrument  except  convertible  debt  instrument),  and  is  included  in  the 

list of wilful defaulters published by the RBI, such issuer company shall be able to access 

the capital market by way of public issue or rights issue. 

 

11. As  per  para  2.5  of  the  Master  Circular,  following  penal  measures,  inter-alia,  can  be 

initiated by a bank against the wilful defaulter: 

 

11.1.  No  additional  facilities  should  be  granted  by  any  bank  /  FI  to  the  listed  wilful 

defaulters. In addition, the entrepreneurs / promoters of companies where banks 

/  FIs  have  identified  siphoning  /  diversion  of  funds,  misrepresentation, 

falsification  of  accounts  and  fraudulent  transactions  should  be  debarred  from 

institutional  finance  from  the  scheduled  commercial  banks,  Development 

Financial  Institutions,  Government  owned  NBFCs,  investment  institutions  etc. 

for floating new ventures for a period of 5 years from the date the name of the 

wilful defaulter is published in the list of wilful defaulters by the RBI. 

 

11.2.  The  legal  process,  wherever  warranted,  against  the  borrowers  /  guarantors  and 

foreclosure  of  recovery  of  dues  should  be  initiated  expeditiously.  The  lenders 

may initiate criminal proceedings against wilful defaulters, wherever necessary. 

 

 

Page 3 of 9 

11.3.  Wherever  possible,  the  banks  and  FIs  should  adopt  a  proactive  approach  for  a 

change of management of the wilfully defaulting borrower unit. 

 

11.4.  A  covenant  in  the  loan  agreements,  with  the  companies  in  which  the  banks  / 

notified FIs have  significant stake, should be incorporated by the banks / FIs to 

the  effect  that  the  borrowing  company  should  not  induct  a  person  who  is  a 

promoter or director on the Board of a company which has been identified as a 

wilful defaulter as per the definition and that in case, such a person is found to 

be  on  the  Board  of  the  borrower  company,  it  would  take  expeditious  and 

effective steps for removal of the person from its Board.  

 

12. Further, as per para 2.6 of the Master Circular, in cases where a letter of comfort and / or 

the  guarantees  furnished  by  the  group  companies  on  behalf  of  the  wilfully  defaulting 

units are not honored when  invoked by the banks / FIs, such group companies  should 

also be reckoned as wilful defaulters. 

 

13. As  per  para  5.2  of  the  Master  Circular,  no  material  fact  should  be  suppressed  while 

disclosing  the  names  of  a  company  that  is  a  defaulter  and  the  names  of  all  directors 

should  be  published.  The  said  provision  also  requires  that  a  suitable  distinguishing 

remark  should  be  made  clarifying  that  the  concerned  person  was  an  independent 

director / nominee director. 

 

14. Therefore,  it  appears  from  Para  11  and  12  above  that  RBI  has  laid  down  sufficient 

safeguards  to  contain  the  financial  activities  of  wilful  defaulter,  by  restricting  access  to 

further  bank  finance  to  such  entities;  by  providing  for  proactive  approach  by  banks  / 

financial institutions for change in management of the wilfully defaulting borrower unit; 

by  requiring  banks  /  financial  institutions  to  take  expeditious  and  effective  steps  for 

 

Page 4 of 9 

removal  of  person,  from  the  Board  of  a  borrower  company,  who  is  a  promoter  or 

director on the Board of a company which has been identified as a wilful defaulter. 

  

15. It  also  appears  from  para  13  above  that  even  though  independent  directors  /  nominee 

directors  are  distinguished  from  other  promoter  directors  of  the  wilful  defaulter,  such 

directors  are  brought  within  the  purview  of  the  Master  Circular  for  the  purpose  of 

declaring them as wilful defaulters. 

 

16. Under the existing regulatory framework prescribed by SEBI, a unit / promoter / director 

identified  as  wilful  defaulter  may  raise  money  from  capital  markets  by  way  of  public 

issue  or  rights  issue  (except  by  way  of  issuance  of  convertible  debt  instrument)  and 

effectively  bypass  the  restriction  of  access  to  bank  finance  as  envisaged  in  the  Master 

Circular.  

 

17. Further,  a  unit  /  promoter  /  director  identified  as  wilful  defaulter  may  attempt  to  take 

control of another listed company thereby potentially exposing more listed companies to 

the promoter / management of the wilful defaulter.  

 

IV.PROS AND CONS OF IMPOSING RESTRICTIONS BY SEBI 

18. Pros: Some of the perceived benefits are discussed below: 

 

18.1.  The  wilful  defaulters  do  not  have  access  to  bank  finance  which  means  that  the 

exposure  of  banks  to  such  wilful  defaulters  is  restricted.  Along  the  same  lines, 

exposure in the capital markets to such wilful defaulters may also be restricted. 

 

 

Page 5 of 9 

18.2.  The  wilful  defaulters  may  be  restricted  from  taking  control  in  another  listed 

companies  thereby  protecting  more  listed  companies  from  the  promoter/s  / 

management of the wilful defaulter.  

 

18.3. 

Such measures are expected to further enhance the protection of investors in the 

securities market.   

 

19. Cons: Some of the perceived challenges are discussed below: 

 

19.1.  As per the Master Circular, the banks and notified All India Financial Institutions 

are  required  to  submit  to  RBI  the  details  of  the  wilful  defaulters.  In  order  to 

prevent the access to the capital markets by  the wilful defaulters, a copy  of the 

list of wilful defaulters (non-suit filed accounts) and list of wilful defaulters (suit 

filed  accounts)  are  forwarded  to  SEBI  by  RBI  and  Credit  Information  Bureau 

(India) Ltd. (CIBIL) respectively.  

 

19.2.  Thus,  while  RBI  does  not  declare  any  borrowing  unit  as  wilful  defaulter,  the 

same is done by its intermediary as per the guidelines issued by the RBI. In view 

of the above, it needs to be considered if it would be appropriate for SEBI to take 

cognizance of such action initiated by an intermediary of RBI and then act upon 

it by restricting access to capital market by way of public issue or rights issue.  

 

19.3. 

It  may  be  considered  that  once  a  listed  company  is  categorized  as  wilful 

defaulter,  it cannot access bank finance as per the Master Circular. In that case, 

such  listed  company  may  resort  to  raising  fresh  funds  from  its  existing 

shareholders  by  way  of  rights  issue.  Restriction  of  access  to  capital  market  by 

way of rights issue may negatively impact the operations of the listed company 

thereby negatively impacting  its  share price. Such a measure may  not be in the 

 

Page 6 of 9 

interest of the shareholders of the listed company. Theoretically, the shareholders 

should  infuse  funds  if  the  company  is  in  trouble.  Shutting  down  finance  even 

from own shareholders appears to be unreasonable.   

 

19.4. 

If  a  hostile  bid  is  made  on  a  listed  company  which  is  controlled  by  a  person 

categorized  as  wilful  defaulter,  restricting  such  wilful  defaulter  from  making  a 

counter offer may not be legally tenable.  

 

19.5.  With regard to extending the proposed restriction to an issuer company in case it 

has  a  director  who  is  also  on  the  board  of  wilfully  defaulting  unit,  the  recent 

Order  of  the  Hon'ble  High  Court  of  Gujarat  in  the  matter  of  Ionic  Metalliks 

Limited  relating  to  the  Master  Circular  may  need  to  be  considered.  As  per  the 

said Order, the Master Circular, so far as it is sought to be made applicable to all 

the  directors  of  the  company,  is  arbitrary  and  unreasonable.  To  this  limited 

extent,  that  part  of  the  Master  Circular  has  been  declared  as  ultra  vires  the 

powers  of  RBI  and  has  been  declared  to  be  violative  of  Article  19(1)(g)  of  the 

Constitution  of  India.    However,  it  has  been  stated  that  these  observations  will 

not apply to the promoters/ entrepreneurs. 

 

V.  PROPOSAL 

20. In line with the above, following recommendations are made to impose restrictions   on 

wilful defaulters from accessing the capital market:  

Recommendation 1   

  No issuer shall make a public issue of equity securities, if the issuer, its promoter, 

group  company  or  director  of  the  Issuer  of  such  securities,  is  in  the  list  of  the 

Wilful defaulters, published by the Reserve Bank of India 

 

 

Page 7 of 9 

Recommendation 2 

  No  issuer  shall  make  a  public  issue  of  the  debt  securities,  if  the  issuer,  its 

promoter, group company or director of the Issuer of such securities, is in the list 

of the Wilful defaulters, published by the Reserve Bank of India or it is in default 

of  payment  of  interest  or  repayment  of  principal  amount  in  respect  of  debt 

instruments issued by it to the public, if any . 

Recommendation 3 

  No  issuer  shall  make  a  public  issue  of  non-convertible  redeemable  preference 

shares , if the issuer, its promoter, group company or director of the Issuer of such 

securities, is in the list of the Wilful defaulters, published by the Reserve Bank of 

India or it is in default of payment of interest or repayment of principal amount in 

respect of debt instruments issued by it to the public, if any. 

 

Recommendation 4 

  Existing listed companies / its promoter / group company / director of the Issuer 

categorized  as  'wilful  defaulter'  may  make  a  rights  issue  /  private  placement  to 

qualified institutional buyers, with full disclosures in the offer document. 

 

Recommendation 5 

  Existing listed companies / its promoter / group company / director of the Issuer 

categorized as 'wilful defaulter' should not be allowed to take control over other 

listed entity in accordance with SEBI (SAST) Regulations, 2011.  

 

Recommendation 6 

  Existing listed companies / its promoter / group company / director of the Issuer 

categorized as 'wilful defaulter' should be allowed to make counter offer  in case 

of a hostile bid. 

Page 8 of 9 

 

 

 

VI.  PUBLIC COMMENTS  

21. In  line  with  the  recommendations  of  the  Financial  Sector  Legislative  Reforms 

Commission  ("FSLRC")  pertaining  to  framing  of  regulations,  public  comments  are 

solicited  on  recommendations  stated  at  Para  20  of  the  discussion  paper.  Specific 

comments/ suggestions in the format below would be highly appreciated:- 

 

 

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary: 

Name of the Organization (if applicable) / Investor: 

Sr. No.  Pertains to Recommendation number 

Proposed / suggested changes 

Rationale 

  

  

  

  

22. Such  comments  may  please  be  emailed  on  or  before  January  23,  2015,  to 

wilfuldefaulters@sebi.gov.in or sent, by post, to:-  

Mr. Anindya Kumar Das 

Deputy General Manager 

Corporation Finance Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block , 

Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), 

Mumbai - 400 051 

Ph: +912226449616/ +912226449301 

 

Page 9 of 9 

