 
 

Discussion Paper on “Revisiting the 

 

 

capital raising process” 

 

Securities  market,  including  the  market  for  public  offerings,  is  dynamic  and  need  to 

keep  pace  with  the  evolving  environment.  In  order  to  keep  pace  with  the  changing 

economic  environment  and  to  address  concerns  of  various  market  participants 

especially  the  issuers  and  the  investing  community,  the  regulations  governing  the 

primary market have been amended from time to time. Such a timely review intends to 

facilitate capital raising by industry while ensuring adequate investor protection. 

 

It  has  been  observed  that  existing  listed  issuers  have  preferred  private  placement 

including Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP) route vis-à-vis a subsequent offerings 

by  way  of  Further  Public  Offer  (FPO)  /  Rights  Issue.  Further,  participants  in  various 

forums have indicated that issuers have inclination towards private placement, because 

of  shorter  time  frame and  lower  costs  associated  with  such  route. Therefore,  SEBI  has 

been  examining  how  to  further  facilitate  capital  raising  by  existing  listed  companies 

through FPO/Rights issue so as to provide retail investors the opportunity to participate 

in subsequent offerings and enable issuers to raise capital in the shortest possible time 

span. 

  

Further,  SEBI  has  been  continuously  striving  to  shorten  the  time  duration  from  issue 

closure to listing. Towards this end in 2010, the timeline was reduced from 22 days to 12 

days. SEBI has been exploring ways and means to further curtail the timeline from 12 

days.  

 

In  view  of  the  above,  the  instant  paper  contains  proposal  on  the  following  two  areas 

and seek public comments on the same: 

 

 

 

 

   

I. 

Proposal  on  use  of  Secondary  Market  infrastructure  for  making  applications  in 

Public Issue (“e-IPO”) 

II. 

Proposal on Fast Track Issuances (FPO and Rights Issue) 

 

 
 

 
 

I.  Proposal  on  use  of  Secondary  Market  infrastructure  for  making 

applications in Public Issue (“e-IPO”) 

 

1.  Background 

 

1.1.   The Hon'ble Finance Minister in his speech while presenting Union Budget 2012-

13 announced the following:  

 

“Simplifying the process of issuing Initial Public Offers (IPOs), lowering their costs and 

helping companies reach more retail investors in small towns. To achieve this, in addition 

to the existing IPO process, I propose to make it mandatory for companies to issue IPOs 

of  Rs.10 crore and above in electronic form through nationwide broker network of stock 

exchanges” 

 

1.2.  Pursuant  to  the  above,  SEBI  Board  in  its  meeting  held  on  August  16,  2012 

approved  a  proposal  in  this  regard.    Accordingly,  SEBI  issued  a  circular  on 

October 04, 2012 and thereby provided an additional mechanism for investors to 

submit application forms in public issues using the stock broker network of stock 

exchanges,  who  may  not  be  syndicate  members  in  an  issue.  The  immediate 

benefit  of  the  said  mechanism  was  the  extended  geographical  reach  of  the 

distribution channel using the stock broker network of the stock exchanges. The 

additional mechanism was to run parallel to the existing mechanisms / processes 

to submit applications in public issues. 

 

 

 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 2 

 

 
 

2.  Need for review 

 

 

 

 

 

   

2.1.  Currently,  there  are  several  mechanisms  to  submit  an  application  for  a  public 

issue including applying with a cheque and hence, it is difficult to further reduce 

the post issue timelines from the current T+12 days i.e. 12 days from issue closure 

to  listing  and  trading.  Further,  while  the  cost  of  raising  capital  through  public 

issues 

in  Indian  securities  market  is  comparable  with  that 

in  overseas 

jurisdictions, there is a scope for reducing the same further. 

 

2.2.    In  order  to  facilitate  the  promoters  to  dilute  /  offload  their  holding  in  listed 

companies  in  a  transparent  manner  with  wider  participation,  SEBI  in  February 

2012 allowed offer for sale (“OFS”) of shares by promoters of specified categories 

of companies through a separate window provided by the stock exchange(s). The 

stock  exchanges  have  witnessed  more  than  120  OFS  issues  and  under  the  said 

mechanism,  settlement  takes  place  on  T+2  basis  using  the  efficiencies  of  the 

widespread  trading  network,  sophisticated  risk  management,  and  clearing  and 

settlement systems of the secondary market.  

 

3.  Review process 

 

3.1.   It  was,  therefore,  proposed  to  utilize  the  synergies  of  the  secondary  market 

infrastructure for raising capital through public issues. 

 

3.2.  For  this  purpose,  SEBI  had  formed  a  Group  consisting  of  representatives  from 

the Stock Exchanges, Depositories, Registrar & Share Transfer Agents, Merchant 

Bankers,  Stock  Brokers  and  SEBI  (“Group”),  to  propose  a  policy  framework  to 

achieve the following broad objectives: 

 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 3 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

3.2.1.  To further reduce the overall post issue timelines from T+12 days;  

3.2.2.  To  broad-base  the  retail  investor  reach  across  the  country  for 

submitting applications;  

3.2.3.  To reduce the cost of public issuances  

 

3.3.  The  Report  submitted  by  the  Group  was  placed  before  the  Primary  Market 

Advisory Committee (PMAC) of SEBI for deliberation and comments.  

 

4.  Proposal  

 

Based  on  above,  the  broad  process  flow  by  using  the  secondary  market 

infrastructure for primary issuance would be as under: 

 

4.1.  Investor  will  be  able  to  submit  his  application  to  /  place  order  with  any  SEBI 

registered  Stock  Broker,  Depository  Participant  (DP)  or  Registrar  and  Transfer 

Agent  (RTA)  and  Self  Certified  Syndicate  Bank  (SCSB).  Depositories  can  take 

access to the Stock Exchange platform and in turn provide the same to their DPs / 

RTAs (other than the RTA, who acts as the RTA to the particular issue, to address 

the concerns of conflict of interest).  Investor will continue to have the option of 

submitting  Application  Supported  by  Blocked  Amount  ("ASBA")  application  to 

SCSB  or  stock  broker.  To  start  with  DP  and  RTA  shall  accept  only  ASBA 

applications. However, they may be enabled to accept non-ASBA applications in 

future  subject  to  appropriate  changes  in  the  regulatory  framework,  as  may  be 

necessary. 

 

4.2.  Investors can also fill the application form online and submit it on the web portal 

of  trading  member,  DP/  RTA  or  SCSB  (in  case  of  ASBA),  if  provided  by  the 

intermediary. Under this case, the investor will not be required to physically sign 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 4 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

any  paper  as  even the  Companies  Act,  2013  recognizes  the  electronic  form  of  a 

document. This will help eliminate printing application form and thereby reduce 

the overall cost of public issuance. 

 

4.3.  On receipt of application, the Stock Broker / DP / RTA/ SCSB will have to lodge 

the application on the bidding platform.  

 

4.3.1.  Once  the  bid  has  been  entered  in  the  bidding  platform  by  a  stock 

broker,  clearing  corporation  will  block  100%  funds  from  the  cash 

collateral of the stock broker.  National Payments Corporation of India 

(“NPCI”)  has  implemented  National  Automated  Clearing  House 

(“NACH”)  a  web  based  solution  to  facilitate  interbank,  high  volume, 

electronic  transactions  which  are  repetitive  and  periodic  in  nature. 

NACH  is  a  centralised  system,  launched  with  an  aim  to  consolidate 

multiple  ECS  systems  running  across  the  country  and  provides  a 

framework for the harmonization of standard & practices and removes 

local  barriers/inhibitors.  Stock  brokers  will  be  advised  to  use  the  said 

NACH  mechanism  and  thereby  receive  upfront  payment  from  the 

investor.  Through  NACH  system,  an  investor  can  give  instructions  to 

its banker for multiple debits at different points of time for making IPO 

applications.  This  will  help  eliminate  the  delay  on  account  of  cheques 

in the process.  

 

For ASBA applications lodged with Stock Broker, existing process will 

continue. 

 

4.3.2.  For bids made through Depository Participant and RTA, subsequent to 

bidding,  the  application  will  be  forwarded  to  Self  Certified  Syndicate 

Bank (“SCSB”) for blocking of funds 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 5 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

4.3.3.  For direct ASBA applications, existing process of bidding and blocking 

of funds by the SCSB shall continue 

 

4.4.  Investors  will  not  be  able  to  withdraw  bids  upon  closure  of  the  issue.  Upon 

closure  of  the  issue,  the  bid  book  shall  be  made  available  to  the  Registrar  by 

Stock Exchanges and Depositories. Details of payment confirmation for the bids 

will be made available by banks, and clearing corporation to the Registrars. 

 

4.5.  Based on the bid file and payment confirmations, Registrars will finalise the basis 

of allotment. 

 

4.6.  On  approval  of  basis  of  allotment  by  Stock  Exchanges,  Registrars  will  give 

instructions to clearing corporations and banks to credit funds in the public issue 

account  maintained  by  the  clearing  corporation.  Excess  money  received  will  be 

refunded to the investors by the stock broker / bank, as the case may be. 

 

4.7.  Upon confirmation of receipt of public issue amount by the clearing corporation 

to  the  Registrar,  instruction  will  be  issued  to  Depositories  to  credit  securities 

directly to the investor’s account.  

 

4.8.  On confirmation of the same, Stock Exchanges will issue the listing and trading 

notice.  Based  on  trading  notice,  funds  will  be  transferred  from  public  issue 

account of the clearing corporation to issuer’s account. 

 

4.9.  Investors  would  get  SMS/e-mail  alert  for  allotment  under  the  IPO,  similar  to 

alerts being sent to investors for secondary market transactions. 

 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 6 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

4.10. On account of the above, the post issue timelines will reduce from T+12 days to 

T+6  days.  Once  the  process  gets  stabilised,  timelines  can  be  further  curtailed  to 

T+3/2 days. Further, on account of reduction in printing of application forms, the 

overall cost of public issues will also come down.  

 

4.11. The  suggested  changes  shall  be  applicable  for  applications  in  the  retail  and 

employee reservation categories. Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC) 

of  SEBI  while  deliberating  on  the  matter  proposed  that  ASBA  should  be  made 

non-mandatory  for  non-retail  clients  as  well  since  the  secondary  market 

infrastructure is proposed to be used and thereby the (unutilized / excess) funds 

of the clients (both retail and non-retail) available with the Brokers can be used 

for applying in the IPOs/FPOs/RI, instead of bringing additional funds. Another 

view in this respect was that parity among the investors shall be maintained by 

mandating 100% ASBA for retail investors also as ASBA has been working well 

and has scope for reducing timelines by eliminating cheques from the process. 

 

4.12. The  said  proposal  may  be  used  for  debt  issues  as  well.  However,  in  order  to 

make  this  mechanism  applicable  to  debt  issues,  suitable  amendments  may  be 

required under SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008. 

 

4.13. It  is  proposed  to  discontinue  the  three  day  monitoring  report  considering  the 

reduction  of  overall  timelines  to  T+6.  A  framework  for  redressal  of  investor 

grievances  has  been  laid  out.  A  framework  for  use  of  mobile  applications  for 

making bids in public issues has been suggested for implementation in future. 

5.  Schedule of Activities 

Based on the above proposal,  the details of day wise schedule of activities is as 

under: 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 7 

 

 

   

T+3 day 
N.A. 

T+2 day 
Final 
Collection 
certificate for ASBA 
application  made 
through Syndicate , 
Non-Syndicate 
Member,  
Depository 
Participant 
RTA  

and 

 

 
 
Categories  T 
ASBA Bids 

Last Day of 
Bidding 

 

 

T+1 day 
Certificate 
  Final 
from 
SCSBs 
(excluding  ASBA 
application 
through  brokers, 
DPs, RTAs)  

Non 

  Syndicate, 
Syndicate 
Members, 
Depository 
Participant 
and 
RTA  to  forward  a 
and 
schedule 
application 
forms 
respective 
to 
SCSBs for blocking 
of funds. 
  Registrar 

to 

the 
issue  to  forward 
bid  files  to  SCSBs 
for 
validation 
containing 
the 
application 
number 
and 
amount, 
duly 
sorted  centre  wise 
who  may  use  this 
file 
for 
reconciliation. 

NON-
ASBA Bids 

  SCSBs 

to 

start 

blocking funds 

 Registrar to 

forward bid files to 
Clearing 
Corporation for 
validation 
containing the 
application number 
and amount, who 
may use this file for 
reconciliation. 

Using the 
NACH 
mechanism
, funds will 
be 
available 
with Stock 
Broker 
before the 
closure of 
Bidding. 
Account of 

N.A. 

Final Certificate 
from Clearing 
Corporation about 
the amount 
collected. 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 8 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

Other 
Activities 

Syndicate 
or Non-
syndicate 
member 
maintained 
with 
Designated 
Clearing 
Corporatio
n (DCC) / 
Clearing 
Corporatio
n (CC) will 
be blocked 
for 
equivalent 
amount 
 Other  SE 
share 
to 
bid 
the 
file  with 
Designate
d 
Stock 
Exchange 
(DSE) 

 DSE 

to 

provide 
End  Of 
Day  File 
(Full 
Book) 
RTA 

to 

 Validatio

n  of  DP 
ID/ CL ID 
will 
be 
done  by 
the 
Exchange 
with 
the 
depositori
es data by 
the EoD.  

 

 Company  /  BRLM 
to  submit  relevant 
documents 
to  SE 
(documents 
presently  filed  on 
T+2) 

 Registrar 

to  give 
to 
instructions 
Depositories 
to 
carry out lock-in for 
pre issue capital 

 

  Registrar 

to 
list  of 
prepare 
bids 
rejected 
based  on  mis-
between 
match 
electronic 
bid 
details 
and 
Depositories  data 
base. 

to 

  Registrar 
undertake 
“Technical 
test 
Rejection” 
on 
based 
bid 
electronic 
and 
details 
prepare 
list  of 
technical rejection 
cases.” 
 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

to 
and 

  Registrar 
undertake 
complete 
reconciliation  of 
certificate 
final 
received 
from 
SCSBs  and  CC) 
with 
electronic 
bid details. 
 

  Minutes 

and 

Technical 
Rejection 
approval 
from 
BRLM and issuer 

 

  Submission 

Electronic 
and 
documents 
exchanges 
 

of 
files 
Basis 
to 

  Basis 

of 

allotment 
finalization  from 
DSE 

Page 9 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

   

Categories  T+4 

T+5 

ASBA Bids 

NON-
ASBA Bids 

Other 
Activities 

 

 

  Company 
Convene 
Meeting 
allotment 

to 
Board 
for 

  Registrar to prepare 
funds 
transfer 
schedule  based  on 
approved allotment 

Transfer 

  Instruction  by  RTA 
of 
for 
to  Public 
Funds 
Refund  
Issue/ 
(Clearing 
Account 
and 
Corporation) 
unblocking 
of 
ASBA  Applicants 
Accounts 

Applicant  to receive credit  of  allocated shares  and  /  or 
unblock the unutilized money  

Applicant  to receive credit  of  allocated shares  and  /  or 
refund of money (same point as above) 
  Company  to  file  listing  application  to  obtain  listing 
and  trading  permission  from  SE(s)  (documents 
presently filed on T+10 & T+11 day) 
 

  Advertisement in Newspaper about Allotment  

  Listing  reports  to  issuer  /  CA/CS  certificate  for 

allotment 

  Upload of allotment data to CDSL/NSDL 

  Registrar 

to  Complete  Dispatch  of  allotment 

instructions 

  Registrar  to  receive  confirmation  of  credit  from 
NSDL & CDSL and Issue Reconciliation certificate of 
drop cases, if any  

  Issuer  and  Registrar  to  file  confirmation  of  demat 

credit and refund dispatch with Stock Exchange(s).  

  Intimation  of  basis 
of allotment by RTA 
to other SE 

  Registrar  to  receive  confirmation  for  Issue  related 
capital  lock-in  from  Depositories,  if  any  (Promoter/ 
Anchor Investors/ Market Maker, etc.) 

  Company  to  deposit  commission  for  Non  Syndicate 

members) based on RTA report. 

  SE to give Listing and Trading Approval 

  SE(s)  to  transfer  the  commission  to  Non  Syndicate 
Members  through  Clearing  Corporation  based  on 
RTA report. 

 

Trading will commence on the 6th working day from closure of the issue. 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 10 

 

 

 
 
6.  Public Comments on the proposal 

 

 

 

 

   

In view of the above, public comments are solicited on the above proposal specifically 

on the following points: 

a.  Should  the  requirement  of  having  an  abridged  prospectus  along  with 

application form be made non- mandatory? 

b.  Should ASBA be mandated for all investors? 

c.  If ASBA is continued as a voluntary mechanism for retail investors, should 

it be made voluntary for non-retail investors as well? 

d.  Should  NACH  mechanism  by  NPCI  be  mandated  for  collecting  payment 

from investors? 

e.  Any suggestions/modifications on the mechanism proposed above in order 

to achieve reduction in time and cost of capital raising? 

 

 

 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 11 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

II.  Proposal on Fast Track Issuances (FPO and Rights Issue) 

 
1.  Background 

 

1.1.  For  a  fast  track 

issuance  under  SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulations,  2009  (“ICDR 

Regulations”),  no  draft  offer  document  is  required  to  be  filed  with  SEBI.  In  such 

cases, SEBI does not issue any clarifications/observations. Issuer can open the issue 

immediately after filing the Red Herring Prospectus (“RHP”). 

1.2.  Under the existing regulatory framework, fast track route is available to all listed 

issuers proposing to undertake a rights issue or a follow on public offering (FPO) 

subject to certain eligibility criteria as stated below: 

“Regulation  10  of  ICDR  Regulations  stipulates  the  following  conditions  for  a  fast  track 

issuance:   

 

a)  the equity shares of the issuer have been listed on any recognised stock exchange having 

nationwide  trading  terminals  for  a  period  of  at  least  three  years  immediately  preceding 

the reference date  

b)  the average market capitalisation of public shareholding of the issuer is at least Rs. three 

thousand crore 

c)  the  annualised  trading  turnover  of  the  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  during  six  calendar 

months immediately preceding the month of the reference date has been at least two per 

cent.  of  the  weighted  average  number  of  equity  shares  listed  during  such  six  months’ 

period 

Provided  that  for  issuers,  whose  public  shareholding  is  less  than  fifteen  per  cent.  of  its 

issued  equity  capital,  the  annualised  trading  turnover  of  its  equity  shares  has  been  at 

least two per cent. of the weighted average number of equity shares available as free float 

during such six months’ period; 

d)  the issuer has redressed at least ninety five percent. of  the complaints received from the 

investors till the end of the quarter immediately preceding the month of the reference date  

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 12 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

e)  the issuer has been in compliance with the equity listing agreement for a period of at least 

three years immediately preceding the reference date  

Provided  that  if  the  issuer  has  not  complied  with  the  provision  of  the  equity  listing 

agreement relating  to composition of board of directors, for any quarter  during the last 

three  years  immediately  preceding  the  reference  date,  but  is  compliant  with  such 

provisions  at  the  time  of  filing  of  offer  document  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  or 

designated stock exchange, as the case may be, and adequate disclosures are made in the 

offer  document  about  such  non-compliances  during  the  three  years  immediately 

preceding the reference date, it shall be deemed as compliance with the condition 

f)  the  impact  of  auditors’  qualifications,  if  any,  on  the  audited  accounts  of  the  issuer  in 

respect  of  those  financial  years  for  which  such  accounts  are  disclosed  in  the  offer 

document does not exceed five per cent of the net profit or loss after tax of the issuer for 

the respective years  

g)  no show-cause notices have been issued or prosecution proceedings initiated by the Board 

or pending against the issuer or its promoters or whole time directors as on the reference 

date  

h)  the entire shareholding of the promoter group of the issuer is held in dematerialised form 

on the reference date “ 

 

2.  Need for review 

 

During various interactions with market participants, SEBI has received suggestions 

on  re-considering 

the  criterion  related 

to  market  capitalisation  of  public 

shareholding  as  only  a  few  companies  are  eligible  based  on  the  said  criterion. 

Accordingly, following issues had emerged for consideration: 

 

2.1.  Should the requirement of average market capitalisation of public shareholding of 

Rs. 3000 crore be relaxed so as to enable more companies access the market directly 

without filing the draft offer document with the Board? 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 13 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

   

2.2.  Alternately, if the company does not meet the public float criteria, should there be 

other additional conditions. 

 

3.  Review Process 
 

In  view  of  the  above,  an  analysis  on  the  matter  was  placed  before  the  Primary 

Market  Advisory  Committee  (PMAC)  of  SEBI  for  deliberation.  After  deliberations, 

PMAC  made  various 

recommendations.  The  details  of  analysis  and 

recommendations are enumerated in subsequent paragraphs. 

 

3.1.  Analysis for Issue at Sl. No. 2.1:  

 

  The requirement of average market capitalisation of public shareholding was Rs. 

10,000 crore at the time of notification of ICDR Regulations i.e in 2009 

  The requirement was subsequently brought down to Rs. 5000 crore  

  The requirement was brought down to Rs. 3000 crore in October 2012 

 

Currently, of the companies listed in India, the following number of companies will 

qualify  for  fast  track  issuance,  in  case  a  public  float  criterion  is  applied  at  various 

levels. 

 

 

Minimum Public 

Rs. 3,000 

Rs. 2,000 

Rs. 1,500 

Rs. 1000 

Float  

crore 

crore 

crore 

crore 

Approx.  No. 

of 

183 

240 

293 

359 

companies eligible 

Based on public float as on August 2014. Source: Bloomberg  

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 14 

 

 

 

 

   

Thus,  even  if  the  public  float  criterion  is  relaxed  to  Rs.  1000  crore,  only  359 

companies  would  be  eligible.  Hence,  this  may  not  serve  the  intended  purpose  of 

making large number of issuers eligible for rights issue through fast track route. 

 

3.2.  Analysis for Issue at Sl. No. 2.2:  

 

 
 

 

SEBI in the past has observed  certain concerns in offer documents filed by existing 

listed  companies  seeking  to  raise  money  from  public.  Further  in  this  regard,  the 

following is observed: 

  Often  existing  listed  companies  are  being  investigated  by  SEBI  for  which  show 

cause notice is yet to be issued by SEBI 

  Such issuers may not be aware of such proceedings  

  Based  on  the  details  of  such  investigation,  SEBI  often  asks  for  additional 

disclosures in the offer document in case of subsequent issues of the said issuer 

  If  the  requirement  of  public  float  is  diluted  further  without  any  additional 

requirements  to  ensure  investor  protection,  such  issuers  may  access  the  capital 

market without any SEBI intervention and/or adequate disclosure 

 

4.  Proposal 
 

Based  on  deliberations,  it  is  proposed  that  the  fast  track  route  may  be  extended  to 

companies having an average market capitalisation of public shareholding between Rs. 

250  crores  to  Rs.  3,000  crores,  subject  to  fulfillment  of  certain  additional  conditions, 

along  with  the  existing  conditions  stated  in  Regulation  10  of  ICDR  Regulations.  The 

additional conditions proposed are as under: 

i. 

Promoters  should  mandatorily  subscribe  to  their  rights  entitlement  and  should 

not  renounce  their  rights,  except  to  the  extent  of  renunciations  within  the 

promoter  group,  or  for  the  purposes  of  complying  with  minimum  public 

shareholding norms. 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 15 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

ii. 

Shares  of  the  company  should  not  have  been  suspended  (except  for  corporate 

actions) from trading in past 3 years.  

iii.  Annualised delivery based trading turnover requirement of 10% of the total paid 

up capital. 

iv.  No  direct  or  indirect  conflict  of  interest  should  be  there  between  the  lead 

manager, its group or associate company with the issuer or its group or associate 

company. 

v. 

 Issuer,  promoter  group  and  directors  of the  issuer  should  not  have  settled  any 

alleged  violation  of  securities  laws  through  the  consent  mechanism  with  the 

Board in last 3 years. 

 

In  addition  to  above,  for  facilitating  divestment  of  Central  Public  Sector  Enterprises 

(CPSEs),  it  is  recommended  that    the  fast  track  issue  route  shall  be  available  to  them 

without  the  requirement  of  a  minimum  average  market  capitalisation  of  public 

shareholding  subject to CPSEs complying with all the other existing conditions for Fast 

Track  route.  Also,  in  case  where  CPSE  is  not  able  to  comply  with  any  of  these 

conditions, SEBI may, based on the merits of the case, consider granting exemption. 

 

5.  Public Comments on the proposal 
 

In  view  of  the  above,  public  comments  are  solicited  on  the  above  proposal  at  para  4 

specifically on the following points: 

a.  Should the existing criteria of minimum market capitalisation of public float be 

lowered? 

b.  If  yes,  what  should  be  the  level  of  market  capitalisation  of  public  float  that 

should be considered for issues under fast track route? 

c.  If the requirement of minimum market capitalisation of public float is lowered 

what additional conditions should be introduced so as to ensure only credible 

issuers access the market through fast track route without vetting by SEBI? 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 16 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

d.  Are  the  additional  conditions  proposed  above  are  sufficient  or  further 

additional conditions may be specified? 

e.  Any  other  suggestions  to  facilitate  fast  tracking  of  issues  by  existing  listed 

issuers and at the same time ensuring adequate protection of investors? 

 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 17 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

III.  Details for Public comments: 

 
1.  Considering  the  implications  of  the  said  matter  on  the  market  participants 

including listed companies, market intermediaries and investors, public comments 

on 

the  policy 

framework  proposed 

above 

are 

solicited. 

Specific 

comments/suggestions  as  per  the  format  given  below  would  be  highly 

appreciated: 

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary:  
 

 

Name of organization (if applicable): 
 
 

Sr. 
No. 

Pertains to 

paragraph I (6) or II 

 
 

 
 

 

(5) 

 

 

Pertain to 

serial 

number 

(alphabet) 

 
 

Proposed 
changes / 

      suggestions 

Rationale 

 

 
 

 
 

2.  Such  comments  may  please  be  e-mailed  on  or  before  January  30,  2015,  to 

capitalraising@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:- 

 
Shri. Amit Tandon 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +91-22-26449373/ +91-22-26449483 

 

************ 

 
 

Revisiting the capital raising process 
 

Page 18 

