 
 

 

 

 

Discussion Paper on  

1.  Alternate Capital Raising Platform and  
2.  Review of other regulatory requirements 

1.  Background 

 

 

1.1.  With  a  view  to  provide  easier  exit  options  for  informed  investors  like  Angel 

Investors, Venture Capital Funds (VCFs), etc, SEBI Board in its meeting held on June 

25,  2013,  approved  a  proposal  to  permit  listing  of  SMEs  in  Institutional  Trading 

platform (ITP) without having to make an IPO. 

1.2.  While such companies are listed on the ITP, they are not permitted to raise equity 

capital through public issues though they can continue to make private placements. 

SEBI  has  been  in  receipt  of  suggestions  to  permit  capital  raising  in  the  said  ITP 

platform. 

1.3.  Further,  as  part  of  the  regular  consultative  process,  SEBI  in  the  recent  past 

interacted with iSPIRT (which stands for 'Indian Software Product Industry Round 

Table', a body dedicated to promote existing Indian software product companies). A 

few  Indian  start-ups  were  also  present  during  the  said  interaction.  It  was 

highlighted that there are around 3000 Indian start-up companies with the pace of 

setting  up  such  companies  picking  up  lately  and  that  Indian  software  product 

companies are impacting nearly 3 million small businesses. They highlighted certain 

challenges facing the industry players to create a regulatory awareness of the typical 

needs of the industry.   

1.4.  While recognizing the availability of SME platform for facilitating capital raising by 

small  scale  businesses  and  presence  of  the  novel  SME-ITP  to  facilitate  exit  of 

institutional investors like PEs, it was submitted that these existing avenues may be 

further made amenable for accommodating a larger number of growing companies.  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

1.5.  Further,  Association  of  Investment  Bankers  of  India  (AIBI),  an  association  of 

investment bankers in India has submitted suggestions to SEBI to facilitate  issuers 

with 

lower  holding  of  founding  members.  AIBI  has  also  been  requesting 

clarifications on applicability of certain provisions of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2009 

(ICDR Regulations) in respect of such companies. 

 

2.  Need for review 

2.1.  Under the ICDR Regulations, the promoters are required to offer a minimum 20% of 

post  issue  capital  as  lock-in  for  a  period  of  3  years.  The  lock-in  provision  ensures 

promoters' skin in the game for a period of at least 3 years.  

2.2.  Further,  the  detailed  disclosure  on  objects  of  the  issue  and  basis  for  issue  price 

ensures that the company justifies the price at which it plans to issue shares and the 

purpose for which the amount raised shall be utilized. 

2.3.  The  said  requirements  are intended to ensure that interest of investors, especially 

the  retail  investors,  is  protected.  However,  many  start-up  companies  that  have 

flourished in recent times and several of which have also achieved scale, have lower 

founding  members'  holding  (often  less  than  20%)  and  a  large  holding  of 

institutional investors.  

2.4.  Thus, founding members of such companies are not in a position to offer the shares 

for  lock-in.  It  is  also  cited  that  such  founding  members  do  not  have  sufficient 

resources to acquire additional shares to offer for lock in. Further, such companies 

are often professionally run and hence the founding members are not inclined to be 

disclosed as promoters. 

2.5.  Such companies are often loss-making and belong to sectors for which there are no 

comparable financial ratios available. 

2.6.  The  institutional  investors  of  such  companies  generally  advise  these  companies  to 

list  overseas  citing  relaxed  regulatory  regime  in  other  jurisdictions.  In  the  past,  a 

few  measures  to  relax  certain  requirements  have  already  been  taken  by  SEBI. 

However,  considering  the  unique  nature  of  such  companies,  they  seek  differential 

treatment.    

2.7.  If  the  capital  raising  process  in  India  is  not  made  further  relaxed  for  such  issuers, 

they may be driven to list on stock exchanges outside India.  It has been a challenge 

Alternate Capital Raising Platform and other regulatory requirements 
 

Page 2 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

for SEBI to simplify the capital raising process for such issuers while protecting the 

interest of retail investors.   

2.8.  Considering  the  role  of  such  companies  in  nation  building  and  their  potential  in 

terms  of  generating  employment  and  income  as  well  as  fostering  innovation,  it  is 

imperative that necessary enabling environment is provided for these enterprises to 

flourish. 

2.9.  Various suggestions in this regard were deliberated in the Primary Market Advisory 

Committee (PMAC) of SEBI. 

2.10. Pursuant to  the  recommendations  of PMAC and further discussions,  a proposal  on 

alternate  capital  raising  platform  wherein  money  shall  be  raised  only  from 

institutions  and  high  net  worth  individuals  by  the  new-age  companies  having 

innovative business model and  belonging to knowledge-based technology sector is 

detailed below. On account of the risk involved in investing in such companies, it is 

proposed that retail investors be restricted from investing in such companies. 

 

3.  Proposal on Alternate Capital Raising Platform 

 

3.1. Eligibility 

3.1.1.  Going by the developments in the USA, Europe, China and other markets, it is 

noted  that  young  entrepreneurs  are  coming  out  with  innovations  which  are 

leading to creation of technology companies which are bringing in completely 

new  business  opportunities  by  facilitating  creation  of  new  products  for 

consumers  or  are  contributing  towards  system  improvement  and  process 

efficiencies in existing operation of companies. Many of the companies have the 

characteristic that their knowledge based product is not widely understood or 

appreciated  by  large  number  of  investors.  They  do  not  incur  profits  in  the 

initial years, but have potential to grow in a big way in a short time frame. It is 

a  global  phenomenon  that  many  of  them  are  getting  acquired  by  large 

companies  at  high  valuations.  Innovators  are  therefore,  looking  for  an 

environment where their inner strength and potential is fairly recognised. 

3.1.2.  In  India  such  an  eco  system  has  come  in  existence  in  many  parts  of  the 

country such as Karnataka, Kerala, NCR, Maharashtra, etc. For want of a better 

Alternate Capital Raising Platform and other regulatory requirements 
 

Page 3 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

price discovery within the country, many of these companies plan to get listed 

in Singapore or the USA. 

3.1.3.  One  of  the  challenges  in  coming  out  with  a  special  carve  out  in  these 

knowledge  based  industries  is  to  define  them.  It  is  proposed  that  the  new 

platform for raising money within the country will be initially made applicable 

to  companies  which  are  in  the  area  of  software  product  development,  e-

commerce,  new-age  companies  having  innovative  business  model,  etc.  which 

create  new  business  opportunities  or  which  serve  important  efficiency 

enhancement in existing business activities. 

 

3.2. Modified Institutional Platform 

3.2.1.  Capital raising shall be allowed on the ITP with certain modifications in the 

current  regulatory  framework  that  may  include  relaxation  on  restriction  of 

fund raising, minimum investment from certain category of investors, etc  

3.2.2.  The  proposed  platform  will  have  two  categories  of  investors  i.e.  Qualified 

Institutional  Buyers  (QIB)  and  Non-institutional  investors  (NII).  It  has  been 

suggested that the family trusts may also be allowed to apply under the QIB 

category. 

3.2.3.  Allotment to QIBs may be on a discretionary basis whereas to NIIs it shall be 

on proportionate basis. Allocation between the said two categories shall be in 

the  ratio  of  75%  and  25%  respectively.  Any  under  subscription  in  non-

institutional categories shall be available to QIB category 

3.2.4.  No QIBs shall be allotted more than 5% of the issue size 

3.2.5.  The minimum application size in case of such issues shall be  Rs. 10 lakhs  

3.2.6.  The minimum no. of allottees  in such issues shall be 500  

3.2.7.  The  listing  on  institutional  platform  shall  be  for  a  period  of  at  least  1  year. 

Post-1  year,  the  company  will  have  the  option  to  migrate  to  main  board 

subject to compliance with eligibility requirements of the Stock Exchanges  

3.2.8.  The minimum trading lot on the said platform shall be of Rs. 5 lakhs.  There is 

also a suggestion that this threshold limit on trading lot be lowered for sale of 

shares by the employees who have been granted ESOPs 

3.2.9.  For  Category  I  and  II  AIFs,  which  are  required  under  the  SEBI  (Alternative 

Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012 to invest a certain minimum amount in 

Alternate Capital Raising Platform and other regulatory requirements 
 

Page 4 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

unlisted securities, investment in shares of companies listed on this platform 

may  be  treated  as  investment  in  'unlisted  securities'  for  the  purpose  of 

calculation of the investment limits.  

 

3.3. Process 

3.3.1.  New-age  companies  having  innovative  business  model  and  belonging  to 

knowledge-based  technology  sector,  where  no  person  (individually  or 

collectively  with  persons  acting  in  concert)  holds  25%  or  more  of  the  pre-

issue share capital, may be considered as professionally managed companies 

and  access  capital  through  the  said  institutional  platform.  In  other  words, 

companies  where  any  person  (individually  or  collectively  with  persons 

acting  in  concert)  holds  25%  or  more  of  the  pre-issue  share  capital  shall 

access capital through the existing main board 

3.3.2.  Such  issuers  shall  be  required  to  file  draft  offer  document  with  SEBI  for 

observations,  as  provided  in  ICDR  Regulations.  The  issuers  shall  ensure 

compliance  with  various  applicable  provisions 

in  ICDR  Regulations 

(including  disclosures  on  key  managerial  personnel  and  business  model), 

subject to the following carve-outs.  

 

3.4. Objects of the issues  

 

Existing Regulation 

Schedule VIII - Part A (VII) of ICDR Regulations requires disclosure of the objects of 

the  issue,  inter-alia  on  the  purpose  of  issue,  means  of  financing  such  project, 

proposed deployment status of the proceeds at each stage of the project, Interest of 

promoters and directors, etc 

Proposal 

The main object may be for general corporate purpose. Further, the disclosure may 

be  restricted  to  only  broad  objects.  This  is  in  line  with  the  major  international 

jurisdictions. 

 

 

 

Alternate Capital Raising Platform and other regulatory requirements 
 

Page 5 

 

 

 

 

   

3.5. Lock-in of Shares 

 

Existing Regulation 

Regulation  36  (a)  of  ICDR  Regulation  stipulates  that  the  minimum  promoters' 

contribution  (20%  of  post  issue  capital)  shall  be  locked  in  for  a  period  of  3  years 

from the  date  of commencement of commercial production or date  of allotment  in 

public  issue,  whichever  is  later.  Further,  Regulation  36(b)  of  ICDR  Regulation 

stipulates  that  promoters’  holding  in  excess  of  minimum  promoters’  contribution 

shall be locked-in for a period of one year: 

Regulation 37 of ICDR Regulation stipulates that the entire pre-issue capital held by 

persons other than promoters shall be locked-in for a period of one year, subject to 

exemptions carved out for certain cases. 

Proposal 

Lock in of the entire pre-issue capital should be for a period of 6 months uniformly 

for all shareholders.  

 

3.6. Basis of Issue Price 

 

Existing Regulation 

Schedule  VIII  -  Part  A  (VII)  (K)  of  ICDR  Regulations  requires  the  disclosure  of  the 

basis for issue price including disclosure of Earnings Per Share, Diluted Earnings Per 

Share, Price earnings ratio, pre-issue Average Return on Net Worth, etc. 

Proposal 

The basis of issue price may include disclosures, other than projections, as deemed 

fit by the issuers accessing the market on the institutional platform in order to enable 

investors take informed decisions 

 

4.  Review of Other Regulatory Requirements 

 

 
 

 

The Committee further deliberated and recommended that the following provisions 

shall  be  applicable  for  all  issuers  irrespective  of  the  listing  on  main  board  or  the 

institutional platform: 

Alternate Capital Raising Platform and other regulatory requirements 
 

Page 6 

 

 
 

4.1. Definition of QIB 

 

Existing Regulation 

 

 

 

 

   

Regulation  2  (1)  (zd)  of  ICDR  Regulations  details  the  institutions  that  may  be 

considered as qualified institutional buyer 

Proposal 

The definition of QIBs may be extended to include systematically important NBFCs 

as per RBI guidelines and family offices / trusts, subject to such family offices/trust 

registering  itself  as  Alternate  Investment  Funds  (AIF)  under  the  AIF  Regulations.  

Further,  any  other  entity  registered  with  SEBI  subject  to  minimum  net-worth  of 

Rs.500 crore may also be considered as a QIB 

 

4.2. Disclosure with respect to group companies  

 

Existing Regulation 

Schedule  VIII  of  ICDR  Regulation  states  that  "group  companies",  wherever  they 

occur, shall mean companies, firms, ventures, etc. promoted by the promoters of the 

issuer, irrespective of whether such entities are covered under section 370 (1)(B) of 

the Companies Act, 1956 or not. 

Proposal 

Disclosure  with  respect  to  group  companies  shall  be  restricted  to  such  group 

companies  as  covered  under  the  applicable  accounting  standard  (Currently, 

Accounting  Standard  18).  In  addition,  disclosure  shall  be  given  for  such  group 

companies  as  considered  material  by  the  board  of  the  issuer.  The  policy  on 

materiality should be disclosed in the offer document.  

 

4.3. Disclosure of litigations  

 

Existing Regulation 

Schedule  VIII  Part  A  (2)  (X)  (A)  requires  disclosures  of  various  Outstanding 

Litigations  and  Material  Developments  such  as  litigations  against  the  issuer, 

directors  involving  violation  of  statutory  regulations,  tax  liabilities  or  alleging 

Alternate Capital Raising Platform and other regulatory requirements 
 

Page 7 

 

 

 

 

   

criminal  offence;  adverse  findings  on  compliance  with  the  securities  laws,  non 

payment of statutory dues, cases in which penalties were imposed etc. 

Proposal 

  All criminal cases and regulatory actions should be disclosed 

  With respect to taxation disputes, separate disclosure regarding claims related 

to direct and indirect taxes shall be provided in a consolidated manner 

  For other litigations, policy for materiality shall be defined by the company and 

disclosed in the offer document. Based on the same, disclosures shall be made. 

 

 
 

 

4.4. Disclosures on creditors  

 

Existing Regulation 

ICDR  Regulations,  Schedule  VIII  Part  A  (2)  (X)  (A)  (1)  (i)  under  the  outstanding 

litigations requires the disclosure of the name(s) of the small scale undertaking(s) or 

any other creditors to whom the issuer owes a sum exceeding Rs. one lakh which is 

outstanding more than thirty days. 

Proposal 

Complete  details  about  creditors  should  be  disclosed  on  the  web  page  of  the 

company.  The  disclosure  in  the  offer  document  should  be  based  on  materiality 

thresholds as  defined and disclosed in the  offer document and shall provide  link to 

the  webpage  of  the  company  where  full  details  are  disclosed.  Only  consolidated 

information on dues to SMEs and other creditors shall be disclosed in the prospectus. 

 

4.5. Disclaimer Clause 

 

Existing Regulation  

Regulation  60  (3)  of  ICDR  Regulations  requires  a  disclosure  in  all  public 

communications and publicity material issued or published in any media during the 

period commencing from the date of filing draft offer document with the Board till 

the  date  of  allotment  by  the  issuer  that  it  is  proposing  to  make  a  public  issue  or 

rights issue and has filed a draft offer document. 

 

 

Alternate Capital Raising Platform and other regulatory requirements 
 

Page 8 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Proposal 

It is proposed that the product advertisements of the issuers may be exempted from 

the  requirement  of  ‘disclaimer’.  However,  disclosure  shall  continue  in  other 

corporate and issue related advertisements.  

5.  Public comments: 

Considering the implications of the said matter on  the market participants including 

issuers  and  investors,  public  comments  on  the  policy  framework  proposed  at 

paragraph 3 & 4 above are solicited. Specific comments/suggestions as per the format 

given below would be highly appreciated: 

 

 

Sr. 

No. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pertains to serial 

Agree / Disagree to 

Proposed 

Rationale 

number under 

the proposal at the 

changes / 

 

paragraph (3)/(4) 

said serial number 

suggestions 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Such  comments  may  please  be  e-mailed  on  or  before  April  20,  2015,  to 

capitalraising@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:- 

 

Shri. Amit Tandon 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +91-22-26449373/ +91-22-26449483 

 

************ 

Alternate Capital Raising Platform and other regulatory requirements 
 

Page 9 

