 

 

 

Discussion Paper on “Review of policy 
relating to forfeiture of partly paid-up 

shares - Amendments to SEBI 

(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 

Takeovers) Regulations, 2011” 

Background  
 
1.  Forfeiture of shares is a process specified under Table-F (Articles of Association of a 

 

Company Limited by Shares) of Schedule I of the Companies Act, 2013. The standard 

procedure to be followed in case of forfeiture of partly paid-up shares is as follows: 

 

 

i. 

If a member fails to pay any call, or instalment of a call, on the day appointed 

for payment, the Board of Directors of the company may, at any time thereafter 

during such time as any part of the call or instalment remains unpaid, serve a 

notice  on  him  requiring  payment  of  such  amount,  together  with  any  interest 

which may have accrued. 

 

ii. 

If  the  requirements  of  any  such  notice  are  not  complied  with,  any  share  in 

respect of which the notice has been given may be forfeited by a resolution of 

the Board of Directors of the company. 

2.  The manner of exercising voting rights on partly paid-up shares as per the Companies 

Act, 2013 has been specified as hereunder: 

 

 

i.  As per clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 47 of the Companies Act, 2013, 

voting  rights  on  a  poll  shall  be  proportionate  to  the  paid-up  equity  share 

capital of the company. Therefore, voting rights on partly paid-up shares may 

be considered to be in proportion to the actual amount paid on these shares. 

Page 1 

 

 

 

 

   

ii. 

Further, sub-section (1) of section 106 of the Companies Act, 2013 allows the 

articles of a company to provide that no member shall exercise any voting right 

in  respect  of  any  shares  registered  in  his  name  on  which  any  calls  or  other 

sums presently payable by him have not been paid. 

 

 
 

 

3.  However, the increase in voting rights on the expiry of call notice period may not be 

everlasting and some shareholders may pay up the calls even after the expiry of call 

notice  period and there would be  uncertainty in this  respect till the time the  shares 

are forfeited by the company. Since the actual increase in voting rights is evident only 

on forfeiture of shares, the open offer obligations in such cases would trigger on the 

date  of  forfeiture  of  partly  paid-up  shares.  However,  the  same  is  not  explicitly 

provided for. 

 

4.  With regard to the issue of incidental increase in voting rights without a positive act of 

an  acquirer,  Hon’ble  SAT  vide  order  dated  November  21,  2011  in  the  matter  of  Mr. 

Raghu Hari Dalmia and others vs SEBI had ruled that the increase in the voting rights 

of  the  appellants  was  not  by  reason  of  any  act  of  theirs  but  was  incidental  to  the 

buyback of shares of other shareholders by the company and such a passive increase 

in the proportion of their voting rights would not attract regulation 11(1) of the SEBI 

(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997. It may be noted 

that open offer obligations arising as a result of buyback were subsequently brought 

under the scope of exemptions through the automatic route in the SEBI (Substantial 

Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  (hereinafter  referred  to  as 

the "Takeover Regulations, 2011").  

 

5.  The increase in the shareholding due to the expiry of call notice period and forfeiture 

of shares may be treated as a passive acquisition due to the following reasons: 

 

 

 
 

i. 

Increase  in  voting  rights  of  any  shareholder  as  a  result  of  forfeiture  of  partly 

paid-up shares held by some shareholders is passive in nature as the process is 

initiated due to non-payment of call money by defaulting shareholders. 

Page 2 

 

 

 

 

   

ii. 

Similarly, accrual of voting rights to the remaining shareholders, computed on 

pro rata basis, upon the expiry of call notice issued to the shareholders holding 

partly paid-up shares is also passive in nature. 

 

 
 

 

iii. 

Forfeiture  is  undertaken  by  the  company  as  per  the  provisions  of  the 

Companies  Act,  2013  where  it  is  at  full  liberty  to  undertake  this  to  remove 

defaulting shareholders from the Register of Members. 

 
Need for regulatory amendment 
 
6.  Regulation  10  of  the  Takeover  Regulations,  2011  provides  general  exemption  from 

the obligations to make an open offer for certain acquisitions, subject to fulfillment of 

the conditions specified therein. 

 

7.  Increase in voting rights arising out of actions undertaken by the companies under the 

Companies Act, 2013 such as rights issues, buybacks and schemes of arrangement are 

exempt  from  the  open  offer  obligations  under  regulation  10  of  the  Takeover 

Regulations, 2011. 

 

8.  Further,  accrual  of  voting  rights  on  preference  shares  where  dividend  has  not  been 

paid for two years or more as per sub-section (2) of section 47 of the Companies Act, 

2013 are exempt from the open offer obligations under regulation 10 of the Takeover 

Regulations, 2011. 

 

9.  Currently, there is no provision for increase in the voting rights of a shareholder due 

to the expiry of call notice period and forfeiture of partly paid-up shares to be exempt 

under regulation 10 of the Takeover Regulations, 2011 and an application needs to be 

filed with SEBI for seeking exemption from the open  offer obligations in this  regard 

under regulation 11 of the Takeover Regulations, 2011. 

 

10. It  may  be  noted  that  the  facts  of  these  cases  with  respect  to  these  applications  are 

quite  similar. However,  a  reasoned  order  must  be  passed  by  SEBI  in each  such  case 

which may take enormous amount of time and effort.  

 
 

Page 3 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

11. Further, increase in the voting rights of a shareholder due to the expiry of call notice 

period and forfeiture of partly paid-up shares is undertaken under the Companies Act, 

2013 and is passive in nature. 

 

12. Therefore,  it  is  proposed  that  the  Takeover  Regulations,  2011  may  be  amended 

suitably for providing general exemption from the open offer obligations in the cases 

of  increase  in  voting  rights  as  a  result  of  the  expiry  of  call  notice  period  and  the 

forfeiture  of  shares  in  line  with  general  exemptions  available  with  respect  to  rights 

issues, buybacks etc. 

 
Proposed Amendment 
 
13. Accordingly, it is  proposed to insert the  following as  clause (j) under sub-regulation 

(1) of regulation 10 of the Takeover Regulations, 2011: 

 

“Increase in voting rights arising out of the operation of sub-section (1) of section 106 

of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or  pursuant  to  forfeiture  of  shares  by  a  company 

undertaken in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and articles of 

association of the company.” 

 
Public comments 
 
14. Considering the implications of the said matter on the market participants including 

listed  companies,  promoters/promoter  group  of  the  said  companies  and  investors, 

public  comments  on  the  amendment  proposed  above  at  paragraph  13  are  solicited. 

Specific  comments/suggestions  as  per  the  format  given  below  would  be  highly 

appreciated: 

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary:  

Name of organization (if applicable): 

Sr. 
No. 

 

 

Proposed / 

suggested changes 

Rationale 

 

 

 
 

Page 4 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

15. Such  comments  may  please  be  e-mailed  on  or  before  September  30,  2015,  to 

anupamk@sebi.gov.in or sksingh@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:- 

Ms. V. Divya Veda 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +912226449629/ +912226449370 

 
 

************ 

 

 
 

 
 

Page 5 

