Consultation paper for amendments to the SEBI (Infrastructure Investment 

Trusts) Regulations, 2014 

 

Objective:  

1.  To  solicit  the  comments/views  from  public  on  suggestions  pertaining  to  making 
amendments/providing  clarifications  to  the  SEBI  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 (hereinafter "InvIT Regulations"). 

 

 

Background: 

2.  SEBI InvIT Regulations were notified on 26th September, 2014, thereby providing a 
regulatory  framework  for  registration  and  regulation  of  InvITs  in  India.  The 
Regulations,  inter  alia,  provide  for  conditions  for  making  a  public  offer  and  private 
placement,  initial  and  continuous  disclosures,  investment  conditions,  unit-holder 
approval requirements, related party disclosures, etc. 
 

3.  Government of India, in the Budget for FY 2014-15 introduced a separate chapter on 
the  Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts  (InvITs)  and  Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts 
(REITs) (collectively referred in the budget as "Business Trusts") in the Income Tax 
Act, 1961, thereby introducing various measures for Business trusts in the tax law. 
Further, in the Budget for FY 2015-16, government provided clarity on certain other 
tax aspects such as clarity on capital gains, MAT, etc. for Business Trusts. 

 

4.  SEBI,  in  its  discussions  with  the  industry  and  in  various  representations,  has 
received suggestions for making amendments/providing clarifications with respect to 
the InvIT Regulations. Based on the suggestions, certain amendments/clarifications 
are proposed to the InvIT Regulations  as under: 

 

Proposals: 

5.  Allowing two level SPVs for InvITs  

 

5.1. Regulation 2(1)(zy) of InvIT regulations define a SPV as  

"SPV" or "special purpose vehicle" means any company or LLP,– 

 

1 | P a g e  

(i)  in  which  the  InvIT  holds  or  proposes  to hold  controlling  interest  and  not  less 
than fifty per cent. of the equity share capital or interest:  

Provided  that  in  case  of  PPP  projects  where  such  acquiring  or  holding  is 
disallowed  by  government  or  regulatory  provisions  under  the  concession 
agreement  or  such  other  agreement,  this  clause  shall  not  apply  and  shall  be 
subject to provisions under proviso to sub-regulation (3) of regulation 12; 

(ii) which holds not less than ninety per cent. of its assets directly in infrastructure 
projects and does not invest in other SPVs; and  

(iii) which is not be engaged in any other activity other than activities pertaining to 
and incidental to the underlying infrastructure projects; 

Therefore,  as  per  the  current  regulations  InvITs  can  either  hold  infrastructure 
assets either directly or through an SPV, which InvIT holds control in. 

5.2. It  has  been  represented  that  infrastructure  assets  in  India  are  usually  held 
through different Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs), where the promoters of such 
SPVs create separate holding companies (Holdcos) which in turn hold stake in 
the  underlying  SPVs.  Thus, 
the  sponsors  may  have  separate  Holding 
Companies  (“Holdcos”)  which  hold  multiple  SPVs  which  have  projects  of  a 
particular  category.  For  instance,  some  companies  hold  under  construction 
projects  in  SPVs  below  a  Holdco  but  have  a  separate  Holdco  for  SPVs  with 
operational projects/ Assets.  Thus it has been requested that InvITs be allowed 
to invest in infrastructure projects through SPVs which in turn hold stake in other 
SPVs which ultimately hold the infrastructure assets. 

5.3. The rationale given by industry for necessitating such change are as under: 

a) 

In  Infrastructure  sector,  specifically  for  PPP  projects,  certain  concession 
agreements do not allow for direct change in control in SPV which holds the 
assets,  thereby  making  it  possible  to  transfer  shares  at  holding  company 
level only. 

b)  Certain contracts for example power purchase agreements in power sector 
require consents for direct change of control which may be time consuming 
and not efficient.  

c)  A  large  proportion  of  the  infrastructure  projects  in  India  are  financed  by 
Indian financial institutions on a project finance basis where lenders require 
a pledge on the shares of the SPV. In such cases, if the SPV is held directly 

2 | P a g e  

 

 

by  the  InvIT,  the  lenders  would  want  pledge  of  SPV  shares  held  by  the 
InvIT. This might not be attractive for InvIT investors.  

d)  There  are  also  concerns  of  tax  inefficiencies,  lender  considerations, 
difficulties  in  exit  for  financial  investors,  etc.  if  investment  in  the  HoldCo  is 
not allowed. 

5.4. Based on the above, it is proposed to allow InvIT to invest in a Holdco, investing 

in other SPV(s) (“Underlying SPV”) subject to the following: 

 
a) 

the InvIT shall hold controlling interest and not less than fifty per cent of the 
equity  share  capital  or  interest  in    the  HoldCo  and  the  Holdco  shall  in  turn 
hold  controlling  interest  and  not  less  than  fifty  per  cent  of  the  equity  share 
capital or interest in  Underlying SPV(s); 

b)  No  other  shareholder  or  partner  of  the  Underlying  SPV(s)  shall  have  any 
rights that prevent the InvIT and Holdco from complying with the provisions 
of these regulations; 

c)  The investment manager, in consultation with the trustee, shall ensure that 
not  less  than  one  authorized  representative  of  the  HoldCo  or  the  InvIT  is 
appointed  on  the  Board  of  directors  or  governing  board  of  the  Underlying 
SPV(s); 

d)  The investment manager shall ensure that in every meeting including annual 
general  meeting  of  the  Underlying  SPV(s),  the  voting  of  the  HoldCo  is 
exercised.  

e)  All  corporate  governance  norms  shall  be  applicable  at  the  Underlying  SPV 

level in addition to the HoldCo.  

f)  All responsibilities of the investment manager with respect to the SPVs shall 

apply at both the levels. 

g)  All  investment  conditions  and  leverage  requirements  will  apply  at  a 

consolidated level.  

h)  The  requirement  of  mandatory  distribution  of  at 

the 
distributable  cash  flows  shall  apply  to  the  Underlying  SPV(s).100%  of  the 
net distributable cash flows of the HoldCo shall be distributed to the InvIT.  

least  90%  of 

i)  All  financial  statements  of  the  InvIT  shall  be  consolidated  with  both  the 

SPVs. 

 

3 | P a g e  

j) 

The Holdco shall not be engaged in any other activity other than holding of 
the Underlying SPV(s). 

k)  Any other conditions as the Board may deem necessary. 

5.5. It  is  therefore  proposed  that  express  provisions  may  be  provided  in  the  InvIT 
regulations for allowing investments by InvIT in two level SPV structures and to 
amend the regulation 2(1)(zy) of InvIT  Regulations   and any other Regulation 
as may be necessary for the purpose.  

6.  Reducing sponsor commitment in InvIT 

6.1. Regulation 12(3) of InvIT regulations states that  

With respect to holding of units in the InvIT, the sponsor(s) together shall hold not 
less  than  twenty  five  per  cent  of  the  total  units  of  the  InvIT  after  initial  offer  of 
units, on a post-issue basis for a period of not less than 3 years from the date of 
the listing of such units:  

Provided  that  in  case  of  PPP  projects,  in  case  such  acquiring  or  holding  is 
disallowed by government or under any provisions of the concession agreement 
or any other such agreement,–   

(i) the sponsor may continue to maintain such holding at the SPV level;  

(ii) the consolidated value of all such holdings at the SPV level and the value of 
the units of InvIT held by the sponsor shall not be less than the value of twenty 
five  per  cent.  of  the  total  units  of  the  InvIT  after  initial  issue  of  units  on  a  post-
issue basis;  

(iii) such units of the InvIT and shares or interest in the SPV shall be held for a 
period of not less than three years from the date of the listing of units of the InvIT;  

(iv)  in  case  such  holding  of  sponsor  in  the  SPV  results  in  the  InvIT  not  having 
controlling  interest  and  not  having  more  than  fifty  per  cent.  shareholding  or 
interest  in  the  SPV,  the  sponsor  shall  enter  into  a  binding  agreement  with  the 
InvIT to ensure that decisions taken by the sponsor including voting with respect 
to the SPV are in compliance with these regulations and not against the interest 
of the InvITs or the unit holders and shall be subject to further guidelines as may 
be specified by the Board. 

6.2. The  present  guidelines  requires  the  sponsor(s)  of  the  InvIT  to  hold,  on  a 
collective basis, not less than twenty five per cent of the total units of the InvIT 

 

4 | P a g e  

on a post-issue basis for a period of not less than 3 years from the date of the 
listing of such units. 

6.3. In this regard, industry has represented following: 

a) 

Infrastructure  assets  are  usually  financed  through  debt,  where  the  capital 
structure  of  the  SPVs,  executing  such  infrastructure  projects,  is  generally 
debt heavy (as high as 75-80% of the total capital employed is debt) and the 
value of sponsors stake in  the total capital structure in such SPVs (value of 
equity) is in minority value.  

b)  High  leverage  at  the  Asset  level  leads  to  substantial  cash  flows  being 
utilized  towards  servicing  of  the existing  project finance  debt. Since,  InvITs 
are considered to be investment vehicles which provide stable cash flows to 
the investors, a capital structure with no or low leverage  would ensure that 
interest  which  would  have  otherwise  been  paid  to  lenders  is  available  for 
payment of yield to investors.  

c)  Therefore, for such cash flows to be made available to the investors at InvIT 
level  a significant portion of the existing debt at the Assets has to be retired. 
Therefore, in a scenario where a  substantial portion of the existing debt at 
the  Assets  is  replaced  through  primary  issuance  at  InvIT,  the  value  of  the 
InvIT units on a post-issue basis would reflect a value equivalent to the sum 
of the market value of the equity capital of the Assets and the retired debt at 
the assets.  

d)  Thus, the requirement for Sponsor to hold 25% of units at InvIT  on a post-
issue  basis,  may  limit  the monetization for  sponsors  and  reduce  release of 
capital  for  such  sponsors  and  may  not  be  lucrative  for  the  existing  set  of 
sponsors. Further, in certain circumstances this may lead to sponsor putting 
money,  out  of  its  own  pocket,  in  the  InvIT  so  as  to  maintain  the  required 
25% stake. This would be very onerous at the part of the sponsor. 

e)  Thus, the minimum sponsor holding in the InvIT may be reduced to 10% so 

as to make it attractive for the sponsors to float such vehicles. 

6.4. Therefore, it is proposed that Regulation 12(3) of the InvIT Regulations  may be 

amended to allow following: 

a)  sponsor(s)  of  the  InvIT  to  hold  not  less  than  10%  of  the  total  units  of  the 

InvIT on a post-issue basis. 

 

5 | P a g e  

b) 

in case of PPP projects, where acquiring or holding of the stake at SPV level 
is  disallowed  by  government  or  under  any  provisions  of  the  concession 
agreement or any other such agreement, the consolidated value of sponsor 
holdings  at  the  SPV  level  and  the  value  of  the  units  of  InvIT  held  by  the 
sponsor shall not be less than the value of 10% of the total units of the InvIT 
after initial issue of units on a post-issue basis;  

Rest all other conditions, as have been specified in the regulations, shall remain 
unchanged.  

Public Comments: 

7.  In  order  to  take  into  consideration  views  of  various  stakeholders,  public  comments 

are solicited on the following issues: 

7.1. Allowing InvITs to invest in two level SPV structure. 

7.2. Relaxing the sponsor commitment  in InvIT from 25% to 10% 

8.  Comments/ suggestions may be provided in the format given below: 

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 
Sr. No.  
 
 
 

Issue 
 
 

Suggestions  
 
 

Rationale 
 
 

Public  comments  are  invited  on  the  consultative  paper  on  the  aforesaid  proposals. 
Comments  may  be  forwarded  by  email  to  Ms.  Nila  Salil  Khanolkar,  Assistant 
General  Manager 
(nila@sebi.gov.in)  or  Mr.  Naveen  Gupta,  Manager 
(naveeng@sebi.gov.in) latest by September 06, 2015. 

 

Issued on: August 20, 2015 

 

6 | P a g e  

 

 

