 

 

 

Discussion Paper on “Exit Offer to 

Dissenting Shareholders” 

 
Background 

 

1.  Section 13 and Section 27 of Companies Act, 2013 have prescribed that dissenting 

shareholders shall be  given an exit opportunity by promoters and shareholders 

having  control  over  the  company  in  accordance  with  the  regulations  to  be 

specified by SEBI. Both these sections have come into force w.e.f. April 01, 2014.  

 

2.  The relevant extract of Act is reproduced below for ease of reference: 

Section 13(8) of Companies Act, 2013: 

Alteration of memorandum 

"A  company,  which  has  raised  money  from  public  through  prospectus  and  still 

has any unutilised amount out of the money so raised, shall not change its objects 

for  which  it  raised  the  money  through  prospectus  unless  a  special  resolution  is 

passed by the company and— 

a.  the  details,  as  may  be  prescribed,  in  respect  of  such  resolution  shall  also  be 

published  in  the  newspapers  (one  in  English  and  one  in  vernacular  language) 

which  is in circulation at the place where the registered office of the company is 

situated and shall also be placed on the website of the company, if any, indicating 

therein the justification for such change; 

b.  the dissenting shareholders shall be given an opportunity to exit by the promoters 

and shareholders having control in accordance with regulations to be specified by 

the Securities and Exchange Board." 

 

Section 27 of Companies Act, 2013: 

 

Variation in terms of contract or objects in prospectus. 

 

(1) A company shall not, at any time, vary the terms of a contract referred to in the 
prospectus or objects for which the prospectus was issued, except subject to the 
approval of, or except subject to an authority given by the company in general 
meeting by way of special resolution: 

Exit to Dissenting shareholders 
 

Page 1 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Provided  that  the  details,  as  may  be  prescribed,  of  the  notice  in  respect  of  such 
resolution to shareholders, shall also be published in the newspapers (one in English 
and one in vernacular language) in the city where the registered office of the company 
is situated indicating clearly the justification for such variation: 
 
Provided further that such  company shall not use any amount raised by  it through 
prospectus  for  buying,  trading  or  otherwise  dealing  in  equity  shares  of  any  other 
listed company. 

 

(2) The  dissenting  shareholders  being  those  shareholders  who  have  not  agreed  to  the 
proposal to vary the terms of contracts or objects referred to in the prospectus, shall be 
given an exit offer by promoters or controlling shareholders at such exit price, and in 
such  manner  and  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board by making regulations in this behalf." 

3.  Accordingly,  SEBI  is  in  the  process  of  framing  regulations  under  the  aforesaid 

provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. In this regard, public comments are being 

sought on the following related issues:  

   

ISSUES FOR DISCUSSION 

1)  APPLICABILITY OF THE PROVISION: 

 

The provisions may be made applicable on a prospective basis  since the provisions of 

the Act have been made applicable on a prospective basis. This would also take care of 

the apprehension of the inability of the promoters to bring in additional cash in a short 

span of time. 

 

Also,  the  provision  should  be  made  applicable  to  such  contracts  which  may 

substantially affect the main line of business or revenue generation of the company.  

 

It has been suggested that the requirement of providing exit to dissenting shareholders 

may  affect  fresh  capital  raising  as  well  as  capital  availability.  Thus,  the  regulations 

may  provide  that  if  an  offer  is  dissented  by  a  specified  percentage,  say  10%  of 

shareholders, the company may provide exit offer. This will require suitable changes in 

Companies Act as well. 

 

2)  ELIGIBILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS FOR AVAILING THE EXIT OFFER 

 

Exit to Dissenting shareholders 
 

Page 2 

 

 

 

 
 
It  is  presumed  that  investors  in  the  secondary  market  take  an  informed  decision  of 

   

 

 

investing  in  the  equity  shares  of  the  company  after  doing  a  full  background  check  on 

the same. This includes the objects of the company for which the company has raised 

money  from  the  market.  Thus,  investors  who  invested  in  the  company  through 

secondary  market  should  also  be  given  a  fair  opportunity  of  exiting  the  company  in 

case they do not agree to the change in objects of the company.  

 

Therefore investors who are holding shares as on the date on which the proposal to 

change the objects becomes public should be allowed to exit under this provision. 
 

3)  OFFER PRICE FOR THE EXIT OFFER  

 

Reliance on a historical price distorts the value of the shares and such a price may not 

be  reflective  of  the  prevailing  market  price.  Further,  a  higher  exit  price  than  the 

prevailing market price may significantly influence the decision making of the investor 

in favour of achieving short term gains vis-à-vis evaluating exit in the context of long 

term  potential  of  the  company.  Thus,  the  exit  price  should  be  based  on  the  existing 

market value  of the stock. The exit price may be based on  price determined in  case of 

exit offer given to the existing shareholders in terms of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of 

Shares and Takeovers), Regulations, 2011 which, in cases of frequently traded shares, is 

the highest of the following: 

(i)          Volume  weighted  average  price  paid  during  fifty  two  weeks  immediately 

preceding the date of the announcement. 

(ii)        Highest  price  paid  for  any  acquisition  during  the  twenty  six  weeks 

immediately preceding the date of the announcement. 

(iii)  Volume  weighted  average  market  price  for  a  period  of  sixty  trading  days 

immediately preceding the date of the announcement. 

 

4)  CARVE OUTS FOR COMPANIES WITH NO IDENTIFIABLE PROMOTERS  OR 

SHAREHOLDERS HAVING CONTROL 

 

Since  the  exit  offer  has  to  be  given  by  promoters  or  shareholders  having  control, 

whether companies with no identifiable promoters or shareholders having control can 

be exempted from this requirement. This will require suitable changes in Companies Act 

as well. 

 

Exit to Dissenting shareholders 
 

Page 3 

 

 

 

 
 
5)  EXIT OFFER IN CASES WHERE A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF AMOUNT RAISED 

   

 

 

FOR THE ISSUE HAS ALREADY BEEN UTILIZED 

 

There  may  be  instances  wherein  a  company  has  already  utilized  higher  percentage  of 

the  amount  raised  and  intends  to  change  the  objects  to  some  extent  due  to  certain 

reasons. In such cases, the promoters or persons in control should give exit opportunity 

only  if  the  amount  utilized  is  less  than  a  specified  percentage  of  the  total  amount 

raised  for  the  objects  of  the  issue,  e.g.  75%.  This  will  require  suitable  changes  in 

Companies Act as well. 

 

6)  EXEMPTION 

FROM  MANDATORY  TRIGGER  OF  OPEN  OFFER 

REQUIREMENTS 

 

There  may  be  instances  wherein  the  promoters  or  shareholders  in  control  may  trigger 

open  offer  obligations  owing  to  shareholding  increasing  beyond  25%  or  through 

creeping  acquisition.  Such  increase  in  shareholding  due  to  mandatory  requirement  of 

law  should  be  exempted  from  open  offer  obligations.  Further  regulation  3(2)  of  SEBI 

(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers),  Regulations,  2011  does  not  allow 

any person to acquire the shares voluntarily in case the shareholding pursuant to the 

acquisition  exceeds  maximum  permissible  public  shareholding.  In  cases  where 

promoters are already holding 75%, they should be allowed to acquire further shares.   

 

In the event shares accepted in the offer are such that the aggregate shareholding of the 

promoter exceeds 75% of the total paid up capital of the company,  the promoter shall 

comply  with  the  stipulation  mentioned  under  rule  19A  read  with  rule  19(2)(b)  of 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 i.e. bring their shareholding to 75% in one 

year. 

 

7)  MANNER  OF  PROVIDING  EXIT  OPPORTUNITY  TO  DISSENTING 

SHAREHOLDERS 

a)  The notice proposing the passing of the special resolution for changing the objects 

of the issue and variation in terms of contact or objects in prospectus  shall  also 

contain information about the exit offer to the dissenting shareholders.  

 

b)  In addition to the disclosures required under section 102 of the Act read with rule 

32 of Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014 and rule 7 of Companies (Prospectus 

and  Allotment  of  Securities)  Rules,  2014  and  or  any  other  applicable  law,  a 

Exit to Dissenting shareholders 
 

Page 4 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

statement  to  the  effect  that  the  promoters  or  controlling  shareholders  shall 

provide an exit opportunity to the dissenting shareholders shall also be disclosed 

in  the  explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  passing  special  resolution.  The 

regulatory  requirements  in  this  regard  is  placed  as  Annexure  to  this  Discussion 

Paper. 

 

c)  After  passing  of  the  special  resolution,  voting  results  as  specified  in  regulation 

44(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and disclosure requirements) regulations, 2015 

including the list of dissenting shareholders would be communicated to the Stock 

Exchanges. 

 

d)   The issuer shall also intimate the Stock Exchanges on which the securities of the 

company are listed about the offer of promoters or shareholders having control to 

dissenting  shareholders  and  the  price  at  which  the  exit  offer  is  being  given.  The 

Stock Exchanges shall immediately on receipt of such intimation disseminate the 

same to public within one working day. 

e)  The  promoters  or  shareholders  in  control  shall  appoint  a  Merchant  Banker 

registered with SEBI and finalise the exit price in accordance with the regulations 

specified in this regard. 

 

f)  To ensure security for performance of their obligations, promoters or shareholders 

having  control  shall  create  an  escrow  account  and  deposit  the  aggregate 

consideration  in  the  account  at  least  two  working  days  prior  to  opening  of  the 

tendering period.  

 

g)  The  tendering  period  shall  start  not  later  than  seven  working  days  from  the 

passing of the special resolution and shall remain open for ten working days. 

 

h)  The promoters  or shareholders having control shall facilitate tendering of shares 

by  the  shareholders  and  settlement  of  the  same  through  the  Stock  exchange 

mechanism as specified by SEBI vide Circular No. CIR/CFD/ POLICYCELL/1/2015 

dated April 13, 2015  

 

i)  The  promoters  or  shareholders  having  control  shall,  within  a  period  of  ten 

working  days  from  the  last  date  of  the  tendering  period,  make  payment  of 

consideration to the shareholders who have accepted the exit offer.  

Exit to Dissenting shareholders 
 

Page 5 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

   

j)  Within  a  period  of  two  working  days  from  the  payment  of  consideration,  the 

listed  company  shall  make  a  disclosure  to  the  Stock  Exchange  giving  details  of 

aggregate number of shares tendered, accepted, payment of consideration and the 

post  offer  shareholding  pattern  of  the  promoters  and  a  report  by  the  merchant 

banker that the payment has been duly made to all the shareholders who offered 

their shares to exit from the company after dissenting to the proposal.  

 

Public comments: 

4.  Considering  the  implications  of  the  said  matter  on  the  market  participants 

including  listed  companies  and  investors,  public  comments  on  the  policy 

framework  proposed  above  are  solicited.  Specific  comments/suggestions  as  per 

the format given below would be highly appreciated: 

 

Name of entity / person :  
 

 

Name of organization (if applicable): 
 
 

Sr. 

No. 

Pertains to paragraph (1 

Proposed changes / 

Rationale 

to 7) 

 

      suggestions 

 

 

 

 

 

 
5.  Such  comments  may  please  be  e-mailed  on  or  before  December  23,  2015,  to 

 

issueobject@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:- 

 
Shri. Amit Tandon 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +91-22-26449373/ +91-22-26449462 

 

Exit to Dissenting shareholders 
 

Page 6 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

Annexure 

Disclosures required under section 102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013:  
 
A statement setting out the following material facts concerning each item of special 
business to be transacted at a general meeting, shall be annexed to the notice calling 
such meeting, namely:— 

a. 

the nature of concern or interest, financial or otherwise, if any, in respect of each 
items of— 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 

every director and the manager, if any; 
every other key managerial personnel; and 
relatives of the persons mentioned in sub-clauses (i) and (ii); 
 

b. 

any other information and facts that may enable members to understand the 
meaning, scope and implications of the items of business and to take decision 
thereon. 

 
Disclosures required under Rule 32(1) of Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 
2014:  
 
Where  the  company  has  raised  money  from  public  through  prospectus  and  has  any 
unutilised amount out of the money so raised, it shall not change the objects for which 
the money so raised is to be applied unless a special resolution is passed through postal 
ballot and the notice in respect of the resolution for altering the objects shall contain the 
following particulars, namely:- 
(a) the total money received; 
(b) the total money utilized for the objects stated in the prospectus; 
(c) the unutilized amount out of the money so raised through prospectus, 
(d) the particulars of the proposed alteration or change in the objects; 
(e) the justification for the alteration or change in the objects; 
(f) the amount proposed to be utilised for the new objects; 
(g) the estimated financial  impact of the proposed alteration on the earnings and  cash 
flow of the company; 
(h)  the  other  relevant  information  which  is  necessary  for  the  members  to  take  an 
informed decision on the proposed resolution; 
(i)  the  place  from  where  any  interested  person  may  obtain  a  copy  of  the  notice  of 
resolution to be passed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exit to Dissenting shareholders 
 

Page 7 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 
 
 
Disclosures required under Rule 7 of Companies (prospectus and allotment 
of securities) Rules, 2014:  
 
 Variation  in  terms  of  contracts  referred  to  in  the  prospectus  or  objects  for  which 
prospectus was issued.— 
(1) where the company has raised money from public through prospectus and has any 
unutilized  amount  out  of  the  money  so  raised,  it  shall  not  vary the  terms  of  contracts 
referred to in the prospectus or objects for which the prospectus was issued except by 
passing a special resolution through postal ballot and the notice of the proposed special 
resolution shall contain the following particulars, namely:— 
(a) the original purpose or object of the Issue; 
(b) the total money raised; 
(c) the money utilised for the objects of the company stated in the prospectus; 
(d) the extent of achievement of proposed objects(that is fifty percent, sixty percent, etc); 
(e) the unutilised amount out of the money so raised through prospectus, 
(f) the particulars of the proposed variation in the terms of contracts referred to in the 
prospectus or objects for which prospectus was issued; 
(g) the reason and justification for seeking variation; 
(h)  the  proposed  time  limit  within  which  the  proposed  varied  objects  would  be 
achieved; 
(i)  the  clause-wise  details  as  specified  in  sub-rule  (3)  of  rule  3  as  was  required  with 
respect to the originally proposed objects of the issue; 
(j) the risk factors pertaining to the new objects; and 
(k)  the  other  relevant  information  which  is  necessary  for  the  members  to  take  an 
informed decision on the proposed resolution. 

Exit to Dissenting shareholders 
 

Page 8 

