 
 

 

 

Discussion Paper on ‘Review of framework for 

public issuance of Convertible Securities’ 

 

1.  Background 

a.  Convertible  securities  offer  a  unique  combination  of  debt  and  equity  to  investors. 

Holder of such a security can convert the security into equity and benefit if the issuer 

of  the  securities  performs  well.  However,  if  the  issuer  is  not  performing  as  per 

expectations,  the  security  holder  has the  option of  redeeming the  security at  a pre-

determined  maturity  date.  Issuing  convertible  securities  help  a  corporation  secure 

equity  financing  in  a  delayed  manner,  as  securities  will  be  converted  to  equity  at  a 

future date. This process delays dilution of the common stock and earnings per share. 

Companies can sell convertible securities at a lower coupon rate than standard debt 

issuances because of the conversion option. Convertible security holders only receive 

interest,  resulting  in  more  operating  income  to  the  common  stockholders  until  the 

securities are converted to equity. 

b. Between 1990 and 2001, the Indian markets saw 284 issues of convertible debentures 

by small, medium and large companies with a total fund raising of around Rs. 14,000 

crore, with 57 issues being larger than Rs. 50 crore. However, since 2000 the market 

for  public  issue  of  convertible  securities  has  dwindled.  Market  participants  have 

assigned variety of reasons for the same including popularity of instruments like FCCB 

which were permitted since mid-90s, lower tenure for convertible instruments issued 

in India, higher tax incidence on convertibles as compared to equity, etc. 

2.  Need for review 

Association of Investment Bankers of India (AIBI) and other market participants had made 

representations to facilitate issuance of convertible securities through suitable regulatory 

measures.  With  a  view  to  revive  issuances  of  convertible  securities  by  existing  listed 

entities and provide an additional avenue for investors to invest as well as companies to 

raise funds, various issues in this respect were deliberated in the Primary Market Advisory 

Committee (PMAC) of SEBI. Based on the recommendations of PMAC, various suggestions 

made in this regard are placed below for public comments. 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

3.  Suggestions made in respect of public issuance of compulsorily convertible securities by 

a listed entity 

a.  Presently,  there  is  no  specific  provision  for  tenure  of  convertible  securities  issued  to 

public, except for financing of a group company where the maximum tenure can be 18 

months.  It  is  suggested that  the  tenure  of  convertible  securities  issued to  public by  an 

existing listed entity may be a maximum of 5 years.  

b. Presently, whether an issuance can be made on a fixed price basis or through the book 

building route depends on issuer meeting the specified eligibility criteria. The conversion 

price may either be pre-fixed at the time of issue or linked to market price at the time of 

conversion. The disclosure in this regard shall be made upfront in the offer document. 

c.  Currently, while the existing shareholders are permitted to sell their shares to public, the 

same is not specifically mentioned for convertible securities. It is suggested to explicitly 

permit  the  existing  holders  of  convertible  securities  as  well  to  sell  their  securities  to 

public. 

 

4.  Suggestions  relating  to  public  issuance  of  optionally  convertible  securities  by  a  listed 

entity 

a.  Optionally Convertible Debentures (OCDs) and Optionally Convertible Preference Shares 

(OCPs)  may  be  treated as  debt  and  may  comply  with  the  provisions  of  SEBI  (Issue  and 

Listing  of  Debt  Securities)  Regulations,  2008,  (“Debt  Regulations”),  as  applicable. 

Accordingly, listing regulations/agreement as applicable for debt securities shall apply.  

b.  Tenure  and  pricing  of  such  optionally  convertible  securities  may  be  as  per  the 

suggestions specified above at para 3. 

 

5.  Suggestions made in respect of public issuance of compulsorily convertible securities by 

an unlisted entity 

In  case  an  unlisted  company  is  desirous  of  making  a  public  issue  of  compulsory 

convertible  securities,  it  is  proposed  that  in  addition  to  the  requirement  of  maximum 

tenure,  conversion  price,  etc  as  mentioned  at  point  3  above,  such  companies  shall  also 

comply  with  all  the  requirements  as  prescribed  under  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and 

Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009  in  this  regard.  Further,  the  listing  of  such 

securities is proposed to be done on Institutional Trading Platform (ITP).  

Review of framework for public issuance of Convertible Securities 
 

Page 2 

 

 
 

6.  Other suggestions  

6.1.  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

a.  The  term  “convertible  securities”  may  be  used  uniformly  in  place  of  convertible 

debt/security/instrument  in  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 

Regulations, 2009 (“ICDR Regulations”) so as to avoid ambiguity and permit issuance of 

convertible  debentures  and  convertible  preference  shares.  Suitable  conditions  may  be 

imposed  for  public  issuance  of  such  convertible  securities  in  line  with  conditions 

currently prescribed for convertible debt.  

b. In rule 19(2)(b) of SCRR, each class or kind of “debentures convertible into equity shares” 

may  be  replaced  with  “debentures  and  preference  shares  convertible  into  equity 

shares”, to permit public offering of a wider array of convertible securities.  

 

7. Public comments 

Considering the implications of the said matter on the market participants including issuers 

and investors, public comments are solicited on the suggestions made at paragraphs 3 - 6 

above and specifically on the following points: 

a.  Should  the  price  of  such  convertible  securities  be  pre-fixed  or  market  linked? 

Alternately, should the price be fixed based on bids received under the book building 

methodology? 

b.  Should offer for sale of convertible securities be permitted? 

c.  Should  OCDs  and  OCPs  be  treated  as  debt  and  be  required  to  comply  with  Debt 

Regulations?  Or  should  it  be  considered  as  equity  and  require  to  comply  ICDR 

Regulations? 

Specific  comments/suggestions  as  per  the  format  given  below  would  be  highly 

appreciated: 

Sr. 
No. 

Pertains to 

serial number 

under 

paragraph (3-7) 

Sub-
serial 

number 

(a-c) 

Proposed 
changes / 
suggestions 

Rationale 

 

Agree / 

Disagree to 

the 

suggestion 
at the said 

serial 

number 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

However,  any  other  suggestions  for  developing  convertible  securities  market  are  also 

welcome. 

Review of framework for public issuance of Convertible Securities 
 

Page 3 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

Such  comments  may  please  be  e-mailed  on  or  before  December  23,  2015,  to 
convertibles@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to: 

 

Shri. Amit Tandon 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +91-22-26449373 

 
 

**** 

Review of framework for public issuance of Convertible Securities 
 

Page 4 

