 
A green bond is like any other bond where a debt instrument is issued by an entity for 
raising  funds  from  investors.  However  what  differentiates  a  Green  bond  from  other 
bonds is that the proceeds of a Green Bond offering are 'ear-marked' for use towards 
financing ‘green’ projects.   
 
Thus the key difference between a ‘green’ bond and a regular bond is that the issuer 
publicly states it is raising capital to fund ‘green’ projects, assets or business activities 
with an environmental benefit, such as renewable energy, low carbon transport etc. 
 
However, as of now there is no standard definition of green bonds and the one that is 
being currently used is based on market practice. 

 
2.  Need for Green Bonds 

Concept paper for issuance of Green Bonds 

 

1.  Background 

 
Infrastructure financing in India has traditionally been  supported by the institutions such 
as  banks,  NBFCs  and  Financial  Institutions.  However,  given  the  huge  investment 
requirements in infrastructure space, it is widely accepted that current project financing 
sources may not be sufficient for capacity addition. Thus, there is a need to introduce 
new means of financing and innovative financial instruments that can leverage a wider 
investor  base  such  as  pension  funds,  sovereign  wealth  funds,  insurance  companies, 
etc. that can invest in the infrastructure sector. Corporate bond markets have long been 
considered towards providing this much required alternate source of financing.  
 
India’s  Intended  Nationally  Determined  Contribution  (INDC)  document1 puts  forth  the 
stated targets for India's contribution towards climate improvement and following a low 
carbon  path  to  progress.  The  document  also  impresses  upon  the  need  of  financing 
needs  for  achieving  the  stated  goals,  where  a  preliminary  estimate  suggests  that  at 
least  USD  2.5  trillion  (at  2014-15  prices)  will  be  required  for  meeting  India's  climate 
change  actions  between  now  and  2030.  In  this  regard  the  document  talks  about  the 
introduction  of  Tax  Free  Infrastructure  Bonds  of  INR  50  billion  (USD  794  million)  for 
funding of renewable energy projects during the year 2015-16. 
 
Further,  India  has  embarked  upon  an  ambitious  target  of  building  175  gigawatt  of 
renewable energy capacity by 2022 and this  requires a massive estimated funding of 
USD  200  billion.  Thus,  the  financing  needs  of  renewable  energy  space  require  new 

                                                            
1 
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/India/1/INDIA%20INDC%20TO%20UNFCCC.p
df 

channels to be explored which can provide not only the requisite financing, but may also 
help in reducing the cost of the capital. Green bonds as a part of corporate bonds space 
may be one of the answer to this problem. 
 

3.  Benefits of issuing Green Bonds 

 
The key benefits of issuing green bonds are as under: 
 
i.  Positive public Relations 

Green bonds can help in enhancing an issuer’s reputation, as this is an effective way 
for  an  issuer  to  demonstrate  its  green  credentials.  It  displays  the  issuers 
commitment towards the development and sustainability of the environment. Further, 
this may also generate some positive publicity for the issuer. 
 
Investor Diversification 
There are specific global pool of capital, which are earmarked towards investment in 
Green  Ventures.  This  source  of  capital  focuses  primarily  on  environmental,  social 
and governance (ESG) related aspects of the projects in which they intend to invest. 
Thus,  green  bonds  provide  an  issuer  the  access  to  such  investors  which  they 
otherwise may not be able to tap with a regular bond.  
 

The green bond issuance attracts wider investor base and this may in turn benefit 
the issuers in terms of better pricing of their bonds vis-a-vis a regular bond. Currently 
there is very limited evidence available in this regard, however as demand of green 
bonds increases it is likely to drive increasingly favorable terms and a better price for 
the issuer. Further, with increasing focus of the global investor community towards 
green investments, it is expected that new set of investors will enter into this space 
leading to lowering the cost of funding for green projects. 

iii.  Potential for pricing advantage 

ii. 

 

4.  International Experience 

 
Issuance of green bonds started in year 2007 and in the initial years Green Bonds were 
a  niche  product,  pioneered  by  a  handful  of  development  banks.  The  period  between 
2007-2012  was  featured  with  the  issuance  of  green  bonds  by  the  Supranational 
organizations such as the European Investment Bank and the World Bank, along with 
few governments etc. 
However, with growing market appetite for such bonds there is increasing diversification 
of issuers and investors participating in Green Bonds. Year 2013 saw the participation 
from  corporate  sector,  which  substantially  increased  in  year  2014.  This  has  lead  to 
overall  growth  in  the  fresh  issuance  of  green  bonds,  where  the  market  has  almost 
tripled in size between 2013 and 2014, with around US$37 billion issued in 2014.  

 
Placed  below  is  a  graph  showing  the  growth  in  issuance  of  green  bonds  across  the 
globe: 2 

40

30

20

10

0

Amount Raised (In USD Bn)

36.6

0.81

2007

0.41

2008

0.91

2009

4

1.19

3.1

10.99

2010

2011

Amount Raised (In USD Bn)

2012

2013

2014

 

 

5.  Indian Experience 
 

India has lately seen issue of Green Bonds by three entities, brief details of which are 
as under 
 

i.  Yes Bank 

Yes Bank came out with first green bond issuance in India in February 2015, which was 
a  Rs  1000  crore  10-year  issue.  The  issue  was  oversubscribed  almost  twice  and  the 
issue proceeds will be utilised towards funding renewable energy projects such as solar, 
wind and biomass projects. 
 
Further Yes Bank came out with another issue of Green Bonds in August 2015, which 
was a Rs 315 core 10-year issue. The entire issue was subscribed by the International 
Finance Corporation. 
 

ii.  CLP India 

CLP India, in came out with an issue of green bonds, the first from an Indian corporate 
issuer.  CLP  India  raised  Rs  600  crore.  The  bonds  have  been  offered  at  a  coupon  of 
9.15 per cent per annum, in three series of equal amounts and will mature every April in 
2018, 2019 and 2020.  
 

iii.  Exim Bank of India 
Exim Bank came out with a dollar denominated Green Bond issue in March 2015. The 
offer was of a five-year $500 million green bond. The issue was subscribed nearly 3.2 
                                                            
2 KPMG International Report  "Gearing up for Green Bonds" 

times and the proceeds from the issue would be utilised towards funding eligible green 
projects in countries including Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. 
 

IDBI Bank 

iv. 
IDBI  Bank  has  raised  US$350m  5-year  bonds,  priced  at  Treasuries  plus  255bp,  with 
issue  receiving  an  oversubscription  of  three  times  i.e.  around  US$1bn.  Maximum 
investment came from Asia at 82% of the book and rest from  Europe at 18%.  
 

6.  Principles for issuance of Green Bonds 

 
While there are no set guidelines defining the principles for issuance of Green Bonds, 
International Capital Market Association (ICMA) has however come out with a document 
called Green Bond Principles (GBP)3.  
 
GBP outlines a set of principles that delineates good practices for the process of issuing 
a green bond, which are divided in four components. Brief details of the same are as 
follows: 

 

i.  Use of proceeds: issuers to define and disclose their criteria for what is considered 
‘green’ i.e. which projects, assets or activities will be considered ‘eligible’ and how 
much funds will be spent on.  

ii.  Project evaluation and selection: what process will be used to apply ‘green’ criteria 

to select specific projects or activities. 

iii.  Management of proceeds: what processes and controls are in place to ensure funds 

are used only for the specified ‘green’ projects.  

iv.  Reporting:  how  projects  will  be  evaluated  and  progress  reported,  against  both 

environmental and financing criteria. 

 

7.  Proposal 

 
Issuance of Green Bonds in India does not require any amendment to the existing SEBI 
regulations for issuance of corporate bonds, SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) 
Regulations,  2008  (hereinafter  “ILDS  Regulations”).    The  issue,  listing  and  disclosure 
requirements as prescribed under ILDS Regulations will continue to be applicable, like 
any regular corporate bond issuance.  
 
However, for designating  an issue of corporate bonds as green bonds, in addition to 
the compliance with the requirements under ILDS Regulations, an issuer shall have to 
disclose in the offer document following additional information about the green bonds, 
which have been based upon the Green Bond Principles, 2015: 
 
                                                            
3 http://www.icmagroup.org/assets/documents/Regulatory/Green‐Bonds/GBP_2015_27‐March.pdf 

i.  Use of proceeds:  

Issuer shall define and disclose in their offer document, the criteria for identification 
as  ‘green’  i.e.  what  projects,  assets  or  activities  will  be  considered  ‘eligible  for 
financing’ and quantum of funds to be spent on the projects/assets/activities.  
 
For assigning the status of the bonds as Green, the broad categories of areas where 
such monies may be invested may be one or more of the following:  

•  Renewable and sustainable energy (wind, solar etc.) 
•  Clean transportation (mass transportation)  
•  Sustainable water management (clean and/or drinking water, water 

recycling etc)  

•  Climate change adaptation  
•  Energy efficiency (efficient and green buildings)  
•  Sustainable waste management (recycling, waste to energy etc.) 
•  Sustainable land use (including sustainable forestry and agriculture, 

afforestation etc.)  

•  Biodiversity conservation  
 

However,  it  is  to  be  noted  that  this  is  an  indicative  list  and  may  include  other 
categories as specified by Board.  

Further, an issuer, if proposes to utilise a proportion of the proceeds of the issue of 
Green  Bonds,  towards  refinancing  of  existing  green  assets,  it  shall  be  clearly 
provided in the offer document and wherever possible, shall also provide the details 
of the  portfolio/assets/projects which are identified for such refinancing. 

 

 

ii.  Project evaluation and selection:  

 
The issuer of a Green Bond shall provide the details of decision-making process, it 
will/has  followed  for  determining  the  eligibility  of  projects  for  using  Green  Bond 
proceeds. An indicative guideline of the details to be provided is as under:  

•  process followed/ to be followed for determining how the project(s) fit within 

• 

the eligible Green Projects categories;  
the criteria, making the projects eligible for using the Green Bond proceeds; 
and  

•  environmental sustainability objectives.  

 

iii.  Management of proceeds:  

 
The proceeds of Green Bonds shall be credited to an escrow account, and shall be 
utilised only for the stated purpose, as in the offer document. The use of proceeds 

shall be tracked as per an approved internal policy of issuer and such policy shall be 
disclosed in the offer document/placement memorandum. 
 
The utilisation of the proceeds may also be verified/supplemented by the report of an 
external auditor, or other third party, to verify the internal tracking method and the 
allocation of funds towards the projects, from the Green Bond proceeds. 
 

iv.  Reporting:  

 
In addition to reporting on the use of proceeds issuers shall also provide, at least on 
an  annual  basis,  a  list  of  projects  to  which  Green  Bond  proceeds  have  been 
allocated. This may also include the details of the expected environmental impact of 
such projects.  
 
The environmental impact report may provide for qualitative performance indicators 
and,  where  possible,  quantitative  performance  measures  of 
the  expected 
environmental  sustainability 
the  specific  project.  However,  where 
confidentiality agreements or competition issues limit the amount of detail that can 
be made available, information can be presented in generic terms.  
 
8.  Public Comments: 

impact  of 

In order to take into consideration views of various stakeholders, public comments 
are  solicited  on  the  proposal  as  mentioned  at  point  7  above.  Comments  may  be 
emailed on or before December 18, 2015 to greenbonds@sebi.gov.in or sent by 
post, to:- 

Ms Richa G Agarwal, 
Deputy General manager 
Investment Management Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan  
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
 Bandra Kurla Complex, 
 Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
 

Issued on: December 03, 2015 

