 

 

 

Consultation Paper 

Additional  disclosure  norms  for  retail/public  issuance  of  Additional  Tier  1  (AT1) 

 

instruments issued by banks 

 

A.  Background 

1.  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Non  Convertible  Redeemable  Preference  Shares) 

Regulations,  2013  (NCRPS  Regulations),  provided  a  framework  for  listing  of 

Perpetual  Non-Cumulative  Preference  Shares  (PNCPS)  and  Perpetual  Debt 

Instruments (PDIs) issued by banks.  

 

2.  RBI vide circular dated September 01, 2014 on the “Implementation of Basel III 

Capital Regulations in India – Amendments” has inter-alia allowed banks to issue 

Additional  Tier  1  (AT1)  instruments  to  retail  investors.  Further,  RBI  vide  its 

Master  Circular  on  Basel  III  Capital  Regulations  dated  July  1,  2015  has  also 

specified additional disclosure requirements for PNCPS and PDIs. It was felt that 

the  retail  investors  may  not  fully  appreciate  the  characteristics  of  these 

instruments  and  therefore,  in  view  of  same,  a  need  was  felt  to  look  into  the 

aspect  of  prescribing  additional  disclosure  norms  for  retail  issuance  of  PNCPS 

and PDIs.  

 

B.  Recommendations of Corporate Bonds and Securitization Committee (CoBoSAC): 

Corporate  Bonds  and  Securitization  Committee 

(CoBoSAC), 

inter-alia, 

deliberated on the additional requirements and disclosures to be made by banks 

for  retail  issuance  of  AT1  instruments.  Based  on  the  recommendations  of 

CoBoSAC, the proposals for public comments are as follows. 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 5 

 

 
C.  Proposals: 

i.  AT1  instruments  carry  additional  risks  in  relation  to  vanilla  debt  instruments 

such as  risk  of  loss  of  coupon  as well  as principal,  in  certain circumstances.    In 

view of the same, it is proposed that in order to ensure that only well informed 

retail 

investors  with  adequate  risk  tolerance 

level  subscribe  to  these 

instruments,  a  minimum  amount  of  investment  for  e.g.  Rs  2  lakhs,  may  be 

 

prescribed for such instruments. 

 

ii.  As  public  issue  of  non  convertible  debentures/bonds  and  non  convertible 

redeemable  preference  shares  are  governed  by  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt 

Securities)  Regulations,  2008  (ILDS  Regulations)  and  the  NCRPS  Regulations 

respectively,  therefore  any  public  issue  of  PNCPS  and  PDIs,  made  by  bank(s), 

shall  have  to  comply  with  the  disclosure  requirements  as  prescribed  under 

provisions of NCRPS and  ILDS regulations, respectively.  

 

iii. 

In  addition  to  disclosure  requirements  which  have  already  been  mandated  by 

RBI and SEBI,  the following specific disclosures, in order to enable investors to 

comprehend risks associated with these instruments, would also be required to 

be given by the issuing banks: 

a)  Banks issuing PNCPS/PDIs to the retail investors, shall clearly disclose in 

the  abridged  prospects  under  the  head  "Disclaimer",  about  the  risk 

characteristics  of  these  instruments  and  clarify  that  the  return  on  these 

investments  may  be  influenced  by  bank’s  performance  and  the  principal 

amount invested may be subject to losses due to loss absorbency features. 

It  may  also  be  specified  that  PNCPS  and  PDIs  are  relatively  risky  debt 

instruments and are significantly different from term deposits offered by 

banks.  

 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

b)  It  is  proposed  that  the  following  disclosures,  as  applicable,  shall  also  be 

made by the issuing bank in the abridged prospectus: 

 

i.  PNCPS  are  not  equity  instruments.  They  are  debt  instruments 

which carry additional risk.  

 

 

ii.  PDIs  are  not  like  fixed  deposits  of  banks  but  are  akin  to  bonds 

with some additional loss bearing features in certain situations. 

 

iv.  The  key  risks  involved  with  AT1  instruments,  shall  be  disclosed  by  the  issuing 

bank,  in  clear  and  easy  to  understand  language,  in  a  tabular  format.    An 

illustrative table for the same is presented below: 

Particulars 
Maturity 
Optionality 

Dividend/ 
Coupon 
Discretion 

Loss 
Absorption 
features 

Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares  

This instrument is perpetual i.e. there is no maturity date.  
This instrument does not have put option.  
 
Call option, if any, embedded in the instrument. (including 
details as to when can these be exercised) 

The dividend rate is fixed / linked to xxx floating rate.  
 
Bank has full discretion to cancel dividend distribution in a 
particular  year  as  specified  in  the  term  sheet  of  this 
instrument. 
There  is  a  likelihood  of  incurring  losses  on  the  principal 
amount  due  to  presence  of  principal  loss  absorption 
features in the instrument.  
Specific  triggers  points  at  which  the  instrument  will 
absorb losses, in brief. 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 5 

 

 

Particulars 
Maturity 
Optionality 

Dividend/Cou
pon 
Discretion 

Loss 
Absorption 
features 

Perpetual Debt Instruments  

This instrument is perpetual i.e. there is no maturity date. 
This instrument does not have put option.  
 
Call option, if any, embedded in the instrument. (including 
details as to when can these be exercised) 
The coupon / interest rate is fixed / linked to xxx floating 
rate.  
 
Bank  has  full  discretion  to  cancel  interest  payment  in  a 
particular  year  as  specified  in  the  term  sheet  of  this 
instrument. 
There  is  a  likelihood  of  incurring  losses  on  the  principal 
amount  due  to  presence  of  principal  loss  absorption 
features in the instrument.  
 
Specific  triggers  points  at  which  the  instrument  will 
absorb losses, in brief. 

Further, the terms in the table refereed above shall have the meanings in line with the RBI Master Circulars 

on Basel III Capital Regulations, as updated from time to time. 

 

The  above  disclosures  to  be  made  shall  be  provided  in  the  abridged 

prospectus  under  the  section  on  "Risk  Factors"  under  sub-head  "Risk 

relating  to  the  issuer",  in  tabular  format.  Also,  the  front  page  of  the 

abridged  prospectus  shall  refer  to  the  page  number  which  contains  the 

section  on "Risk Factors". 

 

 

v.  Banks should also state that retail investors should carefully go through the term 

sheet of the instrument to fully understand the above key risk factors and other 

features of the instruments.  

 

vi.  The  banks  issuing  such  AT1  instruments  and  having  any  outstanding  issues  of 

PNCPS  and/or  Innovative  Perpetual  Debt  instruments  (IPDI)  under  Basel  II 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

 

framework    shall  also  make  adequate  disclosures  showing  distinction  between 

 

Basel II and Basel III perpetual instruments. 

D.  Public Comments 

i. 

In the light of the above, public comments are invited on the consultation paper. 

Comments  may  be  forwarded  by  email  to  at1@sebi.gov.in  or  may  be  sent  by 

post to the following address latest by January 05, 2016 

Investment Management Department, Division of Funds I  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan   
C4-A, G Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai - 400 051  
 

ii.  Comments should be given in the following format: 

 

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary: _______________________ 
S. No. 

Pertains to Point No. 

Proposed/ 
suggested 
changes 
 

Rationale 

 

 

 

 
Issued on December 18, 2015 

 
 
 
 

*************** 

 

 

Page 5 of 5 

 

