 

Consultation paper for guidelines for public issue of units of Real Estate 

Investment Trusts 

1.  To  solicit  the  comments/views  from  public  on  suggestions  pertaining  to  Guidelines 

for public issue of units of Real Estate Investment Trusts (hereinafter "REITs "). 

 
Background: 
2.  SEBI REIT Regulations were notified on 26th September, 2014, thereby providing a 
regulatory  framework  for  registration  and  regulation  of  REITs  in  India.  The 
Regulations, inter alia, provide that ‘The Board may specify by issue of guidelines or 
circulars, any other requirements, as it deems fit, pertaining to issue and allotment of 
units by an REIT." 
 

3.  In  line  with  the  aforesaid  Regulation,  SEBI  proposes  the  draft  guidelines  for  the 
public  issue  of  units  of  REITs.  Accordingly,  it  is  proposed  that  all  REITs  and  their 
Managers  shall  comply  with  the  following  guidelines  with  respect  to  public  issue of 
units of the REIT. 

Public Comments: 

4.  In  order  to  take  into  consideration  views  of  various  stakeholders,  public  comments 
are  solicited  on  the  draft  guidelines  as  placed  at  Annexure-A.  Comments  may  be 
emailed on or before January 15 , 2016, to REIT@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:- 
 
Investment Management Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan  
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
 Bandra Kurla Complex, 
 Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 

5.  Comments/ suggestions may be provided in the format given below: 

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 
Suggestions  
Sr. No.  
 
 
 
 

Clause No. 
 
 

 
Issued on: December 31, 2015 

Rationale 
 
 

 
 

 

DRAFT CIRCULAR 

 

 

Annexure-A 

 

 

 

CIR/IMD/DF/__/2015  
To 
All Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) 
All parties to REITs 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

 

       December 31, 2015 

Sub: Guidelines for public issue of units of REITs 

SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 (“REIT Regulations”) provides as 
under: 
 

  Regulation  14(24)  states  that  ‘The  Board  may  specify  by  issue  of  guidelines  or 
circulars any other requirements, as it deems fit, pertaining to issue and allotment of 
units by a REIT.’  

  Regulation  15(5)  states  that  ‘The  advertisements  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the 
offer document and any circulars or guidelines as may be specified by the Board in 
this regard.’  

 
In line with the aforesaid Regulations, the following guidelines shall be applicable to public 
issue  of  units  of  REITs.  Accordingly,  all  REITs  and  their  Managers  shall  comply  with  the 
following guidelines with respect to public issue of units of the REIT. 
 

1.  Appointment and obligations of merchant banker and others: 

(1) The  Manager  shall  appoint  one  or  more  merchant  bankers,  at  least  one  of  whom 
shall  be  a  lead  merchant  banker  and  shall  also  appoint  other  intermediaries,  in 
consultation  with  the  lead  merchant  banker,  to  carry  out  the  obligations  relating  to 
the issue.  

(2) Where  the  issue  is  managed  by  more  than  one  merchant  banker,  the  rights, 
obligations  and  responsibilities,  relating  inter  alia  to  disclosures,  allotment,  refund 
and  underwriting  obligations, 
if  any,  of  each  merchant  banker  shall  be 
predetermined and disclosed in the offer document. 

 

2.  Filing of offer document 

(1) The  draft  offer  document  shall  be  filed  with  the  Board  and  the  designated  stock 

exchanges in accordance with REIT Regulations.  

 
 

(2) The  lead  merchant  bankers  shall  submit  the  following  to  the  Board  along  with  the 

draft offer document: 
(a) a  certificate,  confirming  that  an  agreement  has  been  entered  into  between  the 

Manager and the lead merchant bankers; 

(b) a due diligence certificate as per Form A of Annexure I, 

(3) The  draft  offer  document  shall  be  hosted  on  the  websites  as  specified  under 
Regulation  14(5)  of  the  REIT  Regulations  and  shall  be  available  for  comments,  if 
any, for a period of at least twenty one days. 

(4) Subject to regulation 14(7), (8) and (9) of REIT Regulations, the Board may specify 
changes or issue observations, if any, on the draft offer document within the later of 
the following: 
(a) thirty days from the later of the following dates:  

(i) 
(ii) 

the date of receipt of the draft offer document by the Board; or 
the  date  of  receipt  of  clarification  or  information  from  any  regulator  or 
agency, where the Board has sought any clarification or  information from 
such regulator or agency; or 

(iii)  the  date  of  receipt  of  a  copy  of  in-principle  approval  letter  issued  by  the 

recognised stock exchanges;  

(b) twenty  one  working  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  satisfactory  reply  from  the 
lead  merchant  bankers,  where  the  Board  has  sought  any  clarification  or 
additional information from them; 

(5) The lead merchant banker shall ensure that all comments received from the Board 
on the draft offer document are suitably addressed prior to the filing of the final offer 
document with the Board and designated stock exchanges; 

(6) The lead merchant banker shall submit the following documents to the Board along 

with the offer document: 
(a) a statement certifying that all changes, suggestions and  observations made by 

the Board have been incorporated in the offer document;  

(b) a due diligence certificate as per Form B of Annexure I 

(7) If  changes  are  made  in  the  draft  offer  document  or  offer  document  with  respect  to 
the following, the lead merchant banker shall file fresh draft offer document with the 
Board  highlighting  all  changes  made  in  the  offer  document  along  with  the  fees  as 
specified in REIT Regulations: 
(a) Change in sponsor(s)/ Manager/Trustee or persons in control of the sponsor(s)/ 

Manager/Trustee. 

(b) Change in more than half of the board of directors of the Manager. 
(c)  Change  in  any  object(s)  of  the  issue  contributing/amounting  to  more  than  20% 

of the issue size. 

(d) Any increase or decrease in estimated issue size by more than twenty five per 

cent. 

(8) All other changes/ updations in the draft offer document or offer document which are 
not  covered  under  clause  (7)  above  shall  be  carried  out  by  the  lead  merchant 
banker and updated offer document shall be filed with the Board without fees. 

(9) The  merchant  banker  shall,  after  filing  the  offer  document  with  the  Board,  make  a 
pre-issue  advertisement  in  one  English  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide 

 
 

circulation,  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and  one  regional 
language newspaper with wide circulation at the place where the registered office of 
the REIT is situated. 
 

3.  Allocation in public issue. 

(1)  In an issue made through the book building process or otherwise, the allocation in the 

public issue shall be as follows: 
(a)  not more than 75% to qualified institutional buyers (QIBs)  
(b)  not less than 25% to other investors 

(2)  Manager may allocate upto 60% of the portion available for allocation to QIBs to anchor 

investors as under: 
(a)  An Anchor Investor shall make an application of a value of at least Rs. 10 crore in 

the public issue. 

(b)  Allocation to Anchor Investors shall be on a discretionary basis and subject to the 
minimum of 2 investors for allocation upto Rs. 250 crore and 5 such investors for 
allocation more than Rs. 250 crore.  

(c)  The  bidding  for  Anchor  Investors  shall  open  one  day  before  the  issue  opening 

(d) 

date and allocation to Anchor Investors shall be completed on the same day. 
If the price fixed as a result of book building is higher than the price at which the 
allocation  is  made  to  Anchor  Investor,  the  Anchor  Investor  shall  bring  in  the 
additional amount within two days of the date of closure of the issue. However, if 
the  price  fixed  as  a  result  of  book  building  is  lower  than  the  price  at  which  the 
allocation is made to Anchor Investor, the excess amount shall not be refunded to 
the  Anchor  Investor  and  the  Anchor  Investor  shall  take  allotment  at  the  price  at 
which allocation was made to it. 

(e)  The  number  of  units  allocated  to  Anchor  Investors  and  the  price  at  which  the 
allocation  is  made,  shall  be  made  available  in  public  domain  by  the  merchant 
banker before opening of the issue. 

(f)  There  shall  be  a  lock-in  of  30  days  on  the  units  allotted  to  the  Anchor  Investor 

from the date of allotment in the public issue. 

(g)  Neither the merchant bankers nor any person related to the merchant bankers in 

the concerned public issue can apply under Anchor Investor category.  

(h)  The parameters for selection of Anchor Investor shall be clearly identified by the 

merchant banker.  

(3)  In  case  of  under  subscription  in  any  category,  the  undersubscribed  portion  in  that 
category  shall  be  allocated  to  the  bidders  as  per  disclosures  made  in  the  offer 
document. 

 

4.  Application and term sheet. 

(1)  The  application  form  and  the  term  sheet  for  the  issue  shall  be  prepared  by  the  lead 

merchant banker.  

(2)  The lead merchant banker shall make arrangements for distribution of the application 

form along with a copy of the term sheet. 

(3)  The term sheet shall contain the disclosures as specified in Annexure III and shall not 

contain any matter extraneous to the contents of the offer document.  

 
 

(4)  No person shall make an application in the public issue for that number of units which 

exceeds the number of units offered to public. 

 

5.  Security Deposit  

(1) The  REIT  shall  deposit,  before  the  opening  of  subscription,  and  keep  deposited 
with the stock exchange(s), an amount calculated at the rate of 0.5% of the amount 
of units offered for subscription to the public.  

(2) The  amount  specified  in  clause  (1)  shall  be  deposited/refunded/forfeited  in  the 

manner specified by Board and/or stock exchange(s).  
 

6.  Opening of an issue and subscription period. 

(1) An issue shall be opened after atleast three working days from the date of filing the 
offer  document  with  the  Board.  The  other  timelines  shall  be  as  specified  under 
Regulation 14 of REIT Regulations.  

(2) The lead merchant banker shall submit a due diligence certificate as per Form C of 

Annexure I, immediately before the opening of the issue.  

(3) A public issue shall be kept open for at least three working days but not more than 
thirty days. However, in case the price band in a public issue made through the book 
building  process  is  revised,  the  bidding  (issue)  period  disclosed  in  the  offer 
document  shall  be  extended  for  a minimum  period  of  three  working  days,  provided 
however that the total bidding period shall not exceed thirty days. 

(4) The  Manager  may  issue  advertisements  for  issue  opening  and  issue  closing 

advertisements. 
 

7.  Price and price band. 

(1) The Manager may determine the price of units in consultation with the lead merchant 

banker or through the book building process.  

(2)  Differential price shall not be offered by an REIT to any investor.  
(3)  The Manager shall announce the floor price or price band  at  least  five  working  days 
before  the  opening  of  the  bid  (in  case  of  an  initial  public  offer)  and  at  least  one 
working  day  before  the  opening  of  the  bid  (in  case  of  a  follow-on  offer),  in  all  the 
newspapers in which the pre issue advertisement was released. 

(4) The  announcement  referred  to  in  clause  7(3)  above  shall  contain  relevant  financial 
ratios computed for both upper and lower end of the price band and also a statement 
drawing  attention  of  the  investors  to  the  section  titled  “basis  of  issue  price”  in  the 
offer document. 

(5) The  announcement  referred  to  in  clause  7(3)  and  the  relevant  financial  ratios 
referred  to  in  clause  7(4)  shall  be  disclosed  on  the  websites  of  those  stock 
exchanges  where  the  units  are  proposed  to  be  listed  and  shall  also  be  pre-filled  in 
the application forms available on the websites of the stock exchanges.  

(6) The Manager shall, in consultation with lead book runner, determine the issue price 

based on the bids received. 

(7) On determination of the price, the number of units to be offered shall be determined 

(i.e. issue size divided by the price to be determined). 

 
 

(8) Once the final price (cut-off price) is determined, all those bidders whose bids have 
been found to be successful (i.e. at and above the final price or cut-off price) shall be 
entitled for allotment of units. 

(9) The  lead  book  runner  may  reject  a  bid  placed  by  a  qualified  institutional  buyer  for 
reasons to  be recorded in  writing  provided that such rejection shall be made at the 
time  of  acceptance  of  the  bid  and  the  reasons  therefore  shall  be  disclosed  to  the 
bidders.  Necessary  disclosures  in  this  regard  shall  also  be  made  in  the  offer 
document. 

(10)  The face value of the unit offered by a REIT shall be rupees one lakhs per unit and 

the lot size for trading shall be equivalent to the face value of the unit. 

8.  Bidding process 

(1) In  all  issues,  the  REIT  shall  accept  bids  using  ASBA  facility  only,  in  accordance 

with the procedure and eligibility criteria as specified by the Board. 

(2) An  amount  to  the  extent  of  entire  application  money  as  margin  money  shall  be 

collected from the applicants before they place an order on their behalf. 

(3) The  payment  accompanied  with  any  revision  of  Bid,  shall  be  adjusted  against  the 

payment made at the time of the original bid or the previously revised bid.  

(4) The stock brokers shall collect the money from their client for every order placed by 
them  and  in  case  the  clients/investors  fail  to  pay  for  units  allocated,  the  stock 
brokers shall pay such amount. 

Provided that in case  of ASBA, the Self Certified Syndicate Banks shall follow the 
procedure specified in this regard by the Board.  

(5) Bidding  process  shall  be  only  through  an  electronically  linked  transparent  bidding 

facility provided by recognised stock exchange (s).  

(6) The  lead  book  runner  shall  ensure  the  availability  of  adequate  infrastructure  with 

syndicate members for data entry of the bids in a timely manner. 

(7) During  the  period  the  issue  is  open  to  the  public  for  bidding,  the  applicants  may 
approach  the  stock  brokers  of  the  stock  exchange/s  or  Self  Certified  Syndicate 
Banks, as the case may be, to place an order for bidding for the units.  

(8) The bidding terminals shall contain an online graphical display of demand and bid 

prices updated at periodic intervals, not exceeding thirty minutes.  

(9) The REIT may decide to close the bidding by qualified institutional buyers one day 
prior to the closure of the issue subject to the conditions bidding shall be kept open 
for a minimum of three days for all categories of applicants and suitable disclosures 
made in the offer document. 

(10)  No investor shall neither withdraw nor lower the size of bids at any stage. 
(11)  The identity of QIBs making the bidding shall not be made public. 
(12)  The  stock  exchanges  shall  continue  to  display  on  their  website,  the  data 
pertaining to book built issues in an uniform format, inter alia giving category-wise 
details of bids received, for a period of atleast three days after closure of bids.  
 

9.  Allotment procedure and basis of allotment. 

(1)  On  receipt  of  the  sum  payable  on  application,  the  REIT  shall  allot  the  units  to  the 

applicants. 

 

 
 

(2)  The  allotment  of  units  to  applicants  other  than  anchor  investors  shall  be  on 
proportionate  basis  within  the  specified  investor  categories  and  the  number  of  units 
allotted shall be rounded off to the nearest integer, subject to minimum allotment being 
equal to the minimum application size as per REIT Regulations. 

(3)  The  executive  director  or  managing  director  of  the  designated  stock  exchange  along 
with the post issue lead merchant bankers and registrars to the issue shall ensure that 
the basis of allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner. 

 

10. Maintenance of books and records  

(1) A  final  book  of  demand  showing  the  result  of  the  allocation  process  shall  be 

maintained by the lead book runner. 

(2) The book runner/s and other intermediaries associated in the book building process 

shall maintain records of the book building prices.   
 

11. Post- issue reports.  

(a) 

(1) The lead merchant banker shall submit the following post-issue reports to the Board:   
initial post issue report as specified in Part A of Annexure II, within three days 
of closure of the issue 
final post issue report as specified in Part B of Annexure II, within fifteen days 
of the date of finalisation of basis of allotment or within fifteen days of refund of 
money in case of failure of issue. 

(b) 

(2) The lead merchant banker shall submit a due diligence certificate along with the final 

post issue report as per Form D of Annexure I. 

 

12. Public  communications,  publicity  materials,  advertisements  and  research 

reports. 
(1) Any  public  communication  including  advertisement,  publicity  material,  research 
reports, etc. concerned with the issue shall not contain any matter extraneous to the 
contents of the offer document.   
Explanation: Public communication includes but not limited to corporate, product and 
issue  advertisements  of  the  REIT,  interviews  by  its  sponsors,  Manager,  trustee, 
directors  of  any  of  the  parties  to  the  REIT,  duly  authorized  employees  or 
representatives  of  the  REIT/Manager,  documentaries  about  the  REIT  or  its 
sponsors, periodical reports, press releases, etc. 

(2) The Manager shall make prompt, true and fair disclosure of all developments taking 
place  between  the  date  of  filing  offer  document  with  the  Board  and  the  date  of 
allotment  of  units  which  may  have  a  material  effect  on  the  REIT,  by  issuing  public 
notices in all the newspapers in which pre-issue advertisement had been made. 

(3) In respect of all public communications, the Manager shall obtain approval from the 

lead merchant bankers responsible for marketing the issue.  

(4) Any such public communication shall comply with the following: 

(a) it shall be truthful, fair and shall not be manipulative or deceptive or distorted. 
(b) it  shall  not  contain  any  statement,  promise  or  forecast  which  is  untrue  or 

misleading. 

 
 

(c)  if it reproduces or purports to reproduce any information contained in an offer 
document, it shall reproduce such information in full and disclose all relevant 
facts and not be restricted to select extracts relating to that information. 

(d) it shall be set forth in a clear, concise and understandable language. 
(e) it shall not include any issue slogans or brand names for the issue except the 

normal commercial name of the sponsor/Manager. 

(f)  it  shall  not  use  extensive  technical,  legal  terminology  or  complex  language 

and excessive details which may distract the investor. 

(g) it  shall  not  contain  statements  which  promise or  guarantee  rapid  increase  in 

profits. 

(h) it  shall  not  display  models,  celebrities,  fictional  characters,  landmarks  or 

caricatures or the likes. 

(i)  no 

issue  advertisement  shall  appear 

form  of  crawlers  (the 
advertisements  which  run  simultaneously  with  the  programme  in  a  narrow 
strip at the bottom of the television screen) on television. 

in 

the 

(j)  in any issue advertisement on television screen, the risk factors shall not be 
scrolled  on  the  television  screen  and  the  advertisement  shall  advise  the 
viewers  to  refer  to  the  red  herring  prospectus  or  other  offer  document  for 
details. 

(k)  it  shall  not  contain  slogans,  expletives  or  non-factual  and  unsubstantiated 

titles. 

(l)  if it contains highlights, it shall also contain risk factors with equal importance 

in all respects including print size of not less than point seven size. 

(5) No such public communication shall be issued giving any impression that the issue 
has been fully subscribed or oversubscribed during the period the issue is open for 
subscription. 

(6) No such public communication shall contain any offer of incentives, whether direct or 

indirect, in any manner, whether in cash or kind or services or otherwise. 

(7) No  such  public  communication  shall  contain  any  reference,  directly  or  indirectly,  to 
the  performance  of  the  REIT  during  the  period  commencing  from  the  date  of  the 
resolution of the board of directors of the Manager approving the public issue till the 
date of allotment of units offered in such issue.  

(8) The  merchant  bankers  shall  submit  a  compliance  certificate  in  respect  of  news 
reports  appearing  in  any  public  communication  for  the  period  between  the  date  of 
filing the draft offer document with the Board and the date of closure of the issue.  
 

13. Other Obligations of Post-issue lead merchant banker 

(1) The post-issue lead merchant banker shall actively associate himself with post-issue 
activities  such  as  allotment,  refund,  giving  instructions  to  syndicate  members,  Self 
Certified  Syndicate  Banks  and  other  intermediaries  and  shall  regularly  monitor 
redressal of investor grievances arising there from. 

(2) Obligations  of  the  post-issue  merchant  banker  with  respect  to  refund,  allotment, 
payment of interest to applicants in case of delayed allotment/refund, etc. are as per 
the disclosure in the offer document.  

 
 

(3) The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  advertisement  giving  details 
relating to oversubscription, basis of allotment, number, value and percentage of all 
applications,  number,  value  and  percentage  of  successful  allottees 
for  all 
applications  ,  date  of  completion  of  dispatch  of  refund  orders  or  instructions  to  Self 
Certified Syndicate Banks by the Registrar, date of dispatch of certificates and date 
of  filing  of  listing  application,  etc.  is  released  within  ten  days  from  the  date  of 
completion of the various activities in at least one English national daily newspaper 
with  wide  circulation,  one  Hindi  national  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  and 
one  regional  language  daily  newspaper  with  wide  circulation  at  the  place  where 
registered office of the REIT is situated. 

(4) The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  REIT,  advisors,  brokers  or  any 
other  entity  connected  with  the  issue  do  not  publish  any  advertisement  stating  that 
issue has been oversubscribed or indicating investors’ response to the issue, during 
the period when the public issue is still open for subscription by the public.  

(5)  The  post-issue  merchant  banker  shall  continue  to  be  responsible  for  post-issue 
activities  till  the  subscribers  have  received  credit  to  their  demat  account  or  refund  of 
application moneys and the listing agreement is entered into by the Manager with the 
stock exchange and listing/ trading permission is obtained. 

 

14. General conditions: 

(1) Restrictions on issue: 
No REIT shall make a public issue of units: 

 

(a) 

if the REIT or any of its sponsor(s),Manager or trustee: 
(i)  is debarred from accessing the capital market by the Board; 
(ii)  is  a  promoter,  director  or  person  in  control  of  any  other  company  or  a 
sponsor,  Manager  or  trustee  of  any  other  REIT  or  REIT  which  is  debarred 
from  accessing  the  capital  market  under  any  order  or  directions  made  by 
the Board; 

(b) 

(iii) is in the list of willful defaulters published by the Reserve Bank of India; 
If  the  REIT  is  in  default  of  payment  of  distributions  to  the  unit  holders  in 
accordance with the REIT Regulations for a period of more than six months;  

 

(2) Alteration of rights of holders of units. 
No  REIT  shall  alter  the  terms  (including  the  terms  of  issue)  of  units  which  may 
adversely  affect  the  interests  of  the  holders  of  that  units  unless  a  resolution  to  that 
effect is passed at a meeting of the unitholders in accordance with Regulation 22(6) of 
REIT Regulations. 

 

(3) Prohibition on payment of incentives. 
No person connected with the issue, including a person connected with the distribution 
of the issue, shall offer any incentive, whether direct or indirect, in any manner, whether 
in  cash  or  kind  or  services  or  otherwise  to  any  person  for  making  an  application  for 
allotment of units: 
Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to fees or commission for 
services rendered in relation to the issue. 

 
 

 
(4) Appointment of Compliance Officer. 
The  compliance  officer  designated  by  the  Manager  under  Regulation  10(26)  of  the 
REIT  Regulations  shall  be  responsible  for monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  securities 
laws and for redressal of investors’ grievances. 
Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  the  term  “securities  laws”  shall  mean 
SEBI Act, 1992, SCRA, 1956, Depositories Act, 1996 and rules and regulations made 
thereunder,  general  or  special  orders,  guidelines  or  circulars  made  or  issued 
thereunder. 

(5) General obligations of Merchant Bankers. 

(c)  The lead merchant bankers shall exercise due diligence and satisfy himself about 
all  the  aspects  of  the  issue  including  the  veracity  and  adequacy  of  disclosure  in 
the offer documents.  

(d)  The  lead  merchant  bankers  shall  call  upon  the  REIT,  parties  to  the  REIT  or 
directors of the parties to the REIT or in case of an offer for sale, the selling unit 
holders, to fulfill their obligations as disclosed by them in the offer document and 
as required in terms of these guidelines. 

(e)  The  responsibility  of  the  lead  merchant  banker  shall  continue  even  after  the 

completion of issue process. 

(f)  The  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  information  contained  in  the  offer 
document  and  the  particulars  as  per  audited  financial  statements  in  the  offer 
document are not more than six months old from the issue opening date. 

(g)  The merchant banker shall ensure that transactions in units by the sponsor and its 
associates during the period between the date of filing the offer document with the 
Board /designated stock exchange, as the case may be and the date of closure of 
the issue shall be reported to the recognised stock exchanges where the units of 
the REIT are listed, within twenty four hours of the transactions. 

15. Power to relax strict enforcement of this guideline. 

The  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  or  for  the  development  of  the  securities 
market, relax the strict enforcement of any requirement of this guidelines, if the Board is 
satisfied that: 

the requirement is procedural in nature; or 

(a) 
(b)  any  disclosure  requirement  is  not  relevant  for  a  particular  sector/sub-sector  or 

REIT; or 
the non-compliance was caused due to factors beyond the control of the REIT. 

(c) 
(d)  any provision of Act(s), Rule(s), regulation(s) under which the REIT is established 

or is governed by, is required to be given precedence to; or  
the requirement may cause undue hardship to investors. 

(e) 

 

 

 

 
 

ANNEXURE I 

FORMATS OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATES 

FORM A 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT BANKER 

ALONG WITH DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT 

To, 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Dear Sirs, 

Sub.:  Public Issue of ………………… by………………………. (Name of the REIT) 

We, the lead merchant banker(s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue, state and confirm 
as follows: 

(1)  We  have  examined  various  documents  including  those  relating  to  litigation  like 
commercial disputes, patent disputes, disputes with collaborators, etc. and other material 
in connection with the finalisation of the offer document pertaining to the said issue; 

(2)  On the basis of such examination and the discussions with the REIT, its Sponsor(s) and 
Manager, directors and other officers, other agencies, and independent verification of the 
statements concerning the terms of the issue, price justification and the contents of the 
documents and other papers furnished by the Manager, WE CONFIRM that: 
(a) 

the draft offer document filed with  the Board is in conformity with the documents, 
materials and papers relevant to the issue; 

(c) 

(b)  all  the  legal  requirements  relating to the  issue  as  also  the regulations  guidelines, 
instructions,  etc.  framed/issued  by  the  Board,  the  Central  Government  and  any 
other competent authority in this behalf have been duly complied with; and 
the  disclosures  made  in  the  draft  offer  document  are  true,  fair  and  adequate  to 
enable the investors to make a well informed decision as to the investment in the 
proposed issue and such disclosures are in accordance with the requirements of 
the  REIT  Regulations,  circulars,  guidelines  issued  thereunder  and  other 
applicable legal requirements. 

(3)  We  confirm  that  besides  ourselves,  all  the  intermediaries  named  in  the  draft  offer 

document are registered with the Board and that till date such registration is valid. 

(4)  We  have  satisfied  ourselves  about  the  capability  of  the  underwriters  to  fulfill  their 

underwriting commitments, if any. 

(5)  We certify that written consent from sponsors has been obtained for inclusion of their 

units as part of sponsors contribution  

(6)  We certify that the proposed activities of the REIT for which the funds are being raised 
in  the  present  issue  fall  within  the  objectives  of  the  Trust  as  specified  in  the  Trust 
Deed of the REIT. 

(7)  We confirm that necessary arrangements have been made to ensure that the moneys 
received  pursuant  to  the  issue  are  kept  in  a  separate  bank  account  and  that  such 

 
 

moneys shall be released by the said bank only after permission is obtained from all 
the  stock  exchanges  mentioned  in  the  offer  document.  We  further  confirm  that  the 
agreement  entered  into  between  the  bankers  to  the  issue  and  the  Manager  to  the 
REIT specifically contains this condition. 

(8)  We certify that the following disclosures have been made in the draft offer document: 

(a)  An undertaking from the Manager that at any given time, there shall be only one 

denomination for the units of the REIT and  

(b)  An  undertaking  from the  Manager  that  it  shall  comply  with  such  disclosure  and 

accounting norms specified by the Board from time to time. 

(9)  We enclose a note explaining how the process of due diligence has been exercised by 
us with respect to the nature of the assets, the risk factors, net worth and experience of 
the sponsor/Manager, experience of the key personnel, etc. 

(10)  We  enclose  a  checklist  confirming  regulation-wise  compliance  with  the  applicable 
provisions of the REIT Regulations, containing details such as the regulation number, 
its text, the status of compliance, page number of the  draft offer document where the 
regulation has been complied with and our comments, if any. 

(11)  We  enclose  a  checklist  confirming  clause-wise  compliance  with  the  guidelines  for 

public offer issued under the REIT Regulations. 

(12)  We  certify  that  profits  from  related  party  transactions  have  arisen  from  legitimate 

business transactions. 

 

 

Place:                            

Date:   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue   

 

with Official Seal(s) 

 
 

FORM B 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT BANKER 

AT THE TIME OF FILING OFFER DOCUMENT WITH THE BOARD AND THE 

DESIGNATED STOCK EXCHANGE 

 

To, 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Dear Sirs, 

Sub.: Public Issue of ……………….. by ……………………… (Name of the REIT) 

 

(1)  This is to certify that the offer document filed with the Board and Stock Exchanges has 
been  suitably  updated  and  that  the  said  offer  document  contains  all  the  material 
disclosures in respect of the REIT as on the said date.  

(2)  We confirm that the registrations of all the intermediaries named in the offer document 
are valid as on date and that none of these intermediaries have been debarred from 
functioning by any regulatory authority. 

(3)  We  confirm  that  agreements  have  been  entered  into  with  both  the  depositories  for 

dematerialisation of the units of the REIT.  

 

 

Place:                            
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue Date: 
 

with Official Seal(s) 

 

 

 

 
 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT BANKER 

IMMEDIATELY BEFORE OPENING OF THE ISSUE 

FORM C 

 

To, 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Dear Sirs, 

 

Sub.: Public Issue of …………………….. by ……………………. (Name of the REIT) 

 

(1)  This is to certify that all the material disclosures in respect of the REIT as on the date 
of  opening  of  the  issue  have  been  made  through  the  offer  document  filed  with  the 
Board  and  designated  stock  exchange  and  subsequent  amendments/  advertisements 
(if applicable) dated …...... (Details of advertisements to be enclosed), We confirm:  
(a) 

that the registrations of all the intermediaries named in the offer document, are 
valid as on date and that none of these intermediaries have been debarred from 
functioning by any regulatory authority as on date. 
that  the  term  sheet  contains  all  the  disclosures  as  specified  in  the  REIT 
Regulations and circulars thereunder. 

(b) 

 

 

Place:                            

Date:   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue 

 

with Official Seal(s) 

 

 
 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY MERCHANT BANKER 

ALONG WITH FINAL POST ISSUE REPORT 

FORM D 

 

To, 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Dear Sirs, 

 

Sub.:   Public issue of …………………… by ……………………… (Name of REIT) 

We, the under noted post issue lead merchant bankers to the abovementioned issue state 
as follows: 

(1)  We confirm that – 

(a) 

for  the units offered for lock-in, non-transferability details have been informed to 
the depositories; 

(b)  details of lock-in have been provided to all the stock exchanges on which units 

are to be listed, before the listing of the units. 

(2)  We  certify  that  units  included  as  minimum  sponsors’  contribution  and  the  units  in 
excess  of  minimum  sponsors’  contribution  have  been  locked-in  in  terms  of  REIT 
Regulation.  

(3)  We  certify  that  provisions  regarding  lock-in  of  units  held  by  persons  other  than 

sponsors have been duly complied with in accordance with REIT Regulations.   

 

 

   Merchant Banker(s) to the Issue 

 

with Official Seal(s) 

 

 

 

 

Place:                            

Date:   

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURE II 

FORMATS OF POST ISSUE REPORTS 

PART A 

FORMAT OF INITIAL POST ISSUE REPORT FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

Subscription Status: (Subscribed/ Undersubscribed) 

Note: It is the responsibility of lead merchant banker to give correct information after verifying 
it from the Manager and the registrar to the issue. 

(1)  Name of the REIT 
(2) 
Issue opening date 
(3)  Earliest closing date 
(4)  Actual closing date  
(5)  Date of filing offer document with Board 
(6) 

: 
: 
: 
: 

: 

Issue Details (as per the offer document) 
(a)  Offer price per unit for different categories 
(b)  Amount per unit on application for different categories  
(c) 

Issue size: (Rs lakhs) 

i.  Sponsors' contribution 
ii.  Amount through offer document: 

(d)  Provisional subscription details of public offer               

: 

: 

: 

 

i.  Total amount to be collected on application:      Rs lakhs 
ii.  Amount collected on application:     Rs lakhs 
iii.  % subscribed i.e. % of (ii) to (i):             (%) 

 

(7)  Please  tick  mark  whether  75%  minimum  subscription  of  the  amount  through  offer 

document is collected. 

(i) YES                                 (ii) NO  

 
 

 

Signed by 

 

 

Signed by  

Registrars to the Issue   Manager 

Date:   

Place:  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signed by 

Lead Merchant Banker(s) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

PART B 

FORMAT OF FINAL POST ISSUE REPORT FOR PUBLIC ISSUE 

Subscription Status: (Subscribed / Undersubscribed) 

Notes: 

(1) 

It is the responsibility of lead merchant banker to give correct information after verifying 
the facts from the Manager and the registrar to the issue. 

(2)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  enclose  a  certificate  from  the  refund  banker  that  the 
amount of refund due to investors is deposited in a separate account giving details of the 
total amount deposited in the account and date of deposit. 

 

IN CASE OF SUBSCRIBED ISSUE: 

(I) 
(1)  Name of the REIT 
(2) 
Issue opening date 
(3)  Actual closing date 
(4) 

 
 

 

: 
: 
: 

: 

Issue Details (as per the offer document) 
(a)  Offer price per unit 
               : 
: Rs. in lakhs 
(b) 

Issue Size 

 

(5)  3-Day Report : 

(a)  Due on 
(b)  Submitted on 

: 
(6)  No. of collecting banks : 

: 

(Also specify no. of bank branches) 

(7)  Bank-wise  names  of  branches  which  did  not  submit final consolidated  certificates from 

closure of issue and mention the dates when they actually submitted 

: 

(8)  Subscription Details -  

(i)  No. of applications recd. 
(ii)  No. of units applied for 
(iii)  Amount of subscription received 
(iv)  No. of times issue subscribed 

: 
: 
: Rs. 
: 

(9)  Actual Date of finalisation of Basis of Allotment (enclose copy) 
(10)  Allotment Details : 

: 

(a)  No. of successful allottees          : 
(b)  No. of unsuccessful allottees      : 

(11)  Actual Date(s) of completion of : 

(a)  Allotment      : 
(b)  Refund           : 
(c)  Reasons for delay in allotment/refund, if any      : 
(d)  Whether interest paid for delayed period, if so, for which period            : 

(12)  Amount of refund due                      :  Rs. 
(13)  Refund Banker(s) (Name and Address): 
(14)  Date of transfer of refund amount to Refund Banker, if any           : 
 
 

(15)  Name of Designated Stock Exchange 
(16)  Names of other stock exchanges where listing is sought              : 
(17)  Date on which application was filed with each stock exchange for listing of units        : 
(18)  Date when listing and trading permission given by each stock exchange (Enclose copies 

: 

of permission letters of stock exchanges)            : 

(19)  Reasons for delay in listing of units for trading, if any         : 
 

IN CASE OF UNDER SUBSCRIBED ISSUE:  
If the issue is underwritten, mention the amount of  issue underwritten   

(II) 
(1) 
(2)  Extent of under subscription on the date of closure of the issue  

:    

(a)  Percentage 
(b)  Amount 

: 
: 

If devolvement notices had not been issued, mention how the shortfall was met 

(3)  Total no. of underwriters 
(4) 
(5)  No. of underwriters to whom devolvement notices had been issued 
(6)  Date of issue of devolvement notices 
(7)  No.  of  underwriters  who  did  not  pay  devolvement  (Please  give  names,  amount 

: 
: 

: 

: 

(8) 
(9) 

underwritten and reasons for not paying)       
In case of default from underwriters, mention how the  shortfall was met 
In case where FIs/ MFs had subscribed to make up shortfall not as underwriter 
(a)  Name of FI/MF 
(b)  No. of units applied for          : 
(c)  Amount received 

: 
: 

: 

: 

: 

 

Certified that the information given above and also in the enclosures are true to the best of our 
knowledge and no refunds/ allotment are pending in respect of the issue. 

Certified that units to be locked in are flagged  in  the  depository  system  as “units cannot be 
hypothecated / transferred / sold till .........” 

 

Signed by  

 

 

Signed by  

 

 

Signed by 

Registrars to the Issue        Manager 

Lead Merchant Banker(s) 

Place:  

Date: 

 
 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURE III 

FORMAT OF TERM SHEET 

Name of the REIT 
Name of the sponsor(s), Manager, Trustee  
Contact details of the Manager 
Contact details of the Merchant Banker 
Listing  ( including name of stock Exchange(s) where it will be 
listed and timeline for listing) 
Issue Size 
Option to retain oversubscription ( Amount )  
Issue Price 
Face Value 
Minimum Application  and in multiples of __ units thereafter 
Issue Timing 
1.  Issue Opening Date 
2.  Issue Closing Date 
3.  Pay-in Date 
4.  Deemed Date of Allotment 
Issuance mode of the Instrument  
Depository 
Objects of the Issue 
Brief description of the assets under the REIT 
Capital structure of the REIT assets 
Brief details of valuation of each asset 
Brief description of ROFR, if any 
Brief details of policy of distributions to the unit holders 
Brief details of fee and expenses charged or chargeable to the 
REIT 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

