 
Consultation paper for amendments to the SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) 
Regulations, 2014 
 

 

A.  Background:  

 

1)  SEBI  (Infrastructure  Investment  Trusts)  Regulations,  2014  (InvIT  regulations)  were 
notified  on  26th  September,  2014,  thereby  providing  a  regulatory  framework  for 
registration  and  regulation  of  InvITs  in  India.  The  regulations,  inter  alia,  prescribe 
conditions  for  making  a  public  offer  and  private  placement,  initial  and  continuous 
disclosures,  investment  conditions,  unit-holder  approval  requirements,  related  party 
disclosures, etc.  
 

2)  Pursuant  to  the  notification  of  InvIT  regulations,  representations  and  suggestions  were 
received  from  various  market  participants  for  making  changes  to  the  said  regulations.  
Based on the recommendations received, a consultation paper proposing amendments to 
InvIT  regulations  was  issued  seeking  public  comments  on  August  20,  2015.  The 
aforesaid  paper  dealt  with  certain  issues  which  have  been  taken  up  again  in  this 
consultation  paper  to  insert  certain  additional  conditions,  based  on  feedback  received 
from  all  stakeholders  viz.  government,  market  participants,  industry  associations, 
regulatory bodies, etc. 

 

3)  Apart from the above, based on the feedback  received from  the aforesaid stakeholders, 

the paper also proposes certain other amendments. 
 
B.  The issues and the proposals for amendment are as under: 

I.  Removing  the  restriction  on  the  SPV  (only  in  case  of  such  SPV  being  a 

Holding Company) to invest in other SPVs holding the assets. 

a)  Current  regulatory  requirement:  Regulation  2(1)(zy)  of  InvIT  Regulations,  inter  alia 
states that a SPV is a company or LLP, which holds not less than ninety  per cent of its 
assets directly in infrastructure projects and does not invest in other SPVs. 

b)  Request  for  change:  It  has  been  represented  that  infrastructure  assets  in  India  are 
usually held through different Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs), where the promoters of 
such SPVs create separate holding companies (HoldCo) which in turn hold stake in the 
multiple SPVs which have infrastructure projects under them. Thus, it has been 

 

Page 1 of 11 

 

 

requested that InvITs be allowed to invest in infrastructure projects through  such SPVs 
(HoldCo) which hold stake in other SPVs having infrastructure assets. 

The rationale for necessitating such change are as under:  

i. 

In  Infrastructure  sector,  specifically  for  PPP  projects,  certain  concession 
agreements  do  not  allow  for  direct  change  in  control  in  SPVs  which  holds  the 
assets, thereby making it possible to transfer shares at holding company level only. 
ii.  Certain  contracts,  for  example,  power  purchase  agreements  in  power  sector 
require consents for direct change of control which may be time consuming and 
not efficient.  

iii.  A large proportion  of  the infrastructure  projects  in  India  are  financed  by Indian 
financial institutions on a project finance basis where lenders require a pledge on 
the shares of the SPV. In such cases, if the SPV is held directly by the InvIT, the 
lenders would seek pledge of the SPV shares held by the InvIT. This might not be 
attractive for the InvIT investors.  

iv.  There are also concerns of tax inefficiencies, lender considerations, difficulties in 

exit for financial investors, etc. if investment in the HoldCo is not allowed. 

 
Further,  feedback  has  also been received  that  removing  the restriction  of  SPV  to invest  in 
other SPVs may not be advisable because of the following concerns: 
 

i.  Listing  of  units  of  InvITs  is  mandatory,  thus  reasonable  exit  option  is  already 
available under the current regulation. Also having a HoldCo does not improvise the 
exit option for a unit-holder.  
In  the  event  of  an  infrastructure  project  failing  or  leading  to  losses,  such  additional 
layers  will  only  make  it  difficult  to  identify  the  ultimate  beneficiary  who  should 
bear/indemnify the losses. 

ii. 

iii.  A multi  layered  structure increases  governance  and  compliance  risk  for  the  Trustee, 
which  further  requires  more  oversight.  Also,  such  oversight  and  monitoring  will 
become  extremely  difficult  as  one  HoldCo  would  hold  controlling  interest  in  many 
SPVs each of which, in turn, holds projects, making the structure more complex and 
difficult to monitor. 
 
 

 

Page 2 of 11 

 

 

The  government  in  the  Union  Budget  2016-17,  has  provided  that  the    SPV  distributing 
dividend  to  the  business  trust  will  be  exempt  from  paying  DDT.  Provided  the  business 
trust  holds  100%  of  the  SPV  or  holds  all  of  the  share  capital  (unless  otherwise)  by 
direction  of  any  Government/  requirement  of  any  law  /  where  such  SPV  is  held  by 
Government  or  Government  bodies.)  Further,  the  dividend  income  is  exempt  in  the 
hands  of the business  trust. Also, the  dividend component of  the income distributed by 
the business trust is exempt in the hands of the unit holders. 

Hence, in view of the above, if the structure is changed from the single layer SPV to the 
multiple layer, then there would be tax implications.  

c)  Proposals:  In  view  of  the  feedbacks  received  from  the  market  participants,  the 

following options are proposed: 

Option I: To retain the exiting provision  i.e single layer SPV or; 

Option  II:  To  amend  regulation  2(1)(zy)  and  other  related  regulations  for  allowing 
investments by InvIT in two level SPV structure i.e. removing the restriction on the 
SPV  to  invest  in  other  SPVs,  and  thereby  allowing  InvIT  to  invest  in  a  Holding 
Company  (HoldCo)  which  subsequently  holds  stake  in  SPV(s),  subject  to  following 
conditions: 

i.  No other shareholder or partner of the underlying SPV(s) shall have any rights 
that  prevent  the  InvIT  and  HoldCo  from  complying  with  the  provisions  of 
these regulations; 

ii.  The  investment  manager,  in  consultation  with  the  Trustee,  shall  ensure  that 
atleast one authorized representative of the HoldCo or the InvIT is appointed 
on the Board of directors or governing board of the underlying SPV(s);  

iii.  The  investment  manager  shall  ensure  that  in  every  meeting  including  annual 
general  meeting  of  the  underlying  SPV(s),  the  HoldCo  participates  in  the 
voting process. 

iv.  All  requirements  related  to  the  related  party  transactions,  etc.  shall  also  be 
applicable  at  the  underlying  SPV  level  in  addition  to  the  HoldCo,  as  may  be 
specified by SEBI. 

 

Page 3 of 11 

 

 

v.  All responsibilities  of the investment manager with  respect to the SPVs  shall 

apply at both the levels.  

vi.  All  investment  conditions  and  leverage  requirements  will  apply  at  the 

consolidated level. 

vii.  The  requirement  of  mandatory  distribution  of  at  least  90%  of  the  net 
distributable cash flows shall apply to the underlying SPVs. Further, 100% of 
the net distributable cash flows of the HoldCo shall be distributed. 

viii.  All  financial  statements  of  the  InvIT  shall  be  consolidated  with  both  the 

SPVs.  

ix.  The HoldCo shall not be engaged in any other activity other than holding of 

the underlying SPV(s).   

x.  Any other conditions as SEBI may deem necessary. 

II.  Mandatory sponsor holding in InvIT  

a)  Current regulatory requirement: Regulation 12(3) of the InvIT regulations requires 
the  sponsor(s)  of  the  InvIT  to  hold,  on  a  collective  basis,  not  less  than  twenty  five 
per cent of the total units of the InvIT on a post-issue basis for a period of not less 
than 3 years from the date of the listing of such units. 

b)  Need for change: It has been represented that the road assets in India are operated 
under a separate concession with NHAI or the state. There is a separate SPV for each 
concession. The project lender(s) typically fund up to 80% of the project cost in the 
SPV's while the balance 20% is the sponsor's equity contribution in the SPV. InvITs 
are  considered  to  be  investment  vehicles,  for  providing  stable  cash  flows  to  the 
investors. The distributable cash flow received by the InvIT, in the form of dividends 
from assets and servicing of debt instruments subscribed by the InvIT in the assets, 
are utilized towards meeting the yield requirements of investors.  

InvIT  investors  would  typically 
include  institutional  investors  like  insurance 
companies,  pension  funds,  mutual  funds,  etc.  looking  for  a  stable  and  predictable 
yield. Thus, a capital structure with no or low leverage would  ensure that the amount  

 

Page 4 of 11 

 

 

of interest which would have otherwise been paid to lenders is available for payment 
of yield to investors.   

For such cash flows to be made available to the investors at InvIT level, a significant 
portion  of  the  existing  debt  of  the  SPV  has  to  be  retired.  In  a  scenario  where  a 
substantial  portion  of  the  existing  debt  at  the  assets  is  replaced  through  primary 
issuance at InvIT, the value of the InvIT units  on a post-issue basis would reflect a 
value equivalent to the sum of the market value of the equity capital of the assets and 
the retired debt at the assets.   

Thus,  the  requirement  for  sponsor  to  hold  25%  of  units  at  InvIT  on  a  post-issue 
basis,  may  limit  the  monetization  for  sponsors,  reduce  release  of  capital  for  such 
sponsors  and  may  also  not  be  feasible  for  the  existing  set  of  sponsors.  Further,  in 
certain circumstances this may lead to sponsor putting money, out of its own pocket, 
in the InvIT so as to maintain the required 25% stake. Thus depriving the sponsor of 
the  opportunity  to  monetize  the  asset  and  be  able  to  infuse  capital  into  new 
infrastructure projects. 

c)  Proposals:    In  view  of  the  representations  received  from  market  participants,  it  is 
proposed  to  provide  options  to  sponsor(s)  to  continue  with  the  existing  criteria  i.e. 
sponsor to hold not less than twenty five per cent of the total units of the InvIT after 
initial offer of units, on a post-issue basis for a period of not less than 3 years from 
the  date  of  the  listing  of  such  units  or  sponsor  would  be  provided  with  one  of  the 
following options:-  

Option  1:  Sponsor(s)  of  the  InvIT  would  hold  not  less  than  10%  of  the  total 
units of the InvIT on a post-issue basis subject to following conditions:  

i. 

10%  of  the  total  units  of  the  InvIT  held  by  the  sponsor(s)  on  a  post-issue 
basis  shall  be  locked  in  for  a  period  of  atleast  3  years  from  the  date  of  the 
listing of such units.  

ii.  Any holding by the sponsor(s) exceeding 10%, on a post issue basis, would be 

locked in for a period of 1 year from the date of the listing of such units.  

iii. 

Sponsor(s)would additionally be made responsible for all acts, omissions and 
representations/ covenants of the InvIT related to formation of InvIT, sale/   

 

Page 5 of 11 

 

 

iv. 

transfer of assets/ SPV to the InvIT and operations of the InvIT carried out 
by Project Manager and Investment Manager. 

v.  The  InvIT/  the  Trustee  shall  have  first  recourse  against  the  Sponsor  and  its 

associates for any breach in this regard. 

vi.  Project  Manager  of  the  InvIT  shall  be  the  sponsor  or  an  associate  of  the 
sponsor and shall continue to act in such capacity during the life  cycle of the 
InvIT  unless  suitable  replacement  is  appointed  by  the  unit-holders  through 
the Trustee. 

vii.  Other procedural requirements as deemed necessary by SEBI. 

Option  2:  The  sponsor  would  divest  upto  85%  subject  to  the  terms  of  the 
concession agreement under following arrangements: 

i. 

Sponsor  would  retain  current  equity  for  the  first  year  (with  given  condition 
that the sponsor must hold a minimum of 15% of the units of InvIT on post 
issue basis) 

ii.  After the first year, the sponsor would be allowed to dilute the equity upto the 
minimum  recommended  floor  of  15%  (with  stipulation  as  given  in  option  1 
(iv) above) and hold 15% equity during the year 2&3. 

III. 

Increase the number of sponsors from 3 to 5 

a)  Current  regulatory  requirement:  Regulation  4(2)(d)(i)  and  12(3)  of  InvIT  regulations 
mandates that the InvIT can have maximum of 3 sponsors, which shall collectively hold 
25% of the units of InvIT on post issue basis.  

b)  Need  for  change:  It  has  been  represented  that  there  are  various  cases  in  which  a 
number  of  group  companies/associates  of  the  sponsor,  are  stakeholder  in  the  SPVs 
executing  the  project.  Therefore,  capping  the  number  of  sponsors  at  three  may  prove 
restrictive.  However,  it  has  also  been  out  pointed  out  that  the  parallel  dilution  i.e.  as 
suggested  in  paragraph  II  above  would  tantamount  to  reduction  in  minimum  sponsor 
holding.  

 

 

Page 6 of 11 

 

 

c)  Proposal: In order to address the contradictory opinions in the matter,  the following is 

proposed 

It  is  proposed  that  in  proposal  at  paragraph  II  above,  the  consultation  paper  suggests 
two options i.e. the existing criteria or the sponsor holding 10% or divesting 85% subject 
to the compliance with conditions as has been laid out in paragraph II above. In view of 
the same, following is proposed: 

a.  If the sponsor holds not less than 25% of the total units of the InvIT after initial 
offer of units, on a post-issue basis for a period of not less than 3 years from the 
date of the listing, then the number of sponsors may be increased from 3 to 5.  

b.  However  if  the  sponsor  (s)  chooses  not  to  hold  25%  of  the  total  units  of  the 
InvIT  after  initial  offer  of  units,  on  a  post-issue  basis  (i.e.  either  of  the  options 
finalized at para II above) then the maximum number of sponsors shall remain at 
3. 

IV.  Approval of related party transactions by the unit holders 

a)  Current regulatory requirement: 

i.  Regulation  22(3)  and  22(4)  of  the  InvIT  regulations  requires  the  approval  of 
60%  of  the  unit  holders,  apart  from  related  parties,  for  passing  related  party 
transactions that are  procedural in nature. 

ii.  Regulation  22(5)  requires  approval  of  75%  of  the  unit  holders,  apart  from 
related parties, for passing of special resolutions such as change in investment 
manager, investment strategy, delisting of units, etc. 

b)  Need for change: Representations have been received that the requirement of 60% 
and  75%  of  investor  approval  may  not  be  feasible,  especially  when  related  parties 
have to abstain from voting. Further, it has been represented that the requirement of 
unit  holder  approval,  in  case  of  related  party  transactions  (RPTs)  should  be  in  line 
with the approval requirement under the Companies Act, 2013. 

c)  Proposal:  Section  188  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  lists  out  the  related  party 
transactions  which  require  approval  from  the  board  of  directors  and/or  the 
shareholders. The section inter-alia states that if such RPTs meet the prescribed  

 

Page 7 of 11 

 

 

thresholds  then  approval  is required  from the  shareholders by way  of  passing  of  an 
ordinary resolution. The section also requires that the directors who are related to the 
transaction  under  discussion,  in  the  meeting,  shall  not  be  present  at  the  meeting 
during  the  discussion  and  the  directors  who  are  related  parties  to  such  contract  or 
agreement  cannot  vote  for  the  same.  Given  the  nature  of  the  InvIT,  a  complete 
alignment  with  the  Companies  Act  cannot  be  made.  It  has  been  indicated  that  it 
would not be possible to achieve the current level of thresholds as prescribed in the 
InvIT regulations. Accordingly, the following thresholds are proposed: 

i.  For  the purpose of  regulation  22(3)  and  22(4),  the  matter  shall  be  approved  if 
the votes cast by the unit holders in favor of the proposal shall be more than the 
number of votes cast by the unit holders against it.  

ii.  For  the  purpose  of  regulation  22(5),  the  matter  shall  be  approved  if  the  votes 
cast  by  the  unit  holders  in  favor  of  the  proposal  shall  be  at  least  one  and  half 
times more than the number of votes cast by the unit holders against it.  

iii.  Further,  in  both  the  above  cases,  the  voting  by  any  person,  who  is  a  related 
party  in  such  transaction,  as  well  as  associates  of  such  person(s)  shall  not  be 
taken into account.  

V.  Aligning minimum public holding requirement with SCRR 

a)  Current  regulatory  requirement:  Regulation  14(4)(d)  and  16(6)  of  InvIT  regulations, 
inter-alia  requires  that  the  units  proposed  to  be  offered  to  the  public  shall  not  be  less 
than  twenty  five  per  cent  of  the  total  outstanding  units.    Further,  the  minimum  public 
holding for the units of the publicly offered InvIT after listing shall be 25%  of the total 
number  of  outstanding  units,  at  all  times,  failing  which  action  may  be  taken  as  may  be 
specified by the Board and by the designated stock exchanges including delisting of units. 

b)  Need for change: Infrastructure assets are usually large and the value of InvIT in which 
such assets are parked would be very high. Therefore, for an issuer to market and sell an 
issue size of 25% of the value of such huge InvITs may not be plausible as the product is 
new and the market may not have the appetite for such big issues. 

c)  Proposal:  A  proposal  has  been  received  to  align  the  same  with  the  requirements  as 
under Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules,  1957 (SCRR). Therefore the requirement 
of minimum offer to public and minimum public holding, of the outstanding units, shall   

 

Page 8 of 11 

 

 

be  linked  with  the  requirement  of  public  offer  of  25%/10%,  as  specified  under  Rule 
19(2)(b)and 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

VI.  Eligibility Criteria for Investment Manager: 

a)  Current regulatory requirement: Regulation 4(2)(e)(ii) of the InvIT regulations requires 
the investment manager to have not less than five years experience in fund management 
or advisory services or development in the infrastructure sector.  

b)  Need for Change: It has been represented that for each InvIT, an investment manager 
will need to be incorporated. While the key managerial personnel of investment manager 
and  sponsor  will  have  domain  expertise,  the  investment  manager  may  be  a  newly 
incorporated company  and  may not  be able to  meet  the five year  experience  criteria.  It 
has  been  suggested  that  if  the  investment  manager  is  promoted  by  a  sponsor  who  has 
prior experience then the investment manager may be exempted from the requirement of 
having atleast 5 years prior experience. 

c)  Proposal  :  Those  Investment  Managers,  which  do  not  have  atleast  5  years  prior 
experience, would be allowed subject to the condition that sponsors have at least 5 years 
of  experience  in  fund  management  or  advisory  services  or  development  in  the 
infrastructure  sector  (similar  to  what  has  been  allowed  for  sponsor)  subject  to  the 
condition  that  sponsor  is  an  associate  of  investment  manager.  The  other  conditions  as 
prescribed in regulation 4(2)(e) shall remain unchanged.  

VII.  Responsibilities of the Trustee and its associate : 

 

a)  Current  regulatory  requirement  :  Regulation  2(zv)  of  the  InvIT  regulations  provides 
that  “related  parties"  of  InvIT  shall  include:  (i)  parties  to  the  InvIT;(ii)  any  unit  holder 
holding, more than 20% of the units  of the InvIT; (iii) associates, promoters, directors, 
and  partners  of  the  persons  mentioned  in  (i)  and  (ii).  Regulation  9(19)  of  the  InvIT 
regulations  provides  that  the  Trustee  or  its  associates  shall  not  invest  in  units  of  the 
InvIT in which it is designated as Trustee.  Also, schedule III-13(c)and Schedule IV-(17) 
of  the  InvIT  regulations  requires  brief  description  of  the  material  litigations  and 
regulatory  actions,  whether  completed  or  pending,  against  the  InvIT,  sponsor(s), 
Investment Manager, Trustee, or any of their associates, if any in the last 5 years. 

 
 

 

Page 9 of 11 

 

 

b)  Need  for  change:  It  has  been  represented  that  the  Trustee  is  an  independent  entity, 
which is a Debenture Trustee registered with SEBI.  Further, the Trustee does not have 
any  financial  interest  in  the InvIT,  except  the  fee  for  its  services  as a  Trustee.  Also the 
assets of the InvIT are independent of the assets and liabilities of the  Trustee company 
and are even protected against insolvency of the Trustee. Hence, disclosure of associates 
of  Trustee  is  not  material  for  any  investors  in  the  InvIT.  Therefore  certain  disclosures 
need not extend to Trustee. 
 

c)  Proposal  :  In  view  of  the  above,  the  following  changes  may  be  made  to  the  InvIT 

regulations: 

 

i.      Associates of the Trustees would not form a part of the parties to the InvIT. 
ii.     Associates of Trustees would be allowed to invest in units of the InvIT in which it 
is designated as Trustee, subject to such transactions being conducted at an arm’s 
length basis. 

iii.     The  disclosure  of  litigations  of  associates  of  Trustee  as  per  Schedule  III  and 

Schedule IV of the InvIT regulations, may not be required. 

 

VIII.  Allowing InvIT to lend to the underlying SPVs 

a)  Current  regulatory  requirement:  Regulation  18(10)  of  the  InvIT  regulations  doesn't 

allow the InvIT to undertake lending to any person.  

b)  Need  for  change:  It  has  been  represented  that  since  infrastructure  projects  have  long 
gestation period and are  normally financed by a mix of equity and debt (loan) from the 
financial institutions, hence, in case of transfer of such assets from sponsor to an InvIT, 
such transaction may require financing/ retiring the debt (loan) of such projects.  

c)  Proposal:   InvIT regulations may be amended to allow lending. However, the same may 
be  restricted  to  only  the  SPVs  in  which  the  InvIT  has  invested,  subject  to  other 
conditions as deemed necessary. 

IX.  Operational aspects 
 

i.  Filing of Project Management Agreement at the time of filing the offer document 

SEBI  has  received representations  that  as  the  infrastructure  assets  identified  at  the  time of 
registration of InvIT may change at the time of filing of offer document. Therefore, entering  

 

Page 10 of 11 

 

 

into  the  Project  Implementation  Agreement  at  the  time of  application for  registration  may 
not be feasible. 

Proposal:  Accordingly, the InvIT regulations  may be amended to clarity that only Project 
Management Agreement may be required to be filed at the time of filing of offer document 
with SEBI. 

 

ii.  Liability of the unit holders: 

As per the InvIT regulations, the liability of the unit holders is limited to the extent of the 
units  held  by  them.  However,  SEBI  has  received  representations  that  in  the  InvIT 
regulations there is no  explicit provision with respect to liability of unit holders and hence, 
more  clarity  may  be  provided  before  entities  such  as  insurance  companies,  (who  invest  on 
behalf of their investors), are allowed to invest in InvITs.  
 
Proposal:  It  is  proposed  to  clarify  that  the  unit-holder  is  an  investor  and  his  rights  and 
obligations are limited to the amount of his investment in the units of InvITs. 

 

C.  Public Comments: 

  

i. 

In  light  of  the  above,  public  comments  are  invited  on  the  proposals  contained  in  the 
consultation paper. Comments/ suggestions may be provided in the format given below:  
 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 

 

 

 

Sr. 
No.  

 

Pertains 
No. 

to  Point 

Suggestions 

Rationale 

ii.  Further, comments may also be forwarded by email to invit@sebi.gov.in or may be sent 

by post to the following address latest by June 28, 2016. 
Investment Management Department,  
Division of Funds I  
 Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan   
C4-A, G Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai - 400 021 

  
Issued on:  June 01, 2016 

 

Page 11 of 11 

