 
 

 

Consultative Paper on Warehousing Norms for Agricultural &Agri-Processed 

Commodities Traded on National Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 

 

1.  Warehousing  infrastructure  and  its  ancillary  services  play  a  critical  role  in  the  delivery 

mechanism  of  the  Commodity  Derivatives  Market.  A  robust  &credible  warehousing 

infrastructure  is  sine  qua  non  for  an  effective  Commodity  Derivatives  Market  that  can 

inspire confidence amongst the market participants and other stake holders. At the time 

of the merger of FMC  with SEBI, with a view to ensuring good delivery  of commodities 

during  settlement  of  futures  contracts,  SEBI  decided  to  assign  the  responsibility  of 

settlement  of  the  futures  contact,  including  good  delivery  of  the  commodities,  to  the 

commodity derivatives exchanges. 

 

2.  It  is  incumbent  upon  the  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  to  frame  norms  for 

warehouse  service  providers  (WSP),  warehouse,  assayers  and  other  allied  service 

providers engaged by them so as to put in place a robust mechanism, for ensuring good 

delivery  as  mandated  under  the  SECC  Regulations.  The  existing  norms  for  exchange 

accredited  WSPs,  warehouses  and  assayers  have  been  reviewed.  On  the  basis  of 

various  observations  made/inputs  received  during  visits  to  different  warehouses, 

meetings  held  with  the  WSPs  and  national  commodity  derivatives  exchange,  SEBI  is 

considering  to  revise  the  norms  for  the  WSPs,  warehouses,  assayers  etc.  while 

superseding the earlier norms.   

 

3.  In order to take into consideration views of various stakeholders, public comments are 

solicited on the proposed norms as placed in Annexure- A.  

 

4.  Comments  may  please  be  sentto  SEBI  on  or  before  June  17,  2016  by  emailing  to 

cdmrd_dmp@sebi.gov.inor may be sent by post, to following address:-  

 

Division of Market Policy, 

Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department, 

SEBI Bhavan, Plot C4-A, G- Block,  

BKC, Bandra East, Mumbai-400051 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 16 

 

 

 

 

 

A.  Accreditation of WSP 

Annexure- A 

a)  The exchanges shall follow a transparent process for accreditation of WSP 
by issuing open advertisements in leading newspapers and putting up on 
the  exchange  website  and  through  a  transparent  selection  process 
thereto. The selection process being/to be followed for such accreditation 
shall  be  displayed  on  the  website  of  the  Exchange.  The  accreditation  of 
the  WSP  shall  be  done  with  the  approval  of  the  Risk  Management 
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Exchange. The exchange shall 
ensure that the application of the WSP/warehouses are processed within a 
stipulated time frame. 

b)  A WSP can be accredited with more than one exchange. In such case, no 
exchange shall mandate that its WSP cannot provide services to another 
exchange.  

 

 

c)  The  accreditation  of  a  WSP  shall,  unless  any  expulsion  proceedings 
pending  against  it,  be  subject  to  renewal  after  a  period  of    3  years 
considering  WSP’s  performance  during  accreditation,  quality  of  services 
and number of client complaints and effective resolutions thereof etc. . The 
renewal  shall  be  approved  by  the  Risk  Management  Committee  of  the 
Exchange.   During the renewal process, the Exchange and the WSP shall 
continue  to  be  responsible  for  the  commodity  stored  till  the  Final  Expiry 
date. 

 
B.  Eligibility and Experience  of WSP/Promoters/Promoter Group of WSP 

 

 

a)  A WSP shall be a corporate body and in public warehousing business. 

b)  The  Promoters/  Promoter  Groups  of  the  WSP  should  be  responsible 
persons/entities of repute with a  good business reputation and credibility, 
and who are in the business of public warehousing for at least 3 years and 
have  knowledge  of,  and  experience  in,  generally  accepted  warehousing 
and handling practices for Commodities. 
 
The  exchange  in  its  discretion,  may  relax  the  above  norm  of  3  years 
provided that the WSP or its promoter/promoter group: 
  Meets all other criteria  
  Submit  an  undertaking  that  they  shall  meet  any  additional  norm 
specified  by  exchanges  within  the  time  frame  as  specified  by  it  or  3 
years whichever is earlier. 

c)  WSP  and  Promoters/  Promoter  Group  of  WSP  shall  have  no  record  of 
serious  violation  of  laws  or  being  expelled  by  any  Exchange  in  last  three 
years. The Exchange can take an appropriate undertaking from the WSP 
in this regard. 

Page 2 of 16 

 

 

 

 
C.  Financial Norms for the WSP 

a)  Capital  and  Net  worth:  A  WSP  shall  be  a  corporate  body  with  the 

minimum net worth requirement as under: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i.  An accredited WSP shall have at least, subscribed share capital of `10 

crore.  

ii.  An  accredited  WSP  providing  warehousing  services  to  a  single 

exchange shall have : 
  Minimum  net  worth  of  ₹50  crores  for  multi-commodities  or  multi 

location  

  Minimum  net  worth  of  ₹25  crores  for  single  commodity  or  single 

location. 

iii.  Further,  the  above  net  worth  may  also  be  linked  with  the  values  of 
goods  stored.  Thus,  the  higher  the  value  of  goods  stored,  the  higher 
the net worth shall be required to be achieved by the accredited WSP. 
 

iv.  For  a  WSP  servicing  multiple  exchanges,  the  above  net-worth 
requirements  shall    be  increased  by  the  number  of  exchanges 
serviced. 
 

v.  The  "net worth"shall be computed as under: 

Particulars 
Net worth calculation as follows: 
Paid up capital 
Add: Reserve and surplus 
(excluding revaluation reserves) 
Less: Accumulated losses, if any 
Less: Miscellaneous expenditure  
Total Net worth 

In ` crore (as on -----) 
 
 
 

 
 
 

vi.  In  case  of  reduction  in  net  worth  below  the  stipulated  amount,  a  time 
period of six month to one year may be allowed to the WSP to augment 
its net worth. However, in the event  the WSP is unable to augment the 
net worth to the requisite level within the allowed time frame, the WSP 
shall  not  carry  out  any  new  business  i.e.  can  not  include  any  new 
warehouse for new contracts/commodity/location. 

vii. The WSP shall submit an audited net worth certificate to the exchange 
every six months i.e. at the end of every June and December, within 30 
calendar days. 
 

viii. The  Financial  Statements  of  the  WSPs  should  be  audited  and 
submitted  to  the  Exchange  within  six  months  of  the  end  of  Financial 

Page 3 of 16 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year.  Further, each WSP shall also be required to file within 45 days 
of  the  statement  date,  unaudited  quarterly  financial  statements  for  all 
quarters. 
 

ix.  It is prudent that the WSPs  appoints its Auditors by rotation after every 
3  years  with  a  provision  for    'cooling  off'  period  of  three  years  for  the 
auditor who conducts audit of the WSP consecutively for a period of 3 
years. 

b)  Security  Deposit:  The  WSP  seeking  accreditation  with  an  exchange  is 
required to furnish a refundable security deposit along with the application 
form. 

i.  Such security deposit shall be minimum of `50 lakhs. 
ii.  Security  deposit  shall  not  be  released  until  six  months  after 
cancellation or revocation of the accreditation of the WSP or until after 
satisfaction of any claim against the deposit, whichever is later.  

iii.  Such  security  deposit  shall  be  in  form  of  cash  or  cash  equivalent  like 

Bank Fixed Deposits, Bank Guarantees etc. 

c)  Financial Security Deposits (FSD):  

i.  The  WSP  shall  furnish  FSD  in  addition  to  the  security  deposit  as 

under:-  
  3%  on  the  aggregate    value  of  stored  commodities,  which  is  less 

than or equal to ₹250 crores 

  4% on the aggregate  value of stored commodities, which is  above 

₹250 crores and equal to ₹500 crores and  

  5% on the aggregate  value of stored commodities, which is above -

₹500 crores  of the goods stored in the warehouses of a WSP. 

ii.  The FSD shall be in form of liquid assets with applicable haircuts and 

concentration limits are listed below  

 

Minimum haircut  Limits 
Item 
Cash 
0 
Bank Fixed Deposit  0 
Bank Guarantees 
0 

in 

rupee 

No Limit but minimum 25% 
The exchanges shall lay down exposure 
limits  either 
terms  or  as 
percentage  of  the  total  Assets  that  can 
be  exposed  to  a  single  bank  directly  or 
indirectly.  The  total  exposure  towards 
any  bank  would  include  Bank  Fixed 
Deposit and Bank Guarantees issued by 
the  bank  which  have  been  deposited  by 
WSPs. 

 

Page 4 of 16 

 
Not  more 

than  1%  of  such  assets 

 
Item 

Minimum haircut  Limits 

 

is  not 

rated  P1 

deposited  with  the  exchange,  shall  be 
exposed to any single bank which has a 
net  worth  of  less  than  INR  500  crores 
and 
(or  P1+)  or 
equivalent,  by  a  recognized  credit  rating 
agency  or  by  a  reputed  foreign  credit 
rating agency, and not more than 10% of 
such  deposit  deposited  with 
the 
exchanges  shall  be  exposed  to  all  such 
banks put together 
No Limit 

Securities  of 
the 
Central Government 
 

10% 

iii.  A  daily  monitoring  of  the  FSD  vis-à-vis  the  value  of  the  commodities 
stored needs  to  be  done  so  as  to  ensure that  the minimum  stipulated 
FSD are always maintained with the Exchange. The exchange may ask 
for additional FSD over that stipulated above, if considered necessary.  
 

iv.  The  FSD  vis-a-vis  the  value  of  goods  stored  should  be  marked  to 

market on replacement value on ongoing basis.  
 

v.  The  exchanges  may  specify  the  liquidity  ratio  (i.e.  Liquidity  Ratio= 
Current  Assets/Current  Liabilities)  for  WSPs,  however  it  is  desirable 
that  such  ratio  is  greater  than 1. The  Exchanges  may,  however,  keep 
higher ratio. 
 

D.  Fit and Proper 
 

a)  The exchange shall ensure that the WSP,  Promoters of WSP, assayers, 
Key Management Personnel (KMPs) of WSPs, warehouses and Assayers 
shall always be 'fit and proper' to carry out business of warehousing, have 
adequate  knowledge  of,  and  experience 
in  generally  accepted 
warehousing and handling practices for Commodities, and are competent 
and  willing  to  operate  such  a  warehouse  for  which  the  WSP  has  a  valid 
license/expertise under the appropriate state warehousing laws in respect 
of the warehouses concerned.  

b)  As every commodity derivatives exchange is required to ensure guarantee 
for settlement of trades including good delivery, the 'fit and proper' criteria 
referred to  above shall have similar meaning as defined under Regulation 
20 of SECC Regulations. 

E.  Corporate Governance norms for WSP 

 
a)  Management  and  Employees:  The  exchange  shall  ensure  that  the 
accredited  WSP  has  a  professional  management  team  to  oversee  its 
functioning and operations.  

Page 5 of 16 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  The  exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  Key  Management  Personnel 
(KMPs)  of  WSP    have  adequate  knowledge  of,  and  experience  in 
generally  accepted  warehousing  and  handling  practices 
for 
Commodities,  and  are  competent  and  willing  to  operate  such  a 
warehouse, and do not have any conflict of interest in discharge of their 
functions. 

  WSP/Management  of  WSP  (defined  as  ‘key  managerial  personnel’ 
including  whole  time  directors  of  WSP  and  their  ‘relatives’  as  per 
Companies  Act,  2013)  or  entities  owned  or  controlled  by 
promoters/management  of  WSP/Group  concerns/associates  or 
persons  ‘acting  in  concert’  shall  not  be  allowed,  either  directly  or 
indirectly,  to  trade  on  the  commodity  derivatives  exchange  in  the 
commodity for which it is accredited by Exchange.  

  The Exchange shall obtain an annual declaration from the compliance 
officer  of  WSP  to  the  effect  that  the  WSP/Management  of  WSP  or 
entities  owned  or  controlled  by  management  of WSP/Group  concerns 
or persons ‘acting in concert’ have not traded on exchange. 

  The exchange shall ensure that the WSP has adequate and competent 
employees at all times who have the experience, capacity and ability of 
operating the business without any no conflict of interest.  

  The  exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  staff/employees  of  the  WSP 
including the assayers, who are managing the day-today affairs of the 
warehouses,  deployed  both  in  the  office  of  the  WSP  and  in  the 
warehouses  concerned,  are  duly  trained  on  their  expected  tasks 
through the Exchange’s delivery business related training programmes 
or  are  deputed  to  attend  the  certification  programme  on  commodity 
derivatives  and  warehousing  conducted  by  National  Institute  of 
Securities market (NISM). 
 

b)  Compliance  officer:  The  WSP  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who 
shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  relevant  Act,  rules 
and  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines  and  instructions  issued  by 
relevant authorities from time to time. The Compliance officer of the WSP 
shall  ensure  that  all  points  mentioned  in  (a)  above  under  corporate 
governance  norms  are  followed  by  the  WSP  and  should  issue  a 
declaration to that effect to the Exchange. 
 

c)  Standard  Operating  Procedure(SOP):The  WSP  shall  have  a  standard 
operating  procedure  (SOP)  and  the  exchange  shall  obtain  a  standard 
operating  procedure in respect of all the concerned warehouses from the 
WSP  before  accreditation  of  warehouse,  which  may  cover  the  following 
but not restricted to: 
  Procedures for acceptance of goods to be deposited 
  Weigh bridge empanelment 
  Procedures  for  weighing,  sampling  of  goods  to  be  deposited  as  per 
industry  standards,  Procedure  for  verification  of  commodity  and 
communication to depositors,  

Page 6 of 16 

 

 

 

  Procedure for depositing and identifying the Exchange related goods, 
  Procedure  for  maintaining  the  quality  of  the  goods  stored  as  per  the 

exchange contract specification, 

  Procedure for Know your depositor requirements, 
  Security policy for ensuring the safety of the goods from theft, burglary 

etc., 

  Procedure  and  guidelines  for  scientific  storage  of  goods,  including 

stacking etc., 

  Procedure  for  losses  caused  due  to  theft,  fire,  burglary,  fraud, 

negligence and force majeure events, 

  Procedure for internal verification of stock, 
  Preservations  of  Stock  –  maintenance  of  godown  hygiene, 
maintenance  of  warehouse  structure,  aeration,  periodical  examination 
of  goods,  classification  of  presence  of 
insects,  pre-monsoon 
precautions etc. 

  Selection of Location for offering warehousing services 
  Grievance-redress procedures 
  Role  and 
employees) 

responsibilities  of  employees 

(including  outsourced 

  Model warehouse agreement format 
  Maintenance of surroundings, infrastructure etc. 

 

d)  The  WSP  shall  have  good  internal  systems  and  controls  which  should 
meet the operating guidelines, if any, issued by the Exchange from time to 
time. The WSP shall have clear delegation of powers to meet operational 
requirement.  
 

e)  Any  change  in  the  organizational  structure  of  a  WSP  requires  that  the 
WSP  shall  intimate  /    notify  the  Exchange  prior  to  such  change.  Prior  to 
any  such  change  occurring,  the  WSP  is  also  required  to  notify  the 
Exchange in writing of any name change. 
 

f)  WSP shall report to the Exchange within three business days of initiation 
of  any  civil  and  criminal  proceedings  by  or  against  it    and  shall  also 
intimate the exchange if there is probability of any such legal proceedings 
being initiated involving it ,as soon as the same comes to the knowledge of 
the WSP. 

 
F.  Know Your Depositor 
 

a)  The  WSP  should  comply  with  Know  Your  Depositor  (KYD)  Policy  as 

prescribed by the Exchange from time to time.  
 

b)  The Exchange and WSP shall at any point of time be able to identify the 
depositor/  owner  of  the  goods  deposited/to  be  deposited  in  registered 
warehouses,  the  owner  of  the  commodity  (in  case  the  depositor  is  an 

Page 7 of 16 

 

 

 

 

agent of the actual owner), and also the beneficiary (in case the depositor 
and the beneficiary are different) of the deposited/stored commodities. 

 

 
G.  PAN requirement 
 

a)  WSPs  shall  be  under  obligation  to  the  provide  to  exchanges  with  the 
details  including  PAN  numbers  of  its  Promoters,  Promoter  group  entities, 
its  holding/subsidiaries/associates  and  other  related  entities,  persons 
‘acting in concert’, Key Management Personnel at the time of accreditation 
and update the same on periodical basis as well as  whenever any change 
is noted by WSP. 

H.  Facilities & Infrastructure Requirement for WSP  

The  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the  WSPs  to  be  eligible  for  accreditation 
have reasonable facility and infrastructure for proper handling and storage of 
commodity like:-  

a)  All  its  warehouses  are  well  connected  with  rail  and/or  road  networks 

and have sufficient space for parking and movement of large vehicle; 

b)  Warehouses  are  physically  and  operationally  suitable  for  the  proper 

storage of Commodities and :  
  are of sound construction and in a state of good repair. The walls, 
the floor and the roof do not  permit water seepage and are source 
of insect infestation. 

  have  adequate  equipment,  installed  and  maintained  in  good 
working  order,  as  may    be  prescribed  by  the  Exchange,  for  the 
movement  of  commodities  into,  out  of  and  within  the  warehouse. 
Further, the employees employed at the warehouses shall undergo 
training in fire safety and use of fire fighting equipments 

  have adequate fire fighting equipment installed at each warehouse, 

have fire escapes and fire hydrant points clearly marked 

  have adequate ventilation, installed and maintained in good working 
order,  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the  Exchange,  for  the  proper 
storage and preservation of grain quality;  

  have  adequate  lighting  arrangement  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the 

Exchange;  

  are  free  from  materials  and  substances  that  may  adversely  affect 

the quality of stored commodities;  

  have a safe work environment; and  
  have ensured adequate security as prescribed by the Exchange for 
protection  of  stored  or  handled  commodities  to  prevent  from 
tampering or adulteration.  

  Commodities of futures contracts shall be stored and piled properly 
in  a  separate  storage  area  as  specified  by  the  Exchange  thereby 
provide clear-cut demarcation between Exchange / non- Exchange 
commodities 

Page 8 of 16 

 

 

 

  WSP  shall  take  utmost  care  in  storing  commodities  for  futures 
contract in accordance with the climatic conditions and the nature of 
commodity stored. 

  WSP  shall  have  adequate  security  personnel  for  every  registered 
warehouse with required facilities to immediately communicate any 
unlawful  entry,  burglary,  theft  or  damage  or  potential  loss  to  the 
deposited goods to the WSP. 

  Each warehouse of an accredited WSP shall assign a special place 
to store the samples used for inspection and testing for purpose of 
further examination and testing. 

  WSPs  shall 

take  utmost  care  on  daily  basis 

for  keeping 
surroundings  under  control  for  vegetation  control  and  disposal  of 
waste  which  can  create  a  favourable  habitat  for  rodents  and  other 
pests; whether rodent control structures are sound; and for pools of 
water  around  the  facility,  which  can  increase  the  danger  of  water 
seepage into it.  
 

c)  WSP  shall  give  priority  to  commodities  for  futures  contract  delivery 
while  receiving, storing and dispatching goods. It should have internal 
process  that  allow  the  Exchange  to  physically  verify  itself  or  through 
any  agencies  /  experts,  the  goods  deposited  and  /  or  warehouse 
facilities  in  general  or  for  compliance  of  the  warehousing  norms 
stipulated by the exchange/regulator for the specific commodities. 
 

d)  The  WSP  should  undertake  to  have  assaying/testing  facilities  for  the 
commodities  it  intends  to  render  warehousing  facility,  or  should 
undertake to be associated with an assaying/testing agency which may 
preferably  be  certified  by  one  or  more  national/international  agencies 
like  NABL  (National  Accreditation  Board  for  calibration  and  testing 
Laboratories), BIS etc.  
 

e)  The  WSP  shall  provide  for  accurate  and  efficient  weighing,  sampling, 
inspection and grading of the Commodities in store, and the Exchange 
shall ensure that the WSP should have personnel who have knowledge 
and  experience  in  sampling,  weighing,  inspecting  and/or  grading  of 
Commodities ;  
 

f)  The WSP shall have own or access to fumigation facilities/agencies for 

pest control activities.  
 

g)  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  the  WSPs  have  in  place,  necessary 
policies, control and system in place for of risk that may be arising due 
to  the  warehouses  being  used  for  purpose  other  than  commodity 
derivatives market. 
 

h)  The  exchange  and  WSP  shall  be  responsible 

the 
goods/commodities  in  warehouses  which  meets  the  quantity  and 

to  accept 

Page 9 of 16 

 

 

 

 

 

quality  parameters  as  per  the  exchange  contract  specifications.  The 
WSP shall take necessary actions to maintain the quality and quantity 
of  goods  stored 
the 
conditions/parameters  (for  maintaining  the  quality)as  laid  down  by  the 
exchanges for each of such commodity. 
 

in  accordance  with 

the  warehouse, 

in 

i)  The  WSP  shall  display  on  a  daily  basis  warehouse  wise/commodity 
wise details of the space available, goods held and in transit, details of 
location  of  the  warehouse,  details  of  rejection  of  accepting  the  goods 
etc,  on  its  website and  the  archives  of  such  reports  shall  be  available 
on its website. 
 

j)  The  WSP  shall  not  disseminate  any  information  that  is  false  or 
misleading or disclose any confidential information obtained as a result 
of their position or the performance of their duties. 

 

I.  Accreditation of assayers 
 

a)  The  exchanges  shall  follow  a  transparent  process  for  accreditation  of 
assayers  by  issue  of  open  advertisement  in  leading  newspapersand 
putting up on the exchange website. The process being followed for such 
accreditation  shall  be  displayed  on  the  website  of  the  Exchange.  The 
accreditation  shall  be  done  with  the  approval  of  the  Risk  Management 
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Exchange. 

 
b)  The Exchange shall conduct independent pre-empanelment due diligence 
of  Assayers  by  visiting  the  laboratories  and  assessing  the  testing  and 
certification  facilities.  The  exchanges  shall  give  preference  to  those 
Assayers  who  are  having  testing  and  certification  facilities  at  various 
locations across India shall. In addition to the empanelment of assayers to 
be  deployed  by  the  WSPs  at  their  warehouses,  the  exchange  shall  also 
identify  and  empanel  separate  independent      assayer(s)  at  each  delivery 
location  where  the  market  participants  can  independently  get  their 
goods/commodities assayed, at the time of depositing into or withdrawing 
such commodities/goods from a warehouse.  
 

c)  The  exchanges  shall  ensure 

that 

the  empanelled  assayers  work 
independently and  their  operations  are  governed  by  Standard  Operating 
Procedures  (SOPs).  The  assayers  shall  be  preferably  certified  by  one  or 
more  national/international  agencies  like  NABL  (National  Accreditation 
Board for calibration and testing Laboratories), BIS etc and have  
  State-of-the-art infrastructure 
  Best-in-class modernized testing equipment 
  Quick turnaround time with highly reliable results 

J.  Warehouses at delivery centres 

Page 10 of 16 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a)  The exchanges shall ensure that all the warehouses of a WSP accredited 
by  them  are  registered  with  the  statutory  authority  viz.,  Warehousing 
Development  Regulatory  Authority  (WDRA).  The  exchanges  shall  take 
necessary steps to ensure that such warehouses which are not registered 
with the WDRA are registered by WDRA within 6 months from the date of 
such  accreditation,  failing  which  the  accreditation  given  to  the  WSP  in 
respect of such warehouses shall expire. 
 

b)  The exchanges shall have at least one warehouse  at each of the delivery 
centres (as specified in the contract specification) at the time of launch of 
contract itself and address of such warehouses shall be mentioned in the 
contract specifications. 
 

c)  The exchanges may accredit warehouses of a WSP within 100 kms radius 
of  the  delivery  centres  depending  on  the  feasibility  and  requirements,  in 
respect of all commodities.  

K.  Owned warehouses 

a)  Exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  WSP  accredited  by  it  have  its  own 

warehouses.  
 

b)  if  the  WSP  is  using  third  party  warehouses,  then  number  of  such 

warehouses used by WSP may not exceed more than 50%.  

L.  Insurance  

a)  The WSP shall at all times ensure to fully cover the value of goods stored 
at exchange approved  warehouses under insurance for all perils relevant 
to the commodities for which insurance cover is available and necessary.  
 

b)  The  WSP  shall  undertake  to  take  insurance  cover  for  risks  such  as  viz. 
Fire and allied perils including flood, cyclone, earthquake and spontaneous 
combustion,  Burglary  and  Theft  and  special  perils  covering  riots,  strikes 
and terrorism. 
 

c)  The WSP shall take Fidelity guarantee & crime insurance and Professional 

indemnity cover to cover all deliverable stocks on the exchange.  
 

d)  The  value  of  goods  to  be  insured  should  be  marked  to  market  on 

replacement value on ongoing basis.  

M.  Inspection/Audit of warehouses by WSPs and Exchanges 

a)  Periodic inspection/audit by WSPs: The WSP should ensure that there 
is periodic inspection/audit of the warehouse or the commodities stored in 
the warehouses. 

 

Page 11 of 16 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Inspection staff must be independent of the employees / staff deputed 
at the registered warehouse. 

  The inspection/audit report is submitted to the Exchange within a week 

of the completion of such inspection/audit.  

  The  Exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  physical  counting  of  stocks  and 
their  reconciliation  with  the  corresponding  electronic  records  is  done 
periodically.  

b)  The  WSP  shall  allow  the  members  /clients  holding  electronic  credit 
balances to do physical inspection of their goods. However, the request for 
such physical inspection would have to be submitted to the Exchange and 
the Exchange after verification of such request, shall forward the same to 
the concerned WSP for allowing such inspection.  

c)  Periodic  inspection/audit  of  warehouses  by  the  exchange:  The 
Exchange  shall ensure  independent  audit of  the  stock  in  the  warehouses 
by expert agencies at regular intervals. 

 

  Such inspections shall be carried out at least twice in each accredited 
warehouse in a calendar year with a gap of not more than six months 
between two inspections/audits of same warehouse. 
In  addition  to  the  above,  the  audit  may  also  be  conducted  on  risk 
profiling, as identified by the Exchange. For this purpose, the Exchange 
shall form a panel of independent expert agencies and the cost of such 
audit shall be borne by the respective Exchange. 

 

  The  result  of  such  audit/audit  report  shall  be  displayed  by  the 
Exchange on its website immediately after the completion of the audit 
and submission of report by the auditor.  

  The  exchanges  shall  prepare  a  panel  of  such  independent  expert 
agencies for carrying out inspection of warehouses, which shall also be 
reviewed  by  the  Exchange  from  time  to  time.  In  addition,  the 
Exchanges  shall  also  conduct  in-house  physical  audit  of  accredited 
warehouses at regular intervals.  

  The  exchange  shall  have  a  policy  of  rotation  of  such  independent 
expert  agencies  for  carrying  out  inspection  after  every  3  years  with  a 
provision for  'cooling off' period of three years. 

  The exchange shall have a detailed inspection manual for carrying out 

the audits and inspections of the WSP/warehouses concerned. 

 

d)  Monitoring  of  warehouses  by  exchange:  The  exchanges  shall  be 
responsible  for  the  monitoring  the  warehouses  of  their  accredited WSPs. 
In this regard : 
  Norms  relating  to  the  monitoring  of  warehouses  shall  be  in  public 

domain. 

  A  detailed  report  on  the  functioning,  monitoring  and  compliance  of 
norms  by  WSPs,  warehouse  and  assayers  shall  be  a  mandatory 

Page 12 of 16 

 

 

 

 

agenda  item  in  all  Board  meetings  as  well  as  the  Risk  management 
committee meeting. 

 

  The  Exchange  and  WSPs  shall  ensure  that  the  goods  whose  final 
expiry  date  is  over,  are  removed  from  the  concerned  warehouse 
immediately.  The 
such 
goods/commodities  (whose  final  expiry  is  over)  are  not  removed  from 
the warehouses, then such holdings by the investor/participant may be 
treated as part of the position limits for the near months/spot months of 
that investor/participant.  

exchanges 

that 

shall 

ensure 

if 

 

N.  Review 
 

a)  The Exchange shall review and appraise operational performance of each 
WSP  every  year.  Based  on  the  operational  review  the  Exchange  may 
adjust  the  allocation  of  commodities  and  the  limit  of  deliveries  at  various 
warehouses  of  the  concerned  WSP  in  accordance  with  the  results  of 
evaluation and appraisal.  
 

b)  Additionally, 

the  Exchange  may  carry  out  biennial  and  quarterly 
performance review of all warehouses accredited by it, taking into account 
various  performance  areas  such  as  storage  facilities,  the  capacity  and 
the  warehouse,  business  capabilities,  business 
appearance  of 
performance,  accounting, 
level  of  members/clients, 
redressal  of  client  grievances,  and  other  factors  as  the  Exchange  may 
deem  necessary for its review. 
 

the  satisfaction 

c)  The  exchange  may  take  necessary  action  against  the  WSP/warehouse 
mentioned  in  para  V  against  the  WSP/warehouse  if  the  warehouse  is 
unable to meet the requirements for a accredited Warehouse and fails to 
improve to the standard.  
 

d)  The  exchange  shall  submit  a  report  on  the  functioning  of  its  accredited 

WSPs, their warehouses and assayers on quarterly basis to SEBI. 

 

O.  Code of conduct 
 

a)  The  exchange  shall  frame  necessary  code  of  conduct  for  the  WSPs, 

warehouses and assayers.  
 

b)  The said code of conduct shall be displayed on the exchange website. 

P.  Investor Grievance Cell 

a)  The exchange shall ensure that the WSP has a Investor Grievance Cell to 

handle consumer complaints. 
 

b)  WSP  shall  take  proactive  steps  to  resolve  customer  related  issues  and 

maintain a record of complaints received / resolved.  

Page 13 of 16 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c)  The  exchange  shall  require  the  WSP  to  report  the  details  of  complaints 

received / resolved by it and pending, fortnightly.  

Q.  Agreement between Exchange and WSP 

a)  There  should  be  agreement  between  Exchange  and  WSP,  specifying  in 

detail, the responsibilities and duties of exchange and WSP. 

R.  MIS System  

a)  WSP  should  have  a  Standard  Operating  Procedure  (SOP)  which  is 
process-dependent  and  not  person-dependent.  It  is  desirable  that  there 
should be electronic record of information at the WSP and a MIS system 
with an arrangement for flow of real time information from the warehouse 
location  to  the  central  MIS  and  onwards  to  Exchange  electronically.  The 
MIS  should  have  the  capability  to  capture  and  disseminate  information 
regarding  stocks  being  held  warehouse  wise/location  wise,  and  the 
availability of space in the warehouses. 
 

b)  The exchange shall display on a daily basis warehouse wise details of the 
space  available,  stock  of  goods  held,  name  of  the  warehouse  service 
provider,  details  of 
the  warehouse,  details  of 
acceptance/rejection  of  goods  by  the  warehouse  concerned,  details  of 
assayers attached to the warehouse etc, on its website and The archives 
of such reports shall be available on the exchange website. 
 

location  of 

c)  The  participants  willing 

to  deposit  goods 

in  Exchange  accredited 
Warehouses would submit a request to the Exchange. The Exchange shall 
use  a  transparent  and  time-bound  process  to  identify  the  warehouse 
where the participants can deposit the goods. After such identification, the 
Exchange  shall  intimate  the  participants  about  the  time,  place  and  the 
warehouse  where  they  can  deposit  the  goods.  The  Exchange  shall  then 
issue  directions  to  the  concerned  warehouse  for  accepting  deposits  from 
the concerned participants. The WSP shall accept the goods for deposits 
only at the instruction of Exchange concerned. 

 
S.  Surrender/Cancellation of accreditation  
 

a)  Any  WSP  that  applies  for  surrender  of  its  accreditation  shall  submit  the 

Application for Surrender to the Exchange for evaluation and approval. 

b)  The  exchange  may  cancel  the  accreditations  a  WSP  if  it  fails  to  comply 
with the provisions of the rules/regulations specified by it and intimate the 
same  to  the  market  participants  through  circular.  Further,  the  exchange 
shall put in place a cancellation policy for WSP in public domain. However, 
the exchange shall offer the WSP concerned an opportunity of being heard 
and take a decision on cancellation after considering the explanation of the 
WSP. 

Page 14 of 16 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

c)  A  WSP  that  surrenders  its  accreditation  or  its  accreditation  is  cancelled, 

shall attend to the following matters urgently: 
  All commodities for futures contract delivery shall be dispatched out of 

the warehouse or converted to spot commodities; 

  All  liabilities  and  debts  with  the  Exchange  ,  Member  and  Clients  shall 

be settled; 

  No obligation to deliver goods to the clients pertaining to their trades on 

the exchange platform, and 

  No customer complaints are pending 
 

d)  SD  and  FSD  shall  be  returned  in  accordance  with  the  Exchange’s  rules, 
keeping aside 10% of such deposits with the exchange, which shall not be 
released until six months after cancellation or surrender of accreditation of 
the  WSP  or  until  after  satisfaction  of  any  claim  against  the  deposit, 
whichever is later.  

e)  WSP  which  surrenders  its  accreditation  with  the  exchange  shall  not  be 

eligible to provide its services to the exchange for a period of 3 years. 

f)  Once the accreditation of a WSP is cancelled by an exchange then it shall 

not be eligible to provide its services to any of the exchanges for 3 years. 

g)  Adequate  notice  intimation  to  general  public  /  clients  should  be  given 
through  widely  published  newspapers  and  website  etc.  before  accepting 
the surrender of WSP or expulsion of the WSP. 

T.  Insolvency or bankruptcy of WSP 

 
a)  In  the  event  of  bankruptcy  or  insolvency  of  the  WSP  or  other  such 
contingency, there must be no restrictions placed upon owners/depositors 
of the commodity wishing to take possession of their individually identified 
commodity and remove it from the accredited Warehouse(s) (provided rent 
and handling charges are paid).  

U.  Business Continuity Plan 

a)  A WSP shall put in place, a business continuity plan and submit such plan 
to the exchanges. Existing WSPs are required to submit such plans within 
3 months.  

V.  Actions that can be taken by exchanges 

a)  The Exchange may direct its  accredited WSP to correct its misconducts or 
indemnify a party aggrieved by the delivery process, or, in serious cases of 
malfeasance, revoke the warehouse’s accreditation of physical delivery or 
hold it accountable for any legal liabilities, if the warehouse engages in any 
of the following conduct:  
 
  violates  any  Exchange’s  rules  or  limits  the  movement of  a  deliverable 

refuses to accept delivery, issues a falsified certificate/delivery;  

commodity into or out of the warehouse;  

Page 15 of 16 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  discloses  any  confidential  business  information  relating  to  a  buyer  or 

seller or a futures contract;  

  provide  inaccurate  or  incomplete  information,  conceal  the  truth  of  the 

facts; 

  engages in the futures trading activities; or  
  engages in any other behaviour in breach of the Exchange’s rules. 

However the above actions may be initiated only after taking due approval 
from the Risk management Committee. 

b)  The accredited warehouse shall be liable for any losses resulting from any 
action  or  inaction  on  its  part  that  prevents  the  buyer  or  seller  from 
exercising, in whole or in part, their rights. The Exchange shall first make 
up  for  any  such  losses  that  have  been  appropriately  established,  in 
accordance  with  its  applicable  rules,  and  subsequently  recover  from  the 
WSP/accredited warehouse. 

W. Cold Storages 

a)  If any commodity which generally require storage in the cold storages then 
the  exchanges  shall  ensure  that  such  commodities  are  stored  in  cold 
storages only.  
 

X.  Status report 

 
a)  The  Exchanges  shall  upload  a  status  report  on  their  websites  by  5th  of 
every  month  giving  the  details  of  the  number  of  applications  received  for 
accreditation  of  warehouses,  Warehouses  registered  with  WDRA  during 
the  month,  registration  pending  with  WDRA,  warehouses  pending  with 
Inspecting  Agencies,  warehouses  rejected  by  Exchange/WDRA  with 
reason for the same, etc. 
 

b)  The archives of such reports shall be available on the exchange website. 
 

Page 16 of 16 

