 

Consultation paper for Disclosure of financial information in offer 

document/placement memorandum and for Valuation in respect of SEBI 

(Infrastructure investment trusts) Regulations, 2014 

 

A.  Background 

 

1.1. The SEBI (Infrastructure investment trusts) Regulations, 2014 (InvIT Regulations) 
were notified on September 26, 2014, thereby providing a regulatory framework for 
registration  and  regulation  of  InvITs  in  India.  The  regulations,  inter  alia,  prescribe 
conditions for making a public offer and private placement and broad guidelines for 
making initial and continuous disclosures including disclosures of financials of the 
InvIT.  However,  in  order  to  enable  investors  to  make  well-informed  investment 
decisions,  timely,  adequate  and  accurate  disclosure  of  financial  results  on  a 
periodical basis is critical. At the same time, it is important to ensure comparability, 
uniformity and parity in disclosures made by such entities.  

1.2. InvIT  regulations  inter-alia  provide  for  broad  guidelines  for  an  InvIT  w.r.t. 
compliance  with  accounting  norms  to  be followed  at the  time of the  initial offering 
as  well  as  continuous  disclosures  to  be  complied  with  by  the  Infrastructure 
investment 
the 
preparation of accounts, formats etc. are being discussed. 

(InvITs).  However,  specific 

trusts 

requirements 

including 

1.3. In  view  of  the  same,  a  Committee  was  constituted,  consisting  of  representatives 
from  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India  and  the  industry,  with  the 
objective  of  prescribing  accounting  and  auditing  norms  for  InvITs.  The  committee 
worked in sub-groups and gave its recommendations on the following: 

a  Guidelines for financial disclosures in offer document/placement memorandum 
b  Continuous disclosures as per Listing Requirements  
c  Valuation of the units of InvIT  
d  Net Distributable Cash Flows (NDCFs) 

 

1.4. A  separate  concept paper, dealing  with  the Continuous disclosures  as  per  Listing 
Requirements  and  Net  Distributable  Cash  Flows  (NDCFs),  has  already  been 
placed on SEBI website for public comments on June 15, 2016. 

The  present  consultation  paper  proposes  a  framework  for  disclosures  in  offer 
document/placement memorandum and for Valuation of the units of InvIT. 

 

Page 1 of 16 

 

 

1.5. Based  on  the  recommendation  of  the  committee,  the  following  guidelines  for 
disclosure  of financial information  in offer  document/placement  memorandum  and 
for Valuation of InvIT units are proposed for public comments.  

1.6. Further, it may be noted that the consultation paper has been prepared  keeping in 
mind  the  fact  that  the  InvIT  may  hold  the  infrastructure  assets  both  through  a 
special  purpose  vehicle  (SPV)  (which  may  be  a  company  or  a  LLP)  as  well  as 
directly.  Therefore,  depending  upon  the  structure  of  holding  of  the  infrastructure 
assets,  the  respective  Acts  i.e.  the  Companies  Act, 2013/  LLP  Act,  2008  shall  be 
applicable  on  such  structures,  mutatis  mutandis.  Further,  the  disclosure  of 
consolidated  financial  statements,  as  envisaged  in  the  paper,  shall  be  applicable 
only when the InvIT hold assets through SPV(s) as well. 

B.  Financial Disclosures in Offer document/placement memorandum 

2.  Financial Information of InvIT 

2.1. Annual Financial Information 

2.1.1. InvIT  shall  disclose  its  annual  financial  information  for  the  previous  three 
financial years in either of the following manner depending upon the history of 
the InvIT: 

(a) 

If the InvIT  has  been  in  existence for  the  last  three  completed financial 
years,  the  historical  audited  financial  statements  of  the  InvIT  (on  both 
standalone  as  well  as  consolidated  basis)  for  last  three  years  shall  be 
disclosed.  

(b)  However, where InvIT has been in existence for a period lesser than last 
three  completed  financial  years  and  the  historical  audited  financial 
statements  of  InvIT  are  not  available  for  the  entire  three  years  period, 
then  the  audited  Combined  Financial  Statements  (as  per  para  2.1.2 
below)  need  to  be  disclosed  for  the  periods  when  historical  audited 
financial statements are not available. 

2.1.2. Combined Financial Statements:  

Where  the  InvIT  has  not  been  in  existence  for  the  relevant  period,  the  historical 
financial  information  must  be  provided  with  the  combined  financial  performance of 
all the InvIT assets that will form part of the proposed InvIT structure assuming as if 
such  InvIT  structure  would  have  been  in  place  at  the  commencement  of  the 
reported period. 

 

Page 2 of 16 

(a)  What forms a part of Combined Financial Statements: 

All  the  assets  or  entities,  which  are  owned  by  InvIT  (including  assets  or  entities 
proposed  to  be  owned  by  the  InvIT  prior  to  allotment  of  units  in  the  initial  offer), 
would collectively form part of combined financial statements.  

(b)  Preparation of Combined Financial Statements:  

 

i. 

ii. 

These statements should be prepared on a combined basis and presented 
as  if  InvIT  assets  were  a  part  of  the  InvIT  since  the  first  day  of  the  three 
year period for which information is being presented. 

The principles for preparation of Combined Financial statements should be 
same  as  the  principles  laid  down  in  Ind  AS  110  Consolidated  Financial 
Statements to the extent applicable. However, unlike consolidated financial 
statements, the combined financial statements would not include the parent. 

iii.  While  preparing  Combined  Financial  Statements,  transactions  between 

InVIT owned entities shall be eliminated. 

Further,  all  pertinent  matters,  such  as  non-controlling  interests,  foreign 
operations, different fiscal periods, or income taxes, shall be treated in the 
same  manner  as  in  consolidated  financial  statements,  to  the  extent 
applicable. 

iv. 

In cases where one or more of the underlying InvIT assets have been held 
by  the  sponsor/sponsor  group  for  a  period  lesser  than  the  last  three 
completed  financial  years,  then  such  assets  may  be  reflected  in  the 
Combined  Financial  Statements  only  from  the  date  of  holding  by  the 
sponsor/sponsor group. 

However,  if  the  financial  information  for  those  assets  is  also  available  for 
the pre-holding period, then such assets may be reflected in the Combined 
Financial Statements for such pre-holding period as well.  

v.  Assumptions  made  in  preparation  of  the  Combined  Financial  Statements 

should be disclosed in ‘Basis of Preparation’ of such statements.  

vi. 

The Basis of Preparation should also explain the principles of combination 
and  elimination  of  transactions  amongst  entities  that  are  included  in  the 
Combined Financial Statements. 

 

Page 3 of 16 

 

 

 

2.1.3. Accounting Standards 

The annual financial information (either historical financial statements or combined 
financial  statements)  should  be  prepared  in  accordance  with  Indian  Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) and/or any addendum thereto as defined in Rule 2 (1) (a) of the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015. 

2.1.4. Financial Statements and Line Items:  

(a)  For  the  financial  information  referred  to  in  Paragraphs  2.1.1  and  2.1.2,  such 

information, should include, at a minimum, the following components: 

i.  Balance Sheet; 
ii.  Statement of Profit and Loss; 
iii.  Statement of Changes in Equity; 
iv.  Statement of Cash Flows; 
v.  Explanatory  notes  annexed  to,  or  forming  part  of,  any  statements  referred 

above 
 

(b)  For the financial statements listed at point (a) above, the line items should, at 

minimum, include the following: 

Line items for Balance Sheet: 

I.  Assets 

 
a)  Property, plant and equipment; 
b)  Capital work-in-progress 
c)  Investment property; 
d)  Intangible assets; 
e)  Financial assets  
f) 
g)  Other receivables; 
h)  Cash and cash equivalents; 
i)  Deferred tax assets; 
j)  Assets for current tax. 

Inventories; 

 
II.  Equity and Liabilities 

 
a)  Unit capital; 
b)  Other payables; 
c)  Provisions; 
d)  Financial  liabilities  (excluding  amounts  shown  under  (b)  and  (c)), 

separately disclosing liabilities owed to sponsors; 

Page 4 of 16 

 

 

 

e)  Liabilities for current tax; 
f)  Deferred tax liabilities ; 
g)  Other liabilities 

 
Line items for statement of Profit and Loss account 

I.  Incomes and gains: 

 
a)  Revenue from operations; 
b)  Dividend;  
c)  Interest;  
d)  Other income (indicating nature).  

 

II.  Expenses and losses: 

 
a)  Valuation expenses; 
b)  Audit fees;  
c)  Insurance & security expenses;  
d)  Project management fees  
e)  Depreciation on property, plant and equipment; 
f)  Amortization of intangible assets;  
g)  Finance Cost (Interest); 
h)  Custodian fees;  
i)  Registration fees;  
j)  Repairs and maintenance in case of infrastructure asset; 
k)  Other expenses 

III.  Profit or loss for the period before income tax 

 

IV.  Tax expense (current tax and deferred tax) 

 

V.  Profit or loss for the period after income tax 

 

VI.  Items of other comprehensive income 

 

VII.  Additional line items (if applicable) 

 

a)  Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  
b)  Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 
c)  Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 
d)  Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss 

 

VIII.  Total comprehensive income for the period (III+IV) (Comprising profit (loss) 

and Other comprehensive income for the period) 
 

 

Page 5 of 16 

 

 

 

 

Line items for the "Statement of changes in equity" 

I.  Total comprehensive income for the period; 
II.  For  each  component  of  equity,  a  reconciliation  between  the  carrying 
amount  at  the  beginning  and  the  end  of  the  period,  separately  (as  a 
minimum) disclosing changes resulting from:  

III.  Profit or loss; 
IV.  Other comprehensive income; 
V.  Aggregate amount of investments by unit holders in InvIT, and dividends / 

other distributions by InvIT to unit holders,  

Line items for the "Cash Flow Statement”  

Cash Flow Statement, shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements 
of  Ind  AS  7-"Statement  of  Cash  Flows"  and  hence  no  line  items  would  be 
prescribed. 

(c)  Financial  statements  shall  disclose  all  ‘material’  items,  i.e.,  the  items  if  they 
could,  individually  or  collectively,  influence  the  economic  decisions that  users 
make on the basis of the financial statements. Materiality depends on the size 
or  nature  of  the  item  or  a  combination  of  both,  to  be  judged  in  the  particular 
circumstances 

In addition to the consideration of ‘materiality’ as specified above, any item of 
income  or  expenditure  which  exceeds  one  per  cent  of  the  revenue  from 
operations or Rs.10,00,000, whichever is higher, shall be disclosed separately 
either on the face of financial statements or in the notes. 
 

(d)  Headings,  line  items,  sub-line  items  and  sub-totals  shall  be  presented  as  an 
addition  or  substitution  on  the  face  of  the  financial  statements  when  such 
presentation is relevant to an understanding of an InvIT’s financial position or 
performance  or  to  cater  to  industry/sector-specific  disclosure  requirements  or 
when required for compliance with the amendments to the InvIT regulations or 
under the Indian Accounting Standards 

2.1.5. Audit of Financial Information:  

The financial  information  referred  to  in  Paragraphs  2.1.1  and  2.1.2  above  shall  be 
audited and the following shall be complied in this context: 

(a)  The audit should be carried out by the Auditor appointed for the InvIT as per 

the InvIT regulations.  

Page 6 of 16 

 

 

 

 

(b)  In  providing  his  report,  the  Auditor  shall  follow  the  requirements  of  the 
Guidance Note on Reports in Company Prospectuses, issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India, to the extent applicable.  

(c)  In  particular,  the  reports  of  the  auditors  on  the  financial  statements  of  the 
various  InvIT  assets  (whether  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  framework 
applicable  to  such  InvIT  assets  or  the  framework  applicable  to  the  InvIT)  for 
the  respective  periods  covered  in  the  period  of  three  years  will  have  to  be 
taken into account and the same would be relied upon by the auditor giving the 
final report.  

(d)  The  audit  procedures  to  be  followed  in  such  case  should  be  in  line  with  the 
procedures  stated  in  the  Standard  on  Auditing  (SA)  600,  “Using  the  Work  of 
another  Auditor”,  to  the  extent  applicable.  The  fact  that  the  financial 
statements audited by other auditors have been relied upon shall be disclosed 
in the audit report. 

(e)  As a part of the audit report, the auditor shall state whether: 

i.  he  has  obtained  all  information  and  explanations  which,  to  the  best  of  his 

knowledge and belief, were necessary for the purpose of his audit; and 

ii.  the  Balance  Sheet  and  the  Statement  of  Profit  and  Loss  are  in  agreement 

with the books of account of the InvIT; and 

iii.  the financial statements comply with the applicable accounting standards in 

his opinion 
 

(f)  As a part of the audit report, the auditor shall give his opinion as to whether: 

i.  the  Balance  Sheet  gives  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the    state  of  affairs  of  the 

InvIT as at the balance sheet date;  

ii.  the  statement  of  profit  and  loss  gives  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the  InvIT’s 

profits or losses for the year/period ended at the balance sheet date  

iii.  the cash flow statement gives a true and fair view of the cash movements of 

the InvIT for the year/period ended at the balance sheet date 

iv.  the  Statement  of  changes  in  equity  gives  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the 
movement of the unit holders funds for the year/period ended at the balance 
sheet date 

 

Page 7 of 16 

 

 
 
 

 

2.1.6. Additional disclosures:  

 

(a)  As part of the financial information, the InvIT shall also present operating cash 
flow from the projects (project-wise) for all the InvIT assets that are included 
in such financial information for the previous 3 years. 

(b)  The  InvIT  shall  also  disclose  Earnings  per  Unit  (EPU)  for  the  previous  3 
years.  The  principles  for  computation  of  EPU  should  be  same  as  the 
principles laid down in Ind AS 33 Earnings per Share, to the extent applicable. 

In  cases  when  Combined  Financial  Statements  are  presented,  Earnings  per 
Unit can be determined on the basis of the capital structure, as has been put 
in place for the purposes of listing. In such circumstances the number of units 
of  the  InvIT  to  be  issued  to  existing  investors  is  to  be  used.  Relevant 
disclosures should be provided as part of the notes for the EPU computation.  

(c)  In case of a capital offering subsequent to the initial offer, the market value of 
the  units  traded  on  all  the  designated  stock exchanges  where  InvIT  is  listed 
should be disclosed:  

•  on the last date of reporting period 
•  highest value during reporting period based on intra-day and on closing 

• 

price with specified date  
lowest  value  during  reporting  period  intra-day  and  on  closing  price  with 
specified date 
 

2.2. 

Interim Financial Information  

2.2.1. If  the  date  of  draft  offer  document  /  offer  document  /  placement  memorandum  is 
more than six months from the end of the last audited annual financial statements 
included  in  the  draft  offer  document  /  offer  document  /  placement  memorandum, 
then an InvIT shall also disclose audited interim financial information, in addition to 
the annual financial information. 

2.2.2. The  said  audited  interim  financial  information  should  be  for  a  period  ending  not 
earlier  than  six  months  from  the  date  of  draft  offer  document  /  offer  document  / 
placement memorandum. 

2.2.3. The  provisions  listed  in  Paragraphs  2.1  above  would  also  extend  to  the  audited 

interim financial information to the extent applicable. 

 

Page 8 of 16 

 

 

 
3.  Financial information of Manager and Sponsor(s) 

 

3.1  An offer document/placement memorandum of InvIT shall include Summary of the 
audited  consolidated  financial  statements  (including  the  Balance  Sheet  and 
Statement of Profit and  Loss  (without  schedules))of  Manager  and Sponsor(s)  for 
past  three  years,  prepared  in  accordance  with  Companies  (Indian  Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 and the Companies Act, 2013 (as amended from time to 
time). 

However,  if  any  of  the  manager/sponsor  is  a  foreign  entity  and  is  not  legally 
required  to  comply  with  the  Companies  (Indian  Accounting  Standards)  Rules, 
2015  and  the  Companies  Act,  2013  (as  amended  from  time  to  time),  then  the 
financial  statements  of  such  entity  can  be  prepared  in  accordance  with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 

3.2  Further,  if  the  Manager  and/or  Sponsor  is  required  to  follow  Companies  (Indian 
Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2015  (as  amended  from  time  to  time)  only  for  the 
latest  year  (for  the  latest  two  years  including  comparatives)  out  of  the  historical 
period  of  three  years,  then  financial  information  for  the  earliest  year  should  be 
disclosed  as  per  the  Companies  (Accounting  Standards)  Rules,  2006  (as 
amended from time to time). 

For  example,  if  financial  information  of  Manager/Sponsor  is  presented  for  the 
financial  years  2014-15,  2015-16,  and  2016-17  and  such  Manager/Sponsor  is 
required by Companies Act, 2013 to report under Ind AS from financial year 2016-
17  (with  financial  year  2015-16  as  comparatives),  then  it  shall  disclose  financial 
information for financial year 2016-17 and 2015-16 in accordance with Ind AS and 
financial year 2014-15 as per Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2006 (as 
amended from time to time). 

4.  Management Discussion and Analysis  

4.1 

InvIT  shall  prepare  and  disclose  Management  Discussion  and  Analysis  (MDA), 
based on the historical financial statements and comparison shall be provided for 
the  most  recent  financial  information  with  financial  information  of  previous  two 
years. 

4.2  MDA shall include the following line items: 

•  A summary of the historical financial information containing significant items of 

income and expenditure shall be given. 

•  Overview of the business of the InvIT 

 

Page 9 of 16 

 

 

•  Factors  that  may  affect  results  of  the  operations,  key  risks  and  mitigating 

factors 

•  Quality of earnings and revenue streams 
•  An  analysis  of  reasons  for  the  changes  in  significant  items  of  income  and 

expenditure shall also be given, inter alia, containing the following: 

(cid:1)  unusual or infrequent events or transaction; 
(cid:1)  significant economic changes that materially affected or are likely to effect 

income from continuing operations; 

(cid:1)  known  trends  or  uncertainties  that  have  had  or  are  expected  to  have  a 

(cid:1) 

material adverse impact on revenues from continuing operations; 
future  changes  in  relationship  between  costs  and  revenues,  in  case  of 
events  such  as  future  increase  in  operating  costs  that  will  cause  a 
material change are known; 

(cid:1)  each major segments of the InvIT 
(cid:1)  status of any publicly announced new business segment; 
(cid:1) 
(cid:1)  any significant dependence on a single or few suppliers or customers; 
(cid:1)  Competitive conditions. 

the extent to which business is seasonal; 

 

5.  Projections of Revenues and Operating Cash flows 

5.1  The  offer  document/placement  memorandum  shall  contain  disclosures  of  the 
projections of revenues and operating cash flows of the InvIT, project-wise, over 
the next three years including related assumptions. 

5.2  The  projections  shall  be  disclosed  for  InvIT  assets/projects  that  are  owned  by 
the InvIT or are proposed to be owned by InvIT prior to the allotment of units in 
the public offer/private placement. 

5.3  The following minimum notes should be disclosed as a part of the projections for 

the next three years: 

•  Project-wise revenue  
•  Project-wise operating cash flows 
•  Assumptions for projections 
•  Any other item deemed important for better readability and understanding 

 

5.4  The  aforesaid  projections,  including  assumptions,  shall  be  certified  by  the 

auditor. 

 

 

Page 10 of 16 

 
6.  Payment history and Working capital available to InvIT 

 

6.1 

A  statement  regarding  sufficiency  of  the  working  capital  to  fulfill  the  present 
requirements of InvIT (i.e., at least twelve months from date of listing) shall be 
included by the Investment Manager.  

In case, sufficient working capital is not available in the opinion of Investment 
Manager, then a statement should be provided describing how it proposes to 
provide additional working capital requirement.  

6.2 

A statement including history of Interest and principal payment of InvIT shall 
be disclosed in Offer document/placement memorandum, for past three years, 
covering all the InvIT assets forming part of the historical financial information. 
Additionally, the following should also be disclosed: 

•  The carrying amount at the beginning and at end of each year 
•  Additional borrowings during the year 
•  Repayments during the year 
•  Other adjustments / settlements during the year 

7.  Contingent liabilities 

 

7.1 

A statement of InvIT’s Contingent liabilities, if any, as on the date of the offer 
document/placement  memorandum,  shall  be  disclosed 
the  offer 
document/placement memorandum. 

in 

7.2 

Contingent liabilities should be classified, at minimum, into the following heads, 
to the extent applicable: 

(a) Claims against the trust not acknowledged as debt; 
(b) Other money for which the trust is contingently liable; 
(c) Any claims against InvIT pending litigation 
(d) Other Contingent Liabilities (specify nature) 

 

8.  Commitments 

8.1. 

A  statement  of  InvIT’s  Commitments,  if  any,  as  on  the  date  of  the  offer 
document/placement memorandum,  shall  be  disclosed  in  the offer  document/ 
placement memorandum. 

8.2.  Commitments  should  be  classified,  at  minimum,  into  the  following  heads,  to 

the extent applicable: 

 

Page 11 of 16 

 

(a) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account 

and not provided for; 

(b) Uncalled liability on shares and other investments partly paid including that 

 

of SPV; 

(c) Other Commitments (specify nature) 

 

9.  Others Disclosures 

9.1. Related party transactions 

9.1.1.  Without  prejudice  to  the  definition  of  related  parties  under  the  InvIT 
Regulations  and  the  associated  compliance  and  disclosure  requirements 
mandated  by  the  InvIT  Regulations,  the  InvIT  shall  as  also  comply  with 
requirements of “Ind-AS 24 – Related Party Disclosures” in the preparation of 
its  financial  information,  and  for  this  purpose,  it  shall  also  provide  relevant 
disclosures for all related parties as defined in the InvIT Regulations. 

9.1.2.  The  disclosures  related  to  Related  parties  and  Related  party  transactions 

should, at minimum, include the following: 

(a) Details of related party and its relationship with InvIT; 
(b) Nature of the transaction;   
(c) Value of the transaction;  
(d) Summary of valuation report;  
(e) Current yield and the impact of the acquisition/disposal on the yield of the 

units of InvIT;  

(f)  Material conditions or obligations in relation to the transaction;  
(g) Rate  of  interest,  if  external  financing  has  been  obtained  for  the 

transaction/acquisition; and  

(h) Any fees or commissions received or to be received by any associate of 

the related party in relation to the transaction. 
 

9.2. Capitalisation statement 

An InvIT shall include a Capitalisation Statement in the offer document/placement 
memorandum, showing total debt, net worth, and the debt/equity ratios before and 
after the completions of issue. An illustrative format of the Capitalisation Statement 
is specified hereunder: 

Particulars 

Pre-issue as at  .............  As Adjusted for issue 

(Amount) 

 

Page 12 of 16 

 

Total Debt 

Unitholders’ Funds  
Unit Capital 
xx 
xx 
Reserves 

xx 

 

xx 
xx 
xx 
xx 

 

xx 

 

xx 
xx 
xx 
xx 

Provided that in case of any change in the unit capital (since the date from which 
the  financial  information  has  been  disclosed  in  the  Offer  document/placement 
memorandum), a note explaining the nature of the change shall be given. 

C.  Valuation of the units of the InvITs 

10. Definition of the Valuer 

10.1. 

Regulation 2(1)(zzf) of the InvIT Regulations defines the valuer as  

any person who is a "registered valuer" under section 247 of the Companies Act, 
2013  and  who  has  been  appointed  by  the  investment  manager  to  undertake 
valuation of the InvIT assets:  

Provided that till such date on which section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 comes 
into  force,  valuer  shall  mean  an  independent  merchant  banker  registered  with  the 
Board  or  an  independent  chartered  accountant  in  practice  having  a  minimum 
experience of ten years; 

10.2. 

In  this  reference,  representations  were  received  that  the  definition  of  the 
valuer as provided in the regulation may be expanded so as to allow other classes 
of  valuers  and  members  of  other  professional  bodies  which  are  engaged  in  the 
profession of valuation of such infrastructure assets, etc.  

10.3. 

Committee looked into the issue and recommended that till the time Section 
247  of  Companies  Act,  2013  doesn't  comes  into  force.  the  draft  rules  available, 
with reference to the definition of valuer, may be used for defining the valuer under 
the InvIT Regulations. Thus, the proposal is to expand/modify the definition of the 
valuer under the InvIT Regulations so that the revised definition is in line with the 
requirements as being proposed under draft rules of The Companies Act, 2013.  

The revised definition proposed shall be as under: 

 

Page 13 of 16 

 

“valuer”  means  the  person(s)  who  are  eligible  to  apply  to  be  a  "registered  valuer" 
under section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013, and who has been appointed by the 
investment manager to undertake valuation of the InvIT assets. 

Provided that till such date on which section 247 of the Companies Act, 2013 comes 
into force, valuer shall mean 

(a) a chartered accountant, company secretary or cost accountant who is in whole-
time practice, or retired member of Indian Corporate Law Service or any person 
holding  equivalent  Indian  or  foreign  qualification  as  the  Ministry  of  Corporate 
Affairs may recognize by an order; 

 provided that such foreign qualification is acquired by Indian citizen. 

(b) a Merchant Banker registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
and who has in his employment person(s) having qualifications prescribed under 
(a) above to carry out valuation by such qualified persons; 

(c) member of the Institute of Engineers and who is in whole-time practice; 

(d) member, of the Council of Architecture or the Indian Institute of Architects, and 

who is in whole-time practice; 

(e) A  person  or  entity  possessing  necessary  competence  and  qualification  in 

valuations as may be notified by the Central Government from time to time. 

Provided that persons referred to in (a), (c) and (d) and qualified person in (b) above 
shall  have  not  less  than  five  years  continuous  experience  in  valuation  field  after 
acquiring membership of respective institutions; 

Provided  further  that  in  the  case  of  merchant  banker  the  valuation  report  shall  be 
signed by the qualified person. 

Provided  also  that  persons  referred  to  in  (a)  and  (b)  shall  be  in  respect  of 
requirement for a “financial valuation” and the persons referred to in (c) and (d) shall 
be  in  respect  of  requirement  for  a  “technical  valuation”  and  a  person  or  a  firm  or 
Limited Liability Partnership or merchant banker possessing both the qualifications 
may act in dual capacity. 

Explanation: For the purposes of this Regulation, a person shall be deemed “to be 
in  whole-time  practice”,  when  individually  or  in  partnership  or  in  limited  liability 
partnership or in merchant banker with other persons in practice who are members 
of other professional bodies, he, in consideration of remuneration received or to be 
received: 

Page 14 of 16 

 

 

 

(i) 

engages himself in the practice of valuation; or 

 

(ii) 

(iii) 

offers to perform or performs services involving valuation of any assets with 
the object of arriving at financial value of the asset being valued; or 

renders professional services or assistance in or about matters of principle or 
detail relating to valuation. 

11. Mandatory disclosures in the valuation report (Schedule V) 

11.1.  The  Schedule  V  of  the  InvIT  Regulations  prescribes  the  minimum  set  of 
mandatory  disclosures  to  be  made  in  the  valuation  report.  In  this  reference, 
committee  has  recommended  that  the  minimum  disclosures  in  valuation  report 
may include following information as well, so as to provide the investors with the 
adequate  information  about  the  valuation  and  other  aspects  of  the  underlying 
assets of the InvITs. 

11.2.  The additional set of disclosures, in addition to as prescribed under Schedule V 

of InvIT Regulations,  to be made in the valuation report shall be as  under: 

a.  Historical valuations made for a period of last three financial years for each 

asset, as applicable 

b.  Information  regarding  the  assumed  factors  while  calculating  the  valuation 

such as discounting rate, tenure etc. 

c.  For  each  specific  InvIT  asset,  the  following  additional  details  must  be 

mentioned: 

(i) List of one-time sanctions/approvals which are obtained or pending; 
(ii) List of up to date/overdue periodic clearances; 
(iii) Statement of assets included; 
(iv)  Estimates  of  already  carried  as  well  as  proposed  major  repairs  and 
improvements along with estimated time of completion; 
(v) Revenue pendencies including local authority taxes associated with InvIT 
asset and compounding charges, if any; 
(vi)  On-going  and  closed  litigations  including  tax  disputes  in  relation  to  the 
assets, if any; 
(vii)  Vulnerability  to  natural  or  induced  hazards  that  may  not  have  been 
covered in town planning/ building control. 
 

11.3.  Further,  a brief summary of the valuation as per full valuation report shall also be 

provided as the part of the valuation report 

 

Page 15 of 16 

 
D.  Public Comments 

 

12. In  the  light  of  the  above,  public  comments  are  invited  on  the  consultation  paper. 
Comments may be forwarded by email to invit@sebi.gov.in or may be sent by post to 
the following address latest by July 31 2016: 

Ms. Richa Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department, 
Division of Funds I  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, G Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai - 400 021  

 
13. Comments should be given in the following format: 

 

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary: _______________________ 

S. No.  Pertains to Point No. 

Proposed/Suggested 
changes 

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

Issued on: July 08, 2016 

Page 16 of 16 

 

 

