 

 

 

Discussion Paper on review of framework 

for Institutional Trading Platform  

 

1.  Background 
1.1.  The  regulatory  framework  for  Institutional  Trading  Platform  (“ITP”)  was  put  in 

place  vide  amendments  notified  to  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2009 (“ICDR Regulations”) on August 14, 2015. Various 

enabling  amendments  to  other  SEBI  regulations  i.e.  on  Takeover,  Listing,  Delisting 

and AIF were also notified. 

1.2.  Subsequently, SEBI has received feedback from the market participants to make the 

said  platform  more  accessible  to  the  companies.  The  Primary  Market  Advisory 

Committee  (“PMAC”)  of  SEBI  has  also  deliberated  the  related  issues  and  made 

certain recommendations.   

1.3.  Based on the recommendations of PMAC and further discussions, certain proposals 

for changes to the ITP framework are enumerated below.  

 

2.  Proposals 
2.1. Name of Chapter XC 

Existing provision 

The framework for  ITP is specified under chapter XC of ICDR Regulations which is 

named as ‘Listing on Institutional Trading Platform’. 

Proposal 

The  said  chapter  may  be  renamed  as  ‘High-tech  Start-up  &  other  new  business 

Platform’.  

2.2. Prior-holding by QIBs 

 

  Existing provision 

Reg. 106Y(1) of ICDR Regulations stipulates a minimum level of prior holding by the 

Qualified Institutional Buyers (“QIBs”) in the pre-issue capital of companies seeking 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

to  list  on  ITP,  i.e.  at  least  25%  in  technology  related  companies  under  Reg. 

106Y(1)(a) and 50% in other companies under Reg. 106Y(1)(b).  

Proposal 

A.  In addition to QIBs, prior shareholding of other categories of investors may also 

be considered for assessing the eligibility of companies to list on ITP. The other 

categories of investors may be: 

i. 

Family trust or systematically important NBFCs registered with Reserve 

Bank of India or intermediaries registered with SEBI, all with net-worth 

of more than five hundred crore rupees, as per the last audited financial 

statements; 

 

ii. 

Category III Foreign Portfolio Investor; 

iii.  An entity meeting all the following criteria: 

a.  It 

is  a  pooled 

investment  fund  with  minimum  assets  under 

management of USD 150 million; 

b.  It  is  registered  with  a  financial  sector  regulator  in  the  jurisdiction  of 

which it is a resident; 

c.  It  is  resident  of  a  country  whose  securities  market  regulator  is  a 

signatory to the International Organization of Securities Commission’s 

Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (Appendix A Signatories) 

or a signatory to Bilateral Memorandum of Understanding with SEBI;  

d.  It  is  not  resident  in  a  country  identified  in  the  public  statement  of 

Financial Action Task Force as:  

i.  a  jurisdiction  having  a  strategic  Anti-Money  Laundering  or 

Combating  the  Financing  of  Terrorism  deficiencies  to  which 

counter measures apply; or  

ii. a 

jurisdiction  that  has  not  made  sufficient  progress 

in 

addressing  the  deficiencies  or  has  not  committed  to  an  action 

plan developed with the Financial Action Task Force to address 

the deficiencies; 

 

B.  The aforesaid categories of investors may be classified as ‘institutional investors’ 

and  the  existing  definition  of  institutional  investor  under  Reg.  106X(1)(b)  of 

ICDR Regulations may be amended accordingly. 

Review of ITP framework  
 

Page 2 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

C.  The requirement of minimum level of prior holding shall be uniformly 25% for 

any company, irrespective of the sector to which it belongs. 

2.3. Cap on holding in the post-issue capital 

Existing provision 

Reg.  106Y(2)  of  ICDR  Regulations  stipulates  that  no  person,  individually  or 

collectively with persons acting in concert, shall hold 25% or more of the post-issue 

capital, as an eligibility criterion for the entity to list on ITP. 

Proposal 

This requirement may be done away with. 

2.4. Investors in ITP 

 

  Existing provision 

As per Reg. 106W(3) of ICDR Regulations, ITP is accessible to institutional investors 

and  non-institutional  investors  (“NIIs”),  i.e.  only  these  two  categories  of  investors 

can subscribe to issuances made on ITP. 

Proposal 

The  provision  may  be  retained  subject  to  amending  the  definition  of  ‘institutional 

investor’ as proposed earlier. 

2.5. Allocation to investors 

Existing provision 

In terms of Reg. 106ZA(4) of ICDR Regulations, 75% of the net offer to public shall 

be allocated for institutional investors and remaining 25% shall be allocated to NIIs. 

Proposal 

The allocation may be revised as under: 

i.  Not less than 50% to institutional investors; and  

ii.  Not more than 50% to NIIs. 

2.6. Discretionary allotment to institutional investors 

 

  Existing provision 

Reg. 106ZA(8) of ICDR Regulations prescribes that in case of discretionary allotment 

to institutional investors, no institutional investor shall be allotted more than 10% 

of the issue size. 

 

 

Review of ITP framework  
 

Page 3 

 

 
 

Proposal 

 

 

 

 

   

The ceiling on allotment to individual institutional investor may be revised upwards 

from 10% to 25%.  

2.7. Market making 

Existing provision 

There is no provision mandating market making on ITP.  

Proposal 

Market making may be made compulsory for a minimum period of 3 years for issue 

size of less than INR 100 crores.  

2.8. Lock-in of pre-issue capital 

 

Existing provision 

In accordance with Reg. 106ZB(1) of ICDR Regulations, the entire pre-issue capital 

of  the  shareholders  shall  be  locked-in  for  a  period  of  6  months  from  the  date  of 

allotment in case of listing pursuant to public issue or date of listing in case of listing 

without public issue. However, the lock-in is subject to certain exemptions provided 

for shares arising out of ESOPs and shares held by VCF/AIF Category I/FVCI in case 

of listing pursuant to IPO.  

Proposal 

The lock-in of 6 months may apply uniformly to all the categories of shareholders. 

2.9. Trading lot 

Existing provision 

In terms of Reg. 106ZC of ICDR Regulations, the minimum trading lot shall be INR 10 

lakh. 

Proposal 

The minimum trading lot size may be lowered to INR 5 lakh. 

2.10. Other provisions in Chapter XC shall remain the same. 

 

3.  Public comments 

Considering the implications of the said matter on the market participants including 

issuers and investors, public comments are invited on the proposals contained in the 

Review of ITP framework  
 

Page 4 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

discussion  paper.  Specific  comments/suggestions  as  per  the  format  given  below 

would be highly appreciated: 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization: 

Sr. 

No. 

 

 

 

 

Pertains to serial 

Suggestion(s) 

Rationale 

number under 

paragraph (2) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  comments  may  please  be  e-mailed  on  or  before  August  14,  2016,  to 

capitalraising@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to- 

 

Shri. Amit Tandon 

Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph: +91-22-26449373/ +91-22-26449483 
 
 

Issued on: July 29, 2016 

 

************ 

Review of ITP framework  
 

Page 5 

