 

Report submitted by Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee 

1.  To  solicit  the  comments/views  from  public  on  suggestions pertaining  to  the  second 

report submitted by Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee. 

 
Background: 
2.  SEBI  had  constituted a  standing  committee ‘Alternative  Investment  Policy  Advisory 
Committee'  (AIPAC)  under  chairmanship  of  Shri.  N.  R.  Narayana  Murthy  in  March 
2015. AIPAC has submitted its second report to SEBI with various recommendations 
stated therein. 

Public Comments: 

3.  In  order  to  take  into  consideration  the  views  of  various  stakeholders,  public 
comments are solicited on the said report as placed at Annexure. Comments may be 
emailed on or before December 22, 2016, to aif@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:- 
Deputy General Manager 
Division of Funds – I 
Investment Management Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan  
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 

4.  Comments/ suggestions may be provided in the format given below: 
 
Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 
Suggestions  
Sr. No.  
 
 
 
 

Clause No. 
 
 

Rationale 
 
 

 
Issued on: December 01, 2016 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

2 

 

The Alternative Investment Policy 

Advisory Committee  

 

Second Report 

 

 

1st November, 2016 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table of Contents 

Page No. 

 
Preface 

List of AIPAC Members 

Chapter I      Introduction to the Alternative Investment Funds Industry 

Chapter II    Introduction to the Report and Executive Summary 

Chapter III  Catalysing Stable Capital Flows 

                          A. Investor Management 

 Annexure 1: Disclosures in Private Placement Memoranda 

 Annexure 2: Reporting to Limited Partners 

 Annexure 3: Reporting to Investors at Final Closing 

 Annexure 4: Performance Statistics  

 Annexure 5: Performance Benchmarks 

                           B. Domestic Capital Pools: Pension Funds & Insurance 

Companies 

 Annexure 1 

 Annexure 2 

                           C. Mid-Market Permanent Capital Vehicles 

                           D. Accredited Investors 

                           E. Managing Alternative Investment Funds in India 

Chapter IV         

                            A. Taxation Reforms                                                                                                                

75 

                            B.  An Alternative View of Taxation & Promoting 

119 

Onshore Fund  

                  Management in India 

Chapter V     Category 1 Alternative Investment Funds-Angel Funds 

Chapter VI    Category III Alternative Investment Funds 

Chapter VII   Recommendations For Implementation by Regulatory 

4 

6 

9 

15 

23 

23 

33 

37 

43 

46 

48 

51 

55 

58 

60 

65 

69 

75 

139 

143 

155 

162 

 

Agencies 

Abbreviations 

 

 

 

 

 

Preface 

Since  the  first  report  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Policy  Advisory  Committee  (AIPAC)  was 
produced, the members of AIPAC have continued to work hard at the second report. 
 
The  second  report  covers  critical  areas  for  the  development  of  Alternative  Investment  Funds 
(AIFs)  in  India.  The  report  includes  recommendations  for  enhancing  the  confidence  of  those 
who  invest  in  AIFs.  This  is  achieved  by  superior  governance,  better  performance  and 
transparency. Recommendations for greater disclosure by AIF managers have been made. 
 
I  was  heartened  to  note  that  the  Government  considered  and  implemented  some  of  the 
recommendations  in  the  tax  sphere  which  were  made  by  the  first  AIPAC  report.  This  report 
continues  the  work  and  makes  suggestions  for  further  tax  reforms.  These  reforms,  together 
with superior governance, will, I am sure, help in the sound growth and development of India's 
AIF sector.  
 
The  recommendations  follow  the  spirit  of  promoting  '  ease  of  business'  in  the  AIF  arena.  If 
implemented,  it  will  enable  all  eco-system  players,  including  domestic  and  offshore  limited 
partners,  to  play  their  roles  most  effectively.  This  will  ultimately  lead  to  a  healthy  investing 
environment and a greater supply of long-term, stable capital to start-ups and a wide range of 
other businesses vital to India’s economic development. 
 
The report also contains some Next Practices like the manner of application of the Accredited 
Investor' concept and permanent capital vehicles. I am glad that Committee members continue 
to push the envelope to develop India’s AIF sector. 
 
Domestic  funding  of  AIFs  has  grown  rapidly  by  approximately  Rs.  15,000  crores  i.e.  108  % 
during  the  last  12  months,  according  to  data  released  by  SEBI.  This  can  be  attributed  to  two 
factors. Firstly, the reforms made by the Indian Government in line with the recommendations 
of  the  first  AIPAC  report.  Secondly,  the  robustness  of  Indian  economic  growth  has  been  a 
positive factor. This is a most encouraging trend and justifies further work by AIPAC in order to 
realise the full potential of the AIF asset class for India’s economic development. 
 
Future work of AIPAC will consider areas such as recommendations for the growth of start-ups 
in  India  as  well  as  do  more  analysis  in  the  area  of  exits  and  crowd  funding.  I  also  welcome 
suggestions  from  Committee  members  and  market  players to  recommend  areas  which  AIPAC 
can consider for further analysis in order to make recommendations. The ultimate objective is 
to create an enabling environment for a sound Alternative Investment Fund asset class in India. 

4 

Finally,  I  wish  to  thank  very  much  all  AIPAC  members  and  other  professionals  who  burnt  the 
midnight oil to produce this report. 
 
Thank you. 
 
N. R. Narayana Murthy 
Chairman, 
Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee: List of Members 

Sr. No. 

Name 

Organization & Designation 

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 

15. 

Mr. N.R. Narayana Murthy 
Mr. Ashish Kumar 
Mr. Nikhil Varma 
Mr. Sudarshan Sen 
Dr. Kshatrapati Shivaji 
Mr. Sanjay Nayar 
Dr. Saurabh Srivastava 
Mr. Devinjit Singh 
Mr. Manish Chokhani 
Mr. Gautam Mehra 
Mr. Akshay Mansukhani 
Mr. Mani Iyer 
Mr. Abid Hassan 
Mr. K.E.C Rajakumar 

Mr. Sudhir Sethi 

16. 

Mr. Gopal Srinivasan 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 
21. 

22. 

23. 
24. 

Mr. Manish Kejriwal 

Mr. Arvind Mathur 
Mr. Rajat Tandon 

Mr. Krishnamurthy Subramanian 
Mr. Krishnan Subramaniam 

Ms. Nandita Agarwal Parker 

Mr. Ananta Barua 
Smt. Barnali Mukherjee 

Founder, Infosys Ltd. 
Director, CBDT, MoF 
Deputy Secretary, DEA, Ministry of Finance 
ED, Reserve Bank of India 
Chairman & Managing Director, SIDBI 
Member & CEO, KKR India Advisors Pvt. Ltd. 
Founder, Indian Angel Network 
MD, The Carlyle Group, India 
Senior Advisor, TPG Growth 
Partner, PwC India 
Partner, Malabar Investments 
Director, Incube Ventures Pvt. Ltd. 
Product Manager, Qplum 
MD & CEO, Ascent Capital Advisors 
Founder Chairman & MD, IDG Ventures  
India, iSPIRT Foundation 
Chairman, IVCA, 
Chairman and MD, TVS Capital Funds Limited 
Managing  Partner,  Kedaara  Capital  Advisors 
LLP 
Chairman, Private Equity Pro Partners 
President, Indian Private Equity & Venture  
Capital Association(IVCA) 
Associate Professor of Finance, ISB 
Partner, Ernst & Young 
Managing Partner, Karma Capital 
Management LLC 
Executive Director, SEBI 
Chief General Manager, SEBI 

 

 

 

 

 

  

6 

Acknowledgement 

 

This  report  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Policy  Advisory  Committee  (AIPAC)  has  been  made 
possible with the support and contributions of many individuals. 
 
The  Committee  would  like  to  gratefully  acknowledge  the  valuable  support  of  SEBI  and  the 
contribution of its professionals – S. Raman, Ananta Barua, Barnali Mukherjee, Naveen Kumar 
Gupta,  Dharmendra  Jain  and  several  other  SEBI  staff  who  helped  convene  the  meetings  of 
AIPAC. The Committee also acknowledges the efforts and the contribution of Gopal Srinivasan, 
Saurabh  Shrivastava,  Professor  Subramaniam  Krishnan- 
ISB,  Gautam  Mehra-  PwC, 
Subramaniam  Krishnan-  EY,  Sowmya  Narasimhan,  Anindo  Sarkar,  Siddharth  Shah,  Rohan  Rai, 
Tejash  Gangar,  B.V.  Krishnan,  Naozad  Sirwalla,  Simrun  Mehta,  Ashima  Suri,  Bhavin  Shah, 
Priyanka Agarwal, Sanjay Chauhan, Aashit Shah, Sahil Shah, Akshay Mansukhani, Rohan Rai and 
Arvind Mathur. 
 
The  AIPAC  sub-committees  which  contributed  to  the  second  AIPAC  report  included  the  Sub-
Committee on Investor Management, the Sub-Committee on Taxation, and the Sub-Committee 
on Promoting Onshore Fund Management. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Introduction to the Alternative Investment Funds Industry 

Chapter - I 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

8 

I 

Introduction to the Alternative Investment Funds 

Industry 

1.  Alternative  Investment  Funds  (AIFs)  perform  a  chain  of  activities  beginning  with  the 
mobilisation of  the savings of individuals directly, or indirectly through institutions, like 
pension  funds,  insurance  companies,  banks  and  endowments  and  investing  them  in 
promising  enterprises,  add  strategic  value  to  portfolio  companies,  monitor  the 
investments  and exit with the aim of realising a reasonable risk-adjusted return.   The 
fund managers of AIF’s are fiduciaries acting in the best interests of investors in the AIFs 
they manage. 
 

2.  This is not only a valuable service for both savers and  portfolio companies, but also for 
the  Indian  economy  as  it  creates  jobs,  improves  governance  and  promotes  innovation 
and economic growth. 
 

3.  For  Alternative  Investment  Funds  to  perform  this  invaluable  role,  the  regulatory 
framework must be an enabler and foster ease of doing business. A key objective of the 
Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee (AIPAC) is to make recommendations 
for the regulatory framework to be an effective enabler. In addition, AIPAC has analysed 
and made recommendations for each element of the AIF sector’s fund mobilization and 
investment chain. 
 

4.  Alternative  Investment  Funds,  include  venture  capital  and  private  equity  funds,  which    

provide stable, long-term capital and have fund lives ranging typically up to 10 years or 
more.  AIFs  include  funds  with  a  wide  range  of  investment  objectives  and  investment 
strategies.  These  include  investing  in  new  ventures,  social  ventures,  start-ups,  growth 
enterprises,  infrastructure,  real  estate,  debt  funds  and  other  investment  strategies, 
including angel investing through angel funds. 
 

5.  Alternative Investment Funds are regulated by the Securities & Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI) under its Alternative Investment Funds Regulations, 2012 and 2013, and related 
notifications.    Reforming  and  aligning  these  and  other  regulations,  such  as  those 
covering the tax regime, pension funds and insurance companies, will be key drivers  in 
making a success of the AIF sector and pave the way for much  greater contribution by 
AIFs to India’s development, economic growth and start-up policies. 

6.  The venture capital and private equity industry has contributed considerably to India’s 
economic growth. Between 2001 and 2015, venture capital and private equity of more 
than  $103  billion  was  invested  in  Indian  companies.  These  investments  were  made  in 

 

 

 

 

  

 

more  than  3,100  companies  across  12  major  sectors,  including  those  critical  for  the 
country’s development. The enterprises have ranged from start-ups to mature, mid-size 
companies.  A  significant  portion  of  these  investments have been  made by global fund 
managers  operating  India-focused  offshore  funds,  global  fund  managers  operating  in 
India  and  Indian  fund  managers  operating  offshore  funds,  investing  in  the  form  of 
foreign direct investment (FDI).  

7.  The graphs below show that venture capital and private  equity investing reached $ 21 
billion in 2015, nearly double the level of 2010. The pie charts below show that venture 
capital played a major role in the first 9 months of 2016 and supported the growth of 
start-ups at various stages of their lifecycle. 

 

 

 
 
 

 

10 

 

8.  Data in Table 1 below shows that Alternative Investment Funds regulated by SEBI have 
invested nearly Rs. 25,000 crores. Nearly sixty percent of this amount is in the form of 
Category  II  AIFs.  Over  250  Alternative  Investment  Funds  have  been  established  under 
SEBI’s AIF regulations, the largest of which are Category II AIFs. 

Table 1: India: Alternative Investment Funds: Cumulative net figures 

                                                                                                                       (As of 30th September 2016) Rs. In Crores 

Category 

Category I 
    Infrastructure Fund 
    Social Venture Fund 
    Venture Capital Fund 
    SME Fund 

Category I  Total 

Category II 
Category III 
            Grand Total 

 

Commitments 

raised  

  

6787.81 
806.76 

11100.25 

207.83 

18902.65 
38028.12 
8081.85 
65012.62 

 Funds raised   

  

2323.91 
483.41 
1915.31 
170.79 
4893.42 
17544.12 
6578.23 
29015.77 

 Investments 

made  

  

1691.02 
349.23 
1454.97 

21.84 

3517.06 
15334.91 
6010.22 
24862.19 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Table 2:  SEBI Registered Alternative Investment Funds 

(As of 30th June, 2016)  

Category 
Category I - Infrastructure Fund 
Category I - Social Venture Fund 
Category I - Venture Capital Fund 
Category I - SME Fund 
Category II 
Category III 
Total 

No. of AIFs 

10 
7 
54 
8 

140 
34 
253 

Table 3: Growth in Funds Raised by Domestic AIFs 

 Categories 

                                                                                             (Rs. In Crores) 

Funds raised 
by AIFs as of 
30th Sept 2016 

Funds raised 
by AIFs as of 
30thSept,2015 

Absolute Increase 

Percentage increase 

between            

between                           

30th Sept, 2016 

30th Sept,  2016     

over                    

over                          

30th Sept, 2015 

30th Sept. 2015 

  

Category I 

  

  

  

  

Infrastructure Fund 
Social Venture Fund 
Venture Capital 
Fund 
SME Fund 
Category I Total 
Category II 
Category III 
Grand Total 

2323.91 
483.41 

1970.25 
259.52 

1915.31 
170.79 
4893.42 
17544.12 
6578.23 
29015.77 

808.28 
123.79 
3161.84 
7859.78 
2921.6 

13943.22 

353.66 
223.89 

1107.03 

47 

1731.58 
9684.34 
3656.63 
15072.55 

17.95% 
86.27% 

136.96% 
37.96% 
54.76% 
123.21% 
125.15% 

108% 

9.  The  bulk  of  private  equity  and  venture  capital  investments  have  come  from  overseas 
through  jurisdictions  such  as  Mauritius  and  Singapore.    Table  3  above  shows  that 
domestic funding of AIFs has grown rapidly by approximately Rs. 15,000 crores i.e. 108 
% during the last 12 months, according to data released by SEBI. This can be attributed 
to  two  factors.  Firstly,  the  reforms  made  by  the  Indian  Government  in  line  with  the 
recommendations  of  the  first  AIPAC  report.  Secondly,  the  robustness  of  Indian 
economic growth has been a positive factor. With the signing of the protocol relating to 
the India-Mauritius Double Tax Avoidance Agreement (DTAA), India can become a more 
attractive destination for domiciling India-centric funds.  For this to happen, some of the 
reforms recommended in this report will play a critical role. The aim should be to create 
a  conducive  regulatory  environment  for  offshore  limited  partners  to  invest  in  SEBI-

 

 

12 

registered  AIFs  and  for  offshore  General  Partners  to  be  based  in  India.  A  liberalized, 
stable regulatory and tax regime will underpin this development. 
 

10. The  risk  appetite  of  this  asset  class  has  helped  shape  several  new  industries,  such  as 
mobile  telecommunications, 
information  technology  services,  social  media  and 
ecommerce.  Portfolio  companies  of  venture  capital  and  private  equity  funds  have 
contributed significantly to India’s economic development through outcomes such as :  
 
 

a.  Stronger  Job  Creation  Record:  Venture  capital  and  private  equity  have  helped 
accelerate  job  growth.  In  the  five  years  following  initial  investment,  companies 
backed  by  private  equity  grew  direct  employment  faster  than  companies  not 
backed by private equity.  
 

b.  Superior  Financial  Performance:  In  the  two  years  following  initial  investment, 
revenues  of  portfolio  companies  grew  28%  more  than  revenues  of  companies 
not  backed  by  venture  capital  and  private  equity  in  a  comparable  period.  In 
addition, their profits were stronger.  
 

c.  Greater Export Earnings: Venture capital and private equity investors focused on 
building  capabilities  in  their  portfolio  companies,  resulting  in  increased  export 
earnings. This strategy also helped reduce risks associated with  the volatility of 
domestic growth and exchange rate changes.  
 

d.  More Acquisitive and Global Mind-set: In the sample set, 80% of the companies 
participated in their first cross-border M&A only after receiving venture capital 
or  private  equity  funding.  Venture  capital  and  private  equity  fund  managers 
shared  their  experience,  knowledge  and  networks  to  help  companies  acquire 
strategic partners.  
 

e.  Superior  Corporate  Governance  and  Higher  Tax  Contribution:  Portfolio 
companies of venture capital and private equity funds generally improved their 
corporate governance. Private companies with revenues less than INR 7.5 billion 
linked to VC/PE contributed 18.8% of the corporate tax receipts for companies of 
a similar size, more than 13.1% of total revenue within this group. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chapter - II 

Introduction to the Report and Executive Summary 

 

 

 

 

14 

Introduction to the Report and Executive Summary 

II 

 
A. Introduction 
 

 

  

 

 

1.  This report addresses the reforms various Government agencies and regulators need to 
consider to promote the Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) asset class including venture 
capital and private equity which are key sources of long term capital.  

2.  If  implemented  these  reforms  will  help  accelerate  the  flow  of  domestic  and  offshore 
long-term  capital  to  AIFs  which,  in  turn,  would  be  invested  in  Indian  start-ups  and 
growth  companies  in  a  wide  range  of  sectors  vital  to  the  development  of  the  Indian 
economy. 

3.  The  raison  d’etre  for  developing  AIFs  is  the  jobs  they  help  create  in  their  portfolio 
companies, their commitment to provide capability capital and encouragement of good 
governance and best practices of management and reporting. The potential magnitude 
of  capital  which  can  be  mobilized  through  private  equity  and  venture  capital  funds  is 
significant for the economy. 

4.  The report recommends reforms in the following areas: 

Investor Management to enhance investor confidence;  

i) 
ii)  Taxation of AIFs for ease of doing business and ensuring certainty; 
iii)  Measures to attract offshore fund managers to manage in India; 
iv)  Mobilising  long-term  capital  from  domestic  pension  funds  and  insurance 

companies; 

v)  Introducing permanent capital vehicles to increase the flow of long term capital 

for a wide range of mid-market companies ; and 

vi)  Categories I & III Alternative Investment Funds 

 
B.  Investor Management to Engender Investor Confidence 
 

5.  Investor confidence is the sine qua non of capital markets. Confidence is engendered by 
adequate  and  timely  disclosure  and  effective  governance  arrangements  which  ensure 
that investor concerns receive constant and primary attention in fund management. To 
achieve  the  objective  of  attracting  large  inflows  of  long-term  funds,  the  AIF  industry 
needs to equip itself to cater to the needs of the diverse set of investors which invest in 
AIFs. 

 

 

 

 

 

6.  The  report  identifies  three  critical  factors  to  enable  current  and  potential  investors  to 
make informed decisions about the suitability and risk-return profiles of various types of 
AIFs:  (i)  disclosure  of  relevant  fund-level  information  to  AIF  investors;  (ii)  enhanced 
fund-level  governance;  and  (iii)  disclosure  of  aggregate  data  on  industry-level  returns 
performance by vintage year of AIFs. The report recommends, enhanced disclosures to 
investors, disclosure for superior governance and performance data for AIFs to be made 
available to enable greater investor participation 

 
C. Tax Reforms 
 

7.  The  first  AIPAC  report  had  recommended  a  number  of  tax  measures,  some  of  which 
were  implemented  by  the  Government  of  India.  After  the  first  AIPAC  report  was 
released, the Government entered into a Protocol with the Government of Mauritius to 
amend  the  Indo-Mauritius  Double  Tax  Avoidance  Tax  Agreement.    The  changes  have 
opened a unique window for India to help further develop the domestic AIF industry.  

 

8.  A set of sound and stable tax policies with clarity and certainty will attract more capital 
to AIFs domiciled in India and regulated by SEBI. This report makes further tax reform 
recommendations  to  foster  ease  of  doing  business  by  AIFs.  These  cover  the  need  for 
clarity and consistency in taxation.  ‘ Ease of  Doing Business ‘ is a major policy plank of 
the Government and its application in the AIF sphere will help catalyze significant capital 
flows from both domestic and international investors.  

 
D. Angel Fund & AIF Regulations 
 

9.  Angel funds are the cradle of the start-up eco-system. They have begun to play a more 
important  role  in  the  Indian  start-up  eco-system.  They  help  find  and  fund  promising 
start-ups and provide professional mentorship. 

10. Given  the  large  size  of  India,  more  angel  funds  need to be  created  where  high-caliber 
angels can provide funding and add value to budding entrepreneurs. This report clarifies 
recommendations for reforms in SEBI’s regulations for Angel Funds.  

   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

16 

E. Summary of Recommendations 
 
1. Recommendations for Enhanced Disclosures by Alternative Investment Funds 
 

11. The  second  AIPAC  report  recommends  greater  mandatory  disclosure  in  private 
placement  memoranda  of  the  following  areas  by  AIFs  which  raise  capital  from  retail 
investors with ticket sizes of less than Rs. 10 crores per investor: 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Investment strategy and investment objectives  

  Organization of the AIF and its  decision making process  
  Track record of returns in previous Funds 
  Computation of  returns 
 
  Key Fund terms  
  Valuation, investee due diligence and documentation process 
  Process  for  the  transfer  of  units  to  guide  investors  on  how  they  can  exit  the  fund 
during the life of the fund. This will contribute to the development  of a secondary 
market for fund units.  

  How liquidity issues will be dealt with at the end of the fund’s life if it has not been 

able to exit from all its investments. 

12. Quarterly reports to AIF investors shall include: 

  Summary Management discussion and analysis letter 
  Financial Package  

o  Balance sheet 
o  Period-end schedule of investments 
o  Statement of Operations 
o  Statement of Cash flows 
o  Partners’ capital account statement 

13. The  process  for  the  transfer  of  units  should  be  clearly  stated  in  the  placement 
memorandum to provide a mechanism for investors to transfer units before the end of 
a Fund’s life.  

14. Certain disclosures  should  also be  made  on  final  closing  which  is necessary  to provide 

added comfort to investors.  

 

 

 

2. Recommendations for the Superior Governance of AIFs 
 

15. The report recommends AIFs to form an Investor Advisory Committee from the outset 

to address the following vital matters: 
(a) Conflicts of interest  
(b) Issues arising during the life of a fund  
(c) Issues arising at the end of the life of a fund  
(d)  Whether  the  overall  functioning  of  the  fund  is  consistent  with  the  fiduciary 
responsibilities of the fund manager 

 

16. It  is  recommended  that  SEBI  amend  AIF  regulations,  2012  to  make  the  Governance 
Committee mandatory for funds which raise capital from retail investors with ticket size 
of less than Rs. 10 crores. 

 
3. Recommendations on AIF Returns Performance Data 

 

 

17. It  is  recommended  that  a  centralized  body  be  created  to  report  the  performance 
metrics  of  funds  on  an  aggregate  basis  (vintage  year  wise)  by  using  the  information 
obtained  from  the  periodic  reporting  by  AIFs  to  SEBI.  This  will  enable  performance  of 
individual  fund  managers  to  be  benchmarked  relative  to  aggregate  industry  returns 
performance data.  

18. The report recommends enhancements in the periodic- monthly or quarterly- reporting 
by  AIFs  to  SEBI  such  that  individual  fund  performance  data  can  be  captured  which,  in 
turn, can be used to create industry benchmarks. 

 
4. Recommendations for Tax Reforms of AIFs 
 

19. The key recommendations in the area of taxation of AIFs, including private equity and 

venture capital funds are: 
 

a)  Treating gains from transfer of unlisted shares held by AIFs as capital gains, irrespective 
of  transfer  of  control  and  management.  This  will  ensure  certainty  of  taxation  and 
remove the ambiguity surrounding taxation of these gains as business income. 

 

b)  Aligning  the  fund  management  safe  harbour  provisions  to  prevailing  practices  and 
characteristics of the global private equity and venture capital industry. This will enable 
the  managers  of  offshore  funds  to  be  based  in  India  without  the  risk  of  adverse  tax 
consequences to the offshore funds which, in turn, will bring the benefits of domestic 
location to the Indian economy. 

c)  Extending   pass- through taxation to Category III AIFs. The core principles of taxation of 

18 

pooled investment vehicles are one level taxation and pass-through taxation which the 
Government has implemented in Category I & II AIFs. This will bring certainty on the tax 
front and will also ensure  that the incidence of taxation falls on fund investors, rather 
than on fund vehicles i.e. AIFs. 

d)  Introducing  a  Securities  Transaction  Tax  (“STT”)  regime  for  AIF  taxation  which  will 

ensure certainty and ease of doing business and help raise substantial revenues. 

 

 

5.  Recommendations  for  the  Promotion  of  Rupee  Capital  Flows  from  Domestic 

Institutional Investors 

 

20. In  mature  capital  markets,  domestic  institutional  investors  like  pension  funds  and 
insurance companies underpin the development of AIFs because they are the ultimate 
natural source of stable, long term capital. It is to their credit that the Indian regulatory 
bodies, the Insurance Regulatory & Development Authority (IRDA) and the Pension Fund 
Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA), have issued circulars in 2013 and 2016, 
respectively,  which  enable  allocations  by  pension  funds  and  insurance  companies  to 
AIFs.  
 
This  report  recommends  that  the  circulars  be  aligned  with  the  SEBI  regulations.  It  is 
recommended that both IRDA and PFRDA issue suitable clarifications to the effect that 
insurers and pension funds will have the permission to invest in Category II AIFs so long 
as  such  AIFs  invest  primarily  in  unlisted  investee  companies  and  in  accordance  with 
SEBI’s AIF Regulations.  

 
6.    Recommendation to Enable Permanent Capital Vehicles 
 

21. There  is  an  increasing  need  for  vehicles  that  provide  capital  to  the  mid-corporate  and 
micro,  small,  medium  enterprises  segment.  MSMEs  are  the  engine  of  growth  and 
employment generation in the country. They contribute to 40% to India’s manufacturing 
output and materially to the labor force. There is a gap of over Rs. 2.5 lakh crore of debt 
capital for MSMEs. Bank lending to MSMEs has been declining over time with no signs of 
trend  reversal.  Traditional  capital  markets  options  are  also  not  a  viable  solution  for 
MSMEs  leading  to  a  large  identified  gap  and  need  for  debt  capital.  Accordingly,  it  has 
been  recommended  that  SEBI  consider  enunciating  a  regulatory  framework  for  Mid-
Markets  Permanent  Capital  Vehicles  under  Category  II  AIFs  in  light  of  the  special 
characteristics of such vehicles. 
 

 7.   Recommendations to Promote Angel Investments by Angel Funds 

 

 

22. The success of angel funds requires flexibility in their operations and their ability to raise 

 

 

 

funds,  to  diversify  their  portfolios  by  investing  in  start-ups  at  various  stages,  by 
diversifying  geographically  and  not  being  artificially  restricted  in  designing  their  exit 
strategies. Accordingly it is recommended that SEBI consider measures to: 

Lower  the  holding  period  of  angel  investments  to  1  year  from  the  current  3  year 
requirement; 
Extend the period for investing a minimum of Rs 25 lakhs per investor to the life of 
the fund or at least 5 years from the current 3 year requirement; 
Lower  the  minimum  investment  in  a  portfolio  company  to  Rs    25  lakhs  from  the 
current minimum of Rs. 50 lakhs; 
Allow angel funds to have a maximum of 200 members; 
Allow  at  least  10%  of  the  angel  fund’s  portfolio investments  to  be  companies  that 
may have been incorporated  more than 3 years prior to the investment; and 
Allow  Angel  funds  to  invest  in  overseas  venture  fund  undertakings  the  same 
percentage of their corpus as permitted for Category I AIFs. 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 
(v) 

(vi) 

 

8.  Recommendations for Category III AIFs 

23. It is recommended that Category III AIFs be permitted to:  

 

(i) 
(ii) 

(iii) 
(iv) 

anchor participation in certain Initial Public Offerings (IPOs); 
invest in foreign securities, with an Indian connection, within limits set by RBI and by 
SEBI for venture capital funds; 
compute ‘investible funds’ by reference to market values; and 
determine  leverage  as  per  the  formulae  and  methods  used  by  the  Alternative 
Investment Fund Management Directive (AIFMD). 

9.  Recommendation  for  Liberalizing  the  Ownership  Test  to  Determine  Indian  Owned  &  Controlled 

Fund Managers 
 
Reserve Bank of India's regulations require that investments of private equity and venture 
capital  funds  in  portfolio  companies  will  be  regarded  as  foreign  investments  if  the  fund 
manager, or the sponsor,  are not Indian owned and controlled. Consequently, the extent of 
shareholding  in  portfolio  companies  will  be  subject  to  certain  restrictions  mandated  by 
India's     Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)  policy.   This  means  that equity  ownership  caps 
mandated by India's   FDI policy will apply if the fund manager or the sponsor are not Indian 
owned and controlled.  

In determining the Indian Owned and Controlled status of the Fund Manager or the Sponsor, it 
is recommended that:  
 
The  shareholding  of  portfolio  Investors  (FPIs)  be  excluded  in  the  computation  of  foreign 
ownership of listed affiliates, or parent companies, of the investment manager, or sponsors of 
AIFs.  

20 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Chapter - III 

Catalyzing Stable Capital Flows 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

III 

Catalyzing Stable Capital Flows 

 

 
Introduction 

This chapter makes non-tax policy recommendations aimed at increasing the flow of long-term 
capital from both domestic and international investors in Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 
which will be invested in a wide range of businesses in India.  Recommendations in this chapter 
cover the following areas: 

(i) 
(ii) 

(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 

Greater disclosure and superior governance of AIFs; 
Enabling  domestic  pension  funds  and  insurance  companies  to  invest  in  Category  II 
AIFs; 
Offering permanent capital vehicles as Category II AIFs; 
The process for identifying accredited investors; and  
Liberalizing the ownership test for fund managers and sponsors of AIFs 

 

A. Investor Management 

I 

Introduction 

 

1.1 

 
1.2 

The  AIF  Regulations  have  assisted  the  development  of  AIFs  in  India.  Since 
inception, about 253 AIFs are registered with SEBI with a capital commitment of 
over  Rs.  50,000  crores.  Despite  the  global  slowdown,  the 
investment 
environment  in  India  is  positive.  AIFs  have  played  a  significant  role  and  helped 
drive  the  growth  of  the  Indian  economy.  Indian  companies  today  have  a  large 
appetite for growth capital in light of economic reforms. AIFs provide capital to 
creative and innovative ventures. To help satisfy the capital needs of enterprises, 
long-term and stable risk capital is of the essence. The need for further reforms 
to  promote  the  supply  of  growth  capital  in  this  promising  market  is  well 
warranted as AIFs can considerably boost the supply of long-term risk capital in 
India. 

The  Securities  &  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  established  the  Alternative 
Investment  Policy  Advisory  Committee  (AIPAC)  in  March,  2015  with  the  main 
purpose to advise SEBI on issues related to the further development of AIFs and 
the  start-up  ecosystem  in  India.  Under  the  chairmanship  of  Shri  N.R.  Narayana 
Murthy, AIPAC had issued its first report to SEBI on December 31, 2015, which 

22 

SEBI in turn issued to the public at large for comments on January 20, 2016. The 
first report is currently under consideration by SEBI.  

The first report of AIPAC outlined changes in the AIF Regulations to increase the 
presence  of  alternative  investment  vehicles,  on  the  one  hand,  and  to  unlock 
foreign  and  domestic  pools  of  capital  for  investment,  on  the  other  hand.  The 
report  addressed  issues  pertaining  to  parity  in  taxation  norms  with  global 
standards and easing of regulations that constrain fund operations. The progress 
achieved  by  the  implementation  of  the  first  report  provides  an  opportunity  to 
push the envelope further. This opportunity is further reinforced by the current 
economic  environment  in  India  as  well  as  the  attendant  need  for  long-term, 
active capital for enterprises in India.  

Given  this  opportunity, the  objective  of  the  second  AIPAC  report  (Report) is  to 
recommend  additional  reforms  for  investor  management,  within  the  SEBI 
framework,  to  “bring  in  large  pools  of  foreign  and  domestic  capital  for 
investment in AIFs”. Currently, AIF’s typically have three types of “investors”. (1) 
Retail investors/HNIs with low investment ticket size (ranging over Rs. 1 – Rs. 2 
crores)  with  limited  understanding  of  the  asset  class;  (2)  Indian  Institutional 
investors  with  ticket  sizes  ranging  from  Rs.  5  –  Rs.  10  crores,  with  limited 
experience in the industry; and (3) foreign institutional investors with ticket sizes 
greater than Rs. 10 crores with greater experience.  

To  achieve  the  objective  of  attracting  large  pools  of  long-term  funds,  the 
industry needs to equip itself in order to cater to the needs of the diverse set of 
investors it attracts. To fulfill this objective, we identify three critical factors: (i) 
disclosure of relevant fund-level information to its investors; (ii) enhanced fund-
level  governance  and  (iii)  aggregate  data  on  industry-level  performance  to 
inform and thereby attract current and potential investors.  

Disclosure of fund-level information enables investors to make informed choices 
whilst  investing  with  the  fund  managers  by  (i)  limiting  possible  perceptions 
among  investors  that  the  General  Partners  (GPs)  may  not  provide  material 
information about the fund; and (ii) strengthening the alignment of incentives of 
the  GPs  with  those  of  the  Limited  Partners  (LPs).  In  theory,  worries  about 
conflicts of interest between GPs and LPs stem from the combination of agency 
costs  and  asymmetric  information,  which  characterise  any  agency  relationship 
such  as  the  one  between  GPs  and  LPs.  For  instance,  LPs  may  worry  that  once 
they  part  with  their  capital,  the  GP  may  potentially  manage  the  fund  in  a  way 
that  maximizes  his/her  own  self-interest.  Specifically,  LPs  may  worry  about 
under-exertion of effort, managerial deficiencies, or, the overuse of leverage and 
risky instruments by GPs.  

 
1.3 

 
1.4 

 
1.5 

1.6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Performance-based compensation, which includes management fees and carried 
interest,  can  attenuate  problems  stemming  from  the  lack  of  monitoring, 
asymmetric  information,  which  stems  from  GPs  knowing  significantly  more 
about  the  specific  details  of  the  fund  as  well  as  its  investments  than  LPs,  can 
exacerbate  problems  associated  with  agency  costs.  Given  these  concerns, 
standardised  disclosure  on 
investors  can 
significantly strengthen the alignment of incentives of the GPs with those of the 
LPs and help reduce investor concerns. 

information  to 

fund-level 

its 

Greater  information  disclosure  in  the  context  of  private  equity  cannot  be  an 
unadulterated  benefit.  By  its  very  nature,  private  equity  involves  investments 
made for the long run by experts who exercise their judgment. Such judgments, 
in  turn,  has  been  honed  over  several  years  of  experience  and  acquired 
knowledge.  Given  the  nuances 
judgment, 
indiscriminate  disclosure  could  lead  to  untimely  liquidations/exits  at  significant 
costs to the fund and its investors. 

in  exercising  good 

involved 

Enabling  better  governance  of  AIF’s,  represents  the  second  cog  in  the  wheel. 
Governance assumes critical importance because the general partners of a fund 
face a variety of common issues. A good governance mechanism can be seen as 
a proactive or preferred form of investor protection, as there is a better chance 
when such governance prevails for problems to be identified and resolved swiftly 
before  they  escalate  further.  Thus  introducing  next  generation  governance 
practices for various issues faced by funds during the original fund life and during 
any extension period, will enhance the investment experience for AIF investors.  

1.7 

1.8 

1.9 

 

1.10  Disseminating  trustworthy  data  on  industry-level  performance  can  inform 
current and potential investors about the risk-return profile of investing in AIFs. 
Potential  investors  often  inhibited  by  the  risks  involved  in  investing  in  AIFs.  A 
concern  is  that  the  a  priori  expectation  that  an  investor  has  about  the 
performance of an AIF may not translate into realised performance a posteriori. 
These  concerns  rise  when  the  investor  does  not  have  access  to  trustworthy 
information about the historical performance of the industry.  

 
1.11  Discretionary  disclosure  by  specific  funds/fund  houses  cannot  substitute  for 
trustworthy information for several reasons. First, such discretionary information 
may be more forthcoming in good times than in bad, or when risks appear to be 
lower.  Second, at  any  point  in time, the better performing funds  may be  more 
forthcoming  in  disclosing  performance  information  than  their  peers  who  lag  in 
performance.  Finally,  because  poorly  performing  funds  usually  stop  reporting, 
the investor only receives information about surviving funds, which leads to the 
problem  of  “survivor  bias.”  The  trust-deficit  originating  from  such  skewed 
information about industry performance can aggravate the concerns of potential 
investors and thus limit their participation in AIFs. 

 

 

24 

 
1.12  The  trust-deficit  thus  can  be  avoided  by  the  regulator  delegating  to  a  single, 
certified  entity  the  responsibility  of  disseminating  information  on  industry 
performance.  The  information  can  be  made  trustworthy  if  all  the  above  AIF 
biases  are  eschewed.  The  entity  entrusted  with  the  responsibility  of 
disseminating this information would maintain a meticulous record of important 
data  pertaining  to  all  funds  –  even  those  that  have  been  discontinued  or 
liquidated.  Such  information  aggregated  over  all  funds  would  then  be  used  to 
provide information that reflects the entire distribution of performance from the 
best  performing  funds  to  the  worst  performing  ones.  Disclosure  of  fund  level 
information  and  superior  governance  can  combine  together  to  facilitate 
informed  decision-making  among  investors  and  can  thus  be  instrumental  in 
bringing a wide swath of investors to invest in AIF. 

 
1.13 

In view of the above, it is apt to put forward this Report to SEBI. The committee 
consists  of  members  from  all  fora  of  the  industry.  The  sub-committee  on 
Investor Management has worked bearing in the mind the requirements of LPs 
i.e.  investors  in  AIFs  as  well  as  the  General  Partners  i.e.  fund  managers  to 
enhance the fund raising environment for AIFs in India. 

 

II. Recommendations 

2.1 The recommendations  are aimed at enhancing fund flows into AIFs in India by the 
adoption  of  global  best  practices.  The  recommendations  can  be  classified  into  three 
broad areas:  

a. Enhanced disclosures to investors 

i     Disclosures to be made in the private placement memorandum (‘PPM’); and  

ii    Disclosures to be provided to investors consistent with global practices. 

 
An  amendment  to  AIF  Regulations  2012  is  recommended,  to  make  these  disclosures 
mandatory for funds which raise capital from retail investors with ticket size of less than 
Rs. 10 crores. 
  
b. Disclosures for enhanced governance of AIFs 

i   The  governance  mechanism  to  deal  with  matters  which  are  outside  the 
purview  of  Privately  Placed  Memoranda  (PPMs)  but  within  SEBI  regulations 
and which do not require super majority voting by unit holders; and  

 

 

 

 

 

 

ii  The  process  with  respect  to  the  transfer  of  units,  to  enable  investors  to 
transfer  their  units  before  the  end  of  the  Fund’s  life  should  be  disclosed  in 
PPMs. 

 
It  is  recommended  that  SEBI  amend  AIF  Regulations,  2012  to  make  these  disclosures 
mandatory for AIFs which raise capital from retail investors with ticket size of less than 
Rs. 10 crores. 
 
c. Disclosure of performance data for AIFs to be made available to enable greater 
    investor participation 
 
The ecosystem relating to AIF returns performance data can be catalyzed by SEBI by 
making the following amendments in the AIF regulations to; 

- Collect performance data from AIFs by amending the information required in periodic 
reports submitted by funds to SEBI; and 

-  Create  a  central  body  which  will  report  the  performance  metrics  of  funds  on  an 
aggregate  basis,  vintage  year-wise,  on  the  basis  of  the  information  obtained  from  the 
periodic reporting by AIFs. 

 

 

2.2   Disclosures in Placement Memoranda 

The AIF Regulations requires certain disclosures that the fund managers are required to 
make in the placement memorandum at the time of marketing an AIF. Currently, some 
of the key disclosures which are required in private placement memoranda of AIFs are 
as follows: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Material information about the fund and the fund manager;  
Potential investors; 
Schedule of detailed fees and expenses along with the distribution waterfall; 
Life of the fund; 
Conditions or limits on redemptions; 
Investment strategy; 
Risk management tools; 
Key service providers; 
Conflicts of interest and procedures to identify and address them; 
Disciplinary history; 
Terms and conditions on which the fund manager offers services; and 
Manner of winding up of the fund.  

 

26 

 

 
 

The  extant  AIF  Regulations  do  not  require  fund  managers  to  provide  detailed  disclosures  on  some 
matters which are critical to investors. Additionally, the past performance of the fund managers (if any) 
is a key consideration and plays an important role in helping an investor make a decision to invest in an 
AIF. Further, based on global practices as well as considering the nascent stage of the Indian market, 
there is a need to raise the confidence of investors and provide them the information needed to make 
informed investment decisions prior to investing in an AIF.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Recommendation  -  In order  to increase investor confidence  and to enable investors to take an 
informed decision whilst investing in a fund, certain additional disclosures should be required to 
be made by fund managers in the placement memoranda. These disclosures should mainly be on 
the following topics: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  Organization of the fund and its decision making process 
  Past performance  
  Method adopted in calculating returns 
 
  Key terms  
  Valuation, due diligence and documentation process 
  Process for transfer of units to guide investors on how they can exit the fund during its life. 

Investment strategy and investment objectives 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

This will also help develop a secondary market for fund units.  

  How liquidity issues will be dealt with at the end of the fund’s life (see section  2.5 below)  
The detailed disclosures to be part of the PPM are set out in Annexure 1. 

2.3  

Disclosure to Investors Consistent with Global Practices  

It is of paramount importance that the investors in a fund are informed of the fund status 
along with its key parameters and its performance on a periodic basis. 
 
Currently,  clause  22  of  AIF  regulations  2012,  requires  an  AIF  to  disclose  the  following 
information to investors: 

  Financial,  risk  management,  operational,  portfolio  and  transactional  information 

regarding fund investments shall be disclosed periodically to investors; 

  Fees  charged  by  an  associate  of  the  fund  manager  to  the  fund  or  to  investee 

companies; 

  Any inquiries/legal action in any jurisdiction by a regulatory body as and when it occurs; 
  Any  material  liability  arising  during  the  AIF’s  tenure  shall  be  disclosed,  as  and  when 

occurs; 

  Any breach of any provision of the PPM, or any agreement made with the investors, if 

any, as and when it occurs; 

  Change in control of Sponsor / fund manager / investee company; 
  Report  including  financial  information  of  investee  companies  and  material  risks  and 
how they are managed shall be submitted on an annual basis by Category I and II and 
Category III shall provide quarterly reports to investors; 

 

 

 

 

 

  Significant change in the key investment team; and 
  Description of the valuation procedure and the methodology for valuing assets. 

 

In addition to this, clause 23 of AIF Regulations 2012 requires AIFs to provide to its investors 
a  description  of  its  valuation  procedure  and  the  methodology  for  valuing  assets.  This  is 
required to be undertaken once every six months, by an independent valuer appointed by 
Category I and II AIFs and on a quarterly basis by Category III AIFs.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Recommendation  –  While  existing  regulations  intend  to  cover  various  aspects  of  reporting  to 
investors,  in  order  to  bring  in  consistency,  standardization,  benchmark  and  structure,  we  have 
developed a set of disclosures to be made by AIFs on a quarterly basis. This is expected to lead to 
greater  efficiencies,  improve  uniformity  and  transparency  and  lower  expenses  in  administering 
and monitoring AIF investments by investors. The core contents of the quarterly reporting package 
shall include: 

  Summary Management discussion and analysis letter 
  Financial Package  

o  Balance sheet 
o  Period end schedule of investments 
o  Statement of Operations 
o  Statement of Cash flows 
o  Partners’ capital account statement 
o  Appropriate footnote disclosures 

 

  Supplemental Management Reports 

o 
o 
o 

Executive summary – firm level and fund level 
Supplemental Schedule of investments 
Portfolio company update  

The detailed disclosures recommended under each of the core content is laid out in Annexure 2.  
 
In addition to this, certain disclosures should also be made  by the fund on final closing which is 
necessary to provide added comfort to investors. The set of disclosures to be made on final closing 
is laid out in Annexure 3 

 
 

2.4 Mechanism  to  deal  with  matters  which  are  outside  the  purview  of  PPMs  but  within 

SEBI regulations and do not require super majority voting by Unitholders 

The  majority  of  AIFs  are  long-term  and  illiquid  in  nature.  LPs  invest  based  on  their 
confidence in  a  GP and understanding  of the  strategy  and parameters  of  investments. 
Not all the circumstances and outcomes can be anticipated in a PPM. LPs need to ensure 
that proper mechanisms are in place to work through unanticipated conflicts as well as 
changes in the investment team or other fund parameters. There is also a need to have 
a  constant  interactive  relationship  between  GPs  and  LPs  to  deal  with  conflicts  which 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28 

arise during, or after the life of the fund during the extension period, when it may not 
be possible to reach all investors.  

Recommendation – In order to deal with various issues that arise during or after, the life of 
a  fund  during  any  extension  period,  we  recommend  that  an  Investor  Advisory  Committee 
should be formed at the outset, which will operate till the end of the fund’s life and during 
any extension of its life. The issues dealt by the Investor Advisory Committee will include; 
  
(a) conflicts of interest  
(b) issues arising during the life of the fund  
(c) issues arising at the end of the fund’s life  
(d)  Whether  the  overall  functioning  of  the  fund 
responsibilities of the fund manager 
 
The role of the Investor Advisory Committee is not  to directly manage, nor to audit, but to 
provide a sounding board for GPs and a voice for LPs, when appropriate.   
 

is  consistent  with  the  fiduciary 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.5 Exits from Fund interests during a Fund's Life 

During the tenure of a fund, some investors need liquidity from what is inherently an illiquid 
asset  class.  This  typically  happens  5-6 times  in a  year  and  25-30  times  during  the  life  of  a 
fund.  In  India  there  are  no  regulations  for  secondary  transfers  of  fund  interests  i.e.  units. 
Transfers are made at the sole discretion of the investment manager.  

 

Recommendation  –  The  process  for  the  transfer  of  units  should  be  clearly  set  out  in  the 
placement  memorandum  to  enable  investors  to  transfer  their  units  before  the  end  of  the 
fund life.  

 

 

2.6 Enhancing performance data available for AIFs to enable greater investor participation  

 
A primary need of prospective investors in newly formed funds is adequate information to 
make  fully  informed  investment  choices.  The  information  ecosystem  must  ensure  that 
information  such  as  the  history  of  the  fund  manager,  estimated  sources  of  profits  and 
details of the risks entailed must be furnished before an investment in a new fund. 
 
Accordingly,  the  information  ecosystem  must  disclose  enough  financial  and  operational 
details of both the fund and its manager to the LP. The private funds market suffers from 
principal-agent problems between the investors or the Limited Partners (LPs) and the fund 

 

 

 

 

managers or the General Partners (GPs). The primary principal-agent problem occurs in the 
form of moral hazard, where the GP may not always act in the best interest of the LP. This 
breach  of  trust  may  occur  in  the  form  of  shirking,  sub-optimal  investment  decisions  or 
excessive risk taking. While this agency problem is addressed to some extent by tying the 
compensation of the managers with the profits of the fund, it may still discourage certain 
investors  from  investing.  The  information  asymmetry  that  causes  this  principal  agent 
problem arises due to the absence of periodic and standardized reporting of a private fund’s 
performance by its managers.  

Recommendation – Given that performance measurement and reporting is a key component to 
enable investors to make informed decisions, the following recommendations have been made 
in  order  to  create  a  sound  information  ecosystem  for  the  AIF.    The  implementation  of  the 
recommendation involves two steps; 

-  Gathering information from funds by making necessary  amendments  in the periodic reports 

filed by funds with SEBI 

-  Creating a central body that will report the performance record of funds on an aggregate basis 
(vintage year-wise) on the basis of the information obtained from the periodic reports of the 
funds. 

I.    The  existing  AIF  regulations  make  periodic  reporting  to  SEBI  mandatory  for  all  funds. 
According to  these norms, Category I, II and III (without  leverage) report on a quarterly  basis. 
The Category III funds operating, with leverage, report on a monthly basis. The existing norms 
stipulate  that  metrics  such  as  corpus  value,  invested  values,  industry  wise  breakup,  details  of 
investors  and  leverage  be  reported.  However,  certain  additional  information  is  required  to  be 
reported  to  SEBI  for  the  calculation of  performance  data.  Accordingly,  we  have  suggested  the 
modification  of  the  existing  reporting  format  to  include  certain  additional  parameters  as 
described in Annexure 4. 

II. Creation of a centralized body to report the performance data of funds on an aggregate basis 
(vintage year wise) on the basis of the information obtained from the periodic reporting of the 
funds in Annexure 4. The individual fund performance data has no tangible meaning unless it is 
compared  to  a  relevant  benchmark.  Customized  benchmarks  that  reflect  the  risk  adjusted 
performance of entire alternative asset class needs to be prepared.  This requires a central body 
to aggregate all the funds’ data and prepare the relevant indices. Another reason for having a 
central performance reporting body is to avoid information biases that may occur. For example, 
survivor bias occurs when a fund which is performing badly stops reporting altogether. This can 
be  effectively  controlled  by  removing  the  history  of  the  fund’s  performance  in  calculating  the 
relevant benchmarks. That requires the presence of a central body aggregating the performance 
of all individual funds.  The relevant benchmarks can be by the central body as set out based on 
the principles set out in Annexure 5. 

 

 

 

30 

 

Annexure 1: Additional disclosures to be made in the PPM  

Subject 
 
Past performance of the 
Manager and the 
management team 

Use of proceeds and 
allocation 

 
Risk Factors 

 

Disclosures in the PPM 

  Past  returns  delivered  by  funds  previously  managed  or 
advised by the Manager calculated (i) on a gross and net (of 
taxes)  basis;  and  (ii)  after  deducting  costs  and  expenses 
incurred  by  the  fund  in  divestments  and  distribution  to 
investors and any reserves set aside by the fund (i.e. The past 
returns are returns that the fund made on its investments, or 
the returns that the investors made in the fund) including the  
IRR achieved by the fund 

  Description of the valuation method used to arrive at the past 

returns along with assumptions and qualifications  

  Assets  under  management  currently  or  previously  managed 

by the Manager 

  Past performance of the Manager in the sectors in which the 

fund proposes to invest   

  Details  of  the  transactions  /  deals  in  which  the  current 

 

 

investment team was involved 
Information  relating  to  the  replacement of  the  management 
team  in  the  previous  funds  of  the  Manager  including  any 
unsuccessful attempts and details thereof 
Investments  proposed  to  be  rolled  over  from  the  previous 
funds to the current fund and details thereof 

  Details  of  the  other  fund(s)  managed  or  advised  by  the 
Manager including name of such fund(s), features of the fund 
like  industry  /  sector  /  investment  stage  /  geographic  focus, 
etc.  (as  may  be  applicable),  total  corpus  of  the  fund,  total 
amount drawndown, total amount of undrawn capital (if any, 
with reasons thereof), total amount invested and re-invested, 
the total number of investments, average investment size  

  Expected  IRR  percentage  for  the  unrealized  portion  of  the 

investments (with basis, valuation report, etc.) 

 
  Estimated use of proceeds  
  Estimated asset allocation details 

o  By types of asset classes 
o  By Geography 

 

 
  Concentration 

in  not  diversifying 
investments  across  asset  classes  or  geographies  or  industry 
sectors 

involved 

risk: 

risk 

 

 

 

 

Subject 
 

Disclosures in the PPM 

 

Liquidity risk: Risk of not being able to liquidate assets at the 
close  of  fund;  risk  associated  with  illiquidity  of  units  of  the 
fund 

  Business risk arising from the nature of investee companies 
  Default risk arising from default of credit assets of the fund 
  Currency risk on the foreign investors arising from fluctuating 
exchange  rate  in  relation  to  the  commitments  raised  from 
foreign investors. 

 
  Mechanism  for  permitting  the  transfer  of  units  of  the  fund. 

Such mechanism may include: 

o  Restrictions on transfer, if any 
o  Process  involved  in  the  approval  /  rejection  for 

transfer of units 

o  Conditions to be fulfilled prior to transfer 
o  Eligibility criteria for the transferees 
o  KYC norms, if any, to be met by the transferees; 
o  Process  required  to  be  followed  for  the  transfer  of 

units 

o  Maintenance of records for transfer of units 
o  Provisions  related  to  purchase  of  units  by  the 

Manager (including leverage, if any)  

  Brief description on liquidity management system 
 
  Details as to how and when the Investor Advisory Committee 

(IAC) shall be formed 

  The eligibility criteria of the members for membership of the 

IAC 

  The roles and powers of the IAC 
  Manner of conducting meetings of the IAC and its costs 
  The decision making process of the IAC 
  Reporting requirements of the Manager towards the IAC 
  Whether Manager would be entitled to management fees for 

the extended term of the fund 

 
  Process  involved  in  making  decisions  for  investment  in,  and 

divestments from, the investee companies 

  Policy in relation to nomination of representatives on any of 
the  committees  of  the  fund  (investment  committee  (IC)  or 
advisory board (AB)), if any 

  Roles and functions of the IC, if appointed by the fund 
  Details  of  the  composition  of  the 

IC  and  reporting 

relationships between the IC and the Manager 

  Detailed  profile,  remuneration  details, 

location  of  each 

Transfer of units 

Mechanism proposed to be 
adopted to deal with 
illiquidity risks  

Organisation of the fund and 
decision  making  process  of 
the fund 

32 

Subject 
 

Disclosures in the PPM 

member of the IC 

Investment strategy and 
investment objective 

  Decision making process within the IC  
  Roles and functions of the AB, if appointed by the fund 
  Details  of  the  composition  of  the  AB  and  reporting 

relationships between the AB and the Manager 

  Detailed  profile,  remuneration  details, 

location  of  each 

 

member of the AB 
Information  regarding  the  chairman  of  the  IC,  AB,  board  of 
directors of the Manager 

 
  Focus investment sectors of the fund, focus on any particular 

investment stage/industry sector/geographical region 

  Difference  between the  current  investment strategy and the 

 

past fund strategies, and reasons for such change 
Investment considerations such as target investment size and 
target percentage stake, target number of investments, 
average holding period for an investment and exit strategies 
  Details regarding the rights and controls that the fund would 

aspire to have as a shareholder in an investee company 

  Details regarding exit mechanisms to be adopted in relation 

to investments 

Valuation, due diligence and 
documentation 
 

 
  Valuation policy for determining the value of the investments 

as well as units of the fund 

  Valuation method(s) proposed to be used for investments by 

the fund 

  Minimum  IRR  percentage  threshold  below  which  the  fund 

 

would not invest 
List  of  external  service  providers  (legal,  technical,  financial  / 
accounting  etc.)  who  would  be  assisting  the  Manager  in  the 
due diligence process 

  Policy on follow-on investments, if any 
 
 

List  of  activities  involved  in  monitoring  and  follow-up  of 
investments 

  Proposed value additions of the Manager to the investments 
  Details  on  the  reporting  structure  /  procedure  for  the 
contributors  (quarterly  /  half  yearly  /  annual),  Bulletins 
(attach  sample)  ,  Detailed  valuation  report,  Guidelines  for 
calculating NAV, Information that the fund will be providing at 
the time of drawdowns, Frequency of meetings between the 
IC and the Manager to update the contributor. 

 
  Shareholding  pattern  of  the  Manager  including  details  of 

Monitoring / follow up of 
investments / 
communication to 
contributors 

Details of the Manager 

 

 

 

 

Subject 
 

Disclosures in the PPM 

employees who are also shareholders 

  Years  of  existence  and  operation  of  the  Manager.  If  the 
Manager is a newly set up entity, then years of experience of 
the  investment  team  of  the  Manager  in  the  areas  of  fund 
management and investment 

  Organisation structure/chart of the Manager 
  Details of key persons along with key person event, if  any 
  Policy regarding carried interest and each eligible employees 

share in carried interest 

  Change in distribution policy or method in relation to carried 
interest to the Manager or such other consequences in case 
of a key person event 

  Association  of  the  investment  team  of  the  Manager  with 
other  funds  and  their  role  in  the  performance  of  such  other 
funds 

Key terms of the fund 

 
 

Legal  status of  the  fund  (i.e.  trust  form  or  company  form or 
LLP form) 

Income taxed at fund level or at the level of the contributors 

  Tax status of the fund 
 
  Details of the trustee or custodian, if any 
  Duration of the investment period or commitment period 
  Target corpus of the fund 
  Minimum subscription amount  
  Clawback provision (with illustrations), if any 
  Reasons and rationale behind incurring proposed fund setup 

costs, Details of pipeline of deals under consideration 

 

  Details of warehousing details, if any; Role of the Manager in 
co-investment structures and the allocation of costs between 
the funds in such co-investment structures 
Information  regarding  the  placement  agents,  costs  and 
expenses of such placement agents as well as who shall bear 
the costs and expenses of such placement agents 
Information  regarding  the  Manager  or  the  fund  or  the 
sponsor associated with any of the placement agents engaged 
by the fund, if any  

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Miscellaneous 

34 

Annexure 2: Reporting to Limited Partners 

 

I. 

Summary Management Discussion and Analysis letter 
(Provided quarterly with each package, unaudited)  

•  Management discussion of key drivers of activity and performance during the quarter that 

bridges the activity between the two period ends  
o  Summary of capital activity (cash flows)  
o  Transactions closed or pending  
•  Explanation of extraordinary movements  
•  Discussion of material events in portfolio companies (that would impact the fund as a 

whole) and/or with the General Partner  

 

o 

Including portfolio company defaults, LPA breaches, etc.  

•  Discussion of any material changes in risk factors at the fund level, including:  

o  Concentration risk at fund level  
o  Foreign exchange risk at fund level  
o  Leverage risk at fund level  
o  Realization risk at fund level  
o  Extra-financial risks, including environmental, social and corporate governance 

risks at the fund level  

o  This information should be provided annually, though more immediate 

reporting may be required for material events  

 

II.   Financial Package 

 
A. Balance Sheet 
(Provided quarterly, audited annually) 
 
The balance sheet should include the following components: 
•  Current period end vs. prior audited period end columns  

o  Comparative column should be for most recent audit period  
o  Requires comparative or prior year end schedule of investments  

 

 

•   Inclusion of receivables and payables to affiliates  
•   Inclusion of investments at cost and fair value  
•   Inclusion of fund level debt  
 
B. Schedule of Investments 
(Provided quarterly with each package, unaudited) 
 
•  Full detail on unrealized investments  
•  Detail should be at legal entity level, not LP share  

 

 

 

•   Name of the Investment  

 

o  Name can be omitted if absolutely required, but a unique identifier must be  
used and be  consistent from quarter to quarter; investments should not be 
grouped  

•   Debt and Equity positions should be reported separately  

Include number of shares if applicable  

o 
o  Should  the  investment  be  structured  in  a  more  complicated  manner,  detail 

may be moved to the individual Portfolio Company Update  

•   Fund Ownership % (fully diluted)  
•  
•   Numeric Data on each investment to include:  

Initial Investment Date  

 Total invested (A)  

o  Total committed to investment  
o 
o  Current cost (B) (including equity and debt breakdown)  
o  Reported Value (C)  
o  Realized proceeds (D)  

 

 
C. Statement of Operations  
(Provided quarterly, audited annually) 
 
•  Show current period, year-to-date and since inception information  

o  Since inception information is not required by certain accounting standards; 

information need not be included in audited package if details are outlined in 
either the Footnotes or detailed Partner’s Capital Account Statement  

•   Breakout investment income  
•   Separate portfolio interest and dividends independent of other interest  
•   Breakout of expenses  
•  Separate fees into their individual components, including management fees, broken 

deal fees, advisory/director fees, monitoring fees, etc.  

•   Net operating gain/loss  
•   Breakout of gains/(losses) on investments  
•   Breakout of realized/unrealized gain/loss (independent of F/X, showing F/X 

independently)  

 
D. Partner’s Capital Account Statement 
(Provided quarterly, audited annually) 
 
•  Consolidated reporting, if applicable, for all Limited Partner investments, including 

alternative investment vehicles  

•   Current period, year-to-date and since inception information  

 

 

36 

•   Breakout of the Total Fund by LP, GP and Total  
•   Bridge the prior net asset value to the current net asset value  

o  Disclose any adjustments made prior to Beginning Balance  

•   Components to include:  

o  General Partners’ balances  
o  Accrued carried interest should partnership liquidate  
o  Breakout of contributions and distributions for the relevant period 
o  Net changes in partners’ capital resulting from operations  
•  Commitments of Limited Partner, General Partner and Total Fund  
•  Schedule of changes in individual unfunded commitment  
 
 
E. Footnotes 
(Relevant footnotes provided quarterly, all footnotes provided annually) 
Footnote disclosures would include (and not be limited to):  
 
Note 1 - Organization / Fund Details  
• 

 Key dates (including formation, termination, extensions, commitment period and 
follow-on period dates), structure, commitment amounts and other relevant fund 
details  

•   Tables may be included if they further understanding of the organizational structure  

Note 2 - Significant Accounting Policies  
•   Accounting principles, fair value measurement and other relevant details  

Note 3 - Partners' Capital  
•   Limited Partners’ and General Partners’ commitments (including apportionment of 

drawdowns and investments based on capital contribution)  

•   Tables may be included if they further understanding of the commitment structure  

Note 4 - Management Fee and Other Fee Breakdown  
•   Management fees / broken or consummated deal fees / monitoring fees / fee offsets  
•   Description of "other" fees  

Note 5 - Related Party and Other Transactions  
•   Detail of related party transactions and/or receivables/payables  
•   Notation of fund level debt and other potential obligations or guarantees  
 
Note 6: Financial Highlights  
•   Net IRR at the fund level  
 
Note 7: Carry Detail  
•   Fund level carry paid and/or accrued; amount escrowed if applicable  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

•   Detailed description of carry calculation (waterfall)  

o 

Include table if more appropriate  

Note 8: Compensation Arrangement  
•   Describe the compensation structure (salary, bonus, group/individual performance 

incentives, profit sharing, equity ownership, carried interest, etc.) for all the team 
members.  

•   Details on the allocation of the carried interest among Principals and others 

inside/outside the organization.  

•   Provide details on any separate compensation arrangements outside the Fund.  
 
Note 9: Advisory Board  
•   List of members (if not against any legal or LPA restrictions)  
•   Notation of action items or votes taken  

Note 10: Subsequent Events  
•  

Included if material namely: 

o  Changes in Fund Parameters such as Commitment Period / Tenure of the Fund / 

amending other clauses of PPM or Contribution Agreement 

o  Changes in General Partners 
o  Significant Staff Departures 

 

 

 

Note 11: Risk   
•   Details of review or assessment of conflicts of interest performed. Identify any findings, 

as well as any changes or proposed actions to address the findings.  

 

III.  Supplemental Management Report 

A. Executive summary – Firm- Level and Fund- Level data  
(Fund Level data provided quarterly, firm level data updated annually) 
The executive summary, preceding supplementary pages covering the details of all active 
investments in the portfolio, would include the following:  
 
Firm Data  

o  Assets under management  
o  Assets  defined  as  total  value  of  current 

investments  plus  unfunded 

commitments  
o  Active funds  
o  Active portfolio Companies  

Fund Level Data  
 

o  Total commitments  
o  Total drawdowns since inception  
o  Gross drawdowns 

38 

o  Remaining commitments 
o  Total number of investments since inception 
o  Total distributions  
o  Percentage of total drawdowns 
o  Gross distributions as percent of gross drawdowns  
o  Percentage of committed capital  
o  Gross distributions as percent of total commitments  

 
Key Valuation Metrics  
 

o  TVPI: Total Value to Paid In  
o  RVPI: Residual Value to Paid In  
o  DPI: Distributions to Paid In  

 
• Historical Fund Performance  
• Portfolio breakdown by industry and region  
 

B. Supplemental Schedule of investments 

(Provided quarterly, audited annually) 
•  Full detail on realized and unrealized investments  
• Security Type / # of shares (if not reported elsewhere)  
• LP Ownership % (fully diluted)  

o  This is the only column in this schedule that is Limited Partner specific with the 
intent  of  determining  the  results  of  opt-outs  in  the  Fund.  This  information  can 
also be depicted in a separate schedule for ease of reporting. LP ownership can 
be represented as % of total invested  

• Initial Investment Date (if not reported earlier)  
• Final Exit Date for realized investments  
• Investment Data (at fund level, if not reported elsewhere)  
• Valuation Driver  

o  Primary driver of valuation methodology such as market multiples, DCF, public 
market price, etc. Sample list only an indicator of possible descriptions; final list 
at GP’s discretion.  

 
• Performance Metrics  

o  Period change in valuation  
o  Period change in cost  
o  Unrealized gains/(losses) & accrued interest  

 

• Movement summary  

•  Primary driver of movement, not an indicator of full valuation methodology. Sample 

list only an indicator of possible descriptions; final list at GP’s discretion.  

 

 

 

 

• Current period investment multiple  
• Prior period investment multiple  
• Since inception Net IRR  
 
C. Portfolio Company Update 
 
Supporting  materials  to the  Quarterly  Reporting  package  would  include supplementary  pages 
covering the details of all active investments in the portfolio. These pages would be preceded 
by an executive summary (discussed above) that highlights the key information on the portfolio 
companies  to  follow.  Information  in  quarterly  reports  should  be  structured  consistently  with 
information provided through other channels, 

•  Company Overview  

o  Company description and headquarters  
o 

Industry (GICS classification)  

 

•  Acquisition details (table or chart)  

Including initial investment date, multiples, equity breakdown  

o 
o  Acquisition thesis ; Co-Sponsors (including individual ownership % if readily available) 
o  Deal partners at GP (including titles and Board seat, if any)  

 

Including revenue, EBITDA, debt, CAGR  

•  Current metrics (table or chart of trailing-twelve months information)  
• 
•  Company Assessment (On Plan, Above Plan, Below Plan; regulatory issues notwithstanding) 
•  Expectations (notwithstanding prohibitions against forward-looking statements or 

commercially sensitive information)  
o  Cash flow needs or distributions  
o  Exit assumptions; date/type  

•   Financial Tables:  Investment structure & Capitalization table  
•  Financial results : Calculations: DPI, RVPI, TVPI, DCC, PICC  
•  Value added by the Fund in addition to providing capital to the portfolio companies: 
 
 

 

Name 

Nature of 
association* 

Phone /Cell 
Number 

Email 
address 

 

 

 

 

Brief summary on the 
nature of association 
and the outcome 
 

 

40 

 
 
 
 
 

Annexure 3: One-time reporting to investors on final closing 

 
 

A.  Financial Parameters 

1.  Target corpus as per PPM 

 

2.  Date of First Closing with aggregate commitments 

Date: 
Amount (Rs. crore): 
 

3.  Date of Final Closing with aggregate commitments 

Date: 
Amount (Rs. crore): 
 

4.  Time taken to achieve Final Closing from the date of First closing: 

As per PPM 

Actuals 

Reasons for variation, if any 

___ months from the date of 

___ months from the date 

 

First closing 

of First closing 

 

5.  List of Contributors with Amounts Committed: 

Investors categories - 

Amount in Rs. crore 

Sponsor 

General Partner (‘GP’) 

  Limited Partners (classification 
as under): 

Institutional investors 

High Net worth Individuals 

Corporate investors 

Family Houses 
Pension Funds 

Overseas Institutions 
Overseas Individuals 

Total 

 
 
 

6.  Sponsor’s Contribution 

 

Particulars 

Name of the Sponsor 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Actuals 

 

As per mandatory AIF 
guidelines of SEBI 

 

 

 

 

7.  How GPs finance their contributions? Describe how any Principal or affiliate of the GP will 

invest in the Fund (outside of the GP’s commitment). 
 

8.  Difference in commercial terms offered to different class of investors.   

 

9.  Policy on incentives to GPs including the following: 

1.  Describe how the GP’s contribution for investments is allocated among the team. 
1.  How is the carried interest vested for those parties that participate? What happens to 

the unvested carry of former Team Members?  
 

B.  Non- financial Parameters 

1.  Date of SEBI registration certificate and also specify the Category as I/II and sub 

classification as Angel/SME/Social Venture Fund, etc. 
 

2.  Investment Committee – Constitution (Strength of the Committee, out of which how many 

are internal members and external members) 
 

3.  Advisory Board – Constitution  (Strength of the Board, out of which how many are internal 

members and external members) 
 

4.  Accounting: 

a.   Provide details of the auditor of the Fund: 

Firm’s Name  
Fund(s) Audited  

o 
o 
o  Contact Person First Name  
o  Phone Number /Cell Number 
o 

Email Address 

b.  Is the Fund’s audit firm affiliated with the Manager or any of its current or former 

Team Members? 

c.  Does the Fund’s audit firm only provide the Fund and Manager (plus the Manager’s 

Principals and affiliates) with audit services? 

d.  Will carry payments and allocation associated with the Fund be audited (as part of 

an annual audit of the GP and its Fund)? 

 

5.  Details of IT Package / Software implemented for investment management. 

 

6.  Risk / Compliance 
 

a.  Discuss the Fund’s risk management. What types of risks are monitored and how are 

they measured? Are there dedicated employees assigned to the risk monitoring 
function?  

42 

b.  Describe the regulatory bodies that have oversight of the Fund, including any 

Investment Advisor or Broker-Dealer registrations. Identify the Fund’s policies for 
remaining compliant with these bodies.  

 

7.  References 

 
a.  LP Advisory Board Members / Investment Advisory Committee (IAC) 

 
Provide a list of LP Advisory Board members in the Fund:  

Institution Name  
Investor Type (Public Pension, Endowment, SWF, etc.)  

o 
o 
o  Name 
o  Phone Number/Cell Number  
o  Email Address  
o  Committed to Fund? (y/n) 

b.  Placement Agents  

 
List all placement agents and fundraising advisors used during fund placement:  

o  Firm’s Name  
o  Contact person Name  
o  Phone Number /Cell Number 
o  Services Provided  
o  Fund Name  
o  Payment Structure/Amount  
o  Registration Number of the Firm  

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Annexure 4: Performance Statistics to be reported to SEBI 

1.  Creation of Performance Statistics: Measure of Fund Returns 

 

i. 

ii. 

Internal Rate of Return (IRR): The IRR may be thought of as an intrinsic return of a fund. 
In other words, every rupee invested in the fund has to generate this particular rate of 
return to generate the cash flows that are distributed form the fund.  
 
Total  Value  to  Paid  in  capital  (TVPI)  (Total  distributions  +  NAV)/Total  contributions: 
This  is  a  metric  for  the value  generated  by the  fund  till  date.  It  is  a  direct  measure  of 
value, realized and unrealized, per rupee invested till date.   
 
 

iii.  Distributions to  Paid  in capital  (DPI)  (Total  distribution/Total  contributions): This  is  a 

multiple of the amount distributed per rupee invested till date.  
 
Residual value to Paid in capital (RVPI) (NAV/Total contributions): This is the residual 
value of the fund (value after distributions) as a multiple of the total paid in capital.  

iv. 

AIF regulations make periodic reporting by all funds mandatory. Category I, II and III (without 
leverage) report on a quarterly basis. The Category III funds operating with leverage report on a 
monthly basis. Return measures should also form part of the reports submitted by funds. This 
needs to be included in the existing periodic reporting XBRL formats filed by funds currently.  

 
 
Example illustrating the method of computation of the Return Measures  
 
Calculation of IRR, TVPI, DPI and RVPI since inception 
 
Consider a fund with vintage year 2010 with the following history: 

 

 

Fund 

2010 

2011 

Capital Calls  (INR Cr)  

-100 

-200 

 

 

 

2012 

-100 

2013 

2014 

2015 

 

 

 

Distributions (INR Cr) 
Residual Value (INR 
Cr) 

100 

400 

800 

100 

750 

300 

500 

400 

150 

 
IRR Since Inception  

a) 

44 

 

  Assume discount rate (r) 
  PV of capital calls = 100/(1+r) + 200/(1+r)^2 + 100/(1+r)^3 
  PV of distributions = 100/(1+r)^4 + 300/(1+r)^5 + 400/(1+r)^6 
  PV of Residual Value = 150/ (1+r)^6 
  NPV of fund = PV of distributions + PV of residual value – PV of capital calls 
 

IRR = value of r which makes NPV = 0 
IRR in this case is 28% 

 
 

b)  DPI, RVPI, TVPI Since Inception 

 

  DPI = (Distributions till date)/ (Total capital calls till date) 
      = (100+300+400)/(100+200+100) = 2 
  RVPI = (Residual Value as of date) /(Total capital calls till date) 
      = 150/(100+200+100) = 0.375 
  TVPI = (Distributions + Residual Value)/ (Total capital calls) = DPI + RVPI = 2.375 
 

 

c)  Horizon return (say two year horizon from 2013 to 2015) 

 

  HPR = (Total distributions in horizon period) + (NAV at end of period – NAV at beginning 

of period)/(NAV at beginning of period)  
 = ((300 + 400) + (150-750))/ 750 = 13.33% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Annexure 5: Creation of Relevant Performance Benchmarks 

 
In  the  case  of  a  private  equity  or  a  venture  capital  fund,  the  performance  of  funds  must  be 
compared with that of funds of the same vintage year. This is because funds generate different 
returns at different stages of their maturity and different macro-economic conditions. Typically 
in  the  early  stages  of  a  fund,  negative  or  low  returns  occur  due  to  capital  drawdowns  and  a 
portfolio that is yet to mature. Over time returns are higher when the mature portfolio starts 
generating returns and distributions are made. Consequently, PE/VC funds may be classified by 
the stage, industry and geographical region of the fund.   

The following return benchmarks are recommended to be reported by a return dissemination 
central body: 

a)  Pooled Values of IRR, TVPI, RVPI, DPI, Horizon returns 

The  pooled  values  of  the  above  return  measures  are  useful  benchmarks  against  which  the 
return  of  individual  funds  can  be  compared.  These  are  calculated  by  simply  aggregating  the 
cash  flows  of  all  the  funds  that  are  considered  in  the  benchmark.  The  metrics  are  calculated 
from the final cash flows on similar lines as the individual fund return measures are calculated.  

b)  Public Market Equivalent values 

The  public  market  equivalent  (PME)  is  a  popular  benchmarking  measure  for  private  equity 
funds. The PME of the individual  returns are calculated by mimicking a similar drawdown and 
distribution  schedule  of  funds  but  which  are  invested  in  a  public  market  ETF  instead  of  the 
private fund. 

 

      c)  Distribution of performance metrics 
For each performance metric, the values for all the individual funds are calculated. Then the 10, 
25, 50, 75 and 90 percentiles may be reported.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

46 

CIR/IMD/DF/[●]/2016 

 

 

 

Draft Circular 
 

 

 

 

Date: [●] 

 
To 
All Alternative Investment Funds 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Sub: Change in Reporting Norms for Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) to the Board and introduction 
of Reporting Norms for AIFs to the investors 
 
1.  The  Board,  vide  Circular  No.  CIR/IMD/DF/10/2013  dated  July  29,  2013,  has,  inter  alia,  prescribed 
Annexure I as a format of reporting to be made on a quarterly basis by Category I and Category II AIFs 
and the Category III AIFs which do not undertake leverage. The Board, vide this Circular proposes to 
change the format of reporting by the AIFs to the Board.  

 
2. 

 

 

In this regard, it is specified as under: 

2.1  Submission of reports to SEBI 
 

(i)  From the date of this Circular, all Category I and II AIFs and the Category III AIFs which do not 
undertake  leverage  shall  submit  a  report  to  SEBI  on  a  quarterly  basis  in  the  format  as 
specified in Annexure I. 

 
(ii)  From the date of this Circular, all Category III AIFs which undertake leverage shall submit a 

report to SEBI on a monthly basis in the format as specified in Annexure II. 

3.  This  Circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  under  Section  11(1)  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote 
the development of, and to regulate the securities market.  

 
4.  This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the categories “Legal Framework” 

and “Alternative Investment Funds”.  

 
 

Yours faithfully,  
[Name]  
[Designation]  
Investment Management Department  
Tel No. [●]  
Email id – [●]   

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Format of reporting to SEBI by Category I AIFs, Category II AIFs and Category III AIFs which do 

Annexure I 

 

not undertake leverage to SEBI 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Annexure II 

 

Format of reporting to SEBI by Category III AIFs which undertake leverage 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

48 

B.  Domestic Capital Pools: Institutional Investors- Pension Funds & Insurance 
Companies  
 
I. Introduction 
 
1.  Both pension funds and insurance companies are amongst the largest investors in venture 
capital  and  private  equity  funds  in  the  world.  They  have  access  to  long  term  savings  of 
individuals.  They  need  matching  long  term  assets.    Both  pension  funds  and  insurance 
companies will grow rapidly in India in the coming years. They will be a major source of long 
term domestic  capital for  investment  by  professional fund  managers  thru  the  structure  of 
Alternative Investment Funds. 
 

2.  The  relevant  regulatory  bodies  in  India  have  issued  circulars  to  enable  investment  by 
pension funds and insurance companies in AIFs. The analysis below shows that investments 
by both these sets of institutions have not taken place in Category II AIFs which is the largest 
category of AIFs. 

 

3.  This section makes recommendations for certain clarificatory notifications by the respective 

regulatory bodies which are given in the annexures. 

 
II. Background & Analysis: Pension Funds 
 
4.  The Pension Fund Regulatory Development Authority (PFRDA) issued a Circular dated 8 April 
2016  (Ref:  PFRDA/2016/8/PFM/02)  with  the  subject  ‘Investment  in  Alternative  Investment 
Funds’  (the  “2016  Circular”).  The  2016  Circular  provides  the  NPS  Scheme  permission  to 
invest in Category I and II AIFs. In the context of Category II AIFs, the 2016 Circular provides 
that at least 51% of the funds shall be invested in either infrastructure entities, or SMEs, or 
venture capital, or social welfare entities. 
 

5.  Pertinently,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment  Funds) 
Regulations, 2012 (“AIF Regulations”), in the context of Category II AIFs, only provide that 
they  shall  invest  primarily  in  unlisted  investee  companies  [Regulation  17(a)].  An  ‘investee 
company’  is  defined  to  mean  any  company,  special  purpose  vehicle  or  limited  liability 
partnership or body corporate or real estate investment trust or infrastructure investment 
trust  in  which  an  AIF  makes  an  investment.  As  such,  the  AIF  Regulations  do  not  prescribe 
any additional investment conditions linked to the sector or stage of investment by the AIF. 
As such, there is no limitation in the AIF Regulations that restrict investments by Category II 
AIF in infrastructure entities, or SMEs, or venture capital, or social welfare entities.  

 

6.  It  appears,  based  on  the  above,  that  the  restriction  imposed  on  Category  II  AIFs  to  invest 
51%  of their  funds  in  infrastructure entities,  or  SMEs,  or  venture  capital,  or  social  welfare 
entities is an anomaly as the same contradicts the AIF Regulations.  

 

 

 

 

 

7.  Statistics  released  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  clearly  indicate  that  a 
majority  of  capital  commitments  raised  by  AIFs  since  the  year  2012  have  been  raised  in 
Category II AIFs (~Rs 32,700 crores vs total commitments of ~Rs 50,450 crores across all AIF 
Categories). A significant majority of Category II AIFs that have raised capital commitments 
so far have followed an investment strategy that is very similar to the investment strategy 
followed  by  Venture  Capital  Funds  regulated  under  the  erstwhile  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996.  

 
8.  AIFs  are  becoming  an  important  vehicle  to  channelize  domestic  and  foreign  capital  into 
private enterprises. Significant Government/ Regulatory policy action continues to be taken 
to  make  AIFs  an  attractive/  efficient  investment  vehicle.  This  is  also  exemplified  by  the 
Government  of  India  registering  the  National  Investment  and  Infrastructure  Fund  as  a 
Category II AIF.  
 

9.  Further, in the global context too pension funds and retirement systems have been a major   
source of capital for private equity as an asset class. This has significantly contributed to the 
growth and maturity of the private equity industry by bringing long term sustainable source 
of capital as well as improved governance. 

 

III. RECOMMENDATION 

10. The  anomaly  highlighted  above  is  acting  as  a  significant  deterrent  to  the  deployment  of 
capital  by  the  NPS  Scheme  in  AIFs  especially  Category  II  AIFs  (which  are  mainly  private 
equity and debt funds). It is recommended that a suitable clarification to the effect that the 
NPS Scheme will have the permission to invest in Category II AIFs so long as such AIFs invest 
primarily in unlisted investee companies and in accordance with the AIF Regulations will go a 
long way in improving the risk return profile of the NPS Scheme investment in AIFs and in 
also  helping  the  formation  of  domestic  pools  of  growth  and  development  capital  that  is 
critical for India’s success.  

 
A draft letter making the above recommendation is given in Annexure 1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50 

IV. Insurance Companies 

Background & Analysis 

11. The Insurance Regulatory Development Authority (IRDA) issued a Circular addressed to the 
Chief  Executive  Officers  of  all  Insurers  (“Insurers”)  dated  23rd  August  2013  (Ref: 
IRDA/F&I/CIR/INV/172/08/2013)  with  the  subject  ‘Permission  to  Insurers  to  Invest  in 
Category  I  &  II  Alternative  Investment  Funds’  (the  “2013  Circular”).  The  said  Circular 
followed a Circular issued on 18 March 2013 permitting Insurers to invest in Category I AIFs 
with some restrictions.  

 
12. The  2013  Circular  provides  Insurers  permission  to  invest  in  Category  I  and  II  AIFs.  In  the 
context of Category II AIFs, the 2013 Circular provides that at least 51% of the funds shall be 
invested in either infrastructure entities, or SME entities, or Venture Capital Undertakings, 
or Social Venture entities. 

 
13. Pertinently,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment  Funds) 
Regulations, 2012 (“AIF Regulations”), in the context of Category II AIFs, only provide that 
they  shall  invest  primarily  in  unlisted  investee  companies  [Regulation  17(a)].  An  ‘investee 
company’  is  defined  to  mean  any  company,  special  purpose  vehicle  or  limited  liability 
partnership or body corporate or real estate investment trust or infrastructure investment 
trust  in  which  an AIF  makes  an  investment.  As such,  the  AIF  Regulations  do  not prescribe 
any additional investment conditions linked to the sector or stage of investment by the AIF. 
In  contrast  the  term  ‘Venture  Capital  Undertaking’  has  a  distinct  meaning  which  is  only 
relevant to investments by Category I AIFs. 

 
14. It  appears,  based  on the  above,  that  the  restriction  imposed  on  Category  II  AIFs  to  invest 
51%  of  their  funds  in  infrastructure  entities,  or  SME  entities,  or  Venture  Capital 
Undertakings,  or  Social  Venture  entities  is  an  anomaly  as  the  same  contradicts  the  AIF 
Regulations.  

 
15. Statistics  released  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  clearly  indicate  that  a 

majority of capital commitments raised by AIFs since the year 2012 have been raised. 

 

16. In Category II AIFs (Rs. 38028.12 crores vs total commitments of Rs. 65012.62 crores across 
all AIF Categories as of 30th September, 2016). A significant majority of Category II AIFs that 
have raised capital commitments so far have followed an investment strategy that is very 
similar  to  the  investment  strategy followed  by Venture  Capital  Funds  regulated under the 
erstwhile Securities and Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996.  

 
17. AIFs  are  becoming  an  important  vehicle  to  channelize  domestic  and  foreign  capital  into 
private enterprises. Significant Government/ Regulatory policy action continues to be taken 
to  make  AIFs  an  attractive/  efficient  investment  vehicle.  This  is  also  exemplified  by  the 

 

 

 

 

Government  of  India  registering  the  National  Investment  and  Infrastructure  Fund  as  a 
Category II AIF. 

 
18. Further, in the global context too insurance companies have been a major source of capital 
for  private  equity  as  an  asset  class.  This  has  significantly  contributed  to  the  growth  and 
maturity of the private equity industry by bringing long term sustainable source of capital as 
well as improved governance. 

 

V. RECOMMENDATION 

 

19. The  anomaly  highlighted  above  is  acting  as  a  significant  deterrent  to  the  deployment  of 
capital by  Insurers  in  AIFs  especially  Category  II  AIFs  (which  are  mainly  private equity and 
debt funds). It is recommended that a suitable clarification to the effect  that Insurers will 
have  the  permission  to  invest  in  Category  II  AIFs  so  long  as  such  AIFs  invest  primarily  in 
unlisted investee companies and in accordance with the AIF Regulations will go a long way in 
improving  the  risk  return  profile  of  Insurers  investment  in  AIFs  and  in  also  helping  the 
formation  of  domestic  pools  of  growth  and  development  capital  that  is  critical  for  India’s 
success.  

 
A draft letter making the above recommendation is given in Annexure 2. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

52 

Annexure 1 

 

Mr. Hemant Contractor 

Chairman 

Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority 

B-14/A, Chatrapati Shivaji Bhawan 

Qutab Institutional Area 

Katwaria Sarai 

New Delhi-110016 

India 

 

Attn: ___________ 

 

 

Dear Sir, 

 

Sub: 

Permission for NPS Schemes to invest in Category II Alternative Investment Funds 

 

Introduction 

 

The Alternative Investment Fund (“AIF”) industry regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (the 
“SEBI”) highly appreciates the initiatives by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (the 
“PFRDA”) to enable NPS Schemes [Other than Govt. Sector (CG &SG), Corporate CG, NPS Lite and APY] to invest in 
AIFs (“NPS Scheme”). 
 
The Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee (“AIPAC”) constituted by the SEBI meets frequently to 
consider and propose various reforms in regulations affecting the sound development and growth of AIFs in India. 
The AIPAC is chaired by Shri N.R. Narayana Murthy, the founder of Infosys. In addition, AIPAC includes 
representatives of the SEBI, the Ministry of Finance, experienced fund managers, legal and tax professionals. 
 
The AIPAC has analysed the PFRDA circulars dated 8 April, 2016 and the 4th of November, 2016 enabling the NPS 
Scheme  to  invest  in  AIFs  based  on  which  we  wish  to  make  the  following  recommendation  for  PFRDA’s 
consideration. 
 

Background & Analysis 

 

The  PFRDA  issued  a  Circular  dated  8  April  2016  (Ref:PFRDA/2016/8/PFM/02)  with  the  subject  ‘Investment  in 
Alternative  Investment  Funds’  (the  “2016  Circular”).  The  2016  Circular  provides  the  NPS  Scheme  permission  to 

 

 

 

 

invest in Category I and II AIFs. In the context of Category II AIFs, the 2016 Circular provides that at least 51% of the 
funds shall be invested in either infrastructure entities, or SMEs, or venture capital, or social welfare entities. 
 
Pertinently,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012  (“AIF 
Regulations”), in the context of Category II AIFs, only provide that they shall invest  primarily in unlisted investee 
companies [Regulation 17(a)]. An ‘investee company’ is defined to mean any company, special purpose vehicle or 
limited liability partnership or body corporate or real estate investment trust or infrastructure investment trust in 
which  an  AIF  makes  an  investment.  As  such,  the  AIF  Regulations  do  not  prescribe  any  additional  investment 
conditions  linked  to  the  sector  or  stage  of  investment  by  the  AIF.  As  such,  there  is  no  limitation  in  the  AIF 
Regulations that restrict  investments by Category II  AIF in infrastructure  entities, or SMEs, or venture capital, or 
social welfare entities. 
 
It  appears,  based  on  the  above,  that  the  restriction  imposed  on  Category  II  AIFs  to  invest  51%  of  their  funds  in 
infrastructure entities, or SMEs, or venture capital, or social welfare entities is an anomaly as the same contradicts 
the AIF Regulations.  
 
Statistics  released  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  clearly  indicate  that  a  majority  of  capital 
commitments raised by AIFs since the year 2012 have been raised in Category II AIFs (Rs. 38,028.12 crores vs total 
commitments of Rs. 65,012.62 crores across all AIF Categories as of 30th September, 2016). A significant majority of 
Category  II  AIFs  that  have  raised  capital  commitments  so  far  have  followed  an  investment  strategy  that  is  very 
similar to the investment strategy followed by Venture Capital Funds regulated under the erstwhile Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996.  
 
On 4th November, 2016 PFRDA issued a circular announcing that a separate Asset Class A has been introduced for 
Alternate Investments. The circular clearly states that this asset class includes SEBI registered Category I & II AIFs. 
While this is a welcome  move, para  4 of the circular  states that the 4th November,  2016 must  be read  with the 
circular issued on 8th April, 2016. This linkage introduces some ambiguity in as much as the restrictions contained 
in  para  4  of  the  8th  April,  2016  will  still  apply.  For  the  sake  of  clarity,  we  recommend  that  PFRDA  issues  a 
clarification that all Category I & 2 AIFs are eligible for inclusion in Asset Class A provided they are SEBI registered. 
 
AIFs  are  becoming  an  important  vehicle  to  channelize  domestic  and  foreign  capital  into  private  enterprises. 
Significant  Government/  Regulatory  policy  action  continues  to  be  taken  to  make  AIFs  an  attractive/  efficient 
investment  vehicle.  This is also exemplified by the Government  of India registering the National Investment  and 
Infrastructure Fund as a Category II AIF.  
 
Further, in the global context too pension funds and retirement systems have been a major source of capital for 
private equity as an asset class. This has significantly contributed to the growth and maturity of the private equity 
industry by bringing long term sustainable source of capital as well as improved governance. 

 

 

RECOMMENDATION 

1. 

The anomaly highlighted above is acting as a significant deterrent to the deployment of capital by the NPS 
Scheme  in  AIFs  especially  Category  II  AIFs  (which  are  mainly  private  equity  and  debt  funds).  It  is 
recommended that a suitable clarification to the effect that the NPS Scheme will have the permission to 

54 

invest  in  Category  II  AIFs  so  long  as  such  AIFs  invest  primarily  in  unlisted  investee  companies  and  in 
accordance  with  the  AIF  Regulations  will  go  a  long  way  in  improving  the  risk  return  profile  of  the  NPS 
Scheme  investment  in  AIFs  and  in  also  helping  the  formation  of  domestic  pools  of  growth  and 
development capital that is critical for India’s success.  

2. 

PFRDA to issue a new clarificatory circular stating that  all Category I & 2 AIFs are eligible for inclusion in 
Asset Class A provided they are SEBI registered and that para 4 of circular dated 8th April, 2016 will not be 
applicable. 

Once again we congratulate PFRDA for the positive measures it is taking.  

We look forward to a positive response with respect to the aforementioned request. 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

---------------------- 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure 2                                   

 

The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 

Parisharam Bhavan, 3rd Floor 

Basheer Bagh,  

Hyderabad – 500 004 

India 

Attn: ___________ 

 

Dear Sir,  

 

 

Sub: 

Permission for Insurers to invest in Category II Alternative Investment Funds 

Introduction 

The Alternative Investment Fund (“AIF”) industry regulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (the 
“SEBI”) highly appreciates the initiatives by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (the “IRDA”) to 
enable insurance companies to invest in AIFs. 
 
The Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee (“AIPAC”) constituted by the SEBI meets frequently to 
consider and propose various reforms in regulations affecting the sound development and growth of AIFs in India. 
The AIPAC is chaired by Shri N.R. Narayana Murthy, the founder of Infosys. In addition, AIPAC includes 
representatives of the SEBI, the Ministry of Finance, experienced fund managers, legal and tax professionals. 
 
The  AIPAC  has  analysed  IRDA  circulars  enabling  Insurers  to  invest  in  AIFs  based  on  which  we  wish  to  make  the 
following recommendation for IRDA’s consideration. 
 

Background & Analysis 

The IRDA issued a  Circular  addressed to the Chief Executive Officers of all Insurers (“Insurers”) dated 23 August 
2013  (Ref:IRDA/F&I/CIR/INV/172/08/2013)  with  the  subject  ‘Permission  to  Insurers  to  Invest  in  Category  I  &  II 
Alternative Investment Funds’ (the “2013 Circular”). The said Circular followed a Circular issued on 18 March 2013 
permitting Insurers to invest in Category I AIFs with some restrictions. 
 
The 2013 Circular provides Insurers permission to invest in Category I and II AIFs. In the context of Category II AIFs, 
the 2013 Circular provides that at least 51% of the funds shall be invested in either infrastructure entities, or SME 
entities, or Venture Capital Undertakings, or Social Venture entities. 
 
Pertinently,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012  (“AIF 
Regulations”), in the context of Category II AIFs, only provide that they shall invest  primarily in unlisted investee 
companies [Regulation 17(a)]. An ‘investee company’ is defined to mean any company, special purpose vehicle or 
limited liability partnership or body corporate or real estate investment trust or infrastructure investment trust in 
which  an  AIF  makes  an  investment.  As  such,  the  AIF  Regulations  do  not  prescribe  any  additional  investment 

56 

conditions  linked  to  the  sector  or  stage  of  investment  by  the  AIF.  In  contrast  the  term  ‘Venture  Capital 
Undertaking’ has a distinct meaning which is only relevant to investments by Category I AIFs. 
 
It  appears,  based  on  the  above,  that  the  restriction  imposed  on  Category  II  AIFs  to  invest  51%  of  their  funds  in 
infrastructure entities, or SME entities, or Venture Capital Undertakings, or Social Venture entities is an anomaly as 
the same contradicts the AIF Regulations.  
 
Statistics  released  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  clearly  indicate  that  a  majority  of  capital 
commitments raised by AIFs since the year 2012 have been raised in Category II AIFs (Rs. 38,028.12 crores vs total 
commitments of Rs. 65,012.62 crores across all AIF Categories as of 30th September, 2016). A significant majority of 
Category  II  AIFs  that  have  raised  capital  commitments  so  far  have  followed  an  investment  strategy  that  is  very 
similar to the investment strategy followed by Venture Capital Funds regulated under the erstwhile Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996.  
 
AIFs  are  becoming  an  important  vehicle  to  channelize  domestic  and  foreign  capital  into  private  enterprises. 
Significant  Government/  Regulatory  policy  action  continues  to  be  taken  to  make  AIFs  an  attractive/  efficient 
investment  vehicle.  This is also exemplified by the Government  of India registering the National Investment  and 
Infrastructure Fund as a Category II AIF.  
 
Further, in the global context too insurance companies have been a major source of capital for private equity as an 
asset class. This has significantly contributed to the growth and maturity of the private equity industry by bringing 
long term sustainable source of capital as well as improved governance. 
 
RECOMMENDATION 

The anomaly highlighted above is acting as a significant deterrent to the deployment of capital by Insurers in AIFs 
especially  Category  II  AIFs  (which  are  mainly  private  equity  and  debt  funds).  It  is  recommended  that  a  suitable 
clarification to the effect that Insurers will have the permission to invest in Category II AIFs so long as such AIFs 
invest  primarily  in  unlisted investee companies and in accordance with the AIF  Regulations will go a long  way in 
improving the risk return profile of Insurers investment in AIFs and in also helping the formation of domestic pools 
of growth and development capital that is critical for India’s success.  

 

We look forward to a positive response with respect to the aforementioned request. 

 

Yours sincerely, 
________ 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

C. Mid-Market Permanent Capital Vehicles 

Mid-Market  Permanent  Capital  Vehicles  (MMPCVs)  are  proposed  to  be  set  up  under  SEBI 
regulation  as  Category  II  AIFs.  An  MMPCV  is  a  permanent pool  of  capital.  It  is  designed  to 
meet  the  capital  needs  of  mid-corporate  and  micro,  small  and  medium  enterprises 
(“MSME”). 

 

1.  Rationale of MMPCVs 

 

1.1 There is an increasing need for financing and investing vehicles that provide capital to the 
mid-corporate and micro, small and medium enterprises. MSMEs are the engine of growth 
and employment generation. They contribute to 40% of India’s manufacturing output1, and 
materially to the labor force. There is an identified gap of over Rs. 2.5 lakh crore2 of debt 
capital for MSMEs.  

  

1.2 Bank  lending  to  MSMEs  has  declined  over  time  with  no  signs  of  the  reversals.  Traditional 
capital markets funding options are also not a viable solution for MSMEs leading to a large 
identified need for debt capital. MMPCVs are a viable option to address this capital gap in 
the MSME segment. 

 

2.  RESEARCH APPROACH AND METHODOLGY 

 
2.1  The  working  group  relied  heavily  on  secondary  reports  published  by  eminent 
organizations such as IFC and RBI to evaluate the impact of the MSME share in the 
economic growth of India. The demand-supply gap for capital, both debt and equity, 
was quantified through secondary research.   
 

2.2 The group evaluated the mid-market sector in other developed countries and the role 
of  access  to  cheap  finance  as  an  enabler.    The  experience  of  developed  markets  in 
Europe  and  the  US  in  providing  capital  to  the  sector  following  the  global  financial 
crisis  was  looked  at.  Non-traditional  sources  of  capital  in  the  sector  in  the  US  and 
Europe were evaluated to seek possible solutions in the Indian context. 

 

2.3 Opinions  of  industry  experts  within  the  US  markets  were  sought  to  understand  the 
nature and context of the various pools of capital available to the sector. The key issues 
pertaining to these pools including typical investor/ issuer behavior and the regulatory 
landscape as an enabler were also considered. Inputs from local regulatory authorities 
were sought to evaluate various aspects of the proposed solution. Indian legal and tax 

                                                           
1 SME Knowledge Banking Guide, IFC (2010) 
2 MSME Finance in India, IFC Report, Nov 2012, April 2016 

58 

experts were consulted on the feasibility of the suggested outcomes.  

 

3.  INTERNATIONAL EVOLUTION AND SUCCESS 

 

3.1 Internationally, the US has been the benchmark in creating non-bank funding platforms to 
address the need for capital. Banks have pulled away from being material capital providers. 
After  the  financial  crisis,  bank  balance  sheets  have  materially  shrunk  and  have  paved  the 
way  for  non-bank  funding  platforms,  such  as  business  development  companies  (BDCs, 
under the US Investment Company Act Of 1940).  
 

3.2 These  non-bank  platforms  have  stepped  up  to  “fill-the-gap”  and  act  as  risk-takers  and 
providers of consistent capital. The permanent capital nature of MMPCVs is an appropriate 
format to utilise in this context, as it has benefits to issuers, investors and asset managers. 

 
4.  PROPOSED SOLUTION 

 

4.1 In an economy like India, where MSMEs contribute to 40% to India’s manufacturing output3, 
MMPCVs can help continue the development of the Indian capital markets by mediating the 
capital need of MSME’s. 
 

4.2 The permanent nature of MMPCVs helps provide long-term, flexible capital to MSMEs, and 

is aimed at continuous access to funds.  

 
4.3 The  high-dividend  distribution  requirement  and  the  possibility  to  make  continuous 
offerings,  optionally  listing  the  units,  and  externally  managing  these  vehicles,  makes  it 
interesting for accredited investors as a new asset class to invest in.  
 

4.4 It  is  pertinent  to  note  that  this  proposed  solution  of  a  permanent  capital  platform  have 
faced some criticisms in the US.  These issues are selective and not wide spread. We have 
identified  these  issues  and  we  attempt  to  address  them  in  India  by  way  of  appropriate 
regulations. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
3 See note 1 above. 

 

 

 

 

 

5.  RECOMMENDATIONS 
 
5.1 Currently  the  requirement  to  invest  specifically  in  mid-market  securities  is  not  covered  in 
SEBI’s  AIF  II  Regulations.  It  is  recommended  that  MMPCVs  are  introduced  as  a  new  sub  -
category of Alternative Investment Funds II (“AIF II A”).  

 
5.2 In addition to the already prescribed conditionality applicable to AIFs II, we recommend that 
the following additional conditions are made applicable to MMPCVs. We believe that these 
conditions will aim to address the issues which have been identified on a global level and 
also facilitate investments by MMPCVs in MSMEs. 
 
(i)  Mid- Market Focus: A MMPCV must invest 70% of its assets in “eligible” assets. Eligible 
assets comprise of securities from issuers that are neither an investment company nor 
a  company  which  would  be  an  investment  company  (except  for  certain  exclusions). 
Such issuers should not:  

 

  have any class of securities listed on an any stock exchange; or 
  have a class of securities listed on an exchange, but have an aggregate market value 

of less than Rs. 2000 crores. 

(ii)  Sponsor  Commitment  &  Track  Record:  Currently,  the  requirement  for  sponsor 
commitment is not covered in the AIF II Guidelines. For the MMPCVs to be registered 
as  a  sub-category  of  AIF  II,  we  recommend  that 
it  shall  have  a  minimum 
sponsor/manager  commitment  of  2.5%  of  such  MMPCV’s  net  worth  or  Rs.  5  crore, 
whichever is more. 

 

(iii)  Subsequent Offer:  In addition to the presently prescribed condition of initial offer by 
way  of  a  private  placement  with  a  minimum  investment  size  of  Rs.1  crore;  we 
recommend  that  continuous  offering  shall  be  permitted  for  MMPCVs.  This  will  help 
address liquidity and growth requirements on regular basis of MSMEs as it is important 
to provide a continuous window to access capital for MSMEs. 

 
(iv)  Compulsory  Distribution:  A  minimum  of  90%  of  distributable  cash  surplus  shall  be 
allowed  to  be  distributed  to  the  investors  of  MMPCVs.  However,  such  distributions 
shall be permitted only from cash profits and not from any capital or leverage availed 
by  a  MMPCV.  This  distribution  strategy  will  make  it  interesting  for  high  net  worth 
individuals and retail investors to invest in MMPCVs. 

(v)  Fees:  Management  fee  shall  only  be  charged  on  capital  units.  While  the  AIF  II 
Guidelines  permit  the  manager/sponsor  to  receive  fees  and  carry,  there  is  no  cap  or 
restrictions on fees which can be charged by the manager/sponsor. 

 

 

60 

 
(vi)  Leverage: To make MMPCVs more attractive and beneficial to MSMEs, we recommend 

that MMPCVs are allowed to source leverage only upto 1x of capital. 

 

(vii) Listing: We recommend that mandatory listing be required for the MMPCVs within 10 
years from the initial closing of the fund raise. In the event such listing is not achieved 
within  10  years,  the  MMPCVs  shall  complete  redemption  within  the  next  two  years. 
This condition will ensure that MMCVs provide liquidity to investors.   

 

6.  THE PROPOSED TAX REGIME FOR MMPCVs 

     Following the twin objectives of tax certainty and ensuring a one level tax and since MMPCVs 
are  pooling  vehicles  which  would  be  registered  with  SEBI  as  AIFs,  the  following  is  the 
recommended regime: 

  

(i) 

Tax  should  be  payable  on  distribution  by  the  MMPCVs,  either  as  a  withholding  tax  (for 
unlisted vehicles) or as a distribution tax (for listed vehicles) as discussed below.  

(ii)  There  should  be  no  withholding  of  tax  on  payment  made  by  investee  companies  to 

MMPCVs. 

(iii) 

Investors  should  be  subject  to  capital  gains  tax  on  transfer  of  units  of  MMPCVs  in 
accordance with existing law on similar securities, which is as follows: 

  For unlisted units 

Nature of gains 

Units of unlisted MMPCV 

Resident 

Non-resident 

Short Term Capital Gains (i.e. 
24 months or less)  

As per applicable slab rate  
(30% being highest) 

40%/30% or Treaty rate, 
whichever is beneficial 

Long Term Capital Gains (i.e. 
more than 24 months) 

20% (with indexation) 

10% or Treaty rate, whichever 
is beneficial 

  For listed units 

Nature of gains 

Units of Listed MMPCV 

Resident 

Non-resident 

Short Term Capital Gains (i.e. 
12 months or less)  

15% (subject to Securities 
Transaction Tax (STT)) 

15% or Treaty rate, whichever 
is beneficial (subject to STT) 

Long Term Capital Gains (i.e. 

Exempt. However, transaction is subject to STT.  

 

 

 

 

 

more than 12 months) 

 

Withholding tax/Distribution tax 

Scenario I: MMPCV is an unlisted vehicle  

     Aligned to the taxation for Category II AIFs, income should be taxable in the hands of investors 
on  a  “pass  through”  basis  and  deemed  to  be  of  the  same  nature  and  proportion  as  in  the 
MMPCVs hands. Payments to resident investors by MMPCVs should be subject to withholding 
at  the  rate  of  10  (ten)  percent.  Payments  to  non-resident  investors  by  MMPCVs  should  be 
subject  to  withholding  at  the  prevailing  rate  in  effect  at  the  time  of  such  investment.  No 
withholding of tax should apply in respect of income which is not chargeable to tax under the 
provisions of Income Tax Act.  

 

Scenario II: MMPCV is a listed vehicle 

Aligned to the recommendation contained in this Report for taxation of listed Category II AIFs, 
income should be exempt in the hands of the MMPCVs, and they should pay distribution tax on 
the surplus distributed to the investors. On the basis that there is expected to be a significant 
interest in this product from non-resident investors, who are otherwise entitled to a benevolent 
tax rate of 5% on interest income through other investment avenues, it is recommended that 
such distribution tax be charged at the rate of 15 (fifteen) per cent. There should be no further 
tax in hands of the investors on the distributions received from MMPCV.  

 

62 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

D. Accredited Investors 

 
Preamble 
 
1.  Long-term and stable risk capital is essential to finance investment an emerging economy, 
for       sustainable development and to meet the growing demands of a large population.  In 
India, a mere 10-15% of the total equity capital required by start-ups, medium enterprises and 
large companies is funded through domestic sources. Traditional funding sources, such as banks 
and non-bank financial companies, are constrained by risk-aversion, which limits their ability to 
supply risk capital.  There is a critical need to unlock other domestic pools of capital which can 
be  routed  through  Alternative  Investment  Funds  which  are  professionally  managed  vehicles. 
There is a vital need to widen the pool of investors which are eligible to invest in AIFs. 
 
The Problem 
 
2. Investment products like AIFs require the participation of sophisticated investors. Currently 
there  is  no  scientific  mechanism  to  identify  investors  who  are  sophisticated  enough  to 
understand and accept complex investment products.  
 
3.  SEBI’s  AIF  regulations  require  the  use  of  the  ‘ticket  size’  of  an  investment  as  a  criteria  to 
identify  sophisticated  investors.  In  addition  to  the  ticket  size  criteria,  there  is  a  need  for  a 
mechanism to identify investors to whom complex investment products can be made available. 
 
Possible Solution 
 
4. The progressive economic environment which India is architecting and rapidly building on 
has the solutions. Based on the progress being made on digital India & the government’s goal of 
ease of doing business (investing), it would be logical to exploit digital technology and give an 
“Investing Aadhar” to individual HNI investors to ascertain the sophisticated investor status.  
 
5. The core principles are: 
 

  Leveraging the Digital framework of India, such as the new Central KYC Records Registry 

(CKYCR) 

  Improving  the  ease  of  investing  for  investors  and  strengthen    their  financial  risk 

management 

  Increasing  financial  inclusion  by  making  sophisticated  financial  products  available  to  a 

wider base, namely HNIs.  

 

 

 

 

6. In various countries the concept of “Accredited Investors” is used where an investor who has 
a certain minimum income, or asset, or net worth, is considered to be an Accredited Investor 
who can make investments in vehicles such as AIFs. Such investors are usually self-certified.  In 
USA, ‘a natural person with income exceeding US$200,000 in each of the two most recent year’ 
is said to fit the definition of the term “Accredited Investor”. 
 
AIPAC’s Proposal for ‘Accredited Investors’  
 
7.  Consistent with global practice, it is proposed that individuals who satisfy the following 
conditions be recognised as Accredited Investors:  

  Capable of identifying potential investments and their underlying risks;  
  Possess  sufficient  financial  sophistication  to  assume  the  risks  associated  with  the 

offerings; and  

  Have  a  sound  financial  track  record  i.e.  reported  total  income  exceeding  Rs.  50  lakhs 
annually  in  three  out  of  the  five  assessment  years,  immediately  preceding  the 
assessment year in which the investment is proposed to be made.  

 
8. It is also proposed to link the Permanent Account Number (PAN) of the investor in the 
electronic database of revenue authorities, with the total income (including exempt income) of 
the investor, in a manner such that it is easier to determine whether the investor qualifies as an 
Accredited Investor.  

9. These investment products are to be sold only to Accredited Investors, who will be evaluated and      
vetted through a proper KYC process by registered KRAs or other depository participants (DPs).  

Potential Application 
 
10. Today, in the absence of an Accredited Investor regime, many financial service providers use 

multiple proxies to determine the suitability of an investor. For example: 

  ‘Accredited  Investors’ for  subscribing to  an  IPO: While  investing  in  IPOs,  HNI  investors 
are  determined  through  a  proxy  of  their  investment  amount.  For  the  new  Start  Up 
exchange, HNI investors are determined through a higher size of trading lot vis-a-vis the 
regular  exchange.  Such  proxies  are  futile  and  an  Accredited  Investor  regime  can  be  a 
uniform  platform  for  an  income-  based  check  of  suitability  across  various  product 
categories. 
 

  ‘Accredited  Investors’  for  Angel 

investments  are  not 
regulated.  These  are  usually  private  transactions  that  happen  over  the  counter.  The 
Accredited  Investor  framework  can  be  utilized  to  move  these  transactions  to  a  more 
regulated exchange framework. Angel investments made by these Accredited Investors 
in  shares  of  start-ups  &  dematerialized  through  a  recognized  depository,  should  be 

investing:  Currently  angel 

64 

permitted to avail exemption from Angel Tax.  

  ‘Accredited  investor’  can  be  a  mechanism  for  complex  investment  and  financial 
products  such  as  start-up  listing,  new  credit  system  to  be  introduced  by  RBI,  peer  to 
peer lending etc. 

 
 
Process Flow 
 
11. The suggested process for accreditation is described below:  

 

 

 

 

 

i.  At  the  time  of  registering  on  www.incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in 

(Income  Tax 
Department’s assessee e-Portal), an option will be provided to the assessee to register 
himself/herself as an Accredited Investor. 
 

ii.  The  assessee  will  be  asked  if  he  wants  to  be  an  Accredited  Investor  &  only  when  the 

assessee complies will he be opted in as an Accredited Investor. 

iii.  The assessee will then complete the registration procedure by providing PAN details, e-
mail  ID,  mobile  number  (to  authenticate  his  credentials  through  an  OTP  password 
procedure),  etc.  &  verifying  he  has  opted  in  to  be  an  Accredited  Investor;  this 
information will then be shared with others. 
 

iv.  After  completely  filling  in  the  details,  the  assessee  will  be  informed  whether  he  is 

eligible or not to be an Accredited Investor. 

v.  Once he is cleared to be an Accredited Investor, the assessee shall go through a simple 
online  test  of  about  15  questions  to  ascertain  his  basic  knowledge  of  investing.  The 
questions are oriented as much towards instructing the individual on good practices of 
investing as much as to test his knowledge. If the assessee is unable to pass the test, he 
can take the test within a week (as an example). 
 

vi.  Once  the  assessee  clears  the  test  (for  example,  10  out  of  15  questions),  Income  Tax 
database (CBDT) will create an Accredited Investor flag in their database, against each 
PAN number, which will say “Y” or “N”. 

vii. The  accreditation  information  of  the  investor  will  be  captured  at  the  time  of  the  KYC 
record creation / updating in the Central KYC Records Registry which is owned by CERSAI 
in  accordance  with  powers  conferred  under  the  PMLA  Act.  The  information  will  be 
captured  as  a  “Y”  or  “N”  answer  to  any  query  about  the  Accredited  Investor.  For 
example,  a  domestic  fund  raising  money  from  accredited  HNIs  will  be  able  to  provide 
PAN number of the investor and get a yes or no answer in return about that individual’s 
accreditation status. 

 

 

 

 

viii. The  Central  KYC  Records  Registry  will  then  integrate  with  CBDT  for  authentication  of   
accreditation  status  and/or  any  update  on  account  of  change  in  the  investor's 
accreditation status. Privacy of exact income information is maintained in this manner 
and a mere yes or no answer is revealed. 

 
Conclusion 
 
Based on the above architecture, it would be logical to qualify investors based on income levels 
and acumen along with a minimum investment requirement. It is now possible to leverage India 
Stack  to  easily  implement  an  “Accredited  Investor”  system  in  India,  and  as  the  4th  layer  of 
consent comes online, this would be further empowered. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

66 

 
E. Managing Alternative Investment Funds in India: Foreign Ownership Test 
 
I. Introduction: Need for Liberalization  
 
1. Indian fund managers and sponsors are disadvantaged due to the level of foreign ownership 
at their parent listed level. The current rules issued by the Reserve Bank of India largely mean 
that  Indian  Financial  services  sponsors  like  ICICI  and  HDFC--pioneers  of  India’s  Alternative 
Investment Fund industry - will face restrictions in managing foreign pools of capital in Indian 
domiciled AIFs. This would, clearly, be counterproductive to managing in India.   
 
2. In furtherance of the Government’s intent to attract foreign investment in Indian investment 
vehicles,  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  had  issued  notifications  dated  16th  November  2015  (No. 
FEMA  355/2015-RB)  and  15th  February  2016  (No.  FEMA  362/2016-RB)  allowing  foreign 
investment in Indian regulated investment vehicles (including Alternative Investment Funds or 
AIFs).  

3.  The  notification  provides  that  downstream  investments  i.e.  investments  in  portfolio 
companies  by  AIF’s  shall  be  regarded  as  foreign  investment  if  neither  the  Sponsor  nor  the 
Manager nor the Investment Manager is Indian ‘owned and controlled’. In other words, if the 
Sponsor or the Manager or the Investment Manager is not Indian ‘owned and controlled’, the 
entire downstream investment by the AIF will qualify as foreign investment and be subject to 
the restrictions on foreign investments. 

4.  The  above  rule  creates  significant  challenges  for  many  AIFs  which  are  sponsored  and 
managed  by  Indian  banks,  Non-Banking  Financial  Companies,  or  holding  companies  of  such 
financial  institutions,  which  are  listed  on  recognized  stock  exchanges  in  India.  In  many  such 
cases, given the significant level of Foreign Portfolio Investors’ (FPIs) ownership, the institutions 
fail to meet the criteria of being Indian owned and controlled. Consequently, the investments 
made by AIFs sponsored by such institutions or their subsidiaries have to comply with the rules 
applicable to foreign investment.  

II. Recommendation for an Appropriate Ownership Test 

5. In view of the fact that financial institutions, fund managers and sponsors have been active in 
raising capital in AIFs and have successfully raised significant capital from domestic and foreign 
investors  it  is  necessary  that  no  hurdles  be  placed  in  their  future  fund managing  and    raising 
efforts.   

6.  It  is  recommended  that  a  more  appropriate  test  to  determine  ownership  be  provided  for 
sponsors and fund managers that belong to a group that is listed on Indian stock exchanges.  

7. It is recommended   that the ownership test be defined on the following lines:  

Test  of  Ownership:  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  acquire  small  percentage  stakes  in  listed 

 

 

 

 

companies  and  are  passive  investors  exercising  no  control  on  their  investee  companies. 
Accordingly, while determining the foreign ownership in widely held listed companies (or their 
direct  or  indirect  subsidiaries),  the  stake  held  by  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors  (FPIs)  should  be 
excluded  i.e.  foreign  ownership  should  be  computed  based  on  the  composition  of  domestic 
investment and foreign investment made under the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) route, only. 
A  ‘widely  held’  listed  company  should  be  considered  to  be  one  where  no  single  foreign  (non 
FPI) shareholder along with his/its affiliates has a shareholding exceeding 10%.  

By  way  of  an  illustration,  where  an  Indian  listed  company  has  a  shareholder  composition 
comprising  50%  FPI  investors,  24%  FDI  investors  and  balance  26%  domestic  investors,  the 
Indian listed company should be treated as Indian owned so long as no single FDI investor along 
with his/its affiliates has a shareholding exceeding 10%. 

 

III. Rationale & Justification 

8. The rationale and justification for making the proposed changes are: 
 
(i)    Promotion  of  fund  raising  efforts  by  experienced  AIFs.  Many  of  the  fund  managers  and 
sponsors  affected  have  mobilized  substantial  amounts  of  domestic  and  international  capital. 
This experience is beneficial to India as the fund managers and sponsors are geared to raising 
significant  amounts  of  much-needed  long  term  capital  in  the  future  as  well.  Accordingly,  it  is 
vital  that  the  regulatory  framework  does  not  pose  any  hurdles  in  their  future  fund  raising 
efforts;  
 
(ii)  Policy  of  Liberalisation:  A  more  liberal  regime  is  needed  given  that  private  equity  and 
venture capital is long-term capital. The Government has liberalised its policies in several areas. 
Enunciating the recommended test of ownership will be consistent with the liberalization trend 
in  India.  The  reform  will  be  very  well  received  internationally  and  domestically  by  fund 
managers and limited partners ultimately leading to greater flows of international and domestic  
capital to India; and 
  
(iii)  The  Government  Applies  an  Ownership  Test  which  is  similar  in  the  Insurance  Sector: 
There should be parity between the ownership test in RBI’s TISPRO norms and the one covering 
the insurance sector. The Government has already provided for a similar ownership test, which 
correctly  excludes  the  shareholding  of  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors,  in  determining  the 
ownership  of 
Insurance  Regulatory  and 
Development Authority (Registration of Indian Insurance Companies) Regulations, 2000, and 
the related Explanation which was added by IRDA subsequently to address the issues faced by 
the entities whose parents were foreign owned by virtue of high FPI participation.  

insurance  companies.  Regulation  11  of  the 

  

68 

        “11.   Manner  of  calculation  of  twenty  six  percent  equity  capital  held  by  a  foreign 
company.—  
(1)   For the purposes of the Act and these Regulations, the calculation of the holding of equity 
shares by a foreign company either by itself or through its subsidiary companies or its nominees 
(hereafter referred to as foreign investor) in the applicant company, shall be made as under and 
shall be aggregate of:- 
  

i. 

the quantum of paid up equity share capital held by the foreign company either by itself 
or through its subsidiary companies or nominees in the applicant company; 

ii.  the  quantum  of  paid  up  equity  share  capital  held  by  other  foreign  investors,  non-
resident Indians, overseas corporate bodies and multinational agencies in the applicant 
company; and  

iii.  the quantum represented by that proportion of the paid up equity share capital to the 
total issued equity capital of an Indian promoter company mentioned in sub-clause (i) of 
clause  (g)  of  regulation  2  held  or  controlled  by  the  category  of  persons  mentioned  in 
sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of this sub regulation. 

  
Explanation:  For  purposes  of  calculation  referred  to  above,  account  need  not  be  taken  of  the 
holdings of equity in an Indian promoter company held by foreign institutional investors, other 
than  the  foreign  promoters  of  the  applicant  and  their  subsidiaries  and  nominees,  and  Indian 
mutual funds to the extent the investment of foreign institutional investors and Indian mutual 
funds  are  within  the  approved  limits  laid  down  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
under its rules, regulations or guidelines issued from time to time.         
                 (2) Every  insurer  who  has  been  granted  registration  under  the  Act  shall, within  15 
days of  the  end  of  every  quarter,  furnish  to  the  Authority  a  statement  indicating  changes 
exceeding 1% of the issued capital in the holding of the shares in his company and those of the 
promoter. 
  
…………….” 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Draft Notification for Amendments in TISPRO Regulations, 2000 

It is recommended that Explanation 1 of para 4 of the RBI notification issued on 16th 
November, 2015 (No. FEMA 355/2015-RB)  amending the TISPRO Regulations, 2000, should 
be amended as follows: 

Explanation 1: For purposes of determining level of foreign ownership of the Sponsor or the 
manager or investment manager of an AIF referred to above, account should  not be taken 
of the holdings of equity in an Indian promoter company of such Sponsor or the manager or 
investment manager which is held by foreign institutional investors or foreign portfolio 
investors or non-resident Indians under the portfolio investment scheme unless  these 
shares are held by the foreign promoters of the applicant and their subsidiaries and 
nominees, and Indian mutual funds to the extent the investment of foreign institutional 
investors and Indian mutual funds are within the approved limits laid down by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India under its rules, regulations or guidelines issued from time to 
time.  

In case the ‘sponsors and ‘managers/investment managers’ of the AIF are individuals, for the 
treatment of downstream investment by such AIF as domestic, ‘sponsors’ and 
‘managers/investment managers’ should be resident Indian citizens. 

While determining the foreign ownership in widely-held listed companies (or their direct or 
indirect subsidiaries) including a banking company as defined under the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949, the stake held by Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) should be excluded i.e. foreign 
ownership should be computed based on the composition of domestic investment and 
foreign investment made under the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) route, only. A ‘widely 
held’ listed company should be considered to be one where no single foreign (non FPI) 
shareholder along with his/its affiliates has a shareholding exceeding 10%. 

Explanation 2: The extent of foreign investment in the corpus of the Investment Vehicle will 
not be a factor to determine as to whether downstream investment of the Investment 
Vehicle concerned is foreign investment or not.” 

 

 

 

 

70 

 

 

Chapter - IV 

A. Taxation Reforms 

 

 

 

 

 

A. Taxation Reforms 

A. Introduction 
 
1. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had constituted the Alternative Investment 
Policy  Advisory  Committee  (AIPAC)  in  2015,  under  the  chairmanship  of  Shri  N.  R.  Narayana 
Murthy,  with  the  objective  to  advise  SEBI  on  measures  for  the  development  of  the  alternative 
investment  and  start-up  ecosystem  in  India.  SEBI  released  its  first  report  on  20th  January  2016 
(AIPAC Report) laying down the roadmap for immediate improvements and long term progress of 
the  Venture  Capital  –  Private  Equity  (VCPE)  industry  by  creating  a  more  favourable  tax  and 
regulatory environment. 
 
2. Of the many recommendations made in the AIPAC Report, the following proposals relevant to 
the alternative fund industry have made their way in form of amendments vide Finance Act 2016 
or clarifications through Circulars issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT):  
 
  Tax  withholding  at  10%  by  SEBI  registered  Category  I  and  II  Alternative  Investment  Funds 
tax  
(AIFs) 
withholding  will  be  at  the  applicable  domestic  law  or  tax  treaty  rate,  whichever  is  more 
beneficial; 

to  be  applicable  only 

residents; 

for  non-residents, 

the 

to 

Indian 

  Remedy of nil/lower withholding certificate from tax authorities in respect of income of AIFs 

credited/paid to investors;  

  Reduced  tax  rate  of  10%  on  long  term  capital  gains  arising    from  the  transfer  of  shares  of 

private limited companies in the hands of non-residents;   

  Reduction of holding period for unlisted shares from three years to two years;  
  Clarification for non-foreign portfolio investors vis-à-vis treatment of gains from investments 

 

 

in listed securities and unlisted shares; 
Inclusion  of  period  of  holding  of  debentures  (pre-conversion)  in  computing  the  period  of 
holding of shares of a company, received on conversion of debentures and 
Introduction of Rule 10V of the Income-tax Rules, 1962 (guidelines) which provide clarity on 
the  conditions  to  be  complied  for  availing  the  safe  harbour  for  onshore  management  of 
offshore  funds  and  providing  a  pre-approval  mechanism  for  obtaining  certainty  of  tax 
outcome.  

 
3. While the Government of India has embarked on a reform oriented approach and there is 
significant momentum, the reforms proposed in this report, if implemented, will provide 
further stimulus to alternative investments, including private equity and venture capital. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

72 

Core principles 
 
4.  The  recommendations  of  the  Committee  are  founded  on  core  best  practice  principles  as 
discussed below: 
 
i      Ease of doing business is important 

 

Ease  of  doing  business  increases  investor  confidence  enabling  AIFs  to  provide  stable  risk 
capital to a larger universe of portfolio companies more effectively and in greater amounts. 
This  leads  to  a  robust  platform,  innovation  in  indigenous  technologies,  provides  jobs,  and 
generates revenues and earnings which can be ploughed back for growth and expansion.  

 
ii     Ease of investing in India directly  

 
Attracting significant amounts of stable, long-term foreign capital will help to meet the capital 
needs  of  growing  ventures  and  add  value  in  several  ways,  such  as  improving  governance 
processes,  providing  access  to  networks,  helping  scale  enterprises  and  ensure  well-run  and 
well-governed businesses.  

 
iii    Ease of managing offshore funds in India 

 

The model of mobilising domestic capital and related management, which exists in developed 
economies, results in a thriving AIF industry. Fostering a similar model in India will benefit the 
Indian economy leading to the creation of a robust eco-system and help boost 
entrepreneurship, job creation and GDP growth. 

 
iv    Adopt global best practices and innovate “NEXT” (best) practice 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

AIFs  are  still  an  evolving  sector 
landscape.  The 
recommendations  in  this  report  are  based  on  the  core  principle  of  adopting  global  best 
practices  and  where  required,  innovating  the  ‘next’  best  practice.  These  recommendations 
are framed with the view that every next practice created is not just a global gold standard, 
but is also innovative and based on careful thought and consideration.  

Indian  financial  services 

in  the 

 

 

 

Given the above principles, the policy initiatives recommended in this report would help to 
achieve the following key objectives: 
 
5.    Make the AIF system work effectively as it is a primary investment vehicle to raise both 
domestic as well as foreign capital which can be allocated across various sub-categories of AIFs 
ranging from venture capital, infrastructure, private equity, real estate and other asset classes.; 
and  

 

6.     Non-resident investors should continue to experience ease of doing business and ideally 
embrace the idea of managing offshore funds in India.  

 

 

B.   Summary of Recommendations 

 
I  Critical Issues that require immediate implementation 
 

A.  Make the tax pass through system work effectively and efficiently  
 

a)  Treat gains from transfer of unlisted shares held by AIFs as capital gains, irrespective 

of transfer of control and management 

 
b)  Proportionate  service  tax  exemption  for  expenses  of  AIFs  (management  fees,  other 

fees) as they relate to foreign investor contributions in AIFs. 
 

c)  Extension of Tax Pass through to Category III AIFs 

 

B.  Making the fund management safe harbour provisions effective 
 

a)  In the guidelines for the purpose of section 9A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (the Act), it 
should  be  expressly  clarified  that  conditions  should  not  be  applicable  to  the  entities 
that  meet  the  criteria  to  be  registered  as  Category  I  or  Category  II  Foreign  Portfolio 
Investors (FPI) in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign 
Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014 
 
Further, to promote onshore fund management, the investor diversification conditions 
should be diluted  

 
b)  The threshold of 26% voting rights in an investee company to determine whether the 
fund controls or manages a business carried out in India should be removed as it will 
be a hurdle for several VCPE funds that hold a significant stake in investee companies. 

 
c)  Only  aggregate  direct  participation  or  investment  by  resident  Indians  in  the  Fund 

74 

should be considered 

 
d)  Include  Investment  Managers  of  AIFs  and  Asset  Management  Companies  of  Mutual 

Funds as eligible fund managers for safe harbour   

 
 
 

II  Other Recommendations 

 

C.  Clarification on investments by AIF  

 
a)  Pass  through  tax  status  to  be  extended  to  net  losses  incurred  at  AIF  level  i.e.  losses 

incurred by AIFs should be available for set-off to its investors  
 

b)  Exemption should be provided to AIFs from (a) section 56(2)(viib) on issue of shares at 
a value higher than fair market value and (b) section 56(2)(viia) on purchase of shares 
at a value lower than fair market value  

 
c)  Remove tax compliance of filing annual return by foreign investors in AIFs 

 

d)  Allow  management  expenses  for  AIF  investments  to  be  capitalized  as  ‘cost  of 

improvement. 
 

D.  Unit  based  taxation:  Define  separate  taxation  rules  for  listed  AIFs  to  provide  for  a  unit 
based  taxation  system  where  the  fund  itself  is  exempt  from  tax  on  its  income  and  the 
taxation is a combination of distribution tax on income distributions and capital gains tax 
on unit redemptions/ transfers.  
 

E.  Clarification  for  no  taxability  on  conversion  of  preference  shares  and  inclusion  of  the 
period  of  holding  of  convertible  preference  shares  (pre-conversion)  in  the  period  of 
holding of equity shares received on conversion. 
 

F.  Ease  in  obtaining  certificates  under  section  197  of  the  Act  in  a  time  bound  manner 
especially for treaty exempt investors with suitable administrative guidance on availability 
of tax treaty relief. 
 

G.  Clarification  on  indirect  transfer  provisions  for  multi-layered  investment  structures. 

Indirect transfer provisions should not be applicable in cases where:  
(a)  transfer/  redemption  is  directly  or  indirectly  in  consequence  of  or  by  reason  of 

transfer of capital assets situated in India; or 

(b)  transfer/  redemption  of  share  or  interest  does  not  alter  the  ownership  of  the 

transferor in the transferee. 

 
7.   The proposed amendments to the Act have been included in this report wherever possible. It 
is  vital  that  the  recommendations  of  the  sub-committee  are  coherently  coordinated  and 

 

 

 

 

harmonized  across  different  regulators  such  as  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  (RBI),  the  CBDT,  the 
Ministry of Finance and others. For AIFs to work seamlessly, they need to be treated equally and 
on par by all stakeholders and regulators. 
 
 
III. Critical Issues that require immediate implementation 
 

A.  Make the tax pass through system work effectively and efficiently  

 

A.  Treat  gains  from  the  transfer  of  unlisted  shares  held  by  AIFs  as  capital  gains, 

irrespective of transfer of control and management 

 

 

i.  Traditionally, the issue of treatment of investment exit gains (whether taxable as business 
income or capital gains) has been a subject matter of litigation. There have been several 
judicial pronouncements on whether gains from transactions in securities should be taxed 
as “business profits” or as “capital gains”. However, these pronouncements, while laying 
down guiding principles, have largely been driven by the facts and circumstances of each 
case.  
 

ii.  The  intention  of  the  SEBI  (AIF)  Regulations,  2012  is  to  promote  investments.  As  per  the 
extant  regulatory  framework,  a  SEBI  registered  AIF  is  a  privately  pooled  investment 
vehicle  which  collects  funds  from  investors  for  investing  in  accordance  with  its  defined 
investment policy for the benefit of its investors. 
 
 

iii.  Category I and II AIFs predominantly invest in unlisted investee entities with a medium to 
long-term  investment  horizon  (typical  holding  periods  ranging  from  2-5  years).  The 
investments by such AIFs are made out of funds collected from their investors and they 
are not permitted to borrow to make investments. 
 

iv.  The current tax code for AIFs could lead to unintended litigation on treatment of income 
at of AIFs Given the intent of SEBI (AIF) Regulations is not to allow carrying on of business, 
the  income  earned  by an  AIF  from its  investment  activity cannot  be  treated  as business 
income and hence there is no need to provide for taxation of business income at the AIF 
level. 

v.  Recently, in the context of unlisted shares, the CBDT has clarified4 that the income arising 
from transfer of unlisted shares will be treated as ‘capital gains’, irrespective of period of 
holding  except  in  the  following  situations  where  the  Assessing  Officer  would  take  an 
appropriate view:  

 
 

the genuineness of transactions in unlisted shares itself is questionable; 
the transfer of unlisted shares is related to issue pertaining to the  lifting of the 
corporate veil;   

                                                           
4 No. 225/ 12/ 2016/ ITA.II dated 2 May 2016 

76 

 

the transfer of unlisted shares is made along with the control and management 
of underlying business.  

vi.  While the aforesaid clarification puts to rest a long drawn controversy over the treatment 
of income arising from sale of unlisted shares as ‘capital gains’ or ‘business income’, the 
exclusion  for  ‘transfer  of  shares  along  with  control  and  management  of  the  underlying 
business’  can  lead  to  fresh  controversy  since  there  is  no  clear  definition  of  what 
constitutes ‘control and management’.  
 

vii. To gain more clarity, it would be pertinent to note that in various CBDT Circulars5 the test 
provided  to  distinguish  between  shares  held  as  investments  and  shares  held  as  stock  in 
trade has been linked to treatment of securities in the books of accounts, intention of the 
purchaser,  quantity  of  securities  purchased  and  sold,  frequency  of  transactions  etc.  In 
none of these circulars, the test for treatment of exit gains has been linked to ‘control and 
management of underlying business. Further, even in judicial precedents on the subject, it 
has been held that where purchase of shares in a company results in acquisition of a right 
to  manage/  control  the  investee  company,  then,  the  shares  shall  not  be  considered  as 
stock-in-trade  and  the  transaction  would  still  be  considered  as  a  capital  account 
transaction.  
 

viii.  Further, the decision of the Chandigarh Tribunal in the case of Sumeet Taneja v. Addl CIT 
(ITA No. 1101/ Chd/ 2009)6 – upheld by the High Court as well, is clearly distinguishable 
from investments made by VCPE funds which are financial investors in the company and 
not  engaged  in  any  business  activity.  Further,  the  arguments  against  the  applicability  of 
the  High  Court  judgment  in  the  context  of  financial  investors  has  been  attached  as  an 
Annexure. 
 

ix.   Even  the  regulatory  framework  under  which  AIFs  invest  only  refers  to  the  activity  of 
investment in securities and not to the activity of carrying out any business activity i.e. the 
regulatory framework for AIFs entitle them to make investments in securities. It does not 
indicate  that  AIFs  are  managing/  controlling  the  business  operations  of  such  investee 
companies. Further, AIFs predominantly invest in unlisted investee entities with a medium 
to  long-term  investment  horizon  (typical  holding  periods  ranging  from  2-5  years)  and 
hence, their intention is only to earn financial income and not trading income. AIFs are not 
traders in shares and do not engage in frequent purchase and sale of shares. Accordingly, 
AIFs  do  not  satisfy  the  principles  that  have  been  laid  down  in  various  judicial 
pronouncements and CBDT Circulars to classify their income as business income. 

 

x.  The  objective  of  an  AIF  is  always  to  raise  capital,  invest  the  capital  in  investee 

                                                           
5 CBDT Instruction No. 1827 dated August 31, 1989, Circular No. 4 of 2007 dated June 15, 2007 and 
Circular No. 6 dated February 29, 2016. 
6 Wherein it has been held that transfer of shareholding by promoters was in the nature of sale of 
business assets and not capital assets because the share purchase agreement not only provides transfer 
of shares but also envisages transfer/ renunciation of control over the company, transfer of employee 
database, products database, customer proposals, contracts, non-usage of brand equity, non-compete 
clauses etc. and accordingly, the income arising from the transaction of sale of shares was treated as 
‘business income’ and not as ‘capital gains’.  

 

 

 

 

companies and return the capital and gains to the investors through the AIFs make and 
hold  investments  in  portfolio  companies  with  an  objective  of  long  term  capital 
appreciation.  At  times,  depending  on  the  capital  needs  of  the  promoters  and  the 
investment  strategy  of  the  AIFs,  they  may  end  up  acquiring  stakes  which  may  be  in 
excess  of  20%  and  may  even  exceed  51%.  Notwithstanding  their  stake  in  the  investee 
companies,  the  objective  of  an  AIF  is  to  merely  provide  financial  capital  to  investee 
companies. 

 

xi.  The regulatory framework of FPIs and AIFs is similar and under both the regulations the 
intention  of  such  entities  is  to  make  investment  in  securities.  Therefore,  where  the 
investment gains of a FPI are deemed to be treated as capital gains (even when they 
are held only for 1 day), the investment gains of an AIF which invests for a longer period 
of time should also be deemed to be treated as capital gains. 

 

xii. From the above, it is clear that where the investment in investee companies is held as 
investment and not as  stock-in trade in the books of the VCPE funds including where 
the  funds  hold  majority/  controlling  stake  in  the  investee  companies,  in  all  situations 
the  gains  derived  by  an  AIF  should  be  treated  as  capital  gains  and  not  as  business 
income. This clarification by the Government would provide certainty and consistency 
in treatment of income earned by AIFs from the disposal of securities held by them. 

 

xiii.  It  is  therefore  important  that  the  treatment  of  income  arising  from  the  transfer  of 
securities  held  by  AIFs  be  clearly  spelled  out  to  be  capital  gains  without  giving  any 
potential  for  adverse  interpretation.  This  much  deserved  clarification  would  provide 
certainty and consistency in the treatment of income earned by AIFs from disposal of 
securities.  
 

Recommendation: 
 

(a)  The provisions relating to the taxability of business income earned by an AIF at 
the AIF level should be deleted. It should be deemed that income earned by the 
AIF  should  be  taxable  under  the  head  “capital  gains”  or  “income  from  other 
sources” and not “business income”.  

(b)  The definition of capital asset under section 2(14) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
should be amended to provide deemed characterization for securities held by 
an  AIF  as  a  ‘capital  asset’  thereby,  treating  the  gains  arising  from  the  sale 
thereof, as ‘capital gains’ and not ‘business income’. 

 

(c)  The  exception  with  respect  to  ‘transfer  of  shares  along  with  control  and 
management  of  underlying  business’  (provided  in  the  CBDT  clarification) 
should  be  expressly  removed  at  least  in  the  context  of  AIFs  i.e.  gains  arising 
from the transfer of unlisted securities with or without the transfer of control 
and management of the underlying business should be taxed as ‘Capital gains’ 
and not as ‘Business income’. 

 

 

78 

Proposed Amendment: 
 
10(23FBA)  -  Any  income  of  an  investment  fund  other  than  the  income  chargeable 
under the head “Profits and gains of business or profession”; 
(23FBB) any income referred to in section 115UB, accruing or arising to, or received 
by, a unit holder of an investment fund, being that proportion of income which is of 
the same nature as income chargeable under the head “Profits and gains of business 
or profession”. 
Explanation.—For  the  purposes  of  clauses  (23FBA)  and  (23FBB),  the  expression 
“investment  fund”  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  in  clause  (a)  of  the 
Explanation 1 to section 115UB;’; 
  
CHAPTER XII-FB 
SPECIAL  PROVISIONS  RELATING  TO  TAX  ON  INCOME  OF  INVESTMENT  FUNDS  AND 
INCOME RECEIVED FROM SUCH FUNDS 
 
115UB. (4) The total income of the investment fund shall be charged to tax—  
(i) at the rate or rates as specified in the Finance Act of the relevant year, where such 
fund is a company or a firm; or  
(ii) at maximum marginal rate in any other case 
 
2(14) - Capital asset means –  
(a) 

property of any kind held by an assessee, whether or not connected with his 
business or profession; 
any  securities  held  by  a  Foreign  Institutional  Investor  which  has  invested  in 
such securities in accordance with the regulations made under the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
any investment held by an investment fund  

(c) 
 
Explanation 2: For the purpose of this clause –  
(a) 

(b) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  expression  “Foreign  Institutional  Investor”  shall  have  the  meaning 
assigned to it in clause (a) of the Explanation to Section 115AD 
the  expression  “Investment  Fund”  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  in 
clause (a) of the Explanation 1  to Section 115UB 
the expression “securities” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (h) 
of Section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 

 
Proposed Clarification 
 
This will require clarification in CBDT Instruction No. 225/ 12/ 2016/ ITA.II dated 2 May 
2016. The relevant  extract of the proposed clarification is as follows: 
 

F. No. _______ 

 

Government of India 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance 

Department of Revenue (CBDT) 

North Block, New Delhi, dated ____ 

 
 

To, 
____________ 
 
Subject: Partial modification of the instruction no. 225/ 12/ 2016/ ITA.II dated 2nd  
May 2016 regarding consistency in taxability of income/loss arising from transfer of 
unlisted shares under Income-tax Act - regarding 

 

1.  Regarding  characterization  of  income  from  transfer  of  unlisted  shares,  the 
Central  Board  of  Direct  Taxes,  has  issued  instruction  no.  225/  12/  2016/  ITA.II 
dated 2nd May 2016 wherein with a view to avoid litigation, maintain a uniform 
approach, it was clarified that any income arising from transfer of unlisted shares 
was  to  be  treated  as  capital  gains  irrespective  of  the  period  of  holding  of  such 
assets.  However,  it  was  also  inter  alia  clarified  that  the  aforesaid  treatment 
would not apply in the case where transfer of unlisted shares is made along with 
the control and management of underlying business. 

2.  The Board has since received representations on the treatment of the securities 
held by Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs). AIFs typically raise capital from third 
party  investors,  make  investments  and  return  the  capital  /  profits  to  the 
investors.  AIFs 
long  term  capital 
appreciation. AIFs are also regulated by SEBI. Considering the above, to provide 
clarity on the treatment of gains on transfer of unlisted securities held by AIFs, it 
is clarified that the conditions in clause 3(iii) of the aforesaid order would not be 
applicable in the case of AIFs. 

invest  with  an  objective  of  achieving 

3.  The above may be brought to the notice of all for necessary compliance. 

Xxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxxxxxx 

Xxxxxx 

 

Copy to: 
1.  Xxxxxxx 
2.  Xxxxxxx 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

80 

B.  Proportionate service tax exemption for AIF expenses (management fees, other fees) 
as they relate to foreign investor contributions in AIFs and Proposed 12% GST Rate for 
AIFs 

 

i. 

In India, taxation of services is presently governed by the provisions of Chapter V of 
the  Finance  Act,  1994  (service  tax  legislation).    Further,  the  Goods  &  Services  Tax 
(GST) legislation is proposed to be implemented in India.  Recently, the Model GST 
Law has been released to the public inviting suggestions and recommendations.  GST 
shall be a tax levied in India on the supply of goods and services. The taxing principle 
under the present service tax legislation is expected to continue under the proposed 
GST legislation, i.e. destination based consumption tax. 

 

 

 

 

 

ii.  Under  the  present  service  tax 

legislation,  services  whose  place  of  supply 
(determined in terms of the relevant rules) is in India are subject to effective service 
tax at 15%.   

iii.  Further, services provided by service providers located in India to service recipients 
located  outside  India  can  qualify  as  exports  and  be  treated  as  zero-rated  services, 
subject to the fulfilment of the following prescribed conditions cumulatively: 
a.  Service provider is located in India 
b.  Service recipient is located outside India 
c.  Service should not be an exempted service, as per the service tax legislation  
d.  Place of supply of service should be outside India in terms of the relevant rules 
e.  Payment  for  services  is  received  by  service  provider  in  convertible  foreign 

f. 

exchange 
Service provider and recipient should be separate legal entities and not merely 
different establishments of the same legal entity 

iv.  A  Fund  is,  in  essence,  the  pooling  of  the  contributions  of  its  investors  for  the 
purpose  of  investment  and  therefore  should  not  be  viewed  as  distinct  entity 
separate from its investors. However, for the purpose of levy of service tax in India, 
a  Fund  is  viewed  as  a  distinct  person.    Accordingly,  under  the  present  service  tax 
legislation, services provided by a fund manager (and other service providers) to a 
Fund located in India are taxable, irrespective of the location of its investors. 

v. 

vi. 

It is relevant to note that in such a scenario, the taxing principle of service tax, i.e. 
consumption-based taxation, is not being met in respect of overseas investors.  This 
is  on  account  of  the  fact  that  the  Fund  is  considered  for  determination  of  the 
consumption  of  the  services  provided  by  the  fund  manager,  whereas  the  actual 
effective consumption of the said services is by the investors and not the Fund. 

If  the  principle  of  effective  consumption  were  to  be  followed,  the  services  to  the 
extent  of  the  investments  made  by  the  overseas  investors  would  be  outside  the 
purview of service tax in India, as the place of supply of the said services is outside 
India, i.e. the location of the effective service recipient (overseas investors).  Further, 
the said services shall also qualify as exports and be treated as zero rated services as 

 

 

 

 

all of the conditions prescribed for the export qualification are being met in essence, 
for example, the fee for asset management services is provided from the very pool 
of  investments  made  by  the  investors  which  includes  contributions  made  by 
overseas  investors  in  convertible  foreign  exchange.  Therefore,  the  condition  of 
receipt of consideration in convertible foreign exchange is, in principle, being met in 
the present case. 

vii.  The choice of AIF as a vehicle to raise foreign capital is, inter-alia, impacted by the 

service tax charge on the fund’s expenses. 

 

 

 

Recommendation: 
 
A relaxation should be granted to AIFs to the effect that AIF should be considered as pass-
through entities  and the investors in the AIFs be deemed as service recipients of the services 
provided by a fund manager/ service provider. Similar benefits are available to fund 
managers in other large financial centres (for example, Singapore).   
 
With the recent announcement that foreign investment would be permitted in SEBI 
regulated AIFs, this relaxation would be a critical factor in foreign investors' choice of a 
domestic fund manager vs. a foreign fund manager. 
 

GST: Due to non-availability of input tax credit of Service tax/ GST on expenses/ procurements 
made by AIFs; the cost of investing in AIFs would increase 

i. 

In India, the taxation of services is presently governed under the provisions of Chapter V of 
the  Finance  Act,  1994  (service  tax  legislation).    Further,  the  Goods  &  Services  Tax  (‘GST’) 
legislation is proposed to be implemented in India with effect from 1 April 2017.  
 

ii.  With  the  introduction  of  GST,  the  tax  base  will  be  widened,  as  most  of  the  goods  and 
services will be taxable, with minimum exemptions. In the case of AIFs, the most significant 
expenses on which Service Tax/ GST would be levied is the services received from the fund 
managers located in India. 

 

iii.  Since, AIFs do not have any output indirect tax liability i.e. service tax/ GST, any service tax/ 
GST  paid  on  procurements  will  ultimately  become  a  cost  to  the  AIF.  An  AIF,  though  a 
commercial  set  up,  is  distinct  and  unique  in  its  operations  i.e.  unlike  other  commercial 
ventures, an AIF being a pooling vehicle, represents the interest of its investors. Therefore, a 
tax paid by an AIF affects the investment by the investors, militates against the investment 
objectives that are sought to be promoted by AIFs. Adverse effects of this nature can reduce 
the supply of long term capital to AIFs. Importantly, unlike manufacturers or other service 
providers, who can avail credit, the GST paid by an AIF is likely to be an ultimate cost in its 
hands. On account of the above reasons, it is recommended that this sector may be taxed at 

 
 

 

82 

the GST rate of 12%. 

 

 

iv.  From  an  income-tax  standpoint,  the  investors  in  AIFs  are  not  allowed  a  tax  deduction  for 
most  of  the  expenses  incurred  by  the  AIFs.  Accordingly,  the  cost  of  investing  in  AIFs  will 
significantly  increase  if  the  GST  rate  is  fixed  at  a  level  higher  than  the  present  service  tax 
rate of 15%. 

v.  The GST Council has decided on a four tier GST rate structure that would be 5%, 12%, 18% & 
28%.    Most  of  the  goods  and  services  would  fall  in  12%  and  18%  bracket,  with  services 
mostly  likely  to  be  taxed  at  18%.  Considering  the  important  financial  intermediation  role 
performed  by  AIFs  in  channeling  investments  into  seed  capital,  early  stage  and  growth 
companies, services to AIFs should be chargeable at the lower rate of 12 per cent. AIFs play 
an important role by providing long-term stable capital to engines of growth as shown in this 
report.  
 

Recommendation: 
 
Fund management and other services to AIFs should be chargeable to GST at the rate of 12% 
 

 
 

C.  Extension of Tax Pass through to Category III - AIFs  

 

i. 

The  Finance  Act  2015  introduced  a  special tax  regime for  Category  I  and  II  AIFs by 
the insertion of a new chapter, i.e. Chapter XII-B in the Act. The amendments to the 
Act conceptually attempt to provide a “pass-through” tax status to Category I and II 
AIFs for the income earned (except for business income). 
 

ii.  However, the “pass-through” tax status has not been accorded to Category III AIFs. 

iii.  AIFs  are  vehicles  set-up  to  pool  investments  from  various  investors  and  to  invest 
across different asset classes using different investment strategies. The income that 
is sought to be taxed is the income of the investors. The taxation of an income, or 
the taxpayer itself, should not change, merely because an investor decides to use a 
professional  asset  manager  to  make  investment  decisions  for  him  vis-à-vis  directly 
making those investment decisions. Further, the manner of taxation should also not 
change,  where  an  investor  invests  in  an  AIF,  instead  of  investing  in his  own  name, 
using a SEBI registered portfolio manager.  

 

 

iv.  The  basis  of  pass-through,  or  no  pass-through,  seems  to  be  derived  based  on  the 
type of investment strategy and the underlying activity of the AIF. If at all, although 
it is debatable, the investment strategy should be used to decide on the nature of 
income but not the pass-through status. 

 

 

 

 

 

v. 

In any case, it is clear that irrespective of the investment strategy, the policy of the 
Government is to have one-level tax in terms of the income arising from / to the AIF 
– i.e., either the AIF will be taxed or the investor, but not both (on the basis that the 
AIF is a pass-through, usually in the form of a trust). 
 

vi.  The  class  of  investors  who  make  investments  in  AIFs  is  generally  one  of  high  net 
worth  and  taxpaying  investors,  so  the  question  of  tracking  those  investors  should 
not generally arise. In any case, given the safety net in the withholding tax imposed 
on distributions by the AIF to the investors, the tracking should ordinarily not be a 
challenge.  
 

vii.  Category III AIFs introduced an investment product that was hitherto not available in 
the Indian financial sector. A clear tax code for taxation of such AIFs based on  the 
pass-through tax principle will be critical for the success of this investment product 
in the medium to long-term. 
 

Recommendation: 
 

(a) The tax rules applicable to “investment funds” in Chapter XII-B of the Act should 
be  extended  to  Category  III  AIFs  with  suitable  modifications  to  eliminate  the 
distinction  between  the  tax  treatment  of  business  income  and  income  under 
other heads in the hands of the AIF / its investors.  
 

(b) As  such,  given  that  under  the  pass-through  tax  principle,  the  incidence  of  
taxation of income derived by the AIF would, be passed to the investor with the 
same character as applicable to the AIF, there should be no revenue loss to the 
Government on account of this recommendation. 
 

 

Proposed Amendment  
 
Section 115UB 

Explanation 1 — For the purposes of this Chapter: 

(a) "investment  fund" means  any fund established or incorporated in India which 
has been granted a certificate of registration as a Category I or a Category II or a 
Category III Alternative Investment Fund and is regulated under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012…. 
  

 
 

 

 

84 

D.   Making the fund management safe harbour provisions effective 

 

 

1.  Offshore  funds  invest  billions  of  dollars  into  Indian  listed  as  well  as  unlisted 
companies.  In  order  to  avoid  the  risk  of  being  characterized  as  a  permanent 
establishment, most offshore funds are managed outside of India with the talent 
to  manage  such  pools  also  sitting  outside  India.  While  the  investment  is  being 
made  in  India,  the  fees  for  managing  such  investments  would  be  paid  to 
investment  management  entities  outside  India.  Section  9A  of  the  Act  was 
introduced  into  the  Act  with  an  objective  to  encourage  onshore  management  of 
offshore  funds  leading  to  increased  employment  and  increased  income  being 
generated in India.  

 

 

 

2.  Further  the  portfolio  companies  into  which  the  investments  are  made  generate 
employment and contribute to the tax exchequer by paying taxes on  the income 
earned by them.  

3.  While the benefits that can be reaped by enabling a liberal tax regime are huge, the 
strict  investor  concentration  and  safe  harbor  conditions  have  so  far  acted  as  a 
dampener  and  has  not  led  to  any  interest  from  offshore  funds  in  setting  up 
onshore fund management activities in India.  

4.  It is therefore imperative to assess whether practically these conditions can be met 
by  offshore  funds  and  whether  they  are  required  if  India  were  to  develop 
international class financial centres like Singapore, Hong Kong, London. 

 
                     Withdrawal of exemption under the India-Mauritius DTAA 

 

 

 

5.  The test of commercial substance of pooling, concentration etc. assumed a higher 
importance  under  an  era  where  entities  were  routing  their  investments  through 
low tax jurisdictions such as Mauritius, Cyprus etc. However, with the amendment 
to  the  India  Mauritius  Double  Taxation  Avoidance  Agreement  vide  the  protocol 
and  impending  re-negotiation  of  treaty  with  countries  such  as  Mauritius,  the  tax 
arbitrage  which  was  sought  to  be  achieved  by  merely  setting  up  investment 
holding  vehicle  in  Mauritius  /  Cyprus  would  not  be  possible.  Every  investor 
irrespective of their composition is now required to pay taxes under the Act.  

6.  The  conditions  imposed  under  section  9A  read  with  the  Rule  10V  are  not  in  line 
with  the  commercial  imperatives  of  the  offshore  funds  and  the  relaxation  of  the 
conditions would pave the path for onshore management of offshore funds.  

7.  It should be the endeavour of the Government to frame rules which are easier to 

 

 

 

 

be met by the Funds and have less ambiguity. Therefore, the stringent conditions 
prescribed  under  section  9A  for  availing  the  beneficial  treatment  along  with  the 
recommendations have been stated as under:   

 

 

a)  Clause e, f and g of sub-section 3 of section 9A 

 
1.  Clause  e  -  “the  fund  has  a  minimum  of  twenty-five  members  who  are,  directly  or 

indirectly, not connected persons” 

 

2. 

Clause f- “any member of the fund along with connected persons shall not have any 
participation interest, directly or indirectly, in the fund exceeding ten per cent” 

Clause g - “the aggregate participation interest, directly or indirectly, of ten or less 
members along with their connected persons in the fund, shall be less than fifty per 
cent” 

In connection with the aforesaid clauses, the guidelines on application of section 9A 
of  the  Act  i.e.  Rule  10V  of  the  Income-tax  Rules  1962,  provides  that  where 
investments  in  an  Eligible  Investment  Fund  (EIF)  has  been  made  directly  by  an 
institutional entity, the number of members and the participation interest in the EIF 
shall  be  determined  by 
looking  through  the  said  entity  provided  that  the 
institutional entity – 

i.  independently satisfies the conditions mentioned in clauses (c), (e), (f) and (g) of 

sub-section 3 of section 9A; 

ii.  has been setup solely for the purpose of pooling funds and investment thereof; 

and 

iii. is resident of a country or specified territory with which an agreement referred 
to  in  sub-section  (1)  of  section  90  or  sub-section  (1)  of  section  90A  has  been 
entered into.  

3.  While the guidelines are helpful, the look through provision is restrictively worded 
since it suggests that only one level look through is permitted. In most VCPE funds, 
there may be few layers of pooling vehicles above the fund vehicle and further the 
fund  itself  may  make  investments  using  special  purpose  vehicles  for  various 
commercial considerations.  

4.  Further, there are many instances where the fund managers wish to manage a small 
set  of  investors  who  could  provide  them  with  relatively  large  pools  of  capital  to 
manage.  The  following  are  illustrative  situations  of  providing  good  cases  for 
management  of  offshore  funds  in  India,  but  where  the  diversification  of  investor 
base may not be relevant: 
  Management of a large global family office. 
  Management of a part of the funds allocated by a large investor (e.g. sovereign 

wealth fund or a pension fund) to be managed by a domestic fund manager. 

  Global  proprietary  funds  of  development  and  other  financial  institutions  (like 

 

 

86 

banks and insurance companies) being managed by domestic asset managers in 
India. 

  New  fund  managers  who  wish  to  raise  a  new  Fund  may  be  able  to  achieve 

diversification only after they have established a reasonable track record. 

  All  new  funds  could  have  anchor  investors  who  would  clearly  hold  more  than 
5% of the total holding. These anchor investors are critical for the success of the 
fund raising exercise 
The  diversification  of  fund  investors  may  be  achieved  over  multiple  fund 
closings but the asset management has to start immediately from first closing of 
the fund  

 

5.  Further,  we  believe  the  management  of  funds  in  India  should  not  lead  to  a 
differential  tax  treatment  for  investors  merely  because  some  of  those  funds 
managed are diversified, and some are not.  
 

6.  There  are  many  domestic  asset  managers  who  wish  to  manage  global  pools  of 
capital but who may not be able to meet diversification related conditions given the 
regulatory  restrictions  in  marketing  and  distribution  of  the  financial  products  in 
various jurisdictions. 
 

7.  The Securities and Exchange Board of India, after a lot of industry deliberations, has 
prescribed  categories  and  types  of  funds  that  can  invest  in  India  and  conditions 
attached  to  the  same.  The  existing  regulatory  framework  to  allow  foreign 
investments  either  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Foreign 
Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014  (SEBI  FPI  Regulations)  or  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture Capital Investors) Regulations, 2000 (SEBI 
FVCI Regulations) is comprehensive and there are detailed monitoring mechanisms 
to  track  the  quality  of  investors  and  the  sectors  in  which  the  investment  flows. 
Further, as per the SEBI FPI Regulations, a fund is considered as ‘broad based’ if it is 
established or incorporated outside India and has at least twenty investors with no 
investor holding more than 49% of the shares or units. Further, it also provides that 
if a broad based fund has an institutional investor who holds more than 49% of the 
shares  or  units  in  the  fund,  then  such  institutional  investor  must  itself  be  a  broad 
based fund.  

8.  Hence,  in  order  to  simplify  the  compliance  with  the  aforesaid  conditions,  an 
automatic exemption could be provided from investor diversification norms to funds 
that meet the criteria to be registered as Category I or Category II FPIs or FVCIs. 

 

Recommendation: 
 
Given the constraints discussed above, it is appropriate to dilute the investor diversification 
related conditions. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Additionally,  in  the  guidelines  for  the  purpose  of  section  9A  of  the  Act,  it  should  be 
expressly clarified that:  
i.  Conditions  should  not  be  applicable  to  the  entities  that  meet  the  criteria  to  be 
registered  as  a  Category  I  or  a  Category  II  FPIs  in  accordance  with  the  SEBI  FPI 
Regulations or FVCIs in accordance with the SEBI FVCI Regulations. 
The term ‘member’ be interpreted in a manner to include investors and beneficiaries.  

ii. 
 
Further, exclusions/ changes could be provided for applying the diversification related 
conditions. An illustrative list of exclusions/ changes is provided below: 
 

The  diversification  conditions  should  be  applied  only  after  the  fund  makes  a  final 
closing,  or  alternatively  these  should  not  be  applied  for  the  initial  three  years  of 
setting-up. 

  One should consider direct and indirect investors – there could be more investments 
investors  having  several 

like  fund  of  funds  or 

institutional 

investors 

from 
beneficiaries/ members. 

 

  Diversification  rules  should  not  be  applicable  where  a  majority  of  the  investors 
comprise  of  institutional  investors  like  sovereign  wealth  funds,  large  pension  funds, 
banks, insurance companies etc. 
There should be exclusion for anchor investors – these could mean initial two or three 
investors in the fund. 
Lastly, the diversification rules used by SEBI for FPIs are robust and well understood 
by the industry in terms of implementation. Our recommendation is to merely align 
the requirements of diversification under the Act and the FPI Regulations 

 

 

 

 
Proposed Amendments in section 9A: 
 
(e)  The fund has a minimum of twenty five ten members who are, directly or indirectly, 

not connected persons 

 

 

Following proviso to Section 9A(3)(e) should be inserted- 

Provided that the conditions specified in clauses (a) to (m) shall not apply to: 
i) 
entities registered as FPIs or FVCI under the applicable SEBI regulations;  
ii)  where  a  majority  of  the  investors  comprise  of  institutional  investors  like 
sovereign wealth funds, large pension funds, banks, anchor investors, insurance 
companies, etc. 

iii)  A fund in the initial three years of setting-up or date of final closing for receiving 

investor monies whichever is earlier 

 

 

(f)   any member of the fund along with connected persons shall not have any 

participation interest, directly or indirectly, in the fund exceeding ten forty-nine 
percent 

 

88 

Provided that if the fund has an institutional investor who holds more than forty nine 
percent participation interest, then this condition shall be deemed to be satisfied if 
such institutional investor itself satisfies the condition in clause (e) of sub-section (3) 
of Section 9A. 

 
(g)  the aggregate participation interest, directly or indirectly, of ten or less members 

along with their connected persons in the fund, shall be less than 50 per cent; 

 
Insert clause (n) 
 
(n)  the fund is a broad based fund 
 
(9) For the purposes of this section,— 
 
(f)   “Broad Based Fund” shall mean a fund, established or incorporated outside India, 

which has at least twenty investors, with no investor holding more than forty-nine 
per cent of the shares or units of the fund. 

Provided that if the broad based fund has an institutional investor who holds   more 
than forty nine per cent of the shares or units in the fund, then such institutional 
investor must itself be a broad based fund. 

 

 
 

 

b)  Clause k of sub-section 3 of section 9A  

1.  “The  fund  shall  not  carry  on  or  control  and  manage,  directly  or  indirectly,  any 

business in India.” 

 

2. 

In the guidelines notified for application of section 9A, it has been stated that a fund 
shall be said to be controlling or managing a business carried out by any entity, if the 
fund directly or indirectly holds more than 26% of the share capital or voting rights 
or interest in the entity. 

3.  VCPE  funds  may  occasionally  or  as  their  core  strategy  take  minority,  significant 
minority  or  majority  equity  stakes  in  investee  companies.  Several  funds  adopt  a 
combination  of  strategies.  Even  funds  that  do  not  take  significant  shareholding  in 
investee  companies  could  have  minority  shareholder  protection  rights  exercise  of 
which could give some degree of control over the investee company to the fund. 

 

 

4.  At  times,  VCPE  funds  (especially  buyout  funds)  acquire  a  controlling  stake  in  the 
investee  companies  without  any  intention  of  actively  controlling  or  managing  its 
business.  Also,  in  a  scenario,  where  foreign  investors  hold  20%  to  25%  of  the 
shareholding  in  an  Indian  entity  and  have  also  invested  by  way  of  compulsory 
convertible  instruments,  pursuant  to  the  conversion  of  these  instruments,  these 
investors will end up holding more than 26% of the shareholding in the said entity 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

without any change by it in the control or management of business in India or from 
India.  

5.  Further, in certain sectors, financial investors need to have control to protect their 
substantial 
infrastructure  funds,  etc). 
Whatever maybe the investment strategy, the fund remains a financial investor that 
makes the investment for an eventual sale to a financial or strategic investor. 

investment  (e.g.  stressed  asset  funds, 

6.  The intention of restricting section 9A to only diversified funds and not to strategic 
foreign 
is  achieved  through  the 
diversification of shareholding requirements in clauses (e), (f), (g) and indirect Indian 
shareholding restriction in clause (c). 

Indian  companies 

investors  or 

indirectly 

7.  The  threshold  of  26%  voting  rights  in  an  investee  company  to  determine  whether 
the  fund  controls  or  manages  a  business  carried  out  in  India,  will  be  a  hurdle  for 
several VCPE funds that hold significant shareholding  in investee companies. VCPE 
funds  being  one  of  the major  intended  beneficiaries  of the  safe harbour  would be 
precluded from registering under section 9A of the Act where the above condition is 
not modified. 

Recommendation: 
 
In order to promote the safe harbour for VCPE funds, it is recommended to delete clause k of 
sub-section 3 to section 9A of the Act and sub-Rule 4 of Rule 10V, as a qualification condition 
to avail section 9A.  

c)  Clause c of sub-section 3 of section 9A 

 

 

 

1.  “The  aggregate  participation  or  investment  in  the  fund,  directly  or  indirectly,  by 

2. 

investor 

persons resident in India does not exceed five percent of the corpus of the fund.” 
 
In the guidelines notified for application of section 9A, it has been stated that where 
the  direct 
is  the  Government/Central  Bank/Sovereign 
Fund/multilateral  agency/appropriately  regulated  investor  (in  the  form  of  pension 
fund/university  fund/bank/collective  investment  vehicles  like  mutual  funds),  the 
fund  is  required  to  obtain  a  written  declaration  from  the  direct  investor  regarding 
participation  by  resident 
indirect 
participation by such resident Indians in the fund. 

Indians  and  accordingly,  determine  the 

in  the  fund 

3. 

In  case  of  all  other  direct  investors  (who  are  not  natural  persons),  the  fund  is 
required  to  undertake  appropriate  due  diligence  to  ascertain  indirect  participation 
by resident Indians in such a fund. 

4.  VCPE Funds typically would not enquire into an investor’s country of residence from 
a  tax  standpoint  and  therefore,  an  enquiry  into  each  investor’s  tax  residence  may 

 
 

90 

not be  feasible for  the  funds to  undertake.  While  the  guidelines  do  provide  useful 
direction on this, practically, at a global level, it would be challenging for the funds 
to  obtain  the  declarations  stating  therein  the  participation  by  various  Indian 
residents. 

 

 

5.  Further,  in  case  of  a  multi-tiered  structure  (say  in  case  of  Fund-of-Funds)  or 
institutional investors, it would be difficult and a cumbersome process for the fund 
to  undertake  appropriate  due  diligence  to  ascertain  the  indirect  participation  by 
Indian residents. 

6.  Given  the  above,  the  said  clause  would  pose  practical  challenges  for  the  funds  to 
comply  with  and  therefore,  would  prove  a  deterrent  in  promoting  onshore  fund 
management for offshore VCPE funds.  

Recommendation: 
 
In order to promote safe harbour for VCPE Funds, the condition in clause (c) should be 
limited to only direct participation by resident Indians. 
 
Proposed Amendment in clause (c) to section 9A(3): 
 

(c)  The  aggregate  participation  or  investment  in  the  fund,  directly  or  indirectly,  by 

persons resident in India does not exceed five percent of the corpus of the fund. 

d)  Exclusions for Investment Managers of an AIF 

 

 

1.  The  definition  of  specified  regulations  in  section  9A  of  the  Act  only  includes 
‘Securities and Exchange Board of India (Portfolio Managers) Regulations, 1993 and 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. The 
definition  of  specified  regulations  does  not  include  Investment  Manager  of  an  AIF 
registered under the SEBI (AIF) Regulations.  

2.  Given  the  Governments  objective  of  promoting  fund  management  activity  from 
India  and  also  attract  additional  foreign  investment  under  the  AIF  route,  it  is 
important  to  include  Investment  Managers  of  AIFs  which  are  registered  under  the 
SEBI (AIF) Regulations, as fund managers for the purpose of section 9A(4) of the Act.  

 

3. 

    

In this context, it should also be noted that SEBI has undertaken initiatives to enable 
Asset  Management  Companies  [covered  by  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds  Regulations)]  to 
manage offshore funds for investing in India. Hence, in line with the SEBI’s initiative, 
it is also important to include Asset Management Companies of mutual funds (who 
can  naturally  engage  in  carrying  out  fund  management  activity)  as  fund  managers 
for the purpose of section 9A(4) of the Act.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation: 
 
CBDT should notify managers referred in SEBI (AIF) Regulations, 2012 and SEBI (Mutual 
Funds) Regulations, 1996, for the purposes of specified regulations in section 9A(8)(e) of 
the Act.   
 

 
IV. Other Recommendations 

 

Clarification on investments by AIF  

 

a)  Pass  through  tax  status  to  be  extended  to  net  losses  incurred  at  AIF  level  i.e.  Losses 

incurred by AIFs should be available for set-off to its investors  

1.  Conceptually, pooling vehicles are formed to derive two advantages; (a) to engage 
experienced  professionals  for 
investment  management;  and  (b)  to  achieve 
economies of scale. Thus, investors who invest in AIFs could have chosen to directly 
invest in portfolio companies of their own accord.  
 

 

2.  Tax  implications  thus  play  an  important  role  for  the  investor  to  choose  one  form 
over  the  other  i.e.  pooling  vehicles  or  direct  investing.  The  above-mentioned 
advantages will be lost if the tax impact on investing through AIFs is higher. 

 

 

3.  Under  the  AIF  Regulations,  Category  I  and  II  AIFs  are  close-ended  funds  and  the 
tenure of a specific fund / scheme is determined at the time of its launch. Typically, 
an AIF’s tenure would not exceed 10 years from its launch. Based on the provisions, 
where Category I and II AIF incur net losses on investments towards the end of its 
life or has unabsorbed losses, which cannot be utilised by the AIF, such losses would 
lapse.  The  investors  would  in  this  scenario  be  taxed  on  an  amount  that  would  be 
greater than the “real” taxable income derived by them from their investment in the 
AIF, causing the AIF alternative becoming unattractive to an investor vis-a-vis direct 
investments. 

 

4. 

In line with the pass through for losses provided to investors in securitization trusts, 
the pass through of losses should also be extended to investors in AIF (which is also 
a  pooling  vehicle  similar  to  securitization  trust).  In  order  to  avoid  any  misuse,  it 
could  be  provided  that  in  case  of  transfer  (excluding  transactions  which  are  not 
regarded as transfer under section 47 of the Act) of units by the investors in the AIF, 
the net loss proportionate to the units transferred shall not be passed on to the new 
investors. 

 

 

92 

Recommendation: 
A  pass  through  tax  regime  should  not  distinguish  between  gains  and  losses.  Therefore, 
similar to the pass through for net income, net losses incurred by all the categories of AIFs, 
under any head of income, should also be allowed to be passed on to the investors.  
 
Proposed Amendment: 
Section 115UB 
(2)  Where  in  any  previous  year,  a  person,  being  a  unit  holder  of  an  investment  fund, 
transfers the units to another person (excluding transfers referred to in section 47) and the 
net result of computation of total income of the investment fund [without giving effect to 
the provisions of clause (23FBA) of Section 10] is a loss under any head of income and such 
loss cannot be or is not wholly set-off against income under any other head of income of 
the said previous year, then— 
(i)  such  loss  shall  be  allowed  to  be  carried  forward  and  it  shall  be  set-off  by  the 

investment fund in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI; and 

(ii)    such  loss  shall  be  ignored  for  the  purposes  of  sub-section  (1)  in  respect  of 

transferor/transferee of such units. 

 
 

b)  Exemption for AIFs from (a) Section 56(2)(viib) on issue of shares at a value higher than 
fair  market  value  and  (b)  Section  56(2)(viia)  on  purchase  of  shares  at  a  value  lower 
than fair market value (FMV) 

1.  Section  56(2)(viia)  of  the  Act  provides  that  where  shares  are  purchased  at  a  value 
lower  than  the  FMV  of  a  company,  not  being  a  company  in  which  public  are 
substantially interested, then the difference between the transaction value and the 
FMV  is  taxed  in  the  hands  of  the  purchaser.  Further,  section  56(2)(viib)  of  the  Act 
provides  that  where  a  company,  not  being  a  company  in  which  public  are 
substantially interested, issues shares at a consideration which exceeds the FMV of 
such  company,  then  the  difference  is  taxed  as  income  in  the  hands  of  the  issuing 
company. 

2.  Presently, section 56(2)(viib) of the Act provides a specific exemption for companies 
where  the  consideration  for  issue  of  shares  is  received  from  inter-alia  Venture 
Capital Funds (VCFs) and VCF under Category I-AIF. Further, while such an exclusion 
has been provided to VCFs, the benefit has not been extended to section 56(2)(viia) 
of  the  Act.  In  other  words,  these  provisions  apply  to  all  AIFs  (except  VCF’s  under 
Category I) when they purchase shares of a closely held company, or to the investee 
companies  where  they  issue  shares  to  AIFs  at  a  price  higher  than  its  fair  market 
value. 

3.  AIFs,  being  institutional  investors,  have  a  fiduciary  responsibility  to  invest  in 
transactions  on  an  arm’s  length  basis,  and  given  that  they  are  subject  to  the 
supervision  of  SEBI  and  have  investor  reporting  obligations,  it  is  reasonable  to 
assume  that  the price  for  acquisition  /  subscription  is  determined  on  a reasonable 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

basis,  considering  all  factors  associated  with  the  investee  companies’  and  sector’s 
past  performance  and  future  potential.  Thus,  the  transaction  entered  into  by  AIFs 
can  be  assumed  to  be  in  compliance  with  FMV  principles  and  hence  the  rigour  of 
section 56(2)(viia) & 56(2)(viib) should not be applicable to AIFs.  

 

Recommendation: 
All  AIFs  and  their 
Sections 56(2)(viia) and 56(2)(viib) of the Act. 

investee  companies  should  be  exempted  from  the  rigor  of 

Proposed Amendment in section 56(2)(viia) 
 
After first proviso to section 56(2)(viia) add the following proviso - 
Further  provided  that  this  clause  shall  not  apply  to  any  such  property  received  by  an 
investment fund   
 
Amend Explanation to section 56(2)(viia) as under – 
For the purpose of this clause -  
(a) "fair market value" of a property, being shares of a company not being a company in 
which the public are substantially interested, shall have the meaning assigned to it in the 
Explanation to clause (vii).  
(b) “Investment Fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (a) of the Explanation 
1 to Section 115UB.  
 
Proposed notification exempting Investment Funds from section 56(2)(vii)(b)  
 
In exercise of the powers conferred by the clause (ii) of the proviso to clause (viib) of sub-
section (2) of section 56 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government, 
hereby  notifies  the  ‘classes  of  persons’  for  the  purposes  of  the  said  clause  as  being  the 
‘Investment  Fund’  who  makes  any  consideration  exceeding  the  face  value  for  issues  of 
shares of a company.  
 
Explanation.  –  For  the  purposes  of  this  notification,  “Investment  Fund”  shall  have  the 
meaning assigned to it in clause (a) of the Explanation 1 to section 115UB. 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

94 

 

 
 
 
 

 

c)  Remove tax compliance of filing annual return for foreign investors in AIF 

 

1. 

2. 

 

In  November  2015,  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  had  issued  a  notification  allowing 
foreign investments in AIFs under the automatic route i.e. without any Government 
approval. The move to allow foreign investment in AIFs under the automatic route 
was made with an objective to attract more foreign investment through AIFs. 
 
In  addition  the  Finance  Act,  2016,  was  amended  to  provide  that  in  case  of  non-
resident investors in Category I and II AIFs, the tax withholding will be at the rates in 
force i.e. at tax rates as per the provisions of the Act or the applicable Double Tax 
Avoidance Agreements (DTAA), whichever is more beneficial to the investor and not 
at the rate of 10%. As a result of this amendment, in case of a non-resident investor 
in an AIF, the entire tax liability of such investor will be deducted at source by the 
AIF on accrual/ distribution and, there should be no additional tax payable by such 
investor in India on account of its investment in the AIF.  

3.  Despite the fact that the entire tax liability of non-resident investors in the AIF will 
be  deducted  at  source  by  the  AIF,  such  investors  are  still  required  to  obtain  a 
Permanent  Account  Number  (PAN)  and  file  a  return  of  income  in  India.  This 
additional  compliance  will  discourage  several  non-resident  investors  from  making 
direct  investments  in  India  and thereby, diluting  the  effectiveness  of the  aforesaid 
policy initiative. 

4.  The  CBDT  recently  has  released  a  Notification,  which  prescribes  Rule  37BC  of  the 
Income-tax Rules 1962 for relaxation from withholding of tax at higher rates in the 
absence  of  PAN  of  non-resident  deductees  and  lays  down  the  information  and 
alternative documents required to claim such relaxation.  

5. 

In  order  to  encourage  the  growth  of  AIFs  as  an  asset  class  and  to  attract  more 
foreign investment directly through the AIF route, it is recommended that where a 
foreign investor’s only source of income in India is from investment in an AIF, and, 
the entire tax liability of such investors is deducted at source by the AIF on accrual/ 
distribution, then, the requirement to file a return of income should be eliminated.  

6.  The aforesaid relaxation is similar to the relaxation provided in section 115A of the 
Act  to  non-resident  investors  earning  certain  prescribed  income  on  which  tax 
deductible  at  source  has  been  deducted  (such  as  interest  on  ECBs  on  which  tax  is 
deducted at source in accordance with the provisions of section 194LC of the Act). 

7.  The  aforesaid  relaxation  does  not  cause  any  tax  revenue  loss  as  tax  would  be 

withheld as appropriate and it would significantly add to ‘ease of investing’ in India. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation 
 
Insert sub-section (8) on section 115UB of the Act relaxing the requirement of filing the 
return of income by non-resident unit holders of an AIF. 
 
 
Proposed Amendment 
115UB. (8) It shall not be necessary for an assessee referred to in sub-section (1) to furnish 
under sub-section (1) of section 139 a return of his or its income if –  
 
a) 
b) 

The assessee is a non-resident (not being a company) or a foreign company;   
his or its total income in respect of which he or it is assessable under this Act during 
the previous year consisted only of income referred to in sub-section (1); and 
The tax deductible at source under the provisions of Chapter XVII-B has been 
deducted from such income.  

c) 

d)  Allow  management  expenses  for  AIF  investments  to  be  capitalized  as  ‘cost  of 

improvement 
 
1.  A formal reading of the Act only allows costs related to the acquisition of securities 
to be treated as capitalized expenses as they relate to the actual acquisition of the 
title to the security. Costs in relation to the disposal of the capital asset are allowed 
to be deducted as ‘cost of transfer’ from the sale consideration. 
 

2.  AIFs/investors  spend  a  significant  amount  of  time  working  closely  with  unlisted 
businesses to manage and improve the investment. Currently, there is no provision 
for  capitalizing  expenses  related  to  the  management  and  improvement  of  the 
capital asset during the holding period of the security. 

 

3.  This means in effect that AIFs/investors have to write off the management fees as 
expenses, which means that they are not available to be offset against capital gains 
that may eventually result from the investment. In case of foreign LPs, these costs 
are allowed to be capitalized overseas (US model) and thus, this issue is particularly 
relevant to domestic LPs and domestic GPs. 
 

4.  The issue is further exacerbated by the fact that management expenses (typically in 
the  range  of  2%  of  managed  funds)  are  also  subject  to  service  tax.  Assuming  a  10 
year  hold  period  for  an  AIF  investment,  2%  management  fees  annually,  and  mark-
ups on management fees of 20% and 14% for transfer pricing and service tax – the 
amount to be capitalized is considerable (10 yrs x 2 % x 1.20 x 1.14) = 27% of initial 
cost  of  investment.  This  cost  currently  has  to  be  written  off  and  cannot  be  offset 
against the capital gains that it produces. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

96 

Recommendation: 
 

(a) Option  1:  Allow  expenditure  which 

is  capital 

in  nature,  made  towards 

improvement of the capital asset, to be capitalised as “cost of improvement”. 
 

(b) Option  2:  Allow  a  standard  deduction  of  3%  of  cost  of  acquisition  of  capital 

asset irrespective of the actual expenditure incurred. 
 

 

Proposed Amendment: 
 

(a)  Option 1: Where expenditure is capital in nature,  made towards improvement of 
  be  capitalized  as  “cost  of 

the  capital  asset  ,  such  expenditure  should 
improvement” 

Modify section 55 (1)(b)(1)(ii) of the Act to read as under: 
“in any other case, means all expenditure of a capital nature incurred in making any 
additions or alterations ‘or improvement’ to the capital asset by the assessee after it 
became his property, and, where the capital asset became the property of the 
assessee by any of the modes specified in sub- section (1) of] section 49, by the 
previous owner, but does not include any expenditure which is deductible in 
computing the income chargeable under the head….” 

Notification required 
“Improvement expenditure” for a capital asset would include expenditure of a 
capital 
nature in relation to: 
  Management Advisory 
Legal and Professional 
 
  Administrative expense directly identifiable to capital asset. 

 

 

 

(b)  Option 2: Allow a Standard deduction of 3% of cost of acquisition of capital asset 

irrespective of the actual expenditure incurred 
 
Section 48: Mode of computation. 
8. The income chargeable under the head “Capital gains” shall be computed, by 
deducting from the full value of the consideration received or accruing as a result of 
the transfer of the capital asset the following amounts, namely :— 
(i) expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively in connection with such transfer; 
(ii) the cost of acquisition of the asset and the cost of any improvement thereto: 
(iii) a sum equal to three per cent of the cost of acquisition of the asset where asset 
is in the nature of securities of an unlisted company or units in a mutual 
fund/investment fund 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

V. Unit-based Taxation for Listed AIFs 

 

1.  SEBI (AIF) Regulations allow the listing of the units of close ended AIFs on a stock exchange 
i.e. all AIFs, except an open ended-Category III AIF, can be listed on a stock exchange. While 
the present AIF Regulations enable listing of AIFs subject to conditions, the taxation policy 
for AIFs is not conducive to a listed AIF. 

 
2. 

In  case  the  units  of  the  AIFs  are  listed  on  the  stock  exchange,  the  investors  may  keep 
changing from time to time during any financial year. It may happen that the set of investors 
at the time of investment by the AIF may be different from those at the time of earning of 
the income by the AIF, which, in turn, may differ from those when the AIF distributes such 
income to the investors. 

 
3.  From a tax perspective, the following is important: 

a.  Category  I  and  II  AIFs  are  provided  a  ‘pass-through’  tax  status  for  the  income  earned 
(except for business income and losses). Such AIFs are also required to deduct tax at the 
rate  of  10  per  cent  (in  case  of  resident  investors)  and  at  rates  in  force  (in  case of  non-
resident investors) on any income paid or credited to the investors.  
 

b.  Category III AIFs (primarily include hedge funds or funds which trade with a view to make 
long term / short term returns) are not provided a specific ‘pass-through’ tax status and 
hence are governed by the complex trust taxation provisions under the Act, as per which 
taxation depends upon whether such AIF is set up as a determinate trust (in which case 
‘pass-though’ taxation is available) or an indeterminate trust (in which case tax is payable 
at the trust level at the Maximum Marginal Rate).  

4.  As a result, the current tax policy for AIFs in the context of a listed AIF may create significant 
anomalies. For example, it could happen that the AIF has deducted tax at source for a set of 
investors on certain income which it has not distributed and such income is distributed at a 
later stage when the investors in the AIF has changed. This leads to significant complexity on 
taxation of listed AIFs and its investors under current tax law. 

5.  Substantial  capital  can  potentially  be  raised  from domestic  investors  into  listed  AIFs  which 
has  made  a  portfolio  of  illiquid  investments  in  order  to  provide  much  needed  liquidity  for 
investors  which  have  a  preference  for  liquidity.  Historically,  the  contribution  of  SEBI 
registered AIFs in the total investments made by VCPE funds in India, has been insignificant. 
By allowing foreign investment (including investments by NRIs) in AIFs under the automatic 
route  coupled  with  the  exemption  from  sectoral  caps  and  conditions  for  downstream 
investments  by  India-sponsored  and  managed  AIFs,  a  significant  shift  in  the  quantum  of 
foreign  investments  through    AIFs  is  expected.  Specifically,  the  entire  pool  of  ~INR  70,000 
crores assets under management under the Portfolio Management Service (PMS) route can 
switch to the investment under the AIF route.  

 

 

 

98 

Recommendation: 
 
Define separate taxation rules for listed AIFs. Ideally, a listed AIF would need to have tax 
provisions that provide for a unit based taxation system where the fund itself is exempt 
from tax on its income and the taxation is a combination of distribution tax on income 
distributions and capital gains tax on unit redemptions/ transfers. Specifically, the taxation 
of listed AIFs could be made similar to listed mutual funds. 
 
Proposed Amendments: 
 
Amendment 1: Income of the listed AIFs to be exempt from tax 
 
Insert new section 10(23DB) 
 
10(23DB) subject to the provisions of Chapter XII-FB, any income of an investment fund 
listed on a recognized stock exchange. 
 
Explanation – For the purposes of this clause, -  
 

(a)   “investment  fund”  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  in  clause  (a)  of  

Explanation 1 to section 115UB.  
 

(b)  “recognised stock exchange” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (ii) of 

Explanation 1 to clause (d) of sub-section (5) of section 43.  
 

Amendment 2: Income of investors in listed AIFs to be exempt from tax 
 
Insert new section 10(23DC) 
 
10(23DC) any distributed income, referred to in section 115UBA, received by a unit holder 
from the investment fund listed on a recognized stock exchange 
 
Explanation – For the purposes of this clause, -  
 

(a)   “investment  fund”  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  in  clause  (a)  of  the 

Explanation 1 to section 115UB.  
 

(b)  “recognised stock exchange” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (ii) of 

the Explanation 1 to clause (d) of sub-section (5) of section 43.  

 
Amendment 3: Tax on income distributed by listed AIFs 
 
Insert new section 115UBA 
 
Tax on distributed income to unit holders. 
115UBA.  

 

 

 

 

(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, any amount of 
income  distributed  by  the  investment  fund  listed  on  a  recognized  stock  exchange  to  its 
unit  holders  shall  be  chargeable  to  tax  and  such  investment  fund  shall  be  liable  to  pay 
additional income-tax on such distributed income at the rate of thirty per cent. 
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply  in respect  of any income 
distributed  to  a  unit  holder  of  an  equity  oriented  investment  fund  in  respect  of  any 
distribution made from such fund. 
 
Explanation – For the purpose of this sub-section,- 
1.  “equity  oriented  investment  fund”  means  a  fund  where  the  investible  funds  are 
invested by way of equity shares or equity linked instruments to the extent of more 
than sixty five percent of the corpus of the investment fund. 

2.  “corpus”  and  “equity  linked  instruments”  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  in 
clause (h) and clause (j) of Regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative  Investment  Fund)  Regulation,  2012,  made  under  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992). 
 

(2)  The  person  responsible  for  making  payment  of  the  income  distributed  by  the 
investment fund, as the case may be, shall be liable to pay tax to the credit of the Central 
Government  within  fourteen  days  from  the  date  of  distribution  or  payment  of  such 
income, whichever is earlier. 
 
(3) The tax on distributed income so paid by the investment fund shall be treated as the 
final  payment  of  tax  in  respect  of  the  amount  distributed  or  paid  and  no  further  credit 
therefor shall be claimed by the investment fund or by any other person in respect of the 
amount of tax so paid.  
 
(4) No deduction under any other provision of this Act shall be allowed to the investment 
fund or the  unit-holders  in respect of the  amount which has been charged to tax under 
sub-section (1) or the tax thereon.  
 
(5) Where  the  person  responsible  for making  payment  of the  income  distributed  by the 
investment  fund, fails to pay  the whole or any part of the tax referred to in sub-section 
(1), within the time allowed under sub-section (2) of that section, he or it shall be liable to 
pay simple interest at the rate of one per cent every month or part thereof on the amount 
of such tax for the period beginning on the date immediately after the last date on which 
such tax was payable and ending with the date on which the tax is actually paid. 
 
(6)  If  any  person  responsible  for  making  payment  of  the  income  distributed  by  the 
investment fund, does not pay tax, as is referred to in sub-section (1), then, he or it shall 
be deemed to be an assessee in default in respect of the amount of tax payable by him or 
it  and  all  the  provisions  of  this  Act  for  the  collection  and  recovery  of  income-tax  shall 
apply. 
 
Amendment 4: Amendments to section 2(42A), section 10(38) and section 111A of the 
Act 

100 

Section 2(42A) “short term capital asset” means a capital asset held by an assessee for not 
more than thirty-six months immediately preceding the date of transfer: 
 
Provided that in the case of 23[a security (other than a unit) listed in a recognized stock 
exchange in India] or a unit of the Unit Trust of India established under the Unit Trust of 
India Act, 1963 (52 of 1963) or 24[a unit of an equity oriented fund] or a zero coupon bond 
or units of an investment fund listed on a recognized stock exchange, the provisions of this 
clause shall have effect as if for the words "thirty-six months", the words "twelve months" 
had been substituted. 
 
Section 10(38) – any income arising from the transfer of a long-term capital asset, being 
an equity share in a company or a unit of an equity oriented fund [or a unit of a business 
trust] or a unit of an investment fund listed on a recognized stock exchange where- 
 
Section  111A  –  Where  the  total  income  of  an  assessee  includes  any  income  chargeable 
under  the  head  “Capital  gains”,  arising  from  the  transfer  of  a  short-term  capital  asset, 
being  an  equity  share  in  a  company  or  a  unit  of  an  equity  oriented  fund  or  a  unit  of  a 
business trust or a unit of an investment fund listed on a recognized stock exchange, and- 
 
Appropriate amendments should be made in Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 
to introduce STT rates on transactions executed on the stock exchange. 
 
Amendment 5: Amendment to MAT provisions 
Amend Explanation 2 to section 115JB of the Act 
 
Explanation 2 – For the purpose of clause (a) of Explanation 1, the amount of income-tax 
shall include- 

(i) 

any  tax  on  distributed  profits  under  section  115-O  or  on  distributed  income 
under section 115R or on distributed income under section 115UBA 

 

  
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

VI. No taxability on conversion of preference shares and inclusion of the period of holding of        
convertible  preference  shares  (pre-conversion)  in  the  period  of  holding  of  equity  shares 
received on conversion  
 

1.  VCPE Funds prefer to use convertible preference shares/ debentures over equity shares, 
since  these  instruments  provide  the  investor  the  flexibility  to  link  the  formulae  for 
conversion  into  equity  shares  with  the  performance  of  the  company  on  a  pre-defined 
date in the future. In such cases, the conversion typically happens 12 to 18 months prior 
to  the  “offer  for  sale”  or  an  “Initial  Public  Offer”  event.  Other  commercial  factors  also 
drive  such  investors  to  initially  structure  their  investment  in  the  form  of  a  convertible 
instrument. 

2.  Typically, the total holding period of the investment is in the range of 3 to 5 years, i.e. 

the investments are long term in nature.  

3.  A question that arises in these situations is whether the act of conversion of preference 
shares into equity shares would be  regarded as a “transfer” under section 2(47) of the 
Act,  and  thus  be  liable  for  capital  gains  taxation  in  the  hands  of  the  shareholders,  or 
whether the capital gains would arise only when the shares, after conversion, are sold or 
otherwise transferred. 

4.  Circular  [dated  12  May  1964  (F.  No.  12/1/64-IT  (AI)]  provides  that  where  one  type  of 
share is converted into another type of share, there is, in fact, no 'transfer' of a capital 
asset within the meaning of Section 2(47) of the Income-tax Act, 1961. However, when 
such newly converted share is actually transferred at a later date, the cost of acquisition 
of  such  share  for  the  purposes  of  computing  the  capital  gains  shall  be  calculated  with 
reference to the cost of acquisition of the original share of stock from which it is derived.  

 

5.  While  the  aforesaid  circular  is  helpful  and  there  are  judicial  precedents  which  support 
the  above,  since  this  position  is  not  expressly  clarified  in  the  law  there  are  conflicting 
judicial precedents and hence could lead to litigation.  

Recommendation: 
In  order  to  provide  certainty  and  mitigate  litigation  risk,  it  is  recommended  to  expressly 
provide that conversion of preference shares into equity shares shall not be regarded as a 
transfer  and  hence  exempt  from  tax.  This  is  consistent  with  the  exemption  from  tax 
provided to bonds or debenture, debenture-stock, or deposit certificates in any form, of a 
company which are converted into shares or debentures of that company. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

102 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proposed Amendment: 
This will require amendment to following section:  

47(x) - any transfer by way of conversion of preference shares, bonds or debentures, 
debenture-stock or deposit certificates in any form, of a company into shares or debentures 
of that company 

 
 
 

6.  Consequently,  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the  period  of  holding  of  equity  shares 
received on conversion of convertible preference shares, it should be clarified that the 
period  of  holding  convertible  preference  shares  should  also  be  considered,  thereby 
aligning the treatment of such equity shares with equity shares received on conversion 
of convertible debentures (as provided in Rule 8AA).  

Proposed Amendment: 
 
This will require the following amendment in Rule 8AA: 
8AA. (1) The period for which any capital asset, other than the capital assets mentioned in 
clause (i) of the Explanation 1 to clause (42A) of section 2 of the Act, is held by an assessee, 
shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of this rule. 
(2) In the case of a capital asset, being a share or debenture of a company, which becomes 
the property of the assessee in the circumstances mentioned in clause (x) of section 47 of 
the  Act,  there  shall  be  included  the  period  for  which  the  preference  shares,  bond, 
debenture,  debenture-stock  or  deposit  certificate,  as  the  case  may  be,  was  held  by  the 
assessee prior to the conversion. 

 

OR 

 
 

 

 

 

Proposed clarification: 
This will require clarification in the CBDT circular dated 12 May 1964. The relevant  extract 
of the aforesaid circular along with the proposed clarification is as follows:  
 

Relevant Extract of the Circular    

          

 

F. No. 12/1/64 – IT (AI) 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND COMPANY LAW) 

NEW DELHI, the 12th MAY, 1964. 

. . . 
   

Deputy Secretary to Govt. of India 

All Commissioners of Income Tax 

 

From  Shri G. R. Desai,    
 
 
To  
 
Sir, 
 

 

 

 Sub:- Conversion of one kind of shares of the Company into another kind  – Capital gains 

and bonus tax – Finance Act, 1964 

    Attention is invited to Section12 of the Finance Act, 1964, which introduces new sub-
section  (2)  in  section  45  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961,  so  as  to  provide  for  the 
charging  of  tax  on  capital  gains  on  allotment  of  shares  by  a  company  by  way  of 
bonus. Section 14 of the Finance  Act, 1964 introduces  a new sub-clause  (v) in sub-
section  (2)  of  section  55 of  the  Income-tax  Act, 1961,  laying  down  the method  for 
determining the  cost of acquisition of a new share which becomes the property of 
the  assessee  on  conversion  of  one  type  of  share  into  another  type  of  share.  A 
question has been raised whether the transaction of conversion of one type of share 
into  another  attracts  the  capital  gains  tax  under  section  45(1)  or  the  bonus  tax  of 
12.5% or the capital gains tax on the issue of bonus shares under section 45(2). The 
position in this regard is as follows:    

(i)  Where  one  type  of  share  is  converted  into  another  type  of  share  (including 
conversion of debentures into equity shares), there is, in fact, no 'transfer' of a 
capital asset within the meaning of Section 2(47) of the Income-tax Act, 1961. 
Hence, any profits derived from such conversion are not liable to capital gains 
tax  under  Section  45(1)  of  the  Income-tax  Act.  However,  when  such  newly 
converted share is actually transferred at a later date, the cost of acquisition 
of  such  share  for  the  purposes  of  computing  the  capital  gains  shall  be 
calculated  with  reference  to  the  cost  of  acquisition  of  the  original  share  of 

104 

stock from which it is derived. 

 

In determining the holding period of the newly converted share at the time of 
transfer,  the  period  for  which  the  share  was  held  before  the  conversion, 
should also be included 

 
 
VII.  Ease  in  obtaining  certificates  under  section  197  of  the  Act  in  a  time  bound  manner 
especially  for  treaty  exempt  investors  with  suitable  administrative  guidance  on  availability  of 
tax treaty relief 
   

1.  Section 197 of the Act contains the provisions relating to issuance of certificate for lower 
/ non-deduction of tax at source. Given the fact that the certificate under section 197 of 
the  Act  is  important from  a  cash  flow  perspective,  the  CBDT  has  issued  instructions to 
field officers for disposing the application within 30 days of the filing of the application.   

 

2. 

In practice, it is observed that in many instances the certificate is not issued in a timely 
manner.  Even in cases where the certificate is issued, it is delayed and comes into force 
only from the latter half of the financial year. Further, if the application is made by an 
assessee  having  taxable  income  and  paying  advance  tax,  the  application  is  invariably 
rejected. 

 

 

3.  From  a  VCPE  perspective,  such  delays  and  uncertainty  around  the  outcome  of  the 
applications  have  a  significant  impact  on  transaction  timelines.  For  example,  in  a 
transaction  where  shares  of  an  Indian  Company  are  being  acquired  from  a  Mauritius 
resident  seller  (holding  a  valid  Tax  Residency  Certificate  and  hence  eligible  for  capital 
gains exemption under the India Mauritius Tax Treaty), typically, transactions have to be 
closed  in  60-75  days  once  due  diligence  is  completed.  Any  delay  in  the  closure  of  a 
transaction  can  have  a  huge  impact  on  the  valuation  and  hence  the  gain  or  loss 
implications in the hands of the buyer/ seller. In such situations when there is a delay in 
the issue of a certificate under section 197 of the Act, there is a direct impact on viability 
of the transaction and could also result in the buyer deducting tax at a higher rate when 
the seller is eligible for a lower tax rate.  

4.  As  a  result  of  above,  the  investor  suffers  undue  hardship  and  from  a  foreign  investor 

perspective it also impacts the perception of ease of doing business in India.  

5.  Accordingly, it is important that there is strict adherence to the timelines so as to ensure 

speedy disposal of the applications. 

6.  Further, the tax authorities should take into consideration the treaty benefits available 

to an investor while issuing the lower/ non-deduction of tax at source certificates.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation: 
An application for a certificate under section 197 should be disposed-off within 30 days from 
the date of application. If the certificate is issued during a financial year, it should cover 
transactions which have not already suffered TDS during the FY. 
 
Further, the CBDT should issue an instruction to clarify that where Circular No 789 dated 
13.04.2000 and Circular: No. 1/2003, dated 10-2-2003 is satisfied, the tax officer should issue 
the certificate under section 197 without any delay.  
 

Proposed Amendment: 
Insert sub-section 3 in section 197 of the Act:  
197.  
(3) [***]  
(3)  Every  certificate  under  sub-section  (1)  shall  be  issued  before  the  expiry  of  thirty  days 
from the end of the month in which such application was received and shall be applicable 
for the financial year in which it is issued.    

 

 

VIII. Clarify indirect transfer provisions for funds/ investors 
 

1.  The Finance Act, 2015, provided clarification on several aspects relating to the indirect 
transfer provisions under section 9 of the Act. However, on the up-streaming of profits in 
a  multi-tiered  structure  and  the  mandatory  obligation  on  the  Indian  Company  of 
reporting  any  ‘indirect  transfer’  in  relation  to  its  share  capital,  still  remains  to  be 
addressed. 

 

2. 

 

It  may  be  noted  that  the  genesis  of  the  indirect  transfer  rules  was  the  decision  of  the 
Supreme  Court  of  India in  the  case  of Vodafone  International  Holdings BV7  (Vodafone) 
and to overturn the decision of the Supreme Court. The intent of insertion of the indirect 
transfer  rules  and  amending  the  source  rule  was  to  bring  to  tax  in  India  offshore 
transactions (as in the case of Vodafone) which derive their value from Indian assets and 
where  the  Indian  assets  are  not  transferred  directly,  but  interests  in  the  entity/ies 
(incorporated overseas) holding the Indian assets are transferred. Thus, the premise for 
the  amendment  was  to  bring  within  the  purview  of  Indian  tax,  transfers  of  substantial 
interests  in  Indian  operations;  ostensibly  through  the  transfer  of  shares  in  offshore 
investment holding companies. 

3.  However,  given  the  language,  the  indirect  transfer  rules  apply  where  the  value  of  the 
shares of the foreign company is substantially derived from Indian assets held, directly or 
indirectly by such foreign company, without considering the level of investment by the 

                                                           
7 The Supreme Court of India in the case of Vodafone International Holdings BV (Vodafone), based on the facts of the case, 
held that gains arising to a foreign company from the transfer of shares of a foreign holding company which indirectly 
held underlying Indian assets did not amount to transfer of a capital asset situated in India and hence not taxable in India. 
 

106 

foreign company in the Indian company (where the investment is not substantial in the 
context of the total shareholding of such Indian company). 

 
Indirect transfer in a multi-tiered structure 

4. 

In  a  multi-tiered  structure,  once  the  offshore  entity  divests  an  asset  in  its  portfolio 
(pursuant  to  a  transfer  that  qualifies  as  a  taxable  direct  transfer),  a  series  of  capital 
redemptions are made in the entities in the chain holding structure, resulting in taxable 
indirect transfers in India. Moreover, in such structures, the taxation is applicable at each 
income distribution so long as there is an underlying Indian asset/ interest. Accordingly, 
the gains can be subject to indirect transfer tax at multiple levels, resulting in a situation 
of economic double taxation. 

5.  Further Explanation 5 to section 9(1)(i) deems any income arising outside India from any 
transaction in respect of any share or interest in a foreign company or entity, which has 
the effect of transferring, directly or indirectly, the underlying assets located in India, as 
income  accruing  or  arising  in  India.  This  can  trigger  indirect  transfer  provisions  even 
when there is no change in the shareholders. For example, where the offshore entity has 
not divested any Indian asset, but is redeeming/ repurchasing its capital without altering 
the ownership of the shareholders, the indirect transfer provisions will get triggered.   

 

 

 

 

Recommendation: 
 
Given  the  above  intent,  in  order  to  ensure  complete  clarity  and  to  dispense  with 
concerns  of  the  VCPE  industry,  it  could  be  clarified  that  indirect  transfer  provisions 
should not be applicable in cases where -  

(a) 

(b) 

transfer/  redemption  is  directly  or  indirectly  in  consequence  of  or  by  reason  of 
transfer of capital assets situated in India; or 
transfer/  redemption  of  share  or  interest  does  not  alter  the  ownership  of  the 
transferor in the transferee. 

 

 

 

Reporting obligation on Indian company 

 

6.  Section  285A  of  the  Act  inserted  vide  the  Finance  Act,  2015,  provided  for  reporting 
requirements  for  the  Indian  investee  company,  in  the  above  scenario  the  Indian 
company would need to report the transaction of sale of units/ shares by investors in the 
off-shore funds. 
 

7.  Further,  the  CBDT  has  recently  released  the  Notification  No.  55/  2016  dated  
28  June  2016  which  provides  the  manner  of  determination  of  fair  market  value  and 
reporting requirement (by introducing Rule 114DB to the Income-tax Rules, 1962), for an 

 

 

 

 

Indian  concern  with  respect  to  the  indirect  transfer  provisions  contained  in  section 
9(1)(i)  of  the  Act.  Rule  114DB  requires  the  Indian  concern  to  file  Form  49D  in  the 
prescribed  format  and  time  and  maintain  a  list  of  documentation  to  substantiate  the 
information furnished in Form 49D.  

 

Considering  the  exhaustive  list  of  information  and  documentation  along  with  penal 
consequences for default (as envisaged in section 271GA), it is an extremely onerous 
obligation  on  the  Indian  concern  and  it  is  farfetched  that  the  Indian  concern  will  be 
able to collate all such information.  
 

8.  There are a large number of Indian companies that have raised capital from VCPE funds 
that  invest  in  Indian  companies  through  layers  of  investment  holding  entities.  On 
grounds of confidentiality, the information on the investment holding entities and group 
entities is unlikely to be placed at the disposal of the Indian concern. 
 

9.  All  Indian  concerns,  through  or  in  which  the  foreign  company  or  the  entity  whose 
share/interest  is  the  subject  matter  of  transfer,  are  required  to  comply  with  the 
reporting  obligation.  There  would  be  several  situations  where  the  VCPE  funds  have 
multiple  Indian  concerns  in  or  through  which  they  hold  India  assets.  Each  such  entity 
may  or  may  not  be  a  significant  contributor  to  the  value  of  the  foreign  company  or 
entity’s  shares/interest.  Also,  such  Indian  concerns  may  be  held  through  various 
immediate/intermediate holding entities. The provisions of Rule 114DB will require that 
such compliance is done by each concern on a duplicated or overlapping basis. 

108 

Recommendation: 

 

1.  Provide  flexibility  to  comply  with  the  reporting  obligation  under  Rule  114DB  i.e.  the 
reporting obligation should be complied either by the Indian concern or the transferor 
or  transferee  where  the  transfer  of  share/interest  in  the  foreign  company/  entity  is 
covered by provisions of section 9(1)(i) of the Act.  

 

2.  Provide a simple reporting obligation which shall comprise of base information such as 
details of transferor, transferee, subject matter of transfer and its valuation (similar to 
practice followed by Peru and Chile). 

 

3.  The obligation of Indian concern should be restricted to the extent such Indian concern 
possesses  information  and/or  documents. There  should  be  no  penal  consequences  in 
the event of failure to report, except when there is a misrepresentation.  

 

4.  The  Indian concern may be  obligated to furnish information only in a case where  the 
transfer is liable to tax under section 9(1)(i) of the Act. It may be explicitly provided that 
if  the  transferor  is  entitled  to  the  small  shareholders  exemption  or  avails  treaty 
exemption or if transfer is exempt in terms of section 47 of the Act; there may be no 
corresponding obligation on the Indian concern as the  transfer  would not  attract   tax 
under section 9(1)(i) of the Act. 

 

 

 

 

Proposed Amendment: 
Furnishing of information or documents by transferor or transferee or an Indian concern 
in certain cases. 

285A. Where any share of, or interest in, a company or an entity registered or incorporated 
outside India derives, directly or indirectly, its value substantially from the assets located in 
India, as referred to in Explanation 5 to clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 9, and such 
company  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  entity,  holds,  directly  or  indirectly,  such  assets  in  India 
through,  or  in,  an  Indian  concern,  then,  the  transferor  or  transferee  of  the  share  of,  or 
interest  in,  a  company  or an  entity  registered  or  incorporated  outside  India  or  the  Indian 
concern shall, for the purposes of determination of any income accruing or arising in India 
under clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 9, furnish within the prescribed period to the 
prescribed income-tax authority the information or documents, in such manner, as may be 
prescribed 

[Penalty for failure to furnish information or document under section 285A 

271GA.  If  any  Indian  concern  or  the  transferor  or  transferee, which  is  required  to  furnish 
any information or document under section 285A, fails to do so, the income-tax authority, 
as  may  be  prescribed  under  the  said  section,  may  direct  that  such  Indian  concern  or  the 
transferor or transferee shall pay, by way of penalty,—  

(i) 

(ii) 

a sum equal to two per cent of the value of the transaction in respect of which such 
failure  has  taken  place,  if  such  transaction  had  the  effect  of  directly  or  indirectly 
transferring the right of management or control in relation to the Indian concern; 
a sum of five hundred thousand rupees in any other case. 

 

 

 

110 

Annexure 1 

 

 
Analysis of the High Court (HC) ruling in Sumeet Taneja case8 
 
I.  Distinguishable facts: 

 
1.  Type of Seller 

 

 

 

The seller in the case of the HC ruling was the promoter and Managing Director of the company 
and in charge of the operations of the company. Conversely, an AIF is a passive investor (being a 
pooling  vehicle  set  up  for  investment  purposes).  Typically,  the  investors  in  an  AIF  (financial 
investors) neither have the expertise nor are they actually involved in the day to day operations 
of  the  company.  At  most,  they  may  appoint  a  Nominee  Director  to  be  informed  about  the 
operations  of  the  company  and  to  safeguard  their  interests  as  a  shareholder.  Such  Nominee 
Directors are not involved in the operations of the investee company. 

2.  Rights and Covenants 

In the  HC ruling, as a part of the  sale transaction, various restrictive covenants were enforced 
upon  the  seller  viz.  to  refrain  from  participating  in  the  management  of  the  company,  blanket 
ban  on  engaging  in  any  similar  business  activity  in  a  specified  area  for  a  defined  period;  non 
solicitation  of  business;  non  poaching  of  employees,  handing  over  employee,  product  and 
customer data base, customer support contracts and prospective client proposals, renunciation 
of brand equity, logos, trademarks, partnerships, affiliations, domain names etc.  It not usual for 
an AIF to give any such rights when they exit the portfolio company.  
 
AIF as an investor is typically not bound by covenants enunciated in the Ruling.  The rights which 
the  seller  had  to  forego  in  the  Ruling  were  more  at  the  operational  and  business  level  as 
opposed  to  an  AIF  which have  investor  level  rights  (refer  table  below  for  list of  limited  rights 
that an AIF has) and to that extent there is a fundamental difference between the two.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                           
8 TS-423-HC-2013 (Punjab and Haryana)  

 

 

 

 

Pre-emptive rights of shareholders under SHA* 

Affirmative Rights 

<20% 

20%<>50% 

>50% 

Issue of shares/ Liquidation preferences/ Pricing 

Business Acquisition/ Setting up subsidiaries 

Strategic Financial Alliance 

Amalgamation/ Restructuring/Buy-back 

Amendment to AoA/MoA 

Variation of Rights 

Board representation 

Managerial appointment/ removal 

Related Party Transactions 

Liquidation 

Business Plan 

Dividend/Utilisation of surplus funds 

Sale/Investment in Undertaking/IPR 

Borrowings/ Mortgages/Guarantees 

 
II.  Tax Considerations  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A.  Transfer of shares is not transfer of business of the company 

 

o  The  Company  was  engaged 

in  call  centre  business  and  taxpayers  were  merely 
shareholders/directors  of  the  company.  It  is  a  settled  proposition  that  a  company  and 
shareholders are distinct from each other; business carried on by a company under normal 
circumstances, cannot  be regarded as business carried on by shareholders. The  HC Ruling 
upheld  the  view  adopted  by  lower  authorities  that  transfer  of  shares  by  taxpayers 
constituted transfer of business. Recently, the Karnataka HC in case of Bhoruka Engineering 
Industries Ltd9 held that the sale of shares in a company having land as only asset cannot be 
treated as sale of underlying land. 

                                                           
9 [2013] 36 taxmann.com 82 (Karnataka) 

112 

 

o  The Supreme Court (SC) in the case of Vodafone International Holdings B.V10 held that while 
ascertaining  the  legal  nature  of  the  transaction,  the  Revenue/Court  has  to  ‘look  at’  the 
entire transaction as a whole and not adopt a ‘look through’ approach. Even if assuming the 
subject  matter  of  transfer  was  business  and/or  management/control  over  business,  still, 
the  same  constituted  a  capital  asset  and  income  from  transfer  thereof  was  assessable  as 
capital gains. 

 

o  In the case of Panchratan Hotels Pvt. Ltd;11 the HC held that a change in the management 
control  of  a  company,  by  transfer  of  shares  from  one  group  of  shareholders  to  another, 
does not amount to succession of the business of the company. As a company is a separate 
juristic person, change in its shareholding does not affect the ownership of the business of 
the company. 
 

B.  Rights of management or control in an Indian company is a capital asset 

 

o  Explanation to section 2(14) of the Act stipulates that the rights of management or control 
in relation to an Indian company is to be regarded as a capital asset. Similarly, the ‘right to 
carry on any business’ is considered as a capital asset and the computation mechanism for 
the  cost of acquisition of such right  is provided in Section 55(2)(a)  of the Act.  Whilst the 
argument on Section 2(14) of the Act was taken by the asseseee, the Ruling is silent on this 
important issue. 

o  Also, in the Ruling, the appellate courts have held that the entire consideration received by 
the seller is to be treated as business income under Section 28(va) of the Act. However, it is 
pertinent  to  note  that  the  said  Section  stipulates  that  any  sum  receivable  under  an 
agreement  for  not  carrying  out  any  activity  in  relation  to  business  is  to  be  charged  as 
business  income  provided  such  transfer  of  right  to  carry  on  business  is  not  chargeable 
under the head ‘Capital Gains’. Thus, taxation rights under section 28(va) is subordinate to 
chargeability  under  the  head  ‘Capital  Gains,  and  arises  only  in  a  situation  where  ‘right  to 
carry on business’ is not in the nature of a capital asset.  Thus, one needs to first assess if 
the  income  from  transfer  of  right  to  carry  on  business  is  chargeable  to  capital  gains  tax. 
Only in the absence of such a scenario, can the income be charged as business income.  In 
other  words,  section  2(14)  and  section  55(2)(a)  of  the  Act  take  precedence  over  section 
28(va) of the Act. 
 

Given the above, even if an AIF is contended to have transferred ‘rights of management or control’ 
or ‘right to carry on any business’ of an Indian company, it needs to be treated as a capital asset 
liable to capital gains tax.  

 

 

 

                                                           
10 (2012) 341 ITR 1 (SC) 
11 ITA No. 13 of 2004 dated 26 August 2009, Himachal Pradesh HC 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

B. An Alternative View of Taxation & Promoting Onshore Fund 

Chapter - IV 

Management in India  

 

114 

IV 

B. An Alternative View of Taxation & Promoting Onshore 

Fund Management in India  

 
A.   Introduction 

1.  This chapter recommends a Securities Transaction Tax  regime for various categories of 
Alternative Investments.  It describes the difficulties arising from the current tax regime 
and which confront all the key players in the AIF ecosystem, namely investors in funds, 
the Alternative Investment Funds and the revenue authorities. The chapter also provides 
cogent reasons for the need for a suitable STT regime for hedge funds- which fall under 
Category III Alternative Investment Funds of SEBI AIF regulations. The chapter includes 
the  justification  and  rationale  for  the  proposed  recommendations  and  includes  draft 
amendments for consideration by the relevant Government authorities. In essence, the 
chapter recommends a complete revamp in the manner in which AIFs and their investors 
are taxed in India.       

                          
B.    Recommendation I:  Introduction of Securities Transaction Tax (“STT”) for 

Category I and Category II AIF 

                                                                                      
 

2.  It  is  imperative  that  the  existing  uncertainties  on  the  tax  treatment  of  Alternative 
Investment  Funds  are  removed  and  a  stable  and  tax  regime  be  prescribed.  While  the 
revenue  authorities  could  try  and  remove  the  uncertainties  by  issuing  clarifications  and 
continue with the existing tax regime that may not completely eliminate the uncertainties 
and administrative difficulties. The tax treatment needs to be completely revamped. 

 
3.  A simplified regime of taxation of investors in mutual funds has significantly helped in the 
growth  of  mutual  funds  with  minimal  issues  and  litigation.  AIFs,  like  mutual  funds,  pool 
capital  raised  from  investors  which  is  invested  in  accordance  with  a  stated  investment 
criteria.  Given the similarities in the structure of mutual funds and AIFs, a similar tax regime 
i.e. Securities Transaction Tax (STT) should apply to transactions in units of AIFs. 

 
4.  The simplified regime for private equity and venture capital funds, as is the case of Foreign 
Portfolio  Investors  (FPIs)  who  invest  in  listed  securities  and  are  subject  to  Securities 
Transaction  Tax,  would  provide  great  impetus  to  the  growth  of  the  alternatives  fund 

 

 

 

 

management industry i.e. AIFs. Experience has shown that some of the key advantages of 
the Securities Transaction Tax regime are ease of compliance and reduction in tax litigation. 

 
5.  To  harmonize  the  taxation  of  mutual  funds  and  Investment  Funds  and  to  simplify  tax 
compliance  of  both the investors  as  well  as  the Investment  Funds,  it  is  proposed to  bring 
Investment Funds (i.e. Alternative Investment Funds) under the ambit of STT. 

 

6.  It  is  recommended  that,  in  lieu  of  the  current  tax  regime,  investors  in  Alternative 
Investment  Funds  should  be  made  liable  to  pay  STT  which  would  be  collected  at  three 
transaction  stages  i.e.  firstly,  at  the  time  of  entry,  at  which  point  the  investor  purchases 
units,  secondly,  when  income  is  distributed  during  the  unit  holding  period,  and,  finally, 
when  the  investor  exits  by  the  transfer  of  units.    Thus  it  is  recommended  that  the 
Government should institute a regime under which, STT would apply at the following points 
in the AIF transaction cycle: 

 

 

•  Point A: Investor invests in the Fund. 
•  Point B: Fund distributes income / redeems units to investors. 
•  Point C: Investor transfers units of the Fund. 

7.  In short, it is recommended that investors in Alternative Investment Funds should be made 
liable  to  pay  STT  at  various  points  in  the  transaction  cycle,  as  mentioned  above,  and 
consequently income arising to investors, whether on distributions / redemption / transfer 
of units should be exempted from tax in their hands. 

  

C.   Rationale and Justification 

8.  While  AIFs  have  provided  much  needed  long  term  and  stable  private  capital,  the  tax  and 
regulatory  environment  in  which  they  operate  has  become  more  and  more  complex  and 
litigation prone. On the contrary, the tax treatment of Foreign Portfolio investors, investing 
in  listed  securities,  has  tended  towards  greater  certainty.    For  instance,  two  Government 
clarifications  have  provided  much  needed  certainty  to  Foreign  Portfolio  Investors 
(previously  known  as  Foreign  Institutional  Investors  i.e.  FIIs).  These  are:  (i)  the  income 
earned by FIIs to be treated as capital gains; and (ii) clarification on the applicability of MAT 
to FIIs. These clarifications have gone a long way in providing certainty to Foreign Portfolio 
investors.  In contrast the tax treatment of income earned by SEBI registered VCFs and AIFs 
has seen a chequered history and has been anything other than certain. 
 

9.  In addition to the complexities surrounding the withholding and tax treatment of domestic 
investors, foreign investors have also been having to deal with stringent scrutiny of relief / 
benefits under Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements.  These difficulties have discouraged 

116 

Fund Managers from setting up Indian pooled and domiciled funds. Instead capital is pooled 
and domiciled outside India, and invested in India under the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) 
route.  Investments  under  the  FDI  route  are  not  subject  to  any  of  the  restrictions  and 
difficulties mentioned in the next section. 

 
10. The introduction of a Securities Transaction Tax (“STT”) can help alleviate the concerns. The 
implementation of a STT-based tax regime for AIFs gains paramount importance after the 
negotiation  of  the  DTAA  with 
jurisdictions  such  as  Mauritius  and  Singapore.  If 
implemented, an STT regime for private equity and venture capital funds, including AIFs, 
could yield STT tax revenues of $1.8 billion during the next 15 years (see Appendix 1) 

 
11. The specific difficulties arising from the  current fax regime for venture capital and private 

equity funds, their investors and the revenue authorities are given below. 

 

a)   Difficulties Faced by Alternative Investment Funds 
 
12. Lack  of  parity  on  withholding  tax  provisions  for  residents  and  non-residents:  Resident 
investors  suffer  a  10  percent  withholding  tax  on  gross  distributions  made  by  AIFs  which 
includes  distribution  of  income  in  the  nature  of  gains  from  the  sale  of  listed  company’s 
shares held for more than one year (which is exempt from tax), dividend income (which is 
exempt  from  tax)  etc.  However,  withholding  from  distributions  made  to  non-resident 
investors shall be made at the rates in force (including rates applicable on account of a tax 
treaty). Hence, there is a lack of parity in the treatment given to residents and non-resident 
investors thereby discouraging domestic investments. 

 
13. Blockage  of resident investors funds due to withholding requirement of 10 percent even 
in respect of exempt income: Resident investors suffer TDS on all income distributed by the 
Fund thereby resulting in tax on exempt income as well. Resident investors are left with no 
option but to claim the TDS as a refund by filing a return of income. Refund claims of the 
investors  are  blocked  until  the  refund  is  paid  thereby  lowering  the  return  on  capital  on 
investments from the Fund. 

 
14. Administrative inconvenience for the Funds: In order to realize refund claims and complete 
assessment proceedings Fund would need to continue to exist for notwithstanding the fact 
that most funds are established with a limited life. 

 

 

 

 

 

15. Compliance  burden  on the  Funds:  The tax  related  compliance  requirements of  Funds  has 
not been reduced over the years. The Fund is still required to file a return of income and in 
addition is required to submit Forms 64A and 64B detailing the income distributed by the 
Fund. This is in addition to the requirement of submitting TDS returns on income distributed 
to the Fund which is otherwise not required to be done by other assesses. 

 
b)   Difficulties Faced by Investors 
 
16. Claim of refund and return filing requirement: Most non-resident investors would have no 
other business activity other than participating in a VC / PE fund. Despite this, they will be 
required to file in India return of income irrespective of whether they have taxable income 
or not. This could act as a deterrent to large institutional investors. 

 
17. Stress  on  working  capital  of  investors:  Blocked  tax  deducted  at  source  claims  on  exempt 

income creates unnecessary stress on working capital. 

 
18. High withholding tax rate: The 10 per cent withholding tax rate is high considering that the 
actual tax payable by the investors could be less. A high withholding tax rate would reduce 
the effective Internal Rate of Return to the investors as the excess tax deducted would have 
to be claimed as a refund, the grant of which is delayed. 

 
c)    Difficulties Faced by Revenue Authorities 

19. Burden on Revenue Authorities: Increased scrutiny of returns filed by the PE/VC Funds and 
in the investors towards income and TDS adds to the administrative burden of the revenue 
authorities of scrutinizing returns containing exempt income;  

 
20. Administering  tax  credits  and  ensuring  that  the Form  26AS  credits  match  with  the  credits 
claimed  by  the  investors  adds  to  the  existing  reconciliation  of  mismatches  between  TDS 
claims and Form 26AS; 

 
21. Revenue leakage on account of interest on refunds which was never to be charged; 
  
22. Litigation:  Increase  in  litigation  leading  to  poor  tax  collection  and  inefficient  utilization  of 

tax authorities in dealing into such litigation. 

 
 
 
 

118 

 
 

 
Proposed  Amendments 
 
Amendment – 1: Distributions by AIFs to be treated as a taxable transaction in securities 
liable to STT  
 
Amendments required in the Finance Act 2004 (Chapter VII): 
 
Amending the Chapter VII of Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 to include distribution from Investment 
Funds as a taxable transaction in securities: 
 
Definitions 
 

A)  In section 97 of the Finance (No.2) Act, 2004,-  

Insert the following definition as sub-section (1): 
  
“Investment Fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (a) of the explanation to 
section 
115UB of the Income-tax Act, 1961” 
 

B)  In section 97 re-insert the current sub-section (1) defining Appellate Tribunal as sub-

section (1A) 

C)  In section 97 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004,– 

in sub-section 13, after sub-clause (b), the following sub-clauses shall be inserted: 
“(c) purchase of a unit in an Investment Fund 
(d) any distribution made on sale or redemption of an unit in an Investment Fund” 
(d) any distribution made otherwise by an Investment fund” 
 
Charge of Securities Transaction Tax 
 

D)  In section 98 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004, in the Table, after serial number 7 and the 

corresponding entries thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:–– 

 

Sl. No. 
(1) 

 

 

Taxable Securities Transaction 

(2) 

                                                           

12 Or such other rate as may be appropriate 

Rate12
 

(3) 

 

Payable by 

(4) 

 

 

 

 

 

“8 

(a) Purchase of a unit of an Investment Fund 

 

 

 

 

(b) Distribution of income representing long term 
capital gains, made to a unit holder by an Investment 
Fund on redemption or otherwise 
(c) Distribution of income other than long term capital 
gains, made by an Investment Fund on redemption or 
otherwise 
(d) Sale of a unit of an Investment Fund being a long 
term capital asset, to any person other than the 
Investment Fund in which such units are held 
(e) Sale of a unit of an Investment Fund being a short 
term capital asset, to any person other than the 
Investment Fund in which such units are held 

0.25% 

0.25% 

1% 

the 
purchaser 
the unit 
holder 

the unit 
holder 

0.25% 

the seller 

1% 

the seller 

 
Value of taxable securities transaction 
 

E)  In section 99 of the Finance (No.2) Act, 2004, after sub-clause (b) insert the following 

clauses (ba)- 

“(ba) in the case of purchase of units of an Investment Fund, the price at which such units are 
purchased; 
 
(bb) in the case of distribution on account of redemption of units of an Investment Fund, such 
amounts as are distributed to the unit holder including the principal amount redeemed; 
(bc)  in  the  case  of  distribution  by  an  Investment  fund  other  than  the  distribution  referred  in 
clause (bb) above, the amounts so distributed to the unit holder; 
 
(bd) in the case of sale of units of an Investment Fund by the unit holder to any person other 
than the Investment Fund in which such units are held, the price at which such units are sold” 
 
Collection and Recovery of Securities Transaction Tax, 
 

F)  In section 100  insert the following sub-section (2B) after sub-section (2A) 

“The  prescribed  person  in  the  case  of  every  Investment  Fund  shall  collect  the  securities 
transaction tax from every person who purchases or sells or redeems the unit of an Investment 
Fund” 
 
Recognised stock exchange or Investment Fund or Mutual Fund to furnish prescribed return 
 

G)  In sub-section (1)  of  section  101  -  insert  the  following  words  after  the  words  “every 

recognised stock exchange” – 

“Prescribed person in the case of every Investment Fund” 

120 

 
 
Amendment – 2: Amendments required in the Income Tax Act, 1961 
 

i) 

Exempting the income from Investment Fund (AIF) under section 10: 

A) In Section 10 of the Income-tax Act, after clause (38), the following clause shall be inserted, 
namely:- 
 
“(38A)  any  distribution  received  by  an  assessee,  being  a  unitholder  of  an  Investment  fund 
referred to in Explanation to section 10(23FBA), either on redemption or otherwise and where 
such  distribution  is  chargeable  to  securities  transaction  tax  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Finance 
(No. 2) Act, 2004. 
 
(38B) any income received by an assessee, being a unitholder of an Investment fund referred to 
in Explanation to section 10(23FBA), on sale of units in an Investment Fund to any person other 
than  the  Investment  Fund  in  which  such  units  are  held  and  where  such  sale  is  chargeable  to 
securities transaction tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004.” 
 
 
 
Other Consequential Amendments 

 

A)  Amending the period of holding in the securities held in and by an Investment Fund 

In  sub-section  42(A)  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  insert  the  following  proviso  after  the  second 
proviso- 
“Provided further that in the case of share or other securities of a company (not being a share 
listed in a recognised stock exchange) held by an Investment Fund or a  unit of an Investment 
Fund specified under clause (23FBA) of section 10, the provisions of this clause shall have effect 
as if for the words "thirty-six months", the words "Twenty four months" had been substituted” 
 

B)  Amending Section 115UB 

In Section 115UB of the Income-tax Act, after sub-section (7), the following sub-section shall be 
inserted, namely:- 
“(8)  Nothing  contained  in  sub-sections  (1)  to  (7)  shall  apply  to  any  distributions  by  an 
Investment  fund,  where  the  distribution  from  such  an  Investment  Fund  is  chargeable  to 
securities transaction tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 
 
(9) It shall not be necessary for an assessee being a unit holder of an investment fund to furnish 
under sub-section (1) of section 139 a return of his or its income if: 
 

a)  His or its total income in respect of which he or it is assessable under this Act, during 

 

 

 

 

the  previous  year  consisted  only  of  distributions  from  an 
investment  fund, 
chargeable to securities transaction tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (no.2) Act, 
2014” 

 

C)  Avoiding redundant exemptions in section 10 

In Section 10 of the Income-tax Act,- 
 

(a) for clause (23FBA), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- 

“(23FBA) any income of an investment fund; 
 
Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, the expression “Investment fund” shall have 
the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (a) of the Explanation 1 to section 11UB” 
 
 

(b) clause (23FBB) shall be omitted:- 

 

D)  Avoiding the Tax Deduction at Source by Investment Funds (Section 194LBB) 

In Section 194LBB of the Income-tax Act, the first paragraph shall be numbered as sub-section 
 
(1) and after sub-section (1) so numbered, the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- 
 
“(2)  Nothing  contained  in  sub-section  (1)  shall  apply  to  distributions  by  an  Investment  fund, 
where  such  distribution  is  chargeable  to  securities  transaction  tax  under  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004” 
  

E)  Exempting  a  portfolio  company  from  the  tax  on  share  premium  amount  when 
invested  by  an  Investment  Fund  (AIF)  (as  is  the  case  when  invested  by  a  venture 
fund) 

In section 56 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), in clause (viib), after clause (ii) of the 
Proviso, the following clause shall be inserted, namely- 
 
(iii) by a company from an Investment fund referred to in Explanation to section 10(23FBA) 
 
 

 

 

122 

C:  Recommendation 2:  Introduction of Securities Transaction Tax (“STT”) for Category III     
Alternative Investment Funds 

 

23. Category III Alternative Investment Funds include hedge funds under SEBI AIF regulations. 
In  India  the  hedge  fund  industry  has  not  yet  developed  to  its  full  potential  due  to  various 
factors,  including  the  lack  of  certainty  in  taxation.  A  transformative  change  on  the  taxation 
front can greatly facilitate their growth. A fair, transparent and enabling tax regime could result 
in India’s hedge fund industry potentially growing at 20% per annum from its current low base. 
Ultimately their assets under management could surpass $25 Billion or INR 166,750 crores in 10 
years. 
 
24. The rationale and advantages of the STT regime have been amplified in the earlier section. 
In  order  to  simplify  and  bring  ease  of  compliance  and  remove  ambiguity  in  taxes,  the 
introduction of the STT regime (on entry and redemption for each investor) will ensure smooth 
payment and collection of taxes. This proposal will ensure stable cash flows for the government 
and since they are source based, it represents a superior tax policy, which is a win-win for the 
fund manager, the investors and the Government. 
 

Justification for Developing the Hedge Fund Industry in India & Alternative Investment Funds 
in the Indian Context  
 
25. The current size of the AIF Category III Funds in India is an estimated INR 3,816 crores as of 
30th June, 2016. This is much smaller that the approximately Rs. 100,000 crores invested under 
Portfolio Management Schemes (PMS). The global hedge fund industry has $3 Trillion in assets 
under management as of 2015 (AsiaHedge and HFR Global Hedge Fund surveys). From 2007 to 
2015,  China’s  equity  hedge  fund  assets  under  management  have  risen  from  an  estimated 
USD13.5 Billion to USD45 Billion in 2015, taking China’s market share from 6% in 2007 to 18% in 
2015  in the Asia-Pac hedge fund industry. During this period, the share of India’s equity hedge 
funds declined from 5% to 2% today. The Chinese hedge fund industry has also grown strongly 
at a roughly 19% compounded rate since 2007. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
26. Hong Kong and Singapore, which have zero capital gains tax, have experienced tremendous 
growth in the hedge fund and financial services industry. Currently, Indian AIF’s are at a nascent 
stage  with  potential  to  grow  larger.  Consequently,  the  taxes  collected  can  rise  if  the  tax 
structure is simplified and made fair by implementing an STT regime for Category III AIFs. 27. 
Examples from other industries have proven that a fair tax regime led to exponential growth of 
industry and over time resulted in higher collection of tax revenue.  
 
27. Securities Transaction Tax, which is source based taxation, has the potential of leading to an 
exponential  growth  of  this  industry  in  India  in  line  with  international  jurisdictions  such  as 
Singapore, Hong Kong, US and the UK.  
 
 
Rationale for a Vibrant Hedge Funds Industry  
 
28.  There  is  a  strong  rationale  for  developing  a  vibrant  hedge  funds  industry  in  India.  The       
rationale  for  this  is  the  several  benefits  associated  with  a  hedge  fund  industry  which  are        
explained below: 
 
  Alternative source of funding: Hedge funds are a potential alternative source of funding for 
India’s  economic  growth  and  development.  They  are  attractive  to  large  institutional 
investors  such  as  sovereign  wealth  funds,  pension  funds,  endowments,  trusts  and  family 
offices.  Hedge  funds  typically  start  their  corpus  with  proprietary  capital  of  the  fund 
manager. This ‘skin- in- the- business’, brings about a natural alignment of interest between 
the fund manager and fund investors; 

 

 

 Counterweight  to  Volatile  International  Capital  Flows:  The  creation  of a  large  domestic 
institutional AIF industry, including hedge funds, would act as a counterweight to volatile 

124 

foreign portfolio flows and contribute to stability in the Indian equity market. Domestic 
AIFs can lower the help impact of speculative activity. Daily trading in equity derivatives 
is 20x the daily trading volume in the cash segment; 

 

  Superior  Governance:  Hedge  funds  strategies  include  activist  investment  strategies  which 
aim  to  improve  the  quality  of  governance  in  portfolio  companies,  thereby  bringing  about 
improvements in their performance and enhanced efficiencies in their operations; 
 

  Diversity  of  Investment  Strategies  Meets  the  Investment  &  Risk  Management  Needs  of 
Investors: Hedge funds play a critical role by offering a wide array of investment strategies, 
thus  increasing  the  number  of  participating  investors  and  enlarging  pools  of  capital 
available. For investors, hedge funds also serve a risk-management role, since their returns 
can be uncorrelated to those in equity markets. Markets work best when investors draw on 
a diverse set of strategies and securities to manage risk. Private pools of regulated capital 
provide  valuable  liquidity  to  financial  markets  under  normal  conditions  and  especially 
during periods of market stress and downturns; 

 
  Price  Discovery:  The  variety  of  investing  strategies  that  hedge  funds  employ,  strengthen 
capital markets by improving opportunities for price discovery. “Short selling contributes to 
the market’s process of finding correct prices and its valuable to have hedge funds do this,” 
said  Jeremy  Seigel,  Prof  of  Finance  at  Wharton  School  of  Business.  “By  buying  irrationally 
cheap  assets  and  selling  irrationally  expensive  ones,  they  shift  market  prices  until 
irrationalities  disappear,  thus  ultimately  facilitating  the  efficient  allocation  of  the  world’s 
capital.” ; 
 

  Lower  Cost  of  Capital:  Countries  with  highly  developed  hedge  fund  industry  have  seen 
more efficient capital markets and a much  lower cost of capital. This is desirable as  India 
currently suffers from high cost of capital (double digit across sectors) and a high equity risk 
premium; and 

 
 

 

Job Creation: A strong hedge fund ecosystem will help create many jobs within the financial 
industry. This will lead to high value job creation in the financial services industry in India. 
The diagram below shows the areas in the hedge fund eco-system where jobs will increase 
as the hedge fund industry grows.  

 

 

 

Investment 
Research

(Sell Side)

Hedge 
Fund 

Industry 
Ecosystem

Hedge Fund

Fund Manager

Investment 

Analysts

Back Office 

Analysts

Prime 

Brokerage

Legal

Accountants & 

Auditors

 

 
 
The Proposed Securities Transaction Tax on Category III AIFs: Collection Stages 
 
29.  To  simplify  tax  compliance  by  investors  and  category  III  AIFs,  it  is  recommended  that 
category III AIFs are brought under the ambit of STT. Further, the investors of the  category III 
AIFs should be made liable to pay STT on the distribution made by the  category III AIFs to the 
investors and consequently such distributions should be exempted from tax in the hands of the 
investors. 
30.  It  is  recommended  that  STT  be  collected  at  5  stages  of  the  typical  Category  III  AIF 
investment transaction cycle, in lieu of the current tax regime covering AIFs, as follows: 
 
  Point A: Investor invests in the Fund.  
  Point B: Fund buys securities, equity and derivatives over the course of the year.  
  Point C: Fund sells securities pay STT on both equities and derivatives.   
  Point D: Transaction-Fund distributes income to investors.  
  Point E:  Transaction-Investor redeems money / transfers units of the Fund. 
 
31.  In  addition  to  the  above,  a  15%  service  tax  on  brokerage  amount  is  also  paid,  as  also  an 
incremental service tax on the asset management fees paid out to the domestic fund manager. 
 
32. In this manner the government collects the tax on the entire gain made by the fund when 
the investor redeems his or her investment from the fund. 

126 

33. It is important to highlight that in category III AIFs, the money received by such AIFs would 
be invested in underlying listed securities. As per the current law, such AIFs would be subject to 
STT for transacting in listed securities. Further, considering the volume involved at the category 
III AIF level, there is already a good amount of STT liability created at the time of transacting in 
underlying  listed  securities.  The  proposed  rates  of  STT  are  over  and  above  the  STT  that  a 
category III AIF would otherwise pay for transacting in listed securities. 
 
34.  Additionally,  there  are  also  funds  which  are  registered  as  CAT  III  AIFs  and  which  adopt  a 
‘long’ strategy for investment in listed securities. A significant portion of their income is in the 
nature  of  long  term  capital  gains  which  is  otherwise  exempt  under  existing  tax  law.  Since 
investors earning long term capital gains would otherwise not have paid any income-tax at the 
time  of  disposing  the  listed  securities,  it  is  proposed  not  to  levy  any  STT  at  the  time  of 
distribution of such income.  
 
Proposed Amendments  
 
Amendment  –  1:  Amendments  required  in  the  Finance  Act  2004  (Chapter  VII  –  Securities 
Transaction Tax): 
 
Distributions by AIFs to be treated as a taxable transaction in securities liable to STT  
 
Amending  the  Chapter  VII  of  Finance  (No.  2)  Act,  2004  to  include  distribution  from  CAT  III 
Investment Funds as a taxable transaction in securities: 
 
Definitions 

 

A)  In  section  97  of  the  Finance  (No.2)  Act,  2004,  after  sub-section  (3A),  the  following 

definition shall be inserted: 

 

“(3B) “CAT III Investment Fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Explanation 
to Section 10(23FBAA) of the Income-tax Act, 1961” 
 

B)  In section 97 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004, in sub-section 13, after sub-clause (b), the 

following sub-clauses shall be inserted: 

 

“(c) purchase of an unit in a CAT III Investment Fund; or 
(d) any distribution made on redemption of an unit in a CAT III Investment Fund; or 
(e) any distribution made otherwise by a CAT III Investment Fund; or 
(f) sale of an unit in a CAT III Investment Fund” 

 
Charge of Securities Transaction Tax 

 

 

 

 

 
C)  In section 98 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004, in the Table, after serial number 7 and the 

corresponding entries thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:- 
 

Taxable Securities Transaction 

(2) 

 
a)  Purchase of an unit of a CAT III Investment Fund 

 

Sl. No. 

(1) 

“8 
 

b)  Distribution representing long term capital gains 
as referred to in Section 10(38) of the Income-tax 
Act, 1956 , made by a CAT III Investment Fund on 
redemption or otherwise 

c)  Distribution other than referred to in clause b 
above, made by a CAT III Investment Fund on 
redemption or otherwise 

Rate 
(3) 

0.05% 

 

Payable by 

(4) 

the 

purchaser 

Nil 

- 

0.25% 

the unit 
holder 

d)  Sale of an unit of a CAT III Investment Fund being 

0.05% 

the seller 

a long term capital asset, to any person other 
than the CAT III Investment Fund in which such 
units are held 

e)  Sale of an unit of a CAT III Investment Fund being 

0.25% 

the seller 

 

 

 

 

 

a short term capital asset, to any person other 
than the Investment Fund in which such units are 
held 

 
Value of taxable securities transaction 
 
D)  In  section  99  of  the  Finance  (No.2)  Act,  2004,  after  sub-clause  (b)  insert  the  following 

clauses- 

 

“(ba) in the case of purchase of units of a CAT III Investment Fund, the price at which such 
units are purchased; 
(bb) in the case of distribution on account of redemption of units of a CAT III Investment 
Fund, such amounts as are distributed to the unit holder including the principal amount 
redeemed; 
(bc) in  the  case  of  distribution  by  a  CAT  III  Investment  Fund  other  than  the  distribution 
referred in clause (bb) above, the amounts so distributed to the unit holder; 
(bd)  in  the  case  of  sale  of  units  of  a  CAT  III  Investment  Fund  by  the  unit  holder  to  any 
person other than the Investment Fund in which such units are held, the price at which 
such units are sold” 

 
Collection and Recovery of Securities Transaction Tax, 

128 

 
E)  In section 100 insert the following sub-section (2C) after sub-section (2B) 
 

“(2C) The prescribed person in the case of every CAT III Investment Fund shall collect the 
securities  transaction  tax  from  every  person  purchases  or  sells  or  redeems  the  unit  of  a 
CAT III Investment Fund” 
 

Recognised stock exchange or Investment Fund or Mutual Fund to furnish prescribed return 
 
F)  In  sub-section  (1)  of  section  101  -  insert  the  following  words  after  the  words  “every 

recognised stock exchange” – 

 

“or prescribed person in the case of every CAT III Investment Fund” 

 
Amendment – 2 : Amendments required in the Income Tax Act, 1961 
 
Exempting the income from CAT III Investment Fund under section 10:  
 
In Section 10 of the Income-tax Act, after clause (38), the following clauses shall be inserted, 
namely:- 
 

“(38A)  any  distribution  received  by  an  assessee,  being  a  unitholder  of  a  CAT  III 
Investment  Fund  as  referred  to  in  Explanation  to  section  10(23FBAA),  either  on 
redemption  or  otherwise  and  where  such  distribution  is  chargeable  to  securities 
transaction tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004. 
 
(38B)  any  income  received  by  an  assessee,  being  a  unitholder  of  a  CAT  III  Investment 
Fund  referred  to  in  Explanation  to  section  10(23FBAA),  on  sale  of  units  in  a  CAT  III 
Investment  Fund  to  any  person  other  than  the  CAT  III  Investment  Fund  in  which  such 
units  are  held  and  where  such  sale  is  chargeable  to  securities  transaction  tax  under 
Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004.” 

 
Exempting the income of CAT III Investment Fund under section 10:  
 
In  Section  10  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  after  clause  (23FBB),  the  following  clauses  shall  be 
inserted, namely:- 
 

“(23FBAA) any income of a CAT III Investment Fund; 
 
Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, “CAT III Investment Fund” means any fund 
established  or  incorporated  in  India  in  the  form  of  a  trust  or  a  company  or  a  limited 
liability  partnership  or  a  body  corporate  which  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of 
registration  as  a  Category  III  Alternative  Investment  Fund  and  is  regulated  under  the 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012, 
made under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);” 

 
Other consequential amendments: 
 
A)  Amending the period of holding in the securities held in and by an Investment Fund 
 

In sub-section 42(A) of Section 2 of the Income-tax Act, insert the following proviso after 
the second proviso- 

 

“Provided further that in the case of share or other securities of a company (not being a 
share listed in a recognised stock exchange) held by a CAT III Investment Fund or a unit of 
a CAT III Investment Fund specified under clause (38A) of section 10, the provisions of this 
clause  shall  have  effect  as  if  for  the  words  "thirty-six  months",  the  words  "Twenty  four 
months" had been substituted” 

 
B)  Exemption from filing return of income 
 

Notification  providing  exemption  from  filing  return  of  income  by  a  Category  III 
Alternative Investment Fund 
 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue) 
(CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES) 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the ____, 2016 
No. [●] 
INCOME-TAX 
 
S.O.  1703(E).—In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  the  proviso  to  sub-section  (1)  of 
section  139  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  (43  of  1961),  the  Central  Government  hereby 
notifies that it shall not be necessary for an assessee being a unit holder of a Category III 
Alternative  Investment  fund  as  defined  under  clause  (23FBAA) of  section  10  of  the  said 
Act to furnish under sub-section (1) of section 139 a return of his or its income if:  
 

-  His  or  its  total  income  in  respect  of  which  he  or  it  is  assessable  under  this  Act, 
during  the  previous  year  consisted  only  of  distributions  from  a  Category  III 
Alternative  Investment  Fund  as  defined  in  explanation  to  clause  (23FBAA)  of 
section  10,  chargeable  to  securities  transaction  tax  under  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Finance (no.2) Act, 2014” 

 
This  notification  shall  come  into  force  from  the  date  of  its  publication  in  the  Official 
Gazette. 

 

130 

Tax collected if STT was levied on VCPE investments (Projected taxes collected over a 15 year period) 

Appendix 1 

STT on investment  

STT on distribution  

STT on short term capital gains  

0.25% 

0.25% 

1.00% 

Capital Invested per year(USD million) as per actuals for  FY2015  

15,000 

Average Holding period for an Investment (years) 

Average Return on Investment  

5 

170% 

(USD million) 

STT on Investment  

STT on Distribution 

Total Tax  collected 

38  

38  

38  

38  

38  

38  

38  

 

38  

38  

38  

Year 1  

Year 2 

Year 3 

Year 4 

Year 5 

Year 6 

Year 7 

 

Year 8 

Year 9 

Year 10 

 

83 

83 

83 

83 

83 

83 

83 

 

83 

83 

83 

 

120 

120 

120 

120 

120 

120 

120 

 

120 

120 

120 

 

 

38  

38  

38  

38  

38 

 

Year 11 

Year 12 

Year 13 

Year 14 

Year 15 

Total tax  

 

Assumptions: 

83 

83 

83 

83 

83 

 

120 

120 

120 

120 

120 

1806 

1. USD 15 billion PEVC investments per year (same as in 2015)  

2. The fund will hold the investment for 5 years and divest it after.  

3. An average multiple of 1.7x on realization of exit  

4. STT is levied both during investment and distribution 

5. STT on short term gains is at 1.0% (gross); assumed 10% of total distributions 

 

 

 

 

 

132 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

V 

Category I Alternative Investment Funds-Angel Funds 

 
  
I.  Angel Investments 
  

Recommendation 

a.  The  stipulation  that  angel  investors 
must remain invested in a company for 
a  minimum  of  3  years  should  be 
brought  down  to  1  year,  if  at  all  a 
minimum holding period is required or 
create carve out in the existing clause. 

 

   b.  Clause  mandating  angel  investor  to 
invest Rs 25 Lakhs over a period 3 years 
to be amended to invest over the life of 
the fund or at least 5 years 

Rationale 

  Angel Investment rounds average  Rs 3Cr 

  Most  companies  need  a  VC  round  of  much 
larger  sums(Rs  15  to  25  Cr)  in  12  to  24 
months, especially if they are doing well 

 
  VCs  and  corporates  making  the  next  round, 
prefer to clean out the earlier shareholding of 
30 odd angel investors, finding it messy  

 
  Hence  such  a  restriction  will  be  against  the 
interests  of  entrepreneurs  as  they  need  to 
raise  more  monies  from  VCs  who  will  decline 
to  do  so  if  they  cannot  buy  out  the  angels’ 
investment. 

 
 

 

It does not match with the overall intention of 
creating  liquidity  to  investors  thru  such  SEBI 
initiatives as ITP, MSME Exchange 
Investing Rs 25  Lakhs  over  a  period  3  years 
may  often  be   difficult  as  a  sufficient  number 
of  opportunities  available  may  not  occur  in 
areas of interest 

  Further,  deals  are  majorly  oversubscribed  so 
even  if  willing,  an  investor  can  miss  out  as 
there  will  be  periods  where  there  are  not 
enough  opportunities  available  and 
the 
competition is also huge.  

  

c.  Clause  mandating  angel  funds  to 
invest  a  minimum  Rs 50  lakhs  in  a 
company  to  be  brought  down  to Rs 25 
lakhs 

  With govt. focus on startups, there  are many 
startups  sprouting  which  require  a  smaller 
amount for validating their proposition 

  Bringing  down  the  limit  to  Rs  25  lakhs  will 

help  start ups 

   d.  AIF  regulation  to  be  amended  to 
allow a scheme to have a maximum of 

  The  limit  of  49  was  meant  to  be  in-line  with 
Companies  Act,  1956  wherein  over  50 

134 

200 members 

investors would make it deemed public. 

have 

  Since  this  provision  has  been  changed  to  200 
shareholders,  the  AIF  Regulations  should  be 
amended 
to  have  a  maximum  of  200 
investors. 

  Given  the  government  start  up  definition  is  5 
years  we  should  allow 
in 
companies  incorporated  up  to  5  years  ago  to 
bring it in line with govt definition 

investments 

  Allow  least  10%  of  the  angel  fund’s  portfolio 
investments  in  companies  more  than  5  years 
old  as  many  companies  pivot  their  business 
models 

  Other  AIF  can  invest  15%  of  the  corpus  in 
companies  that  are  not  registered  in  India. 
Extend the same to Angels as well. 

  

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

only 

in 

venture 

   e.  The  provision  that  angel  funds  shall 
capital 
invest 
undertakings  which 
been 
incorporated  in  the  preceding  three 
years  from  the  date  of  investment  to 
be  amended  to  allow  at  least  10%  of 
the  angel  fund’s  portfolio  investments 
to  be  companies  that  may  be  more 
than 3 years 
f. Angel funds should also be allowed to 
invest 
fund 
undertakings  the  same  percentage  of 
their corpus as Category I AIFs. 
  

in  overseas  venture 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

136 

VI 

Category III Alternative Investment Funds 

 
A. Introduction 

1.   Category III Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) are those which employ diverse or complex       
trading  strategies  and  may  employ  leverage  including  through  investment  in  listed  or  unlisted 
derivatives.  Various  types  of  funds  such  as  hedge  funds,  PIPE  Funds,  etc.  are  registered  as       
Category III AIFs. Category III AIFs may be open ended or close ended.  
 
2.    This  chapter  addresses  some  of  the  concerns  faced  by  Category  III  Alternative  Investment      
Funds  which  are  regulated  by  SEBI.  Specifically,  recommendations  have  been  made  to  address    
the following four areas: 
 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 

Participation in Initial Public Offerings (IPOs); 
Investing in foreign securities; 
Ten Percent Restriction on Investible Funds; and 
Leverage  

B. Participation in IPOs 

Background: 

3.  In IPOs in India, there are no allocations earmarked for AIFs. In contrast, mutual funds are 
currently allowed to anchor an IPO, even if the lead manager is a group company. As per 
SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009,    SCHEDULE  XI 
(point  10(k)),  neither  the  merchant  bankers  nor  any  person  related  to  the 
promoter/promoter group/merchant bankers can apply under Anchor Investor category in 
a  public  issue.  The  only  exception  given  by  SEBI  is  for  Mutual  Fund  entities  related  to 
Merchant Banker. 
 

4.  Also, all IPOs have an allocation for Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIB) and within the QIB 
allocation,  there  is  a  further  allocation  made  specifically  to  Mutual  Funds.    Furthermore, 
one third of the allocation to anchor investors is reserved for mutual funds. The inability to 
access  quality investments  by  way  of  an  anchor  investor in  certain  IPOs  is  a  handicap  for 
AIF managers, particularly for Category III AIFs. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation 

5.  It is recommended that: 

-  AIF’s be allowed to anchor an IPO, even if the lead manager is a group company 
-  AIF’s  be given an allocation in IPOs  
-  Provide for an allocation for AIFs within the allocation for anchor investors in IPOs 

Rationale 

6.  The rationale for these recommendations are: 

 
providing equal treatment for AIFs with Mutual Funds will ultimately allow for greater 
capital flows in to AIFs; 
 investing  a  proportion  of  committed  capital  in  listed  companies  is  common  in  the 
global PE & VC industry; and  
anchoring  IPOs will contribute to enhanced confidence for other investors since AIFs 
are managed by professional fund managers; and 
limiting price volatility as AIF’s are long-term investors. 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

Suggested Amendments:  

1)  It  is  recommended  that  the  following  amendments  are  made  to  circular  No.  LAD-

NRO/GN/2009-10/15/174471 of SEBI dated 26th August 2009.  

Section 42 (2) (c): not more than fifty percent to qualified institutional buyers, five percent 
of  which  shall  be  allocated  to  mutual  funds;  two  percent  of  which  will  be  allocated  to 
Category III AIFs.  

Provided  further  that  in  addition  to  five  percent  and  two  percent  allocation  available 
respectively in terms of clause (c), mutual funds and Category III AIFs shall be eligible for 
allocation under the balance available for qualified institutional buyers 

Section 86 (1) (a): Minimum of ten percent of eligible securities shall be allotted to mutual 
funds and four percent of eligible securities shall be allotted to Category III AIFs: Provided 
that  if  the  mutual  funds  and  Category  III  AIFs  do  not  subscribe  to  the  said  minimum 
percentage or any part thereof, such minimum portion or part thereof may be allotted to 
other qualified institutional buyers; 

138 

 

Book building process Part A (10) (d): one-third of the anchor investor portion shall be 
reserved  for  domestic  mutual  funds;  one-fifth  of  the  anchor  investor  portion  shall  be 
reserved for Category III AIFs 

 

Part B: FORMAT OF BID DATA DISPLAYED ON STOCK EXCHANGE, in table 2) Details of 
Allocation to Investors other than Anchor Investors, add following row:  

1)  (c) Category III AIFs.  

2)  SEBI will have to issue the following notification pertaining to restrictions on anchor 

investors:  

"The restriction envisaged in Schedule XI, Part (A), 10(K) of Sebi (ICDR) Regulations, 2009, shall 
not be applicable to Category III AIFs sponsored by entities related to merchant banker."  

 

C. Investing in Overseas Securities 

Background  

7.  SEBI  Circular  dated  1  October  2015  allows  venture  capital  funds  (VCF)  to  invest  in 
overseas firms with Indian connections to the extent of 25% of their investible funds. 
This is allowed on a first –come- first- served basis depending on the availability in the 
overall limit of $500 million. 

8.  Further, as per SEBI circular No.7/104753/07 dated September 26, 2007 Mutual Funds 
are eligible to make investments in overseas securities subject to an aggregate cap of 
$5 billion and $300mn per mutual fund.  

9.  This  creates  an  uneven  playing  field  for  Category  III  AIFs  as  far  as  investment 

opportunities are concerned.  

Recommendation:  

10. Allow Category III AIFs to invest in global securities subject to aggregate caps similar 

to VCFs.  

 

Rationale  

11.  Having  the  same  investment  opportunity  set  as  Mutual  Funds  can  attract  more 

 

 

 

 

inflows 
diversification of investments which can be used for lowering volatility of returns.  

into  Category  III  AIFs.  Furthermore,  this  would 

lead  to  geographical 

 

Suggested Notification:  

It is recommended that SEBI issues an addendum to circular CIR/IMD/DF/7/2015 dated 1 
October 2015 to reflect the following:  

Section 2 (D) Overseas Investment by Category III AIFs registered under SEBI Regulations 2012.  

Reserve Bank of India (RBI) vide its A.P.(DIR Series) Circular No.48 dated December 09, 2014 
has permitted an Alternative Investment Fund (AIF), registered with SEBI, to invest overseas in 
terms of the provisions issued under the A.P. (DIR Series) Circulars No. 49 and 50 dated April 
30, 2007 and May 04, 2007 respectively. 

In accordance with the aforesaid RBI circular, it is stated as under:  

-  AIFs may invest in ADRs/ GDRs/ foreign securities and overseas ETFs, subject to overall limit 

of USD 500 million (combined limit for all Category III AIFs) 

-  Such investments shall not exceed 25% of the investible funds of the scheme of the AIF 
-  This shall be allowed on a first come first serve basis depending on the availability in the 

overall limit of $500mn. 
 

Permissible investments 

 

-  ADRs/ GDRs issued by Indian or foreign companies 
-  Equity of overseas companies listed on recognized stock exchanges overseas 
- 

Initial and follow on public offerings for listing at recognized stock exchanges overseas 

Disclosure Requirements 

The following disclosure requirements shall be mandatory for Category III AIFs proposing 
overseas investments. 

- 

 

140 

-  The Intention to invest in foreign securities shall be disclosed in the offer documents of the 

AIF. The attendant risk factors and returns ensuing from such investments shall be explained 
clearly in offer documents. AIFs shall also disclose as to how such investments will help in the 
furtherance of the investment objectives of the schemes. Such disclosures shall be in a 
language comprehensible to an average investor in an AIF.  

-  The exposure to such investments shall be disclosed to all investors and SEBI as part of 

quarterly disclosures to  investors and to SEBI (SEBI quarterly report)  

 

D. Ten Percent of Investible Funds Restriction 

Background:  

12.  Chapter 

III  of  the  SEBI  (Alternative 

Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012 
(‘Regulations’)  Clause  15(d)  of  Chapter  III  states  that Category  III  Alternative 
Investment Fund shall invest not more than ten percent of the investible funds in one 
Investee  Company.   Such  definition  prescribes  various  Investment  Conditions  and 
Restrictions which needs to be adhered to while making investments by an Alternate 
Investment  Fund  (‘AIF’).  The  term  “investible  funds”  is  defined  under  Chapter  I, 
clause  2(p)  as  corpus  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  net  of  estimated 
expenditure  for  administration  and  management  of  the  fund.    Further  the  term 
corpus is defined under Chapter I, clause 2(h) as the total amount of funds committed 
by  investors  to  the  AIF  by  way  of  a  written  contract  or  any  such  document  as  on  a 
particular date. 
Recommendation:  

13.  Amend  the  ten  percent  restriction  of  ‘investible  funds’  in  one  Investee  Company  to 

reference the ‘market value’ of such securities at the time of investment.   

Rationale:  

14. It  is  prudent  if  the  limit  is  calculated  on  the  market  value  of  the  portfolio  as  on  the 
date  of  investment.    Going  by  the  literal  interpretation,  the  aforesaid  limit  is  to  be 
monitored  on  the  corpus  which  is  defined  as  the  initial  amount  committed  by  the 
investors and not on the market value of the portfolio.   

For example, if the Fund has raised a corpus of Rs.100cr during the allotment, the value of 
which  has  increased  to  Rs.150cr  due  to  market  movement,  under  current  regulations  the 
limit  of  10%  will  be  applied  on  the  initial  amount  raised  i.e.  Rs.100cr  whereas,  since  the 

 

 

 

 

market  value  of  investments  of  the  portfolio  of  the  scheme  is  Rs.150cr  as  on  the  date  of 
investment.   

Suggested Amendments:  

It is recommended that In SEBI (AIF) Regulations 21 May 2012, Chapter 3 section 15 
(General Investment Conditions), the following changes need to be made in point (d).  

(d) Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall invest not more than ten percent of the 
corpus in one Investee Company(cid:13)(d) Category III Alternative Investment Fund shall not invest 
in one Investee Company more than ten percent of the market value of the Fund at the time 
of such investment.  

 

E. Leverage 

Background:   

15.  As per current AIF regulations, calculation of leverage is governed as per SEBI circular 
CIR/IMD/DF/10/2013 dated July 29, 2013 and the leverage allowed by Category 3 AIFs is 
limited  to  2x  NAV  (on  netted  basis).  Further,  offsetting  of  positions  is  governed  by 
circular  No.  MFD/CIR/21/  25467/2002  dated  December  31,  2002.  This  has  led  to 
ambiguity  on  how  exposures  are  calculated  and  offset.  There  is  no  clarity  on 
calculation  of  exposures  and  offsetting  rules  for  all  derivative  instruments.  The  way 
exposures  are  calculated  based  on  current  norms  exposes  the  markets  to  severe 
systemic risks particularly through long put options.  
 

Recommendation:  

16. SEBI  circular  dated  29  July,  2013  needs  to  be  amended  to  make  the  calculation  of 
exposure  and  offsetting  rules  unambiguous  based  on  the  type  of  derivative 
instrument. We can borrow rules used in AIFMD regulations employed by regulators 
in the EU. 
 

Rationale: 

17.  Clarity  on  calculation  of  exposure  and  netting  norms  will  eliminate  the  possibility  of 
misreporting  critical  metrics  to  the  regulators.  By  ensuring  that  regulators  and  the 
fund  managers  are  on  the  same  page  as  far  as  these  leverage  calculations  are 
concerned, we will also eliminate the risk of an inadvertent breach of regulations by 

142 

the Category III AIF manager employing leverage. This additional clarity will also draw 
in  more  fund  managers  in  the  long-  short  category  which  happens  to  be  one  of  the 
largest hedge fund categories in the world.  

18. By  rationalizing  the  calculation  of  exposure  levels,  we  will  also  be  lowering  the 

systemic risk resulting from over exposure to long puts.  
 

Suggested Amendments:  

It  is  recommended  that  Section  3.4  “Prudential Norms”  in the  SEBI  circular  of  Jul  29,  2013, 
under the title “Calculation of Exposure and NAV”, sections II and sections IV be modified as 
indicated below.  

Section 3.4 Prudential Requirements 

Calculation of exposure and NAV 

Sub-section II:   

Exposure shall generally be calculated as below:  

a) Futures  

-  Bond  future:  Number  of  contracts  *  notional  contract  size  *  market  price  of  the 
cheapest-to-deliver reference bond  

- Interest rate future: Number of contracts * notional contract size  

- Currency future: Number of contracts * notional contract size  

- Equity future: Number of contracts * notional contract size * market price of underlying 
equity share  

- Index futures: Number of contracts * notional contract size * index level  

 

 

 

 

 

 

b) Exchange traded plain vanilla options (bought/sold puts and calls) 

-  Plain  vanilla  bond  option:  Notional  contract  value  *  market  value  of  underlying 
reference bond * delta  

-    Plain  vanilla  equity  option:  Number  of  contracts  *  notional  contract  size*  market 
value of underlying equity share * delta  

-  Plain vanilla interest rate option: Notional contract value * delta  

c)    In  case  of  any  unlisted  or  OTC  derivative  exposure,  the  exposure  is  calculated  as  the 
notional market value of the contract  

d)  Option deltas if published by the exchanges must be used to calculate exposure. In cases 
where deltas are not published, the delta may be calculated using a standard Black-Scholes 
(Exhibit  A)  calculator  with  the  appropriate  RBI  Repo  rate  as  the  risk  free  rate  and  the 
historical one year volatility of the underlying. 

Sub-section IV:  

Offsetting of positions shall be allowed for calculation of leverage for transactions entered 
into for hedging and portfolio rebalancing as below. 

a) Netting is allowed on the same underlying and expiry 

b)  A  broad/sectoral  index  can  be  netted  off  against  its  underlying  in  the  same  weighted 
proportion as they constitute the index 

c)  A equity portfolio that is well diversified across sectors and without undue concentration 
risk may be netted off against a broad market Index based in the Beta of the portfolio.  

d) Interest Rate Derivatives:  

 

 

 

144 

Each  interest  rate  derivative  shall  be  allocated  to  the  appropriate  maturity  range  of  the 
following maturity bases ladder: 

1)  Maturity Ranges: 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 1. 0-2 years 
 2. 2-7 years 
 3. 7-15 years 
 4. > 15 years 

2)  The  long  and  short  equivalent  underlying  asset  positions  shall  be  netted  within 
each maturity range. The amount of the former which is netted with the latter is 
the netted amount for that maturity range. 
 

 
3)  Starting  with  the  shortest  maturity  range,  the  netted  amounts  between  two 
 
adjoining  maturity  ranges  shall  be  calculated  by  netting  the  amount  of  the  
remaining  unnetted  long  (or  short)  position  in  the  maturity  range  (i)  with  the 
amount  of  the  remaining    unnetted  short  (long)  position  in  the  maturity  range 
(i+1). 

 
4)  Starting  with  the  shortest  maturity  range,  the  netted  amounts  between  two 
remote  maturity ranges separated by another one shall be calculated by netting 
the  amount  of  the  remaining  unnetted  long  (or  short)  position  in  the  maturity 
range  (i)  with the  amount  of the  remaining unnetted  short  (long)  position  in  the 
maturity range (i + 2). 

 
5)  The netted amount shall be calculated between the remaining unnetted long and 

short positions of the two most remote maturity ranges. 

 
6)  The AIF shall calculate its exposures as the sum of absolute values:  
 

  0% of the netted amount for each maturity range; 

  40% of the netted amounts between two adjoining maturity ranges (i) 

and (i+1); 

  75%  of  the  netted  amounts  between  two  remote  maturity  ranges 

separated by       another one, meaning maturity ranges (i) and (i+2); 

 

 

 

 

  100%  of  the  netted  amounts  between  the  two  most  remote  maturity 

ranges; and 

 

100% of the remaining unnetted positions. 

 

Exhibit A 

Black-Scholes Formula 

Call option (C) and put option (P) prices are calculated using the following formulas: 

 
where N(x) is the standard normal cumulative distribution function. 

 

The formulas for d1 and d2 are: 

 

S0 = underlying price (INR per share) 
X = strike price (INR per share) 
σ = volatility (% p.a.) 
r = continuously compounded risk-free interest rate (% p.a.) 
q = continuously compounded dividend yield (% p.a.) 
t = time to expiration (% of year) 
 

 

 
 

146 

 
 

 

 

 

Recommendations for Implementation by Regulatory Agencies 

Chapter - VII 

 

 

 

 

 

S. 
No. 
 
1. 

VII 

Recommendations for Implementation by Regulatory 

Organization 

Recommendation 

Agencies 

 
SEBI 
 

 

 
Enhanced Disclosures by Alternative Investment Funds 
 
The  second  AIPAC  report  recommends  greater  mandatory  disclosure  in 
private  placement  memoranda  of  the  following  areas  by  AIFs  which  raise 
capital  from  retail  investors  with  ticket  sizes  of  less  than  Rs  10  crores  per 
investor: 
  
  Organization of the AIF and its  decision making process  
  Track record of returns in previous Funds 
 
  Key Fund terms  
  Valuation, investee due diligence and documentation process 
  Process for the transfer of units to guide investors on how they can exit 
the  fund  during  the  life  of  the  fund.  This  will  contribute  to  the 
development of a secondary market for fund units.  

Investment strategy and investment objectives  

  How liquidity issues will be dealt with at the end of the fund’s life it has 

not been able to exit from all its investments. 

 
Quarterly reports to investors shall include: 
 

  Summary Management discussion and analysis letter 
  Financial Package  

o  Balance sheet 
o  Period end schedule of investments 
o  Statement of Operations 
o  Statement of Cash flows 
o  Partners’ capital account statement 

 
The  process  for  the  transfer  of  units  should  be  clearly  stated  in  the 
placement  memorandum  to  provide  a  mechanism  for  investors  to  transfer 
units before the end of a Fund’s life.  
 
Certain disclosures should also be made on final closing which is necessary 
to provide added comfort to investors. 
 

148 

2. 

SEBI 
 

 

3. 

SEBI 
 

 

4. 

SEBI 
 

 

5. 

SEBI 

Superior Governance of AIFs 
 
The  report  recommends  AIFs  to  form  a  Governance  Committee  from  the 
outset to address the following vital matters: 

(a) Conflicts of interest  
(b) Issues arising during the life of the fund  
(c) Issues arising at the end of life of the fund  
(d) Whether the overall functioning of the fund is consistent with the 
fiduciary responsibilities of the fund manager 

individual 

 
It  is  recommended  that  SEBI  amend  AIF  regulations,  2012  to  make  the 
Governance Committee mandatory for funds which raise capital from retail 
investors with ticket size of less than Rs 10crores. 
 
AIF Returns Performance Data 
 
It  is  recommended  that  a  centralized  body  be  created  to  report  the 
performance metrics of funds on an aggregate basis (vintage year wise)  by 
using the information obtained from the periodic reporting by AIFs to SEBI. 
This  will  enable  performance  of 
fund  managers  to  be 
benchmarked relative to aggregate industry returns performance data.  
 
The  report  recommends  enhancements 
in  the  periodic-  monthly  or 
quarterly-  reporting  by  AIFs  to  SEBI  such  that  individual  fund  performance 
data  can  be  captured  which,  in  turn,  can  be  used  to  create  industry 
benchmarks. 
 
Enable Permanent Capital Vehicles 
 
There  is  an  increasing  need  for  vehicles  that  provide  capital  to  the  mid-
corporate  and  micro,  small,  medium  enterprises  segment.  MSMEs  are  the 
engine  of  growth  and  employment  generation  in  the  country.  They 
contribute  to  40%  to  India’s  manufacturing  output  and  materially  to  the 
labor  force.  There  is  a  gap  of  over  Rs.  2.5  lakh  crore  of  debt  capital  for 
MSMEs. Bank lending to MSMEs has been declining over time with no signs 
of  trend  reversal.  Traditional  capital  markets  options  are  also  not  a  viable 
solution  for  MSMEs  leading  to  a  large  identified  gap  and  need  for  debt 
capital.  
 
Accordingly, it has been recommended that SEBI consider enunciating a 
regulatory framework for Mid-Markets Permanent Capital Vehicles under 
Category II AIFs in light of the special characteristics of such vehicles. 
 
Proposed Tax Regime for Mid-Market Permanent Capital Vehicles 

 

 

 

 

 

In  In  order  to  make  MMPCVs  beneficial  both  for  investors  and  MSMEs,  it  is 
important  to  ensure  it  is  beneficial  from  a  taxation  perspective.  The 
following is the recommended regime: 

 
     Pass-through:  MMPCVs  should  be  eligible  for  pass-through  status.  Income 
should be taxable in the hands of investors and deemed to be of the same 
nature  and  proportion  as  in  the  MMPCV’s  hands.  Given  the  fact  that 
MMPCVs  are  targeted  to  invest  in  MSMEs  and  could  avail  leverage,  they 
should be granted complete pass through irrespective of characterization of 
such income. 

Scenario I: MMPCV is an unlisted vehicle  

     Withholding Tax: It is recommended that payments to resident investors by 
MMPCVs  should  be  subject  to  withholding  at  the  rate  of  10  (ten)  percent. 
Payments  to  non-resident  investors  by  MMPCVs  should  be  subject  to 
withholding at the  prevailing  rate  in  effect  at  the  time  of  such  investment. 
No  withholding  of  tax  should  apply  in  respect  of  income  which  is  not 
chargeable to tax under the provisions of Income Tax Act. There should be 
no withholding of tax on payment made by investee companies to MMPCVs. 
 
Scenario II: MMPCV is a listed vehicle 
Distribution Tax: MMPCVs shall pay distribution tax on the surplus 
distributed to the investors at the rate of 15 (fifteen) per cent. This is on the 
basis that there is expected to be a significant interest in this product from 
non-resident investors, who are otherwise entitled to a benevolent tax rate 
of 5% on interest income through other investment avenues. There should 
be no further tax in hands of the investors on the distribution received from 
MMPCV.  
 
 
Promote Angel Investments by Angel Funds 
 
The  success  of  angel  funds  requires  flexibility  in  their  operations  and  their 
ability to raise funds, to diversify their portfolios by investing in start-ups at 
various  stages,  by  diversifying  geographically  and  not  being  artificially 
restricted  in  designing  their  exit  strategies.  Accordingly  it  is  recommended 
that SEBI consider measures to: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Lower  the  holding  period  of  angel  investments  to  1  year  from  the 
current 3 year requirement; 
Extend  the  period  for  investing  a  minimum  of  Rs  25  lakhs  per 
investor to the life of the fund or at least 5 years from the current 3 
year requirement. 
Lower the minimum investment in a portfolio company to Rs 25 lakhs 

 

 

6. 

SEBI 
 

 

150 

7. 

SEBI 
 

 

8. 

CBDT – Income 
Tax 
CBEC – Service 
Tax 
 

iv. 
v. 

vi. 

from the current minimum of Rs. 50 lakhs. 
Allow angel funds to have a maximum of 200 members. 
Allow  at  least  10%  of  the  angel  fund’s  portfolio  investments  to  be 
companies that may have been incorporated more than 3 years prior 
to the investment. 
Allow  Angel  funds  to  invest  in  overseas  venture  fund  undertakings 
the same percentage of their corpus as permitted for Category I AIFs. 

 
Category III AIFs 
It is recommended that Category III AIFs be permitted to:  

I. 
II. 

Anchor participation in certain Initial Public Offerings (IPOs); 
Invest  in  foreign  securities,  with  an  Indian  connection,  within  limits 
set by RBI and by SEBI for venture capital funds; 
Compute ‘investible funds’ by reference to market values. 

III. 
IV.  Determine  leverage  as  per  the  formulae  and  methods  used  by 

AIFMD. 

 
Tax Reforms of AIFs 

1.  Certainty on treatment for taxation of gains on sale of unlisted shares 

as capital gains 

2.  Proportionate service tax exemption for AIF expenses 
3.  Pass through tax status to extend to Category III AIF 
4.  Making fund management safe harbour provisions effective 

 
Other Issues 

1)  Clarification on investments by AIF 

a)  Pass through tax status to be extended to net losses incurred at 

AIF level 

b)  Exemption for AIFs from (a) Section 56(2)(viib) on issue of shares 
at a value higher than fair market value and (b) Section 56(2)(viia) 
on purchase of shares at a value lower than fair market value 

c)  Remove  tax  compliance  of  filing  annual  return  for  foreign 

investors in AIF 

d)  Allow  management  expenses  for  AIF  investments  as  ‘cost  of 

improvement’ 

 
2)  Unit based taxation  

  Exempt listed AIF from tax on its income  
  Taxation 

income 
distributions and capital gains tax on unit redemptions/ transfers 

is  a  combination  of  distribution  tax  on 

 

3)  No taxability on conversion of preference shares, inclusion of holding 
period of preference shares (pre-conversion) in the holding period of 
equity shares 

 

 

 

 

9. 

CBDT – Income 
Tax 
 

 10. 

CBDT – Income 
Tax 
CBEC – Service 
Tax 

 

 

4)  Speed up the process of issuing lower/ nil withholding certificate 

5)  Clarification on indirect transfer rules for multi-layered structure 

 
Category I & II AIFs:  Proposed STT Rates 
Sl. No.  Taxable Securities Transaction 

1. 
2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

 

Purchase of a unit of an Investment Fund 
Distribution of income representing long 
term capital gains, made to a unit holder 
by an Investment Fund on redemption or 
otherwise 
Distribution of income other than long 
term capital gains, made by an Investment 
Fund on redemption or otherwise 
Sale of a unit of an Investment Fund being 
a long term capital asset, to any person 
other than the Investment Fund in which 
such units are held 
Sale of a unit of an Investment Fund being 
a short term capital asset, to any person 
other than the Investment Fund in which 
such units are held 

Rate  
0.25% 
0.25% 

Payable by 
Purchaser 
Unit holder 

1.00% 

Unit holder 

0.25% 

Seller 

1.00% 

Seller 

Category III AIFs:  Proposed STT Rates 
AIFs Taxable Securities Transaction 
Sl. 
No. 
1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

Purchase of units of CAT III Investment 
Fund 
Distribution representing long term 
capital gains as referred to in section 10 
(38) of the Income-Tax Act, 1956, made 
by a CAT III Investment Fund on 
redemption or otherwise 
Distribution other than referred to in 
point 2 above, made by a CAT III 
Investment Fund on redemption or 
otherwise 
Sale of units of a CAT III Investment Fund 
being a long term capital asset, to any 
person other than the CAT III investment 
Fund in which such units are held 
Sale of units of a CAT III Investment Fund 
being a short term capital asset, to any 
person other than the Investment Fund 
in which such units are held 

Rate  

Payable by 

0.05% 

Purchaser 

Nil 

- 

0.25% 

The unit 
holder 

0.05% 

the Seller 

0.25% 

the Seller 

11.  

 

PFRDA & IRDA 
 
 
 

Promotion of Rupee Capital Flows from Domestic Institutional Investors 
 
In  mature  capital  markets,  domestic  institutional  investors  like  pension 
funds and insurance companies underpin the development of AIFs because 

152 

12. 

DEA and RBI 

they are the ultimate natural source of stable, long term capital. It is to their 
credit  that  the  Indian  regulatory  bodies,  the  Insurance  Regulatory  & 
Development  Authority  (IRDA)  and  the  Pension  Fund  Regulatory  and 
Development  Authority  (PFRDA),  have  issued  circulars  in  2013  and  2016, 
respectively,  which  enable  allocations  by  pension  funds  and  insurance 
companies to AIFs.  
 
This  report  recommends  that  the  circulars  be  aligned  with  the  SEBI 
regulations.  It  is  recommended  that  both  IRDA  and  PFRDA  issue  suitable 
clarification  to  the  effect  that  Insurers  and  pension  funds  will  have  the 
permission to invest in Category II AIFs so long as such AIFs invest primarily 
in unlisted investee companies and in accordance with the AIF Regulations. 
Draft Notification for Amendments in TISPRO Regulations, 2000 
 
It is recommended that Explanation 1 of para 4 of the RBI notification issued 
on 16th November, 2015 (No. FEMA 355/2015-RB)  amending the TISPRO 
Regulations, 2000, should be amended as follows: 
 
Explanation 1: For purposes of determining level of foreign ownership of the 
Sponsor or the manager or investment manager of an AIF referred to above, 
account should  not be taken of the holdings of equity in an Indian promoter 
company  of  such  Sponsor  or the  manager  or  investment  manager  which  is 
held by foreign institutional investors or foreign portfolio investors or non-
resident Indians under the portfolio investment scheme unless  these shares 
are held by the foreign promoters of the applicant and their subsidiaries and 
nominees, and Indian mutual funds to the extent the investment of foreign 
institutional  investors  and  Indian  mutual  funds  are  within  the  approved 
limits  laid  down  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  under  its 
rules, regulations or guidelines issued from time to time.  
 
In  case  the  ‘sponsors  and  ‘managers/investment  managers’  of  the  AIF  are 
individuals,  for  the  treatment  of  downstream  investment  by  such  AIF  as 
domestic, 
‘managers/investment  managers’  should  be 
resident Indian citizens. 
While determining the foreign ownership in widely-held listed companies (or 
their direct or indirect subsidiaries) including a banking company as defined 
under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the stake held by Foreign Portfolio 
Investors  (FPIs)  should  be  excluded  i.e.  foreign  ownership  should  be 
computed  based  on  the  composition  of  domestic  investment  and  foreign 
investment  made  under  the  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)  route,  only.  A 
‘widely held’ listed company should be considered to be one where no single 
foreign (non-FPI) shareholder along with his/its affiliates has a shareholding 
exceeding 10%. 
 

‘sponsors’  and 

 

 

 

 

Explanation  2:  The  extent  of  foreign  investment  in  the  corpus  of  the 
Investment  Vehicle  will  not  be  a  factor  to  determine  as  to  whether 
downstream  investment  of  the  Investment  Vehicle  concerned  is  foreign 
investment or not. 

 

 

 

154 

Abbreviations 

Alternative Investment Fund 
Accredited Investor 
Alternative Investment Fund 
Manager 

AIF 
AI 
AIFM 
 
AIFMD  Alternative Investment Fund 
 
AIPAC  Alternative 

Manager Directive 

Investment  Funds  Policy 

Advisory Committee 
Assets under Management 
Central Board of Direct Taxes 
Compulsorily Convertible Debentures 
Compulsorily  Convertible  Preference 
Shares 
1 Crore = 10 million = 100 Lakhs 
Dividend Distribution Tax 

Crore 
DDT 
DTAA  Double Tax Avoidance Agreement  
DII 
EIF 
ETF  
ESOP 
FA 
FCNR 

Domestic Institutional Investor 
Eligible Investment Fund 
Exchange Traded Fund 
Employee Stock Option Plan 
Finance Act 
Foreign  Currency  Non-Resident  bank 
account 
Foreign Direct Investments 
Foreign Exchange Management Act 
Fair Market Value 
Fund-of-Funds 
Foreign Portfolio Investor 
Foreign Venture Capital Investor 
Global Depository Receipt 
General Partner 
Goods & Services Tax 
Hindu Undivided Family 
Investor Advisory Committee 
Infrastructure Investment Trust 
Income Tax Act, 1961 
Insurance  Regulatory  &  Development 
Authority 
Internal Rate of Return 

AUM 
CBDT 
CCD 
CCPS 

FDI 
FEMA 
FMV 
FOF 
FPI 
FVCI 
GDR 
GP 
GST 
HUF 
IAC 
IIT 
IT Act 
IRDA 

IRR       
 
 
 
   
 

One Lac = 100 Thousand 
Limited Partner 
Limited Liability Partnership 
Long-term Capital Gains Tax 

LACS 
LP 
LLP 
LTCG 
MMPCV Mid-Market Permanent Capital Vehicle 
NR 
NRI 
NRE 
NRO 
PE 
PFRDA  Pension  Fund  Regulatory  Development 

Non-resident 
Non-resident Indian 
Non-Resident External bank account 
Non-Resident (Ordinary) bank Ac 
Private Equity 

PIO 
PLCC 

Authority 
Person of Indian Origin 
The  ratio  of  contributions  to  date 
measured against committed capital 
Private Placement Memorandum 
Qualified Institutional Buyer 
Qualified Institutional Placement 
Reserve Bank of India 
Real Estate Investment Trust 
Residual Value to Paid-In Capital 
Securities Exchange Board of India 
Securities & Exchange Commission 
Short-term Capital Gains Tax 
Securities Transaction Tax 
Social Venture Funds 
Tax Deducted at Source 

PPM 
QIB 
QIP 
RBI 
REIT 
RVPI 
SEBI 
SEC 
STCG 
STT 
SVF 
TDS 
TISPRO  Foreign Exchange Management 
 
 
 
TVPI 
VC 
VCF 

(Transfer or Issue of Security by a 
Person Resident outside India) 
Regulations 2000 
Total Value to Paid-In Capital 
Venture Capital 
Venture Capital Fund 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

