Consultation Paper on permitting Category III Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 

 

 

in the commodity derivatives market 

 

1.  Objective 
 

1.1. To  solicit  comments  from  public  on  proposal  pertaining 

to  permitting 
participation  by  Category  III  Alternative  Investment  Funds  (AIFs)  in  the 
commodity derivatives market. 

 
2.  Background 

 
2.1. The  Indian  Commodity  derivatives  market,  at  present,  is  running  sans  any 
institutional  participation  thereby  is  lacking  in  the  desired  liquidity  and  depth 
which  is  one  of  the  key  element  for  the  efficient  price  discovery  and  price  risk 
management. 
recommended  for 
participation  of  institutional  investors  in  the  commodity  derivatives  markets, 
which would help in improving the quality of price discovery, thereby leading to 
better price risk management. 
 

the  past,  various  committees  have 

In 

2.2. SEBI  had  constituted  an  advisory  committee  known  as  Commodity  Derivatives 
Advisory  Committee  (CDAC)  to  advise  SEBI  for  effectively  regulating  and 
developing  the  commodity  derivatives  market.  CDAC  has  advised  that  the 
commodity derivatives market should be opened up to institutional participation 
both domestic as well as international in a phased manner. 

 

2.3. Based  on  the  recommendations  of  CDAC  and  feedback  received  from  various 
stakeholders,  it  is  being  proposed  to  allow  participation  of  category  III  AIFs  in 
the  commodity  derivatives  market.  Category  III  AIF’s  are  those  AIF’s  which 
employs  diverse  or  complex  trading  strategies  and  may  employ  leverage 
including through investment in listed or unlisted derivatives. 

 
3.  Proposal: 

 
 

3.1. The participation of Category III AIF is proposed to be subjected to the following 

conditions: 
 
3.1.1.  Category  III  AIFs  may  participate  in  all  commodity  derivatives  products 
being  traded  on  the  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  as  ‘clients’  and  shall 
be  subjected  to  all  the  rules,  regulations  and  instructions  as  may  be 
applicable to clients, issued by SEBI from time to time. 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

3.1.2.  Category III AIFs shall invest not more than ten percent of the investable 

funds in one underlying commodity. 
 

 

3.1.3.  Category  III  AIFs  may  engage  in  leverage  or  borrow  subject  to  consent 
from the investors in the fund and subject to a maximum limit, as specified 
by 
in  SEBI  circular 
CIR/IMD/DF/10/2013  dated  July  29,  2013,  presently,  the  leverage  of  a 
Category III AIF shall not exceed 2 times of the NAV of the fund. 
 

time.  As  specified 

the  SEBI  from 

time 

to 

3.1.4.  The category III AIFs shall have position limits as applicable to the clients. 

 

3.1.5.  Category 

III  AIFs  shall  make  disclosure 

in  private  placement 
memorandum  issued  to  the  investors  about  investment  in  commodity 
derivatives and shall take consent of existing investor if such AIFs intend to 
invest in commodity derivatives. 
 

3.1.6.  In case the AIF receives investment from a person resident outside  India, 
AIF shall comply with  such conditions  or  guidelines that may be stipulated 
or issued by RBI and SEBI from time to time. 

 
3.1.7.  The Category III AIF shall be subject to the reporting requirements as may 

be specified by SEBI. 
 

3.1.8.  The participation of Category III AIF shall be subject to the compliance of 
the  provisions  of  SEBI  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations,  2012 
and circulars, guidelines, directives etc. issued there under from time to time.  
 

4.  Public Comments: 

 

4.1. Comments  from  public  are  invited  on  the  proposal  contained  in  this  paper  and 

same should reach SEBI latest by May 20, 2017. 
 
The  comments  may  be  sent  by  email 
alternatively may be sent to following address: 

to  cdmrd_dmp@sebi.gov.in  or 

 
Shri Vikas Sukhwal, 
Deputy General Manager, 
Division of Market Policy, 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
C4-A, G-Block, BKC, Mumbai - 400051 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

4.2. Comments/suggestions may kindly be provided in the format given below: 
 

Name of Entity/Person 

Sr. No. 

Para No. of Paper 

Suggestions 

Rational 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Issued on: April 28, 2017 

 

Page 3 of 3 

