Consultation paper for review of circular on Electronic book mechanism 

for issuance of debt securities on private placement basis 

 

I.  Objective:  

1.  To  solicit  the  comments/views  from  public  on  the  proposed  changes  in  “Electronic 
book mechanism for issuance of  debt securities on private placement basis (herein 
after referred as “the EBP mechanism)”. 

II.  Background:  

2.  The circular on the EBP mechanism (herein after referred as “the EBP circular”) was 
notified on April 21, 2016, which came in to effect from July 01, 2016. NSE and BSE 
have  been  acting  as  the  Electronic  Book  Providers  (herein  after  referred  as  “the 
EBPs”)  since  then.  The  said  circular  provides  broad  guidelines  on  applicability, 
eligibility, and role of issuer, arrangers, EBPs, investors, etc.  

3.  The initial response from the implementation of the Electronic Book Mechanism has 
been  encouraging  by  way  of  bringing  in  transparency  and  at  the  same  time  other 
positive signs such as increased FPIs participation in the private placement  of debt 
securities.  It  is  also  worth  mentioning  that  in  the  FY  2016-17,  out  of  total  private 
placement  of  debt  securities  reported  on  exchanges  of  Rs.640716crore,  since  July 
2016 (i.e. since implementation of electronic Book Mechanism), 696 issuances worth 
Rs. 294099.75crore have been done through EBPs. 

4.  Based on the experiences from the issuances through the EBP mechanism till date, 
various  market  participants  have  offered  some  suggestions  on  the  existing 
mechanism.  Further,  some  trends  emerging  from  the  bidding  on  the  existing  EBP 
mechanism  have  also  been  analysed.  Based  on  the  same,  certain  changes  are 
proposed in the existing mechanism, which are discussed as under: 

III.  Proposals for consultation: 

5.  Reducing the mandatory limit from Rs. 500 crores to Rs. 50 crores for all private 

placement of debt securities 

5.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

As per paragraph 3 of the EBP circular, the existing EBP mechanism is mandatory 
for all private placements of debt securities with an issue size of Rs.500 crores and 
above, inclusive of green shoe option, if any.  

 

Page 1 of 16 

5.2. Need for the change 

 

a)  At the time of introduction of the EBP mechanism, the mechanism was mandated 
only  for  the  issuances  with  issue  size  of  Rs.  500  crores  or  above  to  facilitate 
smoother transition. 

b)  However, based on the analysis of data till March 31, 2017, it is noted that many 
issuers, with issue size of less than Rs. 500 crores, have also voluntarily opted for 
EBP mechanism while raising money through private placement of debt securities. 

Till  March  2017,  out  of  total  private  placement  of  debt  securities  consist  of 
Rs.506259.75crore,  the  total  amount  of  private  placement  which  took  place 
through EBPs are worth Rs. 294099.75 crore (approx.) from 696 issuances. 

Amount 

Raised 

No. 

of 

Amount Raised  

Percentage  of  total 

(Rs. in Crore) 

issuances 

(Rs. in Crore) 

no. of issuances 

Less than 50 Crore 

50 crore or more 

500 crore or more 

197 

499 

175 

3729.65 

290370.10 

234129.50 

28.30% 

71.70% 

23.92% 

c)  The issuance of debt securities through EBP mechanism has various benefits for 
both  the  issuers  as  well  as  the  investors  in  terms  of  enhanced  price  discovery, 
transparency, etc. The aforementioned benefits are also evident from the fact that 
many issuers are voluntarily opting for EBP mechanism even for issuances of less 
than Rs. 500 crore. 

d)  Currently, the issuers do not specify the green shoe amount but just indicates that 
it intends to raise money over and above the base issue size. In this way, based 
on the bids received, it decides how much to raise over the base issue. However, 
the bidders do not come to know upfront the maximum amount the issuer seeks to 
raise and hence they may not be able to put the right quote. 

5.3. Proposal 

The mandatory limit for EBP mechanism may be reduced from Rs.500 crores to 
Rs. 50 crores (i.e. EBP mechanism may be mandated for all private placements of 
debt securities with an issue size of Rs.50 crores and above, inclusive of green 
shoe  option,  if  any).  Further,  the  issuer  shall  specify  the  amount  of  green  shoe 
option upfront. 

 

Page 2 of 16 

6.  Direct participation by investors 

6.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

 

a)  At present, Institutional investors participating on the EBP platform have an option 
of  either  participating  through  an  arranger/sub-arranger  or  entering  bids  on 
proprietary basis on their own. 

b)  However, for non-institutional investors, the existing EBP circular does not provide 
any option for direct bidding and these investors are mandatorily required to bid 
through an arranger. 

6.2. Need for the change 

a)  The  underlying  objective  of  the  EBP  mechanism  is  to  achieve  better  and 
transparent price discovery through the bidding process. However, the same may 
be achieved only if all the investors bid on their own on the platform. 

b)  Initially the objective was to acquaint the eligible bidders with the platform in order 
to  ensure  smooth  transition.  Since  the  market  is  already  acquainted  with  the 
functioning of EBP mechanism, it is felt that the option of direct participation may 
now  be  extended  to  non-institutional  investors  as  well,  at  least  to  those  non-
institutional investors whose bid amounts are large. 

c)  However,  in  this  regard,  it  is  noted  that the Companies  Act,  2013 and  the  rules 
made thereunder restricts the total number of investors to 200 in case of private 
placements. Further, as per the Companies Act and the rules therein, any qualified 
institutional  buyers  (‘QIBs’)  participating  in  the  private  placements  are  excluded 
from the above threshold of 200 investors. 

d)  Accordingly,  for  any  QIB  which  is  bidding  for  Rs.10  crore  and  above,  such  QIB 
shall  compulsorily  participate  directly  on  the  bidding  platform.  Since  the  QIB 
investors are not counted for the Companies Act’s threshold of 200 investors, a 
direct participation by QIBs would not pose any challenge in this context. 

e)  Whereas,  for  non-QIB  investors,  since  these  investors  are  counted  for  the 
Companies Act’s threshold of 200 investors, to begin with, a direct participation by 
such  non-QIB  investors  shall  be  allowed  and  shall  be  mandated  only  if  such 
investors are bidding for Rs. 25 crores and above. 

 

 

Page 3 of 16 

6.3. Proposals 

a)  Participation by QIB investors: 

 

(i)  For  a  QIB  investor  whose  bid amount  is  lower  than  Rs. 10  crores,  it  shall 
continue  to  have  an  option  of  either  entering  bids  on  proprietary  basis  or 
participating through an arranger/sub-arranger. 

(ii)  For  a  QIB  investor  whose  bid  amount  is  Rs.10  crores  and  above,  it  shall 

participate directly on the bidding platform. 

b)  Participation by Non-QIB investors (including Non-Institutional Investors): 

(i)  For a non-QIB investor whose bid amount is lower than Rs. 25 crores, it shall 

participate through an arranger/sub-arranger. 

(ii)  For a non-QIB investor whose bid amount is Rs. 25 crores and above, it shall 

participate directly on the bidding platform. 

c)  Role of Arrangers/Sub-Arrangers: 

An  arranger/sub-arranger,  while  entering  consolidated  bids  on  behalf  of  other 
investors, shall ensure the following for the bids being entered for every individual 
investor behind such arranger/sub-arranger: 

(i)  Bid amount on behalf of every single QIB investor shall be lower than Rs. 10 

crores per investor. 

(ii)  Bid amount on behalf of every single non-QIB investor shall be lower than 

Rs. 25 crores per investor. 

d)  Minimum bid size: 

To enable direct participation in the manner proposed above, the issuer can fix any 
minimum bid size subject to the following: 

(i)  For a QIB investor, the minimum bid size shall not exceed Rs. 10 crores. 

(ii)  For a non-QIB investor,the minimum bid size shall not exceed Rs.25 crores. 

e)  Role of EBP: For any investors who is participating directly on the platform through 

proprietary bids, the EBP shall ensure KYC of such investors. 

 

Page 4 of 16 

7.  Single Investor Subscription: 

7.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

 

As per Paragraph 4.1 of the EBP circular, the EBP mechanism is optional for fixed 
coupon rate issues with a single investor. 

7.2. Need for the change 

a)  A concern has been raised by the market participants suggesting that there can 
be situations, wherein, just to bypass the EBP mechanism, the entire book can be 
first sold to a single investor, and, the said single investor can then in turn sell the 
securities to various investors. 

b)  To curb the above practices, it is felt that a lock in for some stipulated period may 
be imposed for an investor in cases where the issue is sold, outside of the EBP 
mechanism, to a single investor. 

7.3. Proposal 

a)  For the fixed coupon rate issues with a single investor wherein EBP mechanism is 
optional, the option of not following the EBP mechanism would be available subject 
to a condition that the securities allotted to that single investor would be subject to 
a lock in of 60 days period from the date of allotment. 

8.  Role of Arranger/Sub-arranger 

8.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

a)  As per Paragraph 6.2.2 of the EBP circular, an arranger/sub-arranger may enter 
bids on EBP platform either on a proprietary basis or for other participants such as 
High Net worth Individuals (HNIs), Institutional investors, etc. 

8.2. Need for the change 

a)  The  EBP  circular  does  not  require  the  arranger/sub-arranger  to  clearly  disclose 
upfront whether the bids being entered are proprietary bids or are bids on behalf 
of other participants or a mix of both.  

b)  Further, in cases where an arranger/sub-arranger submits a consolidated bid on 
account of multiple investors, the arranger/sub-arranger is not required to disclose 
names of the underlying investors and their respective bid quantum at the time of 
bidding. 

 

Page 5 of 16 

c)  The above affects the objective of transparency desired for the EBP mechanism. 

 

d)  Further, Section 42 (7) of the Companies Act, 2013 requires that  

“All offers covered under this section shall be made only to such persons whose 

names are recorded by the company prior to the invitation to subscribe, and that 

such persons shall receive the offer by name, and that a complete record of such 

offers shall be….” 

e)  It has been observed that the arranger/sub arranger sometimes bid on behalf of 
the  investors  which  are  not  pre  identified  by  the  issuer.  Hence,  arranger/sub 
arranger puts a consolidated bid which is large in quantity and the same may also 
result in cornering of the issue and may inter alia attract action under Companies 
Act, 2013 and SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices Relating 
to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. 

8.3. Proposal 

a)  At the time of bidding, the arranger/sub-arranger shall clearly provide a breakup in 
terms of bids being entered on proprietary basis and bids being entered on behalf 
of other investors. 

b)  Further, for the consolidated bids being entered on behalf of other  investors, the 
arranger/sub-arranger shall clearly disclose a sub-breakup, mentioning the names 
of the underlying investors and their respective bid quantum, at the time of bidding. 

c)  The arranger/sub-arranger shall disclose the names and breakup (as mentioned 
at sub-paragraphs ‘a’ and ‘b’ above) to the EBP, whereas the EBP shall disclose 
the  breakup  of  the  bids  on  the  EBP  platform  on  an  anonymous  basis  without 
disclosing the names of the arranger/sub-arranger and the underlying investors. 

d)  Further, for the securities allotted against the proprietary bid of the arranger, such 
securities would be subject to a lock in of 60 days period from the date of allotment. 

9.  Mandatory Open bidding(without disclosing the names of the participants): 

9.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

a)  At present, an issuer has an option to either go for Open or Closed bidding. 

 

 

Page 6 of 16 

9.2. Need for the change 

 

a)  Based  on  the  market feedback,  it  is  understood that  Open bidding  provides  the 
bidders an opportunity to understand the dynamics of the market and to evaluate 
their quotation based on the bids visible on the EBP portal.  

b)  Further,  if  the  bids  are  proprietary  bids,  then  open  bidding  will  be  even  more 
effective  since  it  will  provide  optimal  yield  curve  based  on  large  number of  bids 
rather than consolidated bids. 

c)  However, based on market feedback, it is suggested that although the bids and 
bidding trends would be visible to all market participants on a real time basis, but 
the EBP may disclose the said bids on an anonymous basis without disclosing the 
names of investors, arrangers and sub-arrangers.  

d)  Further, in most of the cases, initial bidding is closed bidding, whereas during the 
negotiation  window,  open  bidding  mechanism  is  followed  wherein  the  bidders 
improve on their old bids based on overall bidding trends.  

e)  Hence, Open bidding would also reduce the need for negotiation window,  since 
the EBP mechanism anyways allows a bidder to enter multiple bids and revise bids 
in the bidding time window. 

9.3. Proposal:  

a)  All the issuers should mandatorily follow open bidding mechanism, wherein EBP 
shall ensure that all the bids should be disclosed on the EBP platform on a real 
time basis in the following manner: 

(i)  Bids  received  from  arrangers/sub-arrangers and  Direct  bids  received from 

investors should be shown separately  

(ii)  All  the  bids  should  be  disclosed  on  an  anonymous  basis  (i.e.  without 

disclosing the names of investors, arrangers and sub-arrangers) 

(iii) Further, for the bids received from arrangers/sub-arrangers, the breakup of 
bids between proprietary and consolidated bids, and the sub-breakup of the 
consolidated  bids  should  be  disclosed  on  the  EBP  platform  on  an 
anonymous basis (i.e. without disclosing the names of investors, arrangers 
and sub-arrangers). 

 

Page 7 of 16 

f)  There may exist a situation wherein the issuer gets the bids to meet its base issue 
however the cut off yield is more than its expectation. In such case, the issuer may 
have the discretion to enter in to negotiation. In such negotiation, all the existing 
shall be able to participate and no new bidders shall be allowed. The Operational 
Guidelines for the negotiation window has been provided at Annexure 1.     

 

10. To make the allotment of debt securities yield-based: 

10.1. 

Current regulatory requirement: 

The  EBP  circular  is  silent  on  the  basis  of  allotment  and  the  same  is  left  to  the 
discretion of the issuer in cases where issue is oversubscribed. 

10.2. 

Need for the change 

a)  The  underlying  objective  of  the  EBP  mechanism  is  to  achieve  better  and 
transparent  price  discovery  through  the  bidding  process.  The  same  can  be 
achieved only if the allotment is done on yield priority basis (i.e. Preference needs 
to be given to the lower coupon bid over higher coupon bids, irrespective of the bid 
time and bid quantity). 

b)  Allotment  on  yield  priority  basis  would  also  encourage  all  the  investors  to 

participate directly on the platform. 

10.3. 

Proposal:  

a)  In  cases  where  the  issue  is  oversubscribed,  it  may  be  made  mandatory  to  do 

allotment on yield priority basis.  

b)  The same may be implemented as under: 

(i)  All the bids shall be arranged in the ascending order of the yields, and a cut-
off yield (i.e. the minimum yield at which the issue would be fully subscribed, 
including any green issue portion which the issuer intends to retain) shall be 
determined. 

(ii)  All the bids below the cut-off yield shall be accepted and full allotment should 

be done to such bidders. 

(iii) All the bids higher than the cut-off yield shall be rejected. 

(iv) For  all  the  bids  at  the  cut-off  yield,  such  bids  shall  be  accepted/partially 

accepted/rejected depending upon the units available for allotment. 

 

Page 8 of 16 

If full quantity cannot be allotted to all the investors who have bided at cut-
off  yield  because  of  oversubscription,  then  the  allotment  may  be  done  on 
time priority basis/ pro-rata basis or quantity basis. 

 

c)  In cases where the issue is undersubscribed, the issuer can either withdraw the issue 

or can accept the raised quantum of subscription.  

11. Allowing  Structured  Products/  Market  Linked  Debentures/  Municipal 

Bonds/Non-convertible Preference shares/CPs/CDs: 

11.1. Current regulatory requirement: 

Currently, the EBP platform is being used only for private placement of NCDs. 

11.2. Need for the change 

a)  Based on the feedbacks received from the market and keeping in view the benefits 
of  existing  electronic  book  mechanism,  it  is  suggested  that  the  current  EBP 
mechanism may also be extended for private placement of  Structured Products/ 
Market  Linked  Debentures  Municipal  Bonds  and  Non-convertible  Preference 
shares (‘NCRPS’).  

11.3. Proposal:  

a)  The existing EBP mechanism (including the changes proposed in this consultation 
paper) would be extended to private placement of Municipal Bonds and NCRPS. 
All the existing provisions of the EBP mechanism, as applicable for NCDs, would 
also be applicable to Structured Products/ Market Linked Debentures, Municipal 
Bonds and NCRPS. 

b)  The existing EBP mechanism (including the changes proposed in this consultation 
paper) may also be used for issuances of CPs and CDs, subject to compliance 
with existing laws and provisions applicable for issuance of CPs and CDs. All the 
existing provisions of the EBP mechanism, as applicable for NCDs, would also be 
applicable to CPs and CDs,  unless the same would result in non-compliance of 
existing laws and provisions applicable for issuance of CPs and CDs. 

12. Standard Operational guidelines for the EBPs 

In order to bring uniformity across EBPs and in view of the changes as proposed in 
this consultation paper, it is proposed to provide standard operational guidelines for 
handling issues on the EBP platform. The same are enclosed at Annexure 1. 

 

Page 9 of 16 

 

IV.  Public Comments: 

 

In  light  of  the  above,  public  comments  are  invited  on  the  proposals  contained  in 
thisconsultation paper. Comments/ suggestions may be provided in the format given 
below:  

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 

 

 

 

Sr. 
No.  

 

Pertains  to  Point 
No. 

Suggestions 

Rationale 

 

 

 

The comments may either be forwarded by email to ebp@sebi.gov.inor may be sent 
by post to the following address latest by June 21, 2017. 

Ms. Richa Agarwal 
Deputy General Manager 
Investment Management Department, 
Division of Funds I  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, G Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai - 400 021 

Issued on: May 22, 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Page 10 of 16 

Standard Operational guidelines for the EBPs: Proposal 

 

KYC 

  For QIBs and Non QIBs bidding directly 

 

Annexure 1 

on  EBPs,  the  KYCs  will  be  ensured  by 

EBPs. 

  For all other participants, arrangers and 

Sub-arrangers shall ensure KYCs before 

bidding on their behalf. 

  Arranger 

or 

Sub-Arranger  may 

undertake  KYC  of  participants  by 

obtaining/utilizing  existing  KYCs  of 

clients  from  KRAs  registered  with  SEBI 

Or can do KYC based on the guidelines 

provided by SEBI from time to time in this 

regards. 

 

 

Bidding Hours 

  9AM to 5PM from Monday to Friday  

  The bidding has to end before 5 PM 

Holiday Master 

  RBI  Mumbai  Calendar  (GOI  Securities 

Pre-Bid Procedure 

Trading Calendar) 

 

 

Issue setup authority 

 

Issue can be set-up by the Issuer or the 

EBP on behalf of the Issuer 

Issue Parameters 

 

Issuer has to fill in the issue parameters 

as  specified  by  the  EBP  and  /  or  SEBI 

from 

time 

to 

time.  The  parameters 

include 

Issue  Name,  Maturity  date, 

Minimum  bid  value,  credit 

ratings, 

bidding 

period, 

cooling 

period, 

negotiation window, etc. 

 

Page 11 of 16 

 
Issuer and the EBP shall ensure that the 

 

bidding  along  with  negotiation 

(if 

applicable)  shall  be  completed  on  the 

same working day. 

 

Issue related uploads 

  Necessary issue specific documentation 

like  Term  sheet  /  Private  Placement 

Memorandum (PPM) / Shelf Information 

Memorandum (IM) / Credit rating letters / 

Rating reports or Rating rationale or any 

other  document  as  decided by  the  EBP 

or  as  mandated  by  the  regulators  from 

time to time. 

 

Minimum 

market 

 

Issuer  has  to  notify  to  the  market  1 

notification time 

working  hour  before 

the  scheduled 

bidding  time  in  case  issue  opens  on 

same day. 

 

If the issue details are made available to 

the  exchange  before  5  PM  on  the 

previous  working  day,  then  the  bidding 

can begin at the start of the working day. 

 

Intimation to market 

  Only  the  eligible  participants  shall  have 

access 

to  PPM  and 

issue  specific 

information  and  to  the  bidding  portal 

provided by EBP  

  The  Exchange  shall  intimate  the  issue 

related 

information 

to 

the  eligible 

participants  in  a  manner  as  decided  by 

Exchange from time to time 

 

 

Page 12 of 16 

 

Bidding Process 

 

Bidding Period 

  Bidding  timing  will  be  minimum  of  30 

 

minutes which may go up to 2 hours. 

  EBP  as  agreed  by  issuer  will  specify 

minimum  and  maximum  time  for  initial 

bidding  window  subject  to  maximum 

bidding period specified above. 

  Directly  participating 

investors 

(non-

arranger) can place bids only for self i.e 

on proprietary basis 

  Participants  will  be  allowed  to  enter 

multiple  bids  i.e.  single  participant  may 

enter  more  than  one  bid.  In  case  a 

participant enters multiple bids, the latest 

bid shall be considered as the final bid by 

the participant. 

  Cancellation and Modification of bids will 

be allowed during bidding time. 

  Arrangers 

are 

allowed 

to 

enter 

consolidated  bids  on  behalf  of  multiple 

investors  

  Arranger  and  sub-arranger  can  place 

orders  for  self  (proprietary)  and/or  on 

behalf of investors (clients) 

 

Rules  for  Consolidated 

  A  consolidated  bid  is  one  where  the 

Bids 

arranger enters a single combined bid on 

behalf of self and/or multiple investors  

  The  arranger  shall  upload  the  client 

details which are part of the consolidated 

 

Page 13 of 16 

 
on  the  EBP  portal  before  the  bidding 

starts. 

Action  After  Bidding 

  After  the  bidding  period  the  issuer  has 

Period 

the option to:  

  Withdraw the issue  

  Accept and close issue indicating cut-

off rate/price  

  Initiate negotiation 

Negotiation window 

  Before the negotiation window becomes 

 

 

active,  there  shall  be  a  cooling  period. 

The  cooling  period  may  be  of  upto  30 

minutes which shall commence just after 

the bidding period is over. 

  There  shall  be  a  facility  for  negotiation 

and the same shall also be done on open 

book basis. The negotiation window may 

remain  open  for  maximum  of  one  hour. 

Further,  the  negotiation  window  may 

have following criteria: 

  All  of  the  initial  bidders  shall  be 

eligible 

to 

participate 

in 

the 

negotiation round. 

  Bids  from  new  participants  are  not 

allowed during negotiation  

  The bidders  at  a  particular  level  can 

modify their bids any number of times 

till  their  respective  negotiation  slots 

are active  

  Issuer 

can  accept  and 

close 

negotiations  at  any  point  during  the 

 

Page 14 of 16 

 
negotiation  rounds.  Issuer  cannot 

withdraw 

the 

issue 

during 

negotiations  

  Rules for Modification:  

  If  bidder  is  reducing  coupon/spread 

(or  raising  price)  then  the  bidder  is 

allowed  to  increase  or  decrease  bid 

amount  

  In  other  cases  bidders  can  only 

increase their bid amount  

  After the initial negotiation round, the 

issuer 

can 

subsequently  open 

multiple  rounds  of  negotiation 

if 

required subject to the same shall be 

completed on the same working day. 

  Issuer  can  withdraw  /  accept  issue 

subject to rules specified by the EBP 

in this regards. 

Note: The EBP shall ensure that any extension of bidding time, cooling 

period or negotiation window done within the timeframe provided above, 

shall be made known to all the eligible investors simultaneously through 

the portal.  

Post Bidding Procedure 

Other rules 

 

Withdrawal of Issue 

  An  issuer  cannot  withdraw  the  issue  in 

following cases: 

  The base issue size is filled (In case 

of fixed rate issuance) 

 

Page 15 of 16 

 
   The  base  issue  size  subscribed  at 

the  rate  as  decided  by  issuer during 

negotiation  

  Once issue is accepted 

 

 

Non-fulfilment 

of 

  EBP to take necessary action on case to 

Obligation by Bidders 

case basis 

Investor Grievance 

The investor grievances, if any, arising from 

bidding  process  shall  be  addressed  by  the 

Issuer  in  accordance  with  the  respective 

agreement. 

In  addition,  EBP  shall  also 

address  the  investor  grievance  arising  from 

bidding  process.  Further,  any  dispute 

between issuer and bidders before listing of 

privately placed debt securities in recognized 

Stock Exchange(s) shall be settled as per the 

respective agreement. 

 

 

Page 16 of 16 

