CONSULTATION PAPER  

ON EASING OF ACCESS NORMS FOR INVESTMENT BY FPIs. 

 

 

 

A.  OBJECTIVE:  

 

  To solicit the comments/views from general public on the proposals contained in 

this consultation paper, which may warrant amendments to SEBI (Foreign Portfolio 

Investors) Regulations, 2014 and Circulars/Guidelines etc. issued thereunder.   

 

B.  PROPOSALS:  

 

1.  Expansion of eligible jurisdictions for grant of FPI registration to category I 

FPIs by including countries having diplomatic tie-ups with India and FEMA 

compliant (Proposed amendments to Regulation 4(b)):    

 

The Regulation 4(b) of FPI Regulations reads as – “…the applicant is resident of 

a  country  whose  securities  market  regulator  is  a  signatory  to  International 

Organization  of  Securities  Commission’s  Multilateral  Memorandum  of 

Understanding (Appendix A Signatories) or a signatory to bilateral Memorandum 

of Understanding with the Board…” 

  

      Proposal-  

 

In  terms  of  the  aforementioned  regulations,  the  applicants  eligible  to  seek 

registration  under  Category  I  are  limited  to  those  who  are  resident  of  a  country 

whose securities market regulator is either a signatory to IOSCO’s MMoU or has 

a  bilateral  MoU  with  SEBI.  Category  I  entities  are  essentially  Government  and 

related entities or Multilateral agencies and are perceived to be the highest quality 

and lowest risk investors, with a long term investment horizon generally. Therefore, 

 

Page 1 of 23 

 

for  multilateral  agencies,  there  may  not  be  any  requirement  to  pass  jurisdiction 

check. However, in certain jurisdictions like Canada, there is no separate securities 

market regulator nationwide but have provincial regulators, which are signatory to 

IOSCO’s  MMOU.  Thus,  from  Canada,  FPIs  can  be  only  from  those  provinces 

which  are  signatory  to  IOSCO’s  MMOU  (presently  four  viz.  Ontario,  Quebec, 

British  Columbia  &  Alberta).  Accordingly,  residents  of  other  provinces  are  not 

eligible to seek registration as an FPI and make investments in Indian securities 

market.  Incidentally,  there  is  no  such  requirement  for  the  strategic  investor 

investing under FDI route. 

In view of the above, it is proposed that the list of eligible jurisdictions in terms of 

FPI Regulations for grant of registration to Category I FPIs, may be expanded by 

also considering those jurisdictions, wherein Government of India has diplomatic 

tie-up  and  FEMA  compliant  jurisdiction,  in  addition  to  existing  requirements 

whereby the concerned securities market regulator is required to be a signatory to 

IOSCO  MMoU.  Consequently,  more  jurisdictions  such  as  other  provinces  in 

Canada would be able to access the market due to change in FPI Regulations. 

Changes proposed- 

 

Regulation 4(b) to be amended as:  

 

“the  applicant  is  resident  of  a  country  whose  securities  market  regulator  is  a 

signatory  to  International  Organization  of  Securities  Commission’s  Multilateral 

Memorandum of Understanding (Appendix A Signatories) or a signatory to bilateral 

Memorandum of Understanding with the Board.  

 

Provided further that the applicant shall be considered as eligible for registration 

under Category I, if, the applicant is resident in a country, which is in compliance 

Page 2 of 23 

 

   

 

 

with  extant  regulatory  framework  laid  down  in  FEMA  and  also  has  formal 

diplomatic ties with India (SEBI in consultation with Government of India to notify 

 

list of such countries)”.” 

 

Other eligibility requirements in terms of FPI Regulations for grant of registration 

shall remain unchanged.  

2.  Rationalization  of  fit  and  proper  criteria  (Proposed  amendments  to 

Regulation 4 & Regulation 23)  

  

Proposal- 

 

Regulations 4 (f) to (j) of FPI Regulations read as follows –  

 

(f) the applicant is legally permitted to invest in securities outside the country of its 

incorporation or establishment or place of business; 

(g) the applicant is authorized by its Memorandum of Association and Articles of 

Association or equivalent document(s) or the agreement to invest on its own behalf 

or on behalf of its clients; 

(h)  the  applicant  has  sufficient  experience,  good  track  record,  is  professionally 

competent, financially sound and has a generally good reputation of fairness and 

integrity; 

 

(i) the grant of certificate to the applicant is in the interest of the development of 

the securities market; 

 

(j)  the  applicant  is  a  fit  and  proper  person  based  on  the  criteria  specified  in 

Page 3 of 23 

 

 

 

 

 

Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 

 

Regulations, 2008 

 

The  requirements  to  ascertain  whether  the  applicant  is  “fit  and  proper”  are 

very  broad  and  generally  cover  the  relevant  factors,  including  the  eligibility 

requirements prescribed under Regulation 4 (f), (g), (h) and (i).   

In view of the fact that category I and II FPIs are essentially Government and 

Regulated entities, it is felt that any additional documentation and procedural 

requirements under Regulation 4 (f), (g), (h) and (i) may not be required to be 

applied for such investors. 

 

 

Accordingly,  documentation  requirements  under  Regulation  4  (j)  would 

suffice.  However,  Category  III  FPIs  shall  continue  to  be  subject  to  specific 

requirements under Regulation 4 (f), (g), (h), (i) and (j)”.  

 

As per Regulation 4, general obligation for FPI eligibility requirement is on DDPs 

and not on FPI applicant. While the DDPs shall continue to perform due diligence 

at the time of processing the registration applications, it is felt that FPIs should also 

be  made  obligatory  of  this  eligibility  requirement.  Accordingly,  the  eligibility 

requirement under 4(j) may be made a part of Chapter V - General Obligations and 

Responsibilities of FPI also.  

 

Changes proposed –  

 

a.  A proviso to be inserted under Regulation 4 clarifying that only Regulation 

4 (j) be applicable  for Category I and II FPIs and  as regards Category III 

FPIs, Regulation 4 (f), (g), (h), (i) and (j) will continue to be applicable.  

Page 4 of 23 

 

 

b.  Regulation 4(j) to be added in part of Chapter V - General Obligations and 

Responsibilities of FPI also.  

 

 

  

3.  Modification in encumbrance obligation to address statutory requirements 

(Proposed amendments to Regulation 32(2)(d))  

 

“…(2)  The  designated  depository  participant  engaged  by  an  applicant  seeking 

registration as foreign portfolio investor shall :- 

…… 

(d)ensure  that  equity  shares  held  by  foreign  portfolio  investors  are  free  from  all 

    

  

encumbrances…” 

Proposal –  

 

DDPs  are  required  to  ensure  that  equity  shares  held  by  FPIs  are  free  from  all 

encumbrances.  Lien/set-off  on  investments  of  FPIs  are  required  for  regulatory 

reasons such as Irrevocable Payment Commitment (IPC), payment of clearing & 

settlement  obligations,  custody  fees,  administrative  fees/charges,  and  as  such, 

these may not be treated as encumbrance for the purpose of this clause.  

Changes proposed –  

 

In view of the above, this clause in the FPI Regulations may be modified to read 

as –  

 

“DDPs  are  required  to  ensure  that  equity  shares  held  by  FPIs  are  free  from 

encumbrances: 

 

 

Page 5 of 23 

Provided  that  the  obligation  (s)  created  to  meet  statutory  and  regulatory 

requirements will not be considered for this purpose”. 

 

 

 

 

4.  Simplification  of  broad  based  requirement  (Proposed  amendments  to 

Explanation 2 to Regulation 5 (b))  

 

Explanation 2 to Regulation 5 (b) of FPI Regulations read as follows –  

 

Explanation 2.- 
 
A)  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause,  "broad  based  fund"  shall  mean  a  fund, 

established or incorporated outside India, which has at least twenty investors, with 

no investor holding more than forty-nine per cent of the shares or units of the fund: 

Provided that if the broad based fund has an institutional investor who holds more 

than forty nine per cent of the shares or units in the fund, then such institutional 

investor must itself be a broad based fund.    

 

Proposal –  

 

It has been brought to the notice of SEBI that that some of fund applicants desirous 

of seeking registration as an FPI are open-ended funds and, as such, are always 

open for subscription and redemption by investors. Accordingly, at times due to 

reasons such as redemption by existing investors, portfolio rebalancing etc., the 

number of investors in that fund may go below 20 and thus, the fund ceases to 

satisfy  the  broad  based  criteria  in  terms  of  FPI  Regulations.  SEBI  had  given 

clarification that  in  case  an  FPI applicant has  a bank as  an underlying  investor, 

then such FPI shall be deemed to be broad based for the purpose of Regulation 

Page 6 of 23 

 

 

 

 

5(b) of the FPI Regulations. It is now proposed that this rationale on deemed to be 

broad based criteria may also be extended in other cases wherein the applicant 

funds  have  other 

institutional 

investors  viz.,  Sovereign  Wealth  Fund, 

Insurance/Reinsurance Companies, Pension Funds, Exchange Traded Funds etc. 

as their underlying investors. The same may be in conformity with Explanation 2 

of Regulation 5 (b) of SEBI (FPI) Regulations, 2014.  

 

Changes proposed –  

 

In  view  of  the  above,  a  proviso  to  Explanation  2  to  Regulation  5  (b)  of  FPI 

Regulations may be inserted. Accordingly, it may be read as follows – 

 

Explanation 2.- 
 
A)  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause,  "broad  based  fund"  shall  mean  a  fund, 

established or incorporated outside India, which has at least twenty investors, with 

no investor holding more than forty-nine per cent of the shares or units of the fund: 

Provided that if the broad based fund has an institutional investor who holds more 

than forty nine per cent of the shares or units in the fund, then such institutional 

investor must itself be a broad based fund.    

Provided further that in case, if an FPI applicant has a Bank, Sovereign Wealth 

Fund, Insurance/ Reinsurance Companies, Pension Funds, and Exchange Traded 

Funds as its underlying investor, then such an FPI applicant shall be deemed to 

be broad based for the purpose of Regulation 5(b) of the FPI Regulations subject 

to the condition that such underlying investor (s) in the fund shall either individually 

or jointly hold majority stake in the applicant fund at all times.” 

 

Page 7 of 23 

 

 

 

 

 

5.  Rationalization of procedure for submission of PCC/MCV Declarations and 

Undertakings  (D&U)  and  Investor  grouping  requirement  at  the  time  of 

continuance of registration of FPIs –  

 

In terms of FAQ 51, at the time of  seeking continuance of registration, FPIs are 

required to re-submit D&U to the effect that it is not Protected Cell Company (PCC) 

/Multi- class Vehicle (MCV) and information regarding FPI investor groups (along 

with a confirmation that there is no change in structure).  

Considering that PCC/MCV D&U and information regarding FPI investor groups is 

provided at the time of FPI registration/conversion and the details of the same are 

recorded  in  NSDL  portal.  In  case  there  is  no  change  in  the  information  already 

submitted, the requirement to re-submit PCC/MCV D&U and information regarding 

FPI  investor  groups  at  the  time  of  continuance  be  dispensed  with.  However, 

DDPs/Custodians will continue to ensure compliance with the KYC due-diligence 

requirement in terms of the extant regulatory requirements.  

The changes proposed in FAQ are as under –  

FAQ  51.  Is a  DDP  required  to  collect  Form  A  from  an  FPI  at  the  time  of 

payment of registration fee for continuance of its registration as FPI? 

Present Language 

Revised Language 

In  the  FII  regime,  an  FII/SA  at  the 

In the FII regime, an FII/SA at the time of 

time  of  payment  of  registration  fee 

payment 

of 

registration 

fee 

for 

for continuance of its registration as 

continuance  of  its  registration  as  FII/SA 

FII/SA  is  not  required  to  submit 

was not required to submit Form A. The 

Form  A.  However,  it  is  required  to 

same  practice  shall  continue  in  the  FPI 

provide  certain  documents  namely 

regime.  Further, FPIs are not required to 

Declaration  and  Undertaking  as 

re-submit  ‘Declaration  and  Undertaking’ 

specified 

in  SEBI  Circular  No. 

(as  specified  in  the  SEBI  Circular  No. 

Page 8 of 23 

 

 

 

CIR/IMD/FIIC/1/  2010  dated  April 

CIR/IMD/FIIC/1/  2010  dated  April  15, 

15, 2010 and Information regarding 

2010)  and  information  regarding  FPI 

FII groups along with a confirmation 

investor  groups,  in  case  there  is  no 

to the effect that there is no change 

change  in  the  information  as  compared 

in  structure  of  the  FII  and  SA  as 

to that furnished to the DDP earlier. 

compared to that furnished to SEBI 

DDPs  may 

rely  on 

the  specific 

earlier.  The  same  practice  shall 

declaration from the FPI that there is no 

continue in the FPI regime. 

change in the information, as previously 

furnished. However, it may be noted that 

the  DDP/Custodians  will  continue  to 

ensure  compliance  with  the  KYC  due 

diligence 

requirement  prescribed  by 

SEBI/RBI  and  changes  therein  as  may 

be notified from time to time. 

 

6.  Discontinuance of requirements for seeking prior approval from SEBI in case 

of change in local custodian/DDP  

It  is  reported  that  majority  of  the  registered  FPIs  access  the  Indian  securities 

market through Global Custodians (GCs) wherein they appoint the GC and the GC 

in turn appoints a local/sub-custodian in India. The GC represents its FPI clients 

and  liaises  with  the  local  custodian  on  behalf  of  its  clients  regarding  custodial 

services in India.  All post-trade activities of the FPIs in the Indian securities market 

are  conducted  through  GCs,  including  account  opening,  trade  settlements 

etc. Since a GC generally manages a large number of FPI accounts, sometimes it 

results in transition of large number of FPIs from one local custodian to another. 

Taking specific request letter from each FPI regarding change of local custodian 

may create operational and logistical challenges to change local custodian in India.  

Page 9 of 23 

 

 

Hence, it is proposed to permit the new local custodian/DDP to rely on letter from 

GC regarding the change in local custodian of its FPI clients provided the transferor 

local  custodian/DDP  provides  no  objection  certificate  to  the  transferee  local 

custodian/DDP for change of local custodian. The intimation regarding the change 

in local custodian/DDP may be sent to the concerned FPI by the transferee local 

 

custodian/DDP. 

The changes proposed are as under –  

Clause 5.4 of Operational Guidelines for DDPs ref. SEBI circular dated 

January 08, 2014 – Change in DDP/Custodian 

Present language 

Revised Language 

In  case  the  FPI  wishes  to  change  the 

In case the FPI or its Global Custodian 

DDP/Custodian, 

the 

request 

for 

wishes 

to 

change 

the 

local 

change  shall  be  intimated  to  SEBI 

custodian/DDP, the request for change 

through 

the 

concerned 

shall  be 

forwarded 

to  new 

local 

DDP/Custodian.  On  receipt  of  no 

custodian/DDP.  

objection  from  the  existing  /transferor 

DDP/Custodian  and  acceptance  from 

the 

proposed/ 

transferee 

DDP/Custodian,  then  approval  from 

SEBI  shall  be  sought  by  concerned 

FPI. 

In  case  the  Global  Custodian  of  FPI 

wishes 

to 

change 

the 

local 

custodian/DDP,  then  the  request  for 

change  can  be  sent  by  the  Global 

Custodian  on  behalf  of  its  underlying 

FPI  clients  provided  such  Global 

Custodian 

has 

been 

explicitly 

authorized  to  take  such  steps  by  the 

client.   

 

Page 10 of 23 

 

 

 

 

 

Upon  receipt  of  no  objection  from  the 

transferor  local  custodian/DDP,  the 

transferee  local  custodian/DDP  shall 

approve the change and intimate SEBI 

about the change.   

In case the request for change in local 

custodian/DDP is received from Global 

Custodian, 

the 

transferor 

local 

custodian/DDP 

shall 

inform 

Compliance  Officer  of  the  concerned 

FPI(s)  regarding  the  change  in  their 

local custodian/DDP. 

 

 

7.  Placing reliance on due diligence carried out by erstwhile DDP at the time of 

change of Custodian/DDP of FPIs 

At  the  time  of  change  of  local  custodian/DDP  by  an  FPI,  the  new  local 

custodian/DDP is required to carry out the adequate due diligence requirement to 

ascertain the eligibility of the FPI. The due diligence by the new DDP on an already 

registered  FPI  at  the  time  of  change  of  local  custodian/DDP  often  leads  to 

increased  documentation  and  sometimes  delays  the  transition.  It  is  pertinent  to 

note that  the  DDPs are  required  to  conduct a  due  diligence  at the  time  when a 

registered FPI applies for continuance of its registration every three years from the 

date of registration. 

Accordingly, at the time of change of local custodian/DDP, it is suggested that the 

new DDP may be permitted to rely on the registration granted by previous DDP at 

 

Page 11 of 23 

 

 

the  time  of  transition.  This  will  avoid  duplicate  efforts  and  incremental 

documentation by the FPIs as well as the DDPs.  The changes proposed are as 

under –  

 

 

Present language (e-mail dated 

Revised Language 

2nd July 2015) 

With  respect  to  the  process  of 

With  respect  to  the  process  of  change  of 

change  of  Custodian/DDP  by  an 

local  custodian/DDP  by  an  FPI, 

it 

is 

FPI, it is informed that both old (i.e. 

informed that the new DDP (i.e. transferee) 

transferor)  as  well  as  new 

can  rely  on  the  existing  SEBI  registration 

Custodian/DDP  (i.e. 

transferee) 

granted  by  previous  DDP  (i.e.  transferor). 

shall  be  required  to  carry  out  the 

However, the new DDP is required to carry 

adequate  due  diligence  in  the 

out the adequate due diligence at the time 

process. 

when the FPI applies for continuance of its 

registration on an ongoing basis. 

8.  Exemption  to  FPIs  having  Multiple  Investment  Managers  (MIM)  structure 

from  seeking  prior  approval  from  SEBI  in  case  of  Free  of  cost  transfer  of 

assets –  

Free  of  cost  transfer  of  assets  (“FOC”)  is  permitted  wherein  the  transferor  and 

transferee FPIs have exactly the same beneficial owners. Currently, any requests 

for  FOC  by  the  FPI  along  with  list  of  securities  intended  to  be  transferred  are 

forwarded by DDPs to SEBI for consideration. In order to streamline this with other 

miscellaneous  cases,  it  is  proposed  that  requests  for  FOC  by  FPIs  can  be 

processed by DDPs subject to compliance with below requirements: 

 

 

Page 12 of 23 

FOC request for non-MIM structure such as on account of complex restructuring 

exercise,  merger  etc.  will  be  forwarded  by  DDPs  to  SEBI  for  appropriate 

consideration. The changes proposed in FAQ are as under –  

 

 

 

 

Q 28. Who would consider application for free of cost transfer of assets?  

Present Language 

Revised Language 

The request for free of cost transfer 

The  request  for  free  of  cost  transfer  of 

of  assets  by  the  FPI  should  be 

assets  by  FPIs  registered  under 

the 

forwarded 

to  SEBI 

for 

its 

Multiple 

Investment  Managers 

(MIM) 

consideration 

through 

the 

structure may be processed by DDPs.  

concerned DDP. 

For non-MIM FPIs, the request for free of 

cost transfer of assets  may be forwarded 

to  SEBI  through  the  concerned  DDP,  for 

appropriate consideration. 

 

9.  Simplification of process for addition of share class –  

In case of addition of share classes, the FPIs are required to obtain prior approval 

from  SEBI/DDP.  Since  the  share  classes  are  generally  launched  in  the  home 

jurisdiction  of  the  FPI,  the  requirement  of  seeking  prior  approval  sometimes 

impedes  the  launch  of  the  new  share  class  and  thus  impact  the  fund  and  its 

investors.  

 

 

 

It is proposed that in a fund where common portfolio is maintained across all share 

classes, prior approval for addition of share class may not be required. If there is 

change  in  structure  due  to  the  addition  of  share  class,  FPIs  are  nevertheless 

required to notify forthwith. 

Page 13 of 23 

 

Further, in cases where segregated portfolios are maintained, FPIs are required to 

obtain prior approval of SEBI/DDP for addition of share class (one or more). For 

addition of non-broad based share classes, DDP may obtain an undertaking from 

the FPI that all the newly added share classes shall attain the broad based status 

within  180  days  from  the  date  of  approval  issued  by  the  DDP.  This  shall  bring 

uniformity in the timelines to become broad based in case of simultaneous addition 

of more than one share class for segregated portfolio. The changes proposed in 

FAQs are as under –  

 

Q  49.  Does  every  fund  /  sub  fund  /  share  class  need  to  separately  fulfil 

broad based criteria? Is prior approval required for launch of new share 

class from DDP?  

Present Language 

Revised Language 

Yes,  every  fund  /  sub  fund  /  share  class 

In  case  common  portfolio 

is 

needs  to  separately  fulfil  broad  based 

maintained  across  all  classes  of 

criteria,  where  segregated  portfolio  is 

shares/fund/sub-fund  and  broad 

maintained. In case of addition of classes 

based  criteria  are 

fulfilled  at 

of  shares,  the  FPI  shall  be  required  to 

portfolio  level  due  to  addition  of 

obtain  prior  approval  from  DDP.  For 

share  class,  prior  approval  from 

granting of such prior approval, DDPs shall 

DDP is not required. 

obtain  following  documents  from  the  FPI 

 

applicant: 

a)  A 

declaration 

and 

However,  in  case  of  segregated 

undertaking  with  respect  to  PCC,  MCV 

portfolio,  every  fund  /  sub  fund  / 

status as specified in SEBI circular ref. no. 

share  class  needs  to  separately 

CIR/IMD/FIIC/1/  2010  dated  April  15, 

fulfil  broad  based  criteria.  Further, 

2010;  b)  In  cases  where  segregated 

in  case  of  addition  or  deletion  of 

portfolios  are  maintained,  Where 

the 

classes  of  shares  for  segregated 

newly added share class is already broad 

portfolio,  the  FPI  shall  be  required 

Page 14 of 23 

 

 

 

based, 

the  FPI  will  continue 

to  be 

to obtain prior approval from DDP. 

considered as being broad based.  

For granting of such prior approval, 

i.  Where the newly added share class 

DDPs  shall  obtain  declaration  and 

is  not  broad  based, 

then  an 

undertaking  with  respect  to  PCC, 

undertaking is to be obtained by the 

MCV  status.  Further,  in  case  of 

DDP  that  the  newly  added  share 

addition  of  one  or  more  than  one 

class  will  become  broad  based 

share  class,  which  are  not  broad 

within 90 days from the date of DDP 

based,  an  undertaking  may  be 

approval letter.  

obtained  by  the  DDP  that  all  the 

ii. 

In case of simultaneous addition of 

newly  added  share  classes  shall 

more  than  one  share  class,  which 

attain broad based within 180 days 

are  not  broad  based,  then  an 

from the date of approval issued by 

undertaking is to be obtained by the 

DDP. 

DDP that all the newly added share 

classes  will  become  broad  based 

within 15 days from the date of DDP 

approval letter.  

Q  100.  If  the  prospectus  of  a  fund  (registered  as  FPI)  allows  for  share 

classes such as various currencies, can such an FPI request for addition 

of share class for every single iteration/variant of a share-class at one time 

irrespective of whether it actually launches the share-class or not?  

Present Language 

Revised Language 

It has already been clarified in reply to Q 

It has already been clarified in reply 

49  of  FAQs  that  in  case  of  simultaneous 

to  Q  49  of  FAQs  that  in  case  of 

addition  of  more  than  one  share  class, 

simultaneous addition of more than 

which  are  not  broad  based,  then  an 

one share class (where segregated 

undertaking is to be obtained by the DDP 

portfolio  is  maintained),  which  are 

that all the newly added share classes will 

not 

broad  based, 

then  an 

Page 15 of 23 

 

 

 

become broad based within 15 days from 

undertaking is to be obtained by the 

the date of DDP approval letter. However, 

DDP that all the newly added share 

where common portfolio is maintained, the 

classes  will  attain  broad  based 

approval  of  launch  of  share  class/variant 

status  within  180  days  from  the 

shall be taken prior to its launch. 

date of approval issued by DDP. 

 

10. Permitting  FPIs  operating  under  the  Multiple  Investment  Managers  (MIM) 

structure to appoint multiple custodians–  

In terms of SEBI FAQ 6 & 103, wherever an entity engages Multiple Investment 

Managers (MIM structure) it can obtain multiple FPI registrations. However, these 

applicants are required to appoint the same local custodian and investments made 

under  such  multiple  registrations  are  clubbed  for  the  purpose  of  monitoring  of 

investment limits as per the extant regulatory requirement. Some FPIs have raised 

concern  that  by  appointing  single  entity  as  the  local  custodian/DDP,  they  are 

exposed to higher counter-party risk. 

 

Under  the  erstwhile  FII  regime,  requirement  of  same  local  custodian  for  MIM 

accounts  was  prescribed  in  order  to  ensure  that  investments  made  under  such 

multiple  registrations  are  clubbed  for  the  purpose  of  monitoring  of  investment 

limits.  Considering  that  FPI applicants are  required  to provide  investor  grouping 

information in the Form “A” while seeking registration and DDP reports the same 

to  the  depositories,  investments  made  under  such  multiple  registrations  are 

clubbed  for  the  purpose  of  investment  limits  by  the  depositories.  In  view  of  the 

same, it is proposed that such MIM accounts may be permitted to appoint different 

local custodians/DDPs. In any case, the depositories (NSDL & CDSL) are required 

monitor the investment limits of the FPIs.  

 

 

Page 16 of 23 

 

 

 

The changes proposed in FAQs are as under –  

Q 6. Can an entity obtain more than one FPI registration (similar to the one 

allowed for MIM structures in the FII regime)?  

Present Language 

Revised Language 

Yes.  In  the  FII  regime,  wherever  an 

Yes.  In  the  FII  regime,  wherever  an 

entity  engages  Multiple 

Investment 

entity  engages  Multiple  Investment 

Managers (MIM structure) it can obtain 

Managers  (MIM  structure) 

it  can 

multiple registrations with SEBI. These 

obtain  multiple 

registrations  with 

applicants  are  required  to  appoint  the 

SEBI.  Further, 

investments  made 

same 

local 

custodian. 

Further, 

under such multiple registrations were 

investments  made  under  such  multiple 

clubbed for the purpose of monitoring 

registrations  are  clubbed 

for 

the 

of 

investment 

limits.  The  same 

purpose of investment limits. The same 

position  shall  continue  in  the  FPI 

position  shall  continue 

in 

the  FPI 

regime.  Also,  such  applicants  can 

regime. 

appoint 

different 

local 

custodians/DDPs. 

Q 103. Can a DDP register proprietary accounts for the purposes of internal 

segregation (other than for MIM purposes)?  Are there any limitations on 

how many such proprietary FPIs can be registered? 

Present Language 

Revised Language 

It has already been clarified in reply to 

Please see reply to Q. 6.  

Q6  of  the  FAQs that  in  the  FII  regime, 

wherever  an  entity  engages  Multiple 

Investment Managers (MIM structure) it 

can  obtain  multiple  registrations  with 

SEBI. These applicants are required to 

FAQs Page 24 of 36 appoint the same 

local  custodian.  Further,  investments 

Page 17 of 23 

 

 

made under such multiple registrations 

are  clubbed 

for 

the  purpose  of 

investment  limits.  The  same  position 

shall continue in the FPI regime. 

 

11. Permitting FPIs holding FVCI to appoint multiple custodians–  

SEBI  vide  circular  dated  June  12,  2015  permitted  an  FVCI  for  grant  of  FPI 

registration.  It was inter alia advised that such an applicant holding FPI & FVCI 

registration should have same custodian.  

 

SEBI has now received representation that as the limit computation and monitoring 

is  being  carried  out  by  the  depository,  same  entities  with  multiple  registrations 

(such  as  FPI  and  FVCI  or  multiple  FPI)  may  be  permitted  to  use  separate 

custodians to hold assets, which will also  provide more flexibility to the entities. 

Accordingly, in line with the suggestion to permit Multi Managed Structures (MIM 

accounts)  to  appoint  separate  local  custodians,  it  is  also  proposed  to  permit 

different custodians for FPI and FVCI registrations for the same entity. 

 

 

However,  the  existing  mechanism  of  monitoring  by  NSDL  to  ensure  that  the 

aggregate holding by the FPI and FVCI entities that form part of the same investor 

group  is  below  10%  of  the  issued  share  capital  as  stipulated  under  the  FPI 

regulations  will  have  to  be  monitored  by  the  existing  monitoring  mechanism  of 

NSDL.   

To facilitate proper information flow w.r.t. such group accounts to NSDL, the FPIs 

are proposed to be advised to report details of all other FVCI accounts that share 

50%  or  more  of  common  beneficial  ownership  to  DDP  at  the  time  of  seeking 

registration. This information on the group accounts can be passed on NSDL by 

Page 18 of 23 

 

 

 

 

 

the  custodian.  Similarly  FVCI  applicants  are  also  proposed  to  be  mandated  to 

provide  details  of  ‘group’  FPI  accounts  to  SEBI  at  the  time  of  FPI  registration 

application  and  this  information  can  be  further  shared  with  NSDL  by  SEBI  for 

monitoring purpose. Custodians shall also be required to provide details of physical 

securities held by FVCI accounts that are part of any investor group to NSDL on a 

daily basis for the purpose of below 10% monitoring. 

 

12. Permitting appropriately regulated Private Bank/Merchant Bank to invest on 

their  behalf and also on behalf of their clients–  

 

Private  Banks  that  are  appropriately  regulated  and  managing  funds  of  their 

investor  pool  should  be  permitted  to  undertake  investments  on  behalf  of  its 

investors  if  such  investors  are  ready  to  share  the  details  of  their  investors.  It  is 

proposed that Private Bank/Merchant Bank may invest on behalf of their clients 

provided: 

 

  Details of beneficial owners (BOs) are available and will be provided as  and when 

required by regulators;  

  Banks do not have any secrecy arrangement with the investors and secrecy laws 

do not apply to the jurisdictions in which the bank is regulated. 

 

The changes proposed in FAQs are as under:- 

 

Q  20.  How  would  the  Private  Banks  and  Merchant  Banks  be  classified? 

Should  they  be  considered  as  appropriately  regulated  if  they  are 

regulated  or  supervised  by  the  banking  regulator  of  the  concerned 

foreign jurisdiction and thus qualify to be Category II FPI?  

 

Page 19 of 23 

 

 

 

Present Language 

Revised Language 

     Private Banks and Merchant 

      Private Banks and Merchant Banks 

Banks that are regulated by 

that 

are 

regulated 

by 

an 

an  “appropriate  regulator” 

“appropriate 

regulator”  may  be 

may  be 

classified  as 

classified  as  Category  II.  Further, 

Category  II.  Further,  such 

they will be permitted to undertake 

entities  shall  be  allowed  to 

investments  on  behalf  of 

its 

undertake  only  proprietary 

investors provided the private bank/ 

investments. 

[Ref. 

merchant 

banks 

submit 

a 

Regulation 5(b)] 

declaration that  

i. 

The details of the beneficial owners 

are  available  and  will  be  provided 

as  and  when  required  by 

the 

regulators;  

ii. 

The banks do not have any secrecy 

arrangement with the investors and 

secrecy  laws  do  not  apply  to  the 

jurisdictions  in  which  the  bank  is 

regulated.  

 

Q 21. Can a Private Bank/Merchant Bank invest on behalf of its clients?  

 

Present Language 

Revised Language 

     No.  Private  Bank/Merchant 

FAQ 21 to be deleted. 

Bank  cannot 

invest  on 

behalf of their clients. They 

are  only  permitted  to  make 

proprietary investments. 

Page 20 of 23 

 

 

 

 

 

Q 162. A private bank namely "Y" is one of the investors in a fund namely 

"X",  which  seeks  to  get  registered  as  an  FPI.  "Y"  intends  to  invest  on 

behalf  of  multiple  clients.  Can a  DDP  consider  "X"  eligible for  grant of 

registration as an FPI?  

 

Present Language 

Revised Language 

     While 

assessing 

the 

FAQ 162 to be deleted. 

eligibility 

of 

an 

FPI 

applicant, a DDP may refer 

to the reply to Q# 21 of the 

FAQs,  which  states 

that 

private bank/merchant bank 

cannot  invest  on  behalf  of 

their  clients.  They  are  only 

permitted 

to 

make 

proprietary investments. 

 

 

 

 

13. Expansion  of  entities  considered  as  “appropriately  regulated  persons  in 

terms of Regulation 5(b) (ii):-” 

  

 

 

Proposal: - Category II FPIs currently includes - appropriately regulated persons 

such as  banks,  asset management  companies,  investment managers/  advisors, 

portfolio  managers.  It  is  proposed  clarification  may  be  provided  to  broaden  this 

definition by FAQ to prescribe more inclusions as suggested. 

Page 21 of 23 

 

FAQ:-Can appropriately regulated entities such as broker-dealer, swap dealer etc. 

can seek FPI registration under category II as per Regulation 5(b)(ii). 

 

 

 

 

 

Answer:- Appropriately regulated entities such as broker dealer, swap dealer etc. 

that  are  regulated  by  an  “appropriate  regulator”  proposed  to  be  classified  as 

Category II provided such entities shall provide beneficial ownership details of their 

clients to SEBI and/or any other enforcement agencies, as and when required.   

 

 

14. Other Clarifications on further simplification of broad based requirements:  

 

 

A.  Broad  based  requirement:  In  case  any  Broad  based fund  due  to  exit  of  some 

offshore global investors loses its broad base status. Then this may not result in 

immediate loss of Category II status.  It is felt that 3 months’ time may be given to 

such funds to regain broad base status.  

 

 

B.  Conditional Registration: The clause 2.5 of operational guidelines provides that 

conditional  registration  facility  is  available  only  to  “newly  established”  India 

dedicated funds. It is proposed that this facility may also be extended to existing 

funds also.  

 

 

 

 

 

Page 22 of 23 

 

 

C.  Public Comments:-  

 
I. 

 

In light of the above, public comments are invited on the proposals  contained in this 
consultation paper. Comments/ views may be provided in the format given below:  

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 

S. No.  Pertains to Point No. 

Suggestions  

Rationale 

 

II. 

 

 

 

The comments/views  may either be forwarded by email to  fpi-feedback@sebi.gov.in 
OR may be sent by post to the following address latest by July 27, 2017.   
 
Mr. Achal Singh, 
Deputy General Manager  
Investment Management Department,  
Division of Foreign Portfolio Investors & Custodians 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, G Block  
Bandra Kurla Complex  
Mumbai - 400 021  
 
Issued on: June 28, 2017 
 

****************** 

Page 23 of 23 

 

 

 

