 

Report submitted by Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee 

1.  To  solicit  the  comments/views  from  public  on  suggestions  pertaining  to  the  third  report 

submitted by Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee. 

 
Background: 
2.  SEBI  had  constituted  a  standing  committee  ‘Alternative  Investment  Policy  Advisory 
Committee'  (AIPAC)  under  chairmanship  of  Shri.  N.  R.  Narayana  Murthy  in  March  2015. 
AIPAC has submitted its third report to SEBI with various recommendations stated therein. 

Public Comments: 
3.  In order to take into consideration the views of various stakeholders, public comments are 
solicited on the said report as placed at Annexure. Comments may be emailed on or before 
February 19, 2018, to aif@sebi.gov.in or sent by post, to:- 
Deputy General Manager 
Division of Funds – I 
Investment Management Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan  
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
 Bandra Kurla Complex, 
 Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 

4.  Comments/ suggestions may be provided in the format given below: 
 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization 
Suggestions  
Sr. No.  
 
 
 
 

Clause No. 
 
 

Rationale 
 
 

 
Issued on: January 19, 2018 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The Alternative Investment Policy 

Advisory Committee 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Third Report 

26th November, 2017 

 

2 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Table of Contents 

Preface 

List of AIPAC Members 

Chapter I Introduction 

Chapter II Executive Summary 

Chapter III Promote India-Domiciled AIFs:  Goods & Services Tax Reforms 

Chapter IV Promoting AIFs in International Financial Services Centre in India 

  Part A:  The Tax Environment 

 
  Part B: The Regulatory Frame Work

Chapter V India: Taxation of Alternative Investment Funds 

  Recent Tax Reforms for AIFs 

  Tax Regime for Listed AIFs 

 

Investor-Level Taxation for Category III AIFs 

Chapter VI Development of Alternative Investment Funds in India 

  Social Venture Funds 

  AIF Category III Funds-of-Funds 

Chapter VII An Alternative View of Taxation & Promoting Onshore Fund Management 

in India 

Chapter VIII Matrix of Recommendations for Implementation by Regulatory 

Agencies 

Abbreviations 

Page No. 

4 

5 

8 

16 

24 

44 

46 

52
 

64 

64 

69 

72 

81 

81 

88 

92 

109 

136 

3 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PREFACE 

I am glad to note that the Government has implemented reform measures favourably affecting a large part of 
the Indian economy. It is widely accepted that the environment for business in India is improving. Various 
indicators show steady progress. Data from the Securities & Exchange Board of India(SEBI) shows that the 
number of Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) has been rising each year, as have been the amounts invested 
by the AIFs. In addition, aggregate private equity and venture capital flows are touching record levels in India. 

Reforms are a continuous process as the huge capital needs of India are a compelling force. I am happy that 
the Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee (AIPAC) has continued its work and addressed a wide 
range of reforms which are much needed. 

This report covers reforms in a number of areas. 

The taxation of SEBI-registered Category III Alternative Investment Funds has been analysed. In recent years, 
the Government has done much to reform and institute pass-through taxation of Categories I and II AIFs. The 
Committee will highly appreciate if the taxation of AIFs in Category III can now be addressed given that the 
present trust-based taxation approach is complex and ambiguous. 

The Government took positive steps to introduce a new GST regime this year. In addition, the Government 
has shown prudence and flexibility by introducing changes in the GST regime commensurate with the needs 
of businesses. The GST regime also impacts the establishment of domestic AIFs in India, particularly those with 
overseas  investors.  Accordingly,  the  Committee  has  analysed  the  impact  of  GST  on  AIFs  and  has  made  a 
number of helpful reform suggestions aimed at attracting overseas investors. 

Some of the previous recommendations have been the subject of discussion among Committee members and 
market participants at large. Taking this feedback into account, this report includes recommendations relating 
to the allocation of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds, created pursuant to the obligations under the 
Companies Act, 2013, to SEBI-regulated AIF Category I Social Venture Funds. 

There has been a constant call to attract offshore fund managers (who invest in India, but operate from an 
offshore location), by encouraging them to shift their fund management and administration to India. In this 
context the Committee has made suggestions for a suitable tax and regulatory framework for the domiciliation 
of AIFs in International Financial Services Centers in India. 

AIPAC members are open to further feedback and additional suggestions will be welcome. 

I must thank the leadership and staff of SEBI which has played such a vital and helpful role in the work of 
AIPAC. 

I sincerely thank all the AIPAC members and market participants who have made their invaluable contribution 
and burnt the midnight oil to prepare this in-depth report. 

Thank you once again. 

 
N.R. Narayana Murthy 
Chairman 
Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee 

4 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee: List of Members 

Sr. No. 

Name 

Organization &Designation 

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 

5. 

6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 

11. 
12. 
13. 

14. 

Mr. N.R. Narayana Murthy 
Mr. Sudarshan Sen 
Shri. Rajesh Kumar Kedia 
Shri. Nikhil Varma 

Shri Ajay Kumar Kapur 

Mr. Sanjay Nayar 
Dr. Saurabh Srivastava 
Mr. Devinjit Singh 
Mr. Manish Chokhani 
Mr. Gautam Mehra 

Mr. Akshay Mansukhani 
Mr. Mani Iyer 
Mr. Abid Hassan 

Mr. K.E.C Rajakumar 

15. 

Mr. Sudhir Sethi 

16. 

17. 
18. 

19. 

20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 
24. 
25. 

Mr. Gopal Srinivasan 

Mr. Manish Kejriwal 
Mr. Arvind Mathur 
Mr. Rajat Tandon 

Mr. Krishnamurthy 
Subramanian 
Mr. Krishnan Subramaniam 

Ms. Nandita Agarwal Parker 

Shri. Andrew Holland 
Shri. S.V. Murali Dhar Rao 
Smt. Barnali Mukherjee 

Founder, Infosys Ltd. 
ED, Reserve Bank of India 
Director, CBDT, Ministry of Finance 
Deputy Secretary, DEA, Ministry of Finance 
Deputy Managing Director, Small Industries 
Development Bank of India 
Member & CEO, KKR India Advisors Pvt. Ltd. 
Founder, Indian Angel Network 
Managing Director, The Carlyle Group, India 
Senior Advisor, TPG Growth 
Partner, PwC India and Leader, Tax & Regulatory 
Services 
Partner, Malabar Investments 
Director, Incube Ventures Pvt. Ltd. 
Product Manager, Qplum 
Managing Director & CEO, Ascent Capital 
Advisors 
Founder Chairman & MD, IDG Ventures 
India 
Chairman, IVCA, 
Chairman and MD, TVS Capital Funds Limited 
Managing Partner, Kedaara Capital Advisors LLP 
Chairman, Private Equity Pro Partners 
President, Indian Private Equity & Venture 
Capital Association (IVCA) 
Associate Professor of Finance, ISB 

Partner, Ernst & Young 
Managing Partner, Karma Capital 
Management LLC 
CEO, Avendus Capital Alternate Strategies 
Executive Director, SEBI 
Chief General Manager, SEBI 

Terms of reference of the Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee: 

i. 

To advise SEBI on issues related to the further development of the alternative investment and start-up 
ecosystem in India. 

ii.  To advise SEBI on any hurdles that might hinder the development of the alternative investment industry under 

its purview. 

iii.  To advise SEBI on any issues which need to be taken up with other regulators for development of the alternative 

investment industry. 

iv.  Any other item relevant to alternative investment industry and development of the start-up ecosystem in India. 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Acknowledgment 

This  report  of  the  Alternative  Investment  Policy  Advisory  Committee  (AIPAC)  has  been  made 
possible with the support and contributions of many individuals. 

The  Committee  would  like  to  gratefully  acknowledge  the  valuable  support  of  SEBI  and  the 
contribution  of  its  professionals  G.  Mahalingam,  S.V.  Murali  Dhar  Rao,  Ananta  Barua,  Naveen 
Sharma,  Dharmendra  Jain  and  several  other  SEBI  staff  who  helped  convene  the  meetings  of 
AIPAC. 

The Committee also acknowledges the efforts, with thanks, the contribution of Gopal Srinivasan, 
Gautam Mehra, Subramaniam Krishnan, Nishith Desai, Tushar Sachade, Nehal Sampat, Tanuruh 
Gupta, S. Krishnakumar, Rahul Chakraborthy, Pratik Ajmera, Vijay Morarka, Kumar Shah, Rahul 
Rishi, Siddharth Shah, Vivaik Sharma, Tejash Gangar, Bhakti  B.  Vaidya, Akshay Mansukhani,    Rajat 
Tandon, Yogesh Arora and Rohit Nag.  
 
Sincere thanks are due to IVCA and its members as well as the contribution of the members of 
The Impact Investors Council. 

Finally,  we  thank  Arvind  Mathur  for  editing,  producing  and  integrating  the  contents  of  all 
AIPAC reports in a common thread consistent with the terms of reference of AIPAC. 

6 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Chapter  I 

Introduction to the Alternative Investment Funds Industry 

 

7 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER I 

Introduction to the Alternative Investment Funds Industry 

A.  Introduction 

1. 

Indian  entrepreneurs  need  private  equity  and  debt  products  to  meet  the  capital  needs  of 
their growth, restructuring, turn around or start-up plans. The main providers of this form of 
capital are private equity and venture capital funds which are channeled through Alternative 
Investment Funds (AIFs). Given that such capital is in short supply in India, a favourable policy 
and regulatory environment is essential. AIFs are regulated by the Securities and Exchange 
Board  of  India  (SEBI).  Other  government  agencies  which  play  an  important  role  are  the 
Ministry of Finance and sector regulators in the pension and insurance areas as well as the 
Reserve Bank of India. 

2.  This is the third report of the Alternative Investment Policy Advisory Committee. It covers a 
wide set of reforms needed in areas like Good & Service Tax (GST) and Category III AIFs. Some 
of the previous recommendations have been further elucidated in this report. 

3.  This  chapter  introduces  the  backdrop  and  current  environment  in  which  the  AIF  sector  is 
functioning in India. Relevant data, which will help understand the trends influencing private 
equity and venture capital in India, are also presented. 

B.  Growth in SEBI-Registered Domestic Alternative Investment Funds 

4.  Table 1 shows that the number of all categories of AIFs increased by nearly 50% during the 
last 15 month period ended 30th September, 2017, reaching 374 funds. Category III AIFs have 
nearly doubled in number, reaching 67 funds. Category II AIFs have grown by 42% during the 
same period and stand at 199. Category I AIFs stood at 108, having risen by 21 per cent. This 
growth  indicates  the  greater  potential  of  AIFs  in  meeting  India’s  capital  and  investment 
requirements. 

Table 1: Number of Alternative Investment Funds Registered with SEBI 
30th June, 2016 

30 th September, 2017 

 

 

Category I 
Infrastructure Fund 
Social Venture Fund 
Venture Capital Fund 
SME Fund 
Total of Category I 
Category II 
Category III 
Grand Total 

14 
12 
74 
8 

108 
199 
67 
374 

 

 

10 
7 
54 
8 
79 
140 

253 

8 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

5.  Table  2  shows  that  the  growth  in  funds  raised  over  the  12-month  period  ended  30th 
September, 2017 has averaged 112 per cent across the three AIF categories. Funds raised by 
Category II and III AIFs have recorded annual growth rates of 112 per cent and 146 percent, 
respectively. 

Table 2: Growth in Capital Raised by Domestic AIFs Registered with SEBI: 2017 versus 2016 (Rupees in crores) 

Category 

Funds raised 

Funds raised 

Absolute Rise 

Percentage 

 

 

 

 

( 30 Sept, 2017) 

( 30 Sept, 2016) 

Between 30 

Sept, 2017 over 
30 Sept, 2016 

Rise 

Between 30 
Sept, 2017 

over 30 

Sept, 2016 

 

 

 

Category I 

Infrastructure Fund 

4121.86 

2323.91 

1,797.95 

77 % 

Social Venture Fund 

591.16 

483.41 

107.75 

22% 

Venture Capital Fund 

SME Fund 

3391.71 
175.51 

1915.31 
170.79 

1476.40 

4.72 

77% 
2.7% 

Total of Category I 

8280.24 

Category II 

Category III 
Grand Total 

37,303.05 
16,213.9 
61,797.19 

4893.42 
17,544.12 

6,578.23 
29,015.77 

3386.82 
19,758.93 

9,635.67 
32,782.19 

69.2% 
112% 

146% 
112% 

6.  Table 3 shows the cumulative data for all categories of AIF’s as of 30th September, 2017. It shows 
that the total amount of capital raised cumulatively by domestic AIFs is Indian Rupees 116,085 
crores i.e. approximately US $ 18 billion. This is a small but growing fraction (an estimated 15 
percent) of the total private equity and venture capital invested in India when compared to the 
international  private  equity  and  venture  capital  invested  in  India.  This  has  a  significant  policy 
implication in that policy measures need to be taken to grow the supply of domestic capital in 
AIFs to at least 50% of the total annual private equity & venture capital flows in the country i.e. 
at  least  trebling  from  current  levels.  Some  of  the  policy  measures  recommended  in  this  and 
previous AIPAC reports are steps in the direction of greater mobilization of domestic capital for 
investment through domestic AIFs. 

 

9 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

Table 3: Alternative Investment Funds: Cumulative net Data 

as at the end of 30th September 2017 

Category 

Category I 
Infrastructure Fund 
Social Venture Fund 
Venture Capital Fund 
SME Fund 
Category I Total 
Category II 
Category III 
Grand Total 

Commitments 
raised 

( Rs in crores) 

 

 

 
 

 

Funds raised 

( Rs in crores) 

Investments 
made 

( Rs in crores) 

 

 

7102.59 
1048.96 
14570.56 
207.98 
22930.09 
70498.38 
22656.58 
116085.05 

4121.86 
591.16 
3391.71 
175.51 
8280.24 
37303.05 
16213.9 
61797.19 

3493.06 
500.03 
2402.83 
28.71 
6424.63 
23837.09 
13227.33 
43489.05 

Indian Rupees 6,500 crores = $ US 1 billion ( approximate) 

C.  Private Equity & Venture Capital Investments in India from All Sources 

7.  The charts below show that private equity and venture capital is experiencing an upward 

momentum  in  2017.Compared  to  $  13.95  billion  invested  during  2016,  it  has  reached  $ 
17.57 billion in the first ten months of 2017. Given the traction, it is expected that private 
equity and venture capital will be an estimated $Ě 20 billion and may touch the record annual 
inflow of $ 21. 80 billion experienced in 2015. 

10 

India: Deal Type Split in 2017 YTD 

Split by Number  of Deals 

Split by Value of Deals 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2007 

2008 

2009 

2010 

2011 

2012 

2013 

2014 

2015 

2016 

Number of Deals 

Value of Deals ($ bn) 

2017 YTD: 31st October 2017: Source: VC Circle 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

25.00 

20.00 

15.00 

10.00 

5.00 

0.00 

2017 
YTD 

 

 

 

 

 

 

0.3% 

 

 

 

 

Angel/Seed 

Venture Capital 

Private Equity 

Public Equity 

Pre-IPO 

2017 YTD: 31st October 2017: Source: VC Circle 

Investments Overview 

2,000 

1,500 

1,000 

500 

0 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

11 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

D.  Global Limited Partner Survey, 2017 of the Emerging Markets Private Equity Association ( EMPEA) 

Indicates Attractiveness of India 

8.  Global investors who invest in private equity and venture capital, referred to as limited partners, have 
indicated their preference for investing in India. 106 limited partners were surveyed by EMPEA in 2017. 

9.  Amongst 34 countries, India was ranked number one in 2017. In previous years India’s rankings were: 

2nd in 2016, 4th in 2015, 8th in 2014 and 9th in 2013. 

Table 4: India’s Ranking as an Investment Destination by 

Global Limited Partners 

 

 

Year 

2017 
2016 
2015 
2014 
2013 

Rank 

1st 
2nd 
4th 
8th 
9th 

The Attractiveness of Emerging Markets for GP Investment Over the Next 12 Months – LP Views 
(Source: EMPEA)  

Rank 

2013 

2014 

2015 

2016 

2017 

INDIA 

INDIA 

INDIA 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

INDIA 

INDIA 

12 

E.  World Bank Survey on Doing Business 

10.  The momentum of capital flows is also reflected in India's 30 rung jump in terms of 

ease of doing business in India. While the advance is more than incremental, its 
significance lies in the fact that if the Government continues its reform process, its 
ease of doing business rank could rise further. Ultimately, this would make the 
investment environment attractive for both domestic and international institutions, 
entrepreneurs and corporations. Eventually this may lead to greater job creation and 
improve the standards of the conduct of business in India. 

11.  The World Bank report titled 'Doing Business 2018' mentioned a number of 

progressive regulatory reforms in India including the following: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

Protecting minority investors 
India strengthened minority investor protections by increasing the remedies 
available in cases of prejudicial transactions between interested parties; 

Resolving insolvency 
India  made  resolving  insolvency  easier  by  adopting  a  new  insolvency  and 
bankruptcy  code  that  introduced  a  reorganization  procedure  for  corporate 
debtors  and  facilitated  the  continuation  of  the  debtor’s  business  during 
insolvency proceedings; 

Starting a Business 
India made starting a business faster by merging the applications for the 
Permanent Account Number (PAN) and the Tax Account Number (TAN) 
and by improving the online application system;and 

Paying Taxes 
India made paying taxes easier by requiring that payments be made 
electronically and introducied a set of administrative measures 
easing compliance with income tax laws. 

Conclusion: 

The positive economic trends affecting the investment climate in India, can pave the way for 
greater  domestic  and  international  flows  of  venture  capital,  private  equity  and  alternative 
investments. AIPAC has made a number of recommendations in its previous reports as well as 
in  this  third  AIPAC  report  to  create  a  favourable  environment  for  these  capital  flows. 
Ultimately such flows will lead to greater development and job creation in India. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Chapter - II 

Executive Summary 

9 

12 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

Chapter II 

Executive Summary 

A.  Introduction 

1.  This report makes recommendations to help grow the supply of risk capital in India in 
the form of private equity and venture capital through Alternative Investment Funds 
(AIFs).  AIFs  are  a  common  pool  of  funds  –  managed  by  a  fund  manager-  in  which 
institutional and high net-worth individuals invest, typically on a long-term basis. 

The areas covered are: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

Reforms in the Government of India’s Goods & Service Tax regime insofar 
as it impacts the growth of the AIF asset class in India; 
Promoting  Alternative  Investment  Funds  in  India  through  International 
Financial Services Centers; 
Taxation  of  Alternative  Investment  Funds,  including  the  taxation  of  AIFs 
which are registered as Category III AIFs with the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI); and 
Some of the recommendations made in previous AIPAC reports particularly 
the  application  of  CSR  funds  for  impact  investing,  which  delivers  social 
benefits, through SEBI - registered Category I AIFs. 

B.  Recommendations relating to the Goods & Services Tax Regime Relating to Alternative 

Investment Funds 

2.  An AIF can include both domestic and foreign investors. The current GST framework 
encourages AIFs, which include foreign investors, to be domiciled offshore and not in 
India due to GST disincentives. The GST paid on fund management  fees and other 
input  services  become  an  incremental  cost  to  be  borne  by  AIF  investors.  In  the 
context of foreign investors, this, in effect, violates the taxing principle of destination-
based consumption tax because the services rendered by a service provider to AIFs 
are  ultimately  for  the  benefit  of  the  underlying  investors.  Hence,  the  services 
rendered  to  a  domestic  AIF,  to  the  extent  it  has  foreign  investors,  are  effectively 
consumed outside India. 

(i) 

Recommendation:  Considering  the  importance  of  venture  capital  and  private 
equity capital, services rendered to an AIF should be chargeable to GST at a rate 
of 5%, where the majority of the investors of an AIF are foreign investors. 

16 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

17 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

Recommendation: Alternatively, investors in an AIF should be deemed to be the 
service recipients and where the foreign investment in an AIF exceeds 50%, the 
services received by an AIF should be considered as export of services and thereby 
be liable for zero rate of GST. 

Recommendation: Liability under section 89(1) of the Central Goods and Service 
Tax Act should not be extended to nominee or non-executive directors, especially 
where the appointment or nomination is made by AIFs. 

Recommendation: It should be clarified that GST is not applicable on distribution 
of  share  in  income  or  profits  to  the  general  partner/fund  manager  or  its 
employees. 

C.  Promoting AIFs with Foreign Limited Partners in International Financial Services 

Centers (IFSC) 

3.  The main benefits to India of an IFSC are: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

Added inflow of investment capital which is much needed for India’s economic 
growth, development and employment generation; 
Reduction of the loss of invisible earnings to other financial centers elsewhere 
in  the  globe  because  AIFs  with  foreign  investors  find  it  optimal  to  locate 
offshore; 
Bring fund management operations closer to portfolio companies for ease of 
conducting due diligence and portfolio monitoring; 
Leverage  India’s  deep  talent  pool  in  professions  like  fund  management, 
valuation, accountancy and law; 
Provide  India-based,  overseas  investors  with  a  platform  for  international 
investment operations from India; and 
Enhance the development of Indian capital markets. 

4.  The current regulatory regime for the establishment of AIFs in an IFSC is restrictive 
and  offers  investment  in  limited  products  and  sectors.  The  recommendations  to 
create a favourable framework, for AIFs in an IFSC are divided into two parts i.e. tax 
reforms and regulatory reforms. 

5.  The requisite tax reforms to encourage the establishment of AIFs with foreign limited 

partners, namely, investors, in an IFSC are: 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(i)  Recommendation:  Exemption  from  tax  for  any  income  earned  by  an  offshore 
investor, from offshore investments made outside India through an AIF in an IFSC; 

(ii)  Recommendation:  Relaxation  from  filing  return  of  income  and  obtaining  a  PAN 
number  for  offshore  investors  in  an  AIF  in  an  IFSC,  in  respect  of  any  income 
distributed by an AIF in an IFSC after deduction of tax at source; and 

(iii)  Recommendation:  It  should  be  recognized  in  the  Income  Tax  Act,1961  that  an 
Eligible Investment Fund, which is domiciled in an IFSC in India, does not constitute 
a business connection in India. 

6.  The  non-tax  regulatory  reforms  needed  in  SEBI  guidelines  or  regulations  and  RBI 
regulations to encourage AIFs with foreign limited partners to be domiciled in an IFSC 
are as follows: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

Recommendation: Overseas investors be enable to invest in India through any 
route,  including  the  Foreign  Portfolio  Investor(FPI),  Foreign  Direct  Investment 
(FDI)  and  Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investors  (FVCI)  routes,  and  be  enabled  to 
invest in LLPs; 

Recommendation:  Since  AIFs  domiciled  in  an  IFSC  will  source  funds  from 
offshore investors, the current limits on overseas investments of SEBI-regulated 
domestic AIFs, which source funds from domestic investors, should not apply to 
IFSC-domiciled AIFs; 

Recommendation: Domestic fund managers and sponsors should be 
permitted to manage AIFs domiciled in an IFSC; and 

Recommendation: It is a good practice for fund managers, or fund sponsors, to 
invest  in  AIFs  which  they  manage/sponsor.  SEBI  AIF  regulations  require  such 
sponsor  commitments  as  ‘skin-in-the-game’.  Accordingly,  FEMA  regulations 
should  be  amended  to  enable  investment  by  a  domestic  fund  manager  or 
sponsor in an AIF domiciled in an IFSC. 

D.  Taxation of Alternative Investment Funds, including Category III AIFs 

7.  Substantial changes have been implemented in the Income-tax Act, 1961 (the Act) since 
the year 2015 which have addressed several tax issues faced by AIFs. However, from a 
tax perspective, the following sets of critical reforms are needed: 

a.  A separate code for the taxation of Category III AIFs; 
b.  The treatment of significant costs, expenses and net losses of AIFs; and 
c.  A separate tax code for AIFs which has its units listed and traded on a stock  exchange. 

18 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

19 

Summary of Recommendations for AIFs, including the Taxation of Category III AIFs 

8.  Recommendation: Implement  an investor-level taxation approach for Category III  AIFs. 
Under such a regime, investors of Category III AIFs shall pay tax on income/gains arising 
from investment in units of Category III AIFs. The recommended features of the investor- 
level taxation regime are: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

Short term capital gains on transfer of units of an equity-oriented investment 
fund (whether by way of redemption or otherwise) to be taxed at the rate of 
15%; 
Long term capital gains on transfer of units of an equity-oriented investment 
fund (whether by way of redemption or otherwise) to be exempt from income-
tax; 
Any other long-term or short-term capital gains on transfer of units (whether 
by way of redemption or otherwise) of a Category III AIF, to be taxable at the 
applicable rates; 
Any income distributed by Category III AIFs out of income received by it (other 
than income of the nature which is exempt under section 10), shall be taxable 
in  the  hands  of  investors as  Income  from  Other  Sources  at  applicable  rates 
(~30%) 

For  the  above  purpose,  ‘Equity-oriented  investment  fund’  shall  mean  an 
investment fund: (i) which has been granted a certificate of registration as a 
Category III Alternative Investment Fund and is regulated under the SEBI (AIF) 
Regulations 2012 made under the SEBI Act, 1992, and (ii) its investible funds 
are invested in equity shares of domestic companies amounting to more than 
sixty-five per cent of the total proceeds of such fund. 

Provided  that  the  percentage  of  equity  shareholding  of  the  fund  shall  be 
computed with reference to the annual average of the monthly averages of 
the opening and closing figures. 

All the taxes on investors on redemption of units, or on the distribution of 
income would be paid by way of Tax Deducted at Source (‘TDS’) at the Fund 
level. 

(v) 

(vi) 

Category III AIFs shall not be subject to any tax on income or gains arising from 
their investment in underlying securities; and 

Any transfer of units pursuant to the consolidation of schemes of Category III 
AIFs should not be regarded as a transfer. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E.  Recommendations applicable to all AIFs 

9. The current tax regime for AIFs does not address the following: 

a. Significant costs incurred by an AIF are not factored in determining investors’ tax 

liability; and 

b. Net losses incurred by AIFs are not available as a deduction to investors and may 

lapse, if not set-off by an AIF 

10. Recommendation relating to the Deduction of Expenses 

Allow the management fee incurred, from the date of the investment to the date 

of its divestment, to be capitalised as “cost of improvement”. The management 

fee incurred to be calculated based on the management fee contractually payable 

to the AIF’s investment manager at the annual rate applied to the actual cost of 

the investment. 

11. Recommendation Relating to Net Losses 

A  pass-through  tax  regime  should  not  distinguish  between  gains  and  losses. 

Therefore,  similar  to  the  pass-through  for  net  income,  net  losses  incurred  by 

unlisted AIFs, under any head of income, should also be allowed to be passed on 

to the investors. 

F.  Taxation of AIFs which has its Units Listed on a Stock Exchange 

12. The SEBI (AIF) Regulations 2012 allow the listing of the units of closed-ended AIFs on 

a stock exchange. All AIFs, except an open ended-Category III AIF, can be listed on a 

stock  exchange.  The  Bombay  Stock  Exchange  (BSE)  has  laid  down  the  process  and 

documentation required for the purpose of listing of AIFs. 

13. Investors in AIFs have the intention of making long-term investments. The listing and 

trading of units of an AIF, enables exits by pre-listing investors and also provides a 

liquidity window to investors which invest post-listing. Given these exit and  liquidity 

advantage of listed AIFs, they can be a significant catalyst for greater participation of 

investors in AIFs as an investment instrument. 

20 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14. While the present AIF Regulations, and the guidelines issued by BSE, enable listing of 

AIFs, subject to conditions, and given the liquidity advantages of listing, the current 

taxation policy for AIFs (i.e. pass-through taxation) is not conducive for listed AIFs. 

Recommendations for the Taxation of Listed AIFs 

15. It is recommended that a new taxation code be defined for listed AIFs as follows: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

Exemption to listed AIFs for all streams of income earned by listed AIFs on its 
investments in Indian portfolio entities; 
Taxation of income (namely dividend and interest) on distributions by listed 
AIFs to investors in the hands of AIF investors 
  Dividend - Exempt from tax in the hands of the investor; 
 

Interest – Resident investor at their respective tax rates, non-resident 
investors at 5%. 

Taxation  of  gains  realized  by  investors  of  listed  AIF’s:  The  taxation  of  gains 
should be determined based on the difference between the cost of acquisition 
of the units and actual sale consideration/ redemption price in a sale/ transfer 
or redemption event, respectively. Taxation of gains should be determined on 
the following basis: 

(a) Equity-oriented fund (an AIF in which at least 65% of the investible funds are 

invested in equity shares of domestic companies): 

  Short-term capital gains - at 15% with the sale/ redemption being liable to 

Securities Transaction Tax (STT), and 

  Long-term capital gains – Exempt from tax in the hands of the investor 

with the sale/ redemption being liable to STT. 

(b)  Debt-oriented fund (an AIF that is not an equity-oriented AIF) 

  Short-term capital gains at the maximum marginal rate; and 
  Long-term capital gains at 20% (in the case of residents) and at 10% (in the 
case of non-residents) [in the case of non-residents without indexation or 
foreign exchange fluctuation benefit]. 

G.  Corporate Social Responsibility & Public Trust Recommendations 

(a) CSR and Public Trusts: Enable investments in SEBI Regulated Category I AIFs. 

22 

It is recommended that s.135 of the Companies Act 2013 and the related Schedule VII, 
be  amended  to  enable  investment  by  companies  of  Corporate  Social  Responsibility 
funds in SEBI-registered Category I Social Venture Funds, ‘social business projects’ and 
‘social enterprises’. 

In the first AIPAC report, it was recommended that charitable and religious trusts be 
permitted to invest in AIFs. To enable this recommendation to be given effect, there is 
a need to expand the scope of eligible investments by public trusts. It is recommended 
that section 11(5) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 be amended to enable investments by 
such  trusts  in  social  businesses  or  social  enterprises  and  not-for-profit  companies, 
including SEBI-registered Category I Social Venture Funds. 

(b) Category III Funds-of Funds 

Category III Funds-of-Funds (FOF) should be allowed to invest in Category III AIFs. There 
should be an option for permissible leverage to be either at the FOF level, or at the level 
of the underlying individual portfolio of funds. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

21 

 

 

22 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Chapter - III 

GST Regime for SEBI-Registered Alternative Investment Funds 

17 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Chapter III 

GST Regime for SEBI-Registered Alternative Investment Funds 

A.  Introduction 

1.  The Government of India has implemented a Goods & Services Tax (GST) regime. The 
Government has been flexible and responsive to the needs of businesses. Accordingly, 
it has made a series of amendments in the GST regime since its inception. This chapter 
outlines some of the additional GST reforms in order to: 

(i)  Align  GST  with  the  character  of  AIFs  in  which  international  i.e.  non-resident, 
investors  have  invested  in  foreign  currency and  pay  their  proportionate share of 
fund management and operating expenses in foreign currency; and 

(ii)  Exempt nominee or non-executive directors from liability as is the case under other 

laws particularly, the Companies Act, 2013. 

B.  The GST Regime for Alternative Investment Funds 

GST on Fund Management and other Services Received by Alternative Investment Funds 

2.  As discussed in an earlier report of AIPAC, the levy of GST on fund management and 
other services received by AIFs, may adversely impact the choice of domiciliation of AIFs 
as a pooling vehicle to raise foreign capital. The hurdles faced by the AIF asset class are 
summarised below: 

(i) 

(ii) 

The taxing principle under the erstwhile service tax legislation continues under the 
new GST regime, i.e. GST is a destination-based consumption tax. Accordingly, GST 
is not levied on services consumed outside India which are regarded as export of 
services. 

A domestic Alternative Investment Fund (AIF), in essence, represents a common 
pool of contributions made by its investors and therefore, should not be viewed 
as a distinct entity separate from its investors. Recognising the ‘pooling’ concept, 
the Income-tax law has accorded ‘pass-through status’ to Category I and Category 
II AIFs such that income is taxed, as if investments were made directly by investors. 
This, in essence, represents the taxing principle of managing and taxing AIFs. 

24 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

25 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

Under the GST regime, as in the previous service tax regime, there is no concept 
of ‘pass through’, and the services provided by fund managers and other service 
providers to AIFs are liable to GST. Since AIFs are only a pooling vehicle and do not 
provide any service, there is no output GST liability on AIFs. Hence, AIFs are not 
able to obtain any benefit of input credits. Consequently, the GST paid on fund 
management fees and other input services, becomes an incremental cost to be 
borne by investors. 

In the context of foreign investors, this, in effect, violates the taxing principle of 
destination-based consumption tax, because  the  services  rendered by a service 
provider  to  AIFs  are  ultimately  for  the  benefit  of  its  underlying  investors  who 
include foreign investors as well. The services rendered to an AIF are effectively 
consumed outside India to the extent that there are foreign investors in a domestic 
AIF. 

On the other hand, if a foreign investor makes a direct investment in a start-up or 
a growth portfolio company, he is not subject to service tax or GST liability. GST is 
also not applicable on fees and expenses for services provided by an overseas fund 
manager  to  an  offshore  pooling  vehicle  for  investment  in  India,  but  which  is 
domiciled outside India. 

Accordingly, the current GST framework encourages AIFs to be domiciled offshore, 
instead of onshore in India. Consider a simple example of a an India- domiciled AIF 
where all its investors are foreign investors. The AIF receives services which would 
generally be liable to GST at the rate of 18%. The India- domiciled AIF would not 
be  eligible to claim a refund of such input  GST. On the other hand, in a similar 
situation,  if  the  pooling  vehicle  for  investing  in  India,  would  be  formed  and 
domiciled offshore, then the services provided to such an offshore pooling vehicle 
would  be  regarded  as  export  of  services  and  would  not  be  subject  to  GST. 
Accordingly, the service provider would be eligible to claim a refund of GST paid 
on any input services. 

The  Government  has  progressively  liberalized  the  foreign  exchange  regime  by 
permitting foreign investments in domestic AIFs to encourage the conduct of asset 
management within India. Similarly, it has introduced safe harbour provisions in 
the income-tax law, recognizing the role of asset managers abroad and to facilitate 
their  relocation  to  India.  The  Government  is  also  making  significant  efforts  to 
rationalise the safe harbor provisions, making it convenient for the fund managers 
to re-locate to India, especially in the case of India-focused funds. The levy of GST 
on domestic AIFs in which foreign investors have invested may, on the contrary, 
discourage such initiatives. The Government has been increasingly giving impetus 
to provide more clarity and certainty to the investor community and is trying to 
maintain consistency in the implementation of tax and regulatory laws. Exemption 
from  GST  to  domestically-domiciled  AIFs  which  have  foreign  investors,  would 
provide much needed tax clarity to investors 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in AIFs, bringing certainty on tax outcomes and ensure greater consistency in 
extending export-related incentives. 

3.  There are six principal benefits of domestic formation and domiciliation of AIFs in 

India with foreign investors i.e. limited partners: 

(i)  When  an offshore  investor  invests  through  an overseas  fund  domiciled  outside 
India, the investment remains contingent till it is actually invested in the country. 
On the other hand, in a India-domiciled AIF structure, once an offshore investor 
commits the investment to a domestic AIF, the foreign pool of capital is effectively 
‘earmarked’ and ‘locked’ for investment in India for the entire life of the AIF; 

(ii)  The 

long  term 

investment  commitments,  typically  being 

in  nature,  spur 
investments  and  economic  activity  in  the  country,  leading  to  the  growth  of 
portfolio companies and meet the investment needs of the Indian economy; 

(iii) The  resultant  growth  of  portfolio  companies  is  also  consistent  with  the  larger 

‘Make in India’ initiative of the Government; 

(iv) Growth of  private  equity  investments  accelerates  employment opportunities  in 
the  Indian  economy.  These  employment  opportunities  fit  well  with  the 
Government’s initiative of ‘Skill India’; 

(v)  Companies  with  private  equity  investments  are  also  more  diligent  in  ensuring 

good corporate governance leading to greater investor confidence; and 

(vi) Internationally, countries like Singapore  are  recognized as well developed asset 
management hubs. India competes with such countries for domiciling funds and 
fund  managers,  especially  India-focused  funds  and  fund  managers.  On  indirect 
taxes, Singapore provides benefits in the form of GST rebate to asset managers 
and thus, mitigates the effective tax cost. GST exemption to India-domiciled AIFs 
could encourage fund managers to re-locate to India. 

Recommendation: Measures are needed to address the problem of the levy of GST 
on fund management fees and other fund operating and administration services fees 
as the effective added cost deters foreign investors from investing in India-domiciled 
onshore funds through the AIF platform and instead encourages them to remain 
offshore. 

GST on profit share distributed to General Partner (hereinafter referred as ‘GP’)/ 
Sponsor 

26 

4.  Typically, in an AIF structure, investors, or Limited Partners (LPs), act akin to ‘sleeping’ 
or ‘dormant’ partners in a partnership. The General Partner (GP- the investment or 
fund manager) acts like a ‘working partner’. The gains earned by the partnership are 
usually divided between LPs and GPs. The distributions to GPs could also be viewed as 
a return on the investment committed by the GP to the Fund. 

5. 

In the case of a partnership firm or LLP, the levy of GST is not attracted on distributions 
of profits by such partnership firm, or LLP, to its partners. 

6.  Globally, from an income-tax perspective, profits distributed in the hands of GPs are 
generally taxable in their hands as capital gains, being a return on investment earned 
by the fund, as shared between LPs and the fund’s GP. 

Recommendation: The issue of levy of GST on such profit sharing between Limited 
Partners and General Partners may lead to uncertainty. It should be clarified that 
GST is not applicable on distribution of share in income or profits to General 
Partners or their employees. 

C.  GST Liability of Directors 

7.  Under various Indian laws, directors of companies have the obligation and liability to 
ensure that the companies are compliant with the obligations under various laws. The 
Government  has  recognised  and  exempted  a  certain  category  of  directors  i.e. 
nominee  or  non-executive  directors  who  are  not  involved  in  the  day-to-day 
functioning of companies, from these obligations and related liabilities. These carve- 
outs are most relevant for alternative investment funds. This is because in order to 
protect the interest of their investors, AIFs frequently appoint their nominees as non-
executive directors on the Board of portfolio companies. 

8.  Section 89(1) of the CGST Act casts joint and several liability on all directors of a private 
limited  company  which  defaults  in  the  payment  of  tax,  interest  or  penalty.  Such 
liability is, however, not triggered if the director proves that the non-recovery of taxes, 
interest or penalty cannot be attributed to any gross neglect, misfeasance or breach 
of duty on his part. 

9.  Nominee  or  non-executive  directors,  who  merely  represent  the  interest  of  a 
shareholder or his/her appointor, are also covered by the provision of section 89(1) of 
the  CGST  Act.  It  is submitted  that  nominee, or  non-executive,  directors of  AIFs are 
merely  engaged  in  a  stewardship  role  and  do  not  participate  in  the  day-to-day 
activities or management of companies. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

27 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

10.  The  Companies  Act,  2013  is  a  good  example  of  a  carve-out  from  liability  for  non- 
executive directors. It is pertinent to note that the definition of ‘officer in default’ as 
per  section  2(60)  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013,  viz  persons  who  shall  be  liable  for 
penalty or imprisonment in the case of any contravention by the company, does not 
include non-executive directors, unless such non-executive director is aware of such 
contravention by virtue of receiving any proceedings of the Board, or participation in 
such proceedings without objecting to them, or where such contravention had taken 
place with his consent or connivance. 

11.  Additionally,  section  149(12)  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  states  that  the  non- 
executive director shall be liable under the Companies Act, 2013, only in respect of 
acts of omission or commission by a company which has occurred with his knowledge, 
attributable through Board processes, and with his consent or connivance, or where 
such non-executive director has not acted diligently. 

Recommendation: It is recommended that nominee and non-executive directors 
appointed by Alternative Investment Funds on the boards of their portfolio companies 
be excluded from the provisions of section 89(I) of the CGST Act. 

28 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation: GST Relating to Alternative Investing Funds 

I. GST on fund management and other services availed by Alternative Investment Funds 

i. 

Considering  the  importance  of  the  VCPE  industry,  services  availed  by  an  AIF  should  be 

chargeable  to  GST  at  a  rate  of  5%,  where  the  majority  of  the  investors  of  the  AIF  are  foreign 

investors. 

ii. 

Alternatively,  the  investors  in  an  AIF  could  be  considered  as  service  recipients  and  where  the 

foreign investment in an AIF exceeds 50%, the services availed by an AIF should be considered 

as export of services and thereby be liable for zero rate of tax. 

II. GST on profit share distributed to GP/ Sponsor 

iii. 

Distribution of share of profit or income to the GP or its employees should not be subjected to 
the levy of GST. 

III. GST liability on directors in case of default by a private limited company 

iv. 

Liability under section 89(1) of the CGST Act should not be extended to the nominee/non executive 
directors, especially where appointment is made by AIFs. 

Proposed Amendments: 

I. GST on fund management and other services availed by Alternative Investment Funds 

  A draft of the notifications to be issued under the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (‘IGST Act’) and 
Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (‘CGST Act’)/ amendment to be made to the IGST Act to give effect to 
the above are set out as Annexure 1. 

II. GST on profit share distributed to GP/ Sponsor 

v. 

A draft of the amendment to be made to CGST Act to give effect to the above is set out as Annexure 2. 

III. GST liability on directors in case of default by a private limited company 

vi. 

Section 89(1) of the CGST Act could be amended as under: 

“Notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 2013, where any tax, interest or penalty due from a 
private company in respect of any supply of goods or services or both for any period cannot be recovered, then, 
every  person  who  was  a  director,  other  than  a  nominee/non-executive  director  appointed  by  an  Alternative 
Investment Fund, of the private company during such period shall, jointly and severally, be liable  for  the  payment 
of such tax, interest or penalty unless he proves that the non-recovery cannot  be  attributed to any gross neglect, 
misfeasance or breach of duty on his part in relation to the affairs of the  company.” 

23 

30 

Annexure 1 

The Integrated Goods and Service Tax Act Amendment Bill, 2017 

BILL NO of 2017 

Amendment of Section 16 

(i)  After sub-section 1(b) of Section 16, the following shall be added: 

(c) supply of goods or services or both to an Alternative Investment Fund 

(ii)  After section 1 of 16, the following provisos shall be added: 

Provided that the foreign investments in the Alternative Investment Funds shall be in 
accordance with the conditions prescribed in this regard. 

(iii)  After sub-section 3 of Section 16, the following explanation shall be added: 

Explanation: for the purpose of sub section 1 (c) of section 16: 

a.  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  under  Regulation 

2(1)(b) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) 
Regulations, 2012 

b. 

Foreign investment shall mean investment by non-resident entity/person resident outside 
India in accordance with Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by 
a Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2000. 

c. 

Taxable  supplies  provided  by  the  Associate  (in  the  capacity  of  a  Manager)  to  the 
Alternative Investment Fund shall also be covered under sub section 1(c) of Section 16. 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

29 
 

Procedure to be prescribed by way of Notification 

(This Notification would have to be issued to give effect to sub section 1(c) of Section 16) 

Conditions to be prescribed: 

1.  Alternative Investment Funds wherein the total foreign investments is more than 50% 

shall be eligible. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The split of domestic investments and foreign investments in the Alternative Investment 
Fund shall be monitored on a yearly basis, being financial year. Where, at the end of the 
financial year, the share of foreign investment is less than 50% of the total investment in 
the Alternative Investment Fund, the benefit of ‘zero-rating’ shall not be available for the 
financial year. 

For  new  Alternative  Investment  Funds,  which  have  not  been  in  existence  during  the 
entire  duration  of  the  previous  financial  year,  the  monitoring  shall  be  based  on  the 
foreign investment in the AIF as on the date of first closing. 

The Alternative Investment Fund shall intimate the jurisdiction officer about its status at 
the  time  of  first  closing  and  at  the  beginning  of  each  financial  year,  providing  such 
details/ procedure to be followed as prescribed under the Annexure. If the Alternative 
Investment Fund is not registered, the responsibility of filing the declaration shall be with 
the Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund. 

5. 

The Alternative Investment Fund should provide a copy of the intimation filed as per Sl 
No. 1 of the Annexure to all its suppliers from whom it seeks to receive supplies at zero 
rate. 

Annexure 

The Alternative Investment Fund shall be required to fulfill the following procedure: 

(1)  A statement evidencing split of investments between domestic and foreign investors in 
the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  be  required  to  be  filed  with  the  jurisdictional 
officer; 

(2)  The statement shall be submitted within 90 days of the end of the relevant financial year. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

31 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[TO BE PUBLISHED IN PART II, SECTION 3, SUB-SECTION (i) OF THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, 
EXTRAORDINARY] 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Revenue) 

Notification No. /2017-Central Tax (Rate) 

New Delhi, the  

, 2017 

G.S.R. (E).- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 9 of the Central Goods 
and Services Tax Act, 2017 (12 of 2017), the Central Government, on the recommendations of the 
Council, hereby notifies the rate of the central tax of: 
(i) 2.5% in respect of goods  supplied to  Alternative Investment Fund on intra-State supplies of 
goods, the description of which is  specified in  Government of India, in the Ministry of Finance 
(Department of Revenue) Notification 1/2017 Central Tax (Rate), dt. 28-06-2017 and in satisfaction 
of conditions specified in Annexure. 

Explanation - For the purposes of this Notification 

(a)  Alternative Investment Fund shall have the meaning assigned to it under Regulation 2(1)(b) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 
2012. 

(b)  Foreign investment shall mean investment by non-resident entity/person resident outside 
India in accordance with Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a 
Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2000. 

(c)  Taxable supplies provided by the Associate (in the capacity of a Manager) to the Alternative 

Investment Fund shall also be covered under for the purpose of this Notification. 

(d)  Alternative Investment Funds wherein the total foreign investments is more than 50% shall 

be eligible. 

The split of domestic investments and foreign investments in the Alternative Investment 
Fund shall be monitored on a yearly basis, being financial year. Where, at the end of the 
financial year, the share of foreign investment is less than 50% of the total investment in the 
Alternative Investment Fund, the rate 2.5% shall not be available for the financial year. 

For new Alternative Investment Funds, which have not been in existence during the entire 
duration  of  the  previous  financial  year,  the  monitoring  shall  be  based  on  the  foreign 
investment in the AIF as on the date of first closing. 

32 

(e)  The Alternative Investment Fund shall intimate the jurisdiction officer about its status at the 
time  of  first  closing  and  at  the  beginning  of  each  financial  year,  providing  such  details/ 
procedure to be followed as prescribed under the Annexure. If the Alternative Investment 
Fund is not registered, the responsibility of filing the declaration shall be with the Manager 
of the Alternative Investment Fund. 

(f)  The Alternative Investment Fund should provide a copy of the intimation filed as per Sl No. 

1 of the Annexure to all its suppliers from whom it seeks to receive supplies at 2.5%. 

2. This notification shall come into force with effect from the  

day of  

, 2017. 

[F.No.  

/  

/2017-TRU] 

(******) 
Under Secretary to the Government of India 

Annexure 

The Alternative Investment Fund shall be required to fulfill the following procedure: 

(1)  A statement evidencing split of investments between domestic and foreign investors in 
the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  be  required  to  be  filed  with  the  jurisdictional 
officer; 

(2)  The statement shall be submitted within 90 days of the end of the relevant financial year. 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

33 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

[TO BE PUBLISHED IN PART II, SECTION 3, SUB-SECTION (i) OF THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, EXTRAORDINARY] 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Revenue) 

Notification No. /2017-Integrated Tax (Rate) 

New Delhi, the  

, 2017 

G.S.R. (E).- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Integrated Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017 (13 of 2017), the Central Government, on the recommendations of the Council, 
hereby notifies the rate of the central tax of: 
(i) 5% in respect of goods supplied to Alternative Investment Fund on inter-State supplies of goods, the 
description  of  which  is  specified  in  Government  of  India,  in  the  Ministry  of  Finance  (Department  of 
Revenue)  Notification  1/2017  -  Integrated  Tax  (Rate),  dt.  28-06-2017  and  in  satisfaction  of  conditions 
specified in Annexure. 

Explanation - For the purposes of this Notification 

(a)  Alternative Investment Fund shall have the meaning assigned to it under Regulation 2(1)(b) of the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012. 

(b)  Foreign investment shall mean investment by non-resident entity/person resident outside India in 
accordance with Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a Person Resident 
Outside India) Regulations, 2000. 

(c)  Taxable  supplies  provided  by  the  Associate  (in  the  capacity  of  a  Manager)  to  the  Alternative 

Investment Fund shall also be covered under for the purpose of this Notification. 

(d)  Alternative Investment Funds wherein the total foreign investments is more than 50% shall be 

eligible. 

The split of domestic investments and foreign investments in the Alternative Investment Fund shall 
be monitored on a yearly basis, being financial year. Where, at the end of the  financial year, the 
share of foreign investment is less than 50% of the total investment in the Alternative Investment 
Fund, the rate 5% shall not be available for the financial year. 

For new Alternative Investment Funds, which have not been in existence during the entire duration 
of the previous financial year, the monitoring shall be based on the foreign investment in the AIF as 
on the date of first closing. 

34 

32 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

(e)  The Alternative Investment Fund shall intimate the jurisdiction officer about its status at 
the  time  of  first  closing  and  at  the  beginning  of  each  financial  year,  providing  such 
details/ procedure to be followed as prescribed under the Annexure. If the Alternative 
Investment Fund is not registered, the responsibility of filing the declaration shall be with 
the Manager of the Alternative Investment Fund. 

(f)  The Alternative Investment Fund should provide a copy of the intimation filed as per Sl 

No. 1 of the Annexure to all its suppliers from whom it seeks to receive supplies at 5%. 

2. This notification shall come into force with effect from the  

day of  

, 2017. 

[F.No.  

/  

/2017-TRU] 

(******) 
Under Secretary to the Government of India 

Annexure 

The Alternative Investment Fund shall be required to fulfill the following procedure: 

(1)  A statement evidencing split of investments between domestic and foreign investors in 
the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  shall  be  required  to  be  filed  with  the  jurisdictional 
officer; 

(2)  The statement shall be submitted within 90 days of the end of the relevant financial year. 

 

 

35 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

[TO BE PUBLISHED IN PART II, SECTION 3, SUB-SECTION (i) OF THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, 

EXTRAORDINARY] 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Revenue) 

Notification No. /2017-Central Tax (Rate) 

New Delhi, the  

, 2017 

G.S.R. (E).- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 9 of the Central Goods and 
Services Tax Act, 2017 (12 of 2017), the Central Government, on the recommendations of the Council, 
hereby makes the following amendments in the notification of the Government of India, in the Ministry 
of  Finance  (Department  of  Revenue),  No.11/2017-Central  Tax  (Rate),  dated  the  28th  June,  2017 
published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i), vide number G.S.R. 
673(E) dated the 28th June, 2017, namely:- 

2. In the said notification, - 

(i) 

In Sr. no (15), Chapter 9971, after entry (v) in Column (3), the following entry shall be inserted, 
namely: - 

Sr. 
No. 

(1) 
15 

Chapter, 
Section, 
Heading, Group 
or 
Service Code 
(Tariff) 
(2) 
9971 

Description of Services 

Rate 
(per cent.) 

Condition 

(3) 
(vi)  Taxable  supplies  received 
by  Alternative 
Investment 
Funds 

(4) 
2.5 

 

(5) 
(i) 
Alternative 
Investment 
 
Funds 
wherein the total foreign 
investments is more than 
50% shall be eligible. 

in 

The  split  of  domestic 
investments  and  foreign 
investments 
the 
Alternative 
Investment 
Fund  shall  be  monitored 
on  a  yearly  basis,  being 
financial year.  Where, at 
the  end  of  the  financial 
year, the share of foreign 

36 

 
 
 
 
 
 

37 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of 

the 
in 

investment  is  less  than 
total 
50% 
investment 
the 
Alternative 
Investment 
Fund,  the  rate  specified 
in column (4) shall not be 
available for the financial 
year. 

not 

new 

been 
during 

For 
Alternative 
Investment  Funds,  which 
in 
have 
existence 
the 
entire  duration  of  the 
previous  financial  year, 
the  monitoring  shall  be 
based  on  the 
foreign 
investment  in  the  AIF  as 
on 
first 
closing. 

the  date  of 

The 

financial 

(ii) 
Alternative 
Investment  Fund  shall 
intimate  the  jurisdiction 
officer about its status at 
the  time  of  first  closing 
and  at  the  beginning  of 
each 
year, 
providing  such  details/ 
procedure to be followed 
as  prescribed  under  the 
Annexure. 
the
 
Investment  Fund  is  not 
registered, 
the 
responsibility of filing the 
declaration  shall  be  with 
the  Manager  of 
the 
Alternative 
Investment 
Fund. 

If 
Alternative 

 

The 

(iii) 
Alternative 
Investment  Fund  should 
provide  a  copy  of  the 
intimation  filed  as  per  Sl 
No. 1 of the Annexure to 
all 
from 
whom it seeks to  receive 
supplies  at 
rate 
specified on column (4). 

its  suppliers 

the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

(iii)  In para 4, after Sl No (viii), the following explanation shall be inserted 

(ix) Alternative Investment Fund shall have the meaning assigned to it under Regulation 2(1)(b) 
of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment  Funds)  Regulations, 
2012 

(x) Foreign  investment  shall  mean  investment  by  non-resident  entity/person  resident  outside 
India in accordance with Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a 
Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2000. 

(xi) Taxable supplies provided by the Associate (in the capacity of a Manager) to the Alternative 

Investment Fund shall also be covered under Entry (vi) in Sl No (15) of the table. 

[F.No.  

/  

/2017-TRU] 

(******) 
Under Secretary to the Government of India 

Annexure 

The Alternative Investment Fund shall be required to fulfill the following procedure: 

(1)  A statement evidencing split of investments between domestic and foreign investors in the 

Alternative Investment Fund shall be required to be filed with the jurisdictional officer; 

(2)  The statement shall be submitted within 90 days of the end of the relevant financial year. 

38 

[TO BE PUBLISHED IN PART II, SECTION 3, SUB-SECTION (i) OF THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, 

EXTRAORDINARY] 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Revenue) 

Notification No. /2017-Integrated Tax (Rate) 

New Delhi, the  

, 2017 

G.S.R. (E).- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Integrated 
Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (13 of 2017), the Central Government, on the recommendations of 
the Council, hereby makes the following amendments in the notification of the Government of India, 
in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue), No.8/2017-Integrated Tax (Rate), dated the  
28th June, 2017 published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Sub-section (i), 
vide number G.S.R. 673(E) dated the 28th June, 2017, namely:- 

2. In the said notification,- 

Chapter, 
Section, 
Heading, Group 
or 
Service Code 
(Tariff) 
(2) 
9971 

(1) 
15 

In Sl no (15), Chapter 9971, after entry (v) in Column (3), the following entry shall be inserted, 
namely:- 
Sl. 
No. 

Rate 
(per cent.) 

Description of Services 

Condition 

(3) 
(vi) Taxable supplies received 
by Alternative Investment 
Funds 

(4) 
5 

 

(5) 
(i) Alternative 
Investment Funds 
wherein the total foreign 
investments is more 
than 50% shall be 
eligible. 

The split of domestic 
investments and foreign 
investments in the 
Alternative Investment 
Fund shall be monitored 
on a yearly basis, being 
financial year. Where, at 
the end of the financial 
year, the share of foreign 
investment is less than 
50% of the total 
investment in the 
Alternative Investment 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

39 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(iv)  In para 4, after Sl No (viii), the following explanation shall be inserted 

 

 

 

Fund, the rate specified 
in column (4) shall not 
be available for the 
financial year. 

For new Alternative 
Investment Funds, which 
have not been in 
existence during the 
entire duration of the 
previous financial year, 
the monitoring shall be 
based on the foreign 
investment in the AIF as 
on the date of first 
closing. 

(ii) The Alternative 
Investment Fund shall 
intimate the jurisdiction 
officer about its status at 
the time of first closing 
and at the beginning of 
each financial year, 
providing such details/ 
procedure to be 
followed as prescribed 
under the Annexure. If 
the Alternative 
Investment Fund is not 
registered, the 
responsibility of filing 
the declaration shall be 
with the Manager of the 
Alternative Investment 
Fund. 

(iii) The Alternative 
Investment Fund should 
provide a copy of the 
intimation filed as per Sl 
No. 1 of the Annexure to 
all its suppliers from 
whom it seeks to receive 
supplies at the rate 
specified on column (4). 

40 

(ix) Alternative Investment Fund shall have the meaning assigned to it under Regulation 2(1)(b) 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 
2012 

(x) Foreign investment shall mean investment by non-resident entity/person resident outside 
India in accordance with Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of Security by a 
Person Resident Outside India) Regulations, 2000. 

(xi) Taxable supplies provided by the Associate (in the capacity of a Manager) to the Alternative 

Investment Fund shall also be covered under Entry (vi) in Sl No (15) of the table. 

[F.No.  

/  

/2017-TRU] 

(******) 
Under Secretary to the Government of India 

Annexure 

The Alternative Investment Fund shall be required to fulfill the following procedure: 

(1)  A statement evidencing split of investments between domestic and foreign investors in the 

Alternative Investment Fund shall be required to be filed with the jurisdictional officer 

(2)  The statement shall be submitted within 90 days of the end of the relevant financial year. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

41 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Annexure 2 

The Central Goods and Service Tax Act Amendment Bill, 2017 

BILL NO of 2017 

Amendment to Schedule III 

(i)  After entry 6, the following entry shall be added: 

7. Share in income or profits distributed by an Alternative Investment Fund to its Sponsor, Fund 
Manager, any employee of the Sponsor or Fund Manager or to any other person 

42 

 

43 

 

Chapter IV 

India: Alternative Investment Funds in International Financial 

Services Centers 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

Chapter IV 

India: Alternative Investment Funds in International Financial 

Services Centers 

A.  Introduction 

1.  An International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) is an area which enables the inflow 
of capital by providing a package of services to investment managers. This requires a 
conducive  regulatory  framework  and  easy  access  to  the  requisite  talent  pool  of 
professional fund managers, bankers, lawyers, technologists and accountants. 

2.  The main benefits to India of an IFSC are: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 
(vi) 

Added inflow  of capital which is much needed for India’s economic growth, 
development and employment generation; 
Reduction in the loss of invisible earnings to other financial centers elsewhere 
in the globe; 
Proximity of fund management functions  to portfolio companies in India for 
ease of due diligence, portfolio monitoring and fund administration; 
Leveraging  India’s  deep  talent  pool  in  professions  like  fund  management, 
accountancy and law; 
Provide a platform for global investing to India-based, overseas investors; and 
Enhance the development of Indian capital markets. 

3.  The world has witnessed the growth of international financial hubs such as London, 
New  York,  Hong  Kong,  Singapore  and  Dubai.  The  time  is  ripe  now  to  examine  and 
recommend the measures needed to enhance the flows of capital through an IFSC in 
India. For example, according to a recent Global Limited Partner survey conducted by 
the Emerging Markets Private Equity Association (EMPEA), India is seen as one of the 
most attractive economies for allocating capital commitments. In addition, India is one 
of  the  fastest  growing  economies  in  the  world.  It  is  regarded  as  one  of  the  most 
attractive  destinations  for  foreign  investment.  India’s  attractiveness  has  also  been 
enhanced by the Government’s move to create an environment in which there is  ease 
of  doing  business.  Several countries  across  the  world  have  successfully  established 
such centers by instituting a favourable and stable regulatory environment. 

44 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

45 
 

4. 

In recognition of the benefits of IFSCs, the Government of India (“GoI”) notified India’s 
first IFSC in Gujarat at the Gandhinagar Fin-Tech City and followed up with relevant 
tax  and  regulatory  amendments  to  activate  its  functioning.  International  financial 
centres benefit from a low burden of regulation and prove extremely attractive for 
offshore investors and funds as they are driven by lighter regulatory requirements, 
world class infrastructure, and ease in doing business, rather than the perceived tax 
benefits.  Given  India’s  commitment  to  the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation 
and  Development’s  ‘G20  Base  Erosion  and  Profit  Shifting’  project,  the  GoI  aims  to 
promote its IFSC as a global financial services hub with minimal tax arbitrage vis-à-vis 
its domestic and other global markets. 

5.  The  promotion  and  development  of  the  IFSC  is  a  priority  for  GOI.  The  current 
regulatory regime designed to promote Alternative Investment Funds in IFSCs has in- 
built regulatory restrictions which need to be addressed in order to open doors for 
offshore funds. This chapter addresses reforms in the Income Tax Act, 1961 and SEBI 
regulations governing AIFs and Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI) in IFSCs. 

6.  The origins of IFSCs in India lie in Section 18 in The Special Economic Zones Act, 

2005 which states that: 

Setting up of International Financial Services Centre. — 

i.  The Central Government may approve the setting up of an International Financial 
Services Centre  in a Special Economic Zone  and prescribe  the requirements  for 
setting up and operation of such Centre: Provided that the Central Government 
shall  approve  only  one  International  Financial  Services  Centre  in  a  Special 
Economic Zone. 

ii.  The Central Government may, subject to such guidelines as may be framed by the 
Reserve  Bank,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  the  Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority and such other concerned authorities, as 
it  deems  fit,  prescribe  the  requirements  for  setting  up  and  the  terms  and 
conditions of the operation of Units in an International Financial Services Centre. 

7.  One of the most significant, growing and stable class of capital in recent years in India 
has  been  venture  capital  and  private  equity.  These  capital  flows  are  regulated 
domestically as pooled investment vehicles known as Alternative Investment Funds 
under SEBI’s Alternative Investment Fund Regulations, 2012. 

8.  The current regulatory regime for AIFs in an IFSC is restrictive and offers investment 
in limited products/sectors. The recommendations listed in this chapter need to be 
implemented  to  realise the benefits h i g h l i g h t e d   above  and  to  provide a suitable 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

regulatory regime for offshore investors / AIFs in an IFSC which make inbound as well 
as outbound investments. The remainder of this chapter is divided into the following 
two parts: 

(i) 
(ii) 

PART A: The Tax Environment 
PART B: The Regulatory Framework 

B.  PART A: The Tax Environment for an IFSC in India 

The tax issues to be addressed for setting up Alternative Investment Funds in an International 
Financial Services Centre (‘IFSC’) are addressed in this section. Three sets of tax amendments 
are recommended: 

(a) exemption of specified income; 

(b) exemption from filing return of income; and 

(c) safe harbour for India-based fund managers. 

I. 

Recommendation: Exemption from tax for any income earned by offshore 
investors ( overseas investors in  entities domiciled in an IFSC)  from offshore 
investments  made outside India, through SEBI-registered AIFs domiciled in 
an IFSC. 

9. 

Indian  tax  laws  follow  source-based  taxation,  wherein  any  income  earned  by  a  non- 
resident is taxable in India, if such income is – 

a.  Received, or deemed to be received, in India; or 

b.  Accrues or arises, or is deemed to accrue or arise, in India. 

10.  Accordingly, any income earned by a foreign investor, from an investment made in an 
offshore jurisdiction through an AIF set up in an IFSC, is taxable in India. (For example, 
any  income  earned  by  a  US  investor  from  making  investment  in  the  Korean  market 
through  an  AIF  /  company  set  in  an  IFSC  in  India  would  be  taxable  in  India.)  Such 
unfavorable  tax  treatment,  relative to other other IFSCs abroad,  may  deter  global  fund 
managers from domiciling an AIF i.e. a pooling vehicle in an IFSC in India. 

11.  However,  if  a  similar  transaction  is  undertaken  through  a  fund  set  up  in  an  offshore 
jurisdiction e.g. Singapore, then any income earned by a US investor from an investment 
in the Korean market (made through a fund domiciled in Singapore), the income may not 
be subject to any tax in Singapore. 

12.  Given  the  above  and  with  a  view  to  encouraging  offshore  investment  by    foreign 
investors through AIFs set up and domiciled in an IFSC in India, any income earned from 
such a transaction should be exempted from tax in India. 

46 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

47 
 

II. 

Recommendation: Relaxation from filing return of income and obtaining PAN 
number for offshore investors in an AIF in IFSC 

13.  Currently, Category I and II AIFs have been provided tax pass-through status for capital 
gains under Indian income tax laws. While distributing any income to its investors, an 
Indian  AIF  is  required  to  withhold  taxes  at  the  applicable  rates  depending  on  the 
jurisdiction of the investor and remit such taxes to the Government of India. 

14.  Further, Indian income tax laws also require the unit holders i.e. the investors, to obtain 
tax registration (i.e. to obtain a Permanent Account Number-PAN- and disclose income 
by filing a Return of Income (‘RoI’) in India. 

15.  Collection of tax revenue is effected by the above withholding requirement in the hands 

of the AIF, resulting in no tax revenue leakage for the Government of India. 

16.  The  need  to  obtain  tax  registrations  and  filing  of  a  RoI  by  the  unitholder  requires  an 
investor to go through the rigours of compliance in India. While this approach may be 
required for the domestic market, an IFSC regime should be more investor-friendly in 
terms of compliance requirements. 

17.  In  order  to  encourage  foreign  investors  to  directly  invest  via  an  IFSC-domiciled  AIF, 
without worrying about the complications of Indian tax compliance, the Government of 
India  should  exempt  foreign  investors  from  obtaining  a  PAN  number  and  the 
requirement to file a tax return in India, in respect of any income distributed by an AIF in 
an IFSC after deduction of tax at source. 

18.  Where such foreign investor earns any other income from India, he should be subject to 

the above compliance requirements. 

III.  Recommendation: The IT Act should recognise that an Eligible Investment Fund 

which is domiciled in an IFSC does not constitute a business connection in India by 
virtue of such domiciliation. 

19.  The  Central  Board  of  Direct  Taxes  (CBDT)  issued  a  notification  on  15th  March,  2016 
prescribing  Rules  for  application  of  section  9A  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  (the  Act) 
dealing with taxation of offshore funds in India1. 

20.  Section  9A  of  the  Act  encapsulates  safe  harbour  provisions  whereby  an  ‘eligible 
investment  fund’  shall  not  be  regarded  as  a  tax  resident  in  India  merely  because  an 
‘eligible fund manager’ undertaking fund management activities on its behalf is located 
in  India.  Benefits  under  the  safe  harbour  provisions  are  subject  to  compliance  with 

1 Fund management activities - Safe Harbour Rules prescribed 
https://www.pwc.in/assets/pdfs/news-alert- 
tax/2016/pwc_news_alert_17_march_2016_fund_management_activities-safe_harbour_rules_prescribed.pdf 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

certain conditions. The CBDT has issued detailed Rules for the application of such safe 
harbour provisions. 

21.  It  is  recommended  that  this  safe  harbour  be  extended  to  include  Eligible  Investment 
Funds domiciled i.e. established in an IFSC. The specific wording of the recommended 
amendments to s. Section 9A (2) and 9A(3) of the IT Act is given below. 

48 

Proposed Amendments to Implement the IFSC Recommendations 

I. 

Exemption  from  tax  of  any  income  earned  by  an  offshore  investor  from  offshore 
investments made through a Fund domiciled in an  IFSC 

22.  In order to treat an AIF set up in an IFSC on par with a fund, i.e. a pooling vehicle set up 
in  an  offshore  jurisdiction,  and  encourage  offshore  investments  by  a  foreign  investor 
through  a  fund  i.e.  an  AIF  set  up  in  an  IFSC  in  India,  any  income  arising  from  such 
investments should be exempted from tax in India. 

Suggested Amendments: 

It is recommended to insert the following proviso in section 5(2) of the Income-tax Act, 
1961 

“Provided  that  in  the  case  of  a  non-resident,  being  an  unit  holder  in  an  Alternative 
Investment Fund set up in an International Financial Services Center in India, the income 
referred to in sub-section (2) above, shall not include any income, to the extent, derived 
from any investment made by such Alternative Investment Fund outside India. 
Explanation 3.- For the purpose of this proviso, an Alternative Investment Fund means 
any fund established or incorporated in India in the form of a trust or a company or a 
limited liability partnership or a body corporate which has been granted a certificate of 
registration  and  is  regulated  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012 and Securities and Exchange Board of 
India  (International  Financial  Services  Centres)  Guidelines,  2015  made  under  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992). 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

49 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

II.  Exemption from filing return of income and obtaining PAN number for offshore investors 

in an AIF in IFSC 

23.  In order to encourage foreign investors to directly come into the IFSC without worrying 
about  the  complications  of  Indian  tax  compliance  the  Government  of  India  should 
exempt offshore investors from obtaining a PAN number and the filing of tax returns in 
India, in respect of any income distributed by an AIF in an IFSC after deduction of tax at 
source. 

Suggested Amendments: 

A. Exemption from obtaining Permanent Account Number 

It is recommended to issue the following notification pursuant to powers conferred 
in clause (d) to sub-section (8) of section 139A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 

SECTION 139A OF THE INCOME-TAX ACT, 1961 – EXEMPTION FOR INVESTORS IN AN 
ALTERNATIVE  INVESTMENT  FUND  SET  UP  IN  AN  INTERNATIONAL  FINANCIAL 
SERVICES CENTRE 

NOTIFICATION NO. S.O. _(E) [NO.  XXX—201X  (F. NO.  -  -   -   )], DATED XX-XX-  201X 

In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) to sub-section (8) of section 139A 
of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (XX of 1961), the Central Government hereby specifies 
that  the  requirement  to  obtain  a  permanent  account  number  shall  not  apply  in 
respect of the following class or classes of persons, namely: 
(a)  a non-resident, not being a company, or 
(b)  a foreign company 

which earns income only from investments made in an Alternative Investment Fund 
set up in an International Financial Services Centre. 

B. Exemption from filing Return of Income 
It is recommended to insert the following sub clause (iv) in clause (a) of sub-section (1) 
in section 115A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 

"(iv)  income  received  in  respect  of  units,  purchased  in  foreign  currency,  of  an 
Alternative Investment Fund set up in an International Financial Services Centre;” 

50 

III.  Recommendation: The IT Act to be amended to recognize that Eligible Investment Funds 

which are domiciled in an  IFSC do not  constitute a  business connection in India. 

Recommended Amendments to Safe Harbor Provisions of the IT Act, 
1961 

Section 9A(2) of the IT Act recommended to be amended as  follows: 

“Notwithstanding anything contained in section 6, an eligible investment fund 
shall not be said to be resident in India for the purpose of that section merely 
because the eligible fund manager including a portfolio manager incorporated 
or established in an International Financial Services Centre, undertaking  fund 
management activities on its behalf, is situated in India.” 

Section 9A(3) of the IT Act recommended to be amended as follows: 

“The eligible investment fund referred to in sub-section (1), means  a  fund 
established  or  incorporated  or  registered  outside  India,  including  a  fund 
established  or  incorporated  in  an  International  Financial  Services  Centre, 
which collects funds from its members for investing it for their benefit and 
fulfils the following conditions, namely:—…” 

The following proviso will be inserted in Regulation 9A(3): 

“Provided further that the conditions specified in sub-clauses (a), (b), (d), (h), 
(j), (k) and (l) shall be deemed to be fulfilled in case of funds established or 
incorporated in an International Financial Services Centre.” 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

51 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

C.  PART B: The Regulatory Environment for AIFs in an IFSC in India 

24.  Two  sets  of  regulations  under  the  regulatory  authority  of  SEBI  will  require  enabling 
amendments, or SEBI may issue equivalent guidelines, for helping grow AIFs domiciled 
in IFSCs. These are mainly the AIF and FPI regulations. In addition, certain consequential 
FEMA amendments are also needed. 

25.  The changes are briefly described below followed by boxes and a matrix indicating the 

suggested amendments ( see also the Matrix at the end of this report). 

(i)  Overseas investors to be enabled to invest in India through any route 

including the FPI, FDI and FVCI routes and ability to invest in LLPs. 

(ii) 

Since  IFSC-  domiciled  AIFs  will  source  funds  from  offshore  investors,  the 
current  limits on overseas  investments of  SEBI-regulated  AIFs  should  not 
apply to AIFs domiciled in IFSCs; 

(iii)  Domestic fund managers/sponsors should be permitted to manage AIFs 

domiciled in an IFSC; and 

(iv) 

It is good practice for fund managers or fund sponsors to invest in AIFs which 
they  manage/sponsor.  SEBI  AIF 
require  such  sponsor 
commitments  as  skin-in-the-game.  Accordingly,  FEMA  regulations  should 
enable investment by a domestic fund manager/sponsor to invest in an AIF 
which they manage which is domiciled in an IFSC. 

regulations 

Proposed Recommendations 

I. 

Investment Avenues for AIFs in IFSCs 

26.  Currently, offshore funds/investors invest in listed as well as unlisted securities2 in the 

Indian market through the FDI route, the FPI route or the FVCI route. 

27.  Considering the above, in order to ensure that AIF’s in IFSCs are treated on par with the 
offshore funds / investors with respect to the permissible investment avenues for making 
investments into India, an AIF in an IFSC should be permitted to invest in India under all 
the permissible investment avenues. 

28.  Further, an AIF in an IFSC should also be allowed to participate in the capital of a Limited 

Liability Partnership incorporated in India. 

2 

including interests in limited liability partnerships 

52 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

53 
 

29.  Considering the above, specific amendments should be made in the regulations to 

expand the available investment products for an AIF set up in an IFSC. 

Suggested Amendments: 

SEBI Impact 

It is recommended that the following amendments are made to the Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2017/45 of SEBI dated May 23, 2017. 

Clause 22 (3) of SEBI (IFSC) Guidelines, 2015 is to be amended and read as follows: 

"Any alternative investment fund or mutual fund operating in IFSC shall be permitted 
to invest in the following: 

a) Securities which are listed in IFSC; 

b) Securities issued by companies incorporated in IFSC; 

c) Securities  issued  by  companies  incorporated  in  India  or  companies  belonging  to 
foreign jurisdiction. subject to such conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India and Government of India from time to time; and 

d) Capital  of  limited  liability  partnerships  incorporated  in  India  subject  to  such 
conditions or guidelines that may be stipulated or issued by the Reserve Bank of India 
and Government of India from time to time." 

Further, it is clarified that such portfolio manager, alternative investment fund or 
mutual fund shall invest in India through the foreign portfolio investor route 

Such alternative investment fund or mutual fund shall obtain registration, where 
necessary, under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Portfolio 
Investors) Regulations, 2014. 

Further, it is clarified that the Circular No. CIR/IMD/DF/7/2015 dated /1 October 2015 
issued by the Board on ‘Guidelines on overseas investments and other issues / 
clarifications for AIFs/VCFs’ shall not apply to an AIF set up in an IFSC.” 

FEMA Impact 
The following proviso needs to be inserted in Regulation 26 of the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Transfer or issue of Foreign Security) Regulations, 2004: 

“Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to an AIF set up in an 
IFSC.” 

II.  The Sponsor and Manager of an AIF in an IFSC 

30.  Considering  the  regulatory  requirements  for  a  Sponsor/Manager,  the  SEBI  IFSC 
guidelines should be relaxed to permit a Sponsor / Manager of an existing AIF in India to 
act as a Sponsor / Manager of an AIF in an IFSC by setting up a branch, or a company, or 
a limited liability partnership in an IFSC or by way of direct investment from India. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

Suggested Amendments: 

It is recommended to insert the following clause clause 22.7 in Chapter VI – Funds of 
the SEBI (International Financial Services Centres) Guidelines, 2015: 

“22.7 The Sponsor / Manager of an Alternative Investment Fund in IFSC shall be in 
compliance with the provisions of this clause - 

a) A Sponsor / Manager of an Alternative Investment Fund in India may act as 
a Sponsor / Manager of an Alternative Investment Fund set up in the IFSC by – 

i)  directly investing from India, outside IFSC; or 

ii)  setting up a branch in the IFSC;or 

iii) incorporating a company or limited liability partnership in the IFSC 

subject to any guidelines, regulations issued by the Reserve Bank of India from time to 
time. 

b) In other cases, such a Sponsor / Manager shall need to incorporate a company 
or limited liability partnership in the IFSC.” 

 

 

III.  The Sponsor / Manager Commitment 

31.  The following amendments need to be made in the relevant Foreign Exchange 

Management Regulations issued by RBI. 

Scenario 1 – Domestic Sponsor / Manager in India to act as a Sponsor / Manager for an 
AIF in an IFSC 

Suggested Amendments: 

The following regulation needs to be inserted in the Foreign Exchange Management 
(Transfer or issue of Foreign Security) Regulations, 2004: 

“6D. General permission for investment in Alternative Investment Funds in 
International Financial Service Centre 

Notwithstanding anything contained in Regulation 7, any person resident in India may 
invest in an Alternative Investment Fund set up in an International Financial Service 
Centre provided such investment is made in its capacity as a Sponsor / Manager of the 
Alternative Investment Fund.” 

Scenario 2 - Domestic Sponsor / Manager in India to act as a Sponsor / Manager for an 
AIF in IFSC by setting up a branch in IFSC 

32.  To liberalise remittance of funds by the Sponsor/ Manager in India to its branch in an 

IFSC, the Reserve Bank of India should amend the Foreign Exchange  Management 

54 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

55 
 

(Foreign Currency Accounts by a Person Resident In India) Regulations, 2015 to 
specifically permit such remittances. 

Suggested Amendments: 

 

It  is  recommended  to  amend  clause  (B)  of  Regulation  5  of  the  Foreign  Exchange 
Management (Foreign Currency Accounts By a Person Resident In India) Regulations, 
2015 by inserting the  following clause  (iii)  under clause  (b) to the  first  proviso as 
follows:: 

“(iii) Nothing contained in clause (i) and (ii) above shall apply to any remittance made to 
the  branch,  which  is  a  Sponsor  /  Manager  of  an  Alternative  Investment  Fund  in  an 
International Financial Services Centre.” 

Scenario 3 - Domestic Sponsor / Manager in India to incorporate a Company / Limited 
Liability Partnership in IFSC and act as a Sponsor / Manager for an AIF in IFSC 

Suggested Amendments: 

It is recommended to amend sub-regulation 7 of the Foreign Exchange  Management 
(Transfer  or  issue  of  Foreign  Security)  Regulations,  2004  by  inserting  the  following 
proviso after clause (2) as follows: 

“Provided that nothing contained in clause 1) and 2) above shall apply to any investment 
made  by  a  person  resident  in  India  in  a  company  or  limited  liability  partnership, 
incorporated in an International Financial Services Centre, to act as a Sponsor / Manager 
for an Alternative Investment Fund in such centre.” 

33. Leverage at the Fund level of AIFs in an IFSC 

SEBI  may  consider  relaxing  the  leverage  restrictions  on  AIF's  domiciled  in  an  IFSC 
subject to appropriate safeguards. Some examples of the leverage restrictions in other 
regimes are given below: 

The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD) 

Any  AIFM,  managing  one  or  more  AIF  using  leverage,  will  have  to  provide  the 
competent authorities of its home Member State regular information concerning its 
leverage. 

The concerned Member State regulator will inform the ESMA of the leverage limits 
disclosed and the latter may decide to limit the level of leverage used if it considers 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

that the leverage employed by an AIFM may pose a substantial risk to the stability and 
integrity of the financial system. 

While  funds  that  comply  as  Alternative  Investment  Funds  (under  the  Alternative 
Investment Fund Managers Directive regime) are not subject to leverage restrictions, 
nevertheless additional reporting is required from them if they employ leverage more 
than 3x their assets. 

Singapore 

investors,  are  not  restricted 

In  Singapore,  private  funds  offered  through  private  placement, or  to  accredited  or 
institutional 
in  the  use  or  extent  of  their 
borrowing/leverage at the fund level, provided they disclose the information to the 
investors  in  the  fund.  Only  funds  offered  to  the  retail  public  (such  as  REITs  in 
Singapore) are restricted in their use of leverage. 

IFSC: Matrix of Regulatory Changes in SEBI’s Foreign Portfolio Investors(FPI) and AIF 
Regulations/Guidelines 

CURRENT REGIME 

RECOMMENDED AMENDMENTS 

Recommended Amendments for FPIs 

SEBI (International Financial Services Centre) 
Guidelines, 2015 

Chapter III, Guideline 8 

 
 

Any recognised entity or entities desirous of 
operating  in  IFSC  as  an  intermediary,  may 
form  a  company  to  provide  such  financial 
services  relating  to  securities  market,  as 
permitted by the Board. 

SEBI 
(Foreign 
Regulations, 2014 

Portfolio 

Investors) 

Definitions - Regulation 2 

Guideline 8 may be amended as follows: 

“Any  recognised  entity  or  entities  desirous 
of operating in IFSC as an intermediary, may 
form a company, limited liability partnership 
or a trust to provide such financial services 
relating to securities market, as permitted by 
the Board.” 

following  should  be 

The 
Regulation 2(ia): 

inserted  as 

“"International Financial Services Centre" or 
"IFSC"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as 
assigned to it in clause (q) of section 2 of the 
Special Economic Zones Act, 2005” 

SEBI 
(Foreign 
Regulations, 2014 

Portfolio 

Investors) 

The following proviso should be included 
after Regulation 4: 

Eligibility  criteria  of 

foreign  portfolio 

“Provided that the eligibility requirements 
under sub-clause (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) shall 

56 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

57 
 

CURRENT REGIME 

RECOMMENDED AMENDMENTS 

be  deemed  to  be  fulfilled  in  the  case  the 
applicant is established or incorporated in an 
International Finance Services Centre.” 

investor 

Regulations  4  -  The  designated  depository 
participant shall not consider an application 
for  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  as  a 
foreign  portfolio 
the 
applicant  satisfies  the  following  conditions 
namely, - 

investor  unless 

(a) the applicant is a person not resident in 
India; 

(b)  the  applicant  is  resident  of  a  country 
whose  securities  market  regulator 
is  a 
signatory  to  International  Organization  of 
Securities 
Commission‘s  Multilateral 
Memorandum  of  Understanding  (Appendix 
A  Signatories)  or  a  signatory  to  bilateral 
Memorandum  of  Understanding  with  the 
Board; 

(c) the applicant being a bank, is a resident 
of a country whose central bank is a member 
of Bank for International Settlements; 

(d) the applicant is not resident in a country 
identified 
in  the  public  statement  of 
Financial Action Task Force as: 

(i)  a jurisdiction having a strategic 
Anti-  Money Laundering or Combating the 
Financing of Terrorism deficiencies 
to      which   counter   measures   apply;  or 
(ii) a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient 
progress  in  addressing  the  deficiencies  or 
has  not  committed  to  an  action  plan 
developed  with  the  Financial  Action  Task 
Force to address the deficiencies; 

(e)  the  applicant  is  not  a  non-resident 
Indian; 

(f)  the  applicant  is  legally  permitted  to 
invest in securities outside the country of its 
incorporation  or  establishment  or  place  of 
business; 

(g)  the  applicant 
its 
Memorandum of Association and Articles of 

is  authorized  by 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

CURRENT REGIME 

RECOMMENDED AMENDMENTS 

Association  or  equivalent  document(s)  or 
the agreement to invest on its own behalf or 
on behalf of its clients; 

 

track 

record, 

(h)  the  applicant  has  sufficient  experience, 
good 
is  professionally 
competent,  financially  sound  and  has  a 
generally  good  reputation  of  fairness  and 
integrity; 

(i) the grant of certificate to the applicant is 
in  the  interest  of  the  development  of  the 
securities market; 

(j)  the  applicant  is  a  fit  and  proper  person 
based on the criteria specified in Schedule II 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; and 

(k) any other criteria specified by the Board 
from time to time. 

SEBI 
(Foreign 
Regulations, 2014 

Portfolio 

Investors) 

Explanation 1 and 2 of Regulation 5 should 
be amended as follows: 

 
 

Categories of foreign portfolio investor 

Regulation  5-  An  applicant  shall  seek 
registration as a foreign portfolio investor in 
one of the categories mentioned hereunder 
or any other category as may be specified by 
the Board from time to time: 

(b)  "Category  II  foreign  portfolio  investor" 
which shall include: 

(i)  appropriately  regulated  broad  based 
funds  such  as  mutual  funds,  investment 
trusts, insurance/reinsurance companies; 

(ii) appropriately regulated persons such as 
banks,  asset  management  companies, 
investment  managers/  advisors,  portfolio 
manager; 

(iii)  broad  based 
appropriately 
investment  manager 
regulated: 

funds  that  are  not 
but  whose 
appropriately 

regulated 
is 

investor 

shall 

in 

portfolio 

“Explanation  1-  For  the  purposes  of  this 
clause, an applicant seeking registration as a 
foreign 
be 
considered to be "appropriately regulated" if 
it is regulated or supervised by the securities 
market  regulator  or  the  banking  regulator, 
of the concerned foreign jurisdiction, in the 
same capacity in which it proposes to make 
investments 
India,  provided  that  an 
applicant  established  in  an  International 
Financial Services Centre will  be deemed to 
be 
the 
purposes of these Regulations. 

“appropriately 

regulated” 

for 

Explanation 2- 

incorporated  outside  India  or 

A)  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause,  "broad 
based fund" shall mean a fund, established 
or 
in  an 
International  Financial  Services  Centre, 
which has at least twenty investors, with no 
investor holding more  than  forty-nine per 

58 

 
 
 
 
 
 

59 
 

CURRENT REGIME 

RECOMMENDED AMENDMENTS 

Provided  that  the  investment  manager  of 
such broad-based fund is itself registered as 
Category II foreign portfolio investor: 

cent of the shares or units of the fund:” 

the 

that 

that 

further 

investment 
Provided 
it  shall  be 
manager  undertakes 
liable  for  all  acts  of 
responsible  and 
commission  and  omission  of  all 
its 
underlying  broad-based  funds  and  other 
deeds and things done by such broad-based 
funds under these regulations. 

Explanation  1-For  the  purposes  of  this 
clause, an applicant seeking registration as a 
foreign portfolio investor shall be considered 
to  be  "appropriately  regulated" 
is 
regulated  or  supervised  by  the  securities 
market regulator or the banking regulator of 
the  concerned  foreign  jurisdiction,  in  the 
same capacity in which it proposes to make 
investments in India. 

it 

if 

Explanation 2- 

A)  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause,  "broad 
based fund" shall mean a fund, established 
or incorporated outside India, which has at 
least  twenty  investors,  with  no  investor 
holding more than forty-nine per cent of the 
shares or units of the fund: 

Provided that if the broad-based fund has an 
institutional  investor  who  holds  more  than 
forty-nine per cent of the shares or units in 
the  fund,  then  such  institutional  investor 
must itself be a broad based fund. 

B)  For  the  purpose  of  clause,  A  of  this 
Explanation, for ascertaining the number of 
investors in a fund, direct investors as well as 
underlying investors shall be considered. 

C)  For  the  purpose  of  clause  B  of  this 
Explanation, only investors of entities which 
have  been  set  up  for  the  sole  purpose  of 
pooling funds and making investments, shall 
be 
the  purpose  of 
determining underlying investors. 

considered 

for 

SEBI 

(Foreign 

Portfolio 

Investors)  Explanation 1 of Regulation 32(1) should be 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

CURRENT REGIME 

RECOMMENDED AMENDMENTS 

Regulations, 2014 

amended as follows: 

 
 

 
 

“Explanation  1.-  For  the  purposes  of  this 
clause,  "opaque  structure"  shall  mean  any 
structure  such  as  protected  cell  company, 
segregated  cell  company  or  equivalent, 
where the details of the ultimate beneficial 
owners  are  not  accessible  or  where  the 
beneficial owners are ring fenced from each 
other  or  where  the  beneficial  owners  are 
ring  fenced  with  regard  to  enforcement: 
Provided that the foreign portfolio investor 
satisfying the following criteria shall not be 
treated as having opaque structure: 

(i)  the  applicant  is  regulated  in  its  home 
jurisdiction 

Provided if the applicant is established in an 
International Financial Services Centre, it will 
be  deemed  to  be  regulated  in  its  home 
jurisdiction; 

(ii)  each  fund  or  sub  fund  in  the  applicant 
satisfies broad based criteria, and 

(iii)  the  applicant  gives  an  undertaking  to 
provide information regarding its beneficial 
owners  as  and  when  Board  seeks  this 
information.” 

Regulation 32 (1)- All designated depository 
participants  who  have  been  granted 
approval by the Board shall - 

(a)  comply  with  the  provisions  of  these 
regulations,  as  far  as  they  may  apply, 
circulars  issued  thereunder  and  any  other 
terms and conditions specified by the Board 
from time to time; 

(b) forthwith inform the Board in writing, if 
any  information  or  particulars  previously 
submitted to the Board are found to be false 
or misleading, in any material respect; 

is  any  material  change 

(c) forthwith inform the Board in writing, if 
there 
in  the 
information  previously  furnished  by  him  to 
the Board; 

information,  record  or 
(d)  furnish  such 
documents to the Board and Reserve Bank of 
India, as may be required, in relation to his 
activities  as  a  designated  depository 
participant; 

(e)  ensure  that  only  registered  foreign 
portfolio  investors  are  allowed  to  invest  in 
securities market; 

(f)  ensure  that  foreign  portfolio  investor 
does not have opaque structure(s): 

Explanation  1.-  For  the  purposes  of  this 
clause,  "opaque  structure"  shall  mean  any 
structure  such  as  protected  cell  company, 
segregated  cell  company  or  equivalent, 
where the details of the ultimate beneficial 
owners  are  not  accessible  or  where  the 
beneficial owners are ring fenced from each 
other  or  where  the  beneficial  owners  are 
ring  fenced  with  regard  to  enforcement: 
Provided that the foreign portfolio investor 
satisfying the following criteria shall not be 
treated as having opaque structure: 

(i) the applicant is regulated in its home 

60 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

61 
 

CURRENT REGIME 

RECOMMENDED AMENDMENTS 

jurisdiction 

 

(ii)  each  fund  or  sub  fund  in  the  applicant 
satisfies broad based criteria, and 

(iii)  the  applicant  gives  an  undertaking  to 
provide information regarding its beneficial 
owners  as  and  when  Board  seeks  this 
information. 

Explanation  2.-  For 
the  purposes  of 
Explanation  1,  the  definition  of  ultimate 
beneficial owner shall be as provided under 
the  Master  circular  on  Anti  Money 
Laundering  Standards  or  Combating  the 
Financing of Terrorism, issued by the Board 
from time to time. 

(g) have adequate systems to ensure that in 
case  of  jointly  held  depository  accounts, 
each  of 
the 
requirements specified for foreign portfolio 
investors  and  shall  perform  KYC  due 
diligence for each of the joint holders; 

joint  holders  meet 

the 

in  case  of  any  penalty,  pending 
(h) 
findings  of 
litigations  or  proceedings, 
investigations  for  which 
inspections  or 
action  may  have  been  taken  or  is  in  the 
process  of  being  taken  by  any  regulator 
against a designated depository participant, 
the  designated  depository  participant  shall 
bring  such  information  forthwith,  to  the 
attention  of  the  Board,  depositories  and 
stock exchanges; 

(i) be guided by the relevant circular on Anti-
Money  Laundering  or  Combating 
the 
Financing  of  Terrorism  specified  by  the 
Board from time to time. 

Recommendations for Amendments to SEBI AIF Regulations 

SEBI (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 
2012 

  General Investment Conditions- Regulation 

15(a) 

Alternative  Investment  Fund  may  invest  in 
securities of companies incorporated outside 
India  subject  to  such  conditions  or 

A circular must be issued by SEBI clarifying that 
SEBI circular dated 1 October 2015 will not  apply 
to  alternative  investment  funds  established  or 
incorporated 
International  Financial 
Services  Centre  and  they  shall  be  permitted  to 
invest outside India freely, without requiring any 
regulatory approvals from SEBI or RBI. 

in  an 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

CURRENT REGIME 

RECOMMENDED AMENDMENTS 

guidelines  that  may  be  stipulated  or  issued 
by the Reserve Bank of India and the Board 
from time to time 

 

  SEBI Circular dated 1 October 2015 

Re: Guidelines on overseas investments and 
other issues/clarifications for AIFs/VCFs 

The circular inter alia provides the following: 

a)  AIFs may invest in equity and equity 
linked  instruments  only  of  offshore 
venture 
undertakings, 
subject  to  overall  limit  of  USD  500 
million (combined limit for AIFs and 
Venture Capital Funds); 

capital 

venture 

c) 

offshore 

b)  AIFs desirous of making investments 
capital 
in 
their 
undertakings  shall  submit 
proposal  for 
investment  (in  the 
attached  format  at    Annexure)  to 
SEBI for prior approval; 
Investments would be made only in 
those  companies  which  have  an 
Indian  connection  (e.g.  company 
which  has  a  front  office  overseas, 
while  back  office  operations  are  in 
India); 

d)  Such  investments  shall  not  exceed 
25%  of  the  investible  funds  of  the 
scheme of the AIF; and 

e)  The  allocation  of  investment  limits 
would  be  done  on  ‘first  come  first 
serve’  basis,  depending  on  the 
availability in the overall limit of USD 
500 million. 

Further suggestions for reform in SEBI AIFs regulations/guidelines are contained in the 
detailed matrix at the end of this report. 

62 

 

63 

 

 

 

Chapter V 

India: Taxation of Alternative Investment Funds 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

57 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

India: Taxation of Alternative Investment Funds 

Chapter V 

A. Introduction 

1. During the past few years, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has adopted measures 

to improve the tax environment for Alternative Investment Funds in India. This chapter 
lists some of the tax measures which the Government has recently implemented 
for Alternative Investment Funds. The Government has recognised the principle of pass- 
through taxation of AIFs under which investors are taxed and not the fund pooling 
vehicle. Accordingly, the principle of pass-through taxation has been applied to AIF 
Categories I & II. 

2. This chapter makes three sets of recommendations as follows: 

Firstly, it recommends further refinements in the taxation of AIFs to enable deduction of 
expenses and pass-through of net losses; 

Secondly, it recommends a regime for AIFs listed on stock exchanges which have the 
unique characteristic of a frequently changing pool of unitholders i.e. investors; and 

Finally, it recommends investor-level taxation for Category III 
AIFs which are currently taxed under an ambiguous trust taxation regime. 

B. Summary of Recent Tax Reforms Impacting Alternative Investment Funds 

3.  Characterisation of income arising from the transfer of listed shares and securities 

 
                    The treatment of investment exit gains (whether taxable as business income or capital gains) 
                    has been a matter of litigation. There have been several judicial pronouncements on whether 
                    gains from transactions in securities should be taxed as “business profits” or as “capital gains”. 
                    However, these pronouncements, while laying down guiding principles, have been driven by the 
                    facts and circumstances of each case. 
 

  The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) issued Circular 6 of 2016 dated February 29, 2016 
in respect of treatment of surplus arising on the transfer of listed shares/ securities with a 
view to reduce litigation and maintain consistency in approach. The Circular states that: 

 

 

 

 

·  Where the assessee itself treats listed shares/securities as ‘stock in trade’, irrespective 
of the period of holding, income from transfer to be treated as business income; and 

·  In the case of listed shares/securities held for more than 12 months period immediately 
preceding date of transfer, the tax authorities shall not dispute the stand taken by assessee 
of  treating  such  income  as  capital  gains.  However,  this  stand  once  taken  shall  remain 
applicable in subsequent years also; and 

·  In all other cases, guidance under existing CBDT circulars shall apply. 

66 

 

                 
 

·   

 
 
 
The aforesaid principles shall not apply in cases where genuineness of transaction itself is in dispute. 

4.  Characterisation of income as ‘capital gains’ from transfer of unlisted shares held by 

Category I and II Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) 

The  CBDT  issued  an  instruction  dated  2  May  2016  clarifying  that  the  income  arising  from 
transfer  of  unlisted  shares  will  be  treated  as  ‘capital  gains’  irrespective  of  the  period  of 
holding  except  in  the  following  situations  where  the  Assessing  Officer  would  take  an 
appropriate view: 

·  the genuineness of transactions in unlisted shares itself is questionable; 

·  the transfer of unlisted shares is related to issue pertaining to the lifting of the 

corporate veil; 

·  the transfer of unlisted shares is made along with the control and management of 

underlying business 

Further, the CBDT has issued a clarification that the exception regarding transfer of unlisted 
shares  along  with  'control  and  management  of  the  underlying  business'  would  not  be 
applicable to SEBI registered Category I AIFs and Category II AIFs. 

5. Inclusion of the pre-conversion period in determining the holding period for convertible 

debentures 

The CBDT, in its notification dated 17 March 2016, has stated that in the case of a capital asset 
being shares or debentures acquired by way of conversion of bonds, debentures, debenture-
stock or deposit certificates, the period for which such bonds, debentures, debenture-stock 
or deposit certificates are held prior to its conversion would be included while determining 
the period of holding of such shares or debentures. 

6. Tax neutrality for conversion of the preference shares and inclusion of the pre-conversion 

period in determining the holding period 

The  Finance  Act,  2017  introduced  section  47(xb)  in  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  (the  Act)  to 
provide that the conversion of preference shares into equity shares will not be regarded as 
transfer under the Act. Hence, no capital gains would arise in the hands of the investors on 
conversion of convertible preference shares of a company into equity shares of that company. 

Further,  at  the  time  of  transfer  of  the  equity  shares  received  on  conversion,  the  cost  of 
acquisition  of  the  convertible  preference  shares  would  be  deemed  to  be  the  cost  of 
acquisition of such equity shares. While computing the period of holding of the equity shares, 
the period for which the preference shares were held by the investor prior to the conversion 
shall also be included. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

67 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

7. Clarification in the law on the applicability of 10% long-term capital gains tax to foreign 

investors investing in shares of private limited companies 

Section 112(1)(c) of the Act provided a concessional tax rate of 10% on long term capital gains  
earned from transfer of unlisted securities in the hands of the non-residents 
 
However, the manner in which the term ‘unlisted securities’ had been defined in the Act led to 
 the unintentional consequence of the 10% concessional tax rate not being applicable to long- 
term gains on transfer of shares of private limited companies 

Section 112 of the Act has been amended to clarify that the concessional tax rate of 10% is 
applicable  to  long-term  capital  gains  arising  from  transfer  of  shares  of  private  limited 
companies in the hands of non-resident investors. 

8.  Tax withholding for foreign investors in AIFs at ‘rates in force’ 

Section 194LBB of the  Act has been amended to provide that tax  deduction at  source  on 
accrual/  distribution  of  income  to  non-resident  investors  eligible  for  beneficial  taxation 
provisions under an applicable Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) will be on the 
basis of the DTAA or domestic tax law provision, whichever is more beneficial to the investor. 

9. No tax withholding for exempt domestic investors in AIFs 

 
                      

 Section 197 of the Act which provides a mechanism whereby, the Assessing Officer 
upon application by the assessee, issues a nil withholding / lower withholding 
certificate did not include section 194LBB of the Act. 

 
Section 197 of the Act has been amended so as to enable investors in AIFs to obtain a NIL/ 
reduced tax withholding certificate on investment proceeds, subject to conditions in the said 
section. 

 

 
 

 

 

10. Exclusion for Category I and II AIFs in the notification for exemption on long-term capital 

gains on transfer of listed equity shares 

 The Finance Act, 2017 amended s. 10(38) of the Act to provide that such exemption will be available only 

if STT has been paid, both, at the time of sale and purchase of securities except in certain  acquisitions. 

CBDT’s notification dated 5 June 2017 inter alia provided that the acquisition of listed equity shares by a 
Category I and II AIFs will be eligible to claim benefit of section 10(38) of the Act even if securities 
transaction tax has not been paid at the time of acquisition of such shares. 

C. 

Taxation of Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs): Deduction of Expenses & Pass 
through of Net Losses 

11.  A substantial majority of AIFs raise capital commitments from investors to form a pool of 
capital to be invested based on an investment thesis. In this mode of fund raising, investors 
place substantial reliance on the AIF’s investment manager. 

12.  The AIF’s investment manager has the fiduciary responsibility to originate,  evaluate, 

68 

select, invest, monitor and disinvest the AIF’s portfolio. An AIF requires significant fiduciary 
and  management  role  and  oversight  of the  business of  the  AIF’s  portfolio  entities.  This 
stewardship role generates substantial value for all stakeholders. 

13.  Substantial changes have been implemented in the Income-tax Act, 1961 (the Act) since 
the year 2015 that have addressed several tax issues faced by AIFs. However, from a tax 
perspective, the following two critical issues need to be addressed: 

 Significant costs incurred by the AIF are not factored in determining the investors’ 
tax liability 

14. Typically, an AIF would incur 15-20% of the investors’ capital commitments towards fees 
payable to the investment manager, bankers, advisers, lawyers, accountants, administrators, 
and  other  service  providers.  Therefore,  the  amount  actually  invested  by  the  AIF  stands 
reduced by this amount and only 80-85% of the investor’s capital commitments are actually 
invested.  Commercially,  the  investor’s  gain  on  their  investment  is  net  of  all  expenses 
incurred by the AIF. 

15. The main income stream of an AIF that makes investment in equity/ equity linked securities 
is gains on sale of investments, while it could also earn income in the form of interest or 
dividend. The Act provides for a mechanism for computation of income under the ‘capital 
gains’  head.  As  per  the  provisions of the  Act,  capital  gains/losses  are  to  be  computed  by 
reducing from the sale consideration: 

 

the cost of acquisition of the asset transferred; 

 

the cost of any improvement thereto; and 

  any expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively in connection with the 

transfer of the asset. 

16. Several  expenses  of  an  AIF  viz.  investment  management  fee,  service  providers’  fee  for 
investments  that  are  not  consummated,  administration  expenses  of  the  AIF  are  incurred 
even if there are no acquisition or exit during a particular period. Under the tax law, such 
expenses may not be included in the cost of acquisition/improvement of the asset or treated 
as an expenditure incurred for transfer of that asset for computing capital gains. This means 
in effect that the AIFs have to write-off the expenses, which means that neither the AIF nor 
their  investors  are  able  to  offset  the  expenses  against  income/gains  that  may  eventually 
result from the investment leading to an incongruence in the gains commercially derived by 
the investors (net of expenses) vs gains treated as taxable (gross of expenses). This issue is 
now further exacerbated by the fact that a number of services sought by AIFs are liable to 
goods and services tax at the rate of 18% (increased from 15% under the service tax regime). 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

69 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Recommendation: Deduction of Expenses 

Option 1: Allow management fee incurred from the date of the investment to the date of its divestment to be capitalised as 

―cost  of  improvement‖ .  The  management  fee  incurred  may  be  calculated  based  on  the  management  fee  contractually 
payable to the AIF’s investment  manager at the annual rate applied to the actual cost of the investment.  
 
Proposed Amendment 
 
Modify section 55 (1)(b)(2)(ii) of the Act to read as under: 
“in any other case, means all expenditure of a capital nature incurred in making any additions or alterations 
‘or improvement’ to the capital asset by the assessee after it became his property, and, where the capital asset 
became the property of the assessee by any of the modes specified in sub- section (1) of] section 49, by the 
previous  owner,  but  does  not  include  any  expenditure  which  is  deductible  in  computing  the  income 
chargeable under the head….” 
Notification required 
“Improvement expenditure” for a capital asset would include expenditure of a capital nature in relation to: 
 
 
 
 

Management Advisory 
Legal and Professional 
Administrative expense directly identifiable to capital asset. 

  

 
Net losses incurred by AIFs are not available to investors and may lapse if not set-off by the AIF 
 

17.  Investors in AIFs could have chosen to directly invest in portfolio companies of their own 
accord. Conceptually, pooling vehicles are formed to derive two advantages; (a) to engage 
experienced professionals for investment management; and (b) to achieve economies of 
scale. 

 

 

 

 

18.  Tax implications play an important role for the investor to choose one form of investing 
over  the  other  i.e.  pooling  vehicle  vs.  direct  investing.  An  efficient  tax  system  for  AIFs 
would ensure that an investor in a pooling vehicle should have the same (or better) tax 
outcome  in  comparison  with  direct  investment  with  the  objective  of  driving  investor 
preference towards professional fund management. Should investors suffer extra tax as a 
result of investing in an AIF vis-à-vis direct investment that would serve as a disincentive 
for investment in an AIF. 

19.  The  present  tax  regime  for  Category  I  and  II  AIFs  provides  for  pass-through  of  income 
earned by the AIF, however losses are retained at the fund level, and are not passed on 
to the investors. Typically, an AIF’s tenure would be 8-10 years from its launch. Practically, 
it is observed that in a fund, usually the profitable investments of the fund are first sold, 
while  the relatively lesser performing investments may  be  sold towards the end of the 
fund’s life. 

20.  Based on the current provisions of the Act and the sequence of exits, practically, where 
Category I and II AIFs incur net losses on investments towards the end of its life or has 
unabsorbed  losses,  which  cannot  be  utilised  by  the  AIF,  such  losses  would  lapse.  The 
investors would in this scenario also be taxed on an amount that would be greater than 
the “real” income derived by them from their total investment in the AIF. For an investor 
who has committed capital to an AIF and remained invested in the AIF for its full tenure, 

70 

there is little legal/ commercial justification for being denied the offset of losses incurred 
on the AIFs investments. 

 
 

Recommendation: Pass through of Net Losses 

 
A pass-through tax regime should not distinguish between gains and losses. Therefore, similar to the pass through 
for net income, net losses incurred by unlisted AIFs, under any head of income, should also be allowed to be passed 
on to the investors.  
 
Proposed Amendment 
 
115UB. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions of this Act and subject to the 
provisions of this Chapter, any income accruing or arising to, or received by, a person, being a unit holder 
of an investment fund, out of investments made in the investment fund, shall be chargeable to income-
tax in the same manner as if it were the income accruing or arising to, or received by, such person had the 
investments made by the investment fund been made directly by him. 
(2) Where in any previous year, the net result of computation of total income of the investment fund 
[without giving effect to the provisions of clause (23FBA) of section 10] is a loss under any head of 
income and such loss cannot be or is not wholly set-off against income under any other head of income of 
the said previous year, then,— 
 (i)  such loss shall be allowed to be carried forward and it shall be set-off by the investment fund in 
accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI; and 
(ii)  such loss shall be ignored for the purposes of sub-section (1). 
(3) The income paid or credited by the investment fund shall be deemed to be of the same nature and in 
the same proportion in the hands of the person referred to in sub-section (1), as if it had been received 
by, or had accrued or arisen to, the investment fund during the previous year subject to the provisions of 
sub-section (2). 
(4) The total income of the investment fund shall be charged to tax— 
 (i)  at the rate or rates as specified in the Finance Act of the relevant year, where such fund is a company 
or a firm; or 
(ii)  at maximum marginal rate in any other case. 
(5) The provisions of Chapter XII-D or Chapter XII-E shall not apply to the income paid by an investment 
fund under this Chapter. 
 (6) The income accruing or arising to, or received by, the investment fund, during a previous year, if not 
paid or credited to the person referred to in sub-section (1), shall subject to the provisions of sub-section 
(2), be deemed to have been credited to the account of the said person on the last day of the previous 
year in the same proportion in which such person would have been entitled to receive the income had it 
been paid in the previous year. 
 

 

71 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

D. Taxation of Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) Listed on a 

Stock Exchange 

21.  The SEBI (AIF) Regulations, allow the listing of the units of closed- ended AIFs on a 

stock exchange i.e. all AIFs, except an open ended-Category III AIF, can be listed on a 
stock exchange. The Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange 
have laid down the process and documentation required for the purpose of listing of 
AIFs. 

22. 

Investors in AIFs have the intention of making long-term investments. The listing and 

trading of units of an AIF, enables exits by pre-listing investors and also provides a 

liquidity window to investors which invest post-listing. Given this liquidity advantage of 

listed AIFs, they can be a significant catalyst for greater participation of investors in AIFs 

as an investment instrument. 

23.  While the present AIF Regulations and the guidelines issued by BSE enable listing 

of AIFs subject to conditions, and the advantages of listing are obvious, the current 
taxation policy for AIFs (i.e. pass-through taxation) is not conducive to an AIF listed 
on a stock exchange. 

24. 

In case the units of the AIFs are listed on a stock exchange, on account of trading 
of units, the composition of the pool of investors may change from time to time 
during any financial year. It may very likely be the case that the set of investors at 
the time of investment by the AIF may be different from those at the time of earning of 
the income/ gains by the AIF, which, in turn, may differ from those when the AIF 
distributes such income/gains to the investors. This is illustrated below: 

  Mr. A, a resident in India, subscribed to a unit of a Category II AIF on 20 December 

2016 which was subsequently listed on Bombay Stock Exchange. 

  The AIF has subscribed to a debenture of INR 100 of A Ltd on 30 December 2016 
and received interest of INR 10 from such investment on 7 March 2017. Given 
that  the  AIF  has  to  withhold  tax  at  the  time  of  accrual  of  income  to  the 
unitholder, the AIF withheld tax at 10% on interest on debenture in the hands 

72 

of Mr. A. However, the interest was not actually distributed to Mr. A. 

  Mr. A sold the unit of AIF to Mr. B, on 8 March 2017. On 15 March 2017, the 
interest of INR 10 was distributed to Mr. B as Mr. B held that unit of the AIF. 
Thus, while the tax was withheld in the hands of Mr. A, the income is distributed 
to Mr. B, who could be required to discharge tax on it. 

  Further, if the AIF transfers the investment in debenture of A Ltd on 2 January 
2020 for INR 200, long-term capital gains (as period of holding exceeds 3 years) 
would arise in the hands of AIF, which would be passed on to Mr B. Mr B has held 
the units of the AIF for a period of less than 3 years, and shall ideally qualify the 
gains  as  short-term  capital  gains  taxable  at  30%  (excluding surcharge  and 
education cess). However, given the pass-through mechanism under the Act for 
Category II AIFs, the gains on transfer of units is based on the period of holding 
of the underlying asset i.e. debentures and shall accordingly, qualify as long-term 
capital gains, taxable at 20% (excluding surcharge and education cess). 

  In a scenario where Mr B had acquired the units of the AIF at INR 250, at the time 
of sale of the debenture for INR 200, while economically, Mr B would have a loss 
on the investment, because of pass-through treatment, there would be a capital 
gain taxable in his hand. 

25.  Accordingly, the current tax policy for AIFs in the context of an AIF listed on a stock 

exchange, or in the case of the secondary transfer of units of an AIF, may create 
significant anomalies for AIFs and its investors. In this scenario, a pass-through tax 
system is unable to achieve the intended consequences. 

26.  It is evident from the above illustrations that the listing of AIFs on stock exchanges will 
necessitate a distinct tax framework that is based on taxation at the unit level that will 
ensure that investors in units are taxed on their realised gains and the tax attributes are 
linked to their cost of acquisition and period of holding of the AIF’s units. 

27.  A regulatory and tax framework for listed AIFs can lead to a significant increase in the 
capital inflows from listed AIFs investing in Indian private and public markets and pave 
the way for much greater contribution by listed AIFs to the country’s economic growth 
and development. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

73 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Recommendation: Taxation of Listed AIFs 

Define a new taxation code for listed AIFs as follows: 

i. 

Exemption to the listed AIFs for all streams of income earned by the AIF on its investments in Indian portfolio 
entities. 

ii.  Taxation of income (viz. dividend and interest) on distribution by the listed 

AIF to its investors in the hands of the AIF’s investors 

−  Dividend - Exempt from tax in the hands of the investor; 
− 

Interest – Resident investor at their respective tax rates, Non-resident investors at  5%. 

iii Taxation of gains actually realized by the listed AIF’s investors. The taxation of gains should be determined based 
on the difference between the cost of acquisition of the units and actual sale consideration/ redemption price in a 
sale/ transfer or  redemption event respectively. Taxation of gains determined should be on the following basis: 

iv Equity-oriented fund (an AIF in which at least 65% of the investible funds are 

 invested in equity shares of domestic companies) 

−  Short-term capital gains - at 15% with the sale/ redemption being liable to Securities Transaction Tax (STT) 

−  Long-term capital gains – Exempt from tax in the hands of the investor with the sale/ redemption being liable to STT 

v.  Debt-oriented fund (an AIF that is not an equity oriented AIF) 

−  Short-term capital gains at maximum marginal rate 

−  Long-term capital gains at 20% (in case of residents) and at 10% (in case of non-residents) [in the case of non-resident 

without indexation or foreign exchange fluctuation benefit]. 

 
Proposed Amendments: 
Amendment 1: Income of the listed AIFs to be exempt from tax 
Insert new section 10(23DBA) 
10(23DBA) subject to the provisions of Chapter XII-FB, any income of alternative investment fund  
Explanation – For the purposes of this clause, -  

−   “alternative investment fund” means any fund established or incorporated in India in the form of 
a trust or a company or a limited liability partnership or a body corporate which has been granted 
a certificate of registration as a Category I, Category II or Category III Alternative Investment Fund 
and is regulated under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Fund) 
Regulations, 2012, made under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), 
whose units are listed on a recognized stock exchange ; 

−   

 
 
 

 

 

  

 

74 

 
 
 
 
 

(a)  “recognised stock exchange” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (ii) of Explanation 1 to clause 

(d) of sub-section (5) of section 43.  

 

Amendment 2: Tax on income distributed by listed AIFs 
Insert new section 115UBA 
Tax on distributed income to unit holders. 
 
Section 115UBA 
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions of this Act, income distributed by an  
alternative investment fund referred to in 10(23DBA) being in the nature of interest or dividend to its unit 
holders shall be taxable in the hands of the unit holder as it had been received by, or accrued to, the 
investment fund.  
 
(2) The provisions of Chapter XII-D or Chapter XII-E shall not apply to the income paid by an investment fund 
under this Chapter. 
 
(3) Any person responsible for making payment of the income distributed on behalf of an investment fund to a 
unit holder shall furnish a statement to the unit holder and the prescribed authority, within such time and in 
such form and manner as may be prescribed, giving the details of the nature of the income paid during the 
previous year and such other details as may be prescribed. 
 
Explanation 1.—For the purposes of this Chapter, "unit" means beneficial interest of an investor in the 
investment fund or a scheme of the investment fund and shall include shares or partnership interests. 
 
Amendment 3: Withholding on distribution  
 
Insert new section 194LBDA in the Act 
 
Section 194LBDA  
(1) Where any income referred to in sub-section (1) of section 115UBA is payable by an alternative investment 
fund to its unit holder in respect of units of an investment fund, the person responsible for making the payment 
shall at the time of payment thereof in cash or by the issue of a cheque or draft or by any other mode, deduct 
income-tax thereon - 
(i) at the rates in force, where the payee is a resident; 
(ii) at the rate of five per cent, where the payee is a non-resident (not being a company) or a foreign company. 
 
Provided also that no such deduction shall be made in respect of any dividends referred to in section 115-O. 
 
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— 

(a)  "unit" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (c) of the Explanation 1 to section 115UBA; 
(b)  "alternative investment fund" " shall mean an alternative investment fund as specified in clause (23DBA) 

of section 10. 

 

 
 

 

75 

 

 
 
 
 
Amendment 4: Tax rates in case of non-resident 
 
115A. (1) Where the total income of— 

(a)  a non-resident (not being a company) or of a foreign company, includes any income by way of— 

…. 

(iiad) distributed income being interest referred to in sub-section (1) of section 194LBDA; 

 
Amendment 5: Amendments to section 2(42A), section 10(38), section 111A and 112 of the Act 
Section 2(42A) “short term capital asset” means a capital asset held by an assessee for not more than thirty-six 
months immediately preceding the date of transfer: 
 
Provided that in the case of 23[a security (other than a unit) listed in a recognized stock exchange in India] or a 
unit of the Unit Trust of India established under the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 (52 of 1963) or 24[a unit of an 
equity oriented fund] or a zero coupon bond or units of an equity oriented alternative investment fund listed on 
a recognised stock exchange, the provisions of this clause shall have effect as if for the words "thirty-six months", 
the words "twelve months" had been substituted. 
 
Explanation  5  -  "equity  oriented  alternative  investment  fund"  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  in  the 
Explanation to clause (38) of section 10. 
 
Section 10(38) – any income arising from the transfer of a long-term capital asset, being an equity share in a 
company  or  a  unit  of  an  equity  oriented  fund  [or  a  unit  of  a  business  trust]  or  a  unit  of  an  equity  oriented 
alternative investment fund listed on a recognized stock exchange where- 
 
Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause,— 
(d) "equity oriented investment fund" means an alternative investment fund— 
 (i)  where the investible funds are invested by way of shares in domestic companies to the extent of more than 
sixty-five per cent of the total proceeds of such fund; and 
(ii)  which has been set up under a scheme of an alternative investment fund as specified under clause (23DBA) 
of section 10: 
Provided  that  the  percentage  of  shareholding  of  the  fund  shall  be  computed  with  reference  to  the  annual 
average of the monthly averages of the opening and closing figures. 
 
Section 111A – Where the total income of an assessee includes any income chargeable under the head “Capital 
gains”, arising from the transfer of a short-term capital asset, being an equity share in a company or a unit of an 
equity oriented fund or a unit of a business trust  or a unit of an equity oriented investment fund listed on a 
recognized stock exchange, and- 
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section,— 

(a)  "equity oriented investment fund" shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Explanation to clause (38) 

of section 10. 

 
 
 

 
 

 

76 

 
 
 
 
 
 
112. (1) Where the total income of an assessee includes any income, arising from the transfer of a long-term 
capital asset, which is chargeable under the head "Capital gains", the tax payable by the assessee on the total 
income shall be the aggregate of,— 
 
Provided that where the tax payable in respect of any income arising from the transfer of a long-term capital 
asset, being listed securities (other than a unit) or zero coupon bond or unit of an alternative investment fund 
specified in clause (23DBA) of section 10, exceeds ten per cent of the amount of capital gains before giving 
effect to the provisions of the second proviso to section 48, then, such excess shall be ignored for the purpose 
of computing the tax payable by the assessee : 
 
 
Appropriate amendments should be made in Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 to introduce STT 
rates on transactions executed on the stock exchange. 
 

 
 

77 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E.  Proposed Separate Tax Regime for Category III AIFs: Investor-Level  Taxation 

Background of existing complications in the taxation of Category III AIFs 

28. Unlike Category I and II AIFs, tax pass-through status has not been accorded to Category 
III AIFs. Section 10(23FBA) read with Section 115UB of  the Act provides tax pass-through  for 
any income (other than business income) earned by  Category I and II AIFs. 

29. In accordance with the SEBI (AIF) Regulations 2012, Category III AIFs invest in long term 
or short-term listed instruments and may employ diverse or complex trading strategies by 
investing in listed or unlisted derivatives. Category III AIFs could have the following features: 

 

It may be possible for Category III AIFs to maintain two sets of portfolios viz. a 
trading portfolio for short-term trading gains and an investment portfolio with a 
view to earn long term appreciation; 

  Category III AIFs may be open-ended or closed ended; and 
  Category III AIFs are generally set-up as trusts due to operational complications 

involved in other forms of entities. 

The above characteristics lead to significant complexity under the current provisions of the 
Income Tax Act since there is no specific tax regime or guidance on the taxation of Category 
III AIF and their investors. 

30. Category III AIFs are therefore governed by complex trust taxation provisions under 
the Act which were introduced in the law in the year 1961 for taxation of private and 
family trusts. 

31. Under the trust taxation provisions, the taxation of Category III AIF depends upon 

whether a Category III AIF is set up as either a determinate trust or an indeterminate 
trust. 

1.  If the trust is regarded as an indeterminate trust – the entire income is taxable at 

the maximum marginal rate (~35.535%); and 

2.  If the trust is regarded as a determinate truss and if the income includes business 
income, the whole of the income becomes taxable at the maximum marginal rate. 

32. A trust can be regarded as a determinate trust if: 

(i) 

(ii) 

the beneficiaries (i.e. investors in the context of Category III AIFs) are expressly stated 
and identifiable as on the date of the trust deed; and 
their individual shares are be expressly stated and ascertainable as on the date of the 
trust deed. 

78 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

79 

A strict technical interpretation of the above definition of determinate trust renders 
any AIF, which cannot ascertain and name all its investors (present and future) at the 
time of inception, as an indeterminate trust. 

33. The  Karnataka  High  Court3  in  the  context  of  an  investment  fund,  stated  the  following 

principles for a trust to be determinate: 

 

  All  that  is  necessary  is  that  the  beneficiaries  should  be  identifiable  based  on  the 
provisions of the trust deed, and it was not necessary that the beneficiaries should be 
specifically named in the trust deed. In the present case, the trust deed clearly laid down 
that  beneficiaries  meant  the  persons,  each  of  whom  had  made,  or  agreed  to  make, 
contributions to the trust in accordance with the contribution agreement. 
It is not necessary that the trust deed should actually prescribe the percentage share of 
the beneficiaries in order for the trust to be determinate. It is enough that the share of 
the beneficiaries is capable of being determined based on the provision/ formula as on 
the date of the trust deed. 
If the trust deed authorises the addition of further contributors to the trust at different 
points  in  time  in  addition  to  the  initial  contributors,  it  would  not  make  the 
beneficiaries unknown or their shares indeterminate. 

 

No clarity on taxation of investors of Category III AIFs 

34. A trust is not a separate legal entity. A trustee is assessed to tax on income arising to the 

trust since he receives such income on behalf of the beneficiaries of the trust. 

Double Taxation: There are no express provisions under the Act which provide that once 
the income arising at the trust level is assessed to tax in the hands of the trustee, it cannot 
be assessed again in the hands of the beneficiaries (investors). Further section 166 of the 
Act [which overrides the above regime of trust taxation i.e. sections 161 to 164 discussed 
above]  provides  that  nothing  can  prevent  the  tax  authorities  to  directly  assess  the 
beneficiaries (investors) of the Category III AIF trust for the income arising at the trust 
level or recover the tax arising on such income from them. 

35. Further, there are no provisions in the Act which allows credit of tax paid by the trustee 
to the beneficiaries (investors) in the trust. Hence, there are clouds of doubts in relation 
to taxability of income distributed by the trust to its investors, by way of redemption or 
otherwise,  and there is no assurance under the Act that the income which gets taxed at 
the trust level will not get doubly taxed in the hands of the investors when distributed. 

1. 3 

India Advantage Fund-VII ITA No. 191/2015 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       Rationale for proposed changes to the tax regime of Category III AIFs 

29.  The rationale for the proposed tax regime is to provide clarity in the taxation for Category 
III  AIFs.  It  will  help  promote the  Government’s  objective of  ‘ease  of  doing  business  in 
India’  and  provide  the  required  depth  in  Indian  capital  markets.  Capital  invested  in 
Category III AIFs has increased rapidly in recent years and is expected to grow further in 
the coming years. The capital invested in Category III AIFs is growing at increasing rate 
compared to other categories of AIFs. This is because Category III AIFs serve the following 
vital functions in the capital markets: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

risk management for investors; 

hedging long positions in investments; 

flexible  and  a  wide  range  of  investment  strategies  which  meet  the  diverse 
needs  of  various 
institutions  and  high-net  worth 
individuals; 

investors, 

including 

stewardship  role  by  potentially 
governance in portfolio companies; 

influencing  the  quality  of  corporate 

lend greater sophistication to the capital markets; and 

provide exits to other investment funds such as Category 1 & Category II AIFs. 

30. The lack of clarity in the taxation of Category III AIFs handicaps their growth and 

management as described below: 

. (i) Clarity to foreign asset managers which setup open-ended hedge funds in offshore 
jurisdictions for investing in India under the FPI route are not handicapped by the 
uncertainty of taxation surrounding the domestic SEBI-registered Category III AIFs; 

(ii) There is complete certainty to Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI) with respect to the 

characterization of  income. The regulatory framework for FPIs is similar to the 
regulatory framework for AIFs, with ‘investment in securities’ being the common 
factor. CBDT Circulars have been issued for providing certainty with respect to 
characterisation of income on the transfer of securities (listed and unlisted). There is 
no clarity for short term capital gains arising from the transfer of listed securities unlike 
for FPIs; 

(iii) 

The  uncertainty  of  taxation  is  also  leading  to  the  reduction  of  opportunities  to 
domestic fund managers and professionals and in some cases leads to ‘brain drain’ to 
offshore jurisdictions, besides a narrowing of investment opportunities for domestic 
investors.  Clarity  and  certainty  in  the  taxation  of  Category  III  AIFs  will  provide  a 
competitive edge to domestic fund managers and will improve the prospects of an 
appropriate risk-return profile of these pooled investment   vehicles. 

80 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

81 

Recommendation: Implement an Investor-Level Taxation Regime for Category III AIFs 

31. In an investor-level tax regime, investors of Category III AIFs shall pay tax on income / 

gains arising from investment in units of Category III AIFs. 

32.  The features of the recommended investor-level regime for Category III AIFs are: 

(i) 

Short term capital gains on transfer of units (whether by way of redemption or 

otherwise) of equity-oriented investment fund to be taxed at the rate of 15%; 

(ii) 

Long term  capital  gains  on  transfer  of  units (whether  by way  of  redemption or 

otherwise) of equity-oriented investment fund to be exempt from tax; 

(iii) 

Any other long term or short-term capital gains on transfer of units (whether by 

way of redemption or otherwise) of a Category III AIF, to be taxable at applicable 

rates; 

(iv) 

Any income distributed by a Category III AIF out of income received by it (other 

than income of the nature which is exempt under section 10) shall be taxable in 

the hands of investors as Income from Other Sources at applicable rates (~30%); 

(v) 

All of the above tax on investors would be paid by way of Tax Deducted at Source 

(‘TDS’) at the fund level; 

(vi) 

Category III AIFs shall not be subject to any tax on income / gains arising from their 

investments in underlying securities; and 

(vii) 

Any transfer of units pursuant to the consolidation of schemes of Category III AIFs 

should not be regarded as a transfer. 

‘Equity oriented investment fund’ means an investment fund, which has been granted a 
certificate of registration as a Category III Alternative Investment Fund and is regulated 
under the SEBI (AIF) Regulations 2012 made under the SEBI Act, 1992, whose investible 
funds are invested in equity shares of domestic companies to the extent of more than 
sixty-five per cent of the total proceeds of such fund. 

Provided that the percentage of equity shareholding of the fund shall be computed with 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

reference to the annual average of the monthly averages of the opening and closing 

figures. 

33. The draft of the proposed amendments to be made under the IT Act for Category III AIFs 

are presented in the following boxes for consideration. 

Investor-based taxation for Category III AIFs 
Suggested amendments in the Act to give effect to the recommendation 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proposed Amendments: 

Section 2(14) 

Capital Asset means – 

(a) property of any kind held by an assessee, whether or not connected with his business or profession; 

(b)  any securities held by a Foreign Institutional Investor which has invested in such securities in 
accordance with the regulations made under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,  1992; 

(c) any units issued by an investment fund 

Explanation 2: For the purposes of this  clause- 

(a) the expression “Foreign Institutional Investor” shall have the meaning assigned  to  it in clause  (a) of 
the Explanation to section 115AD; 

(b)  the expression “securities” shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (h) of section 2 of the 
Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956); 

(c) the expression “investment fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Explanation to clause 
(23DB) of section 10 

Section 2(42A) 

“short term capital asset” means a capital asset held by an assessee for not more than thirty-six months 
immediately preceding the date of its transfer: 

Provided that in the case of a security (other than a unit) listed in a recognised stock exchange in India or    a 
unit of the Unit Trust of India established under the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 (52 of 1963) or a unit     of 
an equity oriented fund or a unit of an equity oriented investment fund or a zero coupon bond, the provisions 
of this clause shall have effect as if for the words “thirty-six months”, the words  “twelve months” had been 
substituted: 

Explanation 5. – For the purposes of this clause, the expression “equity oriented investment fund” shall 

82 

have the meaning assigned to it in the Explanation below clause (38B) of section 10 

Section 56 

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (1), the following 
incomes, shall be chargeable to income-tax under the head "Income from Other Sources", namely: - 

(ie) any income distributed by an investment fund 

Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, the term “investment fund” shall have the meaning assigned 
to it in clause (23DB) of section 10 

Section 111B 

(1) Where  the  total  income  of  an  assessee  includes  income  chargeable  under  the  head  "Capital  Gains", 
arising from the transfer of a short-term capital asset, being a unit of an equity oriented investment     fund, 
the tax payable by the assessee on the total income shall be the aggregate of - 

(i) the amount of income-tax calculated on such short-term capital gains at the rate of fifteen per cent; and 

(ii)  the amount of income-tax payable on the balance amount of the total income as if such balance amount 
were the total income of the assessee 

Provided that in the case of an individual or a Hindu undivided family, being a resident, where the total 
income as reduced by such short term capital gains is below the maximum amount which is not  chargeable 
to income-tax, then, such short term capital gains shall be reduced by the amount by which  the total income 
so reduced falls short of the maximum amount which is not chargeable to income-tax  and the tax on the 
balance of such short-term capital gains shall be computed at the rate of fifteen per cent. 

(2) Where the gross total income of an assessee includes any short-term capital gains referred to in sub- 
section (1), the deduction under Chapter VI-A shall be allowed from the gross total income as reduced by 
such capital gains. 

Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the expression "equity oriented investment fund" shall   have 
the meaning assigned to it in the Explanation below clause (38B) of section 10. 

Insertion of new section 194LBD 

(1) Where  any  income  is  payable  to  a  unitholder  in  respect  of  units  of  the  investment  fund,  the  person 
responsible for making the payment or distribution shall, at the time of payment or distribution thereof    in 
cash or by issue of cheque or draft or by any other mode, deduct income-tax thereon at the following rates: 

a. 

b. 

on  the  income  of  the  nature  referred  to  in  section  111B  at  the  rate  of  fifteen  per  cent; 

on  the  income  distributed  by  an  investment  fund  other  than  income  distributed  by  equity 
oriented investment fund referred to in clause (38B) of section 10, at the rate of thirty per cent; 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

83 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

c. 
 

d. 

on the income arising on redemption of a long-term capital asset being a unit of an 
investment fund other than equity oriented investment fund, at the rate of twenty percent; 
and 

 

on the income arising on redemption of a short-term capital asset being a unit of an 
investment fund other than equity oriented investment fund, at the rate of thirty per cent. 

Provided that where the payee is a non-resident (not being a company) or a foreign company, deduction 
of tax shall be made in respect of any income at the rates in force 
 
Explanation – For the purposes of this section - 

(i) 

(ii) 

the expression “equity oriented investment fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in 
the Explanation below clause (38B) of section 10 

the expression “investment fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in the  Explanation 
to clause (23DB) of section 10 

Section 196 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Chapter, no deduction of tax shall 
be made by any person from any sums payable to – 
 
(i) the Government, or 
 
(ii) the Reserve Bank of India or 
 
(iii)  a corporation established by or  under a Central Act which is, under any law for the time being in  
force, exempt from income-tax on its income or 
 
(iv) a Mutual Fund specified under clause (23D) of section 10, or 
 
(v) an Investment Fund specified under clause (23DB) of section 10, 
 
where such sum is payable to it by way of interest or dividend in respect of any securities or shares    
owned by it or in which it has full beneficial interest, or any other income accruing or arising to  it 
 
Section 10(23DB) 
 
Any income of an investment fund. 
 
Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, ‘investment fund’ shall mean a fund which has been granted  a 
certificate of registration as a category III Alternative Investment Fund and is regulated under the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations 2012, made under the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) 
 
Section 10(38A) 
 
Any income arising from the transfer, either by way of redemption or otherwise, of a long term capital 
asset being a unit of an equity oriented investment fund 

84 

 

 

 

 

 

Section 10(38B) 

Any income distributed by an equity oriented investment fund to its unitholder, out of the income arising   to 
the investment fund which is of the nature specified in clause (34) or clause (34A) or clause (35) or  clause 
(38) of section 10 

Explanation - For the purposes of clause (38A) and clause (38B) of section 10, the expression "equity oriented 
investment fund" means an Investment Fund referred to it in the Explanation to clause (23DB)      of section 
10 and whose investible funds are invested by way of equity shares of domestic companies to  the extent of 
more than sixty five per cent of the total proceeds of such fund: 

Provided that the percentage of equity shareholding of the fund shall be computed with reference to the 
annual average of the monthly averages of the opening and closing figures 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

85 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Chapter VI 

Alternative Investment Funds 

Part A: SEBI Registered Social Venture Funds 

Part B: Category III Funds- of-Funds 

86 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

Chapter VI 

Part A: India: SEBI-registered Social Venture Funds- 
Category I Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) Pooling 
Vehicles 

 

ACKGROUND 

1.  The Union Finance Minister in his union budget speech this year had emphasized the 
need for enhancing expenditure in priority areas of farm, rural sector, social sector, 
employment  generation  and  focus  on  vulnerable  sections  of  the  society.  The 
Government of India has put investment in these sectors as one of the core elements 
of  its  socio-economic  progress.  In  recent  past,  the  government  has  created  major 
financial  institutions  with  a  focus  on  investments  to  provide  financial  support  to 
improve  the  viability  of  government  projects  with  special  focus  on  energy,  water, 
sanitation, communication, and social and commercial infrastructure. While majority 
of  earlier  investment  projects  focussed  on  debt  financing  for  such  initiatives,  the 
requirements  are  equally  critical  for  equity  financing.  Further,  the  role  of  the 
government in being able to influence policies play a major role in re-energizing the 
social sector investments. 

B. CONSTRUCTIVELY ENGAGING INDUSTRY-LED PRIVATE INVESTMENT 

2.  With  insufficient  public  sector  and  philanthropic  resources  available  to  address 
chronic  social  challenges,  private  sector  capital  is  emerging  as  a  powerful  tool  to 
create economic opportunities for underserved communities. Further, targeting CSR 
pool in a focused and more sustainable manner can help tackle our existing financing 
gap  for  SME  enterprises  and  organizations  focused  on  social  innovations  and 
outcomes.  We  need  to  harness  CSR  led  innovation  and  entrepreneurial  spirit  and 
create a vibrant ecosystem to engage with them to spur impact investments in India. 

81 

C. LATENT DEMAND AND DESIRE 

3.  The idea is to allow CSR funds to be invested in SEBI-regulated alternative investment 
vehicles,  which  would  be  dedicated  to  sectoral  allocation  and  would  provide 
investments into social start-ups, social enterprises and MSMEs. The objective is to 
maximize socio-economic impact mainly through investment in projects through debt 
and  equity  that  have  the  potential  to  achieve  certain  social  outcomes,  including 
government’s social welfare programs and missions. It can catalyze impact investing 
in  social  startups,  MSMEs  and  create  employment  and  livelihood  for  thousands  of 
people over the years. The objective  is to provide  impact  investing which supports 
socially or economically beneficial organizations in disadvantaged communities that 
generally cannot attract efficient financing through traditional market mechanisms. 
The  mission  is  to  invigorate  local  communities  and  provide  them  with  avenues  to 
economic self-sufficiency, while producing positive social impact. 

4.  Thus, instead of spending directly or opting to pour funds into government programs, 
funds  could  be  allowed to  be  invested  in  social  impact  funds  or other  instruments 
managed  by  a  group  of  experts.  Impact  investing  is  a  targeted  intention  to  create 
positive  social  impact  in  conjunction  with  social  dividends  and  muted  financial-
returns. 

5.  Impact  investing  is  always done  through  externalizing  the  responsibility  to  another 
legal entity, an investment fund. The argument here is that funds can be sustainable 
and continuously reinvested. Funds can either be managed by individual companies 
or  pooled  together  into  one  fund.  The  latter  argument  of  pooled  funds  allows  for 
economies of scale, including appropriate collation of expertise and research under 
one roof. CSR funds can be used for equity, grants, or loans in local communities via 
patient capital impact investing. Funds can also be used to create or invest in local 
community development financial institutions. The options are plenty and allow for 
growth  of  social  enterprises  and/or  programs  already  working  in  the  development 
sector without recreating the wheel. 

6.  The advantages of channelling CSR funds through Category I AIF pooled  vehicles  are: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

82 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

(vii) 

(viii) 

The fund manager acts as a fiduciary on behalf of its investors playing an 
important fiduciary and stewardship role; 
The  fund  manager  is  mandated  to  apply  professional  investing  and 
monitoring skills; 
Investors in  AIFs are typically high-calibre  entities  with business acumen 
such as HNIs, family offices, family foundations and pension funds; 
The fund manager provides frequent reports on portfolio companies to its 
investment committee; 
The fund manager typically invests in and builds a portfolio of sustainable 
social projects, or social enterprises, consistent with the aims of CSR funds 
as enunciated in the Companies Act 2013; 
AIFs are registered and regulated by a Government regulatory authority 
i.e. SEBI under its AIF Regulations, 2012; 
AIF pooling vehicles are well-accepted as a sound and valid instrument by 
investors in many countries as channels for investing impact funds in order 
to achieve social good; and 
Finally,  the  pooling  of  funds  in  AIFs  enables  the  leveraging  of  funds 
invested by any single investor. 

S. 
No. 

 

1. 

Suggested Changes 

Rationale 

Restriction on Investment by Companies using CSR Funds 

The Ministry of Corporate Affairs may consider issuing 
a circular/notification modifying section 135 and 
Schedule VII of the Companies Act to effectuate the 
following: 

 

 

Section 135. Corporate Social Responsibility: 
(1)  Every  company  having  net  worth  of  rupees  five 
hundred  crore  or  more,  or  turnover  of  rupees  one 
thousand crore or more or a net profit of rupees five 
crore or more during any financial year shall constitute 
a  Corporate  Social  Responsibility  Committee  of  the 
Board  consisting  of  three  or  more  directors,  out  of 
which  at  least  one  director  shall  be  an  independent 
director. 

(2) The Board's report under sub-section (3) of section 
134  shall  disclose  the  composition  of  the  Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee. 

The Alternative Investment 
Funds (Regulation), 2012 
(“AIF Regulation”) can play 
an enabling role for the 
spread of CSR activities in 
India. The AIF Regulation may 
have a far-reaching effect as 
it can harmonize a 
considerable pool of CSR 
fund created pursuant to the 
CSR provision and facilitate 
investment of such CSR funds 
towards social ventures at a 
sustainable cost. 

 

Allowing companies to invest 
their CSR funds in social 
ventures will also enable 
scalability and social impact. 

83 

 

(3)  The  Corporate  Social  Responsibility  Committee 
shall, — 
(a)  formulate  and  recommend  to  the  Board,  a 
Corporate  Social  Responsibility  Policy  which  shall 
indicate  the  activities  to  be  undertaken  by  the 
company as specified in Schedule VII; 
(b)  recommend  the  amount  of  expenditure  or 
investment to be incurred on the activities referred to 
in  clause  (a);  and  (c)  monitor  the  Corporate  Social 
Responsibility Policy of the company from time to time. 
(4)  The  Board  of  every  company  referred  to  in  sub- 
section (1) shall, — 

approve 

the 

(a)  after  taking  into  account  the  recommendations 
made  by 
the  Corporate  Social  Responsibility 
Committee, 
Social 
Responsibility  Policy  for  the  company  and  disclose 
contents of such Policy in its report and also place it on 
the company's website, if any, in such manner as may 
be prescribed; and 

Corporate 

(b)  ensure  that  the  activities  as  are  included  in 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the company 
are undertaken by the company. 

(5)  The  Board  of  every  company  referred  to  in  sub- 
section  (1),  shall ensure  that  the company  spends or 
invests, in every financial year, at least two per cent. of 
the  average  net  profits  of the  company made  during 
the  three  immediately  preceding  financial  years,  in 
pursuance of its Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. 

Provided that the company shall give preference to the 
local  area  and  areas  around  it  where  it  operates,  for 
spending/investing 
for 
Corporate Social Responsibility activities: 

the  amount  earmarked 

Provided  further  that  if  the  company  fails  to  spend 
such amount, the Board shall, in its report made under 
clause (o) of sub-section (3) of section 134, specify the 
reasons for not spending/investing the amount. 

“Further, in exercise of the powers conferred under 
sub-section (1) of section 467 of the Companies Act, 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

84 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

the Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendments to Schedule VII of the said Act, namely:- 

 

 

 

In Schedule VII, after items (i) to (x) and the entries 
relating thereto, the following items and entries shall 
be inserted, namely: - 

“ (xi) social business projects” 
“ (xii) social enterprise” 
“(xiii) social venture or social venture fund as defined 
under SEBI (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulation, 
2012” 

2.  Broadening the Scope of Eligible Investments by Public Trusts 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Amendment required in Section 11(5) of the Income- 
tax Act, 1961 (“ITA”) 

Section 11(5): the forms and modes of investing or 
depositing the money referred 

Additional clauses allowing wider permissible modes 
of investment by public trusts under Section 11(5) of 
ITA. The ITA should amend section 11(5) to effectuate 
the following: 

“(iva) investment in any security of a social business 
or a social enterprise” 
“(ivaa) investment in the security of a not-for-profit 
company 

Explanation- In this clause, a not-for-profit company 
means a company set up under Section 8 of the 
Companies Act” 

“(ivaaa) investment in social venture fund 

Explanation- In this clause, a “social venture fund” 
means an Alternative Investment Fund [set up under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012]] 
which invests primarily in securities or units of social 

Under the ITA in order to be 
eligible for tax benefits, the 
funds of the trust have to be 
invested in specified 
instruments. Thus, a large 
majority of charitable trusts 
can only invest in eligible and 
safe instruments like RBI 
bonds and cannot invest in 
securities like stocks. In 
certain cases, these trusts 
own stakes in various 
companies as part of a 
bequest or legacy and enjoy 
tax exemptions. While such 
trusts continue to hold 
shares in the company, they 
are not allowed to put in 
fresh money into subscribing 
additional shares of the 
company. As far as shares in 
companies are concerned, 
these are not part of the 
eligible investments by a 
charitable trust. In case the 
holdings of the trust are not 
as per ITA, then the trust 

85 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

86 

 

ventures and which satisfies social performance 
norms laid down by the fund and whose investors 
may agree to receive restricted or muted returns.” 

becomes ineligible for tax 
benefits. In a situation when 
shares are given to a trust, it 
has a period of up to a year 
to dispose of them and 
remain eligible for availing of 
tax benefits. Further, a newly 
set up trust can only make 
grants to a social enterprise 
but is not allowed to hold 
equity in such social 
enterprises. In order to spur 
financial innovation in social 
sector, public trusts should 
be allowed to invest in 
recognized social enterprises 
and profits on such 
investments may be subject 
to tax. 

3. 

 

 

 

 

Include “Social Enterprises” as a separate category in the AIF 
Regulation 

Section 2(u) of the AIF Regulations may be amended 
as follows: 

A “social venture” is defined as a “non-profit venture” 
or a “social enterprise”. 

“Non-profit venture” means a trust, society or 
company formed with the purpose of promoting 

The AIF Regulations currently 
highlight only such Social 
Ventures which are 
charitable in nature, with the 
exception of micro-finance 
institutions. However, there 
is a wide range of businesses 
engaged in agriculture, 

 

social welfare or solving social problems or providing 
social benefits and includes, 
(i) public charitable trusts registered with Charity 
Commissioner; 
(ii) societies registered for charitable purposes; 
(iii) company registered under Section 8 of the 
Companies Ac. 

 

 

“Social Enterprise” means a trust, society or company 
or limited liability partnership which satisfies all of the 
conditions below: 

i) 

ii) 

iii) 

It has the achievement of positive social 
impact as a primary objective under its 
memorandum and articles of association 
It  carries  on  a  business  in  the  areas  of 
agriculture,  affordable  healthcare,  affordable 
education,  affordable  housing, 
financial 
inclusion,  last  mile  delivery  of  goods  and 
services  to  under  privileged  beneficiaries, 
renewable  energy,  water  and  sanitation, 
livelihoods,  or  any  other  area  as  may  be 
notified by the Government for priority sector 
lending, but does not carry on business in the 
areas  of  Real  estate  other  than  affordable 
housing, 
Infrastructure,  Tobacco,  Alcohol, 
Weapons or Wildlife. 
It  focuses  primarily  on  promoting  the  social 
welfare  of,  or  providing  social  benefits  to, 
Specified  Beneficiaries,  who  may  act  as 
producers,  consumers,  suppliers  or  employees 
in  relation  to  the  Social  Enterprise.  For  the 
purpose 
Specified 
Beneficiaries  shall  be  persons  with  annual 
household  incomes  of  less  than  a  threshold 
prescribed  annually  by 
investment 
committee  of  the  SEBI-registered  Category!  
social venture funds making the investment or 
be individuals with physical disabilities. 

provision, 

this 

the 

of 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

healthcare, low cost housing 
etc. which are for-profit 
entities with a primarily 
social motive. 

Recognizing such social 
enterprises as “social 
ventures” for the purpose of 
the AIF Regulations would 
enable investors to 
contribute capital to these 
socially beneficial activities. 

The  proposed  definition 
specifies conditions as to 
sectors,  beneficiaries  and 
social impact objective, to 
ensure that social businesses 
are the primary recipients of 
such funding. 

or 

explicitly 

Moreover, 
highlighting for-profit social 
ventures 
social 
enterprises will attract more 
capital, which allows India to 
bridge 
sector 
investment gaps. 

social 

the 

87 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

88 

Chapter VI Part B: India: SEBI CATEGORY III AIFs: FUNDs-of-
FUNDS 

A. Background 

I.  Restriction on fund-of-funds structure for category III AIFs 

  As per the SEBI (AIF) Regulations, Category I AIFs are permitted to invest in the units 
of other category I AIFs of the same Sub-Category, and Category II AIFs are permitted 
to invest in units of other Category I AIFs (of any sub-category) and other Category II 
AIFs. However, as per Regulations 18(b) of the SEBI (AIF) Regulations, Category III AIFs 
are permitted to invest only in units of other Category I AIFs or category II AIFs. There 
is no provision permitting Category III AIFs to invest in units of other Category III AIFs. 

II.  Lack of diversification in case of a fund-of-funds structure for category III AIFs 

  Category  III  AIFs  are  typically  funds  which  employ  complex  strategies  and  raise 
investments from sophisticated investors, such as financial institutions and high net 
worth  individuals.  Such  investors  are  required  to  make  a  minimum  capital 
commitment  of  INR  1  crore,  which  may  be  a  substantial  amount  for  many  such 
investors.  For  some  investors,  investment  in  AIFs  may  be  a  novelty.  In  order  to 
increase investor participation, a category III AIF may be organized as a fund-of-funds 
structure  which  provides  investors  with  an  opportunity  to  invest  in  different 
strategies. 

  Under the current regime, a Category III AIF gets the advantages of a fund-of-funds 
structure, only with respect to investment in units of Category I AIF or Category II AIFs. 
This limits the investment strategy of the Category III AIF to be diversified into a PE/VC 
structure only. If a category III AIF is permitted to invest in units of other Category III 
AIFs,  the  investors  will  be  able  to  take  advantage  of  diversified  complex  fund 
strategies as well. 

  For example, when a Category III AIF employs a strategy to invest in derivatives or 
complex or structured products, it will provide investors with diversified exposure if it 
is  permitted  to  invest  in  units  of  other  Category  III  AIFs  which  employ  the  same 
strategy. 

III. Concerns  with  over-leveraging  in  case  of  Category  III  AIFs  investing  in  units  of  other 

category III AIFs 

  There could be certain concerns with respect to over leveraging in case of a fund of 
funds structure where a Category III AIF invests in units of other Category III AIFs. This 
could more easily be addressed by limiting employment of leverage to only one 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

level  of  such  fund  of  funds  structure.  Accordingly,  the  AIF  Regulations  may  be 
amended to clarify that where a Category III AIF invests in the units of other Category 
III AIFs, leverage can only be undertaken by one of the funds so as to ensure that both 
the Category III AIFs do not assume leverage. 

  Alternatively, for the  purpose of determining the leverage  for regulation purposes, 

the same shall be computed on a consolidated basis. 

Rationale for providing the recommendations 

Advantages of a fund-of-funds structure for AIFs 

 

 

Investing in a fund-of-funds structure allows investors to access diversified portfolios 
with different underlying assets, which may be difficult to access through individual 
investment in AIFs. Investing in a fund of funds provides risk diversified exposure to 
investors, compared to investing directly in securities or units of a single fund. 

In a fund-of-funds structure, investors benefit from diverse managerial experience. A 
manager  of  a  fund  of  funds,  will  identify  other  managers  of  an  AIF  who  have  vast 
experience and a good track record in managing pools of money. The due diligence of 
the  manager  of  a  fund  of  funds,  provides  the  investors  with  expert  investment 
managerial services, thereby mitigating certain investment risks. 

Proposed Recommendations 

In order to allow investors to realise the benefits of a fund-of-funds structure for a Category 
III AIF investing in units of other category III AIFs, it is recommended that Regulation 18(b) of 
AIF Regulations should be amended to include investment into units of other Category III AIFs. 

Suggested amendment in the AIF Regulations to give effect to the above recommendation 

Regulation 18(b): 

 

 

 

Fund of Category III Alternative Investment Funds may invest in units of Category I or Category II Alternative 
Investment Funds or Category III Alternative Investment Funds: 

Provided that they invest solely in such units and shall not invest in units of other Fund-of-Funds.: 

Provided further that a Category III Alternative Investment Fund which itself  employs leverage, may invest in 
units of only such other Category III AIFs which do not employ any leverage. 

89 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Chapter VII 

An Alternative View of Taxation & 
Promoting Onshore Fund Management 

in India 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

VII 

An Alternative View of Taxation & Promoting 

Onshore Fund Management in India 

A.  Introduction 

1.  This chapter recommends a Securities Transaction Tax regime for various categories of 
Alternative Investments. It describes the difficulties arising from the current tax regime 
and which confront all the key players in the AIF ecosystem, namely investors in funds, 
the Alternative Investment Funds and the revenue authorities. The chapter also provides 
cogent reasons for the need for a suitable STT regime for hedge funds- which fall under 
Category III Alternative Investment Funds of SEBI AIF regulations. The chapter includes 
the  justification  and  rationale  for  the  proposed  recommendations  and  includes  draft 
amendments for consideration by the relevant Government authorities. In essence, the 
chapter recommends a complete revamp in the manner in which AIFs and their investors 
are taxed in India. 

B.  Recommendation I: Introduction of Securities Transaction Tax (“STT”) for 

Category I and Category II AIF 

2.  It  is  imperative  that  the  existing  uncertainties  on  the  tax  treatment  of  Alternative 
Investment  Funds  are  removed  and  a  stable  and  tax  regime  be  prescribed.  While  the 
revenue authorities could try and remove the uncertainties by issuing clarifications and 
continue with the existing tax regime that may not completely eliminate the uncertainties 
and administrative difficulties. The tax treatment needs to be completely revamped. 

3.  A simplified regime of taxation of investors in mutual funds has significantly helped in the 
growth of mutual funds with minimal issues and litigation. AIFs, like mutual funds, pool 
capital raised from investors which is invested in accordance with some stated investment 
criteria.  Given  the  similarities  in  the  structure  of  mutual  funds  and  AIFs,  a  similar  tax 
regime i.e. Securities Transaction Tax (STT) should apply to transactions in units of AIFs. 

4.  The simplified regime for private equity and venture capital funds, as is the case of Foreign 
Portfolio  Investors  (FPIs)  who  invest  in  listed  securities  and  are  subject  to  Securities 
Transaction  Tax,  would  provide  great  impetus  to  the  growth  of  the  alternatives  fund 
management industry i.e. AIFs. Experience has shown that some of the key advantages of 
the  Securities  Transaction  Tax  regime  are  ease  of  compliance  and  reduction  in  tax 
litigation. 

92 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

93 

5.  Toharmonize  the  taxation  of  mutual  funds  and  Investment  Funds  and  to  simplify  tax 
compliance of both the investors as well as the Investment Funds, it is proposed to bring 
Investment Funds (i.e. Alternative Investment Funds) under the ambit of STT. 

6.  It  is  recommended  that,  in  lieu  of  the  current  tax  regime,  investors  in  Alternative 
Investment Funds should be made liable to pay STT which would be collected at three 
transaction stages i.e. firstly, at the time of entry, at which point the investor purchases 
units, secondly, when income is distributed during the unit holding period, and, finally, 
when  the  investor  exits  by  the  transfer  of  units.  Thus,  it  is  recommended  that  the 
Government  should  institute  a  regime  under  which,  STT  would  apply  at  the  following 
points in the AIF transaction cycle: 

•  Point A: Investor invests in the Fund. 
•  Point B: Fund distributes income / redeems units to investors. 
•  Point C: Investor transfers units of the Fund. 

7.  In  short,  it  is  recommended  that  investors  in  Alternative  Investment  Funds  should  be 
made liable to pay STT at various points in the transaction cycle, as mentioned above, and 
consequently  income  arising  to  investors,  whether  on  distributions  /  redemption  / 
transfer of units should be exempted from tax in their hands. 

C. Rationale and Justification 
8.  While AIFs have provided much needed long term and stable private capital, the tax and 
regulatory environment in which they operate has become more and more complex and 
litigation  prone.  On  the  contrary,  the  tax  treatment  of  Foreign  Portfolio  investors, 
investing  in  listed  securities,  has  tended  towards  greater  certainty.  For  instance,  two 
Government  clarifications  have  provided  much  needed  certainty  to  Foreign  Portfolio 
Investors (previously known as Foreign Institutional Investors i.e. FIIs). These are: (i) the 
income  earned  by  FIIs  to  be  treated  as  capital  gains;  and  (ii)  clarification  on  the 
applicability  of  MAT  to  FIIs.  These  clarifications  have  gone  a  long  way  in  providing 
certainty to Foreign Portfolio investors. In contrast the tax treatment of income earned 
by SEBI registered VCFs and AIFs has seen a chequered history and has been anything 
other than certain. 

9.  In  addition  to  the  complexities  surrounding  the  withholding  and  tax  treatment  of 
domestic investors, foreign investors have also been having to deal with stringent scrutiny 
of relief / benefits under Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements. These difficulties have 
discouraged Fund Managers from setting up Indian pooled and domiciled funds. Instead 
capital  is  pooled  and  domiciled  outside  India,  and  invested  in  India  under  the  Foreign 
Direct Investment (FDI) route. Investments under the FDI route are not subject to any of 
the restrictions and difficulties mentioned in the next section. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

10. The introduction of a Securities Transaction Tax (“STT”) can help alleviate the concerns. 
The implementation of a STT-based tax regime for AIFs gains paramount importance after 
the  negotiation  of  the  DTAA  with  jurisdictions  such  as  Mauritius  and  Singapore.If 
implemented, an STT regime for private equity and venture capital funds, including AIFs, 
could yield STT tax revenues of $1.8 billion during the next 15 years (see Appendix 1) 

11. The specific difficulties arising from the current fax regime for venture capital and private 

equity funds, their investors and the revenue authorities are given below. 

a)  Difficulties Faced by Alternative Investment Funds 

12. Lack of parity on withholding tax provisions for residentsand non-residents: Resident 
investors suffer a 10 percent withholding tax on gross distributions made by AIFs which 
includes distribution of income in the nature of gains from the sale of listed company’s 
shares held for more than one year (which is exempt from tax), dividend income (which 
is exempt from tax) etc. However, withholding from distributions made to non-resident 
investors shall be made at the rates in force (including rates applicable on account of a 
tax treaty). Hence, there is a lack of parity in the treatment given to residents and non- 
resident investors thereby discouraging domestic investments. 

13. Blockage of resident investors funds due to withholding requirement of 10 percent even 
in respect of exempt income: Resident investors suffer TDS on all income distributed by 
the Fund thereby resulting in tax on exempt income as well. Resident investors are left 
with no option but to claim the TDS as a refund by filing a return of income. Refund claims 
of the investors are blocked until the refund is paid thereby lowering the return on capital 
on investments from the Fund. 

14. Administrative  inconvenience  for  the  Funds:  In  order  to  realize  refund  claims  and 
complete  assessment  proceedings  Fund  would  need  to  continue  to  exist  for 
notwithstanding the fact that most funds are established with a limited life. 

15. Compliance burden on the Funds: The tax related compliance requirements of Funds has 
not been reduced over the years. The Fund is still required to file a return of income and 
in addition is required to submit Forms 64A and 64B detailing the income distributed by 
the  Fund.  This  is  in  addition  to  the  requirement  of  submitting  TDS  returns  on  income 
distributed to the Fund which is otherwise not required to be done by other assesses. 

94 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

95 

b)  Difficulties Faced by Investors 

16. Claim of refund and return filing requirement: Most non-resident investors would have 
no other business activity other than participating in a VC / PE fund. Despite this, they will 
be required to file in India return of income irrespective of whether they have taxable 
income or not. This could act as a deterrent to large institutional investors. 

17. Stress on working capital of investors: Blocked tax deducted at source claims on exempt 

income creates unnecessary stress on working capital. 

18. High withholding tax rate: The 10 per cent withholding tax rate is high considering that 
the actual tax payable by the investors could be less. A high withholding tax rate would 
reduce the effective Internal Rate of Return to the investors as the excess tax deducted 
would have to be claimed as a refund, the grant of which is delayed. 

c)  Difficulties Faced by Revenue Authorities 
19. Burden on Revenue Authorities: Increased scrutiny of returns filed by the PE/VC Funds 
and in the investors towards income and TDS adds to the administrative burden of the 
revenue authorities of scrutinizing returns containing exempt income; 

20. Administering tax credits and ensuring that the Form 26AS credits match with the credits 
claimed by the investors adds to the existing reconciliation of mismatches between TDS 
claims and Form 26AS; 

21. Revenue leakage on account of interest on refunds which was never to be charged; 

22. Litigation: Increase in litigation leading to poor tax collection and inefficient utilization of 

tax authorities in dealing into such litigation. 

Proposed Amendments 

Amendment – 1: Distributions by AIFs to be treated as a taxable 
transaction in securities liable to STT 

Amendments required in the Finance Act 2004 (Chapter VII): 

Amending the Chapter VII of Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 to include distribution from 
Investment Funds as a taxable transaction in securities: 

Definitions 

A) In section 97 of the Finance (No.2) Act, 2004, - 

Insert the following definition as sub-section (1): 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

―Investment Fund‖  shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (a) of the 
explanation to section 
115UB of the Income-tax Act, 1961‖  

B)  In section 97 re-insert the current sub-section (1) defining Appellate Tribunal as sub-section 

(1A) 

C)  In section 97 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004, – 

in sub-section 13, after sub-clause (b), the following sub-clauses shall be inserted: 
―(c) purchase of a unit in an Investment Fund 
(d) any distribution made on sale or redemption of a unit in an Investment Fund‖  
(d) any distribution made otherwise by an Investment fund‖  

Charge of Securities Transaction Tax 

D)  In section 98 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004, in the Table, after serial number 7 and the 

corresponding entries thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely: –– 

 

 

 

 

 

Sl. No. 
(1 

 

Taxable Securities Transaction 

( 

“8 

(a) Purchase of a unit of an Investment Fund 

(b) Distribution of income representing long term 
capital gains, made to a unit holder by an 
Investment Fund on redemption or otherwise 
(c) Distribution of income other than long term 
capital gains, made by an Investment Fund on 
redemption or otherwise 
(d) Sale of a unit of an Investment Fund being a 
long-term capital asset, to any person other than 
the Investment Fund in which such units are held 
(e) Sale of a unit of an Investment Fund being a 
short-term capital asset, to any person other than 
the Investment Fund in which such units are held 

Rate4 
(3 

Payable by 

(4 

 

 

0.25% 

0.25% 

1% 

0.25% 

the 
purchase 
the 
unit 
holder 
the 
unit 
holder 
the seller 

1% 

the seller 

Value of taxable securities transaction 

E)  In section 99 of the Finance (No.2) Act, 2004, after sub-clause (b) insert the following clauses 

(ba)- 

―(ba) in the case of purchase of units of an Investment Fund, the price at which such 
units are purchased; 

(bb) in the case of  distribution on account of redemption of units of an Investment 
Fund,  such  amounts  as  are  distributed  to  the  unit  holder  including  the  principal 
amount redeemed; 
(bc) in the case of distribution by an Investment fund other than the distribution 

4
Or such other rate as may be appropriate 

96 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

97 

referred in clause (bb) above, the amounts so distributed to the unit holder; 

(bd) in the case of sale of units of an Investment Fund by the unit holder to any person 
other than the Investment Fund in which such units are held, the price at which such 
units are sold‖  

Collection and Recovery of Securities Transaction Tax, 

F)  In section 100 insert the following sub-section (2B) after sub-section (2A) 

―The  prescribed  person  in  the  case  of  every  Investment  Fund  shall  collect  the 
securities  transaction  tax  from  every  person  who  purchases or sells  or redeems  the 
unit of an Investment Fund‖  

Recognised stock exchange or Investment Fund or Mutual Fund to 
furnish prescribed return 

G)  In sub-section (1) of section 101 - insert the following words after the words ―every recognised 

stock exchange‖  – 

―Prescribed person in the case of every Investment Fund‖  

Amendment – 2: Amendments required in the Income Tax Act, 1961 

i) 

Exempting the income from Investment Fund (AIF) under section 10: 

A) In Section 10 of the Income-tax Act, after clause (38), the following clause shall be 
inserted, namely: - 

―(38A) any distribution received by an assessee, being a unitholder of an Investment 
fund  referred  to  in  Explanation  to  section  10(23FBA),  either  on  redemption  or 
otherwise and where such distribution is chargeable to securities transaction tax under 
Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004. 

(38B) any income received by an assessee, being a unitholder of an Investment fund 
referred  to  in  Explanation  to  section  10(23FBA),  on  sale  of  units  in  an  Investment 
Fund to any person other than the Investment Fund in which such units are held and 
where such sale is chargeable to securities transaction tax under Chapter VII of the 
Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004.‖  

Other Consequential Amendments 

A)  Amending the period of holding in the securities held in and by an Investment 

Fund 

In sub-section 42(A) of the Income-tax Act, insert the following proviso after the 
second proviso- 
―Provided further that in the case of share or other securities of a company (not being 
a share listed in a recognised stock exchange) held by an Investment Fund or a unit 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of an Investment Fund specified under clause (23FBA) of section 10, the provisions of 
this clause shall have effect as if for the words "thirty-six months", the words "Twenty 
four months" had been substituted‖  

B)  Amending Section 115UB 

In  Section  115UB  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  after  sub-section  (7),  the  following  sub- 
section shall be inserted, namely: - 
―(8) Nothing contained in sub-sections (1) to (7) shall apply to any distributions by 
an  Investment  fund,  where  the  distribution  from  such  an  Investment  Fund  is 
chargeable to securities transaction tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 
2004 

(9) It shall not be necessary for an assessee being a unit holder of an investment fund 
to furnish under sub-section (1) of section 139 a return of his or its income if: 

a)  His or its total income in respect of which he or it is assessable under this Act, during the previous 
year  consisted  only  of  distributions  from  an  investment    fund,    chargeable    to  securities 
transaction tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (no.2) Act, 2014‖  

C)  Avoiding redundant exemptions in section 10 

In Section 10 of the Income-tax Act, - 

(a)  for clause (23FBA), the following clause shall be substituted, namely: - 

―(23FBA) any income of an investment fund; 

Explanation.  —For the purposes of this  clause, the expression ―Investment  fund‖  
shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in  clause  (a)  of  the  Explanation  1  to 
section 11UB‖  

(b)  clause (23FBB) shall be omitted: - 

D)  Avoiding the Tax Deduction at Source by Investment Funds (Section 194LBB) 

In Section 194LBB of the Income-tax Act, the first paragraph shall be numbered as 
sub-section 

(1) and after sub-section (1) so numbered, the following sub-section shall be inserted, 
namely: - 

―(2)  Nothing  contained  in  sub-section  (1)  shall  apply  to  distributions  by  an 
Investment fund, where such distribution is chargeable to securities transaction tax 
under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004‖  

E)  Exempting a portfolio company from the tax  on share premium amount when invested  by an 

Investment Fund (AIF) (as is the case when invested by a venture fund) 

In section 56 of the Income-tax Act, in sub-section (1), in clause (viib), after clause (ii) of 

98 

the Proviso, the following clause shall be inserted, namely- 
 
(iii) by a company from an Investment fund referred to in Explanation to section 
10(23FBA) 

 

 

A separate provision to be added in section 194 LBB of the Income Tax Act, 1961 to clarify 
that the TDS in not applicable for income earned by the Fund which is exempted  from 
Tax liability. 

C: Recommendation 2: Introduction of Securities Transaction Tax (“STT”) for Category III 
Alternative Investment Funds 

23.  Category  III  Alternative  Investment  Funds  include  hedge  funds  under  SEBI  AIF 
regulations. In India the hedge fund industry has not yet developed to its full potential due to 
various factors, including the  lack of certainty in taxation. A transformative change  on the 
taxation front can greatly facilitate their growth. A fair, transparent and enabling tax regime 
could result in India’s hedge  fund industry potentially growing at 20% per annum from its 
current low base. Ultimately their assets under management could surpass $25 Billion or INR 
166,750 crores in 10 years. 

24.  The  rationale  and  advantages  of  the  STT  regime  have  been  amplified  in  the  earlier 
section. In order to simplify and bring ease of compliance and remove ambiguity in taxes, the 
introduction  of  the  STT  regime  (on  entry  and  redemption  for  each  investor)  will  ensure 
smooth payment and collection of taxes. This proposal will ensure stable cash flows for the 
government and since they are source based, it represents a superior tax policy, which is a 
win-win for the fund manager, the investors and the Government. 

Justification  for  Developing  the  Hedge  Fund  Industry  in  India  &  Alternative  Investment 
Funds in the Indian Context 

25. The current size of the AIF Category III Funds in India is an estimated INR3,816 crores as 
of 30th June,2016. This is much smaller that the approximately Rs. 100,000 crores invested 
under Portfolio Management Schemes (PMS). The global hedge fund industry has $3 Trillion 
in assets under management as of 2015 (Asia Hedge and HFR Global Hedge Fund surveys). 
From 2007 to 2015, China’s equity hedge fund assets under management have risen from an 
estimated USD13.5 Billion to USD45 Billion in 2015, taking China’s market share from 6% in 
2007 to 18%  in 2015 in the  Asia-Pac hedge fund industry. During this period, the  share of 
India’s equity hedge funds declined from 5% to 2% today. The Chinese hedge fund industry 
has also grown strongly at a roughly 19% compounded rate since 2007. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

99 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

26.  Hong  Kong  and  Singapore,  which  have  zero  capital  gains  tax,  have  experienced 
tremendous growth in the hedge fund and financial services industry. Currently, Indian AIF’s 
are at a nascent stage with potential to grow larger. Consequently, the taxes collected can 
rise  if  the  tax  structure  is  simplified  and  made  fair  by  implementing  an  STT  regime  for 
Category III AIFs.27. Examples from other industries have proven that a fair tax regime led to 
exponential growth of industry and over time resulted in higher collection of tax revenue. 

27. Securities Transaction Tax, which is source based taxation, has the potential of leading to 
an exponential growth of this industry in India in line with international jurisdictions such as 
Singapore, Hong Kong, US and the UK. 

Rationale for a Vibrant Hedge Funds Industry 

28. There is a strong rationale for developing a vibrant hedge funds industry in India. The 
rationale for this is the several benefits associated with a hedge fund industry which are 
explained below: 

  Alternative source of funding: Hedge funds are a potential alternative source of funding 
for India’s economic growth and development. They are attractive to large institutional 
investors such as sovereign wealth funds, pension funds, endowments, trusts and family 
offices.  Hedge  funds  typically  start  their  corpus  with  proprietary  capital  of  the  fund 
manager.  This  ‘skin-  in-  the-  business’,  brings  about  a  natural  alignment  of  interest 
between the fund manager and fund investors; 

  Counterweight to Volatile International Capital Flows: The creation of a large domestic 
institutional AIF industry, including hedge funds, would act as a counterweight to volatile 
foreign portfolio flows and contribute to stability in the Indian equity market. Domestic 
AIFs can lower the help impact of speculative activity. Daily trading in equity derivatives 
is 20x the daily trading volume in the cash segment; 

  Superior Governance: Hedge funds strategies include activist investment strategies which 
aim to improve the quality of governance in portfolio companies, thereby bringing about 
improvements in their performance and enhanced efficiencies in their operations; 

 

100 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

101 

  Diversity of Investment Strategies Meets the Investment & Risk Management Needs of 
Investors:  Hedge  funds  play  a  critical  role  by  offering  a  wide  array  of  investment 
strategies, thus increasing the number of participating investors and enlarging pools of 
capital available. For investors, hedge funds also serve a risk-management role, since their 
returns can be uncorrelated to those in equity markets. Markets work best when investors 
draw  on  a  diverse  set  of  strategies  and  securities  to  manage  risk.  Private  pools  of 
regulated capital provide valuable liquidity to financial markets under normal conditions 
and especially during periods of market stress and downturns; 

  Price Discovery: The variety of investing strategies that hedge funds employ, strengthen 
capital markets by improving opportunities for price discovery. “Short selling contributes 
to the market’s process of finding correct prices and its valuable to have hedge funds do 
this,”  said  Jeremy  Seigel,  Prof  of  Finance  at  Wharton  School  of  Business.  “By  buying 
irrationally cheap assets and selling irrationally expensive ones, they shift market prices 
until  irrationalities  disappear,  thus  ultimately  facilitating  the  efficient  allocation  of  the 
world’s capital.” ; 

  Lower Cost of Capital: Countries with highly developed hedge fund industry have seen 
more efficient capital markets and a much lower cost of capital. This is desirable as India 
currently suffers from high cost of capital (double digit across sectors) and a high equity 
risk premium; and 

 

Job  Creation:  A  strong  hedge  fund  ecosystem  will  help  create  many  jobs  within  the 
financial industry. This will lead to high value job creation in the financial services industry 
in India. The diagram below shows the areas in the hedge fund eco-system where jobs 
will increase as the hedge fund industry grows. 

Investment 
Research 

(Sell Side) 

Hedge 
Fund 

Industry 
Ecosystem 

Hedge Fund 

 

Investment 
 

 

Prime 

Brokerage 

Legal 

Accountants & 

Auditors 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

The Proposed Securities Transaction Tax on Category III AIFs: Collection Stages 

29.  To  simplify  tax  compliance  by  investors  and  category  III  AIFs,  it  is  recommended  that 
category III AIFs are brought under the ambit of STT. Further, the investors of the category III 
AIFs should be made liable to pay STT on the distribution made by the category III AIFs to the 
investors and consequently such distributions should be exempted from tax in the hands of 
the investors. 
30.  It  is  recommended  that  STT  be  collected  at  5  stages  of  the  typical  Category  III  AIF 
investment transaction cycle, in lieu of the current tax regime covering AIFs, as follows: 

  Point A: Investor invests in the Fund. 
  Point B: Fund buys securities, equity and derivatives over the course of the year. 
  Point C: Fund sells securities pay STT on both equities and derivatives. 
  Point D: Transaction-Fund distributes income to investors. 
  Point E: Transaction-Investor redeems money / transfers units of the Fund. 

31. In addition to the above, a 15% service tax on brokerage amount is also paid, as also an 
incremental  service  tax  on  the  asset  management  fees  paid  out  to  the  domestic  fund 
manager. 

32.  In this manner the government collects the tax on the entire gain made by the fund when 
the investor redeems his or her investment from the fund. 

33.  It is important to highlight that in category III AIFs, the money received by such AIFs would 
be invested in underlying listed securities. As per the current law, such AIFs would be subject 
to  STT  for  transacting  in  listed  securities.  Further,  considering  the  volume  involved  at  the 
category III AIF level, there is already a good amount of STT liability created at the time of 
transacting in underlying listed securities. The proposed rates of STT are over and above the 
STT that a category III AIF would otherwise pay for transacting in listed securities. 

34. Additionally, there are also funds which are registered as CATIII AIFs and which adopt a 
‘long’ strategy for investment in listed securities. A significant portion of their income is in the 
nature  of  long  term  capital  gains  which  is  otherwise  exempt  under  existing  tax  law.  Since 
investors earning long term capital gains would otherwise not have paid any income-tax at 
the time of disposing the listed securities, it is proposed not to levy any STT at the time of 
distribution of such income. 

Proposed Amendments 

 

 

Amendment – 1: Amendments required in the Finance Act 2004 
(Chapter VII – Securities Transaction Tax): 

Distributions by AIFs to be treated as a taxable transaction in securities 
liable to STT 

102 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

103 

Amending the Chapter VII of Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004 to include distribution from 
CAT III Investment Funds as a taxable transaction in securities: 

Definitions 

A)  In section 97 of the Finance (No.2) Act, 2004, after sub-section (3A), the following definition shall be 

inserted: 

“(3B) “CAT III Investment Fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in the 
Explanation to Section 10(23FBAA) of the Income-tax Act, 1961” 

B)  In section 97 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004, in sub-section 13, after sub-clause  (b),  the  following 

sub-clauses shall be inserted: 

“(c) purchase of an unit in a CAT III Investment Fund; or 
(d)  any  distribution  made  on  redemption  of  an  unit  in  a  CAT  III  Investment 
Fund; or 
(e) any distribution made otherwise by a CAT III Investment Fund; or 
(f) sale of an unit in a CAT III Investment Fund” 

Charge of Securities Transaction Tax 

C)  In  section  98  of  the  Finance  (No.  2)  Act,  2004,  in  the  Table,  after  serial  number  7  and  the 

corresponding entries thereto, the following shall be inserted, namely:- 

 

 

 

 

 

Sl. No. 

(1) 

 

Taxable Securities Transaction 

(2) 

Rate 
(3) 

 

 

“8 

a) Purchase of an unit of a CAT III Investment Fund 

0.05% 

Payable by 

(4) 

the 

purchaser 

b) Distribution representing long term capital gains 

Nil 

- 

as referred to in Section 10(38) of the Income- 
tax Act, 1956 , made by a CAT III Investment 
Fund on redemption or otherwise 

c) Distribution other than referred to in clause b 
above, made by a CAT III Investment Fund on 
redemption or otherwise 

0.25% 

the unit 
holder 

d) Sale of an unit of a CAT III Investment Fund 

0.05% 

the seller 

being a long term capital asset, to any person 
other than the CAT III Investment Fund in which 
such units are held 

e) Sale of an unit of a CAT III Investment Fund 

0.25% 

the seller 

being a short term capital asset, to any person 
other than the Investment Fund in which such 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Value of taxable securities transaction 

D)  In section 99 of the Finance (No.2) Act, 2004, after sub-clause (b) insert the following  clauses- 

“(ba) in the case of purchase of units of a CAT III Investment Fund, the price at 
which such units are purchased; 
(bb) in the case of distribution on account of redemption of units of a CAT III 
Investment Fund, such amounts as are distributed to the unit holder including 
the principal amount redeemed; 
(bc)  in  the  case  of  distribution  by  a  CAT  III  Investment  Fund  other  than  the 
distribution referred in clause (bb) above, the amounts so distributed to the unit 
holder; 
(bd) in the case of sale of units of a CAT III Investment Fund by the unit holder 
to any person other than the Investment Fund in which such units are held, the 
price at which such units are sold” 

Collection and Recovery of Securities Transaction Tax, 

E)  In section 100 insert the following sub-section (2C) after sub-section (2B) 

“(2C) The prescribed person in the case of every CAT III Investment Fund shall 
collect  the  securities  transaction  tax  from  every  person  purchases  or  sells  or 
redeems the unit of a CAT III Investment Fund” 

Recognised stock exchange or Investment Fund or Mutual Fund to 
furnish prescribed return 

F)  In sub-section (1) of section 101 - insert the following words after the words ―every recognised stock 

exchange‖  – 

“or prescribed person in the case of every CAT III Investment Fund” 

Amendment – 2: Amendments required in the Income Tax Act, 1961 

Exempting the income from CAT III Investment Fund under section 10: 

In Section 10 of the Income-tax Act, after clause (38), the following clauses shall be 
inserted, namely: - 

“(38A) any distribution received by an assessee, being a unitholder of a CAT III 
Investment Fund as referred to in Explanation to section 10(23FBAA), either on 
redemption or otherwise and where such distribution is chargeable to securities 
transaction tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2004. 

(38B)  any  income  received  by  an  assessee,  being  a  unitholder  of  a  CAT  III 
Investment Fund referred to in Explanation to  section 10(23FBAA), on sale of 
units  in  a  CAT  III  Investment  Fund  to  any  person  other  than  the  CAT  III 
Investment Fund in which such units are held and where such sale is 

104 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

105 

chargeable to securities transaction tax under Chapter VII of the Finance (No. 
2) Act, 2004.” 

Exempting the income of CAT III Investment Fund under section 10: 

In Section 10 of the Income-tax Act, after clause (23FBB), the following clauses shall 
be inserted, namely: - 

“(23FBAA) any income of a CAT III Investment Fund; 

Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause, “CAT III Investment Fund” means 
any fund established or incorporated in India in the form of a trust or a company 
or a limited liability partnership or a body corporate which has been granted a 
certificate of registration as a Category III Alternative Investment Fund and is 
regulated  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative 
Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012, made under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);” 

Other consequential amendments: 

A)  Amending the period of holding in the securities held in and by an Investment Fund 

In sub-section 42(A) of Section 2 of the Income-tax Act, insert the following 
proviso after the second proviso- 

“Provided further that in the case of share or other securities of a company (not 
being a share listed in a recognised stock exchange) held by a CAT III Investment 
Fund  or  a  unit  of  a  CAT  III  Investment  Fund  specified  under  clause  (38A)  of 
section 10, the provisions of this clause shall have effect as if for the words "thirty-
six months", the words "Twenty-four months" had been substituted” 

B)  Exemption from filing return of income 

Notification providing exemption from filing return of income by a 
Category III Alternative Investment Fund 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue) 
(CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES) 
NOTIFICATION 
New Delhi, the  
No. [●] 
INCOME-TAX 

, 2016 

S.O. 1703(E). —In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub- section 
(1) of section 139 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government 
hereby notifies that it shall not be necessary for an assessee being a unit holder of 
a Category III Alternative Investment fund as defined under clause 

101 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

(23FBAA) of section 10 of the said Act to furnish under sub-section (1) of section 
139 a return of his or its income if: 

- His or its total income in respect of which he or it is assessable under this Act, 
during the previous year consisted only of distributions from a Category III 
Alternative Investment Fund as defined in explanation to clause (23FBAA) 
of section 10, chargeable to securities transaction tax under Chapter VII of 
the Finance (no.2) Act, 2014‖  

This notification shall come into force from the date of its publication in the 
Official Gazette. 

 

 

 

 

Appendix 1 

Tax collected if STT was levied on VCPE investments (Projected taxes collected over a 15 
year period) 
STT on investment  

0.25% 

 

STT on distribution  

STT on short term capital gains 

 

 

0.25% 

1.00% 

Capital Invested per year (USD million) as per actuals for FY2015 

15,000 

Average Holding period for an Investment (years) 

Average Return on Investment 

 

5 

170% 

(USD million) 

STT on Investment 

STT on Distribution 

Total Tax collected 

83 

83 

83 

83 

83 

83 

83 

83 

83 

83 

 

120 

120 

120 

120 

120 

120 

120 

120 

120 

120 

 

38 

38 

38 

38 

38 

38 

38 

 
38 

38 

38 

Year 1 

Year 2 

Year 3 

Year 4 

Year 5 

Year 6 

Year 7 

 

Year 8 

Year 9 

Year 10 

106 

 

106 

Year 11 

Year 12 

Year 13 

Year 14 

Year 15 

38 

38 

38 

38 

38 

Total tax 

 

 

Assumptions: 

83 

83 

83 

83 

83 

120 

120 

120 

120 

120 

1806 

1. USD 15 billion PEVC investments per year (same as in 2015) 

2. The fund will hold the investment for 5 years and divest it after. 

3. An average multiple of 1.7x on realization of exit 

4. STT is levied both during investment and distribution 

5. STT on short term gains is at 1.0% (gross); assumed 10% of total distributions 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

107 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Chapter VIII 

Matrix of Recommendations of the 3rd 

Report of AIPAC 

108 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chapter VIII 

 
Matrix of Recommendations of the 3rd Report of AIPAC 

A. Promoting AIFs in International Financial Service Centre 

(IFSCs) 

B. Goods & Services Tax (GST) 

C. Taxation of Category III AIFs: Investor-based Taxation 

D. Taxation of AIFs Listed on a Stock Exchange 

E. AIF Taxation: Deductibility of Costs & Net Losses 

F. Social Venture Funds & CSR 

109 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

110 

 

Recommendations of the Third AIPAC Report 

A. PROPOSED AMENDMENTS IN SEBI REGULATIONS FOR THE PROMOTION OF IFSCS 

 Alternatively, equivalent guidelines may be considered by SEBI 

CURRENT REGIME 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

Key relaxation expected for FPIs 

SEBI (International Financial Services Centre) 
Guidelines, 2015 

Chapter III, Guideline 8 

 
 

Any recognised entity or entities desirous of 
operating  in  IFSC  as  an  intermediary,  may 
form  a  company  to  provide  such  financial 
services  relating  to  securities  market,  as 
permitted by the Board. 

Guideline 8 may be amended as follows: 

“Any  recognised  entity  or  entities  desirous  of 
operating in IFSC as an intermediary, may form a 
company, limited liability partnership or a trust to 
provide  such 
relating 
to 
securities market, as permitted by the Board.” 

financial  services 

SEBI 
(Foreign 
Regulations, 2014 

Portfolio 

Investors) 

The  following  should  be  inserted  as  Regulation 
2(ia): 

Definitions - Regulation 2 

“"International Financial Services Centre" or "IFSC" 
shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in 
clause  (q)  of  section  2  of  the  Special  Economic 
Zones Act, 2005” 

(Foreign 
SEBI 
Regulations, 2014 

Portfolio 

Investors) 

The  following  proviso  should  be  included  after 
Regulation 4: 

“Provided  that  the  eligibility  requirements  under 
sub-clause (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) shall be deemed 
to  be  fulfilled 
is 
established  or  incorporated  in  an  International 
Finance Services Centre.” 

in  the  case  the  applicant 

Eligibility  criteria  of 
investor 

foreign  portfolio 

Regulations  4  -  The  designated  depository 
participant shall not consider an application 
for  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  as  a 
foreign  portfolio 
the 
applicant  satisfies  the  following  conditions 
namely, - 

investor  unless 

(a) the applicant is a person not resident in 
India; 

(b)  the  applicant  is  resident  of  a  country 
whose  securities  market  regulator 
is  a 
signatory  to  International  Organization  of 
Securities Commission‘s  Multilateral 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

CURRENT REGIME 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

Memorandum  of  Understanding  (Appendix 
A  Signatories)  or  a  signatory  to  bilateral 
Memorandum  of  Understanding  with  the 
Board; 

 

(c) the applicant being a bank, is a resident 
of a country whose central bank is a member 
of Bank for International Settlements; 

(d) the applicant is not resident in a country 
identified 
in  the  public  statement  of 
Financial Action Task Force as: 

(i)  a jurisdiction having a strategic Anti- 

Money Laundering or Combating the 
Financing of Terrorism deficiencies 
to which counter measures apply; or 

 

(ii) a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient 
progress  in  addressing  the  deficiencies  or 
has  not  committed  to  an  action  plan 
developed  with  the  Financial  Action  Task 
Force to address the deficiencies; 

(e)  the  applicant  is  not  a  non-resident 
Indian; 

(f)  the  applicant  is  legally  permitted  to 
invest in securities outside the country of its 
incorporation  or  establishment  or  place  of 
business; 

is  authorized  by 

(g)  the  applicant 
its 
Memorandum of Association and Articles of 
Association  or  equivalent  document(s)  or 
the agreement to invest on its own behalf or 
on behalf of its clients; 

track 

record, 

(h)  the  applicant  has  sufficient  experience, 
good 
is  professionally 
competent,  financially  sound  and  has  a 
generally  good  reputation  of  fairness  and 
integrity; 

(i) the grant of certificate to the applicant is 
in  the  interest  of  the  development  of  the 
securities market; 

(j)  the applicant is a fit and proper person 

111 

 
 
 
 
 
 

CURRENT REGIME 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

based on the criteria specified in Schedule II 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; and 

 

(k) any other criteria specified by the Board 
from time to time. 

SEBI 
(Foreign 
Regulations, 2014 

Portfolio 

Investors) 

Explanation  1  and  2  of  Regulation  5  should  be 
amended as follows: 

 
 

Categories of foreign portfolio investor 

Regulation  5-  An  applicant  shall  seek 
registration as a foreign portfolio investor in 
one of the categories mentioned hereunder 
or any other category as may be specified by 
the Board from time to time: 

(b)  "Category  II  foreign  portfolio  investor" 
which shall include: 

(i)  appropriately  regulated  broad  based 
funds  such  as  mutual  funds,  investment 
trusts, insurance/reinsurance companies; 

(ii) appropriately regulated persons such as 
banks,  asset  management  companies, 
investment  managers/  advisors,  portfolio 
manager; 

(iii)  broad  based 
appropriately 
investment  manager 
regulated: 

funds  that  are  not 
but  whose 
appropriately 

regulated 
is 

Provided  that  the  investment  manager  of 
such broad-based fund is itself registered as 
Category II foreign portfolio investor: 

“Explanation 1- For the purposes of this clause, an 
applicant  seeking  registration  as  a 
foreign 
portfolio 
investor  shall  be  considered  to  be 
"appropriately  regulated"  if  it  is  regulated  or 
supervised  by  the  securities  market  regulator  or 
the  banking  regulator,  of  the  concerned  foreign 
jurisdiction,  in  the  same  capacity  in  which  it 
proposes  to make  investments in India,  provided 
that  an  applicant  established  in  an  International 
Financial  Services  Centre  will  be  deemed  to  be 
“appropriately  regulated”  for  the  purposes  of 
these Regulations. 

Explanation 2- 

A)  For  the  purposes  of this  clause,  "broad  based 
fund"  shall  mean  a 
fund,  established  or 
incorporated  outside  India  or  in  an  International 
Financial  Services  Centre,  which  has  at  least 
twenty  investors,  with  no  investor  holding  more 
than forty-nine per cent of the shares or units of 
the fund:” 

that 

the 

that 

further 

investment 
Provided 
it  shall  be 
manager  undertakes 
liable  for  all  acts  of 
responsible  and 
commission  and  omission  of  all 
its 
underlying  broad-based  funds  and  other 
deeds and things done by such broad based 
funds under these regulations. 

Explanation  1-For  the  purposes  of  this 
clause, an applicant seeking registration as a 
foreign portfolio investor shall be 

112 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

CURRENT REGIME 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

 

considered to be "appropriately regulated" if 
it is regulated or supervised by the securities 
market regulator or the banking regulator of 
the  concerned  foreign  jurisdiction,  in  the 
same capacity in which it proposes to make 
investments in India. 

Explanation 2- 

A)  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause,  "broad 
based fund" shall mean a fund, established 
or incorporated outside India, which has at 
least  twenty  investors,  with  no  investor 
holding more than forty-nine per cent of the 
shares or units of the fund: 

Provided that if the broad-based fund has an 
institutional investor, who holds more than 
forty nine per cent of the shares or units in 
the  fund,  then  such  institutional  investor 
must itself be a broad based fund. 

B)  For  the  purpose  of  clause,  A  of  this 
Explanation, for ascertaining the number of 
investors in a fund, direct investors as well as 
underlying investors shall be considered. 

C)  For  the  purpose  of  clause  B  of  this 
Explanation, only investors of entities which 
have  been  set  up  for  the  sole  purpose  of 
pooling funds and making investments, shall 
be 
the  purpose  of 
determining underlying investors. 

considered 

for 

SEBI 
(Foreign 
Regulations, 2014 

Portfolio 

Investors) 

Explanation  1  of  Regulation  32(1)  should  be 
amended as follows: 

 
 

 
 

Regulation 32 (1)- All designated depository 
participants  who  have  been  granted 
approval by the Board shall - 

(a)  comply  with  the  provisions  of  these 
regulations,  as  far  as  they  may  apply, 
circulars  issued  thereunder,  and  any  other 
terms and conditions specified by the Board 
from time to time; 

(b) forthwith inform the Board in writing, if 
any information or particulars previously 
submitted to the Board are found to be 

“Explanation  1.-  For  the  purposes  of  this  clause, 
"opaque structure" shall mean any structure such 
as  protected  cell  company,  segregated  cell 
company or  equivalent,  where  the  details  of the 
ultimate  beneficial  owners  are  not  accessible  or 
where the beneficial owners are ring fenced from 
each other or where the beneficial owners are ring 
fenced with regard to enforcement: Provided that 
the  foreign  portfolio 
investor  satisfying  the 
following  criteria  shall  not  be  treated  as  having 
opaque structure: 

113 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

114 

 

CURRENT REGIME 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

(i)  the  applicant 
jurisdiction 

is  regulated 

in 

its  home 

Provided  if  the  applicant  is  established  in  an 
International  Financial  Services  Centre,  it  will  be 
deemed to be regulated in its home jurisdiction; 

(ii) each fund or sub fund in the applicant satisfies 
broad based criteria, and 

(iii) the applicant gives an undertaking to provide 
information regarding its beneficial owners as 
and when Board seeks this information.” 

false or misleading, in any material respect; 

is  any  material  change 

(c) forthwith inform the Board in writing, if 
there 
in  the 
information  previously  furnished  by  him  to 
the Board; 

information,  record  or 
(d)  furnish  such 
documents to the Board and Reserve Bank of 
India, as may be required, in relation to his 
activities  as  a  designated  depository 
participant; 

(e) ensure that only registered foreign 
portfolio investors are allowed to invest in 
securities market; 

(f) ensure that foreign portfolio investor 
does not have opaque structure(s): 

Explanation  1.-  For  the  purposes  of  this 
clause,  "opaque  structure"  shall  mean  any 
structure  such  as  protected  cell  company, 
segregated  cell  company  or  equivalent, 
where the details of the ultimate beneficial 
owners  are  not  accessible  or  where  the 
beneficial owners are ring fenced from each 
other  or  where  the  beneficial  owners  are 
ring  fenced  with  regard  to  enforcement: 
Provided that the foreign portfolio investor 
satisfying the following criteria shall not be 
treated as having opaque structure: 

(i) the applicant is regulated in its home 
jurisdiction 

(ii) each fund or sub fund in the applicant 
satisfies broad based criteria, and 

(iii)  the  applicant  gives  an  undertaking  to 
provide information regarding its beneficial 
owners  as  and  when  Board  seeks  this 
information. 

Explanation  2.-  For 
the  purposes  of 
Explanation  1,  the  definition  of  ultimate 
beneficial owner shall be as provided under 
the  Master  circular  on  Anti  Money 
Laundering  Standards  or  Combating  the 
Financing of Terrorism, issued by the Board 
from time to time. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

CURRENT REGIME 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

 

(g) have adequate systems to ensure that in 
case  of  jointly  held  depository  accounts, 
each  of 
the 
requirements specified for foreign portfolio 
investors  and  shall  perform  KYC  due 
diligence for each of the joint holders; 

joint  holders  meet 

the 

in  case  of  any  penalty,  pending 
(h) 
findings  of 
litigations  or  proceedings, 
inspections  or 
investigations  for  which 
action  may  have  been  taken  or  is  in  the 
process  of  being  taken  by  any  regulator 
against a designated depository participant, 
the  designated  depository  participant  shall 
bring  such  information  forthwith,  to  the 
attention  of  the  Board,  depositories  and 
stock exchanges; 

(i) be guided by the relevant circular on Anti-
Money  Laundering  or  Combating 
the 
Financing  of  Terrorism  specified  by  the 
Board from time to time. 

Key relaxations expected for AIFs 

(Alternative 

SEBI 
Regulations, 2012 

Investment 

Fund) 

  The following should be inserted in Regulation 

  Registration of Alternative Investment 

Funds-Regulation 3(4)(b) 

II  “Alternative 

Category 
Investment 
Fund”  which  does  not  fall  in  Category  I 
and  III  and  which  does  not  undertake 
leverage  or  borrowing  other  than  to 
meet 
operational 
requirements and as permitted in these 
regulations 

day-to-day 

  Conditions for Category I Alternative 
Investment Funds-Regulation 16(1)(c) 

 

Category I Alternative Investment Funds 
shall  not  borrow  funds  directly  or 
indirectly  or  engage  in  any  leverage 
except  for  meeting  temporary  funding 
requirements  for  not  more  than  thirty 
days, on not more than four occasions in 
a year and not more than ten percent of 
the investable funds. 

3(4)(b): 

“Nothing  in  this  sub-clause  shall  apply  to  a 
Category 
Investment  Fund 
established or incorporated in an International 
Financial Services Centre.” 

II  Alternative 



 

  The following should be inserted in Regulation 

16(1)(c): 

“Nothing  in  this  sub-clause  shall  apply  to  a 
Category 
Investment  Fund 
established or incorporated in an International 
Financial Services Centre.” 

I  Alternative 

IFCS-domiciled  AIFs  subject 

  SEBI  may  consider  relaxation  on  maximum 
leverage 
to 
adequate safe guard such as private placement 
of  fund  unit  only  with  credited  investor  and 
additional reporting requirements. 

115 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

CURRENT REGIME 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

A  circular  must  be  issued  by  SEBI  clarifying  that 
SEBI circular dated 1 October 2015 will not apply 
to  alternative  investment  funds  established  or 
incorporated in an International Financial Services 
Centre  and  they  shall  be  permitted  to  invest 
outside 
freely,  without  requiring  any 
regulatory approvals from SEBI or RBI. 

India 

  Conditions for Category II Alternative 
Investment Funds-Regulation 17(1)(c) 

 

Category II Alternative Investment Funds 
funds  directly  or 
may  not  borrow 
indirectly  and  shall  not  engage 
in 
leverage  except  for  meeting  temporary 
funding requirements for not more than 
thirty days, not more than four occasions 
in a year and not more than ten percent 
of the investable funds; 

(Alternative 

SEBI 
Regulations, 2012 

Investment 

Fund) 

  General 

Investment 

Conditions- 

Regulation 15(a) 

Alternative Investment Fund may invest 
in  securities of  companies  incorporated 
outside India subject to such conditions 
or  guidelines  that  may  be  stipulated  or 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India and 
the Board from time to time 

  SEBI Circular dated 1 October 2015 

Re: Guidelines on overseas investments 
and  other 
for 
AIFs/VCFs 

issues/clarifications 

The  circular 
following: 

inter  alia  provides  the 

venture 

f)  AIFs  may  invest  in  equity  and 
equity linked instruments only of 
offshore 
capital 
undertakings,  subject  to  overall 
limit  of  USD  500  million 
(combined 
limit  for  AIFs  and 
Venture Capital Funds); 

g)  AIFs 

desirous 

of  making 
investments  in  offshore  venture 
capital undertakings shall submit 
their proposal for investment (in 
the attached format at Annexure) 
to SEBI for prior approval; 

h)  Investments would be made only 

116 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

CURRENT REGIME 

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 

Indian 

connection 

in  those  companies  which  have 
an 
(e.g. 
company which has a front office 
overseas,  while  back  office 
operations are in India); 

i)  Such 

investments 

shall  not 
exceed  25%  of  the 
investible 
funds  of  the  scheme  of  the  AIF; 
and 

j)  The  allocation  of 

investment 
limits  would  be  done  on  ‘first 
come 
basis, 
depending  on  the  availability  in 
the  overall 
limit  of  USD  500 
million. 

serve’ 

first 

 

117 

 
 
 

SEBI-IFSC: AIFs: CONSIDERATION FOR GUIDELINE / REGULATIONS 

Clarity on applicability of existing SEBI AIF regulations to 
IFSC 

 

 

 

Investment Avenues for AIFs in IFSC 

Currently, offshore funds / investors invest in the 
listed as well as the unlisted securities5 in the 
Indian market  through  FDI  route,  FPI  route  or 
FVCI route. 

Considering  the  above,  in  order  to  ensure  that 
AIF’s in IFSC are treated on par with the offshore 
funds  /  investors  with  respect  to  the  permissible 
investment  avenues  for  making  investments  into 
India, an AIF in IFSC should be permitted to invest 
into  India  under  all  the  permissible  investment 
avenues. 

Further, an AIF in IFSC should also be  allowed to 
participate  in  the  capital  of  a  Limited  Liability 
Partnership incorporated in India. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

118 

 

It  is  recommended  to  insert  the 
following proviso under clause 3(1) 
SEBI 
of  Chapter 
(Alternative 
Fund) 
Regulations, 2012: 

II  of 
Investment 

the 

an 

that 

International 

further 
shall  apply 

this 
“Provided 
regulation 
to  an 
alternative investment fund set up 
in 
Financial 
Services Centre, as modified by the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India 
Financial 
Services Centres) Guidelines, 2015, 
amended from time to time.” 

(International 

Suggested Amendments: 

SEBI Impact 

is 

the 

that 

recommended 

It 
the 
following  amendments  are  made 
to 
No. 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2017/45 
of SEBI dated May 23, 2017. 

Circular 

(3)  of  SEBI 

Clause  22 
(IFSC) 
Guidelines, 2015 is to be amended 
and read as follows: 

"Any  alternative  investment  fund 
or  mutual  fund  operating  in  IFSC 
shall be permitted to invest in the 
following: 

a) Securities which are listed in 
IFSC; b) 
companies incorporated in IFSC; 

Securities 

issued  by 

c)  Securities  issued  by  companies 
incorporated in India or companies 
belonging  to  foreign  jurisdiction. 
subject  to  such  conditions  or 
guidelines  that  may  be  stipulated 
or  issued  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of 
India  and  Government  of  India 
from time to time; and 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

limited 

d)  Capital  of 
liability 
partnerships  incorporated  in  India 
subject  to  such  conditions  or 
guidelines  that  may  be  stipulated 
or  issued  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of 
India  and  Government  of  India 
from time to time." 

Further,  it  is  clarified  that  such 
portfolio  manager, 
alternative 
investment  fund  or  mutual  fund 
shall  invest  in  India  through  the 
foreign portfolio investor route 

fund 

Such  alternative  investment  fund 
or  mutual 
shall  obtain 
registration,  where  necessary, 
under the Securities and Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Foreign  Portfolio 
Investors) Regulations, 2014. 

it 

Further, 
is  clarified  that  the 
Circular  No.  CIR/IMD/DF/7/2015 
dated  /1  October  2015  issued  by 
the  Board  on 
‘Guidelines  on 
overseas  investments  and  other 
issues / clarifications for AIFs/VCFs’ 
shall not apply to an AIF set up in an 
IFSC.” 

FEMA Impact The following proviso 
needs to be inserted in Regulation 
26  of 
the  Foreign  Exchange 
Management  (Transfer  or  issue  of 
Foreign 
Regulations, 
2004: 

Security) 

“Provided  that  nothing  contained 
in this regulation shall  apply  to an 
AIF set up in an IFSC.” 

Suggested Amendments: 

It is recommended to insert the 
following clause clause 22.7 and 

 

 

 

 

 

 

119 

SEBI IFSC guidelines should be relaxed to permit a 
Sponsor / Manager of an existing AIF in India to act as a 
Sponsor / Manager of an AIF in IFSC by setting up a 
branch or a company in the IFSC. Further, the Investment 

Manager shall be permitted to obtain investment 
advisory services from an entity set up outside IFSC. 

Sponsor / Manager commitment 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

120 

 

22.8  in  Chapter  VI  –  Funds  of  the 
SEBI 
Financial 
Services Centers) Guidelines, 2015: 

(International 

“22.7 The Sponsor / Manager of an 
Alternative 
in 
IFSC shall be in compliance with the 
provisions of this clause - 

Investment  Fund 

Investment  Fund 

a)  A  Sponsor  /  Manager  of  an 
Alternative 
in 
India  may  act  as  a  Sponsor  / 
Manager 
Alternative 
Investment Fund set up in the IFSC 
by – 

an 

of 

i)  setting up a branch in the 

IFSC; or 

ii)  incorporating a company in 

the IFSC 

to 

any 

subject 
guidelines, 
regulations  issued  by  the  Reserve 
Bank of India from time to time. 

b) In other cases, such a Sponsor / 
Manager shall need to incorporate 
a  company  or 
liability 
partnership in the IFSC. 

limited 

22.8 The Manager of an Alternative 
Investment  Fund 
IFSC  may 
obtain  advisory  services  from  an 
entity set up outside IFSC.” 

in 

Scenario  1  -  Domestic  Sponsor  / 
Manager 
in  India  to  act  as  a 
Sponsor  /  Manager  for  an  AIF  in 
IFSC by setting up a branch in IFSC 

To liberalise remittance of fund by 
the  Sponsor/  Manager  in  India  to 
its branch in IFSC, the Reserve Bank 
of India should amend the Foreign 
Exchange Management 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Foreign  Currency  Accounts  By  a 
Person 
India) 
Regulations,  2015  to  specifically 
permit such remittances. 

Resident 

In 

Suggested Amendments: 

It  is  recommended  to  amend 
clause  (B)  of  Regulation  5  of  the 
Foreign  Exchange  Management 
(Foreign  Currency  Accounts  By  a 
Person 
India) 
Regulations, 2015  by  inserting  the 
following clause (iii) under clause 
(b) to the first proviso as follows: 

Resident 

In 

“(iii) Nothing contained in clause 
(i) and (ii) above shall apply to any 
remittance  made  to  the  branch, 
which is a Sponsor / Manager of an 
Alternative  Investment  Fund  in  an 
International  Financial  Services 
Centre.” 

Scenario  2  -  Domestic  Sponsor  / 
Manager  in  India  to  incorporate  a 
Company  in  IFSC  and  act  as  a 
Sponsor  /  Manager  for  an  AIF  in 
IFSC 

Suggested Amendments 

It  is  recommended to  amend  sub- 
regulation  7  of 
the  Foreign 
Exchange  Management  (Transfer 
or 
issue  of  Foreign  Security) 
Regulations,  2004  by  inserting  the 
following proviso after clause (2) as 
follows: 

“Provided  that  nothing  contained 
in clause 1) and 2) above shall apply 
to  any 
investment  made  by  a 
person  resident 
in  a 
liability 
company 
partnership, 
in  an 
International     Financial    Services 
Centre,  to   act   as   a   Sponsor   / 

incorporated 

limited 

or 

in 

India 

121 

Manager 
Investment Fund in such center.” 

an  Alternative 

for 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

122 
 

 

 

MOF-CBDT – 
Recommendations 
relating to IFSC-AIFs 
Income Tax Act, 1961 

Certain activities not to 
constitute 
business 
connection in India 

Section 9A (2) - 

(2) Notwithstanding 
anything contained in 
section 6, an eligible 
investment fund shall 
not be said to be 
resident in India for 
the purpose of that 
section merely 
because the eligible 
fund manager, 
undertaking fund 
management activities 
on its behalf, is 
situated in India 

 
 
 
 

Exemption from tax for 
any income earned by 
an offshore investor 
from offshore 
investments made 
through a Fund in IFSC 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Regulation 9A (2) should be amended as follows: 

“Notwithstanding anything contained in section 6, an eligible investment fund 
shall not be said to be resident in India for the purpose of that section merely 
because the eligible fund manager including a portfolio manager incorporated 
or  established  in  an  International  Financial  Services  Centre,  undertaking  fund 
management activities on its behalf, is situated in India.” 

  Regulation 9A (3) should be amended as follows: 

“The eligible investment fund referred to in sub-section (1), means a fund 
established  or  incorporated  or  registered  outside  India,  including  a  fund 
established  or  incorporated  in  an  International  Financial  Services  Centre, 
which collects funds from its members for investing it for their benefit and 
fulfils the following conditions, namely: —…” 

  The following proviso will be inserted in Regulation 9A (3): 

“Provided further that the conditions specified in sub-clauses (a), (b), (d), (h), 
(j), (k) and (l) shall be deemed to be fulfilled in case of funds established or 
incorporated in an International Financial Services Centre.” 

Currently, Category I and II AIFs have been provided tax pass through status for 
capital gains under the Indian income tax laws. However, while distributing any 
income to its investors, an AIF is required to withhold taxes at the applicable 
rates  based  on  the  jurisdiction  of  the  investor  and  remit  such  taxes  to  the 
Government of India. 

Further, the Indian income tax laws also require the unit holders to obtain tax 
registration (i.e. to obtain PAN) and disclose such income by filing of a Return 
of Income (“RoI”) in India. 

In a way, collection of tax revenue is met by the above withholding requirement 
in the hands of the AIF resulting in no tax revenue leakage for the Government 
of India. 

The  need  to  obtain  tax  registrations  and  filing  of  a  RoI  by  the  unit  holder 
requires an investor to go through the rigours of compliances in India. While 
this approach may be required for the domestic market, an IFSC regime should 
be more investor friendly in terms of compliance requirements. 

123 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hence, in order to encourage foreign investors to directly come into the IFSC 
without worrying about the hassle of Indian tax compliances, the Government 
of India should exempt the foreign investors from obtaining PAN number and 
filing of tax return in India, in respect of any income distributed by an AIF in 
IFSC after deduction of tax at source. 

However, where such foreign investor earns any other income from India, such 
foreign investor should be subject to the above compliances. 

Suggested Amendments: 

It is recommended to insert the following proviso in section 5(2) of the Income- 
tax Act, 1961 

“Provided  that  in  the  case  of  a  non-resident,  being  an  unit  holder  in  an 
Alternative Investment Fund set up in an International Financial Services Center 
in India, the income referred to in sub-section (2) above, shall not include any 
income, to the extent, derived from any investment made by such Alternative 
Investment Fund outside India. 

Explanation 3.- For the purpose of this proviso, an Alternative Investment Fund 
means any fund established or incorporated in India in the form of a trust or a 
company or a limited liability partnership or a body corporate which has been 
granted  a  certificate of  registration  and  is  regulated  under  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations, 2012 and 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (International Financial Services Centers) 
Guidelines, 2015 made under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (15 of 1992). 

Suggested Amendments: 

Exemption from obtaining Permanent Account Number It is recommended to 
issue the following notification pursuant to powers conferred in clause 
(d) to sub-section (8) of section 139A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 

SECTION 139A OF THE INCOME-TAX ACT, 1961 – EXEMPTION FOR INVESTORS 
IN  AN  ALTERNATIVE  INVESTMENT  FUND  SET  UP  IN  AN  INTERNATIONAL 
FINANCIAL SERVICES CENTRE   NOTIFICATION NO. S.O. _(E)  [NO.  XXX—201X  
(F.  NO.       -     -     -     )], DATED  XX-XX-201X  In  exercise  of 
the  powers 
conferred by clause (d) to sub-section (8) of section 139A of the Income-tax 
Act,  1961  (XX  of  1961),  the  Central  Government  hereby  specifies  that  the 
requirement to obtain a permanent account number shall not apply in respect 
of the following class or classes of persons, namely: 

Exemption  from  filing 
return  of  income  and 
obtaining  PAN  number 
for  offshore  investors 
in an AIF in IFSC 

investors 

In  order  to  encourage 
foreign 
to 
directly  come  into  the 
IFSC  without  worrying 
about  the  hassle  of 
Indian 
tax 
compliances, 
the 
Government   of   India 

124 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

the 
should  exempt 
offshore 
investors 
from  obtaining  PAN 
number  and  filing  of 
tax  return  in  India,  in 
respect  of  any  income 
distributed by an AIF in 
IFSC after deduction of 
tax at source. 

 

 

 
 

MOF-CBDT/CBEC 

B. GST- Related 

Recommendations 

 
 
I.GST exemption on    
   management services   
   and other services 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

(a)  a non-resident, not being a company, or 

(b)  a foreign company 

which earns income only from investments made in an Alternative 

Investment Fund set up in an International Financial Services Centre. 

Exemption from filing Return of Income 

It is recommended to insert  the  following sub clause (iv) in clause  (a) of sub- 
section (1) in section 115A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 

"(iv) income received in respect of units, purchased in foreign currency, of an 
Alternative  Investment  Fund  set  up  in  an  International  Financial  Services 
Centre;” 

GST exemption on management services and other services availed 
by AIF 

Considering  the importance  of the VCPE industry, it is recommended 

that services availed by an  AIF  should  be  chargeable to a rate at 5% 

slab under the GST regime, where majority of the investors of AIF are 

non-residents.  This would boost the investments in AlFs which will in 

turn provide an impetus to the investments in the seed capital, early 

stage and  growth 

125 

companies. 

Alternatively, the investors in an AIF could be considered  as  service 

recipients  and where the foreign investment in an  AIF  exceeds 50%, 

the services availed by an AIF should be considered as export of services 

and thereby be liable for zero rate of  tax. 

GST liability on directors in case of default by a private limited 
company 

Personal liability under section 89(1) of the CGST Act should not be 

extended to the nominee/non-executive directors, especially where 

appointment is made by AlFs. Accordingly, section 89(1) of the CGST Act 

should be amended as under (changes highlighted in bold font below): 

Nothwithstanding  anything  contained  in  the  Companies  Act,  2013  where  any 
tax, interest or penalty due from a private company in respect of any supply of 
goods or services or both for any period cannot be recovered, then, every person 
who was a director, other than a nominee/nonexecutive director appointed by 
an  Alternative  Investment  Fund  of  the  private  company  during  such  period 
shall,  jointly  and  severally,  be  liable  for  the  payment  of  such  tax,  interest  or 
penalty  unless  he  proves  that  the  non-recovery  cannot  be  attributed  to  any 
gross neglect, misfeasance or breach of duty on his part in relation to the affairs 
of the company." 

To provide certainty on levy of GST on distribution of profit share to the GP/ Sponsor, 

it should be clarified that distribution of profit share to the GP/Sponsor shall not be 

subjected to the levy of GST. 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

II. 

availed by 
AIF 

GST liability 
on directors 
in case of 
default by a 
private 
limited 
company 

III. GST on distribution 
of profit share to the 
GP/ Sponsor 

 

126 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

\MOF-CBDT 
c. 
Investor-based 
Taxation for Category 
III AIFs 

Investor based taxation for Category III AIFs 
Suggested amendments in the Act to give effect to the recommendation 

   

 

Proposed Amendments: 

Section 2(14) 

Capital Asset means – 

 

(a) property of any kind held by an assessee, whether or not connected 
with his business or profession; 

(b) any securities held by a Foreign Institutional Investor which has 
invested in such securities in accordance with the regulations made under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992; 

(c) any units issued by an investment fund 

Explanation 2: For the purposes of this clause- 

(a) the expression “Foreign Institutional Investor” shall have the meaning 
assigned to it in clause (a) of the Explanation to section 115AD; 

(b) the expression “securities” shall have the meaning assigned to it in 
clause (h) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 
(42 of 1956); 

(c) the expression “investment fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it 
in the Explanation to clause (23DB) of section 10 

Section 2(42A) 

“short term capital asset” means a capital asset held by an assessee for 
not more than thirty-six months immediately preceding the date of its 
transfer: 

Provided that in the case of a security (other than a unit) listed in a 

127 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

128 

 

 

recognised stock exchange in India or a unit of the Unit Trust of India 
established under the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963 (52 of 1963) or a unit of 
an equity oriented fund or a unit of an equity oriented investment fund or a 
zero-coupon bond, the provisions of this clause shall have effect as if for 
the words “thirty-six months”, the words “twelve months” had been 
substituted: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Explanation 5. – For the purposes of this clause, the expression “equity 
oriented investment fund” shall have the meaning assigned to it in the 
Explanation below clause (38B) of section 10 

Section 56 

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions 
of sub-section (1), the following incomes, shall be chargeable to income-tax 
under the head "Income from Other Sources", namely:- 

(ie) any income distributed by an investment fund 

Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, the term “investment fund” 
shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause (23DB) of section 10 

Section 111B 

(1) Where the total income of an assessee includes income chargeable 
under the head "Capital Gains", arising from the transfer of a short-term 
capital asset, being a unit of an equity oriented investment fund, the tax 
payable by the assessee on the total income shall be the aggregate of - 

(i) the amount of income-tax calculated on such short-term capital gains at 
the rate of fifteen per cent; and 

(ii) the amount of income-tax payable on the balance amount of the total 
income as if such balance amount were the total income of the assessee 

Provided that in the case of an individual or a Hindu undivided family, being 
a resident, where the total income  as reduced by such short term  capital 
gains is below the maximum amount which is not chargeable to income-tax, 
then, such short term capital gains shall be reduced by the amount by which 
the total income so reduced falls short of the maximum 
amount which is not chargeable to income-tax and the tax on the balance 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

of such short-term capital gains shall be computed at the rate of fifteen per 
cent. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2)  Where  the  gross  total  income  of  an  assessee  includes  any  short-term 
capital gains referred to in sub-section (1), the deduction under Chapter VI- 
A shall be allowed from the gross total income as reduced by such capital 
gains. 

Explanation.  -  For  the  purposes  of  this  section,  the  expression  "equity 
oriented  investment  fund"  shall  have  the  meaning  assigned  to  it  in  the 
Explanation below clause (38B) of section 10. 

Insertion of new section 194LBD 

(1) Where any income is payable to a unitholder in respect of units of the 
investment  fund,  the  person  responsible  for  making  the  payment  or 
distribution shall, at the time of payment or distribution thereof in cash or 
by issue of cheque or draft or by any other mode, deduct income-tax thereon 
at the following rates: 

e. 

f. 

g. 

h. 

on the income of the nature referred to in section 111B at the 
rate of fifteen per cent; 

on  the  income  distributed  by  an  investment  fund  other  than 
income distributed by equity oriented investment fund referred 
to in clause (38B) of section 10, at the rate of thirty per cent; 

on the income arising on redemption of a long-term capital asset 
being  a  unit  of  an  investment  fund  other  than  equity  oriented 
investment  fund,  at  the  rate  of  twenty  per  cent;  and 

on  the  income  arising  on  redemption  of  a  short-term  capital 
asset  being  a  unit  of  an  investment  fund  other  than  equity 
oriented investment fund, at the rate of thirty per cent. 

Provided that where the payee is a non-resident (not being a company) or 
a foreign company, deduction of tax shall be made in respect of any 
income at the rates in force 

Explanation – For the purposes of this section - 

(iii)  the  expression  “equity  oriented  investment  fund”  shall  have  the 
meaning assigned to it in the Explanation below clause (38B) of 

129 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

130 

 

 

section 10 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(iv) 

the expression “investment fund” shall have the meaning 
assigned to it in the Explanation to clause (23DB) of section 10 
and 

Section 196 

Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this 
Chapter, no deduction of tax shall be made by any person from any sums 
payable to – 

(i) the Government, or 

(ii) the Reserve Bank of India or 

(iii) a corporation established by or under a Central Act which is, under any 
law for the time being in force, exempt from income-tax on its income or 

(iv) a Mutual Fund specified under clause (23D) of section 10, or 

(v) an Investment Fund specified under clause (23DB) of section 10, 

where such sum is payable to it by way of interest or dividend in respect of 
any securities or shares owned by it or in which it has full beneficial 
interest, or any other income accruing or arising to it 

Section 10(23DB) 

Any income of an investment fund. 

Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, ‘investment fund’ shall mean a 
fund which has been granted a certificate of registration as a category III 
Alternative Investment Fund and is regulated under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Alternative Investment Fund) Regulations 2012, 
made under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 
1992) 

Section 10(38A) 

Any income arising from the transfer, either by way of redemption or 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

otherwise, of a  long-term capital asset being a unit of an equity oriented 
investment fund 

 

 

 

 

 

Section 10(38B) 

Any  income  distributed  by  an  equity  oriented  investment  fund  to  its 
unitholder, out of the income arising to the investment fund which is of the 
nature specified in clause (34) or clause (34A) or clause (35) or clause (38) of 
section 10 

Explanation - For the purposes of clause (38A) and clause (38B) of section 
10, the expression "equity oriented investment fund" means an Investment 
Fund  referred  to  it  in  the  Explanation  to  clause  (23DB)  of  section  10  and 
whose  investible  funds  are  invested  by  way  of  equity  shares  of  domestic 
companies  to  the  extent  of  more  than  sixty-five  per  cent  of  the  total 
proceeds of such fund: 

Provided that the percentage of equity shareholding of the fund shall be 
computed with reference to the annual average of the monthly averages of 
the opening and closing figures 

MOF-CBDT 

 

D. Suggested New Tax 

Code for Listed 
AIFs 

SEBI has taken the 
progressive measure 
to enable listing of 
AIFs. However, the 
related tax regime 
needs to be 
enunciated. The 
current pass-through 
tax system cannot 
cater to listing of AIFs 
and secondary 
transactions in units of 
listed AIFs 

 

 

 

 

 

TAXATION of Listed AIFs 

A new tax code for AIFs could be modelled along the following features: 

Exemption to the AIF for all streams of income earned by the AIF on its 

investments in portfolio entities 

Taxation of income (viz dividend and interest) distribution by the AIF to its 

investors in the hands of the AIF’s investors 

Dividend - Exempt from tax in the hands of the investor 

Interest – Domestic investor at their respective tax rates, Non-resident 

investors at 5% 

Taxation of gains actually realized by the AIF’s investors either on unit 

redemption by the AIF or on secondary transfer by a unit holder to another 

131 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

MOF-CBDT 

E.Important Pending 
Recommendations 
from Previous 
AIPAC Reports 

AIF Taxation- 
Recognition of Costs & 
Net Losses 

These 
recommendations 
need to be 
implemented on an 
expeditious basis in 
order to make the 
current pass through 
tax regime more 
efficient. 

132 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

unit holder or third party** 

Equity Oriented Fund: 

Short-term capital gains @ 15% with the sale/ redemption being liable to STT 

Long-term capital gains – Exempt from tax in the hands of the investor with the 

sale/ redemption being liable to STT 

Debt Oriented Fund: 

Short-term capital gains @ Maximum Marginal Rate 

Long-term capital gains @ 20% for domestic investors, 10% for non-resident 

investors 

• The following critical issues are yet to be addressed in the tax law: 

Significant costs incurred by the AIF are not factored in determining the 
investors’ tax liability 

Net losses incurred by AIFs are not available to investors and may lapse if not 
set-off by the AIF 

Recommendations 

• Allowing a deduction for management fee and expenses in determining 
taxable gains 

Allow management fee incurred from the date of the investment to the date of 
its divestment to be capitalised as “cost of improvement”. The management 
fee incurred may be calculated based on the management fee contractually 
payable to the AIF’s investment manager at the annual rate applied to the 
actual cost of the investment. 

• Allow pass through for net losses incurred by AIFs 

( The related draft amendments are given in Section C of Chapter V of 
this report ) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

S. No. 

F. 
 

Ministry of 
Corporate 
Affairs: 
Social 
Venture 
Funds & 
CSR 

4. 

Restriction on investment by Companies using CSR funds 

Suggested Changes: CSR in Companies Act 2013 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Ministry of Corporate Affairs may consider issuing a 
circular/notification modifying section 135 and Schedule VII of the 
Companies Act to effectuate the following: 

Section 135. Corporate Social Responsibility: 
(1) Every company having net worth of rupees five hundred crore or more, 
or turnover of rupees one thousand crore or more or a net profit of rupees 
five  crore  or  more  during  any  financial  year  shall  constitute  a  Corporate 
Social  Responsibility  Committee  of  the  Board  consisting  of  three  or  more 
directors, out of which at least one director shall be an independent director. 

(2)  The Board's report under sub-section (3) of section 134 shall disclose the 
composition of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee. 

(3) The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee shall, — 
(a)  formulate  and  recommend  to  the  Board,  a  Corporate  Social 
Responsibility Policy which shall indicate the activities to be undertaken by 
the company as specified in Schedule VII; 
(b) recommend the amount of expenditure or investment to be incurred on 
the activities referred to in clause (a); and (c) monitor the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy of the company from time to time. 
(4) The Board of every company referred to in sub-section (1) shall, — 
(a) after taking into account the recommendations made by the Corporate 
Social Responsibility Committee, approve the Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy for the company and disclose contents of such Policy in its report and 
also place  it on the company's website,  if any, in such manner as may be 
prescribed; and 
(b)  ensure  that  the  activities  as  are 
Responsibility Policy of the company are undertaken by the company. 

in  Corporate  Social 

included 

(5) The Board of every company referred to in sub-section (1), shall ensure 
that the company spends or invests, in every financial year, at least two per 
cent.  of  the  average  net  profits  of  the  company  made  during  the  three 
immediately preceding financial years, in pursuance of its Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy. 

Provided that the company shall give preference to the local area and areas 
around it where it operates, for spending/investing the amount earmarked 
for Corporate Social Responsibility activities: 

129 

Provided further that if the company fails to spend such amount, the Board 
shall, in its report made under clause (o) of sub-section (3) of section 134, 

133 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

specify the reasons for not spending/investing the amount. 

 

 

 

“Further, in exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of section 
467  of  the  Companies  Act,  the  Central  Government  hereby  makes  the 
following amendments to Schedule VII of the said Act, namely: - 

In Schedule VII, after items (i) to (x) and the entries relating thereto, the 
following items and entries shall be inserted, namely: - 

“(xi) social business projects” 
“(xii) social enterprise” 
“(xiii) social venture or social venture fund as defined under SEBI 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulation, 2012” 

5. 

IT Act, 1961: Widening the Scope of Eligible Investments by Public Trusts 

MoF CBDT 

Additional clauses allowing wider permissible modes of investment by public 
trusts  under  Section  11(5)  of  ITA.  The  ITA  should  amend  section  11(5)  to 
effectuate the following: 

“(iva) investment in any security of a social business or a social enterprise” 
“(ivaa) investment in the security of a not-for-profit company 

Explanation- In this clause, a not-for-profit company means a company set 
up under Section 8 of the Companies Act” 

“(ivaaa) investment in social venture fund 

Explanation-  In  this  clause,  a  “social  venture  fund”  means  an  Alternative 
Investment Fund [set up under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012] which invests primarily in 
securities or units of social ventures and which satisfies social performance 
norms  laid  down  by  the  fund  and  whose  investors  may  agree  to  receive 
restricted or muted returns.” 

 

 

 

 

134 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

6. 

SEBI-AIF 
Regulations 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i) 

ii) 

 

iii) 

Include “Social Enterprises” as a separate category in the AIF Regulation 

Section 2(u) of the AIF Regulations may be amended as follows: 

A “social venture” is defined as a “non-profit venture” or a “social 
enterprise”. 

“Non-profit venture” means a trust, society or company formed with the 
purpose of promoting social welfare or solving social problems or providing 
social benefits and includes, 
(i) public charitable trusts registered with Charity Commissioner; 
(ii) societies registered for charitable purposes; 
(iii) company registered under Section 8 of the Companies Ac. 

“Social Enterprise” means a trust, society or company or limited liability 
partnership which satisfies all of the conditions below: 

It has the achievement of positive social impact as a primary 
objective under its memorandum and articles of association. 

It  carries  on  a  business  in  the  areas  of  agriculture,  affordable 
healthcare,  affordable  education,  affordable  housing,  financial 
inclusion, renewable energy, water and sanitation, livelihoods, or any 
other area as may be notified by the Government for priority sector 
lending, but  does  not  carry on business in the areas of Real estate 
other  than  affordable  housing,  Infrastructure,  Tobacco,  Alcohol, 
Weapons or Wildlife. 

It focuses primarily on promoting the social welfare of, or providing 
social benefits to, Specified Beneficiaries, who may act as producers, 
consumers, suppliers or employees in relation to the Social Enterprise. 
For  the  purpose  of  this  provision,  Specified  Beneficiaries  shall  be 
persons  with  annual  household  incomes  of  less  than  a  threshold 
prescribed  annually  by  the  investment  committee  of  the  SEBI-
registered social venture fund making the investment or be individuals 
with physical disabilities. 

135 

Abbreviations 

Alternative Investment Fund 
Accredited Investor 
Alternative Investment Fund Manager 

AIF 
AI 
AIFM 
AIFMD  Alternative Investment Fund 

Manager Directive 

AIPAC  Alternative Investment Funds Policy 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AUM 
BSE 
CBDT 
CCD 
CCPS 

Advisory Committee 
Assets Under Management 
Bombay Stock Exchange 
Central Board of Direct Taxes 
Compulsorily Convertible Debentures 
Compulsorily Convertible Preference 
Shares 
Central Goods and Service Tax 
1 Crore = 10 million = 100 Lakhs 
Dividend Distribution Tax 

CGST 
Crore 
DDT 
DTAA  Double Tax Avoidance Agreement 
DII 
EIF 
ETF 
ESMA  European Securities and Markets 

Domestic Institutional Investor 
Eligible Investment Fund 
Exchange Traded Fund 

Authority 
Employee Stock Option Plan 
Finance Act 
Foreign Currency Non-Resident bank 
account 
Foreign Direct Investments 
Foreign Exchange Management Act 
Fair Market Value 
Fund-of-Funds 
Foreign Portfolio Investor 
Foreign Venture Capital Investor 
Global Depository Receipt 
Gujarat International Finance Tec-City 
General Partner 
Goods & Services Tax 
Hindu Undivided Family 
Investor Advisory Committee 
International Financial Services Centre 

ESOP 
FA 
FCNR 

FDI 
FEMA 
FMV 
FOF 
FPI 
FVCI 
GDR 
GIFT 
GP 
GST 
HUF 
IAC 
IFSC 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IIT 
IT Act 
IRDA 

Infrastructure Investment Trust 
Income Tax Act, 1961 
Insurance Regulatory & Development 
Authority 
Internal Rate of Return 
One Lac = 100 Thousand 
Limited Partner 
Limited Liability Partnership 
Long-term Capital Gains Tax 

IRR 
LACS 
LP 
LLP 
LTCG 
MCA  Model Contribution Agreement 
MMPCV Mid-Market Permanent Capital Vehicle 
NR 
NRI 
NRE 
NRO 
PE 
PFRDA  Pension Fund Regulatory Development 

Non-resident 
Non-resident Indian 
Non-Resident External bank account 
Non-Resident (Ordinary) bank Ac 
Private Equity 

PIO 
PLCC 

Authority 
Person of Indian Origin 
The ratio of contributions to date 
measured against committed capital 
Private Placement Memorandum 
Qualified Institutional Buyer 
Qualified Institutional Placement 
Reserve Bank of India 
Return of Income 
Real Estate Investment Trust 
Residual Value to Paid-In Capital 
The Securities Exchange Board of India 
Securities & Exchange Commission 
Short-term Capital Gains Tax 
Securities Transaction Tax 
Social Venture Funds 
Tax Deducted at Source 

PPM 
QIB 
QIP 
RBI 
ROI 
REIT 
RVPI 
SEBI 
SEC 
STCG 
STT 
SVF 
TDS 
TISPRO  Foreign Exchange Management 

(Transfer or Issue of Security by a 
Person Resident Outside India) 
Regulations 2000 
Total Value to Paid-In Capital 
Venture Capital 
Venture Capital Fund 

TVPI 
VC 
VCF 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

136 

 

 

 

