 
 

 

Discussion Paper on  

 

Compliance with SEBI Regulations by listed 

entities undergoing Corporate Insolvency 

Resolution Process under the Insolvency and 

Bankruptcy Code, 2016 

 

 

Background and Need for review 

 
1.  The objective of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (“IBC”) as stated in the 

preamble to the said Act is as under: 

“An  Act  to  consolidate  and  amend  the  laws  relating  to  reorganisation  and 

insolvency resolution of corporate persons, partnership firms and individuals 

in a time bound manner for maximisation of value of assets of such persons, 

to promote entrepreneurship, availability of credit and balance the interests 

of all the stakeholders including alteration in the order of priority of payment 

of  Government  dues  and  to  establish  an  Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy  Board 

of India, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” 

  

2.  Corporate Insolvency  Resolution Process (“CIRP”) is the process for resolution of 

insolvency of a corporate debtor  in accordance with the provisions of IBC. Where 

the  corporate  debtor  is  a  listed  entity,  the  applicable  regulatory  framework  under 

various SEBI Regulations may have to be suitably modified to facilitate insolvency 

resolution  while  at  the  same  time  ensuring  that  the  interests  of  investors  in 

securities of such corporate debtors are protected.   

3.  Under the framework outlined in IBC, in case of a company undergoing CIRP, the 

management of  affairs  of  the  company  vests  in  a  Resolution  Professional  (“RP”). 

Powers  of  the  board  of  directors  of  the  company  stand  suspended  and  are 

exercised by the RP. The officers and managers of the company report to the RP 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

and  the  personnel  of  the  company,  its  promoters  or  any  other  person  associated 

with the management of the company extend all assistance and cooperation to the 

RP in managing the affairs of the company.  

4.  Further,  in  terms  of  Section  28  of  IBC,  the  RP  is  subject  to  supervision  of  the 

Committee  of  Creditors  in  as  much  as  it  cannot  take  certain  actions  listed  there 

under without obtaining prior approval of the said Committee. Thus, activities of a 

listed  entity  which  otherwise  would  have  been  undertaken  with  the  approval  of 

board of directors, would require  action by  RP or the  approval of a Committee of 

Creditors (“CoC”) in a CIRP scenario.    

 

Regulatory Instructions 

 
5.  The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (“IBBI”) has, inter alia, clarified vide 

circular  dated  January  03,  2018  that  a  corporate  person  undergoing  insolvency 

resolution  process  under  IBC  needs  to  comply  with  provisions  of  the  applicable 

laws (Acts, Rules and Regulations, Circulars, Guidelines, Orders, Directions, etc.) 

during  such  process,  unless  the  provision  is  specifically  exempted  by  the 

competent authority or becomes inapplicable by operation of law for the corporate 

person.  IBBI  has  further  directed  that  while  acting  as  an  Interim  Resolution 

Professional,  a  Resolution  Professional,  or  a  Liquidator  for  a  corporate  person 

under  the  Code,  an  insolvency  professional  shall  exercise  reasonable  care  and 

diligence  and  take  all  necessary  steps  to  ensure  that  the  corporate  person 

undergoing any process under IBC complies with the applicable laws. 

 

6.  The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has clarified vide its General Circular No. 

IBC/01/2017 dated October 25, 2017 that the approval of shareholders/ members 

of the corporate debtor/ company for a particular action required in the resolution 

plan for its implementation, which would have been required under the Companies 

Act,  2013  or  any  other  law  if  the  resolution  plan  of  the  company  was  not  being 

considered  under  IBC,  is  deemed  to  have  been  given  on  its  approval  by  the 

Adjudicating Authority. 

 

 
 

Page 2 

 

 

 

 
 
7.  Thus,  there  is  a  fundamental  change  in  management  and  governance  of  a  listed 

   

 

 

entity  during  CIRP  as  well  as  pursuant  to  approval  of  resolution  plan.  The 

securities  laws  have  cast  several  obligations  on  listed  entities  in  the  interest  of 

investors.  Keeping  in  view  the  interests  of  investors,  the  modified  governance 

structure  of  the  listed  corporate  debtor  and  the  need  for  ensuring  revival  of  the 

corporate  debtor  pursuant  to  resolution  plan,  there  is  a  necessity  of  providing  a 

suitable framework  of  compliance  with  securities  laws  by  listed  entities  which  are 

subject to CIRP (hereinafter referred to as ‘listed corporate debtors’). 

 
 

Proposals for Review 

 

8.  In view of the circumstances pertaining to the listed corporate debtors, it is felt that 

suitable  clarifications/  amendments  may  be  required  under  various  SEBI 

Regulations  to  facilitate  and  ensure  compliance  with  the  securities  laws.  For  the 

said  purpose,  the  insolvency  proceedings  in  respect  of  a  listed  corporate  debtor 

may  be  divided  into  three  distinct  stages,  viz.  (i)  Pre-CIRP  stage,  i.e.  the  period 

before the application for initiating CIRP is admitted by NCLT, (ii) CIRP stage, i.e. 

the  period  spanning  from  admission  of  application  by  NCLT  till  the  time  the 

resolution  plan  is  approved  by  NCLT,  and  (iii)  Post-CIRP  stage,  i.e.  the  period 

when the resolution plan as approved by NCLT is being implemented. The various 

issues/ proposals corresponding to each of the aforesaid stage are outlined below. 

 

A.  Pre-CIRP Stage 

 

9.  Disclosures - 

(a)  Existing  provision  -  Presently,  there  are  no  specific  disclosure  requirements 

pertaining  to  filing  of  application  or  admission  of  application  for  initiating  CIRP  in 

the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015 

(“LODR Regulations”). 

(b) Proposal - Regulation 30 of LODR Regulations which prescribes disclosure of 

material  events  to  the  stock  exchanges  may  be  suitably  amended  to  specifically 

prescribe disclosures, on occurrence of the following events, by a listed corporate 

debtor: 

 
 

Page 3 

 

 
 

i. 

ii. 

 

 

 

 

   

Filing of application by the corporate applicant  for initiation of CIRP; 

Filing of application by creditors for initiation of CIRP against the corporate 

debtor;  

iii.  Amount in default as stated in the application made to NCLT under sections 

7, 9 and 10 of IBC; 

iv.  Receipt  of  demand  notice  or  copy  of  invoice  demanding  payment  of  the 

amount involved in default, from the operational creditor, in terms of section 

8(1) of IBC; and 

v.  Admission of application by NCLT. 

 

B.  CIRP Stage 

 
10. Trading  in  stock  exchange  -  In  addition  to  assessment  of  risk-reward  trade-off, 

liquidity  of  the  investment  is  also  an  important  factor  for  an  investor  evaluating 

investments in equity. Deep and reliable secondary market for purchase and sale 

of shares is one of the vital elements of securities market. As such, continuation of 

trading  in  the  scrip  of  listed  corporate  debtor  would  facilitate  transparency  and 

better  price  discovery  and  would,  therefore,  be  in  the  interest  of  investors. 

However,  continued  trading  on  the  stock  exchanges  would  depend  on  such 

companies meeting the listing standards of the exchanges. Accordingly, comments 

are sought on whether it is desirable to impose any fetters on the transferability of 

shares  of  listed  corporate  debtors  by  introducing  restrictions  on  trading  in  stock 

exchange. 

 

11. Disclosures -  

(a)  Existing  provision  -  Presently,  there  are  no  specific  disclosure  requirements 

pertaining to CIRP in the LODR Regulations. 

(b)  Proposal  -  Regulation  30  of  LODR  Regulations  may  be  suitably  amended  to 

specifically prescribe the following disclosures by a listed corporate debtor: 

i.  Public announcement ordered by NCLT, 

ii.  Invitation of claims by Interim Resolution Professional, 

iii.  Confirmation of Interim Resolution Professional by the CoC, 

 
 

Page 4 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

iv.  Intimation of meetings of CoC, 

v.  The event of Information Memorandum having been prepared by RP, 

vi.  Number of bids received by RP, 

vii.  The event of filing of resolution plan with NCLT, 

viii.  Approval  of  resolution  plan  by  NCLT  and  the  resolution  plan,  so  approved, 

and 

ix.  Any other material information not involving commercial secrets.  

 

C.  Post-CIRP Stage 

 

12. Material Related Party Transactions (RPTs) - 

(a)  Existing  provision  -  In  terms  of  regulation  23(4)  of  LODR  Regulations,  all 

material  related  party  transactions  require  approval  of  the  shareholders  through 

resolution  and  the  related  parties  are  required  to  abstain  from  voting  on  such 

resolutions whether the entity is a related party to the particular transaction or not. 

(b) Proposal - In line with the General Circular dated October 25, 2017 issued by 

MCA,  regulation  23(4)  of  LODR  Regulations  may  be  amended  to  clarify  that 

shareholders’ approval will not be required  if a listed corporate debtor undertakes 

material RPTs as part of a resolution plan approved by NCLT. 

  

13. Disposal of shares in material subsidiary - 

(a) Existing provision - In terms of regulation 24(5) of LODR Regulations, a listed 

entity shall not dispose of shares in its material subsidiary resulting in reduction of 

its shareholding (either on its own or together with other subsidiaries) to less than 

fifty percent or cease the exercise of control over the subsidiary without passing a 

special resolution in its General Meeting except in cases where such divestment is 

made under a scheme of arrangement duly approved by a Court/Tribunal. 

(b) Proposal - In line with the General Circular dated October 25, 2017 issued by 

MCA, the exemption from passing a special resolution which is currently available 

to  ‘schemes  of  arrangement’  duly  approved  by  a  Court/  Tribunal  may  also  be 

extended to resolution plans approved by NCLT. 

 

 
 

Page 5 

 

 

 
 
14. Dealing with assets of material subsidiary - 

 

 

 

   

(a) Existing provision - In terms of regulation 24(6) of LODR Regulations; selling, 

disposing  and  leasing  of  assets  amounting  to  more  than  twenty  percent  of  the 

assets  of  the  material  subsidiary  on  an  aggregate  basis  during  a  financial  year 

shall require prior approval of shareholders by way of special resolution, unless the 

sale/disposal/lease  is  made  under  a  scheme  of  arrangement  duly  approved  by  a 

Court/Tribunal. 

(b) Proposal - In line with the General Circular dated October 25, 2017 issued by 

MCA, the exemption from passing a special resolution which is currently available 

to  ‘schemes  of  arrangement’  duly  approved  by  a  Court/  Tribunal  may  also  be 

extended to resolution plans approved by NCLT. 

 

15. Re-classification of promoters - 

(a) Existing provision  - Regulation 31A of LODR Regulations has laid  down the 

conditions on fulfillment of which the promoter of a listed entity may be re-classified 

as  a  public  shareholder.  Regulation  31A(7)(b)  also  stipulates  that  increase  in  the 

level  of  public  shareholding  pursuant  to  re-classification  of  promoter  shall  not  be 

counted 

towards  achieving  compliance  with  minimum  public  shareholding 

requirement under rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

(b)  Issue  -  It  has  been  represented  to  SEBI  that  in  terms  of  resolution  plan 

approved  by  NCLT,  the  existing  promoters  may  be  diluted  to  an  extent  that  they 

may  not  be  left  with  any  significant  shareholding  and/or  control  in  the  listed 

corporate debtor. In respect of such cases, relaxation of the conditions prescribed 

under  Regulation  31A  of  LODR  Regulations  has  been  sought  for  re-classifying 

such  promoters  as  public  shareholders.  It has  also  been  suggested  that  such  re-

classified  shareholding  should  be  permitted  to  be  counted  towards  achieving 

compliance  with  minimum  public  shareholding  requirement  stipulated  under  the 

Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957.  Comments  are  hereby  sought  in 

this regard. 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 6 

 

 

 
 
16. Compliance with Minimum Public Shareholding Requirement - 

 

 

 

   

(a)  Existing  provision  -  In  terms  of  regulation  38  of  LODR  Regulations,  a  listed 

entity shall comply with the minimum public shareholding requirements specified in 

Rule 19(2) and Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

(b)  Proposal  -  As  part  of  implementing  the  resolution  plan,  if  the  public 

shareholding falls below  the level of 25% then the listed corporate debtor may be 

granted  a  time  period  of  2  years  instead  of  the  1  year  period  currently  allowed 

under  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957,  to  achieve  compliance 

with the minimum public shareholding requirement of 25%.  

 

17. Acquisition beyond maximum permissible non-public shareholding - 

(a)  Existing  provision  -  In  terms  of  the  proviso  to  regulation  3(2)  of  the  SEBI 

(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  (“Takeover 

Regulations”),  an  acquirer  shall  not  be  entitled  to  acquire  or  enter  into  any 

agreement to acquire shares or voting rights exceeding such number of shares as 

would  take  the  aggregate  shareholding  pursuant  to  the  acquisition  above  the 

maximum permissible non-public shareholding. 

(b) Proposal - In case the said provision is not relaxed, it may hamper infusion of 

capital  for  ensuring  revival  of  a  listed  corporate  debtor.  Accordingly,  the  said 

proviso to regulation 3(2) of the Takeover Regulations may be amended to  permit 

acquisition  of  shares,  in  accordance  with  a  resolution  plan approved by  NCLT,  in 

excess of the maximum non-public shareholding, i.e. 75% presently. 

 

18. Delisting pursuant to resolution plan/ liquidation - 

(a) Existing provision -  

i.  Presently,  in  case  a  listed  entity  is  proposed  to  be  delisted  pursuant  to  a 

resolution  plan  approved  under  IBC,  the  provisions  of  SEBI  (Delisting  of 

Equity  Shares)  Regulations,  2009  (“Delisting  Regulations”)  need  to  be 

complied with. 

 
 

Page 7 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

ii.  Also, regulation 28(1) of Delisting Regulations already provides that in case of 

winding  up  proceedings  of  a  company  whose  equity  shares  are  listed  on  a 

recognised  stock  exchange,  the  rights,  if  any,  of  the  shareholders  of  such 

company  shall  be 

in  accordance  with 

the 

laws  applicable 

to 

those 

proceedings.  

 

(b)  Issue  -  It has  been  represented  to  SEBI  that  if the  proposal for  delisting  is  in 

accordance with the resolution plan which has been approved by NCLT, in such a 

case there is a need to relax the provisions of Delisting Regulations.  Accordingly, 

comments  are  sought  on  the  changes  that  may  be  required  in  the  Delisting 

Regulations in this regard.  

 

 

Public Comments 
 
19. Considering  the  implications  of  the  instant  matter  on  the  market  participants 

including  the  investors  and  listed  companies,  public  comments  on  the  issues/ 

proposals  made  at  paragraphs  9  -  18  are  solicited.  Specific  comments/ 

suggestions as per the format given below would be highly appreciated: 

 

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary:  
 

 

Name of organization (if applicable): 
 

 

Contact details:  
 

Sr. 
No. 

 

 

 

Pertains to para number 

Proposed/ 

Rationale 

suggested changes 

 

 

 

 

20. Such comments may please be e-mailed to sebicirp@sebi.gov.in or sent by post at 

the following address latest by April 15, 2018: 

Shri. Rajesh Gujjar 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Division of Corporate Restructuring 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 

 

 
 

Page 8 

 

 

   

Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Phone: +912226449232 

 
Issued on: March 28, 2018 
 
 

 

 

 

***** 

Page 9 

 

 
 

 
 

