Review of SEBI (Issue of Capital & Disclosure Requirements ) Regulations, 2009 

Consultation Paper 

 

A.  Background 

1.  SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009 (“ICDR 

Regulations”)  were  notified  in  the  year  2009  vide  notification  dated  August  26, 

2009.  Between  2009-till  date,  numerous  amendments  have  been  made  to  the 

ICDR Regulations. Different types of offerings to raise funds in the primary market 

have  been  introduced.  SEBI    has    also    issued    various    informal  guidance/ 

interpretative  letters  regarding interpretation  of  various  provisions  of  the ICDR 

Regulations. Further, there have been changes in market practices and regulatory 

environment over a period of time.  A need was thus felt to review and  realign  the 

ICDR  Regulations  with these  developments  and  to  ensure  that  they  reflect 

the  best  practices  adopted  globally.  In  view  of  the  same,  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (“SEBI”)  constituted  the  Issue  of  Capital  &  Disclosure 

Requirements  Committee  (“ICDR  Committee”)  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri 

Prithvi Haldea in June, 2017, to review the ICDR Regulations  with the following 

objectives: 

 

 

a)  To simplify the language and complexities in the regulations; 

b)  To  incorporate  changes/  new  requirements  which  have  occurred  due  to 

change in market practices and regulatory environment; 

c)  To make the regulations more readable and easier to understand. 

B.  Approach adopted in the process 

2.  The ICDR Committee while reviewing the regulations and the schedules, decided 

the following approach: 

  Simplify language and structure of the regulations to enhance its readability; 

  Separate the chapters on the basis of the type of offering so that all relevant 

information pertaining to the regulations relating to a particular type of offering 

are available at one place; 

 

Page 1 of 5 

  Align the regulations in line with the various informal guidance/ interpretative 

letters/  frequently  asked  questions  regarding  interpretation  of  various 

provisions of the regulations, issued by SEBI from time to time; 

  Update the regulations with the changes that have taken place in the last few 

years,  including  in  the  Companies  Act,  2013,  adoption of  Indian Accounting 

Standards,  various  ICDR  related  circulars,  SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee 

Benefit)  Regulations,  2014,  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 

Takeover)  Regulations, 2011, ASBA, abolition of MRTP, etc. 

  To  identify  policy  changes  in  line  with  the  present  market  practices  and  the 

prevailing regulatory environment. 

 

2.1  The ICDR Committee suggested certain policy changes. These suggestions were 

also  taken  to  the  Primary  Market  Advisory  Committee  (PMAC)  of  SEBI  which 

comprises  of  eminent  representatives  from  the  Ministry  of  Finance,  Industry, 

Market Participants, academicians, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 

and the Institute of Company Secretaries of India. The recommendations made by 

PMAC are placed at Annexure ‘A’. Few of the key recommendations proposed 

by PMAC are as follows: 

(i) 

To  align  the  definitions  of  Promoter  and  Promoter  Group  with  the 

Companies Act, 2013; 

(ii) 

To  restrict  the  disclosures  of  group  companies  to  information  related  to 

related party transactions and do away with the requirements pertaining to 

financial information, litigations etc. 

(iii)  To  increase  the  threshold for filing  of  Draft Letter  of  Offer for  rights  issue 

from the current size of Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 10 crore and above.  

(iv) 

To  enable  Issuers  to  undertake  public  issues  whose  directors  were 

debarred by the Board in the past and  such directors have completed the 

debarment period. 

(v) 

In case of IPOs, to do away with the requirement that the  aggregate of the 

proposed issue and all previous issues made in the same financial year not 

to exceed five times the issuer’s pre-issue networth. 

Page 2 of 5 

 

 

(vi) 

To  allow  foreign  venture  capital  funds  to  contribute  towards  minimum 

promoter’s contribution, in addition to Alternative Investment Funds. 

(vii)  To decrease the requirement of announcing floor price/ price band from 5 

working days to 2 working days for IPOs. 

(viii)  To  make  applicable  the  provisions  of  Monitoring  Agency  requirements  to 

issuances by banks, public financial institutions and insurance companies. 

(ix) 

To allow extension of issue period, in case of IPOs and FPOs, even without 

modification in price band. 

(x) 

To cap the Application size for Non Institutional Investors at total issue size 

less QIB portion.  

(xi) 

To rationalize the requirements and contents of due diligence certificate. 

(xii)  To introduce a new section on “Prospectus Summary” in place of the Sub-

section “Prominent notes” to risk factors.  

(xiii)  To  extend  the  requirement  of  disclosing  the  shareholding  of  ten  largest 

shareholders to shareholders holding 1% and above. 

(xiv)  To reduce the disclosure of financials to latest 3 years on consolidated basis 

and  to  disclose  the  Standalone  financials  of  the  issuer  company  and  the 

financials of the subsidiaries on the website of the issuer company. 

(xv)  To  incorporate  the  principles  governing  disclosures  of  Indian  Accounting 

Standards (IndAS) Financials. 

(xvi)  To  rationalize  the  issue  advertisements  and  also  prescribe  a  format  for 

advertisement on hoardings. 

(xvii)  To reduce the minimum application size for anchor investors  from Rs. 10 

Crore to 2 Crore for SME issues, in view of the smaller size of SME public 

issues.  

(xviii)  To enable the provisions for SME FPO and Rights Issue 

(xix)  To  increase  the maximum  post  issue face value  capital for  a  SME  public 

issue from Rs. 25 Crore to Rs. 50 Crore. 

(xx)  To merge the provisions of Institutional Placement Programme with those 

of Qualified Institutional Placement. 

 

 

Page 3 of 5 

2.2  The draft Regulations, after incorporating the  proposed  policy changes are placed at 

Annexure ‘B’, wherein: 

1.  All the chapters have been categorized on the basis of the type of offering so that 

all  relevant  information  pertaining  to  regulations  relating  to  a  particular  type  of 

offering are available at one place; 

2.  The procedural requirements have been specified through Schedules (Annexure-

C) to the draft regulations; 

3.  The provisions have been rearranged based on their sequence in the public issue 

process and relevance; 

4.  The  provisions  of  Companies  Act,  1956  (wherever  applicable),  Companies  Act, 

2013, SEBI (Substantial Acquisition & Substantial Takeover) Regulations, 2011, 

SEBI  (Share  Based  Employee  Benefits)  Regulations,  2014  have  been  suitably 

incorporated. 

5.  Various  informal  guidance  /interpretative  letters/  frequently  asked  questions/ 

Circulars regarding interpretation of various provisions of the regulations issued by 

SEBI from time to time have been suitably incorporated. 

6.  Chapters have been divided as follows: 

 

CHAPTER 
CHAPTER I 
CHAPTER II 
CHAPTER III 
CHAPTER IV 
CHAPTER V 
CHAPTER VI 
CHAPTER VII 
CHAPTER VIII 
CHAPTER IX 

CHAPTER X 
CHAPTER XI 
CHAPTER XII 

DETAILS 
Preliminary 
Initial Public Offer On Main Board 
Rights Issue 
Further Public Offer 
Preferential Issue 
Qualified Institutions Placement 
Initial Public Offer Of Indian Depository Receipts 
Rights Issue Of Indian Depository Receipts 
Initial Public Offer / Rights Issue/ Further Public Offer by 
Small And Medium Enterprises 
Institutional Trading Platform 
Bonus Issue 
Miscellaneous 

7.  Qualified  Institutions  Placement  can  now  also  be  used  to  achieve  the  minimum 

public  shareholding  norms.  Therefore,  it  is  proposed  to  include  the  provisions 

Page 4 of 5 

 

 

relating  to  offer  for  sale  by  promoters  in  order  to  achieve  the  minimum  public 

shareholding  norms  in  the  chapter  on  QIP  and  to  do  away  with  the  chapter  on 

Institutional Placement Programme.  

8.  References  have  also  been  included  in  brackets  and  highlighted  suitably  at  the 

beginning of each Regulation/Sub‐Regulation, as applicable, for easy reference to 

specific clauses of existing Regulations. 

 

PUBLIC COMMENTS 

Considering the importance of the draft ICDR regulations, public comments are solicited 

on  the  same.  SEBI  will  examine  the  proposals  of  PMAC  after  receiving  the  public 

comments on the same. Specific comments/ suggestions as per the format given below 

would be highly appreciated. 

Name of the person/entity/ intermediary/ investor 

Name of the Organization 

Sr. 
No. 

Pertains to Regulation/ Sub 
Regulation/ Schedule/ Clause/ Sub‐
Clause (as 
applicable) 

  

  

 

Proposed/ 
changes 

suggested 

Rationale 

  

  

Comments in the above format may please be mailed on or before May 25, 2018 to icdr-

review@sebi.gov.in. The comments may also be sent by post to:‐ 

  

Mr. Narendra Rawat, 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No.C4‐A, ʺGʺ Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai ‐ 400051 
Ph:+912226449383 

 

Page 5 of 5 

