 

Consultation paper on draft framework for participation of foreign entities, 
having actual exposure to Indian commodity markets, in the commodity 

derivatives market 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
1.  Objective 
 

 
2.  Background 
 

1.  The objective of the consultation paper is to seek comments / views from 
the public on the proposal for permitting foreign entities, having actual 
exposure  to  Indian  commodity  markets,  in  the  domestic  commodity 
derivatives market and to determine an appropriate regulatory framework 
for the said proposal. 

1.  SEBI  has  constituted  an  Advisory  Committee,  known  as  Commodity 
Derivatives Advisory Committee (CDAC) to advise SEBI in the matters 
connected  to  regulation  and  development  of  the  Indian  commodity 
derivatives market. In its first meeting held on March 04, 2016, CDAC 
constituted 3 sub-groups comprising  different expert  members  and the 
leading  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  to  deliberate  on  various 
issues/subject matters assigned to them and to give their recommendations 
for  consideration  by  the  CDAC.  In  this  regard,  the    Sub-group-I  was 
assigned with the following task : 

"to  examine  the  impact  and  utilization  of  commodity  derivatives 
markets. The terms of reference for the group would be to deliberate 
and recommend broadly on the issues pertaining to introduction of 
new  products  and  increasing  participation  in  the  commodity 
derivative market, especially of hedgers. Further, the group may also 
deliberate  upon  the  objective  criteria  for  inclusion/exclusion  of 
commodities for derivative contracts” 

2.  On the basis of various suggestions made by the sub-group, the CDAC 
made  the  following  recommendation  to  SEBI  regarding  increasing 
participation in Commodity Derivatives Market.  

 

Page 1 of 12 

 

 

 

 

 

“The  tentative  phased  manner  in  which  Government,  SEBI,  other 
Regulatory Bodies and exchanges could work together for permitting 
new participants on commodity derivatives exchanges is as under:  

 
Phase 1 
  Category III Alternate Investment Fund (AIF)  
  Portfolio Management Service (PMS)  
  Mutual Funds  
  Direct participation of Foreign participants having exposure to 
commodities  
 

Phase 2 
  Banks  
 
  Foreign Portfolio Investors  
  Pension Funds ” 

Insurance/reinsurance Companies  

4. 

3.  CDAC further advised SEBI to adopt a calibrated approach before opening 
up  the  commodity  derivatives  market  to  foreign  participation  where, 
presently the domestic institutional participation is also not allowed. 
It may be noted that currently the foreign entities or firms who have no 
presence in India, but do import and/or export of various commodities 
from/to India thereby carry with them underlying price risks, are not allowed 
to directly participate in the Indian commodity exchanges.  To be able to 
hedge their price risks on the Indian commodity derivatives exchanges, 
such overseas entities need to first establish a subsidiary entity, resident in 
India. This may be a feasible proposition only for large multinationals but 
not for relatively smaller entities. It is therefore important that such entities 
which have no presence in India but by virtue of their actual exposure to 
the various commodities in Indian market, are valuable stakeholders in the 
value chain of such commodities, and are also exposed to price uncertainty 
of Indian commodity markets, should be able to hedge their price risk in 
Indian commodity derivatives exchanges. This is especially more critical for 
those overseas entities who have physical market exposure to the following 
two categories of commodities in the domestic commodity markets:- 

 

 

Page 2 of 12 

 

 

 

 

a)  First category of commodities where India is the only country which 
offers/can offer derivatives contracts. Some of the key commodities 
in  this  category  could  be  Spices  (Coriander,  Jeera,  Pepper, 
Cardamom,  Turmeric  etc.),  Pulses  (Chana),  Guar  Seed/Gum, 
Cottonseed Oilcake, Castor Seed, Jute, Mentha Oil, Isabgol seed, 
Brass and Diamond etc.. 
b)  Second  category  covers  all  those  global  commodities  such  as 
Soymeal, Cotton, Sugar, Base Metals, Precious Metals, Rubber and 
Wheat etc., where large numbers of foreign entities have underlying 
exposure in Indian markets by way of exports/imports. There is an 
active derivatives market for these commodities in India that can offer 
hedging platforms to these foreign entities. 

 
5.  Allowing direct participation of foreign entities having actual exposure to 
commodities may make Indian commodity derivative markets more broad-
based, vibrant, deep and efficient. It may also add to the depth and liquidity 
in the far-month contracts. The participation by these entities may in the 
long run, pave way for Indian markets in becoming price setters for some 
of the global commodities.  

 
6.  Participation by foreign entities is also critical to improve liquidity in Indian 
commodity derivatives exchanges at least for those commodities where 
India  is  predominantly  a  large  importer  or  exporter.  From  a  national 
perspective, the key benefits in enabling such international participants to 
trade on Indian commodity derivative market would be : 

 

b)  More 

in 

for  some  of 

liquidity  of  contracts 

a)  The  current  global  benchmark  prices 

the  key 
commodities which are traded only in Indian commodity derivatives 
exchanges  would  get  strengthened  by  participation  by  foreign 
import/export entities. 
Indian  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges  may  attract  more  domestic  firms  to  trade  on  Indian 
exchanges conveniently and the necessity for accessing overseas 
exchanges for hedging their price risks may diminish over a period of 
time. 
c)  It may help improve efficient import/exports of various commodities 
with good  risk management and low  default risk associated  with 
them. 

 

Page 3 of 12 

 

 
3.  Proposed Procedure and Regulatory Framework 

 

 
1.  The  foreign  entity  intending  to  hedge  its  actual  exposure  to  physical 
markets in India should have either import or export exposure in respect of 
any of the commodities that are traded on Indian commodity derivatives 
exchanges. The regulatory framework proposed for enabling  a foreign 
entity with exposure to Indian commodity market to hedge on the Indian 
commodity derivatives market, is outlined in the following section: 
 

I.  Eligible Commodities: 
1)  To begin with, foreign entities may be enabled to hedge their exposures in 
the  derivatives  markets  to  those  commodities  which  fulfill  any  of  the 
following criteria: 
a)  Commodity where Indian has a large share in the global markets or 
where India is dominant player in terms of either production, export, 
import or consumption. 
b)  Commodities where India is the only country which offers derivatives 
contracts, provided that such commodity is not a sensitive commodity as 
defined in terms of SEBI circular SEBI/HO/CDMRD/DMP/CIR/P/2017/84 
dated July 25, 2017. 

 

 
 

 
 

II.  Nomenclature: 
1)  Foreign  entities,  having  actual  exposure  to  Indian  physical  commodity 

markets, may be termed as “Eligible Foreign Entities” (EFEs). 

III.  Eligibility and Jurisdiction  
1)  Such  EFEs  shall  have  actual  exposure  to  Indian  physical  commodity 

2)  Such EFE is not resident in India.  
 
3)  Such EFE may be Non-Resident Indian (NRIs), provided that such NRIs are 

engaged in physical commodity trading businesses with India. 
 

markets. 
 

 

Page 4 of 12 

 

 

 

 

4)  Such  EFE  is  resident  in  a  country/jurisdiction  whose  securities  market 
regulator and/or commodity derivatives market regulator is a signatory to 
IOSCO’s MMOU (Appendix A Signatories) or a signatory of a bilateral MOU 
with SEBI.  

Provided that such EFE is not resident in a country identified in the 
public statement of Financial Action Task Force as: 
(i)  a  jurisdiction  having  a  strategic  Anti-Money  Laundering  or 
Combating the Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to which counter 
measures apply; or 
(ii) a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient progress in addressing 
the deficiencies or has not committed to an action plan developed 
with the Financial Action Task Force to address the deficiencies  

 

IV.  Registration of EFEs 

that 

there  would 

5)  If such EFEs are also registered with SEBI as Foreign portfolio Investors 
(FPIs)  or  Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investors  (FVCIs)  then  they  may  be 
permitted  to  participate  in  commodity  derivatives  markets  subject  to 
conditions 
of 
funds/securities/commodities under the respective registrations.  

 
6)  The minimum networth requirement for such EFE may be US$ 1 million. 
However this limit may be gradually reviewed based on experience of EFE 
participation in the market. 
 

segregation 

be 

a 

clear 

 
1)  The  EFEs  desirous  of  taking  hedge  positions  in  Indian  commodity 
derivatives market  shall approach  Authorized Stock Brokers (ASBs), 
from amongst the Brokers which are registered under SEBI(Stock brokers 
and sub-brokers) Regulations, 1992 and are authorized by the commodity 
derivatives exchanges for opening of such accounts. 

 
2)  The exchanges shall jointly frame guidelines regarding the eligibility criteria 
for  the  ASBs  which  shall  be  approved  by  their  Risk  Management 
Committees. While framing guidelines for ASBs, the exchanges shall look 
into various aspects, some of which are outlined as under: 
a)  Financial capabilities and minimum net-worth requirements of at least 

 
INR 50 Crores. 

 

Page 5 of 12 

 

 

 

b)  appropriate arrangements with clearing bank or clearing member of any 
c)  Appropriate arrangements for receipt and remittance of money with a 
d)  It has appropriate systems and procedures to comply with the FATF 
e)  It  has  appropriate  systems  and  procedures  to  handle  the  physical 
f)  There is no disciplinary action against the ASB by the exchange currently 

of the respective exchange; 
designated Authorized Dealer (AD) Category - I bank. 
Standards, PMLA and SEBI circulars issued from time to time.  
deliveries of the underlying commodities on behalf of EFEs. 
envisaged. This may be reviewed later. 
 

If required, SEBI may review, the guidelines of eligibility criteria for the ASBs 
jointly framed by the exchanges. 

 
3)  An EFE can open only one trading account with any ASB of its choice and 

6)  Such EFE shall provide its Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) numbers, wherever 

participate in the commodity derivatives trading through the said ASB. 
 
4)  The ASBs shall be responsible for carrying out due-diligence and complete 
necessary  formalities/documentations  as  specified  by  the  commodity 
derivatives exchanges in this regard. 
 
5)  The ASBs shall capture the details of the overseas bank account designated 
by the EFE. EFE shall open a single non-interest bearing Rupee account 
with an AD Category-I bank in India for routing the receipt and payment for 
transactions. 
 
available. 
 
EFEs. 
 
8)  The  ASB  shall,  at  all  times,  ensure  that  the  participation  of  EFE  is  in 
compliance with laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdictions where the 
such EFEs are located as well as with the applicable norms prescribed by  
SEBI, RBI or any other statutory authority in India. For this purpose the ASB 
shall obtain appropriate declarations and undertaking from EFEs, from time 
to time, as may be prescribed by Exchanges and regulator. 
 

7)  The  ASBs  shall  obtain  appropriate  declarations  and  undertakings  from 

 

 

Page 6 of 12 

 

 

V.  Know Your Client (KYC) requirements 
 
1)  The EFE shall be required to meet the extant KYC requirements as per 
extant Indian AML Laws in line with extant KYC approach adopted for the 
Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs). 

 
 
1)  The  EFE  shall  place  orders  through  their  ASBs  on  the  commodity 

VI.  Order placement 

derivatives exchange platform only. 

 
VII.  Risk management 

 

 

 
1)  The commodity derivatives exchanges shall put in place appropriate risk 
management systems in place for allowing EFE to take positions in eligible 
commodities. 

 

VIII.  Position Limit, documentation and other conditions 
 

2)  Restrictions,  if  any,  shall  be  placed  by  SEBI/  commodity  derivatives 

1)  The position limits shall be governed by the hedge policy of the commodity 
derivatives Exchanges and no separate client trading limits shall be allowed 
for EFEs. Commodity Derivatives Exchanges shall issue a separate hedge 
code for easy identification of EFEs. 
 
Exchange based on the need to maintain market integrity. 
 
3)  The tenor of the hedge should not be greater than the tenor of underlying 
exposure ± ‘n’ days wherein n = 0 to begin with and may be gradually revised 
based  on  experience  of  EFE  participation  in  the  market  and  with 
consultation with RBI.  At any point of time during the hedge period, hedging 
positions taken in derivatives contracts by EFE, across multiple Exchanges/ 
Contracts,  shall  not  exceed  his/its  actual/anticipated  exposure  in  the 
physical market, even  if there is  a  usable  hedge limit available as per 
allocation made by the Exchanges to the hedger.  

4)  Hedge limits for a commodity will be determined on a case to case basis, 
depending on applicant’s hedging requirement and other factors which the 
commodity  derivatives  Exchange  deems  appropriate  in  the  interest  of 

 

Page 7 of 12 

 

 

for  hedge 

in 

 

the  prescribed 

market.  The  EFE  shall  approach  the  ASB  of  the  relevant  commodity 
derivatives  exchange 
format 
limits 
encompassing the following information –  
 
a)  Details  of  import  /  export  to  India  during  past  three  years,  financial 
statements / annual report of last three years, certified by auditor and as 
may be applicable. 
b)  Supporting  proof  of  Import  and/or  Export  in  the  form  of  invoice  or 
shipping/cargo bills. In case of Export/import commitments, documents 
like  proof  of  export  /  import  commitments  and  any  other  relevant 
documents, duly certified by auditor. 
c)  Hedging policy/strategy: EFE shall submit a Board resolution certifying 
Board approved policies which define the overall framework within which 
it proposes to conduct its hedging activities. 
d)  A declaration of details of hedging positions in other Indian / foreign 
commodity exchanges (if applicable), certified by auditor , 
e)  A certificate from the Statutory Auditor of the EFE that all guidelines have 
been adhered to while utilizing this facility; and 
f)  A certificate of import/export turnover of the EFE during the past three 
years duly certified by their Statutory Auditor. Hedging limit may be 
permitted up to the average of previous three financial years’ actual 
purchases  /  sales  or  the  previous  year’s  actual  purchases  /  sales 
turnover from/to India, whichever is higher, in respect of the desired 
commodities. In case an EFE has been in existence for less than 3 years, 
then the applicable time period for exposure calculation may be for the 
actual period as may be certified by their statutory auditor. 
g)  Any other additional information sought by the registering commodity 
derivatives exchange. 
 

5)  The  commodity  derivatives  exchange  may  prescribe  additional 
documents/materials for short hedging and long hedging separately based 
on the nature and use of the commodity. 

 
6)  An  EFE  shall  apply  for  the  hedge  limits  corresponding  to  its  physical 
exposure to the commodity and cannot apply for a hedge limit in respect of 
any stock it holds on behalf of another entity including stock positions it holds 
on behalf of a group-entity. The limits sanctioned to EFE shall be utilized 
only  by  it  and  not  by  anyone  else  including  any  subsidiary/associate 
company. 
 

 

Page 8 of 12 

 

 
 

 

 

7)  The EFE should not undertake any arbitrage/speculative transactions and 
the initiation and unwinding of hedge positions shall corresponds to the 
underlying position in the physical markets. The quota for hedging shall be 
used  to  only  hedge/  unwind  the  hedge  and  not  for  speculation.  The 
contracts,  once  cancelled,  cannot  be  rebooked.  The  contracts  may, 
however, be rolled over on or before, maturity subject to maturity of the 
underlying exposure. 
 
8)  The approved hedge limit is valid from the date of sanction for a period 
specified in the sanction letter. Unless renewed, the hedge limit shall stand 
terminated automatically upon expiry of such period without any notice. The 
EFE should apply for any renewal of limits in advance and before the expiry 
of earlier approval, along with relevant documents as prescribed by the 
commodity derivatives Exchange from time to time. 
 
9)  The hedge limit shall not be available for the near month contracts of the 
said underlying commodity from the date of applicability of near month or 
spot month.  

IX.  Margins 

develop an online system to deal with the EFEs in this regard. 

 
10) For  the  ease  of  business,  the  commodity  derivatives  exchanges  shall 
 
 
1)  The margins for any commodity prescribed by the commodity derivatives 
Exchange for the other market participants shall also be applicable to EFE. 
As the hedge positions are expected to be larger than the normal client level 
limits,  the  commodity  derivatives  Exchanges  shall,  based  on  their 
assessment of the risks, levy additional margins including concentration 
margin  wherever  necessary,  as  may  be  prudent.  Accordingly  the  ASB 
concerned shall ensure that appropriate margins are collected upfront from 
the EFE as risk mitigation. 
 
2)  Where, in the assessment of the ASB, the risk profile of EFE warrants 
margins in addition to the margin stipulated by the commodity derivatives 
Exchange,  the  ASB  shall  collect  such  additional  margins.  The  margins 
collected by the ASB at no time shall be less than those stipulated by the 
Exchange. 

 

Page 9 of 12 

 

 

 

 

X.  Monitoring of limits and physical exposure 
 
1)  The commodity derivatives exchanges shall put in place a mechanism to 
monitor the limits as well as physical exposure of an EFE, which may include 
seeking  periodical  reports  from  EFEs  and  ASBs  covering  the  following 
aspects: 
a)  Periodical statement of imports / exports undertaken and outstanding 
contracts, as certified by auditor  
b)  Details  of  hedging  positions  in  other  Indian  /  foreign  commodity 
exchanges(if applicable), as certified by auditor  
c)  Where  hedge  limit  is  sanctioned  based  on  prior  import  /  export 
commitments/contracts, a report showing subsequent performance of 
such  contracts  and  the  corresponding  hedging  proposed  to  be 
undertaken, as certified by an auditor.  
d)  Audited summary of import or export details/documents in the form of 
invoice  or  shipping/cargo  bills,  containing  information  like  Date  of 
Dispatch, Tentative date of arrival, Quantity on that invoice/bill etc. 
e)  EFE / ASB may be required to submit a consolidated statement on an 
annual basis.  
f)  Any  other  additional  information  as  may  be  sought  by  the  SEBI/ 
commodity derivatives Exchange from time to time.  
 

2)  The EFEs shall also be required to submit to the respective ASB a half-
yearly  certificate  from  their  statutory  auditors  as  on  March  31st  and 
September 30th, within fifteen days from the said dates, to the effect that 
during the preceding six months, whether the derivative contracts entered 
into by the EFE exceeded or not exceeded the actual underlying exposure. 
In this regard commodity derivatives exchanges shall develop an online 
system for such submission. 
 
3)  The commodity derivatives exchange/ clearing corporation shall provide 
EFE wise information on day end open position as well as intra-day highest 
position to the respective ASBs. If the EFE exceeds the allocated hedge 
limit on any day, the concerned EFE shall be liable to such penal action as 
may be laid down by the SEBI/Exchange. The ASB will be required to 
monitor 
the  notice  of 
SEBI/Exchange. 
 

this  and  bring 

transgressions, 

if  any, 

to 

 

Page 10 of 12 

 

 

 

 

4)  The positions shall be separately be monitored by the respective commodity 
derivatives exchanges and such exchanges shall augment their monitoring 
and surveillance capacity. 

XI.  Disclosure by the commodity derivatives exchanges: 

 
1)  The  commodity derivatives Exchanges  on daily basis shall  disclose  on  
their  website  the positions  allocated to EFEs, indicating the period for 
which approval is valid,  in an anonymous  manner. 

 
2)  The commodity derivatives Exchanges on daily basis shall disclose on their 
website the hedge limit allocated and utilized by such EFEs in the particular 
commodity in an anonymous manner. 
 
XII.  Code of conduct for EFEs and ASBs 
 

3)  The ASBs shall also put in place necessary system to monitor hedge limits 

1)  The EFEs shall be responsible for complying with all the relevant laws. 
2)  EFEs shall ensure that they submit the required documents as specified by 

 
the ASBs/exchanges/SEBI or any other law enforcing agencies. 
 
for such EFEs. 
 
4.  Public Comments: 
In light of above, public comments are invited on the proposal contained in this 
consultation paper. Comments/suggestions may kindly be provided in the format 
given below: 

 

 

 

 

Name of Entity/Person intermediary/ Organization 
Sr. No. 
Suggestions 
 
 
 
 

Para  No. 
Paper 
 
 

of 

Rational 
 
 

 

Page 11 of 12 

 
The comments may be sent by email to cdmrd_dmp@sebi.gov.in  or alternatively 
may be sent to following address latest by one month from the date of issue of the 
consultation paper i.e. June 18, 2018. 

 

 

 

Issued on: May 18, 2018  
 

Shri Vikas Sukhwal, 
Deputy General Manager, 
Division of Market Policy, 
Commodity Derivatives Market Regulation Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot C4-A, G-Block,  
Bandra Kurla Complex,  
Mumbai – 400051 

 

 

 

Page 12 of 12 

