 

CONSULTATIVE PAPER ON REVISION OF PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO RE-

CLASSIFICATION OF SHAREHOLDERS  

 

A. Background and need for review 

1.  Regulation  31A  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (SEBI LODR Regulations) provides for conditions with respect to 
re-classification of shareholders of listed entities. (Detailed provisions of Regulation 
31A is placed at Annex-A). 

2.  Based on representations received by SEBI, discussions with stakeholders, etc., it was 
felt that there is a need to re-visit the existing Regulation 31A with an aim to simplify, 
streamline and bring greater clarity in the provisions specified therein. 

3.  The Kotak Committee on Corporate Governance in its report to SEBI dated October 5, 
2017  also  provided  certain  recommendations  for  rationalizing  the  existing 
requirements under Regulation 31A with respect to norms pertaining to professionally 
managed  entities  and  to  introduce  new  requirement  enabling  one  of  multiple 
promoters  to  get  re-classified.  (Detailed  recommendations  of  Kotak  Committee  on 
this aspect is placed at Annex-B).  

4.  Having  analysed  the  recommendations  of  the  Kotak  Committee  and  various 
representations received by SEBI, it was felt that the existing Regulation 31A may be 
revised.  

B. Proposal: 

In view of the above, it is proposed that the existing Regulation 31A may be revised as under: 

1.  Simplification of conditions for classification:  

(i)  Under the current provisions, certain conditions for re-classification of promoters as 

public shareholders have been specified for different scenarios including: 

1.  When a new promoter replaces the previous promoter subsequent to an open offer 

or in any other manner.  

2. Where an entity becomes professionally managed and does not have any promoters. 

Further,  certain  general  conditions  for  re-classification  of  promoters  as  public 
shareholders have also been specified.  

(ii) Further, the Kotak Committee has brought out that the SEBI LODR Regulations do 
not  deal  with  a  situation  where  there  are  multiple  and  distinct  parties  classified  as 
promoters,  and  one  of  them  wishes  to  be  reclassified.  The  Committee  was  of  the 
opinion that there ought to be a mechanism to enable such reclassification to ensure 

 

Page 1 of 17 

 

persons who may have been promoters but are no longer in the day to day control and 
management and have a low shareholding should have the option to be reclassified as 
promoters. Accordingly, the Committee has suggested another new a set of conditions 
to be introduced as a new sub-Regulation 6A to be made applicable in such situations.  

(iii) It  is  felt  that  having  different  set  of  conditions  for  different  scenarios  might  be 
confusing.  It  may  also  not  possible  to  cover  all  scenarios  within  the  ambit  of  this 
Regulation.  

(iv) Hence, in order to simplify the existing provisions, it is proposed to have a single set 
of  conditions  applicable  to  all  situations  of  re-classification  of  promoters  as  public 
shareholders.  The  object  is  that  reclassification  ought  to  be  done  in  a  fair  and 
transparent manner keeping in mind the interests of the public shareholders. 

 

2.  Process to be followed for re-classification of promoters as public shareholders:  

As stated earlier, under the current provisions, since different conditions are applicable 
to  different  scenarios,  the  process  to  be  followed  in  each  case  is  different.  Further, 
shareholder  approval  is  required  only  in  certain  specified  cases  and  not  in  all  cases. 
Hence, it is proposed to have a uniform process containing clear stages to be followed 
by the listed entity and the promoters in all cases of promoter re-classification, as under: 

(i)  Stage I: Application by the promoter to the listed entity for re-classification as a 

public shareholder: 

1.  Currently,  the  application  for  reclassification  may  be  filed  either  by  the  listed 

entity or concerned shareholder to the stock exchange.  

2.  It has been observed that permitting the listed entity to re-classify a promoter as 
a public shareholder without any application for such re-classification from the 
concerned promoter is prone to misuse. Further, there is no specific requirement 
for the promoter to apply for re-classification through the listed entity.  

3.  Therefore, it is proposed that re-classification is to be permitted only upon the 

request of the promoter to the listed entity.  

(ii)  Stage II: Placing the request of the promoter before the Board of Directors of the 

listed entity:  

1.  There  is  no  clear  role  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  listed  entity  under  the 
current provisions of SEBI LODR Regulations in the matter of re-classification 
of a promoter into a public shareholder. 

2.  It is proposed that on receipt of request for reclassification from the promoter, 
the listed entity shall be required to place it before its Board of Directors and the 

 

Page 2 of 17 

recommendations of the Board (positive/negative) may be required to be placed 
before the shareholders.  

(iii)  Stage III: Approval by the shareholders:  

 

1.  Shareholder approval is currently required only in certain specified cases.  The 
profile  of  promoters/  promoter  group  is  generally  an  important  criteria  for 
investors  to  make  their  investment  decisions.  Therefore,  it  is  critical  that 
investors have a say in all reclassification requests of promoters.  

2.  Hence, it is proposed that in all cases of re-classification of promoters, including 
the recommendation of the Board, shall be required to be placed by the listed 
entity  before  the  shareholders  in  a  general  meeting  and  approved  through  an 
ordinary resolution. In order to avoid conflict of interest, it is proposed that the 
specific promoter who has requested  such reclassification, its promoter group 
and persons acting in concert shall not be permitted to vote on such resolution. 

3.  Further, the listed entity shall ensure a time gap (a cooling off period) of at least 
6  months  between  the  date  of  Board  Meeting  and  the  shareholder’s  meeting 
considering the request of the promoter. 

It may be noted that the stages mentioned above are on the lines of the recommendations 
made  by  Kotak  Committee  and  PMAC  on  the  matter.  Such  stages  will  also  ensure  that 
there  are  enough  checks  and  balances  in  place  to  ensure  that  the  interests  of  all 
stakeholders are safeguarded.  

3.  Conditions  applicable  for  promoters  to  be  eligible  for  re-classification  as  public 

shareholders:  

(i)  Under the current provisions, the conditions for a promoter to get re-classified as 
public  shareholders  are  different  under  different  scenarios.  It  is  proposed  to 
rationalize  the  existing  conditions  and  have  a  single  set  of  criteria  for  any 
promoter(s) to get re-classified as public shareholders.  

(ii)  The  main  concern  with  respect  to  outgoing  promoters  is  that  they  should  not  be 
permitted to exercise control over the listed entity, directly or indirectly and cease 
to  be  promoters  in  spirit.  Accordingly,  the  conditions  proposed  are  aimed  at 
addressing this concern. 

(iii) 

It is therefore proposed that in all cases of promoter re-classification, the specific 
promoter seeking reclassification as a public shareholder, its promoter group and 
the Persons Acting in Concert shall not: 

1.  hold more than 10% of the total voting power in the listed entity;  

2.  exercise control over the affairs of the listed entity directly or indirectly; 

 

Page 3 of 17 

 

3.  have  any  special  rights  with  respect  to  the  listed  entity  through  formal  or 

informal arrangements including through any shareholder agreements; 

4.  be  represented  on  the  Board  of  Directors  (including  by  way  of  a  nominee 

director) of the listed entity; 

5.  act as a key managerial person in the listed entity; 

Further, the promoter seeking reclassification shall not be a wilful defaulter as per 
RBI Guidelines as on the date of the shareholder’s meeting considering the request 
of the promoter. 

It is proposed that the above conditions would also apply where the listed entity has 
more than one person identified as promoter and one/ some of them are considering 
reclassification to public shareholders, and where continuing promoter(s) are not 
related to the outgoing promoter(s).   

(iv) 

(v) 

 

4.  Re-classification to be permitted only by compliant listed  entities: In order to ensure 
that only compliant listed entities are eligible to apply for re-classification, such listed 
entities shall, as on the date of application: 

(i)  Be compliant with minimum public shareholding requirement; 

(ii)  Not have their shares suspended from trading by the stock exchanges; 

(iii)  Not have any outstanding dues to SEBI or the stock exchanges; 

 

5.  Applicability  of  re-classification  provisions  in  case  of  transfer  of  shares  by  way  of 

transmission/succession/inheritance/gift: 
In order to have greater clarity in case of transmission / succession / inheritance/ gift, 
it is proposed to include the following provisions: 

(i) 

Immediately on such transfer, the inheritor shall be classified as promoter.  

(ii) 

Subsequently, in case the inheritor now classified as a promoter proposes to seek 
re-classification  of  status  as  a  public  shareholder,  it  may  do  so  subject  to 
compliance with conditions as specified in B2, B3 and B4 above.  

(iii) 

In case of death of a promoter, such person shall automatically cease to be included 
as a promoter subsequent to transmission of shares to an inheritor(s).  

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 17 

 

6.  Listed entities with no promoters: 

(i)  Currently, Regulation 31A provides for several conditions to be satisfied by a listed 
entity  to  be  classified  as  ‘professionally  managed’  including  a  condition  that  no 
person  or  group  along  with  persons  acting  in  concert  taken  together  shall  hold 
more than 1% of the paid-up equity capital of the entity. 

(ii)  The Kotak Committee has stated that this current threshold of  1% is too low and 
merits an increase to 10%. Accordingly, the Kotak Committee has  recommended 
various  conditions  for  such  entity  to  be  classified  as  a  professionally  managed 
entity including the limit of ten per cent shareholding, promoter not to be on the 
Listed  Entity  Board  /  management/  not  have  a  nominee  director,  no  other 
promoter, etc.  

(iii)  The conditions as suggested by the Kotak Committee including 10% shareholding 

has already been specified in clause 3 above.  

(iv) 

It is therefore proposed to simplify the provision as under: 

1.  Rather than terming the company as ‘professionally managed’, we may replace 
the  term  with  ‘the  listed  entities  having  no  promoter’  which  may  be  more 
appropriate.  

2.  It may be specified that a listed entity shall be considered as ‘the listed entities 
with no promoter’ if due to re-classification or otherwise, the entity does not 
have any promoter.  

 

7.  Role of the stock exchanges: 

(i)  Currently, the authority to allow re-classification of any shareholder lies with the 
stock exchanges. It is proposed to continue the said process and in line with the 
same, the following provisions are proposed to be specified: 

1.  Reclassification  /  modification  of  the  status  of  any  shareholder  shall  be 
permitted by the stock exchanges only upon receipt of a request from the listed 
entity (after undergoing all the stages specified in clause 2 above) along with 
all relevant documents. 

2.  Re-classification  of  status  of  any  promoter  as  a  public  shareholder  shall  be 
permitted only upon satisfaction of conditions specified in 2, 3, 4 and 5 above.  

3.  The  concerned  stock  exchanges  shall  jointly  decide  on  the  application  of  the 
concerned listed entity and allow modification or reclassification of the status 
of  the  shareholders  on  being  satisfied  with  the  compliance  of  the  conditions 
mentioned in the regulation. 

 

Page 5 of 17 

 

(ii) 

Further, in order to bring in greater transparency in the process of re-classification, 
it is proposed that the following events be required to be disclosed by the entity to 
the stock exchanges as material events as soon as reasonably possible and not later 
than twenty four hours from the occurrence of event: 

1.  Receipt  of  application  for  re-classification  from  the  promoter  by  the  listed 

entity.  

2.  With respect to disclosures pertaining to dispatch of notice to the shareholders 
on  the  agenda  a  required  under  Regulation  30  read  with  Schedule  III,  the 
recommendation  of  the  Board  and  rationale  for  such  recommendation  shall 
also be included.  

3.  Submission of application for re-classification to stock exchanges.  

4.  Decision of the stock exchanges as communicated to the listed entity.  

 
(Under Reg 44(3) of SEBI LODR Regulations, the listed entity is required to submit 
to the stock exchanges, details regarding the voting results within forty eight hours 
of  conclusion  of  its  General  Meeting.  Therefore,  the  requirement  for  disclosure  of 
shareholder decision has not been included here.) 

8.  Other existing conditions 

It  is  proposed  that  several  conditions  existing  currently  under  Regulation  31A  may 
continue as specified hereunder:  

(i)  Conditions for re-classification of public shareholders as promoters: If any public 
shareholder seeks to re-classify itself as promoter, it shall be required to make an 
open offer in accordance with the provisions of SEBI (Substantial  Acquisition of 
Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.  

(ii)  Relaxations  for  listed  entities where  insolvency proceedings  have  been  initiated: 
The current relaxations applicable to the companies whose resolution plans have 
been approved under section 31 of the Insolvency Code shall continue. 

(iii) 

Power  for  relaxation  of  conditions:  SEBI  may  relax  any  condition  for  re-
classification in specific cases, if it is satisfied about non-exercise of control by the 
outgoing promoter or its persons acting in concert.  

9.  Draft Regulation 

In view of the above, it is proposed that the current Regulation 31A may be replaced with 
new regulation enclosed. Draft regulation is placed Annex C. 

 

 

Page 6 of 17 

C. Public comments 

Comments on the above framework may be sent on or before August 16, 2018 in the following 
format: 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization: 

Sr. No. 

Issues 

Suggestions  

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments may be sent: 

1.  By email to Shri. Pradeep Ramakrishnan, DGM at pradeepr@sebi.gov.in and/or Ms. 
Nila  Salil  Khanolkar,  AGM  (nila@sebi.gov.in)  /  Shri.  Rajesh  Kumar  Meena 
(rajeshm@sebi.gov.in); or 

2.  By post to the following address:  

 

 

 

Ms. Nila Salil Khanolkar 
Assistant General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department, CMD-I, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4- A, "G"  Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  
Mumbai - 400 051  

 

Page 7 of 17 

Annex A: Present provisions of Reg 31A of SEBI LODR Regulations 

31A. Disclosure of Class of shareholders and Conditions for Reclassification. 

 

1.  All entities falling under promoter and promoter group shall be disclosed separately in 
the  shareholding  pattern  appearing  on  the  website  of  all  stock  exchanges  having 
nationwide trading terminals where the specified securities of the entity are listed, in 
accordance with the formats specified by SEBI. 
 

2.  The  stock  exchange,  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1),  shall  allow  modification  or 
reclassification of the status of the shareholders, only upon receipt of a request from 
the  concerned  listed  entity  or  the  concerned  shareholders  along  with  all  relevant 
evidence and on being satisfied with the compliance of conditions mentioned in this 
regulation. 
 

3.  In  case  of  entities  listed  on  more  than  one  stock  exchange,  the  concerned  stock 
exchanges  shall  jointly  decide  on  the  application  of  the  concerned  listed  entity  as 
specified in sub-regulation(2). 
 

4.  In  case  of  transmission/succession/inheritance,  the  inheritor  shall  be  classified  as 

promoter. 
 

5.  When a new promoter replaces the previous promoter subsequent to an open offer or 
in  any  other  manner,  re-classification  may  be  permitted  subject  to  approval  of 
shareholders in the general meeting and compliance of the following conditions. 
 
 

a.  Such  promoter  along  with  the  promoter  group  and  the  Persons  Acting  in 
Concert shall not hold more than ten per cent of the paid-up equity capital of 
the entity. 
 

b.  Such promoter shall not continue to have any special rights through formal or 
informal arrangements. All shareholding agreements granting special rights to 
such entities shall be terminated. 

 

 

 

c.  Such promoters and their relatives shall not act as key managerial person for a 

period of more than three years from the date of shareholders’ approval 
 
Provided that the resolution of the said shareholders' meeting must specifically 
grant approval for such promoter to act as key managerial person. 

Page 8 of 17 

 

6.  Where an entity becomes professionally managed and does not have any identifiable 
promoter the existing promoters may be re-classified as public shareholders subject to 
approval of the shareholders in a general meeting 
 
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-regulation an entity may be considered as 
Professionally managed, if- 
 

i.  No person or group along with persons acting in concert taken together shall 
hold more than one per cent paid-up equity capital of the entity including any 
holding of convertibles/outstanding warrants/ Depository Receipts: 
Provided that any mutual fund, bank, insurance company, financial institution, 
foreign  portfolio  investor  may  individually  hold  up  to  ten  per  cent  paid-up 
equity capital of the  entity including any holding of convertibles/outstanding 
warrants/Depository Receipts 
 

ii.  The  promoters  seeking  reclassification  and  their  relatives  may  act  as  key 
managerial personnel in the entity only subject to shareholders’ approval and 
for a period not exceeding three years from the date of shareholders’ approval. 
 

iii.  The  promoter  seeking  reclassification  along  with his promoter  group  entities 
and the persons acting in concert shall not have any special right through formal 
or informal arrangements. All shareholding agreements granting special rights 
to such outgoing entities shall be terminated. 
 

7.  Without  prejudice  to  sub-regulations  (5)  and  (6),  re-classification  of  promoter  as 

public shareholders shall be subject to the following conditions: 

 

a.  Such promoter shall not, directly or indirectly, exercise control, over the affairs 

of the entity. 

b.  Increase  in  the  level  of  public  shareholding  pursuant  to  re-classification  of 
promoter  shall  not  be  counted  towards  achieving  compliance  with  minimum 
public  shareholding  requirement  under  rule  19A  of  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957, and the provisions of these regulations. 

c.  The  event  of  re-classification  shall  be  disclosed  to  the  stock  exchanges  as  a 

material event in accordance with the provisions of these regulations. 

d.  Board  may  relax  any  condition  for  re-classification  in  specific  cases,  if  it  is 
satisfied about non-exercise of control by the outgoing promoter or its persons 
acting in concert. 
 

 

Page 9 of 17 

8.  If any public shareholder seeks to re-classify itself as promoter, it shall be required to 
make an open offer in accordance with the provisions of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition 
of  Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. 

 

 

Page 10 of 17 

 

 

 

 

Annex- B- Extract of Kotak Committee recommendations pertaining to 
reclassification of shareholders 
Re-classification  of  Promoters/Classification  of  Entities  as  Professionally 
Managed  

Current regulatory provisions: 

Presently, the Companies Act is silent on reclassification of promoters, while the SEBI LODR 
Regulations permit reclassification of promoters in limited circumstances.  

SEBI LODR Regulations cover mainly four aspects on the subject: (i) requirement of approval 
of stock exchanges, (ii) reclassification when a promoter is replaced by a new promoter, (iii) 
reclassification where a company ceases to have any promoters (i.e. becomes professionally 
managed) and (iv) general conditions. The specific categories of reclassification as specified 
in points (ii) and (iii) require the approval of shareholders. In addition, in cases where the 
entity  becomes  professionally  managed,  the  aggregate  shareholding  of  a  person  or  group 
along with persons acting in concert (hereinafter referred to as “PACs”) should not exceed 1%.  

Recommendation and rationale:  

The  Committee  is  of  the  opinion  that  where  there  is  no  identifiable  promoter/promoter 
group, the 1% threshold to be able to classify the entity as professionally managed is too low 
and merits an increase to 10% for the following reasons: 

 

 

from  the  listed  entity’s  perspective,  if  a  promoter  (being sole promoter)  along with its 
promoter group/PAC in aggregate holds less than 10%, it is unlikely to be able to exercise 
de-facto control; and 

from  the  promoter’s  perspective,  even  after  ceasing  to  be  in  control,  a  ‘promoter’  may 
want to continue as a financial investor with a shareholding of more than 1%, and in such 
cases, should not be required to reduce his/her shareholding to 1% or lower.  

In addition, the  SEBI  LODR Regulations also do not deal with a situation where there  are 
multiple  and  distinct  parties  classified  as  promoters,  and  one  of  them  wishes  to  be 
reclassified. The Committee is of the opinion that there ought to be a mechanism to enable 
such reclassification, to ensure that persons who may have been promoters but are no longer 
in day-to-day control and management and have a low shareholding, should have an “opt-
out”  from  being  classified  as  “promoters”.    The  Committee  is  also  of  the  view  that  any 
reclassification would have to be done in a fair and transparent manner, keeping in mind the 
interests of public shareholders.  

The Committee accordingly recommends the following:  
  Where  there  are  multiple  promoters/promoter  groups  and  a  specific 

promoter/promoter group wishes to undergo re-classification 

 

Page 11 of 17 

 

In case the following conditions are met: 

(i)  promoters,  promoter  group  and  PACs  cumulatively  hold  10%  or  more  of  the 

aggregate shareholding and voting rights in a listed entity;   

(ii)  a  specific  person/entity  therein  (classified  as  a  “specific  promoter”),  its  promoter 
group and PACs cumulatively hold less than 5% of the aggregate shareholding and 
voting rights; and  

(iii) the  specific  promoter  or  its  promoter  group  or  PAC  are  neither  on  the  board  of 
directors of the listed entity (“Listed Entity Board”) (including not having a nominee 
director) nor in the management of the listed entity and are not acting in concert with 
other persons forming part of the promoter and promoter group, 

then, on request for reclassification being received from the specific promoter, the 
Listed Entity Board shall consider the same.  

Post  the  Listed  Entity  Board’s  consent,  reclassification  would  require  shareholder 
approval  based  on  the  Listed  Entity  Board’s  (positive)  recommendation.  The  specific 
promoter, its promoter group and PAC shall abstain from voting on such a resolution 
placed before the shareholders for approval.  

  Where  there  is  only  one  specific  promoter/  promoter  group  who/  which 
wishes  to  be  re-classified  and  the  entity  wishes  to  be  classified  as 
professionally managed  

In the case of a promoter, where: 

(i)  such promoter or its promoter group or PAC for that promoter is/are neither on the 
Listed Entity Board nor in management of the company nor has a nominee director;  

(ii)  cumulative shareholding and voting rights of such promoter and its promoter group 

and PACs goes below 10%; and  

(iii) there are no other persons qualifying as promoters of the company,  

then,  on  request  for  reclassification  being  received  from  the  promoter,  the  Listed 
Entity Board shall consider the same.  

Post  the  Listed  Entity  Board’s  consent,  reclassification  would  require  shareholder 
approval based on the Listed Entity Board’s (positive) recommendation. All members of 
promoter, promoter group and PAC shall abstain from voting on such a resolution placed 
before the shareholders for approval. 

 

 

 

Page 12 of 17 

 

Proposed amendments to SEBI LODR Regulations (with immediate effect):  

Current  provision  in  SEBI  LODR 
Regulations  

Proposed  amended  provision 
SEBI LODR Regulations 

in 

Reg  31A.  Disclosure  of  Class  of 
shareholders  and  Conditions  for 
Reclassification. 

Reg  31A.  Disclosure  of  Class  of 
shareholders  and  Conditions  for 
Reclassification. 

an 

entity 

(6)  Where 
becomes 
professionally managed and does not have 
any  identifiable  promoter  the  existing 
promoters  may  be  re-classified  as  public 
shareholders  subject  to  approval  of  the 
shareholders in a general meeting.   

Explanation.-  For  the  purposes  of  this 
sub-regulation 
be 
considered as professionally managed, if- 

entity  may 

an 

holding 

(i)  No person or group along with persons 
acting  in  concert  taken  together  shall 
hold  more  than  one  per  cent  paid-up 
equity  capital  of  the  entity  including 
any 
of 
convertibles/outstanding  warrants/ 
Depository Receipts:   
Provided  that  any  mutual  fund, 
bank,  insurance  company,  financial 
institution,  foreign  portfolio  investor 
may individually hold up to ten per cent 
paid-up  equity  capital  of  the  entity 
including 
of 
convertibles/outstanding 
warrants/Depository Receipts.   

holding 

any 

(ii) The promoters seeking reclassification 
and  their  relatives  may  act  as  key 
managerial personnel in the entity only 
subject  to  shareholders’  approval  and 
for  a  period not  exceeding  three  years 
from 
shareholders’ 
approval.  

the  date  of 

an 

entity 

(6)  Where 
becomes 
professionally managed and does not have 
any  identifiable  promoter  then  existing 
promoter(s) may be re-classified as public 
shareholders, on receipt of request in this 
regard  from  the  promoter(s),  subject  to 
approval of the board of directors and the 
shareholders in a general meeting in which 
the  promoter,  promoter  group  and 
persons acting in concert shall not vote. 

Explanation.-  For  the  purposes  of  this 
sub-regulation, 
entity  may  be 
considered as professionally managed, if- 

an 

(i)  No person promoter or promoter group 
along  with  persons  acting  in  concert 
taken  together  shall  hold  more  than 
one ten per cent paid-up equity capital 
of  the  entity  including  any  holding  of 
convertibles/outstanding 
warrants/Depository Receipts:.  
Provided  that  any  mutual  fund, 
bank,  insurance  company,  financial 
institution,  foreign  portfolio  investor 
may individually hold up to ten per cent 
paid-up  equity  capital  of  the  entity 
including 
of 
convertibles/outstanding 
warrants/Depository Receipts.   

holding 

any 

(ii) The 

promoter(s) 

seeking 
reclassification and their relatives may 
act as key managerial personnel in the 

 

Page 13 of 17 

(iii)  The 

promoter 

along  with 

seeking 
his 
reclassification 
the 
promoter  group  entities  and 
persons acting in concert shall not have 
any  special  right  through  formal  or 
informal 
All 
arrangements. 
shareholding 
agreements  granting 
special rights to such outgoing entities 
shall be terminated.  

 

 

 

from 

years 

entity  only  subject  to  shareholders’ 
approval and for a period not exceeding 
three 
the  date  of 
shareholders’ approval. shall not be on 
the  board  of  directors  of  the  listed 
entity  or  in  management  of  the  listed 
entity  or  have  a  nominee  director  on 
the board of the listed entity. 

(iii)  The 

promoter(s) 

seeking 
his 
reclassification 
along  with 
promoter  group  entities  and 
the 
persons acting in concert shall not have 
any  special  right  through  formal  or 
informal 
All 
shareholding 
granting 
special rights to such outgoing entities 
shall have been be terminated.  

arrangements. 
agreements 

 

Insertion  of  a  new  sub-Regulation 
(6A):  

person/entity 

(“Specific 
(6A)  Any 
Promoter”)  which  is  a  part  of  promoters, 
promoter  group  or  persons  acting  in 
concert with them may be re-classified as 
public shareholders, on receipt of request 
in this regard from the Specific Promoter,  
subject  to  the  approval  of  the  board  of 
directors and approval of the shareholders 
in a general meeting, wherein the Specific 
Promoter(s),  along  with  its    promoter 
group and persons acting in concert shall 
abstain  from  voting  on  such  resolution 
placed  before 
for 
approval,  and  provided  the  following 
conditions are met:   

shareholders 

the 

(i) promoters,  promoter 

and 
persons  acting  in  concert  of  the  listed 
entity  cumulatively  hold  10%  or  more 

group 

Page 14 of 17 

 

of  the  paid-up  equity  capital  of  the 
entity; and  

(ii) the  Specific  Promoter,  its  promoter 
group  and  persons  acting  in  concert 
cumulatively  hold  less  than  5%  of  the 
paid-up equity capital of the entity;  

(iii)  Specific  Promoter  or  its  promoter 
group or persons acting in concert (a) is 
not  on  the  board  of  directors  of  the 
listed  entity  or  in  management  of  the 
listed entity or have a nominee director 
on the board of the listed entity, and (b) 
is  not  acting  in  concert  with  other 
persons  forming  part  of  the  promoter 
and promoter group; and 

(iv)  The  Specific  Promoter(s)  seeking 
his 
along  with 
reclassification 
promoter  group  entities  and 
the 
persons acting in concert shall not have 
any  special  right  through  formal  or 
informal 
all 
shareholding 
granting 
special rights to such outgoing entities 
shall have been terminated.  

arrangements 

and 

agreements 

 (7) Without prejudice to sub-regulations 
(5),  and  (6)  and  (6A),  re-classification  of 
promoter  as  public  shareholders  shall  be 
subject to the following conditions: 

… 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 15 of 17 

 

Annexure C: Proposed Regulation 31A 

Reg 31A. Conditions for Reclassification of shareholders 

(1) Reclassification / modification of the status of any shareholder shall be permitted by the 
stock exchanges only upon receipt of a request from the listed entity along with all relevant 
documents. 

(2) Re-classification of status of any promoter as a public shareholder shall be permitted only 
upon satisfaction of the following conditions: 

(a) The application for reclassification by the listed entity has been made consequent to 

the following procedures: 

(i)  A specific request  for  reclassification made to the listed entity  by the specific 

promoter; 
Explanation: For the purpose of Regulation 31A, ‘specific promoter’ shall mean 
all such promoters seeking reclassification of status as public shareholders.  

(ii) The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  listed  entity  shall  provide  their  view 
(positive/negative)  while  forwarding  the  request  to  be  placed  before  the 
shareholders for approval; 

(iii) On  recommendation  of  the  Board  of  Directors,  the  request  shall  be  placed 
before the shareholders of the listed entity in a general meeting and approved 
by an ordinary resolution on which the specific promoter, its promoter group 
and persons acting in concert have abstained from voting.  

(b) The specific promoter, its promoter group and the Persons Acting in Concert shall: 

(i)  On the date of application for re-classification, hold not more than 10% of the 

total voting power in the listed entity;  
not exercise control over the affairs of the listed entity directly or indirectly; 
not have any special rights with respect to the listed entity through formal or 
informal arrangements including through any shareholder agreements; 
not be represented on the Board of Directors (including not having a nominee 
director) of the listed entity; 
not act as a key managerial person in the listed entity; 

(ii) 
(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(c) The  promoter  seeking  reclassification  shall  not  be  a  ‘wilful  defaulter’  as  per  RBI 

Guidelines as on the date of the shareholder’s meeting 

(d) The listed entity on the date of application for re-classification shall:  

(i)  Be compliant with minimum public shareholding requirement; 
(ii)  Not have its shares suspended from trading by the stock exchanges; 
(iii)  Not have any outstanding dues to the Board or the stock exchanges; 

 

Page 16 of 17 

 

(3)  If  any  public  shareholder  seeks  to  re-classify  itself  as  promoter,  it  shall  be  required  to 
make  an  open  offer  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of 
Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. 

(4) In case of transfer of shares by way of transmission/succession/inheritance/gift: 

(a) Immediately on such transfer, the inheritor shall be classified as promoter.  
(b) Subsequently, in case the inheritor now classified as a promoter proposes to seek re-
classification of status as a public shareholder, it may do so subject to compliance with 
conditions specified in sub-Regulation (2) above. 

(c) In case of death of a promoter, such person shall automatically cease to be included as 

a promoter subsequent to transmission of shares to an inheritor(s).  

(5) The concerned stock exchanges shall jointly decide on the application of the  concerned 
listed entity as specified in sub-regulation (1) subject to compliance with conditions specified 
in sub-Regulations (2), (3) and (4) above. 

(6)  A  listed  entity  shall  be  considered  as  ‘listed  entities  with  no  promoters’  if  due  to  re-
classification or otherwise, the entity does not have any promoter;  

(7) The events pertaining to submission of application for re-classification to stock exchanges 
and  decision  of  the  stock  exchanges  thereof  shall  be  disclosed  by  the  entity  to  the  stock 
exchanges as a material event in accordance with the provisions of these regulations. 

(8) Board may relax any condition for re-classification in specific cases, if it is satisfied about 
non-exercise of control by the outgoing promoter or its persons acting in concert. 

 

 

Page 17 of 17 

