 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) seeks public comments on 

the ‘Interim recommendation on Know Your Client Requirements for Foreign 

Portfolio  Investors  (FPIs)’  submitted  by  the  working  group  to  redraft  SEBI 

(FPI)  Regulations,  2014  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  Harun  R.  Khan, 

Deputy Governor (retd.), Reserve Bank of India.  

1.  BACKGROUND 

 

1.1  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014  (“FPI  Regulations”)  were 

notified in the year 2014 vide notification dated January 07, 2014. A need was felt to 

review the FPI Regulations to incorporate the provisions of the circulars/ FAQs and 

Operational Guidelines issued thereunder to the extent possible and to simplify the 

language and complexities in the said regulations.  

1.2  SEBI has   constituted a  working group  under the Chairmanship of  Shri. Harun R. 

Khan (Retd. Deputy Governor of Reserve Bank of India) assisted by Custodians law 

firms, Chartered Accountants firms and SEBI officers.  

1.3  SEBI requested the working group that pending detailed examination of the issues 

referred to the working group, an interim report containing recommendations on the 

issues arising out of the SEBI circular dated April 10, 2018 on KYC requirements for 

FPIs be submitted. 

1.4  Accordingly, the working group held wide consultations with various stakeholders on 

different  dates  and  has  arrived  at  certain  suggestions/  recommendations.  The 

working group has submitted its interim report on KYC requirements for FPIs. 

 

 

 

2.  PUBLIC COMMENTS 

Comments  from  the  public  are  invited  on  the  recommendations  contained  in  the 

aforesaid Report in the following format: 

 

 

Name: 

Sr. No.  Relevant  Section  and  sub-

Comments  and 

Rationale  

heading  

 

 

 

suggested 

changes, if any 

 

 

The comments may either be forwarded by email to kycforfpi@sebi.gov.in  or may be 

sent by post to the following address latest by September 17, 2018 at 12:00 Noon. 

 

Achal Singh  

Deputy General Manager 

Division of Foreign Portfolio Investors & Custodians 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 

Bandra Kurla Complex,  

Bandra (East), Mumbai -400 051 

 

 

Issued on: September 08, 2018 

 

2 | P a g e  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INTERIM REPORT OF THE WORKING GROUP 

ON KNOW YOUR CLIENT REQUIREMENTS FOR 

FOREIGN PORTFOLIO INVESTORS 

 

 

 

 

SEBI WORKING GROUP ON FPI REGULATIONS 

INTERIM  REPORT 
REQUIREMENTS FOR FPIS  

  ON  SEBI  CIRCULAR  OF  APRIL  10,  2018  ON  KYC 

The  SEBI  Working  Group  (“Group”)  on  Re-drafting  of  FPI  Regulations,  under  the 
chairmanship  of  Shri  H  R  Khan,  was  formed  by  SEBI  in  March  2018  and  has 
representations from  reputed Law  firms,  Tax  firms,  Custodians  and  SEBI  officers. The 
initial brief for the Group was about reviewing and redrafting FPI regulations, FAQs and 
Operating Guidelines (OG) related to FPI registration and operations in India.  

On April 10th 2018, SEBI issued a circular (“April 10 Circular”) on KYC Requirements for 
FPIs and given the widespread discussions and debate the circular has generated on  its 
likely implications for investments in in India through the FPI route, SEBI requested the 
Group to look into various aspects of the circular on priority basis and suggest changes, 
if and as, necessary to appropriately address the concerns and respond to the feedback 
received  from various stakeholders like FPIs, Custodians, Asset Managers and the Asia 
Securities Industry & Financial Markets Association (ASIFMA) on the circular.  

The group held wide consultations with various stakeholders on different dates. Officials 
of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) from the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) and the 
Department  of  Revenue  (DOR)  were  also  consulted.  The  Group  also  met  with  some 
lawyers  and  industry  representatives  to  receive  their  feedback  and  suggestions  which 
were further deliberated by the Group.   

The Group took note of April 10 Circular, which, inter-alia, implied using the definition of 
Beneficial Owners (BOs) under the PMLA Rules 2005 for determining the eligibility of Non 
Resident Indians (NRIs)/ Overseas Citizens of India (OCIs) participation in FPIs. 

It  was  brought  to  the  notice  of  the  Group  that  the  Department  of  Revenue  (DOR), 
Government of India  have  since  communicated to SEBI  that  the principle  laid  down  in 
Rule 9(3) of the Prevention of Money-laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules 2005 
is  for  the  purpose  of  customer  due  diligence  and  need  not  apply  mutatis  mutandis  to 
determine the eligibility for of foreign investors as FPIs. It also, inter-alia, stated that there 
was no legal compulsion for SEBI to adopt the definition of Beneficial Owner in Rule 9(3) 
of PMLA Rules, 2005 for eligibility purposes.  

This is broadly in line with the thinking of the Group that the BO criteria under PMLA may 
be made applicable only for the purpose of KYC and not as  eligibility criteria for  FPIs, 
including those having NRIs/OCIs/ Resident Indians (RIs) as their constituents. Likewise, 
the Group is also of the view that clubbing of investment limit for FPIs need not be done 
on  the  basis  of  BO  as  per  PMLA.  Accordingly,  the  Group  considered  separate  set  of 

  

Page | 1  

norms for determining  the  eligibility conditions where NRIs/OCIs/RIs are constituents of 
FPIs and also the basis for clubbing of investment limits.  

Post  the  wide  spread  consultations  and  deliberations,  the  Group  has  come  up  with 
following  recommendations  with  regard  to  the  April  10  Circular  and  these    have  been 
grouped under four sections relating to: 

A.  Non-Resident Indians (NRIs)/ Overseas Citizens of India (OCIs)/ Resident Indians 

(RIs) 

B.  Clubbing of Investment limit 

C.  Identification and verification of Beneficial Owners 

D.  Other aspects 

 

  

Page | 2  

Section A: Recommendations relating to NRIs / OCIs / RIs  

1.  Eligibility conditions where NRIs/OCIs/RIs are constituents of FPIs  

Regime prior to the April 10 Circular: Entities owned by Non-Resident Indians (NRIs)/ 
Resident Indians (RIs) could be registered as non-investing FPIs for the purpose of 
acting as an investment manager for other FPIs (i.e. investing FPIs). In the answers 
given to questions numbers 91, 114 and 127 in the FAQs on FPI Regulations, 2014 
issued by SEBI, it was clarified that entities owned by NRIs / Persons of Indian Origin 
(PIOs) are specifically permitted to act as investment managers with the condition that 
such entities would not be allowed to make investments on behalf of self.  

Condition imposed by the April 10 circular: The April 10  circular clarifies that NRIs, 
OCIs and RIs cannot be beneficial owners (BOs) of investing FPIs. According to the 
circular, BO should be identified in accordance with Rule 9 of the Prevention of Money-
laundering  (Maintenance  of  Records),  Rules,  2005  (hereinafter  referred  as  PMLA 
Rules). It has been explained to the group that drawing from the definition of BO given 
in  Rule  9  of  PMLA  Rules,  it  was  felt  that    since  NRIs  and  RIs  are  prohibited  from 
becoming  FPIs  in  accordance  with  Regulations  4(a)  and  4(e)  of  the  SEBI  FPI 
Regulations,  the  same  should  also  not  be  permitted  indirectly  by  becoming  BOs of 
FPIs.  

Recommendation:   

It  was  brought  to  the  notice  of  the  Group  that  the  Department  of  Revenue  (DOR), 
Government of India have since communicated to SEBI that the principle laid down in 
Rule 9(3) of the Prevention of Money-laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules 2005 
is for the purpose of customer due diligence and need not apply mutatis mutandis to 
determine the eligibility for of foreign investors as FPIs. It also, inter-alia, stated that 
there was no legal compulsion for SEBI to adopt the definition of Beneficial Owner in 
Rule 9(3) of PMLA Rules, 2005 for eligibility purposes.  

This is broadly in line with the thinking of the Group that the BO criteria under PMLA 
may be made applicable only for the purpose of KYC and not as eligibility criteria for  
FPIs, including those having NRIs/OCIs/ Resident Indians (RIs) as their constituents. 
Accordingly,  the  Group  has  considered  separate  set  of  norms  for  determining  the 
eligibility conditions where NRIs/OCIs/RIs are constituents of FPIs.  

The Group recommends that NRIs/OCIs/RIs may be allowed to be constituents of FPIs 
subject to the following conditions: 

i.  Single  NRI/  OCI/  RI  holding  is  below  25%  of  the  Assets  Under  Management 

(AUM) in the FPI 
 

ii.  Aggregate NRI/ OCI/ RI holdings is below 50% of Assets Under Management 

(AUM) in the FPI 

  

Page | 3  

 

iii.  NRI/ OCI/ RI should not be in Control of an FPI. However, there should be no 
restriction on NRIs / OCIs / RIs investment managers to be in control of the FPI 
provided any of the following conditions is satisfied: 

 

a)  The  investment manager  entity  of  the  FPI  is  appropriately  regulated  in  its 

home jurisdiction and registers itself with SEBI as a non-investing FPI, or 

 

b)  The  investment  manager  is  incorporated  or  setup  under  Indian  laws  and 

appropriately registered with SEBI, or 

 

c)  Where such FPIs are ‘offshore funds’ as approved by SEBI  

 

Explanation: 

Investment  manager  would  mean  an  entity  performing  the  role  of  investment 
management, investment advisory or any equivalent role, including trustees. 

Control  includes  the  right  to  appoint  majority  of  the  directors  or  to  control  the 
management or policy decisions exercisable by a person or persons acting individually 
or in concert, directly or indirectly, including by virtue of shareholding or management 
rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements or in any other manner. 

Existing  FPIs  not  in  conformity  with  the  above  requirements  may  be  allowed 
reasonable time to take appropriate actions to comply with the conditions.  

Many FPIs are open-ended funds and due to reasons such as redemption by existing 
investors, portfolio rebalancing etc., it is possible that ownership or entitlement of a RI 
/ NRI / OCI may temporarily cross the eligibility conditions (as recommended at (i) and 
(ii) above). 

The Group recommends that in case of such temporary breaches, FPI may be provided 
90  days  to  comply  with  above  eligibility  condition/s.  In  case  the  FPI  remains  non-
compliant with this requirement after 90 days, no fresh purchases may be permitted 
and it may have to liquidate its existing position in Indian securities market in the next 
180 days. 

In  the  April  10  circular,  it  has  been  stated  that  in  accordance  with  Rule  9  of  PMLA 
Rules, in a case where no BO is identified based on controlling ownership interest or 
control criteria, the SMO of the FPI would be regarded as the BO. In such cases, an 
NRI/OCI/RI would not be allowed to be SMO of FPI as per the Circular. According to 
the Group, as mentioned above, the BO criteria under PMLA may be made applicable 
only  for  the  purpose  of  KYC.  Accordingly,  the  Group  also  recommends  that  there 
should be no restriction on NRI / OCI / RI to be the SMO of a FPI. 

  

Page | 4  

2.  PIOs not to be subject to restrictions imposed by the April 10 Circular 

Regime prior to the April 10 Circular: In the FAQs issued on SEBI FPI Regulations, 
2014, PIOs have been subjected to the same restrictions as applicable to NRIs. 

Restrictions imposed by the April 10 Circular: The April 10 Circular imposes restrictions 
only on NRIs, OCIs and RIs, there is no specific reference to the Persons of Indian 
Origin (PIOs) in the April 10 Circular. However, since the FAQs are still valid and the 
fact that the definition of NRIs under the Income Tax Act, 1961 includes PIOs as well, 
there is a confusion whether the restrictions imposed by the April 10 Circular on NRIs 
/ OCIs / RIs would be applicable to PIOs as well. 

Recommendation:  

The Group deliberated whether we could consider limiting the eligibility conditions only 
to  NRIs  since  OCI  status  may  be  used  by  PIOs  not  necessarily  for  availing  of  any 
benefit  from  an  investment  purposes  but  also  for  other  benefits  such  as  ease  of 
immigration. However, since the definition of NRI under FEMA 20 includes OCIs, it was 
felt that current restrictions may be imposed upon NRIs and OCIs only and it may be 
clarified that PIOs (without OCI status) should be excluded from the applicability of the 
restriction under April 10 Circular.  

Further,  “PIO”  as  a  concept  has  been  done  away  with  in  the  Foreign  Exchange 
Management Act (FEMA). It is recommended that no restrictions may be placed on the 
erstwhile Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs) and the relevant FAQs answered earlier may 
be superseded.   

The Group also suggested that suitable definition of NRI and OCI may be included in 
FPI Regulations.    

 

 

  

Page | 5  

SECTION B:  

3.  Recommendation  relating  to  clubbing  of  investment  limit  of  FPIs  having 

Common ownership or control  

Regime prior to the April 10 Circular: Clubbing of investment limit for FPIs was on the 
basis  of  common  ownership  or  control  of  more  than  50  percent,  as  mentioned  in 
Operational Guidelines for Designated Depository Participants. 
 
Conditions imposed by the April 10 Circular: In terms of paragraph 2(a)(vi) of the April 
10  Circular,  clubbing  of  investment  limit  for  FPIs  is  on  the  basis  of  Beneficial 
Ownership  (as  per  PMLA  Rules)  of  FPIs.  This  effectively  means  that  the  current 
clubbing provisions will also be applicable where  BOs are identified on the basis of 
Control/SMO. 
 

 

Recommendation:  

 

a)  As mentioned above, the BO criteria under PMLA may be made applicable only 

for the purpose of KYC and not for clubbing of investment limits. 

b)  Clubbing of investment limit for FPIs may be on the basis of common ownership 
i.e. all entities having direct or indirect common shareholding / beneficial interest, 
of more than 50% OR based on common control (as defined under explanation to 
para 1 above).  

c)  Clubbing of investment limit of FPIs having common control may not be applicable 

in any of the following cases where: 

 

(i)  FPIs are appropriately regulated public retail funds or  

 

(ii)  FPIs are appropriately regulated public retail funds majority owned by public 

retail fund on look through basis or 

 

(iii)  FPIs are public retail funds and investment managers (IMs) of such FPIs are 

appropriately regulated.  

d)  Public retail fund would generally mean (i) mutual funds or unit trusts which are 
open  for  subscription  to  retail  investors  and  do  not  have  specific  investor  type 
requirements  e.g.  accredited  investors  etc,  (ii)  insurance  companies  where 
segregated  portfolio  with  one  to  one  correlation  with  a  single  investor  is  not 
maintained and (iii) pension funds. 

e)  In order to appropriately monitor investment concentration where common control 
is identified for such public retail fund, Indian depositories will maintain details of 
controlling entities on the basis of name, nationality, passport number/ national ID 
etc. and provide appropriate reports to SEBI on periodic basis. 

  

Page | 6  

 

f)  Clubbing of investment limit of FPIs having common control identified on the basis 

of “SMO” may not be made applicable. 
 

g)  Investment  manager  would  mean  an  entity  performing  the  role  of  investment 

management, investment advisory or any equivalent role. 
 

SEBI may consider making suitable changes in FPI Regulations. 

 

Page | 7  

 

 

  

SECTION  C:  Recommendations  on  identification  and  verification  of  Beneficial 
Owners  

4.  Need to bring uniformity of requirement across all Category I FPIs  

Regime  prior  to  the  April  10  Circular:  All  Category  I  FPIs  were  exempted  from 
submitting beneficial ownership list, proof of identify and address documents for senior 
managing officials, authorized signatories and beneficial owners (“BOs”).  

New norms under the April 10 Circular: In paragraph 2(a)(iv) of the April 10 Circular, 
if any FPI is coming from a “high risk jurisdiction”, the intermediary (DDP) is required 
to apply a lower materiality threshold of 10% for identification of BO of such FPI and 
ensure that KYC documentation as applicable for category III FPIs is obtained from 
such FPIs. The April 10 Circular does not specifically exempt category I FPIs coming 
from “high risk jurisdiction” from meeting such lower materiality threshold and category 
III FPI KYC documentation requirements.  

Recommendation:   

a)  Category  I  FPIs  are  either  government/government  related  entities  and  are 
perceived  to  be  low  risk  entities.  Considering  the  same,  it  is  recommended  that 
Category I FPIs coming from all jurisdictions be exempt from: 

 

i.  Providing  additional  KYC  documentation  requirements  as  applicable  to 

Category III FPIs, including BO declaration.  

 

ii.  Providing declaration related to issuance of bearer shares considering that 

majority shareholding of such Category I FPIs is with the Government.  
 

b)  KYC review of Category I FPIs should be done at the time of continuance of their 

FPI registration. 

 

c)  For the purpose of KYC requirements, an entity would be considered to be a ‘foreign 
government  agency’  only  if  more  than  75%  ownership  entitlement  and  control  is 
held  by  the  Government  of  a  foreign  country  [(including  FPIs  from  non-high  risk 
jurisdiction)].  This  will  ensure  that  no  other  significant  shareholder  is  able  to 
participate.  
 

5.  Definition of Senior Managing Official  

Regime prior to the April 10 Circular: The term senior managing official (“SMO”) was 
not defined under the FPI Regulations and/or the PML Act or rules issued thereunder. 
 
Conditions  imposed  by  the  April  10  Circular:  In  paragraph  2(a)(vi)  of  the  April  10 
Circular,  it  has  been  provided  that  where  no  material  shareholder/owner  entity  is 

  

Page | 8  

identified in the FPI using the materiality threshold (for controlling ownership interest 
basis and also on control basis (for companies and trusts), BO shall be the SMO of the 
FPI.  
 
Recommendation: In absence of clear definition, the term SMO could be subject to 
different 
inconsistent  approaches.  Hence,  Group 
recommends below definition of the term: 

interpretations  resulting 

in 

“The term senior managing official (SMO) means an individual as designated by the 
FPI who holds a senior management position and makes key decisions relating to the 
FPI.” 

 

6.  Identification of BO of listed entities 

Regime  prior  to  the  April  10  Circular:  Rule  9(3)(f)  of  the  PMLA  Rules  provides  that 
“where the client or the owner of the controlling interest is a company listed on a stock 
exchange,  or  is  a  subsidiary  of  such  a  company,  it  is  not  necessary  to  identify  and 
verify the identity of any shareholder or beneficial owner of such companies”.  

Requirement  under  the  April  10  Circular:    The  April  10  Circular  requires  all  FPIs  to 
identify and verify its BO, and does not specifically provide any exemption from meeting 
such requirement if the FPI or its holding company or controlling interest owner is a 
company  listed  on  a  stock  exchange.  In  the  absence  of  any  specific  guidance  in 
relation to listed entities in the April 10 Circular, and paragraph 2(a)(i) of the April 10 
Circular providing that BO should be identified in accordance with Rule 9 of the PMLA 
Rules,  there  could  be  inconsistent  views  be  taken  by  the  market  on  whether  BO  is 
required to be identified if the FPI or its holding company or controlling interest owner 
is a company listed on a stock exchange. 

Recommendation: It is suggested that SEBI  may  specifically clarify that exemption 
under Rule 9(3)(f) of the PMLA Rules is only available to an FPI or its BO which is a 
company listed on a stock exchange in following kinds of jurisdictions and such stock 
exchange is recognized and supervised by its home regulators: 
 

a. a  country  whose  securities  market  regulator  is  a  signatory  to  International 
Organization  of  Securities  Commission’s  Multilateral  Memorandum  of 
Understanding (Appendix A Signatories) or a signatory to bilateral Memorandum 
of Understanding with SEBI, or 

 

b. a country which  is not identified in the public statement of Financial Action Task 

Force as 

 

 

  

Page | 9  

(i)  a  jurisdiction  having  a  strategic  Anti-Money  Laundering  or  Combating  the 
Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to which counter measures apply; or 
 
(ii)  a  jurisdiction  that  has  not  made  sufficient  progress  in  addressing  the 
deficiencies or has not committed to an action plan developed with the Financial 
Action Task Force to address the deficiencies. 

 

7.  BO declaration for partnerships on control basis  

The  PMLA  Rules  as  well  as  the  April  10  Circular  provides  that  BOs  in  case  of 
partnership  firms  are  required  to  be  identified  on  ownership  or  entitlement  basis. 
Neither the PMLA Rules, nor the April 10 Circular, requires partnership firms to identify 
BOs on a control basis. Considering general partners (GPs) in an offshore partnership 
structure are typically in control of the partnership (LP), the Group recommends it may 
be  clarified  that  such  BO  declaration  on  control  basis  is  not  required  for  a  GP/LP 
structure or otherwise.  

 

Recommendation: In case the view is taken that partnership firm set up as General 
Partner/Limited Partnership is required to identify BO on control basis then appropriate 
changes may be made in KYC requirements. 

 

 

  

Page | 10  

SECTION D: Other Aspects 

8.  Timelines for compliance:  

The remediation based on the KYC circular is going to be an extensive exercise given 
large number of FPIs in the market, Global custodian (GC) structure and a  revised 
KYC circular may have to be issued based on recommendations of this  Group and 
other feedbacks received by SEBI. Based on above, we recommend SEBI to allow 6 
months time from the time the revised circular is published for appropriate compliance 
with the new requirements. 

9.  Applicability of April 10 circular to FPI investment through Offshore Derivative 

Instrument (ODI) 

Some questions were raised on applicability of the KYC circular on FPI investments 
through ODIs. In  order to bring clarity on applicability of April 10 circular,  it may be 
clarified that the compliance requirement is also applicable to ODI subscribers.  

 

10. Impact of FPIs not meeting the stipulations of KYC circular 

To  provide  clarity  on  impact  of  non-compliance  with  the  KYC  circular  on  FPIs,  it  is 
recommended that: 

If an FPI fails to comply with the applicable KYC requirements by the given deadline, 
the concerned Custodian shall not allow such FPI to make fresh purchases till the time 
KYC documentary requirements, as applicable, are complied with. However, such FPI 
shall be allowed to continue to sell the securities already purchased by it.  

Such FPI shall be allowed to disinvest its holdings within a period of 180 days from 
the expiry of the timeline permitted by SEBI.  

In case FPI remains non-compliant with this requirement even after 180 days from the 
said deadline, its FPI registration will no longer be valid and it would need to disinvest 
its holdings immediately. 

 

11. Disclosure of personal information:  

Regime  prior  to  the  April  10  Circular:  Personal  information  (birthdate/  address/ID 
number) were not required to be disclosed as per BO format.  
 
Conditions imposed by the recent circular: In the current BO details format personal 
information (birthdate/ address/ID number) must be disclosed for Category II FPIs. 
 

  

Page | 11  

Recommendation:  

It was recommended that  social security number in the last column in the BO table 
may  also  mean  equivalent  national  ID  number  and  SEBI  may  formulate  a  suitable 
policy for sharing of personal information of the BOs.  
 

12. Requirement of intermediate entities where no natural person as BO is identified 

based on ownership or entitlement or control: 
 
Regime prior to the April 10 Circular: No requirement to provide details of intermediate 
entities  holding  above  material  threshold  and  only  natural  person  details  was 
mandatory. 
Conditions  imposed  by  the  April  10  Circular:  Point  2(a)(v)  of  current  circular  the 
materiality  threshold  (referred  at  (iii)  &  (iv)  above)  to  identify  the  beneficial  owner 
should  be  first  applied  at  the  level  of  FPI  and  next  look  through  principle  shall  be 
applied to identify the beneficial owner of the material shareholder/ owner entity. Only 
beneficial  owner  with  holdings  equal  &  above  the  materiality  thresholds  in  the  FPI 
need to be identified through the aforesaid look through principle. 
 
Recommendation: SEBI may clarify where no natural person is identified based on 
ownership  or  entitlement  or  control,  whether  details  of  intermediate  entities holding 
above material threshold are not required or otherwise.              

In case the view is taken that beneficial owner and material shareholder/ owner entity 
with holdings equal & above the materiality thresholds in the FPI need to be identified 
through the look through principle and for intermediate material shareholder/ owner 
entity/ies,  name  and  percentage  holding  shall  be  disclosed,  SEBI  may  clarify  by 
appropriately amending its circular. 

 

13. Other issues: 

The group is also examining separately whether any recommendations to merge the 
FPI  and  NRI/OCI  routes  of  investment  can  be  made  to  Government  of  India  and 
Reserve Bank of India. The group also recommended that SEBI may suitably clarify 
actions to be taken by FPIs for divestment or re-classification of holdings as FDI in 
case of breach of investment limits, after consulting Reserve Bank of India. The group 
also  recommends  that  SEBI  may  consult  Government  of  India  to  evolve  more 
objective criteria for defining High Risk Jurisdictions. 

The Group suggests that the recommendations contained in this Interim Report should 
be put in public domain for comments/ feedback from other stakeholders before SEBI 
takes final view in the matter. 

  

Page | 12  

