Consultation Paper 

Review of framework for Institutional Trading Platform 

 

 

 

1.  BACKGROUND 

1.1.  The  regulatory  framework  for  Institutional  Trading  Platform  (“ITP”)  was  put  in place 

vide amendments to the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 

2009 (“ICDR Regulations”) on August 14, 2015, with a view to facilitate listing of new age 

start-ups in sectors like e-commerce, data analytics, bio-technology and other start-ups.  

 

1.2.  The  framework  has  been  retained  in  the  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2018. 

 

1.3.  Considering  that  the  framework  failed  to  gain  interest,  SEBI  came  up  with  certain 

recommendations to make the platform more accessible, vide Discussion Paper dated 

July 29, 2016. Since, the market interest in the platform continued to be lukewarm, no 

amendment to the ICDR Regulations was carried out.  

 

1.4.  Lately, there has been a lot of activity in the start-up space in India and interest has been 

evinced  with  regard  to  listing  on  the  ITP  by  various  stakeholders  and  industry  bodies. 

Thus,  in  view  of  the  evolving  start-up  ecosystem  and  to  make  the  ITP  platform  more 

accessible, SEBI discussed the issues with various stakeholders and constituted a Group 

on  June  12,  2018  to  review  the  ITP  framework  and  identify  the  areas  which  require 

further changes. 

 

1.5.  The Group included representatives from the Indian Software Product Industry Round 

Table  (iSPIRT),  The  Indus  Entrepreneurs  (TIE),  the  Indian  Private  Equity  and  Venture 

Capital Association (IVCA), law firms, merchant bankers, and stock exchanges. 

 

1.6.  While  reviewing  the  ITP  framework,  the  Group  also  held  extensive  consultations  with 

Page 1 of 7 

 

 

 

stakeholders  and  conducted  focused  road-shows  for  start-ups,  investors,  investment 

bankers, wealth management outfits, etc. The Group submitted its recommendations to 

SEBI  suggesting  certain  policy  changes.  The  recommendations  of  the  Group  were 

discussed in   the  meeting of Primary  Market  Advisory  Committee  (PMAC)  of  SEBI  as 

a part of larger consultative process and PMAC made certain recommendations 

 

1.7.  Based  on  the  recommendations  of  PMAC,  a  revised  consultation  paper  has  been 

prepared containing certain proposals for changes to the ITP framework. The same are 

enumerated below: 

 

2.  Proposals  

2.1 

NAME OF PLATFORM  

Existing provision 

The  framework for  ITP  is  specified  under  chapter  X  of  the  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations, 2018, 

which is named as ‘Institutional Trading Platform’. 

Proposal  

It is proposed to rename the platform as  ‘Innovators Growth Platform’ (“IGP”) . 

 

2.2 

ELIGIBILITY 

Existing provision 

Regulation 283 provides: 

(1)  The following issuers shall be eligible for listing on the ITP: 

a)  An  issuer  which  is  intensive  in  the  use  of  technology  ,  information  technology, 

intellectual  property,  data  analytics,  bio-technology  or  nano-technology  to  provide 

products, services or business platforms with  substantial value addition and at least 

twenty five per cent of its pre-issue capital is held by qualified institutional buyer(s) as 

on the date of filing of draft  information document or draft offer document with the 

Board, as the case may be; OR 

 

Page 2 of 7 

 

 

 

b)  Any  other  issuer  in  which  at  least  fifty  percent  of  the  pre-issue  capital  is  held  by 

qualified institutional buyers as on the date of filing of draft information document or 

draft offer document with the Board, as the case may be. 

Proposal 

A.  In order to be eligible for listing on the ITP, 25% of the pre-issue capital, for at least a 

period  of  2  years,  should  have  been  held  by  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers/other 

regulated entities* and/or Accredited Investors (AIs)** out of which not more than 10% 

should be by AIs.  

B.  *Other regulated entities to be as follows: 

i. 

ii. 

Category III Foreign Portfolio Investor; 

An entity meeting all the following criteria: 

(a)  It is a pooled investment fund with minimum assets under management of USD 150 

million; 

(b) It is registered with a financial sector regulator in the jurisdiction of which it is a resident; 

(c)  It  is  resident  of  a  country  whose  securities  market  regulator  is  a  signatory  to  the 

International  Organization  of  Securities  Commission’s  Multilateral  Memorandum  of 

Understanding  (Appendix  A  Signatories)  or  a  signatory  to  Bilateral  Memorandum  of 

Understanding with SEBI; 

(d) It is not resident in a country identified in the public statement of Financial Action Task 

Force as: 

i. 

a  jurisdiction  having  a  strategic  Anti-Money  Laundering  or  Combating  the 

Financing of Terrorism deficiencies to which counter measures apply; or 

ii. 

a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient progress in addressing the deficiencies 

or has not committed to an action plan developed with the Financial Action Task 

Force to address the deficiencies; 

 

 

Page 3 of 7 

 

 

 

 

 

Additionally, Family trust with net-worth of more than five hundred crore rupees, as 

per the last audited financial statements shall also be an eligible entity for the purpose 

of holding of the pre-issue capital in the Issuer entity. 

C.  **Accredited investors for the purpose of ITP may defined as: 

i.  Any individual with total gross income of ₹ 50 lakhs annually and who has minimum 

liquid net worth of ₹ 5 crores  or 

ii.  Any  body corporate with net worth of ₹ 25 crores  

In order to be recognized as an accredited investor, such investor shall need to approach 

Exchanges/Depositories for accreditation. 

D.  It is proposed to delete Regulation 283(1)(b). 

 

2.3 

CAP ON HOLDING THE POST-ISSUE CAPITAL 

Existing provision 

Regulation 283(2) of ICDR Regulations stipulates that no person, individually or collectively 

with  persons  acting  in  concert,  shall  hold  25%  or  more  of  the  post-issue  capital,  as  an 

eligibility criterion for the entity to list on ITP. 

Proposal 

It is proposed to remove the provision and hence there will be no separate provision capping 

post IPO shareholding.  

 

2.4 

MINIMUM APPLICATION SIZE 

Existing provision 

In terms of Regulation 286 of ICDR Regulations, the minimum application size shall be INR 10 

lakh. 

Proposal 

It is proposed that the minimum application size in secondary market shall be INR 2 lakh and 

in multiples thereof. 

 

Page 4 of 7 

 

 

2.5 

ALLOCATION TO INVESTORS 

Existing provision 

In terms of Regulation 287(2) (a) & (b) of ICDR Regulations, 75% of the net offer to public 

shall  be  allocated  for  institutional investors and  remaining 25%  shall  be  allocated to  Non 

Institutional Investors.  

Proposal 

It is proposed that there should not be any minimum reservation of allocation to any specific 

category of investors. Allocation is proposed to be on a proportionate basis. 

2.6 

 DISCRETIONARY ALLOTMENT TO INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS 

Existing provision 

Regulation 287(5) of ICDR Regulations prescribes that in case of discretionary allotment  to 

institutional investors, no institutional investor shall be allotted more than 10% of the issue 

size. 

Proposal 

In  view  of  the  proposed  allocation  to  investors  on  a  proportionate  basis,  without  any 

reservation, the provision of discretionary allotment is not required. Thus it is proposed to 

delete the existing provision. 

 

2.7 

MINIMUM NUMBER OF ALLOTTEES  

Existing provision 

Regulation 287(1) of the ICDR Regulations stipulates that the number of allottees shall be 

more than two hundred. 

Proposal 

It is proposed that minimum number of allottees should be 50. 

Page 5 of 7 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.8 

LOCK-IN OF PRE-ISSUE CAPITAL 

Existing provision 

 

In accordance with Regulation 288(1) of ICDR Regulations, the entire pre-issue capital of the 

shareholders  shall  be  locked-in  for  a  period  of  6  months  from  the  date  of  allotment  . 

However, the lock-in is subject to certain exemptions provided for shares arising out of ESOPs 

and shares held by VCF/AIF Category I/FVCI. 

Proposal 

It is proposed that the lock-in of 6 months shall apply uniformly to all the categories of pre-

IPO public shareholders. Exemption from the provision shall be available for shares arising out 

of ESOPs. 

 

2.9 

TRADING  LOT 

Existing provision 

In terms of Regulation 289 of ICDR Regulations, the minimum trading lot shall be INR 10 lakh. 

Proposal 

It is proposed that the minimum trading lot size in secondary market shall be INR 2 lakh and 

in multiples thereof. 

 

2.10 

MIGRATION TO THE MAIN BOARD 

Existing provision 

In  terms  of  Regulation 292,   an  entity listed  on  ITP  may  at  its option  migrate  to the Main 

Board of that after expiry of three years from the date of listing subject to compliance with 

the eligibility requirements of the stock platform. 

Proposal 

It is proposed that IGP be designated as a Main Board platform for start-ups with an option to 

trade under regular category after completion of one year of listing.  

 

 

Page 6 of 7 

 

2.11 

MINIMUM OFFER TO PUBLIC 

Existing provision  

 

Regulation  31  of  ICDR  Regulations  provides  that  the  minimum  offer  to the  public  shall  be 

subject  to  the  provisions  of  clause  (b)  of  sub-rule  (2)  of  rule  19  of  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulations) Rules, 1957.  

Proposal 

It is proposed that minimum net offer to public should be in compliance with Minimum Public 

Shareholding (MPS) norms and minimum offer size should be 10 crores. 

 

3.  Public comments 

Considering the implications of the said matter on the market participants including issuers 

and  investors,  public  comments  are  invited  on  the  proposals  contained  in  the  discussion 

paper.  Specific  comments/suggestions  as  per  the  format  given  below  would  be  highly 

appreciated:  

 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization: 

Sr. No.  Pertains  to  serial  number  under 

Suggestion(s) 

Rationale 

paragraph (2) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The comments may please be e-mailed on or before November 16, 2018, to Ms. Aradhana 

Verma, AGM at aradhanad@sebi.gov.in  or sent by post, to: 

Shri. Narendra Rawat  
Deputy General Manager  
Corporation Finance Department  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block Bandra Kurla Complex  
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051  
Ph: +91-22--26449383  
 

Issued on: October  26, 2018 

 

Page 7 of 7 

