 

REPORT OF  

THE EXPERT COMMITTEE FOR LISTING OF EQUITY 

SHARES OF COMPANIES INCORPORATED IN INDIA ON 

FOREIGN STOCK EXCHANGES AND OF COMPANIES 

INCORPORATED OUTSIDE INDIA ON INDIAN STOCK 

EXCHANGES 

 

 

 

December 4, 2018 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

The  Committee  is  grateful  to  Mr.  Ajay  Tyagi,  Chairman,  SEBI,  for  constituting  this 
Committee  and  for  entrusting  it  with  this  all  important  task  of  recommending  a  framework 
for  direct  listing  of  equity  shares  of  companies  incorporated  in  India  on  foreign  stock 
exchanges and vice versa.  
 
The  Committee  wishes  to  place  on  record  its  appreciation  for  the  committed  and  sincere 
efforts put in by Mr. Amit Tandon, Deputy General Manager; Mr. Deep Mani Shah, Deputy 
General  Manager;  Mr.  Anjan  Patel,  Assistant  General  Manager  and  Mr.  Prateek  Arora, 
Manager,  from  SEBI,  who  assisted  the  Committee  in  its  research  and  analysis  of  various 
facets relevant to its discussions and also in drafting this Report, within tight timelines.  
 
Members  of  the  SEBI  team  in  the  Legal  Affairs  Department  headed  by  Mr.  Ananta  Barua, 
Whole  Time  Member,  including  Mr.  Amitesh  Kumar,  Deputy  General  Manager;  Ms.  Anju 
Mahendra, Assistant General Manager and Mr. Chintan Shah, Assistant Manager, deserve a 
special mention for their legal inputs during Committee’s deliberations. 
  
The Committee  also  acknowledges the valuable  contributions  made by  Ms.  Neeta Sanghavi 
from  Avendus  Capital  Pvt.  Ltd;  Mr.  Yash  Ashar,  Mr.  Arjun  Lall,  Mr.  Anuj  Pethia  and  Ms. 
Manita Doshi from Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas; Mr. Samarth Jagnani from Morgan Stanley; 
Ms. Gesu Kaushal and Mr. Harsh Soni from Kotak Investment Banking; Ms. Esha Goel and 
Mr.  Jairo  C.  Lamatina  from  Latham  &  Watkins  LLP;  Mr.  Piyush  Chopra  and  Mr.  Sharad 
Chaudhry from KPMG, and Mr. Manish Kapur and Mr. Kunal Kapur from B S R & Co. LLP 
for their timely inputs and assistance in compilation and analysis of various relevant data and 
also for working on initial drafts of this Report. 
 

 

 

 

CONTENTS 

INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................................................. 1 

I. 
II. 
III. 
IV. 

Constitution of the Committee ...................................................................................... 1 
Scope of Work ............................................................................................................... 2 
Process followed ........................................................................................................... 2 
Structure of the Report .................................................................................................. 2 

CHAPTER 1:    ECONOMIC  CASE  FOR  LISTING  OF  EQUITY  SHARES  OF 
COMPANIES  INCORPORATED  IN  INDIA  ON  FOREIGN  STOCK 
EXCHANGES  AND  OF  COMPANIES  INCORPORATED  OUTSIDE 
INDIA ON INDIAN STOCK EXCHANGES .............................................................. 4 

I. 
II. 
III. 
IV. 
V. 

Introduction ................................................................................................................... 4 
Benefits to the Indian economy ..................................................................................... 4 
Benefits to companies incorporated in India ................................................................. 5 
Benefits to companies incorporated outside India ......................................................... 6 

Benefits to Indian investors  .......................................................................................... 6 

CHAPTER 2:  LISTING  OF  EQUITY  SHARES  OF  COMPANIES  INCORPORATED  IN 

INDIA ON FOREIGN STOCK EXCHANGES ........................................................... 7 

I. 
II. 

III. 

IV. 

V. 
VI. 

Introduction ................................................................................................................... 7 
Principles  for  identifying  the  Permissible  Jurisdictions  and  foreign  stock 
exchanges ...................................................................................................................... 7 
Primary  policy  issues  under  various  Indian  regulations  and  the  requisite 
changes .......................................................................................................................... 8 
KYC  and  Anti-Money  Laundering  requirements  applicable  to  investors  / 
intermediaries .............................................................................................................. 10 
Tax related considerations ........................................................................................... 11 
Applicable  rules  of  accounting  for  preparation  of  consolidated  financial 
statements .................................................................................................................... 12 

CHAPTER  3:  LISTING  OF  EQUITY  SHARES  OF  COMPANIES  INCORPORATED 

OUTSIDE INDIA ON INDIAN STOCK EXCHANGES .......................................... 13 

I. 
II. 

III. 
III. 
IV. 

Introduction ................................................................................................................. 13 
Principles  for  identifying  the  Permissible  Jurisdictions  and  Indian  stock 
exchanges .................................................................................................................... 13 
Primary policy issues under various Indian laws and the requisite changes ............... 14 
Investor KYC .............................................................................................................. 18 
Tax related considerations ........................................................................................... 18 

CHAPTER 4 :  RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................................................................. 20 

ANNEXURE-A .................................................................................................................................... 23 

ANNEXURE-B..................................................................................................................................... 24 

ANNEXURE-C..................................................................................................................................... 26

 

 

INTRODUCTION 

I. 

CONSTITUTION OF THE COMMITTEE  

1.1 

1.2 

1.3 

1.4 

1.5 

The  existing  legal  framework  in  India  does  not  permit  the  direct  listing  of  equity 
shares  of  companies  incorporated  in  India  on  foreign  stock  exchanges.  Similarly, 
companies incorporated outside India cannot directly list their equity shares on Indian 
stock exchanges.  

The  only  available  routes  for  companies  incorporated  in  India  to  access  the  equity 
capital markets of foreign jurisdictions is through the American  Depository Receipts 
(“ADR”) and Global Depository Receipts (“GDR”) regime. Companies incorporated 
in India can list their debt securities on foreign stock exchanges directly through the 
masala  bonds  and/or  foreign  currency  convertible  bond  (“FCCB”)/foreign  currency 
exchangeable  bonds  (“FCEB”)  framework.  On 
the  other  hand,  companies 
incorporated  outside  India  can  access  the  Indian  capital  markets  only  through  the 
Indian Depository Receipts (“IDR”) framework.  

A  well-developed,  smoothly  operating  capital  market  plays  an  important  role  in 
contributing to the health and efficiency of an economy. In addition, there is a strong 
positive  relationship  between  capital  market  development  and  economic  growth. 
Equity listings by companies incorporated in India on foreign stock exchanges would 
allow them to access foreign capital at a lower cost. The Indian economy, in turn, will 
experience  added  growth  and  economic  development.  Similarly,  equity  listings  of 
companies incorporated outside India on Indian Stock Exchanges would improve the 
efficient  allocation  of  capital  and  diversification  for  investors  across  the  Indian 
economy.  

As a result, SEBI felt it appropriate to consider facilitating companies incorporated in 
India  to  directly  list  their  equity  shares  on  foreign  stock  exchanges  and  companies 
incorporated outside India to list on Indian stock exchanges, in view, particularly, of 
the ongoing evolution and internationalization of capital markets across the globe. 

Accordingly,  to  analyse  this  proposal  in  detail,  SEBI  constituted  the  ‘Expert 
Committee for listing of equity shares of companies incorporated in India on foreign 
stock  exchanges  and  of  companies  incorporated  outside  India  on  Indian  stock 
exchanges’ on June 12, 2018. 

1.6 

The composition of the Committee * is as follows: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

Mr. Ranu Vohra; Co-founder, Managing Director and CEO; Avendus Capital 
Pvt. Ltd. 

Mr. Cyril S. Shroff; Managing Partner; Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas. 

Mr.  Kamal  Yadav;  Managing  Director;  Morgan  Stanley  Technology,  Media 
and Telecom Banking. 

Mr.  Ramesh  Srinivasan;  Managing  Director  and  CEO;  Kotak  Investment 
Banking. 

Mr. Rajiv Gupta; Partner; Latham & Watkins LLP. 

Mr. Jamil Khatri; Head of Audit; B S R & Co. LLP. 

1 

 

vii.  Mr. Sujit Prasad; Executive Director; Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Convener). 

*    Mr.  Neeraj  Bhargava;  Senior  Managing  Director  and  CEO;  Zodius  Capital 
Advisors  and  Mr.  Deep  Kalra;  Chairman  and  Group  CEO;  MakeMyTrip.com 
were also inducted as Members of the Committee, initially. However, they could 
not contribute to the Committee deliberations due to exigencies of their work. 

II. 

SCOPE OF WORK 

2.1 

Broad terms of reference to the Committee were to: 

i. 

ii. 

Examine  in  detail  the  economic  case  for  permitting  direct  listing  of  Indian 
companies overseas and foreign companies on Indian stock exchanges; 

Examine  various  legal,  operational  and  regulatory  constraints  in  facilitating 
Indian  companies  to  directly  list  their  equity  shares  on  foreign  stock 
exchanges  and  foreign  companies  to  list  their  equity  shares  on  Indian  stock 
exchanges; and  

iii. 

Make  recommendations  for  a  suitable  framework  in  which  to  facilitate  such 
direct listing. 

III. 

PROCESS FOLLOWED 

3.1 

3.2 

3.3 

The  Committee  had  its  first  meeting  on  July  3,  2018.  A  blueprint  was  drawn  up 
whereby  it  was  decided  that  besides  the  regular  meetings,  the  Committee  Members 
would connect over teleconference regularly, to keep track of the progress and discuss 
further developments in the Committee’s work. 

In  this  context,  the  Committee  had  four  in-person  meetings  devoted  to  detailed 
deliberations.  These 
supplemented  by  weekly 
teleconferences.  During  these  meetings  and  teleconferences,  the  Committee  tried  to 
delineate relevant policy issues and deliberated extensively on the same.  

in-person  meetings  were 

Various  sub-groups  were  formed  to  deliberate  on  specific  issues  and  formulate  a 
roadmap  for  the  framework  contemplated  in  this  Report.  One  sub-group  was  tasked 
with  preparing  the  “economic  case”  in  favour  of  the  intended  direct  listing 
framework,  while  another  focused  on  examining  the  suitability  of  the  extant  legal 
framework  in  India  and  suggest  appropriate  changes  to  the  existing  laws,  rules  and 
regulations. Another sub-group looked into the financial requirements and tax related 
aspects.  

IV. 

STRUCTURE OF THE REPORT 

4.1 

Chapter 1 covers the background and economic rationale for liberalising the current 
framework  to  facilitate  direct  listing  of  equity  shares  of  companies  incorporated  in 
India  on  foreign  stock  exchanges  and  of  companies  incorporated  outside  India  on 
Indian stock exchanges.  

i. 

This  chapter  presents  an  economic  case  for  liberalising  the  framework  to 
permit direct listing of equity shares under different scenarios, viz. (i) listing 
of companies incorporated in India on foreign stock exchanges, and (ii) listing 
of companies incorporated outside India on Indian stock exchanges.  

 

2 

ii. 

The  economic  case  delves  into  the  benefits  that  may  accrue  to  all  the 
stakeholders, i.e. the investors, issuers and various other market participants, 
to  the  companies  incorporated  in  India  as  also  those  incorporated  outside 
India and to the Indian economy as a whole.  

4.2 

Chapter  2  deals  with  listing  of  companies  incorporated  in  India  on  foreign  stock 
exchanges.  

i. 

This  chapter  identifies  the  foreign  jurisdictions  and  the  stock  exchanges 
where  listing  of  equity  shares  of  companies  incorporated  in  India  may  be 
considered. It also identifies  the primary policy issues under various statutes 
including  Foreign  Exchange  Management  Act,  1999  (“FEMA”),  and  laws 
formulated  by  other  Indian  regulators,  such  as,  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India 
(“RBI”),  SEBI  and  the  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs  (“MCA”).  Further,  it 
also  touches  upon  investor  protection  measures,  investor  KYC  mechanism 
and the taxation regime. 

4.3 

Chapter 3 outlines the general framework for the Committee’s proposals on listing of 
equity shares of companies incorporated outside India on Indian Stock Exchanges.  

i. 

Similar to chapter 2, this chapter identifies the jurisdictions whose companies 
may be permitted to list their equity shares and the Indian stock exchanges for 
such listing. It also identifies the regulations, which will require amendments 
to  allow  companies  incorporated  outside  India  to  list  their  equity  shares  on 
Indian stock exchanges and for Indian investors to invest in such companies, 
and also includes the key changes required in these regulations.  

4.4 

Chapter 4 summarizes the major recommendations of the Committee. 

 

 

*** 

3 

 

CHAPTER 1 - ECONOMIC CASE FOR LISTING OF EQUITY SHARES OF 

COMPANIES INCORPORATED IN INDIA ON FOREIGN STOCK EXCHANGES 
AND OF COMPANIES INCORPORATED OUTSIDE INDIA ON INDIAN STOCK 

EXCHANGES 

I. 

INTRODUCTION 

1.1 

The  fast  growing  liberalised  Indian  economy  is  anchored  on  the  principles  of 
transparency and ease of doing business promoted by Government of India. This has provided a boost 
to  foreign  corporates  to  actively  participate  in  the  growth  of  the  Indian  economy  and  compete  with 
established as well as new companies incorporated in India. This may, therefore, be an opportune time 
to  consider  further  liberalising  the  equity  capital  raising  framework  by  allowing  companies 
incorporated outside India the opportunity to access the vibrant Indian equity capital markets. At the 
same time, it is also an  opportune time to enable companies incorporated in India to directly access 
the global equity capital markets. 

1.2 

This  chapter  examines  the  economic  case  for  liberalising  India’s  current  legal  and 
regulatory framework to permit direct listing of equity shares under different scenarios, viz. (i) listing 
of equity shares of companies incorporated in India on foreign stock exchanges with a view to benefit 
such companies; and (ii) listing of companies incorporated outside India on Indian stock exchanges, 
with  a  view  to  benefit  the  Indian  economy,  the  companies  incorporated  in  India  as  also  the  Indian 
investors.  

II. 

BENEFITS TO THE INDIAN ECONOMY  

2.1 

Increased  competitiveness  for  companies  incorporated  in  India.  Corporate  India’s 
health  is  a  critical  determinant  of  India’s  future  in  a  global  marketplace.  Several  companies 
incorporated in India across various industries, especially in the technology and internet sectors, are 
increasingly  facing  competition  from  foreign  multinational  companies  within  the  Indian  domestic 
market, as well as globally, as they expand into foreign markets. Listing on a foreign stock exchange 
will  increase  the  relative  competitiveness  of  such  companies  incorporated  in  India  vis-à-vis  their 
global  competitors  by  enabling  them  to  derive  the  same  benefits  currently  enjoyed  by  their 
international  counterparts,  whether  in  terms  of  access  to  capital  (including  at  reduced  costs)  or  in 
terms of other strategic advantages, thus benefiting the health of the Indian economy. 

2.2 

Competitive  pressures  to  stimulate  efficiency  and  growth.  Allowing  companies 
incorporated in India to list on foreign stock exchanges and companies incorporated outside India to 
list  on  Indian  stock  exchanges  will  expose  the  Indian  capital  markets  to  global  competition.  As  a 
result,  Indian  capital  markets  will  innovate  and  maximise  efficiencies  so  as  to  compete  effectively 
with  other  jurisdictions,  with  positive  externalities  for  the  entire  financial  ecosystem.  This  will 
promote  the  development  of  the  Indian  financial  system.  Traders  and  other  integrated  financial 
services providers will also generally benefit, including as a result of an increase in the volume and 
variety  of  financial  products  that  will  be  offered  in  India,  which  will  contribute  to  the  deepening 
India’s high-end financial skills base and expand India’s market for integrated financial services. 

2.3 

Development of finance as a high-value added export. Finance can be a high value-
added  export  sector  for  India,  much  like  information  technology  has  become  a  high  value-added 
export success story for India. The Indian economy will, therefore, benefit from the development of a 
world-class financial system that is a provider of capital to companies incorporated outside India.  

2.4 

Increased  attractiveness  to  growing  technology  sector.  Several  leading  Indian 
technology  and  internet  companies  are  domiciled  overseas  and  are  not  currently  able  to  list  their 
securities on Indian stock exchanges. Permitting these companies to list on the Indian stock exchanges 
will  facilitate  the  development  of  specialized  investor  and  analyst  clusters  with  industry-specific 

4 

 

knowledge  and  valuation  expertise.  This  will  make  Indian  stock  exchanges  more  attractive  to  the 
technology  and  internet  sectors,  which  have  grown  significantly  in  India  over  the  last  decade  (with 
over 90 Indian technology and internet companies achieving valuations of over US$100 million) and 
currently demonstrate significant potential for future exchange listings as these companies continue to 
mature. 

2.5 

Boost the “India”  brand globally. The  proposed  liberalization of  India’s  regulatory 
framework will also boost the brand “India” and its profile globally, in the same way that numerous 
listings by companies, from other jurisdictions, including China, on major international exchanges are 
seen  to  have  strengthened  the  brand  and  profile  of  their  country  of  incorporation  among  the  global 
investor  community  as  an  increasing  number  of  companies  incorporated  in  India  list  on  key  global 
stock  exchanges  like  NASDAQ,  NYSE  or  LSE.  For  example,  over  the  period  2013-2018,  91 
companies  with  business  operations  primarily  in  China  raised  US$44  billion  through  initial  public 
offerings on NYSE and NASDAQ in the United States.  

2.6 

Improve economic relations with other countries. Further, enabling listing of foreign 
corporates  in  India  and  listing  of  Indian  corporates  abroad  will  be  an  important  economic  and 
diplomatic tool in the hands of the Government of India, which can aid bilateral and multi-lateral ties 
and  help  create  the  comprehensive  economic  partnerships  needed  to  aid  the  development  of  Indian 
economy.  

III. 

BENEFITS TO COMPANIES INCORPORATED IN INDIA 

3.1 

Alternate  source  of  capital.  Companies  incorporated  in  India  can  benefit  from 
accessing capital markets outside of their country of incorporation for various reasons. Many of these 
benefits  are  attained  from  a  reduction  in  the  cost  of  capital  in  advanced  economies  with  developed 
financial  markets.  Given  inherent  inflation  and  relatively  smaller  domestic  institutional  and  non-
institutional  pools  of  capital,  the  cost  of  capital  in  India  is  still  higher  vis-à-vis  that  for  a  foreign 
corporate  thereby  putting  the  Indian  company  at  a  disadvantage  in  the  marketplace.  Thus,  a  simple 
and principle based international listing regime which enables all  companies incorporated in India to 
raise capital in the market which optimizes cost and provides the greatest benefits in terms of value, 
quantum, quality and branding is the need of the hour.  

3.2 

Broader investor base. Listing on foreign stock exchanges broaden and diversify the 
pool of investors that are able to acquire and trade the company’s shares, which increases the demand 
pool  for  the  company's  shares  and  helps  to  decrease  the  cost  of  capital.  For  example,  a  company 
incorporated in India listed in the United States would be able to access numerous investment funds 
that  would  otherwise  be  prevented  by their internal  investment  criteria from  investing  in  companies 
not  listed  in  the  United  States.  Such  listings  also  enable  companies  to  diversify  their  capital-raising 
activities  rather  than  being  reliant  only  on  their  domestic  market.  In  addition,  Indian  start-up  or 
emerging-growth companies, for example, will be able to access capital from investors overseas that 
may  be  more  receptive  to  their  securities  than  Indian  investors,  who  have  typically  focused  on 
companies  with  proven  track  records  of  profitability  and  growth,  and  have  generally  exhibited  less 
appetite for start-up or emerging-growth companies. 

3.3 

Better  valuation.  Companies  listing  on  foreign  stock  exchanges  with  sophisticated 
asset  management  infrastructure  generally  expect  to  obtain  more  accurate  valuations  on  their 
securities than in their domestic capital markets. For example, overseas listings enable companies to 
access  specialized  industry-specific  investor  classes,  such  as  high-tech  investors,  who  possess 
institutional sectoral expertise and are thus better able to value these securities.  Listings on foreign 
stock  exchanges  can  also  increase  analyst  coverage  for  the  listed  shares  and  facilitate  clearer 
comparisons against other peer companies that are listed overseas, each of which contribute toward 
more accurate benchmarking and valuations.  

 

5 

3.4  Other  strategic  benefits.  Additionally,  companies  incorporated  in  India  may  derive 
benefits from listing on a foreign stock exchange for other strategic reasons, including facilitation of 
their  international  employee  compensation  strategies,  increase  in  their  brand  awareness  and 
visibility, and by gaining a currency of exchange with which to pursue their international expansion 
plans.  

IV. 

BENEFITS TO COMPANIES INCORPORATED OUTSIDE INDIA 

4.1 

Fruitful association with brand “India”.  India accounted for nearly 3.5 per cent of 
world  GDP  and  2.5  percent  of  global  stock  market  capitalization  in  Fiscal  2017.  Indian  capital 
markets are amongst the top 10 from a trading volume perspective, with domestic mutual funds and 
insurers having invested more than US$ 30 Bn in Indian equity markets during the last 2 years. With 
listing in India, companies incorporated outside India may also seek the opportunity of raising equity 
capital from Indian domestic institutions. Additionally, companies incorporated outside India wanting 
to access Indian consumers and also Indian skilled labour may benefit from their “Indian” association 
that would come through their listing in India. 

4.2 

Access to Indian markets. Also, with over 5,000 listed companies and more than 58 
companies  in  the  global  Fortune  2000  as  of June  2018,  India  represents  a  vibrant  mix  of  small  and 
large  companies  that  access  capital  from  domestic  and  international  investors  (under  the  existing 
foreign  investment  and  foreign  direct  investment  regimes)  to  fund  their  growth.  In  addition,  Indian 
capital markets benefit from a credible corporate governance and regulatory framework, and general 
investor confidence in Indian regulators’ no-nonsense, business-like and facilitative approach. In view 
of these positive attributes, India’s capital markets and stock exchanges are likely to be most attractive 
to various companies incorporated outside India.  

V. 

BENEFITS TO INDIAN INVESTORS 

5.1 

Increased diversification of portfolios. Currently, the portfolios of Indian households 
and institutional investors exhibit lower levels of diversification resulting from an over-emphasis on 
Indian assets. This home bias is likely to decline when global assets are made more visible and more 
accessible  through  the  domestic  market.  Allowing  companies  incorporated  outside  India  to  access 
Indian capital markets and list their shares on Indian stock exchanges (including certain  companies 
incorporated in India that are currently domiciled overseas, such as certain technology and internet 
companies)  will  increase  investor  choice  and  facilitate  investments  by  Indian  savers  in  the  growth 
businesses  of  companies  incorporated  outside  India.  For  example,  wealthy  Indian  investors  may 
desire to invest in shares of global blue chip companies, and the proposed liberalization of the Indian 
regulatory framework is an effective means of satiating the desire of such Indian investors.  

5.2 

Participation  in  wealth  created  by  global  companies.  Participation  by  Indian 
investors in the equity share capital of companies incorporated outside India would also enable Indian 
investors  in  partaking  in  the  wealth  generated  by  multi-national  corporations  that  have  significant 
impact on Indian lives. Global internet companies such as Apple, Facebook, Google, Amazon, etc. are 
the prime examples which have permeated the daily lives of billions. Direct listing of equity shares by 
companies  incorporated  outside  India  on  Indian  stock  exchanges  would  enable  Indian  investors  to 
participate in such wealth creation. Further, allowing companies incorporated outside India to access 
Indian capital markets will create a vibrant domestic market also enabling the investors to reduce their 
risk exposure at the same levels of expected returns. 

*** 

6 

 

CHAPTER 2 - LISTING OF EQUITY SHARES OF COMPANIES INCORPORATED 

IN INDIA ON FOREIGN STOCK EXCHANGES 

I. 

INTRODUCTION  

This chapter lays down the recommended framework for listing of equity shares of companies 
incorporated  in  India  on  foreign  stock  exchanges.  The  Committee’s  proposals  for  this 
framework addresses the following aspects:  

1.1 

1.2 

1.3 

1.4 

1.5 

Principles for identifying the Permissible Jurisdictions and foreign stock exchanges; 

Primary policy issues under various Indian regulations and the requisite changes;  

Know  Your  Client  (KYC)  and  Anti-Money  Laundering  (AML)  requirements 
applicable to investors and intermediaries 

Tax related considerations; and  

Applicable accounting standards for the preparation and presentation of consolidated 
financial statements. 

 

II. 

PRINCIPLES  FOR  IDENTIFYING  THE  PERMISSIBLE  JURISDICTIONS  AND 
STOCK EXCHANGES  

2.1 

2.2 

As  outlined  in  chapter  1,  companies  incorporated  in  India  can  increase  their  global 
competitiveness by having access to capital at low cost from advanced economies on 
their well-developed stock exchanges under a suitable framework. Such a framework, 
however,  should  provide  for  measures  to  avoid  illegal  transactions  such  as  round 
tripping of illegal funds.  

Accordingly,  the  Committee  recommends  that  the  framework  should  allow  listing 
only  on  specified  stock  exchanges  in  Permissible  Jurisdictions  outside  India.  A 
Permissible Jurisdiction  includes  a jurisdiction  which  has  treaty  obligations  to  share 
information and cooperate with Indian authorities in the event of any investigation. It 
is  recommended  that  Permissible  Jurisdiction  should  be  defined  to  mean  a 
jurisdiction: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

that  is  a  member  of  the  Board  of  International  Organization  of  Securities 
Commissions  (“IOSCO”),  and  whose  securities  market  regulator  is  either  a 
signatory to the IOSCO’s multilateral memorandum of understanding or is a 
signatory  to  a  bilateral  memorandum  of  understanding  with  SEBI  for 
information sharing arrangements; and 

that is a member of the Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”); and  

that is not identified in the public statement of the FATF as:  

a. 

a  jurisdiction  having  strategic  anti-money  laundering  or  combating 
the  financing  of  terrorism  deficiencies  to  which  countermeasures 
apply; or  

 

7 

b. 

a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient progress in addressing the 
deficiencies  or  has  not  committed  to  an  action  plan  developed  with 
the FATF to address the deficiencies;  

iv. 

any  other  jurisdiction  notified  by  Central  Government  in  consultation  with 
SEBI  and  /  or  other  regulatory  authorities,  following  an  overall  review  and 
evaluation of such jurisdiction’s capital markets regulations.  

2.3 

The  criteria  prescribed  above  are  similar to  the  criteria  for  determining  jurisdictions 
where listing of masala bonds under the relevant Reserve Bank of India (RBI) circular 
can take place. Based on these principles, the Committee recommends that listing of 
companies incorporated in India may be allowed on specified foreign stock exchanges 
of  Permissible  Jurisdictions.  Further,  even  out  of  such  Permissible  Jurisdictions,  the 
Committee  feels  that  to  begin  with,  those  jurisdictions  may  be  considered  that  have 
deep capital markets, high liquidity and strong listing conditions. The  Committee, in 
this  context,  perused  the  data  from  “World  Federation  of  Exchanges”  (“WFE”)  and 
identified the top stock exchanges in terms of cash market turnover. Accordingly, the 
initial  list  of  recommended  Permissible  Jurisdictions  along  with  the  specified  stock 
exchanges is placed as Annexure-A to this Report.  

 

III. 

PRIMARY POLICY ISSUES UNDER VARIOUS INDIAN REGULATIONS AND THE 
REQUISITE CHANGES  

3.1 

The  framework  for  listing  of  equity  shares  of  companies  incorporated  in  India  on 
foreign  stock  exchanges  could  be  legally  implemented  through  certain  amendments, 
to  the  current  regulatory  framework  in  India.  The  key  statutes  that  require  certain 
amendments and / or clarifications are the following:  

i. 

ii. 

Foreign  Exchange  Management  Act,  1999  together  with  regulations,  press 
notes,  circulars  and  notifications  thereunder,  including  Foreign  Exchange 
Management  (Transfer  or  Issue  of  Security  by  a  Person  Resident  Outside 
India) Regulations, 2017 (“FEMA 20R”) (collectively, “FEMA”); and 

The Companies Act, 2013, together with the rules, circulars and notifications 
thereunder (the “Companies Act”). 

3.2 

FEMA 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Regulation  5(1)  of  FEMA  20R  permits  a  person  resident  outside  India  to 
subscribe, purchase and sell capital instruments of a company incorporated in 
India  (which  is  either  unlisted  or  listed  in  India)  subject  to  conditions 
specified in Schedule 1 of FEMA 20R.  

FEMA,  however,  at  present,  does  not  specifically  contemplate  issuance  of 
equity  shares  by  a  company  incorporated  in  India  that  is  listed  on  a  stock 
exchange outside India, to a person resident outside India.  

The  Committee  recommends  the  introduction  of  Part  B  to  Schedule  1  of 
FEMA 20R, which would set out the regulatory framework for purchase by a 
person  resident  outside  India  of  equity  shares  of  a  company  incorporated  in 
India  listed  on  a  foreign  stock  exchange.  A  proposed  draft  of  Part  B  of 
Schedule 1 of FEMA 20R is placed as Annexure-B to this report.  

iv. 

The salient features of the said Schedule include the following: 

8 

 

a. 

b. 

c. 

The  equity  shares  of  companies  incorporated  in  India  should  be 
allowed  to  be  listed  on  specified  stock  exchanges  in  Permissible 
Jurisdictions  and  will  continue  to  be  subject  to  Indian  regulatory 
restrictions  under  FEMA  20R,  such  as  prohibited  activities,  entry 
routes, sectoral caps and  related conditions, as may be existing from 
time to time. 

Any  person  resident  outside  India,  eligible 
to  make  foreign 
investments  under  FEMA  20R  would  qualify  as  a  ‘permissible 
investor’.  FEMA  20R  prohibits  entities  incorporated  in  certain 
countries from investing in India, except under the Government route. 
This restriction will continue to apply for investments in equity shares 
of a company incorporated in India listed on foreign stock exchanges 
as well.  

Receipt  and  retention  of  proceeds  would  be  permitted  in  a  foreign 
currency  account  overseas,  similar  to  the  framework  for  ADR/GDR 
proceeds.  

3.3 

Companies Act 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

Chapter  III  (Prospectus  and  Allotment  of  Securities)  of  the  Companies  Act 
which  prescribes  the  framework  for  public  offers  and  private  placements  of 
securities,  is  applicable  to  all  companies  incorporated  in  India,  including 
companies  that  issue  ADRs/GDRs  as  well  as  those  which  would  propose  to 
list their equity shares on foreign stock exchanges.  

In  order  to  enable  the  framework  for  listing  of  equity  shares  of  companies 
incorporated in India on foreign stock exchanges, the Committee recommends 
that  MCA  may  issue a  notification,  similar  to the  general circular  issued for 
masala bonds dated August 03, 2016 clarifying, inter alia, that Chapter III of 
the Companies Act and related rules will not apply to listing of equity shares 
of companies incorporated in India on foreign stock exchanges.   

The  Companies  Act  mandates  Indian  companies  to  maintain  register  of 
members.  Section  88  of  the  Companies  Act  requires  every  company  to 
maintain  a  register  of  members  for  each  class  of  equity  shares  held  by  each 
member  residing  in  or  outside  India  as  well  as  a  register  of  other  securities 
holders,  and  these  registers  are  required  to  include certain  identification  and 
demographic  details  of  the  members.  Section  88(3)  of  the  Companies  Act 
provides  that  the  register  and  index  of  beneficial  owners  maintained  by  a 
depository  under  Section  11  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  (“Depositories 
Act”) shall be deemed to be a corresponding register for this purpose. Section 
88(4)  of  the  Companies  Act  also  permits  companies  to  maintain  a  ‘foreign 
register’ containing the names and particulars of members and other securities 
holders or beneficial owners residing outside India.  

As  an  example,  in  case  of  ADR/GDR,  the  name  of  Global  Depository/ 
Custodian  is  recorded  in  the  books  of  Indian  Depository  and  is  taken  to  be 
sufficient to meet the requirement under the Companies Act.  

The Committee, therefore, recommends that a similar framework may also be 
applicable  in  case  of  overseas  listing  and  necessary  clarifications  in  this 
respect may be issued by MCA. 

 

9 

3.4 

SEBI Regulations 

i. 

ii. 

Listing  of  equity  shares  of  unlisted  companies  incorporated  in  India  on 
foreign  stock  exchanges  would  be  governed  by  the  listing  framework  of  the 
concerned Permissible Jurisdiction. The relevant Indian laws like Companies 
Act would also continue to apply to such companies.  

As  regards  such  listing  of  a  listed  Indian  company,  such  a  company  shall 
comply,  at  all  times,  with  rules/  regulations/  laws/  initial  and  continuous 
listing/ disclosure requirements, as are applicable to companies listed in India. 
In case of variation in the compliance obligations/ requirement for additional 
compliances  in  Permissible  Jurisdiction,  a  comparative  analysis  of  the 
provisions that are applicable in India along with compliance of the same and 
the requirements applicable in the Permissible Jurisdiction shall be given by 
the company. 

 

IV. 

KYC  AND  AML  REQUIREMENTS  APPLICABLE  TO  INVESTORS  AND 
INTERMEDIARIES 

4.1 

Requirements under Permissible Jurisdiction’s regulatory framework   

i. 

ii. 

Investors, and intermediaries such as dealers, initial purchasers, underwriters, 
share  transfer  agents  and  depositories,  associated  with  listing  of  companies 
incorporated  in  India  on  a  foreign  stock  exchange  in  a  Permissible 
Jurisdiction  will  be  required  to  register  and  conduct  their  business  in 
compliance  with  the  KYC  and  AML  requirements  of  the  concerned 
Permissible Jurisdiction.  

The  Committee  noted  that  the  masala  bonds  under  the  relevant  RBI 
framework can only be issued and subscribed in a country which is a member 
of  FATF/  FATF-Style  Regional  Body  (“FSRB”),  and  whose  securities 
regulator is a signatory to IOSCO MMoU/ bilateral MoU with SEBI, and the 
KYC requirements of those jurisdictions are applicable. However, in case of 
proposed listing of equity shares on a foreign stock exchange, the criteria for 
Permissible  Jurisdictions  are  stricter,  as  residents  of  only  FATF  members 
whose  securities  regulators  are  also  members  on  the  Board  of  IOSCO  are 
eligible to invest. Further, the list of Permissible Jurisdictions have reporting 
requirements that comply with the United Nations’ International Convention 
for  the  Suppression  of  the  Financing  of  Terrorism  and  fairly  developed 
legislative  frameworks  for  reporting,  preventing  money  laundering  and 
combating financing of terrorism. 

iii. 

In  view  of  the  above,  the  Committee  recommends  the  KYC  and  AML 
framework  existing  in  Permissible  Jurisdictions  as  acceptable  standards  for 
compliance with KYC and AML norms.  

4.2 

Details  of  beneficial  ownership  under  Companies  Act  and  significant  beneficial 
ownership under the Companies (Significant Beneficial Owners) Rules, 2018 

i. 

The  Companies  (Significant  Beneficial  Owners)  Rules,  2018  require  every 
beneficial  owner  of  equity  shares  holding  10%  or  more  of  the  ultimate 
beneficial interest in a company to file a declaration (Form No. BEN-1) to the 
company.  When  any  such  declaration  is  received  by  the  company,  it  has  to 

 

10 

file  a  return  (Form  No.  BEN-2)  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies  (“RoC”) 
regarding  the  declaration.  The  information  required  in  the  declaration  and 
return  forms  include  certain  identification  and  demographic  details  of  the 
registered owner and beneficial owner. 

ii. 

The  Companies  (Significant  Beneficial  Owners)  Rules,  2018  provide  that  in 
case the ‘significant beneficial owner’ is not an individual/natural person, the 
natural  person  in  control  of  such  company  shall  be  determined  as  the 
‘significant  beneficial  owner’.  The  Committee  noted  that  the  threshold 
prescribed  under  these  rules,  is  similar  to  that  observed  in  the  Permissible 
Jurisdictions and necessary disclosures in compliance with such requirements 
are made by the investors. Accordingly, the Committee recommends that the 
beneficial ownership requirement can be met by submitting the information as 
provided  by  the  investors  in  the  manner  prescribed  in  the  Permissible 
Jurisdictions. 

 

V. 

TAX RELATED CONSIDERATIONS 

5.1 

Tax  implications  on  transfer  of  equity  shares  of  a  company  incorporated  in  India 
listed on a foreign stock exchange 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Under current tax laws in India, income earned from transfer of equity shares 
of  an  unlisted  Indian  company  listed  on  a  foreign  stock  exchange  would  be 
subject  to  capital  gains  tax  in  India,  as  these  shares  would  be  considered 
‘capital  assets  situated  in  India’,  because  these  are  shares  of  a  company 
incorporated in India.  

Under  the  extant  provisions,  the  transfer  of  GDRs  by  a  non-resident  to 
another  non-resident  is  not  regarded  as  taxable  ‘transfer’  under  Section 
47(vii)(a)  of  the  Income  Tax  Act,  1961  (“Income  Tax  Act”)  and 
consequently, the non-resident does not have any tax obligation in India.  

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  matter  relating  to  tax  on  issuance  and 
transfer  of  equity  shares  of  companies  incorporated  in  India  listed  on  a 
foreign  stock  exchange  and  related  reporting  obligations,  may  be  taken  up 
with  the  Department  of  Revenue  for  providing  clarity.  For  this  purpose, 
reference may be drawn to ADR/ GDR regime.  

5.2 

Issuance  of  equity  shares  of  a  company  incorporated  in  India  on  a  foreign  stock 
exchange  

i. 

ii. 

Under  Section  56  of  the  Income  Tax  Act,  if  a  person  receives  shares  of  a 
company  incorporated  in  India  for  consideration  which  is  less  than  the  fair 
market  value  (“FMV”)  determined  as  per  valuation  norms  prescribed  under 
Rule 11UA of the Indian Income tax Rules, 1962 (“Income Tax Rules”), the 
difference  between  the  FMV  and  the  subscription  price  would  be  subject  to 
tax  in  the  hands  of  the  person  (the  non-resident  in  this  case)  acquiring  the 
shares (subject to availability of any benefits under the applicable tax treaty).  

Since  the  price  at  which  shares  would  be  issued  on  the  foreign  stock 
exchanges  would  be  determined  by  the  market  forces  in  the  respective 
jurisdiction  pertaining  to  the  particular  shares,  it  is  quite  possible  that  the 
shares  may  be  issued  at  a  price  which  is  less  than  the  FMV  of  the  shares 

 

11 

determined  as  per  Rule  11UA  of  Income  Tax  Rules,  for  the  purposes  of 
Section  56  of  the  Income  Tax  Act.  The  Committee  recommends  that  the 
matter  may  be  taken  up  with  the  Department  of  Revenue  to  take  necessary 
steps  for  clarifying  the  applicability  of  Section  56  in  case  of  transactions 
pertaining to shares of companies incorporated in India listed on foreign stock 
exchanges including relevant amendments in the tax valuation rules.  

 

VI. 

APPLICABLE  RULES  OF  ACCOUNTING  FOR  PREPARATION  OF 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

6.1 

Through the framework, the Committee envisages permitting listing of equity shares 
of  a  company  incorporated  in  India on  a  foreign  stock  exchange  for subscription  by 
investors  in  such  foreign  jurisdictions.  The  accounting  standards  in  the  country  of 
listing  may  require  preparation/presentation  of  consolidated  financial  statements 
either  in  accordance  with  accounting/auditing  standards  applicable  to  domestic 
companies  in  such  jurisdiction  or  comparable  global  standards.  However,  the 
company  would  be  required  to  prepare  its  consolidated  financial  statements  in 
accordance with applicable Indian Accounting Standards, as applicable from time to 
time, for statutory reporting purposes. 

6.2 

As an example, if the Indian company seeks to list in the United States, it would need 
to present audited consolidated financial statements as follows:  

i. 

ii. 

Under US GAAP; or 

Under  IFRS  as  issued  by  the  International  Accounting  Standard  Board  with 
no quantitative reconciliation to US GAAP; or 

iii. 

Under Indian GAAP/Ind AS with a quantitative reconciliation to US GAAP. 

 

*** 

12 

 

CHAPTER 3 - LISTING EQUITY SHARES OF COMPANIES INCORPORATED OUTSIDE 

INDIA ON INDIAN STOCK EXCHANGES 

 

I. 

INTRODUCTION  

This chapter lays down the recommended framework for listing of equity shares of companies 
incorporated  outside  India  on  Indian  stock  exchanges.  The  Committee’s  proposals  for  this 
framework addresses the following aspects:  

Principles  for  identifying  the  Permissible  Jurisdictions  whose  companies  may  be 
permitted to list their equity shares and the Indian stock exchanges for such listing; 

Primary policy issues under various Indian laws and the requisite changes;  

Investor KYC; and 

Tax related considerations. 

1.1 

1.2 

1.3 

1.4 

 

PRINCIPLES  FOR  IDENTIFYING  THE  PERMISSIBLE  JURISDICTIONS  OF 
COMPANIES 
INDIAN  STOCK 
EXCHANGES  

INCORPORATED  OUTSIDE 

INDIA  AND 

2.1 

It  is  essential  that  companies  incorporated  outside  India,  listing  on  Indian  stock 
exchanges  be  incorporated  in,  and  subject  to  the  jurisdiction  of,  regulators  from 
jurisdictions  that  are  legally  required  to  extend  cooperation  to  Indian  regulatory 
authorities by way of sharing of information and providing assistance in enforcement 
actions.  

2.2 

Therefore,  the  Committee  recommends  that  similar  to  Chapter  2,  Permissible 
Jurisdiction may be defined to mean a jurisdiction: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

that  is  a  member  of  the  Board  of  International  Organization  of  Securities 
Commissions  (“IOSCO”),  and  whose  securities  market  regulator  is  either  a 
signatory to the IOSCO’s multilateral memorandum of understanding or is a 
signatory  to  a  bilateral  memorandum  of  understanding  with  SEBI  for 
information sharing arrangements; and 

that is a member of the Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”); and  

that is not identified in the public statement of the FATF as:  

a. 

b. 

a  jurisdiction  having  strategic  anti-money  laundering  or  combating 
the  financing  of  terrorism  deficiencies  to  which  countermeasures 
apply; or  

a jurisdiction that has not made sufficient progress in addressing the 
deficiencies  or  has  not  committed  to  an  action  plan  developed  with 
the FATF to address the deficiencies;  

iv. 

any  other  jurisdiction  notified  by  Central  Government  in  consultation  with 
SEBI/ other regulatory authorities, following an overall review and evaluation 
of such jurisdiction’s capital markets regulations. 

13 

II. 

 

2.3 

As  earlier  discussed  in  Para  2.3  of  Chapter  2  to  this  report,  the  initial  list  of 
recommended  Permissible  Jurisdictions  (as  per  WFE  data)  as  also  a  list  of  the 
specified stock exchanges in India, is placed as Annexure-C.  

 

III. 

PRIMARY  POLICY  ISSUES  UNDER  VARIOUS  INDIAN  LAWS  AND  THE 
REQUISITE CHANGES  

3.1 

The  Committee  has  identified  the  following  key  statutes  that  will  be  required  to  be 
amended to allow companies incorporated outside India to list their shares on Indian 
stock exchanges and to allow Indian investors to invest in such companies:  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

Foreign  Exchange  Management  (Transfer  or  Issue  of  any  Foreign  Security) 
Regulations, 2004; 

Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016; 

Companies Act, 2013  

SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;  

SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015  

Other  related  SEBI  Regulations,  viz.  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading) 
Regulations,  2015;  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 
Regulations,  2011;  SEBI  (Buy  Back  of  Securities)  Regulations,  2018;  and 
SEBI (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009. 

 

FOREIGN  EXCHANGE  MANAGEMENT  (TRANSFER  OR  ISSUE  OF  ANY 
FOREIGN SECURITY) REGULATIONS, 2004 

3.2 

3.3 

The Committee proposes  that the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue 
of  any  Foreign  Security)  Regulations,  2004  be  amended  to  (i)  specifically  permit 
investments by resident Indians in securities of companies incorporated outside India 
listed on Indian stock exchanges, and (ii) enable resident Indians to transfer securities 
of companies incorporated outside India listed on Indian stock exchanges.  

Under  the  existing  Indian  regulatory  framework,  only  companies  incorporated  in 
India  and  listed  on  an  Indian  stock  exchange,  may  have  the  ability  to  invest  in  the 
securities  of  a  listed  company  incorporated  outside  India,  and  even  then,  only  on  a 
short  term  basis.  Beyond  this,  any  investment  in  a  listed  company  incorporated 
outside India by any other Indian entity or person would need to be in the form of a 
“joint  venture”,  on  a  long  term  basis,  and  only  where  such  Indian  entity  or  person 
holds  the  securities  along  with  foreign  promoters  (therefore  evidencing  a  strategic 
investment). The Committee, therefore, recommends that enabling provisions should 
be  included  in  the  regulatory  framework  to  permit  investments  and  transfers  by 
resident  Indians  in  /  of  companies  incorporated  outside  India  listed  on  Indian  stock 
exchanges.  

 

 

14 

FOREIGN EXCHANGE MANAGEMENT (DEPOSIT) REGULATIONS, 2016 

3.4 

3.5 

The  Committee  proposes  that  the  Foreign  Exchange  Management  (Deposit) 
Regulations,  2016  be  amended  to  enable  companies  incorporated  outside  India  to 
open  bank  accounts  in  India  denominated  in  Indian  rupees  for  listing  purposes  and 
transactions related thereto. 

Under these regulations, a company incorporated outside India is permitted to open a 
Non-Resident  Ordinary  Account  (“NRO  Account”)  and  a  Special  Non-Resident 
Rupee  Account  (“SNRR  Account”).  Remittances  outside  India  from  the  NRO 
Account  are  permitted  only  with  RBI  approval  and  consequently  would  not  be 
practical  to  be  used  by  the  company  incorporated  outside  India  with  respect  to 
remittance  of  listing  proceeds.  An  SNRR  Account  is  a  special  account  opened  for 
specific business and should be concurrent with the term of the contract or period of 
business, not exceeding 7 (seven) years. SNRR Account seems to be contemplated for 
business or project specific matters and not for general banking purposes or to receive 
consideration on shares. 

3.6 

Accordingly,  the  Committee  recommends  that  these  regulations  be  amended  to 
specifically permit a company incorporated outside India i.e. a foreign issuer, to open 
an account in India for listing purposes and transactions related thereto. 

COMPANIES ACT, 2013  

3.7 

Section  390  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  enables  the  Central  Government  to  make 
rules  for  offer  of  IDRs,  requirement  of  disclosures  in  prospectus,  manner  of  sale/ 
transfer/  transmission  of  IDRs,  etc.  The  Committee  recommends  that  a  similar 
provision  enabling  SEBI  to  make  regulations  to  permit  listing  of  equity  shares  of 
companies incorporated outside India on India stock exchanges, may be introduced in 
the Companies Act. 

 

SEBI 
REGULATIONS, 2018 (“ICDR REGULATIONS”) 

(ISSUE  OF  CAPITAL  AND  DISCLOSURE  REQUIREMENTS) 

3.8 

3.9 

The  ICDR  Regulations  provides  a  general  framework  for  eligibility  and  disclosure 
requirements  in  connection  with  the  issuance  of  equity  shares  by  companies 
incorporated in India as well as issuance of IDRs in India by companies incorporated 
outside India. The Committee proposes to include a corresponding framework in the 
extant  ICDR  regulations,  for  listing  of  equity  shares  of  companies  incorporated 
outside India (whether or not listed outside India) on Indian stock exchanges.  

Following the initial stage of implementation of the proposed framework, additional 
changes may be proposed to other provisions of the ICDR Regulations (including, for 
example,  additional  provisions  relating  to  rights  issuances,  preferential  allotment  or 
QIP).  

3.10  The key features of the proposed framework in the initial stage are outlined below: 

  Company-specific  eligibility  criteria  -  These  company-specific  criteria  are 
guided  by  investor  protection  considerations,  including  the  principle  that 

15 

 

 

fraudulent  or  debarred  companies  should  not  be  allowed  to  access  Indian 
capital markets. 

  Removal  of  requirement  of  identifying  “Promoter(s)  /  Promoter  group”  - 
Since this concept is unique to India, the Committee proposes to remove this 
requirement  from  the  rules  applicable  to  companies  incorporated  outside 
India listing on Indian stock exchanges.  

In case the  company incorporated outside India has identified controlling or 
significant shareholders under the law of its country of incorporation, certain 
material  information  regarding  such  controlling  or  significant  shareholders 
will  be  required  to  be  disclosed  such  as  material  litigation  relating  to  such 
controlling or significant shareholders. 

  Financial  statement  requirements:  The  Committee  proposes  that  companies 
incorporated  outside  India  listing  on  Indian  stock  exchanges  be  required  to 
prepare  and  disclose  English  language  consolidated  financial  statements  in 
accordance with one of the following accounting standards:  

o 

Ind AS;  

o 

IFRS as issued by the IASB (IFRS); 

o  US GAAP; or  

o  Local GAAP of the country of incorporation.  

If consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS or 
US  GAAP,  the  issuer  shall  annex  a  summary  of  significant  differences 
between IFRS or US GAAP, as applicable, and Ind AS (with no quantitative 
reconciliation).  In  case  the  company  incorporated  outside  India  opts  to 
prepare  and  disclose  the  consolidated  financial statements  as per  its  country 
of  incorporation’s  local  GAAP,  a  quantitative  reconciliation  statement 
between  the  country  of  incorporation’s  local  GAAP  and  Ind  AS  for  the 
periods  presented,  and  summary  of  significant  differences  between  the 
country of incorporation’s local GAAP and Ind AS has to be annexed. 

Consolidated  financial  statements  shall  include  the  statement  of  profit  and 
loss,  balance  sheet,  cash  flow  statement  and  statement  of  changes  in  equity 
and related notes to the financial statements,  to be provided in the reporting 
currency as per the country of incorporation and / or in Indian Rupees;  

Convenience  translation  of  the  most  recent  fiscal  year  and  interim  period 
consolidated financial statements  into Indian Rupee, the exchange rate to be 
used as of the most recent balance sheet date; and  

 

Issue size and minimum float: To ensure adequate liquidity, reduce scope for 
manipulation and also that only high quality companies get listed, minimum 
thresholds related to free float, issue size and minimum number of investors 
are  desirable.  Accordingly,  the  Committee  recommends  that  minimum  10% 
of  paid-up  capital  may  be  listed  on  Indian  stock  exchanges(s).  Further,  the 
issue size should be at least INR 1,000 crore and allotment should be made to 
at least 200 investors.     

 

 

16 

SEBI 
REGULATIONS, 2015 (“LODR REGULATIONS”)  

(LISTING  OBLIGATIONS  AND  DISCLOSURE  REQUIREMENTS) 

3.11  The  LODR  Regulations  provides  a  framework  for  post-listing  obligations  and 
ongoing disclosure requirements of a listed entity which has, inter alia, listed its IDRs 
on  Indian  stock  exchanges.  As  per  the  LODR  Regulations,  the  listed  entity  shall 
comply, at all times, with the rules/regulations/laws of the  country of origin, i.e. the 
home  country.  Further,  specifically,  in  the  context  of  compliance  with  corporate 
governance  requirements,  the  regulations  provide  that  the  listed  entity  shall  comply 
with the corporate governance provisions as applicable in its home country and other 
jurisdictions  in  which  its  equity  shares  are  listed.  The  listed  entity  shall  submit  to 
stock exchange a comparative analysis of the corporate governance provisions that are 
applicable in its home country and in the other jurisdictions in which its equity shares 
are  listed  along  with the  compliance  of  the same  vis-à-vis  the  corporate  governance 
requirements  applicable  under  regulation  17  to  regulation  27  of  the  LODR 
Regulations. 
 

3.12  The  Committee  proposes  that,  to  begin  with,  IDR  requirements  may  be  made 
applicable,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  listing  of  equity  shares  by  listed  companies 
incorporated outside India on Indian stock exchanges as well. The recommendations 
regarding financial statements and a few other issues are specifically spelt out below. 
Unlisted  companies  incorporated  outside  India,  intending  to  list  in  India,  shall  be 
required to ensure compliance with the Indian framework with respect to continuous 
listing,  with suitable amendments  as  proposed in case  of initial  listing  as detailed  at 
Paragraphs 3.9 and 3.10 of this Chapter.   
 
Financial  statement  requirements:  Foreign  companies  listing  on  Indian  stock 
exchanges  be  required  to  prepare  and  disclose  English  language  consolidated 
financial  statements  in  accordance  with  one  of  the  following  accounting  standards: 
Ind AS; IFRS; US GAAP; or the country of incorporation’s local GAAP. 

 

 

Consolidated financial statements shall contain the following information: 

o  Statement of profit and loss, balance sheet, cash flow statement and statement of 
changes in equity and related notes to the financial statements, to be provided in 
the  reporting  currency  as  per  the  country  of  incorporation  and  /  or  in  Indian 
Rupees;  

o  Convenience  translation  of  the  most  recent  fiscal  year  and  interim  period  into 
Indian Rupees, the exchange rate to be used as of the most recent balance sheet 
date; and  

o  Statement of difference to be provided setting forth the differences between the 
accounting standard used for the preparation consolidated financial statements of 
the  company  incorporated  outside  India  and  IndAS.  If  consolidated  financial 
statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS or US GAAP, the issuer shall 
annex a summary of significant differences between IFRS or US GAAP and Ind 
AS  (with  no  quantification).  In  case  the issuer  opts to  prepare and  disclose the 
consolidated financial statements as per country of incorporation’s local GAAP, 
a quantitative reconciliation statement between country of  incorporation’s local 
GAAP  and  Ind  AS  for  the  periods  presented,  and  summary  of  significant 
differences between the country of incorporation’s local GAAP and Ind AS has 
to be annexed. 

 

17 

 

 

Minimum Float: As proposed in case of initial listing, minimum 10% of the paid-up 
capital  of  the  company  incorporated  outside  India  must  remain  publicly  listed  in 
India. 

Manner of voting on the shareholders’ resolutions: Mandatory e-voting requirement 
may be made applicable. 

 

SEBI  REGULATIONS  ON  (I)  PROHIBITION  OF  INSIDER  TRADING,  (II) 
TAKEOVERS, (III) BUYBACK, AND (IV) DELISTING  

3.13  The  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  2015,  SEBI  (Substantial 
Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011,  SEBI  (Buy  Back  of 
Securities)  Regulations,  2018  and  SEBI  (Delisting  of  Equity  Shares)  Regulations, 
2009, currently set forth the relevant capital market regulations in the context of listed 
companies  in  India.  The  same  do  not  cover  the  scenarios  involving  publicly  traded 
securities  of  companies  incorporated  outside  India  that  would  be  listed  on  Indian 
stock exchanges. 

3.14  The  Committee  proposes  that  these  regulations  may  be  suitably  amended  to  extend 
the  applicability  of  the  existing  regulations  to  companies  incorporated  outside  India 
listing  on  Indian  stock  exchanges.  If  the  company  incorporated  outside  India  is 
already listed in its country of incorporation, the regulatory requirements applicable in 
such country shall also apply.  

The key changes would include the following: 

  Definition of Company / Target Company: To amend the definition of “company” to 
extend  applicability  of  these  regulations  to  companies  incorporated  outside  India 
listing their shares on an Indian stock exchange 

  Removal of requirement of identifying “Promoter(s) / Promoter group” - Since this 
concept is unique to India, the Committee proposes to remove this requirement from 
the  rules  applicable  to  companies  incorporated  outside  India  listing  on  Indian 
exchanges.  

  Operational procedures 

  Permissible methods in case of Buyback and Delisting 

 

III. 

INVESTOR KYC 

3.15  To subscribe to securities of companies incorporated outside India listed in India, the 
investor  will  have  to  comply  with  the  prevalent  Indian  KYC  and  Beneficial 
Ownership norms.  

 

IV. 

TAX RELATED CONSIDERATIONS 

3.16 

Issuance  of  equity  shares  of  company  incorporated  outside  India  on  a  recognized 
stock exchange in India 

 

18 

i. 

ii. 

Under current tax laws in India, if the value at which the shares are issued is less than 
the value as per Rule 11UA of the IT Rules, tax under Section 56(2)(x) of the IT Act 
may be attracted on the recipient of the shares (being a tax resident of India). 

While  issue  of  shares  by  a  company  incorporated  outside  India  listed  on  an  Indian 
Stock  Exchange  is  covered  under  the  definition  of  a  “quoted  share”  being  shares 
listed on a “recognised stock exchange in India”, the Committee recommends that the 
matter may be taken up with the Department of Revenue to take necessary steps for 
clarifying the determination of the FMV in such cases. 

3.17  Exclusion from applicability of place of effective management (POEM) 

The Committee recommends that Department of Revenue may be requested to clarify 
that  the  POEM  provisions  will  not  apply  to  a  company  incorporated  outside  India 
solely on account of it being listed in India. This is to avoid any undue instance of tax 
on companies incorporated outside India intending to list in India. 

*** 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19 

CHAPTER 4 - RECOMMENDATIONS 

The major recommendations of the Committee are listed below. 

A.  Listing of equity shares of companies incorporated in India on foreign stock exchanges 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

viii. 

ix. 

Listing  may  be  allowed  only  on  specified  stock  exchanges  in  Permissible  Jurisdictions. 
Detailed criteria for identifying Permissible Jurisdictions have been suggested. Based on 
the  criteria,  the  initial  list  of  Permissible  Jurisdictions  along  with  specified  stock 
exchanges has also been recommended.  

The RBI may be requested to introduce Part B to Schedule 1 to FEMA 20R that may set 
out  the  regulatory  framework  for  purchase  by  a  person  resident  outside  India  of  equity 
shares of a company incorporated in India listed on a foreign stock exchange. A draft of 
such Part B to Schedule 1 has also been suggested. 

The MCA may be requested to issue a clarification (similar to the general circular dated 
August  03,  2016 issued  for  masala  bonds)  that  Chapter  III  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013 
shall  not  apply  to  the  listing  of  equity  shares  of  companies  incorporated  in  India  on 
foreign stock exchanges. 

Listing of unlisted companies incorporated in India on foreign stock exchanges would be 
governed  by  the  listing  framework  of  the  concerned  Permissible  Jurisdiction.  The 
relevant Indian laws like Companies Act would also continue to apply to such companies. 
As regards listing of a listed Indian company on foreign stock exchanges, such a company 
shall  comply,  at  all  times,  with  rules/  regulations/  laws/  initial  and  continuous  listing/ 
disclosure  requirements,  as  are  applicable  to  companies  listed  in  India.  In  case  of 
variation  in  the  compliance  obligations/  requirement  for  additional  compliances  in 
Permissible Jurisdiction, a comparative analysis of the provisions that are applicable in 
India  along  with  compliance  of  the  same  and  the  requirements  applicable  in  the 
Permissible Jurisdiction shall be given by the company. 

The  KYC  and  AML  framework  existing  in  Permissible  Jurisdictions  may  be  taken  as 
acceptable standards for compliance with KYC and AML norms.   

The  beneficial  ownership  requirement,  provided  under  the  Companies  (Significant 
Beneficial Owners) Rules, 2018, can be met by submitting the information as provided by 
the investors in the manner prescribed in the Permissible Jurisdictions. 

The  matter  relating  to  tax  on  issuance  and  transfer  of  equity  shares  of  companies 
incorporated  in  India  listed  on  a  foreign  stock  exchange  and  related  reporting 
obligations, may be taken up with the Department of Revenue for providing clarity. For 
this purpose, reference may be drawn to ADR / GDR regime. 

The  Department  of  Revenue  may  be requested to  take  necessary  steps  for  clarifying the 
applicability of section 56 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 in case of transactions pertaining 
to listing of equity shares of companies incorporated in India on foreign stock exchanges 
including relevant amendments in the tax valuation rules. 

The  relevant  accounting  standards  of  the  country  of  listing  should  be  applicable.  The 
accounting  standards  in  the  country  of  listing  may  require  preparation/presentation  of 
consolidated  financial  statements  either  in  accordance  with  accounting/auditing 
standards  applicable  to  domestic  companies  in  such  jurisdiction  or  comparable  global 
standards. However, the company would be required to prepare its consolidated financial 

 

20 

statements  in  accordance  with  applicable  Indian  Accounting  Standards,  as  applicable 
from time to time for statutory reporting purposes. 

 

B.  Listing of equity shares of companies incorporated outside India on Indian Stock Exchanges  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

The  company  incorporated  outside  India  should  have  been  incorporated  only  in 
Permissible Jurisdictions. Detailed criteria for identifying Permissible Jurisdictions have 
been  suggested.  Based  on  the  criteria,  the  initial  list  of  Permissible  Jurisdictions  along 
with the Indian stock exchanges for listing has also been recommended.  

RBI may be requested to amend the Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or Issue of 
any Foreign Security) Regulations, 2004 to (i) specifically permit investments by resident 
Indians  in  securities  of  companies  incorporated  outside  India  listed  on  Indian  stock 
exchanges,  and  (ii)  enable  resident  Indians  to  transfer  securities  of  companies 
incorporated outside India listed on Indian stock exchanges.  

RBI  may  be  requested  to  amend  the  Foreign  Exchange  Management  (Deposit) 
Regulations, 2016 to enable companies incorporated outside India to open bank accounts 
in  India  denominated  in  Indian  rupees  for  listing  purposes  and  transactions  related 
thereto. 

iv.  MCA may be requested to introduce a provision similar to section 390 of the Companies 
Act  enabling  SEBI  to  make  regulations  to  permit  listing  of  equity  shares  of  companies 
incorporated outside India on Indian stock exchanges. 

v. 

SEBI (ICDR) Regulations may be suitably amended to provide a framework for enabling 
listing  of  equity  shares  of  companies  incorporated  outside  India  on  Indian  stock 
exchanges. The following may be a few key areas of the said enabling framework: 

a.  Company-specific eligibility criteria 

b.  Removal of requirement of identifying “Promoter(s)/ Promoter group” 

c.  Financial statement requirements 

d.  Issue size and minimum float 

vi. 

vii. 

SEBI (LODR) Regulations may be suitably amended to introduce a framework similar to 
the existing framework for IDRs, which, to begin with, may be made applicable mutatis 
mutandis in this case. Unlisted companies incorporated outside India, intending to list in 
India, shall be required to ensure compliance with the Indian framework with respect to 
continuous  listing,  with  suitable  amendments  as  proposed  in  case  of  initial  listing. 
Further, recommendations have also been made relating to financial statements and few 
other issues.  

SEBI  (PIT)  Regulations,  SEBI  (SAST)  Regulations,  SEBI  (Buy-back)  Regulations  and 
SEBI (Delisting) Regulations may be suitably amended to extend the applicability of the 
existing  regulations  to  companies  incorporated  outside  India  listing  on  Indian  stock 
exchanges.  If  the  company  incorporated  outside  India  is  already  listed  in  its  country  of 
incorporation,  the  regulatory  requirements  applicable  in  such  country  shall  also  apply. 
The following may be the key areas of amendments: 

a.  Definition of company 

21 

 

b.  Removal of requirement of identifying “Promoter(s)/ Promoter group” 

c.  Operational procedures 

d.  Possible methods in case of buy-back and delisting 

viii.  Department  of  Revenue may  be  requested  to  take  necessary  steps  for  clarifying  the 
determination of Fair Market Value in the context of rule 11UA of the Income Tax Rules, 
1962 and section 56 of the Income Tax Act, 1961   

ix. 

The  Department  of  Revenue  may  be  requested  to  clarify  that  the  Place  of  Effective 
Management (POEM) provisions will not apply to a company incorporated outside India 
solely on account of it being listed in India. 

 

 

*** 

 

 

 

 

 

22 

List of Permissible Jurisdictions and Specified Stock Exchanges 

ANNEXURE-A  

 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

United States of America – NASDAQ, NYSE 

China – Shanghai Stock Exchange, Shenzhen Stock Exchange   

Japan – Tokyo Stock Exchange, Osaka Securities Exchange 

South Korea – Korea Exchange Inc.  

United Kingdom – London Stock Exchange  

Hong Kong – Hong Kong Stock Exchange  

France – Euronext Paris 

Germany – Frankfurt Stock Exchange  

Canada – Toronto Stock Exchange 

10. 

Switzerland – SIX Swiss Exchange 

 

*** 

 

 

 

23 

ANNEXURE-B 

 

SCHEDULE 1 

[See Regulation 5(1)] 

Part A - Purchase / Sale of capital instruments of a company incorporated in India by a person 

resident outside India 

            [As existing in FEMA 20R] 

Part B - Purchase / Sale of capital instruments of company incorporated in India listed on a 

recognised stock exchange outside India 

I. 

1.1 

1.2 

PURCHASE  /  SALE  OF  CAPITAL  INSTRUMENTS  ON  A  RECOGNISED  STOCK 
EXCHANGE OUTSIDE INDIA 

A  person  resident  outside  India  (other  than  a  citizen  of  Pakistan  or  Bangladesh  or  an  entity 
incorporated  in  Pakistan  or  Bangladesh)  may  purchase  or  sell  capital  instruments  of  a 
company incorporated in India listed on a recognised stock exchange outside India, subject to 
prohibited  activities,  entry  routes,  sectoral  caps  and  attendant  conditions  specified  in 
Regulation 15 and Regulation 16.  

The aggregate of capital instruments which may be issued or transferred to persons resident 
outside  India  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange  outside  India,  along  with  capital  instruments 
already held by persons resident outside India, shall not exceed the limit on foreign holding of 
such capital instruments under the Act, rules or regulations framed thereunder. 

1.3 

It is clarified that: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

“Foreign  Direct  Investment”  as  defined  under  Regulation  2(xvii)  shall  include 
investment  through  capital  instruments  by  a  person  resident  outside  India  in  a 
company incorporated in India listed on a recognised stock exchange outside India; 

Any  transfer  of  capital  instruments  of  a  company  incorporated  in  India  on  a 
recognised stock exchange outside India shall be considered to be a transfer of capital 
instruments from a person resident outside to a person resident outside India for the 
purpose of Regulation 10;  

The  pricing  guidelines under  Regulation 11 shall  not apply  to  the purchase /  sale  of 
capital  instruments  of  a  company  incorporated  in  India  on  a  recognised  stock 
exchange outside India; and 

“Recognised  stock  exchange  outside  India”  shall  mean  specified  stock  exchanges  in 
Permissible Jurisdictions and as notified from time to time. 

II. 

MODE OF PAYMENT  

The  amount  of  consideration  for  purchase  /  sale  of  capital  instruments  of  a  company 
incorporated  in  India  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange  outside  India  shall  be  paid  through 
banking channels to the foreign currency account of the Indian company held in accordance 
with the Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign currency accounts by a person resident in 
India) Regulations, 2016.  

 

24 

III. 

PROCEEDS OF ISSUE 

The  proceeds  of  issue  of  capital  instruments  by  a  company  incorporated  in  India  on  a 
recognised stock exchange outside India shall either be remitted to a bank account in India or 
deposited  in  a  foreign  currency  account  of  the  Indian  company  held  in  accordance  with  the 
Foreign  Exchange  Management  (Foreign  currency  accounts  by  a  person  resident  in  India) 
Regulations, 2016.1  

IV. 

4.1 

4.2 

REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 

The reporting requirements under Regulation 13 as relevant shall apply to the issue and sale 
and purchase of capital instruments of a company incorporated in India on a recognised stock 
exchange outside India. 

The Reserve Bank shall have the right to require submission from time to time of details in 
relation to persons resident outside India who are shareholders of  a company incorporated in 
India listed on a recognised stock exchange outside.  

*** 

                                                      

1   Regulation 5(F)(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign currency accounts by a person resident in 
India) Regulations, 2016 to be amended as follows: “Subject to compliance with the conditions in regard to 
raising  of  external  commercial  borrowings  (ECB)  or  raising  of  resources  through  American  Depository 
Receipts (ADRs) or Global Depository Receipts (GDRs)  or issue of capital instruments to persons resident 
outside India on a recognised stock exchange outside India, the funds so raised may, pending their utilization 
or repatriation to India, be held in deposits in foreign currency accounts with a bank outside India.” 

 

25 

ANNEXURE-C  

 

           List of Permissible Jurisdictions 

  

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

United States of America  

China  

Japan  

South Korea  

United Kingdom  

Hong Kong  

France  

Germany  

Canada  

10. 

Switzerland  

 

 

List of Indian Stock Exchanges  

1.  National Stock Exchange of India Limited 

2.  Bombay Stock Exchange Limited 

3.  Metropolitan Stock Exchange of India Limited 

4.  Stock Exchanges in GIFT-IFSC 

 

 

*** 

26 

