¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Consultation Paper  

 

Self Regulatory Organizations in Securities Market 

1.  Objective 

 
 

 
1.1. The objective of the Consultation Paper is to seek comments from the public on 
the  proposal  to  amend  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Self 
Regulatory  Organizations)  Regulations,  2004  (SRO  Regulations) 
the 
purposes  of  defining  Self  Regulatory  Organization,  simplifying  the  process  of 
recognition and strengthening the role of Self Regulatory Organizations (SROs) 
in the securities market. 
 
 

for 

 

2.  Background 

 
2.1. SEBI had  notified  the SRO Regulations on February 19, 2004. As on date,  the 
said Regulations are in force only in relation to distributors  engaged  by  Asset  
Management    Companies    of    Mutual    Funds    and    distributors    engaged  by 
Portfolio Managers.  

 

2.2. SEBI  had  initiated  the  process  of  selection  of  SRO  for  distributors  of  Mutual 
Fund  (MF)  products  in  2013.  The  in-principle  approval  granted  to  one  of  the 
applicants  was  challenged  before  the  Hon’ble  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal 
(SAT) and a further appeal was made before the Hon’ble Supreme Court. 

 

2.3. In October 2017, pursuant to an application filed by SEBI, the Hon’ble Supreme 
Court allowed SEBI to start afresh the selection process for SRO of distributors 
of MF products. 
 

2.4. Pursuant  to  the  same  and  after  a  detailed  internal  deliberation  in  the  matter, 
SEBI had filed an application before the Hon’ble Supreme Court to seek leave to 
make  necessary  amendments  to  the  SRO  Regulations  including  that  of 
recognizing  a  company  as  an  SRO,  after  considering  its  experience  and 
capability, without calling for applications. 
 

2.5. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in its order dated November 12, 2018 while allowing 

SEBI’s application observed the following: 
“Prayer  to  amend  the  Self  Regulatory  Organization  (SRO)  Regulations  and  to 
consider the pending cases in the light of the amended Regulations is allowed.  
We  make  it  clear  that  we  have  expressed  no  opinion  on  the  validity  of  the 
amendment(s) proposed.” 
 
 
 

 

Page 1 of 9 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
3.  SROs for Different Segments of Securities Market 

 

 

 
3.1. Concept of SRO 

3.1.1.  The  distributors  of  MF  products  and  Investment  Advisers  (IAs)  are 
becoming important players in the market and growing in numbers.  There 
are approx. 1.24 Lakh distributors of MF products as on February 28, 2019 
and 1,136 IAs registered with SEBI as on March 19, 2019. Therefore, their 
direct  supervision  by  SEBI  would  be  challenging.  Hence,  some form  of a 
first level regulator is required to have an oversight on them. In view of the 
above,  it  is  proposed  to  have  SRO(s)  to  regulate  the  Distributors  of  MF 
products  and  Investment  Advisers  (IAs).  Further,  the  same  may  be 
extended  to  such  other  intermediaries  /  other  market  participants  as  may 
be notified by SEBI from time to time. 

 

3.2. Role of SRO  

3.2.1.  An SRO for a segment of intermediaries in the securities market would be 
entrusted  with  the  role  of  being  the  first  level  regulator  for  such 
intermediaries,  who  are  its  members.  The  SRO  would  perform  several 
crucial roles including some or all of the following: 

3.2.1.1. 

Developmental Role 

3.2.1.1.1.  Providing Training and Education to its members 
3.2.1.1.2.  Creating Investor awareness  
3.2.1.1.3.  Proving  policy  inputs  inter  alia  by  participating  in  SEBI 

committees  

 

3.2.1.2. 

Regulatory Role 

3.2.1.2.1.  Granting of membership in SRO/ Recommending to SEBI for 
grant  of  certificate  of  registration  /  renewal    of  certificate  of 
registration of its members 

3.2.1.2.2.  Setting  down  a  Code  of  Conduct  and  conducting 

examination for certification / admission of members 

3.2.1.2.3.  Supervision  and 

Inspection  (offsite  and  onsite)  of 

its 

members 

 

3.2.1.3. 

Grievance Redressal & Dispute Resolution Role  

3.2.1.3.1.  Resolution of grievances against the members 
3.2.1.3.2.  Resolution of disputes between an investor and member 
3.2.1.3.3.  Resolution of disputes between members 

3.2.1.4. 

Disciplinary Role 

3.2.1.4.1.  Taking action in the event of violation of code of conduct 
3.2.1.4.2.  Taking action in the event of violation of regulations 

 

 

 
 

 

Page 2 of 9 

 

 

3.3. Powers of SRO 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

3.3.1.  Being  the  first  level  regulator  of  its  segment,  SRO  is  authorized  to 
discharge the roles as provided in Para 3.2 and for an effective execution 
of  these  roles,  the  SRO  Regulations  provide  for,  inter  alia,  the  following 
actions which may be taken by an SRO: 

 

3.3.1.1. 
3.3.1.2. 
3.3.1.3. 

Expulsion from membership 
Suspension from membership 
Any other penalty of a like nature not involving the payment of 
money 

 

3.4. Eligibility Criteria to become SRO 

3.4.1.  While SRO is required to have adequate experience  (direct or indirect) in 
regulation,  supervision,  dispute  resolution  and  investor  protection,  the 
SRO Regulations provide certain eligibility criteria which, inter alia, include 
the following: 

 

3.4.1.1. 
3.4.1.2.  MoA has discharging the functions of SRO as one of its main 

Incorporation under Section 8 of Companies Act, 2013 

objects 

3.4.1.3.  Minimum net worth of one crore rupees 
3.4.1.4. 
3.4.1.5. 

Adequate infrastructure 
Professional  competence,  financial  soundness  and  general 
reputation of fairness and integrity 

 

3.5. SRO for Distributors of Mutual Fund Products 

3.5.1.  In  recent  years,  the  securities  market  in  general  and  the  Mutual  Funds 
industry  in  particular  has  grown  manifold.  AUM  increased  from  INR  1.4 
Lakh  Crores  in  2004  to  INR  5.87  Lakh  Crores  in  2012,  and  thereafter  to 
INR  21.36  Lakh  Crore  as  on  March  31,  2018.  The  number  of  folios  has 
grown from 1.46 Crores in 2004 to 4.65 Crores in 2012, and thereafter to 
7.13  Crores  as  on  March  31,  2018.  The  number  of  distributors  of  the 
Mutual Fund products has also increased from 18,285 in 2004 to 47,845 in 
2012 and thereafter to 1,07,302 as on March 31, 2018. 

 

3.5.2.  As  on  February  28,  2019,  the  AUM  of  the  Mutual  Funds  industry  has 
grown  to  INR  23.16 Lakh  Crores,  number  of folios  has  increased to  8.18 
Crores  and  number  of  distributors  of  MF  products  has  risen  to  approx. 
1.24 Lakhs.  

 

3.5.3.  To  sustain  this  growth  and  to  ensure  deeper  penetration  of  Mutual  Fund 
products into all areas of the country, the distributors are expected to play 
an important role.  

 

 

Page 3 of 9 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
3.5.4.  At  present,  distributors  of  Mutual  Fund  products  are  registered  with  the 
Association  of  Mutual  Funds  in  India  (AMFI)  which  assigns  an  AMFI 
Registration  Number  (ARN)  to  them.  They  are  paid  commissions  by  the 
Asset  management  Companies  (AMCs)  for  their  services  in  bringing 
investments. The distributors are empanelled, by way of agreements, with 
single / multiple AMCs, for marketing their products. Hence, Mutual Funds 
/  AMCs  have  the  primary  responsibility  for  the  conduct  of  the  distributors 
empanelled by it. 

 

3.5.5.  However,  it  is  observed  that  there  are  diverse  practices  in  the  industry 
regarding the relationships between the AMC and the distributor. Further, 
a  distributor  is  empanelled  with  multiple  AMCs.    Thus,  there  is  a need  to 
bring  a  certain  level  of  consistency  in  the  practices  of  the  distributors. 
Hence, there is a need to have an SRO for the distributors of Mutual Fund 
products  to  ensure  consistency  in  the  practices,  enforcement  of  code  of 
conduct and to take disciplinary action, if required, particularly in respect of 
alleged malpractices like mis-selling of products, churning of portfolio etc. 
and to deal with investor grievances, in order to safeguard the interests of 
the investors. 

 

3.6. SRO for Investment Advisers 

3.6.1.  Section  11(2)(b)  of  SEBI  Act  inter  alia  empowers  SEBI  to  register  and 
regulate the working of Investment Advisers. For the said mandate, SEBI 
issued  a  Concept  Paper  on  Regulation  of  Investment  Advisors  on 
September 26, 2011 to seek public comments.  

 

3.6.2.  The  Concept  Paper,  inter  alia,  stated  that  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers) 
Regulations would be implemented through an SRO. Post receipt of public 
comments,  draft  regulations  on  Investment  Advisers  were  put  up  to  the 
Board for  consideration  and approval  of the same.   The  memorandum  to 
the  Board  with  regard  to  the  draft  regulations,  inter  alia,  proposed  as 
follows:  

 

10.1.  At  the  initial  stages  till  recognition  of  a  SRO,  SEBI  will  directly 
register and regulate Investment Advisors.  
10.2. SEBI may appoint an SRO for the purpose of regulating Investment 
Advisors, representatives or fund managers.  
10.3. SEBI may specify that no person shall act as an investment advisor 
unless he is a member of a recognized SRO.  
 
The  Board,  in  its  meeting  held  on  August  16,  2012  approved  the  draft 
SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations.  
  

3.6.3.  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers)  Regulations,  2013  (IA  Regulations)  were 
notified  on  January  21,  2013  and  came  into  effect  from  April  21,  2013. 

Page 4 of 9 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
Regulation  14(1)  of  IA  regulations,  inter  alia,  state  that  the  Board  may 
recognize  any  body  or  body  corporate  for  the  purpose  of  delegating 
administration and  supervision  of Investment  Advisers  to  such a  body  on 
such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board. 
 

3.6.4.  As on March 19, 2019, a total of 1136 investment advisers are registered 
with  SEBI.  The  category  wise  details  of  SEBI  registered  investment 
advisers are as follows: 

 

Category 

No. of Investment Advisers 

Body Corporates  
Limited Liability Partnership 
Individuals  and Partnership Firms 
Total 

290 
46 
800 
1,136 

 

 

3.6.5.  SEBI has been registering and regulating Investment Advisers since 2013 
by  providing  necessary  criterion  for  registration  and  seeking  compliances 
in  terms  of  risk  profiling,  suitability,  maintenance  of  records  etc.  Further, 
the  complaints  received  against  registered  investment  advisers  are  also 
taken up for redressal.  

 

3.6.6.  Since the last five years, the number of registered investment advisers has 
shown  an  increase,  particularly  individuals,  and  there  has  been  a 
corresponding increase in number of complaints against them. 

 
3.6.7.  SEBI  is  in  receipt  of  a  large  number  of  complaints  alleging  charging  of 
exorbitant  fees,  assurance  of  returns,  misconduct  etc.  by  Investment 
Advisers.  

 
3.6.8.  Given  the  growth  in  this  segment  of  the  market,  it  is  felt  that  the  time  is 
appropriate to initiate the formation of an SRO. Thus it is proposed that in 
line  with  the  earlier  Board  memorandum,  an  SRO  may  be  formed  and 
recognized to regulate Investment Advisers. 

 

 
4.  Salient Features of proposed amendments to the SRO Regulations 

 

4.1. Globally  it  is  observed  that  SROs  have  played  an  important  role  in  the 
development  of  the  securities  market  in  several  jurisdictions  and  effectively 
assisted the regulator in discharging its regulatory duties.  
 

4.2. Broadly  speaking  and  conceptually,  SRO  is  an  organization  representing  a 
particular  segment  of  entities,  which,  as  a  first  level  regulator,  regulates  the 

 

Page 5 of 9 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
members of that segment. The proposed SRO(s) as per Para 3.1 above, would 
be entrusted with several important tasks, inter alia including registration / grant 
of  membership,  supervision,  training  and  education  of  its  members,  and 
redressal  of  investors’  grievances.  SEBI  would  be  assisted  in  its  regulatory 
functions  by  such  an  SRO.  Therefore,  it  is  of  utmost  importance  as  to  which 
body / institution is allowed to be recognized as an SRO by SEBI. 
 

to 

to 

the  manner  of 

4.3. In  view  of  the  above,  SEBI  is  proposing  to  amend  the  SRO  Regulations  with 
respect 
the 
compliance/satisfaction with criteria specified by the Board.  As per the proposed 
process,  instead  of  inviting  applications,  SEBI  would  recognize  an  entity  as  an 
SRO on nomination basis, after conducting due diligence. The proposed salient 
changes are highlighted below: 
 
4.3.1.  Definition of Self Regulatory Organization 

recognizing  an  SRO,  subject 

4.3.1.1. 

The definition of Self Regulatory Organization under regulation 
2(1)(k) may be amended as follows: 

 

“Self  Regulatory  Organization”  means,  an  organization  of 
intermediaries or an entity promoted by a stock exchange, as 
may be recognized by the Board.” 

4.3.2.  Nomination Process 

4.3.2.1. 

As  described  in  Para  4.2,  an  SRO  is  the  first  level  regulator 
that  performs  the  crucial  task  of  regulating  intermediaries 
representing  a  particular  segment  of  securities  market  on 
behalf  of  the  regulator.  An  SRO  would  be  seen  as  an 
extension  of  the  regulatory  authority  of  SEBI  and  would 
perform the tasks delegated to it by SEBI. The role of an SRO 
is  developmental,  regulatory,  related  to  grievance  redressal 
and  dispute  resolution  as  well  as  taking  disciplinary  actions. 
Therefore, 
that  SEBI,  after  due  diligence, 
recognizes such entity/entities which is/are capable of carrying 
out responsibilities of an SRO.   

is  crucial 

it 

 

4.3.2.2. 

Nomination Committee 

4.3.2.2.1. 

is  proposed 

It 
to  constitute  a  Nomination  Committee 
comprising  of  external  experts,  preferably  headed  by  a 
retired Judge of a High Court or Supreme Court, to consider 
and  give  its  recommendation(s)  to  SEBI  regarding  the 
suitability of an organization or entity to be recognized as an 
SRO.  

 

Page 6 of 9 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
4.3.2.2.2.  The  said  Committee  may  also  consider  the  pending  cases, 
as directed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in its Order dated 
November 12, 2018, as stated in Para 2.5. 

 

 

4.3.2.2.3.  SEBI,  after  considering 

the 

the 
Nomination  Committee  and  experience  and  capability  of  an 
entity and/or its promoter(s) or promoting entity/entities may 
grant  recognition  to  the  entity  as  an  SRO  subject  to  such 
conditions as may be deemed appropriate. 

recommendation  of 

 
4.3.3.  Governing Board and Committees. 

4.3.3.1. 

4.3.3.2. 

4.3.3.3. 

4.3.3.4. 

4.3.3.5. 

4.3.3.6. 

The  Governing  Board  may  consist  of  elected  representatives 
of members of SRO (i.e. regulatees e.g. Distributors of Mutual 
Fund  products  and  Investment  Advisers),  SEBI  nominated 
Public Interest Directors (PIDs) and shareholder directors (i.e. 
representatives of the promoters or promoting entities). 
 
The  Chairman  of the Governing  Board  shall  have  the  casting 
vote. 
 
The Chairman of the Governing Board shall be elected by the 
Governing Board from amongst the PIDs.  
 
The  general  superintendence,  direction  and  management  of 
the affairs of the SRO shall vest in the Governing Board, which 
may  exercise  all  powers  and  do  all  acts  which  may  be 
exercised or done by the SRO. 
 
The Governing Board may appoint a CEO / Managing Director 
who  shall  be  responsible  for  the  day-to-day  administration  of 
the SRO and for implementing the decisions of the Governing 
Board. The  CEO  /  Managing  Director  will  be  deemed  to  be  a 
shareholder director. 
 
The functioning and composition of the Governing Board shall 
be  as  specified  by  SEBI  from  time  to  time.  The  Governing 
Board shall constitute such committees, as may be necessary, 
including but not limited to Disciplinary Committee, Arbitration 
Committee  etc.  The  creation,  composition  and  functions  of 
such committees shall be specified by SEBI from time to time. 
Further, the majority of members of such committees shall be 
independent persons including PIDs and market experts. 

 

4.3.3.7. 

For the SRO(s) of distributors of MF products and Investment 
Advisers,  it  is  proposed  that  the  Governing  Board  shall 

Page 7 of 9 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
comprise  of  not  more  than  25%  Shareholder  Directors,  not 
more  than  25%  Elected  Representatives  and  not  less  than 
50% PIDs.  

 

 

4.3.3.8. 

The  appointment  and  removal  of  all  directors  including 
CEO/Managing Director shall be with prior approval of SEBI. 

 
4.3.4.  Arbitration & Dispute Resolution. 

4.3.4.1. 

4.3.4.2. 

 

The  SRO  shall  provide  for  a  dispute  resolution  mechanism 
including  arbitration  to  settle  disputes  between  investors  and 
its members and disputes between its members. 
 
The  SRO  of  distributors  of  MF  products  shall  not  handle 
disputes  between  the  distributors  and  the  Mutual  Funds  and 
the same shall continue to be governed under their contractual 
arrangements. 

4.3.5.  Tenure of Recognition of SRO. 

4.3.5.1. 

SRO  may  be  granted  recognition  on  a  permanent  basis 
subject  to  it  satisfactorily  carrying  out  its  role  in  compliance 
with regulations etc. to the satisfaction of SEBI and effectively 
carrying out such other related mandate as specified by SEBI 
from time to time. 

 

 

5.  Matters for consideration 
 

5.1. Whether  there  should  be  a  single  or  different  SROs  for  different  classes  of 

regulatees? 

 

5.2. Whether the role of SRO, as mentioned in Para 3.2 of the Consultation Paper, is 

adequate? 

 

5.3. Is there any need for enhancing the net worth of SRO from INR 1 Crore as per 
the  extant  SRO  Regulations  notified  in  2004?  If  so,  what  could  be  the  capital 
requirement for setting up an SRO? 

 

5.4. Any other comments/suggestions regarding the aforesaid proposal. 

 

5.5. Any  other  comments/suggestions 

regarding  other  provisions  of  SRO 

Regulations.  

 

 
 
 

 

Page 8 of 9 

 

 
6.  Public Comments 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
6.1. Comments from public are invited on the proposal contained in this paper. The 

comments should reach SEBI latest by April 21, 2019. 
 
The comments may be sent by email to sro@sebi.gov.in or by post to: 
 
Ms. Jyoti Sharma 
General Manager 
Investment Management Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan, C4-A, “G” Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051. 
 

6.2. Comments/ suggestions may kindly be provided in the format given below: 

 
Name of the Entity/ Person: 

Sl. No.  Reference 

of 

the 

of 

Para 

the 
Consultation  Paper  or  other 
provisions 
SRO 
Regulations 
 

Suggestions 

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 9 of 9 

 

