 

1.  Objective 

Discussion Paper   

Review of Rights Issue Process 

 

1.1. The objective of this discussion paper is to seek comments / views from the public and 

market intermediaries on Review of Rights Issue Process. 

2.  Background 

2.1. Securities market, including the primary markets, is dynamic and needs to keep pace with 
the  evolving  economic  and  technological  environment.  Accordingly,  there  has  been  a 
significant change in the regulatory framework governing the primary markets, particularly 
initial public offerings, thereby making the product timelines and processes efficient.  

2.2. While  SEBI  has  enabled  rights  issue  through  the  fast  track  route,  subject  to  certain 
conditions, cutting down significantly on the timelines, SEBI is further exploring ways to 
make the rights issue process more efficient. Issuers perceive a higher exposure to price 
risk  due  to  current  rights  issue  process  while  investors  expect  allotment  and  listing 
timelines to be shortened. The current process of trading of rights entitlement, which is 
settled physically with low liquidity, is also needed to be addressed.  

2.3. This  discussion  paper  evaluates  means  to  (i)  reduce  time  between  announcement  of 
terms  of  the  issue  and  issue  closing  thereby  reducing  price  risks,  and  (ii)  make  the 
application  and  allotment  process  more  efficient  by  using  the  banking  and  depository 
infrastructure and provide issuers with an efficient mechanism for raising funds, and to 
streamline the process, reduce post issue timeline for rights issues and methodologies 
associated with rights issue fund raising process.  

3.  Issue  

3.1. A current rights issue process, through the fast track route, typically takes about  55-58 
days from the time the Company decides to launch the rights issue till listing. This timeline 
(excluding  the  period  taken  for  completing  the  letter  of  offer  and  any  statutory  and 
regulatory approvals) has three broad components: 

3.1.1.  26 days from the notice of the Board Meeting to the opening of the Rights Issue 

3.1.2.  Issue Period of at least 15 days and not more than 30 days from the opening of 
the Rights Issue to the closing of the Rights Issue – this is a requirements under the 
Companies Act 2013  

3.1.3.  12 working days [~15 days] for allotment and listing 

Discussion Paper on review of Rights Issue Process 

Page 1 of 7 

The key activities and timeline in the current process are as follows: 
Key Activities 1 

Timeline  Regulatory Requirements 

Regulation 

Board Meeting to decide record 
date and Issue Price 

T 

Price to be decided before record 
date 

ICDR 

 

Ex-rights trading starts (1 day before 
Record Date) 

T+10 

- 

T+11 

7 clear working days gap from 
Board meeting 

T+12 

- 

T+19 

•  Takes 7-8 days  
• 

3 days before Issue opening 

Companies 
Act  

 

LODR 

 

Record date 

Dispatch Starts 

Dispatch Completion 

 
 

 

Dispatch confirmation advertisement 

T+20 

3 days prior to Issue opening 

ICDR 

Issue Opening 

Issue Closing 

T+23 

- 

T+37 

Issue to be kept open for 
minimum 15 days 

 

ICDR and 
Companies 
Act 

Basis of Allotment 

Allotment of Shares 

T+51  ~12 days for due to physical forms   

T+52 

- 

 

Listing and trading 
1
 Activities listed above relates to period other than preparation, diligence and SEBI review period 
for draft LOF  

T+55 

- 

 

3.2. During  the  period  specified  in  3.1.1  and  3.1.2  above,  the  issuer  company  and  the 
shareholders  of  the  Company  are  exposed  to  price  risk.  It  can  be  observed  from  past 
transactions that once the rights issue price and terms are announced, the stock price or 
the  company  and  the  rights  issue  price  begin  to  converge,  leaving  little  incentive  to 
shareholders to benefit from the rights issue price, which is typically at a discount to the 
trading price at the time of announcement.  Also chances of macro events impacting stock 
performance of companies, from the time issue price is announced are high, given current 
rights issue timelines.  

3.3. Further, while in IPOs, with the introduction of UPI based payments coupled with ABSA 
facility, it is proposed that allotment and trading is completed in 3 working days from issue 
closure,  in  a rights  issue,  allotment  and trading  processes take  up  to  12 working  days 
from  issue  closure.  This  is  largely  on  account  of  physical  verification  of  forms  and 
requests  that  deal  with  renunciation,  consequently  allowing  non  ASBA  payments  for 
renouncees.  

3.4. Given the above timelines, there is a need to reduce the timelines both in the pre issue 
opening phase and after issue closure such that the issuer and shareholders benefit from 
process efficiencies.  

Discussion Paper on review of Rights Issue Process 

Page 2 of 7 

 

 

4.  Proposal 

 

4.1. Reduction  in  period  of  notice  for  Record  Date:  Regulation  42  of  the  SEBI  (LODR) 
Regulations 2015 requires companies to give 7 clear working days (i.e. excluding date of 
notice and record date) for setting a record date. Regulation 73(1) of ICDR requires issue 
price to be determined before determining record date. Both these regulations combined 
together require issuer to set issue price when board of the company decides record date. 
Record date, due to requirement of 7 clear working days’ notice, assuming no holidays 
other than weekend, in practice works out to period of 11 to 13 days.  

Suggestion: To reduce the notice period under Regulation 42 of LODR to 3 clear working 
days (instead of 7 clear working days), and the requirement to determine issue price prior 
to record date may continue.   

Rationale:  Three  clear  working  days’  notice  would  actually  result  in  dissemination  of 
information to shareholders and other investors at least 4 days before record date and at 
least 3 days before share starts trading on an ex-rights basis. It, therefore, gives enough 
time for shareholders and investors to trade in the shares.  Notice of 3 clear working days 
would enable execution and settlement of any trades consequent to decision on terms of 
the rights issue.  

Board Meeting to decide Record date and Issue Price 

Ex-rights trading starts (1 day before Record Date) 

Record date 

 

T 

T+3 

T+4 

4.2. Replacing  the  requirement  to  publish  a  newspaper  advertisement  confirming 
completion of dispatch with giving intimation to the stock exchanges: Regulation 
84  of  the  SEBI  ICDR  Regulations  requires  issuer  to  publish  an  advertisement  in 
newspapers  confirming  completion  of  dispatch  of  the  letter  of  offer  and  composite 
application  forms  to  shareholders  of  the  company,  at  least  3  days  before  the  date  of 
opening  the  issue.  Further,  Section  62  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  prescribes  that 
dispatch has to be completed 3 days before issue opening. In addition, the companies 
shall be required to send emails to shareholders whose email addresses are available 
with depositories, informing them about the dispatch completion. 

Suggestion: The Companies Act, 2013 requires companies to complete dispatch of the 
letters of offer and composite application forms to shareholders of the company 3 days 
before issue opening. Since this requirement has to be complied with and there are other 
process changes suggested that will ensure shareholders are aware of the rights issue, 
this requirement of publishing advertisement may be done away with. It is suggested that 
issuers may intimate stock exchanges before issue opening about dispatch completion, 

Discussion Paper on review of Rights Issue Process 

Page 3 of 7 

 

 

which would be notified to shareholders/ investors through the corporate announcements 
module on the exchange websites. 

Rationale:  A  public  advertisement  process  adds  time  and  cost  to  the  rights  issue 
process.  All  material  information  is  communicated  to  shareholders/  investors  through 
stock exchange announcements. In addition, companies often use electronic means to 
communicate  with  their shareholders,  on  an  ongoing  basis.  Hence, the  requirement to 
give  a  newspaper  advertisement  can  be  replaced  with  requirement  to  intimate  the 
shareholders  through  the  stock  exchanges  and  through  email  where  such  details  are 
available.  

4.3. Moving  to  electronic  modes  of  receiving  entitlements,  processing,  payment  and 
settlement  in  a  Rights  Issue:  Currently  rights  entitlements  (“RE”)  are  intimated  to 
shareholders through composite application form (“CAF”). Registrar overprints RE in the 
CAF based on rights ratio post the record date and dispatches the same to shareholders. 
This  process  of  printing and  dispatch  currently  takes     ~7  days  or  more depending  on 
number of shareholders. Shareholders can use the CAF for either applying in the issue 
or  renouncing  the  entire  entitlements  or  request  registrar  for  split  forms  if  partial 
renouncement  is  required.  Further  RE  can  be  traded  on  the  exchanges,  however  the 
settlement is physical. 

Further, renouncer or renounces, in the current process, cannot apply through ASBA as 
the registrar needs to verify validity of renouncement by verifying the CAF. Application by 
a  renouncee  requires  payment  through  bank  and  not  ASBA.  As  a  result,  post  issue 
process  stretches  up  to  13-15  days  till  allotment  and  17  days  till  listing,  within  the  12 
working days’ limit prescribed in the regulations for rights issues.  

Suggestion: In order to address these issues, certain process changes are suggested. 

a.  Dematerialization of entitlements under a separate ISIN - rights entitlements (“RE”) 

shall be credited to shareholders’ demat account only. 

b.  Shareholder  can  use  such  dematerialized  RE  for  applying  in  the  rights  issue  or 
renouncement, either full or in part. The need to request of split forms would be 
done away with. 

c.  Based  on  communication  in  the  exchange  notification  for  dispatch  completion, 
shareholders holding shares in physical form would be required to provide details 
of  their  demat  account  to  the  Registrar  at  least  7  days  before  issue  closing. 
Registrars would credit the entitlements to the Demat account of such shareholder 
within 2 days of receipt of information. 

d.  Overprinting of CAFs would not be required and application form in a format similar 
to current IPO form would be used. Such blank forms would be also available on 
the website of exchanges. 

e.  Shareholders and renouncees would fill up the form/use online application facility 
provided by ASBA banks. Investors would need to indicate in the form the number 

Discussion Paper on review of Rights Issue Process 

Page 4 of 7 

 

 

of  shares  they  intends  to  apply  for,  based  on  entitlements  and  any  additional 
quantity.   

f.  All  investors  would  be  required  to  mandatorily  use  ASBA  as  payment  mode, 

whether shareholders/ renouncers or renouncees.  

g.  Post the closure of the issue, the ISIN for the rights renunciation will be temporarily 

suspended. This would ensure that no trading/transfer is permitted thereafter. 

h.  Registrar would receive application details from the Stock Exchange.  Facility for 
correction  of  bid  data  on  T+1  i.e.  next  working  day  after  issue  closing  may  be 
provided. 

i.  Registrar would use the application file provided by exchanges, along with details 
of  actual  RE  available  in  the  demat  account  of  all  the  applicants  and  details  of 
amount blocked in the ASBA accounts. After the basis of allotment is approved, 
shares shall be credited to the demat account of the applicants.  

j.  Post  allotment,  the  ISIN  for  REs  would  be  cancelled.  Company  shall  thereafter 

k. 

obtain listing and trading permission. 
In  cases  where  promoter/  promoter  group  conducts  an  inter-se  transfer  of 
renunciation,  the trading  platform  of the  stock  exchange  can  provide  this facility 
through a separate window, pursuant to a request. This would ensure that flexibility 
provided for inter-se transfer between promoters and promoter group can be met.  
l.  Stock exchanges may permit trading of rights entitlements and such facility would 
be available to ensure that renouncees will be able to participate in the rights issue.  
m.  No  withdrawal  of  applications  will  be  permitted  for  any  shareholder  after  issue 

closure. 

n.  Fractional entitlements currently are rounded down, but preference for allotment 
of one share is given if such shareholder makes application for additional shares. 
Registrar shall follow existing process in this regard under the new process. 

o.  In certain cases, due to the rights entitlement ratio decided by the company, the 
entitlement of shareholder may be less than one share. In such cases, shareholder 
receives CAF with zero entitlement but is eligible to apply in the current process. 
In the proposed system also, similar process would be adopted. 

Rationale:  Electronic  credit  and  trading  of  rights  renunciation  will  make  the  process  of 
renunciation  more  transparent  and  efficient.  Payment  through  ASBA  facility  is  investor 
friendly  and  enables  faster  completion  of  the  post  issue  process.  As  a  result  of  these 
measures, post issue timeline would be reduced by 11 days. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Discussion Paper on review of Rights Issue Process 

Page 5 of 7 

 
A.  Proposed Process & Timeline: 

 

A process diagram of the proposed flow is given below: 
 

 

 

 
It is expected that if the above changes are carried forth, the new timeline will be as 
follows: 
 

Existing 

Key Activities 

Proposed 

T 

T+10 

T+11 

T+12 

T+19 

T+20 

NA 

T+23 

T+37 

T+51 

T+52 

T+55 

Board Meeting to decide Record date and Issue Price 

Ex-rights trading starts (1 day before Record Date) 

Record date 

Dispatch Starts 

Dispatch Completion 

Dispatch confirmation advertisement 

T 

T+3 

T+4 

T+5 

T+6 

NA 

Company  intimates  stock  exchange  confirming  dispatch 
completion  for  dissemination  to  public  [and  sends  emails  to 
shareholders confirming dispatch completion.] 

Before issue 

opening 

Issue Opening 

Issue Closing* 

Basis of Allotment 

Allotment of Shares 

Listing and trading 

T+9 

T+23 

T+27 

T+28 

T+31 

*Issue Open Period in the table above is considered as 15 days, which is the minimum 
period under the Companies Act, 1956 
 
The process indicated above can be used for securities other than equity shares offered 
on rights basis to the shareholders also.  
 
 

Discussion Paper on review of Rights Issue Process 

Page 6 of 7 

 
5.  Public comments  

 

5.1. Considering the implications of the said matter on the market participants including listed 
companies,  market  intermediaries  and  investors,  public  comments  on  the  policy 
framework proposed above are solicited. The comments on above, may be sent by email 
or through post, in the format below: 

Name of entity / person : 

Contact Number & Email Address : 

Sr. No. 

Reference  Para  of  the 
discussion paper 

Suggestion/ 
Comments 

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

While sending email, kindly mention the subject as "Comments on discussion paper 
for Review of Rights Issue Process".  

The comments may be sent by email to rightsissue@sebi.gov.in  or  sent  by  post  at the 
following address latest by June 21, 2019: 
 
Ms. Amy Menon 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph.: +91-22-26449584 
 
Issued on:  May 21, 2019 

Discussion Paper on review of Rights Issue Process 

Page 7 of 7 

