Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) seeks public comments on 
the  ‘Report  of  the  working  group  on  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors) 
Regulations, 2014’ submitted by the working group under the Chairmanship 
of Shri Harun R. Khan, Deputy Governor (retd.), Reserve Bank of India.  

 

1.  BACKGROUND 

1.1  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014  (“FPI  Regulations”)  were 

notified in the year 2014 vide notification dated January 07, 2014. A need was felt to 

review the FPI Regulations to incorporate the provisions of the circulars/ FAQs and 

Operational Guidelines issued thereunder to the extent possible and to simplify the 

language and complexities in the said regulations.  

1.2  SEBI  has  constituted  a  working  group  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri.  Harun  R. 

Khan (Retd. Deputy Governor of Reserve Bank of India) assisted by Custodians law 

firms, Chartered Accountants firms and SEBI officers.  

1.3  The  working  group  held  wide  consultations  with  various  stakeholders  on  different 

dates and has arrived at certain suggestions/ recommendations. The working group 

has submitted its report on the SEBI (FPI) Regulations, 2014 and the same is placed 

at Annexure-A. Few of the key recommendations proposed by the working group 

are as follows: 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

Fast track on-boarding process for select Category II FPIs 

Simplified registration for Multiple Investment Manager (MIM) structures 

Pension fund to be considered for Category I FPI registration  

Review of broad based condition for appropriately regulated entities 

Deemed broad based status for insurance/ re-insurance entities 

Entities majorly owned by investors eligible for Category I FPI  registration 
shall be deemed as Category I FPI 

(vii) 

Certain entities owned by Category II eligible investors shall be eligible for 
Category II FPI registration 

(viii)  Simplified registration requirement for Category III FPIs 

(ix) 

(x) 

(xi) 

Removal of ‘opaque structure” definition 

Separate registration for sub-funds of a fund with segregated portfolio 

KYC  Reliance  on  same  group  regulated  entity  of  custodian  for  non-PAN 
documents 

 

(xii) 

Liberalized investment cap 

(xiii)  Review of prohibited sector for foreign investment for FPIs 

(xiv)  Review  of  restriction  on  Sovereign  Wealth  Funds  for  investment  in 

corporate debt securities  

(xv) 

Liberalization for regulated Category III FPIs 

(xvi)  Permitting FPIs for off-market transactions 

(xvii)  Harmonization  between  investment  restrictions  in  FPI  regulations  and 

FEMA 20(R).  

(xviii)  Reclassification of investment from FPI to FDI 

(xix)  Alignment between FPI and AIF routes 

(xx) 

Strengthening of ODI framework 

(xxi)  Entities  established  in  the  IFSC  be  deemed  to  have  met  the  jurisdiction 

criteria for FPIs. 

 

2.  PUBLIC COMMENTS 

Considering the importance of the recommendations, public comments are solicited on 

the same. SEBI will examine the recommendations of the working group after receiving 

the public comments on the same. Specific comments/ suggestions as per the format 

given below would be highly appreciated.  

Name: 

Sr. No.  Relevant  Section  and 

Comments and suggested 

Rationale  

sub-heading  

changes, if any 

 

 

 

 

 

The comments may either be forwarded by email to fpi-review@sebi.gov.in  or may be 

sent by post to the following address latest by June 14, 2019. 

 
Achal Singh  
General Manager 
Division of Foreign Portfolio Investors & Custodians 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex,  
Bandra (East), Mumbai -400 051 

 

Issued on: May 24, 2019 

 

2 | P a g e  

