Discussion paper on review of buy-back of securities 

 

 

1.  Objective 

1.1. The objective of this discussion paper is to seek comments / views from the public 

on suggestions relating to review of conditions for buy-back of securities. 

2.  Background 

2.1. The following regulatory provisions govern buy-back of securities (including equity 

shares): 

i. 

The Companies Act, 2013 (previously The Companies Act, 1956) 

ii.  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Buy-back  of  Securities) 

Regulations,  2018  (previously  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Buy back of Securities) Regulations, 1998). 

2.2. The  main  conditions  for  buy-back  of  securities,  wherein  financial  statements  of 

the company are to be considered, are: 

i. 

The  buyback  offer  size  cannot  exceed  25%  of  the  aggregate  of  paid-up 

capital and free reserves of the company; 

ii. 

The buy-back has to be approved through Board Resolution in all cases. 

Further,  if  the  buyback  offer  size  is  more  than  10%,  approval  of 

shareholders by way of special resolution is required. 

iii. 

The buy-back of securities is permitted only if the ratio of the aggregate of 

secured and unsecured debts owed by the company after buy-back is not 

more  than  twice  the  paid-up  capital  and free  reserves,  provided  that  if a 

higher ratio has been specified under the Companies Act, 2013, the same 

shall prevail. 

Discussion Paper on review of buy-back of securities 

Page 1 of 9 

 

 

iv. 

The  relevant  sections  of  The  Companies  Act,  2013  and  regulations  of 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Buy-back  of  Securities) 

Regulations,  2018  (Buyback  Regulations)  have  been  brought  out  at 

Annexure I.  

2.3. SEBI has  taken  a  view  that  the financial  statements  would  be  considered  on a 

conservative  basis  (i.e.  both  standalone  and  consolidated  basis)  for  evaluating 

the  various  thresholds  /  conditions  of  buy-back  of  securities,  mainly  for  the 

following reasons: 

i. 

The  consolidated  financial  statements  are  presented  by  a  parent  (also 

known  as  holding  enterprise)  to  provide  financial  information  about  the 

economic activities of its group. These statements are intended to present 

financial  information  about  a  parent  and  its  subsidiaries)  as  a  single 

economic entity to show the economic resources controlled by the group, 

the  obligations  of  the  group  and  results  the  group  achieves  with  its 

resources.1 

ii. 

There is a concern that much  of the activities of  the subsidiaries are not 

available in the public domain. It is possible that the subsidiaries of a listed 

company  would  be  having  large  amount  of  debts.  The  consolidated 

financial statement allows the investors to get a complete overview of the 

parent company.  

iii. 

The subsidiaries could be either a listed company or an unlisted company. 

SEBI would have very limited role in case of unlisted subsidiaries.  

iv. 

Therefore, it would not be prudent to exclude the debts of the subsidiaries 

and consider only the standalone financials while evaluating the size of the 

buyback  or  the  debt  to  paid-up  capital  and  free  reserves  ratio  for  the 

                                                           
1 Accounting Standard (AS) 21 

Discussion Paper on review of buy-back of securities 

Page 2 of 9 

 

purpose of meeting the conditions for buybacks.  

 

v. 

In  case  of  IPOs  also,  the  profitability  and  other  financial  statements  are 

considered on a consolidated basis as per SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2018. 

vi. 

Further, the SEBI Committee on corporate governance (Kotak Committee) 

was formed on June 2, 2017 under the Chairmanship of Mr. Uday Kotak 

with  the  aim  of  improving  standards  of  corporate  governance  of  listed 

companies in India. The Kotak Committee submitted its recommendations 

in  October  2017.  The  Kotak  Committee  in  its  report  recommended  that 

consolidated financial results should be made mandatory for listed entities. 

The relevant extract from the Kotak Committee report is as follows: 

“Consolidated  financial  results:  Currently,  the  Companies  Act  and  SEBI 

LODR  Regulations  mandate  the  submission  of  consolidated  financial 

statements  by  a  listed  entity  every  financial  year.  However,  SEBI  LODR 

Regulations do not mandate that a listed entity submit consolidated financial 

results on a quarterly basis. In the interest of greater transparency at the 

group level, it is recommended that that disclosure of consolidated financial 

statements should be made mandatory for all listed entities on a quarterly 

basis. It is also clarified that standalone results shall continue to be required 

to be published. The Committee also believes that in due course, SEBI may, 

based on experience gained, consider requiring only consolidated accounts 

to be published.” 

vii.  Accordingly,  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 

Regulations, 2015 have been amended and w.e.f. April 01, 2019, all the 

listed companies having subsidiaries are required to submit quarterly/year-

to-date consolidated financial results.  

viii.  Considering  that  the  consolidated  financials  present  the  aggregate 

information of the company/ group which is material for decision making, 

Discussion Paper on review of buy-back of securities 

Page 3 of 9 

 

 

SEBI  believes  that  it  is  in  the  interest  of  investors  that  the  stipulated 

thresholds/ conditions (mentioned at 2.2 above) are better evaluated based 

on  standalone  as  well  as  consolidated  financials,  wherever  consolidated 

financials are required to be prepared.  

2.4. In the recent times, several issues have been raised with regard to considering 

financial  statements  for  the  purpose  of  meeting  the  conditions  of  buybacks, 

including the following: 

i.  Section  68(2)(d)  of  The  Companies  Act,  2013  as  well  as  rules  made 

thereunder  do  not  specifically  provide  for  consideration  of  standalone  or 

consolidated financials for determining the requirement of debt to capital & 

free reserves ratio.  

ii. 

The subsidiaries of a company could be Non-Banking Financial Companies 

(NBFCs),  Housing  Finance  Companies  (HFCs)  and 

Infrastructure 

Companies. Such subsidiaries that would be having higher debts because 

of  the  nature  of  their  businesses  in  which  they  operate.  For  example, 

Reserve Bank of India (RBI) allows leverage of 7:1 for non-deposit-taking 

NBFCs (NBFCs-ND) with assets less than Rs. 500 crores. 

3.  Issue  

3.1. Whether SEBI should consider a different approach if the subsidiaries of a listed 

company proposing buybacks are NBFCs, HFCs and Infrastructure companies? 

4.  Proposal 

4.1. Ministry  of  Corporate Affairs  (MCA)  has  vide  notification dated  March  10, 2016 

already  permitted  government  companies  that  carry  on  Non-banking  Finance 

Institution activities and Housing Finance activities coming out with buy-backs to 

Discussion Paper on review of buy-back of securities 

Page 4 of 9 

 

 

have a debt to capital and free reserves ratio post buy-back of its shares of not 

more than 6:1.  

 

4.2. The  proviso  to  Regulation  4(ii)  of  Buyback  Regulations  already  provides  that  – 

“Provided  that  if  a  higher  ratio  of  the  debt  to  capital  and  free  reserves  for  the 

company  has  been  notified  under  the  Companies  Act,  2013,  the  same  shall 

prevail.” Therefore, debt to capital and free reserves ratio of 6:1 is applicable for 

such government companies coming out with buyback in terms of Companies Act, 

2013 and Buyback Regulations.  

 

4.3.  It is being argued that similar approach could be considered if the subsidiaries of 

a listed company coming out with buy-back are NBFCs, HFCs and Infrastructure 

companies.  

 

4.4. The Primary Markets Advisory Committee (PMAC) of SEBI discussed the issue 

and suggested the following approach with respect to meeting conditions for buy-

back for companies having NBFCs and HFCs as subsidiaries: 

i.  Post  buyback  debt  to  capital  and  free  reserves  ratio  of  2:1  (except  for 

companies for which higher ratio of the debt to capital and free reserves for the 

company has been notified under the Companies Act, 2013) to be considered 

on  consolidated  basis,  excluding  subsidiaries  only  if  the  subsidiaries  are 

regulated and have issuances with AAA ratings; 

ii.  Such  subsidiaries  should  have  debt  to  equity  ratio  of  not  more  than  5:1  on 

standalone basis. 

4.5. Further,  PMAC  suggested  that  infrastructure  companies  are  not  separately 

regulated and have better use of money and therefore no such exclusion may be 

considered for infrastructure companies. 

 

Discussion Paper on review of buy-back of securities 

Page 5 of 9 

 
5.  Public comments  

 

5.1. Comments from public are invited on the above proposal in the following format: 

Name of entity / person 

Sr. No. 

Reference Para of the 

Suggestion 

/ 

Rationale 

discussion paper 

Comments 

 

 

 

 

 

The comments may be sent by email to buyback@sebi.gov.in or sent by post at 

the following address latest by June 12, 2019: 

 

Mr. Rajesh Gujjar 

General Manager 

Corporation Finance Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI Bhavan 

Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 

Bandra Kurla Complex 

Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 

 

 

 

 

 

Discussion Paper on review of buy-back of securities 

Page 6 of 9 

 

Annexure - I 

1.  The Companies Act, 2013 

 

Sections  68  -  70  of  The  Companies  Act,  2013  are  relevant  for  buy-back  of  securities. 

Section 68 is on power of company to purchase its own securities. Section 68(2) provides 

several conditions that have to be met for buy-back of securities including requirements 

for Board Resolution and Special Resolution (if applicable), Buy-back Offer size and post 

buy-back ratio of debt to paid up capital and free reserves.  

The relevant provisions of Section 68(2) are as follows: 

(2) No company shall purchase its own  shares or other specified securities under sub-

section (1), unless – 

…… 

(b) a special resolution has been passed at a general meeting of the company authorising 

the buy-back: 

Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to a case where— 

(i) 

the buy-back is, ten per cent. or less of the total paid-up equity capital and 

free reserves of the company; and 

(ii) 

such buy-back has been authorised by the Board by means of a resolution 

passed at its meeting; 

(c) the buy-back is twenty-five per cent. or less of the aggregate of paid-up capital and 

free reserves of the company: 

Provided that in respect of the buy-back of equity shares in any financial year, the 

reference to twenty-five per cent. in this clause shall be construed with respect to its total 

paid-up equity capital in that financial year; 

Discussion Paper on review of buy-back of securities 

Page 7 of 9 

 
(d) the ratio of the aggregate of secured and unsecured debts owed by the company after 

 

buy-back is not more than twice the paid-up capital and its free reserves: 

Provided that the Central Government may, by order, notify a higher ratio of the 

debt to capital and free reserves for a class or classes of companies. 

2.  SEBI (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018 

The relevant sections of The Companies Act, 2018 have been incorporated in the SEBI 

(Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (“Buyback Regulations”). The conditions and 

requirements  for  buy-back  of  shares  and  specified  securities  have  been  provided  in 

Regulation 4 of Buyback Regulations.  

Regulation 4(i) of Buyback Regulations requires that: 

(i) 

The  maximum  limit  of  any  buy-back  shall  be  twenty-five  per  cent  or  less  of  the 

aggregate of paid-up capital and free reserves of the company: 

Explanation: In respect of the buy-back of equity shares in any financial year, the 

reference to twenty-five per cent in this regulation shall be construed with respect 

to its total paid-up equity capital in that financial year; 

Regulation 4(ii) of Buyback Regulations requires that: 

(ii) 

The ratio of the aggregate of secured and unsecured debts owed by the company 

after buy-back shall not be more than twice the paid-up capital and free reserves. 

Provided that if a higher ratio of the debt to capital and free reserves for the 

company has been notified under the Companies Act, 2013, the same shall prevail. 

Further, Regulation 5 of Buy-back Regulations provides for general compliance and filing 

requirements for buy-backs. Regulation 5(i) of Buyback Regulations requires that: 

Discussion Paper on review of buy-back of securities 

Page 8 of 9 

 
(i) The company shall not authorise any buy-back (whether by way of tender offer or from 

 

open market or odd lot) unless: 

a) The buy-back is authorised by the company's articles; 

b) A special resolution has been passed at a general meeting of the company authorising 

the buy-back: 

Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to a case where the buy-

back is, ten per cent or less of the total paid-up equity capital and free reserves of the 

company; and such buy-back has been authorised by the board of directors by means of 

a resolution passed at its meeting. 

 

 

 

 

 

Discussion Paper on review of buy-back of securities 

Page 9 of 9 

