Discussion  Paper  on  amendment  to  the  SEBI 

(Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations, 

2015 to provision for an informant mechanism. 

 

 

 

INTRODUCTION: 

1. 

Insider  trading  is  defined  in  the  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations, 

2015  (‘PIT  Regulations’)  to  mean  trading  of  securities  while  in  possession  of 

unpublished  price  sensitive  information  (‘UPSI’).  Insiders  usually  indulge  in  insider 

trading  through  a  proxy  to  whom  the  relevant  information  is  communicated.  Direct 

evidence of such communication is seldom available across various jurisdictions, Thus 

detection and prosecution of insider trading remains a challenge. Like other securities 

market regulators across the world, SEBI also faces this challenge in checking instances 

of  insider  trading  violations  primarily  due  to  the  insufficiency  of  evidence  of 

commission of the violation.   

 

2. 

The mandate of the SEBI Act, 1992 is to ‘protect the interests of investors in securities 

and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate  the  securities  market.’  It  thus 

becomes  imperative  for  SEBI  to  employ  all  legitimate  means  to  detect  and  initiate 

action against insider trading at the earliest to instil confidence amongst investors and 

ensure integrity of the securities markets in line with the mandate conferred upon it.  

 
 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 8 

NEED  FOR  AN  INFORMANT  REWARD  POLICY  FOR  INSIDER 

TRADING CASES: 

 

3. 

Direct  evidence  of  insider  trading  is  not  easily  available  and  that  which  is  generally 

available is almost completely circumstantial. Since criminal law requires proof to be 

established  beyond  reasonable  doubt,  it  is  a  challenge  for  SEBI  to  successfully 

prosecute such cases.  

 

4. 

While investigating cases pertaining to insider trading, the challenges faced by SEBI 

include,- 

i. 

Establishing transmission of UPSI and proving flow of such information, 

ii.  Absence  of  details  relating  to  UPSI,  such  as  the  precise  time  when  the 

information was generated and when it became public and the people who had 

access to it before it became public, 

iii. 

Identification of connection or relation between insiders and those who traded 

based on the UPSI, 

iv.  Acquiring evidence for establishing connections 

v. 

Establishing that trading took place while in possession of UPSI 

 

These challenges could result in the investigation in insider trading cases taking a longer 

time  for  completion  as  opposed  to  cases  pertaining  to  other  kinds  of  market 

manipulation. 

 

5. 

 

Many  cases of violations are bought  to  public attention,  not  necessarily through  any 

audit report or regulatory investigation but largely through revelations by an insider or 

in the rarest of rare cases, through self-admission. Since company employees are likely 

to be acquainted with the devilry of the management or the promoters, certain routes 

need  to  be  established  through  which  such  irregularities  may  be  exposed. 

Simultaneously, companies also need to ensure that there is an easy and a smooth route 

to raise such concerns or else the workforce could also become silent perpetrators, when 

the issues become public.  

 

Page 2 of 8 

6. 

Information provided by persons who may have inside knowledge of such violations is 

often helpful in timely successful action against violators. Recently, the Committee on 

Fair  Market  Conduct  has  made  several  recommendations  to  strengthen  the  legal 

framework  for  prevention  of  insider  trading.  The  recommendations  have  been 

appropriately implemented by amending the PIT Regulations. 

 

7. 

As a further step towards strengthening the mechanism for early detection of insider 

trading  and  better  enforceability,  it  is  desirable  and  prudent  that  SEBI  considers 

instituting  a  process  that  enables  timely  reporting  of  instances  of  insider  trading 

violations and also provide for grant of reward with adequate checks and balances that 

could incentivize timely reporting of information relating to insider trading to SEBI at 

the first available opportunity.  

 
Hence  a  mechanism  which  also  provides  ‘near  absolute  confidentiality’  along  with 

8. 

appropriate safeguards is also proposed to enable reporting of such information.  

 

INGREDIENTS OF AN EFFECTIVE INFORMANT MECHANISM: 

 

9. 

Informant incentivisation and protection programmes are considered as effective means 

to expose and remedy fraud and other types of wrongdoing in the public and private 

sectors. However, such a policy should provide for the following objectives: 

 

 

i.  A  dedicated  reporting  window  for  any  person  who  observes  an  unethical 

behaviour; actual or suspected violation of insider trading cases; 

 

ii. 

Processes in place that encourage: 

a.  timely, safe and open reporting of alleged violation; and 

b.  consistent and timely institutional response; 

 

iii. 

Policies in place that: 

a.  incentivize informant protection;  

b.  encourage ethical and lawful conduct; and 

c.  provide adequate safeguards against victimization of informant. 

Page 3 of 8 

IMPORTANCE OF AN EFFECTIVE INFORMANT POLICY: 

 

10. 

One of the challenges in procuring information on potential insider trading violations 

would be dealing with complaints made through non-official channels by unscrupulous 

or  interested  persons.  Keeping  in  mind  the  above,  a  formalized  process  of  receiving 

information which provides for a reporting mechanism for violations relating to insider 

trading and incentivizing and protecting informants who report information, useful for 

detecting such violations of PIT Regulations, would not only instil confidence in the 

market but also incentivise informants to pro-actively report such issues to SEBI.  

 

11. 

Such a formal informant mechanism would:  

enable SEBI to factor such genuine complaints; 

strengthen the enforcement mechanism in SEBI ; 

conserve and provide for efficient utilization of resources of SEBI; 

streamline a mechanism to weed out frivolous or false complaints; and 

strengthen the surveillance activities of SEBI. 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

 

FEATURES  OF  THE  PROPOSED  MECHANISM  UNDER  THE  SEBI 

(PIT) REGULATIONS, 2015: 

 

12. 

 

 

The proposed amendments to PIT Regulations would include the following features, 

namely: 

i.  VOLUNTARY  INFORMATION  DISCLOSURE  FORM: 

Informant  means  any 

individual(s)  who  voluntarily  submits  a  Voluntary  Information  Disclosure  Form 

(VIDF) detailing credible, complete and original information relating to an act of 

insider 

trading, 

including  communication  of  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information or trading in violation of the code of conduct requirements under the 

PIT Regulations  that has  occurred/  is  occurring/  has a reasonable belief that  it is 

about to occur.  

ii.  DISCLOSURE OF SOURCE OF INFORMATION: It shall be mandatory for an informant 

to disclose the source of original information and to provide an undertaking that the 

original information provided has not been sourced from any person employed with 

Page 4 of 8 

SEBI or any related regulator. An indemnity clause to that effect shall also form 

part of the undertaking which shall be signed by the informant. 

iii.  OFFICE  OF  INFORMANT  PROTECTION  (‘OIP’):  An  independent  office  separate 

from the investigation and inspection wings or any of the dealing departments may 

be established by the SEBI to device the policy relating to receipt and registration 

of  VIDF,  processing  the  veracity  and  authenticity  of  the  information  received, 

analysing the application of regulations and thereafter deciding upon the issue of 

grant  of  reward  to  the  informant  upon  completion  of  enforcement  action  by  the 

Board and recovery of amounts by way of disgorgement. The OIP would serve as 

a medium of exchange between the informant/legal representative and the Board. 

iv.  MANNER OF SUBMISSION OF INFORMATION: The informant would need to disclose 

his/her identity at the time of submission of the VIDF. In case the informant decides 

to  submit  anonymously,  the  VIDF  shall  be  submitted  through  an  authorised 

representative who is a practising advocate. An informant who directly submits the 

VIDF may be required to appear in person before the Office of Informant Protection 

(OIP) at SEBI’s Head Office in Mumbai for ascertainment of his/her identity and 

the veracity of the information so provided. 

v.  CONFIDENTIALITY  OF  INFORMANT:  The  confidentiality  regarding  the  identity  of 

the informant and information provided shall be protected through the OIP and shall 

be maintained throughout as well as during any proceeding initiated by SEBI except 

where the evidence of the informant is required during such proceedings.  

vi.  OBLIGATIONS  OF  LEGAL  REPRESENTATIVE:  The  legal  representative  shall  be 

required to inter alia verify  the identity  and  contact  details  of the  Informant  and 

also ensure that the identity of the Informant along with the original VIDF is kept 

confidential. The identity of the Informant would be required to be revealed only if 

SEBI makes a request for the original VIDF inter alia for the following reasons: 

a.  When the Informant has not complied with the given regulations/guidance; 

b.  When the nature of the information provided, requires the informant to be 

examined; 

c.  When  it  is  required  to  be  disclosed  in  connection  with  any  court 

proceedings; or 

d.  When  SEBI  requires  the  said  information  for  verification  at  the  time  of 

granting the gratuitous reward in favour of the informant. 

 

Page 5 of 8 

Hence a non-waivable consent needs to be obtained by the legal representative from 

the Informant as provided in the VIDF.  

vii.  PROCESSING OF INFORMATION: The original Information shall be processed by the 

OIP after establishing the materiality of the information. The OIP may transfer such 

information  to  the  operational  department  only  after  excising  any  information 

which may have the effect of revealing the identity of the Informant. The dealing 

departments in SEBI shall further process the original information to recommend 

any  suitable  enforcement  actions  including  issuance  of  administrative  warnings, 

directions under the SEBI Act, 1992, imposition of penalty or prosecution on a case 

to case basis. 

viii.  REPORTING: OIP shall submit a Report regarding its functioning and working of 

the informant policy regulations on an annual basis to the Board, which shall also 

be released to the public. 

ix.  HOTLINE:  A  hotline  shall  be  maintained  by  the  OIP  to  guide  persons  to  file 

information as per the regulations but not to register any complaint or information. 

The hotline would thus serve as a process to facilitate submission of information by 

the informant. 

x.  GRANT OF REWARD: The concept of reward may be considered under this policy 

in the form of a gratuitous monetary amount in case the information is provided in 

compliance with the informant policy and monies are disgorged as a result of any 

action taken on the basis of true, credible, complete and original information, and 

leads to a disgorgement of atleast Rupees five (5) crore. 

QUANTUM OF REWARD: The total amount of monetary reward shall be [10 %] of 

the monies collected but shall not exceed Rs one (1) crore or such higher amount as 

may be specified. An interim reward not exceeding Rs. 10 lacs may be given at the 

stage  of  issuance  of  the  final  order  by  the  SEBI  against  the  person  directed  to 

disgorge. The final reward, after adjusting the interim reward, shall be issued after 

collection or recovery of the monies disgorged equal atleast twice the final reward.  

xi. 

INVESTOR  PROTECTION  AND  EDUCATION  FUND  (‘IPEF’):  IPEF  shall  be  the 

designated  fund  from  which  the  reward  is  to  be  paid.  Since  the  proceeds  of  the 

disgorgement order are deposited in the IPEF; legal sanctity would be attached to 

the disbursal of rewards from IPEF. 

xii. 

SHARING  OF  INFORMATION:  The  original  information  may  be  shared  with  an 

appropriate  regulatory  or  law  enforcement  authority  within  or  outside  India  or  a 

Page 6 of 8 

 

self- regulatory organisation, subject to the discretion of SEBI, keeping in view the 

objectives  of  the  SEBI  Act.  Unless  the  circumstances  necessitate  otherwise,  the 

identity of the informant shall be maintained even while sharing this information. 

xiii.  EXEMPTION UNDER RTI: Information provided for the purpose of law enforcement 

is  exempted  from  disclosure  under  section  8(1)(g)  and  8(1)(h)  of  the  Right  to 

Information  Act,  2005.  Accordingly,  the  original  information  provided  by  the 

informant under this policy shall be exempted from disclosure. 

xiv.  PROTECTION  AGAINST  VICTIMIZATION:  Every  person  associated  with  the 

securities  markets,  including  listed  companies  and  intermediaries,  dealing  with 

UPSI, shall respectively incorporate in their Code of Conduct, suitable provisions 

to ensure that no employee who files a VIDF is discharged, terminated, demoted, 

suspended, threatened, harassed, or discriminated against, directly or indirectly for 

breaching  the  provisions  of  any  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  such  as  a 

confidentiality agreement, merely on account of filing such VIDF or assisting the 

OIP  of  SEBI  under  this  policy.  Any  violation  of  the  provisions  of  the  Code  of 

Conduct  may  result  in  the  levy  of  penalties,  order  of  debarment  or  prosecution 

proceedings or any other appropriate action under the securities laws. 

xv.  VEXATIOUS/FRIVOLOUS  COMPLAINTS:  In  case  the  OIP  determines  that  the 

information  submitted  is  frivolous  or  vexatious,  SEBI  may  initiate  appropriate 

action against the informant under the securities laws and any other applicable law. 

xvi.  AMNESTY: 

i.  While  bringing  an  action  against  an  Informant,  SEBI  may  consider  the 

cooperation rendered in determining any enforcement action or settlement 

application filed by him/her; 

ii. 

In cases where proceedings have been initiated against the informant, SEBI 

may declare such a person eligible for a reward after the Informant has paid 

any  monetary  sanctions  ordered  against  him/her  or  complied  with  the 

directions issued to him.  

iii.  An informant who is culpable but voluntarily co-operates and assists SEBI 

may be eligible for reward under this scheme and shall also be eligible for 

settlement  with  confidentiality  in  the  proceedings  that  may  be  initiated 

against  him.  This  shall  however  not  prohibit  initiation  of  action  for  any 

misconduct. 

 

Page 7 of 8 

13. 

The  proposed  policy  is  proposed  to  be  brought  into  force  by  suitably  amending  the 

SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulations,  2015  with  prospective  effect, 

preferably from the 100th day from the date of notification of the amendments to the 

PIT Regulations. This would allow the market participants to be conversant with the 

requirement  of  reporting  mechanism  and  simultaneously  enable  the  creation  of 

necessary systems within SEBI.  

 

PUBLIC COMMENTS:  

Considering the implications of this policy on various stakeholders; public comments on the 

proposal to have such a mechanism are solicited.  

The comments/ suggestions, if any, may be provided as per the format given below:  

 

 

Name of the individual:  

Name of organization (if applicable):  

Contact details:  

Sr. 

Relevant 

Proposed/  

Rationale  

No.  

suggestion/point 

suggested changes  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Such comments/suggestions, if any, may be e-mailed to sebilad-dop@sebi.gov.in  or sent by 

post at the following address latest by 01.07.2019.  

 

VIJAYAKRISHNAN G., 
General Manager,  
Legal Affairs Department,  
Division of Policy,  
Securities and Exchange Board of India,  
SEBI Bhavan,  
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block,  
Bandra Kurla Complex,  
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400051. 

********* 

 

Page 8 of 8 

