¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CONSULTATIVE PAPER ON POLICY PROPOSALS WITH 
RESPECT TO RESIGNATION OF STATUTORY AUDITORS 

FROM LISTED ENTITIES 

A.  Background and rationale for review 

1.  There have been a significant number of instances of abrupt resignation of 
Statutory Auditors from listed entities in recent times. In most of the cases, 
the  statutory  auditors  have  suddenly  resigned  without  completing  their 
assignments  for  the  year,  generally  citing  ‘pre-occupation’  as  the  reason 
for resignation.  

2.  Auditors  play  a  significant  role  in  ensuring  unbiased,  accurate,  complete 
and  timely  disclosures  of  various  information  to  investors  and  other 
stakeholders  in  the  securities  market.  The  investors  in  listed  entities  rely 
on the audited financial results for taking their investment decisions.  

3.  Resignation of an auditor is understandable in exceptional circumstances 
where,  as  per  the  auditing  standards,  “the  auditor  concludes  that  the 
possible effects on the financial statements of undetected misstatements, 
if  any,  could  be  both  material  and  pervasive  so  that  a  qualification  of  the 
opinion would be inadequate to communicate the gravity of the  situation.” 
However, resignation of an auditor due to reasons such as pre-occupation 
before completion of the audit of the financial results for the year seriously 
hampers  the  investor  confidence  and  leaves  the  investors  with  lack  of 
reliable information for taking their financial decisions.   

B.  Current regulatory provisions 

Disclosure of reasons for resignation of auditors 

1.  Under  Sec  140(2)  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013,  the  auditor  who  has 
resigned from the company is required to file a statement in the prescribed 
form with the company and the Registrar within 30 days from the date of 
resignation. The reasons for resignation are also required to be disclosed 
in  the  prescribed  form  for  resignation  which  is  required  to  be  filed  by  the 
auditor under the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.  

2.  Based  on  the  recommendations  of  the  Kotak  Committee,  amendments 
have  been  made  to  SEBI  LODR  Regulations  requiring  listed  entities  to 
disclose  to  the  stock  exchanges,  detailed  reasons  for  the  resignation  of 
auditor, as given by the auditor, within 24 hours. These amendments  are 
effective from April 1, 2019.  

Role of the Audit Committee 

SEBI LODR Regulations prescribe a broad role for the Audit Committee in this 
matter which, inter-alia, includes the following: 

 

Page 1 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

i.  reviewing  and  monitoring  the  auditor’s  independence  and  performance, 

and effectiveness of audit process. 

ii.  reviewing,  with  the  management,  performance  of  statutory  and  internal 

auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems. 

iii.  discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the 
nature  and  scope  of  audit  as  well  as  post-audit  discussion  to  ascertain 
any area of concern. 

ICAI’s auditing standards (SA-705) 

ICAI’s  auditing  standards  provide  for  situations  under  which  an  auditor  may 
qualify  the  opinion,  resign  from  the  audit,  disclaim  an  opinion,  etc.  The 
relevant extract is reproduced below: 

“If  the  auditor  is  unable  to  obtain  sufficient  appropriate  audit  evidence,  the 
auditor shall determine the implications as follows:  

(a)  If  the  auditor  concludes  that  the  possible  effects  on  the  financial 
statements  of  undetected  misstatements,  if  any,  could  be  material  but  not 
pervasive, the auditor shall qualify the opinion; or  

(b)  If  the  auditor  concludes  that  the  possible  effects  on  the  financial 
statements  of  undetected  misstatements,  if  any,  could  be  both  material  and 
pervasive  so  that  a  qualification  of  the  opinion  would  be  inadequate  to 
communicate  the  gravity  of  the  situation,  the  auditor  shall:  (Ref:  Para  A13-
A14)  

(i)  Resign  from  the  audit,  where  practicable  and  not  prohibited  by  law  or 
regulation; or  

(ii)  If  resignation  from  the  audit  before  issuing  the  auditor’s  report  is  not 
practicable or possible, disclaim an opinion on the financial statements.  

If the auditor resigns as contemplated by paragraph 13(b)(i), before resigning, 
the auditor shall communicate to those charged with governance any matters 
regarding misstatements identified during the audit that would have given rise 
to a modification of the opinion. (Ref: Para. A15)”  

C.  Policy proposals: 

These  policy  proposals  focus  primarily  on  the  following  two  aspects  with 
respect to resignation of auditors: 

a.  Strengthening disclosures to investors  
b.  Strengthening and clarifying the role of the Audit Committee 

Strengthening disclosures to investors 

 

Page 2 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 
1.  It is seen that the commonly cited reason by the auditors while resigning is 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

‘pre-occupation’.  

2.  Further,  several  auditors  continue 

their 
responsibilities  of  completing  the  assignments  for  the  quarter/half  year/ 
year.  This  leaves  the  investors  and  stakeholders  with  lack  of  reliable 
information for making better financial decisions.   

to  resign  before 

fulfilling 

3.  Therefore,  in  order  to  enhance  responsible  behavior  of  auditors  and 
strengthen  the  disclosures  to  investors  and  stakeholders,  the  following  is 
proposed: 

a.  Conditions prior to resignation: If the auditor of a listed entity/ material 

unlisted subsidiary of the listed entity proposes to resign: 
i.  With respect to auditor of a listed entity-  

1.  If  the  auditor  has  signed  the  audit  report  for  all  the  quarters 
(limited  review/  audit)  of  a  financial  year,  except  the  last 
quarter,  then  the  auditor  shall  finalize  the  audit  report  for  the 
said financial year before such resignation. 

2.  In  all  other  cases,  the  auditor  shall  issue  limited  review/audit 
report  for  that  quarter  before  such  resignation  (i.e.  previous 
quarter in reference to the date of resignation).  

Illustration:  If  the  auditor  of  a  listed  entity  makes  a  decision  to 
resign  in  August  2019,  the  auditor  shall  issue  the  limited  review/ 
audit  report  for  the  quarter  ended  Sep  30,  2019  before  such 
resignation.  
 

ii.  With  respect  to  the  auditor  of  a  material  unlisted  subsidiary  of  the 
listed entity, the auditor shall issue the limited review/audit report for 
that  financial  year/  quarter,  as  applicable,  before  such  resignation 
(i.e.  previous  financial  year/  quarter  in  reference  to  the  date  of 
resignation). 
Illustration: If the auditor of a material subsidiary of the listed entity 
makes a decision to resign in Feb 2020, the auditor shall issue the 
audit report for the  financial year ended  Mar 31, 2020 before such 
resignation.  
 

iii.  If the reason for the auditor’s resignation is the entity not providing 
information,  the  auditor  shall  provide  an  appropriate  disclaimer  in 
the audit report to that extent.  
Explanation:  The  disclaimer  as  specified  in  this  clause  may  be  in 
accordance with the Standards of Auditing as specified by ICAI.  
 

The  proposed  amendments  to  SEBI  LODR  Regulations  on  the  above 
lines are placed at Annex-A. 
 
 

 

Page 3 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

b.  Format of resignation: 

i.  On resignation  by a statutory auditor of a listed entity/ its material 
unlisted subsidiary before the completion of the term, it is proposed 
to require the auditor to submit details in a prescribed format which 
would include: 
1.  Detailed reasons for resignation; 
2.  Declaration  by  the  auditor  that  there  are  no  other  material 
reasons  other  than  those  provided  (similar  to  the  requirement 
in case of resignation of independent directors); 

3.  In  case  of  any  concerns,  efforts  made  by  the  auditor  prior  to 

resignation (including approaching the Audit Committee).  
 

ii.  The  following  information  is  also  proposed  to  be  included  in  the 
format  if  the  auditor’s  resignation  is  because  information  was  not 
made available to the auditor: 

1.  Details of the information requested by the auditor which was 

not provided;  

2.  Whether  the  inability  to  obtain  sufficient  appropriate  audit 
evidence  was  due  to  a  management-imposed  limitation  or 
circumstances beyond the control of the management;  

3.  The auditor’s assessment of the materiality - whether the lack 
of  information  would  have  significant  impact  on  the  financial 
statements/results.  

4.  Whether 

the  auditor  could  have  performed  alternative 
procedures to obtain appropriate evidence for the purposes of 
audit/limited review; 

5.  Whether  the  auditor  communicated  the  matter  to  the  Audit 
/  board  (where  Audit  Committees  are  not 

committee 
mandated), as applicable before resignation; 

6.  Whether the lack of information was prevalent in the previous 
reported  financial  statements/results.  If  yes,  the  basis  of 
issuing previous audit/limited review ; 

7.  The  extent  of  audit/limited  review  work  performed  by  the 

auditor prior to resignation.  

The  proposed  format  of  disclosure  of  the  resignation  letter  on  the 
above lines is placed at Annex-B.  

 
iii.  The  listed  entity  shall  ensure  disclosure  the  aforesaid  resignation 
letter to the stock exchanges. In case of resignation by the auditor 
of  a  material  unlisted  subsidiary,  the  subsidiary  shall  disclose  the 
resignation  letter  to  the  listed  entity  which  shall,  in  turn,  disclose 
the same to the stock exchanges.  

 

c.  Disclosure of views of Audit Committee and the Board of Directors- It is 
proposed  that  the  views  of  the  Audit  Committee  and  the  Board  of 

Page 4 of 8 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Directors  (of 
listed  entity/  unlisted  material  subsidiary,  as 
applicable)  be  required  to  be  submitted  to  the  stock  exchanges  along 
with  the  disclosure  of  the  resignation  letter  of  the  auditor  in  the 
aforesaid prescribed format. 
 

Strengthening and clarifying the role of the Audit Committee: 

1.  While the broad role of the Audit Committee of the listed entity is already 
specified  under  SEBI  LODR  Regulations,  there  is  no  specific  procedure 
laid  down  that  is  to  be  followed  by  the  auditor  or  the  Audit  Committee, 
when there are significant concerns leading to the auditor resignation.  

2.  In  order  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  Audit  Committee  in  the  matter,  it  is 
proposed  to  issue  a  circular/amend  SEBI  LODR  Regulations,  specifying 
the following as the procedure that may be followed in such cases: 

immediately 

i.  The  auditor  shall  approach  the  Chairman  of  the  Audit  Committee 
the 
directly  and 
management  such  as  non-availability  of  information  /  any  non-co 
operation by the management. The auditor shall not specifically wait 
for  the  quarterly  meetings  to  take  place  in  order  to  raising  such 
concerns. 

in  case  of  any  concerns  with 

ii.  The  auditor  shall  bring  to  the  Audit  Committee’s  notice,  all  the 
concerns the auditor has with respect to such resignation, along with 
relevant  documents.  In  cases  where  the  resignation  is  due  to  non-
receipt  of  information  /  explanation  from  the  company,  the  auditor 
shall  enlighten  the  Audit  Committee  of  the  details  of  information  / 
explanation  sought  and  not  provided  by  the  management,  as 
applicable.  

iii.  The Audit Committee shall deliberate on the matter and communicate 
its  views  to  the  management  and  the  auditor.  In  communicating  its 
views,  the  Audit  Committee  shall  ensure  that  it  fulfils  its  role  as 
specified  under  the  SEBI  LODR  Regulations.  The  listed  entity  shall 
ensure  the  disclosure  of  the  Audit  Committee’s  views  to  the  Stock 
Exchanges. 

D.  Public comments 

Comments  on  the  above  framework  may  be  sent  on  or  before  August  08, 
2019 in the following format: 

Name of entity / person / intermediary/ Organization: 

Sr. No. 

Issues 

Suggestions  

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 8 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 
 

Comments may be sent: 

1.  By email to Shri. Pradeep Ramakrishnan, GM at pradeepr@sebi.gov.in 
and/or Ms. Nila Salil Khanolkar, AGM (nila@sebi.gov.in) / Shri. Rajnish 
Prasad, AM (rajnishp@sebi.gov.in); or 

2.  By post to the following address:  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Ms. Nila Salil Khanolkar 
Assistant General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department, CMD-I, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4- A, "G" Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  
Mumbai - 400 051  

Page 6 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annex-A 

Proposed  amendments  to  SEBI  LODR  Regulations  (with  immediate 
effect): 

Current  provision  in 
SEBI 
LODR 
Regulations  

No Specific provision  

Proposed  amended  provision  in  SEBI  LODR 
Regulations 

Insertion of sub-regulation 33(9) ; 
Conditions prior to resignation: 
33(9):  If  the  auditor  of  a  listed  entity/  material 
unlisted subsidiary of the listed entity proposes to 
resign: 

a.  With respect to auditor of a listed entity-  

i.  If the auditor has signed  the audit report 
for all the quarters (limited review/  audit) 
of  a 
last 
quarter, then the auditor shall finalize the 
audit  report  for  the  said  financial  year 
before such resignation. 

financial  year,  except 

the 

ii.  In all other cases, the auditor shall issue 
limited review/audit report for that quarter 
before  such  resignation  (i.e.  previous 
quarter 
the  date  of 
resignation).  

in  reference 

to 

b.  With  respect  to  the  auditor  of  a  material 
unlisted  subsidiary  of  the  listed  entity,  the 
auditor  shall  issue  the  limited  review/audit 
report  for  that  financial  year/  quarter,  as 
applicable,  before  such  resignation  (i.e. 
previous financial year/ quarter in reference 
to the date of resignation). 

c.  If  any  information  is  not  provided  to  the 
auditor,  to  that  extent,  the  auditor  shall 
provide  an  appropriate  disclaimer  in  the 
audit report.  
Explanation:  The  disclaimer  as  specified  in 
this  clause  may  be  in  accordance  with  the 
Standards of Auditing as specified by ICAI.  

 
 

 

 
 

 

Page 7 of 8 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 

 

 

 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annex-B 

Format of resignation letter by a statutory auditor  

1.  Name of the listed entity/ material unlisted subsidiary: 
2.  Details of the statutory auditor: 

a.  Name:  
b.  Address:  
c.  Phone number:  
d.  Email:  

3.  Details of association with the listed entity/ material unlisted subsidiary: 

a.  Date on which the statutory auditor was appointed:  
b.  Date of which the term of the statutory auditor was scheduled to 

expire:   

4.  Detailed reasons for resignation:  
5.  In  case  of  any  concerns,  efforts  made  by  the  auditor  prior  to  resignation 

(including approaching the Audit Committee):  

6.  In  case  the  information  requested  by  the  auditor  was  not  provided,  then 

following shall be disclosed. 

a.  Whether  the  inability  to  obtain  sufficient  appropriate  audit  evidence 
was  due  to  a  management-imposed  limitation  or  circumstances 
beyond the control of the management.  

b.  Whether the lack of information would have significant impact on the 

financial statements/results.  

c.  Whether the auditor could have performed alternative procedures to 

obtain appropriate evidence for the purposes of audit/limited review 

d.  Whether 

the  auditor  communicated 

the  matter 

to 

the  Audit 

committee before resignation 

e.  Whether  the  lack  of  information  was  prevalent  in  the  previous 
reported  financial  statements/results.  If  yes,  on  what  basis  the 
previous audit/limited review reports were issued. 

f.  Prior to resignation, the extent of audit/limited review work performed 

by the auditor.  

7.  Any other facts relevant to the resignation:  
Declaration 
1.  I/  We  hereby  confirm  that  the  information  given  in  this  letter  and  its 

attachments is correct and complete.  

2.  I/  We  hereby  confirm  that  there  is  no  other  material  reason  other  than 

those provided above for my resignation/ resignation of my firm.  

 
Signature of the authorized signatory  
Date:  
Place:  

Encl:   

 

Page 8 of 8 

 

