 

SEBI seeks public comments on Report submitted by the 
working group on Issues related to Proxy Advisers (PA) 

1.  Background: 

 

(i)  Proxy adviser is a person who provides advice to institutional investors or shareholder 
of  a  company,  in  relation  to  exercise  of  their  rights  in  the  company  including 
recommendations on public offer or voting recommendation on agenda items. 
 

(ii)  SEBI regulates the activities of proxy advisors in India under SEBI (Research Analyst) 
Regulations, 2014. Under these regulations, such entities are required to register with 
SEBI and comply with the provisions pertaining to formation of internal policies and 
procedures, disclosures in the reports, code of conduct, maintaining record of voting 
recommendations etc. 
 

(iii)  SEBI  had  formed  a  Working  Group  with  respect  to  Issues  of  Proxy  Advisors  in 

November 2018. The terms of reference for the working group were as under:  

a. To review the provisions pertaining to proxy advisors in SEBI (Research Analysts)   

Regulations, 2014; 

 b.  To  review  the  functional  areas  including  the  rights  and  obligations  of  proxy 

advisors. 

c.   Any other item relevant to proxy advisory industry including framework for dispute 

resolution between corporates and proxy advisors. 

The  working  group  has submitted  a  report to  SEBI,  providing  recommendations  on 
various aspects of proxy adviser and also suggested that SEBI may like to obtain public 
comments  on  the  substantive  matters  stated  in  the  report  before  any  regulatory 
review is undertaken.  

(iv) In addition to the recommendations of the working group on regulating foreign proxy 
advisors,  as  stated  at  para  83  of  the  report,  it  is  also  proposed  that  institutional 
investors like Foreign Portfolio Investors, Portfolio Managers, Alternative Investment 
Funds, Real Estate Investment Trusts, and Infrastructure Investment Trusts etc. may 
be mandated to ensure that proxy advisory firms employed by them (if any) should 
have appropriate capacity & capability to issue proxy advice and such firm is complying 
with code of conduct for proxy advisers as specified by SEBI. 
 

 
2.  Public Comments: 
 

Public comments are invited on the proposals contained in the report and para 1 (iv) above, 
in the following format: 

Name of entity/person/intermediary/organization: 
Sr. No. 
 
Comments/  suggestions  may  be  forwarded  by  email  to  naveens@sebi.gov.in  and 
taruns@sebi.gov.in latest by August 18, 2019. 

Comments/Suggestions  Rationale 
 

Recommendation para 
e.g.15, 18 etc. 

 

 

 
General Manager  
Division of Funds 1 
Investment Management Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, “G” Block, Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai -400 051 
 

Issued on: July 29, 2019 

 

1. 

2. 

 

 

 

WORKING GROUP’S 

REPORT ON ISSUES CONCERNING 

PROXY ADVISORS 

MAY, 2019 

 

1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

ACKOWLEDGMENTS 

The Committee expresses its gratitude to Ms. Madhabi Puri Buch, Mr. SV Muralidhar 

Rao, Mr. B N Sahoo, Mr. Naveen Sharma, and Mr. Tarun Sapahia, from SEBI. Special 

thanks are due to Mr Raghuvamsi Meka, Associate Finsec Law Advisors. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 

 

 

 

 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

I. 

Introduction .................................................................................................................................... 6 

II.  Conflict of Interest, Governance and Disclosures ........................................................................... 7 

III. 

IV. 

Infrastructure and Skills requirement ....................................................................................... 18 

Voting, Fiduciary-duty and information sharing ....................................................................... 19 

V. 

Interaction with Corporates .......................................................................................................... 24 

VI. 

VII. 

Setting basic industry standards ............................................................................................... 28 

Cost & Competition ................................................................................................................... 33 

VIII. 

Additional points ....................................................................................................................... 33 

IX. 

Conclusion and summary .......................................................................................................... 35 

 

 

 

5 

 

 

I. 

INTRODUCTION 

1. 

The term “proxy” may bring up memories of college days where a student filled in the 

attendance of an absent student and sometimes took notes on his behalf. Proxy advisors 

in the financial world are a relatively recent addition, commenting on the workings of 

public companies, sometimes sharing notes and opinions and sometimes even standing 

in for shareholders in shareholder meetings, even if virtually. More specifically, they are 

entities which research and give opinions to investors, generally institutional investors, 

on  how  to  vote  in  shareholder  meetings.  Proxy  advisors  typically  bring  out  publicly 

disclosed standards an ideal company should follow, often exceeding the standards laid 

down by law.  Internationally, proxy advisors have become  quite persuasive, and large 

and institutional investors have become reliant on their research. They have also caused 

some concern amongst regulators and corporates. The former because their research can 

have  an  impact  on  companies’  workings,  and  may  pose  conflict  of  interest  in  certain 

circumstances.  The  latter  because  their  opinions  are  often  the  cause  of  proposals  of 

dominant shareholders or management being defeated.  

a.  Emergence of Proxy Advisors 

2. 

In  the  United  States,  proxy  advisors  emerged  as  a  result  of  expectations  of  the  US 

Securities and Exchange Commission  (“SEC”)  from investors to  exercise their voting 

rights.  The  establishment  of  Indian  proxy  advisors  also  approximately  coincided  with 

Indian  regulatory  requirements  seeking  disclosures  by  Indian  mutual  funds  on  their 

voting records and stance. Similar developments  have been seen in  a few other major 

markets: the UK, Australia, Korea, and France. 

b.  Regulation of Proxy Advisors 

3. 

In  almost  every  country,  proxy  advisors  are  not  regulated.  India  is  one  of  the  few 

countries  where  they  are  registered  and  regulated.  SEBI  (Research  Analysts) 

Regulations,  2014  (“RA  Regulations”)  require  registration  and  provide  a  regulatory 

conduct framework similar to that adopted for research analysts. This Working Group on 

Proxy Advisors seeks to review the regulatory framework and suggest any changes based 

on the past five years of operation of these new entities. The cross-border impact of proxy 

advisors  also  raises  the  question  of  whether  international  proxy  advisors  should  be 

registered and/or regulated by SEBI. 

 

6 

 

c. 

4. 

A heterogenous mix 

The Working Group is aware that proxy advisors have varying business models. Even 

within India, each of the three proxy advisors have very different models. They are also 

quite lean in earnings/business volume. The two large international proxy advisors are 

somewhat similar, but they also have materially different business models and differing 

approaches to being registered. Because of the differing business models, the Working 

Group is sensitive to the introduction of new regulations which may harshly impact one 

proxy  advisor,  but  may  have  no  material  impact  on  the  others.  This  would  reduce 

competition  and  harm  investor  interest,  and  the  Working  Group  has  tried  to  remain 

agnostic to business models. 

d.  Approach of this paper 

5. 

The Working Group has sought  comments  from  select  persons,  including  institutional 

investors, experts, proxy advisors and corporates. The comments received weave a rich 

tapestry of opinion and we have tried to bring out the multiple viewpoints which have 

emerged, followed by the Working Group’s view on each issue.  

e.  Global regulatory approach 

6.  We understand that India stands apart in the world as possibly the only country which 

clearly and explicitly registers all domestic proxy advisors. We have thus been cognizant 

of  the  light  touch  approach  taken  by  global  regulators  in  regulating  proxy  advisors. 

Similarly, we understand that one of the two large global proxy advisors has chosen to 

register with  SEBI.  In the US,  three of the five proxy advisors are registered with  the 

SEC under the Investment Advisors Act, 1940. 

   

II. 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST, GOVERNANCE AND DISCLOSURES  

a.  What  has  been  the  impact  of  proxy  advisors  on  corporate  governance  and 

compliance? 

7.  Nature of Impact: Mostly Positive 

a. 

Benefits  to  institutional  investors:  Institutional  investors’  managers  have  a 

fiduciary  responsibility  to  vote  in  a  manner  that  is  in  the  best  interests  of  their 

beneficiaries. It is an important and monumental task that happens during a very 

compressed timeframe, as shareholder meetings happen based on the calendar set 

 

7 

 

 

by corporate law. Thus, proxy advisors help investors vote intelligently, especially 

when there is a time crunch to read and analyse a lot of data.  

b. 

Benefits  to  global  investors:  It  is  not  always  easy  for  global  investors  to  have  a 

complete understanding of all local market practices, across what may be highly 

diversified  global investment  portfolios. Proxy advisors prepare research reports 

that help global investors receive informed analyses and recommendations, taking 

into account local as well as global good practice principles. 

c. 

Efficiencies  of  scale  and  non-duplication  of  effort:  Instead  of  thousands  of 

institutional  investors  doing  the  same  primary  research,  there  are  efficiencies  of 

scale if a handful of proxy advisors conduct the same and pass on the benefit of 

costs  and  specialization  to  the  investors.  As  proxy  advisors  review  hundreds  of 

companies  across  sectors,  they  are  also  able  to  provide  a  bird’s  eye  view  and  a 

deeper dive into the companies being researched.  

d. 

Benefits to small investors: Many investors do not have the necessary resources or 

time  to  follow  and  closely  analyze  all  shareholder  meeting  announcements  and 

have access to all published materials on shareholder meetings, often published in 

local  languages  and/or  at  short  notice.  Proxy  advisors  serve  as  “information-

gatherers”  for  them,  providing  full  access  to  all  relevant  company  meeting 

materials  and  disclosed  information,  as  well  as  voting  recommendations.  Many 

proxy advisors do not share the detailed rationale which is reserved for their paid 

institutional  investors,  while  providing  free  recommendation  to  all  investors 

without charge. 

e. 

Better public disclosure by companies: Broadly, proxy advisors keep clients up to 

date  with  corporate  governance  developments,  offering  specialist  insight.  Proxy 

advisors  have  increased  shareholder  activism  and  pushed  companies  to  adopt 

higher level of disclosures. It has led to higher rates of compliance with corporate 

governance  codes  and  standards.  Additionally,  they  encourage  companies  to 

improve  the  disclosure  of  relevant  information,  increase  issuer  and  market 

awareness  of  local  and  global  best  practices  and  contribute  to  improvements  in 

corporate governance in specific and governance in general. We also understand 

that  some  proxy  advisors  refuse  to  accept  information  bi-laterally  from  the 

companies,  a  process  which  in  fact  forces  companies  to  communicate  with  all 

shareholders  without  any  preferential  treatment,  and  also  forces  companies  to 

communicate in plain English rather than in financial/legal jargon. 

8 

 

f. 

Legal  to  English  translation:  Proxy  advisors  collect  and  translate  key  materials, 

translating legal and accounting jargon into plain English, and provide a consistent 

structure of relevant information across all companies in all markets. This allows 

shareholders to have a better understanding of the companies in which they invest 

in,  resulting  in  a  positive  impact  to  the  relationship  the  company  has  with  its 

shareholders.  Earlier  companies  considered  obtaining  shareholders’  approval  a 

mere procedural formality, however they are now wary of the fact  that there are 

entities  scrutinizing  their  resolutions,  particularly  with  the  interests  of  minority 

shareholders  in  mind.  Companies  now  take  additional  care  in  drafting  their 

resolutions,  though a lot of improvement in  this  regard is  yet  to  be  achieved.  In 

some cases, consequent to the reports of the proxy advisors, the companies have 

had to withdraw / amend resolutions put forth to the shareholders for approval due 

to concerns raised by proxy advisors. In fact, some of the benefits of proxy advisors 

may be invisible, as people would have altered their actions to escape the critical 

analysis of proxy advisors. So, a person sitting on too many boards may opt to give 

up  her  board  seat  by  withdrawing  from  the  slate  of  directors  up  for  election.  In 

other words the impact of possible proxy advisor’s recommendation would have 

altered behaviour even though no one will notice the impact.  

8.  However,  while  academic  studies  have  shown  that  some  of  the  high-profile  defeat  of 

resolutions have not been primarily caused by the recommendations of proxy advisors, 

proxy advisors can certainly tip the scales in many cases.  

9.  Downsides 

a. 

Excessive  delegation  and  alien  standards:  Many  international  institutional 

investors have outsourced their voting to their custodian with directions given to 

them to vote in the pattern as recommended by select proxy advisory firms. This, 

goes  the  argument,  leads  to  robo-voting  without  application  of  mind.  Similarly, 

companies have sometimes asserted, that the pre-occupation with pleasing proxy 

advisors, leads some companies to adopt policies that may not be in their own long 

term  best  interest.  There  are  also  concerns  that  international  proxy  advisors 

‘import’  standards  from  foreign  markets  with  very  different  characteristics,  and 

apply a one-rule-fits-all-countries approach. 

b. 

Traveling beyond the prescription of the law: Secondly, it is argued that when the 

law asserts  a standard, proxy  advisors setting a higher standard is  inappropriate. 

 

9 

 

For instance, if the Companies Act, 2013, allows a director to hold directorship in 

10 companies, the proxy firms which have their own ceiling, of say 7 directorships, 

without referring to the experience, nature and standing of such person, would be 

inappropriate.  

c. 

Auto-correct doesn’t work well: The final ‘charge’ is that proxy advisors are not 

receptive  to  factual  errors  being  corrected,  thus  causing  outcomes  not  based  on 

facts. While there have been arguments that proxy advisors are not open to factual 

corrections,  we  found  factual  errors  both  rare  and  non-contentious.  The  most 

contentious issues where a company strongly dis-agreed with a recommendation is 

almost always an opinion formed by the proxy advisor. 

Working Group’s recommendation 

10.  The  Working  Group  observes  that  the  overwhelming  evidence  supports  the  positive 

impact of proxy advisors. The criticisms of the workings are issues which can easily be 

resolved through market forces and are part of the evolution of both proxy advisors and 

investors.  

b.  How to ensure independence of proxy advisors?  

11. 

Independence is an important aspect of proxy advisors’ credentials, not too different in 

spirit from independence expected of equity research providers, audit firms, credit rating 

agencies,  among  others.  However,  it  should  be  mentioned  that  the  level  of  conflict  is 

substantially  lower  than  other  intermediaries  like  auditors  and  credit  rating  agencies, 

where  the  company  being  scrutinised  is  itself  paying  the  intermediary.  In  the  case  of 

proxy  advisors,  they  are  paid  primarily  by  institutional  investors  to  scrutinise  the 

workings of companies. There are however multiple areas where proxy advisors may be 

conflicted or become dependent upon sources of capital or income, which may impact 

the  appearance  of  or  actual  independence.  The  three  key  areas  of  conflict  are:  i) 

shareholding  in  the  proxy  advisor  by  a  listed  company  or  a  group  which  has  listed 

companies;  ii)  consulting  assignments  provided  to  companies  who  may  in  turn  be 

scrutinised  in  the  next  shareholder  meeting;  iii)  any  other  source  of  revenue  or 

relationship (for instance inter-locking board positions) which poses a real or apparent 

conflict of interest.   

 

10 

 

12. 

In  order  to  ensure  that  a  proxy  advisor’s  voting  recommendations  and  analysis  are 

disinterested, and also  carry the appearance of  disinterest,  proxy advisors should have 

policies and procedures in place with respect to: 

a.  Managing  and  disclosing  conflicts  of  interests:  Proxy  advisors  should  have  a 

publicly  available  conflict  of  interest  policy  and  a  clear  approach  to  manage 

concerns relating to their independence/other risks that may affect reports provided 

to clients. Communicating their policies and procedures would enable the clients 

to have enough information to evaluate sufficiency of the controls. Any material 

conflicts should be clearly stated on individual research reports too. Similarly, any 

press  statement  by  the  proxy  advisor  on  such  companies  should  also  have  a 

disclaimer.  Proxy  advisors  should  disclose  their  policy  on  engagement  with 

companies. The disclosure should also indicate the kind of circumstances in which 

the proxy advisor would consider participating in the engagement.  

b. 

c. 

d. 

e. 

Business Model: Disclosures regarding the business model should be made public. 

Separate legal entities/units and Chinese Walls: There should be a clear separation 

between  the  proxy  voting  advice  to  shareholders  and  the  advice  to  the  (listed) 

companies  regarding  advisory  services  and  indices  and  governance  engagement 

services.  The  entity/business  unit  providing  services  to  investors/shareholders 

should be different from the one providing advisory services to a corporate client. 

Wherever such services are provided there should be a clear public disclosure.  

Just say no: Codes that determine when not to provide a voting recommendation. 

Equity  Ownership:  Ensuring  compliance  with  the  rules  of  equity  ownership 

applicable to research analysts. 

f. 

Board  Independence:  Board  of  proxy  advisors  should  be  independent  of  its 

shareholders,  where  such  a  position  creates  a  serious  conflict  of  interest,  real  or 

apparent.  

g.  Methodology:  Disclosing  the  methodologies  and  processes  they  use  in  the 

development  of  their  research  and  recommendations  –  in  essence  providing 

justifications to their recommendations. It should include: i. the general approach 

that  leads  to  the  generation  of  research;  ii.  the  information  sources  used;  iii.  the 

extent to which local conditions and customs are taken into account; iv. the extent 

to which custom or house voting policies or guidelines may be applied; and, v. the 

systems  and  controls  deployed  to  reasonably  ensure  the  reliability  of  the  use  of 

 

11 

 

information  in  the  research  process,  and  the  limitations  thereof.  Further,  the 

institutional/listed shareholders should be excluded from any involvement in the 

preparation of the voting guidelines or recommendation reports. 

h.  Communication: Proxy advisors should set parameters around the communications 

they have with companies and other stakeholders. Further, proxy advisors should 

have  and  disclose  their  policies  for  managing  and  responding  to  complaints, 

comments or feedback about their services. In particular, where clear errors can be 

identified,  as  opposed  to  differing  views/opinions,  there  needs  to  be  a  feedback 

mechanism which is able to correct such clear mistakes.  

13.  Restriction  on  services:  There  is  an  opinion  that  proxy  advisory  firms  should  not  be 

offering any other remunerative services, including advisory services on the governance 

structure, drafting of resolutions, explanatory statements, etc. and should only give voting 

recommendations.  Further,  proxy  advisory  firms,  it  is  argued,  should  refrain  from 

recommending on any corporates where they or their substantial shareholders directly or 

indirectly  hold  more  than  certain  percentage  of  share  capital  including  network 

companies.  

14.  Call for a flexible approach: The other view is that each proxy advisory firm should have 

the flexibility to  determine the way its specific actual or potential conflicts  of interest 

should  be  handled.  Public  dissemination  of  a  firm’s  policies  and  procedures  around 

conflict mitigation and management should provide all interested parties with sufficient 

information  to  assess  the  adequacy  of  those  policies/procedures,  enabling  them  to 

determine whether a firm can provide impartial proxy research and other services without 

necessarily requiring a case-by-case evaluation of each potential conflict. This flexible 

approach  is  consistent  with  how  U.S.-based  investment  advisers,  such  as  Institutional 

Shareholder Services (“ISS”), is regulated by the SEC. The Investment Advisers Act of 

1940 

(“Advisers  Act”)  requires 

registered 

investment  advisers 

to  establish 

comprehensive compliance programs, including the implementation and enforcement of 

written  policies  and  procedures  reasonably  designed  to  prevent,  detect  and  correct 

violations  of  the  Advisers  Act.  This  obligation  includes  the  identification  of  potential 

conflicts of interest related to the proxy adviser’s operations and the adoption of controls 

reasonably designed to manage those risks. This approach enables each registered entity 

to  tailor  its  compliance  program  to  the  regulatory  and  business  risks  posed  by  its 

particular business activities. The issue is discussed in more detail below. 

 

12 

 

Working Group’s recommendation  

15.  The  Working  Group  recommends  that  a  flexible  approach  is  the  better  one  where 

adequate  disclosures  and  clear  methodologies  are  followed.  In  addition,  the  Working 

Group believes that the disclosures stated in para 12 above should be implemented.  

c. 

Should  proxy  advisors  or  their  associates  be  allowed  to  earn  revenue  from  their 

subsidiary companies through business consultancy, database services, etc.? 

View 1 

16.  Provision  of  consulting  services  affects  their  independence  and  creates  a  problematic 

conflict of interest that goes against the very governance principles the proxy advisors 

advocate.  By  not  providing  consulting  services  to  the  subjects  of  their  reports,  proxy 

advisors  ensure  that  they  have  no  financial  incentive  to  develop  policies  or  issue 

recommendations that make companies feel they need to pay for consulting services in 

order to achieve a favourable outcome.  

View 2 

17. 

It is neither appropriate nor necessary to prohibit proxy advisors or their associates from 

earning  revenue  from  ancillary  business  activities.  The  key  objective  of  the  proxy 

advisors is to support investors in the exercise of their share ownership (voting) rights. 

Most of the services provided seek to achieve the same goal as that of the main line of 

work of the proxy advisors. For instance, if a company were to approach a proxy advisor 

seeking their view on how they can improve governance standards, and the company is 

willing to improve various areas of its current management, the ancillary business would 

support the investors’ interest rather than detract from it. A barring of ancillary services 

may do more harm than good. If the consulting services in fact help a company to provide 

better governance, any substantive restriction on such services would mean that the good 

becomes the enemy of the better.  

Working Group’s recommendation 

18.  The key is to make sure that the proxy advisor takes appropriate steps to manage, mitigate 

and/or disclose any potential conflicts of interest resulting from those ancillary business 

activities.  There  should  be  ‘Chinese  Walls’  between  proxy  advisory  firms  and  their 

consultancy firms. There should be clear procedures to disclose and handle conflicts of 

interest. There should be disclosures regarding the provision of other services through 

 

13 

 

subsidiaries,  divisions  or  associates,  and  the  total  income  earned  by  providing  such 

services where it exceeds a certain percentage, say 10%, of the revenues. 

d. 

Should  proxy  advisors  be  allowed  to  provide  recommendations  on  resolutions  of 

companies that are promoters/major shareholders of proxy advisors, or of companies 

whose promoters have partnerships with promoters of proxy advisors? 

View 1 

19.  There should be an absolute prohibition on making recommendations on resolutions of 

companies  where  there  is  any  connection  with  shareholders/promoters  of  the  proxy 

advisory  firm.  Proxy  advisory  firms  should  refrain  from  recommending  on  any 

corporates where they directly or indirectly hold more than a certain percentage of the 

share capital, including network companies of the proxy advisor, or on any corporates 

which are the promoters/shareholders of the proxy advisors. They should not be allowed 

to provide recommendations in such cases. The independence of the voting advice must 

be paramount. It may also happen that proxy advisors, by virtue of such association, may 

have  some  additional  vital  information  which  otherwise  is  not  available  in  the  public 

domain leading to information asymmetry. 

View 2  

20.  A  more  disclosure  based  approach  be  taken,  where  the  proxy  advisor  has  policies  in 

place,  makes  necessary  disclosures  and  takes  appropriate  steps  to  mitigate  conflict  of 

interest.  

Working Group’s recommendation  

21.  The  proxy  advisors  should  be  allowed  to  provide  aforesaid  recommendations  if  the 

relationship  is  fully  disclosed  and  all  conflicts  of  interest  are  detailed.  The 

recommendation should be aligned to their standard policy and approach/ consistent with 

their  stated  methodologies.  The  key  in  dealing  with  any  potential  issues  relating  to 

promoters/major  shareholders,  is  to  take  appropriate  steps  to  manage,  mitigate  and/or 

disclose  any  potential  issues  and  not  impose  any  absolute  prohibitions  on  such 

recommendations. Where there is a conflict, the institutional investors will automatically 

take that recommendation with a pinch of salt. Further regulation may be unnecessary. 

 

14 

 

e.  What should be the nature and placement of disclosures by proxy advisors? Whether 

a generic disclaimer on their website is sufficient, or whether it should appear at every 

place they comment on such companies and their affiliates? 

View 1  

22.  There is a view that each proxy advisory firm should have the flexibility to determine the 

manner  in  which  specific  actual  or  potential  conflicts  of  interest  should  be  handled, 

including  the  types  of  disclosures  made  and  the  way  those  disclosures  are  provided. 

Mandated disclosure of  specific actual  or potential conflicts  could  serve to  undermine 

the intent of a proxy firm’s overarching policies. It should be the responsibility of the 

institutional  investor,  prior  to  appointing  a  proxy  advisor,  to  undertake  adequate  due 

diligence to ensure that they are comfortable with the content of the disclosures and the 

processes that are described. 

View 2  

23.  Generic disclaimers on the website are of limited practical value and would not meet the 

spirit/  intent  of  full  and  honest  disclosure.  It  is  believed  that  enhanced  disclosure  is 

necessary.  Therefore,  while  generic  disclosures  may  be  placed  on  the  websites  of  the 

proxy  advisory  firms,  disclosures  regarding  conflicts  of  interest  should  appear 

prominently in the respective companies’ voting recommendations. Further, a summary 

of any major conflicts of interest and the relevant policy could be provided to new clients 

when initially contracting with a vendor. The disclosures should appear on every specific 

document  where  they  are  giving  their  advice.  Disclosures  should  especially  address 

possible areas of potential conflict, and also the safeguards that have been put in place. 

Glass Lewis, a US based proxy advisor, states that it has a compliance committee that 

meets  quarterly  to  discuss  any  new  potential  conflicts  of  interest  that  have  arisen  and 

need to be addressed and communicated to clients.  

Working Group’s recommendation 

24.  The Working Group’s recommends for implementing an enhanced standard of disclosure 

and not merely some boilerplate on the website of the proxy advisors as detailed in the 

previous para. 

f. 

Should  there be a comprehensive code or  minimum standards  of conduct  for proxy 

advisory firms mandating them to disclose rationale for their voting recommendation: 

 

15 

 

Working Group’s recommendations are singular and as follows: 

Reasons for recommendation 

25.  Requiring  a  proxy  advisor  to  disclose  the  reasons  for  recommendations  may  be 

burdensome.  The  detailed  rationale  is  usually  the  primary  bread  winner  for  the  proxy 

advisor and mandating it to be made public would destroy the business model of most of 

the proxy advisors.  

Material based on which such recommendations have been made. 

26.  Requiring a proxy advisor to disclose the material based on which recommendations have 

been made may also be burdensome. Disclosures can be required only if the information 

used is not from publicly available sources. Such disclosures must be made in the voting 

advisory report of the relevant company only. 

Guidelines, methodology or the criteria upon which their recommendations are based. 

27.  There  is  a  view  that  proxy  advisors  should  explain  how  their  voting  policies  and 

methodology  are  developed  and  updated.  They  should  explain  whether  and  how  they 

incorporate feedback into the development of voting policies. They should disclose the 

timing  of  their  policy  updates  and  policies  should  be  reviewed  on,  at  least,  an  annual 

basis. 

Conflicts  of  interest  and  all  relationships  they  have  with  financial  institutions  and 

other companies (ownership/advice) including common boards. 

28.  Conflicts of interest, including ownership, should be disclosed as described above. 

All avenues of income generation 

29.  Disclosing  all  avenues  of  income  generation  would  be  over-regulation,  but  a  material 

revenue (say 10% plus) stream should be disclosed publicly.  

Any  additional  tasks  undertaken  by  the  proxy  advisor,  such  as  providing  corporate 

governance advice to companies. 

30.  The Working Group  recommends that as this is part of the business  model  of various 

proxy  advisors,  this  should  not  be  restricted,  but  should  be  disclosed  as  a  potential 

conflict of interest, where appropriate.  

Making shareholding and financial results of proxy advisory firms public. 

 

16 

 

31.  The general views received by the Working Group is that proxy advisors are unlisted, 

and no public interest will be served by disclosing their financials. However, the details 

available in public domain, for instance filings made to Registrar of Companies (“RoC”), 

should also be publicly available on the website of the proxy advisor.  

Past performance/assessment of past voting recommendations. 

32.  Every  instance  of  recommendation  is  different  as  it  changes  with  the  nature  of  the 

resolution. A blanket mapping of voting recommendations with actual voting outcomes 

of the past is neither a measure of a proxy advisor’s performance nor is it a predictor of 

how it will recommend in the future. 

g. 

The influence of proxy advisors on corporate governance makes boards of directors 

overly preoccupied with ensuring favourable recommendations from proxy advisers, 

by taking pre-emptive steps to ensure that their policies on governance and executive 

pay will  not  trigger  a negative score when fed into  the proxy advisers’  standardized 

algorithm. Does this practice require any intervention, or are market forces sufficient? 

33.  The  general  consensus  is  that  no  intervention  is  necessary  and  market  forces  are 

sufficient.  The  fact  that  many  companies  can  get  their  resolutions  passed  even  when 

opposed  by  some  proxy  advisors  might  suggest  that  the  proxy  advisors’  power  is 

overstated. Because many companies have convinced themselves that the power is real, 

they feel it necessary to take pre-emptive action rather than make the case as to why a 

different  approach is  appropriate in  their case.  It is  difficult  to  justify taking action to 

limit their influence if that influence exists mostly in the mind of companies. 

34. 

It should be noted that, by design, the recommendations of proxy advisers are generally 

aligned with the views of the shareholders who pay for such analysis and on whose behalf 

they undertake their analysis. Boards are therefore ensuring support of shareholders when 

endeavouring to meet the parameters within proxy advisers’ recommendations. This is 

appropriate and aligns the interests of the shareholders with the board and management 

of their companies, which are sometimes not fully aligned. Boards are answerable to their 

shareholders and should be concerned about their views, even when they don’t agree with 

them. 

35.  The view from the feedback received seemed generally to disagree with the view that the 

influence of proxy advisors on corporate governance makes boards of directors overly 

preoccupied  with  ensuring  favourable  recommendations  from  proxy  advisors.  Proxy 

 

17 

 

voting recommendations by firms are not based on a standardized algorithm, but rather 

on  established  proxy  voting  guidelines  of  the  proxy  advisor.  It  is  believed  that  proxy 

advisors  are  facilitators,  possibly  influencers,  but  not  decision-makers  for  investors. 

Studies have shown that over half of the clients of proxy advisors have voting guidelines 

that  differ  from  the  standard  proxy  advisors  voting  guidelines.  Several  institutional 

investors apply their own custom voting policies with common principles across markets, 

with  regional  and  market  customisation  relating  to  market  maturity,  market  practices, 

impact of issues, etc. These custom voting policies over-ride any voting recommendation 

that proxy advisors may have, in case of difference. 

Working Group’s recommendation 

36.  The Working Group recommends that non-intervention is a better approach as companies 

are taking pre-emptive steps, by way of which the governance practices are strengthened. 

Generally, a proposal which aims to get shareholders’ and proxy firms’ approval will be 

well drafted and backed by sufficient disclosures. So, market forces are sufficient. 

III. 

INFRASTRUCTURE AND SKILLS REQUIREMENT 

a.  Should there be any requirement for firms to have adequate staff with sufficient 

skill and experience? If so, what should be minimum experience criterion and 

skill sets required. 

37.  Under the RA Regulations, every proxy advisor in India is required to register with SEBI. 

It is provided that the employees of proxy advisors engaged in providing proxy advisory 

services shall be required to have a minimum qualification of being a graduate in any 

discipline.  Further,  the  employees  of  proxy  advisors  are  required  to  fulfil  certain 

certification requirements as specified by SEBI from time to time. 

View 1: There should be some criteria/requirement  

38.  One view was that existing requirement under the RA Regulations for a research analyst 

should  be  adopted  for  the  employees  of  proxy  advisors.  The  proxy  advisors  should 

disclose their operational processes and qualifications of staff. Further, the view was that 

proxy advisors may be required to renew their NISM certification every two years. 

View 2: There should not be any criteria/requirement: 

39.  A contrary view was that there should not be any additional requirements for staff of the 

proxy advisors. Each proxy advisor should have the ability to make hiring decisions as it 

 

18 

 

sees  fit,  while  taking  into  account  the  firm’s  overarching  requirement  to  deliver  high 

quality research  and other services to its clients.  If  required, however, proxy  advisory 

firms  could  disclose  the  steps  taken  to  hire  and  retain  individuals  who  have  the 

qualifications  to  provide  quality  proxy  research  and  other  services.  It  is  opined  that 

additional requirements will reduce competition and there may be practical difficulties 

in enforcing such a model given the current realities. 

Working Group’s recommendation 

40.  The  Working  Group  believes  that  clients  conduct  extensive  due  diligence  when  they 

review and select their proxy advisor(s), and this will ensure that the proxy advisor has 

staff with sufficient skill sets. SEBI may review its certification norms and continuing 

education as appropriate without over-burdening the proxy advisors. 

IV. 

VOTING, FIDUCIARY-DUTY AND INFORMATION SHARING 

a.  Has proxy industry enabled increased voting in general meeting?  

41.  While the popular view is that the proxy advisory industry has enabled increased voting 

in general meeting, there are no studies to confirm that clearly. In markets such as the 

UK,  there  is  some  correlation  between  the  increased  presence  of  proxy  advisors  and 

increase in voting levels, but whether it is causation or correlation is still unclear. Pressure 

on investors from regulators and clients to exercise their votes has had more impact on 

voting  levels.  For  example,  due  to  the  mandate  by  SEBI/IRDA  to  mutual  funds  and 

insurance companies, voting in general meetings has increased.  

42.  Provision of electronic voting tools and translations of materials has enabled investors to 

vote  in  markets  where  they  may  previously  have  been  unable  to  participate.  Proxy 

advisors provide services to its institutional investor clients that assist them in making 

more informed voting decisions, in managing the complex operational process of voting 

their shares (proxy voting) and in tracking and reporting their voting activities as they 

may require (or desire). It is accurate to say that the work of proxy advisors has helped 

facilitate the ability of institutional investors to vote in general meetings and to do so on 

the basis of information backed by research. 

43.  The  increase  in  voting  results  directly  from  the  determination  by  investors  and  asset 

owners that doing so is a critical priority. It is sparked in part by company meltdowns 

throughout the globe and egregious governance practices by some companies. Investors 

have become more active stewards of the assets they manage. They believe that it is their 

19 

 

 

core responsibility to safeguard their clients’ assets through active ownership, monitoring 

and engagement with issuers. The stewardship code adopted by the UK is gaining traction 

throughout the world through persuasion rather than by regulatory fiat. This is a good 

move forward for the investment industry and for the corporate world. 

Working Group’s views 

44.  The  Working  Group  believes  the  advent  of  proxy  advisors  along  with  several  other 

technological  advances  and  behavioral 

improvements 

in 

institutional 

investors 

involvement have all contributed towards a more responsible investor, in turn altering 

the actions of the companies for the better.   

b. 

Institutional investors such as mutual funds, etc. owe a fiduciary duty to their unit-

holders to act in their best interest. However, the responsibility of fiduciary duty may 

be undermined in case of ‘Robo-voting’ and the same needs to be examined.  

45.  Using proxy advisors as a source of research to inform decisions does not undermine the 

exercise of investors’ fiduciary duty. The view with respect to robo-voting, particularly 

as received from institutional investors was as follows. 

46.  “Robo-voting”  is  not  an  accurate  description:  The  primary  role  of  a  proxy  services 

provider is to execute votes on behalf of investor clients in accordance with the specific 

instructions of those clients. Proxy advisors implement client voting policies on their vote 

management system so that each ballot populates with recommendations based on the 

specific policies of the client, enabling clients to submit votes in a timely and efficient 

manner.  Using  the  term  “robo-voting”  to  describe  how  votes  are  cast  by  institutional 

investors that engage the services of a proxy advisor is an unfair characterization of the 

management and oversight of the voting process by those investors. 

47. 

Institutional  investors  employ  a  variety  of  methods  to  oversee  the  voting  process, 

beginning with their selection of a proxy advisor and continuing throughout the period 

of availing the services of that proxy advisor. During the policy formulation process, an 

institution  will  thoroughly  review  the  policies  of  its  proxy  advisor  to  assess  the 

similarities and differences between the institution’s views on certain issues versus the 

views of the proxy advisor, as noted in its house policy. In some instances, an investor 

client may elect to implement the same policy as the proxy advisor for some or all of the 

issues  up  for  vote.  In  other  cases,  clients  may  ask  proxy  advisors  to  assist  them  in 

applying  their  own  customized  proxy  voting  guidelines.  This  is  mainly  because,  only 

 

20 

 

after completing an extensive due diligence process, the institution determines whether 

the proxy advisor’s policy is philosophically aligned with its own policy, as well as with 

the views of its investment management team, proxy committee, mutual fund board or 

other decision-making bodies within its organization.  

48.  The vast majority of institutional investors who engage a proxy advisor are increasingly 

opting for more detailed policies, with specific views on how to address all issues that 

may  come  up  on  a  proxy.  More  importantly,  in  many  instances  in  the  context  of 

international proxy advisors, their views are so specific to each situation that they will 

often opt for a case-by-case analysis. The pre-population of voting instructions on a ballot 

strictly  adheres  to  each  client’s  specific  voting  instructions.  Importantly,  when  a 

preliminary ballot is ready for review, the proxy advisor’s voting system generally alerts 

each client and provides clients with all the disclosures and other information they need 

at their fingertips to review and evaluate the matters up for a vote. Clients can choose to 

restrict the submission of a ballot until after specified client personnel have reviewed and 

approved the votes. Clients can also make (and often do make) changes to the preliminary 

ballot  before  signing  off.  And,  assuming  the  voting  deadline  has  not  passed,  they  can 

even  change  their  vote  and  resubmit  it.  Investors  take  their  fiduciary  responsibility  to 

vote, engage with issuers, and operate as good stewards quite seriously. This is evidenced 

by the fact that they regularly audit the voting to ensure their proxy advisor is processing 

their ballots in accordance with their pre-established instructions. 

49.  Also worth noting is the fact that the rationale for arriving at a vote decision, especially 

amongst  investors,  are  often  varied,  even  if  the  vote  is  ultimately  the  same.  It  should 

come as no surprise that the voting results may mirror the recommendations  issued by 

proxy advisors as there are many commonly accepted governance principles used by both 

investors and advisors. 

50.  Stewardship Code: In the future, SEBI should make a Stewardship Code (like the UK 

Stewardship Code) mandatory for all institutional shareholders, and such code should be 

publicly available. This should be on a comply or explain basis. It should be drafted in 

line  with  discussions  on  the  stewardship  code  conducted  in  Financial  Stability  and 

Development  Council  (FSDC)  sub-committee,  where  SEBI,  IRDA,  and  PFRDA 

participated. Investors should do their own research before voting, and the rationale of 

such  voting  may  also  be  required  to  be  placed  on  their  website.  The  concept  of 

 

21 

 

Stewardship (e.g. active share ownership etc.) is becoming clear in many jurisdictions, 

like the UK, Japan, and the Netherlands. 

Working Group’s recommendation  

51.  Based on investor feedback, the Working Group believes there is little evidence of robo-

voting, and investors have and are taking their job as stewards of corporate India very 

seriously. Stewardship code is recommended as a welcome addition, even if based on a 

comply or explain basis for certain large investors.    

c.  How can the accuracy, transparency, and efficiency of the proxy voting be improved 

and what steps should regulators consider to facilitate such improvements? 

52.  Suggested steps received by the Working Group which may be considered: 

a. 

Timely disclosure of voting deadlines:  Mandate companies to  provide complete 

and timely disclosures to allow investors to make thoughtful voting decisions in 

advance of voting deadlines. 

b. 

Increase release schedule:  If AGM notices/ materials can be released earlier, it 

will  increase  the  time  available  for  issuers  to  engage  with  investors  on  any 

contentious  issues.  The  Asian  Corporate  Governance  Association  (ACGA) 

advocates the  release of  AGM notices 28 days before date of meeting, which is 

more than the 21 days prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013. 

c. 

Vote  confirmation  for  various  investor  types:    Votes  for  international  asset 

managers  can  pass  through  several  intermediaries  (voting  agents;  sub-custodian 

banks; local agents) before being submitted. A real-time ‘vote confirmation’ from 

the company’s record would be beneficial to let the investors/managers know that 

the vote has been lodged, accepted and counted in the poll. 

d.  Making  voting  guidelines  and  policies  public:  With  regards  to  transparency, 

making voting guidelines and policies of proxy advisors should be made public. 

d.  How recent technological advances can be used to enhance the voting process and the 

ability of shareholders to exercise their voting rights? 

53.  The current market infrastructure for voting is at times inefficient, expensive, and prone 

to  errors.  Electronic  voting  has  been  a  significant  enabler.  There  is  an  opinion  that  it 

would be better to  allow the existing voting process  to  continue for a few more  years 

 

22 

 

 

before attempting any further changes. However, others have suggested some ways to 

improve it: 

a. 

Blockchain:  New  technologies,  such  as  blockchain,  could  be  very  effective  in 

solving the traditional challenges associated with  providing accurate, timely  and 

granular  vote  confirmations,  while  also  addressing  concerns  around  over/under-

voting, investor anonymity and distribution costs. 

b. 

Live/online streaming: Online streaming of the shareholder meeting either through 

any/ all of the following - transcript, audio and video, and ability to ask questions 

through these channels. On the success of live streaming of AGMs, the ability to 

speak at an AGM may also be provided via 2-way video conference. 

c. 

Real time vote confirmation: There is currently no mechanism whereby a vote for 

a  specific  holding  can  be  clearly  tracked  all  the  way  through  the  voting  process 

from the time the vote is cast by the investor through the time that vote is tabulated 

and certified by the company through its agent. Given the growing importance of 

proxy  voting,  the  process  must  be  enhanced  to  allow  proxy  voting  agents, 

custodians,  third-party  intermediaries  and,  most  importantly,  shareholders  to 

confirm that in fact the issuer, or its agents, have received and counted their votes 

properly. 

d.  Voting  kiosks  and  e-voting  awareness:  More  awareness  on  e-voting,  including 

creating  of  voting  kiosks  in  cities  where  majority  of  shareholders  (in  number) 

reside. Need to make retail shareholders aware of how exactly online voting can be 

done.  SEBI  can  put  up  the  details  at  its  website  and  provide  a  helpline  for  the 

purpose. 

e.  Mobile application: One of the major changes could be introduction of a mobile 

based  voting  application.  This  mobile  application  can  be  accessed  by  retail 

investors which can act as a platform between the company and the shareholders. 

Investors  may  access  the  following  through  the  application  -  notice  of  general 

meetings  and  corporate  announcements,  research  reports  of  the  proxy  advisors, 

voting  recommendations  of  the  proxy  advisors,  and  voting  results  of  the 

companies. 

f. 

One Time Passwords (OTPs): OTPs while voting may be helpful so that voting by 

unauthorized persons may be avoided. Executives who are authorized to take these 

important decisions should receive OTPs to ensure accurate voting. 

23 

 

g. 

Increase  time  available:  Look  at  ways  to  increase  the  time  available  between 

notice of meeting and the cut-off time for custodians to receive shareholder votes. 

Doing so, particularly during AGM season, will allow for more time for validation 

and  cross-checks  with  issuers  and  better-informed  voting/decision-making  by 

investors. 

V. 

INTERACTION WITH CORPORATES 

a.  Should  the  communication  between  proxy  advisors  and  corporates  be 

institutionalized  and  regulated  to  provide  proxy  advisors  with  accurate  and 

correct information?  

54.  Ever since proxy advisory firms commenced their business, there is an on-going debate 

on  the  nature  of  interaction  they  should  be  having  with  the  corporates.  The  Working 

Group has received views on institutionalization of the communication between proxy 

advisors and corporates.  

View 1 

55.  One view is that proxy advisors should have policies and procedures to create internal 

rules  around  their  relationship  and  communications  with  public  companies,  and  these 

policies should be publicly disclosed. It is believed that engaging in dialogue with issuers 

can help foster mutual understanding, transparency and feedback with respect to a proxy 

advisor’s  policies,  methodologies  and  analysis.  Therefore,  proxy  advisors  should  be 

encouraged to communicate with companies so long as limitations are established prior 

to any such engagements. 

View 2  

56.  However,  it  is  also  noted  that  while  creating  any  guidelines  for  institutionalisation  of 

communication,  it  should  be  taken  into  consideration  that  proxy  advisors  should  not 

receive any information that is not available to all shareholders and/or publicly. Receipt 

of  such  information  would  put  them  in  a  privileged  position  and  might  increase  their 

perceived  influence.  It  goes  again  the  tenets  of  “fair  disclosure”  where  corporates  are 

interacting/influencing commentary of proxy advisory firms, while not communicating 

the same to investors at large. Further, proxy advisory firms will also have the risk of any 

inadvertent non-public and price sensitive disclosure made by corporates. Instead, it is 

believed  that  companies  should  be  encouraged  to  provide  more  complete  and  timely 

disclosure of their meeting materials so that investors and proxy advisors can continue to 

 

24 

 

rely  on  publicly  available  information.  They  may,  at  best,  get  a  clarification  from  the 

company should the need arise.  

Working Group’s recommendation 

57.  The Working Group recommends that communication between the proxy advisor and the 

company should be made public by the company. Privileged information being shared 

only  with  the  proxy  advisors  will  detract  from  improving  corporate  communication 

generally, and provide undue power to the proxy advisors to become portals of privileged 

information rather than the gatherers and analysts of public information. 

b. 

Should proxy advisors be required to invite comments and respond to feedback from 

corporates? 

58.  One area of apparent concern was the possibility of factual mistakes based on which a 

proxy advisor makes a recommendation, that it would not have made were it to have the 

correct information. Factually, it was brought to the notice of the Working Group that 

factual errors (where they were pointed out) have been extremely rare and they have been 

corrected. Two of the three domestic proxy advisors share the research report with the 

companies  simultaneously  with  sharing  it  with  their  investor  clients,  providing 

companies a chance to review and correct any factual errors. One of the three does not 

share its report with the company and under its business model the company must buy 

the report, the same way as its client-investors do.  

59.  On the area of whether research should be shared with a company before it is shared with 

the client-investors, the clear view received is that it should not be the case. There is a 

concern  that  if  proxy  advisors  were  required  to  inform  corporates  of  their 

recommendation before the AGM or before being released to clients: (i) investors would 

be denied access to independent research; (ii) significant constraints would be placed on 

the time, investors have to properly consider the analysis in order to develop informed 

proxy voting decisions; and (iii) issuers could potentially determine an investor’s vote 

selections (even before the investor itself knew)  given that  investors publicly disclose 

their  policies.  There  is  also  a  concern  that  this  type  of  dialogue  would  exacerbate  the 

lingering  misconception  that  issuers  are  primarily  concerned  with  the  views  of  proxy 

advisory  firms  rather  than  with  those  of  their  shareholders.  On  receipt  of  negative 

recommendations,  corporates  might  try  to  influence  proxy  advisors  in  order  to  get 

favourable  recommendations.  They  may  also  undertake  efforts  to  start  a  proxy 

 

25 

 

solicitation, or even a proxy fight, to try to achieve a favourable outcome of the voting, 

not seldom at the expense of the shareholders. 

60.  However, in the name of inviting comments and responding to feedback from corporates, 

there should not be continuing conversation between them, since such interaction could 

adversely  impact  perceptions  of  objectivity.  In  line  with  this  understanding,  there  is  a 

view that interaction should be encouraged with a rider that only factual errors should be 

considered.  This  will  allow  the  corporate  views  to  be  taken  on  board.  In  case  the 

interpretation of the company is different from the interpretation of the proxy advisory 

firms,  one  view  was  that  the  proxy  advisors  should  publish  both  interpretations  along 

with comments on why it is not in agreement with the company. The alternate view was 

that  the  management/dominant  shareholder  is  free  to  express  its  opinion  on  their  own 

website/media/etc. and the proxy advisor should not be forced to publish a view that they 

do not subscribe to.  

Working Group’s recommendation 

61.  The Working Group recommends that except for factual errors, proxy advisors should 

not  be  mandated  to  carry  views  which  they  don’t  subscribe  to  and  the  company  has 

enough resources to publicise a differing viewpoint. 

c.  How to  address  the issue of protecting  proxy  advisors  from adverse legal  action for 

holding honest opinions which are dis-liked by companies or individuals.1 

Legal status of the proxy advisors’ recommendations 

62.  Due to the inherent nature of the work, there is bound to be a conflict between the proxy 

advisors  and  companies.  Before  determining  how  to  protect  proxy  advisors,  it  is 

important to establish what legal status their advice has. 

63. 

In Europe, for example, proxy advisors are not currently regulated directly, other than 

being required to disclose certain information publicly, nor is their advice classified as 

“investment advice”, which would introduce further regulatory obligations and sanctions, 

and potentially increase liability and exposure to legal action if investors or companies 

felt the advice was knowingly inaccurate or misleading. The same has been the case in 

the US to date, though there is a discussion on reviewing that position. 

                                                 

1  Shri  J  N  Gupta,  member  of  the  working  group,  recused  from  deliberations  and  group’s  view  on  this 
subject.   

26 

1. 

1. 

 

 

Protection from legal action 

64.  One view the Working Group received was that the proxy advisors must, if requested by 

company, send unedited response of the company concerned to all its subscribers. In case 

a company is not satisfied with the response, it may write again to proxy advisors and in 

case the response is  still not  acceptable, the Company  concerned may  approach SEBI 

under the RA Regulations seeking SEBI’s intervention. However, mere differences based 

on opinion, which are backed with authentic public data and analysis, cannot be the basis 

of  any  complaint  or  litigation.  Litigation  should  not  be  initiated  merely  because  an 

opinion is not favourable to the management of a company, especially if opportunity had 

been given by proxy advisors to the company and same has been duly addressed.  

65.  The regulator must protect the freedom of proxy advisors to express their opinion. This 

is  important  for  the  future  of  corporate  governance  in  the  country,  as  corporates  with 

deep  pockets  may  use  shareholder  money  to  silence  criticism.  At  the  same  time,  the 

regulator must not become a mechanical defender of proxy advisors. While the Working 

Group has not come across any example, any unchecked power given to proxy advisors 

may result in its abuse. Thus, there should be a pressure valve for both corporates and 

proxy advisors. 

Working Group’s recommendation 

66.  Proxy adviser is a person who provides advice to institutional investors or shareholders 

of  a  company,  in  relation  to  exercise  of  their  rights  in  the  company  including 

recommendations  on  public  offer  or  voting  recommendation  on  agenda  items.  These 

proxy advisors are required to observe compliance of Code of Conduct specified under 

SEBI (Research analyst) Regulations, 2014. Any dispute arising between Corporate and 

Proxy Advisors needs to be first examined by SEBI to ascertain the non-compliance, if 

any,  of  the  proposed  additional  Code  of  Conduct  for  Proxy  Advisors.  SEBI  will  give 

appropriate comments in the matter wrt compliance of code of conduct by proxy advisor.  

Only thereafter the person may approach the court of law. SEBI must make changes to 

SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  to  make 

listed  companies  and  their  management  comply  with  approaching  the  panel/SEBI 

process for any grievances. This provision read with Ss. 15Y and 20A of SEBI Act, 1992 

should provide comfort to both proxy advisors and companies against abuse of power. It 

should be kept in mind that this process is only available for egregious acts like abuse of 

power or violations of basic levels of code of conduct, and is not an appellate mechanism 

 

27 

 

for  second  guessing  the  opinions  of  the  proxy  advisors.  Further,  the  regulator  may 

consider  impleading  itself  into  any  litigation,  which  seeks  to  by-pass  the  redressal 

mechanism, so that the courts can appreciate a more discerning view of the issues and 

also so that SEBI can assert its exclusive jurisdiction in the matter. 

VI. 

SETTING BASIC INDUSTRY STANDARDS 

a.  What  should  the  industry  standards  be  for  providing  recommendations  by 

proxy advisors? 

67.  Best Practice Principles for Shareholder Voting Research can be followed. Any standards 

should  focus  on  ensuring  the  accuracy  and  integrity  of  the  reports.  There  is  also  an 

opinion that the application of RA Regulations should suffice. 

68.  A few points as stated by various contributors: 

a. 

Proxy advisors should be able to demonstrate that their reports, analyses, guidance 

and/or  recommendations  are  prepared  to  a  standard  that  can  be  substantiated  as 

reasonable and adequate. 

b. 

Proxy  advisors  should  have  systems  and  controls  in  place  so  that  they  can 

reasonably ensure the reliability of the information used in the research process. 

c. 

Proxy  advisors  must  have  a  policy  of  responding  to  communication  from  a 

company, including conflict disclosure policy. 

69.  Similar to SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 

and SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, the RA Regulations should 

provide for the following guiding principles for proxy advisory firms: 

a. 

Fiduciary  duties  permeate  and  govern  all  aspects  of  the  development  and 

dispensation of proxy advice; 

b. 

Enhancing  and  promoting  shareholder  value  must  be  the  core  consideration  in 

rendering proxy voting advice; 

c. 

The  proper  role  of  proxy  advisory  firms  is  to  provide  accurate  and  current 

information  to  assist  those  with  voting  power  to  fulfil  their  fiduciary  duty  and 

further  the  economic  best  interests  of  those  who  entrust  their  assets  to  portfolio 

managers. 

b.  How to clearly define the roles and responsibilities of proxy advisory firms? 

 

28 

 

70.  The  role  and  responsibility  of  proxy  advisory  firms  extends  to  collecting  all  relevant 

information  in  the  public  domain  and,  after  applying  objective  criteria,  making 

recommendations having regard to the regulations and the provisions of law. On a macro 

basis,  fair  and  ethical  conduct  and  compliance  with  laws  must  be  the  pillars  of 

responsibilities of proxy advisory firms. With respect to definition of proxy advisors, RA 

Regulations cover the definition of a proxy advisory firm. 

Best  Practice  Principles  for  Shareholder  Voting  Research  defines  the  roles  and 

responsibilities of proxy advisors fairly well. 

c. 

Should proxy advisors’ reports be evaluating only compliance with law? Or can they 

evaluate higher governance standards as long as they disclose the policy as well as the 

law? 

71.  Proxy advisor reports do not  generally assess only a  company’s compliance with law, 

and  proxy  advisors  are  generally  focused  on  evaluating  higher  governance  standards. 

Compliance with law is a basic expectation. Shareholders are free to make their voting 

decisions based on the factors that they deem relevant and appropriate for them, including 

factors and standards that exceed those proscribed by law, applicable exchange standards 

or otherwise.  

Working Group’s recommendation 

72.  Restricting proxy advisors’ reports to reflect compliance with the law would render them 

useless to investors. Besides, if compliance with the law is the only requirement, then the 

very reason why shareholders retain voting rights on certain matters will be lost. As an 

aside, it should be noted that while evaluating compliance with law, proxy advisory firms 

must  clearly  disclose  the  legal  requirement  vis-a-vis  the  aspirational  /  higher  standard 

they are suggesting. Further, where higher standards are evaluated, the policy behind it 

should be disclosed. There is also an opposing view observed by the working group that 

the recommendations should be based on prevailing regulations and not based on stricter 

criteria as defined by the proxy advisors. The Working Group does not subscribe to the 

opposing view and supports the higher standards theory. 

d. 

Should proxy advisors form an opinion on governance, structures, past practices and 

quality related stuff, or  can they also  form an opinion on major moves  of company 

such as M&A activities? 

View 1  

 

29 

 

73.  Proxy  advisors  should  be  able  to  form  an  opinion  on  any  issues  up  for  vote  at  a 

shareholder  meeting.  In  most  cases,  a  proxy  advisor’s  analysis  of  the  terms  of  a 

transaction typically focuses on the process followed by the company’s board of directors 

in  determining  to  enter  into  the  transaction  and  recommend  it  to  shareholders,  the 

alternatives considered by the board, the analysis and advice provided to the board by its 

advisors, and the quality and extent of the disclosure provided to shareholders about these 

matters. While proxy advisors also report their own views of the economic terms of the 

transaction,  they  do  so  by  analyzing  whether  the  terms  of  the  transaction  are  fair  to 

shareholders. They report on the board’s consideration of various valuation measures that 

are applicable to the company, but do not independently determine a fair price for the 

company’s  securities  or  recommend  that  shareholders  take  any  particular  action  other 

than voting for or against a proposal. 

74.  Therefore, proxy  advisors generally shouldn’t be restricted from providing opinion on 

any relevant matters. All matters that come to vote should be allowed as long as the basis 

of the recommendation is explained and reports are well informed and clear.  

View 2 

75.  However, an alternative but strongly held minority view is that the qualification of proxy 

advisor to form an opinion on the complex moves such as valuation in M&A activities is 

doubtful. Assessing and advising on these other activities requires very specialised skills 

and experience to advising on corporate governance. In addition, it has been asserted that 

second guessing an expert, and a regulated expert like a valuer, on a share swap ratio, 

would mean giving too much power to proxy advisors who are not best suited to second 

guess such numbers.  

Working Group’s recommendation 

76.  Given the view that proxy advisors could not possibly intelligently second guess areas 

such as what ought to be the share swap ratio, we sought from two of the registered proxy 

advisors the last several ‘no’ votes where a proposed M&A transactions were proposed 

by a company. On a review of the detailed rationale as to why the proxy advisors had 

recommended a ‘no’ vote, the Working Group is of the considered view that in M&A 

transactions substantial value addition can be provided through an analytical view of the 

facts based on publicly available information. The actual process is not second guessing 

views of experts, and the reports have been highly persuasive with cogent reasons. Based 

 

30 

 

on the aforesaid, the Working Group recommends that there is no reason to restrict the 

areas of analysis for a proxy advisor based on the evidence available. In addition, given 

the highly material nature of these corporate events which sometimes decide the life or 

death of the corporate juristic entity, an analysis of the event might provide the best value 

addition that proxy advisors can provide to investors. 

e. 

Should foreign proxy advisors be registered with SEBI to bring them at par with Indian 

proxy firms? If not, how to apply the SEBI Regulations to foreign proxy advisors with 

respect to their recommendations regarding voting on Indian listed companies. 

77.  Currently, foreign proxy advisors need not  be directly  registered with  SEBI under the 

RA Regulations. Regulation 4 of the RA Regulations provides for certain requirements 

which are required to be met by foreign research analyst, i.e. to enter into an agreement 

with research analyst registered with SEBI. 

View 1 

78.  One view received by the Working Group is that registration should be made mandatory, 

as it would be equitable for the same standards to be applied to all proxy advisors making 

recommendations  about  Indian  listed  companies.  However,  this  should  be  applicable 

only for their operations in India/regarding Indian listed companies, and the registration 

process  should  be  kept  simple  without  any  requirement  to  have  a  permanent 

establishment in India. This is the approach the European Union (“EU”) has taken in the 

Shareholder  Rights  Directive,  which  introduces  reporting  requirements  on  proxy 

advisors. The Directive applies to all advisors that provide advice on companies listed in 

the EU, even where the advisor is not based in an EU Member State. 

View 2 

79.  There  is  a  contrary  view  received  by  the  Working  Group,  which  states  that  requiring 

proxy advisors to register with the securities regulator of each country it covers as part 

of its research would not only be costly and time consuming for proxy advisors, but it 

would  also  compromise  institutional  investors’  access  to  efficient,  timely,  and 

independent  information.  Proxy  advisors  already  comply  with  relevant  laws  and 

regulations  that  apply  to  them  and  their  specific  circumstances,  which  may  vary 

depending on where they are incorporated or have local operations.  

View 3 

 

31 

 

80.  Another view received by the working group proposes chaperoning arrangement between 

foreign proxy advisor and its Indian counterpart. The said arrangement will help foreign 

proxy advisors in complying with the requirements of SEBI Regulations.   

View 4 

81.  One more view received by the working group suggests that institutional investors can 

engage only SEBI registered proxy advisors who will provide voting recommendation 

on resolutions pertaining to Indian Listed Companies.  

82.  Further, currently under Regulation 23(1) of the RA Regulations, it has been provided 

that all provisions of Chapter II, III, IV, V and VI would apply mutatis mutandis to proxy 

advisor  (except  the  limited  carve  outs  for  qualification,  certification  and  net-worth 

requirements).  Considering  the  activities  of  a  research  analyst  are  not  the  same  as 

activities  of  a  proxy  advisor,  and  provisions  under  the  RA  Regulations  which  are 

applicable to an Indian proxy advisor may not be applicable to a foreign proxy advisor. 

Working Group’s recommendation 

83.  SEBI could consider providing a code of conduct under the RA Regulations which should 

be followed by foreign proxy advisors as it should also apply to domestic proxy advisors. 

These should be principle based and focused on broad principles of fairness, disclosure 

and conflict and based on a comply or explain basis. It would be unfair to subject global 

proxy advisors to regulations by 195 countries. SEBI should, of course, have broad extra-

territorial powers where fraud or such serious mischief is suspected. For this no new law 

is  required,  and  the  existing  multilateral  MMoU  of  IOSCO  (an  international  body  of 

securities regulators) should suffice. 

84.  While the Working Group believes in a light touch set of regulations, it recommends that 

international  proxy  advisors  must  have  a  responsive  feedback  mechanism  and  contact 

email/address for any issues investors/companies may have with its reports. Additionally, 

as  all 

the  recommendations  of 

the  Working  Group  advocate  non-regulatory 

improvements  by  way  of  disclosure,  best  practices  etc,  we  believe  the  same  can  be 

complied with by the foreign proxy advisors as well in a comply or disclose framework 

on  their  websites.  While  the  discussions  above  have  focused  on  the  two  large 

international proxy advisors, there are many smaller players, and some may be covering 

only a handful of Indian companies. Setting new standards for them may result in them 

blanking out India from their coverage altogether. SEBI should be cognizant of this as it 

 

32 

 

will adversely impact corporate governance and any extra-territorial operation by way of 

regulation, code of conduct or chaperoning arrangement (tie up with a domestic proxy 

advisor) would harm Indian standards and reduce competition. The Working Group also 

recommends  that  registration  and  chaperoning  should  be  avoided  for  foreign  proxy 

advisors. A comply or explain code of conduct which applies to domestic proxy advisors 

should apply to them as well.   

VII. 

COST & COMPETITION 

a.  Increase  in  regulation  leads  to  increase  in  compliance  cost  and  reduces 

competition. How should this be addressed? 

85.  The feedback received by the Working Group suggests that while the proxy industry is 

very small, the cost of compliance is already very high. Many institutional investors fear 

that  regulation  is  likely  to  result  in  higher  costs  for  investors,  impede  quality  and 

independence, and is likely to limit competition and impose barriers to entry of potential 

new  proxy  advisory  firms.  Therefore,  the  impact  on  competition  must  be  taken  into 

account  when  considering  any  increase  in  regulation.  While  prudent  regulation  is 

welcome, heavy-handed regulation that impairs the utility of proxy advisors would be 

unhelpful.  

Working Group’s recommendation 

86.  The Working Group recommends that uncomplicated principle based rules, disclosures 

and  conducting  a  thoughtful  cost-benefit  analysis  of  any  proposed  changes  would 

mitigate  any  unnecessary  costs  which  could  reduce  competition.  The  role  of  market 

forces in addressing any potential concerns about proxy advisory firms should be kept in 

mind. As the domestic proxy advisors are thinly capitalised and some are extremely lean, 

any undue burden would have a deleterious impact on the industry. For instance, calls 

for  capital  adequacy  requirements  can  easily  be  dismissed  as  being  irrelevant  to  the 

business. We need proxy advisors to be competent, honest and efficient. There is no need 

to have rich proxy advisors, and imposing additional capital requirement will be a self 

goal of regulation, as it is inconsistent with the object sought to be achieved.  SEBI may 

review and eliminate the current requirement of networth as it is irrelevant to the work 

that proxy advisors do. 

VIII. 

ADDITIONAL POINTS 

 

33 

 

a.  Share  any  best  practices/model  code  being  followed  by  proxy  advisors  in 

jurisdictions other than India. 

87.  The  Best  Practice  Principles  for  Shareholder  Voting  Research  is  available  at 

https://bppgrp.info/. The BPPG’s Principles are currently under review and a completed 

update  is  scheduled  for  June  2019.  These  are  important  best  practices  of  institutional 

shareholders globally. 

b.  What  is best  possible mode for implementation of proposed changes  by the working 

group?    Whether  through  amendment  in  the  law  (regulations),  through  a  code  of 

conduct (annexure to the regulations) or through a voluntary best practice standard 

(based on comply or explain)? 

88.  Amendment  in the law: The Working Group believes that except  for one  amendment 

mentioned above with respect to amending the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 

Requirements) Regulations, 2015, no additional changes in the law are required.  

89.  Code of Conduct: Establishment of and adherence to a global code of conduct, coupled 

with proper oversight by investors, has proven to be effective in ensuring the quality and 

integrity of proxy advisory research – without adding an undue burden on investors or 

inhibiting competition. 

90. 

It is believed that implementing changes proposed by the committee, through law would 

have the disadvantage of rigidity, and the inability to make changes quickly. Even more 

importantly,  additional  legal  and  compliance  burden  would  reduce  competition  in  an 

arena where the nascent industry has done a commendable work with a lean model. A 

principle based, comply or explain, code of conduct is a better option.  

91. 

It is believed that the main issues do not lie with proxy advisors. Placing them under the 

existing regulatory framework and steps to improve quality/ accuracy of data and their 

interpretation  would  be  helpful.  Beyond  this,  the  primary  challenges  lie  largely  with 

issuers and to an extent with investors. The fact that shareholder votes have become of 

some  consequence  will  only  improve  board  accountability,  shareholder  engagement, 

shareholder protection and market maturity. 

92.  New best practices for proxy firms and stewardship code: While the code of conduct 

would set higher principles, an aspirational document called ‘best practices’ should be 

evolved by the industry itself. This should not be prescribed by SEBI but be adopted by 

the domestic and global proxy advisors. 

34 

 

 

• New/ Specific best practices for proxy advisory firms 

• Stewardship Code for institutional shareholders. 

c. 

Any other issue on the subject for deliberation of the working group. 

93. 

It is important to educate the general public about the working of proxy advisors. While 

only institutional shareholders currently use proxy advisors, a lot of fact collection and 

views are in public domain, put out by the proxy advisors and free for retail shareholders 

to use. Investor education would empower investors to use these tools and research, to 

improve governance standards in India Inc. SEBI should provide a framework to proxy 

advisors  to  reach  retail  investors  to  encourage  them  to  vote.  All  financial  institutions 

(domestic / foreign), including FPIs, registered with SEBI must be nudged to vote. Given 

that  proxy  advisory  industry  is  working  for  enhancing  governance  standard  of  listed 

companies, dissemination of their reports to large number of stakeholders beyond their 

clients must be encouraged.  

IX. 

CONCLUSION AND SUMMARY 

94.  The Working Group recommends that no further mandatory regulation is required, except 

for amending the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 

2015.  The  amendment  would  provide  that  listed  companies  which  are  aggrieved  by  a 

view of a proxy advisor may approach SEBI for redressal of its grievance. It may further 

provide a mechanism for the same. SEBI may consider drafting a code of conduct for 

proxy advisors which may include the following on a ‘comply or explain’ basis: 

 

a.  Disclosure of conflict  of interest  and how it is  managed. The disclosures  should 

appear on every specific document where they are giving their advice. A generic 

disclosure/disclaimer on the proxy advisor’s website is inadequate and it should be 

extended  to  every  place,  including  news  quotes  where  a  proxy  advisor  makes  a 

statement. Disclosures should especially address possible areas of potential conflict 

and also the safeguards that have been put in place. 

b. 

The  proxy  advisor  should  take  appropriate  steps  to  manage,  mitigate  and/or 

disclose  any  potential  conflicts  of  interest  resulting  from  ancillary  business 

activities. Creation of ‘Chinese Walls’ between proxy firms and their consultancy 

firms. There should be clear procedures to handle conflicts of interest. 

 

35 

 

c.  Disclosures regarding the business model e.g. types of services provided, revenue 

breakup  from  various  services,  categories  of  clients  served  and  any  specific 

prohibition on services provided.  

d. 

The  entity/business  unit  providing  services  to  investors/shareholders  should  be 

different from the one providing advisory services to a corporate client. 

e.  Disclosure if consulting services are provided. 

f. 

Codes  that  determine  when  not  to  provide  a  voting  recommendation  should  be 

clearly disclosed. 

g.  Board of proxy advisors should be independent of its shareholders, where such a 

position creates a serious conflict of interest, real or apparent.  

h.  Disclosing the methodologies and processes they use in the development of their 

research and recommendations, so there is some stated process by which the proxy 

advisors act.  

i. 

Setting parameters around the communications they have with the companies and 

other stakeholders. There should be a nudge towards making company disclosures 

speak  for  themselves  rather  than  a  bi-lateral  discussion  between  a  company  and 

proxy advisors. 

j. 

There  should  be  disclosures  regarding  the  provision  of  other  services  through 

subsidiaries, division or associates, and the total income earned by providing such 

services where it exceeds say 10% of revenues. 

k.  Communication between the proxy advisor and the company should be promptly 

made public by the company. 

l. 

Conflict of interest where there is substantial shareholding or inter-locking boards 

can be addressed by full disclosure rather than banning proxy advisors from having 

a view on such connected companies.  

m.  Proxy advisors should make public on their website the following disclosures every 

year ;  

i)  Shareholding patter and changes during year, if any 

ii) Audited Balance Sheet, Profit and loss Account and cash flow 

iii)  Board  of  Directors  and  changes  during  year,  including  shareholding  of 

directors and relatives with changes during the year. 

iv) Litigations if any 

95.  SEBI may review: 

 

36 

 

 

a. 

Introducing a voting or stewardship code for multiple institutional investors, not 

just limited to  mutual  funds, say  for all investors who own over 5% shares of  a 

listed company.  

b. 

The  Working  Group  believes  that  clients  conduct  extensive  due  diligence  when 

they review and select their proxy advisor(s), and this will ensure that the proxy 

advisor has staff with sufficient skill sets. SEBI may review its certification norms 

and  continuing  education  as  appropriate  without  over-burdening  the  proxy 

advisors. 

c. 

The Working Group’s view is that except for factual errors, proxy advisors should 

not be mandated to carry views which they don’t subscribe to and the company has 

sufficient resources to publicise a differing viewpoint. 

d. 

Proxy  adviser  is  a  person  who  provides  advice  to  institutional  investors  or 

shareholders of a company, in relation to exercise of their rights in the company 

including recommendations on public offer or voting recommendation on agenda 

items.  These  proxy  advisors  are  required  to  observe  compliance  of  Code  of 

Conduct specified under SEBI (Research analyst) Regulations, 2014. Any dispute 

arising between Corporate and Proxy Advisors needs to be first examined by SEBI 

to ascertain the non-compliance, if any, of the proposed additional Code of Conduct 

for  Proxy  Advisors.  SEBI  will  give  appropriate  comments  in  the  matter  wrt 

compliance of code of conduct by proxy advisor.  Only thereafter the person may 

approach the court of law. SEBI must make changes to SEBI (Listing Obligations 

and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015  to  make  listed  companies  and 

their  management  comply  with  approaching  the  panel/SEBI  process  for  any 

grievances. This provision read with Ss. 15Y and 20A of SEBI Act, 1992 should 

provide comfort to both proxy advisors and companies against abuse of power. It 

should be kept in mind that this process is only available for  egregious acts like 

abuse  of  power  or  violations  of  basic  levels  of  code  of  conduct,  and  is  not  an 

appellate  mechanism  for  second  guessing  the  opinions  of  the  proxy  advisors. 

Further,  the  regulator  may  consider  impleading  itself  into  any  litigation,  which 

seeks to by-pass the redressal mechanism, so that the courts can appreciate a more 

discerning  view  of  the  issues  and  also  so  that  SEBI  can  assert  its  exclusive 

jurisdiction in the matter. If the person is still aggrieved with comments of SEBI, 

only thereafter the person may approach a court of law. SEBI must make changes 

to SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 to 

37 

 

make  listed  companies  and  their  management  comply  with  approaching  the 

panel/SEBI process for any grievances. This provision read with Ss. 15Y and 20A 

of SEBI Act, 1992 should provide comfort to both proxy advisors and companies 

against abuse of power. 

e. 

In  M&A  transactions,  substantial  value  addition  can  be  provided  through  an 

analytical view of the facts based on publicly available information. 

f. 

Improving  the  plumbing  of  voting,  and  appropriate  advocacy,  so  that  retail 

investors also actively participate in voting in shareholder meetings. A framework 

may be created for proxy advisors to reach retail investors and encourage them to 

vote. In order to increase the participation of retail investors in the voting process, 

necessary  link  may  be  available  on  stock  exchange  website  alongside  corporate 

notice issued in this regard.  

g. 

The Working Group believes the advent of proxy advisors along with several other 

technological  advances  and  behavioral  improvements  in  institutional  investors 

involvement  have  all  contributed  towards  a  more  responsible  investor,  in  turn 

altering the actions of the companies for the better.  SEBI should employ the use 

of  modern  technology  to  democratize  and  empower  investors  further  as  new 

technologies make it easier to implement such benefits. 

h. 

SEBI could consider providing a code of conduct under the RA Regulations which 

should be followed by foreign proxy advisors as it should also apply to domestic 

proxy advisors. These should be principle based and focused on broad principles 

of fairness, disclosure and conflict and based on a comply or explain basis. It would 

be  unfair  to  subject  global  proxy  advisors  to  regulations  as  it  would  have  the 

unintended  consequence  of  international  proxy  advisors  shunning  India.  This 

would be a self goal for corporate governance in India. 

SEBI  may  review  and  eliminate  the  current  requirement  of  networth  as  it  is 

irrelevant to the work that proxy advisors do. 

SEBI  may  consider  mandating  companies  to  provide  complete  and  timely 

disclosures,  increase  release  schedule  of  AGM  notices,  and  provide  for  vote 

confirmations. To increase transparency, voting guidelines and policies of proxy 

i. 

j. 

advisors may be made public. 

96.  Proxy  advisors  may  introduce  a  voluntary  best  practices  code  for  the  industry  on  a 

‘comply or  explain’ basis as they develop  and evolve. The institutional  investors may 

adopt  an  industry  wide  stewardship  code,  on  a  ‘comply  or  explain’  basis,  concerning 

38 

 

 

principles  that  the  institutional  investors  are  expected  to  follow  to  enhance  the 

governance framework. 

97.  We recommend that SEBI may like to obtain public comments on the substantive matters 

stated in this report before any regulatory review is undertaken. 

 

39 

