 

Consultation Paper on Introduction of Performance Benchmarking and Standardization of 

Private Placement Memorandum for Alternative Investment Funds 

 
 

1.  Objective: 

 
1.1. The objective of the consultation paper is to seek comments from the public and industry 
on  the  proposals  to 
introduce  “Mandatory  Performance  Benchmarking”  and 
“Standardization of the Private Placement Memorandum (“PPM”) issued to investors by 
Alternative Investment Funds (“AIFs”) registered under the SEBI (Alternative Investment 
Fund) Regulations, 2012 (“AIF Regulations”). 
 

2.  Background: 

 
2.1. AIFs are privately-pooled investment funds which collects funds from investors, whether 
Indian or foreign, for investing in accordance with a defined investment policy for the 
benefit of their investors. There are three different categories of AIFs.  
 

2.2. Category I AIFs invest in start-up or early stage ventures or social ventures or Small & 
Medium Enterprises or infrastructure or other sectors or areas which the government or 
regulators consider as socially or economically desirable. Category II AIFs include private 
equity funds and debt funds, while Category III AIFs include hedge funds or funds which 
trade with a view to make short term returns or such other funds which are open ended.  

 

2.3. Total  investments  made  by  all  categories  of  AIFs  put  together  has  increased  from              

INR  35,099.15  Crore  in  March  2017  to  INR  61,401.57  Crore  in  March  2018  to  INR 
109,780.53  Crore  in  March  2019.  The  surge  in  assets  may  a  function  of  simplified 
regulatory  framework,  options  for  customization,  investment  flexibility  and  robust 
returns. 

 

2.4. AIF Regulations were notified on May 21, 2012 and inter alia, provide the framework for 
registration and governance of AIFs. AIF Regulations are based on the premise that AIFs 
are  a  high-risk  asset  class,  in  which  only  sophisticated  and  well-informed  investors 
participate. AIF Regulations therefore, emphasize on the investors being informed of all 
material  information  with  regard  to  the  AIFs  and  whenever  any  material  changes  are 
introduced therein, investor consent is sought prior to executing such changes.  

 

2.5. SEBI  with  an  objective  to  create  a  conducive  environment  for  a  sound  Alternative 
Investment Fund (AIF) asset class in India has been taking several initiatives. One such 
initiative is to enhance disclosure standards in this space. In this context, the following 
two initiatives are proposed: 

 

 

a.  Introduction of minimum benchmarks for disclosure of performance history of AIFs. 
b.  Standardization of Private Placement Memorandum 

1 | P a g e  

 

 

3.  PROPOSAL  1:  INTRODUCTION  OF  MINIMUM  BENCHMARKS  FOR  DISCLOSURE  OF 

PERFORMANCE 

 

3.1. Investments by SEBI registered AIFs have grown at a rate of 75 % year on year growth in 
the last two years. However, presently there is no disclosure by AIFs indicating returns 
on their investments and in turn their performance available in public domain.  
 

3.2. One  important  factor  on  which  a  prospective  investor  of  AIFs  relies  while  taking 
investment  decision,  is  the  returns  on  investment  generated  by  the  Manager  for  the 
Fund(s)  managed  by  him.  At  present,  in  the  absence  of  any  standards  or  norms  for 
disclosure of past performance, AIFs disclose their performance to prospective investors 
on a standalone basis, without reference to an appropriate benchmark. These investors 
do not have any authenticated source either to verify the performance of such AIFs or to 
compare with performance of comparable AIFs and AIF industry.  Therefore, it is felt that 
there is a need to provide a framework to benchmarking the performance of AIFs to be 
available for the investors and to minimize potential of mis-selling. 

 

3.3. The performance benchmarking will facilitate dissemination of necessary information on 
industry performance and the investors (both prospective and current)  will be able to 
compare individual AIF’s performance with performance of industry or peer-group AIFs.  

 
3.4. In this context, it is proposed to mandate the following: 

 

 

 

 

 

(a)  AIFs which are registered with SEBI for at least 3 years, to report their  audited 
scheme-wise performance data to single/multiple Benchmarking Agencies (to be 
identified  later),  for  benchmarking  the  individual  fund’s  performance  with  the 
comparable industry performance.  

(b) In all and any documents and media for marketing/promoting the AIF, if any data 
on  the  performance  of the  AIF  is  mentioned,  the  Benchmark  report  of the  AIF 
provided by the Benchmarking Agency to also be provided.  

(c)  A copy of the Benchmark report received by the AIF to be provided to all investors 

(d) Any  investment  manager  of  an  existing  unregistered  Fund,  including  foreign 
funds,  shall  provide  the  data  on  their  investments  in  Indian  companies,  to 
Benchmarking Agencies, when they seek registration as AIF. If any performance 
data based on previous experience of the Investment Manager is referred in the 
fund  documents  or  marketing  material  furnished  to  SEBI,  the  same  shall  be 
accompanied by the Benchmark Report received by the Applicant. 

3.5. If  such  benchmarking  as  discussed  above,  is  made  mandatory,  the  major  steps  in  the 

implementation of benchmarking shall be as follows: 

 

2 | P a g e  

 

 

(a)  AIFs  to  provide  audited  data  on  cash  flows  and  valuation  of  their  scheme-wise 
investments  to  the  Benchmarking  Agencies  in  the  format  required  by  the 
Benchmarking Agency. 

(b) Periodicity of valuation of investments shall be as provided in the AIF Regulations 
(c)  AIFs  to  also  provide  the  historical  data  of  valuation  of 
investments  to 

Benchmarking Agency as a onetime exercise.   

(d) Valuation of investments shall be in the manner provided in the specific Scheme’s 
PPM or fund documents, as the case may be. Any change to valuation approach 
shall  be  informed  to  the  Benchmarking  Agency  in  the  immediate  next  data 
submission. 

(e)  Assets under Management (AUM) for the purpose of reporting and benchmarking 

shall be the value of total capital draw down of the Scheme 

(f)  The performance reporting and benchmarking shall be carried out on pre-tax Net 

Asset Value (NAV) of the Scheme 

(g)  Benchmarking  Agencies  shall  compile  the  data  received  from  AIFs  and  create 
comparable industry performance benchmarks for the various categories of AIFs, 
separately for each year since 2012. The industry performance benchmark(s) will 
be disseminated in a manner that is accessible to public.  

(h) Considering the diverse investment strategies and investment avenues that can 
be deployed by an AIF within the same category of AIF, performance benchmarks 
may  be  based  on  certain  other  parameters  (besides  those  covered  under  (i) 
above). Benchmarking Agency shall ensure that such performance benchmarking 
shall be based on objectively verifiable parameters like instrument of investment, 
tenure/vintage of the fund, focus sectors, etc. 

(i)  Benchmarking Agencies shall provide a Benchmark Report to the individual AIFs 

vis-à-vis the industry benchmark. 

(j)  Each  Benchmarking  Agency  shall  clearly  provide  the  basis  of  benchmarking  of 
individual  AIFs  as  well  as  calculation  of  industry  Benchmark  along  with  the 
Benchmark Report. 

(k)  The  performance  data  and  benchmarks  shall  be  reported  in  both  INR  and  USD 

terms, based on the denomination of currency(s) of the capital drawn down. 

(l)  Performance Benchmarking shall be on a half yearly basis. 

 

3.6. Any association of SEBI registered AIFs which in terms of membership represent at least 
50% of the registered AIFs, may propose one or more Benchmarking Agencies, who shall 
enter into agreement with AIFs for carrying out benchmarking process. All the AIFs who 
have been registered for more than 3 years, shall provide the necessary information/data 
to all the Benchmarking Agencies. 

 

3 | P a g e  

 

 

4.  PROPOSAL 2: STANDARDIZATION OF PRIVATE PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM 

 

4.1. Private  Placement  Memorandum  (PPM)  provides  the  necessary  information  that  a 
prospective investor would need to take an informed decision to invest in a particular 
AIF.  

 

4.2. As provided in the AIF Regulations,  

 

“Such  information  or  placement  memorandum  as  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall 
contain  all  material  information  about  the  Alternative  Investment  Fund  and  the 
Manager, background of key investment team of the Manager, targeted investors, fees 
and all other expenses proposed to be charged, tenure of the Alternative Investment Fund 
or scheme,  conditions  or  limits  on  redemption,  investment  strategy,  risk  management 
tools and parameters employed, key service providers, conflict of interest and procedures 
to identify and address them, disciplinary history, the terms and conditions on which the 
Manager offers investment services, its affiliations with other intermediaries, manner of 
winding up of the Alternative Investment Fund or the scheme and such other information 
as may be necessary for the investor to take an informed decision on whether to invest 
in the Alternative Investment Fund. “ 
 

4.3. The AIF Regulations specify only the broad areas of disclosures that should be a part of 
the PPM. As stated above, the Regulations are based on the premise that AIFs being a 
high  risk  asset  class,  only  sophisticated  and  well  informed  investors  participate  in  it. 
However, investors can be well informed only when sufficient information is disclosed 
by AIFs to them. At the same time, disclosing sufficient information does not mean that 
an abundance of information be presented to the investor in a manner that is complex, 
convoluted or difficult to comprehend. 

 

4.4. While there is no standard format for PPMs presently, AIFs submit draft PPMs to SEBI 
before launch of their schemes for incorporation of comments received from the Board 
in the PPM. It is observed that there is significant variation in the manner in which various 
clauses,  explanations  and  illustrations  are  incorporated  in  the  PPMs.  Therefore,  the 
investors may receive Placement Memorandum which provides information in a manner 
which is too complex to easily comprehend or with too little information on important 
aspects of the AIF, for e.g. potential conflict of interests, risk factors specific to AIF or its 
investment strategy, etc. 

 

4.5. Considering the importance of PPM to investors, to ensure that minimum standard of 
information be available in PPM and to facilitate the processing of AIF applications in a 
time  bound  manner,  Alternative  Investment  Policy  Advisory  Committee  (AIPAC) 
recommended that the matter be deliberated with the stakeholders.  

 

4 | P a g e  

 

 
4.6. Based on the inputs received from stakeholders, two draft templates for PPM have been 
prepared for all Categories of AIF. The draft template for Category I & II AIFs is placed at 
Annexure A and draft template for Category III AIFs is placed at Annexure B. 

 

4.7. The  draft  templates  for  PPM  focuses  on  clarifying  the  riskiness  of  investment  in  AIFs, 
sequence of presentation of information as well as the list of minimum information to 
be provided under each heading in the PPM. 

 

4.8. On an annual basis, an audit of the compliance of the AIF with the terms of the PPM, with 
special emphasis on impact of side letters on other investors, shall be carried out by an 
auditor. The findings of the audit shall be communicated to the Trustee, Board of the 
Investment Manager and SEBI. In case of any adverse findings, the corrective steps taken 
shall also be submitted.  

 

4.9. Initially, the audit may be carried out by an internal or external auditor. Going ahead, 

SEBI may notify that the audit shall be carried out only by an external auditor. 

 

4.10. Summary of audit findings with respect to compliance with terms of PPM shall be shared 

with all investors. 

 

5.  Public Comments: 

 
5.1. Comments  from  public  are  invited  on  the  aforementioned  proposal  to  introduce 
mandatory Performance Benchmarking and the draft templates of PPMs. The comments 
should reach SEBI latest by December 25, 2019. 
 

              The comments may be sent to aifreview@sebi.gov.in 

 

5.2. Comments/ suggestions may kindly be provided in the format given below: 

 

 
 

 

 

Name of the Entity/ Person: 

Sl. No. 

Particulars of Issue 1  

Suggestions 

Rational 

 

 

 

 

Name of the Entity/ Person: 

Sl. No. 

Paragraph of the Template for Category I &II  

Suggestions 

Rational 

 

 

 

 

5 | P a g e  

 

 

Name of the Entity/ Person: 

Sl. No. 

Paragraph of the Template for Category III  

Suggestions 

Rational 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Name of the Entity/ Person: 

Sl. No. 

Other Issues  

 

 

Suggestions 

Rational 

 

 

 
[Note: The respondent may specify whether they are market participant (mention type/ 
category) or public (student, lawyer, investor, academician etc.)] 
 

*** 

6 | P a g e  

