 

Discussion Paper on proposed amendments in SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of 

Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 

 

1.  Objective 

1.1 The  objective  of  this  discussion  paper  is  to  seek  comments  /  views  from  the  public  on 

the  proposed  amendments  in  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Substantial 

Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  (“Takeover  Regulations”)  in 

relation to: 

i.  Completion of acquisition through bulk and block deals during the open offer 

period; 

ii.  Depositing  100%  escrow  in  case  of  open  offers  made  pursuant  to  indirect 

acquisitions; and 

iii.  Payment of interest in case of delay in open offers. 

1.2 The  aforementioned  issues  have  been  discussed  in  the  meeting  of  Primary  Market 

Advisory  Committee,  wherein  it  was  decided  to  seek  public  comments  before  carrying 

out changes in the regulations.  

2.  Completion  of  acquisition  through  bulk  and  block  deals  during  the  open  offer 

period 

Background 

2.1 The  Takeover  Regulations  were  notified  based  on  recommendations  made  by  the 

Takeover  Regulations  Advisory  Committee  (TRAC).  The  TRAC  report  had  inter  alia 

recommended the following relating to completion of transaction that triggered the open 

offer - “The agreement that attracts an open offer obligation may be acted upon during 

the pendency of the open offer provided 100 % of the consideration payable under the 

open  offer  is  placed  in  escrow.”  The  provisions  relating  to  completion  of  acquisition 

during  the  open  offer  period  were  accordingly  provided  in  Regulation  22(1)  and  (2)  of 

 

Page 1 of 12 

 

Takeover Regulations in 2011. 

2.2 Therefore, the Acquirer is not permitted to complete the transaction triggering the open 

offer  until  expiry  of  the  open  offer.  The  only  exceptions  were  provided  in  Regulation 

22(2)  which  provided  that  the  acquirer  may  act  upon  the  agreement  and  the  acquirer 

may  complete  the  acquisition  of  shares  or  voting  rights  in,  or  control  over  the  target 

company, subject to meeting the following two conditions: 

a. Acquirer depositing 100% of the offer size in escrow in cash; and 

b. After expiry of 21 working days from the Detailed public statement (DPS). 

FAQs on Takeover Regulations 

2.3 Further, the FAQs on Takeover Regulations were also issued by SEBI in 2011. One of 

FAQs  provided  that  the  acquisitions  resulting  from  any  agreement  attracting  the 

obligation to make an open offer cannot be completed by way of transactions settled on 

stock exchange such as bulk/block deals. 

Amendments in Regulation 22 in 2013 

2.4 The issue relating to completion of acquisition through stock exchanges were discussed 

in  the  Board  meeting  held  on  January  18,  2013.  It  was  noted  that  Regulation  22(1) 

prohibits completion of the acquisition which triggered the open offer obligations till the 

offer formalities are complete. However, it specifically relates to an acquisition pursuant 

to  an  agreement  and  is  not  applicable  in  cases  of  transactions  involving  direct  market 

purchases.  The  expression  “such  agreement”  in  regulation  22(2)  endorses  the  above 

stated interpretation. Therefore, it was proposed to expressly state that acquisition made 

through  stock  exchange  can  be  completed  in  accordance  with  the  normal  settlement 

process applicable to the stock exchange mechanism. However, the shares so acquired 

shall  be  kept  in  a  separate  escrow  account  and  exercise  of  voting  rights  on  such 

acquisitions would be subject to provisions of Regulation 22(2).  

2.5 The following regulation 22(2A) was introduced in the Takeover Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 

March 26, 2013: 

 

Page 2 of 12 

 

2A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), an acquirer may acquire 

shares of the target company through preferential issue or through the stock exchange 

settlement process, other than through bulk deals or block deals, subject to ,- 

(i) such shares being kept in an escrow account, 

(ii) the  acquirer  not  exercising  any  voting  rights  over  such  shares  kept  in  the  escrow 

account: 

Provided that such shares may be transferred to the account of the acquirer, subject 

to the acquirer complying with requirements specified in sub-regulation (2). 

Issue 

2.6 

It  is  noted  that  that  there  is  still  some  confusion  on  whether  the  completion  of 

acquisition  through  stock  exchange  settlement  process  is  permitted  for  bulk  deals  and 

block deals.  

Analysis 

2.7  Regulation  22(2)  and  Regulation  22(2A)  are  non-obstante  clauses  and  operating  in 

different context. While Regulation 22(2) deals with completion of acquisition pursuant to 

an  agreement,  Regulation  22(2A)  is  relating  to  completion  of  acquisition  through  the 

stock exchange settlement process. The purpose of insertion of Regulation 22(2A) was 

to  make  it  clear  that  the  acquisition  through  stock  exchange  settlement  can  be 

completed during the open offer, subject to the conditions mentioned in this regulation. 

However, the amendment provided an exclusion to bulk deals and block deals. 

2.8  The following are the various scenarios, - 

i.  Trigger of open offer pursuant to agreement (e.g. SPA): The agreement can 

be  executed  through  either  on  the  stock  exchanges  by  way  of  block  deal  or 

through off-market. In this regard, it is noted that the transaction executed through 

block deal on the stock exchange platform is more transparent than the off-market 

route.  

While  Regulation  22(2)  of  the  Takeover  Regulations  allows  the  completion  of 

acquisition pursuant to agreement, it appears that the prohibition on block deals 

 

Page 3 of 12 

 

provided in Regulation 22(2A) has created some confusion in the market. In this 

regard, we may consider bringing in more clarity by deleting the exclusion of block 

deal provided in Regulation 22(2A). 

ii.  Trigger  of  open  offer  pursuant  to  placement  of  purchase  orders  on  stock 

exchanges  that  are  not  pursuant  to  agreement:  The  open  offer  might  trigger 

due  to  placement  of  large  purchase  orders  on  the  stock  exchanges.  Such 

transactions are not covered under Regulation 22(2) of Takeover Regulations.  

Usually, such transactions would be of large purchase orders and might be either 

bulk deal or a negotiated transaction as block deal. However, completion of such 

transaction  is  currently  prohibited  in  terms  of  Regulation  22(2A)  of  Takeover 

Regulations.  

2.9  Our comments on block deals and bulk deals are as follows: 

i.  Block  Deals:  Block  deal  is  a  separate  trading  window  permitted  by  SEBI  for 

execution  of  large  size  trades  through  a  single  transaction.  SEBI      vide  circular   

MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-19/2005   dated   September   02, 2005 prescribed guidelines 

for  execution  of  large size  trades  through a separate  trading  window,  termed  as 

“block deal”. The block deal window mechanism has been reviewed by SEBI by 

way  of  circular  dated  October  26,  2017.  The  following  has  inter  alia  been 

specified in the said circular: 

a)  The minimum order size for execution of trades in the Block deal window shall 

be Rs.10 Crore; 

b)  There  will  be  two  block  deal  windows  (morning  block  deal  window  between 

08:45  AM  to  09:00  AM  with  reference  price  being  the  closing  price  of  the 

previous  day;  and  afternoon  block  deal  window  between  02:05  PM  to  02:20 

PM with reference price being volume weighted average market price (VWAP) 

of the trades executed in the stock in the cash segment between 01:45 PM to 

02:00 PM); 

c)  The orders placed shall be within ±1% of the applicable reference price in the 

respective windows; 

 

Page 4 of 12 

 

d)  Every  trade  executed  in  the  block  deal  windows  must  result  in  delivery  and 

shall not be squared off or reversed. 

e)  The stock exchanges shall disseminate the information on block deals such as 

the  name  of  the  scrip,  name  of  the  client,  quantity  of  shares  bought/sold, 

traded price, etc.to the general public on the same day, after the market hours; 

ii.  Bulk  Deals:  A  “bulk”  deal  constitutes  of  “all  transactions  in  a  scrip  (on  an 

exchange)  where  total  quantity  of  shares  bought/sold  is  more  than  0.5%  of  the 

number of equity shares of the company listed on the exchange. SEBI has issued 

a  circular  (reference  no.  SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-7/2004)  on  January  14,  2004  on 

disclosures of details of “bulk” deals with a view to impart greater transparency to 

the market on such transactions executed on the stock exchanges. The following 

has inter alia been specified in the said circulars: 

a)  The disclosure shall be made with respect to all transactions in a scrip where 

total quantity of shares bought/sold is more than 0.5% of the number of equity 

shares of the company listed on the stock exchange; 

b)  The brokers shall disclose to the stock exchange the name of the scrip, name 

of the client, quantity of shares bought/sold and the traded price; 

c)  The stock exchanges shall disseminate the aforesaid information on the same 

day after market hours to the general public. 

2.10  Therefore,  it  may  be  noted  that  block  deals  and  bulk  deals  are  regulated,  settled 

through  stock  exchanges  and  there  are  reporting  requirements  applicable  for  such 

transactions on a daily basis. 

2.11  While  completion  of  acquisition  through  stock  exchanges  was  permitted  in  2013,  it 

appears that there was not adequate rationale provided for exclusion of block deals and 

bulk deals. The exclusion provided in the amendment in 2013 may  possibly because of 

the FAQ that has been in place since 2011. 

2.12  Considering that the market purchases are permitted, and block deals and bulk deals 

are  regulated  and  transparent  compared  to  off-market  transactions,  we  may  consider 

allowing completion of acquisitions through bulk and block deals, during the offer period. 

 

Page 5 of 12 

 

2.13  Further, the following would be the benefits to the Acquirer, by permitting completion of 

acquisition through block deals and bulk deals during the offer period: 

i.  The  Acquirer  will  be  able  to  directly  acquire  significant  stake  in  the  target 

company through stock exchanges instead of negotiating through the off-market 

route; and 

ii.  The  Acquirer  will  be  able  to  complete  the  acquisition  quickly  instead  of  placing 

small orders for a longer period of time, with appropriate checks and balances as 

prescribed  under  Regulation  22(2A)  such  as  shares  being  kept  in  an  escrow 

demat  account  and  the  acquirer  not  exercising  any  voting  rights  over  such 

shares, unless 100% cash is deposited in the account. 

Proposal 

2.14  The following is proposed: 

i.  We  may  allow  completion  of  acquisition  through  stock  exchange  settlement 

process for all types of transactions including bulk deals and block deals.  

ii.  The existing FAQ in this regard may also be deleted. 

3.  Depositing  100%  escrow  in  case  of  open  offers  made  pursuant  to  indirect 

acquisitions 

Background 

3.1  The provisions of Regulation 17 of Takeover Regulations stipulates the requirement of 

creation  of  an  escrow  account  towards  security  for  performance  of  obligations  by 

Acquirers. It further stipulates that such account shall be created and requisite amount be 

deposited within 2 working days prior to the date of the Detailed Public Statement (DPS). 

3.2  The provisions of above Regulation is applicable for all open offers whether triggered on 

account of direct acquisition/deemed direct acquisition or indirect acquisition. 

3.3  Regulation 22 of Takeover Regulations states that the Acquirer shall not complete the 

acquisition  of  shares  or  voting  rights  in  or  control  over  the  target  company  whether  by 

 

Page 6 of 12 

 

way of subscription of shares or a purchase of shares attracting the obligation to make an 

open offer, until the expiry of the offer period. 

3.4  Regulation 22(2), however, allows parties to an agreement to act on the agreement and 

the acquirer may complete the acquisition of shares or voting rights in or control over the 

target  company  during  the offer  period  after expiry  of 21  working  days  from  the  date of 

DPS if the acquirer deposits 100% of the consideration payable under the open offer in 

cash. 

3.5  Thus,  provisions  of  Regulation  22  allow  Acquirers  to  take  control  over  the  target 

company during the offer period itself subject to expiry of 21 working days after date of 

DPS and 100% escrow in cash.  

3.6  In case of an open offer which gets triggered on account of indirect acquisition of voting 

rights in or control over the target company and where none of the parameters as set out 

in  Regulation  5(2)  of  Takeover  Regulations  are  met,  public  announcement  (PA)  to  the 

offer  is  required  to  be  made  within  four  working  days  from  the  earlier  of,  the  date  on 

which  the  primary  acquisition  is  contracted,  and  the  date  on  which  the  intention  or  the 

decision to make the primary acquisition is announced in the public domain. A relaxation, 

however,  with  respect  to  date  of  publication  of  DPS  has  been  provided  in  proviso  to 

Regulation  13(4).  The  proviso  to  Regulation  13(4)  states  that  such  DPS  shall  be  made 

not later than 5 working days after the completion of primary acquisition and the Acquirer 

acquires indirect control over the Target Company. 

3.7  From the proviso to Regulation 13(4) it is clear that the primary acquisition, which would 

result  in  indirect  acquisition  of  the  target  company,  can  be  completed  before  the 

publication  of  DPS.  This  is  further  clarified  in  the  explanation  to  the  said  proviso  which 

states that in the event the acquirer does not succeed in acquiring the ability to exercise 

or direct the exercise of voting rights in or control over the Target Company, the acquirer 

is not obliged to make a DPS for the open offer for acquiring shares. 

3.8  Thus,  in  case  of  open  offers  which  get    triggered  on  account  of  indirect  acquisitions 

where PA is made in terms of Regulation 13(2)(e) of Takeover Regulations, the Acquirer 

acquires control over the Target Company before the date of DPS and is not  required to 

deposit 100% of the consideration payable under the open offer in the escrow account. 

 

Page 7 of 12 

 

3.9  It is observed that the Takeover Regulations have stricter compliances with respect to 

deposit of money in escrow account for direct and deemed direct acquisitions in case the 

acquirer  wishes  to  complete  the  underlying  transaction  during  the  offer  period  itself 

compared  to  open  offers  which  get  triggered  on  account  of  indirect  acquisitions  where 

only  amount  as  stipulated  under  Regulation  17  has  to  be  deposited  in  the  escrow 

account. 

3.10  While the Regulations provide a leeway with respect to the timing of DPS in cases of 

open offers triggered on account of indirect acquisitions where the target company is not 

a significant part of the primary transaction, it is felt  that there should be no leeway with 

respect to the amount of money to be deposited in escrow account as a security once the 

control over the target company is acquired on the completion of primary acquisition. 

3.11  Since  the  Acquirer  acquires  indirect  control  over  the  Target  Company  by  virtue  of 

completing the primary acquisition and enjoys the benefits arising out of being in control 

over the Target Company, an amount equal to 100% of the consideration payable under 

an open offer must be set aside as a security for the performance of obligations under an 

open offer similar to direct acquisitions. 

Issue 

3.12  The  current  framework  of  Takeover  Regulations  does  not  stipulate  mandatory 

requirement  of  deposit  in  an  escrow  account  a  sum  equivalent  to  100%  of  the 

consideration payable under an open offer in case of indirect acquisition of shares/ voting 

right in, or control over the target company where PA of the offer has been made under 

Regulation 13(2)(e). 

3.13   It is felt that Takeover Regulations should not differentiate between direct acquisitions 

and  indirect  acquisitions  when  providing  safeguards  for  shareholders  who  wish  to  avail 

the exit opportunity provided by an open offer. 

Proposal 

3.14  In view of the above, it is proposed that in case of indirect acquisitions PA of an open 

offer  is  made  in  terms  of  Regulation  13(2)(e)  of  Takeover  Regulations,  an  amount  of 

 

Page 8 of 12 

 

100%  of  the  consideration  payable  under  the  open  offer  must  be  deposited  2  working 

days before the date of DPS.   

3.15  Further, such escrow account may be in the form of cash and/or bank guarantee. 

4.  Payment of interest in case of delay in open offers 

Background  

4.1  Takeover  Regulations  was  notified  in  2011,  pursuant  to  repeal  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 

1997, based on the report of the TRAC dated July 19, 2010.  The main objectives of the 

Takeover  Regulations  are  inter  alia  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities 

markets  and  to  ensure  a  fair,  equitable  and  transparent  framework  for  protecting  their 

interests.  

4.2  The  Takeover  Regulations  provide  detailed  and  specific  timelines  for  completion  of 

open  offer,  starting  from  the  date  of  event  triggering  the  open  offer  requirements.  The 

Takeover Regulations provide certain flexibilities in terms of timelines as indicated below: 

4.2.1  Indirect Acquisitions: In cases of indirect acquisitions where the target company 

is not a significant part of the primary transaction, the timeline for making detailed 

public statement (DPS) has been extended till 5 working days of the completion of 

the  primary  transaction  (in  terms  of  Regulation  13(4)  of  Takeover  Regulations). 

However, it has been clearly mentioned in the Takeover Regulations that the offer 

price has to be enhanced after including interest at the rate of 10% per annum for 

this period (in terms of Regulation 8(12) of Takeover Regulations). The same was 

also mentioned in the report of TRAC. The relevant extract is reproduced below: 

“However, as the acquirer would be fixing the price payable for the offer as on the 

date of the primary acquisition, and would have the benefit of delaying payment to 

the  shareholders  (due  to  time  lag  in  completing  the  primary  acquisition),  all  the 

shareholders tendering shares in the open offer would need to be compensated by 

way of an increase in the offer price at the rate of [10 %] per annum for the period 

between the announcement of primary acquisition and date on which the detailed 

public statement is actually made if such period is more than five business days.” 

 

Page 9 of 12 

 

4.2.2  Statutory Approvals: In terms of Regulation 18(11) of the Takeover Regulations, 

the open offers can be delayed subject to extension of time granted by SEBI, if the 

delay  is  due  to  non-receipt  of  statutory  approvals.  However,  in  such  cases,  the 

proviso  to  Regulation  18(11)  of  Takeover  Regulations  clearly  provides  that  the 

acquirer has to pay interest to the shareholders for the delay. In this regard, it may 

be noted that the requirement to pay interest is applicable even if the delay is not 

attributable to any willful default, failure or neglect on the part of the acquirer. 

4.3  Further, it is noted that there are instances wherein delayed open offer has been made. 

In  such  cases  of  delayed  open  offer,  SEBI  while  processing  the  draft  letter  of  offer 

ensures that the open offer price is enhanced after adding of interest at the rate of 10% 

per annum for the period of delay. 

4.4  However, there are several instances wherein open offer gets delayed by the acquirer 

on  account  of  several  other  reasons,  including  but  not  limited  to  (i)  inter-se  dispute 

among parties to the agreement; (ii) valuation disputes; (iii) investor complaints; (iv) delay 

in  commencing  the  tendering  process;  (v)  delay  in  making  payment  by  acquirer  upon 

tendering the shares under open offer; (vi) various stages of litigations etc.  

Issues 

4.5  In view of the above, the following are the issues for consideration:  

a)  Payment of interest to shareholders 

b)  Rate of interest;  

c)  Shareholders entitled for interest. 

Issue (a): Payment of interest to shareholders 

4.6  It  may  be  noted  that  the  Takeover  Regulations  do  not  envisage  delays  in  open  offers 

other  than  on  account  of  non-receipt  of  statutory  approvals  as  mentioned  in  regulation 

18(11).  However,  the  open  offers  are  delayed  on  account  of  other  reasons  as 

enumerated  at  paragraph  no.  4.4  above,  which  are  presently  not  envisaged  in  the 

Takeover Regulations.  

 

Page 10 of 12 

 

4.7  While  in  some  cases,  the  acquirer  voluntarily  agrees  to  compensate  the  shareholders 

by  paying  interest  for  the  delay,  the  issue  of  payment  of  interest  for  such  delays  is  not 

expressly mentioned in the Takeover Regulations, other than by way of order/ directions 

under Regulation 32 of Takeover Regulations on a case to case basis.  

Proposal 

4.8  It is proposed that in case of delay in the open offer due to the reasons outlined at para 

4.4, the acquirer may be required to pay interest.  

Issue (b): Rate of interest 

4.9  The  rate  of  10%  per  annum  has  been  indicated  as  interest  in  respect  of  indirect 

acquisitions (Regulation 8(12) of Takeover Regulations). 

4.10  In  case  of  delayed  open  offer  the  market  practice  has  been  10%.  Further,  SEBI  has 

also  been  considering  interest  rate  of  10%  for  the  delayed  open  offers,  and  also  for 

extension of time granted to open offers on account of non-receipt of statutory approvals 

in terms of Regulation 18(11) of Takeover Regulations.  

Proposal  

4.11  It is proposed that we may consider the rate of interest as 10 % per annum. 

Issue (c): Shareholders entitled for interest 

4.12  In  respect  to  interest  payment,  a  question  also  arises,  as  to  whom  the  interest 

payment should be payable. In this regard there are two approaches: 

i. 

It  may  be  noted  that  pursuant  to  Supreme  court  order  in  the  matter  of  Clariant 

International  Limited  and  another  vs.  SEBI  [Appeal  (Civil)  No.  3183/2003]  acquirers 

have  been  making 

interest  payment  only 

to 

the  original  shareholders 

(shareholders  as  on  triggering  date  of  the  open  offer  and  continuing  as  on  the 

date of tendering) with regard to delay due to litigations etc. 

ii. 

In case of indirect acquisitions and delays on account of  non-receipt of statutory 

approval,  the  offer  price  is  enhanced  after  addition  of  interest.  Therefore,  the 

revised offer price, after addition of interest for the entire period, is paid to all the 

 

Page 11 of 12 

 

shareholders  who  have  tendered  their  shares  in  the  open  offer  (irrespective  of 

date of purchase of shares).  

Proposal 

4.13   Considering  the  above,  it  is  proposed  that  the  revised  open  offer  price  may  be 

calculated  after  addition  of  interest  (10%)  and  the  revised  offer  price  is  paid  to  all  the 

shareholders  (in  line  with  the  approach  currently  followed  for  indirect  acquisitions  and 

delays on account of non-receipt of statutory approvals).  

5.  Public Comments 

5.1  Public comments are invited on the aforesaid proposals in the following format:  

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary:  
 

 

Name of organization (if applicable): 
 

 

Contact details: Address, Mobile No. etc. 
 

Sr. 
No. 

 

 

Proposals 

Proposed/ 

Rationale 

suggested changes 

 

Page No. Para No. 

 

 

5.2   Comments  may  be  forwarded  by  e-mail  to  sastreview2020@sebi.gov.in  or  sent  by 

post at the following address latest by March 02, 2020. 

Sh. Rajesh Gujjar 
General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 

******* 

 

 

Page 12 of 12 

