 
Consultation paper on Review of the Regulatory Framework for Corporate bonds and 

 

Debenture Trustees  

1.  Objective 

 

The  objective  of  the  consultation  paper  is  to  seek  comments/  views  from  the  public  on  the 

proposals that are expected to strengthen the regulatory framework for Corporate bonds, secure 

the  interest  of  the  debenture  holders,  enhance the  role  of  the  Debenture  Trustees  (DTs) and 

empower  them  to  effectively  discharge  their  responsibilities  towards  the  debenture  holders  of 

listed debt issues / proposed to be listed debt issues.  

 

2.  Background 

SEBI  recently,  increased  the  minimum  net  worth  of  DTs  to  raise  the  bar  for  financial  entities 

entering  the  trusteeship  business,  put  in  place  the  provisions  of  penalizing  issuers  for  non-

creation of charge on security, e-voting mechanism for consent taking etc. in its on-going efforts 

to  enhance  the  role  debenture  trustees  play  in  the  market  ecosystem.  However,  it  has  been 

observed that still there have been cases of delay in enforcing the security in the event of default, 

which is detrimental to the interests of the investors. The increased events of default by a few 

financial  institutions  and  the  lapses/  complications  on  the  part  of  debenture  trustees  in  the 

expeditious  enforcement  of  the  security  has  brought  to  the  fore  the  need  for  a  review  of  the 

present regulatory framework for Debenture Trustees.  

According to the data received from the Trustee Association of India (TAI), it is observed that in 

past 5 years, around 2.3 % of the issues have defaulted (93% of which are secured debentures) 

out  of  which  DTs  have  been  able  to  enforce  the  security  successfully  in  around  10  %  of  the 

secured  issues,  recovery  proceedings  are  pending  at  different  stages  in  around  60%  of  the 

issues  and  in  around  30%  of  the  issues recovery  is  pending  due to  non-communication  from 

debenture  holders.  It  is  observed  that  Non-Banking  Financial  Companies  (NBFCs)  are  the 

frequent  bond  issuers.  Based  on  the  outstanding  long  term  borrowings  of  NBFC  (for  top  100 

based on long term outstanding borrowings) as on March 2019, it is noted that largely NBFCs 

borrow through bonds (approximately 56%) in comparison to loans (approximately 44%). In last 

5 Financial Years the bond issuances were largely secured (approximately 76%). 

 

Page 1 of 14 

 

DTs facilitate in holding the assets by creating lien on it without the transfer of title or possession 

of those  assets. This  protects  investors from  the  risk  of  non-payment,  and  allows  possession 

and sale of the assets if the borrower defaults or enters insolvency/ liquidation. In Indian bond 

market, secured bonds are issued by way of creating fixed or floating charge on the assets of 

borrower.  

In the case of manufacturing companies, fixed charge is created in favour of trustees on Pari-

Passu basis on underlying tangible assets (namely plant and machinery) for borrowing through 

debt and bank loan while in case of NBFCs floating charge is created on the existing and future 

receivables which are dynamic and intangible in nature and includes the entire balance-sheet of 

the company. Since, the charge is created on the entire balance sheet of the company, for any 

future  issuances,  further  charge  is  created  on  a  Pari-Passu  basis  on  the  entire  assets 

(Receivables) of the company. Such a Pari-Passu charge does not specify a certain identified 

portion of the assets to each specific lender, but treats all lenders to have the same claim (in the 

respective proportion of the amounts borrowed from them) on the assets charged. 

While  the  security  is  enforced  by  DT  without  any  major  complications  in  the  case  of 

manufacturing companies at event of default (EoD), the same is not true in the case of NBFCs 

due to floating charge and absence of identified security. 

Vide  June  07,  2019  circular,  RBI  introduced  Inter  Creditor  Agreement  (ICA)  for  resolution  of 

stressed  assets  in  banking  industry.  While  signing  of  ICA  is  applicable  on  lender  banks,  the 

lender banks have in recent case of default by DHFL, invited DTs to be a part of ICA as majority 

of  the  lending  was  done  by  debenture  holders.  Debenture  Trustees  sought  consent  from  the 

debenture holders for joining and acceding to the terms of the ICA. However, since the debenture 

holders were unaware of the terms and the functioning of the ICA, there was a mixed response 

from  the  debenture  holders  to  the  DTs  regarding  joining  the  ICA.  Further,  there  was 

apprehension  by  the  debenture  holders  that  ICA  process  being  dominated  by  banks  may 

primarily  focus  on  the  interest  of  the  banks.  The  debenture  holders  also  feared  that  the 

introduction  of  ICA  could  lead  to  increase  in  the  instances  of  the  process  of  enforcement  of 

security getting delayed, in case of creditors not being able to come out with a concrete resolution 

plan within the given timeframe.  

Meanwhile, it was also perceived that attractive loan portfolios were sold by the NBFCs in order 

to pay existing dues post default and this probably led to DTs being left with lower quality assets 

Page 2 of 14 

 

 

 

 

for security enforcement. In spite of periodic confirmation being sought by the DT in regard to 

maintenance of adequate security cover, lot of issues were faced by the DT in enforcement of 

security  as  they  were  unaware  of the  specificity  of  the  underlying  security  which  were  known 

only to the issuer since a floating charge was created on the entire assets, i.e. present and future 

receivables of the NBFC. The floating charge in case of NBFCs gets crystallized only at the time 

of default.  

The recovery proceedings in the said default of the NBFC was filed in Debt Recovery Tribunal 

(DRT)  after  following  the  process  of  seeking  consent  for  joining  ICA  and  then  for  going  with 

recovery, in issues where no consent for joining the ICA was received. The delay faced by the 

debenture holders in receiving their due and absence of any identified security, led to the concern 

whether the debentures were truly secured.  

With the given challenges observed in charge creation, enforcement of security of the secured 

debentures, ICA process and other related issues in the recent cases of default, SEBI intends to 

review the regulatory framework for DTs and put in place provisions that would further secure 

the interests of the debenture holders of listed debt issues, enable the DTs to perform their duties 

in the interest of the investors more effectively and promptly.  It is therefore proposed  to seek 

public comments on the following issues: 

 

3.  Proposals 

3.1.  Creation of Identified Charge by the NBFCs: 

NBFCs,  for  every  issue  shall  create  charge  on  the  identified  assets  that  may  include 

identified receivables, investment and cash instead of floating charge on the entire books 

of the NBFC. A debenture issued by an NBFC shall be treated as secured only on creation 

of identified charge. A transition period of 3-5 years shall be provided to shift from floating 

Pari-Passu charge to identified charge. 

 

Rationale: 

While the NBFCs are always required to maintain the prescribed asset cover during the 

tenure of secured debentures, what assets lie under the given asset cover is known only 

to the issuer (NBFCs) due to the floating charge. It is known neither to the lenders nor to 

 

Page 3 of 14 

 

the DTs, as the charge gets created on the entire assets/ receivables and the asset cover 

submitted  to  DT  certified  by  the  independent  CAs  just  mentions  the  value  of  the  entire 

assets and a statement that 100% of cover on the balance-sheet is maintained.  

At  the  time  of  default,  there  is  a  possibility  that  good  assets  of  NBFCs  are  enforced  as 

security by the banks and the debenture holders may be left with sub-par assets due to the 

uncertainty and opacity of the floating charge subjecting debenture holders to the risk of 

non-realization of the full value of the security. This opacity makes it difficult for the DT to 

monitor the quality of the asset cover as well. 

Accordingly, it is proposed to continue having Pari-Passu charge in case of manufacturing 

concerns/ companies having fixed charge on the assets and creation of identified charge 

in case of NBFCs/ companies having receivables as assets.  

 

3.2.  Enhanced due diligence of identified assets and Granular Asset cover certificate  

3.2.1. The asset cover certificate duly certified by the statutory auditor shall be required to 

be  submitted  on  a  half-yearly  basis  instead  of  annual  basis.  The  asset  cover 

certificate 

format  shall  be  more  granular  providing  a 

list  of 

identified 

assets/receivables, identified investment or cash etc. as security. If the quality of one 

or more of the identified receivables/ assets deteriorates or the receivable/ asset is 

pre-paid, the issuer shall identify further receivables to replace the bad/ matured/ pre-

paid ones and maintain the asset cover in accordance with the terms of Trust Deed.  

 

3.2.2. Further,  for  maintaining  the  quality  of  underlying  assets,  following  parameters  are 

being proposed: 

a)  A delinquency rate benchmark shall be fixed by the DT at the time of signing of 

Debenture Trust Deed (DTD). This delinquency rate in assets will be used by DT 

as one of the factor for monitoring the asset quality. 

b)  If the delinquency rate in assets breaches the proposed threshold, issuer will be 

asked  to  replace  those  assets  with  other  standard  assets  within  a  given  time 

frame. 

c)  Issuer shall disclose the covenants of maintaining the quality of assets, conditions 

of replacing the bad/ delinquent assets in Investment Memorandum (IM) and DTD 

Page 4 of 14 

 

 

to create transparency and reduce the information gap regarding the covenants 

of the charge creation and the process thereafter. 

d)  The asset cover shall also certify the compliance with all the covenants mentioned 

in the IM or DTD, as applicable. 

 

 

Rationale: 

Charge  creation  mechanism  enables  creditors  to  control  credit  risks  and  consequently 

lowers  the  cost  of  credit  to  debtors.  To  ensure  that  the  security  interests  of  the  lenders 

remain more effective and enforceable in the insolvency/liquidation process, asset cover 

certificates are currently provided by the issuer on a quarterly/ half-yearly basis. 

Asset  cover  certificate  is  used  for  the  purpose  of  monitoring  the  adequacy  of  assets 

charged against the debt obligations of the issuer. Presently the asset cover certificate is 

submitted to the Debenture Trustee duly certified by an independent auditor on a quarterly 

basis by the issuer and duly certified by statutory auditor on a yearly basis.  

It has been observed that the format of asset cover certificate varies from DT to DT. A few 

debenture trustees ask for detailed list of assets on which charge is created along with CA 

certificate  whereas  most  of  them  receive  only  a  statement  that  the  100%  cover  is 

maintained along with the asset cover ratio, making it difficult for them to understand the 

nature and quality of assets. 

Accordingly, it is proposed to make the asset cover certificate more granular establishing 

the above mentioned parameters to enhance the monitoring of the quality of the underlying 

assets.  

3.3. Calling of Event of Default (EoD) at ISIN level  

DTs shall call EoD at ISIN level, which shall also include breach of any covenant mentioned 

in the IM/ DTD.  

 

Rationale: 

It was observed that the practice of issuance of debenture in the market varies from issuer 

to issuer. The debentures are sometimes issued in multiple tranches under an umbrella 

Page 5 of 14 

 

 

 

 

DTD.  Often  it  is  observed  that  there  are  multiple  International  Securities  Identification 

Numbers (ISINs) in an IM. With regard to the calling of EoD also, it was observed that the 

current market practices are inconsistent and differ from DT to DT. Some DTs call EoD at 

DTD level whereas some do it at ISIN level. Considering the fact that if a single investor is 

invested in a debenture under an ISIN, he has full right to enforce the security under that 

ISIN. Accordingly, it is proposed that EoD shall be called at ISIN level.  

  

3.4. Mechanism/ Conditions of joining Inter-Creditor Agreement (ICA)  

Debenture Trustees shall join ICA subject to approval of debenture holders and following 

conditions: 

i.  Signing of ICA and agreeing to the Resolution Plan should be in best interest of the 

investors. 

ii.  DTs shall ensure that the following conditions are part of ICA before signing the ICA: 

a)  If  Resolution  Plan  imposes  condition(s)  on  the  DTs  which  are  not  in  accordance 

with the provisions of SEBI Regulations and circulars issued, then DTs shall be free 

to  exit  ICA  altogether  with  the  same  rights  as  it  if  never  signed  ICA.  In  such  a 

circumstance, Resolution Plan would not be binding on the DTs. 

b)  Resolution Plan shall be finalized within 180 days from the end of review period. If 

not, the DTs shall be free to exit the ICA altogether with the same rights as it if never 

signed the ICA. In such a circumstance, Resolution Plan would not be binding on 

the DTs. However, If ICA extends beyond 180 days, DTs can take extension beyond 

180 days’ subject to approval of debenture holders with total timeline not exceeding 

1 year from commencement period of ICA. 

c)  If any of the terms of the approved Resolution Plan are contravened by any party 

to the ICA,  DTs shall be free to exit the ICA and take legal recourse or take any 

other action as deemed fit in the interest of the debenture holders. 

 

Further,  a  Debenture  holder  representative  committee  consisting  of  debenture  holders 

having majority investment may be formed after default by the issuer, to Fast Track the ICA 

process and consent seeking by Debenture Trustee during the course of ICA. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 6 of 14 

 

 

 

Rationale: 

Corporates borrow by way of debentures and in many of the cases, the security offered on 

that debenture is on pari-passu basis with the other lenders (banks). Recently, in the case 

of default by DHFL, Debenture trustees have been approached by the consortium of banks 

to sign the ICA to consider the resolution plan. However, there lie multiple challenges in 

respect of the interest of the debenture holders in case of Debenture trustee joining the ICA 

framework, which are as follows: 

i. 

After the signing of the ICA during the review period, the resolution plan must be 

finalized under the 180-day period provided under the RBI’s new rules. However, 

there  can  be  a  further  extension  of  6  months  for  finalization  of  Resolution  Plan, 

resulting  into  delay  for  debenture  holders  in  case  no  plan  is  finally  agreed  by 

lenders. 

ii. 

The  notice  period to receive  the  consent  for further  action  in  case  of  default  has 

been stipulated as 21 days, which makes it difficult to sign ICA within the review 

period of 1 month.  

iii. 

As part of the ICA, the lenders (including the dissenting lenders) are not allowed to 

initiate any legal action or proceedings (including proceedings under Insolvency and 

Bankruptcy  Code,  2016)  against  the  borrower  or  any  other  person  that  may 

jeopardize the successful implementation of the Resolution Plan.  

iv. 

The resolution plan in respect of the Facilities availed by the Borrower may involve, 

amongst  other,  any  action/plan/reorganization  including  without  limitation  the 

following:  

a) 

Infusion of additional money by all lenders. 

b)  Conversion of debt into equity.  

c)  Transfer of all or part of the assets of the Borrower to one or more persons. 

d)  Rollover of debt. 

Most of the possible Resolution Plan listed above may not be acceptable to DTs as 

most of the debenture holders are debt MF schemes. 

 

v. 

The  Resolution  Plan  provides  for  payment  of  “not  less  than  liquidation  value”  to 

dissenting lenders. The liquidation value will be decided by an independent valuer. 

The dissenting lender can also agree to sell or transfer their loan facilities to any 

other lender as part of the resolution plan at a mutually agreed-upon price. Since, 

Page 7 of 14 

 

 

 

debt holders have less probability of getting favourable Resolution Plan, the above 

scenario might be the treated path for them in every case, which can be achieved 

through DRT itself and without the delay of 6 months. 

vi. 

The Resolution Plan approved by the majority lenders is final and binding on all the 

lenders and each lender (including the dissenting lender) agrees and undertakes to 

be bound by the Resolution Plan. Since it is a bank-led process, debenture holders 

might be at a disadvantage most of the times. 

 

While it is important that investors have an option to recover their entire money albeit with 

a delay, however, dissenting lenders should be free to decide and take action in their best 

interest rather than be forced to take liquidation value. Accordingly, it is proposed to allow 

the DTs to join the ICA subject to the approval of the debenture holders and the conditions 

proposed as above.  

 

3.5. Voting mechanism  

 

i. 

ii. 

Time period sought for seeking consent shall be reduced to 15 days from 21 days. 

For public and private placement, DT shall enforce the security by taking negative 

consent in the event of default (EoD).  

iii. 

The consent of debenture holders for enforcement of security and for joining ICA 

shall be taken simultaneously in the same letter 

iv.  Negative consent for enforcement of security and positive consent for joining ICA 

shall be taken in the same letter.  

v. 

vi. 

Proof of dispatch and delivery shall be maintained by the Debenture Trustee.  

Providing E-Mail IDs shall be compulsory for Debenture holders in case of Private 

Placement.  

 

Rationale: 

It was observed that the Debenture Trustees face various procedural problems in seeking 

consent for future course of action which leads to delay in enforcing the security. In case 

of an ICA formed under RBI guidelines, taking consent twice - first for joining ICA and then 

for Enforcement of security can cause further delay in enforcement of security. Further, the 

Page 8 of 14 

 

 

 

notice period to receive the consent for further action in case of default has been stipulated 

as 21 days, which makes it difficult to sign ICA within the review period of 1 month. 

It  is  also  observed  that the  contact  details  received from  Registrar  and Transfer  Agents 

(RTAs) are not updated most of the times, making it difficult for DTs to communicate with 

debenture  holders  when  needed.  Since  providing  E-mail  IDs  is  not  mandatory  for 

Debenture holders, DTs face problem in conducting E-Voting as well. 

Accordingly,  it  is  proposed  to  reduce  the  timeline  for  seeking  consent  to  15  days.  The 

proposal on taking negative consent for enforcement of security will ensure prompt filing 

for  recovery  by  DT.  Also,  simultaneous  approval  in  the  same  letter  for  joining  ICA  and 

enforcement of security shall prevent repetition of the same consent seeking process and 

will reduce the time lag for enforcement of security.   

 

3.6. Creation of a recovery fund  

i. 

A fund shall be created by the issuer at the time of issuance of debt that shall be 

used by DT in the event of default towards recovery proceedings expenses. 

ii. 

The value of such fund shall be 0.01% percentage of the issue subject to the cap 

of 25 lakhs per issuer.  

iii. 

The above shall not be applicable on AAA rated bonds. However, in case of rating 

downgrade of a AAA rated bond, the issuer shall be obligated to create such fund 

within a fixed timeframe.  

iv.  Disclosure to such affect shall also be made in the IM. Such fund shall be overseen 

by the DT.  

v. 

The amount shall be returned to the issuer at the time of maturity in case there is 

no default by the company. 

 

Rationale: 

In the event of default, while the DTs are not able to recover their dues/ fees from the issuer, 

they are still obligated to act in the interest of the investors and work towards enforcement 

of security. Currently Debenture Trustees call for meeting of Debenture holders in case of 

default to discuss the further course of action along with an estimate of cost to be borne by 

debenture  holders for  the  recovery  proceedings.  In  most  of  the cases  debenture  holders 

bear this cost. However, delays have been observed in the enforcement proceedings as the 

Page 9 of 14 

 

 

money is not always received on time. If the DTs are adequately funded in advance, then 

the filing of recovery proceedings can be expedited. 

Accordingly, in order to have a prompt enforcement of security,  it is proposed to create a 

fund beforehand towards recovery proceeds, which shall be used by Debenture Trustee in 

case of default only.  

 

3.7. Minimum Disclosures on the website by DTs 

DT shall mandatorily make the following minimum disclosures on their website: 

i.  Quarterly Compliance Reports received from the issuers. 

ii.  Compliance status on the receipt of asset cover from the issuers, maintenance of 

various funds by the issuers. 

iii.  Defaults by the company. 

iv. 

Status of the proceedings of the cases under default. 

v.  Compliance status of each covenant- issue wise on a half yearly basis. 

vi.  Repayment  schedule  calendar/  calendar  of  interest  and  redemptions  issuer  wise 

(already mandated)  

Rationale: 

Regulation 15 of SEBI (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 has mandated certain set 

of duties on DTs which they are required to discharge throughout the maturity of the bond. 

Based on the complaints received from the investors in the recent default cases, it appears 

that the investors are not aware of the monitoring by the DTs and the compliance status of 

the issuers regarding various covenants disclosed in the IM.  

Accordingly,  in  order  to  enhance  the  transparency,  it  is  proposed  to  mandate  minimum 

disclosures as above. 

 

3.8. Disclosures regarding Performance of DTs 

Disclosure on the following parameters may be made by DTs which would be reflective of 

their promptness in discharging their duties:  

i. 

Timeliness  on  action  taken  (adhering  to  the  time-lines  specified  by  regulations/ 

transaction documents). 

Page 10 of 14 

 

 

 

 

ii.  Monitoring of covenants / security cover 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

Timely intimation of a breach in covenants (if any). 

Timely raising of red-flags if the issuer response is unsatisfactory. 

Effectiveness in enforcing security/ remedial actions in case of default. 

Promptness  in  convening  debenture  holder’s  meeting  and  aiding  in  decision 

making as and when requested or required.  

Rationale: 

Currently, there are no performance indicators of DTs that can enable/ allow the investors 

to ascertain the performance of the particular DT.  

While  the  disclosures  are  required  for  enhancing  the  transparency,  few  parameters  are 

also required to enable the investors to discern the performance of the DTs in expeditious 

enforcement  of  the  security  and  effective  monitoring  of  the  covenants.  Accordingly,  it  is 

proposed to have disclosures on certain parameters by DTs in order to enable the investors 

to discern the performance of the DTs.  

 

3.9. Public Disclosure of all covenants by the issuer in IM  

All covenants including the accelerated payment covenants whether given by way of side 

letter or otherwise shall be incorporated in the IM by the issuer at the time of issuance of 

debentures  and  disclosed  on  the  stock  exchange.  The  issuer  shall  also  be  obligated  to 

inform  the  DT  of  such  covenants  for  monitoring  of  the  same  by  DT  on  behalf  of  the 

investors.  

 

Rationale: 

SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008 provide for disclosures to be 

made in the offer document. The offer document shall contain all material disclosures which 

are  necessary  for  the  subscribers  of  the  debt  securities  to  take  an  informed  investment 

decision.  

However, it has been observed in the recent cases of defaults by Reliance Capital, Altico 

and DHFL that issuers and investors at the time of issuance of debt securities sign specific 

documents which contain certain covenants. These are generally called “side letters.” One 

Page 11 of 14 

 

 

 

 

of  the  common  covenants  that  has  been  observed  is  an  “accelerated  payment  clause” 

which states that if the borrower violates the terms of the covenant(s), including default or 

downgrade  of  debt,  such  lender  is  entitled  to  demand  immediate  repayment.  This 

accelerated repayment exercised by one lender may have a bearing on other lenders and 

may  have  a  cascading  effect  on  the  liquidity  and  operations  of  the  borrower,  leading  to 

insolvency. It was observed that in recent times, the use of such covenants by lenders has 

become more frequent which may have pushed firms into financial difficulty increasing the 

probability of default. 

Accordingly, the use of such covenants affects the interest of all the other investors in that 

issue. It is, therefore proposed that all such covenants shall be publicly disclosed in the IM 

and on the stock exchanges. 

3.10. Standardization of Debenture Trust Deed (DTD)  

DTD shall be bifurcated into two parts:  

i. 

ii. 

Part A of DTD shall contain generic/standard clauses common to all DTDs.  

Part B of DTD shall contain specific and customized clauses/covenants relevant to 

the particular issue for which the DTD is executed.  

  

Rationale: 

The DTD signed between the issuer and the DT includes standard covenants given in DT 

Regulations and form SH12 of the Companies Act. Such DTDs also include customized 

clauses specific to the issue. However, DTDs are lengthy, legal documents  running  into 

hundreds of pages sometimes. Therefore, a need is felt to standardize the DTD to make it 

more comprehensible and easy to read and understand by the debenture holders. 

Accordingly, it is proposed to standardize the DTD and bifurcate it into two parts along the 

lines of the offer document of the Mutual Funds. 

  

3.11. Enhanced Disclosures 

Following additional disclosures shall be made by the issuer in IM: 

Page 12 of 14 

 

 

 

 

i. 

A risk factor to state that while the debenture is secured against a charge to the tune 

of 100% of the principal and interest amount in favour of DT, the possibility of recovery 

of 100% of the amount shall depend on the market scenario prevalent at the time of 

enforcement of the security.  

ii. 

The issuer has no side letter with any bond holder except the one(s) disclosed in the 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

IM and on the stock exchange website where the debt is listed.  

About Pari-Passu charge and the entitlement of the investor in such cases. 

The rights and duties of the DT. 

The  detailed  procedure  to  be  followed  at  the  time  of  default  by  the  DT  including 

relevant procedures of ICA, DRT / National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and IBC. 

vi. 

The procedure and manner of calling meeting of debenture holders. 

 

Following additional disclosures shall be made by the issuer in DTD as well: 

i. 

ii. 

The rights and duties of the DT. 

The  detailed  procedure  to  be  followed  at  the  time  of  default  by  the  DT  including 

relevant procedures of ICA, DRT / NCLT and IBC. 

iii. 

The procedure and manner of calling of meeting of debenture holders, responsibility 

of debenture holders in such situations etc. 

iv. 

Bearing of recovery expenses in case of default. 

 

Rationale: 

The details about the terms of the debentures, duties of debenture trustees and redressal 

mechanisms in case of default are not known to the investors. The investors, therefore, are 

not fully aware of the risks undertaken while investing. In order to enhance transparency 

about the roles of various players and the provisions of the market structure, it is proposed 

to have the adequate disclosures in the IM and DTD.  

3.12. A framework for imposing fines and Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the same 

An SOP shall be prepared that shall list out the penalties for specific violations by the issuer 

company for the listed debt.  

 

 

Page 13 of 14 

 

 

 

 

Rationale: 

 

At the time of signing of DTD by the Debenture Trustee and issuer company, duties and 

responsibilities of the issuer are laid out in detail in DTD which includes cooperation with 

Debenture  Trustee  and  dissemination  of  information  to  Debenture  Trustee  and  Stock 

exchanges on a timely basis. However, lot of cases of non-cooperation with the DT have 

been noticed. SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 

(LODR  Regulations)  also  impose  certain  obligations  upon  the  issuer  with  regard  to  the 

submissions made to the debenture trustee. Adjudication proceedings are initiated against 

such issuers which are in violation of the provisions of the LODR Regulations. However, 

such actions usually take time, during which, the non-compliance may continue.  

Accordingly,  in  order  to  improve  compliance  and  discourage  the  non-cooperation  it  is 

proposed to develop an SOP in this regard. This SOP shall act as a deterrent and instill 

better cooperation and compliance by the issuers.  

 

4.  Public Comments: 

Public comments are invited on the proposals contained in the Consultation Paper in the following 

format: 

Name of entity/ person/ intermediary/ organization: __________________ 

  Sr. No.  Pertains to Point No. 

   Comments/ suggestions 

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

Comments/ suggestions may be forwarded by email to comments@sebi.gov.in or sent by post to 

the following address latest by March 17, 2020: 

 

General Manager  

Division of Policy & Inspection (CRA/DT) 

Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C7, "G" Block, Bandra Kurla Complex  

Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051  

Ph: 022 - 26441315  

 

Issued on: February 25, 2020 

 

Page 14 of 14 

