 

Consultation Paper   

 

Relaxation with respect to Qualified Institution Placement (QIP) issues 

1.  Objective 

1.1. The objective of this discussion paper is to seek comments / views from the public and 
market intermediaries on relaxation with respect to requirement of 6 month gap between 
two successive QIP issues. 

2.  Background 

2.1. As per SEBI (ICDR) Regulations, 2018, one of the condition for making a QIP is that : 

‘The  issuer shall  not  make any subsequent  qualified  institutions placement until 
the expiry of six months from the date of the prior qualified institutions placement 
made pursuant to one or more special resolutions’ - (Reg. 172(3) of ICDR,2018). 

2.2.  With respect to aforesaid stipulation of cooling off period between two QIP issues, SEBI 
has been receiving requests from issuer companies seeking exemption / waiving off this 
requirement of 6 months cooling off period between two successive QIP issues.  

2.3. The reasons for such exemption, as informed by the issuer companies, is urgent needs 
of funds and the fact that other fund raising mechanisms such as public issue or rights 
issue are time taking in comparison to a QIP issue. 

3.  Proposal 

3.1. PMAC suggested SEBI to seek public comments in the matter. 

3.2. To  address  concerns  of  the  issuer  companies  and  to  support  the  raising  of  capital, 

following option is put forward for consultation :  

3.2.1.  Relaxation may be provided for successive QIPs within 6 months of previous QIP 
issue,  in  cases  where  terms  of  placement  for  the  subsequent  tranches/issue  are 
disclosed upfront in the special resolution.  

4.  Public comments  

4.1. Considering the implications of the said matter on the market participants including issuer 
companies and investors, public comments are invited on the proposed option at Para 3 
above. Comments may be sent by email or through post, in the following format : 

Consultation paper on Relaxation w.r.t. QIP issues 
                                                                      Page 1 of 2 

 

 

Name of entity / person : 

Contact Number & Email Address : 

 

Sr. No. 

Reference  Para  of  the 
consultation paper 

Suggestion/ 
Comments 

Rationale 

 

 

 

 

 

While sending email, kindly mention the subject as "Comments on consultation paper 
for Relaxation w.r.t. QIP issues".  

The  comments  may  be  sent  by  email  to  ankurb@sebi.gov.in  or  sent  by  post  at  the 
following address latest by April 15, 2020: 
 
Ms. Amy Menon 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph.: +91-22-26449584 
 
Issued on:  March 16, 2020 

Consultation paper on Relaxation w.r.t. QIP issues 
                                                                      Page 2 of 2 

 

