 

Consultation Paper 

 

Pricing of Preferential Issues and exemption from open offer for acquisitions 

in Companies having Stressed Assets 

1.  Objective 

1.1. The  objective  of  this  discussion  paper  is  to  seek  comments  /  views  from  all 
stakeholders including listed companies, market intermediaries and public on 
pricing  of  Preferential  Issues  and  exemption  from  making  an  open  offer  for 
acquisitions in listed Companies having Stressed Assets.  

2.  Background 

2.1. It has been observed that listed companies that are facing financial stress are 
generally,  in  need  of  fund  infusion  to  tide  over  the  stress  situation  and 
thereby  avoid  Insolvency/Bankruptcy.  Such  listed  companies  face  certain 
difficulties  in  raising  capital  through  the  conventional  means.  It  is  observed 
that, 
listed  companies  having  “stressed  assets”  experience 
progressive  fall  in  their  share  price.  The  disclosures  that  are  made  by 
stressed companies such as their financial results, default in servicing  debts 
may also aggravate the fall. This lack of funding at such a crucial stage may 
lead to a major disruption in functioning of the operations of the company.  

typically, 

2.2. Such  companies  are  often  in  urgent  need  of  capital  from  willing  financial 
investors, as other sources of funds tend to dry out at this stage. One method 
available  for  raising  capital  can  be  through  preferential  allotment  to  help 
resuscitate the company. 

2.3. The  pricing  guidelines  for  preferential  issues  which  were  first  introduced  on 
August 04, 1994 mandated that the issue price shall not be less than average 
of weekly high and low for 26 weeks and average of weekly high and low for 
2  weeks  preceding  the  relevant  date.  Currently,  the  pricing  of  preferential 
issue 
(Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosures 
Requirement)  Regulations,  2018.  In  terms  of  Regulation  158(2)  of  the  SEBI 
(ICDR) Regulations, 2018, an exemption from pricing of preferential issue is 
available  in  case  the  same  has  been  made  in  terms  of  the  resolution  plan 
approved under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.  

is  mandated  under  SEBI 

2.4. The pricing provisions in respect of frequently traded scrips under chapter V 

of the ICDR Regulations, 2018 state as follows:  

164.  (1)  If  the  equity  shares  of  the  issuer  have  been  listed  on  a  recognised  stock 
exchange for a period of twenty six weeks or more as on the relevant date, the price of 

Consultation paper on Pricing of Preferential Issues in Companies having Stressed Assets 

Page 1 of 6 

 

 

 

the equity shares to be allotted pursuant to the preferential issue shall be not less than 
higher of the following:  

 
a.  the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the  volume  weighted  average 
price  of  the  related  equity  shares  quoted  on  the  recognised  stock  exchange 
during the twenty six weeks preceding the relevant date; or  

b.  the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the  volume  weighted  average 
prices  of  the  related  equity  shares  quoted  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange 
during the two weeks preceding the relevant date.  

 

2.5. It  has  been  represented  that  the  pricing  guidelines  are  too  onerous  for  any 
financial  investor  to  consider  investments  in  a  stressed  company.  The 
rationale  for  such  representation  is  that  the  determination  of  the  pricing 
covers  a  period  of  twenty-six  weeks  or  more  for  frequently  traded  shares. 
This large latency in pricing period especially given the deteriorating financial 
condition  of  the  listed  company  leads  to  a  wide  gap  in  pricing  between  the 
price  at  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-six  weeks  and  the  current  price  when 
funds are required to be raised.   

2.6. In view of the continuous fall in prices in companies having stressed assets, 
the pricing determined by Regulation 164(1)(a) is higher than as determined 
by  Regulation  164(1)(b).  This  is  because  Regulation  164(1)(a)  takes  in  to 
account  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  volume  weighted  average 
price for 26 weeks as compared to only 2 weeks for Regulation 164(1)(b).  

2.7. Given  these  pricing  regulations,  it  is  practically  difficult  if  not  impossible  for 

such companies to raise funds through preferential allotment route.  

2.8. While,  the  preferential  issue  regulations  allow  preferential  issue  of  specified 
securities to  Qualified Institutional  Buyers (QIBs) at “not lower than average 
of weekly high and low of the volume weighted average price during the two 
weeks preceding the relevant date”, the same has been restricted to 5 QIBs. 
It has been represented that in the case of such stressed companies, limiting 
preferential  issue  only  to  5  QIBs  is  restrictive  and  excludes  other  financial 
investors who may like to participate in such a company at the above pricing 
methodology. 

2.9. A  case  is  also  made  by  such  investors  to  have  a  substantial  holding  in  the 
company,  in  order  to  take  control  over  the  operations  of  the  company  and 
guide the company out of the stress. However, this acquisition of substantial 
holding  and  control  triggers  the  obligations  by  such  investor  to  make  open 
offer  to  the  other  investors  in  terms  of  the  SEBI  (SAST)  Regulations  which 
require him to acquire 26% more shareholding.  

Consultation paper on Pricing of Preferential Issues in Companies having Stressed Assets 

Page 2 of 6 

 

 

 

2.10. 

The  relevant  regulations  of  SEBI  (SAST)  Regulations,  2011  are  as 

follows: 

Substantial acquisition of shares or voting rights. 

3(1)  No  acquirer  shall  acquire  shares  or  voting  rights  in  a  target  company  which 

taken together with shares or voting rights, if any, held by him and by persons acting 

in  concert  with  him  in  such  target  company,  entitle  them  to  exercise  twenty-five per 

cent or more of the voting rights in such target company unless the acquirer makes a 

public announcement of an open offer for acquiring shares of such target company in 

accordance with these regulations. 
 
Offer Size 

7.  (1)  The  open  offer  for  acquiring  shares  to  be  made  by  the  acquirer  and  persons 

acting  in concert  with  him  under  regulation  3  and  regulation  4  shall  be  for  at  least 

twenty six per cent of total shares of the target company, as of tenth working day from 

the closure of the tendering period: 

Provided that the total shares of the target company as of tenth working day from the 

closure  of  the tendering  period  shall  take  into  account  all  potential increases  in the 

number of outstanding shares during the offer period contemplated as of the date of 

the public announcement: 

Provided  further  that  the  offer  size  shall  be  proportionately  increased  in  case  of  an 

increase  in  total  number  of  shares,  after  the  public  announcement,  which  is  not 

contemplated on the date of the public announcement. 
 
Offer Price 

8(2) In the case of direct acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over the 

target company, and indirect acquisition of shares or voting rights in, or control over 

the  target  company  where  the  parameters  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  of 

regulation 5 are met, the offer price shall be the highest of,— 

(a)  the  highest  negotiated  price  per  share  of the target  company  for  any  acquisition 

under  the  agreement  attracting  the  obligation  to  make  a  public  announcement  of an 

open offer; 

 

(b)  the  volume-weighted  average  price  paid  or  payable  for  acquisitions,  whether by 

the acquirer or by any person acting in concert with him, during the fifty-two weeks 

immediately preceding the date of the public announcement; 

 

(c) the highest price paid or payable for any acquisition, whether by the acquirer or 

by  any  person  acting  in  concert  with  him,  during  the  twenty-six  weeks  immediately 

preceding the date of the public announcement; 

Consultation paper on Pricing of Preferential Issues in Companies having Stressed Assets 

Page 3 of 6 

 

 

 

 
(d)  the  volume-weighted  average  market  price  of  such  shares  for  a  period  of  sixty 

trading days immediately preceding the date of the public announcement as traded on 

the stock exchange where the maximum volume of trading in the shares of the target 

company  are  recorded  during  such  period,  provided  such  shares  are  frequently 

traded; 
 
(e) where the shares are not frequently traded, the price determined by the acquirer 

and  the  manager  to  the  open  offer  taking  into  account  valuation  parameters 

including,  book  value,  comparable  trading  multiples,  and  such  other  parameters  as 

are customary for valuation of shares of such companies; and 
 
(f) the per share value computed under sub-regulation (5), if applicable. 

 

2.11. 

It  has  been  represented  that  making  an  open  offer  will  create 
substantial financial obligation for an incoming investor in addition to infusion 
the investor has made in the stressed company and will increase the cost of 
financial  intervention  to  avoid  insolvency.  A  case  is  therefore  made  out  to 
relax the conditions of making an open offer.  

2.12. 

Presently,  in  terms  of  Regulation  10(1)(da)  of  the  SEBI(SAST) 
Regulations,  open  offer  obligations  are  exempted  in  case  of  acquisition 
pursuant  to  a  resolution  plan  approved  under  section  31  of  the  Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.  

 

3.  Proposal 

3.1. The  matter  was  deliberated  at  the  Primary  Market  Advisory  Committee 
(PMAC),  which  has  identified  three  key  issues  i)  an  objective  criteria  for 
determining  a  company  as  stressed,  ii)  a  reasonable  pricing  for  preferential 
allotment  and  iii)  exemptions  from  open  offer  obligations.  The  PMAC  has 
recommended  that  SEBI  may  seek  public  comments  on  its  following 
recommendations  for  exemption  in  pricing  of  preferential  issue  and  from 
making an open offer in case of allotment to non- promoters: 

3.2. A listed entity satisfying any two out of the following three conditions shall be 

considered as stressed  

3.2.1.  Any listed company that has made disclosure of defaults on payment of 
interest/  repayment  of  principal  amount  on  loans  from  banks  /  financial 
institutions  and  listed  and  unlisted  debt  securities  for  two  consequent 
quarters in terms of SEBI Circular dated November 21, 2019. 

Consultation paper on Pricing of Preferential Issues in Companies having Stressed Assets 

Page 4 of 6 

 

 

 

3.2.2.  Existence of Inter-creditor agreement in terms of Reserve Bank of India 
(Prudential  Framework  for  Resolution  of  Stressed  Assets)  Directions 
2019 dated June 07, 2019. 

3.2.3.  Downgrading of credit rating of the listed instruments of the company to 

“D”  

3.3. A  listed  entity  complying  with  conditions  mentioned  at  3.2  above,  shall  be 

eligible for exemptions as follows: 

3.3.1.  Proposed exemption under ICDR 

Exemptions  may  be  provided  to  eligible  listed  entities  from  strict 
enforcement  of  pricing 
regulations  under  Chapter  V 
(Preferential  Issue)  of  the  ICDR  Regulations.  However,  the  pricing  in 
such cases may be determined as follows: 

related 

 

Pricing: 
(i) 

not  less  than  the  average  of  the  weekly  high  and  low  of  the 
volume  weighted  average  prices  of  the  related  equity  shares 
quoted  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange  during  the  two  weeks 
preceding the relevant date. 

 

 

3.3.2.  Proposed exemption under SAST 

Exemption  from  making  an  open  offer  may  be  considered  for  the 
allottees of preferential issue in such aforesaid stressed companies if the 
acquisition  is  beyond  the  limit  prescribed  in  terms  of  Regulation  3(1)  of 
SAST Regulations  

3.4. Listed  companies  complying  with  conditions  mentioned  at  3.2  above,  shall 

ensure the following in order to avail  above mentioned exemptions: 

3.4.1.  The  preference  issue  is  made  to  persons/entities  that  are  not  part  of 
the  promoter  or  promoter  group  on  the  date  of  the  board  meeting  to 
consider the preferential issue  

3.4.2.  Resolution  for  the  preferential  issue  at  the  aforesaid  pricing  and 
exemption from open offer has been approved by the majority of minority 
shareholders (i.e., excluding the promoters, the promoter group and any 
proposed allottee in the preferential issue that may already hold specified 
securities in the listed company prior to the preferential issue) 

Consultation paper on Pricing of Preferential Issues in Companies having Stressed Assets 

Page 5 of 6 

 

 

 

3.4.3.  Proposed  use  of  proceeds  of  such  preferential  issue  will  be  disclosed 
in  the  explanatory  statement  sent  for  purposes  of  the  shareholder 
resolution 

3.4.4.  Monitoring agency will be appointed for monitoring use of the proceeds 

of such a preferential issue 

3.4.5.  The shares issued to the investors in such an issue shall be locked in 
for  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  latest  date  of  trading  approval 
granted  by  all  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  specified  securities  are 
listed. 

4.  Public comments  

 

4.1. Considering  the  implications  of  the  said  matter  on  the  market  participants 
including issuer companies and investors, public comments are invited on the 
proposed  option  at  Para  3  above.  Comments  may  be  sent  by  email  or 
through post, in the following format : 

Name of entity / person : 
Contact Number & Email Address : 

Sr. No. 

Rationale 

Reference  Para  of  the 
consultation paper 
 

Suggestion/ 
Comments 
 

 
 
While  sending  email,  kindly  mention  the  subject  as  "Pricing  of  Preferential  Issues  and 
exemption from open offer for acquisitions in Companies having Stressed Assets".  

 

The  comments  may  be  sent  by  email 
to  Shri  Abhishek  Rozatkar 
(abhishekr@sebi.gov.in)  or  sent by  post at  the  following  address  latest by  May  13, 
2020: 
 
Mrs. Yogita Jadhav 
Deputy General Manager 
Corporation Finance Department 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
SEBI Bhavan 
Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051 
Ph.: +91-22-26449583 
 
Issued on:  April 22, 2020 

**** 

Consultation paper on Pricing of Preferential Issues in Companies having Stressed Assets 

Page 6 of 6 

 

