 
Notice inviting comments on the recommendation made by High Level Committee 
under the Chairmanship of Justice  A. R. Dave, Retired Judge, Supreme Court of 
India,  on  the  Measures  for  Strengthening  the  Enforcement  Mechanism  of  the 
Board and Incidental Issues. 

 

 
Dated the 16th June, 2020 
 
1.  The  High  Level  Committee  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Justice  A.  R.  Dave,  Retired 
Judge,  Supreme  Court  of  India  has  submitted  the  Report  on the  Measures  for 
Strengthening the Enforcement Mechanism of the Board and Incidental Issues.  
 
 
2.  Suggestions/comments  if  any,  on  the  following  recommendations  of  the  High-level 
Committee, are invited: 

2.1  Amendment  to the Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 

Regulations, 2008; 

2.2   Comprehensive Regulations  for  Recovery,  to  clarify  issues  relating  to 

recovery in the context of the securities laws; 

2.3   Use of financial economics by the Board, as used in similar disclosure based 
market regimes and proposal for a method of quantification of profit(s) made 
by the defaulter and loss(s) caused to the investors; 

Suggestions/comments 

if  any,  on 

the said 

in  brief  may  be  sent, 

Details of the recommendations are in the Annexure. 

 
3. 
 
recommendations along  with 
4.  
through  email 
justification 
at publiccommentsdop1@sebi.gov.in. The name, telephone number and address of the 
sender should be clearly indicated at the time of sending suggestions/comments. 
 
Name, Address, Contact No. of Stakeholder __________________________ 
 
SL. No. 

latest  by July  07, 2020 

Para No. 

Suggestion 

Justification 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

Sr. No.  Terms Used 

Meaning 

GLOSSARY  

 

ANNEXURE 

1.   

2.   

3.   

4.   

5.   

6.   

7.   

8.   

9.   

10.  

AO 

Board 

Adjudicating Officer 

The Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Depositories Act 

Depositories Act, 1996 

DA 

DM 

FCA 

IBBI 

IBC 

SAT 

Designated Authority 

Designated Member 

Financial Conduct Authority 

The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India 

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 

Securities Appellate Tribunal 

Settlement Regulations 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 

11.  

Intermediaries 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

Regulations  

(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 

12.  

13.  

14.  

SCRA 

SEBI 

SEBI Act 

15.  

SEC 

16.   WTM 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

Act, 1992 

US Securities and Exchange Commission 

Whole Time Member 

 

 

 

 
Page | - 2 -  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PART-A 

REVIEW OF THE INTERMEDIARIES REGULATIONS 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I. 

INTRODUCTION 

 
Intermediaries operate as the bridge between capital providers and capital seekers in the 
securities market. The capital providers i.e. the investors, especially retail investors, do 

not have adequate information, knowledge or expertise and the capital seekers i.e. the 

issuers  do  not  have  adequate  resources  to  reach  out  to  individual  investors  spread 

across the world. Therefore, intermediaries play a very crucial role in making the market 

matrix, and ensuring smooth working of anonymous order-driven trading platforms. 

 

DEFINING INTERMEDIARIES 

 

The Committee notes that although only Chapters V, V-A and VI of the Securities and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008  ("Intermediaries 

Regulations")  have  been  notified  and  are  in  force,  the  definition  of  an  intermediary 

under  regulation 2(1)(g) is not yet operative. For the purpose of the Report, it may be 

referred to in order to understand the concept from a regulatory perspective since the 

other statutes do not offer any principle based definition of the term “intermediary”. The 

Intermediaries Regulations has defined the term "intermediary" as follows:  

 

“Regulation 2 (1) (g) - “intermediary” means a person mentioned in clauses (b) 

and (ba) of sub-section (2) of section 11 and sub-section (1) and (1A) of section 12 

of  the  [SEBI]  (supplied)  Act  and  includes  an  asset  management  company  in 

relation  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) 

Regulations, 1996, a clearing member of a clearing corporation or clearing house, 

foreign  portfolio  investors  and  a  trading  member  of  a  derivative  segment  or 

currency  derivatives  segment  of  a  stock  exchange  but  does  not  include  foreign 

venture capital investor, mutual fund, collective investment scheme and venture 

capital fund;” 

 

 

 
Page | - 4 -  

 

The intermediaries mentioned in clauses (b) and (ba) of sub-section (2) of section 11 and 

sub-section (1) and (1A) of section 12 of the SEBI Act are given below: 

i) 

ii) 

iii) 

iv) 

v) 

vi) 

stock brokers;  

sub-brokers (this category has since ceased to exist);  

share transfer agents;  

bankers to an issue;  

trustees of trust deeds; 

registrars to an issue; 

vii)  merchant bankers; 

viii)  underwriters; 

ix) 

x) 

xi) 

portfolio managers; 

investment advisers;  

depositories and their participants; 

xii) 

custodians of securities; 

xiii) 

foreign institutional investors;  

xiv) 

credit rating agencies 

xv) 

such other intermediaries who may be associated with the securities markets in 

any manner or  such other intermediaries as the Board may, by notification, specify in 

this behalf. 

 

The  definition  of  “intermediary”  is  inclusive  although  the  term  “intermediary”  as 

defined  in  the  Intermediaries  Regulations,  specifically  includes  and  excludes  certain 

types  of  persons  associated  with  the  securities  markets.  Thus,  even  other  market 

participants,  which  provide  services  akin  to  that  of  an  intermediary,  albeit  not 

specifically included in the definition, would come under the purview of Intermediaries 

Regulations.  

 

 

Several other players in the securities market are required to register under the specific 

regulations governing them and their activities such as, - 

(a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996;  

 

 
Page | - 5 -  

 

 

 

(b) The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Collective  Investment  Schemes) 

Regulations, 1999; 

(c) The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of 

Securitised Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008; 

(d) The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment  Funds) 

Regulations, 2012; 

(e) The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Infrastructure Investment  Trusts) 

Regulations, 2014; 

(f)  The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts) 

Regulations, 2014. 

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY OF THE INTERMEDIARIES REGULATIONS  

 

Between  1992  and  2002,  separate  regulations  dealing  with  each  intermediary  were 

framed  which  provided  for  the  process  of  registration,  laid  down  obligations  and 

responsibilities  of  the  intermediary,  specified  the  procedure  for  inspection  and 

stipulated action in case of default by the intermediary. 

 

In 2002, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by 

Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 ("Enquiry Regulations") were 

notified. These regulations consolidated the procedure for action to be taken in case of 

default  by  any  of  the  intermediaries.  The  remaining  provisions  pertaining  to 

registration,  procedure  for 

inspection  and  those  pertaining  to  obligation  and 

responsibilities of the intermediaries were retained in the respective Regulations.  

  

Thereafter  in  2008,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 

Regulations,  2008  were  framed,  which  provided  for  a  consolidated  approach  while 

dealing  with  registration  of  intermediaries,  their  general  obligations,  inspection  and 

disciplinary  proceedings  and  action  in  case  of  default  as  well  as  the  manner  of  the 

suspension or cancellation of certificate of all intermediaries. However, only Chapter V 
 
Page | - 6 -  

 

 

dealing with action in  case of default and manner of  suspension or cancellation of  the 

certificate  of  all  intermediaries,  Chapter  VA  dealing  with  the  summary  procedure  and 

Chapter  VI  dealing  with  miscellaneous  issues  of  the  Intermediaries  Regulations  were 

brought into effect after due notification.  

 

REGISTRATION OF INTERMEDIARIES  

 

Section  12  of  the  SEBI  Act  prohibits  a  stock  broker,  sub-broker,  share  transfer  agent, 

banker  to  an  issue,  trustee  of  trust  deed,  registrar  to  an  issue,  merchant  banker, 

underwriter,  portfolio  manager,  investment  adviser  and  such  other  intermediary  who 

may  be  associated  with  the  securities  market,  from  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in 

securities,  except  under,  and  in  accordance  with,  the  conditions  of  a  certificate  of 

registration obtained from the Board under  the regulations made  under the SEBI Act. 

Therefore, any intermediary which is required to obtain a certificate of registration, for 

acting  as  an  intermediary  in  the  securities  market  may  be  referred  to  as  an 

“Intermediary”  for  the  purpose  of  this  Report  and  the  proposed  amendment  to  the 

Intermediaries Regulations. 

 

 

 

 
Page | - 7 -  

 

 

 

II.  NEED FOR PRESENT REVISION 

Historical Perspective 

 

In the past three decades, SEBI has notified more than a dozen regulations, each with 

the  objective  of  regulating  a  different  category  of  intermediary.  The  current  two  tier 

process of enquiry proceedings against intermediaries in the Intermediaries Regulations 

traces its origin to the procedure contemplated in the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992 (“Stock Broker Regulations”). 

In 2002, provisions similar to those contained in Stock Brokers Regulations and other 

respective  Regulations  pertaining  to  other  intermediaries  were  amended  by  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry 

Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, to enable SEBI to take action on the 

basis of investigation and inspection report.  

 

However, later in 2008, it was decided that since there is a considerable overlap in the 

regulations  pertaining  to  intermediaries,  a  consolidated  regulation  could  be  enacted. 

Eventually,  when  SEBI  published  Intermediaries  Regulation  in  2008,  due  various 

practical difficulties, only the process for holding enquiry against intermediaries by the 

Board  was  notified.  Even  though  12  years  have  elapsed  since  the  publication  of 

Intermediaries regulations, most  of its provisions have not come into effect. Thus, the 

Committee  feels  that  Intermediaries  Regulations  need  to  be  examined  from  the 

viewpoint of their practical applicability. 

 

Pendency of Enquiry Proceedings 

 

The  SEBI  Annual  Report  details  the  data  pertaining  to  actions  initiated  by  the  Board 

including 

initiation  of  enquiries  and  adjudication  proceedings  against  various 

intermediaries.  As  per  the  latest  data  available  with  SEBI,  almost  408  enquiry 

proceedings are pending with the Board.  

 
Page | - 8 -  

 

 

 

Two Tier Enquiry Proceedings: 

Enquiry  proceedings  are  initiated  against  the  registered  intermediaries  and  involve  a 

two-step process under the Intermediaries Regulations. The two tier enquiry system has 

been  borrowed  from  the  Enquiry  Regulations  which  in  turn  was  borrowed  from  the 

respective  regulations  pertaining  to  various  intermediaries.  In  the  first  step,  the  fact-

finding  proceedings  are  conducted  by  the  DA,  and  in  the  second  step,  quasi-judicial 

proceedings  are  conducted  before  the  DM  of  the  Board  on  the  basis  of  the 

recommendation of the DA. A two stage process adds to the time required in disposing 

off the proceedings.  

 

Time Taken for disposal of enquiry cases 

The analysis of the time taken between the date of action approved for each proceeding 

to the date of the final order passed in an enquiry case during the financial year 2018-19 

and the current  financial  year, indicates that considerable amount  of time is taken for 

completion  of  a  case  which  hampers  the  regulatory  effectiveness  of  the  enquiry 

proceedings. 

 

In light of the above, it becomes imperative to examine options to ensure that the time 

consumed in the enquiry proceedings be reduced and that the same may be effected by 

simple and necessary amendments to the applicable provisions. 

 

 

 

 
Page | - 9 -  

 

 

III.  REGULATION OF INTERMEDIARIES – GLOBAL SCENARIO 

 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 

In the United States, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (US-SEC) is required 

to  register  broker  dealers  under  section  15  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act,  1934.  The 

primary regulation of broker dealers is done through the Financial Industry Regulatory 

Authority, Inc. (FINRA), a private corporation, acting as a self-regulatory organization 

(SRO) for intermediaries. It is a non-governmental organization that regulates member 

brokerage  firms  and  exchange  markets.  The  government  agency  which  acts  as  the 

ultimate  regulator  of  the  securities  industry,  including  FINRA,  is  the  US-SEC.  Other 

intermediaries such as Investment Advisers are required to be registered with the USA 

SEC  under  the  Investment  Advisers  Act,  1940  and  Investment  companies  under  the 

Investment Company Act of 1940. FINRA provides the first line of oversight for broker-

dealers  and  the  first  line  of  defense  for  investors  by  virtue  of  its  comprehensive 

oversight program. FINRA regulates both the firms and professionals selling securities 

in the United States and the U.S. securities markets. In this capacity, FINRA writes and 

enforces its own rules, as well as enforces federal securities rules and laws.1 

 

FINRA  has  the  authority  to fine,  suspend  or  bar  brokers  and  firms  from  the  industry. 

FINRA may also take disciplinary action through two separate procedures: a settlement 

or a formal complaint. With a settlement, a firm or broker may opt to settle with FINRA 

through a Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent (AWC).2 

 

When FINRA determines that a violation of the securities rules has occurred and formal 

disciplinary action is necessary, the Enforcement Department or the Market Regulation 

Department files a complaint with the Office of Hearing Officers (OHO). 

 

                                                           
1 <http://www.finra.org/industry/oversight> 
2 <http://www.finra.org/industry/enforcement> 

 

 
Page | - 10 -  

 

The OHO is an office of impartial adjudicators of disciplinary cases brought by FINRA’s 

Department  of  Enforcement  against  FINRA  members.  The  OHO  maintains  strict 

independence from FINRA's regulatory programs and is physically separated from other 

FINRA departments. 

 

The  OHO  arranges  a  three-person  Panel  to  hear  the  case.  The  Panel  is  chaired  by  a 

hearing officer who is an employee of the OHO. The Chief Hearing Officer appoints two 

industry  panellists,  drawn  primarily  from  a  pool  of  current  and  former  securities 

industry  members  of  FINRA's  District  Committees,  as  well  as  its  Market  Regulation 

Committee,  former  members  of  FINRA's  National  Adjudicatory  Council  (NAC)  and 

former FINRA Governors. 

 

Hearing  officers  are  not  involved  in  the  investigative  process.  Employment  protection 

exist  for  hearing  officers  to  further  ensure  their  independence.  They  may  not  be 

terminated  except  by  the  FINRA  Chief  Executive  Officer,  with  a  right  to  appeal  to  the 

Audit  Committee  of  FINRA's  Board  of  Governors.3 At  the  hearing,  the  parties  present 

evidence for the panel to determine whether a firm or individual has engaged in conduct 

that  violates  FINRA  rules,  SEC  regulations  or  federal  securities  laws.  In  reaching  its 

decision, the hearing panel also considers previous decisions of the court, the SEC, and 

the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) to determine if violations occurred. The NAC 

is  the  national  committee  which  reviews  initial  decisions  rendered  in  FINRA 

disciplinary and membership proceedings. 

 

For each case, the hearing panel issues a written decision explaining the reasons for its 

ruling  and  consults  the  FINRA  Sanction  Guidelines  to  determine  the  appropriate 

sanctions if violations have occurred. FINRA may also, when feasible and appropriate, 

order firms and individuals to provide restitution to harmed customers. 

 

 

                                                           
3 Ibid. 
 

 

 
Page | - 11 -  

 

Appeal Process 

Under  FINRA's  disciplinary  procedures,  a  firm  or  individual  has  the  right  to  appeal  a 

hearing  panel  decision  to  the  NAC  or  the  NAC  may  on  its  own  initiate  a  review  of  a 

decision.  

 

While a decision is on appeal, the sanction is not actively enforced against the firm or 

individual. The NAC may affirm, dismiss, modify, or reverse any finding, or remand for 

further  proceedings.  The  NAC  may  affirm,  modify,  reverse,  increase,  or  reduce  any 

sanction or impose any other fitting sanction.4 

 

On  appeal,  the  NAC  will  determine  if  a  hearing  panel's  findings  were  legally  correct, 

factually supported and consistent  with the  Sanction Guidelines of  FINRA. Unless the 

Board  of  Governors  of  FINRA  decides  to  review  the  NAC's  appellate  decision,  that 

decision  represents  FINRA's  final  action.  A  firm  or  individual  can  appeal  FINRA's 

decision to the SEC and then to federal court.5 

 

The amount of fines in 2018 that the FINRA Enforcement Division ordered against its 

member  firms  increased  slightly  to  $74  million  from  $68  million  in  2017.  While  the 

amount  increased  nearly  nine  percent,  the  total  number  of  fines  decreased  to  209  in 

2018, compared to 318 in 2017.6 

 

THE UNITED KINGDOM  

 

The  Financial  Services  and  Markets  Act,  2000  of  the  United  Kingdom  created  the 

Financial  Conduct  Authority  (FCA)  as  a  regulator  for  insurance,  investment  business 

and banking, and the Financial Ombudsman Service. The FCA operates independently 

of the UK Government, and is financed by charging fees to the members of the financial 

services  industry.  The  FCA  regulates  financial  firms  providing  services  to  consumers 
                                                           
4 <http://www.finra.org/industry/nac> 
5 <http://www.finra.org/industry/decisions> 
6 <https://www.acacompliancegroup.com/blog/summary-finra-regulatory-actions-2018> 
 

 
Page | - 12 -  

 

 

and maintains the integrity of the financial markets in the United Kingdom. It focuses 

on the regulation of conduct by both retail and wholesale financial services firms. Like 

its predecessor (the FSA), the FCA is structured as a company limited by guarantee.  

 

Section 42 of the Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000 provides that the FCA may 

grant permission to the applicant to carry on regulated activities. Granting permission 

in UK is akin to providing registration under section 12 of the SEBI Act, 1992.  

 

Section 42 of the Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000 reads as follows: 

“Permission Giving  

S.  42.—(1)  “The  applicant”  means  an  applicant  for  permission  under 

permission section 40. 

(2)  The  Authority  may  give  permission  for  the  applicant  to  carry  on  the 

regulated  activity  or  activities  to  which  his  application  relates  or  such  of 

them as may be specified in the permission. 

(3) If the applicant— 

(a)  in  relation  to  a  particular  regulated  activity,  is  exempt  from  the 

general  prohibition  as  a  result  of  section  39(1)  or  an  order  made 

under section 38(1), but 

(b)  has  applied  for  permission  in  relation  to  another regulated  activity, 

the  application  is  to  be  treated  as  relating  to  all  the  regulated 

activities which, if permission is given, he will carry on. 

(4) If the applicant— 

(a)  in  relation  to  a  particular  regulated  activity,  is  exempt  from  the 

general prohibition as a result of section 285(2) or (3), but 

(b)  has  applied  for  permission  in  relation  to  another regulated  activity, 

the application is to be treated as relating only to that other regulated 

activity. 

(5) If the applicant— 

(a) is a person to whom, in relation to a particular regulated activity, the 

general prohibition does not apply as a result of Part XIX, but 

 
Page | - 13 -  

 

 

 

(b)  has  applied  for  permission  in  relation  to  another regulated  activity, 

the application is to be treated as relating only to that other regulated 

activity. 

(6) If it gives permission, the Authority must specify the permitted regulated 

activity  or  activities,  described  in  such  manner  as  the  Authority  considers 

appropriate. 

(7) The Authority may— 

(a) incorporate in the description of a regulated activity such limitations 

(for  example  as  to  circumstances  in  which  the  activity  may,  or  may 

not, be carried on) as it considers appropriate; 

(b)  specify  a  narrower  or  wider  description  of  regulated  activity  than 

that to which the application relates; 

(c)  give  permission  for  the  carrying  on  of  a  regulated  activity  which  is 

not included among those to which the application relates.” 

Section 40 of the Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000 provides that an application 

for permission to carry on one or more regulated activities may be made to the FCA by—  

(i) an individual; 

(ii) a body corporate; 

(iii) a partnership; or 

(iv) an unincorporated association. 

 

Further section 45 of the Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000 provides that if the 

authorised person is failing or is likely to fail to satisfy the condition of permission, the 

Authority may vary or cancel the permission. Furthermore, section 56  specifies that if 

the  Authority  is  satisfied  that  an  individual  is  not  a  fit  and  proper  person  to  perform 

functions  in  relation  to  a  regulated  activity  carried  on  by  an  authorised  person,  the 

Authority may prohibit any individual from performing as a specified function.  

 

 

 

 

 
Page | - 14 -  

 

Hearings and Appeals 

The order passed by the Authority may be referred to the Financial Service and Markets 

Tribunal  (the  Tribunal).  During  the  period  that  the  reference  is  pending  before  the 

Tribunal,  the  Authority  cannot  take  the  action  specified  in  the  decision  notice.  On 

determining  a  reference,  the  Tribunal  is  required  to  remit  the matter  to  the  Authority 

with such directions (if any) as the Tribunal considers appropriate for giving effect to its 

determination. Further, a party to a reference to the Tribunal may appeal to the Court of 

Appeal  or in Scotland, to the Court of Sessions. After taking a leave from the Court  of 

Appeal or House of Lord (now UK Supreme Court) the decision of the Court of Sessions 

or Court of Appeal may be appealed.  

 

 

 
Page | - 15 -  

 

 

IV.  KEY RECOMMENDATIONS AND RATIONALE 

PROPOSED PROCESS FOR ENQUIRY PROCEEDINGS 

  

Current provisions 

In the present system, the first tier of enquiry is conducted by the DA. As per regulation 

24(1)  of  the  Intermediaries  Regulations,  when  the  DM  (Chairman  or  a  WTM  of  the 

Board designated for the purpose) is satisfied that an intermediary has failed to comply 

with the conditions subject to which a certificate of registration was issued to him or has 

contravened  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  securities  laws,  or  any  directions  or  circular 

issued  thereunder,  the  DM  may  appoint  an  officer  not  below  the  rank  of  a  Division 

Chief,  as a  DA.  The regulations  further  provide  that  pursuant  to the  appointment,  the 

DA shall  issue a notice to the concerned intermediary requiring it to show cause as to 

why the certificate of registration granted to it should not be suspended or cancelled or 

why  any  other  action  provided  in  the  Intermediaries  Regulations  should  not  be  taken 

against the noticee. Upon conclusion of the enquiry the DA, submits a recommendation 

to the DM on the basis of material available before him. 

 

On  receipt  of  the  recommendation 

from  the  DA,  the  DM  considers  these 

recommendations and issues a show cause notice to the noticee enclosing a copy of the 

report submitted by the DA calling upon him to submit its reply as to why an order as 

deemed  appropriate  should  not  be  issued.  After  considering  the  report  of  the  DA,  the 

reply of the noticee and other material available before it, and providing the person with 

an opportunity of being heard, the DM passes the final order.  

 

The  two  tier  proceedings  in  the  Intermediaries  Regulations  traces  its  origin  to  the 

procedure contemplated in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers 

and  Sub-Brokers)  Regulations,  1992  (“Stock  Broker  Regulations”).  It  is  also  worth 

mentioning that the provision dealing with investigation under section 11C was inserted 

in the SEBI Act w.e.f. October 29, 2002 vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Amendment) Act, 2002.  

 

 
Page | - 16 -  

 

 

The Stock Broker Regulations in its original form, even before its amendment vide the 

Enquiry  Regulations,  2002,  provided  for  inspection  of  Stock  Brokers.  Further, 

regulation  23  of  Stock  Broker  Regulations  provided  that  after  considering  the 

explanation of the stock broker on the findings of inspection report, the Board may call 

upon the stock-broker to take such measures as the Board may deem fit in the interest of 

the securities market7. After the amendment of these regulations in 2002, regulation 23 

provided that  the Board shall, after considering the inspection or  investigation report, 

take such action as it may deem fit and appropriate, including action under the Enquiry 

Regulations  (now  chapter  V  of  the  Intermediaries  Regulations).  Similar  amendments 

were also carried out in the other regulations dealing with the respective intermediaries.  

 

Accordingly,  it  may  be  inferred  that  before  the  year  2002,  when  investigation  and 

inspection reports may not necessarily have been the basis for action in case of default 

by  the  intermediaries,  it  was  logical  to  have  in  place  the  two  tier  enquiry  for  taking 

action in case of default by the intermediaries where, the first tier  enquiry served as a 

primary fact finding authority collecting documents and evidence, as well as for analysis 

of  all the relevant  facts of  the case and submissions made by the  Intermediaries.8 It is 

also noteworthy that the notice issued by the enquiry officer under regulation 28 (since 

repealed)  of  the  Stock  Broker  Regulations  to  call  for  explanation,  reply,  information, 

documents or evidences, was not a show cause notice. Instead the report of the enquiry 

was  used  to  form  the  basis  of  the  show-cause  notice  issued  by  the  Board  which 

constituted the first step of the second tier enquiry process. After considering the reply 

                                                           
7 Regulation 23 of the Stock Broker Regulations before September 27, 2002 read as follows: 
Communication of findings etc. 
23. (1) The Board shall after consideration of the inspection report communicate the findings of the stock-broker to 
give in an opportunity of being heard before the action is taken by the Board on the findings of the inspecting 
authority. 
(2) On the receipt of the explanations, if any, from the stock – broker, the Board may call upon the stock-broker to 
take such measure as the Board may deem fit in the interest of the securities market and for due compliance with the 
provisions of the Act, rules and regulations. 
8 Read now repealed regulation 28 and 29 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Broker and Sub-
Broker) Regulations, 1992.  
 

 
Page | - 17 -  

 

 

to the show-cause notice, if received, the Board was mandated to pass such orders as it 

deemed fit in the second tier process. 

 

It  is  observed  that  although  provisions  similar  to  those  contained  in  regulation  23  of 

Stock  Brokers  Regulations  and  other  respective  Regulations  pertaining  to  other 

intermediaries, were amended by the Enquiry Regulations, enabling SEBI to take action 

on the basis of investigation and inspection report, the same two tier enquiry process as 

originally  contained  in  the  regulations  pertaining  to  the  respective  intermediaries  was 

carried forward to the Enquiry Regulations.  

 

However,  when  in  2008,  the  Intermediaries  Regulations  replaced  the  Enquiry 

Regulations, the two tier enquiry procedure was once again adopted, albeit with certain 

modifications such that regulation 25 of the Intermediaries Regulations mandates both 

the  DA  and  the  DM  to  issue  show-cause  notices.  That  is  even  after  submission  of  the 

report by the DA, the DM was once again required to issue a show cause notice to the 

entity, granting personal hearing during which time the DM is required to consider the 

submissions made by the intermediary.  

 

Given the time consumed in the duplication of the process even without a cost benefit 

analysis  of  the  process,  the  Committee  is  of  the  opinion  that  such  a  two  tier  enquiry 

process does not add much value and in fact causes further delays in the completion of 

the enquiry proceedings.  

 

Most  of  the  enquiry  matters  originate  post  the  inspection  or  investigation  processes. 

Only after analysis of the facts and laws, does the Board determine if it is a fit case to 

initiate enquiry proceedings.  

 

The present two-stage inquiry envisages a process similar to that followed in a ‘domestic 

inquiry’  by  an  employer  against  an  employee.  Such  long  winding  procedures  are 

acceptable  in  employment  matters  since  the  employer  may  like  to  grant  the employee 

maximum opportunities to explain the alleged misconduct.  

 
Page | - 18 -  

 

 

 

In the context of the securities markets, an enquiry proceeding against the intermediary 

is recommended  after a first-level investigation or inspection has already been carried 

out. Hence, adopting a long winding process as in a domestic inquiry to enquiry against 

market intermediaries may unduly work against public interest with the enquiry losing 

relevance over the period of time in which it is conducted and finally concluded. 

 

However, a two tier enquiry does have certain advantages such that it entails a deeper 

examination  of  facts  and  applicable  laws  which  may  presumably  lead  to  better 

dispensation  of  justice.  The  Committee  examined  the  possibility  of  proposing 

continuing with a two tier enquiry system for the intermediaries which handle funds of 

clients,  and  a  single  tier  enquiry  system  for  the  intermediaries  which  do  not  handle 

funds  of  clients.  However,  with  the  increase  in  various  categories  of  intermediaries 

recognised by the Board (such as research analysts and investment advisers) it may not 

be advisable to clog the enforcement mechanism by continuing with the two tier enquiry 

mechanism  only  for  a  certain  class  of  intermediaries.  The  Committee  considered  the 

proposal that the two tier mechanism for intermediaries which do not handle funds of 

the  clients  namely,  share  transfer  agent,  registrars  to  an  issue,  merchant  bankers, 

underwriters, investment advisors and credit rating agencies may be moved to the one 

tier  enquiry  process.  However,  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  such  a  classification 

may  not  be  a  reasonable  classification  and  provide  a  potential  ground  for  challenge 

before a Court of Law. 

 

Therefore, the Committee then considered the proposal for a two tier enquiry process of 

registration for intermediaries to be replaced with an enquiry process, as is the case in 

Adjudication or section 11/11B proceedings such that the person authorized to conduct 

such  single  tier  enquiry  be  called  “Enquiry  Authority”.  The  Board  may  appoint  any 

officer not below the rank of Division Chief to be an “Enquiry Authority” who would be 

equal or senior in rank to the officer, to whom the power to grant registration to such 

intermediary, has been delegated by the Board. In case of multiplicity of proceedings, a 

single  stage  inquiry  would  also  enable  the  same  authority  to  be  appointed  for  various 
 
Page | - 19 -  

 

 

single-stage  proceedings  which  would  allow  simultaneous  and  expeditious  disposal  of 

such cases since the grounds of inquiry in multiple proceedings would remain the same, 

but the sanction to be imposed would be different.  

 

After considerable debate on the merits of the processes discussed above, the Committee 

arrived at the view that the process may be simply reworked by reducing the time taken 

in  concluding  the  proceedings  without  compromising  application  of  the  principles  of 

natural  justice  or  any  of  the  process  envisaged  therein.  This  could  be  enabled  by 

completion of all processes at one level followed by the submission of the report to the 

DM. Thereafter, the DM may grant opportunity of written representation to the noticee, 

pursuant to which he may pass the final order. 

 

RECOMMENDATION No. 1 

The  Committee  noted  that  the  Intermediaries  Regulations  do  not  mandate  the 

DA  to  grant  personal  hearing  to  the  noticee.  As  per  the  present  scheme  in  the 

Intermediaries Regulations, after the show cause notice is issued by the DA, if the 

noticee  does  not  reply  to  the  show  cause  notice,  the  DA  may  proceed  with  the 

matter  ex-parte  after  recording  the  reasons  for  doing  so  and  make  suitable 

recommendations.  On  the  other  hand,  on  receipt  of  the  report  recommending 

measures  from  the  DA,  the  DM  is  required  to  issue  a  show  cause  notice  to  the 

noticee and only after providing them with an opportunity of being heard, does 

the DM pass an appropriate order.  

 

Since the opportunity of personal hearing is granted by the DM, issues relating to 

inspection of documents and/or cross-examination increases at this stage of the 

enquiry  proceeding.  Currently  only  four  WTMs  (who  also  function  as  the  DM) 

have been appointed to the Board by the Central Government. Due to such work 

getting concentrated before the WTMs, the chances of more time being consumed 

at the second tier of enquiry becomes high. On the other hand, the Board is not 

constrained by the number of officers who may be appointed as a DA.  

 

 

 
Page | - 20 -  

 

 

 

 

In  light  of  these  constraints,  it  is  proposed  to  provide  for  the  opportunity  of 

personal hearing to be given by the DA and not by the DM.  

 

The  Committee also  notes  that  judicial  processes differ  from the  administrative 

adjudicatory  process  in  an  important  aspect.  While  the  judicial/quasi-judicial 

authority  is  exclusively  engaged  in  adjudication,  the  administrator–adjudicator 

discharges  adjudicatory  functions  along  with  other  administrative  duties. 

Similarly,  in  the  case  of  WTMs  who  apart  from  adjudicating  as  the  DM  also 

discharge other administrative functions.  

It has however been experienced that pure institutional decisions give rise to two 

main issues.9 Firstly, the authorship of such a decision may not be known as it is 

reached  through  several  officers  in  the  concerned  department.  Secondly,  there 

may  be  divisions  in  the  decision-making  process  in  that  while  one  person  may 

hear, another may decide.  

The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the matter of Travancore Rayons Vs India10 held 

that the procedural safeguards in case of an institutional decision should be such 

that the party affected is informed of the official who has considered the matter. 

The  Committee  notes  that  this  requirement  is  fulfilled  by  the  Intermediaries 

Regulations  and  hence  keeping  the  same  in  mind,  the  Committee  recommends 

similar amendments to the Intermediaries Regulations.  

The decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Gullapalli Nagewara Rao vs. A. P. 

State Road Transport Corporation11 that personal hearing enables the authority 

concerned  to  watch  the  demeanour  of  the  witnesses  and  clear  up  any  doubts 

during  the  course  of  the  argument  and  of  the  party  appearing  to  persuade  the 

authority by reasoned argument to accept their point of view is also noted by the 

                                                           
9 M P Jain & S N Jain, Principles of Administrative Law, Fourth Edition, p . 273 
10 A.I.R. 1971 S.C. 862 
11 A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 308 

 

 
Page | - 21 -  

 

 

 

Committee.  If  one  person  hears  and  another  decides,  then  a  personal  hearing 

would  become  a  mere  formality.  Therefore,  it  has  to  be  ensured  that  the 

opportunity  of  personal  hearing  by  the  DM  entails  a  reasonable  must  grant  an 

effective  opportunity  to  the  noticee  to  defend  his  case  and  the  same  may  be 

effected  by  way  of  a  written  representation,  which  is  to  be  considered  before 

passing of the final order in the case.  

Such a proposal emanates from the principle that oral hearing is not essential to 

comply with the principles of natural justice which do not necessarily predicate 

an oral hearing to be provided unless the context requires otherwise.12 The only 

requirement  of  natural  justice in  such  cases  is that  the  quasi-judicial  bodies  do 

not arrive at adverse finding without giving the noticee an effective opportunity 

of defending any allegations. Such an opportunity may be effected even through a 

written  representation.  The  opportunity  of  making  a  written  representation  is 

equally efficacious and also amounts to a hearing. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in 

several judgements has reiterated its view that in quasi-judicial proceedings, an 

opportunity to make representation need  not necessarily be provided by way of 

personal hearing; it can also be done by granting an opportunity to make written 

representation.13 

The  right  of  oral  or  personal  hearing  is,  however,  often  demanded  by  affected 

persons since it is believed that they are in a position to effectively persuade the 

authorities  to  countenance  their  point  of  view.  Occasionally,  not  affording  oral 

hearing  could  itself  prejudice  the  proceedings  and  render  the  order  invalid  or 

ineffective.14 Yet oral hearing is not mandatory, except in cases where a provision 

of  law  or  a  rule  specifically  provides  for  an  opportunity  of  oral  hearing.  Under 

those  circumstances  the  oral  hearing  is  required  to  be  provided  in  strict 

compliance of the law.  

                                                           
12 Gopalan Vs. Madras. AI.R., 1960 S.C. 
13 Madya Pradesh Industries Ltd. Vs Union of India and others 1966 AIR 671, 1966 SCR (1) 466 
14 M. Sadasiva Sekhar vs District Collector and Ors. 203 (2) ALD843, 2003 (3) ALT 68 

 
Page | - 22 -  

 

 

 

 

After  considering  all  the  above  and  the  various  judgments  of  the  Hon’ble 

Supreme  Court,  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  in  a  two  tier  process  as 

specified  in  the  Intermediaries  Regulations,  the  requirement  of  natural  justice 

stands adequately complied with if the DA grants an opportunity to make written 

representation  and  grant  an  oral  hearing  to  the  noticee  and  the  DM  grants  an 

opportunity to the noticee to only submit written representation after providing 

the copy of the Report of the DA.  

 

The  Committee  is  also  cognizant  of  the  fact  that  a  WTM,  in  the  course  of 

institutional decision-making process also discharges duties as a DM. Due to the 

change in WTMs, who are appointed by Central Government from time to time, a 

fresh oral hearing needs to be granted to the noticee by the new DM in case the 

erstwhile DM was unable to pass the order before demitting office. The aforesaid 

proposal  would,  thus,  enable  SEBI  to  conclude  enquiry  proceedings  in  a  timely 

manner  by  avoiding  grant  of  multiple  oral  hearings.  A  written  representation 

would  enable  the  other  DM  to  pass  final  orders  without  delaying  the  enquiry 

proceedings on account of granting fresh oral hearing to the Noticee. 

  

Considering the above factors, the Committee recommends the following process 

to  be  adopted  in  all  enquiry  proceedings  before  the  Board,  which  would  entail 

suitable amendments to the Intermediaries Regulations: 

I.  The  process  related  to  granting  of  an  opportunity  of  personal  hearing, 

inspection  of  documents,  cross-examination  etc.,  shall  be  granted  by  the 

DA.  After  conducting  a  detailed  enquiry  and  after  considering  all  the 

representation(s) and the facts and circumstances of the case, the DA may 

submit a report recommending appropriate action as contemplated in the 

Intermediaries Regulations. 

II.  Upon  receipt  of  the  report  of  the  DA,  the  DM  may  issue  a  show  cause 

notice  calling  upon  the  noticee  to  submit  within  21  days,  a  suitable 

response as to why action as recommended by the DA or any other action 
 
Page | - 23 -  

 

 

as  contemplated  in  the  Intermediaries  Regulations  may  not  be  initiated. 

The  show  cause  notice  may  also  clearly  specify  that  no  opportunity  of 

personal hearing would be granted and all the submission, if any, may be 

made only in a written form.  

 

FACTORS TO BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT BY THE DESIGNATED AUTHORITY 

 

Current provisions 

Section 15J of the SEBI Act, provides for relevant factors to be taken into account by the 

adjudicating officer while adjudging quantum of penalty under section 15-I of the SEBI 

Act.  Such  a  provision  acts  as  a  pole  star  while  deciding  the  quantum  of  penalty  and 

guides the officer in prudently exercising the discretion vested upon him by the statute. 

The Intermediaries Regulations do not have any provision similar to that of section 15J 

of  the  SEBI  Act  to  guide  the  DA  and  DM  while  exercising  discretion  to  determine 

issuance of suitable direction as contemplated in the Intermediaries Regulations.  

 

 

RECOMMENDATION No. 2: 

 

In view of the above discussion, the Committee also recommends the incorporation of a 

provisions similar to section 15J of the SEBI Act in the Intermediaries Regulations. The 

DA and the DM, as the case may be, while making the recommendation and passing the 

order  under  the  Intermediaries  Regulations,  shall  have  due  regard  to  the  following 

factors, namely, —  

 

 

the amount of disproportionate gain or unfair advantage, wherever quantifiable, 

made as a result of the default;  

the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of the 

default;  

the repetitive nature of the default; and  

 
  any other relevant and just factors. 

 

 
Page | - 24 -  

 

 

V.  DRAFT OF REGULATIONS 

The  Committee  recommends  that  regulation  25,  26,  27  and  28  of  Chapter  V  of  the 

Intermediaries  Regulations  may  be  substituted  with  the  following  regulations,  which 

may be made applicable upon the notification of the proposed amendments, - 

 

Holding of enquiry. 

 

CHAPTER V 

25.  (1)  The  Designated  Authority  shall  issue  a  notice  to  a  person  against  whom  an 

enquiry  has  been  initiated,  to  show  cause  as  to  why  the  action,  as  contemplated 

against such person should not be recommended. 

(2) The noticee shall be called upon to submit, within a period to be specified in the 

notice, not exceeding twenty-one days from the date of service thereof, a written reply 

to  the  notice,  along  with  documentary  evidence,  if  any,  in  support  of  such  written 

reply: 

Provided  that  the  Designated  Authority  may  extend  the  time  specified  in  the 

notice  for  sufficient  grounds  shown  by  the  noticee  and  after  recording  reasons  in 

writing. 

(3)  Every  notice  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  specify  the  contravention  alleged  to 

have been committed by the noticee by indicating the provisions of the securities laws 

or the direction or the order of the Board alleged to have been contravened. 

(4)  There  shall  be  annexed  to  the  notice  issued  under  sub-  regulation  (1),  copies  of 

documents relied upon by the Board along with the extracts of relevant portions of the 

reports containing the findings arrived at in an inquiry, investigation or inspection, if 

any. 

 (5) If the noticee demands inspection of such documents within the period specified 

in sub-regulation (2) and the designated authority is of the opinion that the same may 

be granted, then the DA may issue a notice fixing a date of inspection of documents 

for the same within thirty days from the date of receipt of such request. 

 

 
Page | - 25 -  

 

(6) If the Designated Authority is satisfied that there is a need to grant an opportunity 

of personal hearing, then the DA may issue or cause to issue a notice scheduling a date 

for hearing the noticee or authorised representative: 

Provided that no opportunity of oral hearing may be granted in the cases where 

the noticee is alleged to have failed to pay the registration fee or any other applicable 

fees to the Board as per the provisions of the relevant regulations or the noticee has 

been declared a wilful defaulter or a fugitive economic offender. 

(7)  If  the  noticee  does  not  reply  to  the  notice  or  fails  to  appear  on  the  scheduled 

hearing date and the designated authority is satisfied that sufficient opportunity has 

been  given  to  the  noticee,  the  designated  authority  may  conclude  the  proceedings 

after,  recording  the  reasons  for  doing  so,  on  the  basis  of  the  material  available  on 

record. 

 

Recommendation of action  

26.  (1) After considering the reply, if any, and other material available on record, the 

Designated  Authority  may  by  way  of  a  report,  where  the  facts  so  warrant, 

recommend –  

(i) cancellation of the certificate of registration;  

(ii) suspension of the certificate of registration for a specified period;  

(iii) prohibition of the noticee from taking up any new assignment or contract or 

launching a new scheme for the period specified in the order;  

(iv)  debarment  of  an  officer  of  the  noticee  from  being  employed  or  associated 

with  any  registered  intermediary  or  other  person  associated  with  the 

securities market for the period specified in the order;  

(v) debarment of a branch or an office of the noticee from carrying out activities 

for the specified period;  

(vi) issuance of a regulatory censure to the noticee: 

Provided  that  in  respect  of  the  same  certificate  of  registration,  not  more 

than five regulatory censures under these regulations may be recommended to 

be issued to any intermediary, thereafter, the action as detailed in clause (i) to 

 

 
Page | - 26 -  

 

(v) of this sub-regulation may be considered. 

 (2)  The  designated  authority  shall  endeavour  to  submit  the  report  within  one 

hundred and twenty days from the date of receipt of reply to the notice or date of last 

personal hearing, whichever is later.  

  

Order 

27.  (1)  On  receipt  of  the  report  containing  the  measures  recommended  by  the 

designated  authority,  the  designated  member  shall  issue  notice  to  the  noticee 

enclosing therein a copy of the report submitted by the designated authority and call 

upon the noticee to reply to the notice, in writing, as to why the action recommended 

by the designated authority considers appropriate, should not be taken.  

(2)  The  noticee  shall  submit,  within  a  period  as  specified  in  the  notice,  but  not 

exceeding  twenty-one  days  from  the  date  of  service  thereof,  a  written  reply  to  the 

notice, along with documentary evidence, if any, in support of such written reply. 

Provided  that  upon  the  request  of  the  noticee  the  designated  member  may 

extend the time specified in the notice, after recording reasons in writing. 

Provided further that the noticee shall not have any right to seek opportunity of 

oral hearing before the designated member. 

 (3) The designated member shall after considering the written submission, if any and 

other  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  matter,  pass  an  appropriate  order  within  one 

hundred and twenty days from the date of receipt of the written reply to the notice.  

  

Factors to be taken into account. 

28. While making a recommendation or passing an order  as  under this chapter, the 

designated authority or designated member, as the case may be, shall have due 

regard to the following factors, namely, - 

(a)  the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage,  wherever 

quantifiable, made as a result of the default;  

(b) the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of 

the default;  

 

 
Page | - 27 -  

 

 

(c) the repetitive nature of the default;  

(d) any other relevant and just factors.  

The  Committee  also  notes  that  only  Chapter  V,  V-A  and  VI  of  the  Intermediaries 

Regulations  have  been  notified  till  date.  Hence  the  Committee  recommends  that  the 

Intermediaries Regulations may be replaced by new regulations which may only contain 

provisions  with  respect  to  manner  of  actions  in  case  of  defaults  by  Intermediaries,  as 

proposed below: 

 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRA-ORDINARY  

PART –III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

 

NOTIFICATION 

 

Mumbai, the ….. day of ……., 2020 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (PROCEDURE FOR 

HOLDING ENQUIRY) REGULATIONS, 2020 

No. ………………… In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read with 

sub-section (3) of section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 

1992 (15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely: -  

 

 

 
Page | - 28 -  

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement  

1.  (1)  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020.  

(2)  They  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of  their  publication  in  the  Official 

Gazette.  

 

Definitions  

2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, -  

(a)   "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 

(15 of 1992);  

(b)   "Board"  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

constituted under section 3 of the Act;  

(c)   "Certificate"  means  a  certificate  of  registration  granted  to  an 

intermediary under the relevant Regulations; 

(d)   “Designated Authority” means an officer of the Board and includes 

a bench of such officers;  

(e)   “Designated  Member”  means  the  Chairman  or  a  Whole  Time 

Member of the Board designated for the purpose;  

(f)   “Executive  Director”  means  an  officer  of  the  Board  who  is 

appointed as such by the Board; 

(g)   “Intermediary”  means  a  person  who  is  required  to  obtain  a 

certificate  of  registration  from  the  Board  and  includes  an  asset 

management  company  in  relation  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations,  1996,  an  investment 

 

 
Page | - 29 -  

 

manager in relation to the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, a manager in 

relation to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real Estate 

Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, a manager in relation to the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment 

Funds)  Regulations,  2012,  a  clearing  member  of  a  clearing 

corporation  or  clearing  house,  a  foreign  portfolio  investor  and  a 

trading  member  of  a  derivative  segment  or  currency  derivatives 

segment of a stock exchange. 

(h)   “Noticee” means the person to whom a notice has been issued under 

these Regulations; 

(i)   “Securities  Laws”  includes  the  Act,  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 

of 1996), and the rules or regulations or circulars or guidelines made 

thereunder and includes the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 

(18  of  2013)  and  the  rules  made  thereunder  to  the  extent 

administered by the Board. 

(2)  Words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in  these  regulations,  but 

defined  in  the  securities  laws  shall  have  the  meanings  respectively  assigned to 

them thereunder, as the case may be. 

 

 

CHAPTER II 

ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT  

Cancellation or suspension of registration and other actions  

3. Where any registered intermediary or its sponsor, trustee, partners, directors or 

 
Page | - 30 -  

 

 

officers, as the case may be,  

(a)   fails to comply with any conditions subject to which a certificate of 

registration has been granted;  

(b)   contravenes  or  attempts  to  contravene  or  abet  the  contravention  of 

any  of  the  provisions  of  the  securities  laws  or  fails  to  comply  with 

any of the directions or orders of the Board;  

the Board may, without prejudice to any action under the securities laws, by 

an order, take action in the manner specified under these regulations.  

 

 

Appointment of the Designated Authority  

4. (1) Where it appears to the Designated Member that any person has committed 

any default as specified in regulation 3, the Designated Member may approve the 

initiation of proceedings under these regulations against such person. 

(2) The relevant Executive Director shall thereafter appoint an officer not below 

the rank of a Division Chief, as a Designated Authority:  

Provided that the Executive Director may appoint a bench of three officers, each 

of whom shall not be below the rank of a Division Chief:  

Provided further that such bench shall be presided by the senior most amongst 

them and all the decisions or recommendations of such bench shall be by way of 

majority. 

 

Holding of enquiry. 

5. (1) The Designated Authority shall issue a notice to a person against whom an 

enquiry has been initiated, to show cause as to why the action as contemplated 

against such a person should not be recommended. 

 
Page | - 31 -  

 

 

(2) The noticee shall be called upon to submit, a written reply to the notice, along 

with  documentary  evidence,  if  any,  in  support  of  such  written  reply  within  a 

period to be specified in the notice, not exceeding twenty-one days from the date 

of service thereof: 

Provided  that  the  Designated  Authority  may  extend  the  time  specified  in  the 

notice for sufficient grounds shown by the noticee and after recording reasons in 

writing. 

(3) Every notice under sub-regulation (1) shall specify the contravention alleged 

to  have  been  committed  by  the  noticee  by  indicating  the  provisions  of  the 

securities  laws  or  the  direction  or  the order  of  the  Board  alleged  to  have  been 

contravened. 

(4) There shall be annexed to the notice issued under sub- regulation (1), copies 

of  documents  relied  upon  by  the  Board  along  with  the  extracts  of  relevant 

portion  of  the  reports  containing  the  findings  arrived  at  in  the  inquiry, 

investigation or inspection, if any. 

 (5) If the noticee seeks inspection of such documents within the period specified 

in sub-regulation (2) and the designated authority is of the opinion that the same 

may be granted, then the Designated Authority may issue a notice fixing a date 

for  inspection  of  documents  for  the  same  within  thirty  days  from  the  date  of 

receipt of such request. 

(6)  If  the  Designated  Authority  is  satisfied  that  there  is  a  need  to  grant  an 

opportunity  of  personal  hearing,  then  the  Designated  Authority  may  issue  or 

cause to issue a notice scheduling a date for hearing to the noticee or authorised 

representative: 

Provided that no opportunity of oral hearing may be granted in the cases arising 

out of a failure of the noticee to pay the registration fee or any other applicable 

 

 
Page | - 32 -  

 

fees to  the  Board  as per the provisions of the  relevant regulations or  where he 

noticee has been declared a wilful defaulter or a fugitive economic offender. 

(7) If the noticee does not reply to the notice or fails to appear on the scheduled 

hearing date and the Designated Authority is satisfied that sufficient opportunity 

has  been  given  to  the  noticee,  the  Designated  Authority  may  conclude  the 

proceedings, after recording the reasons for doing so, on the basis of the material 

available on record. 

 

Recommendation of action  

6. (1) After considering the reply if any and other material available on record, 

the  Designated  Authority  may  by  way  of  a  report,  where  the  facts  so  warrant, 

recommend –  

(i)  

cancellation of the certificate of registration;  

(ii)  

suspension of the certificate of registration for a specified period;  

(iii)   prohibition  of  the  noticee  from  taking  up  any  new  assignment  or 

contract or launching a new scheme for the period specified in the 

order;  

 (iv)   prohibition of a branch or an office of the noticee from carrying out 

activities for the specified period;  

(v)  

issuance of a censure to the noticee: 

(2)  The  Designated  Authority  shall  endeavour  to  submit  the  report  within  one 

hundred and twenty days from the date of receipt of reply to the notice or date of 

last personal hearing, whichever is later.  

  

Order 

7. (1) Upon the receipt of the report containing the measures recommended by 

 
Page | - 33 -  

 

 

the  Designated  Authority,  the  Designated  Member  shall  issue  a  notice  to  the 

noticee  enclosing  therein  a  copy  of  the  report  submitted  by  the  Designated 

Authority and call upon the noticee to reply to the notice, in writing, as to why 

the action recommended by the Designated Authority or any action as considered 

appropriate, should not be taken.  

(2) The noticee shall submit, within a period as specified in the notice, but not 

exceeding twenty-one days from the date of service thereof, a written reply to the 

notice,  along  with  documentary  evidence,  if  any,  in  support  of  such  a  written 

reply. 

Provided  that  upon  the  request  of  the  noticee,  the  Designated  Member  may 

extend the time specified in the notice, after recording the reasons in writing. 

Provided further that the noticee shall not have any right to seek an opportunity 

of oral hearing before the Designated Member. 

(3)  After  considering  the  written  submission,  if  any  and  the  other  facts  and 

circumstances of the matter, the Designated Member shall endeavour, within one 

hundred  and  twenty  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  written  reply  to  the 

notice, to pass an appropriate order.  

  

Factors to be taken into account 

8.  While  making  a  recommendation  or  passing  the  order,  the  Designated 

Authority or Designated Member, as the case may be, shall have due regard to 

the following factors, namely, - 

(a)  the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage,  wherever 

quantifiable, made as a result of the default;  

(b) the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of 

the default;  

 

 
Page | - 34 -  

 

(c) the repetitive nature of the default;  

(d) any other relevant and just factors. 

 

Surrender of any certificate of registration.  

9.  (1) Any  person,  who has been granted a  certificate of  registration under  the 

Act  or  the  regulations  made  thereunder,  desirous  of  giving  up  its  activity  and 

surrendering the certificate, may make a request for such surrender to the Board 

and  while  disposing  such  a  request,  the  Board  shall  not  be  bound  by  the 

procedure specified in the foregoing provisions of these regulations.  

(2) While disposing of a request under this regulation, the Board may require the 

concerned person to satisfy the Board with such factors as it deems fit, including 

but not limited to the following-  

(a)   the  arrangements  made  for  maintenance  and  preservation  of  records 

and  other  documents  required  to  be  maintained  under  the  relevant 

regulations;  

(b)   redressal of investor grievances;  

(c)   transfer of records, funds or securities of clients;  

(d)   the arrangements made for ensuring continuity of service to clients;  

(e)   completion of pending proceedings or addressing the defaults if any.  

(3)  While  accepting  surrender,  the  Board  may  impose  upon  the  person  such 

conditions  as  it  deems  fit  for  the  protection  of  the  investors  or  clients  or  the 

securities market and such person shall comply with such conditions.  

 

Effect of suspension or cancellation or surrender  

10.  (1)  On  and from  the date of  cancellation or suspension or surrender of the 

certificate, the concerned person shall - 

 

 
Page | - 35 -  

 

(i) not  represent  that  he  is  an  intermediary  while  such  suspension  is  in 

force; 

(ii) not  undertake  any  new  assignment  or  contract  or  launch  any  new 

scheme  and  during  the  period  of  such  suspension,  it  shall  cease  to 

carry on any activity in respect of which certificate had been granted;  

 

(2)   On  and  from  the  date  of  cancellation  or  surrender  of  the  certificate,  the 

concerned person shall-  

(a)   return the certificate of registration so cancelled or surrendered to the 

Board  and  shall  not  represent  itself  to  be  a  holder  of  certificate  for 

carrying out the activity for which such certificate had been granted;  

(b)   cease  to  carry  on  any  activity  in  respect  of  which  the  certificate  had 

been granted;  

(c)   transfer  its  activities  to  another  person  holding  a  valid  certificate  of 

registration to carry on such activity and allow its clients or investors to 

withdraw or transfer their securities or funds held in its custody or to 

withdraw  any  assignment  given  to  it,  without  any  additional  cost  to 

such client or investor;  

(d)   make provisions as regards liability incurred or assumed by it;  

(e)   take  such  other  action  including  the  action  relating  to  any  records  or 

documents  and  securities  or  money  of  the  investors  that  may  be  in 

custody  or  control  of  such  person,  within  the  time  period  and  in  the 

manner, as may be required under the relevant regulations or as may be 

directed by the Board while passing order under these Regulations or 

otherwise.  

 

 

 
Page | - 36 -  

 

CHAPTER III 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Intimation of the order.  

11.  

(1) A copy of the order passed under these Regulations shall be sent to the 

noticee and shall be uploaded on the website of the Board.  

(2)   A  copy  of  the  order  shall  also  be sent  to  the  concerned  stock exchange, 

clearing corporation, depository or self-regulatory organization where the noticee 

is a member.  

 

Manner of service of notice and order and publication of order  

12. Any notice issued or order passed under these regulations may be served -  

(a)   by hand delivery to the concerned person or the duly authorized agent; 

or  

(b)   by  delivery,  at  the  address  available  on  the  records  of  the  Board  and 

addressed to that person or the duly authorized agent, by registered post 

acknowledgement due or by speed post or by such courier service or by 

fax  or  electronic  mail  service  or  by  any  other  means  of  transmission 

which affords a record of delivery;  

Provided  that  a  notice  sent  through  electronic  mail  shall  be  digitally 

signed by the competent authority.  

Provided  further  that  bouncing  of  the  electronic  mail  shall  not 

constitute valid service;  

(c)   in  case  of  a  stock  broker  or  a  sub-broker  or  a  depository  participant 

through  the  concerned  stock  exchange  or  the  depository  respectively; 

and  

(d)   if it cannot be served as per clause (a) or (b) or (c), by affixing it on the 

 

 
Page | - 37 -  

 

 

door  or  some  other  conspicuous  part  of  the  premises  in  which  such 

person resides or is known to have last resided or carries on business or 

is known to have last carried on business or personally works for gain 

or is known to have last personally worked for gain.  

(e) 

if it cannot be affixed on the outer door as per clause (d), by publishing 

the  notice  in  at  least  two  newspapers,  one  in  an  English  daily 

newspaper  having  nationwide  circulation  and  another  in  a  newspaper 

having wide circulation published in the language of the region where 

the intermediary was last known to have resided or carried on business 

or personally worked for gain. 

Power of the Board to issue clarifications.  

13. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these 

regulations,  the  Board  may  issue  clarifications  and  guidelines  in  the  form  of 

circulars.  

 

Amendments to other regulations.  

14. The regulations specified in the Schedule I shall be amended in the manner 

and to the extent stated therein. 

 

Repeal and savings  

15.  (1)  With  effect  from  the  publication  of  these  regulations  in  the  Official 

Gazette, 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 

Regulations, 2008 shall be repealed. 

(2)  Notwithstanding  such  repeal,  anything  done  or  any  action  taken  under  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008, 

 

 
Page | - 38 -  

 

including  an  inquiry  commenced  or  notice  issued  under  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008,  before  the 

notification of these regulations in the Official Gazette, shall be deemed to have 

been done or taken or commenced under the corresponding provisions of these 

regulations.  

(3)  After  the  repeal  of  the  regulations  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1),  any 

reference thereto in any other regulation, guideline or circular shall be deemed to 

be a reference to the corresponding provisions of these Regulations. 

 

 

SCHEDULE I 

[See regulation 14]  

 

Amendments to other regulations 

 

1.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Bankers  to  an 

Issue) Regulations, 1994.  

(i) For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the banker to 

an issue is a fit and proper person, the Board may take into account the 

criteria specified in Schedule IV of these regulations.”  

 

 
Page | - 39 -  

 

 

(ii)  In regulation 22, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In regulation 23, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iv) After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

(See regulations 6A)  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take into account 

such  consideration  as  it  deems  fit,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 

following  criteria  in  relation  to  the  applicant  or  the  intermediary  or  its 

sponsor, trustee, partners, the principal officer, director, promoter or the 

key management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

 
Page | - 40 -  

 

 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

2.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Collective 

Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999  

(i) For regulation 9A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

9A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the collective 

investment  management  company  is  a  fit  and  proper  person,  the  Board 

may  take  into  account  the  criteria  specified  in  Schedule  X  of  these 

regulations.”  

 

(ii)  In  regulation  56,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the 

words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for 

Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In  regulation  59,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the 

words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for 

Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 (iv) After Schedule IX, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

 

 
Page | - 41 -  

 

 

 

“SCHEDULE X 

(See regulations 9A)  

  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take account of 

any  consideration  as  it  deems  fit,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 

following  criteria  in  relation  to  the  applicant  or  the  intermediary,  its 

sponsor, trustee, partners, the principal officer, the director, the promoter 

and the key management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

 

3.  Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating 

Agencies) Regulations, 1999.  

(i)  For  regulation  5A,  the  following  regulation  shall  be  substituted, 

namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

 

 
Page | - 42 -  

 

 

 

5A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the credit 

rating  agency  is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into 

account the criteria specified in Schedule IV of these regulations.” 

(ii)  In  regulation  33,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the 

words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for 

Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In regulation 34, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 (iv) After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

(See regulations 5A)  

  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take account of 

any  consideration  as  it  deems  fit,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 

following  criteria  in  relation  to  the  applicant  or  the  intermediary,  its 

sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the director, the promoter and 

 

 
Page | - 43 -  

 

 

the key management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

4.  Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian of 

Securities) 

Regulations, 1996. 

 

 (i)  For  regulation  6A,  the  following  regulation  shall  be  substituted, 

namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

6A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

custodian  of securities  is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the Board may  take 

into account the criteria specified in Schedule IV of these regulations.” 

(ii)  In  regulation  25,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the 

words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for 

Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In  regulation  26,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the 

 

 
Page | - 44 -  

 

words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for 

Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 (iv) After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

(See regulations 6A)  

  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take into account 

such  consideration  as  it  deems  fit,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 

following  criteria  in  relation  to  the  applicant  or  the  intermediary,  its 

sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the director, the promoter and 

the key management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

5.  Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture 

Trustees) Regulations, 1993. 

 

 (i)   For  regulation  6A,  the  following  regulation  shall  be  substituted, 

 

 
Page | - 45 -  

 

namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

6A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

debenture  trustee  is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into 

account the criteria specified in Schedule V of these regulations.” 

 (ii)  In  regulation  23,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the 

words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for 

Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

 (iii)  

In regulation 25, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the 

words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for 

Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

 (iv) After Schedule IV, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE V 

(See regulations 6A)  

  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take into  account 

such  consideration  as  it  deems  fit,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 

following  criteria  in  relation  to  the  applicant  or  the  intermediary,  its 

sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the director, the promoter and 

 

 
Page | - 46 -  

 

 

 

 

the key management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

6. Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and 

Participants) Regulations, 2018. 

(i)   In  regulation  88,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the 

words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for 

Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

(ii)  In  regulation  92,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the 

words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for 

Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

7.  Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture 

Capital Investors) Regulations, 2000.  

 

 (i)   For regulation 4A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person 

 

 
Page | - 47 -  

 

4A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  foreign 

venture capital investor is a fit and proper person the Board may take into 

account the criteria specified in Schedule III of these regulations.” 

(ii)  In regulation 23, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

 (iii) After Schedule II, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE III 

(See regulations 4A)  

  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take into account 

such  consideration  as  it  deems  fit,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 

following  criteria  in  relation  to  the  applicant  or  the  intermediary,  its 

sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the director, the promoter and 

the key management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

 
Page | - 48 -  

 

 

8.  Amendment  to  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative 

Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012. 

 

 

(i)   For sub-regulation (f) of regulation 4, the following sub-regulation shall be 

substituted, namely: -  

“(f) the applicant, Sponsor and Manager are fit and proper persons based 

on the criteria specified in Schedule IV of these Regulations.”  

 

(ii)  In  regulation  35,  for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

 

(iii)  In clause 7 of Form A of First Schedule, for the words “the Securities and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words 

“these Regulations” shall be substituted. 

 

(iv)  

After  Schedule  III,  the  following  Schedule  shall  be  inserted, 

namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 4 (f))  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit 

 
Page | - 49 -  

 

 

and proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration 

as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in 

relation  to  the  applicant,  its  sponsor,  trustee,  partners,  principal 

officer, the director, the promoter and the key management persons 

by whatever name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

9.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Merchant 

Bankers) Regulations, 1992.  

 

 (i)   For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the merchant 

banker  is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the 

criteria specified in Schedule IV of these Regulations.”  

 

(ii)  In regulation 33, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 

 

 
Page | - 50 -  

 

(iii) For regulation 35, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Liability for action in case of default 

35. A merchant banker who contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, 

Rules  or  Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more 

actions  specified  therein  including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020.”  

 (iv)    After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 6A)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit 

and proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration 

as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in 

relation  to  the  applicant,  its  sponsor,  trustee,  partners,  principal 

officer, the director, the promoter and the key management persons 

by whatever name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

 

 
Page | - 51 -  

 

 

10.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 

Funds) Regulations, 1996.  

 

 (i) For regulation 7A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

7A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  mutual 

fund is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria 

specified in Schedule XIII of these Regulations.”  

 

 (ii) In regulation 65, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)   In regulation 68, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iv)  After Schedule XII, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

“SCHEDULE XIII 

 (See regulations 7A)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit 

and proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration 

 
Page | - 52 -  

 

as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in 

relation  to  the  applicant,  its  sponsor,  trustee,  partners,  principal 

officer, the director, the promoter and the key management persons 

by whatever name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

11.   Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Portfolio 

Managers) Regulations, 2020.  

 

 

(i) For regulation 8, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

8.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  portfolio 

manager is  a  fit  and  proper person  the  Board  may  take into  account  the 

criteria specified in Schedule VII of these Regulations.”  

 

 (ii)  In regulation 39, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 

(iii)  In regulation 41, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

 
Page | - 53 -  

 

 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

 

(iv) In  clause  10.2  of  Form  A  of  First  Schedule,  for  the  words  “SEBI 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “these  Regulations”  shall 

be substituted 

 

(v)  After Schedule VI, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: 

-  

 

“SCHEDULE VII 

 (See regulations 8)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit 

and proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration 

as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in 

relation  to  the  applicant,  its  sponsor,  trustee,  partners,  principal 

officer, the director, the promoter and the key management persons 

by whatever name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

 
Page | - 54 -  

 

 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

12. Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to 

an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993.  

 

 (i) For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

 “Criteria for fit and proper person  

 6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the registrar to an 

issue  and  share  transfer  agent  is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may 

take  into  account  the  criteria  specified  in  Schedule  IV  of  these 

Regulations.”  

 

 (ii)  In regulation 20, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 

(iii)  In regulation 22, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 

(iv)  After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

 

 
Page | - 55 -  

 

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 6A)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit 

and proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration 

as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in 

relation  to  the  applicant,  its  sponsor,  trustee,  partners,  principal 

officer, the director, the promoter and the key management persons 

by whatever name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

13. Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers 

and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992.  

 (i)  For regulation 5A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

5A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  stock 

broker,  sub-broker,  trading  member  and  clearing  member  is  a  fit  and 

proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria  specified  in 

Schedule VII of these Regulations.”  

 

 
Page | - 56 -  

 

 

(ii)  In regulation 23, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In  sub-regulation  (ii)  of  regulation  25,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 

2008” the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure 

for Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iv)  In regulation 27, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(v)  After Schedule VI, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: 

-  

 

“SCHEDULE VII 

 (See regulations 5A)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit 

and proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration 

as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in 

relation  to  the  applicant,  its  sponsor,  trustee,  partners,  principal 

officer, the director, the promoter and the key management persons 

by whatever name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

 
Page | - 57 -  

 

 

 

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

14.   Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India 

(Underwriters) Regulations, 1993.  

 (i)   For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

6A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

underwriter is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the 

criteria specified in Schedule IV of these Regulations.”  

 (ii) In regulation 23, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 

 (iii) For regulation 25, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely:-  

 “Liability for action in case of default. 

 25. An underwriter who contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, Rules or 

Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions 

specified  therein  including  the  action  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange 

Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020.”  

 

 

 
Page | - 58 -  

 

 (iv) After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 6A)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation to 

the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the director, 

the promoter and the key management persons by whatever name called 

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

15.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Investment 

Advisers) Regulations, 2013.  

 

(i)   In  sub-regulation  (f)  of  regulation  6,  for  the  words  “Schedule  II  of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 

2008”, the words “Schedule IV of these Regulations” shall be substituted 

 

(ii)  In  regulation  28,  for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

 

 
Page | - 59 -  

 

 

India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii) In sub-clause (f) of clause (6) of Form A of First Schedule, for the words 

“Schedule 

II  of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “these  Regulations”  shall 

be substituted. 

(iv)  After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 6)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit 

and proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration 

as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in 

relation  to  the  applicant,  its  sponsor,  trustee,  partners,  principal 

officer, the director, the promoter and the key management persons 

by whatever name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 
Page | - 60 -  

 

 

 

16.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Research 

Analysts) Regulations, 2014.  

 

 (i)  clause  (c)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  (2)  shall  be  substituted  as 

follows, namely,- 

“associate”  means  any  person  controlled,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  the 

intermediary,  or  any  person  who  controls,  directly  or  indirectly,  the 

intermediary,  or  any  entity  or  person  under  common  control  with  such 

intermediary, and where such intermediary is a natural person will include 

any relative of such intermediary and where such intermediary is a body 

corporate will include its group companies (as defined in the Monopolies 

and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (Act No. 54 of 1969) or any re-

enactment thereof) or companies under the same management;” 

 

(ii)  In  sub-regulation  (vii)  of  regulation 6, for the words  “Schedule  II of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 

2008”, the words “Schedule IV of these Regulations” shall be substituted. 

 

(iii)  In  regulation  32,  for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

(iv) In sub-clause (e) of clause (5) of Form A of First Schedule, for the words 

“Schedule 

II  of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India 

 
Page | - 61 -  

 

 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “these  Regulations”  shall 

be substituted. 

 (v)  After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 6)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit 

and proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration 

as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in 

relation  to  the  applicant,  its  sponsor,  trustee,  partners,  principal 

officer, the director, the promoter and the key management persons 

by whatever name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

17.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Foreign 

Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019.  

 

 (i)  In  sub-regulation  (g)  of  regulation  4,  for  the  words  “Schedule  II  of  the 

 
Page | - 62 -  

 

 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 

2008”, the words “Schedule IV of these Regulations” shall be substituted. 

 

(ii)  In  clause  (f)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  11,  for  the  words 

“Schedule 

II  of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “Schedule  IV  of  these 

Regulations” shall be substituted. 

(iii)  In  clause  (h)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  22,  for  the  words 

“Schedule 

II  of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India 

(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008”, the words “these Regulations” shall 

be substituted. 

(iv) In regulation 40, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(v) In regulation 43, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

(vi)  After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

 

 

 
Page | - 63 -  

 

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulation 4(g) and regulation 11(f))  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation to 

the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the director, 

the promoter and the key management persons by whatever name called 

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

18.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014.  

 (i)  In clause (j) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 4, for the words “Schedule 

II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 

Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “Schedule      VIII      of  these  Regulations” 

shall be substituted. 

 

 

 
Page | - 64 -  

 

(ii) In regulation 32, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii) In sub-clause (b) of clause 8 of Form A of Schedule I, for the words “the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 

2008” the words “these Regulations” shall be substituted.  

(iv)  After Schedule VII, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: 

-  

 

 

“SCHEDULE VIII 

 (See regulation 4(2)(j))  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit 

and proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration 

as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in 

relation  to  the  applicant,  its  sponsor,  trustee,  partners,  principal 

officer, the director, the promoter and the key management persons 

by whatever name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

 
Page | - 65 -  

 

 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

19.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India 

(Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014.  

 

 (i)  In clause (k) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 4, for the words “Schedule 

II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 

Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “Schedule      VII      of  these  Regulations” 

shall be substituted. 

 

(ii) In regulation 32, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In  clause  9  of  Form  A  of  Schedule  I,  for  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words 

“these Regulations” shall be substituted.  

(iv)  After Schedule VI, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE VII 

 (See regulation 4(2)(k))  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit 

 
Page | - 66 -  

 

 

 

and proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration 

as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in 

relation  to  the  applicant,  its  sponsor,  trustee,  partners,  principal 

officer, the director, the promoter and the key management persons 

by whatever name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

 

************************

 
Page | - 67 -  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

PART-B 

RECOVERY OF MONIES DUE UNDER SECURITIES LAWS 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

  

 

 

I.  GENERAL 

The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (“SEBI”  or  “the  Board”)  is  empowered  to 

impose  monetary  penalties  on  violators,  issue  directions  for  refund  to  investors  of 

monies raised in deemed public issues and unregistered collective investment schemes 

and order disgorgements. SEBI is also empowered to levy fees on market intermediaries 

under various regulations.  

 

In  case  of  default  in  the  payment  of  such  amounts,  the  SEBI  Act,  the  SCRA  and  the 

Depositories  Act  (collectively  referred  to  as  the  securities  laws)  empower  SEBI  to 

recover  such  amounts  in  the  mode  and  manner  as  derived  from  the  provisions  of  the 

Income-tax  Act,  1961  and  the  Rules  made  thereunder,  with  suitable  modifications  as 

may be necessary.  

 

However, there remain several challenges in the enforcement of such powers conferred 

upon SEBI.  

 

An enforcement system without an efficient mechanism for recovering dues may render 

an agency ineffective. In this backdrop, the reference made to the Committee to suggest 

suitable  changes,  if  any,  to  the  securities  laws  and  to  consider  the  aggregation  of  a 

comprehensive  set  of  rules  or  regulations  that  would  lay  down  the  procedure  for 

recovery  and  for  matters  incidental  and  connected  thereto,  in  light  of  the  provisions 

pertaining  to  recovery  of  dues  under  the  Income-tax  laws  and  other  laws,  in  the 

domestic  and  international  space,  prompted  the  Committee  to  examine  a  few  of  the 

domestic  laws  that  pertain  to  employees’  provident  funds,  municipal  corporation, 

insurance and competition laws as well as laws prevalent in certain foreign jurisdictions 

in the context of recovery of monies due under their securities laws.  

 

 

 
Page | 69  

 
 

The  Committee  also  held  extensive  deliberations  with  the  officers  of  the  Legal  Affairs 

Department and the Recovery and Refund Department. After considering the concerns 

raised  during  the  deliberations  and  suggestions  made  during  such  meetings,  the 

Committee  has  formulated  its  recommendations  for  improving  the  present  system  of 

recovery.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

****** 

 

 
Page | 70  

 
 

 

 

II. 

RECOVERY PROVISIONS UNDER VARIOUS LAWS 

INDIAN SCENARIO: 

 

1.  The  Committee  examined  the  following  enactments  with  provisions  for  recovery 

mechanism, as summarized below, - 

 

(a)  Under  the  Employees’  Provident  Funds  and  Miscellaneous  Provisions 

Act, 1952, the arrears of amount mentioned in section 8 (recovery of moneys due 

from employers) of the said Act shall be recovered in terms of the provisions of the 

Second  and  Third  Schedules  to  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  (43  of  1961).  The 

Income-tax Certificate Proceedings Rules, 1962, as in force from time to time, is 

also applicable with necessary modifications. Thus like the SEBI Act, the aforesaid 

Act also directs the application of the provisions of Income-tax Act and the Rules 

for recovery of moneys due from employers.  

  

(b)   Under  the  state  municipal  laws  such  as  the  Chennai  City  Municipal 

Corporation Act, 1919, if any tax due from any person in India remains unpaid 

in whole or in part and if such a person leaves the country or cannot be found, the 

said tax or such part thereof that remains unpaid together with all sums payable in 

connection therewith, is recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.  

 

(c)  Under section 33 of the Insurance Act, 1938, all expenses of, and incidental to, 

any  investigation  made  under  the  said  section  shall  be  defrayed  by  the  insurer, 

shall have priority over that debts due from the insurer and shall be recoverable as 

an arrear of land revenue.  

 

In  the  context  of  the  aforesaid  Acts  providing  for  amounts  due  to  be  recoverable  as 

arrears of land revenue, the following deserve to be noted:  

 

 

 
Page | 71  

 
 

2. 

The  Revenue  Recovery  Act15,  1890,  in  section  5  thereof  states  ‘Where  any  sum  is 

recoverable  as  an  arrear  of  land-Revenue  of  any  public  officer  other  than  a 

Collector or by local authority, the Collector of the district in which the office of that 

officer or authority is situate shall, on the request of the officer or authority, proceed 

to recover the sum as if it were an arrear of land-revenue which had accrued in his 

own  district,  and  may  send  a  certificate  of  the  amount  to  be  recovered  to  the 

Collector of another district under the foregoing provisions of this Act, as if the sum 

were payable to himself’.  

 

3. 

There  are  also  State  enactments  for  each  of  the  States  in  India  that  provide  for 

recovery of arrears of revenue due to the Government.  

 

In the matter of State Bank of Indore v. Regional Provident Fund16, the Hon’ble High 

Court of Madhya Pradesh brought out the difference between the terms “arrears of land 

revenue” and “amount recoverable as an arrear of land revenue’ -  

“5. In our judgment, the contentions advanced on behalf of the petitioner must be 

given effect to. Section 8 of the Act provides, inter alia, that any amount due from 

the  employer  in  relation  to  an  establishment  to  which  a  Scheme  under  the  Act 

applies,  may,  if  the  amount  is  in  arrear,  be  recovered  by  the  appropriate 

Government in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue. It does not say that 

the amount may be recovered as an arrear of land revenue. It merely provides the 

manner  of  the  recovery  of  the  amount  mentioned  in Section  8.  The  manner 

prescribed  for  the  recovery  of  the  amount  as  an  arrear  of  land  revenue  does  not 

convert the amount into an arrear of land revenue; nor does it create any charge on 

any property of the employer for the payment of the amount or give a priority in 

the manner of payment of the amount. There is no provision in the Act in regard to 

the  creation  of  any  such  charge  or  priority  for  the  payment  of  the  employer's 

contribution.” 

                                                           
15 An Act to make better provision for recovering certain public demands. 
16 AIR 1965 MP 40 (DB), (1965) IILLJ 662 MP; case before the provisions of Income-tax Act and Rules could be 
applied for recovery under the EPF Act.  

 
Page | 72  

 

 
 

 

4. 

 Competition  Act,  2002  read  with  the  Competition  Commission  of  India  (Manner  of 

recovery of Monetary Penalty) Regulations, 2011:  

 

A.  The  Competition  Act,  2002  aims  to  prevent  practices  that  have  an 

adverse  effect  on  competition,  promote  and  sustain  competition  in 

markets, protect the interests of consumers and ensure freedom of trade 

carried on by other participants in the markets in India, and for matters 

connected therewith or incidental thereto.  

 

B.  Chapter  VI  contains  sections  42-48  that  provide  for  the  imposition  of 

monetary ‘penalties’ for various contravention.  

 

C.  Section 64 empowers  the Commission to make regulations to carry out 

the purposes of the Competition Act. Under clause (g) of sub-section (2) 

of section 64, the Commission is empowered to make regulations for the 

manner  in  which  penalty  shall  be  recovered  under  sub-section  (1)  of 

section 3917.  

                                                           
17 “Execution of orders of Commission imposing monetary penalty.  
39. (1) If a person fails to pay any monetary penalty imposed on him under this Act, the Commission shall proceed 
to recover such penalty, in such manner as may be specified by the regulations.  
 
(2)  In  a  case  where  the  Commission  is  of  the  opinion  that  it  would  be  expedient  to  recover  the  penalty  imposed 
under this Act in accordance with the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), it may make a reference 
to this effect to the concerned income-tax authority under that Act for recovery of the penalty as tax due under the 
said Act.  
 
(3) Where a reference has been made by the Commission under sub-section (2) for recovery of penalty, the person 
upon whom the penalty has been imposed shall be deemed to be the assessee in default under the Income Tax Act, 
1961 (43 of 1961) and the provisions contained in sections 221 to 227, 228A, 229, 231 and 232 of the said Act and 
the  Second Schedule  to  that Act  and  any  rules  made  there  under  shall,  in  so  far  as  may  be,  apply  as  if  the  said 
provisions were the provisions of this Act and referred to sums by way of penalty imposed under this Act instead of 
to income-tax and sums imposed by way of penalty, fine, and interest under the Income–tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) 
and to the Commission instead of the Assessing Officer.  
Explanation 1 – Any reference to sub-section (2) or sub-section (6) of section 220 of the income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 
1961), in the said provisions of that Act or the rules made thereunder shall be construed as references to sections 43 
to 45 of this Act.  
Explanation 2 – The Tax Recovery Commissioner and the Tax Recovery Officer referred to in the Income-tax Act, 
1961  (43  of  1961)  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the  Tax  Recovery  Commissioner  and  the  Tax  Recovery  Officer  for  the 
 
Page | 73  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

D.  The  Commission  is  empowered  to  recover  monetary  penalty  from  a 

defaulter  in  the  manner  specified  by  the  regulations  or  in  accordance 

with the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961. It may make a reference 

to the concerned Income-tax Authority under that Act for recovery of the 

penalty as tax due under the said Act.  

 

E.  On  a  reference  made  to  the  Income-tax  Authority,  the  person  upon 

whom the penalty has been imposed shall be deemed to be the assessee 

in  default  under  the  income  tax  laws  and  recovery  shall  be  initiated 

accordingly.  

F.  Salient  features  of  the  Competition  Commission  of  India  (Manner  of 

recovery of Monetary Penalty) Regulations, 2011:  

a.  Regulation 4: provides for extension of time for payment of dues or 

allow payment in instalments subject to such conditions as deemed 

fit by the Commission;  

 

b.  Regulation  5:  If  the  amount  specified  in  the  demand  notice  is  not 

paid  within  the  period  specified  by  the  Commission,  the 

enterprise/defaulter shall be liable to pay simple interest at one and 

one half per cent. for every month or part of a month comprised in 

the period  commencing from the day  immediately after the expiry 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
purposes  of  recovery  of  sums  imposed  by  way  of  penalty  under  this  Act  and  reference  made  by  the  Commission 
under  sub-section  (2)  would  amount  to  drawing  of  a  certificate  by  the  Tax  Recovery  Officer  as  far  as  demand 
relating to penalty under this Act.  
Explanation 3 – Any reference to appeal in Chapter XVIID and the Second Schedule to the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 
of 1961), shall be construed as a reference to appeal before the Competition Appellate Tribunal under section 53B 
of this Act.” 

 
Page | 74  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

of the period mentioned in demand notice and ending with the day 

on which the penalty is paid.  

 

c.  Regulation 9 (Modes of recovery):  

i.  RA person who holds or may subsequently hold money for or 

on  account  of  the  defaulter 

is  required  to  pay  the 

Commission and in case of failure of such person to pay the 

money,  he  shall  also  be  treated  in  the  same  manner  as  an 

enterprise in default.  

 

ii.  An application is required to be made to the court  which is 

holding the custody of the defaulter’s money.  

  

iii.  If the defaulter is in a country outside India (being a country 

with  which  the  Central  Government  has  entered  into  an 

agreement for the recovery of penalty under the Act and the 

corresponding law in force in that country), the Commission 

may propose  to  that  country  to  take  such  action  thereon  as 

the  Commission  may  deem  appropriate  and  remit  any  sum 

so received to the Commission.  

d.  Regulation  10  (Other  modes  of  recovery):  Recovery  may  also  be 

done  in  accordance  with  the  Rules  laid  down  in  the  Second 

Schedule  of  Income-tax  Act,  1961  by  attachment  and  sale  of 

movable/immovable properties of the defaulting enterprise.  

  

e.  Regulations 10 and 11 - Require reference by the Commission to the 

Income-tax Authority for recovery of penalty.  

 
Page | 75  

 
 

 

 

f.  Regulation 14 – Refund of excess penalty: In case the Competition 

Appellate Tribunal or the High Court or the Supreme Court of India 

holds that the enterprise is not liable to pay any penalty or liable to 

pay penalty less than the amount mentioned in any order or notice, 

the demand notice or the recovery certificate shall be withdrawn or 

modified and the amount of penalty, if paid, shall be refunded.  

g.  Regulation  15:  The  Commission  is  empowered  to  determine  the 

procedure in case a situation is not provided for in the regulations.  

From the referred provisions of different enactments, it can be seen that under certain 

laws, the arrears or dues are recovered as if such arrears were arrears of land revenue. 

In  some  areas  like  in  the  securities  markets  and  the  employees’  provident  fund,  the 

arrears or dues are recovered by resorting to the procedure under the Income-tax laws. 

However,  under  the  laws  administered  by  the  Competition  Commission,  the  said 

Commission is empowered to frame regulations for the purposes of recovering unpaid 

penalties  imposed  under  the  Competition  Act,  2002.  Thus,  there  is  a  diversity  in  the 

manner in which dues are recovered under different laws. 

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 76  

 
 

INTERNATIONAL SCENARIO: 

In certain advanced jurisdictions, the arrears due to the securities markets regulator of 

that jurisdiction is recovered as if such dues were a ‘civil debt’, as can be seen from the 

following examples:  

 

A.  United States of America 

The US SEC18, being a federal agency, is empowered to collect a claim from a defaulter 

in terms of the Debt Collection Act (codified at 31 U.S.C.3716). The said Act requires 

notice  procedures  TO  be  observed  by  the  agency.  The  claim  is  recovered  against 

“administrative offset”, “salary offset”, tax refund offset” and “wage garnishment order”.  

  

The  Commission  may  report  delinquent  debts  to  consumer  reporting  agencies  (See 31 

U.S.C.  3701(a)(3),  3711).  Section  13  of  the  Debt  Collection  Act  (31  U.S.C.  3718) 

authorizes agencies to enter into contracts for collection services to recover debts owed 

to the United States of America.  

 

B. 

Australia 

 

 In Australia, the ASIC may pursue19 actions in the courts to punish a person or entity in 

response to a misconduct. Actions include –  

a.  Criminal  penalties  (such  as  imprisonment,  fines,  community  service 

orders, etc.).  

Matters  giving  rise  to  criminal  penalties  are  prosecuted  by  the 

Commonwealth  Director  of  Public  Prosecutions  (CDPP),  with  the 

                                                           
18 See  Code  of  Federal  Regulations,  Title  17,  Chapter  II,  Part  204,  Rules  relating  to  Debt  collection,  available  at 
<https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=17:3.0.1.1.5&rgn=div5#se17.3.204_15>;  U.  S  Code,  Title  31,  Sub-
title III, Chapter 37, Sub-chapter II, Section 3716, available at <https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/31/3716>; 
U.  S.  Code,  Title  26,  Sub-title  F.,  Chapter  65,  Sub-chapter  A.,  Section  6402,  available  at 
<https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/26/6402#g>; Code of Federal Regulations, Title 31, Sub-title B., Chapter 
II, 
at 
<https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/31/285.2>;  Code  of  Federal  regulations,  Title  31,  Sub-title  B.,  Chapter  IX, 
Part 901, Section 901.3, available at <https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/31/901.3>. 
19 See  ASIC  Enforcement  Review:  Position  Paper  7  Strengthening  Penalties  for  Corporate  and  Financial  Sector 
Misconduct, available at <https://static.treasury.gov.au/uploads/sites/1/2017/10/c2017-t232150.pdf>. 

Sub-chapter 

available 

Sub-part 

A., 

Section 

285.2, 

A., 

Part 

285, 

 

 
Page | 77  

 
 

exception of a number of minor regulatory offences which are prosecuted 

by the ASIC; and  

b.  Civil monetary penalties.  

 

All  monetary  penalties  in  these  types  of  actions  are  payable  to  the  Commonwealth  of 

Australia.  Under  section  91  of  the  Australian  Securities  and  Investments  Commission 

Act  2001  (“ASIC  Act”),  the  ASIC  has  the  power  to  pass  an  order  to  recover  the 

investigation expenses and costs, if as a result of the investigation, -  

i.  a person is convicted of an offence, or 

ii.  judgment is awarded, or a declaration or other order is made against a person 

in a proceeding in a court. 

 

The AISC may pass an order that the person pay or reimburse ASIC, -  

for the whole or a specified part, of the expenses of the investigation; 

for  the  whole  or  a  specified  part,  of  the  costs  to  ASIC  of  making  the 

investigation,  including  the  remuneration  of  ASIC  staff  concerned  in  the 

investigation. 

i. 

ii. 

 

ASIC has similar powers under section 319 of the National Consumer Credit Protection 

Act  2009  which  allows  ASIC  to  pass  an  order  to  recover  investigation  expenses  and 

costs, including, - 

salary costs for ASIC staff who have worked on the investigation 

travel expenses when required to interview witnesses 

costs of external legal counsel, and 

costs of employing an expert to perform an analysis. 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

 

In terms of sub-section (4) of section 91 of the AISC Act, if the amount payable under an 

Order made under the said section is not paid, ASIC may then recover the same through 

a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due to ASIC.  

 

 

 

 
Page | 78  

 
 

C. 

Singapore 

In  Singapore,  under  sections  27C20,  148(10)21 and  17722 of  the  Monetary  Authority  of 

Singapore  Act  (“MAS  Act”),  the  Monetary  Authority  of  Singapore  (“MAS”)  recovers 

remuneration, expenses, financial penalty and fees as a civil debt. ‘Debt’ due to MAS is 

recoverable in terms of the Civil Law Act.  

The  Committee  notes  that  recovery  of  penalty  or  fees  in  the  aforesaid  jurisdictions  is 

effected as recovery of a ‘civil debt’ and the general law is invoked to recover the same 

through a civil court. 

                                                           
20 Inspection of financial institutions for compliance with directions and regulations under sections 27A and 
27B. 27C.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, inspect under conditions of secrecy the books of — 

(a)  a financial institution; or 
(b)  any  subsidiary,  branch,  agency  or  office  outside  Singapore  of  a  financial  institution  incorporated  or 
established in Singapore, 

for the purpose of determining the extent of compliance by the financial institution with the directions issued and the 
regulations made under sections 27A and 27B. 
(2) The Authority may appoint any person, including an auditor (not being an auditor of the financial institution), to 
carry out an inspection under this section. 
(3) If the inspection is carried out on the ground that the Authority has reason to believe that the financial institution 
has contravened or is contravening  any  direction issued or regulation  made  under section 27A or 27B, and if  the 
Authority so directs, then the financial institution is liable to pay for the remuneration and expenses of any person 
appointed under subsection (2) for the inspection. 
(4) The Authority may recover from the financial institution the remuneration and expenses referred to in subsection 
(3) as a civil debt due to the Authority. 
………… 
21 Cancellation, etc., of appointment as primary dealer 
148. …………. 
(3) In the case of a failure by a primary dealer to comply with any direction issued by the Authority under section 
147, the Authority may, in addition to any order that may be made under subsection (2), order the primary dealer to 
pay  to  the  Authority,  for  every  day  or  part  thereof  of  such  failure,  a  financial  penalty  in  accordance  with  such 
formula as the Minister may, by notification published in the Gazette, prescribe. 
(4) A financial penalty collected by the Authority under subsection (3) shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund. 
.... 
(10) The Authority may recover on behalf of the Government any financial penalty ordered under subsection (3) as 
though the financial penalty were a civil debt due to the Authority. 
22 Recovery of fees, expenses, etc. 
177. There shall be recoverable as a civil debt due to the Authority from the financial institution concerned — 
(a) 
29A; and 
(b) 

the amount of any fees payable to the Authority under section 29 or under any rules issued under section 

any remuneration and expenses payable by the financial institution to — 

(i)  a statutory adviser appointed under section 33(2); 
(ii)  a statutory manager appointed under section 33(2); 
(iii) the  Authority  or  any  person  appointed  by  the  Authority  under  section  13B  in  relation  to  the  Authority’s 

assumption of control of any business of the financial institution under section 33; and 
(iv) any person appointed to perform any independent assessment under Part IVA or IVB. 

 
Page | 79  

 

 

 
 

RECOVERY UNDER THE INDIAN SECURITIES LAWS 

 

GENESIS OF SECTION 28A OF SEBI ACT, 1992: 

 

Prior to July 2013, SEBI did not have the power to recover amounts due. The absence of 

recovery  power  severely  jeopardized  its  ability  to  recover  unpaid  penalties.  The 

Committee is given to understand that many orders directing disgorgement in the IPO 

scam unearthed in 2005 and 2006 were not complied with. The options available to the 

regulator  was  to  impose  debarment  for  a  longer  period  or  file  for  prosecution  in  a 

criminal court. Such provisions though meant to act as a deterrent, did not enable SEBI 

to recover the unpaid amounts from the violators. Instead, huge costs were incurred by 

the regulator in such proceedings including manpower to oversee such action.  

  

Realizing  the  lacunae  in  its  enforcement  tools,  SEBI  deliberated  the  issue  with  the 

Central  Government  and  sought  an  amendment  to  the  SEBI  Act  to  empower  it  to 

recover unpaid monies due in line with the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961.  

 

Finally,  through  an  Ordinance  in  2013  i.e.,  the  Securities  Laws  (Amendment) 

Ordinance, 2013, with effect from July 18, 2013, an important amendment was brought 

about  by  the  insertion  of  a  new  section  28A  in  the  SEBI  Act  and  in  the  analogous 

provisions  in  the  SCRA  and  the  Depositories  Act  to  provide  SEBI  with  the  power  to 

recover the amounts due.  

 

An Ordinance route was necessitated since the Parliament was not in session. When the 

Amendment  Ordinance,  2013  lapsed,  a  Second  Ordinance  was  promulgated  on 

September 16, 2013 and upon the lapse of this Second Ordinance, a third Ordinance was 

promulgated on March 28, 2014. Subsequently, the Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 

201423 was notified on August 25, 2014.  

 

                                                           
23 This  included  reference  to  section  220  of  the  Income  Tax  Act,  1961  which  otherwise  was  not  present  in  the 
previous three amendment Ordinances.  

 
Page | 80  

 

 
 

The  avowed  ‘Statement  of  Objects  and  Reasons’  in  respect  of  the  power  to  recover 

monies due in the Securities Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2014 is as follows, - 

“….to insert a new section 28A so as to empower the Recovery Officer to recover 

the  amount,  against  the  persons  who  fail  to  comply  with  any  direction  of  the 

Board for refund of monies or fail to comply with a direction of disgorgement 

issued under section 11B or fail to pay any fees due to the Board.” 

 

Further, the Notes on Clauses provided as under, –  

“Clause 21.—This clause seeks to insert a new section 28A in the SEBI Act, 1992 

relating to recovery of amounts. This clause empowers the Board, inter alia, to 

attach  and  sell  movable  and  immovable  property  of  the  defaulters  without 

recourse to any court of law and attach bank accounts of defaulters, in case a 

person  fails  to  pay  the  penalty  imposed  by  the  adjudicating  officer  or  fails  to 

comply with any direction of the Board for refund of monies or fails to comply 

with a direction of disgorgement order issued under section 11B or fails to pay 

any fees due to the Board.” 

 

POWER TO RECOVER: 

 

Section 28A of the SEBI Act empowers a Recovery Officer appointed by SEBI to recover 

unpaid  monetary  penalties,  unpaid  monies  directed  to  be  refunded  to  investors, 

disgorgement  amounts  and  unpaid  fees  due  to  SEBI.  The  provisions  of  section  28A  is 

reproduced below:  

“Recovery of amounts. 

28A. (1) If a person fails to pay the penalty imposed [under the Act]24 or fails to 

comply  with  any  direction  of  the  Board  for  refund  of  monies  or  fails  to  comply 

with  a  direction  of  disgorgement  order  issued  under  section  11B  or  fails  to  pay 

any fees due to the Board, the Recovery Officer may draw up under his signature 

a  statement  in  the  specified  form  specifying  the  amount  due  from  the  person 

                                                           
24 Substituted  for  the  words  “by  the  adjudicating  officer”  by  the  Finance  Act,  2018.  This  amendment  is  not  yet 
brought into force.  

 
Page | 81  

 

 
 

 

(such  statement  being  hereafter  in  this  Chapter  referred  to  as  certificate)  and 

shall proceed to recover from such person the amount specified in the certificate 

by one or more of the following modes, namely:— 

(a)   attachment and sale of the person's movable property; 

(b)   attachment of the person's bank accounts; 

(c)   attachment and sale of the person's immovable property; 

(d)   arrest of the person and his detention in prison; 

(e)   appointing a receiver for the management of the person's movable and 

immovable properties, 

and for this purpose, the provisions of sections 220 to 227, 228A, 229, 232, the 

Second  and  Third  Schedules  to  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  (43  of  1961)  and  the 

Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 1962, as in force from time to time, 

insofar  as  may  be,  apply  with  necessary  modifications  as  if  the  said  provisions 

and the rules made thereunder were the provisions of this Act and referred to the 

amount  due  under  this  Act  instead  of  to  income-tax  under  the  Income-tax  Act, 

1961. 

 

Explanation  1.—For  the  purposes  of  this  sub-section,  the  person's  movable  or 

immovable property or monies held in bank accounts shall include any property 

or monies held in bank accounts which has been transferred directly or indirectly 

on or after the date when the amount specified in certificate had become due, by 

the  person  to  his  spouse  or  minor  child  or  son's  wife  or  son's  minor  child, 

otherwise than for adequate consideration, and which is held by, or stands in the 

name of, any  of the persons aforesaid; and  so far as the movable or immovable 

property or monies held in bank accounts so transferred to his minor child or his 

son's  minor  child  is  concerned,  it  shall,  even  after  the  date  of  attainment  of 

majority by such minor child or son's minor child, as the case may be, continue to 

be  included  in  the  person's  movable  or  immovable  property  or  monies  held  in 

bank accounts for recovering any amount due from the person under this Act. 

 

 
Page | 82  

 
 

Explanation  2.—Any  reference  under  the  provisions  of  the  Second  and  Third 

Schedules  to  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  (43  of  1961)  and  the  Income-tax 

(Certificate  Proceedings)  Rules,  1962  to  the  assessee  shall  be  construed  as  a 

reference to the person specified in the certificate. 

 

Explanation  3.—  Any  reference  to  appeal  in  Chapter  XVIID  and  the  Second 

Schedule  to  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  (43  of  1961),  shall  be  construed  as  a 

reference to appeal before the Securities Appellate Tribunal under section 15T of 

this Act. 

Explanation  4.—  The  interest  referred  to  in  section  220of  the  Income-tax  Act, 

1961 shall commence from the date the amount became payable by the person. 

 

(2) The Recovery Officer shall  be empowered  to seek the assistance of the local 

district administration while exercising the powers under sub-section (1). 

(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  any  other  law  for  the  time  being  in 

force,  the  recovery  of  amounts  by  a  Recovery  Officer  under  sub-section  (1), 

pursuant to non-compliance with any direction issued by the Board under section 

11B, shall have precedence over any other claim against such person. 

 

(4)  For  the  purposes  of  sub-sections  (1),  (2)  and  (3),  the  expression  "Recovery 

Officer"  means  any  officer  of  the  Board  who  may  be  authorised,  by  general  or 

special order in writing, to exercise the powers of a Recovery Officer.” 

[Emphasis supplied] 

 

Analogous25 provisions are also seen in the SCRA and the Depositories Act.  

 

On a clear reading of section 28A(1)26, the following is noted,-  

 

                                                           
25 23JB of the SCRA and section 19-IB of the Depositories Act.  
26 Read with analogous provisions i.e. 23JB of the SCRA and section 19-IB of the Depositories Act. 

 

 
Page | 83  

 
 

a.  Action  for  “recovery”  under  section  28A  gets  triggered  when  there  is  a 

failure to -  

i.  pay a penalty imposed under the Act;  

ii.  comply with a direction of the Board for refund of monies;  

iii.  comply with a direction of disgorgement; or 

iv.  pay fees due to the Board.  

 

b.  In  case  of  defaults  mentioned  above,  the  Recovery  Officer27 draws  up  a 

certificate 28  specifying  the  amount  due  from  the  person  (called  the 

“defaulter”) and proceeds to recover the amount specified in his certificate 

by one or more of the following modes -  

i.  attachment and sale of the defaulter’s movable property;  

ii.  attachment of the defaulter’s bank accounts;  

iii.  attachment and sale of the defaulter’s immovable property;  

iv.  arrest of the defaulter and his detention in prison;  

v.  appointing  a  receiver  for  the  management  of  the  defaulter’s 

movable and immovable properties.  

c.  For  the  aforesaid  purpose,  the  provisions  of  sections  220  to  227,  228A, 

229, 231, 232, the Second and Third Schedules to the Income-tax Act, 1961 

and the Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 1962, as in force from 

time to  time,  shall  be  applied  with  necessary modifications  as  if  the  said 

provisions and the rules thereunder were the provisions of the Act.  

  

d.  In terms of sub-section (3) thereof, the recovery of amounts by a Recovery 

Officer pursuant to non-compliance with any direction issued by the Board 

under  section  11B  shall  have  precedence  over  any  other  claim  against 

  

such person.  

  
                                                           
27 Any officer of the Board who is authorized to exercise the powers of a Recovery Officer. 
28 Statement in a specified form under the signature of the Recovery Officer. 

 

 
Page | 84  

 
 

 

 

Procedure for effecting recovery. 

 

Sub-section  (1)  of  section  28A  provides  that  for  the  purpose  of  recovering  amounts 

under  the  said  section,  the  provisions  of  the  Income-tax  Act  and  the  Rules  framed 

thereunder,  as  mentioned  in  sub-section  (1)  of  section  28A,  shall  be  applied  with 

necessary modifications.  

  

Accordingly, SEBI has been following the provisions of –  

 

a.  section  220  (when  tax  is  payable  and  when  an  assessee  is  deemed  in 

default); 

b.  section 221 (penalty payable when tax is in default); 

c.  section 222 (certificate to Tax Recovery Officer); 

d.  section 223 (Tax Recovery Officer by whom recovery is to be effected); 

e.  section  224  (validity  of  certificate  and  cancellation  or  amendment 

thereof); 

f.  section  225  (stay  of  proceedings  in  pursuance  of  certificate  and 

amendment or cancellation thereof); 

g.  section 226 (other modes of recovery); 

h.  section 227 (Recovery through State Government); 

i.  section 228A (Recovery  of  tax  in  pursuance of  agreements  with  foreign 

countries); 

j.  section 229 (recovery of penalties, fine, interest and other sums); 

k.  section 231 (period for commencing recovery proceedings); 

l.  section 232 (recovery by suit or under other law not affected);  

m. the Second Schedule (Procedure  for  recovery  of  Tax  –  sections  222  and 

276); 

n.  the Third  Schedule  (Procedure  for  distraint  by  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

Recovery Officer); 

 
Page | 85  

 

 
 

of the Income-tax Act, 1961; and  

o.  the Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 196229, as in force,  

with necessary modifications, while initiating recovery proceedings under section 28A of 

the Act.  

 

LEGISLATIVE CHANGES: 

 

The Finance Act, 2018 inserted a new section (section 28B30) in the SEBI Act (similar to 

the provisions for Legal Representatives found in the Income Tax  Act, 1961) to enable 

the Board to continue with the recovery proceedings against a legal representative in the 

event the person (i.e. defaulter) dies.  

 

Section 28B reads as follows,-  

“Continuance of proceedings. 

28B. (1) Where a person dies, his legal representative shall be liable to pay any 

sum which the deceased would have been liable to pay, if he had not died, in the 

like manner and to the same extent as the deceased:  

Provided  that,  in  case  of  any  penalty  payable  under  this  Act,  a  legal 

representative shall be liable only in case the penalty has been imposed before 

the death of the deceased person.  

 

(2) For the purposes of sub-section (1),—  

(a)  any  proceeding  for  disgorgement,  refund  or  an  action  for  recovery 

before the Recovery Officer under this Act, except a proceeding for levy of 

penalty, initiated against the deceased before his death, shall be deemed 

to  have  been  initiated  against  the  legal  representative,  and  may  be 

continued  against  the  legal  representative  from  the  stage  at  which  it 

                                                           
29 In  exercise  of  powers  under  section  295(1)  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  and  rules  91  and  92  of  the  Second 
Schedule to the Income-tax Act, 1961 
30 Also see Part-D of this Report for discussion on this provision.  

 
Page | 86  

 

 
 

 

stood  on  the  date  of  the  death  of  the  deceased  and  all  the  provisions  of 

this Act shall apply accordingly; 

(b)  any  proceeding  for  disgorgement,  refund  or  an  action  for  recovery 

before the Recovery Officer under this Act, except a proceeding for levy of 

penalty,  which  could have  been  initiated  against  the  deceased  if  he  had 

survived,  may  be  initiated  against  the  legal  representative  and  all  the 

provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.  

(3) Every legal representative shall be personally liable for any sum payable by 

him  in  his  capacity  as  legal  representative  if,  while  his  liability  for  such  sum 

remains undischarged, he creates a charge on or disposes of or parts with any 

assets  of  the  estate  of  the  deceased,  which  are  in,  or  may  come  into,  his 

possession, but such liability shall be limited to the value of the asset so charged, 

disposed of or parted with. 

 

(4) The liability of a legal representative under this section shall be limited to the 

extent to which the estate of the deceased is capable of meeting the liability.  

Explanation.  —For  the  purposes  of  this  section  “legal  representative”  means  a 

person who in law represents the estate of a deceased person, and includes any 

person who intermeddles with the estate of the deceased and where a party sues 

or is sued in a representative character, the person on whom the estate devolves 

on the death of the party so suing or sued.” 

 

Analogous  provisions  are  made  in  the  SCRA  (new  section  23JC)  and  the  Depositories 

Act (new section 19-IC). 

 

 By virtue of the insertion of such legislation, the legal representative is now liable to pay 

the penalty, had the person (original defaulter) not deceased, to the extent of the estate 

of the deceased that is capable of meeting the liability.  

 

 

 

 
Page | 87  

 
 

 

 

 

III. 

CONCERNS IN THE PRESENT LAW  

The Committee examined the existing laws, including the provisions relating to recovery 

of Income Tax as applicable to the Indian securities markets and notes that adoption of 

the  mechanism  designed  for  recovery  of  income  tax  for  recovery  of  dues  under  the 

securities laws has brought to the surface certain difficulties.  

  

 

A.  CHALLENGES IN THE EXISTING LAW FOR RECOVERY OF SIPHONED OFF MONIES 

 

 

One  of  the  commonly  practiced  securities  laws  violations  involves  monies  raised 

through public issue of securities being siphoned off by the issuer/promoters to various 

sister concerns and  individuals. Difficulties  arise when the aspects of  siphoning  of the 

amounts comes to the notice of SEBI after the passing of the final order but during the 

pendency of the recovery proceedings.  

 

The Income Tax Act, 1961 has provisions relating to the clubbing of income. Adopting 

the  provisions  of  recovery  under  that  law  to  securities  markets  has  led  to  a  unique 

limitation in the context of SEBI. Explanation-I to Section 28A of the SEBI Act allows 

the  Recovery  Officer  to  deal  with  transfers  made  to  certain  dependent  relatives  i.e. 

spouse, son’s wife, minor child and son’s minor wife- i.e. persons with whom clubbing 

of  income  is  allowed  under  the  Income-tax  Act.  This  provision,  however,  does  not 

extend to corporate entities, other individuals and sons or grandsons who have already 

attained  the  age  of  majority  who  may  have  benefitted  from  the  default.  Thus,  if  one 

promoter entity transfers the assets to another promoter entity to avoid recovery (and 

such  entity  is  not  one  of  the  enumerated  individuals),  it  becomes  difficult  for  the 

Recovery Officer to deal with such transfers.  

 

 

 
Page | 88  

 
 

In matters which have invited judicial attention such as those of Arrow Global, Sahara 

group, etc., the Courts/Tribunal have specifically permitted the sale of assets belonging 

to third parties inter alia to whom monies had been allegedly siphoned off. However, it 

is  doubtful  if  in  the  absence  of  directions  from  the  Court  or  Tribunal  ,  the  Recovery 

Officer of SEBI could sell off the assets of third parties and draw up a certificate of sale 

in respect of assets for recovery of the siphoned off monies. 

 

In contrast, the Committee notes that in the USA, SEC inter alia does disgorgement of 

unlawful gains against “relief defendants”- i.e. any persons to whom unlawful proceeds 

were transferred and who have no legitimate claim to the funds or other assets. Relief 

defendants  are  so-named  because  their  presence  in  the  suit  is  necessary  in  order  to 

provide  full  relief.  E.g.  in  SEC  v  George  and  Ors,31 the  court  inter  alia  explained  the 

concept and liability of relief defendants as follows -  

“57. A relief defendant (sometimes referred to as a nominal defendant) may 

"be joined to aid the recovery of relief" and "has no ownership interest in the 

property  which  is  the  subject  of  litigation."  (emphasis  supplied)  SEC  v. 

Cherif, 933 F.2d 403, 414 (7th Cir.1991); see also SEC v. Cavanagh, 155 F.3d 

129,  136  (2d  Cir.1998).  "Federal  courts  may  order  equitable  relief  against 

[such]  a  person  who  is  not  accused  of  wrongdoing  in  a  securities 

enforcement action where that person: (1) has received ill-gotten funds; and 

(2) does not have a legitimate claim to those funds." Cavanagh, 155 F.3d at 

136;  see  also  Commodity  Futures  Trading  Comm'n  v.  Kimberlynn  Creek 

Ranch, Inc., 276 F.3d 187, 192 (4th Cir.2002); SEC v. Colello, 139 F.3d 674, 

677 (9th Cir.1998). 

 

58.  Each  of  the  relief  defendants  in  this  instance  received  ill-gotten  funds 

and had no legitimate claim to those funds. (emphasis supplied) The pricey 

diamond  ring  and  the  $32,000  that  Dziorney  received  from  Thorn  came 

from  funds  Thorn  received  from  investors.  Because  Thorn  obtained  the 

                                                           
31 426 F.3d 786, available at https://openjurist.org/426/f3d/786/securities-and-exchange-commission-v-george-e-d-r-
e. 

 
Page | 89  

 

 
 

money  through  fraud,  then  gave  it  to  Dziorney  as  a  gift,  she  has  no 

legitimate  claim  to  the  funds.  To  hold  otherwise  "would  allow  almost  any 

defendant  to  circumvent  the  SEC's  power  to  recapture  fraud  proceeds  by 

the  simple  procedure  of  giving  [the  proceeds]  to  friends  and  relatives, 

without even their knowledge." (emphasis supplied) Cavanagh, 155 F.3d at 

137. 

 

59.  Jackson,  Harris  and  George  also  received  ill-gotten  funds  from  the 

defendants.  While  each  of  the  three  invested  his  own  money  in  Thorn's 

investment scheme, the SEC showed that the money they received from the 

scheme came not from profits on their investments but from the investments 

of others. (emphasis supplied) Each of these relief defendants fails to rebut 

this  evidence.  Before  the  district  court,  Jackson  came  "forward  with  no 

evidence to refute the  SEC's evidence  that the amount  Jackson received  as 

purported profits came from other investors." D. Ct. Op. at 39-40. Jackson 

now  claims  in  his  briefs  that  the  money  he  received  back  was  "clearly 

traceable to him," Jackson Br. at 13, but he fails to identify anything in the 

record that supports this assertion. Matters are worse for Harris: Not only 

does he fail to present any evidence rebutting the SEC's proof of tracing, but 

he  also  has  "concede[d]  that  he does  not  know  the  source  of  the  funds"  he 

received from Thorn. D. Ct. Op. at 38. And George, who received back more 

money  than  he  contributed  to  the  investment  pool  and  so  cannot  claim  he 

received only his own funds back, has also failed to come forward with any 

evidence  rebutting  the  SEC's  tracing  evidence.  To  survive  summary 

judgment in the face of the SEC's evidence, the relief defendants needed  to 

present affirmative evidence, not just affirmative assertions, demonstrating 

a disputed issue of material fact. Betkerur v. Aultman Hosp. Ass'n, 78 F.3d 

1079, 1087 (6th Cir.1996). They did not do so.” 

 

Recommendation:  In  view  of  the  above,  the  following  suggestions  are  made  for 

amendments to securities laws -  

 
Page | 90  

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

a. 

after the existing Explanation I to Section 11B of the SEBI Act and 

related provisions in Depositories Act and SCRA, the following may 

be inserted,- 

“Explanation  II.  -  For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is  hereby 

declared that the power to issue directions  under this  section 

shall include and always be deemed to have been included, the 

power  to  direct  any  person  to  whom  proceeds  involved  in 

violation,  of  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  or  the  rules  or 

the  regulations,  have  been  transferred  to  and  who  has  no 

legitimate claim to such proceeds.”  

  

b. 

the  existing  Explanation  I  to  Section  28A  of  the  SEBI  Act  and 

analogous  provisions  in  the  Depositories  Act  and  SCRA  may  be 

substituted with the following, namely, -  

“Explanation  1.  —  For  the  purposes  of  this  section,  the 

person's  movable  or  immovable  property  or  monies  held  in 

bank  accounts  shall  include  any  property  or  monies  held  in 

bank  accounts  which  has  been  transferred  without  adequate 

consideration, directly or indirectly, on or after the date when 

the  amount  specified  in  certificate  had  become  due,  by  such 

person to any other person.”  

 

B. INTERIM ATTACHMENT THROUGH THE JUDICIAL BRANCH 

The SEBI Act, 1992 has an interesting, extremely potent but seldom used power. It is the 

power  of  attachment  through  the  judicial  branch  to  attach  any  bank  account  or  other 

property  found  in  Section  11(4)  (e).  The  recent  Banning  of  Unregulated  Deposit 

Schemes  Act,  2019  has  linked  the  assets  attached  under  this  provision  with  the 
 
Page | 91  

 

 
 

mechanism  to  recover  monies  due  under  section  28A  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992.  The 

provision reads as follows,- 

“(4)  Without  prejudice to the  provisions contained in sub-sections  (1), (2), 

(2A) and (3) and section 11B, the Board may, by an order, for reasons to be 

recorded  in  writing,  in  the  interests  of  investors  or  securities  market,  take 

any of the following measures, either pending investigation or inquiry or on 

completion of such investigation or inquiry, namely:— 

 

 

 

 

(d)  impound  and  retain  the  proceeds  or  securities  in  respect  of  any 

transaction which is under investigation; 

(e) 

32 [attach,  for  a  period  not  exceeding  ninety  days,  bank 

accounts  or  other  property  of  any  intermediary  or  any  person 

associated  with  the  securities  market  in  any  manner  involved  in 

violation  of  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  or  the  rules  or  the 

regulations made thereunder: 

 

 

Provided that the Board shall, within ninety days of the said 

attachment,  obtain  confirmation  of  the  said  attachment  from  the 

Special Court, established under section 26A, having jurisdiction and 

on  such  confirmation,  such  attachment  shall  continue  during  the 

pendency of the aforesaid proceedings and on conclusion of the said 

proceedings, the provisions of section 28A shall apply: 

 

Provided further that only property, bank account or accounts or any 

transaction  entered  therein,  so  far  as  it  relates  to  the  proceeds 

actually involved in violation of  any of the provisions of this Act,  or 

                                                           
32 Substituted by the Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act, 2019 [No. 21 of 2019] w.e.f 21-2-2019. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (e) read as follows,- 

"(e) attach, after passing of an order on an application made for approval by the Judicial Magistrate of the 
first class having jurisdiction, for a period not exceeding one month, one or more bank account or accounts 
of any intermediary or any person associated with the securities market in any manner involved in violation 
of any of the provisions of this Act, or the rules or the regulations made thereunder: 
Provided that only the bank account or accounts or any transaction entered therein, so far as it relates to the 
proceeds actually involved in violation of any of the provisions of this  Act, or the rules or the regulations 
made thereunder shall be allowed to be attached;” 

 
Page | 92  

 

 
 

 

the rules or  the  regulations  made  thereunder  shall  be  allowed  to  be 

attached];” 

The  difficulty  in  utilizing  this  power  lies  in  the  pre-condition  that  only  ‘proceeds  in 

respect  of  a  transaction  under  investigation’  or  ‘only  property,  bank  account  or 

accounts  or  any  transaction  entered  therein,  so  far  as  it  relates  to  the  proceeds 

actually  involved  in  violation  of  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  or  the  rules  or  the 

regulations made thereunder shall be allowed to be attached.’  

 

This  pre-condition  of  proving  at  the  interim  stage  itself  that  the  monies  and  assets 

involved in the violation be traced and identified makes the use of interim attachment 

quite  limited  and  self-defeating.  Comparatively  the  Recovery  Officer  has  no  such 

limitation and can order the attachment and sale of all or any property for the purpose 

of  recovering  the  monies due,  whether  or  not  such property  relates  to  the  violation  of 

securities  laws.  However,  this  is  too  little  too  late.  By  the  time  recovery  begins,  the 

defaulting entity would have by then ensured that his assets are beyond the reach of the 

enforcement agencies. This prejudicially affects the actual amount of money that can be 

recovered. 

 

In  comparison,  the  US  SEC  has  no  such  limitation  on  its  powers.  In  Federal  Trade 

Commission v. Bronson Partners, LLC33, the court inter alia held that: 

“But  when  a  public  entity  seeks  disgorgement  it  does  not  claim  any 
entitlement to particular property; it seeks only to "deter violations of the laws 
by depriving violators of their ill-gotten gains." Fischbach, 133 F.3d at 175….In 
light of this distinction, it is unsurprising that Bronson can point to no case in 
which  a  public  agency  seeking  to  obtain  equitable  monetary  relief  has  been 
required to satisfy the tracing rules. To the contrary, the Federal Reporter is 
replete  with  instances  in  which  judges  of  this  Court  deeply  familiar  with 
equity  practice  have  permitted  the  SEC  to  obtain  disgorgement  without  any 
mention of tracing.” 

 

                                                           
33 654 F.3d 359 (2d Cir. 2011), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/223605/ftc-v-bronson-partners-
llc/>. 

 
Page | 93  

 

 
 

Though  initially  US  Federal  Courts  had  placed  such  a  limitation  on  the  US  SEC; 

subsequently they realised the inequitable result that such a limitation would place on 

the SEC and the requirement that funds should be traceable to the violation for granting 

a  temporary  asset  freeze  was  removed.  The  Court  in  SEC  v  Lauer  &  Ors.34,  inter  alia 

explained the development of law in this respect as follows,- 

“Lauer cites, among other cases, S.E.C. v. First City Financial Corp., Ltd., 890 
F.2d  1215,  1230  (D.C.Cir.1989)  ("First  City")  which  states  that  because 
"disgorgement primarily serves to prevent unjust enrichment, the court may 
exercise  its  equitable  power  only  over  property  causally  related  to  the 
wrongdoing."  Several  cases  have  cited  First  City  for  this  proposition,  most 
notably for our purposes, CFTC v. Sidoti, 178 F.3d 1132, 1138 (11th Cir.1999), 
and  SEC  v.  Gane,  2005  WL  90154,  *19  (S.D.Fla.  2005)  (Gonzales,  J.).  The 
Eleventh Circuit, relying upon First City, held that "the district court may not 
disgorge profits obtained without the aid of any wrongdoing." Sidoti, 178 F.3d 
at 1138. The Sidoti Court went on to find that the district court had abused its 
discretion  for  ordering  disgorgement  of  profits  for  a  period  during  which 
there was no record evidence of fraud.  
Subsequent  to  First  City,  the  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  District  of  Columbia 
reviewed  the  narrow  interpretation  Lauer  proposes  for  the  holding  in  First 
City and held to do so conflicts with longstanding precedent and would lead to 
a monstrous doctrine that would perpetuate rather than correct an inequity. 
In  SEC  v.  Banner  Fund  Int'l,  et  al.,  211  F.3d  602,  617  (D.C.Cir.2000),  the 
Court of Appeals explained: (emphasis supplied) 

“Because disgorgement is an equitable obligation to return a sum equal 
to  the  amount  wrongfully  obtained,  rather  than  a  requirement  to 
replevy  a  specific  asset,  we  reject  Blackwell's  challenge  and  affirm  the 
district court. 
.  .  .  As  the  SEC  points  out,  the  requirement  of  a  causal  relationship 
between a wrongful act and the property to be disgorged does not imply 
that a court may order a malefactor to disgorge only the actual property 
obtained  by  means  of  his  wrongful  act.  Rather,  the  causal  connection 
required  is  between  the  amount  by  which  the  defendant  was  unjustly 
enriched  and  the  amount  he  can  be  required  to  disgorge.  To  hold,  as 
Blackwell  maintains,  that  a  court  may  order  a  defendant  to  disgorge 
only  the  actual  assets  unjustly  received  would  lead  to  absurd  results. 
Under Blackwell's approach, for example, a defendant who was careful 

                                                           
34 445  F.  Supp.  2d  1362  (S.D.  Fla.  2006),  available  at  <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2499896/sec-v-
lauer/>. 

 
Page | 94  

 

 
 

to  spend  all  the  proceeds  of  his  fraudulent  scheme,  while  husbanding 
his  other  assets,  would  be  immune  from  an  order  of  disgorgement. 
Blackwell's  would  be  a  monstrous  doctrine  for  it  would  perpetuate 
rather than correct an inequity. (emphasis supplied)” 

 Many  district  courts  faced  with  this  argument  agree  that  "[t]here  is  no 
requirement  that  frozen  assets  be  traceable  to  the  fraudulent  activity 
underlying  a  lawsuit."  SEC  v.  Dennis  Crowley,  Case  No.  0480354-Civ-
Middlebrooks,  Slip.  Op.  (S.D.Fla.2004)  (order  by  consent  by  Magistrate 
Judge  Johnson)  [DE  1368,  Ex.  I];  see  also  SEC  v.  A.B.  Financing  and  Inv., 
Inc., Case No. 02-23487-Civ-Ungaro-Benages, Slip. Op. at 2-3. (S.D.Fla.2003) 
("a  district  court  may  freeze  assets  not  specifically  traced  to  illegal  activity" 
quoting  Levi  Strauss  &  Co.  v.  Sunrise  Int'l  Trading  Inc.,  51  F.3d  982  (11th 
Cir.1995)) [DE 1368, Ex. J]; SEC v. Belmonte, No. 88 6557, 1991 WL 214252 
(S.D.Fla.1991)  (Roettger,  J.)  (refusing  to  release  funds  from  sale  of  home, 
even  though  home  had  been  acquired  prior  to  alleged  fraud,  because  there 
had  been  no  showing  that  ill-gotten  funds  had  not  been  used  to  subsidize 
mortgage payments or improve home); SEC v. Current Financial Svcs., 62 F. 
Supp.  2d  66,  68  (D.D.Cir.1999)  (refusing  to  release  personal  funds  not 
traceable  to  the  fraud  because  defendant's  liability  exceeded  total  funds 
frozen);  SEC  v.  Grossman,  887  F.  Supp.  649,  661  (S.D.N.Y.1995)  ("it  is 
irrelevant whether the funds affected by the Asset Freeze are traceable to the 
illegal activity") (aff'd, 101 F.3d 109 (2d Cir. 1996)); SEC v. Roor, No. 99-3372, 
1999  WL  553823  at  *2  (S.D.N.Y.1999)  (denying  motion  to  release  so-called 
"untainted" funds from mortgage of property that pre-existed alleged fraud); 
SEC  v.  Glauberman,  No.  90-5205,  1992  WL  175270  at  *1  (S.D.N.Y.1992) 
(rejecting  defendant's  argument  that  funds  subject  to  disgorgement  must  be 
traced "dollar for dollar" to the illegal activity). (emphasis supplied) 
….The  amount  of  assets  to  be  frozen,  prior  to  the  finding  of  liability,  is 
determined  not  by  whether  the  funds  themselves  are  traceable  to  the 
fraudulent  activity  underlying  the  lawsuit,  but  by  showing  a  reasonable 
approximation  of  the  amount,  with  interest,  the  defendant  was  unjustly 
enriched.  Id.;  SEC  v.  Blatt  583  F.2d  1325,  1335  (5th  Cir.1978).  (emphasis 
supplied)” 
 

Recommendation:  It  may  be  appropriate  to  seek  amendment  to  the  following 

provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992, - 

 

 

i.  Clause (d) of Section 11(4) may be amended as follows,- 

 
Page | 95  

 
 

 

“impound and retain the proceeds or securities or monies not exceeding 

the value of the proceeds, inclusive of suitable interest thereon, in 

respect of any transaction which is under investigation;” 

 

ii.  The second proviso to clause (e) of Section 11(4) may be amended as follows,- 

 

“Provided  further  that  only  property,  bank  account  or  accounts  or  any 

transaction entered therein, so far as it relates to not exceeding the value 

of the proceeds actually involved in violation of any of the provisions of this 

Act, or the rules or the regulations made thereunder, inclusive of suitable 

interest thereon, shall be allowed to be attached.” 

 

 

C. ‘MODIFICATIONS’ TO THE FRAMEWORK OF RECOVERY UNDER THE INCOME TAX ACT, 

 

1961 

While sub-section (1) of  section 28A of the SEBI Act (and analogous provisions in the 

SCRA and Depositories Act) provides leeway for modification, no guidance is provided 

as to how such “modification” is to be effected. The relevant recovery provisions of the 

Income-tax  Act,  1961  and  the  Income-tax  (Certificate  Proceedings)  Rules,  1962  with 

necessary  modifications  are  considered  to  be  part  of  the  SEBI  Act,  the  SCRA  and 

Depositories  Act.  i.e.  sections  220  to  227,  228A,  229,  232,  the  Second  and  Third 

Schedules  to  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  and  the  Income-tax  (Certificate  Proceedings) 

Rules,  1962,  as  in  force  from  time  to  time,  in  so  far  as  may  be,  apply  with  necessary 

modifications  as  if  the  said  provisions  and  the  rules  made  thereunder  were  the 

provisions of the SEBI Act.  

 

It is common for enactments to have provisions which expressly provide that delegated 

legislation  shall  have  effect  as  ‘if  enacted  in  this  Act.’  It  is  also  common  for  the 

enactments to declare how the modifications in such cases are to be made. e.g. Section 
 
Page | 96  

 

 
 

35  of  the  Hampi  World  Heritage  Area  Management  Authority  Act,  2002  provides  as 

follows:- 

 

“(1)  If  any  difficulty  arises  in  giving  effect  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  the 

State  Government  may  by  order  published  in  the  Official  Gazette,  as  the 

occasion  may  require  do  anything  which  appears  to  it  to  be  necessary  to 

remove the difficulty.  

(2) Every order made under sub-section (1) shall as soon as may be after it is 

published,  be  laid  before  both  Houses  of  the  State  Legislature  and  shall, 

subject to any modification which the State Legislature may make, have effect 

as if enacted in this Act.” 

 

However, Section 28A of the SEBI Act is silent in respect of the various modifications to 

sections 220 to 227, 228A, 229, 232, the Second and Third Schedules to the Income-tax 

Act, 1961 and the Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 1962 when applied in the 

securities  markets  context.  Hence,  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  the  delegated 

legislation  made  in  the  ordinary  way  so  as  to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  the  Act  is  the 

mode through which such modifications may be made.  

 

No  rules  have  been  prescribed  under  the  SEBI  Act  in  relation  to  Section  28A  and  the 

modifications to the provisions of Income-tax Act, 1961 and the Income-tax (Certificate 

Proceedings) Rules, 1962 which are deemed to be part of the SEBI Act.  

 

Considering  that  modifications  are  to  be  done  while  applying  the  provisions  of  the 

Income-tax  Act,  1961  and  the  Certificate  Rules,  it  would  be  appropriate  if  such 

modifications  are  clarified  through  regulations  since  section  30  of  the  SEBI  Act  (and 

analogous  provisions  in  the  SCRA  and  Depositories  Act)  permits  the  Board  to  make 

regulations consistent with the SEBI Act and the rules made thereunder to carry out the 

purposes of the Act.  

 

 

 
Page | 97  

 
 

Hence, the Committee is of the view that since the relevant provisions of the Income-tax 

Act,  1961  and  the  Income-tax  (Certificate  Proceedings)  Rules,  1962  are  deemed  to  be 

part of the statute itself, it is possible to frame regulations under the SEBI Act inter alia 

clarifying the modifications in such provisions as well as any enhancements in process 

within the basic framework relating to a Recovery officer. 

 

IV. 

SUITABLE APPLICATION BY MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE 

INCOME-TAX ACT, 1961 

 

Section  28A  of  the  SEBI  Act  and  the  analogous  provisions  of  the  SCRA  and  the 

Depositories Act refers to the provisions of sections 220-227, 228A, 229 and 232 of the 

Income-tax  Act,  1961.  These  provisions  are  substantive  in  nature.  Therefore,  the 

Committee  is  of  the  view  that  in  the  light  of  the  suggestions  made  to  have 

comprehensive regulations for the purposes of “recovery” under the securities laws, the 

aforesaid  provisions of  the Income-tax  Act,  1961  be  suitably  modified  in  the securities 

laws in the context of recovery proceedings intended by the Board.  

 

The Committee suggests the following modifications: -  

 

Sr. 

Provisions of the Income-tax Act, 

Suggested modification for SEBI 

No. 

1961 

I.  When  tax  payable  and  when 

Amounts when payable.  

assessee deemed in default. 

(1)  Any  penalty  or  refund  of  monies 

220. (1)  Any  amount,  otherwise  than 

or  disgorgement  of  amounts  or  fees 

by  way  of  advance  tax,  specified  as 

due  to  the  Board,  under  the  Act35 or 

payable 

in  a  notice  of  demand 

the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation) 

under section  156 shall  be  paid  within 

Act,  1956  or  the  Depositories  Act, 

thirty  days  of  the  service  of  the  notice 

1996, shall be paid within thirty days 

at 

the  place  and 

to 

the  person 

of service of notice or in terms of the 

                                                           
35 ‘Act’ in these suggested modifications means the SEBI Act, 1992. 

 

 
Page | 98  

 
 

 

mentioned in the notice : 

regulations issued or an order passed 

Provided that,  where  the  Assessing 

by the Board: 

Officer has any reason to believe that it 

Provided  that  where  the  Recovery 

will be detrimental to revenue if the full 

Officer  has  reason  to  believe  that  it 

period  of  thirty  days  aforesaid 

is 

will  be  detrimental  if  the  full  period 

allowed,  he  may,  with  the  previous 

of thirty days as aforesaid is allowed, 

approval  of  the  Joint  Commissioner, 

he may, with the previous approval of 

direct  that  the  sum  specified  in  the 

the  Board,  direct 

that 

the  sum 

notice  of  demand  shall  be  paid  within 

specified  in  the  notice  of  demand  be 

such  period  being  a  period  less  than 

paid  within  such  period  being  a 

the  period  of  thirty  days  aforesaid,  as 

period  less  than  the  period  of  thirty 

may be specified by him in the notice of 

days,  as  may  be  specified  by  him  in 

demand. 

the notice of demand.  

(1A)  Where  any  notice  of  demand  has 

Explanation.  –  The  order  imposing 

been  served  upon  an  assessee  and  any 

penalty, directing refund or directing 

appeal or other proceeding, as the case 

disgorgement shall be deemed to be a 

may be, is filed or initiated in respect of 

notice of demand. 

the amount specified in the said notice 

(2)  Where  any  notice  of  demand  has 

of demand, then, such demand shall be 

been served upon any person and any 

deemed  to  be  valid  till  the  disposal  of 

appeal  or  other  proceeding,  as  the 

the  appeal  by 

the 

last  appellate 

case  may  be,  is  filed  or  initiated  in 

authority 

or 

disposal 

of 

the 

respect of the amount specified in the 

proceedings,  as  the  case  may  be,  and 

said  notice  of  demand,  either  by  the 

any  such  notice  of  demand  shall  have 

person  or  the  Board,  then  such  a 

the effect as specified in section 3 of the 

demand  shall  be  deemed  to  be  valid 

Taxation  Laws 

(Continuation  and 

till the disposal of the proceedings, as 

Validation  of  Recovery  Proceedings) 

the case may be, and any such notice 

Act, 1964 (11 of 1964). 

of  demand  shall  have  the  following 

(2)  If  the  amount  specified  in  any 

effect:  

notice  of  demand  under section  156 is 

(a) where  the  dues  are  enhanced 

 
Page | 99  

 
 

 

not  paid  within  the  period  limited 

in  such  appeal  or  proceedings 

under  sub-section  (1),  the  assessee 

or  interest  accrues  on  such 

shall be liable to pay simple interest at 

monies  due  to  the  passage  of 

one per cent for every month or part of 

time; 

another 

notice 

of 

a  month  comprised 

in  the  period 

demand  only  in  respect  of  the 

commencing from the day immediately 

amount  by  which  such  dues 

following 

the  end  of 

the  period 

are  enhanced,  without 

the 

mentioned 

in  sub-section  (1)  and 

service  of  any  fresh  notice  of 

ending  with  the  day  on  which  the 

demand,  shall  be  continued 

amount is paid : 

from  the  stage  at  which  such 

Provided that, where as a result of an 

proceedings 

stood 

order under section 154, or section 155, 

immediately  prior 

to  such 

or section 

or section 

250, 

260, 

or section 

or section 

254, 

262, 

disposal;  

(b) where the dues are reduced in 

or section  264 or  an  order  of  the 

such appeal or proceedings, an 

Settlement  Commission  under  sub-

intimation  of  the  fact  of  such 

section (4) of section 245D, the amount 

reduction shall be issued to the 

on  which  interest  was  payable  under 

person;  

this  section  had  been  reduced,  the 

(c) no  proceedings  in  relation  to 

interest  shall  be  reduced  accordingly 

such  dues 

(including 

the 

and  the  excess  interest  paid,  if  any, 

imposition  of  penalty  or 

shall be refunded : 

charging  of  interest)  shall  be 

Provided  further that  where  as  a 

invalid  by  reason  only  that  no 

result  of  an  order  under  sections 

fresh  notice  of  demand  was 

specified 

in  the 

first  proviso,  the 

served  upon  the  person  after 

amount  on  which  interest  was  payable 

the  disposal  of  such  appeal  or 

under  this  section  had  been  reduced 

proceeding  or  that  such  dues 

and  subsequently  as  a  result  of  an 

have 

been 

enhanced 

or 

order  under  said  sections  or section 

reduced 

in  such  appeal  or 

263, the amount on which interest was 

proceeding:  

 
Page | 100  

 
 

 

payable under this section is increased, 

Provided  that  where  any  dues  are 

the  assessee  shall  be  liable  to  pay 

reduced in such appeal or proceeding 

interest under sub-section (2) from the 

and  the  person  is  entitled  to  any 

day  immediately  following  the  end  of 

refund  thereof,  such  refund  shall  be 

the period mentioned in the first notice 

made 

in 

accordance  with 

the 

of  demand,  referred  to  in  sub-section 

provisions of these regulations.  

(1)  and  ending  with  the  day  on  which 

(3)  For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is 

the amount is paid: 

hereby  declared  that  no  fresh  notice 

Provided  also that  in  respect  of  any 

of  demand  shall  be  necessary  in  any 

period  commencing  on  or  before  the 

case where the amount of dues is not 

31st  day  of  March,  1989  and  ending 

varied as a result of any order passed 

after  that  date,  such  interest  shall,  in 

in any appeal or other proceeding.  

respect  of  so  much  of  such  period  as 

(4)  The  person  who  is  liable  to  pay 

falls after that date, be calculated at the 

the  dues  as 

specified 

in 

sub-

rate  of  one  and  one-half  per  cent  for 

regulation  (1),  shall  be  liable  to  pay 

every month or part of a month. 

simple interest at the rate of 18% per 

(2A) 

Notwithstanding 

anything 

annum  on  amounts  in  default  from 

contained 

in  sub-section 

(2), 

the 

the date such amounts became due or 

Principal  Chief  Commissioner  or  Chief 

from  the  date  of  passing  of  the 

Commissioner 

or 

Principal 

original  order  by  the  Board  or  the 

Commissioner  or  Commissioner  may 

Adjudicating  Officer  till  the  date  of 

reduce or waive the amount of interest 

actual payment or realization of such 

paid  or  payable  by  an  assessee  under 

dues, whichever is earlier: 

the  said  sub-section  if  he  is  satisfied 

Provided  that  where  the  amount  of 

that— 

dues  has  been  enhanced  or  reduced 

 (i)  payment  of  such  amount  has 

by  virtue  of  any  order  passed  in 

caused  or  would  cause  genuine 

appeal  or  proceedings,  the  interest 

hardship to the assessee; 

thereon shall be reduced accordingly.  

 (ii)  default  in  the  payment  of  the 

 (5)  While  drawing  up  any  notice  of 

amount  on  which  interest  has 

demand or a certificate, the Recovery 

 
Page | 101  

 
 

 

been paid or was payable under 

Officer  shall 

include  therein  the 

the said sub-section was due to 

interest as specified above.  

circumstances 

beyond 

the 

(6)  Without  prejudice 

to 

the 

control of the assessee; and 

provisions 

contained 

in 

this 

(iii) the assessee has co-operated in 

regulation, on an application made by 

any 

inquiry  relating  to  the 

the  person  before  the  expiry  of  the 

assessment  or  any  proceeding 

due  date  under  sub-regulation  (1), 

for  the  recovery  of  any amount 

the Board or the Recovery Officer on 

due from him: 

approval of the Board, for reasons to 

Provided that  the  order  accepting  or 

be  recorded  in  writing,  may  extend 

rejecting 

the  application  of 

the 

the 

time 

for  payment  or  allow 

assessee,  either  in full  or  in  part,  shall 

payment  by  instalments,  subject  to 

be  passed  within  a  period  of  twelve 

such  conditions  as  may  be  imposed 

months  from  the  end  of  the  month  in 

considering 

the 

facts 

and 

which the application is received: 

circumstances of the case: 

Provided 

further that  no  order 

Provided  that  extension  of  time  or 

rejecting  the  application,  either  in  full 

payment  by  instalments  shall  not  be 

or  in  part,  shall  be  passed  unless  the 

granted  beyond  a  period  of  twenty-

assessee has been given an opportunity 

four  months  from  the  date  of  expiry 

of being heard: 

of 

the  period  specified 

in  sub-

Provided 

also that  where 

any 

regulation (1).  

application is pending as on the 1st day 

(7)  Where  the  amount  is  not  paid 

of June, 2016, the order shall be passed 

within  the  time  specified  in  sub-

on or before the 31st day of May, 2017. 

regulation (1) or extended under sub-

(2B) 

Notwithstanding 

anything 

regulation (6), as the case may be, the 

contained  in  sub-section  (2),  where 

person  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 

interest  is  charged  under  sub-section 

default.  

(1A)  of section  201 on  the  amount  of 

(8) Where payment by instalments is 

tax  specified  in  the  intimation  issued 

allowed under sub-regulation (6), the 

under 

sub-section 

(1) 

of section 

person  who  commits  a  default  in 

 
Page | 102  

 
 

 

200A for  any  period,  then,  no  interest 

paying  any  one  of  the  instalments 

shall  be charged  under  sub-section  (2) 

within the time fixed under that sub-

on  the  same  amount  for  the  same 

section,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 

period. 

default as to the whole of the amount 

(2C) 

Notwithstanding 

anything 

then  outstanding,  and  the  other 

contained  in  sub-section  (2),  where 

instalment  or  instalments  shall  be 

interest  is  charged  under  sub-section 

deemed  to  have  been  due  on  the 

(7)  of section  206C on  the  amount  of 

same date as the instalment which is 

tax  specified  in  the  intimation  issued 

actually in default. 

under 

sub-section 

(1) 

of section 

(9)  Where  the  persons  has  preferred 

206CB for any period, then, no interest 

an  appeal  before 

the  Securities 

shall  be charged  under  sub-section  (2) 

Appellate  Tribunal,  the  Board  or  the 

on  the  same  amount  for  the  same 

Recovery  Officer  subject  to  such 

period. 

conditions  as  he  may  think  fit  to 

(3) Without prejudice to the provisions 

impose  in  the  circumstances  of  the 

contained  in  sub-section  (2),  on  an 

case and for reasons to be recorded in 

application  made  by 

the  assessee 

writing, treat the person as not being 

before the expiry of the due date under 

in  default  in  respect  of  the  amount 

sub-section  (1),  the  Assessing  Officer 

due,  even 

though 

the 

time 

for 

may  extend  the  time  for  payment  or 

payment has expired, as long as such 

allow  payment  by  instalments,  subject 

appeal remains undisposed of. 

to  such  conditions  as  he  may  think  fit 

to  impose  in  the  circumstances  of  the 

case. 

(4) If the amount is not paid within the 

time  limited  under  sub-section  (1)  or 

extended  under  sub-section  (3),  as  the 

case  may  be,  at  the  place  and  to  the 

person mentioned in the said notice the 

assessee  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 

 
Page | 103  

default. 

(5)  If,  in  a  case  where  payment  by 

instalments 

is  allowed  under  sub-

section  (3), 

the  assessee  commits 

defaults  in  paying  any  one  of  the 

instalments within the time fixed under 

that  sub-section,  the  assessee  shall  be 

deemed to be in default as to the whole 

of  the  amount  then  outstanding,  and 

the  other  instalment  or  instalments 

shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  due  on 

the  same  date  as 

the 

instalment 

actually in default. 

(6) Where an assessee has presented an 

appeal  under section  246 or section 

246A the  Assessing  Officer  may,  in  his 

discretion 

and 

subject 

to 

such 

conditions  as  he  may  think  fit  to 

impose  in  the  circumstances  of  the 

case, treat the assessee as not being in 

default  in  respect  of  the  amount  in 

dispute in the appeal,  even though the 

time  for  payment  has  expired,  as  long 

as such appeal remains undisposed of. 

(7)  Where  an  assessee  has  been 

assessed  in  respect  of  income  arising 

outside  India  in  a  country  the  laws  of 

which 

prohibit 

or 

restrict 

the 

remittance  of  money  to  India,  the 

Assessing  Officer  shall  not  treat  the 

 
 

 

 
Page | 104  

 
 

 

assessee as in default in respect of that 

part  of  the  tax  which  is  due  in  respect 

of that amount of his income which, by 

reason 

of 

such 

prohibition 

or 

restriction,  cannot  be  brought  into 

India,  and  shall  continue  to  treat  the 

assessee as not in  default in respect of 

such  part  of 

the 

tax  until 

the 

prohibition or restriction is removed. 

Explanation.—For the purposes of this 

section,  income  shall  be  deemed  to 

have  been  brought  into  India  if  it  has 

been  utilised  or  could  have  been 

utilised 

for 

the  purposes  of  any 

expenditure  actually  incurred  by  the 

assessee outside India or if the income, 

whether  capitalised  or  not,  has  been 

brought into India in any form. 

II.  Penalty  payable  when 

tax 

in 

Liability for other action.  

default. 

A  person  in  default  or  deemed  to  be 

221. (1) When an assessee is in default 

in default in making payment of dues, 

or is deemed to be in default in making 

in  addition  to  the  amount  which  is 

a  payment  of  tax,  he  shall,  in  addition 

due  and  the  amount  of 

interest 

to  the  amount  of  the  arrears  and  the 

payable  on  such  dues,  may  be  liable 

amount  of  interest  payable under  sub-

for any other action under the Act or 

section (2) of section 220, be liable, by 

the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation) 

way of penalty, to pay such amount  as 

Act,  1956  or  the  Depositories  Act, 

the Assessing Officer may direct, and in 

1996, as the case may be. 

the  case  of  a  continuing  default,  such 

 

further  amount  or  amounts  as  the 

 
Page | 105  

 
 

Assessing  Officer  may,  from  time  to 

time, direct, so, however, that the total 

amount of penalty does not exceed the 

amount of tax in arrears : 

Provided that before levying any such 

penalty,  the  assessee  shall  be  given  a 

reasonable opportunity of being heard: 

Provided  further that  where 

the 

assessee  proves  to  the  satisfaction  of 

the  Assessing  Officer  that  the  default 

was for good and sufficient reasons, no 

penalty  shall  be 

levied  under  this 

section. 

Explanation.—For 

the 

removal  of 

doubt,  it  is  hereby  declared  that  an 

assessee  shall  not  cease  to  be  liable  to 

any  penalty  under  this  sub-section 

merely by reason of the fact that before 

the levy of such penalty he has paid the 

tax. 

(2) Where as a result of any final order 

the  amount  of  tax,  with  respect  to  the 

default  in  the  payment  of  which  the 

penalty  was  levied,  has  been  wholly 

reduced,  the  penalty  levied  shall  be 

cancelled  and  the  amount  of  penalty 

paid shall be refunded. 

 

III.  Certificate 

to  Tax  Recovery 

Certificate. 

Officer. 

(1)  When  a  person  is  in  default  or  is 

 

 
Page | 106  

 
 

 

222. (1) When an assessee is in default 

deemed  to  be  in  default  in  making  a 

or is deemed to be in default in making 

payment of dues, namely, -  

a  payment  of  tax,  the  Tax  Recovery 

(a) a penalty imposed under the 

Officer  may  draw  up  under  his 

Act, the Securities Contracts 

signature a statement in the prescribed 

(Regulations)  Act,  1956  or 

form specifying  the  amount  of  arrears 

the  Depositories  Act,  1996; 

due from the assessee (such statement 

or 

being  hereafter  in  this  Chapter  and  in 

(b) any  amount  payable  on 

the  Second  Schedule  referred  to  as 

failure  of  any  person  to 

"certificate")  and  shall  proceed 

to 

refund 

any  monies 

as 

recover from such assessee the amount 

directed by the Board; or 

specified  in  the  certificate  by  one  or 

(c) any  amount  payable  on 

more  of  the  modes  mentioned  below, 

failure  of  any  person  to 

in accordance with the rules laid down 

disgorge monies  as  directed 

in the Second Schedule— 

by the Board; or 

 (a)  attachment  and  sale  of  the 

(d) any fees due to the Board,  

assessee's movable property; 

the  Recovery  Officer  shall  draw  up 

 (b)  attachment  and  sale  of  the 

under  his 

signature,  a  written 

assessee's immovable property; 

statement in the form mentioning the 

 (c)  arrest  of  the  assessee  and  his 

amount  due  from  the  person  (such 

detention in prison; 

statement being hereafter referred to 

 (d)  appointing  a  receiver  for  the 

as  "certificate")  and  shall  proceed  to 

management  of  the  assessee's 

recover 

from 

such  person, 

the 

movable 

and 

immovable 

amount specified in the certificate by 

properties. 

one or more of the modes specified in 

Explanation.—For the purposes of this 

these  regulations  and  in  accordance 

sub-section,  the  assessee's  movable  or 

with these regulations. 

immovable  property  shall  include  any 

(2)  The  Recovery  Officer  may  take 

property  which  has  been  transferred, 

action  under 

sub-regulation 

(1), 

directly or indirectly on or after the 1st 

notwithstanding that proceedings for 

 
Page | 107  

 
 

day of June, 1973, by the assessee to his 

recovery  of  the  arrears  by  any  other 

spouse  or  minor  child  or  son's  wife  or 

mode have been taken.  

son's  minor  child,  otherwise  than  for 

 

adequate  consideration,  and  which  is 

held  by,  or  stands  in  the name  of,  any 

of  the  persons  aforesaid;  and  so  far  as 

the movable or immovable property so 

transferred  to  his  minor  child  or  his 

son's minor child is concerned, it shall, 

even  after  the  date  of  attainment  of 

majority  by  such  minor  child  or  son's 

minor  child,  as  the  case  may  be, 

continue 

to  be 

included 

in 

the 

assessee's  movable  or 

immovable 

property for recovering any arrears due 

from  the  assessee  in  respect  of  any 

period prior to such date. 

(2) The Tax Recovery Officer may take 

action 

under 

sub-section 

(1), 

notwithstanding  that  proceedings  for 

recovery  of  the  arrears  by  any  other 

mode have been taken. 

IV.  Tax  Recovery  Officer  by  whom 

Recovery  Officer  by  whom 

recovery is to be effected. 

recovery is to be effected. 

223. (1)  The  Tax  Recovery  Officer 

(1)  The  Recovery  Officer  competent 

competent to take action under section 

to take action shall be— 

222 shall be— 

 (a)  the  Recovery  Officer  within 

 (a) the Tax Recovery Officer within 

whose 

jurisdiction 

the 

whose  jurisdiction  the  assessee 

defaulter 

carries 

on  his 

carries  on  his  business  or 

business  or  profession  or 

 

 
Page | 108  

 
 

 

profession  or  within  whose 

within  whose  jurisdiction  the 

jurisdiction  the  principal  place 

principal place of his business 

of  his  business  or  profession  is 

or profession is situate, or 

situate, or 

 (b)  the  Recovery  Officer  within 

 (b) the Tax Recovery Officer within 

whose 

jurisdiction 

the 

whose  jurisdiction  the  assessee 

defaulter 

resides  or 

any 

resides  or  any  movable  or 

movable 

or 

immovable 

immovable  property  of 

the 

property  of  the  person 

is 

assessee is situate, 

situate, 

the  jurisdiction  for  this  purpose  being 

the jurisdiction for this purpose being 

the  jurisdiction  assigned  to  the  Tax 

the 

jurisdiction  assigned 

to 

the 

Recovery  Officer  under  the  orders  or 

Recovery Officers under the orders or 

directions  issued  by  the  Board,  or  by 

directions issued by the Board.  

the  Principal  Chief  Commissioner  or 

(2)  Where  a  person  has  property 

Chief  Commissioner  or  Principal 

within  the  jurisdiction  of  more  than 

Commissioner or Commissioner who is 

one  Recovery  Officer  and 

authorised  in  this  behalf  by  the  Board 

Recovery  Officer  by  whom 

the 

the 

in pursuance of section 120. 

certificate is drawn up— 

(2)  Where  an  assessee  has  property 

 (a)  is  not  able  to  recover  the 

within  the  jurisdiction  of  more  than 

entire  amount  by  sale  of  the 

one  Tax  Recovery  Officer  and  the  Tax 

property, 

movable 

Recovery  Officer  by  whom 

the 

immovable, 

within 

or 

his 

certificate is drawn up— 

jurisdiction, or 

 (a) is not able to recover the entire 

 (b) is of the opinion that, for the 

amount by sale of the property, 

purpose  of  expediting  or 

movable  or  immovable,  within 

securing  the  recovery  of  the 

his jurisdiction, or 

whole  or  any  part  of  the 

 (b)  is  of  the  opinion  that,  for  the 

amount under this Chapter, it 

purpose 

of 

expediting 

or 

is necessary so to do, 

securing  the  recovery  of  the 

he may send the certificate or, where 

 
Page | 109  

 
 

 

whole or any part of the amount 

only  a  part  of  the  amount  is  to  be 

under 

this  Chapter, 

it 

is 

recovered,  a  copy  of  the  certificate 

necessary so to do, 

certified in the specified manner and 

he  may  send  the  certificate  or,  where 

specifying 

the 

amount 

to 

be 

only  a  part  of  the  amount  is  to  be 

recovered 

to  a  Recovery  Officer 

recovered,  a  copy  of  the  certificate 

within  whose  jurisdiction  the  person 

certified 

in 

the 

prescribed 

resides 

or  has  property 

and, 

manner57 and specifying the amount to 

thereupon, 

that  Recovery  Officer 

be recovered to a Tax Recovery Officer 

shall  also  proceed  to  recover  the 

within  whose  jurisdiction  the  assessee 

amount  under  these regulations  as if 

resides or has property and, thereupon, 

the  certificate  or  a  copy  thereof  had 

that  Tax  Recovery  Officer  shall  also 

been drawn up by him.  

proceed  to  recover  the  amount  under 

 

this Chapter as if the certificate or copy 

thereof had been drawn up by him. 

 

V.  Validity 

of 

certificate 

and 

Validity  of 

certificate 

and 

cancellation 

or 

amendment 

cancellation  or 

amendment 

thereof. 

thereof. 

224. It  shall  not  be  open  to  the 

No person shall be allowed to dispute 

assessee  to  dispute  the  correctness  of 

the  correctness  of  any  certificate 

any  certificate  drawn  up  by  the  Tax 

drawn up by the Recovery Officer on 

Recovery  Officer  on  any  ground 

any  ground  whatsoever,  but  it  shall 

whatsoever,  but  it  shall  be  lawful  for 

be  lawful  for  the  Recovery  Officer  to 

the  Tax  Recovery  Officer  to  cancel  the 

cancel  the  certificate 

if,  for  any 

certificate  if,  for  any  reason,  he  thinks 

reason,  he  thinks  it  necessary  so  to 

it necessary so to do,  or to correct any 

do,  or  to  correct  any  clerical  or 

clerical or arithmetical mistake therein. 

mathematical error therein. 

 

 

V.  Stay  of  proceedings  in  pursuance  Stay 

of 

proceedings 

in 

 
Page | 110  

 
 

 

of  certificate  and  amendment  or 

pursuance  of  certificate  and 

cancellation thereof. 

amendment 

or 

cancellation 

225. (1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  Tax 

thereof. 

Recovery  Officer  to  grant  time  for  the 

(1) It shall be lawful for the Recovery 

payment  of  any  tax  and  when  he  does 

Officer to grant time for the payment 

so, he shall stay the proceedings for the 

of any dues and when he does so, he 

recovery of such tax until the expiry of 

shall  stay  the  proceedings  for  the 

the time so granted. 

recovery of such dues until the expiry 

(2)  Where  the  order  giving  rise  to  a 

of the time so granted. 

demand  of  tax  for  which  a  certificate 

(2)  Where  the  order  giving  rise  to  a 

has  been  drawn  up  is  modified  in 

demand  of  dues 

for  which  a 

appeal  or  other  proceeding  under  this 

certificate  has  been  drawn  up  is 

Act, and, as a consequence thereof, the 

modified 

in 

appeal 

or 

other 

demand is reduced but the order is the 

proceeding  under  the  Act  or  the 

subject-matter  of  further  proceeding 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 

under  this  Act,  the  Tax  Recovery 

1956  or  the  Depositories  Act,  1996, 

Officer  shall  stay  the  recovery  of  such 

and,  as  a  consequence  thereof,  the 

part  of  the  amount  specified  in  the 

demand  is  reduced  but  the  order  is 

certificate  as  pertains  to  the  said 

the 

subject-matter 

of 

further 

reduction  for  the  period  for  which  the 

proceeding  under  the  aforesaid  Acts, 

appeal  or  other  proceeding  remains 

the  Recovery  Officer  shall  stay  the 

pending. 

recovery  of  such  part  of  the  amount 

(3) Where a certificate has been drawn 

specified 

in 

the  certificate 

that 

up and subsequently the amount of the 

pertains to the said reduction for the 

outstanding  demand  is  reduced  as  a 

period  for  which  the  appeal  or  other 

result of an appeal or other proceeding 

proceeding remains pending. 

under  this  Act,  the  Tax  Recovery 

(3)  Where  a  certificate  has  been 

Officer shall, when the order which was 

drawn  up  and  subsequently 

the 

the  subject-matter  of  such  appeal  or 

amount of the outstanding demand is 

other proceeding has become final and 

reduced  as  a  result  of  an  appeal  or 

 
Page | 111  

 
 

 

conclusive,  amend  the  certificate,  or 

other  proceeding  under  the  Acts 

cancel it, as the case may be. 

mentioned  in  sub-regulation  (2),  the 

 

Recovery  Officer  shall,  when  the 

order which was the subject-matter of 

such  appeal  or  other  proceeding  has 

become  final  and  conclusive,  amend 

the certificate, or cancel it, as the case 

may be. 

VI.  Other modes of recovery. 

Other modes of recovery. 

226. (1) Where no certificate has  been 

(1)  Where  a  certificate  has  been 

drawn  up  under section  222, 

the 

drawn  up,  the  Recovery  Officer  may, 

Assessing  Officer  may  recover  the  tax 

without  prejudice  to  the  modes  of 

by  any  one  or  more  of  the  modes 

recovery  specified in that  section (s), 

provided in this section. 

recover the dues by any one or more 

(1A)  Where  a  certificate  has  been 

of the other modes provided in these 

drawn  up  under section  222,  the  Tax 

regulation. 

Recovery  Officer  may,  without 

(2)  If  any  person  is  in  receipt  of  any 

prejudice  to  the  modes  of  recovery 

income  in  the  nature  of  salary,  the 

specified in that section, recover the tax 

Recovery  Officer  may  require  any 

by  any  one  or  more  of  the  modes 

person  paying  the  same  to  deduct 

provided in this section. 

from any payment subsequent to the 

(2)  If  any  assessee  is  in  receipt  of  any 

date  of  such  requisition  any  dues 

income  chargeable  under  the  head 

from  such  person,  and  such  person 

"Salaries", the Assessing Officer or Tax 

shall 

comply  with 

any 

such 

Recovery  Officer  may  require  any 

requisition  and  shall  pay  the  sum  so 

person paying the same to deduct from 

deducted to the credit of the Board or 

any payment subsequent to the date of 

as directed by the Recovery Officer: 

such requisition any arrears of tax due 

Provided that  any  part  of  the  salary 

from  such  assessee,  and  such  person 

exempt from attachment in execution 

shall  comply with any such requisition 

of  a  decree  of  a  civil  court  under 

 
Page | 112  

 
 

 

and  shall  pay  the  sum  so  deducted  to 

section  60  of  the  Code  of  Civil 

the credit of the Central Government or 

Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall be 

as the Board directs: 

exempt  from  any  requisition  made 

Provided that  any  part  of  the  salary 

under this sub-regulation.  

exempt  from  attachment  in  execution 

(3)  (i)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  at 

of a decree of a civil court under section 

any  time  or  from  time  to  time,  by 

60 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 

notice  in  writing  require  any  person 

(5  of  1908),  shall  be  exempt  from  any 

from  whom  money  is  due  or  may 

requisition  made  under 

this  sub-

become  due  to  the  defaulter  or  any 

section. 

person  who 

holds 

or  may 

(3)  (i)  The  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

subsequently  hold  money  for  or  on 

Recovery  Officer  may,  at  any  time  or 

account of the defaulter to pay to the 

from time to time, by notice in writing 

Recovery  Officer  either 

forthwith 

require any  person from whom money 

upon  the  money  becoming  due  or 

is  due  or  may  become  due  to  the 

being  held  or  at  or  within  the  time 

assessee  or  any  person  who  holds  or 

specified  in  the  notice  (not  being 

may subsequently hold money for or on 

before  the  money  becomes  due  or  is 

account  of  the  assessee  to  pay  to  the 

held)  so  much  of  the  money  as  is 

Assessing  Officer  or  Tax  Recovery 

sufficient  to  pay  the  amount  due  by 

Officer  either 

forthwith  upon 

the 

the defaulter in respect of dues or the 

money  becoming  due  or  being  held  or 

whole  of  the  money  when  it  is  equal 

at  or  within  the  time  specified  in  the 

to or less than that amount. 

notice  (not  being  before  the  money 

Provided  that  wherever  the  defaulter 

becomes due or is held) so much of the 

has a right to demand payment of any 

money  as  is  sufficient  to  pay  the 

amount before such amount becomes 

amount  due  by  the  assessee  in  respect 

payable 

under 

any 

contract, 

of  arrears  or  the  whole  of  the  money 

certificate  or  instrument,  it  shall  be 

when  it  is  equal  to  or  less  than  that 

lawful  for  the  Recovery  Officer  to 

amount. 

demand  payment  of  the  amount 

(ii) A notice under this sub-section may 

forthwith.  

 
Page | 113  

 
 

 

be  issued  to  any  person  who  holds  or 

(ii) A notice under this sub-regulation 

may  subsequently  hold  any  money  for 

may  be  issued  to  any  person  who 

or  on  account  of  the  assessee  jointly 

holds  or  may  subsequently  hold  any 

with  any  other  person  and  for  the 

money  for  or  on  account  of  the 

purposes of this sub-section, the shares 

defaulter 

jointly  with  any  other 

of  the  joint  holders  in  such  account 

person  and  for  the  purposes  of  this 

shall be presumed, until the contrary is 

sub-regulation, the shares of the joint 

proved, to be equal. 

holders  in  such  account  shall  be 

(iii)  A  copy  of  the  notice  shall  be 

presumed,  until 

the  contrary 

is 

forwarded  to  the  assessee  at  his  last 

proved, to be equal. 

address known to the Assessing Officer 

(iii)  A  copy  of  the  notice  shall  be 

or Tax Recovery Officer, and in the case 

forwarded  to  the  defaulter  at  his  last 

of  a  joint  account  to  all  the  joint 

address  known 

to 

the  Recovery 

holders  at  their  last  addresses  known 

Officer,  and  in  the  case  of  a  joint 

to 

the  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

account  to  all  the  joint  holders  at 

Recovery Officer. 

their  last  addresses  known  to  the 

(iv)  Save as otherwise provided in this 

Recovery Officer. 

sub-section,  every  person  to  whom  a 

(iv)  Save  as  otherwise  provided  in 

notice  is  issued  under  this  sub-section 

this  sub-regulation,  every  person  to 

shall  be  bound  to  comply  with  such 

whom  a  notice  is  issued  under  this 

notice,  and,  in  particular,  where  any 

sub-regulation  shall  be  bound  to 

such  notice  is  issued  to  a  post  office, 

comply  with  such  notice,  and,  where 

banking company or an insurer, it shall 

any  such  notice  is  issued  to  a  post 

not  be  necessary  for  any  pass  book, 

office,  banking  company  or  an 

deposit  receipt,  policy  or  any  other 

insurer,  in  particular,  it  shall  not  be 

document  to  be  produced  for  the 

necessary that the pass book, deposit 

purpose  of  any  entry,  endorsement  or 

receipt, policy or any other document 

the like  being  made  before  payment  is 

be  produced  for  the  purpose  of  any 

made,  notwithstanding 

any 

rule, 

entry,  endorsement  or  the  like  being 

practice  or 

requirement 

to 

the 

made  before  payment 

is  made, 

 
Page | 114  

 
 

 

contrary. 

notwithstanding any rule, practice or 

(v)  Any  claim  respecting  any  property 

requirement to the contrary.  

in relation to which a notice under this 

(v)  Any  claim  in  respect  of  any 

sub-section  has  been  issued  arising 

property in relation to which a notice 

after the date of the notice shall be void 

under  these  regulations  has  been 

as against any demand contained in the 

issued  arising  after  the  date  of  the 

notice. 

notice  shall  be  void  as  against  any 

(vi)  Where  a  person  to  whom  a  notice 

demand contained in the notice.  

under this sub-section is sent objects to 

(vi) Where a person to whom a notice 

it by a statement on oath that the sum 

under  this  sub-regulation 

is  sent 

demanded  or  any  part  thereof  is  not 

objects  to  it  by  a  statement  on  oath 

due to the assessee or that he does not 

that  the  sum  demanded  or  any  part 

hold  any  money  for  or  on  account  of 

thereof  is not due to the defaulter or 

the assessee, then nothing contained in 

that  he  does  not  hold  any  money for 

this  sub-section  shall  be  deemed  to 

or  on  account  of  the  defaulter,  then 

require  such  person  to  pay  any  such 

nothing  contained 

in 

this  sub-

sum or part thereof, as the case may be, 

regulation shall be deemed to require 

but 

if 

it 

is  discovered  that  such 

such  person  to  pay  any  such  sum  or 

statement  was  false  in  any  material 

part  thereof,  as  the  case may  be,  but 

particular, 

such  person 

shall  be 

if it is discovered that such statement 

personally 

liable 

to 

the  Assessing 

was  false  in  any  material  particular, 

Officer  or  Tax  Recovery  Officer  to  the 

such person shall be personally liable 

extent  of  his  own 

liability  to  the 

to  the  Recovery  Officer  to  the  extent 

assessee on the date of the notice, or to 

of his own liability to the defaulter, or 

the extent of the assessee's liability for 

to 

the  extent  of 

the  defaulter’s 

any sum due under this Act, whichever 

liability for any sum due under these 

is less. 

regulations, whichever is less. 

(vii)  The  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

(vii) The Recovery Officer may, at any 

Recovery  Officer  may,  at  any  time  or 

time or from time to time, amend or 

from  time  to  time,  amend  or  revoke 

revoke  any  notice  issued  under  this 

 
Page | 115  

 
 

 

any  notice 

issued  under  this  sub-

sub-regulation or extend the time for 

section  or  extend  the  time  for  making 

making any payment in pursuance of 

any  payment  in  pursuance  of  such 

such notice. 

notice. 

(viii) The Recovery Officer shall grant 

(viii)  The  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

a  receipt  for  any  amount  paid  in 

Recovery  Officer  shall  grant  a  receipt 

compliance  with  a  notice 

issued 

for  any  amount  paid  in  compliance 

under  this  sub-regulation,  and  the 

with  a  notice  issued  under  this  sub-

person  so  paying  shall  be 

fully 

section, and the person so paying shall 

discharged  from  his  liability  to  the 

be fully discharged from his liability to 

defaulter to the extent of the amount 

the  assessee  to  the  extent  of  the 

so paid. 

amount so paid. 

(ix)  Any  person  discharging  any 

(ix)  Any  person  discharging  any 

liability  to  the  defaulter  after  receipt 

liability  to  the  assessee  after  receipt  of 

of  a  notice  under  this  sub-regulation 

a notice under this sub-section shall be 

shall  be  personally 

liable  to  the 

personally 

liable 

to 

the  Assessing 

Recovery  Officer  to  the  extent  of  his 

Officer  or  Tax  Recovery  Officer  to  the 

own 

liability  to  the  defaulter  so 

extent  of  his  own 

liability  to  the 

discharged  or  to  the  extent  of  the 

assessee so discharged or to the extent 

defaulter’s  liability  for  any  sum  due 

of  the  assessee's  liability  for  any  sum 

under these regulations, whichever is 

due under this Act, whichever is less. 

less. 

(x)  If  the  person  to  whom  a  notice 

(x)  Where  the  person  to  whom  a 

under  this  sub-section  is  sent  fails  to 

notice  under  this  sub-regulation  is 

make payment in pursuance thereof to 

sent, 

fails 

to  make  payment 

in 

the  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax  Recovery 

pursuance  thereof  to  the  Recovery 

Officer,  he  shall  be  deemed  to  be  an 

Officer,  he  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a 

assessee  in  default  in  respect  of  the 

person  in  default  in  respect  of  the 

amount  specified  in  the  notice  and 

amount  specified  in  the  notice  and 

further  proceedings  may  be  taken 

further 

proceedings  may 

be 

against  him  for  the  realisation  of  the 

continued  against  him 

for 

the 

 
Page | 116  

 
 

amount  as  if  it  were  an  arrear  of  tax 

realisation of the amount as if it were 

due from him, in the manner provided 

arrears  of  dues  from  him,  in  the 

in sections  222 to 225 and  the  notice 

manner  provided  for  under  these 

shall  have  the  same  effect  as  an 

regulations, and the notice shall have 

attachment  of  a  debt  by  the  Tax 

the same effect as an attachment of a 

Recovery  Officer  in  exercise  of  his 

debt  by  the  Recovery  Officer 

in 

powers under section 222. 

exercise  of  his  powers  under  these 

(4)  The  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

regulations. 

Recovery Officer may apply to the court 

(4)  The  Recovery  Officer  may  apply 

in  whose  custody  there 

is  money 

to the court in whose custody money 

belonging  to  the  assessee  for  payment 

belonging to the defaulter is available 

to  him  of  the  entire  amount  of  such 

for  payment  to  him  of  the  entire 

money,  or,  if  it  is  more  than  the  tax 

amount  of  such  money,  or,  if  it  is 

due,  an amount  sufficient  to  discharge 

more  than  the  dues,  the  amount 

the tax. 

sufficient to discharge the dues. 

(5)  The  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

(5)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  if  so 

Recovery  Officer  may,  if  so  authorised 

authorised by the Board by general or 

by the Principal Chief Commissioner or 

special  order,  recover  any  dues  from 

Chief  Commissioner  or  Principal 

a defaulter by distraint and sale of his 

Commissioner  or  Commissioner  by 

movable property in the manner laid 

general  or  special  order,  recover  any 

down in these regulations. 

arrears of tax due from an assessee by 

distraint  and  sale  of  his  movable 

property  in  the  manner  laid  down  in 

the Third Schedule. 

 

VII.  Recovery 

through 

State 

 (provision  may  not  apply  in  the 

Government. 

context  of  securities  laws,  hence  no 

227. If  the  recovery  of  tax  in  any  area 

specific modification is suggested) 

has  been  entrusted 

to  a  State 

 

 

 
Page | 117  

 
 

Government  under clause (1)  of article 

258  of  the  Constitution,  the  State 

Government  may  direct,  with  respect 

to that area or any part thereof; that tax 

shall be recovered therein with, and as 

an  addition  to,  any  municipal  tax  or 

local  rate,  by  the  same  person  and  in 

the same manner  as  the municipal  tax 

or local rate is recovered. 

VIII.  Recovery  of  tax  in  pursuance  of 

(provision  may  not  apply  in  the 

agreements 

with 

foreign 

context  of  securities  laws,  hence  no 

countries. 

specific modification is suggested) 

228A. (1) Where  an  agreement 

is 

entered 

into 

by 

the 

Central 

Government  with  the  Government  of 

any  country  outside  India  for  recovery 

of  income-tax  under  this  Act  and  the 

corresponding  law  in  force  in  that 

country  and  the  Government  of  that 

country  or  any  authority  under  that 

Government  which  is  specified  in  this 

behalf  in  such  agreement  sends  to  the 

Board  a  certificate  for  the  recovery  of 

any tax  due  under  such corresponding 

law from a person having any property 

in  India,  the  Board  may  forward  such 

certificate  to  any  Tax  Recovery  Officer 

within  whose 

jurisdiction 

such 

property  is  situated  and  thereupon 

such Tax Recovery Officer shall— 

 

 
Page | 118  

(a)  proceed  to  recover  the  amount 

specified 

in  the  certificate 

in  the 

manner  in  which  he  would  proceed  to 

recover  the  amount  specified  in  a 

certificate received from an Income-tax 

Officer; and 

(b) remit any sum so recovered by him 

to 

the  Board  after  deducting  his 

expenses 

in  connection  with 

the 

recovery proceedings. 

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  issue  of  a 

certificate under section 222 to the Tax 

Recovery  Officer,  where  an  assessee  is 

in default or is deemed to be in default 

in  making  a  payment  of  tax,  the 

Income-tax Officer may, if the assessee 

has property in a country outside India 

(being a country with which the Central 

Government  has  entered 

into  an 

agreement  for  the  recovery  of  income-

tax 

under 

this  Act 

and 

the 

corresponding  law  in  force  in  that 

country),  forward  to  the  Board  a 

certificate  specifying  the  amount  of 

arrears  due  from  the  assessee  and  the 

Board may, take such action thereon as 

it may deem appropriate having regard 

to  the  terms  of  the  agreement  with 

such country. 

 

 
 

 

 
Page | 119  

 
 

 

 

 

IX.  Recovery  of  penalties, 

fine, 

(section 28A provides the list of dues 

interest and other sums. 

that could be recovered, however no 

229. Any  sum  imposed  by  way  of 

specific modification is suggested) 

interest, fine, penalty, or any other sum 

payable  under  the  provisions  of  this 

Act, shall be recoverable in the manner 

provided 

in 

this  Chapter 

for 

the 

recovery of arrears of tax. 

 

X.  Recovery  by  suit  or  under  other 

Recovery by suit or under other 

law not affected. 

law not affected. 

232. The  several  modes  of  recovery 

The  several  modes  of 

recovery 

specified in this Chapter shall not affect 

specified  in  these  regulations  shall 

in any way— 

not affect in any way the right of the 

 (a)  any  other  law  for  the  time 

Board  to  institute  a  suit  for  the 

being  in  force  relating  to  the 

recovery  of  the  monies  due  from  the 

recovery  of  debts  due 

to 

defaulter and it shall be lawful for the 

Government; or 

Board  to  have  recourse  to  any  such 

 (b) the right of the Government to 

suit, 

notwithstanding 

that 

the 

institute  a  suit  for  the  recovery 

amount  due  is  being  recovered  from 

of  the  arrears  due  from  the 

the  defaulter  by  any  mode  specified 

assessee; 

in these regulations. 

and it shall be lawful for the Assessing 

 

Officer or the Government, as the case 

(May  be  useful  especially  in  the 

may  be,  to  have  recourse  to  any  such 

context  of  foreign  persons  to  enforce 

law  or  suit,  notwithstanding  that  the 

demands) 

tax  due  is  being  recovered  from  the 

assessee  by  any  mode  specified  in  this 

Chapter. 

 
Page | 120  

 
 

SEBI may consider incorporating the aforesaid  provisions in its regulations to make it 

comprehensive as the provisions of sections 220 to 227, 228A, 229, 232, the Second and 

Third  Schedules  to  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  and  the  Income-tax  (Certificate 

Proceedings)  Rules,  1962  would  then  be  part  of  the  regulations  with  necessary 

modifications. 

 

 

 

 

 

VI.  KEY MODIFICATIONS TO THE PROCEDURE (UNDER THE INCOME-TAX ACT AND 

RULES) FOR RECOVERY OF DUES UNDER SECTION 28A 

The procedure pertaining to recovery of dues is exhaustively codified under the Second 

Schedule  to  Income-tax  Act,  1961  and  the  Income-tax  (Certificate  Proceedings)  Rules, 

1962.  The  Committee  has  considered  some  of  the  key  areas  in  which  changes  may  be 

required in the applicable procedure as suggested herein below:  

 

 

 

 

 

RULE  8  OF  THE  SECOND  SCHEDULE  TO  THE  INCOME-TAX  ACT,  1961  – 

DISPOSAL OF PROCEEDS OF EXECUTION: 

Rationale for modification:  

 

The  Board  notified  the  36Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Appointment  of 

Administrator  and  Procedure  for  Refunding  to  the  Investors)  Regulations,  2018  on 

October 03, 2018. In Regulation 11 thereof, the costs of administration incurred by the 

Board, if any, and the fees and charges payable to the Administrator and other persons 

appointed  by  the  administrator  which  performing  its  functions  under  the  said 
                                                           
36 Regulations for appointing an administrator for selling the properties of the defaulter for repaying to investors and 
recover disgorgement amount.  

 
Page | 121  

 

 
 

regulations,  is  given  priority  over  other  claims.  This  is  so  because  the  administration 

costs are incurred to ensure that monies are realized to repay the  investors or recover 

the  disgorgement  amount.  It  is  suggested  that  along  the  said  lines,  the  costs  and 

expenses incurred in the course of execution of the certificate drawn up by the Recovery 

Officer may be given precedence over the other claims. There may be  cases where the 

costs  and  expenses  related  to  the  execution  and  realization  of  the amount  specified  in 

the certificate could be higher than the amount that may be actually recovered through 

such process.  

SEBI may thus need to consider this aspect and decide the course of action to be taken 

in such cases accordingly.  

 

Suggested amendment:  

 

Provision  in  Second  Schedule  of 

Suggested amendment 

the Income-tax Act, 1961 

Disposal of proceeds of execution. 

Disposal of proceeds of execution. 

8. (1)  Whenever  assets  are  realised  by 

(1) Whenever monies are realized by sale 

sale  or  otherwise  in  execution  of  a 

of  the  properties  of  the  defaulter  or 

certificate, the proceeds shall be disposed 

otherwise, 

in 

the  execution  of  a 

of in the following manner, namely :— 

certificate, the proceeds shall be disposed 

 (a)  they  shall  first  be  adjusted 

of in the following order, namely:- 

towards  the  amount  due  under 

(a) costs and expenses incurred in the 

the  certificate  in  execution  of 

course  of 

execution  of 

the 

which  the  assets  were  realised 

certificate;  

and  the  costs  incurred  in  the 

(b) the  principal  amount  due  under 

course of such execution; 

the certificate;  

 (b)  if  there  remains  a  balance  after 

(c) interest  or  returns  as  may  be 

the  adjustment  referred  to  in 

recoverable  under  the  certificate; 

clause  (a),  the  same  shall  be 

and 

utilised  for  satisfaction  of  any 

(d) where  there  is  more  than  one 

 

 
Page | 122  

 
 

 

other  amount  recoverable  from 

certificate  drawn  up  against  a 

the assessee under this Act which 

defaulter,  the  Recovery  Officer 

may be due on the date on which 

shall  appropriate 

the  amount 

the assets were realised; and 

recovered 

including 

interest, 

 (c)  the  balance,  if  any,  remaining 

costs,  charges  etc.  towards  the 

after 

the  adjustments  under 

dues arising first in time and then 

clauses  (a)  and  (b)  shall  be  paid 

proceed 

to 

appropriate 

the 

to the defaulter. 

balance  amount 

recovered 

in 

(2) 

If 

the  defaulter  disputes  any 

respect 

of 

the 

remaining 

adjustment  under  clause  (b)  of  sub-rule 

certificates. 

(1),  the  Tax  Recovery  Officer  shall 

(2)  Any  amount  remaining  after  the 

determine the dispute. 

adjustments referred to in sub-regulation 

 

 

 

(1),  shall  be  utilized  for  satisfaction  of 

any  other  amount  recoverable  from  the 

defaulter  under  the  Act,  the  Securities 

Contracts  (Regulations)  Act,  1956  or  the 

Depositories Act, 1996 which may be due 

on  the  date  on  which  the  assets  were 

realized. 

(3) Any balance amount, remaining after 

the  adjustments  under  sub-regulations 

(1)  and  (2),  shall  be  returned  to  the 

defaulter.  

(4) 

If 

the  defaulter  disputes  any 

adjustment  under  the  aforesaid  clauses, 

the Recovery Officer shall determine the 

dispute. 

 
Page | 123  

 
 

 

 

 

RULE 9 – GENERAL BAR TO JURISDICTION OF CIVIL COURTS, SAVE WHERE 

FRAUD ALLEGED. 

Rule 9 prescribes that a suit may be filed in a civil court in respect of a question relating 

to the execution, discharge or satisfaction of a certificate, or relating to the confirmation 

or  setting  aside  by  an  order  of  a  sale  held  in  execution  of  such  certificate  only  on  the 

ground of ‘fraud’.  

 

Rationale for modification:  

 

Since the Securities Appellate Tribunal is the appellate body in respect of orders passed 

by  the  Board  and  also  since  the  suit/appeal  referred  to  in  the  relevant  provisions  of 

Income-Tax  Act  and  rules  being  followed  by  SEBI  is  an  appeal  to  the  Securities 

Appellate Tribunal, it is felt that the proviso to this provision allowing filing of a suit on 

the ground of fraud may be omitted. Any challenge to the recovery process/order could 

be  challenged  before  the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  in  terms  of  Explanation  3  to 

section 28A(1).  

 

Suggested amendment:  

 

Provision  in  Second  Schedule  of 

Suggested amendment 

the Income-tax Act, 1961 

General bar to jurisdiction of civil 

General bar to jurisdiction of civil 

courts, save where fraud alleged. 

courts. 

9. Except 

as 

otherwise 

expressly 

Except  as  otherwise  expressly  provided 

provided  in  this  Act,  every  question 

in  these  regulations,  every  question 

arising  between 

the  Tax  Recovery 

arising  between  the Recovery  Officer 

Officer  and 

the  defaulter  or  their 

and 

the 

defaulter 

or 

their 

representatives, 

relating 

to 

the 

representatives, 

relating 

to 

the 

 

 
Page | 124  

 
 

 

 

 

 

execution, discharge or satisfaction of a 

execution, discharge or satisfaction of a 

certificate, 

or 

relating 

to 

the 

certificate, 

or 

relating 

to 

the 

confirmation  or  setting  aside  by  an 

confirmation  or  setting  aside  by  an 

order  under  this  Act  of  a  sale  held  in 

order  under  these  regulations  of  a  sale 

execution  of  such  certificate,  shall  be 

held  in  execution  of  such  certificate, 

determined, not by suit, but by order of 

shall be determined, not by suit, but by 

the  Tax  Recovery  Officer  before  whom 

order  of  the  Recovery  Officer  before 

such question arises : 

whom such question arises:  

Provided that a suit may be brought in 

Provided that before passing any order, 

a  civil  court  in  respect  of  any  such 

the  Recovery  Officer  shall  afford  an 

question upon the ground of fraud. 

opportunity to the defaulter to make his 

 

 

representation  along  with  supporting 

evidence.  

 

RULE  39  –  PROCLAMATION  HOW  MADE,  RULE  50  –  PROCLAMATION  OF 

ATTACHMENT AND RULE 54 – MODE OF MAKING PROCLAMATION  

 

i.  Rule  39(1)  requires  the  proclamation  to  be  made  by  beat  of  drums  or  other 

customary mode.  

ii.  Rule 50 requires that the order of attachment shall be proclaimed at some place 

on or adjacent to the property attached by beat of drum or other customary 

mode,  and  a  copy  of  the  order  shall  be  affixed  on  a  conspicuous  part  of  the 

property and on the notice board of the Tax Recovery Officer. 

iii.  Rule  54(1)  inter  alia  requires  every  proclamation  for  the  sale  of  immovable 

property to be made at some place on or near such property by beat of drum or 

other customary mode.  

 

 
Page | 125  

 
 

Rationale for amendment:  

 

The “beat of drums” has become an outdated practice and impractical to enforce.  

 

Suggested amendment:  

 

Reference to the words “beat of drum or other customary mode” may be omitted in the 

said provisions and proclamation may be made by publication through newspapers and 

electronic modes.  

  

 

RULE 57 – DEPOSIT BY PURCHASER AND RESALE IN DEFAULT. 

 

 

The rules mandate the purchaser of immovable property to immediately (i.e. after he is 

declared  as  the  purchaser)  deposit  25%  of  the  purchase  money  and  the  full  purchase 

money to be paid by the purchaser on or before the 15th day from the sale of property. 

The provision to rule 57 is reproduced below:  

 

Rationale for modification:  

 

In  order  to  provide  extension  of  time  to  pay  the  entire  purchase  consideration,  SEBI 

may consider extending the period of 15 days to three months subject to the purchaser 

undertaking to pay interest on the balance amount with interest of 15% p.a.  

 

Suggested amendment:  

 

Provision  in  Second  Schedule  of 

Suggested amendment 

the Income-tax Act, 1961 

Deposit by purchaser and resale in 

Deposit  by  the  purchaser  and 

default. 

resale in default. 

 

 
Page | 126  

 
 

 

57. (1)  On  every  sale  of  immovable 

(1)  On  every  sale  of 

immovable 

property,  the person  declared  to  be  the 

property,  the person  declared  to  be  the 

purchaser  shall  pay,  immediately  after 

purchaser  shall  immediately  after  such 

such  declaration,  a  deposit  of  twenty-

declaration deposit twenty-five per cent 

five  per  cent  on  the  amount  of  his 

of  the  amount  of  purchase  money, 

purchase  money, 

to 

the 

officer 

including  the  earnest  money,  with  the 

conducting  the  sale;  and,  in  default  of 

officer  conducting  the  sale;  and,  upon 

such  deposit, 

the  property 

shall 

default  of  such  deposit,  the  property 

forthwith be resold. 

shall be resold forthwith.  

(2) The full amount of purchase money 

(2) The full amount of purchase money 

payable  shall  be  paid  by  the  purchaser 

due shall be paid by the purchaser to the 

to the Tax Recovery Officer on or before 

Recovery  Officer  on  or  before  the 

the  fifteenth  day  from  the  date  of  the 

fifteenth day from the date of the sale of 

sale of the property. 

the property. 

 

(3)  The  period  of  fifteen  days  under 

sub-regulation (2) may be extended by a 

maximum  period  of  three  months, 

subject  to  the  purchaser  making  a 

request for such extension along with an 

undertaking  to  pay  the  remaining  sale 

price  together  with  interest  thereon  at 

the  rate  of  fifteen  per  cent  per  annum 

for the period so extended.  

(4) The application for extension of time 

for payment shall be accompanied by an 

unconditional  bank  guarantee  for  the 

remaining  outstanding  sale  price  and 

interest  thereon  at  the  rate  mentioned 

hereinabove 

for  a  period  of  three 

months. 

 
Page | 127  

 
 

 

 

(5)  The  advertisement  regarding  the 

auction  for  sale  of  properties  shall 

appropriately  mention  that  extension 

may be granted to pay the consideration 

subject 

to 

compliance  with 

sub-

regulations (3) and (4).  

RULE 58 – PROCEDURE IN DEFAULT OF PAYMENT.  

 

 

As  per  this  provision,  the  deposit  amount  paid  by  the  defaulting  purchaser  would  be 

forfeited to the Government and the property shall be resold.  

 

Rationale for modification:  

Considering  that  expenses  would  be  incurred  while  reselling  the  property,  SEBI  may 

consider offering the property to the next highest bidder at a price equal to the bid made 

by the highest bidder (i.e. defaulting purchaser).  

 

Suggested amendment:  

 

Provision  in  Second  Schedule  of 

Suggested amendment 

the Income-tax Act, 1961 

Procedure in default of payment. 

Procedure in default of payment. 

58. In  default  of  payment  within  the 

(1) Upon default  of  payment within the 

period mentioned in the preceding rule, 

period  mentioned 

in  the  preceding 

the  deposit  may,  if  the  Tax  Recovery 

regulation,  the  deposit  may, 

if  the 

Officer  thinks  fit,  after  defraying  the 

Recovery  Officer 

thinks 

fit,  after 

expenses of the sale, be forfeited to the 

defraying  the  expenses  of  the  sale,  be 

Government,  and  the  property  shall  be 

forfeited,  and  the  property  shall  be 

resold,  and  the  defaulting  purchaser 

resold,  and  the  defaulting  purchaser 

 

 
Page | 128  

 
 

shall forfeit all claims to the property or 

shall forfeit all claims to the property or 

to any part of the sum for which it may 

any  part  of  the  sum  for  which  it  may 

subsequently be sold. 

subsequently be sold.  

(2) Without prejudice to sub-regulation 

(1), if the highest bidder fails to pay the 

purchase  price  in  accordance  with  the 

terms  of  sale,  the  property  may  be 

offered  to  the  next  highest  bidder  at  a 

price  equal  to  the  bid  made  by  the 

highest bidder.  

 

RULE 68B – TIME LIMIT FOR SALE OF ATTACHED IMMOVABLE PROPERTY.  

 

 

 

 

As per this rule, no sale of immovable property shall be made after the expiry of three 

years from the end of the financial year in which the order, giving rise to a demand of 

any  tax,  interest,  fine,  penalty  or  any  other  sum,  for  the  recovery  of  which  the 

immovable property has been attached, has become conclusive under the provisions of 

section 245-I or, as the case may be, final in terms of the provisions of Chapter XX: 

 

Where the immovable property is required to be re-sold due to the amount of highest 

bid being less than the reserve price or under the circumstances mentioned in rule 57 or 

rule 58 or where the sale is set aside under rule 61, the aforesaid period of limitation for 

the sale of the immovable property shall stand extended by one year. 

 

Rationale for modification:  

 

In the context of SEBI recovery, the time limits may not be made applicable, especially 

where monies are due for disgorgement or refundable to investors as such monies are 

not the assets of the defaulter.  

 

 
Page | 129  

 
 

 

Suggested amendment: 

 

SEBI  may  consider  omission  of  Rule  68B  in  the  context  of  recovery  in  the  securities 

markets.  

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 130  

 
 

 

 

VII.  ENHANCEMENTS IN RECOVERY PROCESS 

The Committee is of the view that for better efficiency in the recovery process, certain 

enhancements  in  the  recovery  process  may  be  required.  Such  enhancements  to  the 

recovery process by way of regulations would further the purposes of the Act as specified 

in Section 30 of the SEBI Act (and analogous provisions in the SCRA and Depositories 

Act), the same would be perfectly valid. 

 

 

 

A.  DEFINE THE TERM “PROPERTY: 

Since properties of the defaulter are sought to be attached for the purposes of recovering 

the dues under the certificate drawn up under section 28A of the SEBI Act, it would be 

necessary  to  define  the  term  “property”.  This  definition  may  be  the  same  as  used  by 

SEBI in its Securities and Exchange Board of India (Appointment of Administrator and 

Procedure for Refunding to the Investors) Regulations, 2018: 

"property"  means  and  includes  assets  of  any  kind,  whether  movable  or 

immovable,  tangible  or  intangible,  corporeal  or  incorporeal  and  includes 

securities, bank accounts, deposits, any right or interest or legal documents or 

instruments  evidencing  title  to  or  interest  in  the  property  and  where  the 

property is capable of conversion into some other form, then the property in the 

converted form and also includes the proceeds from the property;”  

 

Since the term “property” includes “securities”, there may be no need to continue with 

the definition of the expression “share in a corporation” used in rule 1(g) in the Second 

Schedule  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961.  Accordingly,  it  is  suggested  to  substitute  the 

expression  “share  in  a  corporation”  wherever  appearing  in  the  proposed  regulations 

with the word “securities”.  

 

 

 

 
Page | 131  

 
 

 

 

B.  SALE BY ELECTRONIC AUCTION FACILITY 

It is understood that SEBI utilizes the services of e-auction agencies for the purposes of 

auctioning and selling the attached properties. Further, e-auction is being conducted as 

a standard process in respect of sale of assets under the SARFAESI Act, DRT etc. This 

allows for wider participation and transparency in the procedure. It would therefore be 

appropriate to define the terms “e-auction” and “e-auction agency”.  

 

Suggested text is as follows,-.  

  “electronic  auction”  shall  mean  a  public  auction  conducted 

electronically; 

 

  “electronic  auction  agency”  shall  mean  any  company  providing  an 
electronic auction platform which is engaged by the Recovery Officer for 

the  purposes  of  auctioning  and  selling  the  attached  properties  in 

pursuance of these regulations; 

 

  “Sale to be by auction. 

The  sale  shall  be  by  public  auction,  which  may  be  conducted  through 

electronic  auction,  to  the  highest  bidder  and  shall  be  subject  to 

confirmation by the Recovery Officer: 

Provided that no sale under this regulation shall be made if the amount 

bid by the highest bidder is less than the reserve price, if any, specified.” 

 

 

 

C.  REGISTERED VALUER  

The  role  of  a  registered  valuer  is  very  vital  to  the  recovery  process  as  the  said 

professional  evaluates  the  attached  property.  This  value  is  considered  for  fixing  the 

 

 
Page | 132  

 
 

‘reserve  price’.  His  report  should  be  treated  as  ‘confidential’.  For  clarity,  it  would  be 

appropriate to define the term “registered valuer”, thereby restricting the categories of 

person  who  may  be  allowed  to  act  as  a  ‘valuer’  under  the  proposed  regulations.  The 

expression “registered valuer” is also defined under certain Regulations framed by SEBI. 

 

Suggested text is as follows,-.  

 

 

“registered  valuer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under the 

Companies  (Registered  Valuers  and  Valuation)  Rules,  2017  or  any 

other statutory modification or re-enactment thereof;  

 

 

“Reserve price” 

(1) It shall be competent for the Recovery Officer to fix a reserve price 

in  respect  of  any  property,  other  than  agricultural  produce,  below 

which such property shall not be sold. 

(2)  Where  a  valuation  is  required  to  be  made  in  respect  of  any 

property,  the  Recovery  Officer  may  appoint  a  registered  valuer  for 

valuation of such property.  

(3)  The  valuation  report  submitted  by  a  registered  valuer  shall  be 

confidential.  

 

 

D. SERVICE OF NOTICES AND ORDERS 

 

 

It would be necessary to have clarity on the manner of service of notices and orders in 

the  recovery  process.  The  relevant  provisions  of  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding 

Inquiry and Imposing Penalties) Rules, 1995 may be considered.  

 

 

 

 
Page | 133  

 
 

 

E.  POUNDAGE FEE 

The poundage fee is levied in respect of any sale made in execution of a certificate and 

paid by the purchaser of the defaulter’s property. SEBI may consider appropriating such 

fees as ‘costs’ of sale of properties in the recovery proceedings to reduce the amount of 

costs that is appropriated from the proceeds of sale of property.  

Further,  the  word  “poundage”  may  be  dropped  as  it  refers  to  payment  of  a  particular 

amount  per  pound  sterling  of  the  sum  involved  in  a  transaction  which  terminology  is 

not  relevant  in  the Indian  context  and  is  a  residue  of  the  British  era.  Accordingly,  the 

word “fees” may be retained.  

 

Suggested amendment is as follows,-.  

 

“Levy and scale of poundage fees. 

(1)  In  respect  of  any  sale  made  in  the  execution  of  a  certificate,  there  shall  be 

levied  a  fee  by  way  of  poundage  on  the  gross  amount  realised  by  the 

sale………….. 

………….. 

(6)  The  poundage  fee  collected  under  this  regulation  shall  be  appropriated 

towards the cost of sale of the properties in execution of the certificate.” 

 

 

 

F.  DEPOSIT OF EARNEST MONEY 

Under  the  Income-Tax  Rules,  bids  for  purchase  of  any  properties  should  be 

accompanied  with  payment  of  earnest  money  calculated  at  10%  of  the  reserve  price, 

where the reserve price is up to Rs. 10 crore, subject to a minimum of Rs.50,000/- or 

Rs.10 lakh plus 5% on the remaining amount of reserve price, where the reserve price is 

above  Rs.10  crore.  The  deposit  of  earnest  money  is  stipulated  in  order  to  bring  in 

seriousness on the persons who bid. Based on its experience, if SEBI considers that the 

prescribed percentage is in excess, SEBI may consider lowering the same.  

 
Page | 134  

 

 
 

 

Such earnest money may be returned to unsuccessful bidders within a period of 60 days 

from  the  date  of  confirmation  of  sale  without  interest.  The  earnest  money  should  be 

forfeited if the bidder does not participate in the auction or when he (after declared as 

successful bidder) fails to pay the 25% purchase money or on default of payment of the 

remaining sum of money. However, it is suggested that the earnest money should not be 

forfeited if the bidder is allowed extension of time to make the payment of bid price.  

Suggested text is as follows,-  

“Refund of earnest money. 

Earnest  money  deposited  by  unsuccessful  bidders  shall  be  refunded  without 

interest within sixty days from the date of confirmation of sale. 

 

Forfeiture of earnest money or other payments. 

Earnest money or any other part of the purchase price paid by a bidder shall be 

forfeited on the following circumstances: 

(a)  the  bidder  not  participating  in  the  auction  after  successfully 

submitting the bid, or  

(b)  on  default  in  payment  of  twenty-five  per  cent  of  the  purchase  price, 

including the earnest money paid, immediately after the auction, or  

(c) on default in payment of remaining seventy-five per cent within fifteen 

days of the sale: 

Provided that the earnest money shall not be forfeited if time for making 

payment is extended in accordance with sub-regulation (3) of regulation 

85.” 

 

 

 

G. POWER TO SEEK INFORMATION:  

Section  28(4A)  of  the  Recovery  of  Debts  and  Bankruptcy  Act,  1993,  provides  that  the 

Recovery  Officer  may,  by  order,  at  any  stage  of  the  execution  of  the  certificate  of 

recovery require any person and in case of a company; any of its officers against whom 
 
Page | 135  

 

 
 

or which the certificate of recovery is issued, to declare on affidavit the particulars of his 

or its assets. Such a power to seek information relating to assets and information that 

may aid in the recovery proceedings and execution of the certificate would be very useful 

for the Board. Accordingly, a provision to this effect is suggested.  

 

 

Suggested text is as follows, -  

 

  

“Power to seek information. 

(1) The Recovery Officer may at any stage of the execution of the certificate of 

recovery,  seek  from  any  person,  any  information  which  may  be  relevant  to 

execution of the certificate of recovery or to any investigation or inquiry by the 

Recovery Officer. 

(2) Without limiting generality of the foregoing provision, the Recovery Officer 

may  at  any  stage  of  the  execution  of  the  certificate  of  recovery,  require  any 

person against whom the certificate of recovery is issued, and if such person is a 

body corporate from any of its officers, to declare on affidavit the particulars of 

his or its assets.” 

 

 

 

H.  PROVISION IN RESPECT OF PURCHASE BY GOVERNMENT.  

It is possible that a property may not have buyers even if such property is put up for sale 

thrice through public auction. In such a case, an option should be made available that 

the Board may offer such property to the Central Government or the State Government 

of  a  State  where  such  property  is  situated,  to  purchase  the  property  at  price  which  is 

equivalent to the reserve price or higher than such reserve price. This would enable the 

Government to purchase the property, if it desires and use it for public good or for its 

infrastructure needs.  

 

 

 
Page | 136  

 
 

Section 58 of the Bengal Land-Revenue Sales Act, 185937, which provides that ‘When an 

estate  is  put  up  for  sale  under  this  Act  for  the  recovery  of  arrears  of  revenue  due 

thereon, if there be no bid, the Collector or other officer as aforesaid may purchase the 

estate  on  account  of  the  State  Government  for  one  rupee,  or  if  the  highest  bid  be 

insufficient to cover the said arrears and those subsequently accruing up to the date of 

sale,  the  Collector  or  other  officer  as  aforesaid  may  take  or  purchase  the  estate  on 

account of the State Government at the highest amount of bid; in both which cases the 

State  Government  shall  acquire  the  property  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Act’.  In 

Ramrao Jankiram  Kadam  v State of  Bombay38 the Hon’ble Supreme Court  inter alia 

held that only if a provision existed in the Bombay Land Revenue Code along the lines of 

Section  58  of  the  Bengal  Land-Revenue  Sales  Act,  1859  could  such  sales  be  called  a 

public  auction.  Hence,  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  a  provision  may  be  made  to 

enable purchase on behalf of the Central Government and State Governments so as to 

enable  the  Board  to  conclude  its  Recovery  proceedings  in  respect  of  properties  which 

remain unsold after repeated auctions. 

 

Suggested text is as follows,-  

“Purchase by Government. 

When  an  immovable  property  is  put  up  for  sale  for  recovery  of  amounts  due 

and if the property remains unsold, the  Board may, after giving opportunity to 

the defaulter to furnish the amounts due under the certificate, offer the same to 

the  Central  Government  or  any  State  Government,  who  may  submit  a  bid  not 

lower than the reserve price and purchase the said property:  

 

Provided that, - 

i. 

offer  to  the  Central  or  State  Government  under  this  regulation 

shall  be  made  only  in  case  two  earlier  auctions  in  respect  of  the  said 

immoveable property have been unsuccessful; 

                                                           
37 An Act to improve the law relating to sales of land for arrears of revenue in Bengal Presidency.  
38 AIR 1963 SC 827, 1963 SCR Supp. (1) 322. 

 
Page | 137  

 

 
 

 

 

ii. 

the  Board  may  afford  such  time  as  may  be  deemed  fit  to  such 

Central or State Government to convey its willingness to purchase and to 

make payment of the consideration; and 

iii.  where the property is put up for sale for recovery of any penalty 

due or other amount payable to the Central Government and the reserve 

price  does  not  exceed  the  amount  due,  the  Central  Government  may 

acquire the property by extinguishing the liability of the defaulter equal 

to the reserve price.  

 

I.   RESIDUARY CLAUSE FOR DEVISING PROCEDURE FOR SITUATIONS NOT COVERED 

 

BY REGULATIONS 

It may also be necessary to provide for an enabling provision so that the Board can deal 

with unforeseen difficulties. An enabling provision would aid SEBI to devise a suitable 

procedure in such circumstances. 

 

 

 Suggested text is as follows,-  

“Power to determine procedure in certain circumstances.  

In a situation not provided for in these regulations, the Recovery Officer, with 

the approval of the Board, may determine the procedure for specific matters, as 

may be required.”  

 

Further,  as  generally  seen  in  various  SEBI  Regulations,  the  proposed  regulations  may 

also  provide  for  a  regulation  to  enable  the  Board  to  issue  clarifications  in  case  any 

difficulty arises in the interpretation or applicability of the regulations.  

 

 

 

 
Page | 138  

 
 

 

 

J.  COMPREHENSIVE REGULATIONS TO AMALGAMATE PROVISIONS OF THE 

NOTIFIED ADMINISTRATOR REGULATIONS WITH THE PROPOSED RECOVERY 

REGULATIONS 

SEBI had notified the SEBI (Appointment of Administrator and Procedure for making 

Refunds  to  Investors)  Regulations,  2018  (“Administrator  Regulations”).  The  said 

regulations apply in respect of all or any of the following matters -  

(a) appointment  of  Administrator  pursuant  to  failure  to  comply  with 

disgorgement or refund orders passed by the Board; 

(b) sale of properties attached by the Recovery Officer of the Board under the 

Act; 

(c) collection  of  claim  documents  and  verification  of  claims  of  investors  for 

the purpose of effecting refunds; 

(d) refund  of  monies  to  the  investors  pursuant  to  disgorgement  or  refund 

orders passed by the Board; 

(e) recovery of disgorgement amounts directed by the Board; 

(f)  any act incidental or connected thereto. 

 

Since  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board  of  India (Appointment  of  Administrator  and 

Procedure for Refunding to the  Investors) Regulations, 2018 is intrinsically connected 

with ‘recovery’, SEBI may consider incorporating the provisions of such regulations into 

the proposed regulations for recovery.  

 

Accordingly, the draft regulations appended herein below have suitably incorporated the 

provisions of the Administrator Regulations also. When such comprehensive regulations 

dealing with recovery and administration are notified, then SEBI would be appropriately 

empowered to repeal the Administrator Regulations.  

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 139  

 
 

 

VIII.  DRAFT REGULATIONS 

The Committee recommends that the following regulations may be issued by the Board,- 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRA-ORDINARY  

PART –III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

NOTIFICATION  

Mumbai, the ….. day of ……., 2020  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (RECOVERY) 

REGULATIONS, 2020 

 

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read with sub-section (1) of section 

11  and  section  28A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of 

1992), section 23JB of the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 and section 19-

IB of the Depositories Act, 1996, the Board hereby makes the following regulations to 

specify  the  procedure  for  recovering  the  amounts  due  under  the  said  Acts  and  for 

matters incidental or connected thereto, namely,- 

 

CHAPTER I 

 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and commencement. 

1.  (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Recovery) Regulations, 2020. 

 

 
Page | 140  

 
 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official Gazette. 

 

Definitions. 

2.  (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,- 

(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 [15 of 1992]; 

(b) “Administrator” means a person registered with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 

Board  of  India  as  an  Insolvency  Resolution  Professional  and  who  has  been 

engaged by the Recovery Officer for the purposes of these regulations.  

(c) “advertisement” includes, - 

(i) 

notices,  brochures,  pamphlets,  circulars,  showcards,  catalogues, 

hoardings,  placards,  posters,  insertions  in  newspapers,  pictures,  films 

and cover pages of offer documents; 

(ii) 

any  publicity  through  print  medium,  radio,  television  programmes  or 

electronic media; 

(d) “auditor”  means  a  person  qualified  to  audit  the  accounts  of  companies  under 

the Companies Act, 2013; 

(e) “public auction” includes,- 

(i)  an electronic auction; and  

(ii) a purchase by the government under regulation 98. 

(f)  “Board” means the Securities and Exchange  Board of  India established  under 

section 3 of the Act; 

(g) "certificate"  means  the  statement  drawn  up  by  the  Recovery  Officer 

under section  28A  of  the  Act  or  section  23JB  of  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulations)  Act,  1956  or  section  19-IB  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  in 

respect  of  any  defaulter  referred  to  in  those  sections,  and  shall  not  include  a 

sale certificate; 

(h) “collective investment  scheme” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it 

under section 11AA of the Act and the regulations framed thereunder;  

(i)  "defaulter" means the person mentioned as the defaulter in the certificate; 

(j)  “electronic auction” shall mean a public auction conducted electronically; 

 

 
Page | 141  

 
 

 

(k) “electronic  auction  agency”  shall  mean  any  company  providing  an  electronic 

auction platform, which is engaged by the Recovery Officer for the purposes of 

auctioning  and  selling  the  attached  properties  in  pursuance  of  these 

regulations; 

(l)  "execution" in relation to a certificate, means the recovery of dues in pursuance 

of the certificate; 

(m)  “investor” means the person, whether identified or not, in whose favour the 

refund of monies had been directed by the Board;  

(n) "property"  means  and  includes  assets  of  any  kind,  whether  movable  or 

immovable,  tangible  or  intangible,  corporeal  or  incorporeal  and  includes 

securities, bank accounts, deposits, any right or interest or legal documents or 

instruments  evidencing  title  to  or  interest  in  the  property  and  where  the 

property  is  capable  of  conversion  into  some  other  form,  then  the  property  in 

the converted form and also includes the proceeds from the property; 

(o) "officer" means a person authorised to make an attachment or sale under these 

regulations; 

(p)  “Recovery  Officer”  means  an  officer  of  the  Board,  who  is  authorised  by  a 

general or special order in writing, to exercise the powers of a recovery officer 

under  section  28A  of  the  Act  or  section  23JB  of  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulations) Act, 1956 or section 19IB of the Depositories Act, 1996; 

(q) “refund  order”  means  a  direction  of  the  Board,  issued  under  the  Act  or  the 

Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  or  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  to 

refund monies to the investors;  

(r) “recovery proceedings” means the proceedings, initiated by a Recovery Officer, 

for  recovery  of  amounts  under  section  28A  of  the  Act  or  section  23JB  of  the 

Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 or section 19IB of the Depositories 

Act, 1996; 

(s) “registered valuer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Companies 

(Registered  Valuers  and  Valuation)  Rules,  2017  or  any  other  statutory 

modification or re-enactment thereof; 

 
Page | 142  

 
 

 

(2) Words and expressions used and not  defined in these regulations but  defined  in 

the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the Depositories Act, 1996 

or  rules  and  regulations  framed  thereunder,  shall  have  the  meanings  respectively 

assigned to them in such Acts or rules and regulations.  

 

CHAPTER II 

 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

 

Amounts when payable.  

3.  (1) Any penalty or refund of monies or disgorgement of amounts or fees due to 

the Board, under the Act or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or 

the Depositories Act, 1996, shall be paid within thirty days of service of notice 

or in terms of the regulations issued or an order passed by the Board: 

Provided  that  where  the  Recovery  Officer  has  reason  to  believe  that  it  will  be 

detrimental if the full period of thirty days as aforesaid is allowed, he may, with the 

previous approval of the Board, direct that the sum specified in the notice of demand 

shall be paid within such period being a period less than the period of thirty days, as 

may be specified by him in the notice of demand.  

Explanation.  –  The  order 

imposing  penalty,  directing  refund  or  directing 

disgorgement shall be deemed to be a notice of demand. 

 

(2) Where any notice of demand has been served upon any person and any appeal or 

other  proceeding,  as  the  case  may  be,  is  filed  or  initiated  in  respect  of  the  amount 

specified in the said notice of demand, either by the person or the Board, then such 

demand  shall  be deemed  to  be  valid  till  the  disposal  of  the  proceedings,  as the  case 

may be, and any such notice of demand shall have the following effect:  

(a) where the dues are enhanced in such appeal or proceedings or interest accrues 

on  such  monies  due  to  passage  of  time,  another  notice  of  demand  only  in 

 

 
Page | 143  

 
 

respect of the amount by which such dues are enhanced, without the service of 

any  fresh  notice  of  demand,  be  continued  from  the  stage  at  which  such 

proceedings stood immediately before such disposal;  

(b) where the dues are reduced in such appeal or proceedings, an intimation of the 

fact of such reduction to the person shall be issued;  

(c) no proceedings in relation to such dues (including the imposition of penalty or 

charging  of  interest)  shall  be  invalid  by  reason  only  that  no  fresh  notice  of 

demand  was  served  upon  the  person  after  the  disposal  of  such  appeal  or 

proceeding or that such dues have been enhanced or reduced in such appeal or 

proceeding:  

Provided that where any dues are reduced in such appeal or proceeding 

and the person is entitled to any refund thereof, such refund shall be made in 

accordance with the provisions of these regulations.  

(3) For removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that no fresh notice of demand shall 

be  necessary  in  any  case  where  the  amount  of  dues  is  not  varied  as  a  result  of  any 

order passed in any appeal or other proceeding.  

 (4) The person who is liable to pay the dues as specified in sub- regulation (1), shall 

be liable to pay simple interest at the rate of 18% per annum on amounts in default 

from  the  date  such amounts  became  due  or  from the  date  of  passing  of  the  original 

order  by  the  Board  or  the  Adjudicating  Officer  till  the  date  of  actual  payment  or 

realization of such dues, whichever is earlier: 

Provided  that  where  the  amount  of  dues  has  been  enhanced  or  reduced  by 

virtue  of  any  order  passed  in  appeal  or  proceedings,  the  interest  thereon  shall  be 

enhanced or reduced accordingly.  

 (5) Where the  Recovery  Officer  draws  up  any  notice of  demand  or  a certificate,  the 

Recovery Officer shall include therein the interest as specified above.  

(6) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in this regulation, on an application 

made by  the  person  before the  expiry  of  the  due  date  under  sub-  regulation  (1),  the 

Board or the Recovery Officer on approval of the Board, for reasons to be recorded in 

writing, may extend the time for payment or allow payment by instalments, subject to 

 

 
Page | 144  

 
 

such  conditions  as  may  be  imposed  considering  the  facts  and  circumstances  of  the 

case: 

Provided  that  extension  of  time  or  payment  by  instalments  shall  not  be  granted 

beyond a period of twenty-four months from the date of expiry of the period specified 

in sub-regulation (1).  

(7)  If  the  amount  is  not  paid  within  the  time  specified  in  sub-  regulation  (1)  or 

extended under sub-regulation (6), as the case may be, the person shall be deemed to 

be in default.  

(8)  Where  payment  by  instalments  is  allowed  under  sub-regulation  (6),  the  person 

who  commits  a  default  in  paying  any  one  of  the  instalments  within  the  time  fixed 

under  that  sub-regulation,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in  default  as  to  the  whole  of  the 

amount then outstanding, and the other instalment or instalments shall be deemed to 

have been due on the same date as the instalment which is actually in default. 

(9)  Where  the  person  has  presented  an  appeal  before  the  Securities  Appellate 

Tribunal, the Board or the Recovery Officer may in his discretion and subject to such 

conditions  as  he  may  think  fit  to  impose  in  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  and  for 

reasons to be recorded in writing, treat the person as not being in default in respect of 

the amount due, even though the time for payment has expired, as long as such appeal 

remains undisposed of. 

 

Liability for other action.  

4.  A person in default or deemed to be in default in making payment of dues, in 

addition  to  the  amount  which  is  due  and  the  amount  of  interest  payable  on 

such  dues,  may  be  liable  for  other  action  under  the  Act  or  the  Securities 

Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  or  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  as  may  be 

applicable. 

 

 

Certificate. 

5.  (1)  When  a  person  is  in  default  or  is  deemed  to  be  in  default  in  making  a 

 

 
Page | 145  

 
 

payment of dues, namely, -  

(e) a  penalty  imposed  by  the  adjudicating  officer  under  the  Act,  the  Securities 

Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996; or 

(f)  any  amount  payable  on  failure  of  any  person  to  refund  any  monies  as 

directed by the Board; or 

(g) any amount payable on failure of any person to disgorge monies as directed 

by the Board; or 

(h) any fees due to the Board,  

the  Recovery  Officer  shall  draw  up  under  his  signature,  a  written  statement  in  the 

form mentioning  the  amount  due from such person (such statement being hereafter 

referred to as "certificate") and shall proceed to recover from such person the amount 

specified in the certificate by one or more of the modes specified in these regulations 

and in accordance with these regulations. 

(2)  The  Recovery  Officer  may  take  action  under  sub-regulation  (1),  notwithstanding 

that proceedings for recovery of the arrears by any other mode have been taken.  

 

Issue of notice. 

6.  (1) When a certificate has been drawn up by the Recovery Officer for recovery 

of  amounts  from  the  defaulter,  a  notice  shall  be  caused  to  be  served  by  the 

Recovery  Officer  upon  the  defaulter  requiring  such  defaulter  to  pay  the 

amounts specified in the certificate within a period of fifteen days from the date 

of service of the notice.  

(2) The notice mentioned in sub-regulation (1) shall put the defaulter on notice that in 

case  of  default  in  complying  with  the  notice,  steps  would  be  taken  under  the 

provisions  of  the  Act,  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  or  the 

Depositories  Act,  1996,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  these  regulations  to  realize  the 

amount as specified in the certificate. 

 

Mode of recovery. 

7.  If  the  amount  mentioned  in  the  notice  is  not  paid  within  the  time  specified 

 

 
Page | 146  

 
 

 

therein  or  within  such  further  time  as  the  Recovery  Officer  may  grant  in  his 

discretion, the Recovery Officer shall proceed to realise the amount by one or 

more of the following modes:— 

(a) by attachment and sale of the defaulter’s movable property; 

(b) by attachment of the defaulter's bank accounts; 

(c) by attachment and sale of the defaulter’s immovable property; 

(d) by arrest of the defaulter and his detention in prison; 

(e)  by  appointing  a  receiver  for  the  management  of  the  defaulter’s  movable  and 

immovable properties.  

Recovery Officer by whom recovery is to be effected. 

8.  (1) The Recovery Officer competent to take action shall be— 

 (a)  the  Recovery  Officer  within  whose  jurisdiction  the  person  carries  on  his 

business or profession or within whose  jurisdiction the principal place of  his 

business or profession is situate, or 

 (b)  the  Recovery  Officer  within  whose  jurisdiction  the  person  resides  or  any 

movable or immovable property of the person is situate, or  

the  jurisdiction  for  this  purpose  being  the  jurisdiction  assigned  to  the  Recovery 

Officers under the orders or directions issued by the Board.  

(2)  Where  a person  has property  within the  jurisdiction  of  more than  one  Recovery 

Officer and the Recovery Officer by whom the certificate is drawn up— 

 (a)  is  not  able  to  recover  the  entire  amount  by sale  of  the property,  movable  or 

immovable, within his jurisdiction, or 

 (b) is of the opinion that, for the purpose of expediting or securing the recovery of 

the whole or any part of the amount, it is necessary so to do, 

he may send the certificate or, where only a part of the amount is to be recovered, a 

copy of the certificate certified in the specified manner and specifying the amount to 

be recovered to a Recovery Officer within whose jurisdiction the person resides or has 

property  and,  thereupon,  that  Recovery  Officer  shall  also  proceed  to  recover  the 

amount under these regulations as if the certificate or a copy thereof had been drawn 

 

 
Page | 147  

 
 

up by him. 

 

Validity of certificate and cancellation or amendment thereof. 

9.  No person shall be allowed to dispute the correctness of any certificate drawn 

up by the Recovery Officer on any ground whatsoever, but it shall be lawful for 

the  Recovery  Officer  to  cancel  the  certificate  if,  for  any  reason,  he  thinks  it 

necessary so to do, or to correct any clerical or mathematical error therein. 

 

Stay  of  proceedings  in  pursuance  of  certificate  and  amendment  or 

cancellation thereof. 

10. (1) It shall be lawful for the Recovery Officer to grant time for the payment of 

any dues and when he does so, he shall stay the proceedings for the recovery of 

such dues until the expiry of the time so granted. 

(2) Where the order giving rise to a demand of dues for which a certificate has been 

drawn  up  is  modified  in  appeal  or  other  proceeding  under  the  Act  or  the  Securities 

Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996, and, as a consequence 

thereof,  the  demand  is  reduced  but  the  order  is  the  subject-matter  of  further 

proceedings under the said laws, the Recovery Officer shall stay the recovery of such 

part of the amount specified in the certificate as pertains to the said reduction for the 

period for which the appeal or other proceeding remains pending. 

(3)  Where  a  certificate  has  been  drawn  up  and  subsequently  the  amount  of  the 

outstanding demand is reduced as a result of an appeal or other proceeding under the 

Acts  mentioned  in  sub-regulation  (2),  the  Recovery  Officer  shall,  when  the  order 

which was the subject-matter of such appeal or other proceeding has become final and 

conclusive, amend the certificate, or cancel it, as the case may be. 

 

Other modes of recovery. 

11. (1) Where a certificate has been drawn up, the Recovery Officer may, without 

prejudice to the modes of recovery specified in regulation 7, recover the dues by 

any one or more of the other modes provided in these regulations. 

 

 
Page | 148  

 
 

(2)  If  any  person  is  in  receipt  of  any  income  in  the  nature  of  salary,  the  Recovery 

Officer  may  require  any  person  paying  the  same  to  deduct  from  any  payment 

subsequent  to  the  date  of  such  requisition  any  dues  from  such  person,  and  such 

person shall comply with any such requisition and shall pay the sum so deducted to 

the credit of the Board or as directed by the Recovery Officer: 

Provided that any part of the salary exempt from attachment in execution of a decree 

of a civil court under section 60 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall 

be exempt from any requisition made under this sub-regulation.  

(3)  

(i)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  at  any  time  or  from  time  to  time,  by  notice  in 

writing require any person from whom money is due or may become due to the 

defaulter or any person who holds or may subsequently hold money for or on 

account  of  the  defaulter  to  pay  to  the  Recovery  Officer  either  forthwith  upon 

the money becoming due or being held or at or within the time specified in the 

notice  (not  being  before  the  money  becomes  due  or  is  held)  so  much  of  the 

money as is sufficient to pay the amount due by the defaulter in respect of dues 

or the whole of the money when it is equal to or less than that amount. 

Provided  that  wherever  the  defaulter  has  a  right  to  demand  payment  of  any 

amount before such amount becomes payable under any contract, certificate or 

instrument,  it  shall  be  lawful for the  Recovery  Officer  to  demand  payment  of 

the amount forthwith.  

(ii) A notice under this sub-regulation may be issued to any person who holds 

or may subsequently hold any money for or on account of the defaulter jointly 

with any other person and for the purposes of this sub-regulation the shares of 

the  joint  holders  in  such  account  shall  be  presumed,  until  the  contrary  is 

proved, to be equal. 

(iii) A copy of the notice shall be forwarded to the defaulter at his last address 

known to the Recovery Officer, and in the case of a joint account to all the joint 

holders at their last addresses known to the Recovery Officer. 

(iv) Save as otherwise provided in this sub-regulation, every person to whom a 

notice is issued under this sub-regulation shall be bound to comply with such 

 

 
Page | 149  

 
 

 

notice,  and,  in  particular,  where  any  such  notice  is  issued  to  a  post  office, 

banking  company  or  an  insurer,  it  shall  not  be  necessary  for  any  pass  book, 

deposit receipt, policy or any other document to be produced for the purpose of 

any  entry,  endorsement  or  the  like  being  made  before  payment  is  made, 

notwithstanding any rule, practice or requirement to the contrary.  

(v)  Any  claim  in  respect  of  any  property  in  relation  to  which  a  notice  under 

these  regulations  has  been  issued  arising  after  the  date  of  the  notice  shall  be 

void as against any demand contained in the notice.  

(vi) Where a person to whom a notice under this sub-regulation is sent objects 

to it by a statement on oath that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not 

due to the defaulter or that he does not hold any money for or on account of the 

defaulter,  then  nothing  contained  in  this  sub-regulation  shall  be  deemed  to 

require such person to pay any such sum or part thereof, as the case may be, 

but if it is discovered that such statement was false in any material particular, 

such person shall  be personally liable to the Recovery Officer to the extent of 

his own liability to the defaulter on the date of the notice, or to the extent of the 

defaulter’s liability for any sum due under these regulations, whichever is less. 

(vii)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  at  any  time  or  from  time  to  time,  amend  or 

revoke  any  notice  issued  under  this  sub-regulation  or  extend  the  time  for 

making any payment in pursuance of such notice. 

(viii)  The  Recovery  Officer  shall  grant  a  receipt  for  any  amount  paid  in 

compliance  with  a notice  issued  under  this sub-regulation,  and  the  person  so 

paying shall be fully discharged from his liability to the defaulter to the extent 

of the amount so paid. 

(ix) Any person discharging any liability to the defaulter after receipt of a notice 

under  this sub-regulation shall  be personally liable to  the Recovery Officer to 

the extent of his own liability to the defaulter so discharged or to the extent of 

the defaulter’s liability  for any sum due under these regulations, whichever is 

less. 

(x)  If  the  person  to  whom  a  notice  under  this  sub-regulation  is  sent  fails  to 

 
Page | 150  

 
 

make  payment  in  pursuance  thereof  to  the  Recovery  Officer,  he  shall  be 

deemed  to  be  a  person  in  default  in  respect  of  the  amount  specified  in  the 

notice and further proceedings may be taken against him for the realisation of 

the amount as if it were due from him, and the notice shall have the same effect 

as  an  attachment  of  a  debt  by  the  Recovery  Officer  in  exercise  of  his  powers 

under these regulations. 

(4) The Recovery Officer may apply to the court or tribunal in whose custody there is 

money  belonging  to  the  defaulter  for  payment  to  him  of  the  entire  amount  of  such 

money, or, if it is more than the dues, an amount sufficient to discharge the dues. 

(5)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  if  so  authorised  by  the  Board  by  general  or  special 

order, recover any dues from a defaulter by distraint and sale of his movable property 

in the manner laid down in these regulations. 

 

Service of notices and orders. 

12. A notice or an order issued in execution of a certificate shall be served upon a 

person in the following manner:  

(a) by delivering or tendering it to that person or his duly authorised agent; or 

(b) by sending it to the person by fax or electronic mail or courier or speed post 

with  acknowledgement  due  or  registered  post  with  acknowledgement  due to  the 

address of his place of residence or his last known place of residence or the place 

where  he  carried  on,  or  last  carried  on,  business  or  personally  works,  or  last 

worked, for gain:  

Provided that a notice sent by fax shall bear a note that the same is being sent by 

facsimile  and  in  case  the  document  contains  annexure(s),  the  number  of  pages 

being sent shall also be mentioned:  

Provided further that a notice sent through electronic mail shall be digitally signed 

by  the  Recovery  Officer  and  bouncing  of  the  electronic  mail  shall  not  constitute 

valid service. 

(c) if the notice cannot be served under clause (a) or clause (b), by affixing it on 

the  outer  door  or  some  other  conspicuous  part  of  the  premises  in  which  that 

 

 
Page | 151  

 
 

 

person  resides  or  is  known  to  have  last  resided,  or  carries  on  business  or 

personally  works  or  last  worked  for  gain  and  a  written  report  of  such  affixture 

should be witnessed by two persons;  

(d) if the notice cannot be affixed as per clause (c), by publishing the notice in at 

least  two  newspapers,  one  in  an  English  daily  newspaper  having  nationwide 

circulation and another in a newspaper having wide circulation published  in the 

language  of  the  region  where  that  person  was  last  known  to  have  resided  or 

carried on business or personally worked for gain. 

When certificate may be executed. 

13. No  step  in  execution  of  a  certificate  shall  be  taken  until  the  period  of  fifteen 

days  has  elapsed  since  the  date  of  the  service  of  the  notice  required  under 

regulation 6: 

Provided that if the Recovery Officer is satisfied that the defaulter is likely to conceal, 

remove, transfer or dispose of the whole or any part of such of his property as would 

be liable to attachment and that the realization of the amount of the certificate would 

in consequence be delayed or obstructed, he may at any time direct, for reasons to be 

recorded in writing, an attachment of the whole or any part of such property: 

Provided further that if the defaulter whose property has been so attached furnishes 

security to the satisfaction of the Recovery Officer, such attachment shall be cancelled 

from the date on which such security is accepted by the Recovery Officer.  

 

Interest, costs and charges recoverable. 

14. In addition to the amount payable under the order giving rise to the certificate, 

there shall be recoverable, in the proceedings in execution of every certificate,— 

(a)  such  interest  on  the  amount  to  which  the  certificate  relates  as  is  payable  in 

accordance with securities laws; and 

(b) all charges incurred in respect of— 

(i)  the  service  of  notice  upon  the  defaulter  to  pay  the  arrears,  and  of  warrants 

and other processes, and 

 

 
Page | 152  

 
 

 

(ii) all other proceedings taken for realising the arrears. 

Purchaser’s title.  

15. (1) Where property is sold in execution of  a certificate, there shall vest in the 

purchaser merely the right, title and interest of the defaulter at the time of the 

sale, even though the property itself be specified.  

(2) Where immovable property is sold in execution of a certificate, and such sale has 

become  absolute,  the  purchaser’s  right,  title  and  interest  shall  be  deemed  to  have 

vested in him from the time when the property is sold, and not from the time when 

the sale becomes absolute. 

 

Suit  against  purchaser  not  maintainable  on  ground  of  purchase  being 

made on behalf of plaintiff. 

16. (1)  No  suit  shall  be  maintained  against  any  person  claiming  title  under  a 

purchase  certified  by  the  Recovery  Officer  in  the  manner  laid  down  in  these 

regulations,  on  the  ground  that  the  purchase  was  made  on  behalf  of  the 

plaintiff or on behalf of someone through whom the plaintiff claims. 

(2) Nothing in this regulation shall bar a suit to obtain a declaration that the name of 

any  purchaser  certified  as  aforesaid  was  inserted  in  the  certificate  fraudulently  or 

without the consent of the real purchaser, or interfere with the right of a third person 

to proceed against that property, though ostensibly sold to the certified purchaser, on 

the  ground  that  it  is  liable  to  satisfy  a  claim  of  such  third  person  against  the  real 

owner. 

 

Disposal of proceeds of execution. 

17. (1) Whenever monies are realized by sale of  the properties of the defaulter or 

otherwise, in execution of a certificate, the proceeds shall be disposed of in the 

following order, namely:- 

(a) costs and expenses incurred in the course of execution of the certificate;  

(b) the principal amount due under the certificate;  

 

 
Page | 153  

 
 

(c) interest or returns as may be recoverable under the certificate; and 

(d) where  there  is  more  than  one  certificate  drawn  up  against  a  defaulter,  the 

Recovery  Officer  shall  appropriate  the  amount  recovered  including  interest, 

costs,  charges  etc.  towards  the  dues  arising  first  in  time  and  then  proceed  to 

appropriate  the  balance  amount  recovered  in  respect  of  the  remaining 

certificates. 

(2)  Any  amount  remaining  after  the  adjustments  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1), 

shall  be  utilized  for  satisfaction  of  any  other  amount  recoverable  from  the  defaulter 

under  the  Act,  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulations)  Act,  1956  or  the  Depositories 

Act, 1996 which may be due on the date on which the assets were realized. 

(3)  Any  balance  amount,  remaining  after  the  adjustments  under  the  preceding  sub-

regulations, shall be returned to the defaulter.  

(4) If the defaulter disputes any adjustment under the aforesaid clauses, the Recovery 

Officer shall determine the dispute. 

 

General bar to jurisdiction of civil courts. 

18. Except  as  otherwise  expressly  provided  in  these  regulations,  every  question 

arising between the Recovery Officer and the defaulter or their representatives, 

relating to the execution, discharge or satisfaction of a certificate, or relating to 

the confirmation or setting aside by an order under these regulations of a sale 

held  in  execution  of  such  certificate,  shall  be  determined  by  an  order  of  the 

Recovery Officer before whom such question arises:  

Provided  that  before  passing  any  order,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall  afford  an 

opportunity  to  the  defaulter  to  make  his  representation  along  with  supporting 

evidence.  

 

Property exempt from attachment. 

19. (1)  All  such  property  as  is  by  the  Code  of  Civil  Procedure,  1908  (5  of  1908), 

exempted  from  attachment  and  sale  in  execution  of  a  decree  of  a  civil  court 

shall be exempt from attachment and sale under these regulations. 

 

 
Page | 154  

 
 

(2)  The  decision  of  the  Recovery  Officer  as  to  what  property  is  so  entitled  to 

exemption shall be conclusive.  

 

Investigation by Recovery Officer. 

20. (1) Where any claim is preferred to, or any objection is made to the attachment 

or  sale  of,  any  property  in  execution  of  a  certificate,  on  the  ground  that  such 

property  is  not  liable  to  such  attachment  or  sale,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall 

proceed to investigate the claim or objection: 

Provided that  no  such  investigation  shall  be  made  where  the  Recovery  Officer 

considers that the claim or objection was designedly or unnecessarily delayed.  

(2) Where the property to which the claim or objection applies has been advertised for 

sale, the Recovery Officer ordering the sale may postpone it pending the investigation 

of the claim or objection, upon such terms as to security or otherwise as the Recovery 

Officer shall deem fit. 

(3) The claimant or objector must adduce evidence to show that— 

(a) in the case of immovable property; at the date of the service of the notice issued 

under these regulations to pay the arrears, or 

(b) in the case of movable property; at the date of the attachment, 

he had some interest in, or was possessed of the property in question. 

(4)  Whereupon  the  said  investigation,  the  Recovery  Officer  is  satisfied  that,  for  the 

reason stated in the claim or objection, such property was not, at the said date, in the 

possession of the defaulter or of some person in trust for him or in the occupancy of a 

tenant  or  other  person  paying  rent  to  him,  or  that,  being  in  the  possession  of  the 

defaulter at the said date, it was so in his possession, not on his own account or as his 

own  property,  but  on  account  of  or  in  trust  for  some  other  person,  or  partly  on  his 

own account and partly on account of some other person, the Recovery Officer shall 

make an order releasing the property, wholly or to such extent as he thinks fit, from 

attachment or sale. 

(5) Where the Recovery Officer is satisfied that the property was, at the said date, in 

the possession of the defaulter as his own property and not on account of any other 

 

 
Page | 155  

 
 

person,  or  was  in  the  possession  of  some  other  person  in  trust  for  him,  or  in  the 

occupancy of a tenant or other person paying rent to him, the Recovery Officer shall 

disallow the claim. 

Provided that before disallowing the claim, an opportunity of hearing may be granted 

to the person objecting to the attachment.  

(7)  Where,  in  the  course  of  investigation,  the  Recovery  Officer  is  satisfied  that  the 

property is subject to a mortgage or charge (other than a mortgage or charge referred 

to in rule 16 of the Second Schedule to the Income-tax Act) in favour of a person not in 

possession, and thinks fit to continue the attachment, he may do so, subject to such 

mortgage or charge. 

 

Removal of attachment on satisfaction or cancellation of certificate. 

21. Where — 

(a)  the  amount  due,  with  costs  and  all  charges  and  expenses  resulting  from  the 

attachment  of  any property  or  incurred  in  order  to  hold  a  sale,  are  paid  to  the 

Recovery Officer, or 

(b) the certificate is cancelled, 

the  attachment  shall  be  deemed  to  be  withdrawn  and,  in  the  case  of  immovable 

property,  the  withdrawal  shall,  if  the  defaulter  so  desires,  be  proclaimed  at  his 

expense,  and  a copy of the proclamation shall  be affixed in the manner provided by 

these regulations for a proclamation of sale of immovable property. 

 

Entrustment of functions by Recovery Officer. 

22. (1) The attachment and sale of property may be made by such persons as the 

Recovery Officer may from time to time direct. 

(2)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  as may  be  approved  by  the  Board,  entrust  any  of  his 

functions as a Recovery Officer to any other officer lower than him in rank and such 

officer  shall,  in  relation  to  the  functions  so  entrusted  to  him,  be  deemed  to  be  a 

Recovery Officer. 

 

 

 
Page | 156  

 
 

Reserve price.  

 

23. (1)  It  shall  be  competent  for  the  Recovery  Officer  to  fix  a  reserve  price  in 

respect  of  any  property,  other  than  agricultural  produce,  below  which  such 

property shall not be sold.  

(2)  Where  valuation  is  required  to  be  made  in  respect  of  any  property  for  the 

purposes  of  these  regulations,  the  Recovery  Officer  may  appoint  a registered  valuer 

for valuation of such property.  

(3) The valuation report submitted by a registered valuer shall be confidential.  

 

Proclamation of sale. 

24. For the purpose of ascertaining the matters to be specified in a proclamation of 

sale, the Recovery Officer may summon any person whom he thinks necessary 

to  summon  and  may  examine  him  in  respect  of  any  matters  relevant  to  the 

proclamation  and  require  him  to  produce  any  document  in  his  possession  or 

power relating thereto. 

 

Auction of properties. 

25. (1) Notwithstanding anything in these regulations, public auction of properties 

in execution of recovery certificate may be conducted through an auction made 

through an electronic platform.  

(2)  The  electronic  auction  specified  at  sub-regulation  (1)  may  be conducted  through 

an  electronic  auction  platform,  if  any,  of  the  Board  or  by  engaging  an  electronic 

auction agency.  

 

Levy and scale of fees. 

26. (1) In respect of any sale made in the execution of a certificate, there shall be 

levied a fee on the gross amount realised by the sale, calculated at  the rate of 

two per cent. on such gross amount up to rupees one thousand and at the rate 

of one per cent on the excess of such gross amount over rupees one thousand. 

(2) The fee leviable under sub-regulation (1) shall be calculated on multiples of rupees 

 

 
Page | 157  

 
 

twenty-five, that is to say, a fee of fifty paise shall be levied for every rupee twenty-five, 

or part of rupees twenty-five, realised by the sale up to rupees one thousand and in the 

case  of  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  exceeding  rupees  one  thousand,  an  additional  fee  of 

twenty-five  paise  for  every  rupee  twenty-five  or  part  thereof  on  the  excess  of  such 

amount over rupees one thousand, shall be levied. 

(3) Where the sale is in more than one lot, the fee shall be calculated with reference to 

the sale proceeds of each lot separately. 

(4)  The  fee  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  paid  by  the  purchaser  of  the  property 

along with payment of remaining purchase price to be paid under these regulations. 

(5)  When  a  sale  of  immovable  property  is  set  aside  under  sub-regulation  (2)  of 

regulation 89, the Recovery Officer may make an order for payment, by the defaulter 

or  by  the  person  at  whose  instance  the  sale  is  set  aside,  of  the  fees  paid  by  the 

purchaser of the property. 

(6)  The  fee  collected  under  this  regulation  shall  be  appropriated  towards  the  cost  of 

sale of the properties in execution of the certificate. 

 

Defaulting purchaser answerable for loss on resale. 

27. Any  deficiency  of  price  which  may  happen  on  a  resale  by  reason  of  the 

purchaser’s default, and all expenses attending such resale, shall be recoverable 

from  the  defaulting  purchaser  under  the  procedure  provided  by  these 

regulations: 

Provided that no such application shall be entertained unless filed within fifteen days 

from the date of resale.  

 

Adjournment or stoppage of sale. 

28. (1) The Recovery Officer may, in his discretion, adjourn any sale hereunder to a 

specified  day  and  hour;  and  the  officer  conducting  any  such  sale  may,  in  his 

discretion, adjourn the sale, recording his reasons for such adjournment. 

(2) Where  a sale  of  immovable  property  is  adjourned  under  sub-regulation  (1)  for  a 

longer  period  than  one  calendar  month,  a  fresh  proclamation  of  sale  shall  be  made 

 

 
Page | 158  

 
 

unless the defaulter consents to waive it. 

(3) Every sale shall be stopped if, before the lot is knocked down, the arrears and costs 

(including  the  costs  of  the  sale)  are  tendered  to  the  officer  conducting  the  sale,  or 

proof is given to his satisfaction that the amount of such arrears and costs has been 

paid to the Recovery Officer who ordered the sale. 

 

Private alienation to be void in certain cases. 

29. (1)  Where  a  notice  has  been  served  on  a  defaulter  under  regulation  6,  the 

defaulter or his representative in interest shall not be competent to mortgage, 

charge, lease or otherwise deal with any property belonging to him except with 

the  permission  of  the  Recovery  Officer,  nor  shall  any  civil  court  issue  any 

process  against  such  property  in  execution  of  a  decree  for  the  payment  of 

money. 

(2) Where an attachment has been made under these regulations, any private transfer 

or delivery of the property attached or of any interest therein and any payment to the 

defaulter of any debt, dividend or other moneys contrary to such attachment, shall be 

void as against all claims enforceable under the attachment. 

(3)  The  sub-regulations  (1)  and  (2)  shall  apply  mutatis  mutandis  in  case  of  any 

attachment  under  securities  laws  which  has  been  ordered  prior  to  initiation  of 

recovery proceedings under these regulations. 

 

Prohibition against bidding or purchase by officer. 

30. No person having any duty to perform in connection with any sale under these 

regulations  shall,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  bid  for,  acquire  or  attempt  to 

acquire any interest in the property sold.  

 

Prohibition against sale on holidays. 

31. No  sale  under  this  regulation  shall  take  place  on  a  Sunday  or  other  general 

holidays  recognised  by  the  Central  Government  or  the  concerned  State 

Government  or  on  any  day  which  has  been  notified  by  the  concerned  State 

 

 
Page | 159  

 
 

 

Government to be a local holiday for the area in which the sale is to take place. 

Assistance by police. 

32. Any Officer authorised to attach or sell any property or to arrest the defaulter 

or charged with any duty to be performed under these regulations, may apply 

to the officer-in-charge of the nearest Police Station for such assistance as may 

be  necessary  in  the  discharge  of  his  duties,  and  the  authority  to  whom  such 

application  is  made  shall  depute  sufficient  number  of  Police  Officers  for 

providing such assistance.  

 

CHAPTER III 

 

ATTACHMENT AND SALE OF MOVABLE PROPERTY 

 

PART I – ATTACHMENT 

 

Warrant. 

33. Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, when any movable property 

is  to  be  attached,  the  Officer  shall  be  furnished  by  the  Recovery  Officer  (or 

other officer empowered by him in that behalf) a warrant in writing and signed 

with  his  name  specifying  the  name  of  the  defaulter  and  the  amount  to  be 

realized.  

 

Service of copy of warrant. 

34. The Officer shall cause a copy of the warrant to be served on the defaulter. 

 

Attachment. 

35. If, after service of the copy of the warrant, the amount is not paid forthwith, the 

Officer shall proceed to attach the movable property of the defaulter. 

Property in defaulter’s possession. 

 

 
Page | 160  

 
 

36. Where the property to be attached is movable property (other than agricultural 

produce)  in  the  possession  of  the  defaulter,  the  attachment  shall  be  made  by 

the actual seizure and the Officer shall keep the property in his own custody or 

the custody of one of his subordinates and shall be responsible for due custody 

thereof: 

Provided that when the property seized is subject to speedy and natural decay or when 

the expense of keeping it in custody is likely to exceed its value, the Officer may sell it 

at once, in such manner as deemed fit and necessary.  

 

Agricultural produce. 

37. (1) Where the property to be attached is agricultural produce, the attachment 

shall be made by affixing a copy of the warrant of attachment— 

(a) where such produce is growing crop—on the land on which such crop has grown, 

or 

(b) where such produce has  been  cut  or gathered,—on the threshing floor or place 

for  treading  out  grain  or  the  like,  or  fodder-stack,  or  in  such  other  place  such 

produce is kept or deposited, 

and another copy on the outer door or on some other conspicuous part of the house in 

which the defaulter ordinarily resides, or with the leave of the Recovery Officer, on the 

outer  door  or  on  some  other  conspicuous  part  of  the  house  in  which  he  carries  on 

business or personally works for gain, or in which he is known to have last resided or 

carried on business or personally worked for gain.  

(2) The produce shall, thereupon, be deemed to have passed into the possession of the 

Recovery Officer.  

 

Provisions as to agricultural produce under attachment. 

38. (1)  Where  agricultural  produce  is  attached,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall  make 

such  arrangements  for  the  custody,  watching,  tending,  cutting  and  gathering 

thereof as he may deem sufficient; and he shall have power to defray the cost of 

such arrangements. 

 

 
Page | 161  

 
 

(2)  Subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  imposed  by  the  Recovery  Officer  in  this 

behalf, either in the order of attachment or in any subsequent order, the defaulter may 

tend, cut, gather and store the produce and do any other act necessary for maturing or 

preserving  it;  and,  if  the  defaulter  fails  to  do  all  or  any  of  such  acts,  any  person 

appointed by the Recovery Officer in this behalf may, subject to like conditions, do all 

or any of such acts, and the costs incurred by such person shall be recoverable from 

the defaulter as if they were included in the certificate. 

(3)  Agricultural  produce  attached  as  a  growing  crop  shall  not  be  deemed  to  have 

ceased to be under attachment or to require reattachment merely because it has been 

severed from the soil. 

(4)  Where  an  order  for  the  attachment  of  a  growing  crop  has  been  made  at  a 

considerable time before the crop is likely to be fit to be cut or gathered, the Recovery 

Officer may suspend the execution of the order for such time as he thinks fit, and may, 

in his discretion, make a further order prohibiting the removal of the crop pending the 

execution of the order of attachment. 

(5) A growing crop which from its nature does not admit of being stored shall not be 

attached  under  this  regulation  at  any  time  less  than  twenty  days  before  the  time  at 

which it is likely to be fit to be cut or gathered. 

 

Debts, shares, etc. 

39. (1) In the case of— 

(a) a debt not secured by a negotiable instrument, 

(b) securities, or 

(c)  other  movable  property  not  in  the  possession  of  the  defaulter  except  property 

deposited in, or in the custody of, any court, 

the attachment shall be made by a written order prohibiting,— 

(i) in the case of the debt—the creditor from recovering the debt and the debtor from 

making payment thereof until the further order of the Recovery Officer; 

(ii)  in  the  case  of  securities,  the  person  in  whose  name  such  security  may  be 

standing,  from  transferring  the  same  or  receiving  any  dividend  or  benefit  or 

 

 
Page | 162  

 
 

interest thereon; 

(iii)  in the case  of the other movable property (except as  aforesaid)—the person in 

possession of the same from giving it over to the defaulter. 

(2) A copy of such order shall be affixed on some conspicuous part of the office of the 

Recovery Officer, and another copy shall be sent, in the case of the debt, to the debtor, 

in  the  case  of  the  securities,  to  the  proper  officer  of  the  corporation  or  other  body 

corporate, and in the case of the other movable property (except as aforesaid), to the 

person in possession of the same.  

(3) A debtor prohibited under clause (i) of sub-regulation (1) may pay the amount of 

his debt to the Recovery Officer, and such payment shall discharge him as effectually 

as payment to the party entitled to receive the same.  

 

Recovery of monies due to the defaulter 

40. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, the Recovery Officer may 

recover the amount due to the defaulter by mode of recovery specified in sub-

regulation 3 of regulation 11.  

 

Attachment of decree. 

41. (1) The attachment of a decree of a civil court for the payment of money or for 

sale in enforcement of a mortgage or charge shall be made to the civil court by a 

notice requesting the civil court to stay the execution of the decree unless and 

until— 

(i) the Recovery Officer cancels the notice, or 

(ii) the Recovery Officer or the defaulter applies to the court receiving such notice to 

execute the decree. 

(2) Where a civil court receives an application under clause (ii) of sub-regulation (1), it 

shall,  on  the  application  of  the Recovery  Officer  or  the  defaulter  and  subject  to  the 

provisions  of  the  Code  of  Civil  Procedure,  1908  (5  of  1908),  proceed  to  execute  the 

attached decree and apply the net proceeds in satisfaction of the certificate. 

(3) The Recovery Officer shall be deemed to be the representative of the holder of the 

 

 
Page | 163  

 
 

attached  decree,  and  to  be  entitled  to  execute  such  attached  decree  in  any  manner 

lawful for the holder thereof. 

 

Share in movable property. 

42. Where  the  property  to  be  attached  consists  of  the  share  or  interest  of  the 

defaulter  in  a  movable  property  belonging  to  him  and  another  as  co-owners, 

the attachment shall be made by a notice to the defaulter prohibiting him from 

transferring the share or interest or charging it in any way.  

 

Salary of government servants. 

43. Attachment of the salary or allowances of servants of the Government or a local 

authority may  be made in the manner provided by rule 48 of  Order 21 of the 

First  Schedule  to  the  Code  of  Civil  Procedure,  1908  (5  of  1908),  and  the 

provisions  of  the  said  rule  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  apply 

subject to such modifications as may be necessary.  

 

Attachment of negotiable instrument. 

44. Where the property is a negotiable instrument not deposited in a court or in the 

custody of a public officer, the attachment shall be made by actual seizure, and 

the instrument shall be brought before the Recovery Officer and held subject to 

his orders.  

 

Attachment of property in custody of court or public officer. 

45. Where  the  property  to  be  attached  is  in  the  custody  of  any  court  or  a  public 

officer,  the  attachment  shall  be  made  by  a  notice  to  such  court  or  officer, 

requesting that such property, and any interest or dividend becoming payable 

thereon,  may be held  subject  to  the further  orders  of  the  Recovery  Officer  by 

whom the notice is issued: 

Provided that where such property is in the custody of a court, any question of title or 

priority  arising  between  the Recovery  Officer  and  any  other  person,  not  being  the 

 

 
Page | 164  

 
 

defaulter,  claiming  to  be  interested  in  such  property  by  virtue  of  any  assignment, 

attachment or otherwise, shall be determined by such court.  

 

Attachment of partnership property. 

46. (1) Where the property to be attached  consists of an interest of  the defaulter, 

being a partner, in the partnership property, the Recovery Officer may make an 

order  charging  the  share  of  such  partner  in  the  partnership  property  and 

profits with payment of the amount due under the certificate, and may, by the 

same or subsequent order, appoint a receiver of the share of such partner in the 

profits,  whether  already  declared  or  accruing  and  of  any  other  money  which 

may become due to him in respect of the partnership, and direct accounts and 

inquiries and make an order for the sale of such interest or such other order as 

the circumstances of the case may require. 

(2) The other persons shall be at liberty at any time to redeem the interest charged or, 

in the case of a sale being directed, to purchase the same. 

 

Inventory. 

47. In  the  case  of  attachment  of  movable  property  by  actual  seizure,  the  officer 

shall, after attachment of the property, prepare an inventory of all the property 

attached, specifying in it the place where it is lodged or kept, and shall forward 

the same to the Recovery Officer and a copy of the inventory shall be delivered 

by the Officer to the defaulter. 

 

 

 

Attachment not to be excessive. 

48. The attachment by seizure shall not be excessive and the property so attached 

shall  be  as  nearly  as  possible  proportionate  to  the  amount  specified  in  the 

warrant. 

 

 

 
Page | 165  

 
 

Power to break open doors, etc. 

49. The Officer may break open any inner or outer door or window of any building 

and enter any building in order to seize any movable property, if the officer has 

reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that  such  building  contains  movable  property 

liable  to  seizure  under  the  warrant  and  the  Officer  has  notified  his  authority 

and intention of breaking open if admission is not given:  

Provided  the  Officer  shall  give  all  reasonable  opportunity  to  women  to 

withdraw.  

 

Custody at place of attachment. 

50. (1) Where the property attached is of such a nature that its removal from the 

place of attachment is impracticable or its removal involves expenditure out of 

proportion  to  the  value  of  the  property,  the  Officer  attaching  such  property 

(hereinafter  referred  to  as  ‘‘attaching  officer’’)  shall,  subject  to  any  directions 

which  the  Recovery  Officer  may  issue  in  this  behalf,  arrange  for  the  proper 

maintenance and custody of the property at the place of attachment.  

(2)  The  attaching  officer  shall  forthwith  send  a  report  of  having  done  so  to  the 

Recovery Officer. 

(3)  On  receipt  of  a  report  from  the  attaching  officer  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the 

Recovery  Officer  may  either  order  the  removal  of  the  property  to  a  place  which  he 

shall specify or sanction its maintenance and custody at the place of attachment under 

such conditions as he may think fit. 

 

Removal and custody of property in other cases. 

51. Where the attached property is not kept at the place of attachment, it shall be 

kept  in  the  custody  of  an  officer  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  "custody 

officer")  subordinate  to  the  Recovery  Officer  and  authorised  by  the  Recovery 

Officer  for  this  purpose.  The  custody  officer  may  remove  the  property  to  the 

office  of  the  Recovery  Officer  for  custody  under  his  own  supervision  or,  with 

the approval of the Recovery Officer, may make such arrangements as may be 

 

 
Page | 166  

 
 

 

convenient and economical for its safe custody with any other fit person under 

his own supervision and the Recovery Officer may fix the remuneration to be 

allowed to such person. 

Property may be handed over to the defaulter. 

52. Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  regulation  50  or  regulation  51,  the 

attaching officer or the custody officer may, with the previous approval of the 

Recovery  Officer,  entrust,  subject  to  his  right  of  supervision,  the  attached 

property  to  the  defaulter  on  his  executing  a  bond,  which  may  be so  varied  as 

the circumstances of each case may require.  

Explanation.—Where  the  Recovery  Officer  proceeds  to  recover  any  dues  from  the 

defaulter by attachment and sale of, or by appointing a receiver for the management 

of, any movable or immovable property which is held by or stands in the name of, any 

of the persons referred to in the Explanation to sub-section (1) of section 28A of the 

Act or section 23 JB of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or section 19-IB 

of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  which  is  included  in  the  defaulter's  movable  or 

immovable property by virtue of that Explanation, the reference to "defaulter" in these 

regulations,  as  may  be  applicable,  shall,  in  relation  to  such  movable  or  immovable 

property, be construed as a reference to the person referred to in the said Explanation. 

 

Custody of attached cash, securities, etc. 

53. (1) If  the property attached  consists of  cash,  it shall be deposited  in  the bank 

account of the Board. 

(2)  If  the  property  attached  consists  of  government  or  other  securities,  bullion, 

jewellery or other valuables, the attaching officer shall seize such property and entrust 

the properties to the Recovery Officer along with an inventory thereof.  

 

Claim  of  any  person  other  than  the  defaulter  to  the  property  under 

attachment. 

54. When the property remains at the place where it is attached in the custody of 

 

 
Page | 167  

 
 

 

the attaching officer, and any person other than the defaulter claims the same, 

or  any  part  thereof,  the  officer  shall  nevertheless  remain  in  possession  and 

shall direct the claimant to prefer his claim before the Recovery Officer. 

Return of property on cancellation or withdrawal of attachment. 

55. (1)  If  in  consequence  of  withdrawal  or  cancellation  of  the  attachment,  the 

defaulter becomes entitled to receive back the movable property attached, the 

possession  thereof  shall  be  given  to  him  on  payment  of  costs,  charges  and 

expenses due, if any, in respect of the execution of the certificate against such 

property. 

(2) For the purpose of giving possession under sub-regulation (1), the attaching officer 

shall inform the defaulter that the property is at his disposal.  

(3) In the absence of any person to take charge of the property the officer may, if the 

property has been moved from the premises in which it was seized, replace it where it 

was found at the time of seizure.  

 

Property may be sold if costs, etc. not paid. 

56. In default of the payment of costs, charges and expenses, the movable property 

or such portion thereof as may be necessary shall be sold by auction and after 

defraying  the  expenses  of  such  sale  and  the  costs,  charges  and  expenses 

aforesaid,  the  balance,  if  any,  of  the  movables  so  party  as  has  not  been  sold 

shall be handed over to the defaulter. 

 

Feeding and tending of livestock under attachment. 

57. Whenever  livestock  is  kept  at  the  place  where  it  has  been  attached,  the 

defaulter  shall  be  at  liberty  to  undertake  the  due  feeding  and  tending  of  it, 

under the supervision of the attaching officer. 

 

Removal of livestock. 

58. In the event of the defaulter failing to feed attached livestock, the livestock may 

 

 
Page | 168  

 
 

 

be  placed  in  the  custody  of  the  custody  officer  or  may  be  placed  in  a  pound 

maintained by the Government or a local authority. 

Custody of livestock in pound. 

59. If there be any such pound near the office of the Recovery Officer, the attaching 

officer  or  the  custody  officer  may  place  in  it  such  attached  livestock  as  can 

properly be kept therein in which  case the pound-keeper shall  be responsible 

for  the  livestock  and  shall  receive  the  same  rates  for  accommodation  and 

maintenance thereof as are payable in respect of impounded cattle of the same 

description.  

 

Custody with a person other than custody officer. 

60. Notwithstanding anything contained in regulation 58, the custody officer may, 

with the approval of the Recovery Officer, entrust the attached livestock to any 

other person under his own supervision and the Recovery Officer may fix the 

remuneration to be allowed to such person after taking into account the local 

circumstances  and  the  charges  which  such  person  may  have  to  incur  for  the 

maintenance and custody of such livestock. 

 

Expenses of custody, maintenance, etc. 

61. The  expenses  of  maintenance  and  custody  of  movable  property  including  the 

remuneration  payable  to  the  person  concerned  under  this  Chapter  shall  be 

deemed to be costs of attachment or sale. 

 

PART II - SALE 

 

Sale. 

62. The Recovery Officer may direct that any movable property attached under this 

regulation  or  such  portion  thereof  as  may  seem  necessary  to  satisfy  the 

certificate shall be sold. 

 

 
Page | 169  

 
 

 

Issue of proclamation. 

63. When  any  sale  of  movable  property  is  ordered  by  the  Recovery  Officer,  the 

Recovery Officer shall issue a proclamation,  in the language of the district, of 

the intended sale, specifying the time and place of sale and whether the sale is 

subject to confirmation or not. 

 

Proclamation how made. 

64. (1) Such proclamation shall be made by publication in newspapers circulating 

in  the  locality,  notice  in  the  Office  of  the  Registering  Authority,  publication 

through digital/electronic modes like publication on the website of the Board, 

Registering Authority, etc.— 

(a) in the case of property attached by actual seizure— 

(i) in the locality where the property was seized; and 

(ii) at such other places as the Recovery Officer may direct; 

(b) in the case of property attached otherwise than by actual seizure, in such places, 

if any, as the Recovery Officer may direct. 

(2) A copy of the proclamation shall also be affixed in a conspicuous part of the office 

of the Recovery Officer. 

 

Sale after fifteen days. 

65. Except where the property is subject to speedy and natural decay or when the 

expense of keeping it in custody is likely to exceed its value, no sale of movable 

property  under  these  regulations  shall,  without  the  consent  in  writing  of  the 

defaulter,  take  place  until  after  the  expiry  of  at  least  fifteen  days  calculated 

from the date on which a copy of the sale proclamation was affixed in the office 

of the Recovery Officer. 

 

Sale of agricultural produce. 

66. (1)  Where  the  property  to  be  sold  is  agricultural  produce,  the  sale  shall  be 

 

 
Page | 170  

 
 

held,— 

(a) if such produce is a growing crop—on or near the land on which such crop has 

grown, or 

(b) if such produce has been cut or gathered—at or near the threshing floor or place 

for treading out grain or the like, or fodder-stack, on or in which it is deposited: 

Provided that the Recovery Officer may direct the sale to be held at the nearest place 

of public resort, if he is of opinion that the produce is thereby likely to sell to greater 

advantage. 

(2) Where, on the produce being put up for sale,— 

(a) a fair price, in the estimation of the person holding the sale, is not offered for it, 

and 

(b) the owner of the produce, or a person authorised to act on his behalf, applies to 

have the  sale  postponed  till  the  next  day  or,  if  a  market  is  held  at  the place of 

sale, the next market day, 

the sale shall be postponed accordingly, and shall be then completed, whatever price 

may be offered for the produce. 

 

Special provisions relating to growing crops. 

67. (1) Where the property to be sold is a growing crop and the crop from its nature 

admits of being stored but has not yet been stored, the day of the sale shall be 

so fixed as to admit of the crop being made ready for storing before the arrival 

of  such  day,  and  the  sale  shall  not  be  held  until  the  crop  has  been  cut  or 

gathered and is ready for storing. 

(2) Where the crop from its nature does not admit of being stored or can be sold to a 

greater advantage in an unripe stage, it may be sold before it is cut and gathered, and 

the purchaser shall be entitled to enter on the land, and to do all that is necessary for 

the purpose of tending or cutting or gathering the crop.  

 

Sale to be by auction. 

68. The property shall be sold by public auction in one or more lots as the officer 

 

 
Page | 171  

 
 

 

may consider appropriate, and if the amount to be realised by sale is satisfied 

by the sale of a portion of the property, the sale shall be immediately stopped 

with respect to the remainder of the lots.  

Sale by public auction. 

69. (1) Where movable property is sold by public auction, the price of each lot shall 

be paid at the time of sale or as soon after as the officer holding the sale directs 

and in default of payment, the property shall forthwith be resold. 

(2)  On  payment  of  the  purchase-money,  the  officer  holding  the  sale  shall  grant  a 

certificate  specifying  the  property  purchased,  the  price  paid  and  the  name  of  the 

purchaser, and the sale shall become absolute. 

(3)  Where  the  movable  property  to  be  sold  is  a  share  in  goods  belonging  to  the 

defaulter and a co-owner, and two or more persons, of whom one is such co-owner, 

respectively  bid  the  same  sum  for  such  property  or  for  any lot,  the  bidding  shall  be 

deemed to be the bidding of the co-owner. 

 

Irregularity not to vitiate sale. 

70. No irregularity in publishing or conducting the sale of movable property shall 

vitiate the sale.  

 

Negotiable instruments and securities. 

71. Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  these  regulations,  where  the  property 

to  be sold  is  a  negotiable  instrument  or  a  security,  the Recovery  Officer  may, 

instead of directing the sale to be made by public auction, authorise the sale of 

such instrument or security through a stock broker or other intermediary. 

 

Delivery of movable property, debts and shares. 

72. (1)  Where  the  property  sold  is  movable  property  of  which  actual  seizure  has 

been made, it shall be delivered to the purchaser. 

(2)  Where  the  property  sold  is  movable  property  in  the  possession  of  some  person 

 

 
Page | 172  

 
 

other than the defaulter, the delivery thereof to the purchaser shall be made by giving 

notice to the person in possession prohibiting him from delivering possession of the 

property to any person except the purchaser and requiring him to deliver possession 

of the property to the purchaser within the time stipulated by the Recovery Officer. 

(3) Where such person in possession of the property fails without reasonable cause to 

deliver possession of the property to the purchaser within the time stipulated by the 

Recovery Officer, or within such further time as may be allowed by him, the Recovery 

Officer shall  cause the property to be seized  and  delivered to the  purchaser  and the 

provisions of these regulations shall, as far as may be, apply to such seizure. 

(4) Where  the  property  sold  is  a  debt  not  secured  by  a  negotiable  instrument,  the 

delivery  thereof  to  the  purchaser  shall  be  made  by  a  written  order  of  the  Recovery 

Officer  prohibiting  the  creditor  from  receiving  the  debt  or  any  interest  thereon  and 

the  debtor  from  making  payment  thereof  to  any  person  except  the  purchaser  and 

requiring  the  debtor  to  make  payment  thereof  to  the  purchaser  within  the  time 

stipulated by the Recovery Officer. 

(5) Where  the  debtor  fails  to  make  such  payment  to  the  purchaser  within  the  time 

stipulated by the Recovery Officer, or within such further time as may be allowed by 

him,  the  Recovery  Officer  may  take  further  proceedings  to  recover  the  amount  due 

from  the  debtor  as  if  the  debtor  were  a  defaulter  in  respect  of  whom  the Recovery 

Officer had drawn up a certificate for the recovery of the payment.  

(6) Where the property sold is a security, the delivery thereof to the purchaser may be 

made by a written order of the Recovery Officer prohibiting the person in whose name 

the securities may be standing, from making any transfer of the share to any person 

except  the  purchaser,  or  receiving  payment  of  any  dividend  or  interest  thereon  and 

requiring him to deliver the security certificate or other document of title along with 

the instrument of transfer duly completed by him to the Recovery Officer within the 

time  stipulated  by  the  Recovery  Officer  and  prohibiting  the  manager,  secretary,  or 

other proper officer of the corporation from permitting any such transfer or making 

any such payment to any person except the purchaser: 

Provided that if the securities are held in a depository, delivery of securities shall be 

 

 
Page | 173  

 
 

effected  through  transfer  from  such  dematerialised  account,  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of the Depositories Act, 1996 and the rules, regulations or bye-laws made 

thereunder, to the credit of the purchaser.  

(7) Where the person in whose name the security may be standing, fails to deliver the 

share  certificate  or  other  document  of  title  to  the  Recovery  Officer  within  the  time 

stipulated by him, or within such further time as may be allowed by him, the Recovery 

Officer may take steps to obtain a duplicate of the share certificate or other document 

of title as if the share certificate or other document of title had been lost or destroyed: 

Provided  that  if  securities  are  held  in  a  depository,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall  issue 

appropriate directions to such depository for effecting transfer to the purchaser.  

 

Transfer of negotiable instruments and shares. 

73. (1)  Where  the  execution  of  a  document  or  the  endorsement  of  the  party  in 

whose  name  a  negotiable  instrument  or  a  security  is  standing  is  required  to 

transfer such negotiable instrument or security to a person who has purchased 

it under a sale under these regulation, the Recovery Officer may execute such 

document or make such endorsement as may be necessary and such execution 

or endorsement shall have the same effect as an execution or endorsement by 

the party.  

(2)  The  Recovery  Officer  may  cause  the  document  to  be  executed  on  proper  stamp 

paper and to be registered if its registration is required by any law for the time being 

in  force  and  the  expenses  of  such  execution  and  registration  shall  be  borne  by  the 

purchaser.  

(3)  Until  the  transfer  of  such  negotiable  instrument  or  share,  the  Recovery  Officer 

may, by order, appoint some person to receive any interest or dividend due thereon 

and  to  sign  a  receipt  for  the  same;  and  any  receipt  so  signed  shall  be  as  valid  and 

effectual for all purposes as if the same had been signed by the party himself. 

(4)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  hereinabove,  in  case  of  shares  or  other 

securities held in an electronic form, the Recovery Officer may, by an order, direct any 

depository or custodian or any other person in whose custody the shares or securities 

 

 
Page | 174  

 
 

are held, to transfer such shares or securities to the purchaser. 

 

Vesting order in case of other property. 

74. In  the  case  of  any  movable  property  not  hereinbefore  provided  for,  the 

Recovery Officer may make an order vesting such property in the purchaser or 

as the purchaser may direct; and such property shall vest accordingly. 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER IV 

 

ATTACHMENT AND SALE OF IMMOVABLE PROPERTY 

 

PART I – ATTACHMENT 

Attachment. 

75. Attachment  of  the  immovable  property  of  the  defaulter  shall  be  made  by  an 

order  prohibiting  the  defaulter  from  transferring  or  charging  the  property  in 

any  way  and  prohibiting  all  persons  from  taking  any  benefit  under  such 

transfer or charge. 

 

Service of notice of attachment. 

76. A copy of the order of attachment shall be served on the defaulter. 

 

Proclamation of attachment. 

77. The  order  of  attachment  shall  be  proclaimed  by  publication  in  newspapers 

circulating in the locality, publication on website of the Board etc., and a copy 

of the order shall be affixed on a conspicuous part of the property or such other 

place as may be specified by the Recovery Officer and on the notice board of the 

office of the Recovery Officer. 

 

 
Page | 175  

 
 

 

Attachment to relate back from the date of service of notice. 

78. Where  any  immovable  property  is  attached  under  this  regulation,  the 

attachment  shall  relate  back  to,  and  take  effect  from,  the  date  on  which  the 

notice to pay the dues, was issued under these regulations and served upon the 

defaulter. 

 

PART II – SALE 

 

Sale and proclamation of sale. 

79. (1)  The  Recovery  Officer  may  direct  that  any  immovable  property  which  has 

been  attached,  or  such  portion  thereof  as  may  seem  necessary  to  satisfy  the 

certificate, shall be sold.  

(2) Where  any  immovable  property  is ordered  to  be  sold,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall 

cause a proclamation of the intended sale to be made in the language of the district. 

 

Contents of proclamation. 

80. A proclamation of sale of immovable property shall be drawn up after notice to 

the  defaulter,  and  shall  state  the  time  and  place  of  sale,  and  shall  specify,  as 

fairly and accurately as possible,— 

(a) the property to be sold; 

(b) the revenue, if any, assessed upon the property or any part thereof; 

(c) the amount for the recovery of which the sale is ordered;  

(d) the reserve price, if any, below which the property may not be sold; and 

(e) any other thing which the Recovery Officer considers it material for a purchaser to 

know, in order to judge the nature and value of the property. 

 

Mode of making proclamation. 

81. (1)  Every  proclamation  for  the  sale  of  immovable  property  shall  be  made  by 

publication in newspapers circulating in the locality, publication on website of 

 

 
Page | 176  

 
 

the Board etc. and a copy of the proclamation shall be affixed on a conspicuous 

part  of  the  property  or  such  other  place  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Recovery 

Officer and also upon a conspicuous part of the office of the Recovery Officer. 

(2) Where the Recovery Officer so directs, such proclamation shall also be published 

in the Official Gazette and the cost of such publication shall be deemed to be costs of 

the sale. 

(3) Where the property is divided into lots for the purpose of being sold separately, it 

shall  not  be  necessary  to  make  a  separate  proclamation  for  each  lot,  unless  proper 

notice of the sale cannot, in the opinion of the Recovery Officer, otherwise be given. 

 

Time of sale. 

82. No sale of immovable property under this regulation shall, without the consent 

in writing of the defaulter, take place until after the expiry of at least thirty days 

calculated from the date on which a copy of the proclamation of sale has been 

affixed  on  the  property  or  in  the  office  of  the  Recovery  Officer,  whichever  is 

later. 

 

Sale to be by auction. 

83. The sale shall be by public auction, which may be conducted through electronic 

auction,  to  the  highest  bidder  and  shall  be  subject  to  confirmation  by  the 

Recovery Officer: 

Provided that no sale under this regulation shall be made if the amount bid by 

the highest bidder is less than the reserve price, if any, specified.  

 

Deposit of earnest money.  

84. (1) The bids for purchase of any property shall be accompanied with payment 

of earnest money calculated at: 

(a)  ten  per  cent  of  the  reserve  price,  where  the  reserve  price  is  up  to  rupees  ten 

crore, subject to a minimum of rupees fifty thousand; or 

(b) rupees ten lakhs plus five per cent on the remaining amount of reserve price, 

 

 
Page | 177  

 
 

where the reserve price is above rupees ten crore. 

(2) The earnest money so calculated shall be rounded to the nearest rupees thousand. 

 

Deposit by purchaser and resale in default. 

85. (1)  On  every  sale  of  immovable  property,  the  person  declared  to  be  the 

purchaser  shall  pay,  immediately  after  such  declaration,  a  deposit  of  twenty-

five per cent on the amount of purchase money, including the earnest money, 

to the officer conducting the sale; and, in default of such deposit, the property 

shall forthwith be resold.  

(2) The full amount of purchase money payable shall be paid by the purchaser to the 

Recovery  Officer  on  or  before  the  fifteenth  day  from  the  date  of  the  sale  of  the 

property. 

(3)  The  period  of  fifteen  days  under  sub-regulation  (2)  may  be  extended  by  a 

maximum period of three months, subject to the purchaser making a request for such 

extension  along  with  an  undertaking  to  pay  the  remaining  sale  price  together  with 

interest thereon at the rate of fifteen per cent per annum for the period so extended.  

(4)  The  application  for  extension  of  time  for  payment  shall  be  accompanied  by  an 

unconditional  bank  guarantee  for  the  remaining  outstanding  sale  price  and  interest 

thereon at the rate mentioned hereinabove for a period of three months. 

(5) The advertisement regarding the auction for sale of properties shall appropriately 

mention that extension to pay the consideration may be allowed subject to compliance 

with sub-regulations (3) and (4).  

 

Procedure in default of payment. 

86. (1)  Upon  default  of  payment  within  the  period  mentioned  in  the  preceding 

regulation,  the  deposit  may,  if  the  Recovery  Officer  thinks  fit,  after  defraying 

the expenses of the sale, be forfeited, and the property shall be resold, and the 

defaulting purchaser shall forfeit all claims to the property or to any part of the 

sum for which it may subsequently be sold.  

(2)  Without  prejudice  to  sub-regulation  (1),  if  the  highest  bidder  fails  to  pay  the 

 

 
Page | 178  

 
 

purchase price in accordance with the terms of sale, the property may be offered to the 

next highest bidder at a price equal to the bid made by the highest bidder.  

 

 

 

Refund of earnest money. 

87. Earnest  money  deposited  by  unsuccessful  bidders  shall  be  refunded  without 

interest within sixty days from the date of confirmation of sale. 

 

Forfeiture of earnest money or other payments. 

88. Earnest money or any other part of the purchase price paid by a bidder shall be 

forfeited on the following circumstances: 

(a) the bidder not participating in the auction after successfully submitting the 

bid, or  

(b)  on  default  in  payment  of  twenty-five  per  cent  of  the  purchase  price, 

including the earnest money paid, immediately after the auction, or  

(c)  on  default  in  payment  of  remaining  seventy-five  per  cent  within  fifteen 

days of the sale: 

Provided that the earnest money shall not be forfeited if time for making payment is 

extended in accordance with sub-regulation (3) of regulation 85.  

 

Application to set aside sale of immovable property on deposit. 

89. (1) Where immovable property has been sold in execution of  a certificate, the 

defaulter,  or  any  person  whose  interests  are  affected  by  the  sale,  may,  at  any 

time within thirty days from the date of the sale, apply to the Recovery Officer 

to set aside the sale, on his depositing — 

 (a) the amount specified in the proclamation of sale as that for the recovery of which 

the sale was ordered, with interest thereon at the rate of one and one-fourth per 

cent  for  every  month  or  part  of  a  month,  calculated  from  the  date  of  the 

proclamation of sale to the date when the deposit is made; and 

 

 
Page | 179  

 
 

(b)  for  payment  to  the  purchaser,  as  penalty,  a  sum  equal  to  five  per  cent  of  the 

purchase money. 

(2) Where a person makes an application under regulation 90 for setting aside the sale 

of  his  immovable  property,  he  shall  not,  unless  he  withdraws  that  application,  be 

entitled to make or prosecute an application under this regulation. 

 

Application  to  set  aside  sale  of  immovable  property  on  ground  of  non-

service of notice or irregularity. 

90. Where  immovable  property  has  been  sold  in  execution  of  a  certificate, the 

defaulter,  or  any  person  whose  interests  are  affected  by  the  sale,  may,  at  any 

time within thirty days from the date of the sale, apply to the Recovery Officer 

to set aside the sale of the immovable property on the ground that notice was 

not served on the defaulter to pay the arrears as required by this regulation or 

on the ground of a material irregularity in publishing or conducting the sale: 

Provided that— 

(a)  no  sale  shall  be  set  aside  on  any  such  ground  unless  the  Recovery  Officer  is 

satisfied that the applicant has sustained substantial injury by reason of the non-

service or irregularity; and 

(b)  an  application  made  by  a  defaulter  under  this  regulation  shall  be  disallowed 

unless the applicant deposits the amount recoverable from him in the execution 

of the certificate. 

 

Setting aside sale where defaulter has no saleable interest. 

91. At  any  time  within  thirty  days  of  the  sale,  the  purchaser  may  apply  to  the 

Recovery Officer to set aside the sale on the ground that the defaulter had no 

saleable interest in the property sold. 

 

Confirmation of sale. 

92. (1)  Where  no  application  is  made  for  setting  aside  the  sale  under  these 

regulations  or  where  such  an  application  is  made  and  disallowed  by  the 

 

 
Page | 180  

 
 

Recovery Officer, the Recovery Officer shall (if the full amount of the purchase 

money has been paid) make an order confirming the sale, and, thereupon, the 

sale shall become absolute. 

(2)  Where  such  application  is  made  and  allowed,  and  where,  in  the  case  of  an 

application  made  to  set  aside  the  sale  on  deposit  of  the  amount  and  penalty  and 

charges, the deposit is made within thirty days from the date of the sale, the Recovery 

Officer shall make an order setting aside the sale: 

Provided that no order shall be made unless notice of the application has been given 

to the persons affected thereby.  

 

Return of purchase money in certain cases. 

93. Where a sale of immovable property is set aside, any money paid or deposited 

by the purchaser on account of the purchase, together with the penalty, if any, 

deposited  for  payment  to  the  purchaser,  and  such  interest  as  the  Recovery 

Officer may allow, shall be paid to the purchaser. 

 

Sale certificate. 

94. (1)  Where  a  sale  of  immovable  property  has  become  absolute,  the  Recovery 

Officer  shall  grant  a  certificate  of  sale  specifying  the  property  sold,  and  the 

name of the person who at the time of sale is declared to be the purchaser. 

(2) Such sale certificate shall state the date on which the sale became absolute. 

 

Registration of sale. 

95. (1)  Every  Recovery  Officer  granting  a  certificate  of  sale  to  the  purchaser  of 

immovable  property  sold  under  these  regulations  shall  send  a  copy  of  such 

certificate  to  the  registering  officer  concerned  under  the  Indian  Registration 

Act, 1908 (16 of 1908), within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the whole or 

any part of the immovable property comprised in the certificate is situated.  

(2)  The  Recovery  Officer  or  any  officer  acting  under  the  direction  of  the  Recovery 

Officer shall be exempted from personal appearance at the registration office. 

 

 
Page | 181  

 
 

 

Postponement  of  sale  to  enable  defaulter  to  raise  amount  due  under 

certificate. 

96. (1)  Where  an  order  for  the  sale  of  immovable  property has  been  made,  if  the 

defaulter can satisfy the Recovery Officer that there is reason to believe that the 

amount of the certificate may be raised by the mortgage or lease or private sale 

of such property, or some part thereof, or of any other immovable property of 

the defaulter, the Recovery Officer may, on his application, postpone the sale of 

the property comprised in the order for sale, on such terms, and for such period 

as he thinks proper, to enable the defaulter to raise the amount.  

(2)  In  such  case,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall  grant  a  certificate  to  the  defaulter, 

authorizing  him,  within  a  period  to  be  mentioned  therein,  and  notwithstanding 

anything contained in this regulation, to make the proposed mortgage, lease or sale: 

Provided that  all  moneys  payable  under  such  mortgage,  lease  or  sale  shall  be 

paid, not to the defaulter, but to the Recovery Officer:  

Provided  further  that  no  mortgage,  lease  or  sale  under  this  regulation  shall 

become absolute until it has been confirmed by the Recovery Officer. 

 

Fresh proclamation before re-sale. 

97. Every  resale  of  immovable  property,  in  default  of  payment  of  the  purchase 

money  within  the  period  allowed  for  such  payment,  shall  be  made  after  the 

issue  of  a  fresh  proclamation  in  the  manner  and  for  the  period  hereinbefore 

provided for the sale.  

  

Purchase by Government. 

98. When  an  immovable  property  is  put  up  for  sale  for  recovery  of  amounts  due 

and if the property remains unsold, the Board may, after giving opportunity to 

the defaulter to furnish the amounts due under the certificate, offer the same to 

the Central Government or any State Government, who may submit a bid not 

lower than the reserve price and purchase the said property:  

 

 
Page | 182  

 
 

Provided that, - 

i. 

offer  to  the Central  or  State  Government  under  this regulation  shall  be  made 

only  in  case  where  two  earlier  auctions  in  respect  of  the  said  immoveable 

property have been unsuccessful; 

ii. 

the Board may afford such time as may be deemed fit to such Central or State 

Government to convey its willingness to purchase and to make payment of the 

consideration; and 

iii.  where the property is put up for sale for recovery of any penalty due or other 

amount  payable  to  the  Central  Government  and  the  reserve  price  does  not 

exceed the amount due, the Central Government may acquire the property by 

extinguishing the liability of the defaulter equal to the reserve price.  

 

Bid of co-sharer to have preference. 

99. Where the property sold is a share of undivided immovable property, and two 

or more persons, of whom one is a co-sharer, respectively bid the same sum for 

such  property  or  for  any  lot, the  bid  shall  be  deemed  to  be the  bid  of  the  co-

sharer. 

 

Delivery of immovable property in occupancy of defaulter. 

100. 

(1)  Where  the  immovable  property  sold  is  in  the  occupancy  of  the 

defaulter or of some person on his behalf or of some person claiming under a 

title created by the defaulter subsequently to the attachment of such property 

and  a  certificate  of  sale  in  respect  thereof  has  been  granted  under  regulation 

94,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall,  on  the  application  of  the  purchaser,  order 

delivery  to  be  made  by  putting  such  purchaser  or  any  person  whom  the 

purchaser  may  appoint  to  receive  delivery  on  his  behalf  in  possession  of  the 

property,  and  if  need  be,  by  removing  any  person  who  refuses  to  vacate  the 

same. 

(2) For the purposes of sub-regulation (1), if the person in possession does not afford 

free access, the  Recovery Officer may, after  giving reasonable warning  and facility to 

 

 
Page | 183  

 
 

any  woman  not  appearing  in  public  according  to  the  customs  of  the  country  to 

withdraw, remove or open any lock or bolt or break open any door or do any other act 

necessary for putting the purchaser, or any person whom the purchaser may appoint 

to receive delivery on his behalf, in possession. 

 

Delivery of immovable property in occupancy of tenant.  

101. 

Where  the immovable  property  sold  is  in  the  occupancy  of  a  tenant  or 

other  person  entitled  to  occupy  the  same  and  a  certificate  of  sale  in  respect 

thereof  has  been  granted  under  regulation  94,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall,  on 

the application of the purchaser, order delivery to be made by affixing a copy of 

the certificate of sale in some conspicuous place on the property or such other 

place as may be deemed appropriate by the Recovery Officer, and proclaiming 

to  the  occupant  by  any  customary  mode,  at  some  convenient  place  that  the 

interest of the defaulter has been transferred to the purchaser. 

 

Resistance or obstruction to possession of immovable property. 

102. 

(1)  Where  the  purchaser  of  immovable  property  sold  in  execution  of  a 

certificate is resisted or obstructed by any person in obtaining possession of the 

property, he may make an application to  the Recovery Officer complaining of 

such resistance or obstruction within thirty days of the date of such resistance 

or obstruction. 

(2) The Recovery Officer shall fix a day for investigating the matter and shall summon 

the party against whom the application is made to appear and answer the same. 

 

Resistance or obstruction by defaulter. 

103. 

Where the Recovery Officer is satisfied that the resistance or obstruction 

was occasioned without any just cause by the defaulter or by some other person 

at his instigation, he shall direct that the applicant be put into possession of the 

property,  and  where  the  applicant  is  still  resisted  or  obstructed  in  obtaining 

possession, the Recovery Officer may also, at the instance of the applicant, take 

 

 
Page | 184  

 
 

 

steps  to  put  the  applicant  into  possession  of  the  property  by  removing  the 

defaulter or any person acting at his instigation. 

Resistance or obstruction by bona fide claimant. 

104. 

Where the Recovery Officer is satisfied that the resistance or obstruction 

was occasioned by any person (other than the defaulter) claiming in good faith 

to be in possession of the property on his own account or on account of some 

person  other  than  the  defaulter,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall  make  an  order 

dismissing the application. 

 

Dispossession by purchaser. 

105. 

(1)  Where  any  person  other  than  the  defaulter  is  dispossessed  of 

immovable property sold in execution of a certificate by the purchaser thereof, 

he  may  make  an  application  to  the  Recovery  Officer  complaining  of  such 

dispossession within thirty days of such dispossession. 

(2) The Recovery Officer shall fix a day for investigating the matter and shall summon 

the party against whom the application is made to appear and answer the same. 

 

Bona fide claimant to be restored to possession. 

106. 

Where  the  Recovery  Officer  is  satisfied  that  the  applicant  was  in 

possession  of  the  property  on  his own  account  or  on  account  of  some person 

other  than  the  defaulter,  he  shall  direct  that  the  applicant  be  put  into 

possession of the property. 

 

Regulations not applicable to transferee pendente lite. 

107. 

Nothing  in  the  foregoing  regulations  shall  apply  to  resistance  or 

obstruction  by  a  person  to  whom  the  defaulter  has  transferred  the  property 

after the service of  a  notice under regulation 6  or to the dispossession of  any 

such person. 

 

 

 
Page | 185  

 
 

 

CHAPTER V 

 

APPOINTMENT OF A RECEIVER 

Appointment of receiver for business. 

108. 

(1) Where the property of a defaulter consists of a business, the Recovery 

Officer may attach the business and appoint a person as receiver to manage the 

business. 

(2)  Attachment  of  a  business  under  this  regulation  shall  be  made  by  an  order 

prohibiting  the defaulter  from  transferring  or  charging  the business  in any  way  and 

prohibiting  all  persons  from  taking  any  benefit  under  such  transfer  or  charge,  and 

intimating that the business has been attached under this regulation.  

(3)  A  copy  of  the  order  of  attachment  shall  be  served  on  the  defaulter,  and  another 

copy shall be affixed on a conspicuous part of  the premises in which the business is 

carried on and on the notice board of the office of the Recovery Officer. 

 

Appointment of receiver for immovable property. 

109. 

Where  immovable  property  is  attached,  the  Recovery  Officer  may, 

instead  of  directing  a  sale  of  the  property,  appoint  a  person  as  receiver  to 

manage such property. 

 

 

Powers of receiver. 

110. 

(1)  Where  any  business  or  other  property  is  attached  and  taken  under 

management under the foregoing regulations, the receiver shall, subject to the 

control of the Recovery Officer, have such powers as may be necessary for the 

proper management of the property. 

(2)  A  receiver  appointed  under  these  regulations  shall  have  all  such  powers,  as  to 

bringing in and defending suits and for the realization, management, protection and 

preservation  of  the  property,  the  collection  of  the  rents  and  profits  thereof,  the 

 

 
Page | 186  

 
 

application and disposal of such rents and profits, and the execution of documents as 

the owner himself has, or such of those powers as the Recovery Officer thinks fit. 

(3)  The  profits,  or  rents  and  profits,  of  such  business  or  other  property,  shall,  after 

defraying the expenses of management, be adjusted towards discharge of the arrears, 

and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the defaulter. 

 

Remuneration of a receiver. 

111. 

The Recover Officer may, by general or special order, fix the amount to 

be paid as remuneration for the services of the receiver. 

 

Duties of a receiver. 

112. 

(1) Every receiver so appointed shall— 

(a) 

furnish  such security  (if  any)  as  the  Recovery  Officer  thinks  fit,  duly  to 

account for what he shall receive in respect of the property; 

(b) 

submit  his  accounts  at  such  periods  and  in  such  form  as  the  Recovery 

Officer directs; 

(c) 

(d) 

pay the amount due from him as the Recovery Officer directs; and 

be  responsible  for  any  loss  occasioned  to  the  property  by  his  wilful 

default or gross negligence. 

(2) The receiver shall maintain true and regular accounts of the receivership and shall 

in  particular  maintain  a  cash  book  in  which  shall  be  entered  from  day  to  day  all 

receipts and payments and also a ledger.  

(3)  The  receiver  shall  also  maintain  a  counterfoil  receipt  book  with  the  leaves 

numbered serially in print, from which shall be given, as far as possible, all receipts for 

payments made to the receiver. 

(4) Unless the Recovery Officer otherwise directs, the receiver shall, as soon as may be, 

after his appointment, open an account in the name of the receivership in such bank as 

the  Recovery  Officer  may  direct  and  shall  deposit  therein  all  moneys  received  in  the 

course of the receivership immediately on receipt thereof save any minimum sums that 

may be required for meeting day to day current expenses. All payments by the receiver 

 

 
Page | 187  

 
 

shall, as far as possible, be made by cheques drawn on the bank account. 

(5) Unless otherwise ordered, a receiver shall submit his accounts once in every three 

months:  

Provided the first of such accounts commencing from the date of his appointment and 

ending  with  the  expiry  of  three  months  therefrom  shall  be  submitted  within  fifteen 

days  of  the  expiry  of  the  said  period  of  three  months  and  the  subsequent  accounts 

brought down to the end of each succeeding period of three months within fifteen days 

of the expiry of each such period of three months. 

 

Enforcement of receiver's duties. 

113. 

(1) Where a receiver fails to submit his accounts at such periods and in 

such form as the Recovery Officer directs, the Recovery Officer may direct his 

property to be attached until such time as such accounts are submitted to him. 

(2) The Recovery Officer may at any time  make an enquiry  as to the amount, if any, 

due from the receiver, as shown by his accounts or otherwise, or an inquiry as to any 

loss to the property occasioned by his wilful default or gross negligence and may order 

the amount found due, if not already paid by the receiver, or the amount of the loss so 

occasioned,  to  be  paid  by  the  receiver  within  a  period  to  be  fixed  by  the  Recovery 

Officer. 

(3) Where the receiver fails to pay any amount which he has been ordered to pay under 

sub-regulation  (2)  within  the  period  specified,  the  Recovery  Officer  may  direct  such 

amount  to  be  recovered  from  the  security  (if  any)  furnished  by  the  receiver  or  by 

attachment  and sale of his property or, if his property has been  attached  under  sub- 

regulation  (1),  by  the  sale  of  such  property  and  may  direct  the  sale  proceeds  to  be 

applied  in  making  good  any  amount  found  due  from  the  receiver  or  any  such  loss 

occasioned  by  him  and  the  balance  (if  any)  of  the  sale  proceeds  shall  be  paid  to  the 

receiver. 

(4)  If  a  receiver  fails  to  submit  his  accounts  at  such  periods  and  in  such  form  as 

directed  by the  Recovery  Officer  without  reasonable  cause  or  improperly  retains  any 

cash in his hands, the Recovery Officer may disallow the whole or any portion of the 

 

 
Page | 188  

 
 

remuneration  due  to  him  for  the  period  of  the  accounts  with  reference  to  which  the 

default is committed and may also charge interest at a rate not exceeding twelve per 

cent  per  annum  on  the  moneys  improperly  retained  by  him  for  the  period  of  such 

retention without prejudice to any other proceedings which might be taken against the 

receiver. 

 

Withdrawal of management. 

114. 

The attachment and management under the foregoing regulation may be 

withdrawn at any time at the discretion of the Recovery Officer, or if the arrears 

are discharged by receipt of such profits and rents or are otherwise paid. 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER VI 

 

ARREST AND DETENTION OF THE DEFAULTER 

 

Notice to show cause. 

115. 

(1)  No  order  for  the  arrest  and  detention  in  civil  prison  of  a  defaulter 

shall be made unless the Recovery Officer has issued and served a notice upon 

the defaulter calling upon him to appear before him on the date specified in the 

notice and to show cause why he should not be committed to civil prison, and 

unless the Recovery Officer, for reasons recorded in writing, is satisfied— 

(a)  that  the  defaulter,  with  the  object  or  effect  of  obstructing  the  execution  of  the 

certificate,  has  dishonestly  transferred,  concealed,  or  removed  any  part  of  his 

property, or 

(b)   that the defaulter has, or has had since the drawing up of the certificate by the 

Recovery Officer, the means to pay the arrears or some substantial part thereof 

and refuses or neglects or has refused or neglected to pay the same. 

 

 
Page | 189  

 
 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), a warrant for the arrest 

of  the  defaulter  may  be  issued  by  the  Recovery  Officer  if  the  Recovery  Officer  is 

satisfied,  by  affidavit  or  otherwise,  that  with  the  object  or  effect  of  delaying  the 

execution of the certificate, the defaulter is likely to abscond or leave the local limits of 

the jurisdiction of the Recovery Officer. 

(3) Where appearance is not made in obedience to a notice issued and served under 

sub-regulation  (1),  the  Recovery  Officer  may  issue  a  warrant  for  the  arrest  of  the 

defaulter. 

(4) A warrant of arrest issued by a Recovery Officer under sub-regulation (2) or sub-

regulation  (3)  may  also  be  executed  by  any  other  Recovery  Officer  within  whose 

jurisdiction the defaulter may for the time being be found. 

(5)  Every  person  arrested  in  pursuance  of  a  warrant  of  arrest  under this  regulation 

shall be brought before the Recovery Officer issuing the warrant as soon as practicable 

and in any event within twenty-four hours of his arrest (exclusive of the time required 

for the journey):  

Provided that, if the defaulter pays the amount entered in the warrant of arrest 

as due and the costs of the arrest to the officer arresting him, such officer shall at once 

release him. 

Explanation.—For the purposes of this regulation,  

(i)  where the  defaulter  is  a company,  the  directors  and  other  officers who  are in 

default shall be deemed to be the defaulters;  

(ii) where the defaulter is a partnership firm, all partners of the firm shall be deemed 

to be the defaulters; and  

(iii)  where  the  defaulter  is  a  Hindu  undivided  family,  the  Karta  thereof  shall  be 

deemed to be the defaulter. 

 

Hearing. 

116. 

When a defaulter appears before the Recovery Officer in obedience to a 

notice to show cause or is brought before the Recovery Officer under regulation 

115,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall  give  the  defaulter  an  opportunity  of  showing 

 

 
Page | 190  

 
 

 

cause as to why he should not be committed to civil prison. 

Custody pending hearing. 

117. 

Pending the conclusion of the inquiry, the Recovery Officer may, in his 

discretion, order the defaulter to be detained in the custody of such officer as 

the Recovery Officer may think fit or release him on his furnishing security to 

the satisfaction of the Recovery Officer for his appearance whenever required. 

 

Order of detention. 

118. 

(1) Upon the conclusion of the inquiry, the Recovery Officer may make 

an order for the detention of the defaulter in the civil prison and shall in that 

event cause him to be arrested if he is not already under arrest: 

Provided that  in  order  to  give  the  defaulter  an  opportunity  of  satisfying  the 

dues  under  the  certificate  along  with  any  other  dues  under  these  regulations,  the 

Recovery Officer may, before making the order of detention, leave the defaulter in the 

custody of the officer arresting him or of any other officer for a specified period not 

exceeding fifteen days, or release him on his furnishing security to the satisfaction of 

the Recovery Officer for his appearance at the expiration of the specified period if the 

arrears are not so satisfied.  

(2)  When  the  Recovery  Officer  does  not  make  an  order  of  detention  under  sub-

regulation (1) he shall, if the defaulter is under arrest, direct his release.  

 

Prison in which defaulter may be detained. 

119. 

A person against whom an order of detention has been passed may be 

detained  in  the  civil  prison  of  the  district  in  which  the  office  of  the  Recovery 

Officer ordering the detention is situated, or, where such civil prison does not 

afford suitable accommodation, in any other place which the State Government 

may  appoint  for  the  detention  of  persons  ordered  by  the  civil  courts  of  such 

district to be detained. 

 

 

 
Page | 191  

 
 

Detention in and release from prison. 

120. 

(1) Every person detained in the civil prison in execution of a certificate 

may be so detained,— 

(a) where the certificate is for a demand of an amount exceeding two hundred and 

fifty rupees—for a period of six months, and 

(b) in any other case—for a period of six weeks: 

Provided that he shall be released from such detention— 

(i)  on  the  amount  mentioned  in  the  warrant  for  his  detention  being  paid  to  the 

officer-in-charge of the civil prison, or 

(ii)  on  the  request  of  the  Recovery  Officer  on  any  ground  other  than  the  grounds 

mentioned in regulations 117 and 118. 

(2)  A  defaulter  released  from  detention  under  this  regulation  shall  not,  merely  by 

reason of his release, be discharged from his liability for the arrears; but he shall not 

be liable to be rearrested under the certificate in execution of which he was detained 

in the civil prison. 

 

Subsistence allowance. 

121. 

(1) When a defaulter is arrested or detained in the civil prison, the sum 

payable for the subsistence of the defaulter from the time of arrest until he is 

released shall be borne by the Recovery Officer. 

(2) Such sum shall be calculated on the scale fixed by the  State Government for the 

subsistence of judgment-debtors arrested in execution of a decree of a civil court. 

(3) Sums payable under this regulation shall be deemed to be costs in the proceeding: 

Provided that  the  defaulter  shall  not  be  detained  in  the  civil  prison  or  arrested  on 

account of any sum so payable. 

(4)  The subsistence allowance  shall  be supplied  by  the Recovery  Officer  by  monthly 

instalments in advance before the first day of each month. 

(5)  The  first  payment  shall  be made  to  the  Recovery  Officer  for  such  portion  of  the 

current  month  as  remains  unexpired  before  the  defaulter  is  committed  to  the  civil 

prison, and the subsequent payment (if any) shall be made to the officer in charge of 

 

 
Page | 192  

 
 

the civil prison. 

 

Release. 

122. 

(1)  The  Recovery  Officer  may  order  the  release  of  a  defaulter  who  has 

been  arrested  in  execution  of  a  certificate  upon  being  satisfied  that  he  has 

disclosed  the  whole  of  his  property  and  has  placed  it  at  the  disposal  of  the 

Recovery Officer and that he has not committed any act of bad faith. 

(2) If the Recovery Officer has ground for believing the disclosure made by a defaulter 

under  sub-regulation  (1)  to  have  been  untrue,  he  may  order  the  re-arrest  of  the 

defaulter  in  execution  of  the  certificate,  but  the  period  of  his  detention  in  the  civil 

prison shall not in the aggregate exceed that authorised by regulation 120. 

 

Release on ground of illness. 

123. 

 (1)  At  any  time  after  a  warrant  for  the  arrest  of  a  defaulter  has  been 

issued, the Recovery Officer may cancel it on the ground of his serious illness. 

(2) Where a defaulter has been arrested, the Recovery Officer may release him if, in 

the opinion of the Recovery Officer, he is not in a fit state of health to be detained in 

the civil prison. 

(3)  Where  a  defaulter  has  been  committed  to  the  civil  prison,  he  may  be  released 

therefrom by the Recovery Officer on the ground of the existence of any infectious or 

contagious disease, or on the ground of his suffering from any serious illness. 

(4) A defaulter released under this regulation may be rearrested, but the period of his 

detention  in  the  civil  prison  shall  not  in  the  aggregate  exceed  that  authorised  by 

regulation 120. 

 

Entry into dwelling house. 

124. 

For the purpose of making an arrest under this regulation — 

(a) no dwelling house shall be entered after sunset and before sunrise; 

(b)  no  outer  door  of  a  dwelling  house  shall  be  broken  open  unless  such  dwelling 

house or a portion thereof  is in the occupancy of the defaulter and he or other 

 

 
Page | 193  

 
 

 

occupant of the house refuses or in any way prevents access thereto; but, when 

the  person  executing  any  such  warrant  has  duly  gained  access  to  any  dwelling 

house, he may break open the door of any room or apartment if he has reason to 

believe that the defaulter is likely to be found there; 

(c)  no  room,  which  is  in  the  actual  occupancy  of  a  woman  who,  according  to  the 

customs of the country, does  not appear in  public,  shall be entered into unless 

the  officer  authorised  to  make  the  arrest  has  given  notice  to  her  that  she  is  at 

liberty  to  withdraw  and  has  given  her  reasonable  time  and  facility  for 

withdrawing; 

(c)  no  room,  which  is  in  the  actual  occupancy  of  a  woman,  shall  be  entered  into 

unless the  officer  authorised  to  make  the  arrest  has  given  reasonable  notice to 

her and such officer is a woman or is accompanied by a woman officer. 

Prohibition against arrest of women or minors, etc. 

125. 

The Recovery Officer shall not order the arrest and detention in the civil 

prison of,- 

(a) a woman, or 

(b) any person who, in his opinion, is a minor or of unsound mind. 

 

CHAPTER VII 

 

APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATOR AND PROCEDURE FOR REFUNDING TO THE 

INVESTORS 

 

PART I – PRELIMINARY 

 

Applicability.  

126. 

(1)  Without  prejudice  to  the  other  provisions  of  these  regulations,  this 

provisions under this Chapter shall be applicable for all or any of the following: 

a.  appointment of Administrator pursuant to failure to comply with disgorgement 

 

 
Page | 194  

 
 

or refund orders passed by the Board; 

b.  sale of properties attached by the Recovery Officer of the Board under the Act; 

c.  collection  of  claim  documents  and  verification  of  claims  of  investors  for  the 

purpose of effecting refunds; 

d.  refund  of  monies  to  the  investors  pursuant  to  disgorgement  or  refund  orders 

passed by the Board; 

e.  recovery of disgorgement amounts directed by the Board; 

f.  any act incidental or connected thereto. 

(2) Unless otherwise specifically ordered, these regulations shall not be applicable to 

cases  where  the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  or  a  Court  has  appointed  an 

administrator or any other person for the purposes of recovery and/or repayment to 

investors.  

(3) The provisions of these regulations shall apply mutatis mutandis in respect of the 

proceedings under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories 

Act, 1996.  

 

Appointment of an Administrator.  

127. 

(1) For the purposes of this Chapter, the Board shall, after attachment of 

the  properties  of  the  defaulter  by  the  Recovery  Officer,  appoint  an 

Administrator in the manner specified:  

(2) Notwithstanding the generality of sub-regulation (1), the Board may decide not to 

appoint an Administrator–  

(i)  in case where the cost of administration would be higher than the amount 

that  can  be  recovered  from  the  defaulter  through  the  means  specified 

under the Act and these regulations; or  

(ii)  in such other circumstances that may be specified by the Board.  

 

Eligibility norms for appointment as an Administrator. 

128. 

(1)  The  Administrator  shall  be  a  person  registered  with  the  Insolvency 

and  Bankruptcy  Board  of  India  as  an  Insolvency  Resolution  Professional  and 

 

 
Page | 195  

 
 

empanelled by the Board from time to time.  

(2)  No  person  shall  be  appointed  as  an  Administrator  where  such  an  appointment 

may  be  objected  to  on  the  grounds  that  give  rise  to  justifiable  doubts  as  to  the 

independence or impartiality of such a person: 

Provided  that any question involving issues of conflict of interest in the appointment 

of an Administrator shall be decided by the Recovery Officer.  

(3)  The  Administrator  shall  provide  an  undertaking  to  the  Board  of  absence  of  any 

conflict  of  interest  with  the  defaulter,  its  directors,  promoters,  key  managerial 

personnel and its group entities.  

(4) The Administrator shall also forthwith disclose to the Board any conflict of interest 

which may come to his knowledge during his tenure: 

(5) For the purposes of these regulations, the Administrator shall be deemed to be a 

public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) 

and sections 22 and 23 of the Act shall accordingly apply to him. 

 

Terms of appointment. 

129. 

The terms and conditions of appointment including remuneration shall 

be  specified  by  the  Board,  on  a  case  to  case  basis,  after  taking  into 

consideration the quantum of work, the number of investors and the quantum 

of money involved.  

 

 

Functions. 

PART II - FUNCTIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATOR 

130. 

(1) An Administrator shall perform the following functions – 

(a) As  may  be  directed  by  the  Recovery  Officer,  obtain from  the  defaulter  or  any 

other  person,  any  information  or  document  including  documents  relating  to 

ownership  and  possession  of  properties,  details  of  amount  raised  from 

investors,  claims  of  investors,  amount  claimed  to  have  been  refunded  to 

investors;  

 

 
Page | 196  

 
 

(b)  Make  a  record  of  the  properties  that  have  been  attached  by  the  Recovery 

Officer  including  the  additional  properties  that  have  been  entrusted  by  the 

Recovery Officer from time to time and those properties which are not part of 

the attachment order;  

(c) Make  a  record  of  the  bank  accounts  and  dematerialised  accounts  of  the 

defaulter and value of the monies and securities held thereunder; 

(d) Arrange for a proclamation for the sale of the property and arrange affixation 

of the copy of such proclamation; 

(e) Open  an  interest  bearing  bank  account,  under  the  control  of  the  Recovery 

Officer, with a scheduled public sector bank for depositing the proceeds of the 

money recovered from the sale of the assets and for making repayment to the 

investors; 

(f)  Sell the attached properties in accordance with these regulations or as may be 

directed by the Recovery Officer; 

(g) Call  for  claims,  in  the  manner  specified  in  these  regulations  or  as  may  be 

directed  by  the  Recovery  Officer,  for  the  purposes  of  repayment  to  investors, 

pursuant to an order of the Board for refunds;  

(h) Verify  the  claims  of  investors  and  also  that  of  the  defaulter  in  respect  of 

repayment of  monies, either partly paid or wholly paid,  claimed to have been 

made to investors on the basis of documentary evidence:  

Explanation – Verification may involve forensic auditing. 

(i)  Carry out any other necessary incidental and supplementary act, with the prior 

approval  of  the  Recovery  Officer  that  may  be  required  for  the  purpose  of 

carrying out its obligations under these regulations. 

(2) While discharging the functions under these regulations, the Administrator -  

(a) may  engage  the  services  of  a  peer  reviewed  chartered  accountant  for 

verifying the claims of investors on the basis of documentary evidence and 

for submission of a certified report to the Administrator;  

(b) shall engage the services of a registered valuer to evaluate the properties of 

defaulter that are attached by the Recovery Officer and for submission of a 

 

 
Page | 197  

 
 

certified  valuation  report  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  issued  by  the 

Board; 

(c) may  engage  the  services  of  a  registrar  and  share  transfer  agent  registered 

with the Board or such other agency as may be approved by the  Recovery 

Officer, for managing the entire repayment process.  

Provided that the fees paid for such services shall be fixed by the Administrator taking 

into account the relevant factors including –  

(a) the number of investors and the claims that are made; 

(b) quantum of work involved;  

(c) the number of assets to be evaluated;  

(d) the  geographical  location  of  the  property  and  its  proximity  with  the  valuer’s 

place of business; 

and  such  fees  shall  be  within  the  overall  remuneration  fixed  by  the  Board  for  the 

Administrator:  

Provided  further  that  the  intermediary  or  such  other  person  engaged  by  the 

Administrator,  shall  not  have  any  conflict  of  interest  which  would  impede  their 

independence or impartiality.  

(3) The Administrator shall submit a monthly report or a report as and when called 

for  by  the  Recovery  Officer  on  the  progress  of  work  entrusted  including  the  monies 

realised  pursuant  to  the  sale  of  the  properties  and  the  repayments  made  to  the 

investors. 

 

 

Sale of assets. 

PART III – SALE OF ASSETS  

131. 

(1)  The  Administrator  shall  undertake  the process  of  sale  of  properties 

after  conducting  an  independent  valuation  of  such  properties  by  a  registered 

valuer.  

(2)  After  considering  the  valuation  report,  the  Recovery  Officer  may  decide  on  the 

reserve price below which the property may not be sold.  

 

 
Page | 198  

 
 

(3) The Administrator may undertake the sale of properties through electronic auction 

process  and  for  this  purpose  engage  an  electronic  auction  agency  and  shall  in 

consultation  with  the  Recovery  Officer  repeat  the  auction  process  till  the  time  such 

properties are disposed of or otherwise directed.  

(4)  The process of disposing off  the properties shall  be under the  supervision of  the 

Recovery Officer.  

(5)  On  completion  of  the  sale  and  receipt  of  the  sale  consideration,  the  Recovery 

Officer shall issue an order confirming such sale.  

(6)  The  amount  realized  in  respect  of  sale  of  properties  of  the  defaulter  shall  be 

deposited in a separate bank account with a scheduled public sector bank in terms of 

clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 130 and such account shall be under the 

control of the Recovery Officer. 

 

PART IV – DISGORGEMENT OR REFUND OF MONIES 

Disgorgement or Refund to investors. 

 

132. 

(1)  For  the  purposes  of  inviting  claims  from  the  investors,  the 

Administrator shall -  

(a)  issue  advertisements  in  an  English  and  a  Hindi  newspaper  having 

nationwide  circulation  and  if  so  directed  by  the  Recovery  Officer,  issue  such 

advertisement  in  vernacular  newspaper(s)  having  circulation  in  the  area(s) 

where the investors are concentrated; 

(b) direct the defaulter to issue advertisement in its website, if available.  

(2)  The  advertisement  referred  to  sub-regulation  (1)  may  also  be  hosted  on  the 

website of the Board. 

(3) The advertisements referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall contain instructions on 

the manner  of  making  claims  by  investors  and  the  documents  and  information  that 

are to be submitted for verifying and processing their claim applications.  

(4)  The  filing  of  claims  from  the  investors  shall  be  through  electronic  mode  or  be 

received in the office of the Administrator as directed:  

 

 
Page | 199  

 
 

Provided that the investors’ claims received, if any, by the Board and forwarded to the 

Administrator  shall  also  be  included  in  the  relevant  records  maintained  by  the 

Administrator.  

(5)  The  Administrator  or  the  chartered  accountant  engaged  by  the  Administrator, 

shall consider the total eligible claims as against the monies available for distribution 

to  investors  in  order  to  determine  whether  the  whole  amount  or  a  proportionate 

amount may be repaid to the investors as may be directed by the Recovery Officer.  

(6)  Upon  ascertaining  the  eligibility,  the  Administrator  in  consultation  with  the 

Recovery  Officer,  shall  repay  the  money  to  the  eligible  investors  only  through  pay 

orders, demand drafts and electronic transfer through NEFT or RTGS.  

(7) The refund process shall be kept open for an appropriate period as may be decided 

in consultation with the Recovery Officer.  

(8) The monies remaining in the interest bearing escrow bank account after satisfying 

all the permissible claims of investors and other charges, shall be retained therein for 

a  period  of  three  years  in  order  to  meet  the  claims  that  may  be  received  from  any 

unpaid investor.  

(9)  Upon  completion  of  the  period  specified  under  sub-regulation  (8),  the  unpaid 

monies  due  to  investors,  if  any,  shall  be  transferred  to  the  Investor  Protection  and 

Education Fund of the Board: 

Provided that monies transferable under the Companies Act, 2013 [18 of 2013] to the 

Investor Education and Protection Fund shall be transferred to such fund. 

(10)  In  case  any  claim  is  received  from  an  unpaid  investor  in  respect  of  monies 

transferred  to  the  Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  after  the  refund  process 

has been closed, the same may be made from the Investor Protection and Education 

Fund  after  necessary  verification  by  the  Administrator  in  consultation  with  the 

Recovery Officer: 

Provided that the claim shall be made within a period of three years from the date of 

transfer  of  monies  to  the  Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  in  terms  of  sub-

regulation (9). 

(11) The defaulter, and its officers who are in default as defined under section 2 of the 

 

 
Page | 200  

 
 

Companies  Act,  2013,  as  applicable,  shall  furnish  an  undertaking  that  they  shall  be 

liable  for  payment  if  any  complaint  is  received  in  future  by  the  Board  from  any 

investor. 

 

Costs incurred in administration and repayment process. 

133. 

(1)The  entire  costs  incurred  in  relation  to  the  sale  of  properties, 

verification  of  investors’  claims,  remuneration  of  Administrator  including  the 

fees  paid,  if  any,  to  the  chartered  accountant  or  valuer  or  such  other  person 

engaged  by  the  Administrator  and  registrar  and  share  transfer  agent  and  all 

other expenses incurred in connection with the recovery and/or the repayment 

process shall be borne by the defaulter(s), failing which, the monies recovered 

by the Board shall be appropriated in priority to the other liabilities.  

(2)  The  cost  and  expenses  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  reasonable  and 

directly  related  to  and  necessary  for  the  act  and  purposes  referred  to  in  these 

regulations. 

(3) Where the Administrator is appointed on the request of a person against whom an 

order for disgorgement or refund had been issued by the Board, the remuneration of 

the Administrator and the other costs incurred in respect of recovery and/or refund to 

the investors shall be borne by such person.  

 

Priority in distribution of sale proceeds. 

134. 

The  proceeds  from  the  sale  of  properties  of  the  defaulter  shall  be 

distributed in the following order of priority, namely, - 

i. 

the  costs  of  administration  incurred  by  the  Board,  if  any,  and  the  fees 

and charges payable to the Administrator and other persons appointed 

by  the  administrator 

in  performing 

its 

functions  under  these 

regulations;  

ii. 

iii. 

disgorgement and/or monies payable to investors: 

any other penalty or fees due from the defaulter to the Board under the 

provisions of the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or 

 

 
Page | 201  

 
 

 

 

 

the Depositories Act, 1996.  

Refund in tranches. 

135. 

(1)  Where  recovery  has  not  been  completed  but  the  Board  is  satisfied 

that refund to investors should be initiated based on the monies realized at the 

relevant time, the Board may direct the Administrator to initiate the process of 

refund to investors.  

(2)  Unless  otherwise  decided  by  the  Administrator,  the  investors  in  the  same  class 

shall receive proportionately.  

(3) The Administrator may refund claims in tranches by value. 

 

Return of monies exceeding the liability. 

136. 

In case the proceeds realised by way of sale of properties of the defaulter 

is in excess of the monies due from him under the certificate and the applicable 

interest and other charges, the excess money shall be paid to the defaulter after 

completion of three years from the date of completion of the refund process.  

 

Filing of the repayment report. 

137. 

Upon  completion  of  the  repayments  to  all  investors  or  recovery  of  the 

disgorgement amount from the defaulter, the Administrator shall file a detailed 

repayment/recovery report to the Recovery  Officer or Board,  as the case may 

be, within the period as may be specified.  

 

PART V – DISGORGEMENT OF AMOUNTS 

 

 

Application of this Chapter to disgorgement. 

138. 

The  provisions  of  these  Chapter  shall  be  applied  in  so  far  as  it  is 

 

 
Page | 202  

 
 

applicable and the disgorgement amount so recovered shall be credited to the 

Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  of  the  Board  unless  distributed  to 

eligible investors. 

Provided that no investor shall be eligible for receiving disgorgement monies unless,- 

i.  The investor has been identified by an order issued by the Board; 

ii.  The investor’s claim is in the nature of restitution for monies had and received 

by the defaulter(s) and not compensatory in nature. 

Explanation 1. –A claim for restitution means a claim where the wrongful loss to the 

claimant  directly  resulted  in,  and  amounted  to  the  wrongful  gain  of  the  defaulter(s) 

which has been disgorged and now claimed. 

Explanation 2. – A claim for compensation means a claim where the wrongful loss to 

the  claimant  did  not  directly  result  in,  and  amount  to  the  wrongful  gain  of  the 

defaulter(s)  against  whom  disgorgement  has  been  done  but  in  the  gain  of  someone 

else. 

 

 

PART VI - GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 

Obligations and Responsibilities 

139. 

An Administrator - 

 

a)  shall  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity,  promptitude  and  fairness  in  the 

conduct of all his business;  

b)  shall act with due skill, care and diligence in the conduct of all his business; 

c)  shall  not  misrepresent  any  facts  or  situations  and  shall  refrain  from  being 

involved in any action that would bring disrepute to the profession;  

d)  shall  act  with  objectivity  during  the  course  of  his  professional  dealings  by 

ensuring  that  all  decisions  are  made  without  any  bias,  conflict  of  interest, 

coercion,  or  undue  influence  of  any  party,  whether  directly  or  indirectly 

connected to sale of properties, verification of claims and refund of monies; 

e)  shall not acquire, directly or indirectly, any of the assets of the defaulter; 

 

 
Page | 203  

 
 

 

f)  shall  maintain  complete  independence  in  all  professional  relationships  and 

conduct the verification and refund process, as the case may be, independent of 

external influences;  

g)  shall  not  conceal  any  material  information  or  knowingly  make  a  misleading 

statement to the Recovery Officer or the Board; 

h)  shall not act with mala fide or be negligent while performing the functions and 

duties under the regulations;  

i)  shall provide all information and records as may be required by the Recovery 

Officer within the time specified by him;  

j)  shall  ensure  that  confidentiality  of  the  information  relating  to  the  sale  of 

properties, verification and refund process, is maintained at all times; 

Provided that the Administrator may disclose any information after obtaining 

written authorization of the Recovery Officer or the Board;  

k)  shall  disclose  all  costs  towards  the  verification  and  refund  process  and 

endeavour to ensure that such costs are not unreasonable; and  

l)  shall comply with the terms and conditions of its appointment. 

 

PART VII - ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

 

By an Administrator.  

140. 

(1)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  for  reasons  to  be  recorded  in  writing, 

recommend  for  replacement  of  the  Administrator,  in  case  the  Administrator 

has - 

a)  failed to comply with the terms and conditions of appointment;  

b)  engaged  valuers  or  chartered  accountants  or  such  other  persons  who  are 

ineligible to act so; 

c)  failed to comply with any of the obligations and responsibilities specified under 

these regulations;  

d)  acted against the instructions of the Recovery Officer or the Board; or 

 

 
Page | 204  

 
 

e)  acted in such manner that is prejudicial to the interest of the investors. 

(2) Without  prejudice to  the actions  detailed  under  sub-regulation (1), the  Recovery 

Officer may recommend for initiation of any appropriate action under securities laws.  

(3) On receipt of such recommendation or suo moto, the Board may take appropriate 

action against the Administrator or such intermediary or such other person enagaged 

by the Administrator, including the following:  

(a) remove such Administrator from the Panel; 

(b)  forward  the  matter  to  the  Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy  Board  of  India  for 

appropriate  action  against  the  Administrator  who  is  an  Insolvency  Resolution 

Professional; and 

(c) issue suitable directions restraining such person from engaging in activities in 

the securities market in his professional capacity.  

 

Loss of registration. 

141. 

If  the  registration  of  an  Administartor  with  the  Insolvency  and 

Bankruptcy  Board  of  India  is  cancelled  or  suspended  at  any  time,  such 

Administrator shall be deemed to have been removed from the Panel till such 

cancellation  or  suspension  is  in  effect  and  be forthwith  relieved  of  any  duties 

under these regulations.  

 

 

CHAPTER IX 

 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Power to take evidence. 

142. 

The  Recovery  Officer  or  other  officer  acting  under  the  provisions  of 

these regulations shall have the powers of a civil court while trying a suit for the 

purpose of receiving evidence, administering oaths, enforcing the attendance of 

witnesses and compelling the production of documents.  

 

 

 
Page | 205  

 
 

Continuance of certificate. 

143. 

No  certificate  shall  cease  to  be  in  force  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the 

defaulter. 

 

Procedure on death of defaulter. 

144. 

If  at any time after the certificate is  drawn  up by the Recovery Officer, 

the defaulter dies, the proceedings under these regulations (except arrest and 

detention) may be continued against the legal representative of the defaulter in 

terms  of  section  28B  of  the  Act  or  section  23JC  of  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 or section 19-IC of the Depositories Act, 1996, and the 

provisions  of  these  regulation  shall  apply  as  if  the  legal  representative  is  the 

defaulter.  

 

Recovery from surety. 

145. 

Where  any  person  has  become  surety  for  the  amount  due  by  the 

defaulter,  he  may  be  proceeded  against  under  these  regulations  as  if  he  were 

the defaulter. 

 

Recovery by suit or under other law not affected. 

146. 

The  several  modes  of  recovery  specified  in  these  regulations  shall  not 

affect in any way the right of the Board to institute a suit for the recovery of the 

amount  due  from  the  defaulter  and  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  Board  to  have 

recourse  to  any  such  suit,  notwithstanding  that  the  amount  due  is  being 

recovered from the defaulter by any mode specified in these regulations. 

 

Costs and charges. 

147. 

(1) The following costs and expenses shall be recoverable in execution of 

a certificate -  

(a) costs  incurred  in  attachment  of  movable  properties,  including  expenses  incurred 

in execution of attachment proceedings, 

 

 
Page | 206  

 
 

(b) charges incurred in valuation of movable and immovable properties, 

(c) costs of publishing notices, orders etc. including in newspapers, 

(d) costs incurred in service of notices, 

(e) costs incurred in maintaining custody of articles attached, and  

(f)  such other costs and expenses that may be incurred in realizing the amounts due 

under the certificate.  

 

Power to seek information. 

148. 

(1)  The  Recovery  Officer  may  at  any  stage  of  the  execution  of  the 

certificate  of  recovery,  seek  from  any  person,  any  information  which  may  be 

relevant  to  execution  of  the  certificate  of  recovery  or  to  any  investigation  or 

inquiry by the Recovery Officer. 

(2)  Without  limiting  the  generality  of  the  foregoing  provision,  the  Recovery  Officer 

may  at  any  stage  of  the  execution  of  the  certificate  of  recovery,  require  any  person 

against  whom  or  which  the  certificate  of  recovery  is  issued,  and  if  such  person  is  a 

body corporate from any of its officers, to declare on affidavit the particulars of his or 

its assets. 

 

Continuance of pending proceedings. 

149. 

All proceedings for the recovery of amounts initiated and pending before 

the  coming  into  force  of  these  regulations  shall  be  continued  under  these 

regulations,  and,  for  this  purpose,  every  certificate  issued  by  the Recovery 

Officer before  coming  into  force  of  these  regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a 

certificate  drawn  up  by  the  Recovery  Officer  under  the  corresponding 

provisions of these regulations.  

 

Officers deemed to be acting judicially. 

150. 

The Recovery Officer or other officers shall, in the discharge of functions 

under Act or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories 

Act,  1995  and  these  regulations,  be  deemed  to  be  acting  judicially  within  the 

 

 
Page | 207  

 
 

 

meaning of the Judicial Officers Protection Act, 1850 (18 of 1850).  

Forms. 

151. 

The Board or the Recovery Officer may specify by way of a circular the 

forms to be used for any order, notice, warrant, or certificate to be issued under 

these regulations.  

 

Power of the Board to issue clarifications. 

152. 

In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of 

these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines, as deemed 

necessary.  

 

Power to determine procedure in certain circumstances.  

153. 

In a situation not provided for in these regulations, the Recovery Officer, 

with  the  approval  of  the  Board,  may  determine  the  procedure  for  specific 

matters, as may be required.  

 

Repeal and Savings.  

154. 

(1) On the commencement of these regulations,- 

i. 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Appointment  of 

Administrator  and  Procedure 

for  Refunding 

to 

the 

Investors) 

Regulations, 2018 shall stand repealed and any action taken under those 

regulations shall be deemed to have been taken under these regulations 

and continued under these regulations; and 

ii. 

any  ongoing  proceedings  before  a  Recovery  Officer  appointed  by  the 

Board may be continued under these regulations. 

 

 

 

*******

 
Page | 208  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PART-C 

QUANTIFICATION OF ‘DISPROPORTIONATE GAIN OR UNFAIR 

ADVANTAGE’ AND ‘LOSS CAUSED TO AN INVESTOR OR GROUP OF 

INVESTORS AS A RESULT OF THE DEFAULT’ AND RELATED ISSUES 

 

 
Page | 209  

 
 

 

I.  RELEVANCE OF QUANTIFICATION OF ‘PROFIT’ AND ‘LOSS’ 

AN INTRODUCTION 

 

Securities  laws  require  the  Board  and  the  Adjudicating  Officer  to  take  into  account 

relevant  factors  for  the  purpose  of  arriving  at  a  suitable  penalty  to  be  levied  on  the 

persons who violate securities laws, viz. -  

(i) 

the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage,  wherever 

quantifiable, as a result of the default;  

(ii) 

the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of 

the default; and 

(iii) 

the repetitive nature of default. 

 

The  existing  settlement  regulations  also  require  the  Board  to  take  into  account  these 

factors.39 In the Report on the Settlement mechanism of the Board, this Committee has 

dealt  with  the  factors  relating  to  the  ‘repetitive  nature  of  the  default’.  In  the  Indian 

context, the first notable attempt to lay down the manner of quantification in relation to 

securities  fraud  was  made  by  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  of  India  in  the  matter  of 

Trojan & Co. Ltd v R. M. N. N. Nagappa Chettiar40, wherein the apex court inter alia 

held as follows, - 

“Ordinarily  the  market  rate  of  the  shares  on  the  date  when  the  fraud  was 

practised  would  represent  their  real  price  in  the  absence  of  any  other 

circumstance. If, however, the market was  vitiated or was in a state of flux or 

panic in consequence of the very fact that was fraudulently concealed, then the 

real value of the shares has to be determined on a consideration of a variety of 

circumstances disclosed by the evidence led by the parties. (emphasis supplied) 

Thus  though ordinarily  the  market  rate  on  the  earliest  date  when  the  real  facts 

became known may be taken as the real value of the shares, nevertheless, if there 

                                                           
39 Regulations 9 and 10 of the Settlement Regulations. 
40 AIR 1953 SC 235, 1953 SCR 780. 

 

 
Page | 210  

 
 

 

is no market or there is no satisfactory evidence of a market rate for some time 

which  may  safely  be  taken  as  the  real  value,  then  if  the  representee  sold  the 

shares,  although  not  bound  to  do  so,  and  if  the  resale  has  taken  place  within  a 

reasonable  time  and  on  reasonable  terms  and  has  not  been  unnecessarily 

delayed, then the price fetched at the resale may well be taken into consideration 

in determining retrospectively the true market value of the shares on the crucial 

date.  If  there  is  no  market  at  all  or  if  the  market  rate  cannot,  for  reasons 

referred  to  above,  be  taken  as  the  real  or  fair  value  of  the  thing  and  the 

representee has not sold the things, then in ascertaining the real or fair value of 

the thing on the date when deceit was practised subsequent events may be taken 

into  account,  provided  such  subsequent  events  are  not  attributable  to 

extraneous circumstances which supervened on account of the retaining of the 

thing. These, we apprehend, are the well settled rules for ascertaining the loss 

and damage suffered by a party, in such circumstances. (emphasis supplied) 

… 

In  order  to  determine  the  real  price  of  these  3,000  shares  sold  to  plaintiff  by 

concealment of certain facts, the first question that needs decision is whether the 

market for these shares, the rate prevailing wherein would prima facie be a true 

index  of  their  value,  had  been  affected  by  the  very  fact  concealed  of  which  the 

plaintiff complains. In this case from the proved facts it is clear that the market 

rate of these shares was seriously affected by reason of the impending decision 

of  the  Stock  Exchange  for  closing  it  to  stop  the  wave  of  speculation  that  had 

taken  the  frenzy  of  the  market  by  reason  of  the  merger  of  the  two  steel 

companies  doing  business  in  northern  India.  (emphasis  supplied)  The  market 

reports for the week ending March 19, show that the Indian Irons were standing 

at  or  around  Rs.  55.  By  Satur  day  the  3rd  April  after  the  announcement  of  the 

terms of the merger by reason of the keen speculation the shares were being dealt 

at around Rs. 73. On Monday the 6th April the price was Rs. 77. On Tuesday the 

6th, the day when the decision was taken to close the market for two days, these 

shares  touched  Rs.  79  but  by  the  close  of  business  fell  back  to  Rs.  72  a  sudden 

drop of Rs. 7. On Wednesday the 7th April in the Calcutta market they closed at 
 
Page | 211  

 
 

 

Rs. 58, a drop of Rs. 14 in a day. These sudden rises and falls in the market during 

the course of these two days are sufficient indication of the fact that the drop was 

due  to  the  decision  of  the  Stock  Exchange  to  close  the  Exchange  for  two  days. 

There is no evidence that any other factor was then disturbing the market rate of 

these shares. 

… 

 Considering  the  whole  of  this  material,  we  are  satisfied  that  the  market  rate 

prevailing on the 5th, 6th and 7th had been affected by reason of the decision of 

the Calcutta Stock Exchange to keep the market closed on the 8th and 9th and 

the  market  did  not  settle  down  till  about  the  17th  or  18th  and  the  prices  then 

ruling can in the circumstances of this case be said to be their true market price. 

(emphasis supplied) In our judgment, Rs. 46 per share was the real price of these 

shares  when  they  were  put  in  the  plaintiff's  pocket  and  he  got  Rs.  46  for  each 

share in lieu of what he paid for either at Rs. 77 or at Rs. 77-4-0. He is entitled to 

commission  also  which  he  would  have  to  pay  on  the  sale  of  these  shares. 

(emphasis supplied) The difference between these two rates is the damage that he 

has suffered and he is entitled to it.” 

Thus,  where  a  person  is  induced  to  purchase  shares  at  a  certain  price  by  fraud,  the 

measure  of  damages41 which  he  is  entitled  to  recover  from  the  seller  is  the  difference 

between the price which he paid for the shares and the real price of the shares on the 

date on which the shares were purchased. Ordinarily the market rate of the shares on 

the date when the fraud was practised would represent their real price in the absence 

of  any  other  circumstance.  If,  however,  the  market  was  vitiated  or  was in  a  state  of 

flux or panic as a consequence of the very fact that was fraudulently concealed, then 

the  real  value  of  the  shares  has  to  be  determined  on  a  consideration  of  a  variety  of 

circumstances. 

 

                                                           
41 Fraud is also a part of the law relating to Torts and contracts for which damages may be awarded. Damages in law 
are  of  several  kinds  and  ordinary  damages  are  directly  linked  to  the  loss  caused.  Thus  quantification  of  damages 
indirectly leads to quantification of loss caused and is relevant to the entire exercise. 

 
Page | 212  

 

 
 

However,  post  this  decision,  the  Committee  is  at  pains  to  find  any  further  judicial 

decision laying down, in substantial detail, principles relating to quantification.  

 

The scope for revision is abundantly clear from the manner in which the Board has fared 

before appellate forums in the recent past, in particular,42 the manner of quantification 

of profit by the Board was questioned and matter(s) remanded for SEBI to lay down the 

norms for determining illegal profits. Unless the manner of quantification is laid down 

in a transparent manner it will be difficult to justify why a particular amount should be 

disgorged  or  a  particular  penalty  be  levied,  leaving  abundant  scope  for  defaulters  to 

obtain favourable orders to the detriment of investors and the integrity of the securities 

market  as  a  whole.  The  quantification  of  illegitimate  profit  and  loss  to  investors  is  a 

complex  exercise  that  involves  consideration  of  several  factors  such  as,  -  the 

determination  of  net  gains  and  amounts  that  may  be  deducted,  joint  and  several 

liability,  applying  the  correct  financial  economics  techniques,  tax  considerations,  the 

nature  of  the  violation,  etc.  The  Committee  has  attempted  to  understand  the  various 

global  practices  and  works  by  experts  available  on  the  subject  to  distil  a  probable 

methodology for quantification. 

 

NEED FOR PRESENT REVISION 

 

The  Committee  has  had  several  deliberations  with  the  officers  of  the Board  as  well  as 

other experts. It has also had the advantage of studying the settlement and enforcement 

mechanisms  in  a  holistic  manner.  The  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  a  clear  public 

guidance is needed in the manner of quantification for the following reasons, - 

 B 

Ramalinga 

                                                           
42
at 
<http://sat.gov.in/english/pdf/E2017_JO2014286.PDF>;  SRSR  Holdings  Pvt  Ltd  v  SEBI,  SAT  order  dated 
11.08.2017, available at <http://sat.gov.in/english/pdf/E2017_JO2015463.PDF> Also  see,  Somani Overseas Ltd  & 
Ors v SEBI, SAT order dated 30.06.2016, available at <http://sat.gov.in/english/pdf/E2016_JO2014227.PDF> inter 
alia directing SEBI to set out the norms for determining illegal gains, - 

12.05.2017, 

order 

dated 

available 

Raju 

v 

SEBI, 

SAT 

“while  upholding  the decision of WTM of SEBI  that  the  appellants are liable to disgorge the illegal  gains 
made on sale of SIL  scrip during the investigation period, we set aside the illegal profits quantified at  Rs. 
4,69,40,232/- and direct that the quantum of illegal profits be determined afresh by setting out the norms laid 
down by SEBI for determining the illegal profits.” (emphasis supplied) 

 
Page | 213  

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

1.  The existing manner of quantification of profit is very basic and can be enhanced 

in  view  of  the  technical  and  financial  resources  available  with  the  Board.  It  is 

presently limited to very specific cases and several best practices can be adopted 

in them; 

 

2.  The  manner  of  quantification  of  loss  to  investors,  as  a  guidance  for  levy  of 

penalties needs to be laid down; 

3.  In  the meeting  held  with  the  members  of  the  High Power  Advisory Committee 

constituted under the Settlement Regulations, the need to lay down the manner 

of quantification was stressed upon; 

4.  The Securities Appellate Tribunal has required the Board to set out the principles 

of quantification43; 

5.  The  Committee’s  Report  on  Settlement  Mechanism  had  recommended 

settlement based on a factual consideration of all types of cases including insider 

trading. This was linked to quantification of profit made and loss caused to the 

investors; 

6.  Quantification  in  the  long  run,  would  be  a  major  deterrent  in  cases  relating  to 

fraud, tipper-tippee liability, front-running, etc.; and 

7.  Quantification  will  also  enable  the  Board  to  justify  its  orders  before  appellate 

forums,  which  may  otherwise  reduce  the  penalties  and  disgorgement  amounts 

since  there  is  no  appropriate  guidance  for  the  appellate  authorities  that  may 

justify the penalties levied and monies disgorged. 

                                                           
43 Ibid. 

 

 
Page | 214  

 
 

GLOBAL SCENARIO 

 

In the Committee’s earlier report, the Committee had made an examination of the laws, 

processes  and  practices  prevailing  in  the  USA  and  UK.  While  the  UK  processes  do 

require that various factors be taken into account while taking an action or settling the 

violations, there is however little jurisprudence available in the public domain in respect 

of quantification.  

 

The United States of America is known for the constitutional protection afforded to its 

citizens and many of our constitutional and securities laws principles are borrowed from 

them. Their system is also known for enforcement of securities laws and decades have 

been  spent  in  developing  their  present  guidelines.  Their  methods  of  quantification 

reflect in their quasi-judicial orders, from which the securities laws jurisprudence of our 

country can be enriched and the outcome experienced in the recent cases be avoided in 

the future.44   

In the USA, the federal courts alone are competent to impose penalties, as well as order 

imprisonment, based on profit and loss factors. Hence there is abundant jurisprudence 

available  in  the  public domain  where  the federal  courts  have  calculated  the  profit  and 

loss caused  to  the  investors.  In  the  instance  of  insider  trading  alone,  the  USA  judicial 

system now takes into account several different methods (including statistical methods 

to be done by economists) of calculating the gains as a result of the default. Depending 

on  the  circumstances,  the  courts  adopt  the  best  method,  to  distinguish  between 

‘legitimate’ gains and ‘illegal’ gains.45 

                                                           
44 See Umakanth Varottil, “SAT Order in the Satyam Case”, available at <https://indiacorplaw.in/2017/05/sat-order-
in-satyam-case.html>: 

“Courts in several jurisdictions have sought to set out principles on how to compute wrongful profits or gains 
in case of  securities offences such as  insider  trading  or market manipulation, but this area  is riddled with 
controversies.  In the end,  it  might be necessary for SEBI to establish  clearer guidelines  on determining 
sanctions  so  that  the  outcome  experienced  in  the  Satyam  case  can  be  avoided  in  the future.”  (emphasis 
supplied) 

45 See  Lai  PY,  “The  Calculation  of  Illicit  Profit  in  US  Insider  Trading  Cases”,  (2013)  J Stock  Forex  Trad  2:105. 
doi:10.4172/2168-9458.1000105,  available  at  <https://www.omicsonline.org/open-access/the-calculation-of-illicit-
profit-in-us-insider-trading-cases-2168-9458-2-105.pdf>,  the  article  shows  the  approaches  across  jurisdictions  are 
 
Page | 215  

 

 
 

A BIRD’S EYE VIEW OF SOME OF THE GLOBAL METHODOLOGIES FOR CALCULATING 

THE AMOUNT DUE FOR DISGORGEMENT IN INSIDER TRADING CASES 

 
INTRODUCTION: 

The economic activities of the capital market of a nation are one of the key segments 

to boost the economic growth of the country. A healthy capital market can be created 

if the stock exchanges are well regulated. As the business world continues to expand in 

global markets, trading of shares, bonds, derivatives and other instruments continues 

to  increase.  One  form  of  trading  that  has  received  considerable  regulatory  and 

academic  interest  in  recent  years  is  insider  trading.  Around  the  world,  an  active 

enforcement  of  criminal  laws  and  regulations  has  increased  its  focus  on  preventing 

and/or punishing insider trading and market abuse.  

 

Bhattacharya  &  Daouk46,  in  a  study  of  103  countries  that  have  securities  markets, 

revealed  that  only  87  countries  have  laws  dealing  with  insider  trading  and  only  38 

countries have successfully enforced their laws against this crime. This situation is the 

result of a dispute between the two main theoretical streams.47 The first is convinced 

that a ban on insider trading reduces market efficiency and managers’ compensation, 

while the other states that the insider trader appropriates the value of the preferential 

information  to  the  detriment  of  other  investors  and  consequently  the  repression  of 

this crime increases the investors’ trust in the market, and hence its liquidity. Further, 

a ban on it reduces market efficiency, the insider, by carrying out his strategy, pushes 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
similar;  Alexandra A.E. Shapiro  &  Nathan H. Seltzer,  “Measuring  “Gain” Under The Insider Trading  Sentencing 
Guideline Based On Culpability For The Deception”, Federal Sentencing Reporter, Vol. 20, No. 3, February 2008, p 
194, 
at,  <https://www.lw.com/thoughtLeadership/measuring-gain-under-insider-trading-sentencing-
guideline>.  

available 

46  Utpal  Bhattacharya  &  Hazem  Daouk,  “The  World  Price  of  Insider  Trading”,  pp  3,  available  at 
<https://faculty.fuqua.duke.edu/~charvey/Teaching/BA453_2005/BD_The_world.pdf>  :  The  Journal  of  Finance 
Vol. 57, No. 1 (Feb., 2002), pp. 75-108 
47 Marcello  Minenna,  ‘Insider  Trading,  Abnormal  Return  and  Preferential  Information:  Supervising  through  a 
Probabilistic 
at 
<https://nscpolteksby.ac.id/ebook/files/Ebook/Journal/2015/Banking%20and%20Finance/Vol.%2027/Volume%202
7%20Issue%201/Page%2059-86/Insider%20trading-abnormal%20return%20and.pdf>. 

available 

Model’, 

 

 
Page | 216  

 
 

the  stock  price  faster  towards  the  value  that  better  reflects  the  fundamentals  of  the 

company.48 According to the ‘misappropriation’ theory, the preferential information is 

property of the company. Therefore, any exploitation of information carried out by a 

subject other than the owner, i.e., the company, could be considered to be a theft.49 As 

a consequence, other investors do not have the same investment opportunities as the 

insider  and  this  is  unacceptable  according  to  the  ‘market  egalitarianism’  theory.50 

According to  this view, making this a crime  increases investors’ trust  in the market, 

and enhance its integrity. 

 

Regulation and enforcement of insider trading laws is important because investors are 

likely  to  be more  confident  in  the  financial  statements of  companies  that  operate  in 

countries with strong insider trading laws. In addition, investments within countries 

having  insider  trading  laws  may  be  viewed  as  less  risky  as  the  information  is 

considered  to  be  more  reliable.  Therefore,  some  quantitative  procedures  have  to  be 

used  in  order  to  detect  the  phenomenon,  to  compute  the  value  of  preferential 

information  and  hence,  to  calculate  the  disgorgement,  which  is  the  undue  wealth 

gained  by  the  insider  through  the  exploitation  of  preferential  information.  This 

estimate  offers,  in  all  legal  jurisdictions  punishing  the  crime  of  insider  trading,  a 

benchmark to identify the sanction to be imposed against the insider and, as such, can 

be considered the link between the financial and legal aspects.  

 

WHAT IS DISGORGEMENT? 

The  paramount  purpose  of  enforcing  the  prohibition  against  insider  trading  by 

ordering  disgorgement  is  to  make  sure  that  wrongdoers  will  not  profit  from  their 

wrongdoing.  Disgorgement  is  an  equitable  remedy,  imposed  to  force  a  defendant  to 

give up the amount by which he was unjustly enriched (FTC v. Bronson Partners51). 

                                                           
48 Finnerty, J., 1976. Insiders and market efficiency. Journal of Finance 31, 1141–1148. 
49 Georges, S., 1976. L’utilisation en bourse d’informations privilegi’ees dans le droit des Etats-Units, Economica. 
50 Langevoort, L., 1987. Insider trading: regulation, enforcement and prevention. Clark Boardman Company, New 
York; Loss, S., 1983. Fundamentals of securities regulation. Clark Boardman Company, Boston. 
51  Federal  Trade  Commission  v.  Bronson  Partners,  LLC,  654  F.3d  359  (2d  Cir.  2011),  available  at 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/223605/ftc-v-bronson-partners-llc/>. 

 
Page | 217  

 

 
 

By  forcing  wrongdoers  to  give  back  the  fruits  of  their  illegal  conduct,  disgorgement 

also  “has  the  effect  of  deterring  subsequent  fraud”  (SEC  v.  Cavanagh52).  Because 

disgorgement does not serve a punitive function, the disgorgement amount  may not 

exceed the amount obtained through the wrongdoing.  

 

Hence,  the  difficulty  in  identifying  an  objective,  realistic,  and  effective  way  of 

computing this value can give raise to problems in assessing the damage caused by the 

insider to the market and, consequently, to the enforcement action.53 

 

THE CALCULATION OF ILLICIT PROFIT/ DISGORGEMENT IN INSIDER TRADING CASES 

 

There are currently divergent approaches for calculating illicit profit in insider trading 

cases.  What  constitutes  ‘profit’  differs  from  case  to  case  as  different  court  decisions 

confront each other, however a closer look will reveal that each method is relevant to 

the  facts  in  which  it  was  applied  and  there  is  no  real  conflict  to  resolve.  The  major 

approaches  which  have been  adopted  worldwide are  the  (1)  net  profit  approach,  (2) 

the  notional  profit  approach  (also  known  as  market  absorption  approach),  (3)  the 

event studies approach and (4) the potential probabilistic disgorgement approach. 

 

  NET PROFIT APPROACH: The net profit approach is the approach which considers the 

total  increase  in  value  realized  through  trading  in  securities.  Gain  is  the  total  profit 

actually  made  from  a  defendant’s  illegal  securities  transactions.  Applying  this  can 

sometimes include legal gains also, hence its universal application is inappropriate. 

 

  NOTIONAL  PROFIT:  THE MARKET  ABSORPTION APPROACH: The notional approach is 

the approach which treats the relevant profit as those gains made by the insider dealer 

                                                           
52 SEC  v.  Cavanagh, No.  98-Civ.-1818-DLC, 2004  WL  1594818,  at  30  (S.D.N.Y.  July  16,  2004), aff'd, 445  F.3d 
105 (2d Cir.2006). 
53 Marcello  Minenna,  ‘Insider  Trading,  Abnormal  Return  and  Preferential  Information:  Supervising  through  a 
Probabilistic 
at 
<https://nscpolteksby.ac.id/ebook/files/Ebook/Journal/2015/Banking%20and%20Finance/Vol.%2027/Volume%202
7%20Issue%201/Page%2059-86/Insider%20trading-abnormal%20return%20and.pdf>. 

available 

Model’, 

 

 
Page | 218  

 
 

when the information was made public and the market had a reasonable opportunity 

to digest the information. The gain is to be measured by reference to the market value 

of  the  shares  at  that  date.  At  that  date,  the  amount  of  the  insider  dealer’s  profit, 

whether  realized  or  not,  was  fixed  once  and  for  all.  Subsequent  changes  in  market 

prices are irrelevant. This method requires proper choice of the ‘relevant’ period when 

the market can be said to have absorbed the information and reflect it into the price. 

 

  THE EVENT STUDIES APPROACH: STANDARD APPROACH: The event-study analysis, 

which  estimates  the  effect  on  stock  returns  of  occurrences,  such  as  mergers, 

acquisitions,  takeovers,  announcements,  variation  of  the  regulation  in  the  reference 

micro-economical  system,  etc.,  is  widely  used.  Event  studies  is  an  econometric 

approach  as  it  seeks  to  isolate  the  impact  of  inside  information  from  other  market 

factors  because  a  genuine  event  studies  approach  would  require  regression  analysis 

using logical reasoning and statistical methods.  

 

The constraints of the event study approach are as follows,- 

a.  The methodology requires time-series data, i.e. it is useful for scrips that have 

been  listed  for  at  least  some  time  (around  2  years),  therefore  not  useful  for 

listing defaults.  

b.  The  insider-trading  examination  is  subordinated  to  the  determination  of  a 

statistically  significant  reference  index,  which  plays  the  role  of  a  market 

portfolio proxy. This approach would be difficult to implement in the case of a 

large number of thinly traded stocks. Therefore, stock selection is an important 

criteria, it may apply to some and not apply to some scrips. 

c.  The  choice  of  a  long  time  horizon  could  include  events  that  changed  the 

company capital structure, such as mergers, acquisitions, regulation variation, 

etc. to help understand scrip specific movements.  

d.  This methodology requires the testing of all the hypotheses related to a linear 

regression  model.  If  those  hypotheses  cannot  be  verified,  the  results  can  be 

invalid or lead to inevitable methodological problems. 

 

 
Page | 219  

 
 

e.  Rumors  relating  to  the  stock  could  generate  spikes  in  the  returns  during  the 

stipulated period (the reference time for the estimate). 

f.  The  event-study  methodology  applied  to  insider  trading  estimates  the  future 

stock  returns  by  a  linear  regression  model.  Therefore,  it  relies  on  the 

assumption  that  the  returns  on  a  narrow  interval  are  generated  by  the  same 

linear model coming from a set of information belonging to a definitely wider 

time window. 

g.  The methodology calculates only one cumulative abnormal return in relation to 

the  preferential  information.  By  doing  so,  it  does  not  take  into  account 

differences  in  the  trading  strategies  of  insiders  that  usually  represent 

differences in their knowledge of the preferential information 

 

  POTENTIAL PROBABILISTIC DISGORGEMENT  APPROACH:  The Potential Probabilistic 

Disgorgement approach is a new procedure for computing the economic value of the 

information  exploited  by  the  insider,  based  on  a  probabilistic  approach. 54  This 

methodology overcomes the issues connected to the event-study procedure and can be 

applied  by  construction  to  all  insider-trading  schemes  and  not  only  to  the  simplest 

ones.  In  fact,  the  model  parameters  are  defined  by using  the trading  strategy  of  the 

single  insider;  thus,  if  insider  trading  takes  place,  the  model  is  able  to  offer  a 

disgorgement  computation;  hence,  by  hypotheses  of  its  construction,  it  is  able  to 

detect the difference between insiders and followers. 

 

The advantages of the potential probabilistic computation are as follows,- 

a.  The  definition  of  the  parameters  is  extremely  realistic  and  difficult  to  break 

down,  since  it  represents  the  insider-trading  strategy  on  the  stock  under 

investigation carried out in the period which includes the insider trading- days 

before the disclosure of the information to the market and consequently entails 

                                                           
54 Marcello  Minenna,  ‘Insider  Trading,  Abnormal  Return  and  Preferential  Information:  Supervising  through  a 
Probabilistic 
at 
<https://nscpolteksby.ac.id/ebook/files/Ebook/Journal/2015/Banking%20and%20Finance/Vol.%2027/Volume%202
7%20Issue%201/Page%2059-86/Insider%20trading-abnormal%20return%20and.pdf>. 

available 

Model’, 

 

 
Page | 220  

 
 

 

 

 

the  set  of  information  composed  by  prices  and  quantities  which  create  the 

portfolio of the insider on the stock. 

b.  It  allows  the  determination  of  all  the  possible  paths  of  the  stock  under 

investigation under a predictive dynamic logic. 

c.  It cannot be invalidated by the fact that the company has been recently quoted, 

since if the insider can trade the stock, the procedure can return, by means of 

the parameters-estimation procedure, a disgorgement computation. 

d.  It  does  not  require  a  regressor  since  the  stock  path  forecast  depends  only  on 

the  prices  of  the  stock  under  investigation  incorporated  in  the  insider  trader 

portfolio. 

e.  It  does  not  require  the  definition  of  time  horizons  longer  than  the  insider-

trading  days  for  estimating  the  parameters  to  be  employed  in  the  analysis; 

therefore,  it  is  not  affected  by  the  stock  liquidity,  by  the  discontinuity  of  the 

time series, and other typical issues of econometric procedures. 

f.  It  offers a customized methodology for the single subject under investigation, 

since  the  model  behaves  differently  according  to  the  single  insider-trading 

strategy. Further, by assuming that the insider who is closer to the information 

will have the more profitable trading strategy, it gives a higher disgorgement to 

the subjects  who  are  closer  to  the  preferential  information  and  therefore  it  is 

able  to  distinguish  between  insiders  and  followers  (i.e.,  tippes  and  other 

insiders). 

g.  The  stochastic  process  employed  benefits  from  the  Markov  property.  This 

property  makes  the  model  absolutely  coherent  with  the  weak  form  of  market 

efficiency. 

h.  It  is  a  more  intuitive  approach,  since  it  works  directly  on  prices  and  not  on 

return and it is a faster and easier procedure, in terms of implementation, than 

the potential econometric disgorgement  computation, since it can  skip all the 

issues related to the statistical robustness tests. 

 
Page | 221  

 
 

INTERNATIONAL PRACTICE  

SEC  has  mostly  adopted  the  Event  Study  methodology  for  calculating  illicit  profit, 

however,  the  divergent  approaches  are  considered  by  courts  for  calculating 

Disgorgement depends on the facts and circumstance of each case and the arguments 

raised by the defendants. This Report takes into account various such methods, each 

of which depend on the facts and circumstances under consideration.  

 

In the case of, United States v. Nacchio55 the event studies approach was used for the 

disgorgement calculation, however, in the case of United States v. Raj Rajaratnam56 

the market absorption approach was considered under the disgorgement calculation. 

Hong  Kong 57  has  also  adopted  the  market  absorption  approach  to  calculate 

disgorgement. The Italian regulator Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa 

(CONSOB), has developed two methods: (i) a Modified Event Study Method that has 

been  adjusted  to  the  behaviour  of  the  Italian  securities  markets;  and  (ii)  a  new 

Potential  Probabilistic  Method  for  calculating  the  disproportionate  gains  due  for 

disgorgement.  

 

 

******** 

In this respect the Committee has examined the law prevalent in other jurisdictions and 

arrived  at  certain  important  conclusions  after  drawing  upon  some  well-established 

principles, as follows, - 

1.  The Indian law of insider trading58 is similar to that of the USA59. This makes it 

easier  for  adopting  similar  means  and  methods  for  quantification  of  gains  and 

 United 

States 

v. 

Raj 

(2012) 

 The 

Rajaratnam, 

Insider  Dealing  Tribunal  v.  Shek  Mei  Ling, 

                                                           
55 United States v. Nacchio (2009) (10th Cir.) 573 F.3d 1062, available at <https://casetext.com/case/us-v-nacchio-
11>. 
56
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/infdco20120207b98.xml>. 
57
(1999)  2  HKCFAR  205,  available  at 
<https://www.hongkongcaselaw.com/the-insider-dealing-tribunal-v-shek-mei-ling/>;  HKSAR  v.  Du  Jun  (2009) 
DCCC787/2008, available <https://www.hongkongcaselaw.com/hksar-v-du-jun-2/>. 
58 See, clauses (d) and (e) of Section 12A and Section 15G of the SEBI Act. 
59 See,  The  Insider  Trading  Sanctions  Act,  1984  and  the  Insider  Trading  and  Securities  Fraud  Enforcement  Act, 
1988  which 
at 
 
Page | 222  

Exchange  Act, 

amended 

the 

inter 

alia 

1934, 

available 

(RJH) 

09 

available 

at 

Cr. 

1184, 

Securities 

 

 
 

 

losses.60 The Committee has already noted that there are many ways to calculate 

gains relating to insider trading. In so far as liability of an insider who is a tippee 

is  concerned,  the  quantification  of  gains  requires  the  Board  to  adopt  certain 

innovative approaches which are already well settled in the USA insider trading 

law61; 

 

2.  Even the anti-fraud provisions in both the jurisdictions are similar, rather it may 

be  appropriate  to  state  that  the  wordings  of  Section  12A  of  the  SEBI  Act  are 

borrowed from the provisions of Section 10b of the USA Securities Exchange Act, 

193462 and Rule 10b-5 of the SEC Rules.63 

3.  The  concept  of  securities  market  price  being  a  reflection  of  the  ‘information’ 

being  assimilated  has  universal  application  across  various  jurisdiction.  The 

and 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
<https://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/98/hr559/text> 
<https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/STATUTE-
102/pdf/STATUTE-102-Pg4677.pdf>  respectively;  Rules  10b-5,  10b5-1  and  10b5-2  of  the  General  Rules  And 
Regulations, Securities Exchange Act Of 1934, Subpart A—Rules and Regulations Under the Securities Exchange 
Act  of  1934  at  17  C.F.R.  (Code  of  Federal  Regulations)  available  at  <https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
idx?SID=6172e3128b122545ee8bec9d0e5d519d&mc=true&tpl=/ecfrbrowse/Title17/17cfr240_main_02.tpl>.  
60 For  application  of  US  law  by  Indian  authorities,  see  SAT  order dated  08.10.2012  in  the  matter  of  V  K  Kaul  v 
Adjudicating Officer, available at <https://indiacorplaw.in/wp-content/uploads/2012/12/1349843808090.pdf>. 
61 See  Salman  v.  U.S.,  137  S.  Ct.  420  (2016),  available  at  <https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/16pdf/15-
628_m6ho.pdf>  where  the  U.  S.  Supreme  Court  held  that  the  “personal  benefit”  to  a  tipper  that  is  required  to 
establish  liability  for  insider  trading  can  consist  of  the  “gift”  of  that  material,  non-public  information  to  a  family 
member or friend. As such, the Court affirmed the “personal benefit” analysis articulated in the landmark 1983 case 
Dirks  v.  SEC,  463 U. S.  646  (1983), available at  <https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/463/646/case.html>. 
Also See SEC v. Contorinis, US Court of Appeals, No. 12-1723 (2d Cir. 2014) upholding tipper liable to disgorge 
amount 
person 
at 
<https://www.dlapiper.com/~/media/files/insights/publications/2014/02/sec-v-
contorinis.pdf?la=en&hash=2AB6FF5A06DE029A72FC92CC2E4E9B8CD8F1155F  >.  The  Court  inter  alia  held 
that, - 

available 

traded, 

profit 

equal 

made 

who 

the 

the 

to 

by 

“[i]n SEC v.  Warde we held that, in the determination of a disgorgement amount, “[a] tippee’s gains are 
attributable to the tipper, regardless whether benefit accrues to the tipper.” 151 F.3d 42, 49 (2d Cir. 1998). 
That  principle  has  deep  roots  in  parallel  civil  remedial  structures.  For  example,  in  Elkind  v.  Ligget  & 
Myers, Inc., 635 F.2d 156, 165 (2d Cir. 1980), we concluded that “[t]rades by tippees are attributed to the 
tipper” in determining liability for damages, and in SEC v. Texas Gulf Sulphur Co., 446 F.2d 1301, 1308 
(2d Cir. 1971), the foundational case for insider trading liability, we required a tipper to make common law 
civil restitution “for the profits derived by his tippees.”” 

pp 

 See 

62
<http://legcounsel.house.gov/Comps/Securities%20Exchange%20Act%20Of%201934.pdf>. 
63 See  the  General  Rules  And  Regulations,  Securities  Exchange  Act  Of  1934, Subpart  A—Rules  and  Regulations 
Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 at 17 C.F.R. (Code of Federal Regulations) §240.10b-5: Employment of 
manipulative 
<https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
idx?SID=6172e3128b122545ee8bec9d0e5d519d&mc=true&node=se17.4.240_110b_65&rgn=div8> 

deceptive 

available 

available 

devices., 

89-91, 

and 

at 

at 

 

 
Page | 223  

 
 

 

methods  for  quantification  used  by  various  regulators  reflect  this  underlying 

principle. This is also reflected in the approach adopted by the Indian Supreme 

Court  in the  Trojan case. It  is  also reflected  in the SEBI  (Prohibition of Insider 

Trading)  Regulations,  2015  which  inter  alia  require,  ‘the  compliance  officer 

taking  into  account  various  factors  including  the  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information  in  question  becoming  generally  available  and  being  capable  of 

assimilation by the market, which in any event shall not be earlier than forty-

eight hours after the information becomes generally available.’ 

 

4.   The  issue  of  quantification  of  gains  made  and  losses  caused  arises  only  after  a 

guilt  determination.  The  defaulter  is  the  only  person  aware  of  the  actual  gains 

made by him and the quasi-judicial authorities are only making a ‘best judgment’ 

assessment  of  the  gains  made  and  losses  caused.  As  such,  due  to  the  dynamic 

nature of the market, only an approximation can be made, uncertainty is inherent 

in  the  act  of  the  defaulter  for  which  the  defaulter  himself  must  bear  the  risk  of 

uncertainty. 64 The  authorities  can  make  an  assessment  only  on  the  basis  of 

available  information  and  is  not  required  to  make  an  exact  assessment  of  the 

losses  caused  and  gains  made. 65  Similar  principles  should  be  applied  to 

assessments made by the Board as well; 

5.  The  authorities  conducting  investigation,  inquiry,  audit  and  inspection  have  to 

look  closely  in  order  to  be  able  to  ascertain  the  relevant  factors  for  the 

quantification of gains made and losses caused in case of negligence and director 

                                                           
64 SEC v Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc., 837 F. Supp. 587 (S.D.N.Y. 1993), aff’d sub nom., SEC v Posner, 16 F.3d 
530 (2nd Cir. 1994), cert. denied, 513 U.S. 1077 (1995) quoting SEC v Bilzerian 814 F. Supp. 116, 121 (S.D.N.Y. 
1993), available at <https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/district-courts/FSupp/837/587/2377774/>: 

v 

506 

F.3d 

170, 

179 

 See, 

“Since it is difficult in many cases to separate ‘legal’ from illegal profit… it is proper to assume that all 
profits gained while the defendants were in violation of the law constituted ill-gotten gains.” (emphasis 
supplied) 
U.S. 

65
at 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/1292285/united-states-v-rutkoske/> ; U.S. v Zolp, 479 F.3d 715, 720-21 (9th 
Cir. 2007), available at <https://law.resource.org/pub/us/case/reporter/F3/479/479.F3d.715.05-50822.html>; U.S. v. 
Berger, 587 F.3d 1038, 1045 (9th Cir. 2009), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/1345996/united-
states-v-berger/> 
at 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/20041589378f3d121111462>;  and  SEC  v  Svoboda,  409  F.  Supp.  2d  331 
(S.D.N.Y. 2006), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2404810/ussec-v-svoboda/>. 

Rutkoske, 

F.3d 

1211 

available 

(11th 

Cir. 

2004), 

available 

2007), 

; 

SEC 

v 

Calvo, 

378 

(2d. 

Cir. 

 

 
Page | 224  

 
 

 

related defaults66, such as related party transactions or where they have by their 

acts, directly or indirectly, adversely affected the company and its investors;  

6.  There is no one universally applicable way of quantification and each method has 

its  defects  and  advantages  depending  on  the  factual  matrix  in  which  it  may  be 

applied67,  thus  wherever  possible  multiple  calculations  should  be  made  by  the 

investigation,  inquiry,  audit  and  inspection  authorities  for  consideration  of 

alternatives  during  proceedings  under  securities  laws,  including  settlement  and 

the  most  approximate  and  appropriate  one  may  be  selected.  E.g.  the  US 

Sentencing Guidelines68 inter alia notes the possibility of alternative methods in 

respect  of  the  quantification  of  losses  due  to  fraud  in  securities  markets,  as 

follows, - 

“(ix)  Fraudulent  Inflation  or  Deflation  in  Value  of  Securities  or 

Commodities.—In a case involving the fraudulent inflation or deflation in 

the  value  of  a  publicly  traded  security  or  commodity,  the  court  in 

determining loss may use any method that is appropriate and practicable 

under  the  circumstances.  One  such  method  the  court  may  consider  is  a 

method  under  which  the  actual  loss  attributable  to  the  change  in  value  of 

the security or commodity is the amount determined by—  

(S.D. 

Ind  2005), 

available 

at 

Inc.,  429  F.  Supp.  2d  1045 

                                                           
66
 SEC  v  Church  of  God 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2487525/ussec-v-church-exten-of-church-of-church-of-god-inc/> 
(balancing  fact  that  the  defendants  provided  ‘real  and  valuable  services’  with  the  fact  that,  but  for  the  fraud,  the 
business  would  have  collapsed  earlier  and  they  would  not  have  been  employed  and  ordering  each  defendant  to 
disgorge one-half of base-salary for one year for which the business operated.); SEC v Drexel Burnham Lambert, 
Inc., 837 F. Supp. 587 (S.D.N.Y. 1993), aff’d sub nom., SEC v Posner, 16 F.3d 530 (2nd Cir. 1994), cert. denied, 513 
U.S. 1077 (1995) (disgorgement of all compensation paid to officers where fraud enabled defendants to gain control 
of  company  and  place  themselves  in  highly-paid  positions;  court  rejected  ‘any  contention’  that  the  defendants’ 
services  were  of  ‘real  value  to  the  company’.),  available  at  <https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/district-
courts/FSupp/837/587/2377774/>; SEC v Alpha Telecomms., Inc 187 Supp. 1250 (D. Ore. 2002), aff’d, 350 F. 2d 
1034  (9th  Cir.  2003),  available  at  <https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/district-courts/FSupp2/187/1250/2310241/> 
(disgorgement of all  wages,  loans and compensation paid by the company to the defaulter  who ran the collective 
investment scheme). 
67 See, J Duncan, Recalculating “Loss” in Securities Fraud, (2013) 3 Harvard Business Law Review 257, available 
at <http://www.hblr.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/HLB202_crop.pdf>. 
68
at  <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-
manual/2016/GLMFull.pdf>;  See  Committee’s  Report  on  Settlement  Mechanism,  pp  27-28  for  detailed 
understanding  of  the  US  Sentencing  Guidelines,  available  at  <https://www.sebi.gov.in/reports/reports/aug-
2018/report-on-settlement-mechanism-by-the-high-level-committee-to-review-the-enforcement-and-settlement-
mechanism_39967.html>. 

 Sentencing  Guidelines 

available 

99, 

p 

 

 
Page | 225  

 
 

(I) calculating the difference between the average price of the security or 

commodity  during  the  period  that  the  fraud  occurred  and  the  average 

price  of  the  security  or  commodity  during  the  90-day  period  after  the 

fraud was disclosed to the market, and  

(II) multiplying the difference in average price by the number of shares 

out-standing.69  

 

In determining whether the amount so determined is a reasonable estimate 

of  the  actual  loss  attributable  to  the  change  in  value  of  the  security  or 

commodity,  the  court  may  consider,  among  other  factors,  the  extent  to 

which  the  amount so determined includes significant  changes in value not 

resulting from the offense (e.g., changes caused by external market forces, 

such  as  changed  economic  circumstances,  changed  investor  expectations, 

and new industry- specific or firm-specific facts, conditions, or events).” 

 

The  Committee  notes  the  similarities,  with  understandable  deviations,  in  the  USA 

approach relating to quantification of loss to investors in cases of fraud and the manner 

of quantification adopted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of Trojan 

&  Co.  Ltd  v  R.  M.  N.  N.  Nagappa  Chettiar70 and  is  hopeful  that  with  the  express 

recognition  of  class  action  suits  under  Section  245  the  Companies  Act,  2013  and  the 

Commercial  Courts,  Commercial  Division  and  Commercial  Appellate  Division  of  High 

Courts Act, 2015 which inter alia deal with disputes relating to shareholder agreements, 

agreements  for  sale  of  goods,71 subscription  and  investment  agreements  pertaining  to 

financial services and related contracts of agency, there will be substantial development 

within India on these aspects.72  

                                                           
69 Out-standing  shares  is  a  market  term  used  for  calculating  earnings  per  share  and  market  capitalization;  see 
<https://www.nasdaq.com/article/shares-outstanding-cm550633>  and  <https://www.upcounsel.com/outstanding-
shares>. 
70 AIR 1953 SC 235, 1953 SCR 780. 

71 Securities are goods, See clause (7) of section 2 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930. 

72 Law  Commission  of  India’s  188th  Report  on  Proposals  for  Constitution  of  Hi-Tech  Fast  –  Track  Commercial 
Divisions In High Courts, p 146, available at <http://lawcommissionofindia.nic.in/reports/188th%20report.pdf>:  

 
Page | 226  

 

 

 
 

 

 

II.  KEY RECOMMENDATIONS AND RATIONALE 

The Committee has examined the existing global approaches in detail and recommends 

the  issuance  of  non-mandatory  public  guidelines.  In  this  Chapter,  the  Committee 

examines  the  key  recommendations  in  the  proposed  guidelines  and  the  rationale  for 

them. 

 

1.  NEED FOR GUIDANCE 

 

The  present  situation,  where  there  is  no  public  guidance,  has  resulted  in  limited 

quantification of the factors indicated in Section 15J of the SEBI Act, Section 19I of the 

Depositories Act and Section 23J of the SCRA.  

 

Securities  laws  impose  the  burden  of  quantifying  these  factors  on  the  quasi-judicial 

authorities and not on the fact-finding authorities, though from a practical point of view 

the  quasi-judicial  authorities  are  primarily  dependent  on  the  facts  unearthed  by  the 

investigating authorities. It is the quasi-judicial authority that should be independently 

satisfied whether these factors  are indeed quantifiable or not. Since,  the Committee is 

mindful of the challenges faced by the officers and Members of the Board in exercise of 

their quasi-judicial functions, in view of which appropriate guidance must be issued to 

the  investigation,  inquiry,  inspection  and  audit  authorities  who  recommend  action  to 

the  Board  so  as  to  enable  them  to  include  various  factors  and  indicate  the  methods 

required for quantification for levy of penalty or to order disgorgement after taking into 

account, factors such as profit made, loss caused and the repetitive nature of the default.  

 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
“In  fact,  in  several  cases,  the  National  Consumer  Commission  has  refused  to  entertain  cases  for 
justifiable  reasons  such  as  for  example,  where  serious  issues  of  fraud,  cheating  or  conspiracy  are 
involved. Such cases can still be filed in the High Court and brought before the proposed Commercial 
Division.” 

 
Page | 227  

 

 
 

However, quantification as a process cannot exclude the noticee against whom action is 

proposed,  doing  so  will  only  serve  to  give  grounds  of  appeal  and  lengthen  the  quasi-

judicial process.  

 

In the Report on Settlement, this Committee discussed how the USA Sentencing Reform 

Act  of  1984  (SRA)  which  went  into  effect  on  November  1,  1987,  served  as  the  legal 

foundation  for  the  issue  of  non-mandatory  public  guidelines  for  federal  courts  in  the 

exercise  of  their  functions.  This  brought  in  a  huge  amount  of  certainty  for  the 

prosecutors as well  as the accused, and  also served as the basis of  having  a  successful 

plea  bargaining  system  which  has  worked  better  than  that  in  India.  These  guidelines 

which  create  a  framework  for  sentencing  without  taking  away  the  discretion  of  the 

Judge to deviate for reasons to be recorded were upheld by the USA Supreme Court in 

Mistretta v United States.73  

 

Even  Self-Regulatory  Organizations  such  as  the  Financial  Industry  Regulatory 

Authority,  (FINRA)  have  developed  publicly  available  Sanction  Guidelines 74.  FINRA 

published the FINRA  Sanction  Guidelines ("Guidelines")  in 1993 so that the members 

and associated persons could become familiar with the disciplinary sanctions that could 

result from the typical securities industry rule violations.  

 

The Sanction Guidelines apply to all formal FINRA disciplinary actions, whether settled 

or  fully  litigated.  FINRA's  adjudicatory  bodies—Hearing  Panels  and  the  National 

Adjudicatory  Council  (NAC)—rely  on  FINRA's  Sanction  Guidelines  to  determine 

appropriate remedial sanctions. The Sanction Guidelines state in clear and unequivocal 

language  that  they  are  intended  to  be  guidelines  and  that  they  are  not  absolute.  In 

both- settled cases and litigated matters,  depending on the facts  and circumstances of 

each  case,  the  sanctions  imposed  may  fall  outside  the  ranges  recommended  in  the 

Sanction Guidelines. Fines on a “per violation” basis, were the default option under the 

                                                           
73 488 U.S. 361 (1989), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/112173/mistretta-v-united-states/>. 
74
<http://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/Sanctions_Guidelines.pdf>. 

Guidelines 

available 

 Latest 

FINRA 

Sanction 

at 

 

 
Page | 228  

 
 

Sanction Guidelines. Since 1998, the revised general principles applicable to all sanction 

determinations have stated that an aggregation of violations may be appropriate for the 

purpose  of  determining  sanctions  if  the  violative  conduct  was  unintentional  or 

negligent, did not result in injury to public investors, or the violations resulted from a 

single  systemic  problem  or  a  cause  that  has  been  corrected.  With  these  revisions,  the 

NAC clarified FINRA's existing policy on the aggregation or "batching" of violations for 

the purpose of sanctions by highlighting when it is appropriate to consider sanctions on 

a "per violation" basis and when aggregation is acceptable.75 

 

In the Report on Settlement Mechanism, the Committee had adopted the device of non-

mandatory  statutory  guidance  in  respect  of  the  factor  relating  to  ‘repetitive  nature  of 

default’ by recommending a new regulation76 (extant regulation 32) which declares the 

relevance of Schedule II of the settlement regulations which maintains the discretion of 

the  quasi-judicial  authorities  in  deciding  how  a  repetitive  default  may  be  treated  and 

how  the  monies  due  may  be  quantified.  The  Committee’s  Report  on  Settlement 

Mechanism provides guidance in respect of the factor- ‘repetitive nature of the default’; 

this report concerns the remaining two statutory factors. 

 

 

It may be noted that the Hon’ble Supreme Court in its recent order dated 28.02.2019 in 

the  matter  of  Adjudicating  Officer,  SEBI  v  Bhavesh  Pabari77 has  also  interpreted  the 

factor relating to ‘repetitive nature of default’ in line with the recommendations of this 

Committee and inter alia held as follows,- 

“13. There is a distinction between a continuing offence and a repeat offence. The 

continuing offence is a one which is of a continuous nature as distinguished from 

one  which  is  committed  once  and  for  all.  The  term  “continuing  offence”  was 

explained  and  elucidated  by  giving  several  illustrations  in  State  of  Bihar  vs. 

                                                           
75  For  a  more  detailed  discussion,  See  May  2018  Revisions  to  the  Sanction  Guidelines  –  FAQ,  available  at 
<http://www.finra.org/industry/revisions-sanction-guidelines-faq>. 
76 Regulation  32  of  the  proposed  draft  Regulations  in  the  Report  on  Settlement  Mechanism,  p  161,  available  at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/reports/reports/aug-2018/report-on-settlement-mechanism-by-the-high-level-committee-
to-review-the-enforcement-and-settlement-mechanism_39967.html>. 
77
<https://www.supremecourtofindia.nic.in/supremecourt/2013/36291/36291_2013_Judgement_28-Feb-2019.pdf >. 

available 

 2019 

at 

(3) 

SCALE 

447, 

 

 
Page | 229  

 
 

 

Deokaran  Nenshi  &  Ors78.  In  case  of  continuing  offence,  the  liability  continues 

until the  rule or  its  requirement  is  obeyed  or  complied  with.  On  every  occasion 

when  disobedience  or  noncompliance  occurs  and  reoccurs,  there  is  an  offence 

committed. Continuing offence constitutes a fresh offence every time or occasion 

it  occurs.  In  Union  of  India  &  Anr.  Vs.  Tarsem  Singh,79 continuing  offence  or 

default  in  service  law  was  explained  as  a  single  wrongful  act  which  causes  a 

continuing injury. A recurring or successive wrong, on the other hand, are those 

which  occur  periodically  with  each  wrong  giving  rise  to  a  distinct  and  separate 

cause of action. We have made reference to this legal position in view of clause (c) 

of Section 15J of the SEBI Act which refers to repetitive nature of default and not 

a  continuing  default.  The  word  “repetitive”  as  used  therein  would  refer  to  a 

recurring or successive default. (emphasis supplied) This factum has to be taken 

into consideration while deciding upon the quantum of penalty.”  

It  must  be  noted  that  there  is  nothing  unique  in  having  non-mandatory  public 

guidelines through a non-statutory or statutory device for the exercise of quasi-judicial 

process as long as discretion is preserved. Guidelines for judicial officers exist in various 

                                                           
78 AIR 1973 SC 908, 1973(3) SCR 1004: the Court examined whether failure to file annual return at the due date 
was a continuing offence or an  offence completed by non-filing on  the due date.  Held,  that such non-compliance 
was not a continuing offence. It was held that a continuing offence is one which is susceptible of continuance and is 
distinguishable from the one which is committed once and for all. The distinction between the two kinds of offences 
is between an act or omission which constitutes an offence once and for all and an act or omission which continues, 
and therefore, constitutes a fresh offence every time or occasion on which it continues. In the case of a continuing 
offence, there is thus the ingredient of continuance of the offence which is absent in the case of an offence which 
takes place when an act or omission is committed once and for all.  
Contra  see  Bhagirath  Kanoria  v.  State  of  Madhya  Pradesh,  AIR  1984  SC  1688,  1985  (1)  SCR  626,  where  the 
Hon'ble Supreme Court held that the imposition of penalty not confined to the first default, but with reference to the 
continued  default  is  obviously  on  the  footing  that  non-compliance  with  the  obligation  of  making  return  is  an 
infraction as long as the default continued. Without sanction of law, no penalty is impossible with reference to the 
defaulting conduct. The position that penalty is imposable not only for the first default, but as long as the default 
continues and such penalty is to be calculated at a prescribed rate on monthly basis is indicative of the legislative 
intention  in  unmistakable  terms  that  as  long  as  the  assessee  does  not  comply  with  the  requirements  of  law,  he 
continues to be guilty of the infraction and exposes himself to the penalty provided by law.  
The later Supreme Court decision in Bhagirath Kanoria v. State of Madhya Pradesh, has accordingly ruled that the 
decision  in  State  of  Bihar  v.  Deokaran  Nenshi,  'must  be  confined'  to  such  cases  only,  that  is,  cases  where  such 
default in submitting the return has been made penal, but the penal liability has not been continued so long as the 
default continues, such as withholding payment after due date. 
79 (2008) 8 SCC 648. 

 
Page | 230  

 

 
 

jurisdictions,  not  just  USA. 80  The  argument  that  guidelines  somehow  restrict  the 

discretion  of  authorities  is  unwarranted  and  merely  an  excuse  used  by  miscreants  to 

take  advantage  of  the  loopholes  afforded  by  the  present  system.  Codification  of  the 

possible  methods  through  public  non-mandatory  guidelines  will  ensure  that  quasi-

judicial  and  investigating  officers  can  utilise  the  same  in  furtherance  of  their  public 

duties. In respect of quantification, the Committee recommends an indirect manner of 

quantification whereby the burden of applying the principles in the first instance will be 

placed on the fact-finding authorities and not the quasi-judicial authorities. 

 

RECOMMENDATION: In respect of quantification of profit made and loss caused to the 

investors  as  a  result  of  the  default,  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  public  non-

mandatory  guidelines  may  be  issued  for  the  benefit  of  all  stakeholders,  which  can  be 

constantly revised and updated with ease.  

 

 

2.  WHETHER  QUANTIFICATION  IS  NECESSARY  IN  EVERY  INSTANCE  OF  QUASI-

JUDICIAL PROCESS? 

Though Section 15J of the SEBI Act, Section 19I of the Depositories Act and Section 23J 

of the SCRA are couched in mandatory terms, the following need to be considered, - 

 

i. 

It  may  be  noted  that  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  in  its  recent  order  dated 

28.02.2019  in  the  matter  of  Adjudicating  Officer,  SEBI  v  Bhavesh  Pabari81 has 

not considered the failure to quantify in each and every case as fatal to the levy of 

penalty. The court inter alia held that,- 

“10. The above apart, the circumstances enumerated in clauses (a), (b) and 

(c)  of  Section  15J  of  the  SEBI  Act  may  have  no  relevance  and  may  never 

                                                           
80 Several  jurisdictions  have  Sentencing  Guidelines-  USA,  UK,  Uganda  (judicial),  and  Hong  Kong  (judicial).  See 
The Law Library of Congress, Report on Sentencing Guidelines (2014) <https://www.loc.gov/law/help/sentencing-
guidelines/index.php>.  Some  countries  have  Guideline 
judgments:  Canada,  Australia,  New  Zealand: 
<http://www.judiciary.go.ug/files/downloads/PRINCIPALS%20OF%20SENTENCINT%20A%20GLOBAL%20RE
GIONAL%20%20NATIONAL%20PERSPECTIVE%20final.pdf>. 
81
<https://www.supremecourtofindia.nic.in/supremecourt/2013/36291/36291_2013_Judgement_28-Feb-2019.pdf >. 

available 

 2019 

at 

(3) 

SCALE 

447, 

 

 
Page | 231  

 
 

arise  in  case  of  contraventions  contemplated  by  certain  provisions  of  the 

SEBI Act, for instance Section 15A, 15B or 15C of the SEBI Act. Failure to 

furnish  information,  return,  etc.;  failure  to  enter  into  agreement  with 

clients;  and failure to  redress investors’ grievances cannot give rise to  the 

circumstances set out in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Section 15J. 

… 

12. At this stage, we must also deal with and reject the argument raised by 

some of the private appellants that the conditions stipulated in clauses (a) 

to  (c)  of  Section  15J  are  mandatory  conditions  which  must  be  read  into 

Sections  15A  to  15HA  in  the  sense  that  unless  the  conditions  specified  in 

clauses  (a)  to  (c)  are  satisfied,  penalty  cannot  be  imposed  by  the 

Adjudicating  Officer  under  the  substantive  provisions  of  Sections  15A  to 

15HA  of  the  SEBI  Act.  The  argument  is  too  farfetched  to  be  accepted. 

Section 15J of the SEBI Act enumerates by way of illustration(s) the factors 

which  the  Adjudicating  Officer  should  take 

into  consideration  for 

determining the quantum of penalty imposable. The imposition of penalty 

depends  upon  satisfaction  of  the  substantive  provisions  as  contained  in 

Sections  15A  to  Section  15HA  of  the  SEBI  Act  [and  not  the  provisions  of 

Section 15J](supplied).” 

 

ii. 

Further,  the  statutory  language  is  very  clear,  it  refers  to  taking  note  of  the 

quantification of gains and losses caused to the investors as result of the default 

along with taking into account the repetitive nature of the default. The focus is on 

the default and  not  on the defaulter.82 In case  of loss the statute is  explicit that 

the  loss  may  be  calculated  in  respect  of  an  individual  investor  or  a  group  of 

investors. Further, in cases involving more than one defaulter, it may not be ideal 

to  pin  point  how  much  loss  is  attributable  to  a  particular  defaulter.  While  it  is 

tempting  to  do  so,  it  amounts  to  applying  impossible  equitable  considerations 

 See 

the 

on 

                                                           
82
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/reports/reports/aug-2018/report-on-settlement-mechanism-by-the-high-level-committee-
to-review-the-enforcement-and-settlement-mechanism_39967.html>. 

Settlement  Mechanism, 

Committee’s 

Report 

p 

27, 

available 

at 

 

 
Page | 232  

 
 

between defaulters; those who come with unclean hands have no right to equity 

until  after  the  full  amount  has  been  paid  by  all  or  any  one  of  them.83 In  cases 

where  more  than  one  person  abets  a  fraud,  the  default  that  caused  a  loss  or 

resulted  in  a  profit  is  a  composite  whole  and  need  not  be  broken  up  for 

considering the profit or loss and the liability is to be considered on a joint and 

several basis. The Committee will discuss this aspect further later in this Report. 

In case of fraudulent  and unfair trade practices, even the persons who abet the 

fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practice  are  covered  under  the  SEBI  Act,  1992  and 

the  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to 

Securities  Market)  Regulations,  2003,  which  defines  ‘fraud’,  provides  that  the 

penalty  is  directly  linked  to  the  profit  arising  out  of  such  practices.  Especially, 

where  the  person  is  part  of  a  fraudulent  scheme,  artifice  or  device,  then  such 

scheme or artifice or device may be considered as a singular composite default for 

the  purpose  of  quantification  of  illegal  gains  and/or  loss  rather  than  separate 

defaults and the illegal profit has to be calculated on a holistic basis rather than 

an  individual  basis,  though  different  persons  may  have  had  different  roles  to 

play. 

 

                                                           
83 See Dharni Dhar and Ors v  Chandra Shekhar  & Ors,  AIR 1951 All 774, discussing contribution by joint tort-
feasors and its applicability in India depending on the facts and circumstances of each case: 

“The rule [of Merrywhether v Nixon (1799) 8 T. R. 186: 16 R. R. 810 : 101 E. R. 1337] (supplied) was 
thus modified and came to be stated in these words : 

"No person who has been guilty of fraud or any other form of wilful wrong-doing, and has been made 
liable in damages, has any right of contribution or indemnity against any other person who was a joint 
wrong-doer with him….” 

66. Where a civil wrong is committed jointly by certain persons as against another, they purge themselves 
of the consequences of the wrong when they repair the damage caused to that person. It cannot, therefore, 
be said that the hands of tort-feasor  who has repaired the damage are unclean. Indeed  the hands of the 
person who has not yet contributed his share of the loss are unclean and there is no justice in denying the 
relief to the person who has repaired the whole of the damage caused by the action of both of them."  

Further see Kushro S. Gandhi & Ors v N.A. Gajdar & Ors, 1970 (SC) AIR 1468, 1969 SCR (2) 959, holding that 
the recovery of the entire liability could be made from all or any of the persons jointly liable before they rely on 
accord and satisfaction without going into the correctness of Dharni Dhar and Ors v Chandra Shekhar & Ors, AIR 
1951 All 774. 

 
Page | 233  

 

 
 

 

iii.  There is no direct co-relation between the charging sections of securities laws for 

imposing monetary penalties or fines, and the loss caused to investors as a result 

of the default. This is due to the distinct nature of the securities markets; the loss 

caused to investors by a defaulter may not be commensurate to the actual profit 

made  by  him.  Issuer  financial  frauds  may  create  huge  investor  losses  when  the 

artificial high price of an issuer’s stock plummets with the public dissemination 

of  information  about  the  issuer’s  actual  financial  condition.  In  fact,  securities 

laws  violations  may  cause  investor  losses  that  dwarf,  by  several  orders  of 

magnitude,  any  profit  that  the  defaulters  may  have  made.  In  a  non-zero  sum 

game scenario, linking penalty directly to the loss caused to investors could cause 

the penalty to be excessive and beyond the paying capacity of any defaulter. It is 

for this reason that penalties under securities laws is not a multiple of loss caused 

to investors. Further, SEBI does not  have the power of directing compensation; 

but loss caused to investors is not totally ignored, it is used only for the purpose 

of  guidance,  between  the  minimum  and  maximum  ranges  permitted  by  law, 

which  may  also  be  tied  to  profit.  The  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  loss  co-

relation  is  indirect  and  for  guidance  only.  When  imposing  penalties,  it  is  more 

appropriate  in  cases  of  joint  and  several  liabilities  or  in  case  of  the  main 

accused,  rather  than  for  each  and  every  individual  involved,  unless  it  is  a 

serious violation, and for considering the amount of penalty to be levied within 

the range provided by law. It is well settled that SEBI has no power to order loss 

compensation;  such  jurisdiction  is  vested  with  the  ordinary  civil  courts  and 

company courts, as the case may be. 

 

iv.  Quantification  of  the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage, 

wherever  quantifiable, as  a result of the default is  a different matter altogether. 

Except  in  case  of  fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practices,  insider  trading,  non-

disclosure of acquisition of shares and takeovers and excess brokerage charged by 

a broker, there is no direct co-relation in respect of any other monetary penalties 

specified  in  the  statute  with  the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair 

advantage as a result of the default. In case of criminal fines, there is no direct co-

 
Page | 234  

 
 

 

relation in respect of any kind of default even if it is one of the four categories for 

which  penalties  have  a  direct  co-relation  to  profit.  As  in  loss  quantification, 

similar  issues  arise  in  respect  of  quantification  of  profit  when  quantifying  for 

each and every individual involved. 

v.  Quantification may not be required where the penalty is sufficiently large enough 

to negate any gains that the defaulter may have otherwise made. This can be done 

in  cases  where  the  default  is  repetitive  by  taking  into  account  the  relevant 

principles indicated in the Settlement Regulations.  

 

vi. 

Further,  disgorgement  is  a  remedy  which  is  linked  to  gains  made,  hence  loss 

quantification is not always relevant. Since the securities laws violations are not 

always a ‘zero’ sum game, there usually arises a difference between disgorgement 

of  the  unjust  enrichment  resulting  from  the  default  and  compensation  for  the 

legal  damages  caused.  An  investor  may  be  liable  to  receive  monies  in  case  of 

unjust  enrichment 

through 

the  remedy  of  disgorgement 84  or  receive 

compensation  in  case  of  legal  damages.  Where  the  two  remedies  are  not 

commensurate  to  each  other,  the  Board’s  power  is  limited  to  restitution  of  the 

unjust  enrichment  through  the  remedy  of  disgorgement  made  rather  than 

directing  compensation  of  loss.  The  Committee  has  explained  the  difference 

between  restitution  and  compensation  in  the  draft  Regulation  138  of  the 

proposed Recovery Regulations. 

 

vii.  Quantification  of  loss  to  investors  may  not  be  required  where  the  default  is  a 

victim  less  default85 (such  as  pure  vanilla86 insider  trading  where  there  is  no 

                                                           
84 Banque Financière de la Cité v Parc (Battersea) Ltd and Ors; House of Lords, [1998] 1 All ER 737, [1998] 2 
WLR 475, [1998] UKHL 7, [1999] AC 221; available at <https://www.bailii.org/uk/cases/UKHL/1998/7.html>: per 
Lord Steyn "unjust enrichment ranks next to contract and tort as part of the law of obligations. It is an independent 
source of rights and obligations." 
85
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/inadvfdco130826000031>:  

F.Supp.2d 

 United 

available 

at 

Rajat 

Gupta, 

States 

v 

904 

349 

(2012), 

“While insider trading may work a huge unfairness on innocent investors, Congress has never treated it as a 
fraud on investors, the Securities Exchange Commission has explicitly opposed any such legislation, and the 
Supreme Court has rejected any attempt to extend coverage of the securities fraud laws on such a theory. 
 
Page | 235  

 

 
 

 

proximate  and  directly  harmed  person  who  suffers  legal  damages)  or  has  no 

direct co-relation with the default (where there is break in causation). 

RECOMMENDATION:  In  view  of  the  above,  the  Committee  makes  the  following 

recommendations, - 

 

i.  Quantification of profit wherever possible should be done on the basis of 

the composite default and liability should generally be imposed on a joint 

and several basis; 

 

ii.  When imposing liability on an individual basis, quantification may not be 

required where the penalty otherwise imposed is sufficient; 

 

iii.  When imposing penalties, quantification of loss is generally appropriate in 

cases of joint and several liability or in case of the main accused noticee(s) 

rather  than  for  ‘victimless  defaults’  or  for  each  and  every  individual 

involved in the default since apportioning loss between multiple defaulters 

may be even more difficult than apportioning illegal gains. Further, there 

is no equity between defaulters at time of directing joint disgorgement or 

joint penalties. It is also relevant for considering the amount of penalty to 

be levied within the range provided by law; 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
See,  e.g.,  Chiarella  v.  United  States,  445  U.S.  222,  232-235,  100  S.Ct.  1108,  63  L.Ed.2d  348  (1980). 
Prosecution of insider trading therefore proceeds, as in this case, on one or more theories of defrauding the 
institution (or its shareholders) that owned the information. See, e.g., Dirks v. SEC, 463 U.S. 646, 660-64, 
103 S.Ct. 3255, 77 L.Ed.2d 911 (1983); Carpenter v. U.S., 484 U.S. 19, 25-27, 108 S.Ct. 316, 98 L.Ed.2d 
275  (1987).  In  the  eye  of  the  law,  Gupta's  crime  was  to  breach  his  fiduciary  duty  of  confidentiality  to 
Goldman Sachs; or to put it another way, Goldman Sachs, not the marketplace, was the victim of Gupta's 
crimes as charged.” 

86 Only  where insider trading is combined  with other delinquent conduct  investors  may  be able to show loss  as  a 
result  of  such  conduct  and  claim  restitution  on  the  lines  of  disgorgement.  See  United  States  v.  Skowron,  839  F. 
Supp. 2d 740, 752 (S.D.N.Y. 2012), available at <https://casetext.com/case/united-states-v-skowron>, consisting of 
an insider trading scheme and an ensuing cover-up which actively frustrated its employer’s Morgan Stanley’s efforts 
to  co-operate  with 
(2002),  available  at 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/20021121199fsupp2d92211044>,  restitution  was  awarded  to  investors  in  a 
thinly-traded  stock  where  insider  trading  defendant  actively  encouraged  victims  to  sell  shares  to  him  based  on 
insider trading information known only to him. 

the  SEC;  United  States  v.  Kline,  199  F.Supp.2d  922 

 
Page | 236  

 

 
 

 

 

 

iv. 

Further, in cases where it appears that the loss to the investors and profit 

made out of the default are more or less same, then either profit made or 

loss caused may be calculated using any available methodology. 

3.  WHAT IS THE ‘STANDARD’ TO BE ADOPTED FOR QUANTIFICATION? 

Quantification  of  ‘profits  made’  and  ‘losses  caused’  requires  the  Board  to  examine  the 

behaviour  of  the  defaulter  as  well  as  the  investors  who  may  have  suffered  as  a 

consequence of the default. 

 

STANDARD OF THE COMPLIANT MAN: The defaulter’s behaviour has to be compared vis-

à-vis  the  behaviour  of  a  person  who  complies  with  securities  laws.  The  monetary  and 

non-monetary  benefits  received  by  a  defaulter  has  to  be  compared  with  the  benefits 

received by the compliant man. Prima facie, the excess represents the unlawful gains of 

the defaulter.  However,  this simple  formulation  can  sometimes  require  some  complex 

computation  to  quantify  the  gains.  In  cases  involving  sale  of  securities,  it  matters 

whether the securities were purchased during the course of (or immediately before) the 

violation or sometime before. In the former case, it is easy to identify the gains using the 

difference in price, since the gains are directly tied to the unlawful activity. Whereas in 

the latter case, pre-existing gains that are legal need to be separated from the gains tied 

to  the  period  of  the  unlawful  activity.  Similar  issues  arise  when  securities  which  have 

been  manipulated  are  susceptible  to  movement  on  account  of  general  market 

movement. Such movements affect all persons equally. Such movements may inflate or 

depress the profit of the defaulter in the same way as they would affect any investor. In 

order  to  estimate  the  profit  resulting  from  a  default,  it  may  at  times  be  important  to 

differentiate,  wherever  possible,  the  profit  resulting  from  general  market  movements 

and  those  resulting  from  the  default.  When  the  monies  involved  are  large,  then  it  is 

beneficial to use complex statistical methods such as those used by securities regulators 

world-wide  to  differentiate  between  legal  gains  and  unlawful  gains  as  the  legal  gains 

 

 
Page | 237  

 
 

may  be  appreciably  large  enough  to  be  estimated,  provided  the  defaulter  supplies  the 

necessary information. 

 

STANDARD OF THE REASONABLE INVESTOR: Securities markets operate differently from 

the markets of other goods and services. India follows a disclosure based regime similar 

to that of many developed jurisdictions. These markets are presumed to function on the 

lines  of  an  efficient  market  hypothesis  where  the  market  assimilates  all  available 

information into the price of the security. An investor who trades securities at the price 

set by an impersonal market does so by relying on the integrity of that price. Since most 

publicly available information is reflected in the market price, an investor's reliance on 

any  public  material  misrepresentations  may  be  presumed  for  various  purposes. 

Securities market jurisprudence is built around the concept of ‘fraud-on-the-market’ i.e. 

in  an  open  and  developed  securities  market,  the  price  of  a  company's  securities  are 

determined  by  the  available  material  information  regarding  the  company  and  its 

business. Misleading statements will therefore defraud the investors of securities even if 

the  investors  do  not  directly  rely  on  the  misstatements.  The  misstatements  affect  the 

price  of  the  security,  and  thus  defraud  investors  who  rely  on  the  price  which  is  an 

indication of  the security’s value and all  relevant information relating  to that  security. 

The  causal  connection  between  the  defaulter’s  fraud  and  the  investors’  purchase  of  a 

security  in  such  a  case  is  no  less  significant  than  in  case  of  direct  reliance  on 

misrepresentations. In both cases, defaulter’s fraudulent statements or omissions cause 

investors to purchase securities which they would not have purchased absent defaulter’s 

misstatements and/or omissions. Thus in securities laws cases SEBI is not required to 

prove  direct  reliance  by  investors  on  defaulter’s  misrepresentations  but  can  satisfy  its 

burden  of  proof  on  the  element  of  causation  by  showing  that  the  defaulter  made 

material  misrepresentations  and  it  will  be  presumed  that  the  misrepresentations 

occasioned  an  increase  in  the  security’s  value  that,  in  turn,  induced  the  investors  to 

purchase a security, though it may very well be that the investors never bothered to take 

note  of  the  disclosures  made  on  the  exchange  or  the  bulky  prospectuses  or  that  they 

were  guided  by  astrological  considerations  or  were  just  investing  at  a  whim.  The 

investors  are  presumed  to  have  behaved  in  a  reasonable  way.  The  standard  of  a 
 
Page | 238  

 

 
 

reasonable investor was recognised by the US Supreme Court in several matters.87 This 

has been applied in the context of Indian securities litigation as well88 and relied upon 

by SEBI also.89 

 

While considering the above standards, a few other factors also need to be kept in mind, 

such  as  cases  which  revolve  around  an  omission(s),  such  as  failure  to  give  an 

advertisement  in  respect  of  changes  between  the  draft  offer  documents  and  the  RHP, 

failure to give an open offer, etc. In order to impart seriousness to compliance of laws, it 

is  important  to  consider  the  ‘cost  of  compliance’  avoided  instead  of  imposing  base 

penalties  of  a  few  lakhs  or  thousands.  In  such  cases,  the  defaulter  avoids  ‘fixed’  costs 

such as the cost of giving the advertisement or making the open offer. These ‘fixed costs’ 

can be estimated based on the prevailing practices by comparison with similarly placed 

compliant  market  participants.  To  these  ‘fixed’  benefits,  there  may  also  be  ‘variable’ 

benefits.  In  particular,  in  the  case  of  an  open  offer,  it  may  be  possible  that  the  open 

offer, even if it had been made, it would not have evinced any interest from the investors 

available 

at 

fact 

(An  omitted 

                                                           
87 TSC  Industries,  Inc.  v.  Northway,  Inc.,  426  U.S.  438,  96  S.Ct.  2126,  48  L.Ed.2d  757  (1976),  available  at 
<https://casetext.com/case/tsc-industries-inc-v-northway-
inc?q=426%20U.S.%20438%20&p=1&tab=keyword&jxs=&sort=relevance&type=case> 
is 
material  if there is  a substantial likelihood  that a  reasonable shareholder  would consider it important in deciding 
how  to  vote.  It  does  not  require  proof  of  a  substantial  likelihood  that  disclosure  of  the  omitted  fact  would  have 
caused the reasonable investor to change his vote, but contemplates a showing of a substantial likelihood that, under 
all  the  circumstances,  the  omitted  fact  would  have  assumed  actual  significance  in  the  reasonable  shareholder's 
deliberations.); Basic incorporated, et al. v. Max L. Levinson, et al., 485 U.S. 224 (1988) (108 S.Ct. 978, 99 L.Ed.2d 
194), 
<https://casetext.com/case/basic-incorporated-v-
levinson?q=485%20U.S.%20224%20&p=1&tab=keyword&jxs=&sort=relevance&type=case>  (“We  face  here  the 
narrow  question  whether  information  concerning  the  existence  and  status  of  preliminary  merger  discussions  is 
significant  to  the  reasonable  investor's  trading  decision….  We  therefore  find  no  valid  justification  for  artificially 
excluding from the definition of materiality information concerning merger discussions, which would otherwise be 
considered significant to the trading decision of a reasonable investor, merely because agreement-in-principle as to 
price and structure has not yet been reached by the parties or their representatives”). 
88 See In re Pharma Pharmaceuticals Products of India ltd., (2006) 131 Comp Cas 747 (Bom). (2006) 5 CompLJ 
282 Bom; 2006 70 SCL 93 Bom; Maneck-chowk and Ahmedabad Manufacturing Co. Ltd., In re, [1970] 40 Comp 
Cas 819. (The petitioner must prima facie show that the scheme is preeminently fair and reasonable as a prudent and 
reasonable shareholder would approve of and not object to.) Also See Miheer H. Mafatlal v Mafatlal Industries Ltd, 
JT 1996 (8) 205 (SC). 
89 SEBI Discussion Paper on review of Clause 36 and related clauses of the equity  listing agreement, available at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/1408444809721.pdf>; Also see  Hindustan Lever  Ltd.  v  SEBI,  1998 
(18) SCL 311 (AA), detailing SEBI’s order dated 11.03.1998. (SEBI  inter alia held that, since information about 
merger would have affected the price of securities and any reasonable investor would have attached importance to 
such  an  information,  non-disclosure  of  this  information  to  UTI  put  UTI  to  distinct  disadvantage  and  prevented  it 
from taking an informed decision.) 

 

 
Page | 239  

 
 

or it may have been partly or fully subscribed; however, it is clear that the intent behind 

evading  the  open  offer  obligation  was  the  probability  of  it  being  subscribed.  Since  the 

standard of proof in civil and administrative proceedings is the test of preponderance of 

probability 90 ,  quantification  can  be  based  on  assumptions  that  match  the  intent. 

Quantification of gains becomes difficult in such cases but not impossible. In such cases, 

law  permits  that  a  presumption  may  be  made  in  respect  of  the  ‘common  course  of 

natural  events,  human  conduct  and  public  and  private  business’91,  having  regard  to 

the facts of the particular scrip by comparing with similar scrips and open offers, etc. 

made in the past a probable cost may be determined and the noticee may be given an 

opportunity to show why such assumptions adopted may not be correct and some other 

amount  may  be  arrived  at,  e.g.  on  these  very  lines  Table  VI  of  the  Schedule-II  of  the 

Settlement  Regulations  inter  alia  already  provide  for  the  Board  to  consider  the 

‘probable cost of  open offer as recommended  by the Corporate Finance Department.’ 

Just  as  independent  valuers  are  used  for  valuation  of  properties,  costs  may  be  called 

from independent merchant bankers using relevant information sought from the noticee 

to determine the probable cost of an open offer. 

 

Similarly, there are omissions where the monies of clients are mixed with own funds to 

satisfy  some  margin  or  net-worth  requirements.  In  these  cases,  the  time  value  of  the 

funds  so  taken  or  provided,  needs  to  be  taken  into  account  with  any  other  attendant 

profit. 

 

There  are  also  instances  where  a  benefit  may  be  drawn  in  respect  of  legal  and  illegal 

activities,  such  as  salary,  bonuses,  etc.  These  issues  have  also  been  dealt  with  in  the 

Report.  

 

 Adjudicating  Officer, 

                                                           
90
SEBI 
<https://www.supremecourtofindia.nic.in/supremecourt/2013/36291/36291_2013_Judgement_28-Feb-2019.pdf>. 
91 See  Section  114  of  the  Indian  Evidence  Act,  1872,  which  has  been  held  to  be  relevant  and  applicable  to 
proceedings under securities laws and applied by the Supreme Court in SIRECL & Ors v SEBI & Anr., order dated 
31.08.2012  available at <https://www.sebi.gov.in/enforcement/orders/aug-2012/order-in-the-matter-of-sahara-india-
real-estate-corporation-limited-and-ors-_23665.html>. 

v  Bhavesh  Pabari, 

(3) 

SCALE 

2019 

447, 

available 

at 

 

 
Page | 240  

 
 

To  the  extent  possible,  the  Board  should  attempt  to  quantify  the  fixed  and  variable 

benefits  and  losses,  though  the  exact  amounts  may  never  be  ascertainable  with 

certainty, since uncertainty is a necessary feature of any dynamic securities market and 

investors and defaulters are subject to it alike; it is not an advantage or a disadvantage 

for  either.  Investors  and  defaulters  are  willing  to  subject  themselves  to  market 

uncertainties while making trading decisions for making profits, they must therefore be 

subjected to the same uncertainties when being adjudicated for unlawful activities.  

 

INVESTOR’S  RIGHT  OF  RESTITUTION  v  LOSS  COMPENSATION:  The  standards  are 

relevant for determining inter alia losses by investors, which is only used as a measure 

for guidance for determining penalty to be levied rather than for grant of compensation. 

For  the  purpose  of  computation  of  losses  to  the  investors  while  levying  penalties,  the 

investors  are  assumed  to  have  acted  in  a  reasonable  manner  and  thus  suffered  in  a 

similar  manner  allowing  the  determination  to  be  made  in  an  approximate  manner 

instead  of  involving  the  regulator  in  a  never  ending  inquiry  involving  millions  of 

investors  in  every  other  proceeding.  However,  it  is  quite  possible  that  investors  may 

have  suffered  higher  or  lower  losses  or  even  the  number  of  investors  affected  may  be 

larger since the securities may change several hands during the default period. Since the 

uncertainty is a result of the misconduct of the defaulter he bears the risk of uncertainty 

and  cannot  object  to  the  approximation  method  for  quantification  of  loss.  Hence,  the 

methods  of  loss  quantification  recommended  in  this  report  are  used  only  to  provide 

guidance  in  levy  of  penalty  in  India  (or  to  determine  terms  of  imprisonment  and 

quantum of fines in the USA) and not for providing compensation to the investors since 

that  power  is  anyways  not  vested  with  SEBI  but  with  the  civil  court  (or  commercial 

courts) and the NCLT in certain instances. Investors must independently discharge their 

burden in the proceedings brought by them.92  

 

 
                                                           
92 S.E.C. v. Tambone, 597 F.3d 436, 461 (1st Cir. 2010), available at <https://casetext.com/case/sec-exch-commn-v-
tambone>  ([P]rivate  litigants  face  multiple  burdens  in  pleading  securities  claims.  Not  only  must  they  meet  the 
standard requirement that allegations of fraud be pleaded with particularity, but — unlike the SEC — they also must 
prove reliance on the alleged misrepresentations, economic loss, and loss causation).  

 
Page | 241  

 

 
 

 

4.  QUANTIFICATION OF LOSS TO INVESTORS  

Quantification of  loss to investors in respect of  a closed group (a PMS, MF, AIF or an 

InVIT,  etc.)  is  easier  since  the  investors  partake  in  a  common  scheme  fund  and  the 

details  of  the  investment  values and  subsequent  values  are  easily  available.  The  funds 

are required to calculate NAV on a regular basis and the same can be used. 

 

The  issue  of  multiple  causation  commonly  arises  when  a  defaulter’s  conduct  has 

apparently caused some actual loss to the victim, but the defaulter alleges that but for 

the intervention  of  unforeseen  factors,  the loss would  have  been  smaller  or  would  not 

have  occurred  at  all.  Consider,  for  example,  a  victim  who  purchased  stock  based  on  a 

defaulter’s fraudulent misrepresentations about its value, and then sees the stock price 

decrease still further because of an unforeseen downturn in the stock market after the 

purchase. From one point of view, the only loss directly caused by the defendant in this 

case  is  the  difference  between  price  the  victim  paid  for  the  stock  based  on  the 

misrepresentations by the defendant and the intrinsic market value of the stock at the 

time of purchase. On the other hand, but for the defaulter’s blandishments, the victim 

would not have been holding the stock to begin with and thus would not have suffered 

the  additional  harm  caused  by  the  market  decline  which  lowered  the  realisable  value 

below the intrinsic market value of the stock at the time of purchase.93 Therefore, even 

in case of multiple causation except for what can be assessed and separated based on the 

facts available to the Board, the defaulter bears the responsibility for the default created 

by the uncertainty of his default as his default is the proximate cause.  

 

The  need  for  asserting  the  importance  of  disclosures:  The  year  1992  is 

important  because  that  is  the  year  when  the  Indian  stock  market  moved  towards  a 

disclosure  based  regime.  By  a  disclosure  based  regime,  we  mean  a  regime  where  the 

issue  of  capital  and  trading  thereof  are  considered  to  be  vital  and  the  basis  of  an 

                                                           
93 Frank O. Bowman, Coping with “Loss”: A Re-Examination of Sentencing Federal Economic Crimes under the 
Guidelines, 
at 
<https://scholarship.law.missouri.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1077&context=facpubs>. 

51  Vanderbilt 

available 

1998 

(3)  Vol. 

Law 

Review 

461, 

p 

524, 

 

 
Page | 242  

 
 

‘efficient  securities  markets’.  However,  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  we  have  not 

really acknowledged the importance of true and fair disclosures. Even now the violation 

of  disclosure  requirements  is  considered  ‘technical’  by  the  regulator  as  well  as  the 

Tribunal  in  several  of  their  orders  and  pronouncements.  Section  34  of  the  Companies 

Act, 2013 declares liability for fraud for misstatements in prospectus for issue of shares, 

but there is no such clarity in SEBI regulations which governs the issue of various kinds 

of securities and offer documents.  

 

The Committee is of the view that unless the importance is given to disclosures, overall 

governance  cannot  improve.  Similarly,  giving  importance  to  the  quality  and  timing  of 

disclosures  and  non-disclosures  (other  than  those  contained  in  offer  documents)  will 

also enable the regulator to focus on the various modes through which illegitimate profit 

is made by various delinquents. The Committee notes that in the USA, wherefrom the 

disgorgement  remedy  in  the  securities  market  has  been  adopted  has  been  used  for  a 

plethora of violations and not just fraud, because no person can be permitted to profit 

for money had and received on account of any kind of violation of law, in particular,- 

i.  Trading done after disclosure violations. Eg. The SEC requires that purchasers of 

more  than  5%  of  the  stock  of  a  publicly  traded  company  file  a  Schedule  13D 

within  10 business days  after  crossing  the  5%  threshold.  A  filer  must  promptly 

update  the  Schedule  13D  filing  to  reflect  any  material  change  in  the  facts 

disclosed, including, among other things, the acquisition or disposition of 1% or 

more of the class of securities that are the subject of the filing. A late Schedule 

13D  filing  results  in  disgorgement  because  it  enables  the  purchaser  to  buy 

subsequent  shares  more  cheaply  than  had  he  purchased  them  after  the  stock 

price reflected the disclosure;94 

ii.  Negligence without fraudulent intent. E.g. corporate raider selling stock without 

disclosure  after  having  announced  an  acquisition  and  before  completion 

                                                           
94 Mark L. Mitchell and Jeffry M. Netter, The Role of Financial Economics in Securities Fraud Cases: Applications 
at the Securities and Exchange Commission, The Business Lawyer, Vol. 49, No. 2 (February 1994), 545, 554-556 
&579-582 available at https://www.jstor.org/stable/40687469. 

 
Page | 243  

 

 
 

thereof. 95 Negligent  failure  to  adopt  and  implement  policies  and  procedures 

reasonably designed to prevent violations of securities laws.96  

iii. 

Failure  to  comply  with  business  norms  not  amounting  to  fraud.  E.g.  Rating 

surveillance fees for 3 years were directed to be disgorged due to inter alia credit 

rating agency failing to disclose  changes to  certain  surveillance  assumptions as 

the methodology stated that the firm would do, misrepresenting its surveillance 

methodology for ratings of certain complex financial instruments during a three-

year period, etc.97 

Once  greater  attention  is  paid  to  disclosures  requirements,  any  trading  around  the 

relevant period will allow the Board to compute the undue profits made and the losses 

caused  to  investors  who  were  denied  similar  opportunity.  Similarly,  when  a  stock 

exchange purports to provide services to market participants, where market participants 

are lead to believe that they are all receiving similar kind of services from the exchange 

for similar fees when in fact they were not, the stock exchange may be asked to disgorge 

the  monies  earned  in  breach  of  law  and  of  its  fiduciary  duty  to  the  various  market 

participants who traded on the stock exchange.  

 

Disclosures are important from the perspective of the investors also. Merely because the 

disclosure that was not made indicates ‘no change’, especially ownership and financial 

information,  compared  to  past  disclosure  does  not  mean  it  is  technical.  Infact, 

information disclosed on a stock exchange including that which reflects ‘no growth’ or 

‘no  change’  may  be  a  key  driver  for  timely  divestment  by  investors  to  invest  in  some 

other scrip where growth is more probable. While large acquirers undertake their own 

additional  due-diligences,  the  regulatory  disclosures  are  the  key  drivers  of  price 

movement for investors. Investor wealth grows if the company grows, investors choose 

to  invest,  stay  invested  or  divest  based  on  the  price  outlook  which  depends  on  the 

disclosed information, even if it is no information. After all, the efficient market concept 
                                                           
95 Mark L. Mitchell and Jeffry M. Netter, The Role of Financial Economics in Securities Fraud Cases: Applications 
at the Securities and Exchange Commission, The Business Lawyer, Vol. 49, No. 2 (February 1994), 545, 583-584 
available at https://www.jstor.org/stable/40687469. 
96  SEC  Administrative  Order  in  the  matter  of  TPG  Capital  Advisors  LLC  dated  21.12.2017,  available  at 
<https://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2017/ia-4830.pdf>. 
97 SEC order against DBRS Inc. available at <https://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2015/34-76261.pdf>. 

 
Page | 244  

 

 
 

implies  that  all  available,  or  lack  of  information,  is  reflected  in  the  price  of  the  listed 

stock.  

 

The importance of disclosures is also crucial in financial economics (discussed later in 

this Report) which uses inter alia event study methodologies that focus on the study of 

the  effect  of  disclosures  on  price  of  the  securities  markets.  A  focus  on  the  effect  of 

disclosures/non-disclosures and ‘follow the money (or securities or assets)’ are the key 

foundation of investigation in securities laws. These statistical techniques in conjunction 

with  focus  on  disclosures  will  enhance  the  ability  of  the  regulator  to  quantify  profit 

made due to failure from disclosures and the loss caused to investors.  

 

RECOMMENDATION: The Committee is of the view that,- 

i.  The  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to 

Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 may be amended on the lines of Section 34 

of the Companies Act, 2013 to clarify that misstatements of any kind in an offer 

document,  placement  memorandum,  or  any  other  document  calling  for 

subscription to securities amounts to fraud; 

 

ii.  The  period  of  investigation,  inquiry,  audit  or  examination  should  ideally 

encompass  the  trading  around  the  period  the  disclosures  were  required  to  be 

made  or  have  been  made  and  also  encompass  any  delinquent  who  may  be  the 

recipient of the unlawful proceeds or securities/assets. An internal Circular may 

be issued in respect of this guideline. 

 

AT-LEAST BASIS: Loss calculation is not easy and in certain cases can reflect the nature 

of  the  complexity  of  the scam.  Especially  in  cases  where  a  fraud  has been  perpetrated 

over  a  period  of  time,  the  amount  of  loss  though  not  entirely  quantifiable,  still  an 

attempt  can  be  made  on  ‘at  least’  basis.  In  U.S.  v  Ebbers, 98 the  Court  of  Appeals 

                                                           
98 458 F.3d 110 (2nd Cir. 2006), available at <https://www.leagle.com/decision/2006568458f3d1101558>.  

 
Page | 245  

 

 
 

estimated  a  loss  to  the  investors  of  at  least  US  $  one  billion  and  inter  alia  held  as 

follows: 

“Determining  this  amount  is  no  easy  task.  One  version  of  the  so-called 

market capitalization test would, in its simplest form, take the share price on 

the date of a fraudulent statement—X-day, we shall call it—subtract from it 

the share price on the day after the fraud is revealed—Y-day— and multiply 

that amount by the number of outstanding shares. 

 

There is  a problem, however, with this simplistic analysis. If the  truth had 

been  told  on  X-day,  shareholder  A  would  have suffered  an  immediate  loss 

commensurate  with  the  fraud  loss  because  potential  buyers  at  the  earlier 

price  would  have  immediately  disappeared  upon  the  bad  news.  When 

perpetrated,  therefore,  the  fraud  would  not  damage  A  anymore  than  the 

truth, at least immediately. However, were investor B to buy the stock after 

the  fraudulent  statement  and  in  reliance  upon  the  integrity  of  the  market 

price, B would suffer a loss in the amount of the price paid less the intrinsic 

value, which, under the market capitalization test, would usually be deemed 

to be the price after the disclosure of the fraud on Y-day. 

 

While shareholder A is as  damaged by the truth as by the fraud on X-day, 

many frauds are ongoing, and, contrary to the testimony of Ebbers' expert, 

shareholder  A  may  suffer  a  loss  over  time  in  being  misled  in  assessing 

whether  to  hold  or  sell  the  stock.  While  A  can  be  said  not  to  have  lost 

anything  as  a  result  of  the  fraud  on  X-day  —assuming  no  prior  disclosure 

obligation on the defendant's part—if new fraudulent statements are issued 

on X +1, X +2, etc., and the company's true value has further diminished on 

each  occasion,  the  succeeding  X-day  frauds  would  have  the  effect  of 

preventing A from making an informed judgment about holding the stock. 

 

The securities laws are intended to allow investors to buy, sell, or hold based 

on  accurate  information.  An  investor  who  buys  securities  before  an 
 
Page | 246  

 

 
 

 

 

extended fraud begins, and holds them during the period of the fraud, may 

therefore be little different from one why buys in mid-fraud. 

 

For example, the ongoing fraud here involved a series of periodic, fraudulent 

financial reports that systematically inflated WorldCom's operating profits. 

If  the  first  report  had  been  accurate,  some  decrease  in  fundamental  value 

would  have  been  revealed,  but  the  decrease  would  have  been  far  less  than 

that revealed in June 2002 after several more fraudulent reports. Investors 

who held their stock throughout the fraud period were therefore denied the 

opportunity  to  reassess  and  perhaps  sell  according  to  their  own  informed 

estimates of the declining performance. 

 

The loss to investors who hold during the period of an ongoing fraud is not 

easily quantifiable because we cannot accurately assess what their  conduct 

would have been had they known the truth. However, some estimate must 

be  made  for  Guidelines'  purposes,  or  perpetrators  of  fraud  would  get  a 

windfall. (emphasis supplied) Moreover, revelation of an extended period of 

fraudulent financial statements may cause losses beyond that resulting from 

the  restatement  of 

financial  circumstances  because  confidence 

in 

management and in even the truthful portions of a financial statement will 

be lost. ... 

To  be  sure,  this  calculation  is  flawed.  Ebbers'  expert  testified  that  at  least 

some  of  the decline in  WorldCom's  stock  price  immediately  after  June 25, 

2002,  was  attributable  to  factors  other  than  accounting  fraud,  …  Even  so, 

the loss amount is still well above $1 billion, or ten times greater than the 

$100  million  dollar  threshold  for  the  26-level  enhancement....  Even  a  loss 

calculation of $1 billion is therefore almost certainly too low, and there is no 

reasonable calculation of loss to investors that would call for a remand.” 

 
Page | 247  

 
 

Further, since there is no direct relation between the loss to investors and the penalty or 

fine to be levied or the term of imprisonment to be ordered, the strictness with which 

the loss needs to be calculated, is not found in Indian securities laws. 

 

 

A.  DIFFICULTY  IN  RESPECT  OF  AN  UNREGISTERED  OR  FRAUDULENT  SCHEME 

FUNDS. 

In  securities  schemes  where  money  has  been  raised  without  the  required  approvals 

under  law  e.g.  certificate  of  registration,  the  person  raising  the  funds  without 

registration (and his creditors acquire no right to such funds99) hold the monies in trust 

and must refund them. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in PGF Limited & Ors. v Union of 

India & Anr.100 has noted that ‘The investors virtually by signing on the dotted lines of 

those stereotyped blank documents would never be aware of the nature of constraints 

created  in  the  document,  which  would  virtually  wipe out  whatever  investment  made 

by them in course of time and ultimately having regard to the legal tangles in which 

such  investors  would  have  to  undergo  by  spending  further  monies  on  litigations, 

ultimately  prefer  to  ignore  their  investments  cursing  themselves  of  their  fate.  More 

than  90  per  cent  of  such  investors  would  prefer  to  forget  such  investments  than 

making  any  attempt  to  secure  their  money  back.  Thereby,  the  promoters  put  to 

unlawful gain who always thrive on other peoples money.’ Thus in such cases it is safe 

to say that, unless refunded the monies raised amount to unlawful gain. 

 
                                                           
99 See G. R. Deo, Liquidator, C.P. and Berar Government Clerks’ Mutual benefit Fund, Nagpur v F Karim and Anr, 
AIR 1946 Nag 196, wherein the High Court inter alia held as follows:  

“The question is whether these sums, however paid, and however received, and into whatever account they 
were paid, can be claimed by the liquidator as part of the  company's assets. In our opinion, they cannot. 
Section 3 (l), Insurance Act of 1938, contains an express prohibition. It states that: 

No insurer carrying on any class of insurance business in British India shall, after the expiry of three 
months  from  the  commencement  of  this  Act,  continue  to  carry  on  such  business,  unless  he  has 
obtained from the Superintendent of Insurance a certificate of registration. 

8.  As the certificate was not obtained, the company was prevented by law from carrying on its business. 
Part  of  its  business  was  to  obtain  contributions  from  its  members.  Therefore,  it  was  prohibited  from 
receiving  these  contributions.  Accordingly,  if  it  continued  to  receive  these  moneys  in  spite  of  this 
prohibition, it could not, in our opinion, claim the moneys as its own,..” 

100 Civil Appeal No. 6572 of 2004, Judgment dated 12.03.2013, Para 41. 

 
Page | 248  

 

 
 

Similarly, the loss computation arises in the context of the monies raised and the monies 

available for refund. Also since the person (or the liquidator thereof and his creditors) 

has no title to the funds, the monies in excess must go the IEPF101 or the IPEF102, as the 

case may be.  

 

RECOMMENDATION:  In  this  respect  some  of  the  principles  that  may  be  used  for 

quantifying the losses to investors are as follows, - 

 

i. 

In case of an investment scheme requiring registration under securities laws, loss 

to  an  investor  shall  not  be  reduced  by  the  money  or  the  value  of  the  property 

transferred  to  any  individual  investor  in  the  scheme in  excess  of  that  investor’s 

principal investment (i.e., the gain to an individual investor in the scheme shall 

not be used to offset the loss to another individual investor in the scheme);103 

 

ii. 

In a case involving a scheme in which - (I) services were fraudulently rendered to 

the  victim  by  persons  falsely  posing  as  licensed/registered  professionals;  (II) 

services  were  falsely  represented  as  approved  by  SEBI  or  a  governmental 

regulatory  agency;  or  (III)  services  for  which  regulatory  approval  by  SEBI  or  a 

government  agency  was  required  but  not  obtained,  or  was  obtained  by  fraud,  - 

loss  shall  include  the  amount  paid  for  the  property  or  services  transferred, 

rendered, or misrepresented, with no credit provided for the value of those items 

or services;104 and 

 

iii.  The losses equal the unreturned amounts originally invested by the investors and 

the  earnings  re-invested  in  such  schemes  (promised  returns  which  are  not  re-

invested are not part of the loss calculation), even though those earnings accrued 

                                                           
101 See Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
102 See SEBI (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009. 
103  US  Sentencing  Guidelines  p  98,  available  at  <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-
manual/2016/GLMFull.pdf>. 
104 Ibid. 

 
Page | 249  

 

 
 

 

as  a  result  of  such  schemes.  However,  the  most  recent  promised  or  reported 

earnings are excluded.105  

 

B.  LOSS  TO  INVESTORS  DUE  TO  DEFLATION  OR  INFLATION  BY  DEFAULTS  SUCH  AS 

FRAUDULENT TRADING, FALSE OR MISLEADING INFORMATION, ETC. 

Generally, there is no loss attributable to a fraud unless and until the truth (by truth we 

mean  any  information  which  breaks  the  veneer  of  falsehood  and  thus  discloses  the 

fraud,  since  the  whole  truth  may  never  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  market)  is 

subsequently revealed and the price of the stock is adversely affected. Where the value of 

a  security  declines  for  other  reasons,  however,  such  decline,  or  component  of  the 

decline,  is  not  a  "loss"  attributable to the  fraud106 and  where  such  ‘attributable’ loss  is 

mixed  with  ‘un-attributable’  loss  it  may  be  distinguished  from  attributable  loss  to  the 

extent possible. 

 

RECOMMENDATION: In case of frauds where a large number of investors get affected the 

loss  may  be  calculated  on  the  affected  shares  using  the  methods  indicated  by  the  US 

                                                           
105  Primer  Loss  Calculations  under  §2B1.1(b)(1)  of  the  US  Sentencing  Guidelines  p  23,  available  at 
<https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/training/primers/2016_Primer_Loss.pdf>.  See  United  States  v  Hsu, 
669 F.3d 112 (2d Cir. 2012), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/623036/united-states-v-hsu/>: 

“The guidelines provide that when an investor puts money into a fraudster's hands, and ultimately receives 
nothing of value in return, his loss is measured by the amount of principal invested, not by the principal 
amount plus the promised interest or return that was never received. The situation is different, however, in 
a case in which an investor is told not simply that his investment will grow, but that it has grown, and that 
the total of his original investment and the accrued interest or other gain is now available to be withdrawn 
or reinvested  in  the  scheme,  depending on  the investor's preference.  (emphasis  supplied) ... The task in 
Hsu's  case,  however,  is  straightforward.  Hsu's  victims  frequently  returned  post-dated  checks  to  him  for 
reinvestment, thereby relinquishing the opportunity to cash those checks and withdraw from the scheme. 
When  this  occurred,  the  reinvested  checks-  including  the  previously  promised  returns-  became  part  of 
their  principal  investment,  and  therefore  constitute  the  very  losses  that  Hsu  intended  to  inflict  upon  his 
victims.  The  fact  that  such  money  may  never  have  "existed,"  or  that  the  scheme  may  have  collapsed 
sooner if all investors had attempted to  withdraw their purported gains  at  once, does not affect the loss 
calculation. On the facts of this case, the investors were given a clear opportunity to withdraw the total 
amount of their principal and accrued interest, and were induced not to do so by fraudulent promises of 
continued  gain.  The  reinvestments  were  thus  appropriately  counted  as  loss.  (emphasis  supplied)  Hsu's 
argument that the "gains" did not exist, and that there was no money to pay the investors, reduces to the 
claim that the victims' losses do not count because he was unable to pay them back.” 

 See  United 

106
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/2005969429f3d5401966>. 

v.  Olis, 

States 

429 

F.3d 

540, 

546 

(5th  Cir. 

2005), 

available 

at 

 
Page | 250  

 

 
 

Sentencing  Commission  and  those  used  in  securities  litigations,  with  suitable 

modifications as follows, - 

“Inflation  or  Deflation  in  Value  of  Securities.—In  a  case  involving 

the fraudulent inflation or deflation in the value of securities, the Board in 

determining  loss  may  use  any  method  including  the  following  that  is 

appropriate and practicable under the circumstances, -  

 

i.  MODIFIED  RESCISSORY  METHOD107:  the  actual  loss  attributable  to 

the change in value of the security is the amount determined by—  

(I)  calculating  the  difference  between  the  average  price  of  the 

security  during  the  period  that  the  fraud  occurred  and  the 

average price of the security during the relevant108 period after 

the fraud  was disclosed  to  the  market  or  after  the  misconduct 

ended, as may be applicable, and  

(II) multiplying the difference in average price by the  number 

of  securities  out-standing  after  excluding  those  held  by  the 

defaulters themselves  (if  they  amount  to  substantial  holdings) 

throughout the period of the default, if available.  

 

Explanation  1.  –  Average  price  may  be  calculated  by  using  the 

closing price of each trading day of the time period selected or by 

using any other relevant price, including weighted average price or 

other method. It is not necessary that the relevant period may refer 

 United 

States 

Supp. 

                                                           
107
v.  Bakhit, 
at 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2360321/united-states-v-bakhit/>; United States v. Grabske, 260 F.Supp.2d 
866 (2002), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2578802/united-states-v-grabske/>: 

(C.D.  Cal. 

218  F. 

2d 

1232 

2002), 

available 

“It is thus appropriate to compute the loss based on the average purchase price during the fraud and the 
average  price  during  a  relevant  period  after  the  fraud.  Second,  the  rescissory  method  eliminates,  or  at 
least reduces, the complexity, uncertainty, and expense inherent in attempting to determine out-of-pocket 
losses.” 

108 Suitable period: choice of appropriate time period may be made to inter alia consider the time when the market 
could be said to have absorbed the information and reflect the same in the price of the security. There may be delay 
with which the market may start correcting itself or extended periods for the market to correct itself. This depends 
on individual stock and market conditions as seen in Trojan & Co. Ltd v R. M. N. N. Nagappa Chettiar, AIR 1953 
SC 235: 1953SCR780, it need not begin immediately.  

 
Page | 251  

 

 
 

to the entire period from which the default occurred and the fraud 

came  to  a  stop,  the  ‘relevant’  period  may  refer  to  a  sub-period 

during  which  substantial  trades  took  place  or  which  was 

immediately connected to the fraud. 

 

Explanation 2. – ‘relevant’  period  for averaging: In  case  of 

illiquid 

securities 

[including 

related 

exchange 

traded 

derivatives  and  debt  instruments]:  the  price  on  the  day  (or  the 

next  trading  day,  whichever  is  appropriate)  the  true  and  fair 

information/fraud 

has 

been 

become 

publicly 

disseminated/stopped  may  be  selected  or  the  average  price  for  a 

period  not  exceeding  seven  trading  days,  to  the  extent  possible, 

after the true and fair information/fraud has been become publicly 

disseminated/stopped may be selected, as may be deemed fit.  

 

Explanation 3. – ‘relevant’  period  for averaging: In  case  of 

liquid  securities [including related exchange traded derivatives 

and  debt  instruments]:  the period  may  be  a  multiple109 of  fifteen 

trading  days 

to  be 

selected  after 

the 

true  and 

fair 

information/fraud 

has 

been 

become 

publicly 

disseminated/stopped  provided  that  it  shall  not  exceed  ninety 

days,  to  the  extent  possible,  especially  in  relation  to  securities 

which  are  part  of  any  index  [including  related  exchange  traded 

derivatives and debt instruments]. Shorter periods may be selected 

in case extraneous factors demonstrably affect the price. 

 

In  determining  whether  the  amount  so  determined  is  a  reasonable 

estimate of  the actual  loss attributable to the change in value of the 

security, the Board may consider, among other factors, the extent to 

                                                           
109 The  deeper  the  market  for  a  security  the  longer  the  period,  with  maximum  possible  period  in  case  of  a  main 
indices such as BSE SENSEX or NIFTY 50. 

 
Page | 252  

 

 
 

which  the  amount  so  determined  includes  ‘significant  changes’  in 

value not resulting from the default (e.g., changes caused by external 

market  forces,  such  as  changed  economic  circumstances,  changed 

investor  expectations,  and  new  industry-  specific  or  firm-specific 

facts, conditions, or events that appear to impact the price movement 

by more than 20%) by fixing if possible, a suitable percentage of the 

amount determined above. 

 

 

ii.  MARKET CAPITALIZATION METHOD110: the actual loss attributable to 

the change in value of the security is the amount determined by—  

(I)  calculating  the  difference  between  the  immediate  price  of  the 

security during a suitable period prior  to the disclosure/stoppage 

of  the  fraud  (usually  the  closing  price  the  day  before  the 

disclosure/stoppage) and the immediate price of the security after 

the fraud was disclosed to the market/stopped (usually the closing 

price after the disclosure/stoppage) (or next day price), and  

(II)  multiplying  the  difference  by  the  number  of  shares  out-

standing after excluding those held by the defaulters themselves (if 

they amount to substantial holdings) throughout the period of the 

default, if available.  

In determining whether the amount so determined is a reasonable 

estimate of the actual loss attributable to the change in value of the 

security 111 ,  the  Board  may  consider,  among  other  factors,  the 

v.  Olis, 

429  F.3d 

etc.)  United 

States 

                                                           
110  (Suitable  for  instances  where  the  stock  valuation  falls  substantially  after  the  fraud  e.g.  WorldCom,  Enron, 
Satyam, 
at 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/2005969429f3d5401966>;  United  States  v.  Moskowitz, 215  F.3d  265 (2d 
Cir.2000),  available  at  <https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/F3/215/265/608045/>;  and United 
States 
at 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/19991487175f3d131211334>. See also United States v. Bakhit, 218 F. Supp. 2d 
 
1232 (C.D. Cal. 2002), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2360321/united-states-v-bakhit/>.  
111
available 
at 
<https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/544/336/>:  

Broudo, 544 U.S. 336 

Pharmaceuticals, 

540,  546 

(5th  Cir. 

2005), 

available 

(2005) 

(S.C.), 

 See  Dura 

F.3d 

1312 (11th 

Cir.1999), 

available 

v. 

Hedges, 175 

Inc. 

v. 

 

 
Page | 253  

 
 

extent  to  which  the  amount  so  determined  includes  ‘significant 

changes’  in  value  not  resulting  from  the  default  (e.g.,  changes 

caused  by  external  market  forces,  such  as  changed  economic 

circumstances,  changed  investor  expectations,  and  new  industry-

specific or firm-specific facts, conditions, or events that appear to 

impact  the  price  movement  by  more  than  20%)  by  fixing  if 

possible, a suitable percentage on the amount determined above: 

Provided  that  in  case  of  companies  which  become  entirely 

worthless after the default, i.e. If the company whose securities is 

sold has no activities, assets, facilities, or any other source of value, 

so that "company" has no underlying equity; in such cases instead 

of  taking the difference take the entire value of  stock prior to the 

fraud coming to light.112 

Explanation. – The fact that the stock cannot be traded at all after 

the fraudulent scheme came to light or the stock has been traded 

only  by  “insiders”  in  the  fraudulent  scheme  shall  be  relevant  to 

decide if the stock was worthless. 

 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
“For  one  thing,  as  a  matter  of  pure  logic,  at  the  moment  the  transaction  takes  place,  the  plaintiff  has 
suffered  no  loss;  the  inflated  purchase  payment  is  offset  by  ownership  of  a  share  that at  that 
instant possesses equivalent value. Moreover, the logical link between the inflated share purchase price 
and any later economic loss is not invariably strong. Shares are normally purchased with an eye toward a 
later sale. But if, say, the purchaser sells the shares quickly before the relevant truth begins to leak out, 
the misrepresentation  will not have led to any loss. If the purchaser sells later after the truth makes its 
way into the marketplace, an initially inflated purchase price might mean a later loss. But that is far from 
inevitably  so.  When  the purchaser  subsequently  resells  such  shares,  even  at  a  lower  price,  that  lower 
price  may  reflect,  not  the  earlier  misrepresentation,  but  changed  economic  circumstances,  changed 
investor  expectations,  new  industry-specific  or  firm-specific  facts,  conditions,  or  other  events,  which 
taken separately or together account for some or all of that lower price. (The same is true in respect to a 
claim that a share's higher price is lower than it would otherwise have been, a claim we do not consider 
here.) Other things being equal, the longer the time between purchase and sale, the more likely that this is 
so, i.e., the more likely that other factors caused the loss.” 

 U.S. 

112
<https://law.resource.org/pub/us/case/reporter/F3/479/479.F3d.715.05-50822.html>. 

Zolp, 

Cir. 

v 

479 

F.3d 

715 

(9th 

2007), 

available 

at 

 
Page | 254  

 

 
 

iii.  MODIFIED  MARKET  CAPITALIZATION  METHOD 113 :  comparing  the 

change  in  stock  value  of  other,  stock  of  similarly  placed  but 

unaffiliated  companies  after  irregularities  in  those  companies  were 

disclosed  to  the  market.  The  average  depreciation may  be  taken  as 

loss caused. 

 

iv.  SIMPLE  RECESSIONARY  METHOD114:  the  actual  loss  attributable  to 

the  change  in  value  of  the  security  is  the  amount  determined  by 

calculating the difference between the price paid by the affected set of 

investors and  the  price  existing  after  the  fraud  was  disclosed  to  the 

market/stopped. 

 

v.  AVERAGE  LOSS  TO  VICTIM115: the number of  shares held by holders 

who are aggrieved and average loss based on the difference between 

the average price during the fraud (or relevant  period  selected)  and 

average price during the averaging period selected after the fraud.” 

 

The reasons for doing so are as follows, - 

i. 

Since there are several ways of calculating loss to investors due to the 

default,  therefore  only  the  most  approximate  calculation  in  a  given 

set of facts and circumstances may be adopted, otherwise estimation 

of loss will be an endless inquiry; 

ii.  Calculating  loss  based  on  depressed  stock  price  on  the  date  trading 

resumed following disclosure of fraud may result in an inflated loss 

 

v. 

587 

F.3d 

1038 

 U.S. 

Berger, 

                                                           
113
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/1345996/united-states-v-berger/>. 
114 Suitable for a loss calculation for a limited set of investors. See United States v. Grabske, 260 F. Supp. 2d 866, 
872–73  (N.D.  Cal.  2002),  available  at  <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2578802/united-states-v-grabske/> 
(loss is based upon the price that the victim paid for the security and the price of the security as it existed after the 
fraud was disclosed). 
115 Suitable for a loss calculation for a limited set of investors where the entire period small, max is a few weeks. See 
United 
at 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/75836/united-states-v-harry-w-snyder-jr/>. 

available 

available 

Cir 

2002), 

2009), 

Snyder, 

291 

F. 

3d 

States 

v. 

1291 

(11th 

(9th 

Cir. 

at 

 

 
Page | 255  

 
 

 

adjustment  because  initial  price  drop  may  be  temporary  and  an 

anomaly which could be an extreme reaction to the announcement of 

the  fraud,  hence  a  bounce-back  period  for  averaging  out  anomalies 

has to be considered;116 

 

iii.  Though the statute requires that the loss to investors as a result of the 

default to be calculated, no detailed empirical study is required to be 

done  to  consider  the  effect  of  every  conceivable  variable,  which  can 

affect  the  profit  or  loss.  Unrelated  market  events  are  material  only 

insofar as they could be identified and assessed;117  

iv.  The  aforesaid  methods  are  neutral  to  the  exact  modus  operandi 

which  cause  the  price  to  rise  or  fall,  whether  it  be  false  news  or 

circular  trading  or  something  else,  the  aforesaid  methods  can  be 

used; 

 

v. 

Investors have a right to recover exact damages under civil laws but 

not  under  securities  laws  proceedings  where  they  serve  only  as  a 

guidance tool, because compensating investors are not within SEBI’s 

remit.118 Hence methods to approximate loss are sufficient; 

 

vi.  The direct losses caused are limited to only those investors who may 

trade  with  the  fraudster;  whereas  indirect  losses  are  between 

investors, some have lost money but their losses translate into profit 

of another sub-set of investors with whom they traded, and not that 

 United 

States 

 United 

States 

218  F.  Supp. 

                                                           
116
v.  Bakhit, 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2360321/united-states-v-bakhit/>. 
117
F. 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/infco20130315045>. 
118 Rakesh  Agarwal  v  SEBI,  [2004]  49  SCL  351  (SAT)  (Further,  the  disgorgement  of  alleged  profits  is  always 
directed as a measure of deterrence and not compensation. Also authority for the point that Civil Court jurisdiction is 
preserved  with  regard  to  matters  which  the  Board  is  not  empowered  to  pass  orders  by  or  under  the  SEBI  Act),  , 
available 
at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/1299749902889.pdf>. 

v.  Gordon, 

(C.D.  Cal. 

2d 

1232 

2002), 

available 

3d 

1124 

at 

at 

710 

(10th 

Cir. 

2013), 

available 

 

 
Page | 256  

 
 

 

of the fraudster. In such cases, it is an impossible task to differentiate 

between  the  investors  who  have  lost  and  who  have  unwittingly 

profited.  Also  several  persons  may  have  traded  multiple  times  and 

some may not have traded at all but lost money merely on account of 

holding it during the period of fraud. Hence a general approximation 

is made in respect of all the outstanding shares, as if they have been 

affected at least once. By its very nature, it is not meant to be an exact 

determination of loss caused for making compensation or restitution. 

Restitution is tied to the concept of profits made by the fraudster(s) 

and not the victim’s losses, under the garb of restitution directing the 

fraudster(s) to make good the profits not  received by him/them but 

by another set of trading investors, - would amount to compensation; 

vii. 

Investors buy and sell at different prices, some at great loss and some 

at  a  profit  and  the  trades  may  be  concentrated  during  a  particular 

period  and  thereafter  market  forces  may  have  resulted  in  a  higher 

price  notwithstanding  the  fraud  thereby  creating  the  perception  of 

having diminished the effect of the fraud. Averaging and focusing on 

particular period  around the relevant default, enables the  loss to be 

calculated even in cases where price after the disclosure of the fraud 

was higher than the average price during the fraud.119 

 

DIFFERENTIATING  IMPACT  FROM  MARKET  MOVEMENTS  AND  THE  DEFAULT: There are 

many  statistical  techniques  to  understand  the  impact  of  information  on  price-  some 

simple  some  complex  depending  on  the  nature  of  information.  The  Board  as  a 

specialised  body  regulating  the  securities  market  should  become  adept  in  using  these 

techniques.  Macroeconomic  events—  such  as  changes  in  interest  rates,  government 

spending,  monetary  policy,  and  oil  prices  just  to  name  a  few—affect  almost  all 

companies and the returns on almost all stocks. These changes have nothing to do with 
                                                           
119
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/75836/united-states-v-harry-w-snyder-jr/>. 

available 

Snyder, 

3d 

1291 

 United 

States 

291 

F. 

v. 

(11th 

Cir 

2002), 

at 

 

 
Page | 257  

 
 

company-specific  news.  Some  stocks  are  more  (or  less)  affected  than  others  by  such 

market  fluctuations  and  the  sensitivity  of  a  stock’s  returns  to  gyrations  in  market 

returns is called a stock’s beta. Stocks with a beta (β) greater than 1.0 typically respond 

more than one-for one to changes in the return of the overall market. Stocks with a beta 

(β) less than 1.0 typically vary less than one-for-one with market returns. A stock with a 

beta (β) of 2.0 would therefore fall by twice the percentage as the market, on average, 

absent any company-specific news because that stock is twice as sensitive as the average 

stock  to  market  movements.  Stock  returns can  be broken  down  into  two  parts:  (i)  the 

part  explained  by  market  returns  and  the  firm’s  beta  (β); and  (ii)  the  part  affected  by 

company-specific news. These two parts are additive. Suppose that the broader market 

is  down  by  2%  and  a  company  with  a  beta  (β)  of  2.0  releases  a  negative  earnings 

announcement  that  would  result  in  a  precipitous  decline  of  10%  solely  related  to  the 

earnings announcement. Holding everything else constant, the stock should be down by 

4%  because  of  the  market  decline,  plus  another  10%  because  of  the  company  specific 

news, for a total decline of 14%.120 

 

Thus  using  statistical  methods  (the  Beta  (β)  and  Delta  (Δ)  of  securities  are  statistical 

aspects which are used for predicting behaviour of securities by investment managers, 

exchanges  and  other  financial  advisors)  it  may 121  be  possible  to  even  distinguish 

between  impact  caused  by  a  default  and  impact  caused  by  market  forces  acting  on  a 

scrip at the same time, since the impact from the market forces  can be estimated and 

deducted from the actual movement.  

 

RECOMMENDATION: Where the information mix includes information, which affects the 

market (it may be the entire securities market or sector-specific) it may be possible to 

use the  beta  (β)  of  a  scrip  and  delta  (Δ)  in  case  of  options,  if  reliable,  to  arrive  at  the 

                                                           
120 For beta cases see, J Duncan, Recalculating “Loss” in Securities Fraud, (2013) 3 Harvard Business Law Review 
257, pp 268-269 available at <http://www.hblr.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/HLB202_crop.pdf>. 
121 Like all statistical methods, it has drawbacks such as,-a low correlation, another statistical aspect, may make Beta 
unreliable. Also, given the nature of securities markets, past results are no guarantee for future results, hence the 
predictions may not always be spot on. However, Delta which is used for options trading is more highly predictive. 
The  difference  between  predicted  return  and  actual  return  can  give  the  loss  caused  to  investors  as  a  result  of  the 
default. 

 
Page | 258  

 

 
 

difference  between  projected  change  based  on  market  data  and  actual  change  in 

addition to advanced statistical methods. 

 

 

C.  SPECIAL  CASE:  LOSS  TO  INVESTORS  MAY  ARISE  WITHOUT  FALL  IN  PRICE  OF 

SECURITY OR IN SPITE OF RECOVERY IN PRICE. 

This  is  a  special  case  of  loss  to  investors  where  positive  and  negative  information  is 

mixed. Shareholders may experience an actionable loss if stock does not appreciate as it 

would  have  absent  the  fraudulent  conduct.122 A  recovery  in  share  price  after  the fraud 

was disclosed to the purchasers does not automatically defeat an inference of economic 

loss.123 The inflation in price attributable to fraud could be reduced or eliminated even if 

 See  Dura 

Pharmaceuticals, 

                                                           
122
<https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/544/336/>. 
123 See  In  re Columbia Sec. Litig., 155 F.R.D. 466,  483 (S.D.N.Y. 1994);  Gebhardt v.  ConAgra Foods, Inc.,  335 
F.3d 824, 832 (8th Cir. 2003), available at <https://openjurist.org/335/f3d/824/gebhardt-v-conagra-foods-inc-c-p-w-
d>:  

Broudo, 544 U.S. 336 

Inc. 

v. 

(2005) 

(S.C.), 

available 

at 

“ConAgra  argues  that  since  its  stock's  value  increased  in  the  weeks  after  the  May  announcement  the 
plaintiffs can show no connection between the misrepresentations and any loss. However, stockholders can 
be damaged in ways other than seeing their stocks decline. If a stock does not appreciate, as it would have 
absent the fraudulent conduct, investors have suffered harm. (emphasis supplied) Therefore, we decline to 
attach dispositive significance to the stock's price movements absent sufficient facts and expert testimony, 
which cannot be considered at this procedural juncture, to put this information in its proper context.” 

 Acticon  AG  v.  China  North  East  Petroleum  Holdings  Ltd.,  692  F.3d  34  (2d  Cir.  2012),  available  at 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/infco20120801053>.  Acticon  alleged  that  NEP  misled  investors  about  its 
reported earnings, oil reserves, and internal controls. It further alleged that NEP revealed this information through a 
series  of  corrective  disclosures  and  that  in  the  trading  days  after  each  disclosure  was  made,  NEP's  stock  price 
dropped.  NEP  argued  that  these  allegations  are  not  sufficient  to  allege  economic  loss  because  its  share  price 
rebounded  on  certain  days  after  the  final  disclosure  to  the  point  that  Acticon  could  have  sold  its  holdings  and 
avoided a loss. The Court disagreed with NEP and inter alia held that, - 

“[A] share of stock that has regained its value after a period of decline is not functionally equivalent to an 
inflated  share  that  has  never  lost  value.  This  analysis  takes  two  snapshots  of  the  plaintiff's  economic 
situation and equates them without taking into account anything that happened in between; it assumes that 
if there are any intervening losses, they can be offset by intervening gains. But it is improper to offset gains 
that  the  plaintiff  recovers  after  the  fraud  becomes  known  against  losses  caused  by  the  revelation  of  the 
fraud if the stock recovers value for completely unrelated reasons. Such a holding would place the plaintiff 
in a worse position than he would have been absent the fraud. (emphasis supplied) Subject to the bounce-
back  limitation  imposed  by  the  PSLRA,  a  securities  fraud  action  attempts  to  make  a  plaintiff  whole  by 
allowing  him  to  recover  his  out-of-pocket  damages,  that  is,  the  difference  between  what  he  paid  for  a 
security and the uninflated price. See Levine, 439 F.2d at 334. In the absence of fraud, the plaintiff would 
have purchased the security at an uninflated price and would have also benefitted from the unrelated gain in 
stock price. If we credit an unrelated gain against the plaintiff's recovery for the inflated purchase price, he 
has not been brought to the same position as a plaintiff who was not defrauded because he does not have 
the  opportunity  to  profit  (or  suffer  losses)  from  ‘a  second  investment  decision  unrelated  to  his  initial 
decision to purchase the stock.’”) (emphasis supplied) 

 
Page | 259  

 

 
 

there  were  a  net  increase  in  price.  That  could  happen,  for  example,  if  the  company 

corrected  the  false  information  and  at  the  same  time  issued  unrelated  positive 

information. “A firm that lies about some assets cannot defeat liability by showing that 

other  parts  of  its  business  did  better  than  expected,  counter-balancing  the  loss.”124 

Suppose a mining corporation makes a market announcement that it has found gold and 

the price moves up from Rs. 10 to Rs. 100/- a share, and investors purchase shares of 

the  corporation.  After  a  few  months  the  corporation  announces  that  they  have  found 

platinum but not gold. The stock price rockets to Rs. 1000, in this case the corporation 

may still have caused loss to investors as the price could have been higher by Rs. 90 had 

the company found both gold and platinum.125 

 

 

RECOMMENDATION:  In  cases  where  price  is  affected  by  positive  and  negative  news 

relating  to  the  company  examination  of  loss  may  be  possible  by  examining  their 

separate and cumulative effect. 

 

 

5.  PRINCIPLES  RELATING  TO  QUANTIFICATION  OF  DISPROPORTIONATE  GAIN MADE 

IN INSIDER TRADING MATTERS 

In  respect  of  insider  trading,  the  Committee  proposes  to  discuss  quantification  in 

respect of disgorgement and in respect of penalties separately, due to the unique nature 

of  disgorgement and for ensuring a sound  enforcement regime against  insider trading 

apart from just quantification. 

 

 Goldberg  v.  Household  Bank,  F.S.B.,  890  F.2d  965,  966 

                                                           
124
<https://openjurist.org/890/f2d/965> (in relation to earnings re-statement by a bank). 
125 This  example  is  adapted  from  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court’s  oral  proceedings  in  Dura  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc.  v. 
Broudo.  Transcript  of  Oral  Argument,  Dura  Pharm.,  Inc.  v.  Broudo,  544  U.S.  336,  2005  WL  236546,  (Jan.  12, 
2005)  available  at  <https://www.supremecourt.gov/oral_arguments/argument_transcripts/2004/03-932.pdf>.  Also 
See  Elizabeth  Chamblee  Burch,  Reassessing  Damages  in  Securities  Fraud  Class  Actions,  available  at 
<https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/76623384.pdf>:  

(7th  Cir.  1989),  available  at 

‘If the gold-platinum scenario sounds too hypothetical, consider a pharmaceutical company that announces 
higher than expected profits to create a market frenzy and later issues both a revised filing revealing its past 
financial woes and announces that it received regulatory approval for a new cancer-fighting drug.’ 

 
Page | 260  

 

 
 

The  prevention  of  insider  trading  is  dependent  on  fixing  a  suitable  deterrent  on  the 

insiders who engage in ‘tipping.’ When directors and other insiders within the company 

directly engage in tipping, the profits made by such insiders who themselves trade are 

easy  to  figure  out  and  therefore  easier  to  subject  to  deterrent  penalties  and 

disgorgement.  However,  even  insiders  know  this  and  that  is  why  this  form  of  insider 

trading  is  rare.  Instead,  such  company  insiders  ‘tip’  off  outsiders  including  their 

relatives, who then trade. There are several advantages to such modus operandi, - 

 

 

i. 

It may be difficult to prove the link between such persons; 

 

ii.  Even if the link is proven, the person who actually commits insider trading may 

be a person of little consequence propped up to bear the blame of insider trading. 

Further,  the  profits  made  may  have  been  withdrawn  from  their  bank  accounts 

without  leaving  a  trace,  thus  even  before  the  crime  is  detected,  the  entire 

proceeds become irrecoverable from such propped up persons. Hence imposing a 

penalty or debarment on such a person may have no deterrent effect since he was 

selected  because  he  has  no  real  association  with  the  securities  markets  and  the 

monies would be irrecoverable; and 

 

iii.  The inside tipper can always claim to not have ‘benefitted’ from the whole event 

even though insider trading could not have been possible without him breaching 

his  fiduciary  duties  to  the  company  and  the  shareholders  in  the  first  place. 

Though  the  company  insider’s  liability  is  the  greatest,  he  tries  to  appear  as  the 

most ‘innocent’ of the lot by claiming he has not benefitted- if this were true there 

is no reason for such defaults to happen in the first place. Unless joint liability is 

considered  it will  be difficult to justify levy of  deterrent penalty and debarment 

on such delinquent insiders when their cases are considered individually. 

The  unfortunate  result  of  the  present  state  of  law  is  that  insider  trading  continues 

unabated,  without  material  deterrent  to  company  insiders  who  are  the  first  line  of 

defence against insider trading. 

 

 
Page | 261  

 
 

A.  DISGORGEMENT FOR INSIDER TRADING. 

It is the view of the Committee that, the joint penal provision of the SEBI Act is clear in 

respect  of  tippers  link  with  the  profit  of  the  tippee126,  however  there  is  little  clarity  in 

respect of disgorgement. 

 

In  this  respect  an  analysis  of  the  law  of  disgorgement  is  essential.  SEBI  initially 

attempted  to  develop  an  equitable  tool  for  disgorgement  similar  to  that  found  in 

developed  jurisdictions.  It  however  failed  in  its  initial  attempts  since  the  remedy  of 

disgorgement  was  framed  as  tool  of  compensation  rather  than  as  an  anti-unjust 

enrichment mechanism.127 Disgorgement depends on the profits made. Subsequently, in 

Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. v SEBI128, which is the foundational case of disgorgement law 

in  India 129,  the  Board  had, 130 ordered  disgorgement  and  imposed  joint  and  several 

liability while doing so. 

 Rakesh 

                                                           
126 See 5.B below. 
127
at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/1299749902889.pdf> 
and 
Hindustan Lever v. SEBI, [1998] 18 SCL 311 (Appellate Authority); the remedy never had a compensatory nature to 
begin  with  even  in  the  USA,  see  Federal  Trade  Commission  v.  Bronson  Partners,  LLC,  654  F.3d  359  (2d  Cir. 
2011), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/223605/ftc-v-bronson-partners-llc/>:  

available 

Agarwal 

351 

(SAT), 

[2004] 

49 

SCL 

v 

SEBI, 

“Nor, having obtained a disgorgement award, are public entities required to make any particular effort 
to  compensate  the  victims  that  they can identify. See Fischbach, 133  F.3d  at  176; see  also SEC  v. 
Wang, 944  F.2d  80,  88 (2d Cir.1991)  (affirming  a  distribution  plan  that  engaged  in  "line-drawing[,] 
which  inevitably  leaves  out  some  potential  claimants").  While  agencies  may,  as  a  matter  of  grace, 
attempt  to  return  as  much  of  the  disgorgement  proceeds  as  possible,  the  remedy  is  not,  strictly 
speaking, restitutionary at all, in that the award runs in favor of the Treasury, not of the victims.” 

128 [2008] 84 SCL 208 (SAT), available at <https://indiacorplaw.in/wp-content/uploads/2008/05/karvystock.pdf>. 
129
 Though  NSDL  v  SEBI,  Appeal  No.  147/2006,  SAT  Order  dated  22.11.2007,  available  at 
was 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/1291962820302.pdf> 
decided before Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. v SEBI, both were related cases and the Tribunal was of the view that ‘We 
are further of the view ‘that all these issues should have been determined only after the passing of the final order 
holding the appellants guilty of the alleged wrong doings for which proceedings are still pending.’ The law relating 
to disgorgement was explained and laid down in the subsequent case of Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. v SEBI.  
130 Ibid:  

“The  liability  of  all  the  10  entities  to  disgorge  the  aforesaid  amount  was  made  joint  and  several  as, 
according to the Board, they were a party to one large fraud where they either deliberately closed their 
eyes  when  the  wrong  doers  perpetrated  their  illegality  or  were  actively  involved  in  the  transactions. 
Quite interestingly, the Board observed that the exact apportionment of the liability between various 
parties  could  be  decided  by  them  inter  se  either  by  settlement  or  by  suits  of  indemnity/contribution 
between  each  other  and  from  all  persons  including  financiers,  key  operators  and  other  violators. 
(emphasis supplied) It was further observed that “It is not in the interest of the public that the regulator 
should  spend  its  time  in  deciding  private  disputes  between  various  perpetrators  of  the  IPO 
fraud/cornering of shares” (emphasis supplied). It is against this order that the present appeal has been 
filed.” 

 
Page | 262  

 

 
 

 

On appeal the Securities Appellate Tribunal inter alia held as follows, - 

“5.  Before  we  deal  with  the  contentions  of  the  parties,  it  is  necessary  to 

understand what disgorgement is. It is a common term in developed markets 

across the world though it is new to the securities market in India. Black’s Law 

Dictionary defines disgorgement  as “The act of  giving up something (such as 

profits  illegally  obtained)  on  demand  or  by  legal  compulsion.”  (emphasis 

supplied) In commercial terms, disgorgement is the forced giving up of profits 

obtained by illegal or unethical acts. It is a repayment of ill-gotten gains that is 

imposed on wrongdoers by the courts. Disgorgement is a monetary equitable 

remedy  that  is  designed  to  prevent  a  wrongdoer  from  unjustly  enriching 

himself  as  a  result  of  his  illegal  conduct.  It  is  not  a  punishment  nor  is  it 

concerned with the damages sustained by the victims of the unlawful conduct. 

Disgorgement of ill- gotten gains may be ordered against one who has violated 

the securities laws/regulations but it is not every violator who could be asked 

to  disgorge.  Only  such  wrongdoers  who  have  made  gains  as  a  result  of  their 

illegal  act(s)  could  be  asked  to  do  so.  (emphasis  supplied)  Since  the  chief 

purpose of ordering disgorgement is to make sure that the wrongdoers do not 

profit  from  their  wrongdoing,  it  would  follow  that  the  disgorgement  amount 

should  not  exceed  the  total  profits  realized  as  the  result  of  the  unlawful 

activity.  In  a  disgorgement  action,  the  burden  of  showing  that  the  amount 

sought  to  be  disgorged  reasonably  approximates  the  amount  of  unjust 

enrichment is on the Board.” 

 

Thus  the  foundational  case-law  of  the  equitable  remedy  of  disgorgement  in  India, 

though  trying  to  draw  an  analogy  from  more  developed  jurisdictions  (like  the  Board’s 

earlier attempt) was based on the dictionary meaning of the term rather than on a legal 

examination  of  case-laws  of  developed  jurisdictions  in  respect  of  disgorgement,  which 

were  not  placed  before  the  Tribunal.  Even  existing  Indian  jurisprudence  in  respect  of 

 

 
Page | 263  

 
 

joint  and  several  liability  was  not  explored  by  either  litigant.131 What  is  interesting  to 

note is even US federal Courts initially floundered on a key aspect of disgorgement but 

subsequently corrected themselves once the inequitableness came to the fore.132  

                                                           
131 See Dharni Dhar and Ors v Chandra Shekhar & Ors, AIR 1951 All 774, discussing contribution by joint tort-
feasors and its applicability in India depending on the facts and circumstances of each case: 

“The rule [of Merrywhether v Nixon (1799) 8 T. R. 186: 16 R. R. 810 : 101 E. R. 1337] (supplied) was 
thus modified and came to be stated in these words : 

"No person who has been guilty of fraud or any other form of wilful wrong-doing, and has been made 
liable in damages, has any right of contribution or indemnity against any other person who was a joint 
wrong-doer with him….” 

66. Where a civil wrong is committed jointly by certain persons as against another, they purge themselves 
of the consequences of the wrong when they repair the damage caused to that person. It cannot, therefore, 
be said that the hands of tort-feasor  who has repaired the damage are unclean. Indeed  the hands of the 
person who has not yet contributed his share of the loss are unclean and there is no justice in denying the 
relief to the person who has repaired the whole of the damage caused by the action of both of them."  

Also see Kushro S. Gandhi & Ors v N.A. Gajdar & Ors, 1970 (SC) AIR 1468, 1969 SCR (2) 959, holding that the 
recovery of the entire liability could be made from all or any of the persons jointly liable before they rely on accord 
and satisfaction without going into the correctness of Dharni Dhar and Ors v Chandra Shekhar & Ors, AIR 1951 
All 774. 
132
 See  SEC  v  Lauer  &  Ors.,  445  F.  Supp.  2d  1362 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2499896/sec-v-lauer/>,  wherein 
development of requirement of tracing in respect of disgorgement,- 

available 
inter  alia  observed 

at 
the 

(S.D.  Fla.  2006), 

the  court 

“Lauer  cites,  among  other  cases,  S.E.C.  v.  First  City  Financial  Corp.,  Ltd.,  890  F.2d  1215,  1230 
(D.C.Cir.1989) ("First City") which states that because "disgorgement primarily serves to prevent unjust 
enrichment,  the  court  may  exercise  its  equitable  power  only  over  property  causally  related  to  the 
wrongdoing."  Several  cases  have  cited  First  City  for  this  proposition,  most  notably  for  our  purposes, 
CFTC v. Sidoti, 178 F.3d 1132, 1138 (11th Cir.1999), and SEC v. Gane, 2005 WL 90154, *19 (S.D.Fla. 
2005) (Gonzales, J.). The Eleventh Circuit, relying upon First City, held that "the district court may not 
disgorge profits obtained without the aid of any wrongdoing." Sidoti, 178 F.3d at 1138. The Sidoti Court 
went on to find that the district court had abused its discretion for ordering disgorgement of profits for a 
period during which there was no record evidence of fraud.  

 

Subsequent  to  First  City,  the  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  District  of  Columbia  reviewed  the  narrow 
interpretation Lauer proposes for the holding in First City and held to do so conflicts with longstanding 
precedent and would lead to a monstrous doctrine that would perpetuate rather than correct an inequity. In 
SEC  v.  Banner  Fund  Int'l,  et  al.,  211  F.3d  602,  617  (D.C.Cir.2000),  the  Court  of  Appeals  explained: 
(emphasis supplied) 

“Because  disgorgement  is  an  equitable  obligation  to  return  a  sum  equal  to  the  amount 
wrongfully obtained, rather than a requirement to replevy a specific asset, we reject Blackwell's 
challenge and affirm the district court. 

. . . As the SEC points out, the requirement of a causal relationship between a wrongful act and 
the property to be disgorged does not imply that a court may order a malefactor to disgorge only 
the  actual  property  obtained  by  means  of  his  wrongful  act.  Rather,  the  causal  connection 
required is between the amount by which the defendant was unjustly enriched and the amount 
 
Page | 264  

 

 
 

 

Pursuant  to  a  detailed  enquiry  into  the  foundations  of  the  equitable  nature  of 

disgorgement  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  the  aforesaid  decision  (whereby 

disgorgement in India is limited to only those persons who have received the proceeds 

of default and only to the extent of the proceeds received) is per incuriam. 

 

The Committee has examined the case laws surrounding disgorgement in USA, which is 

the  foremost  securities  market  in  the  world  where  this  remedy  has  been  prominently 

applied133 and  several  Anglo-American  principles  of  equity  and  law  in  common  with 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
he  can  be  required  to  disgorge.  To  hold,  as  Blackwell  maintains,  that  a  court  may  order  a 
defendant  to  disgorge  only  the  actual  assets  unjustly  received  would  lead  to  absurd  results. 
Under Blackwell's approach, for example, a defendant who was careful to spend all the proceeds 
of his fraudulent scheme, while husbanding his other assets, would be immune from an order of 
disgorgement.  Blackwell's  would  be  a  monstrous  doctrine  for  it  would  perpetuate  rather  than 
correct an inequity. (emphasis supplied)” 

 Many district courts faced with this argument agree that "[t]here is no requirement that frozen assets be 
traceable  to  the  fraudulent  activity  underlying  a  lawsuit."  SEC  v.  Dennis  Crowley,  Case  No.  0480354-
Civ-Middlebrooks, Slip. Op. (S.D.Fla.2004) (order by consent by Magistrate Judge Johnson) [DE 
1368, Ex. I]; see also SEC v. A.B. Financing and Inv., Inc., Case No. 02-23487-Civ-Ungaro-Benages, 
Slip. Op. at 2-3. (S.D.Fla.2003) ("a district court may freeze assets not specifically traced to illegal 
activity" quoting Levi Strauss & Co. v. Sunrise Int'l Trading Inc., 51 F.3d 982 (11th Cir.1995)) [DE 
1368, Ex. J]; SEC v. Belmonte, No. 88 6557, 1991 WL 214252 (S.D.Fla.1991) (Roettger, J.) (refusing 
to  release  funds  from  sale  of  home,  even  though  home  had  been  acquired  prior  to  alleged  fraud, 
because there had been no showing that ill-gotten funds had not been used to subsidize mortgage 
payments or improve home); SEC v. Current Financial Svcs., 62 F. Supp. 2d 66, 68 (D.D.Cir.1999) 
(refusing to release personal funds not traceable to the fraud because defendant's liability exceeded 
total  funds  frozen);  SEC  v.  Grossman,  887  F.  Supp.  649,  661  (S.D.N.Y.1995)  ("it  is  irrelevant 
whether the funds affected by the Asset Freeze are traceable to the illegal activity") (aff'd, 101 F.3d 
109  (2d  Cir.  1996));  SEC  v.  Roor,  No.  99-3372,  1999  WL  553823  at  *2  (S.D.N.Y.1999)  (denying 
motion  to  release  so-called  "untainted"  funds  from  mortgage  of  property  that  preexisted  alleged 
fraud);  SEC  v.  Glauberman,  No.  90-5205,  1992  WL  175270  at  *1  (S.D.N.Y.1992)  (rejecting 
defendant's argument that funds subject to disgorgement must be traced "dollar for dollar" to the 
illegal activity). (emphasis supplied) 

 

….The amount of assets to be frozen, prior to the finding of liability, is determined not by whether 
the funds themselves are traceable to the fraudulent activity underlying the lawsuit, but by showing 
a reasonable approximation of the amount, with interest, the defendant was unjustly enriched. Id.; 
SEC v. Blatt 583 F.2d 1325, 1335 (5th Cir.1978). (emphasis supplied)” 

 
133 SEC v. Texas Gulf Sulphur Co., 401 F.2d 833 (2d Cir. 1968) (directing the district court to consider the remedy 
of  restitution),  available  at  <https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/F2/401/833/324140/>;  SEC  v. 
Texas  Gulf  Sulphur  Co.,  401  F.2d  833  (2d  Cir.  1968)  (district  court  directing  restitution),  available  at 
<https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/district-courts/FSupp/312/77/1468753/>  and  SEC  v.  Texas  Gulf  Sulphur  Co., 
 
Page | 265  

 

 
 

those  and  our  jurisdiction.  No  statute  governs  the  disgorgement  of  ill-gotten  profits- 

rather, the principles of equity provide the foundation for this remedy.134  

 

While  the  equity  foundation  of  disgorgement  is  correct  and  disgorgement  is  generally 

limited to the extent of the illegal gains made by a particular defaulter, however equity 

provides  for  an  important  exception:  joint  defaulters.  In  case  of  joint  defaulters,  the 

disgorgement remedy has always been on the basis of joint and several liability. It is not 

limited to the amount of monies received by a particular defaulter. The latest landmark 

ruling  in  respect  of  joint  and  several  liability  is  SEC  v. Contorinis,135 wherein  the  US 

Court of Appeals examined the entire case law relating to disgorgement and  inter alia 

held as follows, - 

“The primary issue presented is whether an insider trader who trades on behalf 

of  another  person  or  entity  using  funds  he  does  not  own,  and  thus  produces 

illegal profits that he does not personally realize, can nevertheless be required to 

disgorge  the  full  amount  of  illicit  profit  he  generates  from  his  illegal  and 

fraudulent  actions.  Because  our  cases  have  established  that  tippers  can  be 

required to disgorge profits realized by their tippees’ illegal insider trading, and 

this  case  is  distinguishable  only  insofar  as  Contorinis  himself  executed  the 

fraudulent trades  rather  than  leave  that  task  to  a tippee,  we conclude that  the 

district  court  was  empowered  to  enter  the  disgorgement  order,  and  did  not 

abuse its discretion in doing so.  

… 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
446  F.2d  1301 
at 
<https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/F2/446/1301/140482/>. 
134
781, 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/19651125344f2d7811934>. 

(upholding  district 

(2d  Cir.  1971) 

court  order  of 

 See Janigan 

Taylor, 344 

restitution), 

Cir.1965), 

786 

(1st 

available 

at 

v. 

F.2d 

available 

135 2014  U.S.  App.  LEXIS  2927  (2d  Cir.  Feb.  18,  2014),  available  at  <https://cases.justia.com/federal/appellate-
courts/ca2/12-1723/12-1723-2014-02-18.pdf?ts=1410919262>. Also see,  SEC v.  Great  Lakes Equities Co., 775  F. 
Supp. 
<https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/district-
courts/FSupp/775/211/1555222/>, wherein the court inter alia held that,-  

(E.D.  Mich. 

available 

1991), 

211, 

214 

at 

"[t]he benefit or unjust enrichment of a defendant includes not only what it gets to keep in its pocket after 
the  fraud,  but  also  the  value  of  the  other  benefits  the  wrongdoer  receives  through  the  scheme.  Thus,  in 
insider  trading  cases,  a  tipper  must  disgorge  not  only  his  own  profits  but  also  any  profits  made  by  his 
tippees, even if the tipper did not receive any tangible kickback from those tippees.”  

 
Page | 266  

 

 
 

 

Contorinis  argues  that  because  he  never  personally  controlled  the  profits  that 

accrued  to  the  Paragon  Fund  –  although  he  could  make  investment  decisions, 

he did not control disbursement of the proceeds – ordering him to disgorge the 

entire  amount  gained  through  his  insider  trading  is  a  misapplication  of  the 

disgorgement principle. The argument identifies an ambiguity in the concept of 

disgorgement.  

… 

Contorinis  argues,  in  effect,  that  one  can  only  “disgorge”  what  one  has 

personally “swallowed”; the SEC argues that a fraudster should be compelled to 

return not only those profits from the fraud that he has reserved for his own use, 

but also those that he has bestowed on others.  

… 

In  resolving  this  dispute,  we  do  not  write  on  a  clean  slate.  Our  prior  cases 

indicate that an insider trader may be ordered to disgorge not only the unlawful 

gains that accrue to the wrongdoer directly, but also the benefit that accrues to 

third parties whose gains can be attributed to the wrongdoer’s conduct. We have 

long applied that principle in the tipper‐tippee context. Thus, in SEC v. Warde 

we held that, in the determination of a disgorgement amount, “[a] tippee’s gains 

are attributable to the tipper, regardless whether benefit accrues to the tipper.” 

151  F.3d  42,  49  (2d  Cir.  1998).  That  principle  has  deep  roots  in  parallel  civil 

remedial  structures.  For  example,  in  Elkind  v.  Ligget  &  Myers,  Inc.,  635  F.2d 

156, 165 (2d Cir. 1980), we concluded that “[t]rades by tippees are attributed to 

the  tipper”  in  determining  liability  for  damages,  and  in  SEC  v.  Texas  Gulf 

Sulphur  Co.,  446  F.2d  1301,  1308  (2d  Cir.  1971),  the  foundational  case  for 

insider  trading  liability,  we  required  a  tipper  to  make  common‐law  civil 

restitution “for the profits derived by his tippees. That rule makes perfect sense. 

A  potential  tipper  in  possession  of  inside  information  who  seeks  to  confer  a 

benefit  on  a  friend  or  to  curry  favor  with  someone  who  can  confer  reciprocal 

benefits in the future can do so either by trading on this information himself and 

passing the profit on to the intended beneficiary, or by passing the information 

to the beneficiary  and  thus allowing the tippee to realize the profit himself. In 
 
Page | 267  

 
 

 

the  former  case,  the  insider  would  unquestionably  be  liable  to  disgorge  the 

profit;  disgorgement  is  required  whether  the  insider  trader  has  put  his  profits 

into a bank account, dissipated them on transient pleasures, or given them away 

to others.

It would make little sense to allow the insider to escape disgorgement 

when  he  gives  away  not  the  proceeds  of  a  trade  predicated  on  his  insider 

knowledge, but rather the knowledge itself to others who he knows will spin the 

information into gold by trading on it themselves. (emphasis supplied) 

… 

There  is  no  injustice,  therefore,  in  making  him  responsible  for  the  profits  he 

made for others, as well as for himself, through his fraudulent insider trades.  

… 

As  we  said  in  Warde,  in  the  absence  of  the  discretion  to  allocate  liability  to 

wrongdoers, “[t]he value of the rule in preventing misuse of inside information 

would  be virtually  nullified  [because]  those  in  possession  of  such information, 

although prohibited from trading for their own accounts, [would be] free to use 

the inside information on trades to benefit their families, friends, and business 

associates.”  151  F.3d  at  49.  See  also  Tex.  Gulf  Sulphur,  446  F.2d  at  1308 

(“[W]ithout such a remedy, insiders could easily evade their duty to refrain from 

trading  on  the  basis  of  inside  information.  Either  the  transactions  so  traded 

could  be  concluded  by  a relative  or  an  acquaintance  of  the  insider,  or  implied 

understandings  could  arise  under  which  reciprocal  tips  between  insiders  in 

different corporations could be given.”). (emphasis supplied) 

 

… 

We do not conclude that district courts must impose disgorgement liability for 

insider  trading  upon  wrongdoers  when  the  gains  accrue  to  innocent  third 

parties,  but  rather  that  the  district  courts  may  elect  to  do  so  in  appropriate 

circumstances. (emphasis supplied) 

… 

As our consideration of the tipper context demonstrates, to so limit the power of 

courts to order disgorgement would permit evasion of the prohibition on insider 

trading by allowing the direction of benefits to acquaintances. 

 
Page | 268  

 
 

 

… 

As  our  case  law  has  indicated  (and  as  our  opinion  here  confirms),  when  third 

parties have benefitted from illegal activity, it is possible to seek disgorgement 

from the violator, even if that violator never controlled the funds. The logic of 

this, as more fully articulated  supra, is that  to fail to impose  disgorgement  on 

such  violators  would  allow  them  to  unjustly  enrich  their  affiliates.  Thus, 

ordering  a  violator  to  disgorge  gain  the  violator  never  possessed  does  not 

operate  to  magnify  penalties  or  offer  an  alternative  to  fines,  but  serves 

disgorgement’s  core  remedial  function  of  preventing  unjust  enrichment. 

(emphasis  supplied)  District  courts  possess  the  equitable  discretion  to 

determine  whether  disgorgement  liability  should  fall  upon  third  parties  or 

violators, a responsibility concordant with the district courts’ broad discretion to 

assay disgorgement more generally.” 

Also  see  SEC  v.  Hughes  Capital  Corp.,136 wherein  the  Court  inter  alia  explained  the 

principles of the law of torts underpinning disgorgement and held as follows, - 

“"Disgorgement is an equitable remedy designed to deprive a wrongdoer of his 

unjust enrichment and to  deter others from violating securities  laws." SEC v. 

First City Fin. Corp., 890 F.2d 1215, 1230 (D.C. Cir. 1989). When apportioning 

liability  among  multiple  tortfeasors,  it  is  appropriate  to  hold  all  tortfeasors 

jointly and severally liable for the full amount of the damage unless the liability 

is  reasonably  apportioned.  "Where  joint  tortfeasors  cause  a  single  and 

indivisible harm for which there is no reasonable basis for division according 

to the contribution of each, each tortfeasor is subject to liability for the entire 

harm." (emphasis supplied) United States v. Alcan Aluminum Corp., 964 F.2d 

252, 268-69 (3d Cir. 1992).137 

                                                           
136 124  F.3d  449,  455  (3d  Cir.  1997),  available  at  <https://casetext.com/case/securities-and-exchange-v-hughes-
capital>. 
137  See  United  States  v.  Alcan  Aluminum  Corp.,  964  F.2d  252 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/19921216964f2d25211183>: 

(3d  Cir.  1992),  available  at 

“Obviously, of critical importance in this analysis is whether a harm is divisible and reasonably capable of 
apportionment, or indivisible, thereby subjecting the tortfeasor to potentially far-reaching liability. Under 
the  Restatement,  where  a  joint  tortfeasor  seeks  to  apportion  the  full  amount  of  a  plaintiff's  damages 
 
Page | 269  

 

 
 

 

 

Courts have held that joint-and-several liability is appropriate in securities cases 

when two or more individuals or entities collaborate or have close relationships 

in  engaging  in  the  illegal  conduct.  (emphasis  supplied)  See  First  Jersey 

Securities, 101 F.3d at 1475; Hateley v. SEC, 8 F.3d 653, 656 (9th Cir. 1993). In 

the instant  case,  the  defendants  all  collaborated  in  a single  scheme  to  defraud 

Hughes' investors through the bogus initial public offering and the subsequent 

sale  of  warrants.  They  enjoyed  a  “close  relationship"  with  each  other  through 

their connection to Hughes, the other corporations used in the scheme, and the 

nominee accounts used to perpetuate the scheme.” 

Thus,  the  elective  nature  of  imposing  joint  and  several  liability  for  fraud  and  insider 

trading by drawing upon the common law principles of tort and equity is well laid down 

in US law. For a long time, in USA disgorgement was a remedy available only through 

Federal Courts; in 1990 the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 

the  Investment  Advisors  Act  of  1940  and  the  Investment  Company  Act  of  1940  were 

amended by the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act138 and 

the SEC has been authorised to seek disgorgement in its own proceedings. 

 

Indian  jurisprudence  while  trying  to  frame  a  remedy  of  disgorgement  on  the  lines  of 

developed  jurisdictions  actually  fell  short  of  imposing  joint  and  several  liability  on 

defaulters, as our Anglo-Indian tort jurisprudence of joint and several liability was not 

examined,  thus  allowing  defaulters  to  arrange  their  affairs  in  a  manner  to  defeat  the 

enforcement of securities laws. 

 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
according to that tortfeasor's own contribution to the harm, it is the tortfeasor's burden to establish that the 
damages are capable of such apportionment. As the comments concerning this issue explain, the burden of 
proving that the harm is capable of apportionment is placed on the tortfeasor to avoid.” 

It  is  not  the  profit  to  be  disgorged  that  has  to  be  apportioned,  but  the  harm.  If  the  harm  caused  is  an 
indivisible whole like a scheme to defraud investors, the profit may be disgorged, jointly and severally. 
138 Available at <https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/STATUTE-104/pdf/STATUTE-104-Pg931.pdf>. 

 
Page | 270  

 

 
 

The  Securities  Laws  (Amendment)  Act,  2014,  inserted  the  following  Explanation  in 

Section 11B of the SEBI Act, Section 19 of the Depositories Act and Section 12A of the 

SCRA, - 

“Explanation. —For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that power to issue 

directions  under  this  section  shall  include  and  always  be  deemed  to  have  been 

included  the  power  to  direct  any  person,  who  made  profit  or  averted  loss  by 

indulging  in  any  transaction  or  activity  in  contravention  of  the  provisions  of  this 

Act  or  regulations  made  thereunder,  to  disgorge  an  amount  equivalent  to  the 

wrongful gain made or loss averted by such contravention.” 

 

The Explanation gives the impression that the disgorgement can be done ‘only’ from a 

person who has made illegal gains by indulging in a contravention of securities laws and 

such disgorgement shall be equal to the amount gained. As such the Explanation gives 

an impression by converse reasoning that disgorgement can only be done from a person 

who has received monies. However, a deeming provision is not to be extended to what it 

does  not  say,  it  is  to  be  applied  only  to  what  it  says.  A  legal  fiction  cannot  be  carried 

further  than  what  it  says.139 The  Explanation  does  not  use  the  word  ‘only’  nor  does  it 

actually prohibit the levy of joint and several liability. The Explanation was introduced 

only  for  the  removal  of  certain  doubts  rather  than  creating  new  ones.  Hence,  it  is  the 

view of the Committee that Section 32 which permits the application of other laws is an 

important source by which securities laws jurisprudence can be developed and remedies 

shaped  to  deal  with  different  kinds  of  situations.  Hence,  the  Committee  is  of  the view 

that  notwithstanding  the  present  Explanation,  it  is  permissible  for  the  Board  to  rely 

upon Section 32 of the SEBI Act and direct disgorgement on joint and several liability 

basis  whether  or  not  all  such  persons  have  actually  received  monies,  since  the 

delinquent act is joint, the receipt of illegal proceeds by anyone in furtherance of such an 

act is receipt by all.  

                                                           
139 See K. S. Dharmadatan vs Central Government And Ors, 1979 AIR SC 1495, 1979 SCR (3) 832; Commissioner 
of Sales Tax, Uttar Pradesh v. The Modi Sugar Mills Ltd., 1961 AIR SC 1047, 1961 SCR (2) 189; Braithwaite & 
Co. (India) Ltd. v. Employees' State Insurance Corporation, 1968 AIR SC 413, 1968 SCR (1) 771; Commissioner of 
Income Tax Bombay City v. Elphinstone Spinning and Weaving Mills Co. Ltd., 1960 AIR SC 1016. 

 
Page | 271  

 

 
 

In this respect it must be considered that the concept of fraud in securities laws is wider 

than  the  concept  of  common  law  fraud,  which  is  too  restrictive  to  deal  with  the 

complexities of the securities markets.140 While the restrictions may not applicable vis a 

vis the Board, several of the broader concepts relating to common law fraud are equally 

applicable to securities laws are definitely applicable, in view of section 32 of the SEBI 

Act,  1992.  Thus,  the  Supreme  Court  has  considered  the  American  caselaw  (including 

cases relating to insider trading) surrounding their pari materia anti-fraud provision in 

securities laws, which also covers insider trading without specifically mentioning it, and 

has  held  that  in  cases  of  fraud,  joint  liability  can  be  imposed  on  the  delinquents 

(including the one who initiates) and those who aid and abet.141 

 

 

 

ALTERNATIVE RECOMMENDATION: Though an amendment for the purpose of clarifying 

the  joint  and  several  liability  is  not  required,  however  for  sake  of  clarity  it  may  be 

considered. 

i. 

If required, the existing explanation in respect of disgorgement in securities laws 

be amended for the sake of clarifying any doubts in respect of  joint and several 

liability, as follows, - 

“Explanation.—For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is  hereby  declared  that  the 

power  to  issue  directions  under  this  section  shall  include  and  always  be 

deemed to have been included the power to direct jointly and severally, 

all or any of the persons, who made profit or averted loss by indulginged 

in any transaction or activity in contravention of the provisions of this Act 

or regulations made thereunder, to disgorge an amount equivalent to the 

wrongful gain made or loss averted by such contravention.” 

 

SPECIAL  CASE:  DISGORGEMENT  ACTION  TAKEN  BY  EMPLOYERS  AGAINST  THEIR 

EMPLOYEES:  It  is  seen  that  various  companies  and  other  entities  take  action  in  the 
                                                           
140  
141  

SEBI v Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel, 2017 (15) SCC 1 : 2017 SCC Online SC 1148. 
Ibid. 

 
Page | 272  

 

 
 

nature of disgorgement against their employees. But there is no clarity as to where the 

monies disgorged by such companies and entities from their employees go. Some have 

complied with the spirit of the securities laws and deposited the monies with the SEBI 

IPEF  while  some  have  taken  advantage  of  the  situation  and  kept  the  monies  with 

themselves. Further, there is no clarity in this respect as not all companies and entities 

report  in  detail  the  nature  of  action  taken  against  delinquent  employees,  since  no 

standardised reporting format has been provided.  

 

Objectively seen, there is already a situation where insider trading is difficult to prove 

and  even  in  cases  where  violations  are  found  they  are  not  adequately  reported  to  the 

Board.  The  entire  insider  trading  regime  is  open  to  misuse  where  unscrupulous 

employers  can  use  ‘employees’  as  front  men  to  undertake  trading  and  then  use  their 

powers to ‘penalise’ or ‘sanction’ such employees under the Code of Conduct to fill their 

own  coffers  by  taking  advantage  of  lack  of  clarity  in  law.  Even  the  reporting  of  such 

violations by the employer to the Board was inadequate or incomplete and only recently 

a detailed reporting format has been specified by the Board vide Circular dated July 19, 

2019.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  this  situation  has  continued  since  2002  when  the 

Code of Conduct was first mandated in the 1992 Regulations relating to insider trading.  

 

Hence a detailed examination of the power of disgorgement, if any, of the powers vested 

in  employers  under  securities  laws  has  been  undertaken  in  this  Report.  The  SEBI 

(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 inter alia provided as follows,- 

“Penalty for contravention of code of conduct  

.1  Any  employee/officer/director/partner  who  trades 

in  securities  or 

communicates any information for trading in securities in contravention of the 

code of conduct may be penalised and appropriate action may be taken by the 

company/organisation/firm.  

.2 Employees/officers/directors/partners of the company who violate the code 

of  conduct shall also be subject to disciplinary action by the company, which 

may  include  wage  freeze,  suspension,  ineligible  for  future  participation  in 

employee stock option plans, etc.  

 
Page | 273  

 

 
 

 

.3 The action by the company/organisation/firm shall not preclude SEBI from 

taking any action in case of violation of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

Regulations, 1992.”  

The open ended language pertaining to the ‘penalties’ that the employer may impose has 

given rise to this issue. In the first instance, it must be noted that ‘penalties’ imposed by 

an employer  are not ‘penalties’ imposed by the Board under securities laws. Sanctions 

and penalties by employers are essentially disciplinary in nature and form the terms of 

employment of every employee-employer contract, and are not ‘delegated’ by the Board. 

Further, the provision makes clear that the action taken by the employer is not supposed 

to  prejudice  any  action  by  the  Board.  In  cases  where  illegal  trading  take  place  and 

disgorgement is done by the employer who then keeps the monies with himself instead 

of depositing them in the IPEF, not only does such employer prejudice the disgorgement 

action which would otherwise have been taken by the Board and the monies deposited 

in the IPEF, but it is also not in line with the ‘equitable’ nature of disgorgement. Insider 

trading violations which result in unlawful gains do not create any ‘equities’ between the 

employer  and  employee  which  need  to  be  adjusted  between  them,  it  is  generally 

considered to be a victim-less crime. It is not in the nature of an excess remuneration or 

incentive that is later recovered or clawed back from the employee. 

 

The  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulation,  2015  inter  alia  provides  that 

‘Without prejudice to the power of the Board under the Act, the code of conduct shall 

stipulate  the  sanctions  and  disciplinary  actions,  including  wage  freeze,  suspension, 

recovery, clawback, etc.’ Though the new regulations remove the confusion in respect of 

employer disciplinary action being ‘penalties under securities laws’ as well as lay down 

that in case of contra trades the monies should be deposited in the IPEF, there is still no 

clarity in respect of disgorgement taken by the employer for other violations including 

insider  trading.  Hence,  the  aforesaid  reasoning  applies  with  equal  force  to  other 

violations and the employer cannot recover or clawback or disgorge the unlawful profits 

from  non-contra  trade  violations  and  keep  them  with  himself,  thereby  ‘unjustly 

enriching’ himself under the guise of enforcement of the Code of Conduct. Clawback and 
 
Page | 274  

 

 
 

recovery are provisions designed to take ‘back’ the amounts that the employer may have 

given to the employee in the first place. Unlawful profits accruing from trading are not 

monies  that  the  employee  has  made  from  or  on  behalf  of  or  given  by  the  employer 

which the employer may recover or clawback under these provisions. 

 

RECOMMENDATION: The Board may consider issuing a circular to all employers who are 

required  to  frame  a  code  of  conduct  under  the  1992  or  2015  regulations  relating  to 

insider trading, to, in case of sanctions have been imposed by an employer in the nature 

of disgorgement under the 1992 or 2015 regulations relating to insider trading prior to 

the issue of the Circular, the monies so disgorged shall be deposited in the SEBI IPEF 

within 30 working days; and 

 

RECOMMENDATION:  The  Board  may  consider  amending  the  2015  insider  trading 

regulations to clarify that the employer cannot impose a sanction against an employee, if 

such sanction would amount to disgorgement of profit resulting from insider trading. 

 

 

B.  PENALTY IN RESPECT OF INSIDER TRADING. 

Penalty for insider trading is levied under Section 15G  of the SEBI Act which reads as 

follows, - 

“Section 15G. Penalty for insider trading.- 

If any insider who,—  

(i)  either  on  his  own  behalf  or  on  behalf  of  any  other  person,  deals  in 

securities of a body corporate listed on any stock exchange on the basis of 

any unpublished price-sensitive information; or  

(ii)  communicates  any  unpublished  price-sensitive  information  to  any 

person, with or without his request for such information except as required 

in the ordinary course of business or under any law; or  

(iii)  counsels,  or  procures for  any  other  person  to  deal  in  any securities  of 

any body corporate on the basis of unpublished price-sensitive information,  

 

 
Page | 275  

 
 

 

shall be liable to a penalty which shall not be less than ten lakh rupees but which 

may extend to twenty-five crore rupees or three times the amount of profits 

made out of insider trading, whichever is higher.” 

Section  15G  covers  different  kinds  of  default  and  only  clause  (i)  is  actual  insider 

trading.142  

Clause  (iii)  is  linked  to  insider  trading,  it  is  sufficient  for  an  insider  to  only  ‘counsel’ 

another to deal in securities, though actual trading may not happen.  

Clause (ii) is linked to insider trading, it is the act of ‘tipping’ and does not require actual 

trading by the ‘tippee’ for the tipper to be punishable. 

 

However, under 15G whenever, trading does happens as a result of clause (ii) and (iii), 

the persons liable under (ii) and (iii) are liable to the extent of three times the amount of 

profits made by the act of insider trading [clause (i)], even it is not done by them- and 

not  from  the  act  of  communication  or  procurement  for  which  they  are  charged  with 

under clauses (ii) and (iii).  

Section 15G is to a large extent a condensed version of Sections 20(a) & (b),143 20A and 

21A  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act,  1934144 which  imposes  penalty  on  a  person,  who 

passes  unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  equal  to  the  profits  made  by  insider 

trading. Thus, the intent of Indian securities law is to impose a form of joint and several 

penal liability on the ‘tipper-tippee’ relatable to the profits made from the act of insider 

                                                           
142  Insider  trading  is  the  act  of  trading  while  in  possession  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  See 
Regulation 4 of SEBI (Prevention of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. 
143
at 
<https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/463/646/case.html>  (tipper  liability  is  based  on  Section  20(b)  of  the 
Securities Exchange Act, 1934), inter alia holding that:  

available 

(1983), 

Dirks 

SEC, 

 Sec 

463 

646 

U. 

S. 

v. 

“The  conclusion  that  recipients  of  inside  information  do  not  invariably  acquire  a  duty  to  disclose  or 
abstain does not mean that such tippees always are free to trade on the information. The need for a ban on 
some  tippee  trading  is  clear.  Not  only  are  insiders  forbidden  by  their  fiduciary  relationship  from 
personally  using  undisclosed  corporate  information  to  their  advantage,  but  they  also  may  not  give  such 
information to an outsider for the same improper purpose of exploiting the information for their personal 
gain. See 15 U.S.C. § 78t(b) (i.e. Section 20(b) of the Securities Exchange Act, 1934-supplied) (making it 
unlawful to do indirectly "by means of any other person" any act made unlawful by the federal securities 
laws).” (emphasis supplied) 

144  Available  at  <http://legcounsel.house.gov/Comps/Securities%20Exchange%20Act%20Of%201934.pdf>  and 
codified 
at 
<http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?path=/prelim@title15/chapter2B&edition=prelim>. 

§78a-78qq, 

available 

Chapter 

Code, 

Title 

2B, 

15, 

U. 

S. 

at 

 

 
Page | 276  

 
 

trading per se, rather than to penalize the each person only to the extent of the money 

that he may receive. 

 

Disgorgement is a very important remedy in securities laws. When a defaulter makes an 

unlawful gain he enriches himself unjustly so the penalty imposed on him should not be 

allowed to be paid using such ill-gotten gains, else the penalty loses its deterrent effect. 

Hence, in cases where disgorgement is not made, the penalty should be higher than the 

ill-gotten  gains.  This  is  an  important  barometer  to  decide  which  multiple  of  profit 

should be selected while imposing penalty in insider trading matters (as well as under 

Section 15HA of the SEBI Act). It is important to expand upon the liability of insiders to 

ensure  proper  control  mechanisms  are  put  in  place  to  avoid  the  possibility  of  insider 

trading. 

 

 RECOMMENDATION: Securities laws may be amended as follows,- 

 

i.  A  new  provision  should  be  introduced  regarding  ‘controlling  person  liability’ 

similar  to  that  found  in  USA.  Employers  and  intermediaries  who  fail  to  put  in 

place  reasonable  systems  that  can  control  and  limit  the  violations  of  securities 

laws  must  be  held  liable  for  the  defaults  that  they  allow  to  occur  due  to  their 

recklessness.  Further,  the  provision  should  also  clarify  the  liability  of  joint 

persons, i.e. (i) persons who employ other persons to assist such persons in the 

violation  of  securities  laws; and  (ii)  those who  provide  substantial  assistance to 

such person. The following amendment to securities laws may be considered, - 

 

“Section….  

(1) Every person who, directly or indirectly, controls any person liable under 

any provision of this Act or of any rule or regulation made thereunder, shall 

also  be  liable  jointly  and  severally  with  and  to  the  same  extent  as  such 

controlled  person  in  any  action  brought  under  this  Act  or  any  rule  or 

regulation  made  thereunder,  unless  the  controlling  person  acted  in  good 

 

 
Page | 277  

 
 

 

faith and did not directly or indirectly induce or enable the act or omission 

constituting the violation or cause of action.  

Explanation 1. - No person shall be liable as a controlling person solely by 

reason of employing another person, but the liability of such employer may 

be  subject  to  sub-section  (1)  where  he  is  under  a  duty  to  control  but 

intentionally or by gross negligence fails to exercise control.  

Explanation  2.  –  In  this  section  ‘control’  includes  direct  and  indirect 

positive acts or omissions that amount to control. 

 

(2) It is hereby clarified that it shall be and always has been unlawful for any 

person, directly or indirectly, to do any act or thing which would be unlawful 

for  such  person  to  do  under  the  provisions  of  this  Act  or  any  rule  or 

regulation made thereunder, through or by means of any other person.  

 

(3)  Any  person  who  knowingly  or  in  absence  of  good  faith  provides 

substantial  assistance  to  another  person  in  violation  of  a  provision  of  this 

Act, or of any rule or regulation made thereunder, shall be deemed to be in 

violation of such provision to the same extent as the person to whom such 

assistance is provided. 

Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, nothing is said to be done in 

“good faith” which is done without due care and attention. 

 

(4)  The  Board  may  proceed  against  all  or  any  of  the  persons  who  may  be 

liable  jointly  for  the  violation  of  securities  laws  and  non-initiation  of 

proceedings under securities laws against any particular person shall not by 

itself amount to discharge or acquittal of such person and such person shall 

remain  liable  to  be  proceeded  against  in  appropriate  proceedings,  if  the 

Board so deems fit.” 

 

The recommended provision is neutral and applies to all kinds of violations, not 

just insider trading. Further, it does not declare that trivial abettors are not liable, 
 
Page | 278  

 
 

 

 

 

but rather focuses on imposing the liability of such persons ‘on’ the person who 

controlled  them.  The  Board  would  then  be  free  to  concentrate  its  enforcement 

action  against  the  main  persons-  persons  who  employed  others  and  those  who 

provided substantial assistance i.e. the ‘smart’ enforcement through action on the 

main accused and enforce securities laws in a time bound manner to protect the 

interest  of  investors  rather  than  expend  its  limited  resources  and  time  on 

pursuing the entire chain of defaulters. 

6.  GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  RELATING  TO  QUANTIFICATION  OF  DISPROPORTIONATE 

GAIN AND LOSS CAUSED TO INVESTORS AS A RESULT OF THE DEFAULT  

I.  The  statutory  position  in  USA  and  India  is  the  same.  The  gain  and  loss 

quantification is limited  only to that amount which is as a result of the default. 

Indeed,  simply  to  take  the  definition  of  “gain”  without  limiting  it  to  gain 

“resulting  from  the  default”  would  lead  to  absurd  results.  It  is  not  all  the 

defaulter(s)  stock  gains-over  an  entire  lifetime  of  stock  trading,  but  only  the 

stock gains “resulting from the default.”145 

 

II.  Defaults by company personnel throw up some interesting issues for the purpose 

of  quantification.  Given  the  competitive  nature  of  capitalistic  markets  wherein 

the  corporate  insiders  may  indulge  in  such  activities  to  ensure  that  they  can 

continue in their corporations and/or obtain higher compensation in the present 

or  future.  In  this  respect  the  issue  of  quantification  of  profit  made  by  the 

corporate insider may not be clear, as it may be in the form of salary, bonuses and 

stock  options.  In  this  respect  the  Committee  notes  the  global  practice  of 

disgorging  such  compensation  or  a  relevant  part  thereof.  [The  right  of  an 

employer  to  dismiss  for  cause  and  cancel  or  claw-back  compensation  already 

                                                           
145 See  United  States  v  Mooney,  (2005)  (8th  Cir.)  425  F.3d  1093,  available  at  <  https://casetext.com/case/us-v-
mooney-10>; United States v. Nacchio (2009) (10th Cir.) 573 F.3d 1062, available at <https://casetext.com/case/us-
v-nacchio-11>. 

 
Page | 279  

 

 
 

given or promised is different from the right of the Board to quantify relevant 

gain and disgorge, though both arise only after the violation has come to light. 

Clawback undertaken by the employer will not completely nullify disgorgement 

(as  the  possibility  of  overlap  is  limited  to  situations  where  the  salary  and 

bonuses paid by the employer amounts to the illegal gain) by the Board and vice 

versa as neither is a voluntary or self-remedial process rather a contentious one 

which the defaulter is made to comply unwillingly nor are they a replacement 

for  each  other,  the  jurisprudence  surrounding  both  is  different].  Bonus  which 

are  dependent  on  earnings  can  be  recalculated  on  restated  financials  after  the 

fraudulent  information  is  out  and  compared  with  the  bonuses  paid  out  on  the 

original  reported  financials.  However  in  case  of  multiple  financial  years  this  is 

calculated  on  a  percentage  basis  as  such  fraudulent  information  can  have 

cumulative  effect. 146  In  other  cases  where  no  such  clear  linkage  exists,  an 

approximation may be adopted.  

 

In  cases  where  executive  compensation  includes  acquisition  of  securities  under 

any  options  or  grants,  if  there  is  a  corrective  disclosure  before  the  executive 

liquidates his position, then the grant generates a loss measured using the Black 

Scholes  method  of  valuation147 (to  take  account  for  possibility  of  early  exercise) 

caused by the fraud that should be offset with other gains, if any, from the fraud. 

In  case  there  is  an  increase  in  price  due  to  disclosure  before  the  position  is 

liquidated,  the  gain  would  have  to  be  measured  by  using  the  difference  in 

                                                           
146 See,  Elaine  Buckberg  and  Frederick  G.  Dunbar,  Disgorgement:  Punitive  Demands  and  Remedial  Offers,  The 
Business 
at 
<https://www.jstor.org/stable/40688470> for example based on the SEC methodology for calculating bonuses to be 
disgorged. 

(February 

available 

No. 

2 

2008), 

347, 

362-369, 

Lawyer 

Vol. 

63, 

147 This is the  most common  method of valuation of employee stock options  in India and consistent  with Ind  AS 
102. The other methods known as the Monte Carlo method and Binomial methods are not in much use in india for 
valuation  of  securities.  See,  <https://numericaconsulting.com/blog/3-methods-for-valuation-of-employee-stock-
options/>.  Also  see,  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs:  Ind  AS  102  including  the  principles  for  valuation  of  share 
options to employees available at <http://mca.gov.in/Ministry/pdf/Ind_AS102.pdf>. 

 
Page | 280  

 

 
 

 

inflation per share between grant and sale.148 In case of other employee benefits 

such  as  retirement  schemes,  restrictive  stock  grants,  etc.  experts  use  analyses 

similar to those used for bonus and option compensation.149  

The  issue  of  loss  caused  by  corporate  insiders  is  far  more  complex.  Where 

corporate insiders, including promoters misuse corporate facilities for self-profit, 

their liability for secret profits is well settled in law. This is not limited to just the 

corporate  insider  who  makes  the  secret  profit  but  a  contribution  claim  could 

succeed  against  another  corporate  insider  who  took  no  steps  to  prevent  a 

misapplication of the company’s property by its director.150 Where a concealment 

of interest in another organization, directly or indirectly controlled by the insider 

or  its  related  parties  is  made,  who  benefits  from  such  transactions,  the liability 

extends  to  all  transactions,  unless  proven  to  be  independent  by  the  corporate 

insider; and the corporate entity which benefits from the same is also liable to the 

full extent.151 When the related party transaction results in a loss, the Companies 

 

and 

Exchange 

Board 

(Deceased),  [2017]  EWCA  Civ  256 

                                                           
148 See,  Elaine  Buckberg  and  Frederick  G.  Dunbar,  Disgorgement:  Punitive  Demands  and  Remedial  Offers,  The 
Business Lawyer Vol. 63, No. 2 (February 2008), 347, 372-, available at <https://www.jstor.org/stable/40688470> 
for example based disgorgement based on employee stock options. 
149 Ibid. 
150  Clegg  v  Pache 
(UK  Court  of  Appeals);  available  at 
<http://www.bailii.org/ew/cases/EWCA/Civ/2017/256.html>. (Also see N Narayanan v Adjudicating Officer of the 
Securities 
at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/1413521982829.pdf>;  See  MSI  v 
Raven, [2013] EWHC 3147 (Comm), available at <https://www.bailii.org/ew/cases/EWHC/Comm/2013/3147.html> 
: “It has long been established that a trustee who knowingly permits a co-trustee to commit a breach of trust is also 
in breach of trust. A director who has knowledge of his fellow director's misapplication of company property and 
stands idly by, taking no steps to prevent it, will thus not only breach the duty of reasonable care and skill (which is 
not  fiduciary  in  character):  Ultraframe  v  Fielding  [2005]  EHWC  1638  (Ch),  [1300]-[1302]),  but  will  himself  be 
treated  as  party  to  the  breach  of  fiduciary  duty  by  his  fellow  director  in  respect  of  that  misapplication  by  having 
authorised or permitted it: Walker v Stones [2001] QB 902, 921D-E; Gidman v Barron and Moore [2003] EWHC 
153  (Ch)  at  [131];  Neville  v  Krikorian  [2006]  EWCA  Civ  943,  [49]-[51]  and  Lexi  Holdings  v  Luqman  (No.  1) 
[2007] EWHC 2652 (Ch) at [201]-[205].”) 

available 

India, 

AIR 

of 

2013 

SC 

3191, 

151 Ibid:  

 

“Mr Dagnall relied upon conventional, long established, legal principles for this part of his appeal. … In 
relation  to  the  burden  of  proof,  he  submitted  that  the  present  case  fell  well  within  the  "Armory  v 
Delamirie"  principle  [Armory  was  awarded  the  maximum  value  that  a  jewel  of  that  form  which  was 
stolen could have as the original could not be examined (under the principle that a wrongdoer should not 
be able to derive gain from the effects of his wrongdoing due to uncertainty of damages)] (supplied), as 
applied by Longmore LJ in Keefe v The Isle of Man Steam Packet Company Limited[2010] EWCA Civ 
683 at paragraph 19, namely that a defendant who has in breach of duty made it difficult or impossible 
 
Page | 281  

 
 

Act, 2013 expressly provides under Section 188 (4) & (5) requiring the corporate 

insider to indemnify the losses to the company.152 In some cases, the profits made 

may  be  insignificant  to  the  losses  caused  by  a  related  party  transaction,  which 

goes  sour.  If  any  loss  or  depreciation  results  as  a  result  of  a  related  party 

transaction,  no  question  of  any  foreseeability  or  remoteness  arises  and  the 

corporate insider is automatically liable for the loss caused to the investors.153 

 

III. 

In  case  of  illegal  activities,  credit  for  the  monies/assets  returned  to  avoid 

detection or after detection of the illegal activity is not to be considered for levy of 

penalty154 or  if  payments  are  made  in  respect  of  initial  investments  to  entice 

additional  investments  and  conceal  the  default.155 However,  the  same  may  be 

considered while taking into account any disgorgement obligation. 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
for a claimant to adduce relevant evidence must run the risk of adverse factual findings. …it should have 
been  directed  on  the  basis  of  a  starting  point  that  all  FPL's  (beneficiary  company)  (supplied)  profits 
during the relevant period should be accountable, subject to the exclusion of such transactions or profits 
as  the  defendants  could  show  were  independently  undertaken  or  earned,  (emphasis  supplied)…  Mr 
Dagnall satisfied me that the case was also put in that much simpler, more general and legally principled 
way (as he presented it on appeal), at least in the closing written submissions to which the parties and the 
court had recourse on the final day of the trial, headed "Summary of the case in law against first and third 
defendants"” 

152 Also see, Mahesan v. Malaysian Govt. Officers Co-operative Housing Society Ltd [1978] 1 MLJ 149; [1979] AC 
374, [1978] 2 All ER 405 (Privy Council) (The appellant was a director and secretary of the respondent co-operative 
society. He brought land for the society at overvalue. The appellant knew of the land being overvalued however he 
failed  to  inform  the  society.  The  society  discovered  the  fact  only  after  the  sale  was  done  and  discovered  the 
appellant had received a secret commission from the vendor. As a result, the Privy Council held that the respondent 
could  recover  either  bribe  or  the  amount  of  the  actual  loss  suffered  by  it  as  a  consequence  of  entering  into  the 
contract). 

153 Duckwari  plc  (No.  2)  Re:  (1998)  2 BCLC  315:  (1998) 3 WLR  913  (CA).  See  also,  Duckwari  plc  (No.  3)  Re: 
(1999) 1 BCLC 168: (1999) 2 WLR 1059 (CA). (The position of a director is fiduciary in nature and similar where a 
trustee makes an unauthorized investment). 
154  See  US  Sentencing  Guidelines  p  97,  available  at  <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-
manual/2016/GLMFull.pdf>; and Primer Loss Calculations under §2B1.1(b)(1) of the US Sentencing Guidelines pp 
27-32, available at <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/training/primers/2016_Primer_Loss.pdf> 
155 The US Sentencing Guidelines take into account ‘intended’ loss as well as ‘actual’ loss, whereas Indian securities 
laws explicitly refer only to actual loss to investors. However, securities laws do not exclude the application of any 
other relevant factor for consideration. [See Siddharth Chaturvedi v SEBI, (SC) (Civil Appeal No. 14730 of 2015 
decided  on  March  14,  2016);  Adjudicating  Officer,  SEBI  v  Bhavesh  Pabari,  2019  (3)  SCALE  447,  available  at 
<https://www.supremecourtofindia.nic.in/supremecourt/2013/36291/36291_2013_Judgement_28-Feb-2019.pdf> 
and  Finance  Act,  2017]  This  principle  for  not  giving  credit  to  certain  repayments  is  based  on  the  two  grounds, 
namely (i) ‘intended loss’ (ii) the payments are essentially part of the fraudulent scheme. Both grounds hold good in 
respect of Indian securities laws and hence the recommendation, since intended loss is loss that is foreseen by the 
defaulter or hence foreseeable and relevant. See United States v. Dobish, 102 F.3d 760 (6th Cir. 1996), available at 
 
Page | 282  

 

 
 

 

IV. 

In case of costs incurred for running an illegal activity, no benefit is required to 

be  given  for  such  costs,  including  fixed  costs.156 However,  direct  trading  costs 

(including  securities  transaction  tax)  may  be  deductible  depending  on  the  facts 

and  circumstances  of  each  case,  as  direct  transaction-specific  costs. 157  In 

disgorgement  cases  where  illicit  profits  are  used  for  payment  of  income  taxes 

unrelated to such profits no such credit is required to be given, however if profits 

are  used  for  payment  of  taxes  related  to  such  profits  then  it  is  discretionary  to 

grant such credit for taxes paid, i.e. in cases where the restitution is possible to 

identified  investors  no  such  tax  credit  should  be  allowed  and  in  case  the 
                                                                                                                                                                                           
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/731240/united-states-v-michael-dobish/> 
investment  manager 
normally  occupies  a  position  of  trust.  Mr.  Dobish  constructively  held  such  a  position,  based  on  his  own 
representations, and he abused that position to defraud his victims. The court also found that money was returned 
only  as  a  means  of  perpetuating  the  fraud,  and  that  the  scheme  would  have  been  continued  indefinitely  had  the 
victims not discovered what was going on.); United States v. Mucciante, 21 F.3d 1228 (2d Cir. 1994), available at 
<https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/F3/21/1228/622994/>  (Mucciante's  sentence  was  properly 
enhanced. Although he returned some of Berger's  money, and repaid Yohay and Horowitz, he did so as part of a 
meretricious effort to maintain their confidences. He is therefore not entitled to credit for sums returned, or for sums 
spent for Berger's benefit. Finally, it is of course irrelevant that Mucciante took the money to impress people, rather 
than for a more sinister purpose). 

(An 

156  See  Federal  Trade  Commission  v.  Bronson  Partners,  LLC,  654  F.3d  359  (2d  Cir.  2011),  available  at 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/223605/ftc-v-bronson-partners-llc/>: 

“We need not dwell long on this argument, as it is well established that defendants in a disgorgement action 
are "not entitled to deduct costs associated with committing their illegal acts." SEC v. Cavanagh, No. 98-
Civ.-1818-DLC, 2004  WL  1594818,  at  30  (S.D.N.Y.  July  16,  2004), aff'd, 445  F.3d  105 (2d  Cir.2006). 
Although  we sometimes refer casually to the power of district  courts to "require  wrongdoers  to disgorge 
fraudulently obtained profits," Official Comm. of Unsecured Creditors of WorldCom, Inc. v. SEC, 467 F.3d 
73,  81  (2d  Cir.2006)  (emphasis  added),  that  is  because  in  many  securities  fraud  cases  the  wrongdoer 
receives no direct monetary transfer from his victims. Where that is true, the defendant's ill-gotten gains are 
equal to the profits of his unlawful trading. But where the profits from fraud and the defendant's ill-gotten 
gains diverge, the district court may award the larger sum. In SEC v. DiBella, for example, we rejected an 
argument  that  "disgorgement  is  limited  to  profits  reaped  through  [the  defendant's]  securities  law 
violations," such that a defendant who was paid to assist another's violation of Section 10(b) could not be 
required  to  disgorge  his  fees. 587  F.3d  553,  572  (2d  Cir.2009)  (internal  quotation  marks  omitted).  And 
in Verity, we explained that although the defendants-appellants were not liable for consumer payments that 
never  reached  them,  "the  district  court  should  determine  the  amount  of  the  ...  total  billings  that  the 
defendants-appellants  received  ...,  without  deducting  monies  paid  by  the  defendants-appellants  to  other 
parties." 443  F.3d  at  68.  Likewise,  at  least  three  other  circuits  measure  unjust  gains  in  FTC  actions  by 
revenues instead of profits. See FTC v. Direct Mktg. Concepts, Inc., 624 F.3d 1, 14-16 (1st Cir.2010); FTC 
v. Kuykendall, 371 F.3d 745, 765-67 (10th Cir. 2004) (holding that unjust gains should be calculated based 
on a defendant's "gross receipts"); Febre, 128 F.3d at 536.” 

157 See  SEC  Administrative  Decision  in  the  matter  of  Curtis  A  Peterson,  pp  6-7,  discussing  several  authorities  in 
respect  of  discretionary  deduction 
transaction  specific  costs  and  denying  others,  available  at 
<https://www.sec.gov/alj/aljdec/2017/id1124jsp.pdf>. 

for 

 
Page | 283  

 

 
 

disgorgement is due to the Board’s Investor Protection and Education Fund, the 

defaulter  may  be  allowed  credit  if  such  taxes  can  be  computed  easily  and 

information is provided or else in all such cases the defaulter must approach the 

Income  Tax  authorities  for  relief  instead  of  the  Board. 158 In  case  of  penalty 

calculation, profit made is only a barometer for assessing penalty rather than for 

the  purpose  of  refund/restitution  or  recovery  of  the  disproportionate  profit, 

hence taxes and other costs incurred after the default are of no relevance and no 

credit is required.  

 

V.  Where the investors’ property is destroyed or lost e.g. in case of share certificates, 

the  fair  market  value  when  the  default  was  detected  by  the  investor  or  the 

authority, whichever is earlier can be considered or the cost of replacement can 

be considered.159 In this respect the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in is recent 

judgment  in 63  Moons  Technologies  Ltd. v  U.O.I  &  Ors.160 has  inter  alia noted 

various methods of valuation of shares as follows,- 

“71. In Miheer H. Mafatlal v. Mafatlal Industries Ltd., (1997) 1 SCC 579, in 

the context of a voluntary amalgamation made under Sections 391 to 394 of 

the Companies Act, this Court went into share valuation. This Court held: 

“40. …… It must at once be stated that valuation of shares is a technical 

and  complex  problem  which  can  be  appropriately 

left  to  the 

consideration of  experts in the field of  accountancy. Pennington in his 

Principles of Company Law mentions four factors which had to be kept 

in mind in the valuation of shares: 

“(1) Capital Cover,  

(2) Yield,  

                                                           
158 See  SEC  Administrative  Decision  in  the  matter  of  Curtis  A  Peterson,  pp  5-8,  discussing  several  authorities  in 
respect  of  non-deductibility  of  taxes,  available  at  <https://www.sec.gov/alj/aljdec/2017/id1124jsp.pdf>.  Also  see, 
Elaine Buckberg and Frederick  G. Dunbar,  Disgorgement: Punitive Demands and Remedial Offers,  The Business 
Lawyer Vol. 63, No. 2 (February 2008), 347, at 381, available at <https://www.jstor.org/stable/40688470>. 
159  See  US  Sentencing  Guidelines  p  96,  available  at  <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-
manual/2016/GLMFull.pdf>. 
160
<https://www.sci.gov.in/supremecourt/2018/4493/4493_2018_Judgement_30-Apr-2019.pdf>. 

30.04.2019 

available 

 Judgment 

dated 

at 

 

 
Page | 284  

 
 

(3) Earning Capacity, and  

(4) Marketability. 

For  arriving  at  the  fair  value  of  share,  three  well-known  methods  are 

applied: 

(1)  The  manageable  profit-basis  method  (the  Earning  Per  Share 

Method)  

(2) The networth method or the break value method, and  

(3) The market value method.”  

What  is  clear  from  the  various  methods  of  valuation  of  shares,  when  it 

comes to such valuation qua the transferor and transferee company, is that 

the  market  value  method  is  one  method  in  which  shares  can  be  valued  so 

that their equivalent can then be provided for in the amalgamated company. 

This  would  be  nothing  other  than  what  those  shares  were  worth  in  the 

market on a particular day or an average taken within a certain period. What 

is  important  to  note  is  that  the  market  value  of  shares  is  market  value  of 

shares  reflective  of  their  economic  value,  being  an  interest  measured  by  a 

sum of money, is not something that is completely alien to determining the 

rights  of  or  interest  of  a  shareholder  in  the  transferor  or  transferee 

company, as the case may be.” 

 

VI. 

In some cases the estimate of loss may be more or less equal to the illegal gains 

derived, even though such monies available for disgorgement may have dwindled 

or  lost  in  value  by  the  time the  default  is  detected  or  recovery  initiated.  E.g.  in 

case of unauthorized investment schemes. 

 

VII. 

In case of activities requiring registration, recognition or any other authorization 

by  the  Board  are  conducted  without  requisite  approvals,  the  fees  due  to  the 

regulator which would otherwise be payable and have not been paid shall amount 

to loss avoided and counted towards illegal gains. 

 

 

 
Page | 285  

 
 

VIII.  Technological firms nowadays seek to issue securities to the public to raise cheap 

capital.  Such  firms  have  trade  secrets  or  other  proprietary  information  in  the 

nature of unpublished price sensitive information, which needs to be protected. 

Loss of such information can result in substantial loss of stock valuation. In case 

of misuse of such information, an estimate of illegal gains or loss caused may be 

based on the estimate of the fair market value of such information161 failing which 

the cost of developing that information may be used, if available with the victim 

company,  and  where  the  company  suffers  a  loss  of  business,  including  loss  of 

business opportunity.162 The principles for calculation of loss of profit including 

loss  of  business  are  well  understood  and  may  be  applied  in  such  instances.163 

Some such methods are,- 

i.  When  the  harm  is  for  a  finite  period  of  time  and  is  related  to  a  separately 

identifiable  cash  flow,  a  lost  profits  approach  is  preferred  due  to  the  finite 

period of damages. This  approach represents the difference between profits 

the  victim  would  have  attained,  “but  for”  the  harmful  event,  and  profits 

actually  attained.  Profits  can  be  defined  variously  depending  on  the  venue, 

facts  and  circumstances  of  the  underlying  engagement.  The  calculated  lost 

profits  are  then  adjusted  for  mitigation,  if  any.  A  lost  profits  analysis  is 

commonly employed in breach of contract, intellectual property and general 

commercial litigation cases. It may be done using,- 

a.  The sales projection method which compares forecasted profits before 

the harmful event to actual profits after the harmful event; 

b.  The  before-and-after  method,  which  compares  profits  before  the 

harmful  event  to  profits  after  the  harmful  event,  is  appropriate  for 

many businesses; 

c.  The  accounting  for  profits  method  is  based  on  incremental  sales  or 

profits achieved by the defaulter as the result of the harmful event. It 

                                                           
161 See International Accounting Standards Board standard 38 (IAS 38) read with International Financial Reporting 
Standard 3 (Business Combinations) and Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 38 (Intangible Assets). 

162  See  US  Sentencing  Guidelines  p  97,  available  at  <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-
manual/2016/GLMFull.pdf>. 
163 See <https://www.alvarezandmarsal.com/ar/insights/damages-measured-lost-profits-or-lost-business-value> 

 
Page | 286  

 

 
 

 

should be reasonably certain that the victim would have attained the 

same amount of sales or profits as the defaulter, “but for” the harmful 

event; 

d.  The  yardstick  method  compares  profits  to  a  quantifiable  yardstick, 

before  and  after  the  harmful  event.  This  method  is  typically  used  in 

industries  where  profit  margins  are  closely  tied  to  a  measurable 

yardstick such as the price of raw material; 

e.  The  market  share  method  is  based  on  the  market  share the  plaintiff 

would have attained, “but for” the harmful event. This method may be 

suitable for industries where reliable data regarding the overall market 

is readily available. 

 

ii. 

In circumstances where the loss of earnings is considered or assumed to be 

permanent and into perpetuity, or where a business is destroyed completely, 

a  lost  business  value  approach  is  generally  appropriate.  This  approach  is 

commonly  applied 

in  business  destruction,  shareholder  oppression, 

dissenting  shareholder  and  tax  matters.  A  business  valuation  is  performed 

before  the  date  of  harm  and  after  the  date  of  harm,  with  the  resulting 

difference  regarded  as  the  lost  business  value,  this  may  be  done  using  the 

following methods,- 

a.  The  asset-based  approach  involves  analyzing  the  plaintiff’s  tangible 

and intangible assets net of liabilities. This approach does not directly 

address the operating earnings of the business and, as such, is useful 

in estimating the value of a non-operating business where cash flows 

are  nominal,  such  as  a  holding  company  or  an  asset-intensive 

business; 

b.  The  market  approach  uses  pricing  multiples  taken  from  guideline 

companies  or  transactions  and  applies  these  multiples  to  the 

appropriate performance measure of the company being valued; 

c.  The  income  approach  calculates  a  business’s  value  by  applying  a 

discount  or  capitalization  rate  to  a  measure  of  its  expected  future 
 
Page | 287  

 
 

 

earnings to arrive at a present value of the future benefit streams. This 

approach is commonly used in estimating the value of both publicly-

traded and closely-held businesses. 

In any event, these losses are generally relevant only when a particular company 

is  targeted,  causing  indirect  loss  to  share-holders.  The losses  may  be  calculated 

using the assistance of the person impacted. 

 

IX.  Technology  has  changed  the  way  transactions  are  done  and  has  created  newer 

modes  of  committing  plain  vanilla  defaults.  Front-running  is  essentially  the 

placing of trades ahead of another trade order based on prior knowledge of such 

subsequent  order  to  take  advantage  of  the  price  change  on  account  of  such 

subsequent order vis-à-vis other traders. The US SEC views co-location services 

as  a  material  aspect  of  the  operation  of  the  facilities  of  an  exchange. 164 Co-

location enables access to legalized data feed in a way that counters geographical 

disadvantages  where  the  trader  is  allowed  to  access  stock  prices  a  split  second 

before  the  general  market  by  being  ‘closer’  to  the  exchange.165 However,  when 

exchange officials, actively or passively, provide preferential access to a particular 

person where trade data is actually received before others in a discriminatory and 

unfair  manner,  trading  on  such  preferential  information  may  result  in  trading 

ahead of the market. In such cases, the advantage does not arise from the server 

being  co-located  at  the  exchange,  rather  the  advantage  arises  from  prior 

dissemination  of  the  information  to  a  particular  person  who  has  been  given 

preferential access to the co-location server vis-à-vis others. 

 

                                                           
164 See  Exchange  Act  Release  No.  34-61358,  75  Fed.  Reg.  3594,  3610  &  fn.  76  (Jan.  21,  2010),  available  at 
<https://www.sec.gov/rules/concept/2010/34-61358.pdf>. 
165 In  Re:  Barclays  Liquidity  Cross  and  High  Frequency  Trading  Litigation  (Opinion  and  Order,  SDNY,  14-md-
02589, 
<http://securities.stanford.edu/filings-
documents/1052/NA00_01/2015826_o01x_14MD02589.pdf>. 

available 

August 

25, 

2015), 

pp 

8-9, 

at 

 

 
Page | 288  

 
 

X.  Where  securities  are  purchased  and  sold  during  the  default  period  it  is  easy  to 

calculate  the  realized  profit.  Quantification  of  profit  includes  notional  loss. 166 

However  complexity  arises  in  the  cases  of  notional  profit 167  or  where  the 

acquisition price is not available or in cases where the illegal profit may be mixed 

with legal profit. Further, trading need not result in net cash positive transaction. 

Gain in the form of undue advantage (loss avoided) will also arise in cases where 

the  default  was  done  to  lower  the  possible  losses  than  would  have  otherwise 

resulted from market conditions, e.g. if the historical cost price was much higher 

than the prevailing price  at the beginning of the default period. In such cases  a 

variation of the averaging period may be used to arrive at a suitable fair notional 

price (acquisition or sale)  to arrive at the difference between cost and purchase 

value. 

 
                                                           
166 Dushyant  N.  Dalal  &  Anr  v  SEBI,  SAT  Appeal  No.  182  of  2009  decided  on  12.11.2010,  p  9,  available  at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/satorders/dalal.pdf >: 

“The next argument  of the learned senior counsel is that the Board was in  error in taking into account the 
unrealized  gains  for the shares  which are still being  held by  the appellants and the  said  amount  should be 
omitted for calculating the gains. It is true that the appellants did not sell all the shares that were cornered by 
them through the key operators and that some of them are still lying in their demat accounts. The whole time 
member in the impugned order has  worked out the notional gain with reference to the  closing price of the 
shares on the first day of listing and deducted the issue price therefrom. As at present advised, we can think 
of no better way of calculating the notional gain made by the appellants. Even if there is a better method of 
calculating the notional gains, we do not think that the method adopted by the whole time member is in any 
way arbitrary or unfair calling for our interference. Surely the appellants cornered the shares through illegal 
means and they cannot be heard to say that notional profits should not be worked out merely because they 
continue to hold some of them. They cannot be allowed to unjustly enrich themselves. We, therefore, reject 
this argument of the appellants as well.” 

167  See  SEC  v.  Shapiro,  494  F.2d  1301  (2d  Cir.  1974),  available  at  <https://casetext.com/case/securities-and-
exchange-commission-v-shapiro>,  the  defendant  continued  to  hold  stock  he  had  fraudulently  obtained  after  the 
inside information on which  he had acquired the stock became public. The district court ordered the defendant to 
disgorge his profits computed as of the day the inside information was publicly disclosed. The defendant argued that 
such a disgorgement constituted a penalty because he would be forced to give up more than the stock was actually 
worth when it was sold, as its value had dropped after the inside information became public. The Court of Appeals 
disagreed with defendant's logic, noting that:  

“[Defendant's]  additional  losses  resulted  not  from  any  penalty  imposed  by  the  court  but  from  his  unwise 
investment decision to keep the stock after February 18 [the date the inside information became public].  
… 
[A]  contrary  holding  would  create  a  serious  anomaly  that  might  encourage  insider  trading.  To  require 
disgorgement only of actual  profits in cases  where the price of  the  stock  subsequently  fell  would create a 
heads-I-win-tails-you-lose  opportunity  for  the  violator:  he  could  keep  subsequent  profits  but  not  suffer 
subsequent losses.” 

 
Page | 289  

 

 
 

XI.  TAX EVASION AND GAIN QUANTIFICATION: Cases where the primary purpose of a 

scheme is tax evasion, rather than defrauding investors in securities markets is a 

particular  case.  In  such  cases  the  securities  regulator  may  have  to  deal  with 

concerns that are unrelated to securities markets. Such transactions if continued 

unabated, risks the misuse of securities markets for defrauding other authorities. 

In 2014 the US SEC succeeded in  disgorging the profits of a fraudulent scheme 

[setting  up  foreign  trust  accounts  to  hide  beneficial  ownership  and  trade  in 

securities] inter alia on the basis that federal taxes were avoided even when the 

US  Internal  Revenue  Services  had  not  sought  to  recover  the  unpaid  taxes  and 

inspite of there being no statutory basis or precedent of using unpaid taxes as a 

measure of disgorgement.168  

 

In SEC v Wyly,169 the court inter alia held as follows, -  

“The SEC  arrives at  its proposed  measure of disgorgement by 1) calculating 

the total profits earned on the sale of the Issuer securities by the IOM trusts, 

and  2)  approximating  the  amount  of  taxes  that…  would  have  been  paid  on 

those profits had the Wylys accurately disclosed beneficial ownership of the 

securities.  For  the  following  reasons,  I  conclude  that  this  is  an  appropriate 

measure….  On  June  13,  2013,  I  held  that  the  SEC  was  not  foreclosed,  as  a 

matter  of  law,  from  seeking  disgorgement  in  an  amount  equivalent  to  the 

federal  income  taxes  the  Wylys  would  have  been  required  to  pay  if  they 

properly  disclosed  beneficial  ownership  over  the Issuer  securities.  "There  is 

no  explicit  prohibition,  either  in  the  Tax  Code  or  in  the  Exchange  Act,  on 

using tax benefits as a measure of unjust enrichment in other contexts" and 

no  "express  limitation  on  the  SEC's  authority  to  calculate  and  disgorge  any 

"reasonable  approximation  of  profits  causally  connected  to  the  violation." 

(emphasis supplied) ….  

 

                                                           
168 See <https://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/sdny-judge-permits-novel-theory-and-86626/>. 
169 S.E.C. v. Wyly, 56 F.Supp.3d 394 (2014) 1:10-cv-05760-SAS, ECF 476 at 67 n.218 (S.D.N.Y. Sept. 25, 2014) 
available at <https://www.leagle.com/decision/infdco20140925e94>. 

 
Page | 290  

 

 
 

 

Congress has granted exclusive authority to the Secretary of the Treasury to 

assess and "collect the taxes imposed by the internal revenue laws," who has, 

in  turn,  delegated  that  authority  to  the  IRS.  Section  7401  of  the  Tax  Code 

states that "[n]o civil action for the collection or recovery of taxes, or of any 

fine,  penalty  or  forfeiture,  shall  be  commenced  unless  the  Secretary 

authorizes  or  sanctions  the  proceedings  and  the  Attorney  General  [of  the 

United States] or his delegates directs that the action be commenced." 

 

As I previously held, "this is not a civil action for the collection or recovery of 

taxes.  .  .  Rather,  this  is  a  civil  action  for  securities  law  violations, 

the remedy for which is measured by the amount of taxes avoided" as a result 

of the defendants' securities violations."[A] tax is an enforced contribution to 

provide for the support of the government. “Disgorgement is a discretionary 

and  equitable  remedy  aimed  at  preventing  unjust  enrichment.  Measuring 

unjust  enrichment  by  approximating  avoided  taxes  does  not  transform  an 

order  of  disgorgement  into  an  assessment  of  tax  liability….  Thus,  unlawful 

gains may be measured in any number of different ways. For example, courts 

commonly order  defendants to disgorge not only the proceeds of  a fraud or 

the profits  of  an unlawful  trade,  but  also  salary  and  bonuses  earned  during 

the period of a fraud, and amounts equivalent to losses avoided as a result of 

the securities violations. (emphasis supplied) Disgorgement "is a remedy that 

gives  courts  flexibility"  to  determine  the  appropriate  remedy  "to  fit  the 

wrongful conduct."…  

 

The  SEC  is  not  seeking  disgorgement  equivalent  to  the  unpaid  taxes 

for all profits  earned  by  the  IOM  trusts.  Rather,  the  SEC's  disgorgement 

amount  pertains  specifically  to  the  taxes  avoided  on  profits  relating  to  the 

exercise  of  options  and  sale  of  stock  in  four  companies  in  which  the  Wylys 

were  influential  insiders.  The  jury  found  that  the  Wylys  were  beneficial 

owners  of  all  of  the  Issuer  securities—from  the  time  the  options  were 

transferred  to  the  trusts  to  the  time  the  trusts  exercised  the  options  or 
 
Page | 291  

 
 

 

otherwise acquired stock to the time they were sold. The jury also found that 

the  Wylys'  pervasive  failure  to  disclose  beneficial  ownership  constituted 

securities  fraud.  There  is  no  evidence  in  the  record  that  the  purpose  of  this 

fraud  was  to  manipulate  or  distort  the  market.  (emphasis  supplied) 

There is ample  evidence,  however,  that  the driving  purpose  of  the  securities 

fraud was to conceal the Wylys' relationship to the IOM trusts and preserve 

the  preferential  tax  treatment  on  secret  offshore  profits  for  as  long  as 

possible. … 

 

This measure of disgorgement reflects the unique circumstances of this case. 

The  Wylys  engaged  in  securities  fraud  to  conceal  their  relationship  to  and 

control  of  the  IOM  trusts  in  order  to  maintain  the  secrecy  of  the  offshore 

system and preserve their tax benefits. The unlawful gains causally related to 

the  securities  violations  found  by  the  jury,  is  an  amount  equivalent  to  the 

taxes avoided on the profits the Wylys realized on the sale of Issuer securities. 

(emphasis supplied)” 

On appeal, the aforesaid ruling of the District Court was upheld by the US Court 

of Appeals170, inter alia holding as follows, - 

“In  its  September  opinion  explaining  its  disgorgement  order,  the  District 

Court emphasized that “this is not a civil action for the collection or recovery 

of taxes. Rather, this is a civil action for securities law violations, the remedy 

for  which  is  measured  by  the  amount  of  taxes  avoided  as  a  result  of  the 

defendants'  securities  violations.” The  Court  made  clear  that  “[m]easuring 

unjust  enrichment  by  approximating  avoided  taxes  does  not  transform  an 

order of disgorgement into an assessment of tax liability.” 

 

                                                           
170  SEC  v  Donald  R  Miller,  Executor  and  Ors,  No. 14-4261-cv (2d  Cir.  Dec.  18,  2015),  available  at 
<https://caselaw.findlaw.com/us-2nd-circuit/1720954.html>. 

 
Page | 292  

 

 
 

 

Since  the  tax  avoidance sum  merely  served  the purpose  of  quantifying  the 

disgorgement remedy, rather than forming the basis for liability itself, it is 

irrelevant  that—or  whether—tax  liability  is  non-transferable. What  matters 

is  that  the  gains  received  were  ill-gotten  in  violation  of  securities  laws,  a 

determination  that  has  already  been  made  by  the  jury  at  trial.  (emphasis 

supplied)  That  conclusion  is  not  disturbed  by  the  particular  measure  used 

by  the  District  Court  to  order  equitable  relief.  Here,  the  District  Court's 

adoption of two alternative measures of disgorgement in its September and 

December  opinions  makes  the  point  even  more  salient.  The  Relief 

Defendants  challenge  only  the  tax  measure  set  forth  in  the  September 

opinion. In fact, the particular method of measurement used is immaterial.”  

Similar issue arose in India, in the case of Rakhi Trading, The Hon’ble Supreme 

Court  of  India171 did  not  determine  the  issue  of  tax  evasion  as  the  show  cause 

notice was silent on that aspect but the following observations are noteworthy: 

 

“Per Kurian, J: 

SAT held that these trades were for the purpose of tax planning which is not 

violative of any regulation. We are not inclined to get in to the issue of tax 

planning  as  it  was  not  mentioned  in  the  show  cause  notices.  (emphasis 

supplied) 

 

We  find  it  difficult  to  appreciate  the  stand  taken  by  the  SAT  which  is 

endorsed by the learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents. Mr. 

Chidambaram,  learned  senior  counsel  appearing  for  Rakhi  Trading  argues 

that the SAT decision is valid and proper. Reliance is also placed on the case 

of Ketan Parekh (supra) in which SAT held that synchronised trades are not 

per se illegal. As far as reversal of trades is concerned, the senior counsel has 

                                                           
171  SEBI  v  Rakhi  Trading  Pvt.  ltd.,  C.A.  3174-3177  &  3180/2011.  Order  dated  08.02.2018,  available  on 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/feb-2018/1518429932105.pdf>. 

 
Page | 293  

 

 
 

 

sought to distinguish Ketan Parekh (supra) as it pertained to dealings in the 

cash  segment  whereas  the  present  case  deals  with  the  F&O  segment.  The 

learned  senior  counsel  has  strenuously  argued  that  no  rules  of  the  game 

have been violated. 

… 

In  the  instant  case,  one  party  booked  gains  and  the  other  party  booked  a 

loss. Nobody intentionally trades for loss. An intentional trading for loss per 

se, is not a genuine dealing in securities. The platform of the stock exchange 

has  been  used  for  a  non-genuine  trade.  Trading  is  always  with  the  aim  to 

make  profits.  But  if  one party  consistently  makes  loss  and  that  too  in  pre-

planned  and  rapid  reverse  trades,  it  is  not  genuine;  it  is  an  unfair  trade 

practice. (emphasis supplied) 

... 

According  to  SAT,  only  if  there  is  market  impact  on  account  of  sham 

transactions, could there be violation of the PFUTP Regulations. We find it 

extremely difficult to agree with the proposition. (emphasis supplied) 

... 

The  traders  thus  having  engaged  in  a  fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practice 

while  dealing  in  securities,  are  hence  liable  to  be  proceeded  against  for 

violation of Regulations3(a), 4(1) and 4(2)(a) of PFUTP Regulations. Appeal 

Nos.1969/2011, 3175/2011 and 3180/2011 are hence allowed. The orders of 

the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  are  set  aside  and  that  of  the  SEBI  are 

restored 

to 

the 

extent 

indicated 

above. 

 

Per R. Bhanumathi, J (concurring): 

When there were no other transactions in the market affecting the price of 

the underlying shares or F&O Segment and the price in both the segments 

had  remained  static,  then  there  was  no  reasonable  ground  to  get 

apprehensive  and  panic.  Therefore,  squaring  off  the  position  appears  to 

adjust the financial results with a view to avoid the tax incidence through an 

unfair trade practice or for some ulterior purpose. (emphasis supplied) 

 
Page | 294  

 
 

 

... 

An  act  to  fall  within  Regulation  4(2)(a),  it  is  not  necessary  that  the 

transactions entered into by the party was with intention to manipulate the 

market and that the market was in fact manipulated. Market manipulation 

is  a  deliberate  attempt  to  interfere  with  the  free  and  fair  operation  of  the 

market and create artificial, false or misleading appearances with respect to 

the price, market, product, security and currency. 

... 

In  the  quasi-judicial  proceeding  before  SEBI,  the  standard  of  proof  is 

preponderance of probability. (emphasis supplied) 

... 

The  market,  as  already  observed,  is  so  widespread  that  it  may  not  be 

humanly  possible  for  the  Board  to  track  the  persons  who  were  actually 

induced to buy or sell  securities as a result of manipulation and the Board 

cannot  be  imposed  with  a  burden  which  is  impossible  to  be  discharged. 

(emphasis supplied) 

... 

Intense  supervision  might  distort 

the  path  of  securities  market 

development;  but  SEBI  cannot  be  a  silent  spectator  to  unfair  trade 

practices/manipulative  market  for  some  ulterior  purpose  like  tax  evasion 

etc.  (emphasis  supplied)  To  find  the  right  balance  between  market  forces 

and Regulatory body's intervention, SEBI has to deal sternly with those who 

indulge in manipulative trading and deceptive devices to misuse the market 

and at the same time ensuring the development of the market. 

... 

Before  I  conclude,  it  is  necessary  to  refer  to  the  findings  of  SAT  on  'tax 

planning'.  SAT  held  that  even  assuming  that  non-genuine  synchronized 

trades have been entered into for the purposes of tax planning,  such trade 

could  be  held  objectionable  only  if  they  have  resulted  in  influencing  the 

market in one way or other. For its finding that every person is entitled to 

arrange his affairs as to avoid taxation. SAT relied upon Viram Investment 
 
Page | 295  

 
 

 

 

Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. v. SEBI (MANU/SB/0046/2005) decided on 11.02.2005. 

Contention of the respondents is that transactions which have been entered 

into  with  a  view  to  achieve  tax  planning  are  not  illegal  and  respondents 

placed reliance upon Viram Investment Pvt. Ltd. case. The learned counsel 

for  SEBI  contended  that  the  market  cannot  be  manipulated  by  fictitious 

transactions  either  for  tax  planning  or  for  some  ulterior  purposes  like 

money laundering etc. (emphasis supplied) 

 

No  grounds  have  been  raised  in  the  show  cause  notice  alleging  that  the 

impugned fictitious transactions have been entered into with a view to avoid 

payment of tax and was an act of tax planning. Adjudicating officer also has 

not  gone  into  this  aspect.  Hence,  I  am  not  inclined  to  go  into  this  aspect, 

whether  the  impugned  transactions  were  intended  to  reduce  the  brunt  of 

taxation and an act of tax planning. The correctness of findings of SAT in the 

case of Viram Investment Pvt. Ltd. is left open. (emphasis supplied) 

... 

The  impugned  transactions  are  manipulative/deceptive  device  to  create  a 

desired  loss  and/or  profit.  Such  synchronized  trading  is  violative  of 

transparent norms of  trading in securities. If the findings of SAT are to be 

sustained, it would have serious repercussions undermining the integrity of 

the  market  and  the  impugned  order  of  SAT  is  liable  to  be  set  aside. 

(emphasis supplied)” 

The  judgement  of  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  is  noteworthy  for  the  following 

reasons: 

i.  The  issue  of  tax  planning/evasion  arose  only  because  the  transactions 

were defended inter alia on those grounds. It became relevant to do so 

since  there  was  no  other  logical  explanation  for  the  noticees  to 

knowingly engage in structured loss making transactions; 

 

 
Page | 296  

 
 

 

 

ii.  Though the issue of tax planning through non-genuine trades was kept 

open the Court has laid down the principle that for a transaction to be a 

fraudulent and unfair trade practice actual impact on the market is not 

necessary.  A  fraudulent  trade  is  a  fraud,  whether  or  not  a  particular 

identifiable individual or the market is affected in a demonstrable way. 

To that extent the law in India and USA are similar; 

iii. 

In respect of tax planning, though the correctness of SAT’s judgment in 

Viram  Investment  Pvt.  Ltd.  was  kept  open,  the  validity  of  underlying 

transactions  through  which  desired  losses  are  knowingly  bought  and 

sold  stands  eroded  and  in  effect  Viram  Investment  Pvt  Ltd.  (SAT)172 

may no longer be good law; 

iv.  The concurring judgment is clear that SEBI cannot be a silent spectator 

to unfair trade practices/manipulative market for some ulterior purpose 

like tax evasion, etc. This leaves the door open for further developments 

in  Indian  jurisprudence  on  the  lines  of  USA  SEC  where  disgorgement 

was successfully obtained on the basis of taxes avoided by a fraudulent 

scheme. 

 
In  cases  where  a  few  persons  create  a  scheme  for  their  own  benefit  it  may  be 

possible to disgorge benefits linked to unpaid taxes avoided due to such a scheme. 

In  cases  where  a  brokers  run  investment  schemes  primarily  designed  for  tax 

evasion  and  attract  several  clients  offering  their  ‘services’  for  such  purposes,  it 

may cast  an  impossible  burden  on  the  enforcement  mechanism  of  the  Board  to 

prosecute  each  and  every  investor.  In  such  cases,  the  joint  and  several  liability 

may  be  appropriate  and  the  intermediaries  may  be  made  liable  for  the  entire 

scheme profits, including those of their clients (based on taxes avoided) and not 

                                                           
172  Viram  Investment  Pvt.  Ltd.  v  SEBI,  SAT  Appeal  no.  160/2004,  decided  on  11.02.2005,  available  at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/enforcement/orders/feb-2005/in-the-matter-of-viram-investment-pvt-ltd_11029.html>. 

 
Page | 297  

 

 
 

 

just  their  own,  since  such  large  scale  structured  transactions  cannot  be  done 

without their active participation.173 

 

7.  FINANCIAL ECONOMICS 

A discussion on advanced mathematical methods is necessary as violations in securities 

markets now involve 100’s or 1000’s of crores. Notably, the magnitude of securities laws 

violations  has  increased  to  such  a  level  that  they  have  been  found  fit  to  be  included 

under  the  Fugitive  Economic  Offenders  Act,  2018  which  must  necessarily  involve 

violations of at least Rs. 100 crores.  

 

Advanced  mathematical  methods  are  essentially  statistical  methods  that  are  useful  in 

instances  where  large  sums  are  involved  and  simpler  arithmetic  and  rule  of  thumb 

methods  may  have  large divergences  from  the  approximate  values obtainable  through 

statistical  methods,  which  help  to  isolate  the  effect  of  market-related  factors  and 

default-related factors in calculating the disproportionate gains made. 

 

However, statistical methods are not easily employed in low value matters. Experts may 

be needed, as is the practice in USA-SEC, to justify the particular method chosen, since 

within statistical methods there may be divergences based on the methods and the data 

set  chosen.  This  is  where  SEBI’s  role  as  a  regulator  regulating  a  financially  and 

technically complex market comes into play. 

 

Statistical  methods  are  used  in  all  fields  and  not  just  the  financial  world,  including 

weather  forecasting,  big  data  analysis,  census  data  analysis  and  formed  an  important 

aspect  of  the  Mandal  Commission’s  classification  which  utilised  extrapolation  of  caste 

                                                           
173 See US v Royer and Anr, 549 F.3d 886 (2d Cir. 2008) (US CA), available at <https://caselaw.findlaw.com/us-
2nd-circuit/1261811.html>: The gains made by the defendant and by the subscribers of his investment website. The 
Court found that the investments scheme was a coordinated effort between the defendant who made the website and 
the subscribers.  

 
Page | 298  

 

 
 

census data from 1891 and 1931 censuses.174 Statistical methods are often employed by 

asset  management  companies,  fund  managers  to  forecast  returns  on  investment  in 

order to take investment decisions. Statistical methods are used for all kinds of forecasts 

including  investment  returns,  setting  margin  requirements.  Take  for  example  the 

statistical  Black-Scholes  Model 175  of  option  pricing  and  pricing  of  employee  stock 

options176 which has also been considered by some to be at the root of the financial crisis 

of  2008. 177  Though  statistical  methods  seem  complex,  these  methods  are  in  fact 

commonly used in the securities markets by the large number of financial experts and 

economists the world over.178 Several software exist for carrying out such calculations.179 

 

The  Board  also  hires  a  large  number  of  financial  experts  (economists,  statisticians, 

MBAs, CAs, etc.) like  other global regulators and is thus well  placed to  adopt  the best 

practices  of  global  securities  regulators.  These  methods  of  calculating  return  are  not 

confined  to  securities  regulators  but  are  also  used  by  market  making  investment 

decisions  based  on  a  mathematically  anticipated  return  that  the  investment  may 

generate.  

 

CHASING  THE  ALPHA  (α)  OR  THE  ABNORMAL  RETURNS  OR  EXCESS  RETURN 180 OF 

INSIDERS/FRONT-RUNNERS:  Legal  scholars 181  and  other  securities  regulators  have 

                                                           
174 See  Nandini  Sundar,  Professor  of  Sociology  at  the  Delhi  School  of  Economics,  ‘Will  counting  caste  help  to 
reduce 
inequality?’ 
<http://censusindia.gov.in/Ad_Campaign/press/Will%20counting%20caste%20help%20to%20reduce%20inequality
.pdf>. 
175 <https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/definition/black-scholes-model> 
176 See  Ministry  of  Corporate  Affairs:  Ind  AS  102  including  the  principles  for  valuation  of  share  options  to 
employees available at <http://mca.gov.in/Ministry/pdf/Ind_AS102.pdf>. 
177 See Ian Stewart, Emeritus professor of Mathematics at the University of Warwick, ‘The mathematical equation 
that  caused  the  banks  to  crash’,  available  at  <https://www.theguardian.com/science/2012/feb/12/black-scholes-
equation-credit-crunch>; 
at 
<https://www.nseindia.com/learn/self-study-ncfm-modules-advanced-modules> (explaining  the  various methods  adopted  for 
valuation of exchange-traded options in securities). 
178
perspective> 
179
 See 
<https://www.sas.com/en_in/home.html>; <https://www.stata.com/> and <https://www.eventstudytools.com/>. 
180
dictionary/stock-valuation/abnormal-rate-return-3105>. 

 See  <https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/abnormalreturn.asp>;  <https://investinganswers.com/financial-

 <https://www.motilaloswal.com/article.aspx/1625/What-do-we-mean-by-Alpha-from-a-fund-managers-

<https://wrds-www.wharton.upenn.edu/pages/analytics/>; 

<https://www.r-project.org/>; 

(Advanced)  Module, 

available 

Also 

see, 

NSE-NCFM 

Options 

Trading 

 

 
Page | 299  

 
 

supported 

the  use  of 

financial  economics 

in  securities 

litigation, 

including 

disgorgement.  Calculating  the  excess  returns  using  an  event  study  uses  statistics  to 

assess  the  impact  of  an  event  on  the  value  of  a  firm’s  stock  and  the  trading  done.  It 

enables  determination  of  the  abnormal  returns  generated  in  cases  of  informational 

advantage and it is the standard methodology used by the USA SEC in insider trading 

analysis, however it is not required in all cases.182 It is ‘abnormal’ because it varies from 

the  normal:  ‘expected  rate  of  return’.  It  can  be  positive  or  negative.  (‘Ideally’  a  fund 

manager  who  can  generate  a  positive  alpha  or  positive  abnormal  returns  beats  the 

market and is highly sought after). 

 

Statistical methods are usually employed in cases where the defaulter does not close his 

position and determination of  profit is difficult or the illegal  profit is mixed with legal 

gains. Event studies (econometric methodology) in conjunction with the abnormal rate 

of returns methods are useful to assess the returns of defaulters in comparison with the 
                                                                                                                                                                                           
181 Janet c Alexander,  The Value of  Bad  News in  Securities Class Actions,  41 UCLA L.  Rev.  1421, 1433 (1994); 
Macey,  Miller,  Mitchell,  Mitchell  &  Netter,  Lessons  from  Financial  Economics:  Materiality,  Reliance,  and 
Extending 
(1991),  available  at 
<https://www.jstor.org/stable/1073445>;  Fischel,  Use  of  Modern  Finance  Theory  in  Securities  fraud  Cases 
Involving 
at 
<https://www.jstor.org/stable/40686405>. 

the  Reach  of  Basic  v  Levinson,  77  Va.  L.  Rev,  1017,  1021-28 

Securities, 

1, 

1-20 

Actively 

Traded 

38 

Bus. 

Law, 

(1982), 

available 

182 SEC v Wyly, 71 F. Supp. 3d 399 (S.D.N.Y. 2014), available at <https://casetext.com/case/sec-amp-exch-commn-
v-wyly#N197547>: 

“Moreover, I do not agree that the SEC should have employed the standard  method  used for measuring 
the ill-gotten  gains in insider trading cases, i.e., performing an event study for each trade. (emphasis 
supplied)  First,  this  is  not  an  insider  trading  case.  Though  the  SEC  alleges  that  the  Wylys  used  an 
informational advantage to trade opportunistically, they did this in the context of the offshore system where 
the  Wylys  could  choose  between  securities  from  four  different  Issuers  where  they  had  an  informational 
advantage. In this context, the Wylys could have information that while one Issuer stock was poised to rise 
moderately, another Issuer stock would rise more during the same period.  
 
In this case, using an event study would not detect any use of informational advantage in a sale of the first 
stock, even though the decision to sell was motivated by an informational advantage.  
 
Second, this approach is simply not feasible given the length of the fraud period here—thirteen years—and 
the hundreds of trades at issue. Because of the unique facts of this case, I credit Dr. Becker's testimony that 
the  established  methodologies  for  measuring  the  value  of  secrecy  and  informational  advantage  would  not 
reasonably  approximate  the  Wylys'  ill-gotten  gains.  Moreover,  given  the  absence  of  an  established 
methodology, I agree that Dr. Becker's method, that of comparing the Wylys' profits to those of a buy-and-
hold investor could reasonably approximate the profits causally connected to the Wylys' violations.  
 
Based  on  the  unique  facts  here  and  the  testimony  of  the  experts,  I  conclude  that  Dr.  Becker's  choice  of 
method was reasonable.” 

 
Page | 300  

 

 
 

normal returns of market to assess the amount of profit to be disgorged. The Committee 

notes that existing methods adopted relating to profit calculation indicate an attempt to 

develop a simpler methodology vis-a-vis statistical methods. However in doing so there 

are several trade-offs which limit the application and reliability of current methods; the 

Committee notes that those methods are not in public domain and nor are they designed 

specifically  for  illiquid  securities  nor  are  they  designed  for  eventualities  where  the 

defaulter  has  an  open  position  at  the  end  of  the  fraud  or  in  line  with  the  approach 

adopted  by  various  Court  nor  do  they  help  differentiate  the  legitimate  gains  from 

disproportionate gains as is the requirement under the securities laws. As such they are 

not really an alternative to statistical methods adopted by various securities regulators, 

courts  and  tribunals  globally.  Invariably,  the  Committee  notes  that  the  Board  is  a 

specialist organisation regulating a very complex financial market and its technical edge 

needs to be sharpened if the Board is to make a determined effort to maintain a cutting 

edge enforcement arm. 

 

 

‘α’  AS  AN  IMPORTANT  RED  FLAG:  Since  it  is  difficult  for  any  person  to 

actually get a substantial ‘α’  without appropriate justification,  calculating 

‘α’  of  trades  by  insiders  and  connected  persons  may  be  a  very  good 

indication  of  insider  trading  or  front-running  having  taken  place.  The 

failure  to  substantiate  the  trade  on  the  basis  of  actual  access  to  reliable 

data (other than unpublished price sensitive information) which led to the 

investment  decision,  in  comparison  to  the  general  market  or  even 

professional fund managers, is useful indicator of fraud especially if such 

persons  were  in  a  position  to  access  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information. Statistics enables such analysis of fraudulent trades.  

The exact formulae and methods are not discussed in this report as these methods are 

well  understood  in  the  financial  world  and  are  adopted  and  developed  by  different 

 

 
Page | 301  

 
 

securities regulators globally183 as well as by market participants in making investment 

decisions.  However,  the  Committee  will  briefly  discuss  the  concepts  underlying  the 

Event Study methodology which is the most basic method used by securities regulators 

globally for cases relating to information advantage. 

 

EVENT  STUDY  MECHANISM184:  An  event  study  is  a  statistical  technique  developed  by 

economists  that  estimates  the  stock  price  impact  of  occurrences  such  as  mergers, 

earning announcements, and so  forth. The basic notion is to disentangle the effects of 

two types of information on stock prices- information that is specific to the firm under 

examination (e.g. dividend announcement) and information that is likely to affect stock 

prices market wide. 

 

In  securities  investigation,  the  execution  of  an  event  study  by  an  economist  is  quite 

simple.  It  involves  the  identification  of  an  event  that  causes  investors  to  change  their 

expectations  about  the  value  of  a  firm.  The  Investigator  compares  a  stock  price 

movement  contemporaneous  with  the  event  to  the  expected  stock  price  if  the  event 

study had not taken place. There are three basic steps in conducting an event study: (i) 

define the event window; (ii) calculate the abnormal stock price performance around the 

event and (iii) test for statistical significance of the abnormal stock price performance. 

 

(i)  THE  EVENT  WINDOW:  The  first  step  in  the  event  study  is  selecting  an  event 

window.  The  event  window  is  the  period  when  information  about  the  event 

of 

Issue 

1, 

59-86, 

Banking 

                                                           
183 For a detailed study of SEC methodology and how it may be adopted in the context of other markets see 
the study in respect of the Italian market by the Italian Companies and Exchange Commission using the event 
study analysis method and the probabilistic method used as an alternative method: Marcello Minenna, ‘Insider 
Trading,  Abnormal  Return  and  Preferential  Information:  Supervising  through  a  Probabilistic  Model’,  27  (2003) 
Journal 
at 
<https://nscpolteksby.ac.id/ebook/files/Ebook/Journal/2015/Banking%20and%20Finance/Vol.%2027/Volume%202
7%20Issue%201/Page%2059-86/Insider%20trading-abnormal%20return%20and.pdf>, 
<https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0378426601002096>. 
<http://marcello.minenna.it/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/riskeu2003.pdf>. 
184 For  details  see  Mark  L.  Mitchell  and  Jeffry  M.  Netter,  'The  Role  of  Financial  Economics  in  Securities  Fraud 
Cases: Applications at the Securities and Exchange Commission', The Business Lawyer, Vol. 49, No. 2 (February 
1994), pp. 545-590, available at < https://www.jstor.org/stable/40687469?seq=1#metadata_info_tab_contents>.; A. 
Craig  Mackinlay,  ‘Event  Studies  in  Economics  and  Finance’,  (1997)  35  Journal  of  Economic  Literature,  13-39, 
available at <https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/aac6/83a678a12a3dcd73389aac7289868847ea73.pdf>. 

available 

& 

Finance, 

Also 

see 

 

 
Page | 302  

 
 

 

becomes available to the stock market and thus may affect the relevant company’s 

stock  price.  For  most  publicly-traded  corporations,  the  event  is  disseminated 

publicly by newswire sources or the stock exchange. Because the efficient markets 

hypothesis,  supported  by  considerable  empirical  evidence,  suggests  that  stock 

prices  react  quickly  to  the  release  of  new  information,  in  many  cases  the  event 

window  will  be  relatively  short,  sometimes  as  short  as  one  trading  day.  In 

determining  the  length  of  an  event  window,  an  important  trade  off  exists.  The 

longer  the  event  window,  the  more  likely  the  window  includes  the  period  during 

which  all  new  information  about  the  event  is  released.  The  trade-off,  however,  is 

that  long  event  windows  may  include  noise  and  information  from  other  events, 

making  it  difficult  to  isolate  the  impact  of  the  relevant  event.  The  extent  of 

difficulty  in  defining  the  event  window  length  varies  across  events.  In  those 

instances,  where  the  release  of  new  information  is  a  complete  surprise  to  the 

market, it is relatively easy to establish the beginning of the event period. Consider 

an  airline  crash,  for  example.  Because  airline  crashes  are  unanticipated,  the  first 

day of the event period is either the day of the crash or the subsequent trading day 

if  the  crash  occurred  after  the  market  close.  Even  when  it  is  easy  to  identify  the 

beginning of  an  event  window, it can be difficult to establish an  end of the event 

window. In the airline example, the end of the period would depend on when all of 

the  relevant  information  regarding  the  crash  was  made  available  to  market 

participants.  For  some  crashes,  it  may  take  several  days  or  perhaps  even  weeks 

before  the  market  receives  all  the  relevant  information;  in  these  cases,  a  longer 

event  window  is  more  necessary  than  for  a  crash  in  which  all  the  information  is 

available within a few hours following the crash. In most cases, however, the bulk 

of  the  information  is  released  at  the  announcement  of  the  event.  Because  the 

market processes information rapidly, it is conventional to expand the window for 

a short period after the announcement. It is standard to extend the event period to 

close of the trading on the day after the release of the pertinent information. 

 

For  those  events  that  are  subject  to  leakage,  defining  the  beginning  of  the  event 

window  can  be  problematic.  Consider  the  case  of  a  merger  in  which  the  target 
 
Page | 303  

 
 

 

company is rumoured to be “in play” prior to the announcement. For such a case, 

the event window should begin prior to the actual merger announcement, perhaps 

as long as a week or two. Ideally, the first day of the event window corresponding to 

a  merger  would  be  the  date  on  which  investors began  trading  on  news  about  the 

upcoming  merger,  regardless  of  whether  the  news  was  based  on  rumours,  inside 

information, regulatory filing, or a public announcement that merger talks were in 

process. In practice, this date is difficult to define and some degree of judgment is 

required  generally  based  on  price  and  volume  movements  prior  to  the  merger 

announcement. With respect to securities fraud cases, there is substantial variation 

in  the  complexity  of  determining  the  length  of  an  event  window.  In  some  fraud 

cases, choosing the appropriate event window is straightforward. An example is an 

insider  trading  case  where  the  information  used  by  the  investor  is  revealed 

subsequently  in  a  single  public  announcement.  On  the  other  hand,  in  many 

securities fraud cases the relevant information is revealed slowly over time, while 

during the same period investors receive other, sometimes unrelated, information 

about the firm(s) in question. In the latter case, it is relatively difficult to choose an 

appropriate window. The main advice is to carefully identify the exact dates during 

which  the  information  in  question  reached  the  market,  and  then  restrict  the 

window  to  a  short  period  if  possible,  generally  two  or  three  days  around  each 

release of new information. 

 

(ii) CALCULATING ABNORMAL STOCK PRICE PERFORMANCE: The question is whether the 

absolute  value  of  the  return  is  large  enough  so  that  the  investigator  can  indicate 

with  confidence  that  the  return  made  by  the  defaulter  is  relatively  unusual.  The 

goal  is  to  isolate  the  effect  of  the  event  on  the  contemporaneous  stock  price 

movement. Stated differently, the investigator attempts to determine whether the 

stock  price  behaviour  around  the  event  is  abnormal.  A  large  abnormal  price 

movement  occurring  at  the  same  time  the  market  receives  news  about  an  event 

suggests  that  the  event  caused  the  abnormal  price  movement.  Furthermore,  the 

link between the event and the price movement is even stronger if there is no other 

new information reaching the market at the same time that could affect the stock 
 
Page | 304  

 
 

 

price. The  degree to which the stock price  movement is small  or big depends not 

only on the absolute value of the movement but also on the movement relative to 

the historical patterns and to contemporaneous overall market movements.  

 

It  is  important  to  account  for  market-wide  movement  in  stock,  especially  during 

periods when the market is volatile. The basic method for accounting for market-

wide  factors  subtracts  the  market-wide  return  from  the  individual  stock's  return. 

This estimate is called the net-of-market return. Several choices of market indices 

are available as proxies for a market wide return- wider the market index the better 

it is considered as representative of the market. There are several statistical models 

depending on stock behaviour that can be used to determine returns, such as (a) 

the Constant Mean Return Model which assumes that the mean return of a given 

security is constant through time and is perhaps the simplest model, (b) the Market 

Model which  assumes a stable linear relation between the market return and the 

security  return  (c)  restricted  approaches  in  special  cases  such  as  the  Market–

Adjusted Abnormal  Return which  is a constrained model used  in  cases of  under-

pricing  of  initial  public  offerings.  There  are  also  Economic  Models  which  can  be 

cast  as  restrictions  on  the  statistical  models  to  provide  even  more  constrained 

models. The use of other models is dictated  by data availability. An example of  a 

normal performance return model implemented in situations with limited data is 

the market-adjusted return model. A general recommendation is to only use such 

restricted  models  if  necessary,  and  if  necessary,  consider  the  possibility  of  biases 

arising from the imposition of the restrictions. The main potential gain from using 

a model based on the arbitrage pricing theory is to eliminate the biases introduced 

by  using  the  CAPM.  However,  because  the  statistically  motivated  models  also 

eliminate these biases, for event studies such models dominate. 

 

Further,  although  net-of-market  returns,  in  many  cases,  provide  an  appropriate 

estimate  of  stock  price  effects  of  new  information,  there  are  instances  where 

computation  of  market  adjusted  returns  requires  a  more  refined  analysis  to 

account  for  the  fact  that  not  all  stocks  are  affected  identically  by  economy-wide 
 
Page | 305  

 
 

 

factors.  This  requires  the  investigator  to  use  beta  (β)-adjusted  stock  market 

performance. The difference between the predicted return and the actual return on 

a  given  date  during  the  event  window  is  known  as  ‘abnormal  return’.  Why 

abnormal?  It  is  assumed  that  the  unexplained  part  is  due  to  some  “abnormal” 

event  that  is  not  captured  by  the  model.  Event  windows  can  extend  beyond  one 

trading  day.  For  these  cases,  the  abnormal  returns  are  cumulated  to  create 

‘cumulative  abnormal  returns’.  Cumulative  abnormal  returns  only  measure  the 

impact  of  company  specific  information.  In  a  real  sense,  the  value  of  the 

information to the trader is best represented by how the information would have 

affected  the  stock  price  in  the  absence  of  any  other  factors  –  the  cumulative 

abnormal return. 

  

(iii)  TESTING  FOR  STATISTICAL  SIGNIFICANCE:  The  question  is  whether  the  absolute 

value  of  the  return  is  large  enough  so  that  the  investigator  can  indicate  with 

confidence  that  the  return  made  by  the  defaulter  is  relatively  unusual.  The 

importance  of  historical  average  and  standard  deviation  of  the  daily  returns  is 

highlighted in making the assertion that a given daily return is different from the 

typical  daily  return  given  the  context  of  a  normal-bell  shaped-  distribution. 

Statistical  tests  of  significance  are  useful  both  in  establishing  materiality  and  in 

calculating disgorgement. A finding that a stock return associated with the release 

of information is large enough that it is unlikely that the return occurred by chance 

is  strong  evidence  that  the  information  was  important.  Therefore,  if  that 

information was used allegedly in securities fraud, the finding that the associated 

stock  return  is  large  enough  to  be  statistically  important  implies  that  the 

information is material. Furthermore, a finding of statistical significance for stock 

returns  data  used  in  calculations  of  disgorgement  is  an  indication  that  the 

estimates are accurate.  

 

E.g.  suppose  a company’s  stock  price increases 7  %  on  the  day  that  management 

releases a favourable earnings announcement. Suppose, also, that the prior day a 

company  insider  purchased  stock  based  on  his  knowledge  of  the  forthcoming 
 
Page | 306  

 
 

 

announcement. The insider is subsequently charged with insider trading. A finding 

that the 7% return on the earnings announcement day is statistically significant is 

strong  empirical  evidence  that  the  news  was  important.  Stated  differently,  it  is 

unlikely  that  the  7%  increase  in  stock  price  occurred  by  chance.  Furthermore,  in 

calculating  the  profits  for  disgorgement  based  on  stock  price  increase  on  the 

announcement  day,  if  the  return  is  statistically  significant,  then  a  more  credible 

argument  can  be  made  that  the  7%  return  represents  the  value  of  the  insider’s 

information.  (This  example  does  not  imply  that  only  positive  increases  in  stock 

price are statistically significant, the historical and other contemporaneous factors 

need  to  be  taken  into  account  to  determine  what  change  in  price  is  statistically 

significant.) 

Thus, statistical methods not only enable the quantification of profits but also enable the 

adoption of a statistical method to test the materiality of any information. 

 

The Board needs to develop new legal theories and adopt these statistical methods if the 

Board needs to maintain a cutting edge enforcement mechanism. Wherever difficulty is 

faced by the Board in using these methods the assistance of experts like fund managers, 

auditors, lawyers, mathematicians, economists can be taken.  

 

Though  there  are  several  shortcomings  in  using  each  and  every  kind  of  statistical 

methods  in  all  circumstances,185 new  methods186 get  developed  over  time,  like  other 

securities  regulators,  to  enable  a  best  judgment  assessment,  which  is  better  than  no 

assessment at all. These methods need to be assessed in detail, adopted and developed 

by the Board, since different methods can be used depending on the facts of each case 

and the shortcoming of each method, such as liquidity of stock, recently quoted stock, 

etc. 

 <https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/how-to-calculate-risk-adjusted-returns-on-

                                                           
185
funds/articleshow/12208746.cms> 
186 See  Jeng,  Metrick  and  Zeckhauser,  ‘Estimating  the  Returns  to  Insider  Trading:  A  Performance-Evaluation 
Perspective’, Harvard University and MIT Press: The Review of Economics and Statistics, May 2003, 85(2): 453-
471, available at <https://sites.hks.harvard.edu/fs/rzeckhau/InsiderTrading.pdf>. 

 
Page | 307  

 

 
 

 

8.  GENERAL GUIDELINES 

In view of the above, the Committee is of the view that non-mandatory public guidelines 

(based on globally acknowledged methods of quantification, accounting standards  and 

principles applied by judicial bodies, etc.) applicable for all new cases for quantification 

of profit made and loss caused as a result of violation of securities laws may be issued 

for  the  technical  authorities  that  undertake  investigation,  inspection  or  audit  under 

securities  laws.  These  authorities  may  quantify  the  approximate  profit  made  or  loss 

caused based on the aforesaid in their Reports which shall be relevant for the Board for 

initiating  appropriate  enforcement  action  as  well  as  serve  as  a  guide  for  the  quasi-

judicial authority while considering the appropriate penalty to be levied or the amount 

to be disgorged. In general, before doing a full calculation, a back of the envelope/rough 

estimation can be made by the investigation authorities to determine which mode is to 

be adopted. If the earlier methods are more appropriate to a particular matter, the same 

can be adopted after recording reasons. The selection of the final profit/loss amount is 

left to the exercise of  judicial  discretion of the quasi-judicial authority. The  Board can 

seek information from any person, including the defaulter. If after reasonable time, the 

noticee does not provide the relevant information, the calculation made by SEBI at the 

highest value will be final. (See the principle established in Armory v Delamirie187). The 

guidelines have been framed after taking into account any foreseeable needs in the near 

future that the Board may have. 

 

On comparison with global regulators, it becomes clear that the enforcement processes 

of the Board needs a major overhaul. The Committee takes notice of the practices of the 

Japanese Regulator188 - the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission (SESC) - 

which  issues  a  Recommendation  for  Administrative  Monetary  Penalty  to  the  Prime 

Minister of Japan and the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency (FSA), which 

 [1722]  EWHC  KB 

                                                           
187
J94, 
<https://www.bailii.org/ew/cases/EWHC/1722/J94.htm> 
188 See <https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/aboutsesc/all.pdf>. 

(1722) 

1  Strange 

 

5O5, 

93  ER 

664 

(KB), 

available 

at 

 
Page | 308  

 
 

is confirmed by the FSA. The Recommendations189 made by the Securities and Exchange 

Surveillance  Commission  and  the  Orders190 issued  by  the  Financial  Services  Agency 

(which is part of  the Prime Minister’s Office) contain detailed calculations on how the 

penalty was levied, taking into account every transaction and ¥ as far as possible. This 

practice needs to be adopted by the Board in its investigation/inspection/audit reports 

to  further  transparency  and  clarify  the  basis  of  its  penalty,  disgorgement  and  refund 

orders.  

 

RECOMMENDATION:  

i.  The  Board  may  consider  issuing  the  following  public  Guidelines  at  the  earliest 

(w.e.f.  Oct  01,  2021)  to  enable advance  notice  to  market  participants,  including 

the members of the bar and Bench: 

 

 

GUIDELINES FOR QUANTIFICATION OF THE AMOUNT OF DISPROPORTIONATE GAIN 

INCLUDING UNFAIR ADVANTAGE 

& 

AMOUNT OF LOSS CAUSED TO AN INVESTOR OR GROUP OF INVESTORS 

  

 

 QUANTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF DISPROPORTIONATE GAIN MADE AND LOSS CAUSED 
                                                           
189 See, Recommendation dated 02.02.2016 for administrative penalty for market manipulation by Evo Investment 
Advisors,  available  at  <https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/news/reco/20160202-1.htm>;  Recommendation  dated 
04.03.2016 for administrative penalty for market manipulation by Blue Sky Capital Management Pty Ltd, available 
at  <https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/news/reco/20160304-1.htm>;  Recommendation  dated  06.12.2016 
for 
administrative  penalty  for  market  manipulation  by  Morgan  Stanley  MUFG  Securities  Co.  Ltd.,  available  at 
<https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/news/reco/20161206-1.htm>;  Recommendation 
for 
at  < 
administrative 
https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/news/reco/20170317-1.htm>; 
for 
administrative  penalty 
Inc.,  available  at 
<https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/news/reco/20180626.htm>. 
190 See, Order dated 24.04.2018 imposing Penalty Surcharge for market manipulation of stocks of Yurtec Co. Ltd 
and  Maeda  Road  Construction  Co.  Ltd.,  available  at  <https://www.fsa.go.jp/news/30/shouken/20180424-8.html>; 
Order dated 24.04.2018 imposing penalty surcharge in case of insider trading relating to Misawa Home stock by 
officers  of  its  subsidiary,  available  at  <https://www.fsa.go.jp/news/30/shouken/20180424-7.html>;  Order  dated 
24.04.2018  imposing  penalty  surcharge  for  insider  trading  by  officer  of  Escrow  Agent  Japan  Ltd,  available  at 
<https://www.fsa.go.jp/news/30/shouken/20180424-6.html>. (Translated from Japanese using Google Translate). 

dated 
by  Caspian  Trading  Ltd., 
dated 

17.03.2017 
available 
26.06.2018 

for  market  manipulation 

penalty 

for  market  manipulation 

in 

shares  of  Cocokara  Fine 

Recommendation 

 

 
Page | 309  

 
 

 

AS A RESULT OF THE VIOLATION OF SECURITIES LAWS 

CHAPTER I 

 

INTRODUCTION 

 

The securities laws provide guidance to the adjudicating officer and the Board for the 

purpose  of  arriving  at  an  appropriate  penalty  to  be  levied  and  enable  the 

consideration of relevant factors, including the following factors, -  

(i) 

the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage,  wherever 

quantifiable, as a result of the default;  

(ii) 

the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of 

the default; and 

(iii) 

the repetitive nature of default. 

 

Quantification  of  disproportionate  gain  is  also  relevant  for  the  purpose  of 

disgorgement from defaulters.  

 

Whereas, Chapter VII of the Second Schedule to the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India  (Settlement  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2018  read  with  Regulation  32  of  those 

Regulations,  provides  guidance  for  consideration  of  the  ‘repetitive  nature  of  the 

default’. 

 

 

Whereas,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  provide  the  following  guidance  for 

quantification  of  the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage  and  the 

amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of the default,- 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER II 

 
Page | 310  

 
 

 

 

GLOSSARY OF IMPORTANT TERMS 

SR. 
NO.  

TERM/ 

ABBREVIATION  

1.    Accounting for 
profits method 

2.    Arbitrage 

3.    Asset-based 

approach 

4.    Average loss to 

the victims method 

5.    Before-and-after 

method 
6.    Beta (β) 

7.    Board 

8.    Bucketing 

9.    Capping and 

Pegging 

 

EXPLANATION  

Based on incremental sales or profits achieved 
by  the  defaulter  as  the  result  of  the  harmful 
event.  
The act of simultaneous buying and selling of 
securities,  currency,  or  commodities 
in 
different  markets  or  in  derivative  forms  in 
order to take advantage of differing prices for 
the same asset. 
Involves analyzing the plaintiff’s tangible and 
intangible assets net of liabilities.  
The number of shares held by holders who are 
aggrieved  multiplied  by  the  average  loss 
[based on the difference between the average 
price  during  the  fraud  (or  relevant  period 
selected)  and  average  price  during 
the 
averaging period selected after the fraud] 
Compares  profits  before  the  default  event  to 
profits made after the default event. 
Describes  the  movement  in  a  stock's  or  a 
portfolio's  returns  in  relation  to  that  of  the 
market returns. For all practical purposes, the 
market  returns  are  measured  by  the  returns 
on  the  indices,  since  an  index  is  a  good 
reflector of the market. 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

is  the  practice  of  selling 

Promising a certain price in respect of buying 
or selling of a security to a client and waiting 
till  a  discrepancy  arises  in  the  price  of  such 
security 
Capping 
large 
amounts  of  a  commodity  or  security  close  to 
the  expiration  date  of  its  options  in  order  to 
prevent  a  rise  in  the  underlying's  price.  The 
writer  or  seller  of  an  options  contract  has  an 
interest in keeping the price of the underlying 
below the strike price in order for the options 

 
Page | 311  

 
 

 

10.   Churning and 

Burning 

11.   Correlation 

12.   CTT (Commodity 
Transaction Tax) 

13.   Delta (Δ) 

14.   ESOPS (Employee 

Stock Ownership 
Plan) 

15.   IEPF (Investor 
Education and 
Protection Fund) 
  Income approach 

16.   Inter-positioning 

to expire worthless.  
 
Pegging  is  the  opposite  practice  of  buying 
large  amounts  of  a  commodity  or  security 
close  to  the  expiration  date  of  its  options  in 
order to prevent a decline in its price 
Practice  of  an 
intermediary  conducting 
excessive  trading  in  a  client's  account  mainly 
to generate commissions. 
Is  a  statistic  that  measures  the  degree  to 
which  two  securities  (or  stock  exchange 
indices)  move  in  relation  to  each  other. 
Correlations  are  used  in  advanced  portfolio 
management  and  calculated  by  various  stock 
exchanges  and  intermediaries,  computed  as 
the  correlation  coefficient,  which  has  a  value 
that must fall between -1.0 and +1.0. 
Commodities  transaction  tax  (CTT)  is  a  tax 
similar  to  Securities  Transaction  Tax  (STT), 
levied  in  India,  on  transactions  done  on  the 
domestic commodity derivatives exchanges. 
A  ratio  comparing  the  change  in  the  price  of 
an asset, usually a marketable security, to the 
corresponding  change  in  the  price  of  its 
derivative.  Delta  values  can  be  positive  or 
negative depending on the type of option. 
An  employee-owner  program  that  provides  a 
company's  workforce  with  an  ownership 
interest in the company. 
A  fund  formed  under  the  Companies  Act, 
2013  for  promotion  of  investors’  awareness 
and protection of the interests of investors.  
Involves  calculation  of  a  business’s  value  by 
applying a discount or capitalization rate to a 
measure  of  its  expected  future  earnings  to 
arrive at a present value of the future benefit 
streams.  
Illegal  practice  of  employing  a  second 
intermediary 
to  generate  an 
additional  commission  and  can  take  various 
forms.  In  one  form,  the  broker  purchases 
stock  for  the  brokerage  firm's  proprietary 
account  from  the  customer  sell  order;  and 
then  fills  the  customer  buy  order  by  selling 
from the brokerage firm's proprietary account 

in  order 

 
Page | 312  

 
 

 

17.   IPEF (Investor 
Protection and 
Education Fund) 

18.   IPR (Intellectual 
Property Rights) 

19.   Market Approach 

20.   Market 

Capitalization 

21.   Market 

Capitalization 
Method 

for 

the  brokerage 

fund  constituted  by  SEBI 

at  a  higher  price  —  thus  locking  in  a  riskless 
profit  for  the  brokerage  firm's  proprietary 
account.  
 
A  second  form  of  inter-positioning  involves 
the broker selling stock into the customer buy 
order, and then filling the customer sell order 
by buying for the brokerage firm's proprietary 
account at a lower price — again, locking in a 
riskless  profit 
firm's 
proprietary  account.  In  both  forms  of  inter-
positioning,  the  broker  participates  on  both 
sides  of  the  trade,  thereby  capturing  the 
spread between  the purchase and sale prices, 
disadvantaging  at  least  one  of  the  parties  to 
the transaction. 
A 
(Investor 
Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 
2009 
 
Legal  rights  that  protect  creations  and/or 
inventions  resulting  from  intellectual  activity 
in the industrial, scientific, literary or artistic 
fields.  
Uses  pricing  multiples  taken  from  guideline 
companies  or  transactions  and  applies  these 
multiples  to  the  appropriate  performance 
measure of the company being valued 
The  total  market  value  of  a  company's 
outstanding shares. 
The  actual  loss  attributable  to  the  change  in 
value  of 
the  amount 
determined by—  
(I)  calculating  the  difference  between  the 
immediate  price  of  the  security  during  a 
suitable 
the 
disclosure/stoppage  of  the  fraud  (usually  the 
closing 
the 
disclosure/stoppage) and the immediate price 
of the security after the fraud was disclosed to 
the market/stopped (usually the closing price 
after  the  disclosure/stoppage)  (or  next  day 
price), and  
(II) multiplying the difference by the number 
of  shares  out-standing  after  excluding  those 

security 

period 

prior 

price 

the 

day 

before 

the 

is 

to 

 
Page | 313  

 
 

 

22.   Market Share 

Method 

23.   Marking the Close 

24.   Modified Market 

Capitalization 
Method 

so 

determined 

amount 

held  by  the  defaulters  themselves  (if  they 
amount  to  substantial  holdings)  throughout 
the period of the default, if available. 
 
In  determining  whether  the  amount  so 
determined  is  a  reasonable  estimate  of  the 
actual loss attributable to the change in value 
of  the  security,  the  Board  may  consider, 
among other factors, viz.- the extent to which 
the 
includes 
‘significant  changes’  in  value  not  resulting 
from  the  default  (e.g.,  changes  caused  by 
external  market  forces,  such  as  changed 
economic  circumstances,  changed  investor 
expectations,  and  new  industry-specific  or 
firm-specific  facts,  conditions,  or  events  that 
appear to impact the price movement by more 
than  20%)  by  fixing  if  possible,  a  suitable 
percentage on the amount determined above: 
Provided  that  in  case  of  companies  which 
become  entirely  worthless  after  the  default, 
i.e. If the company whose securities is sold has 
no  activities,  assets,  facilities,  or  any  other 
source of value, so that the "company" has no 
underlying  equity;  in  such  cases  instead  of 
taking  the  difference  take  the  entire  value  of 
stock prior to the fraud coming to light. 
Explanation. – The fact that the stock cannot 
be  traded  at  all  after  the  fraudulent  scheme 
came  to  light  or  the  stock  has  been  traded 
only  by  “insiders”  in  the  fraudulent  scheme 
shall  be  relevant  to  decide  if  the  stock  was 
worthless. 
The method is based on the market share the 
person  would  have  attained,  “but  for”  the 
default event.  
selling 
Involves  deliberately  buying  or 
securities or derivatives contracts at the close 
of  the market in  an  effort to alter the closing 
price of the security or derivatives contract 
Comparing the change in stock value of other, 
stock  of  similarly  placed  but  unaffiliated 
companies  after 
those 
companies were disclosed to the market. The 
average  depreciation may  be  taken  as  loss 

irregularities 

in 

 
Page | 314  

25.   Modified 

Recessionary 
Method 

 
 

 

caused. 

the 

security 

is 

to 

the  market  or  after 

The  actual  loss  attributable  to  the  change  in 
value  of 
the  amount 
determined by—  
(I)  calculating  the  difference  between  the 
average price of the security during the period 
that the fraud occurred and the average price 
of  the  security  during  the  relevant  period 
(choice  of  appropriate  time  period  may  be 
made to inter alia consider the time when the 
market  could  be  said  to  have  absorbed  the 
information and reflect the same in the price 
of  the  security.  There  may  be  delay  with 
which the market may start  correcting itself 
or extended periods for the market to correct 
itself.  This  depends  on  individual  stock  and 
fraud  was 
market  conditions)  after  the 
disclosed 
the 
misconduct ended, as may be applicable, and  
(II) multiplying the difference in average price 
by the number of securities out-standing after 
excluding 
the  defaulters 
themselves  (if  they  amount  to  substantial 
holdings) 
the 
default, if available. 
 
Explanation  1.  –  Average  price  may  be 
calculated  by  using  the  closing  price  of  each 
trading  day  of  the  time  period  selected  or  by 
using  any  other  relevant  price,  including 
weighted average price or other method. It is 
not  necessary  that  the  relevant  period  may 
refer  to  the  entire  period  from  which  the 
default occurred and the fraud came to a stop, 
the ‘relevant’ period may refer to a sub-period 
during which substantial trades took place or 
which  was  immediately  connected  to  the 
fraud. 

those  held  by 

the  period  of 

throughout 

 

Explanation  2.  –  ‘relevant’  period  for 
averaging: In  case  of  illiquid  securities 
[including related exchange traded derivatives 
and  debt  instruments]:  the  price  on  the  day 
(or  the  next  trading  day,  whichever 
is 
fair 
appropriate) 

true 

and 

the 

 
Page | 315  

 
 

 

information/fraud  has  been  become  publicly 
disseminated/stopped  may be selected or the 
average price for a period not exceeding seven 
trading  days,  to  the  extent  possible,  after  the 
true  and  fair  information/fraud  has  been 
become  publicly  disseminated/stopped  may 
be selected, as may be deemed fit.  

 
Explanation  3.  – 
‘relevant’  period  for 
averaging:  In  case  of  liquid  securities 
[including related exchange traded derivatives 
and  debt  instruments]:  the  period  may  be  a 
multiple of fifteen trading days to be selected 
after  the  true  and  fair  information/fraud  has 
been  become  publicly  disseminated/stopped 
provided that  it shall  not exceed ninety days, 
to the extent possible, especially in relation to 
securities  which  are  part  of  any 
index 
[including related exchange traded derivatives 
and  debt  instruments].  Shorter  periods  may 
be  selected 
factors 
demonstrably affect the price. 

in  case  extraneous 

 

In  determining  whether  the  amount  so 
determined  is  a  reasonable  estimate  of  the 
actual loss attributable to the change in value 
of  the  security,  the  Board  may  consider, 
among  other  factors,  the  extent  to  which  the 
amount  so  determined  includes  ‘significant 
changes’  in  value  not  resulting  from  the 
default  (e.g.,  changes  caused  by  external 
market  forces,  such  as  changed  economic 
circumstances, changed investor expectations, 
and  new  industry-  specific  or  firm-specific 
facts,  conditions,  or  events  that  appear  to 
impact  the  price  movement  by  more  than 
20%)  by 
if  possible,  a  suitable 
percentage of the amount determined above. 
 

fixing 

26.   Net Profit Approach  The  approach  considers  the  total  increase  in 
value  realized  through  trading  in  securities. 
Gain  is  the  total  profit  actually  made  from  a 
defendant’s illegal securities transactions.  
Bidding up the value of a fund's holdings right 
before the end of the period, when the fund's 

27.   Portfolio-pumping 

 
Page | 316  

 
 

 

28.   Quasi-judicial 

Authority 

29.   Relevant Authority 

30.   Sales Projection 

Method  

31.   Scalping 

32.   Securities Laws 

33.   Simple 

Recessionary 
Method 

34.   Standard of the 

Compliant Person 

35.   Standard of 

the Reasonable 
Investor 

36.   Tailgating  

37.   Touting  

the 

security 

is 

performance  is  measured.  This  is  done  by 
placing  a  large  number  of  orders  on  existing 
holdings,  which  drives  up  the  value  of  the 
securities within the fund portfolio. 
A  Member  of  the  Board  or  an  Adjudicating 
Officer exercising quasi-judicial functions. 
Includes  an  investigating  officer,  designated 
authority,  inspecting  authority  and  a  quasi-
judicial authority.  
The  method  compares 
forecasted  profits 
before the harmful event to actual profits after 
the harmful event 
Recommending a security for investment and 
selling 
it  at  a  profit  while  making  the 
recommendation 
Includes  all  laws  pertaining  to  securities 
market which are administered by the Board 
the  actual  loss  attributable  to  the  change  in 
value  of 
the  amount 
determined  by  calculating  the  difference 
between  the  price  paid  by  the  affected  set  of 
investors and the price existing after the fraud 
was disclosed to the market/stopped 
The defaulter’s behaviour has to be compared 
vis-à-vis  the  behaviour  of  a  person  who 
complies  with  securities  laws.  The  monetary 
and  non-monetary  benefits  received  by  a 
defaulter  has  to  be  compared  with  the  costs 
incurred  and  benefits 
the 
compliant  person  to  determine  the  illegal 
gain. 
In order to determine loss caused to investors 
or  to  determine  the  obligation  of  defaulters 
which  is  dependent  on  the  prior  exercise  of 
any  right  associated  with  securities,  etc.,  the 
investors  are  presumed  to  have  behaved  in  a 
reasonable way. 
When  a  broker,  financial  advisor  or  another 
sort of investing agent buys or sells a security 
for  a  client,  and  then  proceeds  to  make  the 
same transaction for himself. 
To  strongly  encourage  investors  to  buy  a 
security.  Touting  means  an 
particular 
intermediary  recommending  sale 
the 
investors  without  disclosing  that  the  person 

received  by 

to 

 
Page | 317  

 
 

 

 

38.   Uttering of 
Securities 

39.   Yardstick Method 

40.   Zero-Sum Game 

recommending  has  received  any  direct  or 
indirect benefit from another for making such 
recommendation. 
issue  of  securities  without  proper 
The 
approvals  or  continued  holding  of  fraudulent 
or  forged  securities,  exercise  of  corporate 
rights and acquisition of further securities on 
account of such securities. 
The method compares profits to a quantifiable 
yardstick, before and after the harmful event.  
A  mathematical  representation  of  a 
situation  in  which  each  participant's 
gain or loss of utility is exactly balanced 
by  the  losses  or  gains  of  the  utility  of 
the other participants. 
In  the  context  of  securities  market  it 
means  that  the  investors  affected  are 
the  same  as  the  investors  from  whom 
the gain has been derived from and the 
loss 
such 
investors thereabouts equals  the  gain 
derived 
 

caused to 

Words and expressions used but not defined in these Guidelines but defined in the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 the Depositories Act, 1996 the Companies Act, 2013 or any 

of  the  rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder,  shall  have  the  same  meanings 

respectively  assigned  to  them  in  those  Acts,  rules  or  regulations  or  any  statutory 

modification or re-enactment thereto.  

CHAPTER III 

 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES 

 

1.  These Guidelines provide non-mandatory guidance and depending on the facts 

and  circumstances  of  each  case  the  relevant  authority  may  deviate  from  or 

modify these guidelines as may be deemed fit or use any method not detailed in 

these guidelines or any combination or modification thereof, for reasons to be 

 
Page | 318  

 
 

 

recorded. 

 

2.  These  Guidelines  may  be  applied,  to  the  extent  possible,  to  all  fact-finding 

inquiries  such  as  investigations,  inspections,  inquiries,  enquiries,  audits 

initiated on or after October 01, 2021 and consequential legal proceedings. 

 

3.  Application of Multiple methods: The relevant fact-finding authority may 

use the available information and indicate in the relevant Report, all or any of 

the  possible  methods  for  calculating  approximate  disproportionate  gain 

derived or loss caused to investors as deemed appropriate. 

 
Explanation. - Where it is possible to apply more than one methodology for the 

purpose  of  quantification  of  a  particular  amount,  it  is  not  necessary  for  the 

relevant  authority 

to  apply  all  possible  methods 

in 

its  report/fact 

finding/examination instead any appropriate method(s) may be applied for the 

benefit of the quasi-judicial authority. 

 

4.  Joint liability of offenders: In cases of joint liability for any alleged default, 

generally, the relevant authority, may calculate the gain derived or loss caused 

holistically  on  a  joint,  several  or  ‘joint  and  several  liability  basis’,  as  may  be 

deemed fit.  

 

5.  Persons  who  may  be  charged  jointly:  The  following  persons  may  be 

charged jointly and their gains and losses quantified jointly, namely, - 

(a)  persons  accused  of  the  same  violation  committed  in  the  course  of  the 

same conduct;  

 Explanation  1.  –  Any  person  who  is  in  charge  of  and  responsible  for  the 

activities of any other person may be charged jointly with the person he is in 

charge of.  

 

Explanation 2. – “in the course of the same conduct” means a group of facts 

so connected together by reason of continuity of action or purpose or cause 

 
Page | 319  

 
 

 

 

and effect, or as principal and subsidiary acts. 

 

(b)  persons  accused  of  a  non-compliance/violation  of  securities  laws  and 

persons accused of abetment of, or attempt to commit, such violation; 

(c)  persons accused  of  a  non-compliance/violation  of  securities  laws  in the 

nature  of  breach  of 

fiduciary  obligation  and  persons  accused  of 

misappropriation of money or other property which was the subject of such 

fiduciary duty; 

(d)  persons  accused  of  different  violations  of  securities  laws  committed  in 

the course of the same conduct; 

(e) persons accused of  a non-compliance/violation of  securities laws in the 

nature  of  fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practices,  insider  trading  or 

misappropriation, and persons accused of receiving or retaining, or assisting 

in the disposal or concealment of, property possession of which is alleged to 

have  been  transferred  by  any  such  violation  committed  by  the  first-named 

persons,  or  of  abetment  of  or  attempting  to  commit  any  such  last-named 

violation; 

(f) an acquirer and persons acting in concert with such acquirer; 

(g) in case of failure to make, or making of incorrect or false or misleading, 

disclosures, reports, filings, statements, offer documents, or information, the 

person which signs or issues such document along with persons who prepare 

such  document  (including  experts  involved)  and  persons  who  approve  the 

same; and 

(h) any other classes of persons, as may be deemed fit. 

 

Explanation 1. – The classes of persons mentioned in this guideline may or may 

not be charged jointly depending on the facts and circumstances of each case. 

Explanation 2. – Where there are multiple charges, it is not necessary that all 

persons  to  be  heard  jointly  be  charged  together  in  respect  of  each  and  every 

charge. 

 
Page | 320  

 
 

 

 

 

6.  Quantification  when  not  required:  Quantification  may  not  be  required, 

inter alia, in the following cases, - 

i.  Where  the  relevant  authority  is  satisfied  that  the  penalty  imposed 

would  be  higher  than  any  possible  disproportionate  profit  derived 

from  the  default  or  is  the  maximum  imposable  penalty  under 

securities law; or 

 

ii.  Where  multiple  defaulters  are  involved  and  one  or  more  than  one 

person  but  not  all,  have  been  held  jointly  or  jointly  and  severally 

liable for a particular default(s), quantification may not be required 

for other defaulter(s) in respect of such default(s); or 

iii. 

In  violations  which  are  generally  considered  to  be  victim-less 

defaults,  such  as  insider  trading,  loss  caused  to  investors  may  not 

require quantification.  

 

 

7.  Zero-sum  game  scenario: Where loss to the investors and profit made out 

of the default are more or less same, then either profit made or loss caused may 

be calculated using any available methodology. 

Explanation.  –  In  cases  where  the  default  does  not  entail  a  ‘zero-sum  game 

scenario’,  the  refund  or  disgorgement  wherever  permitted  under  law  shall  be 

based on the disproportionate gains made, jointly or severally, and not the loss 

caused to investors. 

8.  Determination  of  gain  or  loss  “as  a  result  of  the  default”: Wherever 

possible,  gain  derived  or  loss  caused  which  is  causally  connected  with  the 

default should be segregated from gain derived or loss caused which is not so 

connected, 

in  accordance  with 

these  Guidelines, 

to  arrive  at 

the 

disproportionate gain and loss caused to investors, as a result of the default.  

Explanation  1. - Uncertainty is inherent  in the act  of  the defaulter, hence the 

 
Page | 321  

 
 

 

 

defaulter shall bear the risk of uncertainty and be liable for any uncertainty in 

the  estimation  of  disproportionate  gain  made  (and  loss  caused  to  investors) 

since the defaulter’s conduct has created the uncertainty in estimation of non-

legitimate gain derived (or loss caused to investors).  

Explanation  2.  –  Any  gain  derived  or  loss  caused  is  said  to  be  causally 

connected if such gain or loss is a direct or proximate result of, or such gain or 

loss was reasonably foreseeable as a result of the violation of securities laws.  

 

Explanation  3.  -  Disproportionate  gain  could  be  direct  or  indirect,  in  cash  or 

kind, and includes notional gain or unfair advantage of any kind, including any 

loss avoided.  

 

Explanation  4.  -  “Loss  to  investors”  for  the purpose  of  these  Guidelines  does 

not  include  emotional  distress,  harm  to  reputation  or  other  non-economic 

harm. 

 

Explanation  5.  -Where  disproportionate  gain  or  loss  caused  to  investors, 

cannot be estimated with reasonable approximation, then quantification to the 

extent possible or on ‘at least’ basis may be done. 

 

Explanation 6. – The following standards may be relied upon to determine the 

gains derived or losses caused as a result of the default, - 

Standard of the Compliant Person; 

i. 

 

ii. 

Standard of the Reasonable Investor; or 

 

 

iii.  Any  other  standard  that  may  suitably  analyse  the  conduct  of  the 

defaulter and segregate and identify the gain made or loss caused by 

the defaulter as a result of the default. 

 
Page | 322  

 
 

 

 

9.  Application of the principle of Armory v Delamirie: The defaulter shall 

be  responsible  to  supply  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Board,  the  necessary 

information required to calculate disproportionate gain made (or loss caused to 

investors),  which  is  within  his  possession  or  that  which  he  is  in  a  position  to 

obtain. On failure to provide the relevant information, the entire gain derived 

(or loss caused to investors) may be deemed to be as a result of the default and 

such calculation shall be final and any windfall accruing to investors on account 

of such uncertainty which is inherent in the misconduct of the defaulter may be 

made  available  to  the  investors  in  appropriate  proceedings  resulting  from 

disgorgement. 

10. Application  of  average  values:  (a)  Average  may  be  applied  wherever 

considered appropriate and average includes weighted averages, mean, median 

or mode as may be considered appropriate. 

 

(b)  Wherever  appropriate,  actual  price,  average  price,  weighted  average, 

closing  prices  or  average  of  closing  prices  during  the  relevant  period  may  be 

used;  

 

11. Averaging  period: Averaging period may be of a very short duration in case 

of  illiquid  securities  or  long  (but  not  exceeding  90  days)  in  case  of  liquid 

securities. Averaging period may be used to calculate appropriate acquisition or 

sale price when no price is available or the price available is misleading or does 

not consider the market factors affecting price.  

In  non-insider  trading  matters,  if  inspite  of  averaging  period,  the  price  is 

affected  by  significant  market  factors  (i.e.  factors  that  appear  to  impact  the 

price  movement  by  more than 20%) an approximate deduction as deemed fit 

may be given. 

  

12. Manipulation of securities may be done by fraudulent trading or dissemination 

of false information or any other fraudulent device designed to manipulate the 

 
Page | 323  

 
 

 

securities markets. 

 

13. Default  period:  Default  period  means  the  period  during  which  the  default 

was  committed  and  may  also  include  any  period  during  which  the  relevant 

prior events and acts or omissions that enabled the default took place, as well 

as  any  consequential  events,  acts  or  omissions;  or  any  relevant  sub-period 

thereof including the period under investigation, audit or inspection, etc. 

 

14. Application of multiple guidelines: On account of the nature of the act or 

omission  of  the  defaulter(s)  the  quantification  of  profit  made  or  loss  caused 

may include quantification under more than one guideline; 

 

15. Presumption against influence of extraneous factors: For the purpose 

of quantification, the relevant authority may presume that the change in price 

of securities excludes any depression or inflation in the price of security caused 

by factors other than the misconduct, unless the defaulter proves the relevance 

thereof and such factors are capable of being assessed based on the record and 

as per these guidelines. 

 

16. Other Presumptions: The following presumptions may be relied upon, - 

i.  The  relevant  authority  may  presume  the  existence  of  any  fact  which  it 

thinks  likely  to  have  happened,  due  regard  being  had  to  the  common 

course  of  natural  events,  human  conduct  and  public  and  private 

business, in their relation to the facts of the particular case, including, - 

a.  That  evidence  which  could  be  and  is  not  produced  would,  if 

produced, be unfavorable to the person who withholds it (or any 

other related person); 

b.  That  when  a document  creating  an  obligation  is  in the  hands  of 

the  obligor,  the  obligation  has  been  discharged,  save  in  case 

where  the  circumstances  of  the  case  are  such  that  he  may  have 

stolen it, or procured by duress or false representation; and 

c.  That  the  common  course  of  business  has  been  followed  in 

 
Page | 324  

 
 

 

particular cases. 

 

ii.  Where  a  document  would  ex  facie  be  relevant  to  any  inquiry, 

investigation, audit, examination or other proceeding and the defaulter 

knew  or  reasonably  could  have  known  that  the  violation  of  securities 

laws  was  detected  or  about  to  be  detected  by  the  Board,  the  non-

production of such document on the ground of non-maintenance due to 

the  mere  lapse  of  a  period  longer  than  the  period  for  which  such 

document is required by law to be maintained shall be no defence.  

iii.  Where  there  is  a  question  as  to  the  good  faith  of  a  transaction  by  one 

who is in a position of active confidence, the burden of proving the good 

faith of the transaction is on such person. 

Explanation.  -  The  burden  of  proving  that  unpublished  price  sensitive 

transaction has been communicated for a lawful purpose shall be on the 

person so communicating. 

 

iv.  When a person does an act with some purpose other than that which the 

character  and  circumstances  of  the  act  suggest,  the  burden  of  proving 

that purpose is upon him. 

Explanation.  -  The  burden  of  proving  that  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information  has  not  been  communicated  shall  be  on  the  person  who 

enters  into  a  communication  with  a  person  who  trades  or  enables 

another to trade in a manner which is suggestive of have been done on 

the basis of such information. 

 

v.  When  any  fact  is  especially  within  the  knowledge  of  any  person,  the 

burden of proving that fact is upon him. 

 

vi.  The burden of proving any fact necessary to be proved in order to admit 

any  document  as  evidence  or  to  enable  any  person  to  give  evidence  of 

any other fact is on the person who wishes to rely on such evidence. 

 
Page | 325  

 
 

 

 

 
vii. 

 

 

Fraudulent  funding  through  transfers  shown  as  ‘loans’  for  the  purpose 

of  enabling  a  default  or  which  arise  as  a  consequence  of  such  default, 

which a person receiving has no intention to repay or which are repaid 

from  funds  relating  to  such  default,  may  be  included  as  siphoned  off 

funds  or  disproportionate  gain  or  considered  as  his  own  funds,  as  the 

case may be. 

Explanation 1. – Where a person repays a loan subsequent to the time of 

detection  of  misconduct,  he  shall  be  deemed  to  have  no  intention  to 

repay  unless  he  makes  appropriate  submissions  indicating  that  such 

repayment, if any, was not on account of such detection. 

Explanation 2. – Where a person submits that a particular transaction is 

a legitimate loan transaction or reversal thereof, it shall be necessary to 

give evidence indicating that the actual net transfers of money took place 

as  well  as  admissible  evidence  (duly  stamped,  registered  and  disclosed 

wherever required by law) indicating the purpose for which the transfers 

were made at the relevant time. 

17. Wherever, any information, including price is not available for the purpose of 

quantification, these guidelines may be applied to the extent possible. 

Explanation.  –  In  cases  where  data  is  not  made  available  even  after  being 

sought,  the  data  may  be  presumed  as  ‘0’  or  not  applicable  or  arrived  at  by 

extrapolation or by using another other means or reasonable assumptions may 

be made and the methodology modified appropriately. 

 

18. When  UPSI  comes  into  existence:  Where  information  relating  to  the 

contravention of securities laws is in the nature of unpublished price sensitive 

information, such unpublished price sensitive information shall deem to come 

into existence when the contravention was committed and concealed, and not 

when the contravention was detected. 

 
Page | 326  

 
 

 

 

Explanation. – Where the unpublished price sensitive information pertains to 

the  existence  of  any  investigation,  inspection,  audit  or  inquiry  against  a 

company the unpublished price sensitive information shall come into existence 

when  such  company  or  the  persons  in  charge  of  such  company  first  become 

aware of such investigation, inspection, audit or inquiry. 

 

19. Relevance of accounting standards: The accounting standards required to 

be followed by the defaulter shall be relevant but not binding for the purpose of 

quantification and may be applied to the extent possible. 

 

20. Assumption  of  sale:  Where a security has not been sold during the default 

period, for the purpose of quantification, the security shall be deemed to have 

been sold and sale price shall be calculated as per these guidelines. 

 

21. Round-off:  The relevant authority may round-off the disproportionate gains 

or losses caused quantified to the next multiple of 1000. 

 

22. Mere  irregularity  or  error  which  is  not  substantial  shall  not  affect,  any 

approximation of disproportionate gains or losses caused.  

 

CHAPTER IV 

 

GUIDELINES ON DEDUCTIONS 

 

1.  Deductions,  if  any,  may  be  permitted  in  accordance  with  these 

guidelines. The defaulter shall be responsible to provide to the satisfaction of 

the  Board  the  necessary  information  required  to  determine  the  deduction 

claimed, failing which such claim shall be denied.  

 

2.  Deduction  of  monies:  Where  monies  raised  by  issue  of  securities  is 

 
Page | 327  

 
 

 

refundable,- 

 

In  proceedings  for  levy  of  penalty: No deduction may be given to the 

defaulters in case of monies/assets are returned/refunded/disgorged, - 

i. 

to avoid detection or to perpetuate ongoing contravention,  

 

ii. 

after detection of the contravention, or 

 

iii. 

payments  made  in  respect  of  initial  investments  to  entice 

additional investments or to conceal the contravention. 

Explanation. – For the purpose of these guidelines, the time of detection of 

the contravention is the earliest of, - 

A.  the  time  the  misconduct  was  discovered  by  a  Government 

Agency, including the Board or a securities market infrastructure 

institution  or  a  self-regulatory  organization,  leading  to  an 

examination  into  the  facts  being  directed  by  the  relevant 

authority; or  

 

B.  the time the defaulter knew or reasonably could have known that 

the violation was detected or about to be detected under (1). 

 

In  proceedings  for  disgorgement/refund: Deduction may be given in 

respect  of  the  assets  returned  by  the  defaulters  and  duly  reported  to  the 

Board before the issuance of any interim direction, cease and desist order or 

direction of disgorgement/refund, as the case may be. 

Explanation. – Where a claim is made that monies have been duly refunded 

to investors, the defaulter shall be liable to prove, - 

A.  the  existence  of  sufficient  funds  from  which  monies  were 

refunded; and 

 

B.  the  proof  of  refund  through  banking  means  or  by  way  of  direct 

 
Page | 328  

 
 

 

 

credit  in  the  bank  account  through  NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any 

other mode allowed by RBI. 

 

Explanation.  –  Where  despite  a  refund  opportunity  being  provided,  monies 

have not been claimed by investors or where investors to whom monies are due 

cannot be found within reasonable time, such monies shall be deposited in the 

IEPF or IPEF as the case may be.  

 

3.  Deduction  for  costs  of  illegal  activity:  As  a  general  principle,  no 

deduction  shall  be  given  for  costs  incurred  in  respect  of  conducting  the 

violation of securities laws. 

 

4.  Deduction  for  costs  directly  related  to  the  transaction  and 

specifically  for  transaction: Deduction  in relation to costs incurred while 

doing the unlawful transaction in securities which are direct and transaction-

specific, such as stamp duties, STT and CTT shall be allowed; 

Explanation.  –  General  costs 

including  costs 

incurred  for  employees’ 

remuneration are not a transaction-specific cost. 

5.  Deduction for costs incurred but which remain unpaid: No deduction 

for  costs  (including  taxes)  which  are  due  but  which  remain  unpaid  shall  be 

allowed; 

 

6.  Deduction for leveraged funds: Wherever the trading is done on the basis 

of  leveraged  funds,  no  separate  deduction  shall  be  allowed  for  the  cost  of 

leveraging, beyond the price of acquisition; 

 

7.  Deduction  for  taxes  paid  in  refund  matters:  Deduction  for  taxes  paid 

(other  than  STT  or  CTT)  shall  not  be  allowed  in  case  of  refund  obligations 

under securities laws; 

 

 
Page | 329  

 
 

 

8.  Deduction for taxes paid in disgorgement matters: Deduction for taxes 

paid  (other  than  STT  or  CTT)  shall  not  be  allowed  in  case  of  disgorgement 

obligations under securities laws where disbursement to identifiable investors 

may be possible; 

Explanation.  -  Deduction  under  this  guideline  may  be  allowed  where 

disgorgement is directed for victimless defaults such as insider trading. 

 

9.  Deduction  for  taxes against  different  revenue  streams: No deduction 

shall  be  allowed  for  taxes  paid  from  gross  receipts  based  on  the  portion  of 

receipts used for payment of taxes in respect of activities other than the activity 

under consideration; 

Explanation. – Where the defaulter has paid taxes for more than one activity, 

including activities not connected to the default, the burden of proving which 

portion of taxes paid is relevant to the default shall be on the defaulter, failing 

which no deduction may be allowed. 

 

10. Deduction  for  taxes  in  penalty  proceedings:  Deduction  of  taxes  paid 

(other  than  STT  or  CTT)  is  not  relevant  for  the  purpose  of  quantifying  gain 

derived while levying penalty. 

 

11. Fraudulently  providing  financial  products  and  services  without 

proper 

license  or  approval:  When  the  defaulter(s)  poses  as  a 

registered/authorized  financial  service  provider  and  represents  that  the 

financial  products  or  services  are  authorized  by  the  Board  or  any  other 

Government Agency, including a securities market infrastructure institution or 

a self-regulatory organization even though they are not or fraudulently obtains 

such authorization for financial goods or services, the defaulter shall receive no 

deduction for the value of the financial products or services are misbranded or 

falsely  represented  regardless  of  the  actual  fitness  or  performance  of  those 

products.  

 

 
Page | 330  

 
 

 

 

 

12. Deductions  for  taxes  (other  than  STT  or  CTT)  paid  for  unlawful 

activity: Save as otherwise provided in this Chapter, deduction for taxes (other 

than  STT  or  CTT)  paid  from  gross  receipts  based  on  the  portion  of  receipts 

used  for  payment  of  taxes  in  respect  of  unlawful  activity  may  be  allowed  in 

cases,  where  the  defaulter  is  able  to  compute  and  prove  to  the  satisfaction  of 

the Board, the co-relation of the relevant portion of taxes for which deduction 

is claimed with the activity under consideration. 

13. Nothing in these guidelines shall affect any right of the defaulter, if any, to seek 

appropriate remedy before the relevant tax authority. 

CHAPTER V 

 

GENERAL GUIDELINES RELATING TO QUANTIFICATION OF DISPROPORTIONATE GAIN 

 

1.  Disproportionate  Gain  quantification:  The 

quantification 

of 

disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage  under  these  guidelines  is  only  an 

approximation, to the extent possible since uncertainty is inherent in the act of 

the defaulter, who shall bear the burden of the uncertainty.  

 

2.  Misconduct  affecting  derivatives,  arbitrages,  etc.: It is possible for the 

misconduct to involve manipulation of price and/or volume of a security in one 

segment  or  stock  exchange  and  that  the  disproportionate  gains  accrue  in  a 

different segment or stock exchange in the same security or in a security related 

to  such  security  and  that  it  would  amount  to  manipulation  of  the  security 

where such disproportionate gains accrue. 

 

Explanation. – It is not necessary for the disproportionate gain to only occur in 

the  security  of  the  listed  company  whose  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information is disclosed. It may also be in relation to a security related to such 

security. 

 
Page | 331  

 
 

 

 

 

 

3.  Interest to avoid unjust enrichment from what would amount to an 

interest  free  loan  from  investors:  For  the  purpose  of  refund  or 

disgorgement,  unless  otherwise  provided  by  law,  disproportionate  gain, 

wherever quantified, shall include simple interest at the rate of 1% per month 

from the time when gain was accrued till the date of repayment to investors. 

4.  Zero  Sum  scenario  in  an  unregistered  investment  scheme  or 

fraudulent  default.  -  Disproportionate  gains  made  or  loss  to 

investors  as  a  result  of  unregistered 

investment  schemes 

(PMS/AIF/CIS, etc.) or those investment schemes that fail by reason 

of  a  fraudulent  or  unfair  trade  practice,  etc.: Loss caused to investors 

equal  the  amounts  originally  invested  by  the  investors  and  the  earnings  re-

invested  in  such  schemes,  even  though  those  earnings  accrued  as  a  result  of 

such schemes. However, the most recent promised or reported earnings shall 

be excluded unless re-invested. 

Explanation. – Investment schemes in these guidelines also include services of 

portfolio manager, an alternative investment fund and other pooled investment 

arrangements required to be registered with the Board. 

 

5.  Fees  earned  in  respect  of  any  misconduct:  In  case  the  defaulter’s 

misconduct included the provision of services of an intermediary or securities 

market  infrastructure  institution  or  a  professional,  the  ill-gotten  gains  shall 

include the gross fees, commissions, etc. earned in respect of the misconduct.  

Explanation  1.  -  Where  the  gross  fees  are  for  unlawful  as  well  as  lawful 

activities,  if  the  substantial  nature  of  the  services  provided  was  in  relation  to 

unlawful activities, then the entire fees shall be considered as undue advantage. 

Else  a  fraction  of  such  gross  fees  may  be  taken  based  on  the  clarification 

provided by the defaulter. 

Explanation  2.  -  In  these  guidelines  an  ‘intermediary  or  securities  market 

 
Page | 332  

 
 

 

infrastructure institutions’ shall include any person required by securities laws 

to be registered or recognized by the Board. 

 

6.  Regulatory  charges  avoided:  In  case  of  any  un-authorized  or  un-

recognized or un-registered activity, including unauthorized issue of securities, 

the monies that would have been payable as fess, charges, etc., for conducting 

such  activity  including  those  payable  to  the  Board,  Government,  stock 

exchange, depository or clearing corporation, but not paid, shall be included in 

the disproportionate gain made as losses avoided. 

 

7.  Loss  avoided  while  in  possession  of  negative  information:  Where 

front running or insider trading is done to avoid loss due while in possession of 

negative unpublished information, the loss avoided is the value of shares sold 

multiplied  by  the  difference  in  price  during  the  relevant  period  after  the 

publication of such information. 

 

8.  Gains made by the person in charge of a juridical person: In case of a 

director,  partner,  employee  or  any  other  person  in  charge  of  the  actions  of  a 

body  corporate  or  firm,  subject  to  appropriate  quantification  made  by  such 

defaulter,  the  disproportionate  gains  may  include  the  entire  remuneration, 

commission  (including  secret  commissions),  share  of  profits,  bonuses,  stock 

options, sweat  equity,  stock sales, any  other  corporate or pecuniary benefit  is 

received  by  such  person  (or  part  thereof)  during  the  relevant  period,  as  may 

deemed fit after considering relevant factors: 

Provided  that,  where  the  default  is  such  that  it  enables  the  defaulter  to  gain 

control of the body corporate or the compensation was substantially tied to the 

default  or  the  body  corporate  is  required  to  restate  its  accounts  due  to 

substantial  non-compliance  of  securities  laws  due  to  the  default,  the  entire 

such benefit may be considered to be due as disproportionate gains. 

 

9.  Failure  to  comply  with  fiduciary  duties: In case of any auditor or other 

 
Page | 333  

 
 

 

 

professional who has failed to comply with the fiduciary duties under securities 

laws,  the  disproportionate  gain  may  also  include  the  gross  remuneration 

received for conducting his duties or a portion thereof. 

Undisclosed  profit:  Where  a  person  under  a  fiduciary  duty  to  investors 

makes  an  unauthorized  secret  commission,  profit,  etc.  while  managing  the 

funds of investors such gains shall amount to disproportionate gains.  

 

 

CHAPTER VI 

 

GENERAL GUIDELINES RELATING TO QUANTIFICATION OF LOSS 

1.  Loss  quantification:  Loss  quantification  under  these  guidelines  is  only  an 

approximation  on  a  class  basis  and  serves  as  a  guide  for  considering  the 

appropriate  penalties  to  be levied  within  the range  provided  by  law  and  does 

not  vest  in  any  particular  person(s),  the  right  to  seek  compensation  from  the 

Board; 

Explanation. – In these guidelines, unless otherwise proved, loss calculation is 

for  guidance  only  and  not  restitutory  in  nature,  as  direct  co-relation  with 

disproportionate gains made and loss caused to investors may not exist.  

 

2.  Loss to investors may accrue even when no trades are made by the defaulters, 

such  as  order  log  manipulation  (which  amounts  to  a  fraudulent  statement 

made  to  investors  through the  stock  exchange  mechanism  by  entering  orders 

which create the impression of a false demand), false tips and messaging, etc. 

 

3.  Loss in non-zero-sum cases: In cases involving fraudulent and unfair trade 

practices cases, where the default does not entail a Zero-sum game scenario, in 

addition  to  the  methods  detailed  in  these  guidelines,  the  loss  to  investors  or 

group of investors may be calculated inter alia using the following methods:  

i. 

Simple Recessionary method; 

 
Page | 334  

 
 

 

 

ii.  Modified Recessionary method; 

iii.  Market Capitalization method; 

iv.  Modified Market Capitalization method; 

v.  Average loss to the victims method; 

vi.  Any other method determined to be suitable in the given circumstances; 

or 

vii.  A combination of the aforesaid. 

 

CHAPTER VII 

 

GUIDELINES RELATING TO CONTRAVENTION INVOLVING UNPUBLISHED PRICE 

SENSITIVE INFORMATION, ETC. 

 

1.  Communication  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information 

related  to  Intellectual  Property  Rights  (IPR):  In  case  of  unlawful 

communication  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  related  to  any 

IPR which is not required to be disclosed at the time of communication and 

loss  of  such  information  may  result  in  substantial  loss  of  stock  valuation, 

with or without any trading done by the defaulter,- 

 

 

i. 

the  disproportionate  gain  shall  include  the  fair  market  value  of  such 

information,  failing  which  the  gain  shall  equal  the  cost  of  developing 

such information;  

Explanation. – Valuation of the information may be done based on the 

applicable accounting principles and cost of developing the information 

can be derived from the costs maintained by the relevant company. 

 

ii. 

loss  caused  may  include  loss  of  profit  or  loss  of  business  value,  as  the 

case may be. 

Explanation 1. –  Loss  of  business  value may be calculated through the 

 
Page | 335  

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

following methods, - 

d.  The asset-based approach; 

e.  The market approach; 

f.  The income approach; or 

g.  Any other suitable method or combination of methods.  

Explanation 2. – Loss of profit may be calculated through the following 

methods, - 

a.  The sales projection method; 

b.  The before-and-after method; 

c.  The accounting for profits method;  

d.  The yardstick method;  

e.  The market share method; or 

f.  Any other suitable method or combination of methods.  

2. Special  case  of  default  involving  unfair  informational  advantage: 

Where the conduct involves informational advantage which results in trading, 

including insider trading, trading while in possession of true information when 

false,  incorrect  or  misleading  information  is  circulated  in  securities  market, 

front-running or tailgating by persons in fiduciary capacity, etc., to determine 

the gains from such default, the following methods may be employed, - 

i.  Statistical  methods  (such  as  calculation  of  abnormal  returns  using  event 

studies,  probabilistic  methods,  etc.,  as  may  be  considered  fit)  wherever 

appropriate, preferably if the monies involved exceed Rs. 3 crore; 

ii.  Non-statistical and approximation methods as detailed in these guidelines 

for sale or purchase of securities or both, as the case may be; or 

iii. A combination of i. and ii. 

CHAPTER VIII 

 

GUIDELINES RELATING TO CONTRAVENTION INVOLVING HOLDING NORMS AND 

 
Page | 336  

 
 

 
 

 

 

FAILURE TO PROVIDE EXIT OPPORTUNITY 

1.  Contravention  of  holding  norms:  In  case  of  failure/delay  to  dilute  the 

securities  holding  as  per  the  required  holding  norms,  the  disproportionate 

gains may include the following, - 

i. 

the gains based on the difference in price between the prevailing market 

price when the excess securities are actually disposed (whether or not as 

per the direction of the Board) and the prevailing market price when the 

securities were required to be diluted as per applicable norms, 

Explanation.  –  any loss  caused  due  to  disposal  of  excess  holding  shall 

 

i. 

 

ii. 

not be used to set-off any other gains made. 

 

the gains made  in  nature  of  excess  dividends,  bonus  shares,  and  other 

corporate  rights  in  proportion  to  the  excess  holding  during  the  delay 

period,  unless  such  corporate  rights  were  part  of  a  dilution  scheme 

permitted by the Board, 

the gains during the period of excess holding on account of any salary, 

esops, fees,  etc. on account of  any position held in the company which 

would have otherwise not been held without the excess holding. 

2.  Failure  to  give  exit  Opportunity:  In  case  of  failure  to  give  an  exit 

opportunity (open offer/delisting, etc.), the disproportionate gains may include 

the following, - 

 

In case of illiquid securities: 

i. 

The costs avoided based on an approximation using similar issue sizes, 

wherever possible,  

ii. 

The difference between the price at which the exit offer is required to be 

given and prevailing market price, multiplied by the exit size. 

 
Page | 337  

 
 

 

Explanation 1. – In case of an open offer, the entire open offer size may 

not  be  taken,  if  it  is  proven  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Board  that  the 

investors  would  not  have  taken  the  exit  opportunity  in  the  illiquid 

securities and the failure did not prejudice the investors.  

Explanation 2. – In case of an open offer, (ii.) may not apply where the 

prevailing market price, at the time when the open offer is due (without 

delay), is higher than the price at which the offer is to be given.  

 

Explanation 3. – In case of any act or omission caused or allowed by the 

defaulter for making the giving of the exit opportunity infructuous, such 

as compulsory delisting, strike-off, triggering insolvency, etc., the entire 

exit  size  may  be  taken  instead  of  the  difference  based  on  price.  The 

defaulter shall not be allowed to take the benefit of his default, including 

cases  where  the  defaulter’s  delay  has  made  the exit  infructuous  due  to 

the prevailing price being higher than the price (inclusive of interest) at 

which the exit may be given. 

 

In  case  of  liquid  securities: Similarly, as in case of illiquid securities, the 

costs avoided and the difference in price shall amount to the gain, save that, - 

i. 

in case the open offer is required to be given solely by persons existing in 

control and their related group entities, the open offer size shall be taken 

as  at  least  50%  thereof  or  such  other  lower  percentage,  as  the  facts 

permit, if it is proven to the satisfaction of the Board that at the relevant 

time,  the  investors  would  not  take  the  exit  opportunity  in  the  liquid 

securities and that the failure did not prejudice the investors; 

ii. 

in case the open offer is required to be given by any other person(s), the 

entire  open  offer  size  shall  be  taken  as  the  relevant  open  offer  size  or 

such  other  lower  percentage,  as  the  facts  permit,  if  it  is  proven  to  the 

satisfaction  of  the  Board  that  at  the  relevant  time,  the  investors  would 

not take the exit opportunity in the liquid securities and that the failure 

did not prejudice the investors; 

 
Page | 338  

 
 

 

Explanation.  –  In  liquid  securities,  the  Board  may  assume  that  the 

investors would seek exit in the open offer, where the prevailing market 

price, at the time when the open offer is due (without delay), is higher 

than the price at which the offer is to be given. 

iii. 

in  case  of  any  act  or  omission  caused  or  allowed  by  the  defaulter  for 

making  the  giving  of  the  exit  opportunity  infructuous,  such  as 

compulsory  delisting,  strike-off,  triggering  insolvency,  etc.,  the  entire 

exit  size  may  be  taken  instead  of  the  difference  based  on  price.  The 

defaulter shall not be allowed to take the benefit of his default, including 

cases  where  the  defaulter’s  delay  has  made  the  exit  infructuous  due  to 

the prevailing price being higher than the price (inclusive of interest) at 

which the exit may be given. 

 

 

CHAPTER IX 

 

GENERAL GUIDELINES RELATING TO DEFAULT INVOLVING SALE OR PURCHASE OF 

SECURITIES OR BOTH  

 

 

1.  Difference  in  purchase  and  sale  price  to  indicate  profit:  Unless 

otherwise  provided  in  these  guidelines  or  otherwise  considered  fit  by  the 

relevant  authority,  in  a  default  involving  sale  or  purchase  or  both,  the 

disproportionate  profit  may  include  the  difference  between  the  sale  and 

purchase  of  securities,  subject  to  one  or  more  of  the  following  guiding 

principles, - 

i. 

The onus to prove the relevant sale or purchase price (including cases of 

notional profit) of the transactions done within the relevant period, for 

the  purpose  of  quantifying  the  disproportionate  gains,  shall  be  on  the 

defaulter(s), failing which the Board may adopt any reasonable method 

of quantifying the same: 

 
Page | 339  

 
 

 

Explanation.  –  Wherever  required,  the  defaulter  may  rely  on  or  be 

required  to  furnish  his  certified  income  tax  records,  bank  records, 

telecommunication records, transaction details and any other document 

or  statement,  which  is  admissible  as  evidence,  in  accordance  with  any 

law  relating  to  stamp  duty,  registration  or  any  other  applicable  law, 

unless otherwise permitted.  

 

ii. 

For  the  sale/purchase  carried  out  within  the  default  period,  the 

disproportionate  gain  may  be  the  difference  between  the  acquisition 

price  and  sale  price.  Where,  the  relevant  acquisition  or  sale  purchase 

price is not available or the available value is not relevant to the default 

period,  an  approximate  value  in  accordance  with  these  guidelines  may 

be  used  to  arrive  at  the  relevant  gains  or  losses  resulting  from  the 

default; 

 

2.  Computation of Acquisition Price: 

i.  When  historical  acquisition  price  not  relevant  or  price  not 

available,  etc.:  Where  the  acquisition  price  of  a  security  is  not 

available and/or the acquisition was made one year or more prior to the 

default  period,  then  a  relevant  acquisition  price  as  may  be  deemed 

reasonable from the following may be selected, - 

a.  an averaging period not exceeding 90 days immediately prior to 

the default period may be selected to determine the acquisition 

price  for  determining  the  disproportionate  gain  and  removing 

any legitimate gains; 

 

b.  in  case  of  listing  related  defaults,  where  the  shares  were  held 

prior  to  allotment  of  the  public  issue,  any  of  the  following 

deemed reasonable may be used, - 

(i)  allotment price or a suitable fraction thereof; or  

(ii) a fraction of the price average for one month post listing 

 
Page | 340  

 
 

 

or other suitable data set.  

 

c.  Any other method considered reasonable. 

 

ii.  Where securities are acquired within a year before the start of 

the default period: Where securities are acquired within a year before 

the start of the default period, the price at which it is acquired shall be 

relevant acquisition price and if such price is not available, then a price 

deemed reasonable from the following may be selected, - 

a.  Where  securities  have  been  acquired  after  listing  and  the 

acquisition  price  is  not  available,  the  last  available  closing 

price  for  the  day(s)  on  during  which  the  securities  were 

acquired/credited  to  the  account  of  the  defaulter  (or  person 

holding on his behalf)/debited from the account of the seller, 

whichever is earlier; 

 

b. 

in case of listing related defaults, the allotment price may be 

used; 

 

c. 

in case of listing related defaults, where the shares were held 

prior  to  the  allotment  process  of  public  issue,  any  of  the 

following deemed reasonable may be used, - 

(i)  allotment price or a suitable fraction thereof; or  

(ii) a fraction of the price average for one month post listing 

or other suitable data set.  

d. 

 Any other method considered reasonable. 

 

3.  Computation of Sale Price: 

i. 

Sale  price  in  general:  Where  securities  are  sold  within  the  default 

period, the sale price shall be the relevant price, and where such price is 

not  available  or  the  securities  have  not  been  sold  during  the  default 

 
Page | 341  

 
 

 

period,  the  sale  price  may  be  selected  from  any  of  the  following  as 

deemed reasonable, - 

a.  to  treat  the  relevant  profit  as  that  profit  gained  when  the 

information  was  made  public  and  the  market  had  a 

reasonable opportunity to digest the information. The gain is 

to  be  measured  by  reference  to  the  market  value  of  the 

securities at that date;  

or 

b.  the price based on the averaging period not exceeding 90 days 

may be selected from the end of the relevant period. 

 

 

ii.  Where securities were purchased illegally: Where securities were 

purchased illegally by using funds provided directly or indirectly, by the 

issuer or through diversion of issue proceeds, - 

a.  the  entire  sale  price  of  the  securities  sold,  which  were 

acquired  through  such  means,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the 

disproportionate gains;  

or 

b.  in  case  the  securities  are  not  sold  during  the  default  period, 

the  acquisition  price  or  the  price  based  on  the  averaging 

period not exceeding 90 days may be selected as a sale price 

from the end of the default period, whichever is higher. 

 

4.  Sale of securities subject to lock-in:  Where securities subject to a lock-in 

of  any  kind  are  sold,  the  disproportionate  gain  (including  loss  avoided)  shall 

mean the entire sale with deduction for the price immediately after the expiry 

of the lock-in requirement, if available; 

 

5.  Scalping: Disproportionate gains equals the sum of the gross fees charged for 

making  the  recommendation,  the  gross  fees  for  facilitating  investors  to 

purchase through an intermediary and the profits made from personal sales of 

 
Page | 342  

 
 

 

 

securities; 

 

6.  In  case  of  acquisition  of  securities  by  issue  of  fraudulent  or 

counterfeit  securities,  or  issue  of  securities  without  proper 

approvals  mandated  by  law:  The  disproportionate  gains  shall  equal  the 

difference between:  

 
(i)  the  market  value  of  such  securities  as  on  the  date  of  purchase,  allotment, 

issue,  etc.  (or  the  next  trading  day,  if  no  price  is  available)  by/to  the 

defaulter(s)  or  the  present  market  value  of  such  securities  as  on  the  date  of 

order  in  case  the  securities  continue  to  be  held,  whichever  is  higher;  and  (ii) 

the actual consideration paid for acquiring the securities, if any: 

Provided that where such securities have been sold at a higher price, such price 

may be relevant for calculating the disproportionate gain. 

 

 

Explanation  1.  –  Uttering  of  securities:  Where  the  misconduct  relates  to 

the  issue  of  fraudulent  or  forged  securities,  or  the  issue  of  securities  without 

proper approvals (which voids such issue of securities), the continued holding 

of  such  securities,  exercise  of  corporate  rights  and  acquisition  of  further 

securities on account of such securities shall amount to a continuing violation 

and the disproportionate profit shall include the accrued benefits.  

 

 

Explanation  2.  -  Where  bonus  securities  or  dividends  have  been  received  on 

such securities, the market value of such bonus securities or dividends received 

shall be included as part of the disproportionate gain. 

 

CHAPTER X 

 

GUIDELINES RELATING TO DEFAULT INVOLVING RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

1.  In addition to any other guideline applicable, the Director’s profit in relation to 

 
Page | 343  

 
 

 

undisclosed  related  party  transaction  shall  include  profit  (or  part  thereof) 

made  on  any  trades/ESOPS/sweat  equity,  etc.  prior  to  the  disclosure  made 

while  in  possession  of  such  material  unpublished  price  sensitive  information 

relating to the transaction; 

 

2.  Directors’  profit  in  relation  to  undisclosed  related  party  transaction  shall 

include any undue benefit given directly or indirectly, to the related party if the 

related  party  is  a  closely  held  company  i.e.  a  private  company  or  a  public 

company  which  is  not  in  compliance  with  minimum  public  share-holding 

norms and substantially controlled by the relatives of the director concerned or 

the director himself, singly or in concert with such relatives at the time of the 

transaction: 

Explanation 1. – ‘undue benefit’ includes, transactions shown as ‘loans’ which 

the person receiving has no intention of paying back or fraudulently obtained, 

and  includes  any  difference  in  interest  when  the  loan  is  given at  lower  than 

commercial rate or penal rate, etc. as would have been otherwise applicable. 

Due  regard  may  be  given  to  the  value  of  monies  returned  prior  to  the 

detection of the default or the security/collateral provided. 

 

Explanation  2.  -  A  person  shall  be  deemed  to  have  fraudulently  obtained  a 

‘loan’ if,- (1) such loan was not in accordance with the applicable norms and 

practices and such person has ceased to pay his debts in the ordinary course 

of  business,  or  cannot  pay  his  debts  as  they  become  due,  or  (2)  the  monies 

were fraudulently siphoned off.  

 

Explanation 3. - Unless contrary to the context, ‘Director’ means every director 

who  was  aware  that  the  transaction  was  a  related  party  transaction  and 

expressly or impliedly approved the transaction with the knowledge that such 

approval was in contravention of law. 

  

Explanation 4. – ‘relative’ means a relative as defined under section 2(77) of 

 
Page | 344  

 
 

 

 

the Companies Act, 2013 and includes a member of the promoter group. 

  

3.  Loss caused  to  the  company  and  indirectly  to  the  share-holders  may  include, 

loss on account of the undisclosed related party transaction, any penalty levied 

on the company by any financial sector  regulator for non-compliance, cost  of 

financial restatements and entering into new arrangements on account of the 

default; 

Explanation.  –  ‘loss’  includes,  monies  received  by  the  entity  who  fails  to  pay 

back. 

 

CHAPTER XI 

 

GUIDELINES RELATING TO FRAUDULENT AND UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICES, ETC. 

 

 

1.  Overvaluation of Securities due to non-disclosure or manipulation: 

In  case  of  the  issue  of  securities  that  are  overvalued  because  of  disclosure 

failings or by reason of manipulation (to which the issuer is a party) and such 

securities  are  allotted  to  the  public,  the  disproportionate  gain  made,  shall 

include: 

[Allotment  price  –  Closing  Price  of  such  security  as  on  the  date  immediately 

following the day when the misconduct ends or after the public dissemination 

of true information, whichever is appropriate] * total number of shares allotted 

to public investors: 

Explanation  1.  –  It  is possible  that  the manipulation  may  be  done  in  already 

existing securities to make a further issue of securities attractive to investors. 

 

Explanation  2.  -  In  these  guidelines,  dissemination  of  true  information  is 

dissemination  of  any  information  which  is  contrary  to  the  false  information 

and such information is absorbed by the market, though it is not the complete 

 
Page | 345  

 
 

 

 

truth. 

2.  Bucketing  by  an  intermediary:  In  case  of  bucketing  by  an  intermediary, 

the  disproportionate  gain  shall  equal  the  difference  in  prices  retained  by  the 

intermediary and the gross brokerage, commission, fees, etc. charged. 

 

3.  Churning  and  burning  by  intermediaries:  In  case  of  churning  and 

burning  by  intermediaries  to  generate  more  commission-based  income,  the 

disproportionate  gains  shall  include  the  gross  remuneration  earned  on  the 

client account, for the period of default. 

  

4.  Capping  and  Pegging: 

In  case  of 

‘Capping  and  Pegging’, 

the 

disproportionate gains shall include: 

i. 

In case of capping: the premium collected, if any and the loss avoided 

based on the difference between the strike price and the closing price on 

the  day  after  the  manipulation  has  ended/expiration  date,  whichever  is 

later; 

ii. 

In case of pegging: the value gained is based on the difference between 

the  strike  price  and  the  closing  price  on  the  day  after  the  manipulation 

has ended/expiration date, whichever is later; 

[in case forecasting using statistical methods is possible for options, the 

same may be used to calculate the difference between the expected and 

the actual deviated prices.] 

 

5.  Misconduct to inflate, deflate or maintain the price of securities: 

i. 

In  case  of  misconduct  to  inflate  or  maintain  the  price  of  securities  to 

avoid  losing  pledged  or  loaned  shares  or  to  avoid  a  margin  call,  the 

disproportionate  gains  shall  include  the  amount  of  money  that  the 

defaulter would have been required to pay to avoid the sale of the pledged 

shares or the value of the margin to be called, whichever is applicable: 

Explanation.  -  It  is  sufficient  that  the  pledgor  has  knowledge  that  the 

 
Page | 346  

 
 

 

misconduct  inflates  or  maintains  the  price  or  it  is  done  at  his  behest  or 

instruction. 

 

ii. 

Similarly, in case of misconduct to inflate or maintain price of securities 

to  force  a  conversion  of  a  convertible  debt  instrument  into  equity,  the 

disproportionate  gains  shall  include  the  difference  between  the  value  of 

the  debt  converted  (inclusive  of  interest)  and  the  value  of  the  equity 

instruments  allotted  on  conversion,  based  on  an  averaging  period  not 

exceeding  90  days  after  the  misconduct  has  ended  or  after  the  public 

dissemination of true information, whichever is appropriate. 

 

iii. 

In  case  of  misconduct  to  deflate  the  price  of  securities  in  order  to 

purchase  the  securities  at  a  lower  price,  the  gains  shall  include  the 

notional  gains  based  on  the  difference  between  the  price  before  the 

manipulation  (or  the  price  after  the  manipulation,  whichever  is  higher) 

and the price at which the securities are acquired; 

 

6.  Fraudulent  dealing  to  avoid  tax  burden: In case of fraud in connection 

with  the  dealing  of  securities  for  intentional  ‘buying  of  losses’  by  fraudulent 

dealing,  the  disproportionate  gains  shall  include  the  tax  avoided  through  the 

fraudulent dealing, if any; 

 

7.  Default  done  to  ensure  success  of  public  issue:  In  case  the  default  is 

done to ensure the success of an issue of securities, the disproportionate gains 

shall include, the loss aversion of the sunk cost of the issue process and the cost 

of refund avoided; 

 

8.  Touting and Mis-selling: 

i. 

In  case  of  touting,  the  disproportionate  gains  shall 

include  the 

commissions  received  from  the  investors  and  the  value  of  the  benefit 

received. 

 
Page | 347  

 
 

 

 

ii. 

In  case  of  mis-selling,  the  disproportionate  gains  shall  include  the 

commissions,  fees  earned  in  relation  to  the  mis-selling  or  the  period 

during which the mis-selling was done, as deemed fit. 

 

iii. 

In case of touting and mis-selling, the loss caused to investors as a result 

of the failure or subsequent sale of the related security shall be considered 

as loss caused due to such default, if the default is the proximate cause of 

the loss.  

 

9.  In  case  of  inter-positioning  by  an  intermediary  to  generate  risk-less  profit 

on  proprietary  account  by 

inter-posing  between  client  orders, 

the 

disproportionate  gains  shall  include  the  gains  made  on  such  trading  and  the 

commissions made; 

 

10. In case of portfolio-pumping of fund’s holding, the gains made shall include 

any commissions, fees, etc. made during the period from the manipulation to 

the closing of the day after the manipulation has ended (or the announcement 

of  the  relevant  results,  whichever  is  later);  and  loss  to  the  investors  shall 

include  the  trading  costs  incurred  by  the  fund  (MF/AIF/REIT/InVIT/PMS, 

etc.)  to  undertake  the  portfolio  pumping  including  the  losses  incurred  by the 

fund for making the default;  

 

11.  Unlawful conversion, misappropriation or destruction of securities 

including physical securities resulting in permanent loss: The value of 

the funds and the fair market value of the securities and other corporate assets 

(e.g. non-demat securities) are unlawfully taken and disposed of or destroyed, 

or  if  it  is  impracticable  to  determine  the  fair  market  value  or  such  value 

inadequately  measures  the  harm  caused,  the  cost  of  replacing  that  property 

may represent the disproportionate gain made or loss caused to investors. 

If for some reason, the market value of the security cannot be determined, the 

 
Page | 348  

 
 

 

following methods may be used - 

i.  The manageable profit-basis method (the Earning Per Share Method); 

ii.  The net worth method or the break value method, or 

iii.  Any other suitable method. 

 

Provided  that  if  third  party  assets  have  been  misused  in  contravention  of 

segregation  norms  and  if  such  assets  have  been  restored  then  instead  of  full 

value of the assets, the profit shall be determined at the rate of 1% per month 

simple  interest  on  the  value  of  such  assets,  to  remove  any  financial  benefit 

derived from the interest-free use of such assets. 

 

12. In case of marking the close, the gains made can be based on the difference 

in  value  of  the  future/option  or  quarterly/annual  portfolio  or 

index 

reference/valuation  points  during  the  period  of  the  manipulation  and  on  the 

closing of the day after the manipulation has ended (or the announcement of 

the relevant results, etc., whichever is later). 

***************** 

ii.  Determination  of  profits  made  and  losses  caused  are  an  essential  complement  for 

proving  the  violation  of  securities  laws  and  in  fact  supplement  the  fact-finding 

inquiry  and  does  not  require  a  separate  inquiry.  Hence,  investigation,  inspection, 

inquiry  and  audit  processes  of  the  Board  should  require  the  relevant  authority  to 

examine  the  aspects  necessary  to  quantify,  during  the  investigation,  inspection, 

inquiry and audit process itself, as doing so will also serve as an apercu to form the 

line  of  inquiry,  since  ‘following  the  money’  is  a  salutary  principle  of  any 

investigation.  

 

iii.  A  positive  mandate  be  given  to  the  Department  of  Economic  and  Policy  Analysis, 

Legal Affairs Department and IVD (dealing with Forensic Accounting) of the Board 

to  undertake  an  ongoing  analysis  of  the  various  methods  employed  by  various 

regulators  globally  to  enable  their  adoption  by  the  Board  and  updation  of  the 
 
Page | 349  

 

 
 

quantification approaches recommended in this report and explore the possibility of 

utilizing available software for carrying out complex calculations191 or their in-house 

development; 

 

iv.  A  permanent  technical  standing  committee  be  formed  consisting  of  officers  of  the 

Board,  economists,  lawyers,  statisticians,  auditors  and  fund  managers  to  help  the 

Board on an ongoing  basis to  review of  the manner of  quantification to be carried 

out by the Board; 

 

v.  Wherever the investigative/inspection/audit authority require assistance, including 

matters  requiring  statistical  methods,  they  may  seek  the  assistance  of  the 

Department of Economic and Policy Analysis for quantification. Wherever required 

SEBI  may  refer  the  matter  to  the  permanent  technical  standing  committee  for 

guidance. 

 

vi.  The  Board  may  also  consider  corresponding  with  the  USA-SEC  and  Italian 

Companies  and  Exchange  Commission  to  gain  from  their  experiences  and 

incorporate their methods of quantification. While we have recommended many of 

the well-established methods adopted by global regulators, closer contacts with such 

regulators  will  help  the  Board  and  its  staff  in  making  appropriate  decisions  for 

determining the parameters to be employed in using these methods. 

 

vii.  As  a  mid-term  goal,  the  Board  may  consider  developing  an  in-house  software  or 

such software through suitable service providers192, for the purpose of quantification 

of disproportionate gains and loss to investors based on the experience gained after 

implementing the suggested guidelines.  

 

                                                           
191
<https://www.sas.com/en_in/home.html>; <https://www.stata.com/> and <https://www.eventstudytools.com/>. 
192
<https://www.sas.com/en_in/home.html>; <https://www.stata.com/> and <https://www.eventstudytools.com/>. 

<https://wrds-www.wharton.upenn.edu/pages/analytics/>; 

<https://wrds-www.wharton.upenn.edu/pages/analytics/>; 

 See 

 See 

<https://www.r-project.org/>; 

<https://www.r-project.org/>; 

 

 
Page | 350  

 
 

viii.  Unlike  settlements  in  other  kinds  of  disputes  which  are  privately  negotiated, 

settlement  amounts  in  securities  laws  are  arrived  at  using  publicly  available 

formula.  This  has  been  done to  further  transparency  in  matters  of  public  interest. 

However, it is seen that transparency in settlement mechanism is open to arbitrage 

and defaulters try to game the enforcement mechanism by not going for settlement 

because there is no similar guidance for adjudication of penalties. Further, there is 

no uniformity even with respect to penalties levied by different adjudicating officers 

in  respect  of  the  same  defaults.  The  Finance  Act,  2018  has  also  empowered  the 

Board to levy penalties, thus there is a possibility that different WTMs may impose 

differing penalties for the same kind of violation. Though there are existing internal 

circulars  on  levy  on  penalty  they do  not  appear  to  have  been  applied  consistently. 

The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Adjudicating Officer, SEBI v Bhavesh Pabari193 has 

inter  alia  held  that  various  relevant  factors  can  be  taken  into  account  while 

adjudicating  the  levy  of  penalty  and  clauses  (a)  to  (c)  [factors  relating  to  profit 

made, loss caused and repetitive nature of default] in Section 15-J of the SEBI Act 

are merely illustrative and are not the only grounds/factors which can be taken into 

consideration  while  determining  the  quantum  of  penalty.  Accordingly,  Regulation 

32 of the recently issued SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 inter alia 

provides that the Schedule –II (dealing with quantification of settlement amount) 

of  those  regulations  shall  be  relevant  to  proceedings  before  the  Board  or  the 

Adjudicating officers and they may apply the same to the extent possible. Hence to 

raise the standard of administration of justice and to ensure that defaulters do not 

game  the  enforcement  mechanism  of  the  Board,  it  may  be  essential  to  issue  non-

mandatory  public  guidelines  for  the  purpose  of  levy  of  penalty  to  ensure  the 

application  of  Schedule-II  with  appropriate  modification  and  various  judicial 

pronouncements while preserving the discretion of quasi-judicial authorities. Hence 

the Board may consider issuing the following guidance to the officers, - 

 

 
                                                           
193
<https://www.supremecourtofindia.nic.in/supremecourt/2013/36291/36291_2013_Judgement_28-Feb-2019.pdf >. 

available 

SCALE 

 2019 

(3) 

447, 

at 

 

 
Page | 351  

 
 

 

GUIDELINES FOR LEVY OF PENALTY 

 

  
 

 GENERAL PRINCIPLES FOR DETERMINATION OF APPROPRIATE PENALTY 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

For the purpose of arriving at an appropriate penalty to be levied on the persons 
who  violate  securities  laws,  the  consideration  of  relevant  factors,  including  the 
following factors is also required, -  

the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage,  wherever 
quantifiable, as a result of the default;  
the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result 
of the default; and 
the repetitive nature of default. 

(iii) 

 
In view of the same the following non-mandatory guidance is being issued by the 
Board  for  levy  of  penalty  under  securities  laws  in  rescission  of  existing  internal 
circulars,- 
 

A.  This  guidance  may  be  applied  to  all  proceedings  for  the  levy  of  penalty 

initiated on or after the date of issuance of these guidelines; 
 

B.  Deviation  from  this  guidance  may  be  for  reasons  to  be  recorded  in  the 

order imposing penalty; 
 

C.  Second Schedule to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 
Proceedings)  Regulations,  2018  read  with  Regulation  32  of  those 
Regulations, is relevant  for determining the Indicative Penalty (IP) which 
may be levied.  
 
In doing so, - 

a.  Chapter  VII  of  the  Second  Schedule  provides  guidance  for 
consideration  of  the  ‘repetitive  nature  of  the  default’  and  hence 
repetitive defaults may be considered accordingly. 
Explanation 1. - A ‘repetitive’ default shall not include a ‘continuing’ 
default. 
‘continuing’  default  if 
Explanation  2.  –  A  default  may  be  a 
depending  upon  the  language  of  securities  laws  which  create  that 
default, the nature of the default, and above all, the purpose which is 
intended to be achieved by securities laws constituting the particular 
act  as  a  continuing  default,  and  such  contravention  is  not  of  a 
procedural or formal nature or it goes against the very grain of the 
statutory provision under consideration or is expressly recognized to 
be  a  continuing  default  or  provides  a  penal  liability  or  an  injury 
which continues until the requirement is complied with. 

 
Page | 352  

 
 

 

 

b.  The  IP  may  be  calculated  mutatis  mutandis  on  the  lines  of 
calculating the IA under the Second Schedule. For determining the 
IP, - 
i. 
ii.  Reputation risk factor shall not be applicable;  
iii.  The  IP  shall  not  be  less  than  the  minimum  penalty  to  be 
levied  under  securities  laws  and  not  exceed  the  maximum 
penalty permitted under securities laws; and 

PCF shall be 0.85; 

iv.  Quantification  of  profit  made  and  loss  caused  may  be based 

on the guidelines issued by the Board, if any. 
 

D.  For  defaults  where  the  maximum  penalty  under  securities  laws  is  not  a 

multiple of the disproportionate profit made, - 

a.  If the profit made is less than the maximum penalty under law, then 
if  considered  appropriate,  the  penalty  shall  not  be  less  than  the 
profit  made  or  the  minimum  penalty  under  law,  whichever  is 
higher; 

b.  If  the  profit  made  is  more  than  the  maximum  penalty  under  law, 
then  if  considered  appropriate,  the  penalty  shall  be  the  maximum 
penalty under law. 
 

E.  For defaults where the maximum penalty under securities laws extends to 
three  times  the  profit  made,  but  disgorgement  or  refund  of  the 
disproportionate profit made is contemplated or direction to disgorge has 
been  issued  but  not  been  complied  with,  if  considered  appropriate,  the 
penalty  imposed  may  not  be  less  than  the  profit  made  or  the  minimum 
penalty under law, whichever is higher. 
 

F.  In cases where the penalty under securities laws extends to three times the 
profit made and if the loss caused to investors exceeds the profit made by a 
multiple  of  500 or  more,  then if  considered  appropriate,  the penalty  may 
not be less than the profit made but be not more than twice such profit or 
twice the minimum penalty under law, whichever is higher.  
 

G.  In cases the where the penalty under securities laws extends to three times 
the profit made and if the loss caused to investors exceeds the profit made 
by a multiple of less than 500, then if considered appropriate, the penalty 
may not be less than twice the profit made or thrice the minimum penalty 
under law, whichever is higher. 
 

H.  For  the  purpose  of  levying  penalty,  the  profit  made  may  be  calculated 

jointly, severally or jointly and severally. 
 

I.  The IP may be adopted and levied as penalty if deemed appropriate to the 

nature of the default. 

 
Page | 353  

 
 

 

Explanation. -It is clarified that any approximations, errors or irregularities 
while  calculating  in  accordance  with  these  guidelines  shall  not  invalidate 
the  penalty  levied,  if  the  quasi-judicial  authority  imposing  penalty  is 
satisfied that the penalty levied is appropriate. 

********* 

 

ix.  Economic litigation is  becoming more and more complex every day; a defaulter 

guided by greed may trigger regulatory responses that he may not fully fathom. 

Such  instances  are  not  unique  to  securities  laws,  but  are  found  in  various 

economic  litigation  such  as  taxation,  anti-dumping/injury  margin  calculation. 

This does not mean that advanced regulatory responses should be confined to a 

highly educated defaulter, well versed in law, economics, statistics, etc. The law 

requires that the defaulter be given an opportunity to reply to the charge either by 

himself  or  by  competent  professionals  that  he  may  appoint.  The  proposed 

guidelines  permit  such  response.  It  must  be  made  clear  at  the  outset  that  the 

Committee is not recommending the creation of any ‘new’ statistical approaches. 

It  is  only  suggesting  the  adoption  mutatis  mutandis  of  existing  approaches  for 

which literature and competent professionals exists. Though defaulters may cite 

difficulty  in  understanding  these  approaches,  they are primarily  responsible  for 

the  adoption  of  these  methods  and  like  the  Board,  they  too  may  seek  relevant 

competent  professional  assistance.  However,  mindful  of the  difficulties  in  these 

methods, the Committee recommends that the Board may also consider including 

course material in relation to quantification  in the securities courses conducted 

by the NISM, Government law College, Mumbai and any other legal institution or 

establishment  imparting  a  course  in  securities  laws.  Similarly,  in  line  with  the 

international practices, presentations may be made to the Tribunal on a regular 

basis by its specialist officers, to enable incorporation of views of the Bench to be 

considered while developing the Board’s quantification methodology and enable 

market  participants,  the  Bar  and  the  Bench  to  become  conversant  with  the 

manner  of  quantification  to  be  adopted  by  the  Board  and  enable  exchange  of 

ideas.  

***************** 

 
Page | 354  

