 

Consultation Paper 

 

Recalibration of threshold for Minimum Public Shareholding norms, enhanced 

disclosures in Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cases 

1.  Objective 

1.1. The objective of this discussion paper is to seek comments / views from the 
public  and  market  intermediaries  on  Recalibration  of  threshold  for  Minimum 
Public  Shareholding  norms  (MPS)  in  companies  which  undergo  Corporate 
Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) and seek relisting of its shares pursuant 
to implementation of the approved resolution plan.  

2.  Background 

2.1. In  order  to  ensure  sufficient  float  in  a  listed  entity,  in  terms  of  Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (SCRR), the minimum public shareholding 
is mandated to 25 per cent of total shareholding. 

2.2. In view of the fundamental change in management and governance of a listed 
entity during CIRP, a necessity was felt for providing a suitable framework of 
compliance  with  securities  laws.  Accordingly,  certain  relaxations  have  been 
granted to such listed companies under various SEBI Regulations and under 
SCRR as well relating to minimum public shareholding norms. 

2.3. Currently, relaxation has been provided from all provisions of Chapter V of the 
SEBI(Issuer  of  Capital  and  Disclosure)  Requirements,  2018 
(ICDR 
Regulations) pertaining to preferential issue  such as conditions for eligibility, 
pricing,  conditions  for  consideration  and  allotment  etc.  except  lock-in 
provisions. Thus, the shares allotted to an incoming investor under a resolution 
plan through a preferential issue continue to remain under lock-in for a period 
of at least 1 year (for allotment in excess of 20 percent of the total capital of 
the company). 

2.4. Relaxation has also been provided in Regulation 3(2) of the SEBI (Substantial 
Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  (Takeover 
Regulations) which allows an acquirer to breach minimum public shareholding 
norms.  

2.5. Further  in  such  cases,  where  the  fall  in  public  shareholding  is  due  to 
implementation  of  the  resolution  plan  approved  under  IBC,  2016,  SCRR 
mandates as follows: 

Consultation paper on Recalibration of threshold for Minimum Public Shareholding norms in –

Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cases- enhanced disclosures  

Page 1 of 9 

 

 

 

a.  In cases where the public shareholding falls below 10 percent, then such 
listed company shall bring public shareholding to at least 10 percent within 
a period of eighteen months and to 25 percent within three years from the 
date of such fall.  

b.  In cases where the public shareholding falls below 25 percent but is above 
10  percent,  such  listed  company  shall  bring  its  public  shareholding  to  25 
percent within three years from the date of such fall 

2.6. Furthermore  exemption  has  also  been  granted  from  applicability  of  delisting 
regulations in case of delisting arising out of resolution plan approved under 
the IBC, 2016. The minimum value that the shareholder can receive in such 
cases  is  the  liquidation  value,  or  the  price  at  which  existing  promoters/ 
shareholder  are  being  granted  exit.  Thus,  it  is  possible  in  case  of  delisting 
under the resolution plan, the shareholders may not get sufficient/any value as 
compared to the potential value that may be realized over a period of time after 
the implementation of the resolution plan if the shares continue to remain listed.  

The existing legal provisions are placed Annexure 1. 

3.  Concerns 

3.1. IBC is an evolving law, only 6 post- CIRP companies have been listed on NSE 
(details  at  Annexure  2).  However,  in  terms  of  the  relaxation  available  as 
described above, it is possible that pursuant to implementation of the resolution 
plan, the  public shareholding  in such  companies  may  drop to  abysmally low 
levels.  In  one  recent  case  it  was  observed  that  post-CIRP  the  public 
shareholding  has  decreased  to  0.97%,  and  showed  8764%  increase  in  its 
share  price  in  spite  of  additional  preventive  surveillance  actions  including 
reduction in price band and moving the scrip into trade for trade segment. Such 
low public shareholding raises multiple concerns like failure of fair discovery of 
price  of  the  scrip,  need  for  increased  surveillance  measures  etc.  and  may 
therefore pose as a red flag for future cases. Low float also prohibits healthy 
participation  in  trading  of  such  companies  majorly  due  to  issues  related  to 
demand and supply gap of shares. 

Threshold for public shareholding post CIRP 

3.2. While such MPS non-compliant companies are required to achieve minimum 
public shareholding norms over a period of three years (atleast 10 percent in 
18  months),  it  is  felt  that  concerns  as  mentioned  above  shall  remain  till  the 
company achieves MPS of at least 10%  

Consultation paper on Recalibration of threshold for Minimum Public Shareholding norms in –

Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cases- enhanced disclosures  

Page 2 of 9 

 

 

3.3. Such exemptions are not considered in case of companies which seek listing 
pursuant to a scheme of arrangement. Under schemes of arrangement, it is 
mandatory to have atleast 25% public shareholding, or atleast Rs 400 Crores 
or  alteast  10%  in  case  the  valuation  exceeds  Rs  4000  Crores  whichever  is 
higher.  The  draft  scheme  of  arrangement  not  in  compliance  to  the  above 
provision is liable to be rejected by Stock Exchanges and SEBI. The relaxation 
to breach minimum public shareholding norms is unique to IBC matters.  

3.4. The rationale for providing such exemptions only to IBC cases was to ensure 
revival of the corporate debtor pursuant to resolution plan and also to provide 
any listing gains over the next three years to shareholders of corporate debtor. 
While the revival of corporate debtor is essential for all stakeholders, it is also 
imperative to maintain market integrity in respect of such companies.  

3.5. The  main  purpose  of  listing  of  scrips  on  the  exchanges  is  that  the  investors 
have a ready opportunity to invest or exit their investments as per the efficient 
price and liquidity associated with listing. Allowing no lower limit for minimum 
public shareholding in post- CIRP cases may result in cases where the public 
shareholding would be extremely low, thus leading to less float, hampering the 
efficiency in the price discovery process of the scrip in the secondary market. 
Allowing continued listing  of companies that have miniscule public float may 
therefore be counterproductive in providing opportunity to other investors. 

3.6. In  case  the  resolution  plan  involves  allotment  to  an  incoming  investor 
(designated  as  promoter)  then  in  terms  of  Regulation  167(1)  of  the  ICDR 
Regulations the shares shall be locked-in for a period of atleast 1 year. This 
may  not  facilitate  dilution  of  promoter  shareholding  to  achieve  immediate 
compliance with atleast 10 percent public shareholding. 

Disclosures of CIRP 

3.7. Another aspect regarding post CIRP cases is the details of disclosures made 
pursuant  to  the  approval  of  Resolution  plan  and  aiding  the  price  discovery 
mechanism in relisting post CIRP cases. The disclosure of the salient features 
not  involving  commercial  secrets,  of  the  resolution  plan  approved  by  the 
Tribunal is mandatory in terms of LODR regulations, 2015. The nuances of the 
resolution plan such as shares/ convertibles to be allotted to incoming investor, 
terms  of  such  allotment,  source(s)  of  funds  (if  any),  impact  of  the  resolution 
plan on the existing shareholders etc. may be crucial for public shareholders 
in  ascertaining  the  actual  value  of  shares  on  re-listing  pursuant  to 
implementation of the resolution plan. 

Consultation paper on Recalibration of threshold for Minimum Public Shareholding norms in –

Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cases- enhanced disclosures  

Page 3 of 9 

 

 

 

 

4.  Proposals 

 

4.1. The  matter  was  deliberated  at  the  Primary  Market  Advisory  Committee 
(PMAC), which has recommended that SEBI may seek public comments on 
the following options:  

a.  Options: 

Option  1:  Post-CIRP  companies  may  be  mandated  to  achieve  at 
least  10  percent  public  shareholding  within  six  months  and  25 
percent within 3 years from the date of breach of MPS norm 

Currently,  Rule  19A(5)  of  the  SCRR  mandates  that  in  case  public 
shareholding  of  a  listed  company  falls  below  10%  as  a  result  of 
implementation of resolution plan under IBC, 2016, then the same shall 
be increased to atleast 10% within 18 months from the date of fall and 
25% within 3 years from the date of fall. 

It is proposed that 18 months as mandated under Rule 19A(5) may be 
brought down to 6 months.  

 

Option 2:  Post-CIRP companies may be mandated to have at least 
5 percent public shareholding at the time of relisting 

Such  companies  may  be  provided  12  months  to  achieve  public 
shareholding  of  10  percent  and  further  24  months  to  achieve  public 
shareholding of 25 percent. 

A concern in 5 percent threshold is that it may not be significant threshold 
to allay concerns as mentioned above. However, the positive side is that 
a lower threshold (such as five percent) will incentivize companies from 
staying listed and any higher threshold may push for total delisting. 

 

Option 3:  Post-CIRP companies may be mandated to have at least 
10 percent public shareholding at the time of relisting 

Such  companies  may  be  provided  three  years  to  achieve  minimum 
public shareholding of 25 percent. 

In case of IPOs, in terms of Rule 19(2) (b) companies are mandated to 
have at least 10 percent minimum public shareholding. 

 

Consultation paper on Recalibration of threshold for Minimum Public Shareholding norms in –

Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cases- enhanced disclosures  

Page 4 of 9 

 

 

b.  Lock-in requirements: 

 

Typically,  in  view  of  preferential  issuance  of  shares  to  the  incoming 
investor/promoter under the resolution plan, such shares would be under 
lock-in for at least 1 year in terms of ICDR Regulations. Thus, achieving 
MPS  compliance  through  means  involving  off-loading  of  shares  by  the 
incoming investor/ promoter within one year is not possible. Therefore, it 
may be permitted to free such shares from lock-in so as to help achieve 
MPS (only to the extent to enable MPS compliance).  

 

c.  Whether  there  is  a  need  to  introduce  a  standardized  reporting 
framework  pursuant  to  approval  of  resolution  plan?  If  so,  what 
details may be mandated? 

Some of the disclosure requirements could be as follows: 

i.  Pre and Post net-worth of the company 

ii.  Detailed  pre  and  post  shareholding  pattern  assuming  100% 

conversion 

iii.  Details of funds infused, creditors paid-off. 

iv.  Additional liability on the incoming investors due to the transaction/ 

source of funding etc. 

v. 

Impact on the investor – revised P/E, RONW ratios etc. 

vi.  Names of the new promoters, key managerial persons(s) if any. Past 
experience in the business or employment. In case where promoter 
are  companies,  history  of  such  company  and  names  of  natural 
persons in control.  

vii.  Brief description of business strategy 

viii.  Resolution  plan  (excluding  confidential  information,  commercial 

secrets etc.) 

 

5.  Considering the implications of the said matter on the market participants including 
issuer companies and investors, public comments are invited on the proposals at 
Para 4 above. Comments may be sent by email or through post, in the following 
format: 

Consultation paper on Recalibration of threshold for Minimum Public Shareholding norms in –

Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cases- enhanced disclosures  

Page 5 of 9 

 

 

Name of entity / person : 

Contact Number & Email Address : 

Sr. No. 

 

 

Reference  Para  of 
the 
consultation 
paper 

Suggestion/ 
Comments 

Rationale 

 

 

 

While  sending  email,  kindly  mention  the  subject  as  "Recalibration  of 
threshold  for  Minimum  Public  Shareholding  norms  in  -Corporate 
Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cases"  

and 

Shri 

Abhishek 

Rozatkar, 

The  comments  may  be  sent  by  email  to  Smt.    Yogita      Jadhav,      DGM      at 
(yogitag@sebi.gov.in), 
AGM 
(abhishekr@sebi.gov.in) latest by September 18, 2020: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Consultation paper on Recalibration of threshold for Minimum Public Shareholding norms in –

Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cases- enhanced disclosures  

Page 6 of 9 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure 1 

 

1.  Regulation  158(2)  of  the  ICDR  Regulations  states  as  follows  (emphasis 

supplied): 

The  provisions  of  this  Chapter,  except  the  lock-in  provisions,  shall  not  apply 
where  the  preferential  issue  of  specified  securities  is  made  in  terms  of  the 
rehabilitation  scheme  approved  by  the  Board  of  Industrial  and  Financial 
Reconstruction under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 
1985  [1  of  1986]  or  the  resolution  plan  approved  under  Section  31  of  the 
Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [No. 31 of 2016], whichever is applicable.  

 

a.  Regulation  3(2)  of  the  Takeover  Regulations  states  as  follows 

(emphasis supplied): 

No acquirer, who together with persons acting in concert with him, has acquired 
and  holds  in  accordance  with  these  regulations  shares  or  voting  rights  in  a 
target company entitling them to exercise twenty-five per cent or more of the 
voting rights in the target company but less than the maximum permissible non-
public shareholding, shall acquire within any financial year additional shares or 
voting rights in such target company entitling them to exercise more than five 
per cent of the voting rights, unless the acquirer makes a public announcement 
of an open offer for acquiring shares of such target company in accordance with 
these regulations:  
Provided  that  such  acquirer  shall  not  be  entitled  to  acquire  or  enter  into  any 
agreement to acquire shares or voting rights exceeding such number of shares 
as would take the aggregate shareholding pursuant to the acquisition above the 
maximum permissible non-public shareholding.  

Provided further that, acquisition pursuant to a resolution plan approved under 
section 31 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [No. 31 of 2016] shall 
be  exempt  from  the  obligation  under  the  proviso  to  the  sub-regulation  (2)  of 
regulation 3. 

2.  Rule 19A(5) of the SCRR states as follows (emphasis supplied): 

(5) Where the public shareholding in a listed company falls below twenty-five 
per cent, as a result of implementation of the resolution plan approved under 
section  31  of  the  Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy  Code,  2016  (31  of  2016),  such 
company  shall  bring  the  public  shareholding  to  twenty-five  per  cent  within  a 
maximum  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  such  fall,  in  the  manner 
specified by the Securities and Exchange Board of India:  

Consultation paper on Recalibration of threshold for Minimum Public Shareholding norms in –

Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cases- enhanced disclosures  

Page 7 of 9 

 

 

Provided that, if the public shareholding falls below ten per cent, the same shall 
be  increased  to  at  least  ten  per  cent,  within  a  maximum  period  of  eighteen 
months from the date of such fall, in the manner specified by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India. 
 

3.  Regulation 3(3) of the Delisting Regulations, 2009 state as follows: 

 

(3) Nothing in these regulations shall apply to any delisting of equity shares of 
a listed entity made pursuant to a resolution plan approved under section 31 of 
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [No. 31 of 2016], if such plan, –  
(a) lays down any specific procedure to complete the delisting of such share; or  
(b)  provides  an  exit  option  to  the  existing  public  shareholders  at  a  price 
specified in the resolution plan:  
 
Provided that, exit to the shareholders should be at a price which shall not be 
less  than  the  liquidation  value  as  determined  under  regulation  35  of  the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for 
Corporate  Persons)  Regulations,  2016  after  paying  off  dues  in  the  order  of 
priority  as  defined  under  section  53  of  the  Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy  Code, 
2016[No. 31 of 2016]:  
 
Provided further that, if the existing promoters or any other shareholders are 
proposed to be provided an opportunity to exit under the resolution plan at a 
price  higher  than  the  price  determined  in  terms  of  the  above  proviso,  the 
existing public shareholders shall also be provided an exit opportunity at a price 
which shall not beless than the price, by whatever name called, at which such 
promoters or other shareholders, directly or indirectly, are provided exit:  
 
Provided  also  that,  the  details  of  delisting  of  such  shares  along  with  the 
justification for exit price in respect of delisting proposed shall be disclosed to 
the  recognized  stock  exchanges  within  one  day  of  resolution  plan  being 
approved under section 31 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (No. 
31 of 2016) 
 

4.  Regulation 167(1) of the ICDR Regulation states as follows: 

167.  (1)  The  specified  securities,  allotted  on  a  preferential  basis  to  the 
promoters  or  promoter  group  and  the  equity  shares  allotted  pursuant  to 
exercise of options attached to warrants issued on a preferential basis to the 
promoters or the promoter group, shall be locked-in for a period of three years 
from the date of trading approval granted for the specified securities or equity 

Consultation paper on Recalibration of threshold for Minimum Public Shareholding norms in –

Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cases- enhanced disclosures  

Page 8 of 9 

 

 

 

shares allotted pursuant to exercise of the option attached to warrant, as the 
case may be:  
Provided that not more than twenty per cent. of the total capital of the issuer 
shall be locked-in for three years from the date of trading approval 
Provided  further  that  equity  shares  allotted  in  excess  of  the  twenty  per  cent. 
shall  be  locked-in  for  one  year  from  the  date  of  trading  approval  pursuant  to 
exercise of options or otherwise, as the case may be.  
Provided further that in case of convertible securities or warrants which are not 
listed on stock exchanges, such securities shall be locked in for a period of one 
year from the date of allotment. 
 

5.  Schedule  III  Part  A  –  Clause  A.  16(k)  of  the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and 

Disclosure Requirements) Regulation, 2015 states as follows: 

“Disclosures of events or information: specified securities  
 

A. Events which shall be disclosed without any application of the guidelines for 

materiality as specified in sub-regulation (4) of regulation (30):  
16. The following events in relation to the corporate insolvency resolution 
process (CIRP) of a listed corporate debtor under the Insolvency Code: 
... 

(k) Salient features, not involving commercial secrets, of the resolution 
plan approved by the Tribunal, in such form as may be specified;”  

Scrip Name 

Electrosteel Steels Limited 
Monnet Ispat & Energy 
Limited 
GB Global Limited 
Ruchi Soya Industries 
Limited 
Alok Industries Limited 
Bafna Pharmaceuticals 
Limited 

 

Annexure 2 

Date of 
Relisting 

Public percentage as on 31-03-2020 

19-Jun-18 

Delisted w.e.f. December 20, 2018 

25.65 

67.99 
0.97 

93.85 
73.6 

12-Sep-18 
04-Jul-19 

24-Jan-20 
19-Feb-20 

27-Feb-20 

 

**** 

Consultation paper on Recalibration of threshold for Minimum Public Shareholding norms in –

Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) cases- enhanced disclosures  

Page 9 of 9 

 

 

