Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

REPORT ON DISCLOSURES PERTAINING TO ANALYST MEETS, 

INVESTOR MEETS AND CONFERENCE CALLS 

Background 

The issue of information asymmetry between various classes of investors arising out of limited 
disclosures in respect of analyst meets/ institutional investors meet/ conference calls was 
discussed by Primary Markets Advisory Committee (PMAC) in the meeting in July, 2020. PMAC 
deliberated on the issue and decided to form a sub-group under the chairmanship of Mr. Keki 
Mistry,  Vice-Chairman  and  CEO  of  HDFC  Ltd,  to  deal  with  issues  concerning  sharing  of 
information with select investors and strengthening the disclosure framework. 

The sub-group deliberated various aspects with respect to information asymmetry amongst 
various classes of stakeholders, best practices in Indian securities market, regulatory regimes 
in  various  overseas  jurisdictions  and  the  way  forward  to  bridge  the  gaps  of  aforesaid 
information asymmetry. 

The report of the sub-group was discussed by the PMAC in its meeting in November, 2020. 

Public comments 

In order to take into consideration, the views of various stakeholders, comments are sought 
from the public on the enclosed report in the following format: 

Name of the person/ entity 
Sr. no. 

Recommendation   
in      the report to 
which 
the 
comment 
pertains 

Comment 

Rationale    for 
the comment 

 

 

 

 

 

any 

Revisions to    the 
recommendations, 
if 
(Please 
provide   revisions 
to amendments as 
well, if possible) 
 

Comments may be sent by email to consultationcmd2@sebi.gov.in or by post to the following 
address latest by December 21, 2020: 

 
General Manager, 
Compliance and Monitoring Division – II, 
Corporation Finance Department, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India  
SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, "G" Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  
Mumbai -400 051 
 

Issued on: November 20, 2020 

 

Page 1 of 10 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

REPORT ON DISCLOSURES PERTAINING TO ANALYST MEETS, 

INVESTOR MEETS AND CONFERENCE CALLS 

 
 

 

Page 2 of 10 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Background 
 
Disclosure and transparency are the bedrock of good corporate governance. Disclosure of 
accurate  information  are  critical  for  investment  decisions  of  the  investors.  Regulatory 
framework  of  SEBI  already  provides  for  disclosure  of  adequate  and  timely  information  to 
enable investors to track the performance of a listed entity. Listed entities are encouraged to 
proactively disclose all material information that not only help investors in decision making 
but also helps listed entities in building trust with various stakeholders. 
 
Institutional  investors  meet  or  conference  call  with  analysts/  shareholders  is  a  means  of 
communication  with  shareholders  and  sharing  of  information.  However, it  is  noticed  that 
while  many  listed  companies  disclose  the  occurrence  of  institutional  investors  meet  or 
conference  call  with  analysts,  they  do  not  divulge  the  details  of  what  transpired  in  such 
meetings. Minority shareholders, who  do  not attend  these  meetings, are  not  privy to the 
information shared with a select group of investors, thereby creating information asymmetry 
among  different  classes  of  shareholders.  While  Companies  disclose  the  presentations  as 
mandated under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), Regulations, 2015 to 
the  recognized  stock  exchanges and  on  their respective websites, it  is  observed that  they 
generally  confine  themselves  to  merely  disclosing  PowerPoint  slides  presented  in  such 
meetings. 
 
The  concerns  relating  to  information  asymmetry  was  discussed  as  an  agenda  item  in  the 
meeting of Primary Markets Advisory Committee (referred as ‘PMAC’) meeting on July 27, 
2020.  PMAC  deliberated  on  the  issue  and  decided  to  form  a  sub-group  under  the 
chairmanship of Mr. Keki Mistry, Vice-Chairman and CEO of HDFC Ltd, to deal with issues 
concerning  to  sharing  of  information  with  select  investors  and  strengthen  the  disclosure 
framework.  
 
Composition of sub-group 
 
Details of the sub-group are tabulated below: 
 

S no. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

Name of the Member 
Mr. Keki Mistry (Chairman) 
Mr. Sunil Sanghai 
Ms. Ashu Suyash 
Mr. J N Gupta 
Mr. Sandip Bhagat 
Mr. Prithvi Haldea 
Mr. Ramesh Srinivasan 
Ms. Priya Subbaraman 
Ms. Barnali Mukherjee 
Mr. TVVPS Chakravarti T  
(Member Secretary) 

Name of the organisation 
HDFC Ltd. 
NovaDhruva Capital Pvt. Ltd. 
CRISIL Ltd. 
Stakeholders Empowerment Services 
S&R Associates 
Prime Database 
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Ltd. 
National Stock Exchange (NSE) 
CGM, SEBI 
GM, SEBI 

 
Scope of discussion 
 

 

Page 3 of 10 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

The  sub-group  deliberated  on  various  aspects  of  disclosures  pertaining  to  analyst  meets/ 
investor meets and conference calls. The sub-group also delved into the aspects of adequacy 
of regulatory requirements covering the analyst / investor meets and conference calls and to 
bridge the gaps of information asymmetry among various classes of investors.  
 
The  approach  adopted  by  the  sub-group  would  be  to  identify  key  aspects  pertaining  to 
disclosure  and  analysing  them  in  light  of  prevalent  practices  in  Indian  securities  market, 
before arriving at a conclusion. 
 
The aspects of disclosure that are being looked at by the sub-group are: 
 

  Best practices followed by Indian listed companies  
  Regulatory regime in developed countries and best practices 
  Regulatory  framework  governing  the  disclosure  of  investor  meets/  analyst  meets/ 

conference calls  

  Post-earnings conference calls/quarterly calls 
  Disclosure of one-to-one investor / analyst meets or conference calls conducted with 

select investors 

  Principle based versus Prescriptive disclosure requirements 

 
The aforementioned aspects have been covered in detail as a part of ‘Discussions of the sub-
group’. 
 
Concerns relating to disclosures 
 
It  is  understood  that  in  some  conference  calls,  questions  that  do  not  originate  from 
information  given  in  the  quarterly  results  or  investor  presentations  were  raised.  This  is 
evident of Information that is unpublished and price sensitive that is shared with few persons 
/ entities, thus raising concerns about the sanctity of  price sensitive information with  the 
listed companies. This also means that if such information can be disclosed to a few set of 
investors, the same can also be disclosed to all the investors. 
 
Apart from the disclosures of material information to certain individuals, inconsistencies have 
also been observed in the disclosures made by listed entities. For example, some companies 
only provide quarterly results but do not provide investor presentations and/or conference 
call transcripts. Further, at times there are incomplete explanations for a major deviation in 
the  financial  results  and  although  mandated,  some  companies  do  not  provide  detailed 
rationale for abnormal financial numbers such as substantial write-offs or extreme change in 
financial ratios. 
 
The sub-group deliberated on the issue at hand keeping in mind the concerns mentioned 
above.  
 
Discussions of the sub-group 
 
Best practices followed by Indian listed companies 
 

 

Page 4 of 10 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

The  sub-group  perused  the  best  practices  followed  by  top  Indian  listed  company  to 
understand the process of disclosures followed by them in relation to analyst/ investor meets 
and conference calls and minimising the instances of information asymmetry. The process 
followed by one such company is summarized below: 
 

  The Company hosts a notice of the Earnings Call on its corporate website around 10 

days before the actual Earnings Call 

  Details of the ‘Registration’ process is explained in the above notice 
  The Registration process is opened at least 3 days before the call (5 days if there is an 

 

 

 

intervening weekend) 
If the Earnings Call and declaration of financial results are scheduled in the evening, 
then  the  Registration  process  is  closed  at  12  noon  on  the  day  of  the  call  and  the 
Earnings Call presentation is uploaded on the Corporate Website 1 hour before the 
call (after sending to Stock Exchanges). Excel files of the results are also uploaded at 
the same time 
If the Earnings Call is in the morning (after declaration of results the previous evening) 
then the Registration process is closed at 5 pm on the day preceding the call and the 
Earnings Call presentation is uploaded on the Corporate Website after 7:30 pm on the 
day preceding the call (after sending to Stock Exchanges). Excel files of the results are 
also uploaded at the same time 
Individual emails are sent to registered participants giving dial in details and ‘security 
pins’ 
 

Similar practices are followed by other top companies wherein participation in the call is not 
restricted and the records of transcripts/ audio files so disclosed are kept as per their recorded 
policies. 
 
It  is  noticed  that  though  certain  companies  have  an  elaborate  mechanism  in  place  to 
effectively disclose information to shareholders, there are many listed companies which lack 
such  procedures  or  deal  with  the  disclosure  requirement  as  more  of  tick  of  the  box 
compliance.  
 
Regulatory regime in developed countries and best practices 
 
In order to compare  disclosure  experience of Indian listed companies with  those of  other 
jurisdictions,  an  analysis  of  requirements  of  other  jurisdictions  was  discussed  by  the  sub-
group. Details of requirements are summarised below: 
 

  USA:  Regulation  Fair  Disclosure  (referred  as  ‘Reg  FD’)  prohibits  companies  from 
selectively disclosing material non-public information (referred as ‘MNPI’) to analysts, 
institutional  investors,  and  others  without  concurrently  making  widespread  public 
disclosure.  The  processes  followed  while  disclosing  intentional  and  unintentional 
selective disclosure have been dealt with in Reg FD. 
 
General practice by US companies with listed securities includes public announcement 
of  quarterly  earnings  release  followed  by  widely  publicized  earnings  call  open  to 
everyone to attend, and earnings call transcript being made publicly available. 

 

Page 5 of 10 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
One-on-one or small group investor meetings held after the earnings call generally do 
not involve disclosure of any MNPI.  Accordingly, these meetings are not conducted 
under  any  confidentiality  procedures.  Moreover,  Investors  are  unlikely  to  want  to 
receive  any  MNPI  because  that  would  restrict  them  from  being  able  to  trade  in 
company’s securities. Investors are likely to insist upon immediate disclosure of any 
MNPI if that gets disclosed at these meetings. Hence, onus remains on the companies 
to not disclose any MNPI during these meetings, and promptly disclose if any MNPI is 
discussed. As a result, there is no practice of recording or transcribing the investor 
meetings. 
 

  EU/UK:  Market  Abuse  Regulation  (“MAR”)  in  these  jurisdictions  prevents  selective 
disclosure  of  MNPI.  MAR  requires  that  the  companies  must  not  disclose  MNPI 
selectively at the investor meetings.  If they do, an immediate announcement would 
be required but it would still be a breach of the regulations.   
 
Similar to the US, onus is on the company to promptly disclose any MNPI that may get 
disclosed in any investor meeting. Accordingly, there is no  practice of recording or 
transcribing these investor meetings.  
 
In a “deal context”, there is a “market sounding” regime under MAR when a company 
with listed securities is meeting with investors in preparation of any offering. Under 
the  regime,  meetings  are  recorded  by  the  banks  coordinating  the  market 
sounding/notes are taken. But no such practice outside of a “deal context”. 

 
It is observed that there is no practice of recording or transcribing the investor meetings in 
USA.  While  such  a  requirement  in  Indian  scenario  may  seem  far-fetched,  it  must  be 
understood  that  Regulation  FD  is  a  principle  based  regulation,  unlike  many  prescriptive 
requirements under SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015. Furthermore, the compliance status of 
US companies with Reg FD is significantly better owing to corporate governance practices 
being developed and implemented over several years. Hence, the sub-group felt that though 
the requirement of recording or transcribing investor meetings may not be feasible for every 
meeting,  such  a  requirement  should  be  mandated  for  post  earnings  conference  call  / 
quarterly  call  especially  considering  the  quality  of  disclosures  by  majority  of  Indian  listed 
companies. 
 
Regulatory framework governing the disclosure of investor meets/ analyst meets/ conference 
calls  
 
Based on the above and examining the existing regulatory provisions governing disclosures 
pertaining to investor meets/ analyst meets/ conference calls, it is clear that the objective of 
investor presentation/ conference calls/ investor meets was to present the true and fair state 
of affairs of businesses to shareholders/ potential investors. Furthermore, the objective of 
disclosing the presentation made in such meetings was to ensure that there is no information 
asymmetry  among  various  classes  of  investors.  However,  it  is  observed  that  existing 
regulations  are  not  followed  in  letter  and  spirit  by  majority  of  listed  companies  thereby 
causing information asymmetry. Some reports have information that does not have its source 

 

Page 6 of 10 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

from quarterly results or Investor presentation or conference calls and alludes to selective 
sharing of information to some individuals. Thus there exists a need to review the current 
regulatory prescriptions and further strengthen the disclosure regime. 
 
Post-earnings conference calls/quarterly calls 
 
Post earnings conference calls/ investor meets/ analyst meets after the release of quarterly 
financial  information  is  a  material  information  benefitting  the  investors  to  take  informed 
decisions. Any UPSI discussed as part of such meetings particularly or any other meetings 
should be immediately disclosed. The sub-group opined that audio/video recording should be 
made available on the website of the listed entity immediately after the call but not exceeding 
the next trading day. Written transcript of the calls should be made available on the website 
of the listed entity within five trading days after the earning call. Listed company shall make 
available audio/video recordings and the written transcripts on their websites for a period of 
at least five years. 
 
It  is  seen  that  in  USA,  the  conference  call  is  open  to  everyone  to  attend  while  in  Indian 
scenario, companies restrict such calls to  their investors only. The reason for this may be 
attributed to dilution of competitive position in case of presence of competitors in the calls, 
disgruntled  investors/  suppliers  disrupting  the  call  etc.  However,  such  a  condition  also 
excludes  genuine  institutional  investor  or  analyst  from  participating  in  the  meeting  and 
thereby hurting investment goals of the company. Hence, it would be prudent if companies 
make  the  provision  of  inclusion  of  certain  individuals  based  on  their  request  and  on 
verification of their credentials. 
 
The  sub-group  considered  as  to  whether  access  to  such  post  earning  calls/quarterly  calls 
should be open for everyone, like in US, or limited to existing shareholders and decided to 
leave it to the discretion of the listed company to determine. 
 
Disclosure of one-to-one investor / analyst meets or conference calls conducted with select 
investors 
 
Quality and process of disclosures should be looked at from the perspective of three principles 
of  continuous  disclosure,  i.e.  maximizing  ability  of  market  to  arrive  at  accurate  price  of 
securities;  ensuring  global  and  domestic  investors  have  confidence  in  Indian  markets  and 
Optimising  cost  of  compliance.  It  was  further  discussed  that  the  fundamental  reason  for 
analysts to seek meetings with the listed entity is to check their hypothesis that they have 
developed, based on controls and processes that have been built to comply with the public 
disclosures and complying with regulations relating to handling of private information. Hence, 
premature  public  disclosure  of  these  questions  may  lead  to  a  regime  of  ‘’mandatory 
dissemination of proprietary information’’ –and effectively allow trading on them by third 
parties taking positions before the investors can act (or even firm up their opinion) on their 
hypotheses.  This  will  thus  create  volatility  in  short  term  and  may  also  hamper  the  price 
discovery process in effect increasing acquisition / execution costs in the Indian market –and 
may act as a deterrent for large investors to put in the research effort, and / or to participate 
in the Indian market. Furthermore, due to increased emphasis on privacy, any institutional 
investor  may  not  be  agreeable  to  sharing  of  call  recording  in  the  public  domain.  Such  a 

 

Page 7 of 10 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

deviation from globally accepted practices and controls around prevention and leakage of 
intellectual  property  would  dissuade  institutional  investors  from  investing  in  Indian 
companies.  
 
It  is  also  observed  that  some  listed  companies  disclose  names  of  entities  they  interact  in 
compliance  with  SEBI  (LoDR)  Regulations,  2015  requiring  listed  companies  to  disclose 
schedule of analyst or institutional investor meet and presentations made therein to stock 
exchanges. Such disclosure would not only have privacy concerns but also allow third parties 
taking speculative positions. 
 
On the other side, disclosure of information pertaining to analyst/ investor meets/ conference 
calls may benefit minority investors as they may be benefitted from effective price discovery. 
However, the same may lead to information overload to retail investors. 
 
In spite of the above, there is merit in disclosure of information pertaining to analyst/ investor 
meets/ conference calls as the same would create a record for the regulatory authorities and 
stock exchanges for any future references. The possibility of check by regulatory authorities 
would ensure that the instances of false/ misleading disclosures in such calls are minimised. 
Further,  in  view  of  CoVID-19  pandemic,  there  has  been  greater  emphasis  on  correct  and 
prompt disclosures by the company as many retail investors have not been able to attend 
investor meets in person. 
 
The sub-group deliberated on the issue and decided that Listed companies to provide number 
of  such  meetings  as  part  of  corporate  governance  report  submitted  by  them  to  stock 
exchanges on a quarterly basis along with affirmation that no UPSI was shared by any official 
of  the  company  in  such  meetings.  However,  the  names  of  entities  participating  in  such 
meetings should not be disclosed. Further, if the listed entity discloses UPSI in such Select 
Meets (whether intentionally or not), it should comply with requirements of Reg 30 of SEBI 
(LoDR) Regulations, 2015 which requires disclosure of material information within twenty-
four hours from the occurrence of event or information.  
 
Further, the Company shall maintain a record of all such one-to-one meetings, as the same 
could be required for future reference. The data should be preserved for a period of atleast 
eight years in line with ‘Preservation of documents’ as required under Regulation 9 of SEBI 
(LoDR) Regulations, 2015. Details to be maintained include the name/names of the investor 
who were met, the name of the fund that he/ she represents, name of the brokerage firm 
which fixed the meeting (if any), the location, date and time of the meeting and a reference 
to the presentation made. 

 

Principle based versus Prescriptive disclosure requirements 
 
Principles  form  the  basis  of  any  legal  document  and  have  wide  interpretation  by  law. 
Principles of any legal document not only act as a guiding light to its enforcement, but also 
embody the purpose of the legal document. SEBI (LoDR) Regulations, 2015 have a dedicated 
chapter on ‘Principles governing disclosures and obligations of listed entity’ which requires 
listed entities to disclose adequate and timely information and follow the obligations in letter 
and  spirit  taking  into  consideration  the  interest  of  all  stakeholders.  Further,  prescriptive 

 

Page 8 of 10 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

regime  of  disclosures  mandating  companies  to  adhere  to  specific  corporate  governance 
practices may also be perceived as micromanagement and against the spirit of ease of doing 
business. 
 
However, it is seen that many listed entities implement the said principles in letter and not in 
spirit.  The  cavalier  attitude  of  many  listed  companies  towards  safeguarding  the  minority 
shareholder  interests,  tilts  the  balance  towards  prescriptive  rule  making.  Prescriptive 
regulatory regime is preferred in circumstances where the disclosure practices followed by 
listed companies are not strong. Further, hardcoding of principle may be advantageous in 
case of initiating effective enforcement actions against non-compliant entities.  
 
SEBI (LoDR) has a balance of principle and specific rules concerning to disclosures. Since many 
of the listed entities are not following the spirit of principles concerning to investor meets/ 
analyst meets/ conference calls, sub-group felt that specific requirements strengthening the 
disclosures concerning to the investor meets would appropriately complement the principles 
of the disclosures and decided to recommend specific requirements. 
 
Summary of the recommendations 
 
In view of the aforementioned discussion, following are the recommendations to be included 
along  with  the  current  regulatory  requirements  specified  under  SEBI  (LoDR)  Regulations, 
2015: 

 

1.  Audio/video recordings shall be made available on the website of the listed entity and 
respective  stock  exchanges 
immediately  after  the  post-earnings  conference 
call/quarterly call, before the next trading day or within twenty-four hours from the 
occurrence  of  event  or  information,  as  required  under  the  Reg  30  of  SEBI  (LoDR) 
Regulations, 2015, whichever is earlier.  
 

2.  Written transcripts of such calls should be made available on the website of the listed 
entity and respective stock exchanges within five working days after the earning call.  
 

3.  Listed  company  shall  make  available  audio/video  recordings  and  the  written 
transcripts on their websites for a period of atleast eight years in addition to the details 
disseminated on respective stock exchanges. 
 

4.  Listed companies can decide as to whether conference calls are open to everyone to 

attend or limit such calls to their existing shareholders. 
 

5.  Listed companies to provide number of one-to-one meetings with select investors as 
part  of  corporate  governance  report  submitted  by  them  to  stock  exchanges  on  a 
quarterly basis along with affirmation that no UPSI was shared by any official of the 
company in such meetings. Company shall maintain a record of all such one-to-one 
meetings, as  the same could  be  required for future  reference. The data should  be 
preserved for a period of atleast eight years. 

 

 

Page 9 of 10 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

The  sub-group  recommends  that  the  aforementioned  requirements  should  be  made 
applicable  in a  phased  manner.  The  requirements shall  be  initially  recommendatory for  a 
period of one year and mandatory thereafter for all listed companies.  
 
 

 

Page 10 of 10 

