SECURITIES CONTRACTS (REGULATION) (STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING 

CORPORATIONS) REGULATIONS, 2012 

 

Table of Contents 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

1. 
2. 

Short title and commencement. 
Definitions. 
 

CHAPTER II 

RECOGNITION OF STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING CORPORATIONS  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13.  Withdrawal of recognition. 

Obligation to seek recognition. 
Application for recognition. 
Fee for application. 
Documents and particulars for application.  
Consideration of grant of recognition. 
Power to make inquiries and call for information.  
Grant of recognition.  
Period of recognition. 
Regulatory fee. 
Renewal of recognition. 

 

CHAPTER III 

NETWORTH OF STOCK EXCHANGE AND CLEARING CORPORATION 

14. 

Networth requirements. 
 

CHAPTER IV 

Definitions. 

OWNERSHIP OF STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING CORPORATIONS 
15. 
16.  General conditions.  
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

Shareholding in a recognised stock exchange. 
Shareholding in a recognised clearing corporation. 
Eligibility for acquiring or holding shares. 
Fit and proper criteria. 
Disclosure of shareholding. 
Record keeping. 

 

CHAPTER V 

Composition of the governing board.  
Conditions of appointment of directors. 
Appointment of managing director.  
Code of Conduct for directors and key management personnel. 
Compensation and tenure of key management personnel.  
Segregation of regulatory departments. 

GOVERNANCE OF STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING CORPORATIONS  
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29.  Oversight committees. 
30. 
Advisory committee.  

 

1 

31. 
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 

Risk management committee of a clearing corporation. 
Appointment of compliance officer. 
Transfer of profits.  
Transfer of penalties.  
Disclosure and corporate governance norms.  
 

CHAPTER VI 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 

Clearing and settlement of trades. 
Agreement between stock exchange and clearing corporation. 
Admission of securities for clearing and settlement.   
Fund to guarantee settlement of trades. 
Utilization of profits and investments.  
Equal, fair and transparent access. 

36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42.  Maintenance of books of accounts and records. 
43. 
44. 
44A.     Settlement and netting. 
44B.     Right of Clearing Corporation. 

Submission of annual financial statements and returns.  
Bye-laws, rules, etc. of stock exchanges and clearing corporation. 

 

 

45. 
46. 

47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 

CHAPTER VII 

LISTING OF SECURITIES 

Listing. 
Dematerialization. 
 

CHAPTER VIII 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Power to call for information. 
Power of inspection.  
Directions by the Board. 
Power to remove difficulties. 
Power to  specify procedures, etc. and issue clarifications. 
Repeal and savings.  
 

FORM A 
FORM B 

SCHEDULE - I 

 

SCHEDULE – II 

PART - A: Code of conduct for the directors on the governing board 
PART - B: Code of Ethics for directors and key management personnel of stock 

exchanges or clearing corporations 

PART – C: Measures to ensure segregation of regulatory departments 

 

 

 

 

 

2 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, JUNE  20, 2012 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 20th June, 2012 

SECURITIES CONTRACTS (REGULATION) (STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING 

CORPORATIONS) REGULATIONS, 2012 

 

No. LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/07/13546-In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 4, 8A 
and 31 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, read with sections 11 and 30 of the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India  hereby  makes  the  following  regulations  to  regulate  recognition,  ownership  and 
governance  in  stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  and  matters  connected  therewith 
or incidental thereto, namely:— 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and commencement. 
1.  (1)  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock 
Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012.  
 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Gazette of India.     
 
Definitions. 
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed 
accordingly,–           
 
 

(a) "Act" means the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);  

(b) "associate" in relation to a person shall include another person:  

(i)  who,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  himself,  or  in  combination  with  other 

persons, exercises control over the first person; 

(ii)  who  holds  [more  than]1fifteen  per  cent.2[***]  sharesin  the  paid  up 

equity capital of the first person; 

                                                 
1Inserted  by  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016  w.e.f. 11.01.2016. 

 

3 

(iii)  3[***]  
(iv)  who is a holding company or a subsidiary company of the first person 

4[***];  

(v)  who is a relative of the first person; 
(vi)  who  is  a  member  of  a  Hindu  Undivided  Family  wherein  the  first 

person is also a member; 

5[(vii) such other cases where the Board is of the view that a person shall be 
considered as an associate based on the facts and factors including the 
extent of control, independence, conflict of interest;] 

 

(c)  "Board"  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  established  under  the 
provisions  of  section  3  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992 
(15 of 1992); 

 
(d) "clearing corporation" means an entity that is established to undertake the activity of 
clearing and settlement of trades in securities or other instruments or products that are 
dealt with or traded on a recognized stock exchange and includes a clearing house; 

 
6[(e)  ―clearing  member‖  shall  mean  a  clearing  member  as  defined  in  clause  (ae)  of  sub-
regulation (1) of Regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock 
Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992;] 
 

(f)  "company" shall mean a company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 

(1 of 1956); 

 
7[(fa)  ―commodity  derivatives  exchange‖  means  a  recognized  stock  exchange  which 
assists,  regulates  or  controls  the  business  of  buying,  selling  or  dealing  only  in 
commodity derivatives.] 

 

(g) "control"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  under  clause  (e)  of  sub-
regulation  (1)  of  regulation  2  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011  or  any 
modification thereof; 

                                                                                                                                                        
2 Words ―or more‖ omitted by Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016  w.e.f. 11.01.2016. 
3  Sub  clause  (iii)  omitted  by  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016  w.e.f. 11.01.2016. 
4Words  ―or  a  company  under  the  same  management  as  of  the  first  person‖  omitted  by  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016  w.e.f. 11.01.2016. 
5  Inserted  by  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016  w.e.f. 11.01.2016. 
6Substituted  by  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015  w.e.f. 28.09.2015. Prior to its substitution clause (e) read as under: 
"(e)  clearing  member"  means  a  person  having  clearing  and  settlement  rights  in  any  recognised  clearing 
corporation: 
 
Providedthat any person who, on the date of commencement of these regulations, is acting as clearing 
member of a clearing house or a clearing corporation shall be deemed to be clearing member, till his request 
for  registration,  if  any,  is  refused  by  the  Board  or  till  cessation  of  his  membership  with  clearing  corporation, 
whichever is earlier;" 
7Inserted  by  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015  w.e.f. 28.09.2015. 

 

4 

 
(h) "governing board" means the board of directors of a recognised stock exchange or a 

recognised clearing corporation;  
 

(i)  "key management personnel" means a person serving as head of any department or in 
such  senior  executive  position  that  stands  higher  in  hierarchy  to  the  head(s)  of 
department(s) in the recognisedstock exchange or the recognisedclearing corporation 
or in any other position as declared so by such stock exchange or clearing corporation; 
 

8[(ia)  ―national  commodity  derivatives  exchange‖  means  a  commodity  derivatives 
exchange that is demutualized, has an electronic trading platform and is permitted to 
assist, regulate or control the business of buying, selling or dealing in derivatives on 
all commodities as notified by the Central Government from time to time.] 
 

(j)  9["netting"  means  the  determination  by  Clearing  Corporation  of  net  payment  or 
delivery obligations of the clearing members of a recognised clearing corporation by 
setting off or adjustment of the inter se obligations or claims arising out of buying and 
selling of securities including the claims and obligations arising out of the termination 
by the Clearing Corporation or Stock Exchange, in such circumstances as the Clearing 
Corporation may specify in bye-laws, of the transactions admitted for settlement at a 
future date, so that only a net claim be demanded, or a net obligation be owed."] 
 

(k) "novation"  means  the  act  of  a  clearing  corporation  interposing  itself  between  both 

parties of every trade, being the legal counterparty to both;  
 

(l)  "persons acting in concert" in the context of acquisition or holding of shares or voting 
rights  or  control  shall  mutatis  mutandis  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in 
clause (q) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 or any 
modification thereof; 

(m) "public"  includes  any  member  or  section  of  the  public  but  does  not  include  any 

trading member or clearing member or their associates and agents: 
 
 
Provided  that  a  public  sector  bank,  public  financial  institution,  an  insurance 
company,  mutual  fund  and  alternative  investment  fund  in  public  sector,  that  has 
associate(s)  as  trading  members  or  clearing  members,  shall  be  deemed  as  public  for 
the purposes of these regulations;    
 

(n) "public interest director" means an independent director, representing the interests of 
investors  in  securities  market  and  who  is  not  having  any  association,    directly  or 
indirectly, which in the opinion of the Board, is in conflict with his role; 

 

                                                 
8Inserted  by  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015  w.e.f. 28.09.2015. 
9Substituted  by  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  Regulations, 
2013  w.e.f. 02.09.2013. Prior to its substitution clause (j) read as under:  
"(j) "netting" means the determination of net payment or delivery obligations among the  clearing members of a 
recognised clearing corporation by setting off or adjustment of  the inter se obligations or claims arising out of 
buying  and  selling  of  securities,    discontinuation  of  business,  dissolution,  winding-up  or  insolvency  or  such 
other  circumstances as may be specified in the bye-laws of the clearing corporation;" 

 

5 

 

(o) "recognised  clearing  corporation"  means  a  clearing  corporation  which  is  recognised 

by the Board under section 4 read with section 8A of the Act; 

 
10[(oa)  ―regional  commodity  derivatives  exchange‖  means  a  commodity  derivatives 

exchange which is not a national commodity derivatives exchange.] 

 
 
(p) "regulatory  department"  means  a  department  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  or  a 
recognised clearing corporation which is entrusted with regulatory powers and duties 
and includes such department as may be specified by the Board; 
 

(q) "rules" means the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957; 

 

(r)  "shareholder  director"  means  a  director  who  represents  the  interest  of  shareholders,  
and  elected  or  nominated  by  such  shareholders  who  are  not  trading  members  or 
clearing members, as the case may be, or their associates and agents; 
 

(s)  "trading  member"  means  a  person  having  trading  rights  in  any  recognised  stock 

exchange and includes a stock broker. 

 
(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act, 
the  Companies  Act,  1956,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  the 
Depositories  Act,  1996  or  any  rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder  shall  have  the  same 
meanings respectively assigned to them in those Acts, rules or regulations made thereunder or 
any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be.   
 

 
 
 

CHAPTER II 

RECOGNITION OF STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING CORPORATIONS  

 
Obligation to seek recognition. 
3.  No  person  shall  conduct,  organise  or  assist  in  organising  any  stock  exchange  or  clearing 
corporation  unless  he  has  obtained  recognition  from  the  Board  in  accordance  with  the  Act, 
rules and these regulations: 
 
 
Provided that a stock exchange, which has been recognised under the Act as on the date 
of commencement of these regulations, shall be deemed to have been recognised under these 
regulations  and  all  the  provisions  of  these  regulations  as  they  apply  to  a  recognised  stock 
exchange shall also apply to such stock exchange: 
 
Provided further that an existing clearing house of a recognised stock exchange or any 
 
person  who  clears  and  settles  trades  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange,  as  on  the  date  of  the 
commencement of these regulations, may continue to do so for a period of three months from 

                                                 
10Inserted  by  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015  w.e.f. 28.09.2015. 

 

6 

the  date  of  commencement  of  these  regulations  or,  if  he  has  made  an  application  under 
regulation 4 for recognition, till disposal of such application. 
 
Application for recognition. 
4.  Subject  to  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  Act,  rules  and  these  regulations,  an 
application for recognition as a stock exchange shall be submitted to the Board in Form A as 
prescribed  under  rule  3  of  the  rules  and  an  application  for  recognition  as  a  clearing 
corporation  shall  be  submitted  to  Board  in  Form  A  as  specified  in  Schedule  –  I  of  these 
regulations.   
 
 
 
Fee for application. 
5. An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange shall pay application fee in terms of 
rule 4 of the rules, and an applicant  seeking recognition  as a clearing corporation shall also 
pay application fee as payable by a stock exchange. 
 
Documents and particulars for application.  
6. (1) An application for recognition as a stock exchange or a clearing corporation, as the case 
may  be,  shall  be  accompanied  by  copies  of  memorandum  of  association,  articles  of 
association, bye-laws and other documents as provided in sections 3 and 4 of the Act, rule 5 
of the rules and these regulations. 
 
(2)  In  addition  to  the  documents  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  application  for 
recognition as a clearing corporation shall be accompanied by the agreement(s) entered into 
by the applicant with the recognised stock exchange(s) and depositories. 

 

Consideration of grant of recognition. 
7. (1) The application under regulation 4 shall be governed by the provisions of the Act, rules 
and these regulations. 
 
(2)An applicant seeking recognition as a stock exchange or clearing corporation shall comply 
with the following conditions, namely:— 

(a)  the applicant is a company limited by shares; 
(b) the applicant is demutualised;    
(c)  the applicant, its directors and its shareholders who hold or intend to hold shares, are 

fit and proper persons as described in regulation 20; 

(d) the  applicant  satisfies  requirements  relating  to  ownership  and  governance  structure 

specified in these regulations; 

(e)  the applicant satisfies networth requirements specified in these regulations; 
(f)  the  applicant  satisfies  requisite  capability  including  its  financial  capacity,  functional 

expertise and infrastructure.   
 

Explanation.—For  the  purposes  of  this  sub-regulation,  the  term  "demutualised"  means  that 
the  ownership  and  management  of  the  applicant  is  segregated  from  the  trading  rights  or 
clearing rights, as the case may be, in terms of these regulations.   
 
(3) An applicant  seeking recognition  as a stock  exchange shall, in  addition to  conditions  as 
specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2), comply with the following conditions, namely:— 

(a)  the applicant has the necessary infrastructure for orderly execution of trades;  

 

7 

(b) the applicant has an online screen-based trading system;  
(c)  the  applicant  has  an  online  surveillance  capability  which  monitors  positions,  prices 

and volumes in real time so as to ensure market integrity; 

(d) the applicant  has adequate infrastructure to  list  securities for trading on its platform, 

wherever applicable; 

(e)  the  applicant  has  necessary  capability  to  have  a  nationwide  network  of  trading 

members and has adequate facility to admit and regulate its members;  

(f)  the  applicant  has  made  necessary  arrangements  to  establish  connectivity  with  its 

trading members and clearing corporation; 

(g) the applicant has adequate Investor Protection Fund and Investor Services Fund;  
(h) the  applicant  has  adequate  investor  grievances  redressal  mechanism  and  arbitration 

mechanism to resolve disputes arising out of trades and its settlement;  

(i)  the  applicant  has  the  facility  to  disseminate  information  about  trades,  quantities  and 
quotes in real time to at least two information vending networks which are accessible 
to investors in the country; 

(j)  the applicant has adequate systems‘ capacity supported by a business continuity plan 

including a disaster recovery site; 

(k) the  applicant  has  in  its  employment,  sufficient  number  of  persons  having  adequate 

professional and other relevant experience; 

(l)  the business feasibility plan has been appraised by a reputed agency having expertise 

in securities market; and 

(m) any other conditions as may be specified by the Board. 

 

 (4) An applicant seeking recognition as a clearing corporation shall, in addition to conditions 
as specified in sub-regulations (1) and (2), comply with the following conditions, namely:— 
(a)  the applicant has necessary infrastructure to ensure timely clearing and settlement of 

trades; 

(b) the applicant has adequate risk management mechanism; 
(c)  the applicant has a settlement procedure including netting, novation and guarantee for 
settlement of  trades in place, which is in accordance with the manner specified by the 
Board; 

(d) the applicant has the capacity to establish a fund to guarantee settlement of trades; 
(e)  the  applicant  has  necessary  capability  to  have  a  wide  network  of  clearing  members 

and has adequate facility to admit and regulate its members;  

(f)  the applicant has established connectivity with the depositories, clearing banks, stock 

exchange and clearing members; 

(g) the applicant has adequate systems‘ capacity for on-line/real time risk management of 
trades  cleared  and  settled  and  is  supported  by  a  suitable  business  continuity  plan 
including a disaster recovery site; 

(h) the  applicant  has  in  its  employment,  sufficient  number  of  persons  having  adequate 

professional  and other relevant experience to the satisfaction of the Board; 

(i)  the  applicant  has  the  necessary  arrangements  in  place  for  resolving  disputes  and 

redressal of grievances arising out of clearing and settlement of trades;   

(j)  the  applicant  has  an  agreement  with  a  depository  and  with  a  recognised  stock 

exchange in respect of clearing and settlement of the trades;  

(k) the business feasibility plan has been appraised by a reputed agency having expertise 

in securities market; and 

(l)  any other conditions as may be specified by the Board. 

 

 

8 

Provided that the  Board  may, upon sufficient  cause shown by the applicant,  extend the 

(5) The Board may, on being satisfied with the capability of the applicant to comply with the 
conditions laid down in this regulation, grant an in-principle approval to the applicant which 
shall be valid for a period of one year:  
 
 
validity of in-principle approval for a further period not exceeding six months.  
 
Power to make inquiries and call for information.  
8. The Board may, before granting recognition  to  a stock exchange or clearing corporation, 
make inquiries and require such further information or document to  be furnished, as it may 
deem necessary. 
 
Grant of recognition.  
9.  (1)  The  Board  may,  after  considering  the  application  under  regulation  4  and  on  being 
satisfied that the applicant has complied with the conditions laid down in regulation 7 and is 
eligible  to  act  as  a  recognised  stock  exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing  corporation,  as  the 
case may be, grant recognition to the applicant in terms of section 4 of the Act, in the interest 
of the securities market.  
 
(2) The recognition granted to a stock exchange under sub-regulation (1) shall be in Form B 
of the rules. 
 
(3)  The  recognition  granted  to  a  clearing  corporation  shall  be  in  Form  B  of  Schedule-I  of 
these regulations.  
 
(4) The recognisedstock exchange and the recognisedclearing corporation shall comply with 
such other conditions, including those with regard to the nature of securities to be dealt with, 
as may be imposed by the Board from time to time. 
 
Period of recognition. 
10.  (1)  The  period  of  recognition  granted  to  a  stock  exchange  shall  be  as  per  rule  6  of  the 
rules. 
 
(2)  The  recognition  granted  to  a  clearing  corporation,  unless  granted  on  a  permanent  basis, 
shall be for such period not less than one year as may be specified in the recognition. 
 
Regulatory fee. 
11.  (1)  Every  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  pay  the  regulatory  fee  in  terms  of  Securities 
and Exchange Board of India(Regulatory Fee on Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006. 
 
(2)  Every  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  pay  the  regulatory  fee  as  the  Board  may 
specify. 
 
 
Renewal of recognition. 
12. (1) In addition to rule 7 of the rules, the provisions of these regulations, as they apply for 
grant  of  recognition  to  a  stock  exchange,  shall  also  apply  in  relation  to  an  application  for 
renewal of recognition of a recognised stock exchange. 
 

 

9 

(2)  A  recognised  clearing  corporation  desirous  of  renewal  of    recognition  shall  make  an 
application to the Board in Form A of Schedule–I of these regulations and such application 
shall reach the Board atleast three months prior to the date of expiry of the recognition. 
 
(3)  The  provisions  of  these  regulations,  as  they  apply  for  grant  of  recognition  to  a  clearing 
corporation,  shall  also  apply  in  relation  to  an  application  for  renewal  of  recognition  of  a 
recognised clearing corporation.  
 
(4) An applicant seeking renewal of recognition as a stock exchange shall pay fee in terms of 
rule 7 of the rules, and an applicant seeking renewal of recognition as a clearing corporation 
shall also pay fee as payable by a stock exchange.   
 
(5)The recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall comply with the 
applicable conditions specified in sub-regulation (3) and sub-regulation (4) of regulation 7, as 
the case may be, on a continuous basis. 
 
Withdrawal of recognition. 
13. The recognition granted to a stock exchange or a clearing corporation may be withdrawn 
in the manner provided under section 5 of the Act.    

 
 

CHAPTER III 

NETWORTH OF STOCK EXCHANGE AND CLEARING CORPORATION 

Provided that sub-regulation (2) shall not apply to an applicant which clears and settles 

 
Networth requirements. 
14.  (1)  Every  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  have  a  minimum  networth  of  one  hundred 
crore rupees at all times: 
 
 
Providedthat  a  recognised  stock  exchange  having  a  lesser  networth  as  on  the  date  of 
commencement of these regulations shall achieve a minimum networth of one hundred crore 
rupees within a period of three years from the date of commencement of these regulations.  
 
(2)  Every  applicant  seeking  recognition  as  a  clearing  corporation  under  regulation  4  shall 
have a minimum networth of one hundred crore rupees:  
 
 
trades of a recognised stock exchange on the date of commencement of these regulations.  
 
(3)  Every  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  achieve  a  minimum  networth  of  three 
hundred  crore  rupees  within  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  recognition  granted 
under these regulations:  
 
 
corporation, extend the time specified above in the interest of the securities market.  
 
(4)  A  recognised  stock  exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  not  distribute 
profits  in  any  manner  to  its  shareholders  until  the  networth  specified  under  sub-regulations 
(1) and (3), as the case may be, is achieved.  
 

Providedthat  the  Board  may,  upon  an  application  made  by  the  recognised  clearing 

 

10 

(5)  Every  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  submit  an 
audited networth certificate from the statutory auditor on a yearly basis by the thirtieth day of 
September of every year for the preceding financial year.  
 
Explanation  I.—For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  ‗networth  of  a  stock  exchange‘  means 
the  aggregate  value  of  paid  up  equity  share  capital  plus  free  reserves  (excluding  statutory 
funds,  benefit  funds  and  reserves  created  out  of  revaluation)  reduced  by  the  investments  in 
businesses, whether  related or unrelated, aggregate value of accumulated losses and deferred 
expenditure not written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written off. 

 

Explanation  II.—For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  ‗networth  of  a  clearing  corporation‘ 
means  the  aggregate  value  of  its  liquid  assets  calculated  in  the  manner  as  specified  by  the 
Board from time to time.  
 
 

OWNERSHIP OF STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING CORPORATIONS 

CHAPTER IV 

 
Definitions. 
15. For the purposes of this Chapter: 

(a)  "banking  company"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in  clause  (c)  of 

section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949); 

(b)  "insurance  company"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in  sub-section 

(8) of section 2 of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938); 

(c)  "person resident in India" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (v) 

of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999); 

(d)  "person  resident  outside  India"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in 
clause  (w)  of  section  2  of  the  Foreign  Exchange  Management  Act,  1999  (42  of 
1999). 

 

General conditions.  
16.  (1)  Save  as  otherwise  provided  in  these  regulations,the  shareholding  or  voting  rights  of 
any  person  in  a  recognised  stock  exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  not 
exceed the limits specified in this Chapter at any point of time. 
 
(2)The  shareholding  as  specified  in  this  Chapter  shall  include  any  instrument  owned  or 
controlled, directly or indirectly, that provides for entitlement to equity or rights over equity 
at any future date:  
 

Provided that any equity or rights over equity, arising from such instruments in excess of 
limit  of  shareholding  specified  in  this  Chapter  on  the  date  of  commencement  of  these 
regulations,shall be  reduced to  the specified limit within a period  as may  be decided by the 
Board, which may extend upto three years from the date of such commencement. 

 

 
 
Shareholding in a recognised stock exchange. 
17.  (1)  Atleast  fifty  one  per  cent.  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  of  a  recognised  stock 
exchange shall be held by public. 
 

 

11 

(2) No person resident in India shall at any time, directly or indirectly, either individually or 
together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent. of the paid 
up equity share capital in a recognised stock exchange: 
 
 

Provided that,— 

(i)  a stock exchange; 
(ii) a depository;  
(iii)  a banking company; 
(iv)  an insurance company; and  
(v) a public financial institution, 

may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons 
acting  in  concert,  upto  fifteen  per  cent.  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  of  a  recognised 
stock exchange. 
 
(3)  No  person  resident  outside  India,  directly  or  indirectly,  either  individually  or  together 
with persons acting in concert, shall acquire or hold more than five per cent. of the paid up 
equity share capital in a recognised stock exchange 11[:] 
 
12[Provided that,- 

(i) a foreign stock exchange;  
(ii) a foreign depository;  
(iii) a foreign banking company;  
(iv) an foreign insurance company; and  
(v) a foreign commodity derivatives exchange,  

 
may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons 
acting  in  concert,  upto  fifteen  per  cent.  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  of  a  recognised 
stock exchange.  
 
Explanation.—For  the  purposes  of  this  proviso,  the  persons  referred  to  in  clauses  (i)  to  (v) 
shall mean persons recognised/ incorporated outside India.] 
 
(4)  13[Subject to the limits as otherwise prescribed by the Central Government from time to 
time,]14[the]  combined  holding  of  all  persons  resident  outside  India  in  the  paid  up  equity 
share capital of a recognised stock exchange shall not exceed, at any time, forty-nine per cent. 
of its total paid up equity share capital15[:] 
16[***] 

                                                 
11Substituted  for  ―.‖  by  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 12-1-2017. 
12Inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2017, w.e.f. 12-1-2017. 
13Inserted  by  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 7-3-2016. 
14Substituted for ―The‖, ibid. 
15Substituted for ―, subject to the following‖, ibid. 
16 Omitted, ibid. Prior to omission, sub- clauses (a) to (c) read as under: 

―(a) the combined holding of such persons acquired through the foreign direct investment route shall not exceed twenty 
six per cent. of the total paid up equity share capital, at any time;  
(b)    the  combined  holding  of  foreign  institutional  investors  shall  not  exceed  twenty  three  per  cent.  of  the  total  paid  up 
equity share capital, at any time; 
(c)  no foreign institutional investor shall acquire shares of a recognised stock exchange otherwise than through secondary 
market.‖ 

 

12 

 

17[***] 

 

(5)  No  clearing  corporation  shall  hold  any  right,  stake  or  interest,  of  whatsoever  nature,  in 
any recognised stock exchange. 
 
Shareholding in a recognised clearing corporation. 
18.(1) Atleast fifty one per cent. of the paid up equity share capital of a recognised clearing 
corporation shall be held by one or more recognised stock exchange(s): 
 
 
Provided  that  no  recognised  stock  exchange  shall,  directly  or  indirectly,  either 
individually or together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than fifteen per 
cent. of the paid up equity share capital in more than one recognised clearing corporation. 
 
(2)  No  person  resident  in  India,  except  a  recognised  stock  exchange  as  permitted  in  sub-
regulation  (1),  shall  at  any  time,  directly  or  indirectly,  either  individually  or  together  with 
persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent. of the paid up equity share 
capital in a recognised clearing corporation: 
 

Provided that,— 

(i)  a depository;  
(ii)  a banking company; 
(iii) an insurance company; and  
(iv) a public financial institution, 

may acquire or hold, either directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons 
acting  in  concert,  upto  fifteen  per  cent.  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  of  a  recognised 
clearing corporation. 
 
(3)  No  person  resident  outside  India  shall,  directly  or  indirectly,  either  individually  or 
together with persons acting in concert, acquire or hold more than five per cent. of the paid 
up equity share capital in a recognised clearing corporation. 
 
(4)  18[Subject to the limits as otherwise prescribed by the Central Government from time to 

                                                 
17Omitted  by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017, w.e.f. 12-1-2017. Prior to omiission, proviso and Explanation to sub-regulation (4) read as udner: 
―17[Provided that no foreign portfolio investor shall acquire shares of a recognised stock exchange otherwise 
than through the secondary market.] 
Explanation.—For  the  purposes  of  17[sub-regulation  (4)],  the  acquisition  of  shares  in  a  recognised  stock 
exchange through secondary market shall be construed as follows:— 

I. 

If the recognised stock exchange is not listed, a foreign 17[portfolio] investor may acquire its shares 
through transactions outside of a recognised stock exchange provided it is not an initial allotment 
of shares; 

If the recognised stock exchange is listed, the transactions by a foreign 17[portfolio] investor shall be done 
through the recognised stock exchange where such shares are listed.‖ 
 
Also, the proviso ―[Provided that no foreign portfolio investor shall acquire shares of a recognised stock exchange 
otherwise than through the secondary market.]‖ was inserted by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock 
Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 7-3-2016. 
 
The words ―sub-regulation (4)‖ was substituted for ―clause (c)‖, and the word ―portfolio‖ was substituted for the word 
―institutional‖ by the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) (Second Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 7-3-2016. 
 

 

13 

time,]19[the]combined holding of all persons resident outside India in the paid up equity share 
capital of a recognised clearing corporation shall not exceed, at any time, forty-nine per cent. 
of its total paid up equity share capital20[.] 
21[***] 
 

22[***] 

 

(5)  Any  person  holding  equity  shares  in  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  in  excess  of  the 
limits  specified  in  this  regulation  on  the  date  of  commencement  of  these  regulations  shall 
comply with the conditions specified in this regulation within a period of three years from the 
date of such commencement. 
 
Eligibility for acquiring or holding shares. 
19.  (1)No  person  shall,directly  or  indirectly,  acquire  or  hold  equity  shares  of  a  recognised 
stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation unless he is a fit and proper person. 
 
(2) Any person who, directly or indirectly, either individually or together with persons acting 
in concert, acquire equity shares such that his shareholding exceeds two per cent. of the paid 
up  equity  share  capital  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation 
shall seek approval of the Board within fifteen days of the acquisition. 
 
(3)A person eligible to  acquire or hold  more than five per cent.  of the paid  up equity share 
capital under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 17 and sub-regulation (2) of regulation 18 may 
acquire  or  holdmore  than  five  per  cent.  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  of  a  recognised 
stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation only if  he has obtained  prior approval 
of the Board.  
 
(4)  Any  person  holding  more  than  two  per  cent.  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  of  the 
recognised stock exchange or the clearing corporation on the date of commencement of these 
regulations, shall ensure compliance with this regulation within a period of ninety days from 
the date of such commencement.  
 
(5) If approval under sub-regulation (2) or (4) is not granted by the Board to any person, such 
person shall forthwith divest his excess shareholding. 
 
(6)  Any  person  holding  more  than  two  per  cent.  of  the  paid  up  equity  share  capital  in  a 
recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be, shall file 

                                                                                                                                                        
18 Inserted,  by  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 7-3-2016. 
19Substituted for ―The‖, ibid. 
20Substituted  for  ―:‖  by  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2017 w.e.f. 15-2-2017. 
21  Omitted  by  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 7-3-2016. Prior to omission, sub- clauses (a) to (c) read as under: 

―(a) the combined holding of such persons acquired through the foreign direct investment route shall not exceed twenty 
six per cent. of the total paid up equity share capital, at any time; 
(b)  the  combined  holding  of  foreign  institutional  investors  shall  not  exceed  twenty  three  per  cent.  of  the  total  paid  up 
equity share capital, at any time; 
(c)  no  foreign  institutional  investor  shall  acquire  shares  of  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  otherwise  than  through 
secondary market.‖ 

22Omitted  by  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Second  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2017 w.e.f. 15-2-2017. Prior to the same, the proviso read as ―Provided that no foreign portfolio investor shall 
acquire shares of a recognised clearing corporation otherwise than through the secondary market.‖ 

 

14 

a declaration within fifteen days from the end of every financial year to the recognised stock 
exchange or recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be, that he complies with the fit 
and proper criteria provided in these regulations. 
 
 
Fit and proper criteria. 
20. (1) For the purposes of these regulations, a person shall be deemed to be a fit and proper 
person if— 

(a) such person has a general reputation and record of fairness and integrity, including but 
not limited to— 

(i)  financial integrity; 
(ii)  good reputation and character; and 
(iii) honesty;  

  (b) such person has not incurred any of the following disqualifications— 

(i) 

the  person,  or  any  of  its  whole  time  directors  or  managing  partners,  has  been 
convicted  by  a  court  for  any  offence  involving  moral  turpitude  or  any  economic 
offence or any offence against the securities laws; 

(ii)  an order for winding up has been passed against the person; 
(iii) the  person,  or  any  of  its  whole  time  directors  or  managing  partners,  has  been 

declared insolvent and has not been discharged; 

(iv) an  order,  restraining,  prohibiting  or  debarring  the  person,  or  any  of  its  whole  time 
directors  or  managing  partners,  from  dealing  in  securities  or  from  accessing  the 
securities  market,  has  been  passed  by  the  Board  or  any  other  regulatory  authority, 
and a period of three years from the date of the expiry of the period specified in the 
order has not elapsed; 

(v)  any  other  order  against  the  person,  or  any  of  its  whole  time  directors  or  managing 
partners, which has a bearing on the securities market, has been passed by the Board 
or  any  other  regulatory  authority,  and  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  the 
order has not elapsed; 

(vi) the  person  has  been  found  to  be  of  unsound  mind  by  a  court  of  competent 

jurisdiction and the finding is in force; and 

(vii) the person is financially not sound. 

 

(2)  If  any  question  arises  as  to  whether  a  person  is  a  fit  and  proper  person,  the  Board‘s 
decision on such question shall be final. 
 
 
 
Disclosure of shareholding. 
21.(1)  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  rules  and  these  regulations,  the 
recognised stock exchange(s) and the recognised clearing corporation(s) shall disclose to the 
Board,  in  the  format  specified  by  the  Board,  their  shareholding  pattern  on  a  quarterly  basis 
within fifteen days from the end of each quarter, including therein the following:— 

(a)  the names of the ten largest shareholders along with the number and percentage of 

shares held by them; 

(b) the  names  of  the  shareholders  falling  under  regulations  17  and  18  who  had 

acquired shares in that quarter. 

(2)  A  recognised  stock  exchange  and  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  monitor  and 
ensure compliance with this Chapter at all times. 
 

 

 

15 

Record keeping. 
22.In addition to the requirements under other laws in force, a recognised stock exchange and 
recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  maintain  and  preserve  all  the  books,  registers,  other 
documents and records relating to the issue or transfer of its securities for a period of not less 
than ten years. 

 
 

CHAPTER V 

GOVERNANCE OF STOCK EXCHANGES AND CLEARING CORPORATIONS  

 
Composition of the governing board.  
23.  (1)  The  governing  board  of  every  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing 
corporation shall include: 

(a)  shareholder directors; 
(b) public interest directors; and, 
(c)  managing director. 

 
(2) Subject to prior approval of the Board, the chairperson shall be elected by the governing 
board from amongst the public interest directors.  
 
(3) The number of public interest directors shall not be lesser than the number of shareholder 
directors in a recognised stock exchange.  
 
(4) The number of public interest directors of a recognised clearing corporation shall not be 
less  than  two-third,  and  shareholder  directors  shall  not  exceed  one-third,  of  its  governing 
board strength.  
 
(5) The managing director shall be an ex-officio director on the governing board and shall not 
be included in either the category of public interest directors or shareholder directors.  
 
(6) Any employee of a recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation may be 
appointed  on  the  governing  board  in  addition  to  the  managing  director,  and  such  director 
shall be deemed to be a shareholder director. 
 
(7)No  trading  member  or  clearing  member,  or  their  associates  and  agents,  shall  be  on  the 
governing board of any recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation.   
 
(8) Atleast one public interest director shall be present in the meetings of the governing board 
to constitute the quorum.  
 
(9) No foreign 23[portfolio]investor shall have any representation in the governing board 
of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation.  
 
(10)  Every  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  ensure  compliance  with  the  provisions  of 
this  regulation  within  three  months  from  the  date  of  commencement   of  these 
regulations. 
 
 

                                                 
23Substituted for ―institutional‖, ibid. 

 

16 

Conditions of appointment of directors. 
24.  (1)  The  appointment  and  re-appointment  of  all  shareholder  directors  on  the  governing 
board  of  every  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  be  with 
the prior approval of the Board.   
 
(2) The public interest directors on the governing board of the recognised stock exchange(s) 
and the recognised clearing corporation(s) shall be nominated by the Board.  
 
(3)  Public  interest  directors  shall  be  nominated  for  a  fixed  term  of  three  years,  or  for  such 
extended period, as may be approved by the Board.  
 
(4) If any issue arises as to whether an assignment or position of a public interest director is 
in conflict with his role, the Board‘s decision shall be final. 
 
(5)  A  public  interest  director  may  be  renominated  after  a  cooling-off  period  of  one  year  or 
such period  as the Board may deem fit in the interest of the securities market.  

 

 

(6) Public interest directors shall be paid only sitting fees as specified in the Companies Act, 
1956.  
 
Appointment of managing director.  
25. (1) The appointment, renewal of appointment and termination of service of the managing 
director of a recognised stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation shall be subject 
to prior approval of the Board.  
 
(2) Every recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall, subject to the 
guidelines  issued  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time,  determine  the  qualification,  manner  of 
appointment,  terms  and  conditions  of  appointment  and  other  procedural  formalities 
associated with the selection/ appointment of the managing director.  

 

(3) The appointment of the managing director shall be for a tenure not less than three years 
and not exceeding five years. 
 
(4)  The  managing  director  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing 
corporation shall not— 

(a) be a shareholder or an associate of a shareholder of a recognised stock exchange or 
recognised  clearing  corporation  or  shareholderof  an  associate  of  a  recognised  stock 
exchange or recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be; 
(b)  be  a  trading  member  or  a  clearing  member,  or  his  associate  and  agent,  or 
shareholder  of  a  trading  member  or  clearing  member  or  shareholder  of  an  associate 
and agent of a trading member or a clearing member; or 
(c) hold any position concurrently in the subsidiary of a recognised stock exchange or 
a recognised clearing corporation, or in any other entity associated with a recognised 
stock exchange or a recognised clearing corporation: 
 

Provided that the managing director of a recognised stock exchange may be appointed on 
the  governing  board,  but  not  as  managing  director,  of  the  subsidiary  of  a  recognised  stock 
exchange or a recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be. 

 

 

17 

(5)  The  managing  director  shall  be  liable  for  removal  or  termination  of  services  by  the 
governing board of the  recognised stock exchange or  recognised clearing corporation with 
the prior approval of the Board for failure to give effect to the directions, guidelines and other 
orders issued by the Board, or the rules, the articles of association, bye-laws and regulations 
of the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation.  
 
(6) The Board may suo motu remove or terminate the appointment of the managing director if 
deemed fit in the interest of securities market: 
 
  Provided  that  no  managing  director  shall  be  removed  unless  he  has  been  given  a 
reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
 
Code of Conduct for directors and key management personnel. 
26. (1) Every director of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation 
shall  abide  by  the  Code  of  Conduct  specified  under  Part–  A  of  Schedule–  II  of  these 
regulations.  
 
(2)  Every  director  and  key  management  personnel  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  and  a 
recognised clearing corporation shall abide by the Code of Ethics specified under Part– B of 
Schedule– II of these regulations.  
 
(3)  Every  director  and  key  management  personnel  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  and  a 
recognised clearing corporation shall be a fit and proper person as described in regulation 20.  
 
(4) The Board may, for any failure by the directors to abide by these regulations or the Code 
of  Conduct  or  Code  of  Ethics  or  in  case  of  any  conflict  of  interest,  either  upon  a  reference 
from the recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation or suo motu, take 
appropriate action including removal or termination of the appointment of any director, after 
providing him a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 
 
 
 
 
Compensation and tenure of key management personnel.  
27.  (1)  A  recognised  stock  exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  constitute  a 
compensation committee comprising a majority of public interest directors and chaired by a 
public interest director. 
 
(2)The  compensation  committee  shall  determine  the  compensation  of  key  management 
personnel in terms of a compensation policy. 
 
(3) The compensation policy shall be in accordance with the norms specified bythe Board.  
(4)  The  compensation  payable  to  the  managing  director  shall  be  as  approved  by  the  Board 
and  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  compensation  of  the  managing  director  shall  not  be 
changed without prior approval of the Board.  
 
(5)  The  compensation  given  to  the  key  management  personnel  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  
Report of the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation under section 217 
of the Companies Act, 1956. 
 

 

18 

(6)  The  tenure  of  a  key  management  personnel,  other  than  a  director,  shall  be  for  a  fixed 
period, as may be decided by the compensation committee.  
 
Segregation of regulatory departments. 
28.  The  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  segregate  its 
regulatory  departments  from  other  departments  in  the  manner  specified  in  Part–  C  of 
Schedule– II of these regulations.  
 
Oversight committees. 
29. (1) Every recognised stock exchange shall constitute independent oversight committees of 
the  governing  board,  each  chaired  by  a  public  interest  director,  in  order  to  address  the 
conflicts of interest in respect of– 

(a)  member regulation,  
(b) listing functions, and 
(c)  trading and surveillance function. 

 

(2) A recognised stock exchange shall follow the minimum listing standards specified by the 
Board from time to time. 
 
(3)  The  heads  of  departments  handling  the  matters  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall 
report directly to the respective committee and also to the managing director. 
 
(4)    Any  action  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  against  a  head  of  a  regulatory  department 
shall be subject to an appeal to the respective committee specified under sub-regulation (1), 
within  such period as may be determined by the governing board.  
 
(5)  The  provisions  of  this  regulation  shall  mutatis  mutandis  apply  to  a  recognised  clearing 
corporation. 
 
Advisory committee.  
30.  (1)  An  advisory  committee  shall  be  constituted  by  the  governing  board  of  every 
recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation to advise the governing board 
on non-regulatory and operational matters including product design, technology, charges and 
levies.  
 
(2)  The  advisory  committee  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  comprise  its  trading 
members and the advisory committee of a recognised clearing corporation shall comprise its 
clearing members.  
 
(3) The chairperson of the governing board shall be the head of the advisory committee and 
the  managing  director  shall  be  a  permanent  invitee  to  every  meeting  of  the  advisory 
committee.  
 
(4) The advisory committee shall meet at least four times a year with a maximum gap of three 
months between two meetings.  
 
(5) The recommendations of the advisory committee shall be placed in the ensuing meeting 
of  the  governing  board  of  the  recognised  stock  exchange  or  the  recognised  clearing 
corporation  for  consideration  and  appropriate  decision  of  the  governing  board,  and  such 

 

19 

recommendations  along  with  the  decision  of  the  governing  board  on  the  same,  shall  be 
disclosed on their respective websites. 
 
(6) Trading members and clearing members shall not be part of any other committee of the 
recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation, as the case may be. 
 
Risk management committee of a clearing corporation. 
31. (1) Every recognised clearing corporation shall constitute a risk management committee, 
comprising its public interest directors and independent external experts, which shall report to 
the governing board.  
 
(2) The risk management committee shall formulate a detailed risk management policy which 
shall be approved by the governing board. 
 
(3)  The head of the risk management department shall be responsible for implementation of 
the risk management policy and he shall report to the risk management committee and to the 
managing director of the recognisedclearing corporation. 
 
(4)  The  risk  management  committee  shall  monitor  implementation  of  the  risk  management 
policy  and  keep  the  Board  and  the  governing  board  informed  about  its  implementation  and 
deviation, if any.  
 
Appointment of compliance officer. 
32. (1) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall appoint a 
compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  the 
Companies  Act,  1956,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  rules, 
regulations, or directions issued thereunder and for the redressal of investors‘ grievances.  
 
(2)  The  compliance  officer  shall,  immediately  and  independently,  report  to  the  Board  any 
non-compliance of any provision stated in sub-regulation (1) observed by him.  
 
 
 
24[Contributiontothe Settlement Guarantee Fund 
33.(1)  The  contribution  to  the  Fund  as  specified  in  regulation  39  shall  be  made  by  the 
recognised stock exchange, the recognised clearing corporation and the clearing members, in 
the manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
 
(2)  In  case  of  shortfall  in  the  Fund,  the  recognised  clearing  corporation  and  the  recognised 
stock  exchange  shall  replenish  the  Fund  to  the  threshold  level  as  may  be  specified  by  the 
Board from time to time.‖] 
 
Transfer of penalties.  

                                                 
24Substituted  by  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Third 
Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 29.08.2016. Prior to its substitution regulation 33 read as under: 
"Transfer of profits.  
33. Every recognised stock exchange shall credit twenty five per cent. of its profits  every year to the Fund as 
specified in regulation 39, of the recognised clearing corporation(s) which clears and settles trades executed on 
that stock exchange." 
 

 

20 

34. Penalties levied by recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation shall be 
credited to its Investor Protection Fund or the Fund as specified in regulation 39, as the case 
may be. 

Disclosure and corporate governance norms.  
35.  The  disclosure  requirements  and  corporate  governance  norms  as  specified  for  listed 
companies  shall  mutatis  mutandis  apply  to  a  recognised  stock  exchange  and  a  recognised 
clearing corporation. 

 

 
 

CHAPTER VI 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 

 

Clearing and settlement of trades. 
36. Every recognised stock exchange shall, with effect from the date specified by the Board 
in  this  behalf,  use  the  services  of  recognised  clearing  corporation(s)  for  clearing  and 
settlement of its trades. 
 
Agreement between stock exchange and clearing corporation. 
37. (1) Subject to provisions of sub-regulation (2), a recognised stock exchange shall avail the 
service  of  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  pursuant  to  an  agreement  in  writing  between 
them  stipulating  their  rights  and  obligations,  the  conditions  for  admission  of  securities  for 
clearing and settlement, risk management measures, charges for clearing and settlement and 
other incidental and consequential matters.  
 
(2) The recognised stock exchange shall extend its arbitration  mechanism  for settlement  of 
disputes  or  claims  arising  out  of  clearing  and  settlement  of  trades  executed  on  such  stock 
exchange.  
 
Admission of securities for clearing and settlement.   
38. A  recognised clearing corporation shall seek approval of the Board before extending its 
services to any segment of a recognised stock exchange and before admitting any securities 
for clearing and settlement.  
 
Fund to guarantee settlement of trades. 
39.  (1)    Every  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  establish  and  maintain  a  Fundby 
whatever  name  called,  for  each  segment,  to  guarantee  the  settlement  of  trades  executed  in 
respective segment of a recognised stock exchange. 
 
(2) The Settlement  Guarantee Fund or the Trade Guarantee Fund of an existing  recognised 
stock  exchange  shall  be  transferred  to  the  recognisedclearing  corporation  to  which  the 
clearing and settlement functions of the stock exchange are transferred. 
 
(3) Till such time the Fund is transferred under sub-regulation (2), it shall be utilized only for 
the purposes of meeting settlement obligations as specified by the Board and as per the bye-
laws of the recognised stock exchange.   
 
(4) An existing clearing corporation shall continue to utilize  its Settlement Guarantee Fund 
or Trade Guarantee Fund after its recognition under these regulations.   
 

 

21 

(5) In the event of a clearing member failing to  honour his settlement obligations, the Fund 
shall be utilized to complete the settlement. 
 
(6)  The  corpus  of  the  Fund  shall  be  adequate  to  meet  the  settlement  obligations  arising  on 
account of failure of clearing member(s).  
 
(7) The sufficiency of the corpus of the Fund shall be tested by way of periodic stress tests, in 
the manner specified by the Board. 
 
(8) The 25[***] utilization of the Fund shall be in accordance with the norms specified by the 
Board. 
 
Utilization of profits and investments.  
40. The utilization of profits and investments by recognised clearing corporations shall be in 
accordance with the norms specified by the Board. 
 
Equal, fair and transparent access. 
41.  (1)  The  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  lay  down  a  transparent  policy  framework 
for ensuring that there is no discrimination while rendering clearing and settlement services 
in  settlement  of  trades  on  shareholder  stock  exchange(s)  and  on  non-shareholder  stock 
exchange(s). 
 
(2)  The  recognised  clearing  corporation  and  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  ensure  equal, 
unrestricted, transparent and fair access to all persons without any bias towards its associates 
and related entities.  
 
(3)  The  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  not  engage  in 
activities  that  are  unrelated  or  not  incidental  to  its  activity  as  a  stock  exchange  or  clearing 
corporation, as the case may be, except through a separate legal entity and as permitted by the 
Board.  
 
Maintenance of books of accounts and records. 
42.  (1)  Every  recognised  stock  exchange  shall  maintain  and  preserve  the  books  of  account 
and documents as per rule 14 of the rules. 
 
(2)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  any  other  law  for  the  time  being  in  force,every  recognised 
clearing  corporation  shall  maintain  and  preserve  the  following  books  of  account  and 
documents for a minimum period of ten years, namely:– 

(a)  Minute books of the meetings of:  

(i) 
(ii) 

governing board;  
any committees of the governing board;   

(b)  Record of clearing members showing their full names, addresses and  

details  of 

bank and depository accounts for settlement purposes;  

(c)  Transaction records; 
(d)  Record of security deposits; 
(e)  Margin deposits book; 
(f)  Client margin collection details; 

                                                 
25Words  ―contribution  and‖  omitted  by  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 
Corporations) (Third Amendment) Regulations, 2016  w.e.f. 29.08.2016. 

 

22 

(g)  Ledgers;  
(h)  Journals;  
(i)  Cash book;  
(j)  Bank account statement;  
(k)  Such other books of accounts and documents as may be specified by the Board from 

time to time. 
 

 
Submission of annual financial statements and returns.  
43. (1) Every recognised stock exchange and recognised clearing corporation shall furnish to 
the Board its annual financial statements and returns as per rule 17 and 17A of the rules. 
 
(2)  The  records  as  per  sub-regulation  (1)  with  respect  to  preceding  financial  year  shall  be 
furnished to the Board by the thirtieth of September of every year. 
 
Bye-laws, rules, etc. of stock exchanges and clearing corporation. 
44.  (1)  A  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall,  with  the 
previous  approval  of  the  Board,  make  bye-laws  for  the  regulation  of  contracts  and  clearing 
and settlement, as the case may be, as per section 9 of the Act and these regulations. 
 
(2)  No  memorandum  of  association,  articles  of  associationor  any  other  constitution 
document, in so far as they relate to matters specified in section 3 of the Act or under  these 
regulations  and  bye-  laws  of  a  recognised  stock  exchange  or  a  recognised  clearing 
corporation, shall be amended except with prior approval of the Board. 
 
26[Settlement and netting. 
44  A.  (1)    The  payment  and  settlement  in  respect  of  a  transaction  in  a  recognized  stock 

exchange  and  recognized  clearing  corporation  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the 

netting  or  gross  procedure  as  specified  in  the  bye-laws  of  such  recognized  stock  exchange 

and recognized clearing corporation, with the prior approval of the Securities and Exchange 

Board of India. 

(2)    Payment  and  settlement  in  respect  of  a  transaction  between  parties    referred  to  in  sub-

regulation  (1),  effected  under  the  bye-laws  of  a  recognized  stock  exchange  or  recognized 

clearing corporation, shall be final, irrevocable and binding on such parties. 

(3)  When  a  settlement  has  become  final  and  irrevocable,  the  right  of  the  recognized  stock 

exchange  or  the  recognized  clearing  corporation,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  appropriate  any 

collaterals  or  deposits  or  margins  contributed  by  the  trading  member,  clearing  member  or 

client  towards  its  settlement  or  other  obligations  in  accordance  with  the  bye-laws  of  the 

recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognized  clearing  corporation  shall  take  priority  over  any 

other liability of or claim against the said trading member, clearing member or client, as the 

case may be.    

Explanation. – For removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the settlement, whether gross 

or net, referred to in this regulation is final and irrevocable as soon as the money, securities or 

                                                 
26Inserted by Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2013  
w.e.f. 02.09.2013 

 

23 

other transactions payable as  a  result of such settlement  is  determined, whether or not  such 

money, securities or other transactions is actually paid. 

 

Right of Clearing Corporation. 

44B.  The  right  of  recognised  clearing  corporation(s)  to  recover  the  dues  from  its  clearing 

members,  arising  from  the  discharge  of  their  clearing  and  settlement  functions,from  the 

collaterals, deposits and the assets of the clearing members, shall have priority over any other 

liability of or claim againstthe clearing members.] 

27[44C.A recognized stock exchange, including a commodity derivatives exchange, shall not 

 

introduce any new segment without the prior approval of the Board. 

 

44D. Provisions applicable to commodity derivatives exchanges. 

(1) Every  commodity derivatives exchange shall  comply with  the provisions for recognized 

stock exchanges in  these regulations in  the manner and within the timelines as specified by 

the Board: 

Provided that-  

(a)  a  commodity  derivatives  exchange  may  continue  with  the  existing  arrangement  for 

clearing and settlement of trades for a period not exceeding three years from the date 

of  commencement  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and 

Clearing  Corporations)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2015,  and  till  the  functions  of 

clearing  and  settlement  are  transferred  to  a  separate  clearing  corporation,  the 

provisions of sub-regulation (4) of Regulation 7 and Regulations 31, 39 and 44B shall 

continue to apply to a commodity derivatives exchange, as they apply to a recognized 

clearing corporation, to the extent that they are applicable; 

(b) clause  (b)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  Regulation  29shall  not  be  applicable  to  a 

commodity derivatives exchange; 

(c)  no  commodity  derivatives  exchange  shall  engage  in  any  activity  other  than  that  of 

assisting,  regulating  or  controlling  the  business  of  buying,  selling  or  dealing  in 

commodity derivatives, except with the prior permission of the Board;  

(d) every  national  commodity  derivatives  exchange  shall  credit  the  settlement  related 

penalties  to  its  Settlement  Guarantee  Fund  and  other  penalties  to  its  Investor 

Protection  Fund  and  every  regional  commodity  derivatives  exchange  shall  credit  all 

                                                 
27Inserted  by  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015  w.e.f. 28.09.2015 

 

24 

penalties  to  its  Settlement  Guarantee  Fund  till  such  time  as  may  be  specified  by  the 

Board. 

(2)  Every  commodity  derivatives  exchange  shall  ensure  guarantee  for  settlement  of  trades 

including good delivery.] 

 

CHAPTER VII 

LISTING OF SECURITIES 

 
Listing. 
45. (1) Subject to the provisions of applicable laws in force, a recognised stock exchange may 
apply for listing of its securities on any recognised stock exchange, other than itself and its 
associated stock exchange, if,─ 

(a)   it is compliant with the provisions of these regulations particularly those relating to 

ownership and governance; 

(b) it has completed three years of continuous trading operations immediately preceding 

the date of application of listing; and 

(c)   it has obtained approval of the Board.  

 
(2) The Board may specify such conditions as it may deem fit in the interest of the securities 
market including those in relation to transfer of shares held by any person.  
 
(3) A recognised stock exchange shall not list any securities of its associates. 
 
(4)  The  securities  of  a  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall  not  be  listed  on  any  stock 
exchange.  
 
Dematerialization. 
46. Securities of a recognised stock exchange and a recognised clearing corporation shall be 
in dematerialised form. 
 
 

CHAPTER VIII 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 

Power to call for information. 
47. The Board may from time to time call for any information, documents or records from the 
recognised stock exchange or the recognised clearing corporation, or their governing board or 
any shareholder thereof. 
 
Power of inspection.  
48. (1) The Board may at any time undertake inspection, conduct inquiries and audit of any 
recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation,  any  associate  of  such 
exchange  or  clearing  corporation,  any  shareholder  of  such  stock  exchange  or  clearing 
corporation or any associate and agent of such shareholder. 
 
(2)  Where  an  inspection  under  sub-regulation  (1)  is  undertaken  by  the  Board,  such   
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation or shareholder or associate and 
every  manager,  director,  managing  director,  chairperson  or  officer  and  other  employee  of 

 

25 

such  recognised  stock  exchange,  recognisedclearing  corporation,  shareholder  or  associate 
shall co-operate with the Board. 
 
Directions by the Board. 
49.  Without  prejudice  to  exercise  of  its  powers  under  the  provisions  of  the  Act  or  the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  rules  and  regulations  made 
thereunder, the Board  may, either  suo motu or on receipt of any information or during 
pendency  of  any  inspection,  inquiry  or  investigation  or  on  completion  thereof,  in  the 
interest of public or trade or investors or the securities market, issue  such directions as it 
deems fit, including but not limited to any or all of the following:─ 

(a) directing  a  person  holding  equity  shares  or  rights  over  equity  shares  in  a 
recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognisedclearing  corporation  in  contravention 
of these regulations to divest his holding, in such manner as may be specified in 
the direction; 

(b) directing  transfer  of  any  proceeds  or  securities  to  the  Investor  Protection  Fund  of  a  
recognised  stock  exchange  or  Settlement  Guarantee  Fund  of  a  recognised  clearing 
corporation; 

(c) debarring  any  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation,  any 
shareholder  of  such  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing 
corporation, or any associate and agent of such shareholder, or any transferee of 
shares  from  such  shareholder,  directors  and  key  management  personnel  of 
recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing  corporation  from  accessing 
the  securities  market  or  dealing  in  securities  for  such  period  as  may  be 
determined by the Board.  

 
Power to remove difficulties. 
50. In order to remove any difficulties in the interpretation or application of the provisions of 
these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue directions through guidance notes 
or circulars. 

 
Power to  specify procedures, etc. and issue clarifications. 
51.  For  the  purposes  of  implementation  of  these  regulations  and  matters  incidental  thereto, 
the  Board  may  specify  norms,  procedures,  processes,  manners  or  guidelines  as  specified  in 
these  regulations,  by  way  of  circulars  to  recognised  stock  exchange(s)  and  recognised 
clearing corporation(s). 
 
Repeal and savings.  
52.  (1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation)  (Manner  of  Increasing  and  Maintaining  Public  Shareholding  in  Recognized 
Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006, shall stand repealed.  
 
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken or purported to have been 
taken  or  contemplated  under  the  repealed  regulations  before  the  commencement  of  these 
regulations shall be deemed to have been done or taken or commenced or contemplated under 
the corresponding provisions of these regulations.  
 
(3) After the repeal of the regulations referred to in sub-regulation (1), any reference thereto 
in any regulation, guideline, circular or direction issued by the Board shall be deemed to be a 
reference to the relevant provisions of these regulations. 

 

 

26 

 

 

 

27 

SCHEDULE - I 

 

FORM A 

 

[See regulations 4 and 12] 

 

Application for recognition/renewal of recognition of a clearing corporation under 

regulation 4/regulation 12 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges 

and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012  

 

To  
......................................  
......................................  
 
Subject: Application for recognition or renewal of recognition of a clearing corporation under  
regulation  4/regulation  12  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and 
Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2012.  
 
 
Sir,  
 
1. We/I on behalf of .................. (name and address of clearing corporation ) being a clearing 
corporation hereby apply for recognition/renewal of recognition for the purposes of the said 
Act in respect of clearing and settlement of contracts in securities.  
 
2. Two copies of the rules, memorandum and articles of association relating in general to the 
constitution and management of the clearing corporation and two copies of the bye-laws for 
the clearing and settlement of contracts in securities are enclosed.  
 
3.  All  the  necessary  information  required  in  the  Annexure  to  this  Form  is  enclosed.  Any  
additional information will be furnished as and when called for by the Board.  
 
4.  We/I,  on  behalf  of  the  said  clearing  corporation,  hereby  undertake  to  comply  with  the 
requirements  of  section  4  of  the  said  Act  and  such  other  conditions  and  terms  as  may  be 
contained in the certificate of recognition or be  provided or imposed subsequently.  
 
5.28[Proof  of 
electronic  payment  mode/]  Demand  Draft 
No…….dated……drawn  in  favour  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  for` 
............29[,]towards  payment  of  fees  as  specified  in  regulation  5/  regulation  12  of  the 
Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 
2012,is attached.  
 

remittance 

through 

 

         Yours faithfully,  

Authorised signatory 

 
 
                                                 
28  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees  and  Mode  of  Payment)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2017,                
w.e.f. 6-3-2017. 
29 Ibid. 

 

28 

 
 
 
 

ANNEXURE TO FORM ‘A’ 

 

Part I – General 

 

 

1.   Name of the applicant clearing corporation.  
2.   Address.  
3.  Date of establishment or incorporation of a clearing corporation.  
4.   Is  your  clearing  corporation  a  joint  stock  company  (state  whether  public  or  private) 

registered under the Companies Act?  

5.   Give  details  of  your  capital  structure  and  attach  three  copies  of  the  audited  balance 
sheets and profit and loss account of the clearing corporation for the preceding three 
years.  

6.  Give details of shareholding pattern of the clearing corporation. 
7.   Has your business viability plan been appraised by a reputed agency having expertise 

in securities market for its viability? Give a copy of the appraisal report.  

8.   Have  you entered into an agreement  with  recognised stock exchange(s)  for clearing 
and  settling  its  trades?  Give  the  name  of  such  stock  exchange(s)  and  details  of  its 
organisation and management.  

 

Part II – Clearing membership of clearing corporation. 

 

9.   State  the  number  of  clearing  members  at  the  time  of  application.  Also  specify  how 

many are inactive.  

10. State whether there is any provision, resolution or convention for limiting the number 
of clearing members and whether in pursuance thereof you have fixed a ceiling on the 
number of clearing members that you would admit.  

11.  Do  you  insist  on  any  minimum  qualifications  and  experience  before  enrolling  new 

clearing members? If so, give details.  

12. State  the  different  classes  of  clearing  members,  if  any,  the  number  thereof  and  the 
privileges  enjoyed  by  each  class.  What  is  the  procedure  followed  by  your  clearing 
corporation for the admission of different classes of new clearing members?  

13.  What  are  the  rates  of  your  annual  subscription  in  respect  of  the  different  classes  of  

clearing members?  

14. Do  you  collect  any security deposit  from  your  clearing members?  If so,  give details 
and also  state the manner in  which such deposits  are utilised and the rate of interest 
allowed, if any.  

15. Do  you  collect  any  admission  or  entrance  fees  from  your  clearing  members?  If  so, 

how much?  

16. Do you insist on your clearing members divesting themselves of other activities either 

as principal or as employee?  

17.  Give  details  of  the  scale  of  brokerage  and  other  charges,  if  any,  specified  by  your 

clearing corporation. 

18. Do you prescribe standard form of agreement to be entered with the trading member 
for  engaging  the  services  of  your  clearing  member?  Attach  two  copies  of  such 
agreement.  

29 

19. What  are  the  measures  adopted  by  you  to  regulate  or  prohibit  advertising  or  issuing 

circulars by your clearing members?  

20.  Do  you  require  clearing  members  to  supply  such  information  or  explanation  and  to 

produce such books relating to their business as your governing board may require?  

21. Do  you  undertake  periodic  inspection  of  your  clearing  members?  Give  details 
including  the  number  of  annual  inspections  and  manpower  available  for  conducting 
inspection.  

Part III – Governing Board 

 

22. What  is  the  present  strength  of  your  governing  board?  Give  details  of  the    

constitution, powers of management, election and tenure of office of members of the 
governing board, and the manner in which its business is transacted.  

23. Are any trade or commercial interest represented on your governing board? If so, give 

details of interests represented.  

24. Do  you  associate  members  of  investors  associations  with  the  management  of  your 

clearing corporation? If so, state the manner in which it is done.  

25. Are there any Government or the Board representatives on your governing board? If 

so, furnish their names.  

26. How  many  public  interest  directors  are  there  on  the  governing  board?  Furnish  their 

names, qualifications and experience.  

27.  Do  your  rules  provide  for  the  direct  election  by  clearing  members  on  the  Advisory 
Committee  of  the  governing  board?  If  so,  give  details  of  its  constitution,  tenure, 
powers and functions.  

28. Do you have any provision for the appointment of standing or ad hoc subcommittees 
of the governing board? If so, furnish details of their composition, appointment, term 
of office, powers and functions.  

29. Give  the  designations,  powers  and  duties  of  key  management  personnel  of  your 
clearing corporation. Give details as to the mode of their appointment, tenure of office 
and remuneration.  

30. What are the disciplinary powers with the governing board to enforce due compliance 
by  clearing  members  of  the  rules  and  bye-laws  of  the  clearing  corporation  and 
generally to ensure proper standard of business conduct?  

31. What provisions have you made for the levy and recovery of fees, fines and penalties?  

Part IV – Clearing and Settlement 

32. Describe the clearing and settlement system of the clearing corporation.  
33. State  the  different  kinds  of  products  being  cleared  and  settled  or  proposed  to  be 
cleared  and  settled  in  your  clearing  corporation(e.g.,  equity,  equity  derivative, 
currency derivatives, interest rate derivatives, debt instruments, etc.). State the period 
of delivery, payment and the settlement mechanism in each case.  

34. What  are  the  conditions  subject  to  which  trades  are  settled  and  cleared  on  your 

clearing corporation?  

35.  What  are  your  requirements  for  admitting  derivative  transactions  for  clearing  and 

settlement?  

36. Do  you  have  the  right  to  prohibit,  withdraw  or  suspend  clearing  and  settlement  of 
dealings admitted for clearing and settlement? If so, under what circumstances is this 
right exercised?  

30 

 

 

 

 

37. Give details of the clearing and settlement charges and other charges, if any, levied by 

your clearing corporation.  

38. What provisions have you made for periodical settlement of contracts and differences 
thereunder,  the  delivery  of,  and  payment  for  securities  and  the  passing  of  delivery 
orders?  

39. How do you fix, alter or postpone the dates of settlement?  
40. Do you provide any safeguards for the prevention of market manipulation, especially 
in  the  case  of  physical  delivery  of  shares  in  the  derivative  markets  and  for  meeting 
emergencies in settlement? Give details.  

41.  Provide  a  detailed  assessment  of  the  measures  adopted  to  address  the  various  risks 
faced by the clearing corporation in terms of the BIS-IOSCO paper on ‗Principles for 
Financial Market Infrastructures.‘ 

42. Do  you  publish  any  statistics  in  regard  to  business  done  on  the  clearing  corporation 
including the value of Settlement Guarantee Fund and transactions settled through the 
clearing  corporation,  if  maintained?  In  particular,  have  you  evolved  any  machinery 
for computing the gross and net exposure of the clearing corporation and the value of 
clearing  and  settling  of  different  kinds  of  contracts  permitted  on  your  clearing 
corporation? Give details.  

43. (a) Do you have any bye-laws, contravention of which makes a contract void? 

(b)  Do  you  have  necessary  infrastructure,  margin  mechanism  and  adequate  risk 

management mechanism to ensure market safety and integrity? Give Details 

(c) Do you undertake any other activity other than clearing and settling? Give Details. 
(d) What is your net worth? Give Details. 
(e) Give details of business hours? 
(f)  What  are  the  conditions  subject  to  which  dealings  are  admitted  for  clearing  and 

settlement? 

44. Do  you  maintain  Settlement  Guarantee  Fund?  Give  details  of  the  corpus  of  the 

settlement guarantee fund, its contribution, circumstances for utilisation, priority   of 
utilisation, etc 

45. How  do  you  ensure  the  adequacy  of  the  Settlement  Guarantee  Fund?  Do  you 
perform  stress  tests  on  a  periodic  basis.  Give  details  and  results  of  the  latest  stress 
test. 

46.  What  is  the  netting  procedure  adopted  by  the  clearing  corporation  for  determining 

the obligations of the clearing member?  

47. What is your policy in respect of settling trades of shareholder stock exchange  

and 

non-shareholder stock exchange? 

48. Do you have any provisions for regulating the volume of business and exposure taken 
by  any  individual  clearing  member  other  than  through  a  system  of  margins?  If  so, 
give details.  

49. What provisions have you made for regulating— (a) the entering into contracts, their 
performance and rescission (b) the consequences of breach, default or insolvency on 
the  part  of  trading  or  clearing  members  whether  acting  as  buyers,  sellers  or 
intermediaries?  

Part V – Infrastructure 

 
50. Do  you  have  any  machinery  for  arbitration  of  disputes  between  clearing  members 
and/or  between  clearing  members  and  their  constituents  and  trading  member  and 
clearing member? Give details.  

51. Have  you  established  connectivity  with  the  depositories,  clearing  banks,  stock 

exchange and clearing members? Give details. 

31 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

52. What is the average load that is being handled by your systems? What is the peak load 

that can be handled and the extent of scalability of the systems in times of stress? 

53. What  is  your  business  continuity  plan?  Give  details  including  details  of  the  disaster 

recovery site. 

54. What are the names, qualifications and expertise of your key management personnel? 

 

32 

 

 

FORM B 

[See regulation 9 and 12] 

The Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
 
No.  ....................................The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  having  considered 
the application for grant  of recognition/renewal of recognition under regulation 4/regulation 
12  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations) 
Regulations, 2012by.............................. (name and address of clearing corporation) and being 
satisfied that it would be in  the interest  of the trade, in  the interest  of securities market  and 
also  in  the  public  interest  so  to  do,  hereby  grants,  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by 
section 4 read with sub-section (4) of section 8A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 
1956,  recognition  to  the  said  clearing  corporation  for  ...................  year/years  ending 
......................20 ....... subject to the conditions stated herein below or as may be prescribed or 
imposed hereafter.  
 
 
 
Seal of the Board  
 
Date: 
Place: Mumbai 
 
 
 
 
 

              Signature of Officer  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

33 

 

 

SCHEDULE – II 

PART - A 

[See regulation 26(1)] 

 
Code of conduct for the directors on the governing board 
 

i.  Meetings and minutes. 

Every  director  of  the  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing 
corporation shall─ 
 

 

a)  not  participate  in  discussions  on  any  subject  matter  in  which  any  conflict  of 
interest  exists  or  arises,  whether  pecuniary  or  otherwise,  and  in  such  cases  the 
same shall be disclosed and recorded in the minutes of the meeting;  

b)  not  encourage  the  circulation  of  agenda  papers  during  the  meeting,  unless 

circumstances so require;  

c)  offer  their  comments  on  the  draft  minutes  and  ensure  that  the  same  are 

incorporated in the final minutes;  

d)  insist  on  the  minutes  of  the  previous  meeting  being  placed  for  approval  in 

subsequent meeting; 

e)  endeavour to have the date of next meeting fixed at each governing board meeting 

in consultation with other members of the governing board;  

f)  endeavour to ensure that in case all the items of the agenda of a meeting were not 
covered  for  want  of  time,  the  next  meeting  is  held  within  fifteen  days  for 
considering the remaining items. 
 

ii.  Code of Conduct for the public interest directors. 

a)  In addition to the conditions stated in  Para (i) above, public interest directors of 
the  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation  shall, 
endeavour  to  attend  all  the  governing  board  meetings  and  they  shall  be  liable  to 
vacate  office  if  they  remain  absent  for  three  consecutive  meetings  of  the 
governing board or do not attend seventy five per cent. of the total meetings of the 
governing board in a calendar year.  

 
b)  Public  interest  directors  shall  meet  separately,  at  least  once  in  six  months  to 

exchange views on critical issues.  

Strategic planning.   
Every  director  of  the  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing 
corporation shall─ 

iii. 

 

a)  participate in the formulation and execution of strategies in the best interest of the 
recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation  and  contribute 
towards pro-active decision making at the governing board level;  

b)  give benefit of their experience and expertise to the recognised stock exchange or 
recognised clearing corporation and provide  assistance in  strategic planning  and 
execution of decisions.  

34 

 

 
 
 

 

iv.  Regulatory compliances. 

Every  director  of  the  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing 
corporation shall─ 
 

a)  endeavour  to  ensure  that  the  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing 
corporation abides by all the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India  Act,  1992,  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956,    rules  and 
regulations  framed  thereunder  and  the  circulars,  directions  issued  by  the  Board 
from time to time;  

b)  endeavour  compliance  at  all  levels  so  that  the  regulatory  system  does  not  suffer 

any breaches;  

c)  endeavour  to  ensure  that  the  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing 
corporation takes steps commensurate to honour the time limit stipulated by Board 
for corrective action;  

d)  not  support  any  decision  in  the  meeting  of  the  governing  board  which  may 
adversely  affect  the  interest  of  investors  and  shall  report  forthwith  any  such 
decision to the Board.  

v.  General responsibility. 

Every  director  of  the  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing 
corporation shall─ 

 

 

a)  place  priority  for  redressing  investor  grievances  and  encouraging  fair  trade 
practice so that the recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation 
becomes an engine for the growth of the securities market; 

b)  endeavour  to  analyse  and  administer  the  recognised  stock  exchange  or 
recognised  clearing  corporation  issues  with  professional  competence,  fairness, 
impartiality, efficiency and effectiveness; 

c)  submit  the  necessary  disclosures/statement  of  holdings/dealings  in  securities  as 
required  by  the  recognised  stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation 
from time to time as per their Rules or Articles of Association;  

d)  unless  otherwise  required  by  law,  maintain  confidentiality  and  shall  not 
divulge/disclose  any  information  obtained  in  the  discharge  of  their  duty  and    no 
such information shall be used for personal gains; 

e)  maintain  the  highest  standards  of  personal  integrity,  truthfulness,  honesty  and 
fortitude in discharge of their duties in order to inspire public confidence and shall 
not engage in acts discreditable to their responsibilities;  

f)  perform their duties in an independent and objective manner and avoid activities 
that  may  impair,  or  may  appear  to  impair,  their  independence  or  objectivity  or 
official duties; 

g)  perform  their  duties  with  a  positive  attitude  and  constructively  support  open 

communication, creativity, dedication, and compassion; 

h)  not  engage  in  any  act  involving  moral  turpitude,  dishonesty,  fraud,  deceit,  or 
misrepresentation  or  any  other  act  prejudicial  to  the  administration  of  the 
recognised stock exchange or recognised clearing corporation.    

 

35 

PART - B 

[See regulation 26(2)] 

 

 
Code  of  Ethics  for  directors  and  key  management  personnel  of  stock  exchanges  or 
clearing corporations 
 
The  ‗Code  of  Ethics‘  for  directors  and  key  management  personnel  of  the  recognised  stock 
exchanges  or  recognised  clearing  corporations,  is  aimed  at  improving  the  professional  and 
ethical  standards  in  the  functioning  of  recognised  stock  exchanges  or  recognised  clearing 
corporations thereby creating better investor confidence in the integrity of the market. 
 

i.  Objectives and underlying principles. 

The Code of Ethics for directors and key management personnel of the recognised stock 
exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation  seeks  to  establish  a  minimum  level  of 
business/  professional  ethics  to  be  followed  by  these  directors  and  key  management 
personnel, towards establishing a fair and transparent marketplace. The Code of Ethics is 
based on the following fundamental principles:   

  Fairness and transparency in dealing with matters relating to the stock exchange or 

clearing corporation and the investors. 

  Compliance  with  all  laws/  rules/  regulations  laid  down  by  regulatory  agencies/ 

recognised stock exchange/ recognised clearing corporation. 

  Exercising due diligence in the performance of duties. 

  Avoidance  of  conflict  of  interest  between  self  interest  of  directors/    key 
management personnel and interests of recognised stock exchange or recognised 
clearing corporation and investors. 

 
ii.  Ethics committee. 

For overseeing implementation of this Code, an ethics committee shall be constituted by 
every  recognised  stock  exchange  and  recognised  clearing  corporation  under  the 
respective governing board.  

 

 

iii.  General standards.  

a)  Directors  and  key  management  personnel  shall  endeavour  to  promote  greater 

awareness and understanding of ethical responsibilities.  

b)  Directors  and  key  management  personnel,  in  the  conduct  of  their  business  shall 
observe high standards of commercial honour and just and equitable principles of 
trade. 

c)  The conduct of directors and key management personnel in business life should be 
exemplary  which  will  set  a  standard  for  other  members  of  the  recognisedstock 
exchange or recognisedclearing corporation.  

d)  Directors  and  key  management  personnel  shall  not  use  their  position  to  give/get 
favours  to/from  the  executive  or  administrative  staff  of  the  stock  exchange  or 
clearing  corporation,  technology  or  service  providers  and  vendors  of  the 
recognisedrecognised  stock  exchange  or  clearing  corporation,  or  any  listed 

 

36 

company at the recognisedstock exchange.  

e)  Directors and key management personnel shall not commit any act which will put 
the reputation of the recognisedstock exchange or recognisedclearing corporation, 
in jeopardy. 

 

f)  Directors, committee members and key management  personnel  of the recognised 
stock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing  corporation,  should  comply  with  all  rules 
and regulations applicable to the securities market. 

iv.  Disclosure  of  dealings  in  securities  by  key  management  personnel  of  the  stock 

exchange or clearing corporation. 

a)  Key  management 

of 

the 

personnel 

or 
recognisedclearing corporation shall disclose on a periodic basis as determined by 
the  stock  exchange  or  recognisedclearing  corporation  (which  could  be  monthly), 
all their dealings in securities, directly or indirectly, to the governing board/ ethics 
committee/ Compliance Officer. 

recognisedstock 

exchange 

b)  The dealings in securities shall also be subject to trading restrictions for securities 
about  which  key  management  personnel  in  the  recognisedstock  exchange  or 
recognisedclearing  corporation  may  have  non-public  price  sensitive  information. 
Requirement 
laid  down  under  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 may be referred in this regard. 

c)  All  transactions  must  be  of  an  investment  nature  and  not  speculative  in  nature.  
Towards this end, all securities purchased must be held for a minimum period of 
sixty  days  before  they  are  sold.  However,  in  specific/exceptional  circumstances, 
sale  can  be  effected  anytime  by  obtaining  pre-clearance  from  the  Compliance 
Officer  to  waive  this  condition  after  recording  in  writing  his  satisfaction  in  this 
regard. 

Explanation.─"securities"  for  the  purposes  of  this  Code  shall  not  include  mutual 
fund units. 

v.  Disclosure of dealings in securities by directors of the stock exchange or clearing 

corporation. 

a)  All transactions in securities by the directors and their family shall be disclosed to 
the  governing  board  of  the  recognisedstock  exchange  or  recognised  clearing 
corporation.  

b)  All  directors shall also  disclose the trading conducted by  firms/corporate entities 
in  which  they  hold  twenty  per  cent.  or  more  beneficial  interest  or  hold  a 
controlling interest, to the Ethics Committee.  

c)  Directors who are Govt. of India nominees or nominees of Govt. of India statutory 
bodies  or  financial  institutions  and  are  governed  by  their  own  codes  shall  be 
exempt from this requirement. 

 

vi.  Avoidance of conflict of interest. 

a)  No  director  of  the  governing  board  or  member  of  any  committee  of  the 
recognisedstock  exchange  or  recognisedclearing  corporation  shall  participate  in 

37 

 

 

 

any decision making/adjudication in respect of any person /matter in which he is 
in any way, directly or indirectly, concerned or interested. 

b)  Whether there is any conflict of interest or not in a matter, should be decided by 

the governing board. 

 
vii.  Disclosures of beneficial interest. 

All  directors  and  key  management  personnel  shall  disclose  to  the  governing  board, 
upon  assuming  office  and  during  their  tenure  in  office,  whenever  the  following 
arises:─ 

a)  any fiduciary relationship of self and family members and directorship/partnership 

of self and family members in any trading memberor clearing member; 

b)  shareholding, in cases where the shareholding of the director, directly or through 
his family exceeds 5 per cent. in any listed company or in other entities related to 
the securities markets; 

c)  any other business interests. 

 
viii.  Role of the Chairperson and directors in the day to day functioning of the stock 

exchange or clearing corporation. 

a)  The Chairperson and directors shall not interfere in the day to day functioning of 
the  recognisedstock  exchange  or  recognisedclearing  corporation  and  shall  limit 
their role to decision making on policy issues and to issues as the governing board 
may decide. 

b)  The Chairperson and directors shall abstain from influencing the employees of the 
recognisedstock  exchange  or  recognisedclearing  corporation  in  conducting  their 
day to day activities. 

c)  The  Chairperson  and  directors  shall  not  be  directly  involved  in  the  function  of 
appointment  and  promotion  of  employees  unless  specifically  so  decided  by  the 
governing board. 

 

ix.  Access to information. 

a)  Directors shall call for information only as part of specific committees or as may 

be authorised by the governing board. 

b)  There  shall  be  prescribed  channels  through  which  information  shall  move  and 
further  there  shall  be  audit  trail  of  the  same.  Any  retrieval  of  confidential 
documents/ information shall be properly recorded. 

c)  All such information, especially which is non-public and price sensitive, shall be 

kept confidential and not be used for any personal consideration/ gain.  

d)  Any  information  relating  to  the  business/operations  of  the  recognisedstock 
exchange or recognisedclearing corporation, which may come to the knowledge of 
directors/ key management personnel during performance of their duties shall be 
held in strict confidence, shall not be divulged to any third party and shall not be 
used in any manner except for the performance of their duties.  

 

 

38 

x.  Misuse of position. 

Directors/  committee  members  shall  not  use  their  position  to  obtain  business  or  any 
pecuniary benefit in the organization for themselves or family members. 

 

xi.  Ethics committee to lay down procedures.  

a)  The  ethics  committee  shall  lay  down  procedures  for  the  implementation  of  the 

code and prescribe reporting formats for the disclosures required under the code. 

b)  The  Compliance  Officer  shall  execute  the  requirements  laid  down  by  the  ethics 

committee.  

 
While  the  objective  of  this  Code  is  to  enhance  the  level  of  market  integrity  and  investor 
confidence,  it  is  emphasized  that  a  written  code  of  ethics  may  not  completely  guarantee 
adherence  to  high  ethical  standards.  This  can  be  accomplished  only  if  directors  and  key 
management  personnel  of  the  recognisedstock  exchange  or  recognisedclearing  corporation 
commit themselves to the task of enhancing the fairness and integrity of the system in letter 
and spirit. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

39 

PART – C 

[See regulation 28] 

Measures to ensure segregation of regulatory departments 

 

In order to ensure the segregation of regulatory departments, every recognisedstock exchange 
and recognisedclearing corporation shall adopt a "Chinese Wall" policy which separates the 
regulatory  departments  of  the  recognisedstock  exchange  or  recognisedclearing  corporation 
from  the  other  departments.  The  employees  in  the  regulatory  departments  shall  not 
communicate any information concerning regulatory activity to any one in other departments. 
The  employees  in  regulatory  areas  may  be  physically  segregated  from  employees  in  other 
departments  including  with  respect  to  access  controls.  In  exceptional  circumstances 
employees from other departments may be given confidential information on "need to know" 
basis, under intimation to the Compliance Officer. 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

40 

