THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 17th October, 2007  

  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(CERTIFICATION OF ASSOCIATED PERSONS IN THE SECURITIES 

MARKETS) REGULATIONS, 2007 

F. No. 11/LC/GN/2007/4567. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read 
with sections 11, 12 and 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely:- 

   

  

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short Title and Commencement. 

1.  (1) These regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Certification of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 

  

Definitions. 

2.      (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: - 

(a)   “Act”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of 

1992); 

(b)   “agent”  means  any  person  who  is  engaged  in  the  activity  of  sale  or 
distribution  of  securities  on  behalf  of  an  issuer  or  a  distributor  for  a 
commission or any other consideration; 

(c)  “associated person”  means  a  principal  or  employee  of  an  intermediary  or  an 
agent  or  distributor  or  other  natural  person  engaged  in  the  securities  business 
and includes an employee of a 1[foreign portfolio investor] or a foreign venture 
capital investor working in India; 

(d)  “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under 

section 3 of the Act; 

(e)  “certificate”  means  the  certificate  granted by NISM  in  accordance  with  these 

regulations; 

    (f)  “Continuing  Professional  Education”  (CPE)  means  any  course,  programme, 
training  programme,  activity,  conference,  seminar  that  has  been  accredited  or 
approved  by  NISM  to  enhance  the  knowledge,  skills  and  professional 
competency  of  associated  persons  in  the  areas  of  securities,  governance  and 
ethics; 

(g)  “distributor” means any person engaged by an intermediary or an issuer for the 

purpose of sale or distribution of securities; 

(h)  “intermediary”  means an  entity  registered under sections 11 or  12 of  the Act 
and includes any person required to obtain any membership or approval from a 
stock exchange or a self-regulatory organization; 

(i)   “issuer”  means  a  company  or  a  mutual  fund  or  a  collective  investment 
scheme which  has  issued  or  proposes  to  issue  securities  to  the  public  in 
accordance with the relevant regulations or guidelines made by the Board and 

                                                           
1  Substituted  for  "foreign  institutional  investor"  by  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations, 
2014, w.e.f. 7-1-2014. 

also includes a venture capital fund registered under the relevant regulations or 
guidelines made by the Board; 

(j)   “NISM” means the National Institute of Securities Markets established by the 

Board; 

(k)  “principal” means persons who are actively engaged in the management of the 
intermediary’s  securities  business  including  supervision,  solicitation,  conduct 
of business, and includes: 

(1)    Sole Proprietors 

(2)    Managing Partners and 

(3)    Whole Time Directors 

(l)  “securities”  means  securities  as  defined  in  clause  (h)  of  section  2  of  the 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956).   

(2)  Words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in  these  regulations  shall  have  the 
meanings, if any, respectively assigned to them by or under the Act or the Securities 
Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  (42  of  1956)  or  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of 
1956)  or  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  (22  of  1996)  or  rules  and  regulations 
made thereunder or any amendment thereto or re-enactment thereof. 

  

CHAPTER II 

CERTIFICATION OF ASSOCIATED PERSONS  

Obligation to obtain certificate 

  

3. (1) The Board may by notification in the Official Gazette require such categories of 
associated persons to obtain requisite certificate for engagement or employment with 
such  classes  of  intermediaries  and  from  such  date  as  may  be  specified  in  the 
notification: 

Provided that an associated person employed or engaged by an intermediary prior to 
the  date  specified  by  the  Board  may  continue  to  be  employed  or  engaged  by  the 
intermediary if he obtains the certificate within two years from the said date. 

(2)  An  associated  person  on  being  employed  or  engaged  by  an  intermediary  on  or 
after the date specified by the Board shall obtain the certificate within one year from 
the date of being employed or engaged by the intermediary. 

(3)  An  associated  person  who,  as  on  the  date  specified  by  the  Board,  holds  a 
certificate for a category as recognized by the Board shall not be required to obtain a 
fresh certificate for the same category during the validity of such certificate. 

(4)  The Board for the purpose of issuing notification under sub regulations (1) and (2) 
shall take into consideration: 

(a)   whether the associated person as part of his work or operation deals or interacts 
with the investors, issuers or clients of intermediaries; 

(b)   whether the  associated  person  deals  with  assets  or  funds  of  investor  or  
clients; 

(c)   whether the associated person handles redressal of investor grievances; 

(d)   whether the  associated  person  is  responsible  for  internal  control  or  risk  
management; 

(e)   whether the  associated  person  is  responsible  for  compliance  of  any  rules  or  
regulations; 

(f)   whether the  associated  person  is  engaged  in  activities  that  have  a  bearing  on  
operational risk of the intermediary. 

  

Manner of obtaining certificate 

4. (1) Subject to the provisions of this regulation, an associated person may obtain the 
certificate in any of the following manners, namely:-   

(a)  by  passing  a  certification  examination  conducted  by  any  organization  or  self 
regulatory organization approved or engaged as may be specified by NISM from time 
to time; or 

(b)  by  obtaining  such  number  of  classroom  credits  accumulated  through  attending 
classes on such subjects as may be specified by NISM from time to time; or 

(c) by delivering  such  number  of  formal  classroom  sessions  in  all  or  specific 
programmes of continuing professional education as may be specified by NISM from 
time to time. 

(2)  An  associated  person  being  principal  shall  obtain  the  certificate  in  any  of  the 
manners specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) of sub regulation (1). 

(3)  An  associated  person,  other  than  a  principal,  who  has  attained  the  age  of  fifty 
years or who has atleast ten years experience in the securities markets in the activities 
mentioned in sub regulation (4) of regulation 3 on the date specified in the notification 
issued  under  sub  regulation  (1)  of  regulation  3,  shall  obtain  the  certificate  in  the 
relevant category in the manner specified in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub regulation 
(1). 

(4)  An  associated  person  other  than  those  mentioned  in  sub  regulation  (2)  or  sub 
regulation (3) shall obtain the certificate in the manner specified in clause (a) of sub 
regulation (1). 

  

Validity period of certificate 

5. (1) The certificate  granted  under  regulation  3  shall  be  valid  for  a  period  of  three 
years  from  the  date  of  the  grant  of  the  certificate  or  revalidation  thereof  as  the  case 
may be.   

(2) Upon  expiry  of  the  validity  of  certificate  possessed  by  an  associated  person,  the 
certificate  shall  be  revalidated  for  a  period  of  three  years  at  a  time,  provided  the 
associated  person  successfully  completes  a  programme  of  continuing  professional 
education specified by NISM in accordance with Chapter IV of these regulations. 

  

Associated person not to undertake certain activities without a valid certificate 

6. No associated person engaged in any of the activities mentioned in clauses (a) to (f) 
of  sub  regulation  (4)  of  regulation  3  shall  continue  to  be  so  engaged  after  the  date 
specified in sub regulation (1) or sub regulation (2) of regulation 3, as the case may 
be, unless such associated person holds a valid certificate. 

   

  

CHAPTER III 

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF NISM 

  

Powers and functions of NISM 

7. (1) NISM would perform the functions delegated to it under these regulations or as 
may be delegated by the Board. 

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions and the activities of 
NISM  under  its  articles,  the  functions  of  NISM  in  respect  of  certification  for 
associated  persons  in  the  securities  market  shall  include  putting  in  place  and 
implementing the certification process, procedure and policies. 

(3) NISM in consultation with the Board may lay down standards which may – 

(a) specify that  all  or  any  portion  of  such  standards  shall  be  applicable  to  all  or  any 
category  of  associated  persons  working  or  associated  with  all  or  any  class  of 
intermediaries in securities market; 

(b) specify that  no  associated  person  in  any  such  class  may  be  qualified  to  be 
employed  or  engaged  or  continued  to  be  employed  or  engaged  by  an  intermediary 
unless  he  is  in  compliance  with  such  standards  of  examination,  continuing 
professional  education  requirements  and  such  other  qualifications  as  NISM  in 
consultation with the Board may specify. 

  

Conduct of certification examination and programmes of continuing professional 
education 

8. For conducting certification examination and programme of continuing professional 
education, NISM may: 

(1) accredit, approve  or  engage  any  organization  or  self  regulatory  organization  to 
administer certification examinations. 

(2) accredit,  approve  or  engage  any  organization  or  self  regulatory  organization  to 
conduct  all  or  any  programme  of  continuing  professional  education  as  may  be 
specified from time to time. 

(3)  require all  associated  persons  appearing  for  certification  examinations  or 
undergoing programme of continuing professional education to pay reasonable fees or 
charges to defray the costs incurred in conducting such certification examinations and 
programmes of continuing professional education.  

  

  

CHAPTER IV 

CONTINUING PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS 

  

Continuing Professional Education requirements for associated persons 

9. (1) NISM may specify the requirements for continuing professional education 
(CPE) for associated persons holding certificate and approve the programmes of CPE 
that may be conducted by entities accredited and engaged in accordance with 
regulation 8. 

(2) No intermediary shall permit any associated person to continue and no associated 
person shall continue to perform duties as an associated person unless such person has 
complied with the requirements specified by NISM under sub regulation (1) within 3 
years from the date of obtaining the certificate or revalidation thereof. 

(3) The requirements of sub regulations (1) and (2) shall apply to associated persons 
who  are  engaged  in  any  of  the  activities  mentioned  in  clauses  (a)  to  (f)  of  sub 
regulation (4) of regulation 3. 

  

Intermediary to ensure participation in continuing professional education 

10.  (1)  Each  intermediary  shall  be  responsible  to  ensure  that  its  associated  persons 
participate  in  a  programme  of  continuing professional  education  approved  by  NISM 
under sub regulation (1) of regulation 9. 

(2) Associated persons shall take all appropriate and reasonable steps to participate in 
a programme of continuing professional education as required by the intermediary. 

  

  

CHAPTER V 

MISCELLANEOUS 

  

Certification  of  associated  persons  to  be  pre-condition  for  registration  of 
intermediaries. 

11. Compliance with the provisions of these regulations shall be one of the factors to 
be  taken  into  consideration  by  the  Board  for  the  purpose  of  determining  eligibility 
criteria for grant or renewal of certificate of registration to an intermediary under the 
relevant regulations. 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

M. DAMODARAN 

CHAIRMAN 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

[ADVT- III/IV/69 ZB/2007/Exty.]  

  

  

*************** 

 

