GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, JANUARY9, 2014 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the  9th   January, 2014 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (SETTLEMENT OF 

ADMINISTRATIVE AND CIVIL PROCEEDINGS) REGULATIONS, 2014 

No. LAD-NRO/GN/2013-14/37/50.-In exercise of the powers conferred by section 15JB of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, section 23JA of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 and section 19-IA of the Depositories Act, 1996 read with section 30 of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, section 31 of the  Securities Contracts 
(Regulation)  Act,  1956  and  section  25  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations to provide for the terms of 
settlement  and  the  procedure  of  settlement  and  matters  connected  therewith  or  incidental 
thereto, namely:— 
 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and commencement. 
1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 
of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014.  
(2) They shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 20th day of April 2007.  
 
Definitions. 
2.(1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein shall 
bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be construed 
accordingly,–           

(a)  "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b) “alleged default” means an alleged or probable non-compliance of any provision of the 

securities laws; 

(c)  "Board"  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  established  under  the 
provisions of section 3 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 
of 1992); 

(d) "panel  of  whole  time  members"  means  the  panel  consisting  of  two  or  more    Whole 

Time Members  of  the Board;   

(e)  "securities laws" means the Act, the Securities Contract (Regulations) Act, 1956 (42 of 
1956),  the  Depositories  Act,1996  (22  of  1996),  and  the  rules  and  regulations  made 
thereunder; 
 

(f)  "specified proceedings"  means the proceedings  which have been initiated or may be 
initiated under section 11, section 11B, section 11D, sub-section (3) of section 12 or 
section  15-I  of  the  Act  or  section  12A  or  section  23-I  of  the  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation)Act, 1956 or section 19 or section 19H of the Depositories Act, 1996, as 
the case may be; 

(g) "specified" means specified by the Board through circulars or guidelines;   
(h) "Tribunal" means the Securities Appellate Tribunal established under section 15K of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992.  

 
(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act, the 
Companies Act,  1956, the Securities Contracts  (Regulation) Act,  1956 and the Depositories 
Act,  1996  or  any  rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder  shall  have  the  same  meanings 
respectively  assigned  to  them  in  those  Acts,  rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder  or  any 
statutory modification or re-enactment thereto.   
 

CHAPTER II 

APPLICATION FOR SETTLEMENT 

 

Application.  
3.    (1)  A  person,  against  whom  any  specified  proceedings  have  been  initiated  or  may  be 
initiated, may make an application to the Board in the Form specified in Part-A of the Schedule-
I: 
    Provided that any person who proposes to dispose of any proceedings with regard to defaults 
under securities laws, pending before the Tribunal or a  court, wherein the Board is a party may 
also file the settlement proposal in the Form as specified in Part-A of the Schedule-I.   
(2) The application made under sub-regulation (1) shall be accompanied by a non-refundable 
application fee as specified in Part-B and the undertakings and waivers  as specified in Part-C 
of the Schedule-I: 
 
Provided that the rejection of the application shall not affect the continued validity of 
the undertakings and waivers and the Board or the applicant, subject to the undertakings and 
waivers, shall be free to resort to legal recourse as may be available under law. 
(3) The applicant shall make full and true disclosures in the application in respect of the alleged 
default(s): 
Provided that the facts established against the applicant or admitted by him in any ongoing or 
concluded proceedings with respect to the same cause of action, under any law, shall be deemed 
to be admitted by the applicant in respect of the proceedings proposed to be settled.  
(4) The applicant  shall  make one application for settlement  of all the proceedings that have 
been initiated or may be initiated in respect of the same cause of action: 
Provided that an applicant, who has applied for compounding of an offence before a court for 
the same cause of action related to the specified proceedings, shall, within thirty days from the 
date of making the application, make an application under sub-regulation (1) in respect of the 
specified proceedings. 
(5) An application that is not complete in all respects or does not conform to the requirements 
of these regulations shall be returned. 
(6) The applicant whose application has been returned under sub- regulation (5) may, within 
fifteen days from the date of communication of the rejection, submit the revised application 
that conforms to the requirements of these regulations: 
    Provided that no further opportunity shall be given to the applicant to make an application 
in respect of the alleged default. 

 

2 

(7) Where the applicant  is  an association or a firm  or a body  corporate, the application and 
undertakings and waivers shall be executed by the person in charge of, and responsible for the 
conduct of the business of such firm or association, or body corporate and the same shall bind 
the firm or association, the body corporate and any officer who is in default. 
 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-regulation, the expression 'officer who is in default' 
has the same meaning as provided in sub-section (60) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
(8) An application for settlement of defaults related to disclosures, shall be made after making 
the required disclosure. 
 
Limitation.  
4. (1)No application in respect of any specified proceedings pending with the Board shall be 
considered if it is made after sixty days from the date of service of the notice to show cause or 
supplementary notice(s) to show cause, whichever is served later. 
[(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  panel  of  whole  time 
members may consider the application, if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not 
filing  it  within  the  period  specified  in  sub-regulation  (1)  and  it  is  accompanied  with  an 
application  for  condonation  of  delay  and  non-refundable  fees  as  specified  in  Part-B  of  the 
Schedule-I. 
 
Provided that where the application is filed after sixty calendar days from the expiry of 
the period specified in sub-regulation (1), the settlement amount payable by the applicant shall 
be increased by a levy of simple interest at the rate of six per cent, per annum, from the expiry 
of the period specified in sub-regulation (1) till the date of filing.] 1 
 (3)The provisions of this regulation shall not apply in the case of proceedings pending before 
the Tribunal or any court.   

 

CHAPTER III 

SCOPE OF SETTLEMENT  

 

Scope of settlement proceedings. 
5. (1) No application for settlement of any specified proceedings shall be considered, if:    

(a) the alleged default was committed within a period of twenty four calendar months from 

the date of the last settlement order where the applicant was a party;  

(b) an earlier application with regard to the same alleged default had been rejected: 

 

 
[Provided  that  such  an  application  may  be  considered  in  exceptional 
circumstances, such as the lapse of time since the commission of the alleged default, 
the weight  of evidence against the applicant,  etc  and subject  to  the payment  of such 
additional fees and/or interest on the settlement amount from the date of rejection of 
the  earlier  application  till  the  date  of  payment  of  the  settlement  amount,  as  may  be 
recommended by the high powered advisory committee.]2 

(c)  the  applicant  has  been  party  to  two  settlement  orders  during  the  period  of  thirty  six 

calendar months, prior to the date of the application; 

                                                 
1  Substituted  vide  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations,2017 w.e.f. 27.02.2017. Prior to substitution sub-regulation (2) read as 
under: 

"(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  panel  of  whole  time  members  may 
condone the delay, if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not filing the application within the 
period specified in sub-regulation (1)." 

2 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) 
(Amendment) Regulations,2017 w.e.f. 27.02.2017. 

 

3 

(d) the audit or investigation or inspection, if any, in respect of any alleged default, is not 

complete. 

(2) A specified proceeding, shall not  be settled, if it involves any of the  following defaults, 
namely,- 

(a)  defaults involving  insider trading and communication of unpublished price sensitive 
information in contravention of the provisions of the Act and the regulations made 
thereunder; 

(b) fraudulent and unfair trade practices including front running, which in the opinion 
of the Board are serious and have a market wide impact or have caused substantial 
losses to or affect the rights of investors in securities, especially retail investors and 
small shareholders: 
Provided that where the applicant has made or intends to make good the losses due 
to the investors, his application may be considered. 
3[Provided  further  that  the  defaults  under  this  clause  shall  be  considered  in 
accordance with these regulations and also the guidelines specified in Schedule-II.] 

 

Explanation.- For the purpose of this clause, the expression  ' front running' means 
usage of non-public information to  directly or indirectly, buy or sell securities or 
enter  into  options  or  futures  contracts,  in  advance  of  a  substantial  order,  on  an 
impending  transaction,  in  the  same  or  related  securities  or  futures  or  options 
contracts,  in  anticipation  that  when  the  information  becomes  public;  the  price  of 
such securities or contracts may change;  

(c)  failure to make an open offer in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the 
regulations made thereunder, except where the applicant agrees to make the open 
offer or where the Board is of the opinion that the making of the open offer would 
not be beneficial to the shareholders or is infructuous; 

(d) defaults  or  manipulative  practices  by  mutual  funds,  alternative  investment  funds, 
collective investment schemes and their sponsors or asset management companies, 
collective  investment  management  company,  managers,  trustees  that  result  in 
substantial losses to investors, except in cases where the applicant has compensated 
the investors for the losses, to the satisfaction of the Board; 

(e)  failure to redress investor grievances to the satisfaction of the Board, except where 

the alleged default is with regard to delayed redressal; 

(f)  failure, by issuers of securities or entities who invite investment, to make material 
disclosures in offer documents as required under the relevant regulations framed by 
the Board; 

(g) raising  of  monies  by  issuance  of  securities  or  pooling  of  funds,  in  violation  of 

securities laws where  the remedy is refund of such monies;   

(h) non-compliance of notices and summons issued by the Board or summons issued by 

the adjudicating officer; 

(i)  non-compliance of any order or direction passed under the securities laws.    

 
(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  this  regulation,  where  the  applicant  makes  out 
adequate  grounds in  his  application, the settlement  of proceedings in  respect  of the defaults 
referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  may  be  considered  in  the  interest  of  the  investors  and  the 
development and regulation of securities market: 
    Provided that the reasons for settlement of such proceeding shall be recorded in writing.  

                                                 
3  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)(Amendment)  Regulations,  2016, 
w.e.f. 29.8.2016. 

 

4 

An  applicant  who  withdraws  an  application  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  not  be 

(4) Nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed to preclude the panel of whole 
time  members  to  reject  any  application  in  respect  of  specified  proceedings  involving  the      
defaults referred to in clauses (a), (g), (h) and (i) of sub-regulation (2) without examination by 
the internal committee or the high powered advisory committee. 
 
Withdrawal of application.  
6. (1)  An  application  may  be  withdrawn  at  any  time  prior  to  the  communication  of  the 
decision of the panel of whole time members under regulation 14. 
(2) 
permitted to make another application in respect of the same default: 
 
[Provided that such an application may be considered at the next stage of proceedings, 
as indicated in Table I in Schedule-II, if the applicant makes out adequate grounds and subject 
to payment of such additional fees and/or interest on the settlement amount from the date of 
withdrawal of the earlier application till the date of payment of the settlement amount, as may 
be recommended by the high powered advisory committee.]4 
Effect of pending application on the specified proceedings. 
7.  (1)  Filing  of  an  application  for  settlement  of  any  specified  proceedings  shall  not  affect 
continuance of the proceedings except that the passing of the final order shall be in abeyance 
till the application is disposed of. 
(2)    Where  the  application  is  filed  in  case  of  proceedings  that  may  be  initiated  against  the 
applicant, such proceedings shall not be initiated till the application is rejected or withdrawn. 
 

 

 

CHAPTER IV 

TERMS OF SETTLEMENT 

Settlement terms.  
8. (1) The settlement terms may include a settlement amount and/or non-monetary terms, in 
accordance with the guidelines specified in Schedule-II. 
(2) The non-monetary terms may include appropriate directions, such as: 

(a)  Voluntary suspension of certificate of registration or closure of business for a specified 

period; 

(b) Removal from Management; 
(c)  Direction in the nature of disgorgement, where it is possible to identify the investors 

who have incurred losses on account of the action or inaction of the applicant;  

(d) Debarment of certain individuals from acting as a partner or officer or director of an 
intermediary  or  as  an  officer  or  director  of  a  company  that  has  a  class  of  securities 
regulated by the Board, for specified periods; 

(e)  Cancellation of securities and reduction in share holding where the securities are issued 
fraudulently including cancellation of bonus shares received on such securities, if any, 
and re-imbursement of any dividends received, etc; 

(f)  Voluntary lock-in of securities; 
(g) Implementation of  enhanced policies and procedures to prevent future securities laws 
violations as well as direction to appoint or retain an independent consultant to review 
policies and procedures; 

(h) Direction to provide enhanced training and education to employees of intermediaries; 
(i)  Directions relating to internal audit and reporting requirements; 

                                                 
4 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) 
(Amendment) Regulations,2017 w.e.f. 27.02.2017. 

 

5 

(j)  Any other directions that may be issued by the Board under the securities laws in the 

interest of the investors. 
 

(3)  The  settlement  amount,  excluding  the  legal  costs  and  disgorgement  amount,  shall  be 
credited to the Consolidated Fund of India. 
[(4)  The  application  fee  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  3,  the  additional 
processing fee accompanying the application for condonation of delay as referred to in sub-
regulation (2) of regulation 4 and the legal costs, if any, forming part of the settlement amount 
shall be credited to the Securities and Exchange Board of India General Fund.] 5 
(5)  The  amount  of  ill-gotten  profits  made  or  losses  avoided  by  the  applicant  that  may  be 
disgorged  as  part  of  the  settlement  terms,  shall  be  credited  to  the  Investor  Protection  and 
Education Fund of the Board. 

 

Factors to be considered to arrive at the settlement terms.   
9. While arriving at the settlement terms, the Board shall also consider such factors including 
but not limited to the following:  

(a)  conduct of the applicant in the investigation; 
(b) the role played by the applicant in case the alleged default is committed by a group of 

persons; 

(c)  nature, gravity and impact of alleged defaults;  
(d) whether  any  other  proceeding  against  the  applicant  for  non-compliance  of  securities 

laws is pending or concluded; 

(e)  whether the alleged default is minor or major in nature; 
(f)  the extent of amount of harm and/or loss to investors’ and/or gain by the applicant;  
(g) processes  which  have  been  introduced  since  the  alleged  default  to  minimize  future 

defaults or lapses;  

(h) compliance schedule proposed by the applicant; 
(i)  economic  benefits  accruing  to  any  person  from  the  non-compliance  or  delayed 

compliance;  

(j)  conditions which are necessary to deter future non-compliance by the same or another 

person; 

(k) satisfaction of claim of investors regarding payment of money due to them or delivery 

of securities to them;  

(l)  whether  the  applicant  has  undergone  any  other  enforcement  action  for  the  same 

violation;  

(m) any other factors necessary in the facts and circumstances of the case.  

CHAPTER V 

COMMITTEES 

High powered advisory committee. 
10.  (1)The Board shall constitute a high powered advisory committee for consideration and 
recommendation of the terms of settlement.  
(2) The high powered advisory committee shall consist of a retired Judge of a High Court and 
three external experts having expertise in securities market or in matters connected therewith 
or incidental thereto. 

                                                 
5  Substituted  vide  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations,2017 w.e.f. 27.02.2017. Prior to substitution sub-regulation (4) read as 
under: 

"(4) The legal costs, if any, forming part of the settlement amount shall be credited to the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India General Fund." 

 

6 

(3) The quorum of the high powered advisory committee shall be of three members. 
(4)  The  term  of  the  members  of  the  high  powered  advisory  committee  shall  be  three  years 
which may be extended for a further period of two years. 
(5) The high powered advisory committee shall conduct its meetings in the manner specified 
by the Board in this regard. 
 
Internal committee(s).  
11. The internal committee(s) shall comprise of an officer of the Board not below the rank of 
Chief General Manager and such other officers as may be decided by the Board. 
 

 

CHAPTER VI 

PROCEDURE OF SETTLEMENT 

Proceedings before internal committee. 
12. (1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, an application shall be referred to the 
internal  committee  which  shall    examine  whether  the  proceedings  may  be  settled  and  if  so 
determine the settlement terms in accordance with these regulations. 
(2) The internal committee may:  

(a)  call for relevant information, documents, etc., pertaining to the alleged default(s) in 

the custody of the applicant; 

(b)  call for the personal appearance of the applicant before it: 
 

Provided  that  a  duly  authorized  representative  of  the  applicant  may  make 
representation on behalf of the applicant;  

(c)  permit  the  applicant  to  revise  settlement  terms  within  a  period  not  exceeding  ten 

working days from the date of the internal committee meeting. 

(3) The proposed settlement terms, if any, shall be placed before the high powered advisory 
committee. 
 
Proceedings before high powered advisory committee.  
13.  (1) The high powered advisory committee shall consider the proposed settlement terms, 
placed before it alongwith the following: 

(a)  the application, undertaking and waivers of the applicant; 
(b) factors specified in regulation 9; 
(c)  settlement terms or revised settlement terms proposed by the applicant; 
(d) any other relevant material available on record. 

 

(2) The high powered advisory committee may require the applicant to revise the settlement 
terms and refer the application back to the internal committee. 
(3) The recommendations of the high powered advisory committee shall be placed before the 
panel of whole time members for consideration.  
 
Action on recommendation of high powered advisory committee.  
14. (1) A panel of two whole time members shall consider the recommendations of the high 
powered advisory committee and may accept or reject the same. 
(2) Where the panel of whole time members accepts the recommendation of the high powered 
advisory committee, the applicant shall be communicated about the same within 7 days of the 
decision of the panel.   
[(3) Where the panel has accepted the recommendation to pass a settlement order, the applicant 
shall,- 

 

7 

Provided  that  in  no  case  shall  such  remittance  be  accepted  after  the 

(a) remit the settlement amount forming part of the settlement terms, not later 
than  fifteen  calendar  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  notice  of  demand, 
which may be extended by the panel of whole time members for reasons to be 
recorded, by a period(s) of fifteen calendar days. 
 
 
ninetieth calendar day from the date of the receipt of the notice of demand. 
 
 
Provided further that where the settlement amount is remitted after thirty 
calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice of demand and on or before 
the  ninetieth  day  from  such  receipt,  the  settlement  amount  payable  by  the 
applicant shall be increased by the levy of simple interest at the rate of six per 
cent per annum from the date of receipt of the notice of demand till the date of 
payment of the settlement amount; and/or 
 
(b) fulfil/undertake in writing to abide by, the other settlement terms, if any, 
within the time provided to the applicant.]6 

(4) Where the panel of whole time members does not accept the recommendation of the high 
powered  advisory  committee  to  settle  the  specified  proceedings  on  the  settlement  terms 
recommended  by  it,  the  panel  may  return  the  application  to  the  internal  committee  for  re-
examination of the settlement terms and thereafter the procedure as applicable in the case of an 
original application shall be followed by the internal committee and the high powered advisory 
committee. 

      (5) Where the panel of whole time members disagrees with the recommendation to settle the 

specified proceedings, such decision shall be communicated to the applicant.  

 
7[CHAPTER VIA 

Summary Settlement Procedure 

 

Summary Settlement Procedure 

14A.  (1)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  Chapter  VI,  before  initiating  any  specified 
proceeding the Board may issue a notice of settlement in the format as specified in Schedule-
III,  calling  upon  the  noticee  to  file  a  settlement  application  in  respect  of  the  specified 
proceeding(s)  to  be  initiated,  upon  payment  of  the  settlement  amount  and/or  furnishing  an 
undertaking in respect of other non-monetary terms or compliance with other non-monetary 
terms, as may be specified in the settlement notice in respect of the following alleged defaults,- 

Late filing of returns, report, document, etc.; 

i. 
ii.  Delay in making disclosures; 

                                                 
6  Substituted  vide  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations,2017 w.e.f. 27.02.2017. Prior to substitution sub-regulation (3) read as 
under: 

"(3) Where the panel has accepted the recommendation to pass settlement order, the applicant shall remit 
the settlement amount, as per the settlement terms and/or undertake in writing to abide by other settlement 
terms, if any, within the time provided to the applicant." 

7 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations,2017 w.e.f. 27.12.2017. 

 

8 

iii.  Non-disclosure  in  relation  to  companies  exclusively  listed  on  regional  stock 

exchanges which have exited; 
Failure to make disclosures in the prescribed formats; 

iv. 
v.  Delay in compliance of any of the requirements of law or with directions issued by 

the Board; 
Such other violations as may be determined by the Board. 

vi. 

 

 
Provided that, the specified proceeding(s) shall not be settled under this Chapter, if in 
the opinion of the Board, the applicant has failed to make a full and true disclosure of facts or 
failed to co-operate to the satisfaction of the Board: 

 

Provided further that, notwithstanding anything  contained  in  the  notice of settlement  
 
, the  Board  shall have  the  power  to  modify  the  enforcement  action  to  be  brought  against  
the  noticee and the notice  of settlement  shall not  confer any right  upon the noticee to  seek 
settlement or avoid any enforcement action. 

 

(2)  The  noticee  may  within  thirty  calendar  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  notice  of 
settlement,- 

(a) file a settlement application in the Form specified in Part-A of the Schedule-I alongwith 
non-refundable application fee as specified in Part-B and the undertakings and waivers as 
specified in Part-C of the Schedule-I;  

(b) remit the settlement amount as specified in the notice of settlement;  and  

(c)  comply  or  undertake  to  comply  with  other  non-monetary  terms  as  specified  in  the 
notice of settlement, as the case may be.  

 

Provided that, in case of any discrepancy in calculation of settlement amount specified 
 
in the notice of settlement, the noticee may seek rectification of the same at the time of filing 
the  settlement  application  and  in  such  cases  the  decision  of  the  Board  shall  be  final  and 
remittance shall be done within thirty calendar days from the date of receipt of the decision of 
the Board. 

 

Provided further that, the Board may for reasons to be recorded, grant extension of 
 
time  not  exceeding  a  further  period  of  fifteen  calendar  days  for  filing  of  the  settlement 
application, remittance of the settlement amount and/or furnishing an undertaking in respect of 
any of the non-monetary terms or compliance with any of the non-monetary terms specified in 
the notice of settlement. 

 

(3) The Board upon being satisfied with the remittance of settlement amount and undertaking 
furnished  in  respect  of  non-monetary  terms  or  compliance  with  non-monetary  terms,  if  any 
specified in the settlement notice, shall pass an order of settlement under regulation 15. 

 

14B. Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter VI and in regulation 14A, with respect to 
specified proceedings pending as on the date of commencement of this Chapter, the Board may 

 

9 

issue  a  notice  of  settlement  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  14A  in  respect  of  such 
proceedings and in such cases the procedure specified in regulation 14A shall apply mutatis 
mutandis. 

 

Explanation. - For the purposes of this Chapter, it is clarified that a specified proceeding is not 
deemed  to  be  initiated  and  pending,  unless  the  Board  has  communicated  the  matter  to  the 
authority who shall conduct such proceedings. 

  

14C. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, where a noticee does not file a 
settlement application under this Chapter or remit the settlement amount and/or comply with 
other  non-monetary  terms  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Board  or  withdraws  the  settlement 
application, the specified proceedings may be initiated or continued, as the case may be and 
such a noticee shall only be permitted to file a settlement application in respect of proceedings 
pending  before  a  Court  or  tribunal  after  conclusion  of  proceedings  before  the  Adjudicating 
Officer or the Board, as the case may be.] 

 

CHAPTER VII 

SETTLEMENT ORDERS 

 

Settlement of proceedings before the Adjudicating officer and the Board.  
15. (1)The adjudicating officer shall pass the settlement order in the proceeding pending before 
him with respect to the alleged default(s). 
(2)The panel of the whole time members shall pass settlement order with respect to proceedings 
initiated or proposed to be initiated for alleged default(s) other than the proceedings referred to 
in sub-regulation (1). 
(3) The settlement order passed under these regulations shall, inter alia, contain the details of 
the  alleged  default(s),  relevant  provisions  of  the  securities  laws,  facts  and  circumstances 
relevant to the alleged default, the admissions made by the applicant, if any and the settlement 
terms. 
 
 
 
Settlement of the proceedings pending before the Tribunal or any court.   
16. (1) Save as otherwise provided in these regulations, the provisions with regard to settlement 
of specified proceedings shall mutatis mutandis apply to an application for settlement of any 
proceeding pending before the Tribunal or any court.  
(2)  The  proposal  of  settlement  along  with  the  settlement  terms  or  rejection  thereof  shall  be 
placed before such Tribunal or court for appropriate orders. 
 
Service of settlement order and publication. 
17. Settlement orders shall be served on the applicant and shall also be published on the website 
of the Board. 
 
 
Effect of settlement order on third party rights.  
18. A settlement order under these regulations shall not affect the right of third parties arising 
out of the alleged default. 
 

 

10 

Non-compliance of settlement order. 
19. If the applicant fails to comply with the settlement order or at any time after the settlement 
order is passed, it comes to the notice of the Board that the applicanthas not made   full and 
true  disclosure  or  has  violated  the  undertakings  or  waivers,    settlement  order  shall  stand 
revoked and withdrawn and the Board shall restore or initiate the proceedings, with respect to 
which the settlement order was passed. 
 
Rejection in certain eventualities. 
20. (1) The Board may at any time during the course of considering an application, reject an 
application on the following grounds: 

(a)  Where the applicant refuses to receive or respond to the communications sent by the 

Board; 

(b) Where  the  applicant  does  not  submit  or  delays  the  submission  of  information, 

document, etc., required by the Board; 

(c)  Where the applicant who is required to appear, but does not appear before the internal 

committee on more than one occasion; 

(d) Where the applicant violates in any manner the undertaking and waivers as specified in 

Part-C of the Schedule-I; 

(e)  Where the applicant does not remit [the settlement amount within the period specified 
in  clause  (a)  of  sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  14]  8  and/or  does  not  abide  by  the 
undertaking and waivers.  

(2) The rejection under sub-regulation (1) shall be communicated to the applicant. 

 

CHAPTER VIII 

MISCELLANEOUS 

 
Confidentiality of information, etc. 
21.  (1)  All  information  submitted  and  discussions  held  in  pursuance  of  the  settlement 
proceedings  under  these  regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  received  or  made  in  a 
fiduciary capacity and the same may not be released to the public, if the same prejudices the 
Board and/or the applicant. 
(2)  Where  an  application  is  rejected,  the  applicant  and  the  Board  shall  not  rely  upon  or 
introduce  as  evidence  before  any  court  or  Tribunal,  any  proposals  made  or  information 
submitted or representation made by the applicant under these regulations: 
    Provided that this sub-regulation shall not apply where the settlement order is revoked and 
withdrawn under these regulations.  
 
Power to remove difficulties. 
22. In order to remove any difficulty in the interpretation or application of the provisions of 
these regulations, the Board shall have the power to issue clarifications through circulars or 
guidelines. 

 
Power to specify procedures. 
23. For the purposes of implementation of these regulations the Board may specify norms or 
procedures, by way of circulars or guidelines.   
 
 

                                                 
8 Substituted for the words “or delays the payment of settlement amount” vide the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations,2017 w.e.f. 27.02.2017. 

 

11 

Rescission and savings. 
24.(1) On and from the commencement of these regulations, the following circulars issued by 
the Board shall stand rescinded: 
 
 
(2) Notwithstanding any such rescission:  

(a) Board’s circular ref No. EFD/ED/Cir-1/2007 dated April 20, 2007; and 
(b) Board’s circular ref No. CIR/EFD/1/2012 dated May 25, 2012. 

(a) Applications filed under the circulars referred to in sub-regulation (1)  and pending 
with the Board shall be deemed to have been filed in accordance with these regulations 
and shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of these regulations. 
(b) Settlement orders passed under the circulars referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall 
be deemed to have been passed under these regulations.  
(c)  The  proposals  of  the  internal  committees  and  the  recommendations  of  the  high 
powered  advisory  committee  in  accordance  with  the  circulars  referred  to  in  sub-
regulation (1) and any action taken by the Board on the basis of these recommendations 
shall be deemed to have been made under these regulations. 
(d) The internal committee(s) and the high powered advisory committee constituted by 
the  Board  in  accordance  with  the  circulars  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1),  shall 
continue to function till such time the Board re-constitutes them.   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SCHEDULE-I  
(See regulation 3) 

Part-A 
FORM 

Application for settlement  

(For Office use only) 

Date of receipt of the application: 

Application Registration Number: 

(Instructions: All the particulars must be filled. Put ‘NA’ wherever necessary.) 

Before the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

12 

In the matter of ………………………….. 

1. Name/Trade name of the applicant: 

(a) Registration no., if applicable :  
(b) Date of Registration, if applicable : 
(c) PAN number:  
(d) Paid-up capital of applicant: 

2. If stock broker, name of the stock exchange: 

3. If sub-broker, name of stock broker with whom affiliated and name of the stock 

exchange: 

4. Name of the segment (Cash/derivative etc.): 

5. Form of organization: corporate body/ sole proprietorship / partnership / LLP/ financial 

institution (if listed co., details of listing) : 

6. Names of promoters/directors/proprietors/partners: 

7. Key management personnel(s) : 

8. Address/correspondence address, contact no./fax no. and email(any changes in 

aforesaid details shall be communicated to the Board promptly): 

9. Name and contact details (including e-mail) of the contact person (s): 

10. Other registration(s) with the Board, if applicable : 

(a) Trade name : 
(b) Registration type : 
(c) Registration no. : 

     11. Case(s) pending with the Board/SAT/Court (Pl. specify) : 

     12. Case(s) pending under 11B/Adjudication/Enquiry/others (pl. specify): 

     13. Stage at which pending: 

     14. Interim order(s) in the pending proceedings (gist of the orders passed), if any : 

     15. Other actions pending with/concluded by the Board, if any (with their details) : 

(a) Against the applicant 
(b) Against its associates 
(c) Against its key management personnel(s) : 
(d) Against its other promoters/directors: 
(e) Other details, if any: 

 : 
 : 

 

 

13 

  16. Date of show cause notice/summons/communication indicating probable cause of action, 

if any, against which the settlement is sought(PLEASE ENCLOSE COPIES)*:  

  17. Full and true disclosure of facts (including the profit made, loss avoided, gross fees, 

brokerage, commissions, etc., in respect of the cause of action): 

  18.  

Specific charges alleged: 

  19. Terms of settlement proposed by the Applicant:- 

 

 

(a) Monetary terms:- 

(b) Non-monetary terms:- 

  20. Original documents to be enclosed:  

(a) Undertakings and waivers (as per Format specified in Part C). 
(b) Authority letter/Board resolution. 

 

 21. List of other enclosures:  

(a)  A  copy  of  the  notice  to  show  cause/summons/communication/other  notices 
indicating the probable cause of action, if any, against which the settlement is sought;  
(b)  Complete  Annual  Reports  /  other  relevant  financial  details  for  the  last  three  
financial years and the quarterly audited financial results of the current year;  
 (c) A statement showing net worth of the applicant(only for those applicants who are 
required to comply with the networth requirements as specified by the Board or by the 
stock exchanges), gross annual income before tax, the  amount of gross profit made/loss 
avoided,  including  the  gross  brokerage,  fees,    management/performance/transaction 
fee, carried interest, compensation, etc., in respect of the said default;  
(d)Copy of PAN card; 
(e) Complete Income-tax Returns of the applicant for the last three financial years;  
(f) Any other relevant document (s)/submissions. 

 (Signature of the applicant) 

(Stamp and Seal) 

Verification 

I, ………………………………………………son/daughter/wife of (Name in block letters) 

Shri …………………………………..being the applicant/authorised representative (in case of 
corporate  entity)  of  …………………….  do  hereby  verify  and  affirm  on  oath  that  this  this 
application and the contents thereof are true to my knowledge and belief and as per the records 
and that I have not suppressed any material facts. 

(Signature of the applicant) 

Date: 

 

14 

Place :  

Part-B 

[Every  applicant  shall pay  processing fees of ten thousand rupees  and every application for 
condonation shall be accompanied with additional processing fees of two thousand rupees, by 
way of a demand draft in favour of 'Securities and Exchange Board of India' payable at Mumbai 
or by way of direct credit in the bank account through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode 
allowed by RBI.]9 

 

Part-C 

Undertakings and Waivers   

Format  

Undertaking to be submitted alongwith the application with stamp duty duly paid and 
duly notarized at the time of execution. 

I/We,  …………………,  the  applicant(s)  herein,  as  a  condition  for  making  the  enclosed 
application to the Board for examining of the application and passing of appropriate settlement 
order, hereby declare that I/we agree and undertake that: 

(1) I/We  admit  the  jurisdiction  and  right  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  to 

initiate appropriate proceedings in respect of the alleged default. 

(2) I/We  further  agree  and  undertake  that  the  time  spent  during  the  settlement  proceedings 
shall be excluded for computing the limitation period, if any, for initiating or continuing 
or restoring any legal proceedings, if any, against me/us, and waive any objections in this 
regard.  

(3) The Securities and Exchange Board of India may enforce any claims against me/us arising 
from  or/in  relation  to  any  violation  of  the  settlement  order  passed  pursuant  to  this 
application. 

(4) Nothing in the settlement order shall preclude any other person from pursuing any other 

legal remedy to which such person may be entitled against me/us as per law. 

(5) The settlement proposed by me/us does not limit or create any private rights or remedies 

for any person who is not a party to these proceedings, against me/us.  

(6) The settlement amount including legal costs, if any, shall be paid by me/us to the Board 

within the period stipulated by the Board. 

                                                 
9  Substituted  vide  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 w.e.f. 27.02.2017. Prior to substitution  the existing item read as 
under: 

"Every  applicant  shall  pay  fees  of    ten  thousand  rupees  by  a  demand  draft  in  favour  of 'Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India" payable at Mumbai." 

Prior  to  the  SEBI  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  the 
existing item read as under: 

"Every applicant shall pay fees of   five thousand rupees by a demand draft in favour of 'Securities and 
Exchange Board of India" payable at Mumbai." 

 

15 

(7) The settlement order shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the Securities and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings) 
Regulations, 2014. 

(8) I/We agree that subsequent to the passing of the settlement order, I/We shall not take any 
action or make or permit to be made any public statement denying, directly or indirectly, 
any  finding  in  the  settlement  order  or  creating  impression  that  the  settlement  order  is 
without factual basis.  

(9) I/We hereby declare that nothing in the waiver and undertaking given by me/us shall affect 
my/our (i) testimonial obligations or (ii) right to take legal or factual positions in defence 
of litigation or in defence of a claim or in any other legal proceeding in which the Board 
is not a party. 

(10) I/We  ‘admit  the  findings  of  fact  and  conclusions  of  law’  or  ‘neither  admit  nor  deny  the 
findings of fact and conclusions of law’ (strike off whichever is not applicable) which may 
be part of the settlement order, and agree to abide by the settlement order as may be passed 
for the purpose of settlement of the specified proceedings in accordance with the Securities 
and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings) 
Regulations, 2014 and guidelines and circulars issued by the Board in that regard.  

(11) I/We  waive  my/our  right  of  taking  any  legal  proceedings  against  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India concerning any of the issue covered in the settlement order that 
may be passed.  

(12) I/We further waive the following: 

(a)the findings of fact and conclusions of law; 

(b)  the proceedings before the Board or any officer of the Board; 

(c)  the right to all post-hearing procedures; 

(d)  appeal/review before the Tribunal/courts;  

(e) any plea relating to such provisions of the regulations or other requirements of law  as 

may be construed to prevent any officer of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
from participating in the any proceedings, including settlement proceedings or assisting 
or advising the internal committee, high powered advisory committee or panel of whole 
time members, as to, any order, opinion, finding of fact, or conclusion of law, etc; 

(f)  any plea of bias or pre-judgment by the Securities and Exchange Board of India or the 
high powered advisory committee, based on the consideration of or discussions concerning 
settlement of all or any part of the internal proceedings;  

(g)  any  plea  of  limitation  for  initiating  or  reopening  of  the  proceedings,  if  the  applicant 
violates the settlement order. 

 

(Signature of the applicant with stamp and seal of the body corporate) 

Before me.  

 Notary. 

 

 

16 

SCHEDULE-II 

(See regulation 8) 

 

GUIDELINES FOR ARRIVING AT SETTLEMENT TERMS 

 

CHAPTER I 

 

1.  The settlement amount (SA) shall comprise of  the Indicative Amount (IA) arrived at 
in  terms  of  these  guidelines  and  the  factors  provided  in  regulation  9,  wherever 
applicable. 
 

2.  Except for persons treated as name lenders, the IA shall not be less than ` 2 lakh for 

 

first time applicants or ` 5 lakh for others, as the case may be.  
 
Explanation.-A ‘first time applicant’ is a person who has never obtained a settlement 
order from the Board as on the date of the present application. 
 

3.  Based on the stage at which the proceeding(s), for which the application is made, is/are 
pending, the proceeding conversion factor (PCF) shall be applied when calculating the 
IA.   
 

4.  In cases, where an existing business or  activity of a person is either corporatized or 
converted into an LLP or partnership or merged or taken over by a new management, 
the existing record of the erstwhile entity shall be deemed to be the record of the new 
entity. Considerations such as change of name or management or ownership shall be 
irrelevant when determining the liability of the said entity. 
 

5.  Where an entity desires to obtain the benefit of a lower PCF, in relation to any alleged 
default it may, suo motto, before the receipt of any notice to show cause, intimate the 
Board  of  such  default  hereinafter  referred  to  as  ‘intimation  defaults’  and  co-operate 
with  SEBI  in  the  investigation,  inquiry,  inspection  or  audit.  It  may  thereafter  file  a 
settlement  application,  upon  completion  of  the  investigation,  inspection,  etc.  The 
application shall be deemed to have been made ‘Pre- issue of notice to show cause’ for 
the purpose of calculating the PCF. 

 
[6. The IA is to be calculated for each applicant. In a case where multiple applicants apply 
in respect of a default arising from the same cause of action, the IA will be calculated 
for each applicant, as per the applicable formula except in the following cases where 
the applicants may be considered to have joint and several liability,- 

(a)  the  acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert  (PAC)  under  the  Takeover 
Regulations; 
(b) in case of directors, where by reason of commission or omission  they have 
only acted collectively for an act of the company; 
(c) any other group of persons, based on the facts and circumstances of each case, 
which the IC/HPAC may so recommend.] 10 

                                                 
10  Substituted  vide  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 w.e.f. 27.02.2017. Prior to substitution item 6 read as under: 

"6. The IA is to be calculated for each applicant. In a case where multiple applicants make a combined 
application for a default arising from the same cause of action, the IA will be calculated for each applicant, 

 

17 

 

7.  While  considering  the  application,  the  alleged  default(s)  detailed  in  the  Inspection 
Report or the Investigation Report or the Report of the Designated Authority (DA) or 
the notice to show cause, including any supplementary notice to show cause issued by 
any authority in a pending proceeding, or the facts/findings detailed in the order of the 
Designated  Member  (DM)  or  the  Whole  Time  Member  (WTM)  or  the  Adjudicating 
Officer  (AO)  or  the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  (SAT),  as  applicable,  may  be  the 
basis for calculating the IA.  
 
 
In case, the Internal Committee (IC) or the High Powered Advisory Committee 
(HPAC)or the Panel of Whole Time Members (WTMs) are of the view that the facts 
disclose a different default, the same may be taken into account.  
 

 

8.  The alleged defaults shall, wherever applicable, be categorised based on the facts and 
circumstances as major, minor, serious or miscellaneous, etc., by the IC or HPAC or 
the Panel of WTMs.  

 

9.  Notwithstanding anything contained in these guidelines, the IC or HPAC or Panel of 
WTMs  shall  have  the  discretion  to  recommend  acceptance  or  rejection  or  accept  or 
reject an application, to recommend a amount, lower or higher than the amounts arrived 
at  in  terms  of  these  guidelines,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  securities  laws, 
considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the gravity of the charges.  
 

10. In cases where the formulae for calculating the IA are inapplicable or cannot be adapted 
due to the nature of the default or the facts and circumstances of the case or where the 
defaults detailed in the Tables in these guidelines are not covered,  the IC or HPAC or 
Panel of WTMs may arrive at the SA,  as they  deem fit. 
 

11[11. It is hereby clarified that— 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 

(c) 

 

the purpose of sub-clause (b) of clause (2) of regulation 5 is not to  prohibit the 
settlements in respect of all kinds of fraudulent and unfair trade practices. 

have market wide impact, or 
cause substantial losses to investors in securities, or 
affect  the  rights  of  investors  in  securities,  especially  retail  investors 
and small shareholders. 

clause  (b)  of  sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  5  disqualifies  only  the  defaults 
which are 'serious' and — 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
 
 
Thus, in order to fall in disqualification of clause (b), the default must be serious 
and it must fall in any or all of the categories mentioned in points (i), (ii) and 
(iii) above. 
Notwithstanding  the  same,  where  both  these  criteria  are  attracted,  the 
application  may  be  considered  for  settlement,  if  the  applicant  has  made  or 
intends to make good the losses to the investors in terms of the first proviso to 
clause (b), provided he undertakes in writing that,— 

                                                 

as per the applicable formula except in cases related to defaults under the Takeover Regulations where the 
acquirer and persons acting in concert (PAC) may be considered to have joint liability." 

11Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)(Amendment)  Regulations,  2016, 
w.e.f. 26-8-2016. 

 

18 

 
 

'for the limited purpose of settling the administrative and civil proceedings I/We 
admit the charge before the Securities and Exchange Board of India.' 

 
(d)  While considering its 'seriousness', the default shall be seen in the context of its 
specific  nature  and  the  role  played  by  the  applicant.  The  charges  against  the 
applicant in the show cause notice or the investigation report or the report of the 
designated authority, as the case may be, may not be the only deciding factor in 
this  regard.  The  weight  and  sufficiency  of  the  evidence  and  the  basis  of  the 
charge levelled against the applicant or the extent of his co-operation during the 
investigation /inquiry / inspection, etc., if any may also be taken into account. 

 
(e) 

Further,  the  fact  that  the  case  has  been  referred  to  the  Serious  Frauds 
Investigation  Office  by  the  Central  Government  or  the  fraudulent  and  unfair 
trade practices, directly  or indirectly, pose a systemic risk to the functions of 
any  banking  or  micro-finance  institution  or  a  systemically  important  non-
banking  financial  company  or  stock  exchange  or  clearing  corporation  or  a 
depository  shall  be  relevant  factors  for  considering  the  'seriousness'  of  the 
default. 

 
(f)  Market  wide  impact:  shall  mean  the  defaults  which  have  a  bearing  on  the 
securities  market  as  a  whole  and  not  just  the  listed  security  and  its  investors 
which is under investigation/inquiry/inspection, etc. 

 
(g)  The defaults which affect the right of investors: shall refer to the qualitative and 
quantitative  impact  on  the  rights  of  investors,  including  the  number  of 
complaints received, especially from retail investors and small shareholders. A 
qualitative impact refers to an indirect impact on the rights of investors, such as 
reduction  in  rating  of  a  scrip  as  a  result  of  the  fraudulent  and  unfair  trade 
practices  or  an  increase  in  promoter  holdings  through  a  fraudulent  private 
placement to related parties in default of minimum public shareholding norms, 
etc. A quantitative impact refers to the quantifiable losses to investors, to the 
extent determinable.] 

 

[**]12 

 

                                                 
12 Omitted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations,2017 w.e.f. 27.12.2017. Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations,2017 w.e.f. 27.02.2017. Prior to 
its deletion, item 12 read as follows,- 

“12. Settlement Notice: Except in cases which are excluded from settlement, a settlement notice indicating the 
substance of the charges and probable actions may be issued in advance of the notice to show cause so as to 
afford an opportunity to file a settlement application, within fifteen calendar days from receipt of the settlement 
notice. 
 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the settlement notice, the Board shall have the power 
 
to modify the enforcement action to be brought against the noticee and the notice shall not confer any right 
to seek settlement or avoid any enforcement action.” 

 

19 

13{  14 [15 (12.)]} In case of an amendment(s) or repeal of the securities laws, these guidelines 
shall continue to apply to similar provisions under the amended or new laws, mutatis 
mutandis. 
 

INDICATIVE AMOUNT AND THE SETTLEMENT AMOUNT 

CHAPTER II 

 
Indicative amount (IA) shall be calculated as follows: 
 

IA= A×B + Legal Costs# 

#Legal  costs  as  incurred  by  the  Board  shall  be  applicable  to  a  application  made  at  the  stages 
mentioned in points “d” and “e” as provided in Table I.   
 

   ‘A’ = PCF + RAF 

 

A  
PCF 
RAF 

:  Multiplying Factor 
:  Proceeding Conversion Factor 
:  Regulatory Action Factor 

 
 
 
 

Where 
‘PCF’-   The value assigned on the basis of the stage of the proceedings, as on the date 

 

of the application; and  

‘RAF’-   Values for prior orders and regulatory directions issued to the applicant. 
 

‘B’  - 

 Benchmark Amount, is the amount which is attributable to the alleged default 
for which a proceeding under securities laws may be or has been initiated by 
the Board; it is determined separately for each category of default and in case 
of  multiple  defaults,  the  total  sum  thereof,  determined  in  terms  of  these 
guidelines; 

 

[1.  (a) Where the AO has already awarded penalty to the applicant, then ‘B’ shall be equal 
to the amount calculated by these guidelines or the penalty awarded by the AO, 
whichever is higher; 

(b) In case more than one proceeding arising from the same cause of action has been 

initiated against the applicant, the IA shall be increased by 15%;  

(c)  In cases where the WTM or DM has issued directions debarring or suspending the 

applicant, the RAF shall take into account the value of Y as per Table III.] 16 

 

                                                 
13  Renumbered  by  the  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2017 
w.e.f. 27.02.2017. 
14  Renumbered  by  the  SEBI  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)(Amendment)  Regulations, 
2016, w.e.f. 29.8.2016. 
15 Renumbered by the (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 
2017 w.e.f. 27.11.2017. 
16  Substituted  vide  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 w.e.f. 27.02.2017. Prior to substitution item 1 read as under: 

"1. In case, more than one proceeding arising from the same cause of action has been initiated against 
the applicant, the IA shall be increased by 15%. 
Provided  that  where  the  AO  has  already  awarded  penalty  to  the  applicant,  then  ‘B’  shall  be 
 
equal to the amount calculated by these guidelines or the penalty awarded by the AO; whichever is 
higher. In cases where the WTM or DM has issued directions debarring or suspending the applicant, 
the RAF shall take into account the value of Y as per Table III." 

 

20 

2.  The amount which is finally recommended by the HPAC after taking into account the 
IA, any mitigating or aggravating factors etc; and approved by the Panel of Whole Time 
Members is the SA.  

 

3.  After payment of the SA, the settlement order along with other directives, if any, shall 

be passed accordingly. 

 
 

CHAPTER III 

PROCEEDING CONVERSION FACTOR  

 
The  values  assigned  on  the  basis  of  the  stage  of  the  proceedings,  as  on  the  date  of  the 
application, shall be the PCF as per Table I 
 

[TABLE I-PCF 

 

STAGE OF THE PROCEEDING(S) WHEN THE APPLICATION IS MADE 

VALUE 

OF 

PCF 

a.   

b.   

Voluntary or suo-moto intimation matters * 

0.65 

Pre- issue of  the notice to show cause (including 

0.75 

applications filed on or before 15th calendar day from 

the receipt of the settlement notice) 

c.   

Post-issue of the first notice to show cause  pertaining 

0.85 

to any pending proceeding in the same cause of action 

(including  applications filed after 15th calendar day 

from the receipt of the settlement notice) 

d.   

Proceeding pending after the submission of the report 

0.9 

by the DA  

e.   

Proceedings pending after passing of the order by the 

1.10 

AO or DM or WTM, as the case may be  

f. 

 

Proceedings pending after the passing of the order by  

1.20 

the SAT or High Court  

 

21 

*Cases relating to fraudulent and unfair trade practices may be considered taking into 
account  the  evidence,  information  and  assistance  provided  during  the  course  of 
investigation, otherwise b. will apply.]17 
 
Provided that where multiple proceedings arising out of the same cause of action are sought to 
be settled, the value of the proceeding which is at the most advanced stage, irrespective of the 
stage of progress of the other proceedings, shall be taken as the PCF. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

VALUE FOR ALL ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS 

CHAPTER IV 

 
The sum of all the values assigned to the orders and regulatory direction(s) issued in the past, 
if any, shall be ‘RAF’. 
 

 

‘RAF’= X  + Y 

TABLE II -VALUE FOR ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS ISSUED X*   

*  To also include those orders and directions which have been stayed by the SAT or Court, as 
on the date of the application. In case multiple proceedings have been initiated for the same 
cause of action, the value shall be added for each order passed. 

 

ORDERS AND REGULATORY DIRECTIONS ISSUED TO THE APPLICANT 

X 

PER ORDER 

                                                 
17  Substituted  vide  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement  of  Administrative  and  Civil 
Proceedings) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017 w.e.f. 27.02.2017. Prior to substitution Table-I read as under: 

" TABLE I-PCF 

 

 

STAGE OF THE PROCEEDING(S) WHEN THE APPLICATION IS MADE 

VALUE 
OF PCF 

 

0.75 

a. 

b. 

c. 
d. 

e. 

 

 

 

 

 

" 

 

Pre- issue of  the notice to show cause (including intimation 

matters) 

Post-issue of the first notice to show cause  pertaining to any 

0.85 

pending proceeding in the same cause of action 

Proceeding pending after the submission of the report by the DA 

Proceedings pending after passing of the order by the AO or DM 

0.9 

1.10 

or WTM, as the case may be 

Proceedings pending after the passing of the order by  the SAT or 

1.20 

High Court 

22 

Exonerated cases i.e. cases where applicant was exonerated in an order or 

0 

appeal or review 
Settlement Order  

 

ALL OTHER ORDERS (EXCEPT FOR WHICH THE APPLICATION IS FILED) 

Cease and desist order  

Order of AO or  WTM issued against other market participants 

Order of AO, DM or WTM issued against intermediaries or listed companies 

 
 

0.01 

 

0.02 
0.05 
0.075 

TABLE III- VALUE FOR ORDER OR DIRECTION PASSED OR ISSUED FOR WHICH THE 

APPLICATION IS FILED - Y  

 

PROCEEDING BEFORE  DM 

PROCEEDING BEFORE  WTM 

‘Y’ 

Warning issued 

Suspension upto 1 week 

Debarment upto 6 calendar months 

Suspension for 1 week or more, but 

Debarment for 6 calendar months  or 

less than 1 month 

more, but less than 1  year 

PER ORDER 

0.05 
0.1 

0.15 

Suspension for 1 month or more but 

Debarment for 1 year or more but 

0.2 

less than 3 months 

less than 2 years 

Suspension for 3 months or more but 

Debarment for 2 years or more but 

0.25 

less than 1  year 

less than 3 years 

Suspension for or more than 1 year 

Debarment for 3 years or more but 

0.3 

less than 5 years 

 
 
 
 
 

CHAPTER V 

BENCHMARK AMOUNT FOR FUTP DEFAULTS  

 
The  Benchmark  Amount  for  defaults  related  to  FUTP  i.e.  B  (FUTP),  may  be  computed  as 
detailed in this Chapter. 
 
However, the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s may, in cases of serious FUTP default, take the 
Benchmark Amount of the applicant as per the provisions of the securities laws if the amounts 
arrived at on the basis of the calculations are found to be low and not commensurate to the 
seriousness of the alleged default. 
 
Notwithstanding the above, SEBI shall not settle serious fraudulent and unfair trade practices 
which, in its opinion, cause substantial losses to investors especially retail investors and small 
shareholders  or  have  or  may  have  market  wide  impact,  except  those  defaults  where  the 
applicant has made or intends to make good the losses due to the investors to the satisfaction of 
SEBI.  
 

 

23 

B(FUTP) = SUM OF BASE VALUES AS PER TABLE IV × APPLICABLE AMOUNT 

 

 

TABLE IV - BASE VALUES 

 

NATURE OF DEFAULT  

a.   

 

FUTP   or  violation of code of 
conduct noted in an investigation  

related to FUTP  

 

Or  

 

FUTP   in combination with  the 
violation of  code of conduct or  
any other regulation under SEBI 

(PIT)  Regulations or SEBI (SAST) 

Regulations  

 

Or  

 

FUTP in combination with a 

violation of SEBI Master Circular 

on AML, etc. 

 

b.   

Factors for volume traded and/or 

price change for the default 

c.   

Time value of ill-gotten gains* 

BASE VALUE 

1.35 

 
 
 
 
 
 

1.37 

 
 
 
 
 
 

1.4 

 

Sum  of  ‘V’,  ‘P’  and  ‘Q’,  wherever 
applicable, to be applied only if the the 
volume 
traded  or  price  change, 
quantity traded in respect of the group, 
of which the applicant is a part of or of 
the  applicant  when  he  acts  alone,  as 
the  case  may  be,  can  be  calculated 
from  findings  brought  out  in  the 
investigation report or notice to show 
cause or order, as the case may be. 

In  case  multiple  trading  periods  are 
involved the highest change has to be 
considered. 
0.09 × no. of calendar years from the 
date of commission of the default 
All applicants - 0.25 

d.   
 

 

Reputation risk applicable in all 

cases 

 

*Factor  ‘c’  is  applicable  only  in  cases  where  the  actual  profit  and/or  loss  avoided  (approx)  is 
determinable. While calculating the period, the fractions may be ignored. 

‘V’ = VALUE FOR THE HIGHEST % OF VOLUME TRADED IN ANY TRADING PERIOD DURING 

THE ENTIRE PERIOD OF DEFAULT  

 
 

 

24 

In case of more than one scrip, the scrip with the highest volume traded is to be 

considered 

 

 

  % VOLUME TRADED 
(ILLIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 50% 

50 -60% 
60-75%# 

75% or more# 

‘V’ 

 

0.05 

0.07 

0.1 
0.15 

% VOLUME TRADED 

(LIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 2% 

2-5% 
5-10%# 

10% or more# 

#Where the volume traded, during any trading period falls within this class, the IC or HPAC or 
Panel of WTM’s shall consider whether the default may be settled. 

‘P’ = VALUE FOR HIGHEST % OF PRICE CHANGE IN ANY TRADING PERIOD DURING THE 

 

ENTIRE PERIOD OF DEFAULT  

 

In case of more than one scrip, the scrip with the highest price change is to be 

considered 

 

 

% PRICE CHANGE 
(ILLIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 50% 
50-100%# 
100-200%# 

200% or more# 

‘P’ 

 

0.05 

0.07 

0.1 
0.15 

% PRICE CHANGE 

(LIQUID SCRIP) 

Upto 5% 
5-10%# 
10-20%# 

20% or more# 

#Where the price change during any trading period falls within this class, the IC or HPAC or 
Panel of WTM’s shall consider whether the default may be settled. 
 
 
 
 

‘Q’ = VALUE FOR HIGHEST % OF PRICE CHANGE IN ANY TRADING PERIOD, DURING THE 

PERIOD OF DEFAULT FOR F&O & LEVERAGED PRODUCTS 

In case of more than one product, the contract with the highest price change is to be 

 

considered 

% PRICE CHANGE 

Upto 0.5% 

0.5-1% 
1-5%# 

5% or more# 

‘Q’ 

0.05 

0.07 

0.1 
0.15 

#Where the price change during any trading period falls within this class, the IC or HPAC or 
Panel of WTM’s shall consider whether the default may be settled.  

 

II - APPLICABLE AMOUNT 

 

 

THE APPLICABLE AMOUNT FOR AN APPLICANT =The profit made and/or loss avoided* 

of each applicant  
Or 

25 

The Base Amount as per Table V, 

whichever is higher. 

 
 
*IN CHAPTER V TO VII, PROFIT MADE AND/OR LOSS AVOIDED, MAY BE CALCULATED AFTER 
TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE FOLLOWING: 

1.  In cases, where the profit made and losses avoided both co-exist, the sum thereof shall 
be  taken  into  consideration  for  arriving  at  the  total  ill-gotten  profit  made  by  the 
applicant. 

 

 

 

 

 

2.  In cases of issue of fraudulent securities, fraudulent purchase of securities, including 
where funding is though circuitous route, etc., the profit made and/or loss avoided, shall 
be calculated after taking into account the market value of the securities on the date of 
purchase, allotment, issue, etc; whichever is relevant, in addition to the profit earned 
from subsequent sale thereof, if any. 

3.  In  cases  involving  the  siphoning  of  funds  or  cornering  of  securities  in  an  issue,  the 
applicant’s profit made and/or loss avoided shall take into account the net proceeds or 
the value of the securities or the share thereof received by the applicant. 

4.  In cases involving an intermediary, the profit made and/or loss avoided shall take into 
account the gross fees earned by the applicant in respect of the default, by whatever 
name called and any proprietary trades, if any. 

5.  In cases where the purpose of the FUTP is to maintain the price, the profit made and/or 
loss avoided shall take into account any means by which the applicant has benefited 
including the value of any pledge, margin requirements, loans against securities, hedge, 
options, hybrids, futures, issue of securities, etc.,  in the scrip in which the applicant 
was interested. 

6.  In cases where trades have been executed after the dissemination of false information, 
the profit and/or loss avoided shall take into consideration the difference between the 
purchase or sale price of the security and the value of that security as measured by the 
trading price of the security after a reasonable period from public dissemination of the 
true information. 

 

TABLE V- BASE AMOUNT  

 

AND  

 

PARAMETERS (WHEREVER APPLICABLE) RELATING TO FUTP INCLUDING AIDING AND 

ABETTING FUTP OR CODE OF CONDUCT NOTED IN AN INVESTIGATION RELATED TO FUTP 

 

In case more than one parameter is applicable, the highest Base Amount, as may be appropriate 
in the facts and circumstances of the case, may be considered.  

CATEGORY OF APPLICANT    

BASE AMOUNT  

AND  

PARAMETER * 

 

26 

a.   

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

a. 

Intermediaries 

 

 

(i)  Where  the  entity  is  charged  for  FUTP 

or aiding and abetting FUTP 

 

`15 lakh 

 

Or 

 

1.5% of the value of the  gross fraudulent trades 

executed through the intermediary including 

proprietary trades, 

 

whichever is higher 

 
 

(ii)  Where the intermediary is charged for                                                

violation of code of conduct  

`8 lakh 

 

Or 

 

0.75% of the value of the  gross fraudulent trades  

executed through the intermediary, 

 

whichever is higher 

 

(iii) 

In cases of proceedings before the DM 
or  the  WTM,  the  Base  Amount  may 
also  be  computed  by  taking 
into 
account a suitable fraction or multiple 
of  the  gross  annual  income  during  the 
period  of  default,  as  may  be 
recommended or decided by the IC or 
HPAC or Panel of WTM’s, after taking 
into 
and 
circumstances of the case.  
 

account 

the 

facts 

b.  b  Applicant charged for 

financing the FUTP 

activities 

 

(Listed companies not 

 

`15 lakh 

 

Or 

 

engaged in lending 

15% per annum × into funds provided  × period 

business, but charged with 

for which the funds was provided, 

financing its Issue fall 

under point ‘d’) 

c.   

 

Promoters 

whichever is higher 

 
`1 crore 

 

 

27 

Or 

 

         0.5% of the (highest) market value of its/his 
holdings 
(including  any 
convertible warrant or options)  

company 

the 

in 

 

whichever is higher 

 
 

 

`25 lakh 

 

Or 

 

Whole Time Directors or 

Chairman 

0.5  %  of  the  (highest)  market  value  of  its/his 
holdings 
(including  any 
convertible warrants or options)  
 

company 

the 

in 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

0.1% of its (highest) entire market cap during the 

period of the default.  
whichever is  higher 

(In case where the charge 

Note: 

against a company is of 
funding its own issue or 
any other FUTP charge 

I. 

and the promoters or 

II. 

directors are also charged 
for the same default as the 

company, then only 

point‘d’ applies. In other 

In  case  of  pre-IPO  related  matters,  the 
market value will be computed on the basis 
of the listing price. 
In the case of already listed companies, the 
value  of  holdings  during  the  period  of 
default shall be taken. 

 

 

28 

Other directors or Key 
Managerial Personnel 

(KMP) 

 
 
 

 
 
 
Note: 

I. 

II. 

d.   

Listed companies 

 

(to be borne by the 
promoter group or 

directors or KMPs or the 
company or both, as the 

case may be) 

 

whichever is higher; 

`10 lakh 

In  case  of  pre-IPO  related  matters,  the 
market value will be computed on the basis 
of the listing price. 
In the case of already listed companies, the 
value  of  holdings  during  the  period  of 
default shall be taken. 

 

`10 lakh 

 

Or 

 

cases, the higher of point 
‘c’ or ‘d’ shall be borne by 

the promoters or 

directors, as the case may 

be) 

e.    Name-lender clients or 
front-entities or dummy 

To be  determined for each applicant as 

recommended or decided by the IC or HPAC or 

entities 

Panel of WTMs  on the basis of the facts and 

circumstances of each case 

f. 

 

Key-operators  

To be determined for each applicant as 

recommended or decided by the IC or HPAC or 

Panel of WTMs on the basis of the facts and 

circumstances of each case. 

 

Notwithstanding  the  above,  in  case  of  the  key 
operator transferring the bulk or the whole of his 
share  of  proceeds  or  securities  cornered,  to 
another, the base amount may also be added by a 
suitable  fraction  taking  into  account  a  suitable 
fraction  or  multiple  of  the  gross  amount  or 
transfers  made,  as  may  be  recommended  or 
decided  by  the  IC  or  HPAC  or  Panel  of WTM’s 
after 
facts  and 
circumstances of the case. 
 

into  account 

taking 

the 

g.   

FII  

Proprietary sub-account 

`35 lakh 

 

Or 

 

0.005% of the total assets under custody (AUC), 

whichever is higher 

Non- proprietary sub-

accounts 

h.   

Book running lead 

 

`20 lakh 

 

Or 

 

0.005% of the total  AUC, 

whichever is higher 

 

 

manager or lead manager  

1% of the issue or takeover size (or the estimated 

 

and 

issue size) handled by the  Book running lead 

manager or lead manager  

 

 other intermediaries 

and  

 

associated with an issue or 

0.25% for other intermediaries 

takeover 

 

i. 

  AMC, trustee, sponsor, 

etc. 

`25 lakh 

 

 

29 

 

( In case of mutual fund, 
etc., to be borne by the 
AMC, CIMC, manager, 
etc., and not to be passed 

on to the schemes) 

Or 

 

0.001% of the total assets under management 

(AUM) 

 

Or 

 

0.1% of the net worth;  

whichever is higher 

j. 

  Where none of the above 

To be  determined for each applicant as 

are applicable to the 

recommended or decided by the IC or HPAC or 

applicant 

Panel of WTMs  on the basis of the facts and 

circumstances of each case 

*  TO  be  calculated  per  scrip  or  product  manipulated.  In  case  the  scrip  is  part  of  any  index 
maintained  by  BSE  Ltd  or  National  Stock  Exchange  of  India  Ltd,  the  Base  Amount  shall  be 
increased by 15%.  
 
In these guidelines the following persons shall be treated as ‘name-lender’:  
An  applicant  who  allows  his  name  to  be  used  or  whose  name  is  used  for  opening  a  demat 
account or client account by another, who operates the same as his own account. It includes an 
account-lender whose demat account or client account is allowed to be used or used for market 
transactions  by  anyone  other  than  himself,  for  the  purpose  of  any  activity  by  such  other, 
including manipulation or other fraudulent activities. 
 
A key operator referred to in these guidelines, includes the main manipulator and any other 
applicant who in the opinion of the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s may be so categorised.  
 
 

 

Chapter VI 

BENCHMARK AMOUNT IN DISCLOSURE RELATED DEFAULTS UNDER SEBI (SAST) 

REGULATIONS , SEBI (PIT) REGULATIONS 

AND OTHER DISCLOSURES AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS, etc. 

 
The Benchmark Amount for disclosure defaults i.e. B (D) may be computed on the basis of 
this Chapter. This chapter does not deal with those disclosure defaults which amount to FUTP. 
 
However the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s, may, in cases of serious disclosure defaults take 
the Benchmark Amount of the applicant as per the provisions of securities laws if the amounts 
arrived at on the basis of the calculations are found to be low and not commensurate to the 
seriousness of the alleged default or the ill-gotten profit and/or loss avoided by the applicant.  
 

B(D) = BASE VALUE AS PER TABLE IX  X SUM OF BASE AMOUNTS AS PER TABLE VI OR VII 

TABLE VI- BASE AMOUNT - DISCLOSURES UNDER SEBI (SAST) REGULATIONS  

 

 
 

BASE AMOUNT FOR VIOLATION OF  

 

30 

PERCENTAGE OF SHAREHOLDING 
OR VOTING RIGHTS  ACQUIRED OR 
DISPOSED BUT NOT DISCLOSED OR 

REGULATION 

REGULATION 

REGULATION 8A 

7 OF SEBI 

(SAST) 

8 OF  SEBI 

(SAST) 

OF  SEBI 
(SAST) 

PERCENTAGE OF ENCUMBERED 

REGULATIONS, 

REGULATIONS, 

REGULATIONS, 

SHARES  BUT NOT DISCLOSED, etc. 

1997  

1997* 

 

OR 

 

 

OR 

 

1997 

 

OR 

 

REGULATION 
29 OF  SEBI 

REGULATION 
30 OF  SEBI 

REGULATION  
31 OF  SEBI 

(SAST) 

(SAST) 

(SAST) 

REGULATIONS, 

REGULATIONS, 

REGULATIONS, 

Upto 2 %  

2011 

2011 

2011* 
`1 lakh 

 
+ 
 

`5,000/- For every three months delay# or part  

2% to less than 5 %  

5 % to less than 10%  

thereof  
`2 lakh 

 
+ 
 

` 10,000/- For every three months delay or part    

thereof 
`5 lakh 

 
+ 
 

10 % to less than 15 % 

`10  lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding not 

`15,000/- For every three months  delay or part   

thereof 

disclosed, etc. 

 
+ 
 

15% and above  

`15  lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the holding not 

`20,000/- For every three months  delay or part   

thereof 

disclosed, etc. 

 
+ 
 

`25,000/- For every three months  delay or part   

thereof 

* The Base Amount shall only be as per the lowest slab, irrespective of change in shareholding 
over the reporting period. In case of defaults related to disclosures that are required to be made 
annually, and application is filed for settlement of such defaults, the amount for delay for every 
three  months  or  part  thereof  shall  be  computed  only  for  the  first  non-disclosure.  In  case  the 
applicant complies with the annual reporting requirements for a few years, such compliance will 

 

31 

not  result  in  a  higher  base  amount  than  would  have  otherwise  be  calculated  for  continuous 
defaults. 
 
#The period of delay is to be calculated from the last day, when the disclosure ought to have been 
made, as required by the regulations. 
 
In case a correct disclosure is made on time but filed in the wrong format, the Base Amount 
shall be reduced by 75%. 

TABLE VII- BASE AMOUNT - TRANSACTION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNDER  

REGULATIONS 13(3), 13(4), 13(4A) AND CORRESPONDING 13 (6) OF SEBI (PIT) 

 

REGULATIONS 1992,  

 

PERCENTAGE OF SHAREHOLDING OR 

VOTING ACQUIRED BUT NOT DISCLOSED,  

BASE AMOUNT* 

etc. 

Upto 2% 

2% to less than 5% 

5% to less than 10% 

`1.5 lakh 

+ 

`7,500/- For every  three  months delay 

or part  thereof 

` 2.5 lakh 

+ 

`12,500/- For every  three  months  delay 

or part thereof 

`6 lakh 

+ 

` 17,500/- For every  three  months  delay 

or part  thereof 

10 % to less than 15% 

`12 lakh + 0.1 %  of the value of the 

holding not disclosed, etc. 

+ 

` 22,500/- For every  three months  delay 

or part  thereof 

 

15% and above  

`20  lakh + 0.1 % of the value of the 

holding not disclosed, etc. 

+ 

` 25,000/- For every  three  months  delay 

or part  thereof 

*In cases of disclosures not made by the connected persons and by the KMPs, the Base Amount 
may be increased by 25%.  

In case the applicant is charged for non-disclosure of both SEBI (SAST) Regulations and SEBI 
(PIT) Regulations, the Base Amount arrived at for any one of the Regulations shall be reduced 
by 75%. 

OTHER DISCLOSURES AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS  

 

 

 

B(D) = BASE VALUE AS PER TABLE IX  X SUM OF BASE AMOUNTS AS PER TABLE VIII 

 

32 

 

TABLE VIII- BASE AMOUNT  

 

NATURE OF DEFAULT 

TYPE OF  NON-DISCLOSURE  

SEBI (PIT) Regulations 

 

Periodical and other disclosures 

BASE AMOUNT 

 

`3 lakh 

+ 

`5,000/- for every three months  

delay or part  thereof 

SEBI (SAST) Regulations 

 

Reporting requirements or disclosures for which 

exemptions are available, except cases of non-

compliance of a condition precedent for availing 

exemption would result in the triggering of an 

open offer obligation 

(In  respect  of  Regulation  6  of  SEBI  (SAST) 
Regulations,  1997  the  provisions  are  dated  and  no 
amount  may  be  recommended,  except  in  case  of 
standalone violations of Regulation 6 of SEBI (SAST) 
Regulations,  1997  the  minimum  amount  of  `  2  lacs 
may be applicable) 

 

SEBI (FII) Regulations  

Failure to provide information  

 

 

 

`2 lakh 

 
+ 
 

`10,000/- for every three months  

delay or part  thereof  

 
 

`20 lakh per default 

 
 

Intimation of material changes 

`5 lakh per default 

 

Others  

Code of conduct reporting  requirements 

                                         or 
 

 
 
 

`2 lakh 

+ 

Disclosures on appointment of director 

`10,000/-  for every three months 

delay  or part  thereof 

or 

Any other disclosure related defaults  that are not 

detailed in these guidelines, if deemed 

appropriate 

 

33 

 

TABLE IX - BASE VALUE  

 

NATURE OF DEFAULT  

BASE  VALUE 

a)   Per se SAST or PIT or ICDR regulation, etc. 

violation, not falling in any of the below 

mentioned categories 

b)    Non-disclosure charge in combination with 

any other  charge 

c)    Charge of non-disclosure, although  timely 
related disclosure made under any other 

Regulation(s) 

d)    Charge of non-disclosure, although timely 
related disclosure made under any other 

regulation of SEBI (SAST) Regulations  or 

listing agreement, etc. 

1 

1.1 

0.6 

0.55 

e)   Companies with paid-up share capital below 

0.5 

`10 crore (not applicable to companies 

which are exclusively holding companies) 

All factors ‘a’ to ‘e’ in Table IX are mutually exclusive. In case of applicability of more than one 
factor, the lowest factor is to be considered. 
 
 
 
 

OPEN OFFER DEFAULTS INCLUDING INDIRECT ACQUISITION 

(CONSENTABLE CASES ONLY) 

 

The  Benchmark  amount  for  open  offer  defaults  ie.  B  (OO)  may  be  computed  on  the  basis 
provided below.  
 
However the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTM’s, may, in cases of serious open offer default, take 
the Benchmark Amount of the applicant as per the provisions of securities laws if the amounts 
arrived at on the basis of the calculations are found to be low and not commensurate to the 
seriousness of the alleged default.  
 
The  non-compliance  of  a  condition  precedent  for  availing  exemption  would  result  in  the 
triggering of an open offer obligation and would be considered as per under Table X and XI. 
 

B(OO) = SUM OF BASE VALUES AS PER TABLE XI ×BASE AMOUNT AS PER TABLE X 

 

TABLE X-BASE AMOUNT  

NATURE OF DEFAULT  

BASE AMOUNT FOR ACQUIRER 

Delayed open offer 

 

AND PACS 
` 25 lakh 

or  

 

 

34 

 

Cases of open offer defaults referred for 

adjudication 

0.25% of the  open offer size, i.e. 
max number of shares for which 
open  offer  must  be  given  x 
applicable  open  offer  price, 
which ever is higher 
 

 

Delayed open offer  

` 50 lakh 

or  

(after direction from the Board) 

 

Where the making of the open offer is 
infructuous i.e. when company has been 

delisted, etc. 

 

Where the open offer is not beneficial to the 
shareholders  

 

0.5% of the open offer size, 

whichever is higher . 

 
 
To  be  recommended  or  decided 
by  the  IC  or  HPAC  or  Panel  of 
WTMs  on the basis of the facts 
and circumstances of each case 

TABLE XI-BASE VALUES 

 

NATURE OF DEFAULT UNDER CONSIDERATION 

BASE VALUE 

a 

b 

c 

Entity in control of the target company, 

prior to triggering the takeover 

Entity not in control of target company, 

prior to triggering the takeover 

Illiquid Scrip 

1 

1.2 

0.3 

Factors ‘a’ and ‘b’ are mutually exclusive. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

35 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

BENCHMARK AMOUNT FOR OTHER DEFAULTS BY INTERMEDIARIES , REGULATED ENTITIES, 

Chapter VII 

 

‘B (I/RE)’: 

The Benchmark Amount for other defaults by intermediaries (I) and other regulated entities 
(RE) i.e. B(I/RE) may be computed on the basis of this Chapter.  This Chapter is not applicable 
where  default  is  dealt  with  under  Chapter  V  or  is  by  a  CIS,  mutual  fund,  etc.,  where  the 
proposed remedy may be disgorgement or refund or winding up of the scheme or fund.  
 
However  the  IC  or  HPAC  or  Panel  of  WTM’s  may  in  cases  of  serious  violations  take  the 
Benchmark Amount of the applicant as per the provisions securities laws if the amounts arrived 
at on the basis of the calculations are found to be low and not commensurate to the seriousness 
of the alleged default.  
 
 

B(I/RE) =  SUM OF ALL BASE AMOUNTS  AS PER TABLE XII + 25 % OF THE GROSS FEE 

EARNED* IN RESPECT OF THE MAJOR DEFAULTS, WHERE DETERMINABLE 

*A lower percentage may be taken in respect of Public Sector Undertakings. 
 

 
 

TABLE XII- BASE AMOUNT  

 

BASE AMOUNT 

MINOR CASES 

MAJOR CASES# 

 

 
 
 

 
 

`1 lakh per default                                          

`8 lakh per default 

 
 
 

 
 

NATURE OF 
DEFAULT 

Code of 
conduct 
related 
defaults  

Section 15B of 

SEBI Act , 

etc. 

 

36 

Section 15F of 
SEBI Act 

& 

other 

stock-broker 
defaults vis-à-
vis clients, etc. 

Delay in 

redressing 

investor 

grievances*   
Section 15D 

&15E of 
SEBI Act- 
CIS, AMC, 
and other 

fund activity 

related 

`2 lakh per default 

`20 lakh per default  

or 

or 

0.001% of the AUM  

0.001% of the AUM  

or 

or 

0.1% of the net 

0.1% of the net worth  

worth 

 

 

whichever is higher 

defaults, etc., 

whichever is higher 

 

including 
conduct 
related 
defaults 

Other defaults 
not provided 
elsewhere in 

these 

guidelines, if 

deemed 

appropriate 

` 1 lakh per default 

`8 lakh per default 

 

* The IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may based on the facts and circumstance of the case, gravity 
of the grievances and the past track record of the entity in redressing investor grievances, arrive 
at a lump sum  Base Amount of `5 lakh or a lesser amount. 
 
# The Base amount may also take into account any ill-gotten profit and/or loss avoided in major 
cases.  In  case  of  violations  under  Securities  Contract  (Regulations)  Act,  1956  and  the  rules, 
regulations made thereunder the IC or HPAC or Panel of WTMs may recommend or decide a 
higher base amount. Further, in case of proceedings before DM or WTM, the Base Amount may 
also be computed by taking into account a suitable fraction or multiple of the gross annual income 
during the period of default, as may be recommended or decided by the IC or HPAC or Panel of 
WTM’s, after taking into account the facts and circumstances of the case.  
 
CLARIFICATIONS: 

a.  In case of CIS, mutual fund, AIF, etc., related defaults, the settlement amount shall be 
recovered  from  the  promoter  or  CIMC;  and  from  trustees  or  sponsors  or  AMC  or 
manager  in  case  of  defaults  by  AMCs  or  Mutual  Fund,  etc.,  as  may  be  deemed 
appropriate. 

 

 

b.  In case the CIMC or AMC, etc., investment decisions have caused wrongful loss to the 
investors,  the  CIMC  or  AMC,  etc.,  shall  be  required  to  make  good  such  loss,  to  the 

37 

investors. In case, the same is not possible, the amount shall be deposited in the Investor 
Protection and Education Fund of SEBI. 

c.  Conduct related defaults may be settled only if the applicant has rectified its conduct 

and the investor grievances have been redressed to the satisfaction of SEBI. 

 

 
 
 

 
18[Schedule III 

(See regulation 14A) 

 

Form 

 

 

To 

……. 

Address  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Date 

Sub: Notice of settlement in the matter of ..................................... 

 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  during  the  investigation/  inspection/ 

inquiry/  examination  in  the  matter  of  …………………………………………….has 

prima facie observed that you have violated the following provisions of the securities 

laws:  

 

(i) 

(ii) 

………….. 

………….. 

(iii)  ………….. 

(iv) 

………….. 

                                                 
18 Inserted vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement of Administrative and Civil Proceedings) 
(Second Amendment) Regulations,2017 w.e.f. 27.12.2017. 

 

38 

Extracts of the findings are enclosed. 

 

2. 

In  view  of  the  aforesaid  you  are  liable  to  be  proceeded  against  under 

….(relevant provisions under which the proceedings may be initiated or continued) 

 

3. 

The aforesaid proceedings (to be) initiated may, be settled and disposed of upon 

filing of a settlement application under the SEBI (Settlement of Administrative and Civil 

Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  alongwith  remittance  of  a  settlement  amount  of  Rs. 

…………..to SEBI in terms of ….. ………………… (provision) of SEBI (Settlement 

of  Administrative  and  Civil  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2014  within  30  calendar  days 

from  the  date  of  receipt  of  this  notice  and  upon  complying  with  the  following  non-

monetary terms: 

 

 

(i) . ………………… 

(ii) ......................…… (please specify any other terms, if any) 

4. 

If  remittance  of  the  settlement  amount  is  not  made  and/  or  any  of  the  non-

monetary terms are not complied or undertaken to be complied within the specified time, 

the Board may initiate or continue any specified proceedings against you in accordance 

with law.  

 

Notwithstanding anything contained in this notice, the Board reserves the right to modify 

the proceedings and charges (to be) brought against you and this notice shall not confer 

any right to seek settlement or avoid any action initiated by the Board. 

 

5. 

If  the  settlement  application  is  not  filed  or  the  settlement  amount  is  not 

remitted  and/or  undertaking  in  respect  of  other  non-monetary  terms  is  not 

furnished or other non-monetary terms are not complied to the satisfaction of the 

Board or the settlement application is withdrawn, the specified proceedings may 

be initiated or continued, as the case may be and you shall be permitted to file a 

 

39 

settlement  application  only  in  respect  of  proceedings  pending  before  a  Court  or 

tribunal  after  conclusion  of  proceedings  before  the  Adjudicating  Officer  or  the 

Board, as the case may be.  

 

 

 

Encl: As above] 

 

Name, designation and signature  

U.K. SINHA 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

 

40 

