¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
CIR/MRD/DSA/10/2010  

 

CIRCULAR 

 

 

 

 

 

April 6, 2010 

 

To 
The Managing Director/Executive Director 
of all Stock Exchanges.  
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 

 

Sub:  Master  Circular  on  Allotment  of  codes  to  Stock  Exchanges, 
Subsidiary  management  by  Stock  Exchanges,  Governance  of 
recognised  Stock  Exchanges  and  Arbitration  in  recognised  Stock 
Exchanges 

1.  The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  has,  from  time  to  time,  issued 
various  circulars/directions  on  the  captioned  subject.  In  order  to  enable  the 
users to have an access to all the applicable circulars at one place, this Master 
Circular has been prepared. 

 
2.  This Master Circular consolidates the circulars/directions issued by SEBI in this 
regard  up  to  March  31,  2010  as  listed  in  the  Schedule  and  shall  come  into 
force from the date of its issue. 

 

 
 

 
 
 

Yours faithfully, 

Rajesh Kumar D 
Deputy General Manager 
Tel. No. 2644 9242 
Email: rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in 
 

Page 1 of 19 

I. 
II. 

III. 

IV. 

 

 
 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page No. 
 

Allotment of Codes to Stock Exchanges…………………………….. 3 
 
Subsidiary Management by Stock Exchange……………….……...  4 
2.1  Conditions for floating/promoting a subsidiary company by small  

stock exchanges 

2.2  Eligibility criteria to become trading member and /or clearing  

member of the derivatives segment of BSE and NSE 

2.3  Subsidiary Management 
2.3.1  Governing Board 
2.3.2  Chief Executive Officer 
2.3.3  Staff of the Subsidiary 

2.4  Responsibilities of Parent Exchange towards Subsidiary 
2.5  Access to unauthorized persons by the members of subsidiaries 
 
Governance of recognised Stock Exchanges …............................. 8 
3.1  Composition of the Governing Board 
3.2  General Requirements 
3.2  Eligibility for election of trading members on the Governing Board 
3.4  Chief Executive 
3.5  Statutory Committees 
3.6  Code of Conduct for the Directors of Governing Board 

3.6.1  Meetings & minutes 
3.6.2  Strategic Planning 
3.6.3  Regulatory Compliances 
3.6.4  General Responsibility 

 
Arbitration in recognised Stock Exchanges…………………......... 14 
4.1  Conformity of the Exchange Bye-Laws with the Arbitration and 

Conciliation Act, 1996 

4.2  Expeditious disposal of arbitration cases 
4.3  Debiting the award amount from the deposits of the trading 

member 

Limitation period for filing of Arbitration reference 

4.4  Preservation of arbitration records 
4.5  Guidelines for selection of Arbitrators 
4.6  Guidelines for Fair Practices / Code of Conduct for arbitrators 
4.6 
 
Schedule  
List of circulars/directions pertaining to Chapter I  
List of circulars/directions pertaining to Chapter II  
List of circulars/directions pertaining to Chapter III  
List of circulars/directions pertaining to Chapter IV  

Page 2 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ALLOTMENT OF CODES TO STOCK EXCHANGES 

 
I. 

 

1.  Each of the stock exchanges in the country has been given a two-digit code 
which is incorporated in the twelve digit registration number given to the trading 
members.  The  code  number  for  the  exchange  is  the  first  two  digits  after  the 
letters "INB" in the registration number.  

 
2.    In  this  regard,  the  codes  allotted  to  the  recognised  Stock  Exchanges  are  as 

under – 

 

CODE 

EXCHANGE NAME 

10 

01 
02 
03 
04 
05 
06 
07 
08 
09 

Bombay Stock Exchange Limited 
Ahmedabad Stock Exchange Limited 
The Calcutta Stock Exchange Limited 
Madras Stock Exchange Limited 
Delhi Stock Exchange Limited 
Hyderabad Stock Exchange Limited* 
Madhya Pradesh Stock Exchange Limited 
Bangalore Stock Exchange Limited 
Cochin Stock Exchange Limited 
The Uttar Pradesh Stock Exchange Association 
Limited 
Pune Stock Exchange Limited 
Ludhiana Stock Exchange Limited 
The Gauhati Stock Exchange Limited 
Mangalore Stock Exchange* 
Magadh Stock Exchange Limited* 
Jaipur Stock Exchange Limited 
Bhubaneswar Stock Exchange Limited 
Saurashtra Kutch Stock Exchange Limited* 
Vadodara Stock Exchange Limited 
OTC Exchange of India 
Coimbatore Stock Exchange Limited 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Inter-connected Stock Exchange of India Limited  
MCX Stock Exchange Limited 
            * derecognized Stock Exchanges                 
 

11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
23 
24 
26 

Page 3 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

SUBSIDIARY MANAGEMENT BY STOCK EXCHANGE  

 
II. 

 

2.1   Small stock exchanges may promote / float a subsidiary company to acquire  
trading membership rights of other stock exchanges subject to the following 
conditions : 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a)  The stock exchange and its trading members shall together hold 100% in 
nominal  value  of  the  equity  share  capital  of  the  subsidiary  company,  with 
the  exchange  holding  not  less  than  51%  in  nominal  value  of  the  equity 
share capital of the subsidiary company. 

 
b)  The  name  of  the  subsidiary  company  shall  not  contain  the  words  "Stock 

Exchange". 

c)  The  trading  members  of  the  stock  exchange  shall  register  themselves  as 
sub-brokers of the subsidiary company to enable them to trade through the 
subsidiary company. 

d)  The subsidiary company shall not undertake any dealing in securities on its 

own account.  

e)  The  subsidiary  company  shall  register  only  the  trading  members  of  the 
stock  exchange,  which  is  promoting  the  subsidiary  company  as  its  sub-
broker  and  no  other  client  /  sub-broker  shall  be  entertained  by  the 
subsidiary  company.  All 
the  stock  exchanges  which  have  set  up 
subsidiaries  have  to  make  the  necessary  provisions  in  their  rules, 
regulations and the byelaws to provide for the above requirement. 

f)  The sub-brokers of the subsidiary company shall maintain separate deposit 
with the subsidiary company. The Base Minimum Capital deposited by the 
sub-broker  with  the  promoting  stock  exchange  shall  not  be  transferred  to 
the subsidiary company. This deposit to be maintained with the subsidiary 
company  could  be  25%  in  the  form  of  cash  and  the  balance  75%  in 
irrevocable bank guarantees or Fixed Deposit Receipts (FDRs). The FDRs 
would  be  discharged  in  favour  of  the  subsidiary/company  and  the 
subsidiary/company  would  be  given  a  complete  unencumbered  and 
unconditional lien on the FDRs. 

 
g)  The trading/exposure limit of the sub-brokers shall be based on the deposit 
received by the subsidiary company from the sub-brokers and these limits 
shall not exceed the limits as prescribed by the stock exchange of which the 
subsidiary company is a trading member.  

h)  The subsidiary company shall collect margins from the sub-brokers for the 
payment  of  margins  to  the  respective  stock  exchanges  of  which  the 

Page 4 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

subsidiary  company  is  a  trading  member.  The  margin  imposed  by  the 
subsidiary  company  on  its  sub-brokers  shall  not  be  less  than  the  margin 
payable  to  the  stock  exchanges  of  which  the  subsidiary  company  is  the 
trading member.  

 

 

i)  The  stock  exchange  shall  incorporate  the  above  mentioned  conditions  in 
the Memorandum of Association / Articles of Association of the subsidiary 
company. 

 
Eligibility criteria to become trading member and / or clearing member of 
the derivatives segment of BSE and NSE: 
 

2.2  For becoming a trading and or clearing members of the derivatives segment,              

the eligibility criteria laid down by the stock  exchanges and prescribed under 
the SEBI (Stock Broker and Sub-Broker) Regulations, 1992 have to be fulfilled 
including the conditions as follows: 
a)  All the risk containment measures laid down by SEBI shall be followed by 
these subsidiary companies and  
b)  These subsidiaries shall not undertake proprietary trade. 
 
Subsidiary Management 
 

2.3.  The  subsidiary  company  shall  be  required  to  comply  with  minimum 
requirements in order to ensure that the transactions therein are conducted in a 
manner  which  is  not  detrimental  to  the  interest  of  the  investors  and  also  to 
enable  the  subsidiaries  to  provide  a  safe  and  transparent  mechanism  for 
transactions  in  securities.  The  stock  exchanges  shall,  therefore,  ensure  the 
following – 

 

 

i. 

  

 

 

2.3.1   Governing Board  

composition: 

a)  The  Governing  Board  of  the  subsidiary  company  shall  have  the  following 

The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the subsidiary company shall be a 
director on the Board of Subsidiary. The CEO shall not be a sub-broker 
of the subsidiary company or a trading member of the parent exchange. 

ii.  At  least  50%  of  Directors  representing  on  the  Governing  Board  of 
subsidiary company shall not be sub-brokers of the subsidiary company 
or  trading  members  of  the  promoter  /  holding  exchange  (parent 
exchange). These directors (excluding CEO) shall be called the Public 
Representatives. 

iii. 

The Public Representatives shall be nominated by the parent exchange 
(subject to prior approval of SEBI). 

Page 5 of 19 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

iv.  Public  Representatives  to  be  nominated  as  directors  of  subsidiary 
company  shall  be  from  amongst  the  persons  of  integrity  having 
necessary professional competence and experience in the areas related 
to securities market. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

For  the  purpose  of  nomination  as  Public  Representatives,  Governing 
Board of the parent exchange may forward names of persons to SEBI 
for  its  approval.  SEBI  shall,  however  have  right  to  nominate  persons, 
whose names have not been forwarded by the Governing Board of the 
stock exchange. 

The  Public  Representatives  to  be  appointed  as  directors  shall  hold  the 
office for a period of one year from the date of assumption of the office or 
till  the  Annual  General  Meeting  of  the  subsidiary  company  whichever  is 
earlier.  However  the  Public  Representative  on  the  Boards  of  Subsidiary 
Companies  will  continue  till  the  time  new  Public  Representatives  are 
appointed in their place. 

The trading member directors on the Governing Board of the subsidiary 
company  shall  have  a  gap  of  at  least  one  year  after  a  consecutive 
period  of  two  years  before  re-nomination  on  the  Governing  Board.  As 
regards the other directors, there should be a gap of at least one year 
after a consecutive period of three years before re-nomination. 

viii.  A person, who has completed two consecutive terms as a director of the 
parent  exchange,  shall  not  be  eligible  for  election  as  a  director  of  the 
subsidiary company, or for nomination as a member of any Committee 
of such subsidiary. 

ix. 

The parent exchange may appoint a maximum of two directors who are 
officers  of  the  parent  exchange.  Such  directors  shall  be  in  addition  to 
50%  non-trading  member  directors  (public  representatives)  mentioned 
above. 

2.3.2   Chief Executive Officer 

 

 

b)  The subsidiary company shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) who 
shall  not  hold  any  position  concurrently  in  the  stock  exchange  (parent 
exchange). The CEO of the subsidiary company shall be appointed by the 
Board  of  the  subsidiary  company  through  open  advertisement.  The 
educational qualification and experience shall be similar to that of the Chief 
Executive of the stock exchange and the stock exchange or subsidiary shall 
fix the remuneration of the CEO. The appointment, renewal of appointment 
and the termination of service of the CEO shall be subject to prior approval 
of SEBI. 

Page 6 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
2.3.3   Staff of the Subsidiary  

 

 

2.4 

 

 

 

 

c)  The  subsidiary  company  shall  have  its  own  staff  none  of  whom  shall  be 
concurrently  working  for  or  holding  any  position  of  office  in  the  parent 
exchange. The staff of the stock exchange may serve on deputation or loan 
basis  etc.  in  the  subsidiary  company.  However,  such  staff  shall  not  be 
concurrently  working  for  or  holding  any  position  of  office  in  the  stock 
exchange and the subsidiary company simultaneously. The stock exchange 
shall  maintain  necessary  records  to  ensure  that  the  staff  is  not  working 
concurrently. 

 
Responsibilities of Parent Exchange towards Subsidiary 

 
The  parent  exchange  shall  be  responsible  for  all  risk  management  of  the 
subsidiary  company  and  shall  set  up  appropriate  mechanism  for  the 
supervision of the trading activity of subsidiary company. Such mechanism 
shall include: 

i.  Verification  of  compliance  of  margin  payments  and  other  risk 
management  measures  applicable  to  the  subsidiary  company  as  a 
trading member of another stock exchange. 

ii.  Reporting  requirements  between 

the  parent 
exchange,  such  as  placing  quarterly  reports  on  the  financials  and 
accounts of the subsidiary and on review of operations of the subsidiary 
before the Governing Board of the stock exchange at its meetings. 

the  subsidiary  and 

iii.  Conducting half-yearly inspections of the subsidiary and 20% of its sub-
brokers  and  placing  such  reports  before  the  Governing  Board  of  the 
stock exchange.  

iv.  Handling  of  investor  complaints  of  sub-brokers  of  the  subsidiary 

company.  

 Access to unauthorized persons by the members of subsidiaries 
 

2.5  Appropriate  penal  action  including  fine,  suspension  of  trading  rights  of  the      

subsidiaries/sub-brokers, etc., shall be initiated, in case, any of the members of 
the exchange who are sub-brokers of the subsidiary is found to be indulging in 
activities  viz.  providing  unauthorized  access  to  persons  for  illegal  trading 
and/or  providing  their  own  terminal  for  illegal  trading.  The  exchanges  shall 
exercise vigilance and surveillance on their subsidiaries/its members to ensure 
that the members do not indulge in these types of activities. 

                  

 

Page 7 of 19 

 
III. 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

GOVERNANCE OF RECOGNIZED STOCK EXCHANGES 

 
Composition of the Governing Board  

3.1  The  composition  of  the  Governing  Board  of  all  recognized  stock  exchanges 

shall be as under - 

a)  Trading Member Directors shall constitute a maximum of one-fourth of the 

total strength of the Governing Board. 

 
b)  Public Interest Directors shall constitute one-fourth of the total strength of 

the Governing Board. 
 

c)  Shareholder Directors shall constitute the balance of the Governing Board.  
 
General Requirements 

3.2  The other incidental and consequential matters relating to governance of stock 

exchanges shall be as under - 

 

 

 

 

 

a)  The Directors, except the Public Interest Directors and the Chief Executive 

such as CEO, ED, MD etc. shall be elected by the Shareholders. 
 

b)  No Director shall hold office for more than two consecutive terms.  

c)  ‘Trading  Member  Directors’  shall  be  elected  from  amongst  the  Trading 

Members of the concerned stock exchange. 
 

d)  ‘Shareholder Directors’ shall be elected from amongst the persons, who are 

not Trading Members or Associates of Trading Members.  

 

‘Associate’ in relation to a Trading Member, individual, body corporate 
or firm, shall include a person: 
 
(i)  who, directly or indirectly, by himself, or in  combination with other 
persons,  exercises  control  over  the  Trading  Member,  whether 
individual, body corporate or firm or holds substantial share of not 
less than 15% in the capital of such entities, or 
in  respect  of  whom  the  Trading  Member,  individual  or  body 
corporate or firm, directly or indirectly, by itself or in combination 
with other persons, exercises control, or 

(ii) 

(iii)  whose  director  or  partner  is  also  a  director  or  partner  of  the 
Trading Member, body corporate or the firm, as the case may be. 

Page 8 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

The  expression  ‘control’  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  defined 
under clause (c) of Regulation 2 of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of 
Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997. 

 

e)  ‘Public  Interest  Directors’  shall  be  selected  by  the  Governing  Board  from 

amongst the persons in the SEBI constituted panel.  

 
f)  A person shall not act as ‘Public Interest Director’ on more than one Stock 

Exchange simultaneously. 
 

g)  The Chairman shall be elected by the Governing Board from amongst the 
non-executive  non-trading  member  directors.  If,  for  some  reason,  it  is  not 
possible  for  the  Governing  Board  to  elect  a  permanent  Chairman,  the 
Governing Board may elect a Chairman for every meeting of the Board from 
amongst the non-executive non-trading member directors of the Governing 
Board. 

 
h)  The manner of election, appointment, tenure, resignation, vacation, etc. of 
Directors (except the Chief Executive) shall be governed by the Companies 
Act,  1956  save  as  otherwise  specifically  provided  under  or  in  accordance 
with the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956. 
 

i)  The Chief Executive shall be an ex-officio Director on the Governing Board. 

j)  No  approval  of  SEBI  shall  be  required  for  appointment  of  any  Director, 

 

except for the Chief Executive. 
 

deemed fit. 

 

 

 

 

k)  SEBI  may  nominate  Directors  on  the  Governing  Board  as  and  when 

Eligibility For Election of Trading Members on the Governing Board  

3.3  For  the  Trading  Members  to  be  elected  to  the  Governing  Board  of  a  stock 
exchange, the following eligibility criteria shall be incorporated in the Rules of the 
Exchange – 
a)  In case of INDIVIDUAL trading members: 

 

No  trading  member  shall  be  eligible  to  be  elected  as  member  of  the 
Governing Board if - 

he is not a citizen of India; 

he has been a trading member for less than three years standing 
on  the  last  day  for  submission  of  proposals  by  candidates  for 
election. 

i) 
 
ii) 

 

Page 9 of 19 

 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

iii)  

he has at any time been declared a defaulter or failed to meet his 
liabilities in ordinary course or compounded with his creditors. 

b)  In case of a CORPORATE trading member, one of its whole-time directors 
subject  to  the  fulfillment  of  the  following  conditions  in  addition  to  the  above 
mentioned conditions for individual trading members would be eligible to be 
elected as a trading member of the Governing Board: 

i) 

 
ii) 

In case the director resign/retires from the board of the company, or 
is  removed  from  the  board  of  the  company  and  one  post  on  the 
Governing Board falls vacant, the vacancy will be filled as per the 
Rules  of  the  exchanges  and  corporate  trading  members  will  not 
have right to replace the trading member. 

time  director(s)  of 

In case of conversion of individual trading member/partnership firm 
into a corporate trading member, and the individual/partner(s) are 
whole 
the  previous 
experience  of  such  trading  member(s)  would  be  considered  for 
meeting  eligibility  norms  to  become  member  of  the  Governing 
Board. 

the  corporate 

then 

c)  Further, in the event of suspension of trading, suspension of the registration 
as trading member because of any disciplinary action taken against it by the 
stock exchange / SEBI, the trading member shall not be eligible to continue 
on the Governing Board and shall also not be eligible to be elected to the 
Governing Board for two years from the date of expiry of such suspension 
of trading or suspension of registration. 

 
d)  A  trading  member  whose  registration  has  been  cancelled  shall  not  be 
allowed to continue on the Governing Board or be eligible to be elected to 
the Governing Board. 

e)  The persons falling in the category of Notified Persons as per the Special 
Courts (Trial of Offences Relating to Transactions in Securities) Act, 1992, 
would not continue on the Governing Board and would not be eligible to be 
elected to the Governing Board for two years from the date such person is 
notified under the said Act. 

f)  A trading member of the stock exchange who was on the Governing Board 
of the stock exchange at the time of its supersession would not be eligible 
for re-election to the Governing Board of the stock exchange for a period of 
2  years  from  the  date  of  expiry  of  the  order  of  supersession  passed  by 
SEBI.  
 

 
 

Page 10 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Chief Executive  

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.4  The  provisions  regarding  the  Chief  Executive  of  the  stock  exchange,  by 

whatever name called, shall be as under - 

a)  The appointment, renewal of appointment and the termination of service of 
the  Chief  Executive  shall  be  subject  to  prior  approval  of  SEBI.  The 
Exchange  shall,  however,  determine  the  manner  of  selection,  terms  and 
conditions of appointment and other procedural formalities associated with 
the selection / appointment of the Chief Executive.  

b)  Further,  to  bring  about  uniformity  and  professionalism  in  the  recruitment 
process  of  the  Chief  Executives,  the  stock  exchanges  shall  constitute  a 
Committee  for  the  selection  of  Chief  Executives.  The  Committee  shall 
generally  consist  of  four  persons,  one  representative  from  the  exchange, 
two outside experts and one Public Interest Director. However, constitution 
of the said Committee shall not require SEBI approval. 

c)  While  recommending  the  names  to  SEBI,  the  exchange  shall  submit  an 
undertaking that the necessary due diligence has been carried out by them 
with respect to the verification of antecedents, credentials and experience 
of the proposed persons. 

d)  The  exchanges  should  ensure 

that  adequate 

financial  powers 

like 
sanctioning the normal revenue expenditure and issue of cheques are given 
to the Chief Executive for smooth functioning of the exchange. Further, one 
more officer shall be the co-signatory on the cheques to ensure that at least 
two  persons  sign  the  cheque.  However  no  broker  member  of  the  stock 
exchanges shall be an office bearer of an exchange i.e. holds the position 
of President, Vice President, Treasurer etc. and shall not be authorized to 
sign  any  cheques  or  operate  any  bank  accounts  on  behalf  of  the  stock 
exchange 

e)  In order to ensure smooth functioning of the stock exchanges and to give 
administrative  freedom  to  the  Chief  Executive,  the  elected  directors  shall 
not  interfere  in  the  day  to  day  management  of  the  exchange,  particularly 
relating to the surveillance and risk management functions. 

 
f)  The  Rules  or  Articles  shall  provide  that  besides  the  Governing  Board,  it 
shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Chief  Executive  to  give  effect  to  the  directives, 
guidelines  and  other  orders  issued  by  SEBI  in  order  to  implement  the 
applicable  provisions  of  law,  rules,  regulations  as  also  the  Rules  or  the 
Articles  of  Association,  Regulations  and  Bye-laws  of  the  stock  exchange. 
Any failure in this regard will make him liable for removal or termination of 
services  by  the  exchange  with  the  prior  approval  of  SEBI,  subject  to  the 

Page 11 of 19 

a)  The Rules or byelaws, as the case may be, of the exchange shall provide 
that  not  more  than  twenty  percent  of  the  members  of  the  Arbitration 
Committee,  Disciplinary  Committee,  Defaults  Committee  and  Investor 
Services Committee shall be trading members.  

 
b)  However, the Arbitration Committee in case of disputes between a trading 
member  and  a  non-trading  member  shall  not  have  representation  of  the 
trading members. 

c)  The appointment of trading members on these committees shall not require 

SEBI approval. 

 
  Code of Conduct  for the Directors on the Governing Board 
 

3.6  The exchange shall frame and apply a set of criteria as near thereto the SEBI 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 to the Directors on the Governing Board of 
the Exchange. All the Directors of the stock exchange shall: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

concerned  Chief  Executive  being  given  an  opportunity  of  being  heard 
against such termination. 

Statutory Committees  

3.5  The provisions regarding statutory committees of stock exchanges shall be as 

under – 

3.6.1 
 

Meetings & minutes 

 

a.  not  participate  in  the  discussion  on  any  subject  matter  in  which  any 
conflict of interest exists or arises, whether pecuniary or otherwise, and 
in such cases the same shall be disclosed and recorded in the minutes 
of the meeting.  

b.  not  encourage  the  circulation  of  agenda  papers  during  the  meeting, 

c.  offer their comments on the draft minutes and ensure that the same are 

d.  insist on the minutes of the previous meeting being placed for approval 

unless circumstances so require.  

incorporated in the final minutes.  

in subsequent meeting.  

e.  endeavour to have the date of next meeting fixed at each Board Meeting 

in consultation with other members of the Governing Board.  

f.  endeavour that in case all the items of the agenda of a meeting were not 
covered  for  want  of  time,  the  next  meeting  is  held  within  15  days  for 
considering the remaining items.  

3.6.2 
 

Strategic Planning   

Page 12 of 19 

3.6.3 
 

Regulatory Compliances 

a.  endeavour to ensure that the Exchange abides by all the provisions of 
the SEBI Act, 1992, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956,  Rules 
Regulations  framed  thereunder  and  the  circulars,  directions  issued  by 
the Government/SEBI from time to time.  

b.  endeavour compliance at all levels so that the regulatory system does 

not suffer any breaches.  

c.  endeavour  to  ensure  that  the  exchange  takes  commensurate  steps  to 

honour the time limit prescribed by SEBI for corrective action.  

d.  not support any decision in the meeting of the Governing Board which 
may adversely affect the interest of investors and shall report forthwith 
any such decision to SEBI.  

 
3.6.4 
  

General Responsibility 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

a.  participate  in  the  formulation  and  execution  of  strategies  in  the  best 
interest  of  the  exchange  and  contribute  towards  pro-active  decision 
making at the Board level.  

b.  give  benefit  of  their  experience  and  expertise  to  the  exchange  and 

provide assistance in strategic planning and execution of decisions.  

 

 

a.  place  priority  for  redressing  Investor  Grievances  and  encourage  fair 
trade practice so that the exchange becomes an engine for the growth 
of the securities market. 

b.  endeavour  to  analyse  and  administer  the  exchange  issues  with 
impartiality,  efficiency  and 

fairness, 

professional  competence, 
effectiveness. 

c.  submit  the  necessary  disclosures/statement  of  holdings/dealings  in 
securities  as  required  by  the  exchange  from  time  to  time  as  per  their 
Rules or Articles of Association.  

d.  unless otherwise required by law, maintain confidentiality and shall not 
divulge/disclose any information obtained in the discharge of their duty. 
Further, no such information shall be used for personal gains. 

e.  maintain  the  highest  standards  of  personal  integrity,  truthfulness, 
honesty  and  fortitude  in  discharge  of  their  duties  in  order  to  inspire 
public  confidence  and  shall  not  engage  in  acts  discreditable  to  their 
responsibilities.  

f.  perform their duties in an independent and objective manner and avoid 
activities that may impair, or may appear to impair, their independence 
or objectivity or official duties.  

g.  perform  their  duties  with  a  positive  attitude  and  constructively  support 

open communication, creativity, dedication, and compassion.  

h.  not  engage  in  any  act  involving  moral  turpitude,  dishonesty,  fraud, 
deceit,  or  misrepresentation  or  any  other  act  prejudicial  to  the 
administration of the exchange.    

Page 13 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ARBITRATION IN RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGES 

 
IV. 

 
Conformity  of 
Conciliation Act, 1996 
 

the  Exchange  Bye-Laws  with  the  Arbitration  and 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.1  The Bye-laws of the stock exchanges relating to arbitration proceedings shall 

be in accordance with the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. 

Expeditious disposal of arbitration cases 
 

4.2  To  ensure  expeditious  disposal  of  arbitration  proceedings  at  the  exchanges, 
the following clauses shall be incorporated in the bye-laws of the exchanges – 

i.  Adjournment - Adjournment, if any, shall be granted by the arbitrator only 

in exceptional cases, for bonafide reasons to be recorded in writing. 

ii.  Time  for  completion  of  Arbitration  -  The  arbitrator(s)  shall  pass  the 
arbitration award normally within 3 months from the date of entering upon 
the reference. 

iii.  Request  for  extension  -  The  time  taken  to  pass  the  award  may  be 
extended by the Chief Executive, not beyond 3 times, on an application by 
either of the parties or by the arbitrator, as the case may be. 
 
Notwithstanding  the  extensions  granted  in  the  above  manner,  the 
arbitrator  shall  pass  the  arbitration  award  within  a  period  of  six  months 
from the date of entering into reference i.e. extension of time of award can 
be for a maximum period of three months. 

iv.  Date  of  entering  reference  -  For  the  purposes  of  these  bye-laws,  the 
arbitrator shall be deemed to have entered upon a reference on the date 
on which the arbitrator has held the first hearing. 

Debiting the award amount from the deposits of the trading member 
 

4.3  The  Bye-laws,  Rules  and  Regulations  of  the  stock  exchanges  shall  be 

amended to provide that:- 

a.  The  stock  exchange  shall  on  receipt  of  the  arbitration  award,  debit  the 
amount of the award from the security deposit or any other monies of the 
trading member (against whom an award has been passed) and keep the 
amount  in  a  separate  account.  Thereafter,  a  confirmation  may  be 
obtained  from  the  concerned  trading  member  that  he  has  not  filed  any 
appeal within the stipulated time under  section 34 of the Arbitration and 
Conciliation  Act,  1996  and  only  then  the  payment  may  be  made  to  the 

Page 14 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

awardee. If an appeal is filed and the same is pending in a Court of law, 
the amount so kept in the separate account shall be paid to the awardee 
in accordance with the court orders. 
 

b.  At the time of debiting the amount, the stock exchange may if so desire 
inform the trading member that the exchange will not be liable for loss of 
interest,  business  etc.,  in  case  the  award  is  modified  by  the  Court.  The 
exchange may also indicate that if any amount of interest is still payable 
to  the  awardee  e.g.  from  the  date  of  debiting  the  trading  member’s 
account till the date of payment of the award amount to the awardee, the 
same  shall  be  recoverable  from  the  concerned  trading  member  and  the 
stock exchange shall not be liable in this regard. 

 
Preservation of arbitration records 
 

4.4  The documents vis-à-vis the process of arbitration shall be preserved with the 

stock exchanges for the purpose of record, as follows -   
 

a)  The  original  arbitration  award  with  acknowledgements  shall  be 

preserved permanently. 

 
b)  Other  records  pertaining  to  arbitration  shall  be  preserved  for  5  years 
from the date of award, in case the appeal for setting aside the award is 
not filed till such time. 

 

 

 

 

c)  In case, an appeal is filed, the records shall be preserved for five years 

from the date of final disposal by the Court. 

d)  The  destruction  of  records  shall  be  subject  to  the  previous  order,  in 

writing of the Chief Executive of the exchange. 

e)  The exchange shall maintain a register wherein the brief particulars of 
the records destroyed alongwith the certification regarding the date and 
mode of destruction. 

 

Guidelines for selection of Arbitrators  
 

4.5  The guidelines for selection of arbitrators that may be adhered to by the stock 

exchanges while selecting the arbitrators are as under – 

a)  Persons with background in law, finance, management, administration and 
experience in the areas related to securities market may be preferred over 
other candidates. 

 
b)  Both  educational  qualification  and  experience  should  be  considered  as 

factors for selection.  

Page 15 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

4.6 

 

 
c)  A  declaration  should  be  obtained    by  the  Stock  Exchanges  from  the 

Arbitrators along with bio-data regarding the following:  

•  Confirming  that  he/she  was  not  involved  in  any  act  of  fraud  or 

dishonesty or moral turpitude or found guilty of any economic offence. 

•  Disclosing  the  names  of  his  dependents  that  are  associated  with  the 

securities market as Trading Member / sub-brokers or major investors. 

 
d)  While considering re-nomination of arbitrators, the past experience with the 
arbitrator  may  be  looked  into,  such  as  time  taken  for  passing  awards, 
quality of awards passed, complaints received, if any, against the arbitrators 
etc. 

Guidelines for Fair Practices / Code of Conduct for arbitrators 
 
In  order  to  ensure  that  the  arbitration  matters  at  the  stock  exchanges  are 
conducted in a fair, uniform and effective manner, the arbitrators shall –  

duties as an arbitrator. 

a)  Act in a fair, unbiased and objective manner. 
 
b)  Maintain  the  highest  standards  of  personal  integrity,  truthfulness,  honesty 
and fortitude in discharge of his duties in order to inspire public confidence 
and shall not engage in acts discreditable to his responsibilities. 

 
c)  Avoid  any  interest  or  activity  which  is  in  conflict  with  the  conduct  of  his 
 
d)  Perform  his  duties  in  an  independent  and  objective  manner  and  avoid 
activities  that  may  impair,  or  may  appear  to  impair,  his  independence  or 
objectivity. 

to the proceeding had any dealings with or is related to the arbitrator. 

 
e)  Disclose his interest or conflict etc in a particular case i.e. whether any party 
 
f)  Ensure that all the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, 
SEBI Act, 1992, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the Rules, 
Regulations  and  Bye-laws  framed  thereunder  and  the  circulars,  directions 
issued  by  the  Government  /  SEBI  in  respect  of  arbitration  and  dealing  in 
securities are followed. 

stipulated by the Bye-laws, Rules, and Regulations of the Exchange. 

 
g)  Endeavour  that  the  arbitral  award  is  passed  within  the  minimum  period 
 
h)  Endeavour  that  adjournments,  if  any,  are  granted  as  an  exception  rather 
 
i)  Ensure that the awards are detailed and well reasoned. 
 

than a rule and after recording the reasons thereof in writing. 

Page 16 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

j)  Ensure that principles of natural justice are followed. 

4.6  Limitation period for filing of Arbitration reference 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

1.  The  Secondary  Market  Advisory  Committee  (SMAC),  reviewed  the  existing 
provisions in the Exchange Byelaws, which specify a limitation period of six 
months for reference of a complaint/claim/difference/dispute for arbitration. 

 
2.  While  computing  the  said  limitation  period,  the  time  taken  in  amicable 
settlement of claims, complaints, differences, disputes through the Investors 
Grievances  Redressal  Committee  mechanism  of  the  Exchange  under  its 
Rules, Bye-laws & Regulations is excluded. 

 
3.  Based on the recommendations of the SMAC, it has been decided that the 
limitation period of six months shall be computed from the end of the quarter 
during  which  the  disputed  transaction(s)  were  executed.  Along  with  the 
exclusion  mentioned  under  para  (1)  above  and  subject  to  sufficient 
documentary  proof,  the  period  of  one  month  from  the  date  of  receipt  of 
complaint/claim/difference/dispute by the trading member or the actual time 
taken  by 
receipt  of 
complaint/claim/difference/dispute  by  the  trading  member  to  the  date  of 
receipt of the trading member’s last communication by the investor, to resolve 
/  counter  the  complaint  /  claim/  difference/  dispute,  whichever  ends  earlier, 
shall also be excluded. 

trading  member 

the  date  of 

from 

the 

4.  Apart from the above, in certain instances it was observed by SEBI that the 
arbitration applications are being rejected on the grounds of having exceeded 
the  limitation  period,  without  going  into  the  circumstances  leading  to  the 
arbitration  not  being  filed  within  the  time  period.  In  case  the  arbitration 
application  is  not  filed  within  the  limitation  period  for  reasons  beyond  the 
control of the party, rejection of the same is not in the interest of investors. 
Accordingly, it has been decided that: 
(cid:190) The limitation period can be extended in certain cases for a further period of 

three months by the stock exchange. 

(cid:190) The  stock  exchange  can  decide  on  extending  the  limitation  period  for  a 
period of three months, only after obtaining sufficient documentary proof in 
this  regard  and  recording  the  reasons  for  the  same  in  writing.  In  this 
regard, 
the  stock  exchange  sufficient 
documentary  proof  regarding  the  reasons  for  the  delay  in  filing  the 
arbitration  case  and  the  stock  exchange  shall  examine,  if  the  reasons 
/documentary  proof  submitted,  for  not  filing  the  arbitration  within  the 
limitation period were indeed beyond the control of the party. 

the  party  shall  provide 

to 

Page 17 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 
                                     

SCHEDULE 

 
Chapter I (Allotment of Codes to Stock Exchanges) 
 
The earlier circulars / directions issued by SEBI relating to allotment of codes to 
Stock Exchanges, which are compiled in this master circular, are as under - 
 
1.  Circular No. Ref.SMD-I/22532 dated October 19, 1993. 
2.  Circular No. SMD/POLICY/CIR (DBA-II)-37/98 dated December 04, 1998. 
3.  Circular No. MRD/DSA/SE/CIR- 28 /2008 dated October 17, 2008. 
 

 

/  directions 

issued  by  SEBI  relating 

Circular No. SMD-II/POLICY/CIR-37/99 dated November 26, 1999. 
Circular No. SMD-I/POLICY/CIR-40/99 dated December 16, 1999. 
Circular No. SMD-II/ALLSE/CIR-02/2000 dated January 10, 2000 
Circular No. SMDRPD/Policy/Cir-8/2001dated February 07, 2001 
Circular No. SMDRP/Policy/Cir-41/2001  dated August 09, 2001 
Circular No. SMD/POLICY/CIR-4/2003 dated February 11, 2003. 
Letter No. SMD/SEAD/9971/03 dated May 21, 2003. 
Circular No. SEBI/SMD/SE/Cir-20/2003/02/06 dated June 02, 2003  
Circular No. SEBI/MRD/SE/15958/2003 dated August 22, 2003 

Chapter II (Subsidiary Management by Stock Exchanges) 
 
The  earlier  circulars 
to  Subsidiary 
management by Stock Exchanges, which are compiled in this master circular, are 
as under:  
 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10.  Circular No. MRD/POLICY/CIR-33/2004 dated September 30, 2004. 
11. 
 
 
Chapter III (Governance of recognised Stock Exchanges) 
 
The  earlier  circulars  /  directions  issued  by  SEBI  relating  to  Governance  of 
recognised  Stock  Exchanges,  which  are  compiled  in  this  master  circular,  are  as 
under - 
 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

Circular No. SMD-II/11615/92 dated November 20, 1992. 
Circular No. SMD/SED/6919/93 dated April 20, 1993. 
Circular No. SMD-II(N)/24456/93 dated December 7, 1993 
Circular No. SMD/536/95 dated March 28, 1995 
Circular No. Ref. SMD-II/52 dated January 10, 1996 
Letter No. SMD/RCG/3737/96 dated August 13, 1996. 

Letter no. MRD/DSA/C&D/72675/06 dated July 27, 2006.  

Page 18 of 19 

¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Letter dated September 02, 2002. 

Letters dated August 31, 2005 / September 21, 2005. 
Letter dated November 6, 2008. 
Letters dated February 20, 2009 

 
7. 
Circular No. SMD/POLICY/IECG/5694/96 dated December 20, 1996. 
8. 
Circular No. SMD/POLICY/IECG/2-97 dated February 25, 1997. 
9. 
Circular No. SMD/POLICY/CIRCULAR-27/97 dated November 05, 1997. 
10.  Circular No. SMD/POLICY/CIRCULAR-09/98 dated February 24, 1998. 
11.  Circular No. SMDRP/Policy/Cir-33/98 dated November 12, 1998. 
12.  Circular No. SMDRP/Policy/Cir - 25 /99 dated August 12, 1999 
13.  Circular No. SMD/POLICY/CIR-2/2002 dated January 10, 2002. 
14. 
15.  Circular No. SEBI/SMD/SE/Cir- 19/2003/02/06 dated June 02, 2003 
16.  Circular No. SMD/Policy/Cir-8/2003 dated March 4, 2003 
17.  Circular No. MRD/DOP/SE/Cir-5/2005 dated February 9, 2005 
18. 
19. 
20. 
 
 
Chapter IV (Arbitration in recognised Stock Exchanges) 
 
The  earlier  circulars  /  directions  issued  by  SEBI  relating  to  Arbitration  in 
recognised  Stock  Exchanges,  which  are  compiled  in  this  master  circular,  are  as 
under: 
 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
 

Circular No. SMD/POLICY/CIRCULAR/3-97, dated March 31, 1997 
Circular No. SMDRP/POLICY/CIR - 22/99, dated July 9, 1999 
Circular No. SMD/Policy/Cir-06/2002 dated March 27, 2002 
Circular No. SMD/Policy/Cir-18/2002 dated August 28, 2002 
Circular No. SMD/POLICY/Cir-26/2002 dated October 30, 2002. 
Circular No. SEBI/SMD/SE/13 /2003/10/04 dated April 10, 2003. 
Letter No. MRD/DSA/Arb/4623/2004 dated March 05, 2004. 
Circular No. MRD/DSA/SE/CIR-18/2009 dated December 2, 2009. 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

***** 

Page 19 of 19 

