 
 
Deputy General Manager 
Market Intermediary Regulation and Supervision Department 
E-mail: biranchins@sebi.gov.in 

SEBI/MIRSD/Master Cir-04/2010 
March 17, 2010 

 

 Page 1 of 5 

 
The Executive Directors / Managing Directors / Chief Executive Officers 
All Stock Exchanges/Clearing Corporations  
 
Sub:  Master  Circular  on  Oversight  of  Members 
(Stock  Brokers/Trading 
Members/Clearing  Members  of  any  Segment  of  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 
Corporations)  
 
1.  This  master  circular  consolidates  and  updates  the  requirements/obligations  with 
to  oversight  of  members  (Inspection  by  Stock  Exchanges/Clearing 

regard 
Corporations, Internal Audit and Default) prescribed by the following circulars: 

A.  Circular no. SMD(B)/104/22775/93 dated October 29, 1993 
B.  Circular no. SMD/MDP/CIR/043/96 dated August 5, 1996 
C.  Circular no. SMD/Policy/Cir-24/97 dated September 26, 1997 
D.  Circular no. SMDRP/POLICY/Cir-45/2001 dated September 17, 2001 
E.  Circular no. SEBI/SMD/DBA-1/CIR-27/2003 dated June 25, 2003 
F.  Circular no. MIRSD/DPSIII/Cir-26/08 dated August 22, 2008, and  
G.  Circular no. MRD/DMS/Cir-29/2008 dated October 21, 2008 

 

I. Inspection of Members by Stock Exchanges / Clearing Corporations 
2.    The  Stock  Exchange  or  the  Clearing  Corporation,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall,  in 
consultation with SEBI, formulate a policy for inspection of members and follow up 
action thereon.   

 
3.  The Stock Exchange or the Clearing Corporation, as the case may be, shall inspect 

all active members in various segments every year.  

 
4.  The inspection shall cover: 

a.  Compliance with the relevant provisions of the Act, Rules and Regulations made 
there under, Rules and Regulation of  the Stock Exchange / Clearing Corporation 
and the circulars issued by SEBI and Stock Exchanges / Clearing Corporations 
from time to time, and  

b.  Efficacy of the investor grievance redressal mechanism and discharge of various 

obligations towards clients, 

for the preceding one year unless a longer period is warranted in the circumstances.  
 

5.    An  illustrative  list  of  common  violations/deficiencies  observed  by  SEBI  in  its 
inspections  of  members  is  enclosed  as  Annexure.  The  Stock  Exchanges  and 
Clearing Corporations are advised to bring this list to the notice of members with an 
advice to them to avoid these violations/deficiencies.   

 
6.  The Stock Exchange or the Clearing Corporation, as the case may be, shall initiate all 
the  follow  up  action  –  remedial,  penal  and  disciplinary  -  required  on  inspection 
findings, within 6 months from the conclusion of the inspection.  

Internal Audit 

II.    
7.    The  member  shall  carry  out  complete  internal  audit  on  a  half  yearly  basis  by  an 
independent  qualified  Chartered  Accountant,  Company  Secretary  or  Cost  and 
Management  Accountant  who  is  in  practice  and  does  not  have  any  conflict  of 
interest.  

 
8.   The audit shall cover, inter alia,  

a.  the existence, scope and efficiency of the internal control system,  
b.  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992,  Securities  Contracts 
(Regulation)  Act  1956,  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008,  SEBI  (Stock 
Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992, circulars issued by SEBI from time 
to time, Bye Laws and Regulations and circulars issued by the Stock Exchange / 
Clearing Corporation, 

c.  data security and insurance in respect of operations, and 
d.  efficacy of the investor grievance redressal mechanism and discharge of various 

obligations towards clients. 

   
9.  The internal auditor shall submit the audit report to the member, who shall place it 
before  its  Board  of  Directors/Proprietor/Partners  and  shall  forward  the  same  along 
with  para-wise  comments  to  the  respective  stock  exchange/clearing  corporation 
within three months from the end of the half year period.  

 
10.  The  Stock  Exchange/Clearing  Corporation  shall  analyze  the  audit  reports  so 

received and take appropriate follow up action.  

 
11.  The  Stock  Exchange/Clearing  Corporation  shall  initiate  appropriate  actions  – 
remedial, penal or disciplinary - against the members where deficiencies are noticed 
in audit reports or where audit report has not been received, and inform the details 
of action taken to SEBI, within six months from the end of the half year period.  

 
III. Default in case of Multiple Membership  
12.  Whenever  a  member  of  any  segment  is  declared  defaulter,  the  concerned  Stock 
Exchange/Clearing  Corporation  shall  immediately  declare  it  a  defaulter  in  all  its 
segments.    It  shall  also  immediately  inform  all  other  Stock  Exchanges/Clearing 
Corporations the details of the defaulter member such as name of the member, the 
names of the proprietors/partners/promoters/dominant shareholders, as applicable. 

 
13.    Immediately  on  receipt  of  the  information  about  default  of  a  member,  the  Stock 
Exchange / Clearing Corporation shall declare the said member defaulter on all its 
segments. 

 
14. The Stock Exchanges / Clearing Corporations shall take appropriate action against 
the  associates  of  defaulter  member.  For  this  purpose,  the  term  ‘associate’  shall 
include a person: 

a.  who,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  itself,  or  in  combination  with  other  persons, 
exercises  control  over  the  member,  whether  individual,  body  corporate  or 
firm  or  holds  substantial  share  of  not  less  than  15%  in  the  capital  of  such 
entities; or  
in respect of whom the member, individual or body corporate or firm, directly 
or indirectly, by itself or in combination with other persons, exercises control; 
or 
 

b. 

 Page 2 of 5 

 

Explanation:  The  expression  “control"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  defined 
under clause (c) of Regulation 2 of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 1997.   

 
IV. Implementation 
15.   For the above purpose, the Stock Exchanges / Clearing Corporations shall take all 

necessary action, including the following: 
a.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations 
for the implementation of the above decision immediately, if the same has not 
been already made.   

b.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the members and also to 

disseminate the same on the website, and 

c.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of 

this circular in the Monthly Development Report. 

 
16.    This  circular  is  issued  in  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  Section  11  (1)  of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 to protect the interest of investors 
in  securities  and  to  promote  the  development  of,  and  to  regulate,  the  securities 
market.  

 
17.  The  circulars  mentioned  in  Para  1  of  this  Master  Circular  stand  rescinded. 
Notwithstanding  such  rescission,  anything  done  or  any  action  taken  under  those 
circulars before the date of this Master circular, shall be deemed to have been done 
or taken or commenced under the corresponding provisions of this circular. After the 
rescission of the earlier circulars referred to in para (1), any reference thereto in any 
regulation, guidelines and circulars shall be deemed to be a reference to this Master 
Circular. 

 
 
 

c.  whose director or partner is also a director or partner of the member, body 

corporate or the firm, as the case may be. 

 
 
Yours faithfully, 

(B. N. Sahoo) 

 
 

 

 Page 3 of 5 

Annexure 

 

 

The common irregularities observed in the Stock brokers/trading members books are bought to 
the notice of all. They are as follows: 
S.No  Description 
I 

Relating to KYC 
1.  ‘In person verification’ not done while opening the account. Photo copy of KYC & 
agreement are not provided to clients; if provided proof of delivery/dispatch is not 
maintained 

investors 

one client 

 

 Page 4 of 5 

II 

III 

2.  Adding clauses in broker-client agreement/tripartite agreement which are contrary 
to  the  clauses  as  prescribed  in  Model  agreements.  Voluntary  clauses  in 
agreements are not highlighted as ‘voluntary’ and signatures of clients taken on all 
the documents 

 
Relating to Contract notes: 
3.  Contract notes are not bearing serial numbers, SEBI registration numbers, Order no. 
& time. Contract notes are not issued in the prescribed format/not issued within 24 
hours  of  trade  execution/not  signed  properly  by  the  broker  or  his  authorised 
representatives  

4.  Duplicates/counterfoils/acknowledged  copies  of  the  contract  notes  issued  not 

being maintained or maintained with inadequate details. 
5.  Not issuing contracts in Form B while acting as principal 
6.  Appropriate  stamp  duty  not paid  and  charging  Securities  Transaction  Tax (STT) 

on non equity funds transactions by the brokers. 

7.  Brokerage  is  not  shown  separately  on  contract  notes.  The  correct  rate  at  which 

the transaction was executed is not passed on to the client  

8.  Charges other than brokerage and statutory charges levied on the clients which 
are  not  specifically  agreed  upon  by  the  clients  or  charging  more  than  the  limits 
prescribed.  

9.  In case the Electronic Contract Notes (ECN) are issued, the same are not made 
available  on  brokers’  websites/  sending  ECN  on  single  email-id  for  a  group  of 
clients/not maintaining ECN logs for ECN sent to the clients 

 
Relating to Investor services  
10. Deficiency in service to the clients 
11. Non  maintenance  of  investor  grievance  register  and  lack  of  proper  system  for 
receipt  and  reconciliation  of  investor  grievances/not  taking  adequate  steps  for 
redressal of grievances of investors within one month from the date of receipt of 
the complaint.  

12. Non maintenance of client database or details captured wrongly in the database  
13. There  are  delays  between  pay-out  by  the  exchange  to  their  members  and  the 
transmission  of  shares/money  received  in  such  pay-out  to  their  clients  by  brokers 
without any record of reasons for such delay. 

14. Non  dissemination  of  email  ID  created  for  receiving  investor  grievances  to  the 

15. Freezing of accounts of clients without giving adequate reason 
16. Providing  multiple  client  codes  to  one  client/using  same  PAN  no.  for  more  than 

17. Frequent trade modification/client code modification done in client account 
18. Daily margin statement and quarterly statements not sent to clients 
19. Relationship  managers  acting  as  portfolio  managers  by  entering  into  verbal 

agreement with clients for trading on their behalf  

IV 

V 

VI 

Relating to funds and securities  
20. Unauthorized trading activities carried out in client’s account 
21. Not  having  separate  account  for  clients'  funds/securities  or  having  separate 
accounts  for  clients  but  not  segregating  clients'  funds/securities  from  its  own 
funds/securities. 

22. The brokers are found involved in funding activities - with the exception of those in 

connection with or incidental to or consequential upon the securities business. 

23. Non  collection  of  margin  from  clients/wrong  reporting  of  collection  of  margins  to 

exchanges/clearing members 

24. Accepting cash from the clients. Accepting/giving third party payments/receipts 
25. Pledging client’s securities without explicit authorization from client. The details of 

shares pledged not being informed to client  

Relating to terminals 
26. Not  putting  the  unique  client  code  (UCC)  of  clients  while  placing  orders  in  the 

trading system. 

27. The  broker  granting  the  trading  terminals  at  places  other  than  that  specified  by 

SEBI e.g. registered office, branch office or registered sub brokers’ offices.   

29.  Terminals  operated  by  personnel  without  having  proper  qualification/  persons 

operating the terminal are not employees/remissers/sub brokers of stock brokers 

Others 
30.  Non-maintenance  or  improper  maintenance  of  Books  of  Accounts  which  are 
required to be maintained as per Rule 15 of SC (R) Rules, 1957 and Regulation 17 
of SEBI (Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations 1992 
 Non-compliance with provisions relating to spot/negotiated deals 

Instances  of the  broker/dealers/others  connected with  the broker,  involved  in 
front  running,  circular  trading,  creating  false  markets,  misuse  of  the  exchange 
mechanism  for  securing  financing  transactions,  entering  fictitious  transactions 
and illegal transactions 

Non submission of audit report/internal audit reports within the prescribed time 

31. 
32. 

33. 

34. 

35. 

36. 

37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 

42. 

43. 

44. 

45. 

 

 Page 5 of 5 

limit 

applicable laws 

Dealing  with  unregistered  sub-brokers/acting 

through  brokers  of  other 

exchanges for its clients without registering as a sub broker of these brokers 

Involved  in  business  other  than  the  securities  business  in  violation  of 

Non  payment/  inadequate  payment  of  SEBI  registration  fees  by  the  stock 

brokers and also by their sub brokers  

Not taking prior permission from SEBI for change in status and constitution. 
Not complying with the provisions of advertisements/internet based trading  
Non appointment of compliance officer. 
Non- compliance with trading restrictions imposed by Stock Exchanges  
Trading in unlisted securities and in securities prior to their admission to dealings 

by Exchanges 

Not  reporting  off-the-floor  transactions  (e.g.)  (a)  The  transactions  with  stock 
brokers of  other  exchanges  (b) Principal to principal transactions with clients (c) 
Transactions done after the trading hours. 

Not informing the investors/general public about cancellation of registration of 

its sub broker(s) 

Non-formation of policies related to internal controls, employee/insider trading, 
Prevention of Money Laundering (PML) etc. If policies are formulated, they are 
not implemented.   

Delivery vs payment (DvP) trades are done in other than those circumstances 

as prescribed. 

