भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

MASTER CIRCULAR FOR DEPOSITORIES 

 

 

  December 15, 2016 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2016/134  
 
To, 
 
All Depositories 

 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 

 

 

 

Subject: Master Circular for Depositories 

  
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  has  been  issuing  various 
circulars/directions  from  time  to  time.  In  order  to  enable  the  users  to  have  an 
access to all the applicable circulars/directions at one place, Master Circular for 
Depositories has been prepared. 
 
This Master Circular is a compilation of the circulars/communications issued by 
SEBI up to March 31, 2016 and shall come into force from the date of its issue. 
 
This  Master  Circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/6/2015 dated May 07, 2015. 
 
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                           Susanta Kumar Das   
Deputy General Manager 
susantad@sebi.gov.in 

previous  Master  Circular 

shall 

supersede 

 
 
 
 
 

 

1 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Table of Contents 

 

Section - 1: Beneficial Owner (BO) Accounts  

1.1  Opening of BO Account by non-body corporates 

1.1.1  Proof of Identity (PoI)  
1.1.2  Proof of Address (PoA)  
1.1.3  Clarification  on  voluntary  adaptation  of  Aadhaar  based  e-

KYC process 

1.1.4  SARAL Account Opening Form for resident individuals 
1.1.5  Clarifications  with  regard  to  KYC  requirement  for  eligible 

Foreign Investors 

1.1.6  Acceptance of third party address as correspondence address 
1.2  Exemptions from and clarifications relating to mandatory requirement 

of PAN 

1.3  Simplification of demat account opening process  

(DP-BO Rights and Obligation Document) 
1.4  Opening of demat account in case of HUF 
1.5  Operation of minor’s demat account 
1.6  Facility for a Basic Services Demat Account (BSDA) 
1.7  Change of Name in the Beneficial Owner (BO) Account 
1.8  Fees/Charges to be paid by BO  
1.9  Safeguards on transfer of securities in dematerialized mode 
1.10  Delivery Instruction Slip (DIS) Issuance and Processing 
1.11  Transmission of shares 
1.12  SMS alerts for demat accounts operated by Power of Attorney 
1.13  Exemption  from  sending  quarterly  statements  of  transactions  by 
depository  participants  (DPs)  to  clients  in  respect  of  demat  accounts 
with no transactions and no security balances 

1.14  Discontinuation   of  sending   transaction   statements   by   depository 

participants to clients 

1.15  Exemption to Depository Participants (DPs) from providing hard copies 

of transaction statements to BOs 

1.16  Transfer of funds and securities from Clearing Member pool account to 

BO Account 

1.17  Consolidated Account Statement (CAS) for all securities assets 
 

Section - 2: Depository Participants (DP) Related 

2.1  Supervision of branches of depository participants 
2.2 
2.3 

Incentivisation to Depositories Participants (DPs) 
Implementation  of  the  Multilateral  Competent  Authority  Agreement 
and Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act  

 

2 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

2.4  Printing  of  Grievances  Redressal  Mechanism  on  Delivery  Instruction 

Form Book 
 

Section - 3: Issuer related  

3.1  Charges to be paid by Issuers  
3.2  Activation  of  International  Securities  Identification  Number  (ISIN)  in 

case of IPOs and additional issue of shares/ securities 

3.3  Registrar and Share Transfer Agents 
3.4  Mandatory admission of debt instruments on both the Depositories 
3.5  American  Depository  Receipts  (ADRs)/Global  Depository  Receipts    

 

(GDRs) 

3.6  Electronic Clearing System (ECS) facility 
         3.6.1 Use of ECS for refund in public/ rights issues 
         3.6.2 Usage of electronic payment modes for making cash payment to 

the investors 

3.7  Withdrawal by issuers from the depository 
3.8  Further  issue  of  shares  under  Section  86  of  Companies  Act  and 
  Companies  (Issue  of  Share  capital  with  Differential  Voting  Rights) 
  Rules, 2001 

 

Section - 4: Depositories Related  

4.1  Activity schedule for depositories for T+2 rolling Settlement   
4.2  Settlement of transactions in case of holidays 
4.3  Deadline time for accepting non pay-in related instructions 
4.4  Approval of amendments to Bye Laws / Rules of Stock Exchanges and 

Depositories 

4.5  Preservation of Records 
4.6  Pledge of Shares through depository system 
4.7  Foreign investments in infrastructure companies in securities markets 
4.8  Designated e-mail ID for regulatory communication with SEBI 
4.9  Designated e-mail ID for redressal of investor complaints 
4.10  Redressal  of  complaints  against  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories 

through SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES) 

4.11  Limitation period for filing an arbitration reference 
4.12  Disclosure of investor complaints and arbitration details on Depository  

website 

4.13  Disclosure of regulatory orders and arbitration awards on  Depository 

website 

 

3 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

4.14  Establishment  of  connectivity  by  Clearing  House  /  Clearing 

Corporation (CH/CC) with the Depository – Clarification 

4.15  Computing  and  monitoring  of  the  Aggregate  Value  of  Portfolio  of 
Securities  (AVPS)  of  the  BOs  held  in  dematerialised  form  by  Stock 
Broker DPs 

4.16  Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, 2012 (RGESS) 
4.17  Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMIs) 
4.18  Annual System Audit of Depositories 
4.19  Guidelines for Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and Disaster Recovery     

(DR) 

4.20  (Information Technology) IT Governance For Depositories 
4.21  Guidelines  for 

inspection  of  Depository  Participants  (DPs)  by 

Depositories 

4.22  Activity of Demat of warehouse receipts  
4.23  Voting rights in respect of securities held in pool account 
4.24  Risk Management Policy at the Depositories 
4.25  Outsourcing by Depositories 
4.26  Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience framework of Depositories 
4.27  Database for Distinctive Number (DN) of Shares 
4.28  Ticker on Website - For Investor awareness 
4.29  Separate  mobile  number/  email  id  for  the  clients  of  Depository 

Participants (DPs) 
 

 
 
SCHEDULE  

List of Circulars & Communications

 

4 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Section 1: Beneficial Owner (BO) Accounts 

 

1.1  Opening of BO Account by non body corporates 

1.1.1 

 

 

Proof of Identity (PoI)  

i.  Permanent Account Number (PAN) to be the sole identification number 

for all transactions in the securities market1 
 
With effect from July 02, 2007, PAN is the sole identification number for all 
transactions  in  the  securities  market,  irrespective  of  the  amount  of 
transaction. A copy of the PAN card with photograph may be accepted as 
Proof of Identity. In this regard, intermediaries shall:- 

 

 

 

a.  Put necessary systems in place so that the databases of the clients and 

their transactions are linked to the PAN details of the client.  

b.  Build necessary infrastructure to enable accessibility and query based on 

PAN thereby enabling retrieval of all the details of the clients.  

c.  Collect copies of PAN cards issued to the existing as well as new clients 
by  the  Income  Tax  Department  and  maintain  the  same  in  their  record 
after verifying with the original. 

d.  Cross-check  the  aforesaid  details  collected  from  their  clients  with  the 

details  on 
http://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/challan/enterpanforchallan.jsp2. 

Income  Tax  Department 

i.e.    

the  website  of 

the 

List of documents admissible as Proof of Identity3 

a.  Unique  Identification  Number  (UID)  (Aadhaar)/  Passport/  Voter  ID 

card/ Driving license. 

b.  PAN card with photograph. 
c.  Identity  card/  document  with  applicant’s  Photo,  issued  by  any  of  the 
following:  Central/State  Government 
its  Departments, 
Statutory/Regulatory  Authorities,  Public  Sector  Undertakings, 
Scheduled  Commercial  Banks,  Public  Financial  Institutions,  Colleges 
affiliated to Universities, Professional Bodies such as ICAI, ICWAI, ICSI, 
Bar Council etc., to their Members; and Credit cards/Debit cards issued 
by Banks. 

and 

                                                           
1 Reference: Circular MRD/DoP/Cir-5/2007 dated April 27, 2007 
2 Income Tax Department since changed the link for verification to:       
  https://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/e-Filing/Services/KnowYourPanLink.html 
3 Reference: Circular MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011 dated October 05, 2011 

 

5 

 

1.1.2 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

d.  e-KYC  service  launched  by  UIDAI  shall  also  be  accepted  as  a  valid 
process  for  KYC  verification.  The  information  containing  the  relevant 
client details and photograph made available from UIDAI as a result of 
e-KYC process shall be treated as a valid proof of Identity.4 

e.  With a view to bring about operational flexibility and in order to ease the 
PAN verification process, the intermediaries may verify the PAN of their 
clients online at the Income Tax website without insisting on the original 
PAN card, provided that the client has presented a document for Proof 
of Identity other than the PAN card.5 
 

Proof of Address (PoA)6         
 
List of documents admissible as Proof of Address:  
(*Documents  having  an  expiry  date  should  be  valid  on  the  date  of 
submission.)  
a.  Passport/ Voters Identity Card/ Ration Card/ Registered Lease or Sale 
Agreement  of  Residence/  Driving  License/  Flat  Maintenance  bill/ 
Insurance Copy. 

b.  Utility bills like Telephone Bill (only land line), Electricity bill or Gas bill 

- Not more than 3 months old. 

c.  Bank Account Statement/Passbook -- Not more than 3 months old. 
d.  Self-declaration  by  High  Court  and  Supreme  Court  judges,  giving  the 

new address in respect of their own accounts. 

e.  Proof  of  address  issued  by  any  of  the  following:  Bank  Managers  of 
Scheduled 
Co-Operative 
Bank/Multinational  Foreign  Banks/Gazetted  Officer/Notary  public/ 
elected 
Legislative 
Assembly/Parliament/Documents  issued  by  any  Govt.  or  Statutory 
Authority.  

Banks/Scheduled 

representatives 

Commercial 

to 

the 

f.  Identity  card/document  with  address,  issued  by  any  of  the  following: 
Central/State  Government  and  its  Departments,  Statutory/Regulatory 
Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, 
Public  Financial  Institutions,  Colleges  affiliated  to  Universities  and 
Professional Bodies such as ICAI, ICWAI, ICSI, Bar Council etc., to their 
Members. 

g.  For FII/sub account, Power of Attorney given by FII/sub-account to the 
Custodians (which are duly notarized and/or apostiled or consularised) 
that gives the registered address should be taken. 

                                                           
4 Reference: Circular SEBI/MIRSD/09/2013 dated October 08, 2013 
5 Reference: Circular SEBI/MIRSD/01/2013 dated January 04, 2013 
6Reference: Circular MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011 dated October 05, 2011 

 

6 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

h.  The proof of address in the name of the spouse may be accepted.  
i.  Aadhaar Letter issued by UIDAI shall be admissible as Proof of Address 

in addition to Proof of Identity.7 

j.  e-KYC  service  launched  by  UIDAI  shall  also  be  accepted  as  a  valid 
process  for  KYC  verification.  The  information  containing  the  relevant  
client details and photograph made available from UIDAI as a result of 
e-KYC process shall be treated as a valid proof of address.8 

DP shall ensure that all documents pertaining to proof of identity and proof 
of  address  are  collected  from  all  the  account  holders.9  Submission  of  the 
aforesaid  documents  is  the  minimum  requirement  for  opening  a  BO 
Account. DPs must verify the copy of the aforementioned documents with 
the original before accepting the same as valid. While opening a BO Account, 
DPs  shall  exercise  due  diligence10  while  establishing  the  identity  of  the 
person to ensure the safety and integrity of the depository system. 

 

 

 

1.1.3 

Clarification on voluntary adaptation of Aadhaar based e-KYC process11 

 

SEBI has enabled Aadhaar based e-KYC service offered by UIDAI for KYC 
verification. Intermediaries have sought clarifications from SEBI on certain 
operational aspects of the same. It is clarified that for accessing the details 
enabling client identification and authentication from UIDAI based on client 
authorisation, on voluntary basis, intermediaries who utilize the services of 
KYC Service Agencies (KSAs) would be registered as KYC User Agencies 
(KUA) with UIDAI.12 
  
For  entering  into  account  based  relationship,  the  client  may  provide  the 
following information to the intermediary: 

i. 

a)  Name 

b)  Aadhaar number 

c)  Permanent Account Number (PAN) 

                                                           
7Reference: Circular MIRSD/09/2012 dated August 13, 2012 
8 Reference: Circular SEBI/MIRSD/09/2013 dated October 08, 2013 
9 Reference: Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-29/2004 dated August 24, 2004 
10 Reference: Point 5 of part II on ‘Customer Due Diligence’ of master circular no. ISD/AML/CIR-
1/2008 dated December 19, 2008 
11 Reference: Circular SEBI/MIRSD/09/2013 dated October 08, 2013 
12 Reference: Circular: CIR/MIRSD/29/2016 dated January 22, 2016 

 

7 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ii.  The  above  information  can  be  provided  by  the  client  electronically 

including through any web enabled device.  

iii.  The  intermediary  shall  perform  verification  of  the  client  with  UIDAI 
through  biometric  authentication  (fingerprint  or  iris  scanning).  Mutual 
Funds can also perform verification of the client with UIDAI through One 
Time  password  (OTP)  received  on  client’s  mobile  number  or  on  e-mail 
address registered with UIDAI provided, the amount invested by the client 
does not exceed Rs. 50,000 per financial year per Mutual Fund and payment 
for  the  same  is  made  through  electronic  transfer  from  the  client’s  bank 
account registered with that Mutual Fund.  

iv. 

PAN of such client is to be verified from the income tax website. 

v.  After  due  validation  of  Aadhaar  number  provided  by  the  client,  the 
intermediary (acting as KUA) shall receive the KYC information about the 
client from UIDAI through KSA. 

vi.  The information downloaded from UIDAI shall be considered as sufficient 
information  for  the  purpose  of  KYC  verification.  The  intermediary  shall 
upload  this  KYC  information  on  the  KRA  system  in  terms  of  KRA 
Regulations. 

vii. 

In case material difference is observed either in the name (as observed in 
the  PAN  vis-a-vis  Aadhaar)  or  photograph  in  Aadhaar  is  not  clear,  the 
intermediary shall carry out additional due diligence and maintain a record 
of the additional documents sought pursuant to such due diligence. 

viii.  The  records  of  KYC  information  so  received  shall  be  maintained  by  the 
intermediary as per the SEBI Act, Regulations and various circulars issued 
thereunder. 

 

1.1.4 

i. 

SARAL Account Opening Form for resident individuals13 
 
It is gathered that a majority of new investors in the securities market begin 
with  participation  in  the  cash  segment  without  obtaining  various  other 
facilities  such  as  internet  trading,  margin trading,  derivative trading  and 
use of power of attorney. 

ii.  The  account  opening  process  can  be  simplified  for  such  individual 
investors.  With  a  view  to  encourage  their  participation,  it  is,  therefore, 
decided  that  such  individual  investors  can  open  a  trading  account  and 
demat  account  by  filling  up  a  simplified  Account  Opening  Form  ('AOF') 

                                                           
13 Reference Circular MIRSD/1/2015 dated March 04, 2015 

 

8 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

termed as 'SARAL AOF' given at Annexure A. This form will be separately 
available  with  the  intermediaries  and  can  also  be  downloaded  from  the 
Exchanges'  and  Depositories'  website.  The  investors  who  open  account 
through  SARAL  AOF  will  also  have  the  option  to  obtain  other  facilities, 
whenever  they  require,  on  furnishing  of  additional  information  as  per 
prescribed regulations/circulars. 

iii.  The  standard  set  of  documents  viz.  Rights  and  Obligations  document, 
Uniform Risk Disclosure Document and Guidance Note and documentary 
proof related to identity and address as specified in SEBI Circulars dated 
August 22, 2011 and October 5, 2011 shall continue to remain applicable. It 
is further clarified that the provisions laid down under the PML Act, PML 
Rules,  SEBI  Master  Circular  on  AML  dated  December  31,  2010  and  SEBI 
Circular  on  AML  dated  March  12,  2014  shall  also  continue  to  remain 
applicable for set of individual investors mentioned in paragraph (ii) above. 

iv. 

For  these  set  of  individual  investors,  it  has  been  decided  to  simplify  the 
requirement  of  submission  of  ‘proof  of  address’.  The  matter  has  been 
examined  in  the  light  of  amendment  to  the  PML  Rules,  2005  and 
accordingly,  the  requirement  of  submission  of  ‘proof  of  address’  is  as 
follows: 

a.  Henceforth, individual investor may submit only one documentary proof 
of  address  (either  residence/correspondence  or  permanent)  while 
opening a trading account and / or demat account or while undergoing 
updation. 

b.  In  case  the  proof  of  address  furnished  by  the  said  investor  is  not  the 
address  where  the  investor  is  currently  residing,  the  intermediary may 
take a declaration of the residence/correspondence address on which all 
correspondence will be made by the intermediary with the investor. No 
proof  is  required  to  be  submitted  for  such  correspondence/residence 
address. In the event of change in this address due to relocation or any 
other reason, investor may intimate the new address for correspondence 
to the intermediary within two weeks of such a change. The residence/ 
correspondence address and any such change thereof may be verified by 
the 
(i) 
acknowledgment  of  receipt  Welcome  Kit/  dispatch  of  contract  notes  / 
any periodical statement, etc. (ii) telephonic conversation; (iii) visits, etc. 

‘positive  confirmation’ 

such  as 

intermediary 

through 

9 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

1.1.5 

 

i. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Clarifications  with  regard  to  KYC  requirement  for  eligible  Foreign 
Investors14 

SEBI  has  received  representations  regarding  operational  issues  in  the 
implementation of SEBI circulars No CIR/MIRSD/16/2011 dated August 
22, 2011 and MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011 dated October 5, 2011 on know your 
client  norms  for  the  securities  market  SEBI  Circulars  in  case  of  foreign 
investors viz. Foreign Institutional Investors, Sub Accounts and Qualified 
Foreign Investors. In consultation with the Stock Exchanges, Depositories 
and Intermediaries, certain clarifications are issued, as given in Annexure 
A, with respect to these investors. 

ii.  Eligible  foreign  investors  investing  under  Portfolio  Investment  Scheme 
('PIS')  route  shall  be  classified  as  Category  I,  II  and  III  as  provided  in 
Annexure B. The intermediary shall follow risk based Know Your  Client 
norms.  Accordingly,  certain  clarifications  are  hereby  issued,  as  given  in 
Annexure C, based on the category of these investors. 

iii.  Eligible foreign investors investing under PIS route shall be subject to KYC 
review  as  and  when  there  is  any  change  in  material  information  / 
disclosure. 

Annexure A 

Sr 
No. 

Relevant requirements on KYC 
Form 
as  per  SEBI  Circulars  dated 
August 
22, 2011 and October 5, 2011 

1. 

Authorized signatories list with 
specimen 
to  be 
submitted. 

signatures 

Clarifications for Foreign Investors 
viz. FIIs, 
Sub Accounts and QFIs 

If  the  client  has  authorized  the 
Global  Custodian 
-  an  entity 
regulated by an appropriate foreign 
regulatory 
authority  or  Local 
Custodian registered with SEBI as a 
signatory  by  way  of  a  Power  of 
Attorney  ('PoA')  to  sign  on  its 
behalf, such PoA may be accepted. 

                                                           
14 Reference CIR MIRSD/11/2012 dated September 05, 2012 and CIR MIRSD/07/2013 dated 
September 12, 2013 

 

10 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

Intermediary has to get the KYC 
form filled from the clients. 

directors 

PAN to be taken for individual 
promoters  holding  control  - 
either  directly  or 
indirectly, 
Partners/Trustees,  whole  time 
directors/two 
in 
charge of day to day operations 
and persons authorized to deal 
in  securities  on  behalf  of 
company/firm/others. 
For  foreign  nationals,  (allowed 
to  trade  subject  to  RBI  and 
FEMA  guidelines),  copy  of 
passport/PIO  Card/OCI  Card 
is mandatory. 

For  foreign  entities,  CIN 
is 
optional;  and  in  the  absence  of 
DIN  no.  for  the  directors  their 
passport copy should be given. 

6. 

It shall be mandatory for all the 
Intermediaries addressed in this 
circular  to  carry  out  In  person 
verification of their clients. 

11 

The  Global  Custodian  or  the  Local 
Custodian may fill the KYC form, if 
authorized through the PoA. 
Not applicable. 

Proof  of  Identity  document  duly 
attested  by  the  entities  authorized 
for  the  same  as  per  SEBI  Circular 
dated October 5, 2011 or authorised 
signatories  as  mentioned  at  point  1 
above may be adequate in lieu of the 
passport copy. 
CIN  no.  is  provided  as  an  example 
and requires the client’s registration 
number in its respective country. If 
the  foreign  entity  does  not  have 
CIN,  the  equivalent  registration 
number  of 
the  entity  may  be 
mentioned.  If  it  does  not  have  any 
then  SEBI 
registration  number, 
Registration  number  may 
be 
mentioned. 
 
In case the directors (as per point 3 
above), of the client do not have an 
equivalent  of  DIN  in  the  client’s 
respective 
"Not 
Applicable" may be stated. Copy of 
the Passport may not be provided. 
In  person  verification 
applicable 
Client. 
 

is  not 
for  a  non-individual 

jurisdiction, 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

In  case  of  QFI  –  Individual  Client, 
IPV  shall  be  carried  out  by  SEBI 
registered intermediary as per SEBI 
Circular dated August 22, 2011. 
In  the  absence  of  originals  for 
verification,  documents  may  be 
attested as per SEBI Circulars dated 
August 22, 2011 and October 5, 2011 
or 
as 
mentioned at point 1 above. 

signatories 

authorised 

A. Though it is not mandatory, the 
intermediaries  shall  carry  out  due 
diligence as per the PMLA and SEBI 
Master  Circular  on  AML  about  the 
financial position of the client. 
 
B.  List  of  beneficial  owners  with 
shareholding or beneficial interest in 
the client equal to or above 25% to be 
obtained. 
If  Global  Custodian 
/Local  Custodian  provides  an 
undertaking to submit these details, 
then  intermediary  may  take  such 
undertaking only. Any change in the 
list  to  be  obtained  based  on  risk 
profile of the client. 

A. Not required if Global Custodian 
an 
/Local  Custodian 
undertaking 
the 
following  documents  as  and  when 
requested for by intermediary: 

gives 
provide 

to 

7. 

8. 

Copies  of  all  the  documents 
submitted  by 
the  applicant 
should  be  self-attested  and 
accompanied  by  originals  for 
verification. 
In  case  the  original  of  any 
document  is  not  produced  for 
verification,  then  the  copies 
should  be  properly  attested  by 
entities authorized for attesting 
the  documents,  as  per  the  list 
mentioned in the circular dated 
Aug 22, 2011. 
A.  Copy  of  the  balance  sheets 
for the last 2 financial years (to 
be 
submitted  every  year), 
annual  gross  income  and  net 
worth details. 
 
B. Copy of latest share holding 
pattern including list of all those 
holding  control,  either  directly 
or indirectly, in the company in 
terms 
takeover 
Regulations,  duly  certified  by 
the  company  secretary/Whole 
time  director/MD 
be 
submitted every year).  
POI  and  POA  of  individual 
promoters  holding  control  - 
either directly or indirectly. 

SEBI 

(to 

of 

9.  Name, 

residential 

address, 
photograph,  POI  and  POA  of 
Partners/Trustees,  whole  time 
directors/two 
in 
charge of day to day operations 
and 
promoters 

individual 

directors 

12 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

holding control - either directly 
or indirectly. 

1  A  resolution  from  the  Board  of 
Directors and power of attorney 
granted to its managers, officers 
or  employees  to  transact  on  its 
behalf; and 

2  An  officially  valid  document  in 
respect  of  managers,  officers  or 
employees  holding  an  attorney 
to transact on its behalf. 

10.  Copy  of  SEBI 

registration 

certificate to be provided. 

11.  Every  client  has  to  provide  the 
trading  account  related  details, 
as  required  by  Annexure  3  to 
the  SEBI  circular  dated  August 
22, 2011. 

If  Global  Custodian/Local 
B. 
Custodian  does  not  provide  such 
undertaking  as  stated  in  A  above, 
intermediary  shall  take  required 
details from Foreign Investors. 
Custodian  shall  verify  the  SEBI 
registration certificate copy with the 
originals  or  with 
the  details 
available  on  SEBI  website  and 
provide duly certified copy of such 
verified SEBI registration certificate 
to the intermediary. 
Annexure  3  to  the  circular  dated 
August  22,  2012  pertaining 
to 
trading account related details is not 
applicable 
and  Sub 
Accounts. 
 
However, 
are 
required  to  update  details  of  any 
action taken or proceedings initiated 
against  the  entity  by  the  foreign 
regulators 
Stock 
exchanges. 
 
For  QFI,  the  intermediary  shall 
collect the 
following details from Annexure 3: 
  Bank Account details 
  Depository account 
  Regulatory 

Intermediaries 

for  FIIs 

or 

SEBI/ 

Actions 

as 

mentioned above 

13 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

12. 

Intermediary shall provide a set 
of all the executed documents to 
the client, free of charge. 

13.  Place of incorporation 

14.  Date  of  commencement  of 

business 

15.  Copies  of  the  Memorandum 
and Articles of Association and 
certificate of incorporation 

16.  Copy  of  the  Board  Resolution 
in  securities 

investment 

for 
market. 

Intermediary  shall  display  these 
standard  documents  prescribed  by 
SEBI  on  its  web  site,  intimate  the 
clients regarding the link and email 
a copy of the same to the client. 
If  place  of  incorporation  is  not 
available, Intermediary should take 
Registered office address/ principal 
place of business of entity. 
Not applicable 

If FII or Sub Account does not have 
certificate  of 
Incorporation  or 
Memorandum  and  Articles  of 
Association,  then  any  reasonable 
equivalent 
document 
evidencing formation of entity may 
be allowed. 
 

legal 

Not applicable. 

 

Exemptions - 
In case of Sovereign Wealth Fund, Foreign Governmental Agency, Central 
bank,  International  or  Multilateral  organization  and  Central  or  State 
Government Pension Fund, the intermediary shall satisfy itself about their 
status and thereafter, only provisions at point 9 above shall be applicable. 
Further,  these  entities  shall  also  be  a  part  of  KRA  centralised  system  of 
KYCs. 
 

Annexure B 

Category 
I. 

II. 

Eligible Foreign Investors 
Government  and  Government 
related 
foreign  investors  such  as  Foreign  Central 
Banks,  Governmental  Agencies,  Sovereign 
Wealth  Funds, 
International/  Multilateral 
Organizations/ Agencies. 
a)  Appropriately  regulated  broad  based 
funds such as Mutual Funds, Investment 

14 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

III. 

Document 
Type 
Entity level 

 

 
 

 

Insurance 

Trusts, 
/  Reinsurance 
Companies,  Other  Broad  Based  Funds 
etc. 
 

b)  Appropriately regulated entities such as 
Banks,  Asset  Management  Companies, 
Investment 
Advisors, 
Portfolio Managers etc. 

Managers/ 

 
c)  Broad  based  funds  whose  investment 

manager is appropriately regulated. 

 
d)  University Funds and Pension Funds 
 
e)  University  related  Endowments  already 
registered with SEBI as FII/Sub Account 
All  other  eligible  foreign  investors  investing 
in  India  under  PIS  route  not  eligible  under 
Category  I  and  II  such  as  Endowments, 
Charitable  Societies/Trust,  Foundations, 
Corporate  Bodies,  Trusts, 
Individuals, 
Family Offices, etc. 

Annexure C 

Category – I  Category  – 

Category – III 

Required 

II 
Required 

Required 

Required 
Power of 
Attorney, 
mentioning 
the address, 
is 
acceptable 
as 
address 
proof 

Required 
Power of 
Attorney, 
mentioning 
the 
address, 
is 
acceptable 
as 
address 
proof 
Required 
Exempt 

Required 
- Address 
proof other 
than 
Power of 
Attorney 
should 
be submitted. 

Required 
Risk based 

Constitutive 
Docs 
 
Proof of 
Address 

PAN Card 
Financials 

Required 
Exempt 

15 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Required 

Required 

- Financial 
data 
sufficient. 
Required 

Exempt 

Required 

Required 

Required 
Required 
Exempt 

Required 
Required 
Exempt 

SEBI 
Registration 
Certificate 
Board 
Resolution 
KYC Form 
List 
Proof Of 
Identity 

Required 
Required 
Entity declares 
on 
letterhead - 
full name, 
nationality 
and DoB OR 
Photo-identity 
proof' 
Declaration on 
letter head 
Exempt 
Required 

Senior 
Management 
(Whole Time 
Directors/ 
Partners/ 
Trustees/ 
etc.) 

Authorized 
Signatories 

Exempt 

Proof of 
Address 
Photographs   Exempt 
List & 
Signatures 

Exempt 

Exempt 
Required 
- List of GC 
signatories 
can be 
given in 
case of 
POA to GC 
 

Required 
- List of 
Global 
Custodian 
('GC') 
signatories 
can be 
given in 
case of POA 
to 
GC 
Not 
required 
Not 
required 

Proof Of 
Identity 
Proof of 
Address 
Photographs  Not 

Not 
required 
Not 
required 
Not 
required 
Required 

Not required 

Not required 

Required 

Required 

Ultimate 

List 

required 
Exempt 

16 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

- Can 
declare "no 
UBO 
over 25%" 
Exempt 

Required 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Proof Of 
Identity 
Proof of 
Address 
Photographs  Exempt 

Exempt 

Beneficial 
Owner 
('UBO') 

 

 
 

1.1.6 

Acceptance of third party address as correspondence address15 

 

 

 

 
1.2 

i.  SEBI has no objection to a BO authorizing the capture of an address of a third 
party as a correspondence address, provided that the Depository Participant 
(DP) ensures that all prescribed ‘Know Your Client’ norms are fulfilled for 
the  third  party  also.  The  DP  shall  obtain  proof  of  identity  and  proof  of 
address  for  the  third  party.  The  DP  shall  also  ensure  that  customer  due 
diligence norms as specified in Rule 9 of Prevention of Money Laundering 
Rules, 2005 are complied with in respect of the third party. 

ii.  The  depository  participant  should  further  ensure  that  the  statement  of 
transactions  and  holding  are  sent  to  the  BO’s  permanent  address  at  least 
once in a year. 

iii.  However,  the  above  provision  shall  not  apply  in  case  of  PMS  (Portfolio 

Management Services) clients.  

Exemptions  from  and  clarifications  relating  to  mandatory  requirement  of 
PAN 

 

1.2.1  Mandatory requirement of Permanent Account Number (PAN) 16 

 
The  demat  accounts  for  which  PAN  details  have  not  been  verified  are 
“suspended  for  debit”  until  the  same  is  verified  with  the  Depository 
Participant (DP). With effect from August 16, 2010 such PAN non-compliant 
demat  accounts  were  also  "suspended  for  credit"  other  than  the  credits 
arising out of automatic corporate actions. It was clarified that other credits 

                                                           
15 Reference: Circular CIR/MRD/DP/37/2010 dated December 14, 2010 
16 Reference: Circular MRD/DP/22/2010 dated July 29, 2010 

 

17 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

including  credits  from  IPO/FPO/Rights  issue,  off-market  transactions  or 
any secondary market transactions would not be allowed into such accounts. 

 
1.2.2  Central and State Government and officials appointed by Courts17 

 
PAN card may not be insisted upon in case of transactions undertaken on 
behalf  of  Central  Government  and/or  State  Government  and  where 
transactions  are  conducted  by  officials  appointed  by  Courts  e.g.  Official 
liquidator, Court receiver etc.18 
 
However DPs, before implementing the above exemption, shall verify the 
veracity  of  the  claim  of  the  organizations  by  collecting  sufficient 
documentary evidence in support of their claim for such an exemption. 

 

1.2.3  Investors in Sikkim19 

 
Investors residing in the state of Sikkim are exempted from the mandatory 
requirement of furnishing PAN card details for their demat accounts.20 DPs 
shall verify the veracity of the claim of the investors that they are residents 
of Sikkim, by collecting sufficient documentary evidence in support of their 
address 
 

1.2.4  UN  entities  and  multilateral  agencies  exempt  from  paying  taxes/  filling 

tax returns in India21 
 
UN  entities/  multilateral  agencies  exempt  from  paying  taxes/filing  tax 
returns  in  India  are  also  exempt  from  the  mandatory  requirement  of 
submitting  their  PAN  card  details,  subject  to  the  DPs  collecting 
documentary evidence in support of such claims. 
 

1.2.5  FIIs/Institutional Clients22 

 
Custodians shall verify the PAN card details of institutional clients with the 
original PAN card and provide duly certified copies of such verified PAN 
details  to  the  brokers.  This  requirement  is  applicable  in  respect  of 

                                                           
17 Reference: Circular MRD/DoP/Cir-20/2008 dated June 30, 2008 
18 Reference: Rule 114C (1)(c) of Income Tax Rules 
19 Reference: Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 dated July 20, 2006 
20 Reference: Hon’ble High Court of Sikkim judgment dated March 31, 2006 
21 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 dated July 20, 2006 
22 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-13/06 dated September 26, 2006 

 

18 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

institutional  clients,  namely,  FIIs,  MFs,  VCFs,  FVCIs,  Scheduled 
Commercial  Banks,  Multilateral  and  Bilateral  Development  Financial 
Institutions,  State 
Insurance 
Companies  registered  with  IRDA  and  Public  Financial  Institution  as 
defined under section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956. 

Industrial  Development  Corporations, 

 
1.2.6  HUF, Association of Persons (AoP), Partnership Firm, unregistered Trust, 

Registered Trust, Corporate Bodies, minors, etc.15    
 
The BO account shall be in the name of natural persons, PAN card details 
of the respective HUF, AoP, Partnership Firm, Unregistered Trust, etc shall 
be obtained. The PAN number of Registered Trust, Corporate Bodies and 
minors  shall  be  obtained  when  accounts  are  opened  in  their  respective 
names. 

 
1.2.7  Difference in maiden name and current name of investors. 15    

 
DPs  can  collect  the  PAN  card  proof  as  submitted  by  the  account  holder 
subject to the DPs verifying the veracity of the claim of such investors by 
collecting sufficient documentary evidence in support of the identity of the 
investors.23   

 
1.2.8  NRI/PIOs24 

 
Citizens of India residing outside India, foreign citizens and other persons 
(like companies/ trusts/ firms) having no office of their own in India may 
obtain PAN card based on the copy of their passport as ID proof and a copy 
of  passport/  bank  account  in  the  country  of  residence  as  address  proof, 
based on the Directorate of Income Tax (Systems) guidelines.25  
 

  Simplification of demat account opening process26 

SEBI has taken a number of steps in the recent past to simplify the Account 
opening and KYC process in the securities markets. In continuation of the 
efforts in the same direction, it has now been decided in consultation with 
both  the  Depositories  and  Associations  of  stock  brokers  and  Depository 

1.3 
 

i. 

                                                           
23 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-29/2004 dated August 24, 2004 
24 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-17/06 dated October 27, 2006 
25 Reference Income Tax (Systems) PAN Circular No. 4 dated October 11, 2006 
26 Reference Circular SEBI/MIRSD/ 12/2013 dated December 04, 2013 
 

 

19 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

Participants to further simplify and rationalize the demat account opening 
process.  

ii.  The existing Beneficial Owner-Depository Participant Agreements shall be 
replaced  with  a  common  document  “Rights  and  Obligations  of  the 
Beneficial  Owner  and  Depository  Participant”.  The  document  annexed 
herewith shall be mandatory and binding on all the existing and new clients 
and  depository  participants.  This  will  harmonize  the  account  opening 
process for trading as well as demat account. This will also rationalise the 
number  of  signatures  by  the  investor,  which  he  is  required  to  affix  at 
present on a number of pages. 
 

iii.  The Depository Participant shall provide a copy of Rights and Obligations 
Document to the beneficial owner and shall take an acknowledgement of 
the  same.  They  shall  ensure  that  any  clause  in  any  voluntary  document 
neither dilutes the responsibility of the depository participant nor it shall 
be  in  conflict  with  any  of  the  clauses  in  this  Document,  Rules,  Bye-laws, 
Regulations,  Notices,  Guidelines  and  Circulars  issued  by  SEBI  and  the 
Depositories from time to time. Any such clause introduced in the existing 
as well as new documents shall stand null and void. 

 

ANNEXURE 

 

Rights  and  Obligations  of  Beneficial  Owner  and  Depository  Participant  as 
prescribed by SEBI and Depositories 
 
General Clause 

1.  The Beneficial Owner and the Depository participant (DP) shall be bound by 
the  provisions  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  SEBI  (Depositories  and 
Participants)  Regulations,  1996,  Rules  and  Regulations  of  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Circulars/Notifications/Guidelines issued 
there under, Bye Laws and Business Rules/Operating Instructions issued by 
the  Depositories  and  relevant  notifications  of  Government  Authorities  as 
may be in force from time to time. 

2.  The  DP  shall  open/activate  demat  account  of  a  beneficial  owner  in  the 
depository  system  only  after  receipt  of  complete  Account  opening  form, 
KYC and supporting documents as specified by SEBI from time to time. 

 

 

 

20 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Beneficial Owner information 

3.  The DP shall maintain all the details of the beneficial owner(s) as mentioned 
in  the  account  opening  form,  supporting  documents  submitted  by  them 
and/or  any  other 
information  pertaining  to  the  beneficial  owner 
confidentially  and  shall  not  disclose  the  same  to  any  person  except  as 
required by any statutory, legal or regulatory authority in this regard. 

4.  The Beneficial Owner shall immediately notify the DP in writing, if there is 
any change in details provided in the account opening form as submitted to 
the DP at the time of opening the demat account or furnished to the DP from 
time to time. 

Fees/Charges/Tariff 

5.  The Beneficial Owner shall pay such charges to the DP for the purpose of 
holding and transfer of securities in dematerialized form and for availing 
depository services as may be agreed to from time to time between the DP 
and the Beneficial Owner as set out in the Tariff Sheet provided by the DP. 
It may be informed to the Beneficial Owner that "no charges are payable for 
opening of demat accounts” 

6.   In case of Basic Services Demat Accounts, the DP shall adhere to the charge 
structure  as  laid  down  under  the  relevant  SEBI  and/or  Depository 
circulars/directions/notifications issued from time to time. 

7.  The DP shall not increase any charges/tariff agreed upon unless it has given 
a  notice  in  writing  of  not  less  than  thirty  days  to  the  Beneficial  Owner 
regarding the same. 

Dematerialization 

8.  The Beneficial Owner shall have the right to get the securities, which have 
been admitted on the Depositories, dematerialized in the form and manner 
laid down under the Bye Laws, Business Rules and Operating Instructions 
of the depositories. 

Separate Accounts 

9.  The DP shall open separate accounts in the name of each of the beneficial 
owners and securities of each beneficial owner shall be segregated and shall 
not be mixed up with the securities of other beneficial owners and/or DP’s 
own securities held in dematerialized form. 

 

21 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

10. The  DP  shall  not  facilitate  the  Beneficial  Owner  to  create  or  permit  any 
pledge and /or hypothecation or any other interest or encumbrance over all 
or  any  of  such  securities  submitted  for  dematerialization  and/or  held  in 
demat account except in the form and manner prescribed in the Depositories 
Act, 1996, SEBI (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996 and Bye-
Laws/Operating Instructions/Busines Rules of the Depositories. 

Transfer of Securities 

11. The DP shall effect transfer to and from the demat accounts of the Beneficial 
Owner only on the basis of an order, instruction, direction or mandate duly 
authorized by the Beneficial Owner and the DP shall maintain the original 
documents and the audit trail of such authorizations. 

12. The Beneficial Owner reserves the right to give standing instructions with 
regard to the crediting of securities in his demat account and the DP shall 
act according to such instructions. 

Statement of account 

13. The DP shall provide statements of accounts to the beneficial owner in such 
form and manner and at such time as agreed with the Beneficial Owner and 
as specified by SEBI/depository in this regard. 

14. However, if there is no transaction in the demat account, or if the balance 
has become Nil during the year, the DP shall send one physical statement of 
holding  annually  to  such  BOs  and  shall  resume  sending  the  transaction 
statement as and when there is a transaction in the account. 

15. The DP may provide the services of issuing the statement of demat accounts 
in an Electronic mode if the Beneficial Owner so desires. The DP will furnish 
to the Beneficial Owner the statement of  demat accounts under its digital 
signature,  as  governed  under  the  Information  Technology  Act,  2000. 
However if the DP does not have the facility of providing the statement of 
demat account in the electronic mode, then the Participant shall be obliged 
to forward the statement of demat accounts in physical form. 

16. In case of Basic Services Demat Accounts, the DP shall send the transaction 

statements as mandated by SEBI and/or Depository from time to time. 

 

 

 

22 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Manner of Closure of Demat account 

17. The  DP  shall  have  the  right  to  close  the  demat  account  of  the  Beneficial 
Owner, for any reasons whatsoever, provided the DP has given a notice in 
writing of not less than thirty days to the Beneficial Owner as well as to the 
Depository.  Similarly,  the  Beneficial  Owner  shall  have  the  right  to  close 
his/her demat account held with the DP provided no charges are payable 
by him/her to the DP. In such an event, the Beneficial Owner shall specify 
whether  the  balances  in  their  demat  account  should  be  transferred  to 
another demat account of the Beneficial Owner held with another DP or to 
rematerialize the security balances held. 

18. Based on the instructions of the Beneficial Owner, the DP shall initiate the 
procedure  for  transferring  such  security  balances  or  rematerialize  such 
security balances within a period of thirty days as per procedure specified 
from  time  to  time  by  the  depository.  Provided  further,  closure  of  demat 
account  shall  not  affect  the  rights,  liabilities  and  obligations  of  either  the 
Beneficial Owner or the DP and shall  continue to bind the parties to their 
satisfactory completion. 

Default in payment of charges 

19. In  event of  Beneficial  Owner  committing  a default  in  the  payment  of  any 
amount provided in Clause 5 &  6 within a period of thirty days from the 
date of demand, without prejudice to the right of the DP to close the demat 
account  of  the  Beneficial  Owner,  the  DP  may  charge  interest  at  a  rate  as 
specified by the Depository from time to time for the period of such default. 

20.  In case the Beneficial Owner has failed to make the payment of any of the 
amounts as provided in Clause 5&6 specified above, the DP after giving two 
days notice to the Beneficial Owner shall have the right to stop processing 
of instructions of the Beneficial Owner till such time he makes the payment 
along with interest, if any. 

Liability of the Depository 

21. As per Section 16 of Depositories Act, 1996, 

a.  Without prejudice to the provisions of any other law for the time being 
in force, any loss caused to the beneficial owner due to the negligence of 
the depository or the participant, the depository shall indemnify such 
beneficial owner. 

 

23 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

b.  Where the loss due to the negligence of the participant under Clause (1) 
above, is indemnified by the depository, the depository shall have the 
right to recover the same from such participant. 

Freezing/ Defreezing of accounts 

22. The  Beneficial  Owner  may  exercise  the  right  to  freeze/defreeze  his/her 
demat account maintained with the DP in accordance with the procedure 
and subject to the restrictions laid down under the Bye Laws and Business 
Rules/Operating Instructions. 

23. The  DP  or  the  Depository  shall  have  the  right  to  freeze/defreeze  the 
accounts of the Beneficial Owners on receipt of instructions received from 
any regulator or court or any statutory authority. 

Redressal of Investor grievance 

24. The DP shall redress all grievances of the Beneficial Owner against the DP 

within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of the complaint. 

Authorized representative 

25. If the Beneficial Owner is a body corporate or a legal entity, it shall, along 
with  the  account  opening  form,  furnish  to  the  DP,  a  list  of  officials 
authorized  by  it,  who  shall  represent  and  interact  on  its  behalf  with  the 
Participant.  Any  change  in  such  list  including  additions,  deletions  or 
alterations thereto shall be forthwith communicated to the Participant. 

Law and Jurisdiction 

26. In addition to the specific rights set out in this document, the DP and the 
Beneficial owner shall be entitled to exercise any other rights which the DP 
or  the  Beneficial  Owner  may  have  under  the  Rules,  Bye  Laws  and 
Regulations  of  the  respective  Depository  in  which  the  demat  account  is 
opened and circulars/notices issued there under or Rules and Regulations 
of SEBI. 

27. The  provisions  of  this  document  shall  always  be  subject  to  Government 
notification, any rules, regulations, guidelines and circulars/ notices issued 
by  SEBI  and  Rules,  Regulations  and  Bye-laws  of  the  relevant  Depository, 
where the Beneficial Owner maintains his/ her account, that may be in force 
from time to time. 

 

24 

 

1.4 

 
1.5 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

28. The  Beneficial  Owner  and  the  DP  shall  abide  by  the  arbitration  and 
conciliation procedure prescribed under the Bye-laws of the depository and 
that such procedure shall be applicable to any disputes between the DP and 
the Beneficial Owner. 

29. Words and expressions which are used in this document but which are not 
defined herein  shall unless the context otherwise requires, have the same 
meanings as assigned  thereto in the Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations and 
circulars/notices issued there under by the depository and /or SEBI. 

30. Any  changes  in  the  rights  and  obligations  which  are  specified  by 
SEBI/Depositories shall also be brought to the notice of the clients at once. 

31. If  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereto  are  altered  by  virtue  of 
change in Rules and regulations of SEBI or Bye-laws, Rules and Regulations 
of the relevant Depository, where the Beneficial Owner maintains his/her 
account, such changes shall be deemed to have been incorporated herein in 
modification of the rights and obligations of the parties mentioned in this 
document. 

Opening of demat account in case of HUF27 
 
It is noted that as per law, in case of HUF, shares can be held in the name of 
Existing Karta on behalf of HUF. Therefore, HUF demat accounts can be 
opened in the name of Existing Karta but not in the name of Deceased Karta 
and HUF entity. 

Operation of minor’s demat account28  
 
Under [The] Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act,  1956,  permission of 
Court is required in the case of transfer by a natural guardian of immovable 
property of a minor.  However, shares are not immovable properly. Section 
2(7)  of  Sale  of  Goods  Act,  1930  includes  shares  within  the  definition  of 
"goods''.      Neither  the  Indian  Contract  Act  nor  the  Sale  of  Goods  Act 
provide for transfer by sale or otherwise by guardian /natural guardian of 
goods/movable property in the name of minor to the effect that permission 
of court is required in the matter of such transfer.   In the case of accounts 
of minor in banks also, the guardian is entitled to open, operate and even 

                                                           
27 Reference: SEBI/ MRD/CDSL/ 149156 /2009 dated January 01, 2009 
28 Reference: SMDRP/NSDL/4615 /2000 dated March 13, 2000 

 

25 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

close the account also.   The DP account can, therefore, be operated by a 
natural  guardian  without  any  order  from  the  court  though  the  same  is 
neither expressly permitted nor prohibited. 
 

1.6 

  Facility for a Basic Services Demat Account (BSDA)2930 

 

1.6.1  All  depository  participants  (DPs)  shall  make  available  a  "Basic  Services 
Demat Account" (BSDA) with limited services as per terms specified herein. 

 

1.6.2  Eligibility:  Individuals  shall  be  eligible  to  opt  for  BSDA  subject  to  the 

following conditions-  

i.  All  the  individuals  who  have  or  propose  to  have  only  one  demat 

ii. 

account where they are the sole or first holder.  
Individuals having any other demat account/s where they are not the 
first  holder  shall  be  eligible  for  BSDA  in  respect  of  the  single  demat 
account where they are sole or first holder.  

iii.  The  individual  shall  have  only  one  BSDA  in  his/her  name  across  all 

depositories.  

iv.  Value of securities held in the demat account shall not exceed Rupees 

Two Lakhs at any point of time. 

 

1.6.3  Option to open BSDA: The DP shall give option:  

i.  To open BSDA to all eligible individuals who open a demat account after 

the date of applicability of this circular;  

iii. 

ii.  To  all  the  existing  eligible  individuals  to  convert  their  demat  account 
into BSDA on the date of the next billing cycle based on value of holding 
of securities in the account as on the last day of previous billing cycle. 
In  order  to  facilitate  the  eligible  individuals  to  avail  the  benefits  of 
BSDA, DPs are advised to convert all such eligible demat accounts into 
BSDA unless such Beneficial Owners (BOs) specifically opt to continue 
to avail the facility of a regular demat account. 
 

1.6.4  Charges: 

i.  The charge structure may be on a slab basis as indicated below:  

a.  No Annual Maintenance Charges (AMC) shall be levied, if the value 

of holding is upto Rs. 50,000.  

                                                           
29 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/22/2012 dated August 27, 2012 and Modified vide Circular    
CIR/MRD/DP/21/2014 dated July 01, 2014 and Circular CIR/MRD/DP/31/2014 dated 
November 12, 2014 
30 Modified vide Circular  CIR/MRD/DP/20/2015 dated December 11, 2015 

 

26 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

b.  For  the  value  of  holding  from  Rs  50,001  to  Rs  200,000,  AMC  not 

exceeding Rs 100 may be charged.  

 

 

ii.  The value of holding shall be determined by the DPs on the basis of the 
daily closing price or NAV of the securities or units of mutual funds, as 
the case may be. Where such price is not available the last traded price 
may be taken into account and for unlisted securities other than units of 
mutual  funds,  face  value  may  be  taken  in  to  account.  The  value  of 
suspended  securities  may  not  be  considered  for  the  purpose  of 
determining eligibility of demat account as BSDA. 
 
If the value of holding in such BSDA exceeds the prescribed criteria at 
any  date, the DPs may levy charges as applicable to regular accounts 
(non BSDA) from that date onwards.  
 

iii. 

iv.  The DPs shall assess the eligibility of the BOs at the end of the current 

billing cycle and convert eligible demat accounts into BSDA. 

 
1.6.5  Services for Basic Services Demat Accounts: 

 

i.  Transaction statements: 

a.  Transaction  statements  shall  be  sent  to  the  BO  at  the  end  of  each 
quarter.  If  there  are  no  transactions  in  any  quarter,  no  transaction 
statement may be sent for that quarter.  

b.  If there are no  transactions and no  security balance in an account,   

then no further transaction statement needs to be provided.  

c.  Transaction  statement  shall  be  required  to  be  provided  for  the 

quarter in which the account became a zero balance account. 

 

ii.  Holding Statement:  

a.  DP shall send atleast one annual physical statement of holding to the 
stated address of the BO in respect of accounts with no transaction 
and nil balance even after the account has remained in such state for 
one  year.  The  DP  shall  inform  the  BO  that  the  dispatch  of  the 
physical statement may be discontinued if the account continues to 
remain zero balance even after one year.  

b.  One  annual  statement  of  holding  shall  be  sent  in  respect  of 
remaining accounts in physical or electronic form as opted for by the 
BO. 

 
iii.  Charges for statements: Electronic statements shall be provided free of 
cost.  In  case  of  physical  statements,  the  DP shall  provide  at  least  two 

 

27 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

statements  free  of  cost  during  the  billing  cycle.  Additional  physical 
statement may be charged at a fee not exceeding Rs.25/- per statement.  

 

iv.  All  BOs  opting  for  the  facility  of  BSDA,  shall  register  their  mobile 

number for availing the SMS alert facility for debit transactions.  

v.  At least Two Delivery Instruction Slips (DIS) shall be issued at the time 

of account opening.  
 

vi.  All other conditions as applicable to regular demat accounts, other than 
the  ones  mentioned  in  this  circular  shall  continue  to  apply  to  basic 
services demat account. 

 
1.6.6  Rationalisation of services with respect to regular accounts.  
 

In partial modification of the earlier directions, the following rationalisation 
measures shall be available for regular demat accounts:  

 

 

i.  Accounts  with  zero  balance  and  nil  transactions  during  the  year:  DP 
shall send atleast one annual physical statement of holding to the stated 
address  of  the  BO  in  respect  of  accounts  with  no  transaction  and  nil 
balance even after the account has remained in such state for one year. 
The  DP  shall  inform  the  BO  that  if  no  Annual  Maintenance  Charge 
(AMC) is received by the DP, the dispatch of the physical statement may 
be discontinued for the account which continues to remain zero balance 
even after one year.  
 

ii.  Accounts  which  become  zero  balance  during  the  year:  For  such 
accounts, no transaction statement may be sent for the duration when 
the balance remains nil. However, an annual statement of holding shall 
be sent to the BO.  

iii.  Accounts with credit balance: For accounts with credit balance but no 
transactions during the year, half yearly statement of holding for  shall 
be sent to the BO. 

 

1.7 

  Change of Name in the Beneficial Owner (BO) Account31 
 
1.7.1 

In  order  to  simplify  the  procedure  of  change  of  name  in  individual 
Beneficial Owner’s (BO) account, it has been decided that an individual BO 

                                                           
31 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/27/2012 dated November 01, 2012 

 

28 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

may  be  allowed  to  change  his/  her  name,  subject  to  the  submission  of 
following documents at the time of change of name of the individual in the 
BO account. 

i. 

In case of change in name on account of marriage following documents   
shall be submitted: 

  Marriage  Certificate  or  copy  of  Passport  showing  husband’s  name  or 

publication of name change in official gazette. 

ii. 

In case of change in name on account of reasons other than marriage 

            Publication of name change in official gazette. 

 

 

 

iii. 

In case of change in father’s name: 

                  Publication of name change in official gazette. 
 
1.7.2  The  Depository  Participants  (DPs)  shall  collect  the  self  attested  copies  of 
above  documents  and  maintain  the  same  in  their  records  after  verifying 
with the original document. 

 
1.8 
 
1.8.1  Account opening, custody and credit of securities32 

Fees/Charges to be paid by BO  

 

 

With effect from February 1, 2005 

i.  No investor shall pay any charge towards opening of a Beneficial Owner 

(BO) Account except for statutory charges as applicable; 

ii.  No  investor  shall  pay any  charge  for  credit of  securities  into  his/her  BO 

account; and 
 No custody charge shall be levied on any investor who  is opening a BO 
account. 

iii. 

 

1.8.2  Account Closure33 

 
No Account closure charges shall be levied on BO on the closure of any 
account.  

 
 
 

                                                           
32 Reference Circular MRD/DoP /SE/Dep/Cir-4/2005 dated January 28, 2005 
33 Reference Circular D&CC/FITTC/CIR - 12/2002 dated October 30, 2002 

 

29 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
1.8.3  Inter Depository Transfer34 

 
Inter-depository transfer of shares does not attract Stamp duty and it does 
not require compliance with section 108 of the Companies Act 1956. 
 

1.8.4  Transfer of a BO Account35 

 
With effect from January 09, 2006   
 
No charges shall be levied by a depository on any DP and by a DP on any 
BO when the BO transfers all the securities lying in his account to another 
branch  of  the  same  DP  or  to  another  DP  under  the  same  depository  or 
another  depository,  provided  the  BO  Account(s)  at  transferee  DP  and  at 
transferor DP are one and the same, i.e. identical in all respects. In case the 
BO Account at transferor DP is a joint account, the BO Account at transferee 
DP should also be a joint account in the same sequence of ownership. 

 
1.8.5  Account Maintenance Charges collected upfront on annual/ half  yearly 

basis on demat accounts36 

 

i. 

ii. 

In the event of closing of the demat account or shifting of the demat account 
from one DP to another, the AMC collected upfront on annual/half yearly 
basis by the DP, shall be refunded by the DP to the BO for the balance of 
the quarter/s. For instance, in case annual AMC has been paid by the BO 
and  if  the  BO  closes/shifts  his  account  in  the  first  quarter,  he  shall  be 
refunded  the  amount  of  the  balance  3  quarters  i.e.  3/4th  of  the  AMC. 
Likewise, if a BO closes/shifts his account in the third quarter, he shall be 
refunded the amount for the balance one quarter i.e. 1/4th of the AMC. 
 
For the purpose of the above requirement the year shall begin from the date 
of opening of the account in quarterly rests. 
 

iii.  The above requirements shall be applicable to all existing and new accounts 
held with DPs which collect annual/half yearly upfront AMC. It is clarified 
that the above requirements shall not be applicable to those DPs who collect 
quarterly/ monthly AMC. 
 

                                                           
34 Reference Circular SMDRP/Policy/Cir-29/99 dated August 23, 1999 
35 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-22 /05 dated November 9, 2005 
36 Reference Circular MRD/DP/20/2010 dated July 1, 2010 

 

30 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
 
1.8.6  Dissemination  of  tariff/charge  structure  of  DPs  on  the  website  of 

depositories 37 
 

i.  DPs shall submit to their depository the tariff/charge structure every year, 
latest  by  30th  April,  and  also  inform  the  depository  the  changes  in  their 
tariff/charge  structure  as  and  when  they  are  effected  with  a  view  to 
enabling  the  BOs  to  have  a  comparative  analysis  of  the  tariff/charge 
structure of various DPs. 
 
For  this  purpose  depositories  shall  put  in  place  necessary  systems  and 
procedures  including  formats,  periodicity,  etc.  for  collection of  necessary 
data from the DPs and dissemination of the same on their website which 
would  enable  the  investors  to  have  a  comparative  analysis  of  the 
tariff/charge structure of various DPs. 

ii. 

Safeguards to address the concerns of the investors on transfer of securities 
in dematerialized mode38  

Following safeguards shall be put in place to address the concerns of the 
investors arising out of transfer of securities from the BO Accounts:  

 
1.9 

 

 

i.  The  depositories  shall  give  more  emphasis  on  investor  education 
particularly with regard to careful preservation of Delivery Instruction Slip 
(DIS) by the BOs. The Depositories may advise the BOs not to leave “blank 
or  signed”  DIS  with  the  Depository  Participants  (DPs)  or  any  other 
person/entity. 
 

ii.  The  DPs  shall  not  accept  pre-signed  DIS  with  blank  columns  from  the 

iii. 

BO(s). 
 
If the DIS booklet is lost / stolen / not traceable by the BO, then the BO shall 
immediately intimate the DP in writing about the loss.  On receipt of such 
intimation, the DP shall cancel the unused DIS of the said booklet. 
 

iv.  The DPs shall not issue more than 10 loose DIS to one accountholder in a 
financial year (April to March). The loose DIS can be issued only if the BO(s) 

                                                           
37 Reference Circular MRD/Dep/Cir- 20/06 dated December 11, 2006 
38Reference  Circular  SEBI/MRD/Dep/Cir-03/2007  dated  February  13,  2007  and  Circular    
SEBI/MRD/Dep/Cir-03/2008 dated February 28, 2008  

 

31 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

come in person and sign the loose DIS in the presence of an authorised  DP 
official 
 

v.  The  DP  shall  also  ensure  that  a  new  DIS  booklet  is  issued  only  on  the 
strength  of  the  DIS  instruction  request  slip  (contained  in  the  previous 
booklet) duly complete in all respects, unless the request for fresh booklet 
is due to loss, etc., as referred to in clause (c) above 
 

vi.  The DPs shall put in place appropriate checks and balances with regard to 

verification of signatures of the BOs while processing the DIS.  
 

vii.  The DPs shall  cross check with the BOs under exceptional circumstances 

before acting upon the DIS. 

 
viii.  The DPs shall mandatorily verify with a BO before acting upon the DIS, in 
case of an account which remained inactive i.e., where no debit transaction 
had taken place for a continuous period of 6 months, whenever all the ISIN 
balances  in  that  account  (irrespective  of  the  number  of  ISINs)  are 
transferred at a time. However, in case of active accounts, such verification 
may be  mandatory only if the BO account has 5 or more ISINs and all such 
ISIN balances are transferred at a time. The authorized official of the DP 
verifying  such  transactions  with  the  BO,  shall  record  the  details  of  the 
process, date, time, etc., of the verification on the instruction slip under his 
signature. 

 
1.10 
 
 

Delivery Instruction Slip (DIS) Issuance and Processing39 
 
 Standardization of DIS 
 

i.  Depositories  shall  ensure  that  the  DIS  is  standardized  across  all  DPs  in 

terms of:  
a.  Serial Numbering of Delivery Instruction Slips so as to enable system 

level checks by the depositories. 

b.  Layout and size of DIS so as to facilitate scanning and easy retrievability 

of records  

 

ii. 

The  DIS  must  bear  a  pre-printed  serial  number,  DP  ID,  and  a  pre-
printed/pre  stamped  Beneficial  Owner  (BO)  ID.  The  depositories  shall 
prescribe  a  standard  method  of  serial  numbering  and  ensure  that  serial 
numbers issued by a DP are unique within the DP-ID.   

                                                           
39 Circular SEBI/MRD/DOP/01/2014 dated  January 07, 2014 

 

32 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

iii.  DPs shall ensure that  

a.  same  DIS  shall  not  be  used  for  giving  both  market  and  off-market 

instructions  

b.  a single DIS shall not be used for transactions with multiple execution 

dates.  

 

Monitoring of DIS 
 

iv.  Upon  issuance  of  DIS  booklets  or  loose  slips  to  BO,  the  DPs  shall  make 
available  immediately  the  following  details  of  the  DIS  to  the  depository 
system electronically: 
a.  the DIS serial number  
b.  BO ID 
c.  date of issuance, and 
d.  any other relevant details as decided by the depository 

 

vi. 

v.  At the time of execution of DIS, DPs shall enter the serial number of DIS in 
the  depository  system  for  validation.  The  depositories  shall  make 
provisions in their systems to facilitate the same.  
 
In  respect  of  all  the  transfer  instructions  on  a  DIS,  Depositories  shall 
validate  the  serial  number  of  DIS  and  shall  ensure  that  no  instructions 
accompanied by a used DIS or unissued DIS are processed.  
 
Scanning of DIS 
 

vii.  DPs shall scan every DIS executed during a day along with all Annexures/ 
Computer  printouts,  if  any,  by  the  end  of  the  next  working  day  in  the 
manner specified by the depository.  

 

viii.  The depositories shall ensure that their DPs have adequate infrastructure, 
systems and processes to implement scanning, storage and transfer of the 
scanned DIS in the manner specified by the depositories.  
 
The depositories shall ensure that the systems set up by the DPs maintain 
proper records of all scanned DIS images including audit trails for changes 
made, if any and put in place adequate checks and procedures to prevent 
unauthorized changes to scanned DIS.  

ix. 

 

x. 

 

Depositories  shall  utilize  the  archived  scanned  images  for  off-site 
inspection.  

33 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

xi. 

 

 

Provisions  of  this  circular  shall  not  be  applicable  for  the  instructions 
received from the clients by the DPs electronically in a manner approved 
by the Depository.  

xii.  Once a new DIS booklet is issued to a BO as per provisions of this circular, 
old DIS issued to such a BO shall not be accepted by the DP. A period of 
one month may be given for receipt of DIS by the BOs. The DPs may accept 
old  DIS  during  this  transit  period.40  All  DIS  issued  prior  to  this  circular 
shall be phased out within a period of 2 years from the date of this circular. 
The  measures  listed  above  under  the  head  'Monitoring  of  DIS'  shall  be 
made applicable to the DIS issued as per the provisions of this circular.  
 
Transmission of shares41,42 
 

1.11 

1.11.1  In cases of transmission of shares of a deceased security holder, where the 
shareholding in the BO account of the deceased member, as calculated on 
the  date  of  application  for  transmission,  is  within  the  threshold  limit  of 
Rupees Five lakh in value, the DPs shall not insist on additional documents 
other than any one or more of the documents mentioned below. 

 

i.  Affidavit – to the effect of the claim of legal ownership of the shares 

 

ii.  Deed of indemnity – indemnifying the depository and DP 

 

iii.  NOC from other legal heir(s), wherever applicable, along with the Claim 
Form/TRF  and  copy  of  death  certificate  duly  notarized/  attested  by  a 
Gazetted officer or Family Settlement Deed as an alternate to the NOC duly 
executed by all the legal heirs of the deceased Beneficial Owner, provided 
that: 
 
a.  The Family Settlement Deed clearly vests the securities in favour of the 

person seeking transmission in his/ her name. 

b.  Vesting  of  securities  in  favour  of  the  person  seeking  transmission  in 
his/ her name is not contingent upon any other onerous conditions in 
such Family Settlement Deed. 

 

                                                           
40 Reference: CIR/MRD/DP/22/2014 dated July 04, 2014 
41 Reference: MRD/DoP/Dep/VM/182963/2009 dated November 12, 2009 
42 Reference: CIR/MIRSD/10/2013 dated October 28, 2013 

 

34 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Note:  If  the  division  of  shares  as  per  the  Family  Settlement  Deed  is 
amongst more than one person, then the Family Settlement Deed can be 
considered  as  an  NOC  for  transmission  of  shares  to  each  legal  heirs 
applying  for  transmission.  However,  if  DPs  still  have  problems  in 
comprehending the contents of the Family Settlement Deed, they should 
refer  the  matter  to  Depositories  for  necessary  advice  on  case-to-case 
basis. 

 

 

1.11.2  DP(s) shall automatically open new account in the name of the surviving 
members(s), in the same order as in the original account, on an application 
by the surviving member(s) based on existing documents required as per 
the  KYC  norms.  Submission  of  new  account  opening  form  shall  not  be 
insisted upon. 
 

1.11.3  A uniform time frame of 7 days, after receipt of all requisite documents, 

shall be prescribed for processing of Transmission requests. 
 

1.11.4  In case of multiple successors, NOC of non-applicants shall be recorded on 
the TRF of the applicant instead of insisting separate TRF from each of the 
successors. 
 

1.11.5  Nomination  facility  shall  be  encouraged  by  the  Depositories  specifically 
targeting  BOs  who  have  not  opted  for  nomination.  As  regards  new 
accounts, it shall be provided for at the account opening stage itself. In case 
the person (both an existing and new account holder) is not interested to 
nominate, then such person would have to give a positive declaration to 
that effect. 

  
1.11.6  In case of transmission of securities held in physical mode:  

 

i.  Where the securities are held in single name with a nominee, STAs/issuer 
companies  shall  follow  the  standardized  documentary  requirement  as 
given in Annexure A. 

 

ii.  Where  the  securities  are  held  in  single  name  without  a  nominee,  the 
STAs/issuer companies shall follow, in the normal course, the simplified 
documentation as given in Annexure A, for a threshold limit of Rs. 2,00,000 
(Rupees  Two  lakh  only)  per  issuer  company.  However,  the  Issuer 
companies, at their discretion, may enhance the value of such securities. 

 

 

35 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

1.11.7  The timeline for processing the transmission requests for securities held in 
dematerialized  mode  and  physical  mode  shall  be  7  days  and  21  days 
respectively, after receipt of the prescribed documents.  

 

1.11.8  To improve the awareness of nomination facility, all Registrars to an Issue 
and  Share  Transfer  Agents  shall  publicize  nomination  as  an  additional 
right  available  to  investors,  while  sending  communications  to  the 
investors.  

 

36 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure A 

 

Documentary requirement for securities held in physical mode 

 
1  For securities held in single name with a nominee:  

 

i.  Duly signed transmission request form by the nominee.  
ii.  Original or Copy of death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or by 

iii. 

a Gazetted Officer.  
Self attested copy of PAN card of the nominee. (Copy of PAN card may be 
substituted  with  ID  proof  in  case  of  residents  of  Sikkim  after  collecting  address 
proof)  

 
2  For  securities  held  in  single  name  without  a  nominee,  following  additional 

documents may be sought:  
 
i.  Affidavit made on appropriate non judicial stamp paper – to the effect of 

identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities  

ii. 

For value of securities upto Rs. 2,00,000 (Rupees Two lakh only) per issuer 
company as on date of application, one or more of the following 
documents:  

a.  No objection certificate [NOC] from all legal heir(s) who do not object to 
such transmission (or) copy of Family Settlement Deed duly notarized or 
attested by a Gazetted Officer and executed by all the legal heirs of the 
deceased holder.  

b.  Indemnity made on appropriate non judicial stamp paper – indemnifying 

the STA/Issuer Company.  

 

 

 

iii. 

 For value of securities more than Rs. 2,00,000 (Rupees Two lakh only) per 
issuer company as on date of application:  

a.  Succession certificate (or) Probate of will (or) Letter of Administration (or) 

Court decree.  

 

End of Annexure A 

 

37 

 
 
1.12 

 
1.13 

i. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SMS alerts for demat accounts operated by Power of Attorney43 
 
Subscription to SMS Alert facility for depository accounts operated through 
Power of Attorney (POA) would be mandatory except in case of accounts 
held by non-individuals, foreign nationals, and NRIs. 

Exemption  from  sending  quarterly  statements  of  transactions  by 
depository participants (DPs) to clients in respect of demat accounts with 
no transactions and no security balances44 
 
SEBI  has  provided  exemption  to  Depository  Participants  from  sending 
quarterly transaction statements to the clients in respect of demat accounts 
with  no  transactions  and  no  security  balances  subject  to  the  following 
conditions: 
 
a.  Client is informed in advance that it will not be receiving Transaction 
Statements for such accounts till there are any transactions or security 
holdings in the demat account.  

b.  KYC and PAN requirement in respect of all such depository accounts 

are complied.  

c.  No Annual Maintenance Charges are levied for such an account.  
d.  Information which is required to be disseminated by Participants by 
way  of  a  note  in  the  Transaction  Statements  will  be  required  to  be 
communicated to such Clients separately.  

e.  The Internal Auditor of the Participant shall comment in its internal 

audit report on compliance of the aforesaid requirements.  
 

ii. 

Further,  depository  may  like  to  consider  whether,  DPs  should  send  a 
consolidated Transaction Statements for the entire financial year in case of 
the BOs to whom quarterly Transaction Statements are not sent. 

 
1.14 

 

Discontinuation   of  sending   transaction   statements   by   depository 
participants to clients45 

SEBI  allowed  discontinuation  of  sending  transaction  statements  by 
depository participants to clients subject to the following conditions: 

                                                           
43 Reference: SEBI/MRD/DEP/VM/169784 /09 dated July 15, 2009 
44 Reference: MRD/CDSL/VM/155773/2009 dated February 27, 2009,   

MRD/DoP/NSDL/VM/168994 /2009 dated July 07, 2009 and MRD/CDSL/VM/168989 /2009 
dated July 07, 2009 

45 Reference: MRD/NSDL/VM/158886 /2009 dated March 30, 2009 

 

38 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

i.  Transaction  statements  were  returned  undelivered  on  three  consecutive 

occasions. 

ii.  The  depository  participant  (DP)  maintains  proof  that  the  transaction 

statements were returned undelivered. 

iii.  The  transaction  statements  were  returned  undelivered  for  the  reasons 
which clearly establish that the client no longer resides at the given address 
(i.e.  party  shifted,  etc.)  and  not  for  other  reasons  (i.e.  residence/office 
closed, address incorrect, address incomplete, etc.). 

iv.  The DP informs such clients through alternative means (such as outbound 
call,  SMS  or  email)  that  their  transaction  statements  are  returned 
undelivered and they need to communicate the proper (new) address. 

v.  The DP ensures that on receipt of request for address modification from the 
client  as  per  the  stipulated  procedure,  the  dispatch  of  transaction 
statements is immediately started. Further, the DP ensures that transaction 
statements that were not delivered and dispatched due to discontinuation 
are also dispatched immediately without any additional cost to the clients. 
 
Exemption to Depository Participants (DPs) from providing hard copies of 
transaction statements to BOs46  
 
DPs are permitted to provide transaction statements and other documents 
to  the  BOs  under  Digital  signature,  as  governed  under  the  Information 
Technology Act, 2000, subject to the DP entering into a legally enforceable 
arrangement with the BO for the said purpose.  While such practice in the 
aforesaid manner shall be deemed to be in compliance of the provisions of 
the Regulation 43 of SEBI (Depositories & Participants) Regulations, 1996; 
if the BO is still desirous of receiving statements in hard copy, DPs shall be 
duty bound to provide the same. 

Transfer of funds and securities from Clearing Member pool account to BO 
Account47 

1.15 

1.16 

 

i.  Clearing  members  shall  transfer  the  funds  and  securities  from  their 
respective pool account to the respective beneficiary account of their clients 
within 1 working day after the pay-out day. The securities lying in the pool 
account beyond the stipulated period shall attract a penalty at the rate of 6 

                                                           
46  Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-27/2004 dated August 16, 2004 
47Reference  Circular  SMDRP/Policy/Cir-05/2001  dated  February  1,  2001  &  Circular 

SEBI/MRD/Policy/AT/Cir-19/2004 dated April 21, 2004 

 

39 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

basis point per week on the value of securities. The penalty so collected by 
the depositories shall be credited to a separate account with the depository 
and earmarked for defraying the expenses in connection with the investors’ 
education and awareness programs conducted by the depository. 
 

ii.  The securities lying in the pool account beyond the above period shall not 
be eligible either for delivery in the subsequent settlement(s) or for pledging 
or  stock  lending  purpose,  until  the  same  are  credited  to  the  beneficiary 
accounts. 

 

iv. 

iii.  The  securities  lying  in  the  Clearing  member’s  pool  account  beyond  the 
specified time period shall be identified based on the settlement number. 
The clearing corporation/houses of the stock exchanges shall provide the 
settlement-wise details of securities to the depositories and the depositories 
shall maintain the settlement-wise records for the purpose. 
 
Further,  stock  exchanges  shall  execute  direct  delivery  of  securities  to  the 
investors.  Clearing  corporation/clearing  house  (CC/CH)  shall  ascertain 
from each clearing member, the beneficial account details of their respective 
clients due to receive pay out of securities. Based on this, the CC/CH shall 
send pay out instructions to the depositories so that the client receives pay 
out  of  securities  directly  to  the  extent  of  instructions  received  from  the 
respective clearing members. To the extent of instruction not received, the 
securities shall be credited to the CM pool account. 

 
1.17 
 

i. 

Consolidated Account Statement (CAS) for all securities assets48   

Pursuant to the Interim Budget announcement in 2014 to create one record 
for all financial assets of every individual, it has been decided to enable a 
single  consolidated  view  of  all  the  investments  of  an  investor  in  Mutual 
Funds (MF) and securities held in demat form with the Depositories.  

ii.  The  Depositories  and  the  Asset  Management  Companies  (AMCs)/  MF-
RTAs  shall  put  in  place  systems  to  facilitate  generation  and  dispatch  of 
single  Consolidated  Account  Statements  (CAS)  for  investors  having  MF 
investments  and  holding  demat  accounts.    AMCs/  RTAs  shall  share  the 
requisite  information  with  the  Depositories  on  monthly  basis  to  enable 
generation of CAS. 

iii.  Consolidation of account statement shall be done on the basis of PAN. In 
case of multiple holding, it shall be PAN of the first holder and pattern of 

                                                           
48 Circular CIR/MRD/DP/31/2014 dated November 12, 2014 

 

40 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

holding.  Based  on  the  PANs  provided  by  the  AMCs/MF-RTAs,  the 
Depositories  shall  match  their  PAN  database  to  determine  the  common 
PANs and allocate the PANs among themselves for the purpose of sending 
CAS. For PANs which are common between depositories and AMCs, the 
Depositories shall send the CAS. In other cases (i.e. PANs with no demat 
account and only MF units holding), the AMCs/ MF-RTAs shall continue 
to  send  the  CAS  to  their  unit  holders  as  is  being  done  presently  in 
compliance  with  the  Regulation  36(4)  of  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 
Regulations.  

iv. 

In  case  investors  have  multiple  accounts  across  the  two  depositories,  the 
depository having the demat account which has been opened earlier shall 
be the default depository which will consolidate details across depositories 
and MF investments and dispatch the CAS to the investor. However, option 
shall  be  given  to  the  demat  account  holder  by  the  default  depository  to 
choose  the  depository  through  which  the  investor  wishes  to  receive  the 
CAS. 

v.  The CAS shall be generated on a monthly basis. The AMCs /MF-RTAs shall 
provide  the  data  with  respect  to  the  common  PANs  to  the  depositories 
within  three  days  from  the  month  end.  The  depositories  shall  then 
consolidate and dispatch the CAS within ten days from the month end.  

vi.  Where  statements  are  presently  being  dispatched  by  email  either  by  the 
Mutual  Funds  or  by  the  Depositories,  CAS  shall  be  sent  through  email. 
However, where an investor does not wish to receive CAS through email, 
option shall be given to the investor to receive the CAS in physical form at 
the address registered in the Depository system. 

vii.  A  proper  grievance  redressal  mechanism  shall  be  put  in  place  by  the 
depositories and the AMCs/MF-RTAs which shall also be communicated 
to the investors through CAS. AMCs/MF-RTAs would be accountable for 
the authenticity of the information provided through CAS in respect of MF 
investments and timely sharing of such information with Depositories. The 
Depositories  would  be  responsible  for  the  timely  dispatch  of  CAS  to  the 
investors serviced by them and the demat account information.  

viii.  The depositories and the AMCs/ MF-RTAs shall ensure data integrity and 
confidentiality in respect of the shared information. The depositories shall 
utilise the shared data only for the purpose of providing CAS and shall not 
share the same with their Depository Participants. Where Depositories are 
required  to  share  such  information  with  unregulated  entities  like  third 
party  printers, 
into  necessary  data 
confidentiality agreements with them. 

the  depositories  shall  enter 

 

41 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ix.  The CAS shall be implemented from the month of March 2015 with respect 

to the transactions carried out during the month of February 2015.  

x. 

If an investor does not wish to receive CAS, an option shall be given to the 
investor to indicate negative consent. Depositories shall accordingly inform 
investors  in  their  statements  from  the  month  of  January  2015  about  the 
facility of CAS and give them information on how to opt out of the facility 
if they do not wish to avail it. 

xi.  Where such an option is exercised, the concerned depository shall inform 
the  AMC/MF-RTA  accordingly  and  the  data  with  respect  to  the  said 
investor shall not be shared by the AMC/MF-RTA with the depository. 

xii. 

If there is any transaction in any of the demat accounts of the investor or in 
any  of his mutual fund folios, then CAS shall be sent to that  investor on 
monthly basis.  In case there is no  transaction in any  of the mutual fund 
folios and demat accounts then CAS with holding details shall be sent to 
the investor on half yearly basis. However, in case of demat accounts with 
nil balance and no transactions in securities and in mutual fund folios, the 
requirement to send physical statement shall be applicable as specified at 
para 1.6.5 and 1.6.6 of this chapter. 

xiii. 

Further,  the  holding  statement  dispatched  by  the  DPs  to  their  BOs  with 
respect  to  the  dormant  demat  accounts  with  balances  shall  also  be 
dispatched half-yearly. 

xiv.  The  dispatch  of  CAS  by  the  depositories  to  BOs  would  constitute 
compliance  by  the  Depository  Participants  with  requirement  under 
Regulation  43  of  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations,  to 
provide statements of account to the BOs as also compliance by the MFs 
with  the  requirement  under  Regulation  36(4)  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 
Regulations. 

 

 

 

 

42 

 

 
2.1 

2.2 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Section 2: Depository Participants Related 

Supervision of branches of DPs49 

 

 

i.  To  ensure  compliance  with  Regulation  46  of  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and 
Participants) Regulations, 1996, and Clause 19 of the Code of Conduct for 
Participants contained in the Third Schedule to the Regulations the DP shall 
ensure that it has satisfactory internal control procedure in place, inclusive 
of  their  branch  offices.  DPs  are  therefore  required  in  terms  of  these 
provisions  to  put  in  place  appropriate  mechanisms  to  ensure  that  their 
branches are carrying on the operations in compliance with the applicable 
regulations,  bye-laws,  etc.  DPs  are  also  required  to  put  in  place  suitable 
internal control systems to ensure that all branches exercise due diligence 
in  opening  accounts,  complying  with  KYC  requirements,  in  ensuring 
systems safety in complying with client instructions, manner of uploading 
client instructions, in verifying signatures and maintaining client records, 
etc. DPs shall also ensure that the branches are suitably integrated.  
 

ii.  Depositories shall examine the adequacy of the above mechanisms during 
their  inspections  of  DPs.  The  Depositories  shall  also  carry  out  surprise 
inspections/ checks of the DP branches apart from the regular inspection 
of the DPs. Depositories shall also put in place appropriate mechanisms for 
monitoring opening of branches by DPs.  
 
Incentivisation to Depositories Participants (DPs)50 
 
In  order  to  compensate  the  DPs  towards  the  cost  of  opening  and 
maintaining Basic Services Demat Accounts (BSDA), the depositories shall 
pay  an  incentive  of  Rs.  100/-  for  every  new  BSDA  opened  by  their 
participants in other than the top 15 cities. The name of the top 15 cities is 
given in following table:  

i. 

Top 15 Cities 

Name of the City 

Sr. 
No. 
1.  MUMBAI 
2. 
3. 
4. 

DELHI 
AHMEDABAD 
BANGALORE 

                                                           
49 Reference Circular MIRSD/DPS-III/Cir-9/07 dated July 3, 2007 
50 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/18/2015 dated December 09, 2015 

 

43 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CHENNAI 
PUNE 
KOLKATA 
THANE 

5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9.  HYDERABAD 
10. 
11. 
12.  VADODARA 
13. 
14.  RAJKOT 
15. 
INDORE 

SURAT 
JAIPUR 

SECUNDARABAD 

 

iii. 

ii.  The incentive shall be provided at the end of the financial year only with 
respect  to  the  new  BSDA  opened  during  the  financial  year  and  which 
displayed at least one credit in the account during the Financial Year. 
 
Further to the above, in order to incentivize the DPs to promote holdings in 
the BSDA, the depositories may pay an amount of Rs. 2 per folio per ISIN 
to  the  respective  depository  participant  (DP),  in  respect  of  the  ISIN 
positions held in Basic Service Demat Accounts (BSDA). This incentive may 
be provided with respect to all the BSDA in the depository system. 

iv.  The reimbursement to DPs shall be made on an annual basis at the end of 
the financial year. The depositories shall set aside 20% of the incremental 
revenue received from the Issuers to manage the aforementioned incentive 
schemes. Any surplus after reimbursement of DPs may be utilized by the 
depositories  to  incentivize  the  DPs  for  promoting  financial  inclusion, 
encouraging  investors  to  hold  Mutual  Fund  Units  in  demat  account  and 
familiarizing the investors on the OFS mechanism, etc. 

 

 

 

v.  The incentive scheme may be reviewed after a period of two years. 

 

2.3 

i. 

Implementation of the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement and 
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act51 
 
It is brought to the attention of all the intermediaries that India has joined 
the  multilateral  competent  Authority  Agreement  (MCAA)  on  Automatic 
Exchange of Financial Account Information on June 3, 2015. In terms of the 
MCAA,  all  countries  which  are  a  signatory to  the  MCAA,  are  obliged  to 

                                                           
51 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/2/2015 dated August 26, 2015 

 

44 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ii. 

exchange  a  wide  range  of  financial  information  after  collecting  the  same 
from financial institutions in their country/jurisdiction. 

Further,  on  July  9,  2015  the  Governments  of  India  and  United  States  Of 
America  (USA)  have  signed  an  agreement  to  improve  International  tax 
compliance  and  to  implement  the  Foreign  Account  Tax  Compliance  Act 
(FATCA)  in  India.  The  USA  has  enacted  FATCA  in  2010  to  obtain 
information on accounts held by U.S taxpayers in other countries. As per 
the aforesaid agreement, foreign financial institutions (FFIs) in India will be 
required  to  report  tax  information  about  U.S  account  holders/taxpayers 
directly  to  the  Indian  Government  which  will,  in  turn,  relay  that 
information to the U.S Internal Revenue Services (IRS). 

iii. 

For implementation of the MCAA and agreement with USA, the 
Government of India has made necessary legislative changes to section 
285BA of the Income-tax Act, 1961. Further the Government of India has 
notified Rules 114F to 114H (herein after referred as “the Rules”) under 
the Income Tax Rules, 1962 and form No. 61B for furnishing of statement 
of reportable account as specified in the Rules. The Rule is available at 

http://www.incometaxindia.gov.in/communications/notification/notific
ation%20no.%2062%20dated%2007-08-2015.pdf  

iv.  All registered intermediaries are advised to take necessary steps to ensure 

compliance with the requirements specified in the aforesaid Rules after 
carrying out necessary due diligence. 

 
2.4 

 

 

Printing of Grievances Redressal Mechanism on Delivery Instruction Form 
Book 52  

To  promote  investor  awareness  regarding  mechanism  for  redressing 
investor grievances, the information placed below shall be printed on the 
inside back cover of the Delivery Instruction Form (DIF) Book issued by all 
Depository Participants. 

In case you have grievances against a listed company or intermediary registered 
with  SEBI,  you  should  first  approach  the  concerned  company  or  intermediary 
against whom you have grievance. If you are not satisfied with their response, 

                                                           
52 Circular No. SEBI/MRD/DP/25/2012 dated September 21, 2012 
 

 

45 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

you may approach SEBI or other regulatory bodies. You can approach SEBI for 
following type of grievances. 

Listed Companies 
  Refund / Allotment/ Bonus/ Dividend/ 

Rights/ Redemption/ Interest 

  Prelisting offer documents (shares) 
  Prelisting  offer  documents  (debentures 

Brokers and stock exchanges 
  Stock Brokers 
  Sub brokers 
  Portfolio managers 
  Stock exchanges 

and bonds) 

  Delisting of Securities 
  Buyback of Securities 
  Takeover and Restructuring 
  Corporate  Governance  and  Listing 

conditions   

Registrar and Transfer Agents 

Mutual Funds 

Depository and Depository Participants 

Information to SEBI: 
  Price Manipulation 
 

Insider trading 

Other entities 
Collective Investment Schemes 
Debenture Trustees 
Merchant Bankers 
Bankers to Issue 
Credit Rating Agencies 
Custodian of Securities 
Foreign Institutional Investors 
Underwriters 
Venture Capital Funds 
KYC Registration Agency(KRA) 
Alternative Investment Fund 

You  can  file  your  complaints  online  at  http://scores.gov.in  or  alternately  send 
your  complaints  to  Office  of  Investor  Assistance  and  Education  of  SEBI  at 
Mumbai or Regional Offices at the following addresses: 

Address of SEBI Offices 

  Office 

of 

Investor  Assistance 

SEBI  Bhavan, 
Plot No.C4-A, 'G' Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai 400 051 
Tel: 022-26449188 / 26449199 (http://scores.gov.in) 

and  Education, 

  SEBI,  Northern  Regional  Office,  5th  Floor,  Bank  of  Baroda  Building,  16, 
Sansad Marg, New Delhi -110001 Tel: 011-23724001-05 (sebinro@sebi.gov.in) 

46 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

  SEBI,  Eastern  Regional  Office,  L&T  Chambers,  3rd  Floor,  16,  Camac  Street, 

Kolkata - 700 016 Tel: 033-23023000. (sebiero@sebi.gov.in) 

  SEBI, Southern Regional Office, 7th Floor, Overseas Towers, 756-L, Anna Salai 

Chennai 600 0102 

-24674000/ 24674150 (sebisro@sebi.gov.in) 

  SEBI,  Ahmedabad  Regional  Office,  Unit  No:  002,  Ground  Floor,  SAKAR  I, 
Near  Gandhigram  Railway  Station,  Opp.  Nehru  Bridge  Ashram  Road, 
Ahmedabad - 380 009 Tel : 079-26583633-35 (sebiaro@sebi.gov.in) 

For more information visit our website - http://scores.gov.in 

 

 

47 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SECTION 3: Issuer Related 

Charges paid by Issuers 53,54 

i.  With  effect  from  April  27,  2011  depositories  may  levy  and  collect  the 
charges  towards  custody  from  the  issuers,  on  the  basis  of  average  no.  of 
folios  (ISIN position)  during the previous  financial year, as per the details 
given below: 

 

ii. 

Issuers  to  pay  @  Rs.11.00  (*)  per  folio  (ISIN  position)  in  the  respective 
depositories, subject to a minimum as mentioned below: 

Nominal  value  of  admitted 
securities  (Rs.)  

Fee 
Annual  Custodial 
payable by a Issuer to each 
Depository (Rs.)  (*) 

Upto 5 crore 
Above 5 crore and upto 10 crore 
Above 10 crore and upto 20 crore 
Above 20 crore 

* Plus service tax as applicable 

9,000 
22,500 
45,000 
75,000 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

iii.  The average no. of folios (ISIN positions) for an Issuer may be arrived at by 
dividing the total number of folios for the entire financial year by the total 
number of working days in the said financial year. 
 

iv.  Temporary ISIN shall not be considered for the purpose of computing the 

annual issuer charges. 

v. 

If  the  issuer  fails  to  make  the  payment,  Depositories  may  charge  penal 
interest subject to a maximum of 12% per annum.  

 
 
 
 

 

 
3.1 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

                                                           
53  Reference  Circular  MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-2/2009  dated  February  10,  2009  and  Circular 

SEBI/MRD/SE/DEP/Cir-4/2005 dated January 28, 2005 

54  Reference  Circular  CIR/MRD/  DP/05/2011  dated  April  27,  2011  and  Circular 

CIR/MRD/DP/18/2015 dated December 09,2015 

 

48 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
3.2 

Activation of ISIN in case of IPO and additional issue of shares/ securities  

Depositories shall activate the ISINs only on the date of commencement of 
trading on the stock exchanges in case of IPOs for both the equity and debt 
securities.55   

Further,  in  order  to  curtail  the  transfer  of  additional  issue  of  shares/ 
securities  including  by  way  of  further  public  offerings,  rights  issue, 
preferential  allotment,  bonus  issue  etc  of  the  listed  company,  prior  to 
receipt  of  final  listing  /  trading  approval,  the  depositories  shall  devise  a 
mechanism so that such new securities created shall be frozen till the time 
final listing/ trading permission is granted by the exchange.56 
 
In  order  to  achieve  the  above,  the  Depositories  are  advised  to  allot  such 
additional  shares/securities  under  a  new  temporary  ISIN  which  shall  be 
kept frozen. Upon receipt of the final listing/ trading permission from the 
exchange  for  such  additional  shares/  securities,  the  shares/securities 
credited in the new temporary ISIN shall be debited and the same would 
get  credited  in  the  preexisting  ISIN  for  the  said  security.  Thereafter,  the 
additional securities shall be available for trading. 

i. 

ii. 

 

iii.  The stock exchanges are advised to provide the details to the depositories 
whenever final listing / trading permission is given to securities. Further, 
in case of issuance of equity shares by a company, listed on multiple stock 
exchanges, the concerned stock exchanges shall synchronize their effective 
dates of listing / trading approvals and intimate the same to depositories 
in advance.34 
 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent 

3.3 
 
3.3.1   Appointment of a single agency for share registry work57 
 

All work related to share registry pertaining in terms of both physical and 
electronic shares shall be maintained at a single point i.e. either in-house by 
the company or by a SEBI registered Registrar and Transfer Agent.  

 

 

                                                           
55  Reference  Circular  SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-2/06  dated  January  19,  2006  and  Circular      

CIR/MRD/DP/ 21 /2012 dated August 02, 2012 

56 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/24/2012 dated September 11, 2012 
57 Reference Circular D&CC/FITTC/Cir-15/2002 dated December 27, 2002 

 

49 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
3.3.2    Inter-Depository transfers58 
 

In  case  of  inter-Depository  transfers  of  securities,  the  Registrars  shall 
communicate the confirmation of such transfers within two hours, failing 
which  such  transfers  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  confirmed.  The 
Registrars shall not reject inter-Depository transfers except where 
 

i.  A Depository does not have adequate balance of securities in its account or  
ii. 

there is mismatch of transfer requests from the Depositories. 
 

3.3.3    Common Registrars and Share Transfer agents59  

 
Every  company  shall  appoint  the  same  Registrars  and  Share  Transfer 
agents for both the depositories.  

 
3.3.4    Dematerialisation requests51, 60 

 

i. 

 

ii. 

agents 

shall 

and  Share  Transfer 

  Registrars 
accept  partial 
dematerialisation  requests  and  will  not  reject  or  return  the  entire 
dematerialization  request  where  only  a  part  of  the  request  had  to  be 
rejected.  In  cases  where  a  DP  has  already  sent  information  about 
dematerialisation electronically to a Registrar but physical shares have 
not yet been delivered, the Registrar shall accept the demat request and 
carry out dematerialization on an indemnity given by the DP and proof 
of dispatch of document given by DP. 

It  is  clarified  that  the  above  provision  shall  be  applicable  to  all  the 
securities  like  scrips,  bonds,  debentures,  debenture  stock  or  other 
marketable  securities  eligible  to  be  held  in  dematerialised  form  in  a 
depository  as  defined  in  Regulation  28  of  the  SEBl  (Depository  and 
Participants) Regulations, 1996. 

3.4 
 

Mandatory admission of debt instruments on both the Depositories61 

Debt instruments shall necessarily be admitted on both the Depositories.  
 

                                                           
58 Reference Circular no. SMDRP/Policy/Cir-28/99 dated August 23, 1999 
59 Reference Circular SMDRP/Policy/Cir-28/99 dated August 23, 1999 
60 Reference: D&CC/ 1099 / 2002 dated November 01, 2002 
61Reference  Circular  D&CC/FITTC/Cir-13/2002  dated  November  1,  2002  and  Circular 

MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-36/04 dated October 27, 2004 

 

50 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
3.5 

American  Depository  Receipts  (ADRs)  /  Global  Depository  Receipts 
(GDRs) 

 
3.5.1    Delivery of underlying shares of GDRs/ADRs in dematerialised form62 

 
Underlying  shares  of  GDRs/ADRs  shall  be  compulsorily  delivered  in 
dematerialised  form.  Pursuant  to  RBI  directions  in  this  regard,  a  non-
resident holder of ADRs/GDRs issued by a company registered in India, 
on surrender of such ADRs/GDRs, can acquire the underlying shares when 
such shares are released by the Indian Custodian of the ADR/GDR issue. 
Further, the company whose shares are so released, or a Depository shall 
enter  in  the  register  or  books,  wherein  such  securities  are  registered  or 
inscribed, an address outside India of the non-resident holder of shares.  
 

3.5.2    Tracking of underlying shares of  GDRs/ADRs63 

 
To ensure easy tracking of the underlying shares released on conversion of 
the  “depositories  receipts”  all  such  shares  shall  be  credited  to  a  separate 
Depository Receipts (DRs) account of the respective investor. In this regard, 
Depositories shall ensure that the following information is provided to the 
domestic custodian holding the underlying shares on a regular basis: 
 

i.  Total number of shares at the beginning of the month 
ii.  Number of shares transferred into the account (credited) during the month 
iii.  Number  of  shares  transferred  out  of  the  account  (debited)  during  the 

month. 

iv.  Balance at the end of the month. 

 

This service can be availed of only by foreign investors other than the OCBs. 

 
3.6 

Electronic Clearing System (ECS) facility 
 

3.6.1    Use of ECS for refund in public/ rights issues.64 

 
For  locations  where  facility  of  refund  through  ECS  is  available  details  of 
applicants shall be taken directly from the database of the depositories in 

                                                           
62 Reference Circular SMDRP/Policy/Cir-9/99 dated May 6, 1999 

63Reference  Circular  D&CC/FITTC/Cir-09/2002  dated 

July  4,  2002  and  Circular 

D&CC/FITTC/Cir-10/2002 dated September 25, 2002 

64Reference  Circular  SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-3/06  dated  February  21,  2006  and  circular 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/29/2008/01/02 dated February 1, 2008 

 

51 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

respect  of  issues  made  completely  in  dematerialised  form.  Accordingly, 
DPs shall maintain and update on real time basis the MICR (Magnetic Ink 
Character Recognition) code of Bank branch of BOs and other bank details 
of the applicants in the database of depositories.  This is to ensure that the 
refunds through ECS are made in a smooth manner and that there are no 
failed/wrong credits. 

 
3.6.2  Updation  of  bank  accounts  details,  MICR  code  and  IFSC  of  bank 

branches by Depository Participants (DPs)65 

 

i.       It has been informed by RBI that they have been receiving complaints from 
managers to the issues that the funds routed through the electronic mode 
are  getting  returned  by  destination  banks  because  of  incorrect  or  old 
account numbers provided by beneficiary account holders. 
 

ii.      RBI  has  stated  that  Investors  will  have  to  ensure  through  their  DPs  that 
bank  account  particulars  are  updated  in  master  record  periodically,  to 
ensure  that  their  refunds,  dividend  payments  etc.  reach  the  correct 
account,  without  loss  of  time.  RBI  has  also  suggested  incorporation  of 
Indian  Financial  System  Code  (IFSC)  of  customer's  bank  branches  apart 
from 9 digit MICR code; since IFSC of bank's branches is used for remittance 
through National Electronic Funds Transfer (NEFT). 
 

 

iii.       It  is  advised  that  necessary  action  be  taken  in  this  matter  to  ensure  that 
correct  account  particulars  of  investors  are  available  in  the  database  of 
depositories. 

 
3.7 

Withdrawal by issuers from the depository66 
 

i.  As  regards  voluntary  withdrawal  by  issuers  from  the  depository,  it  is 
informed that listed companies may not be allowed to withdraw from the 
depository  system  unless  they  delist  their  securities  from  the  stock 
exchanges.  
 

ii.  As regards companies under liquidation are concerned, it is informed that 
deactivation of the ISIN may be only done in cases where companies have 
been  liquidated.  In  other  cases  where  companies  are  being  liquidated, 
deactivation of ISIN resulting in total freezing  may not be desirable as it 
will disallow investors to hold shares in dematerialized form 

                                                           
65 Reference: MRD/DEP/PP/123624 /2008 dated April 23, 2008 
66 Reference: MRD/DoP/NSDL/VM/ 162378 /2009 dated May 06, 2009 

 

52 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
3.8 

Further issue of shares under Section 86 of Companies Act and Companies 
(Issue of Share capital with Differential Voting Rights) Rules, 200167 
 
In  all  cases  of  shares  issued  by  companies  under  Section  86(a)  (ii)  of 
Companies Act and Companies (Issue of Share Capital with Differential 
Voting Rights) Rules, 2001, separate ISIN may be allotted to differentiate 
such shares from ordinary shares. 

 

 

                                                           
67 Reference: MRD/DoP/MC/141442 /2008 dated October 17, 2008 

 

53 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

4.1 
 

SECTION - 4: Depositories Related 

 

Activity schedule for depositories for T+2 rolling Settlement68 

i.  The activity schedule for T+2 Rolling Settlement is as under: 

Day  Time 

Description of activity 

Sr. 
No. 
1 

T 

  
By 1.00 pm 

2 

T+1 

By 2.30 pm 

Trade Day 
Completion  of  custodial  confirmation  of 
trades  to  CC/CH.  (There  is  no  separate 
extended time limit for late confirmations).  
Completion  of  process  and  download 
obligation files to brokers/ custodians by the 
CC/CH. 

 

 

 

 

3 

T+2 

By 11.00 am  Pay-in of securities and funds.  
By 1.30 pm 

Pay-out of securities and funds.  

ii.  All  Depositories  shall  adhere  to  the  aforementioned  activity  schedule  to 
implement  T+2  rolling  settlement.  DPs  shall  adhere  to  the  designated 
activities within the prescribed time limits as under:  

a.  DPs shall accept instructions for pay-in of securities from clients in the 
physical form atleast upto 4 p.m. and in electronic form atleast upto 6 
p.m. on T+1. 

b.  DPs shall complete execution of pay-in instructions latest by 10:30 a. m. 

on T+2. 

c.  Depositories shall download the processed pay-in files to the Exchange 

/ Clearing House / Clearing Corporation latest by 11:00 a.m. on T+2. 

d.  Pay-out  of  securities  by  the  Exchange  /  Clearing  House  /  Clearing 
Corporation to the Depositories shall be executed by 1:30 p.m. on T+2. 
e.  Pay-out of securities shall be completed by the Depositories by 2:00 p.m. 

on T+2. 

iii.  All instructions received by the  DPs shall have an execution date, which 
may be either a current date or a future date. Instructions shall be valid till 
the  pay-in  deadline  or  till  'end  of  day'  (EOD)  of  the  execution  date, 
whichever is earlier. DPs shall ensure that the validity period of instructions 
is brought to the notice of the client while accepting the instructions. In case 

                                                           
68Reference  Circular  DCC/FITTC/Cir-19/2003  dated  March  4,  2003  and  Circular 

MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-18/2005 dated September 2, 2005 

 

54 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

4.2 
 

 
4.3 

the client account does not have sufficient balance before pay-in deadline 
or till EOD, such instructions shall fail. 

Settlement of transactions in case of holidays69  

 

Due to lack of uniformity of holidays and force majeure conditions which 
necessitate sudden closure of one or more Stock Exchanges and banks in a 
particular state, result in situations where multiple settlements have to be 
completed  by  the  Stock  Exchanges  on  the  working  day  immediately 
following  the  day(s)  of  the  closure  of  the  banks.  Accordingly  the  Stock 
Exchanges/Depositories are advised to follow the guidelines and adhere to 
the time line. 
 

i.  The Stock Exchanges shall clear and settle the trades on a sequential basis 
i.e.,  the  pay-in  and  the  pay-out  of  the  first  settlement  shall  be  completed 
before  the  commencement  of  the  pay-in  and  pay-out  of  the  subsequent 
settlement/s. 

ii.  The cash/securities pay out from the first settlement shall be made available 
to  the  member  for  meeting  his  pay-in  obligations  for  the  subsequent 
settlement/s.  

iii.  Further,  in-order  to  meet  his  pay-in  obligations  for  the  subsequent 
settlement, the member may need to move securities from one depository to 
another.  The  Depositories  shall,  therefore,  facilitate  the  inter-depository 
transfers within one hour and before pay-in for the subsequent settlement 
begins.  

iv.  The  Stock  Exchanges/Depositories  shall  follow  a  strict  time  schedule  to 

ensure that the settlements are completed on the same day.  

v.  The  Clearing  Corporation/Clearing  House  of  the  Stock  Exchanges  shall 
execute Auto DO facility for all the settlements together, so as to make the 
funds and the securities available with the member on the same day for all 
the settlements, thereby enabling the availability of the funds/securities at 
the client level by the end of the same day. 

Deadline time for accepting non pay-in related instructions70  

 

i.      The depositories are advised that any overrun of the time specified for 'spot 
delivery contract' in the SCRA would result in the contract becoming illegal 
under section 16 of the SCRA (unless it is put through the stock exchange). 
The DP-BO agreement cannot add anything to or subtract anything from 

                                                           
69 Reference  Circular SEBI/MRD/Policy/AT/Cir- 19/2004 dated April 21, 2004 
70 Reference: MRD/VSS/ARR/ 12255/2004 dated June 10, 2004 

 

55 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

this position. However, it should be the responsibility of the DP to ensure 
that  the  client's  contract  is  not  rendered  illegal  on  account  of  delayed 
execution of the delivery instruction. 

 

ii.       Keeping  the  hardships  to  change  all  the  existing  DP-BO  agreements  to 
enforce the above into consideration, it is advised that suitable bye laws can 
be  made  under  section  26(2)(e)  and  (d)    of  Depositories  Act,      1996  for 
imposing   such   obligation   on   the   DPs.   Therefore,   it is advised to 
amend/insert bye laws which should expressly provide that the DPs shall 
execute the non pay-in related instructions on the same day or on the next 
day  of  the  instruction.  Further,  pending  such  amendment,  suitable 
instructions may be issued to DPs to adhere to such time limit. 

iii.       The  above  clause  may  be  suitably  incorporated  in  the  DP-BO  agreement 

while opening new accounts. 

 

4.4 

Approval  of  amendments  to  Bye  Laws  /  Rules  of  Stock  Exchanges  and 
Depositories71 

 
i.  Depositories and exchanges shall submit the following information while 
seeking SEBI approval for amendment to Bye Laws/ Rules/ Regulations 
and amendments thereto: 
 
a.  The objective/purpose of amendments. 
b.  Whether  the  amendment  is  consequential  to  any  directive/circulars/ 

guidelines from SEBI/ Government and the details thereof. 

c.  Whether such amendments necessitate any consequential amendments 

to any other Bye Laws/ Rules/ Regulations. 

d.  The proceedings of the Governing Board or Governing Council, as the 
case may be, wherein these proposed amendments were approved by 
the Exchanges/ Depositories. 

e.  If  documents  other  than  Bye  Laws/  Rules/  Regulations  are  sent  for 
approval,  the  justification  and  need  for  forwarding  the  same  to  SEBI, 
indicating whether it forms a part of any Bye Law/ Rule/ Regulation. 

 
Further,  all  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  requests  for  dispensation  of  the 
requirement  of  pre-publication  shall  be  accompanied  with  proper 
justification and indicate how the public interest or interest of trade shall be 
served by such dispensation of pre-publication.  

ii. 

                                                           
71 Reference Circular LGL/Cir-2/2003 dated February 19, 2003 

 

 

56 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
4.5 

 

4.6 

Preservation of Records72 
 

i.  Depositories  and  Depository  Participants  are  required  to  preserve  the 

records and documents for a minimum period of 5 year. 

ii.  Depositories and DPs shall preserve respective original forms of documents 
either in physical form or an electronic record, copies of which have been 
taken by CBI, Police or any other enforcement agency during the course of 
their investigation till the trial is completed.   

i. 

ii. 

Pledge of Shares through depository system73 
 
Section  12  of  the  Depositories  Act  and  Regulation  58  of  the  SEBI 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996 along with the relevant 
Bye  Laws  of  the  Depositories  clearly  enumerate  the  manner  of  creating 
pledge.  It is felt that  there is a need to communicate to the BOs that  any 
procedure followed other than as specified under the aforesaid provisions 
of law shall not be treated as pledge. 

In  order  to  clarify  the  same,  the  depositories  are  advised  to  issue  a 
communiqué to the DPs advising them to inform BOs about the procedure 
for pledging of shares held in demat form as enumerated in the relevant 
sections of the Depositories Act and SEBI (Depositories and Participants) 
Regulations,  1996.  Depositories  may  also  advise  DPs  that  an  off-market 
transfer of shares leads to change in ownership and cannot be treated as 
pledge. Further, this issue may also be taken up in the investor awareness 
programs  wherein  the  manner  of  creation  of  pledge  can  be  effectively 
communicated to the BOs directly. 

4.7 

i. 

Foreign investments in infrastructure companies in securities markets74  
 
Pursuant  to  Government  of  India  Policy,  foreign 
infrastructure  companies 
Exchanges, Depositories and Clearing Corporations shall be as under: 
 
a.  Foreign investment shall be allowed in such companies up to 49% with 
a  separate  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)  cap  of  26%  and  Foreign 
Institutional Investment (FII) cap of 23%; 

in 
in  the  securities  markets,  namely  Stock 

investments 

                                                           
72Reference  Circular  SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-24/05  dated  December  22,  2005, 

circular 
SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-16/2005 dated August 04, 2005 and circular MRD/DoP/DEP/Cir-20/2009 
dated December 9, 2009 

73 Reference: MRD/DoP/MAS – OW/16723/2010 dated August 17, 2010 
74 Reference Circular MRD/DSA/SE/Dep/Cust/Cir-23/06 dated December 22, 2006 

 

57 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

b.  FDI shall be allowed with specific prior approval of FIPB; 
c.  FII shall be allowed only through purchases in the secondary market; 
d.  FII  shall  not  seek  and  will  not  get  representation  on  the  Board  of 

Directors; 

e.  No foreign investor, including persons acting in concert, will hold more 

than 5% of the equity in these companies. 

 

 

ii.  The aforesaid limits for foreign investment in respect of recognised Stock 
Exchanges shall be subject to 5% shareholding limit as prescribed under the 
Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  (Manner  of  Increasing  and  Maintaining 
Public Shareholding in Recognised Stock Exchanges) Regulations, 2006. 

 

4.8 

Designated e-mail ID for regulatory communication with SEBI75  
 
Depositories  shall  create  a  designated  e-mail 
for  regulatory 
communication and inform it to SEBI. This e-mail id shall be exclusive and 
shall not be person-centric.  

id 

 

4.9 

Designated e-mail ID for redressal of investor complaints76 

 
i.  Depositories and registered DPs shall designate an exclusive e-mail ID for 
the  grievance  redressal  division/compliance  officer  exclusively  for 
registering investor complaints. 
 

ii.  The  designated  email  ID  and  other  relevant  details  shall  be  prominently 
various 
the 

displayed 
materials/pamphlets/advertisement 
Depositories and DPs for creating investor awareness. 

campaigns 

in 

the 
initiated 

and 

on 

the 

websites 

by 

 
4.10 

Redressal of complaints against Stock Exchanges (SEs) and Depositories 
through SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES).77 
 

i.  The  complaints  received  by  SEBI  against  SEs  and  Depositories  shall  be 
electronically sent through SCORES. Depositories are advised to view the 
pending complaints at http://scores.gov.in/admin and submit the Action 
Taken  Report  (ATR)  along  with  supporting  documents  electronically  in 
SCORES.  Updation  of  action  taken  shall  not  be  possible  with  physical 

                                                           
75 Reference Circular MIRSD/DPS- III/Cir-23/08 dated July 25, 2008 
76 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-22/06 dated December 18, 2006 
77 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/ICC/16/2012 dated June 15, 2012 

 

58 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ATRs.  Hence,  submission  of  physical  ATR  shall  not  be  accepted  for 
complaints lodged in SCORES. 
 

ii.  The SEs and Depositories shall do the following:  

 
a.  indicate  a  contact  person  in  case  of  SCORES,  who  is  an  employee 
heading  the  complaint  services  division/cell/department.  Contact 
detail (i.e. phone no., email id, postal address) of the said contact person 
be made widely available for e.g. on the websites of Depositories.  

 

 

 

4.11 
 

i. 

 

b.  address/redress the complaints within a period of 15 days upon receipt 
of  complaint  on  SCORES.  In  case  additional  information  is  required 
from the complainant, the same shall be sought within 7 days of receipt 
on SCORES. In such case, the period of 15 days will be counted upon 
the receipt of additional information.  

c.  maintain  a  monthly  record  of  the  complaints  which  are  not 
addressed/redressed  within  15  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the 
complaint/information, alongwith the reason for such pendency.  

d.  Upload/update  the  ATR  on  the  SCORES.  Failure  to  do  so  shall  be 
considered as non-redressal of the complaint and the complaint shall be 
shown as pending. 
 

Limitation period for filing an arbitration reference78 

It  is  decided  that  the  limitation  period  for  filing  an  arbitration  reference 
shall be governed by the law of limitation, i.e., The Limitation Act,  1963. 
The modified limitation period shall also be applicable to cover inter alia 
the following cases:  

a.  where the limitation period (in terms of Limitation Act 1963) have not 
yet  elapsed  and  the  parties  have  not  filed  for  arbitration  with  the 
depository,  

b.  where the arbitration application was filed  but was rejected solely on 
the ground of delay in filing within the earlier limitation period; and the 
limitation period (in terms of Limitation Act 1963) have not yet elapsed. 

OR 

 
 

                                                           
78 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/4/2011 dated April 7, 2011 

 

59 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Disclosure  of  investor  complaints  and  arbitration  details  on  Depository   
website 79  
 
Depositories shall disclose the details of complaints lodged by Beneficiary 
Owners  (BO’s)/  investors  against  Depository  Participants  (DPs)  in  their 
website.  The  aforesaid  disclosure  shall  also  include  details  pertaining  to 
arbitration and penal action against the DPs. 

 
4.12 

 

The  format  for  the  reports  for  the  aforesaid  disclosure  consists  of  the 
following reports: 
 

i.  Report 1A: Complaints received against DPs during 2009-10 
ii.  Report 1B: Redressal of Complaints received against DPS during 2008-09 
iii.  Report 1C: Redressal of Complaints received against DPs during 2009-10 
iv.  Report 2A: Details of Arbitration Proceedings (where Investor is a party) 

during 2008-09:  

v.  Report  2B:  Details  of Arbitration  Proceedings  (where  Investor  is  a  party) 

during 2009-10 

vi.  Report 3A: Penal Actions against DPs during 2008-09 
vii.  Report 3B: Penal Actions against DPs during 2009-10 
viii.  Report  4A:  Redressal  of  Complaints  lodged  by  investors  against  Listed 

Companies during 2008 -09 

ix.  Report  4B:    Redressal  of  Complaints  lodged  by  investors  against  Listed 

Companies during 2009 -10 

                                                           
79 Reference Circular SEBI/MRD/ OIAE/ Dep/ Cir- 4/2010 dated January 29, 2010 

 

60 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Report 1A: Complaints received against Depository Participants (DPs)# during 2009-10: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to 
be updated weekly) (In excel sheet) 
 
Sl. 
No. 

Details of Complaint 
Type of 

Status of Complaint 

Name of 

SEBI Ref. 

Name of  

Status** 

 

Status 
Date## 

Date of 
Filing 

Date of 
Receipt 

Name of 

Complainant  

Complaint* 

No. (if 

DP 

 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

applicable  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Arbitration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Date of 

Arbitrator(s) 

Arbitration 

Award 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

# including against its authorized persons, employees, etc. 
## Status date is the date of resolution/reference to arbitration/finding it non-actionable. If under process, it is the date of 
updation of this sheet.  */** As per Table 1

 

61 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Report 1B:  Redressal of Complaints received against Depository Participants (DPs) during 2008-09: Updated on mmm 
dd yyyy (to be updated every quarter) (In excel sheet) 
 
Sl. 
No
. 
 

No. of Complaints 
No. of 
Arbitrat

Of the Complaints received during 2008-09 

No. of 
Compl
aints 
receive

Nam
e of 
the 
DP 

Resolved 
through 

Pending 

for 

No. of 
BOs 

Status of 

DP 

(active/ 
inactive/ 
in process 

of 

accounts  

at the 
beginnin
g of the 

terminatio

year 

n 

/withdraw

al) 

d 

against 
the DP 

* 

the 

Depositor

y 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Non 
action
able** 

Arbitr
ation 
Advis

ed 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

62 

redressal 

ion 

with 

filed by 

Depositor

BOs 

y 

Decide
d by 
the 
Arbitr
ators 

Decided 

Pending 

by 

for 

Arbitrat
ors in 

favour of 
the BOs 

Redressal 

with 

Arbitrator

s 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
N 
 
Total 

 
 
 
 
*including against its authorized persons, employees, etc. 
**Non actionable means the complaint that are incomplete / outside the scope of Depository 
(Arrange the DPs in descending number of complaints filed against them during the period)  

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

63 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Report 1C:  Redressal of Complaints received against Depository Participants (DPs) during 2009-10: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to 
be updated every quarter) (In excel sheet) 
 
Sl. 
No
. 
 

No. of Complaints 
No. of 
Arbitrat

Of the Complaints received during 2008-09 

Nam
e of 
the 
DP 

Resolved 
through 

Decided 

Pending 

No. of 
Compla

ints 

receive

Status of 

DP 

Pending 

for 

by 

for 

Decide
d by 
the 
Arbitr
ators 

redressal 

ion 

with 

filed by 

Depositor

BOs 

y 

Arbitrat
ors in 

favour of 
the BOs 

Redressal 

with 

Arbitrator

s 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

No. of 
BOs 

account
s at the 
beginni
ng of 

the year 

(active/ 

inactive/ in 
process of 
termination 
/withdraw

al) 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

d 

against 
the DP 

* 

the 

Depositor

y 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Non 
action
able** 

Arbitr
ation 
Advis

ed 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

*including against authorized persons, employees, etc. 

 

- 64 - 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
**Non actionable means the complaint that are incomplete / outside the scope of Depository  
(Arrange the DPs in descending number of complaints filed against them during the period)  

 

- 65 - 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Report 2A: Details of Arbitration Proceedings (where BO is a party) during 2008-09: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to be updated 
every quarter) (In excel sheet) 
 

Sl. 
No. 

Name of 
Arbitrato

No. of 
Award

No. of Awards in 

favor of BOs 

r 

s 

Passed  

No. of 
Awards 
appealed 

No. of 
Awards 

Implemente

d 

Filed by  

Filed by 

 

DP 

BO 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 66 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

No. of cases pending for redressal  at the end 

Pending 

of period 

For more 

than 6 
months 

For more than 
3 months, but 

less than 6 

months 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
N 
Tota
l 

 
(In case of panel of arbitrators, the cases / awards would appear against every member of the panel) 
(Arrange the arbitrators in descending number of awards passed by them during the period) 
Report 2B: Details of Arbitration Proceedings (where BO is a party) during 2009-10: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to be updated 
every quarter) (In excel sheet) 
 

Sl. 
No. 

Name of 
Arbitrator 

No. of 
Awards 
Passed  

No. of 
Awards 
appealed 

 

No. of 
Awards 

Implemented 
 

No. of 

Awards in 
favor of BOs 
Filed 
Filed 
by  
DP 

by 
BO 

No. of cases pending for redressal  at the end of 

period 

Pending 

For more than 

6 months 

For more than 3 
months, but less 
than 6 months 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 67 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 
N 
Total 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
(In case of panel of arbitrators, the cases / awards would appear against every member of the panel) 
(Arrange the arbitrators in descending number of awards passed by them during the period) 

 

- 68 - 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Report 3A: Penal Actions against Depository Participants (DPs) during 2008-09: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to be updated every 
quarter) (in excel sheet) 
 

Sl. 
No. 

Name 
of DP 

Registration 

No. of 

Action against DP, its authorized person and employees together 

No. 

Complaints 

received 

No. of Penal Orders issued 

Monetary Penalties 

No. of Arbitration 

For complaints  For others 

levied (Rs. lakh) 
For 

For 

complaints 

others 

Awards issued 

against DP 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 69 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Report 3B: Penal Actions against Depository Participants (DPs) during 2009-10: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to be updated every 
quarter) (in excel sheet) 
 

Sl. 
No. 

Name 
of DP 

Registration 

No. of 

Action against DP, its authorized person and employees together 

No. 

Complaints 

received 

No. of Penal Orders issued 

Monetary Penalties 

No. of Arbitration 

For complaints  For others 

levied (Rs. lakh) 
For 

For 

complaints 

others 

Awards issued 

against DP 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N 
Report 4A: Redressal of Complaints lodged by investors against Listed Companies during 2008 -09: Updated on mmm dd yyyy 
(to be updated every quarter) (In excel format) 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

- 70 - 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Sl. 
No. 

Name of the 

Company 

Received 

Redressed through 

Non-

Pending for  Redressal with 

Depository 

Actionable* 

Depository 

No. of Complaints 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 71 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
 

 
 

N 
Total 
*Non actionable means the complaint that are incomplete / outside the scope of Depository 
(Arrange the companies in descending number of complaints filed against them during the period) 
 
 
Report 4B:  Redressal of Complaints lodged by investors against Listed Companies during 2009 -10: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to 
be updated every quarter) (In excel format) 
 

 
 

 
 

Sl. 
No. 

Name of the 

Company 

Received 

Redressed through 

Non-

Pending for  Redressal with 

Depository 

Actionable* 

Depository 

No. of Complaints 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 72 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N 
Total 
 
*Non actionable means the complaints that are incomplete / outside the scope of Depository 
(Arrange the companies in descending number of complaints filed against them during the period)

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

- 73 - 

 

 
 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Type 
Type I 

I a  
I b 
I c 
I d 
I e 

 

Type II 

II a  
II b 
II c 

II d 

 

Type III 

III a 
III b 

 

Type IV 

IV a 
IV b 
IV c 
IV d 
IV e 
IV f 
IV g 

 

Type V 

V a 
V b 
V c 

 

Type VI 

VI a 

Table 1 A 

Details 

Account Opening Related  
Denial in opening an account 
Account opened in another name than as requested  
Non receipt of Account Opening Kit 
Delay in activation/ opening of account 
Non  Receipt  of  copy  of  DP  Client  Agreement/Schedule  A  of 
Charges 
 
Demat/Remat Related 
Delay in Dematerialisation request processing 
Delay in Rematerialisation request processing 
Delay  in/  Non-Receipt  of  Original  certificate  after  demat 
rejection 
Non Acceptance of demat/remat request 
 
Transaction Statement Related  
Delay in/ Non-Receipt of Statements from DP 
Discrepancy in Transaction statement 
 
Improper Service Related  
Insistence on Power of Attorney in its favour 
Deactivation/ Freezing/ Suspension related 
Defreezing related 
Transmission Related 
Pledge Related 
SMS Related 
Non-updation of changes in account (address/ signatories/bank 
details/ PAN/ Nomination etc.) 
 
Charges Related  
Wrong/ Excess Charges 
Charges paid but not credited 
Charges for Opening/closure of Account 
 
Delivery Instruction Related  (DIS ) 
Non acceptance of DIS for transfer  

74 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

VI b 
VI c 

 
 

Type VII 

VII a 
VII b 

 

Delay in/ non Execution of DIS 
Delay in Issuance / Reissuance of DIS Booklet 
 
 
Closure 
Non closure/ delay in closure of account  
Closure of a/c without intimation by DP 
 

Type VIII  Manipulation/ Unauthorised Action 
Unauthorised Transaction in account 

VIII a 
VIII b   Manipulation 
VIII c  

 

Type IX 

IX a 
IX b 
IX c 

 

Type X 

Type 
I  
 
I a 
I b 
I c 

II 
III 
IV 
V 

Unauthorised  changes  in  account  (address/  signatories/bank 
details/PAN etc.) 
 
Company/ RTA related   
Action – Cash  
Action – Non–Cash 
Initial Public Offer/ Follow-on Public Offer Related  
 
Others   

** Status 

Description 
Non actionable 
 
Complaint incomplete 
Outside the scope of Depository 
Pertains to non-responding company. 
 
Resolved 
Under Process 
Referred to Arbitration 
Forwarded to Company/RTA for appropriate action. 

75 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
4.13 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Disclosure  of  regulatory  orders  and  arbitration  awards  on  Depository 
website 80  

Depositories shall post all their regulatory orders and arbitration awards 
issued since April 1, 2007.  Further, all regulatory orders and arbitration 
awards as and when issued shall be posted on their website immediately. 

 

4.14 

Establishment of  connectivity by Clearing  House / Clearing  Corporation 
(CH/CC) with the Depository – Clarification81 

 

i.  On examination of the provisions of Regulations 19(a) and 31 of the SEBI    

(Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations,  1996,  it  is  advised  that 
registration  of  a  CC/CH  of  a  stock  exchange  as  a  DP  with  SEBI  is  not 
mandatory  and  a  pre-requisite  for  it  to  obtain  connectivity  with  the 
depositories.  However,  if  the  CC/CH  of  a  stock  exchange  desires  to 
function as any other "Depository Participant", i.e. to open BO accounts for 
investors  or  clearing  member  account,  registration  as  DP  with  SEBI  is 
mandatory.  
 
In  view  of  the  above,  Depositories  are  advised  to  provide  continuous 
electronic  means  of  communication  /  connectivity  to  the  CH/CC  of  the 
Exchanges without insisting for a mandatory registration as DP with SEBI 
with  a  condition  that  such  entities  would  not  be  permitted  to  open  BO 
accounts for investors or clearing member account. 
 
Computing  and  monitoring  of  the  Aggregate  Value  of  Portfolio  of 
Securities (AVPS) of the BOs held in dematerialised form by Stock Broker 
DPs 
 

ii. 

4.15 

i.       For the purpose of computing the AVPS of the beneficial owners held in 
dematerialised form under Regulation 19(a)(viii) of SEBI (Depositories and 
Participant)  Regulations,  1996,  the  securities  held  by  bank  and  financial 
institutions  as  well  as  promoters  holdings  of  a  company  held  in 
dematerialised form, may be excluded82. 
 

ii.       In view of the potential risk to the system and also to maintain the integrity 

                                                           
80 Reference Circular SEBI/MRD/ DP/ 19/2010 dated June 10, 2010 
81 Reference: MRD/DoP/ Dep/82334 /2006 dated December 14, 2006 
82 Reference: SMDRP/RKD /NSDL/2494 /98 dated November 18, 1998, SMDRP/CDSL / 18300 
/2000 dated November 16, 2000 

 

76 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

of  the  market,  the  depositories  are  advised  to  develop  an  appropriate 
systemic  alert  in  the  depository  system,  so  as  to  enable  the  system  to 
generate  and  convey  automatic  alerts  to  those  SBDPs  that  reach  a  pre-
determined level of exposure. These alerts would serve as forewarnings to 
the SBDPs to the fact that they are approaching their respective maximum 
exposure limits. [Note: For this purpose, the depositories may monitor the 
value of securities with its SBDPs on an "end of the day" basis.]83 

4.16 

Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, 2012 (RGESS)84 

 

 

i.  Vide  notification  51/2012  dated  November  23,  2012,  Department  of 
Revenue, Ministry of Finance (MoF) has notified the Rajiv Gandhi Equity 
Savings Scheme (RGESS), 2012. The notification is available on the website 
of Income Tax Department under section “Notifications”. 

 

ii.  With  regard  to  implementation  of  the  MoF  notification,  the  following  is 

clarified: 
a.  For RGESS eligible close-ended Mutual Funds schemes, advice given by 
AMCs  to  the  depository  for  extinguishment  of  units  of  close  ended 
schemes  upon  maturity  of  the  scheme  shall  be  considered  as  settled 
through depository mechanism and therefore RGESS compliant. 
 

b.  AMCs  shall  disclose  that  the  concerned  RGESS  eligible  Exchange 
Traded  Funds  and  Mutual  Fund  schemes  is  in  compliance  with  the 
provisions  of  RGESS  guidelines  notified  by  Ministry  of  Finance  vide 
notification no. 51/2012 F. No. 142/35/2012-TPL dated November 23, 
2012, in Scheme Information Document (SID), in case of new fund offer, 
or by way of addendum, in  case of existing  RGESS eligible Exchange 
Traded Funds and Mutual Fund schemes. 

 

c.  Section 6(c) of the notification states that the eligible securities brought 
into the demat account will automatically be subject to lock-in during 
the first year, unless the new investor specifies otherwise and for such 
specifications,  the  new  retail  investors  shall  submit  a  declaration  in 
Form B indicating that such securities are not to be included within the 
above limit of investment. It is clarified that such declaration shall be 

                                                           
83 Reference: MRD/DRK/SU/16034/2003 dated August 22, 2003 
84 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/32/201 dated December 06, 2012 

 

77 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

submitted by an investor to its Depository Participant within a period 
of one month from the date of transaction. 
 

d.  For  transactions  undertaken  by  investors  through  their  RGESS 
designated  demat  account,  Depositories  may  seek  necessary 
transactional  details  from  stock  exchanges  viz.  Actual  Trade  value, 
Trading date, Settlement number, etc, for the purpose of enforcing lock-
in  and  for  generating  reports  mandated  vide  MoF  notification  on 
RGESS. On receipt of such request from depositories, stock exchanges 
shall provide the details to depositories on an immediate basis. It shall 
also be ensured that a uniform file structure is used by stock exchanges 
and depositories for such intimation of transaction details. 

e.  With regard to point 3(ix) (a) & (b) of RGESS notification, depositories 

may seek confirmation, as applicable, from stock exchanges. 

f.  With  regard  to  the  securities  held  in  the  RGESS  designated  account, 

treatment of the corporate actions shall be as given at Annexure A. 
 

iii. 

Stock  exchanges  shall  furnish  list  of  RGESS  eligible  stocks  /  ETFs  /  MF 
schemes  on  their  website.  Further,  the  list  shall  also  be  forwarded  to  the 
depositories at monthly intervals and whenever there is any change in the 
said list. For this purpose, Mutual Funds / AMCs shall communicate list of 
RGESS eligible MF schemes / ETFs to the stock exchanges. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

78 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure A 

 

Treatment of corporate actions 

 

(i) Involuntary corporate actions: In case of corporate actions where investors has 
no choice in the matter, for example: demerger of companies, etc, the compliance 
status of RGESS demat account shall not change.  
 
(ii) Voluntary corporate actions: In case of corporate actions where investors has 
the  option  to  exercise  his  choice  and  thereby  result  in  debit  of  securities,  for 
example: buy-back, etc, the same shall be considered as a sale transaction for the 
purpose of the scheme. 
 
Consolidated list of ‘corporate actions’ 
 

Sr.  
No. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 

6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

11 
12 
13 
14 

15 
16 

Corporate Action 

Amalgamation 
Scheme of Arrangement 
Reduction of Capital 
Bonus issue 
Buy Back of Shares 

Stock Split 
Consolidation of Shares 
Conversion of Partly Paid up 
Dividend [Final/ Interim/ Special] 
Exchange of Share Certificate  
[Name change] 
Rights Issue 
Conversion (compulsory)* 
Conversion (optionally)* 
Redemption 

Dividend on Mutual Fund 
Redemption of Mutual Fund 

Classification (Involuntary or  
Voluntary) 
Involuntary 
Involuntary 
Involuntary 
Involuntary 
Voluntary (Involuntary in case  
of court intervention) 
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  

Voluntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary (voluntary, if there  
is option to continue with  
revised terms) 
Involuntary 
Involuntary on maturity  
(voluntary, if there is option to  
shift between different  
scheme(s) or on account of exit  

 

79 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

option due to change in  
fundamental attributes of  
scheme) 

 
* Considering any conversion into equities (e.g.: Conversion of warrants into  
equities) 
 

 

 

End of Annexure A 

 

80 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure B – Illustration of lock-in period in RGESS 

I.  RGESS lock-in period if investments are brought in at once 

Nov 
23, 
2012 

Rs. 

50,000

Fixed 
lock in 
begins

Ends on 
Novembe

r 22, 
2013

Nov 
23,

2013

First year 
of flexible 

lock-in 
begins.

Ends  on 
Novembe

r 22, 
2014

Nov 23 
, 2014

Second 
year of 
flexible 
lock-in 
begins

Ends on 
Novembe

r 22, 
2015

Nov 
23, 
2015

Account 

is 

converte
d into an 
ordinary 
demat 
account

Applicable 

financial year 
for compliance 

Applicable 

financial year 
for compliance 

 

81 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

I.  RGESS lock-in period if investments are brought are in installments

Annexure B – Illustration of lock-in period in RGESS 

Period of Fixed lock-in 

Period of Flexible lock-in 

Fixed lock-in 

One year of Flexible 

Second year of 

                                     
 

                   

 

March 11, 2013 

ends 

 

Third set of 
Securities 

Rs. 10,000;  
1 year  

                                          

January 15, 2013 

 

Second set 
of Securities 

Rs. 30,000; 1 year 1 months 
24days 

 

             
 

November 23, 2012 

lock-in ends 

Flexible lock-in ends 

 

RGESS portfolio may 

change during this period 

First set of 
Securities 

Rs. 10,000; 1 year 3 months 16 days 

 

 

March 10, 

2014 

March 10, 

2015 

Applicable financial year for 
compliance will be 2014-15 

aaaaa 

March 10, 

2016 

 

Applicable financial for 
compliance will be 2015-16 

Applicable financial year for 
compliance will be 2015-16 

82 

 

 
 
4.17 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMIs)85 
 
Background 
 

i.  To  promote  and  sustain  an  efficient  and  robust  global  financial 
infrastructure, the Committee on Payments and Settlement Systems (CPSS) 
and  the  International  Organization  of  Securities  Commissions  (IOSCO) 
published the Principles for financial market infrastructures1 (PFMIs) on April 
2012. They replace the three existing sets of international standards set out 
in  the  Core  Principles  for  Systemically  Important  Payment  Systems 
(CPSIPS); the Recommendations for Securities Settlement Systems (RSSS); 
and the  Recommendations for Central Counterparties  (RCCP). CPSS and 
IOSCO have strengthened and harmonised these three sets of standards by 
raising  minimum  requirements,  providing  more  detailed  guidance  and 
broadening the scope of the standards to cover new risk-management areas 
and new types of FMIs. 

 

 

 

 

ii.  The  PFMIs  comprise  of  24  principles  (Annex  1)  for  Financial  Market 
Infrastructure to provide for effective regulation, supervision and oversight 
of  FMIs.  They  are  designed  to  ensure  that  the  infrastructure  supporting 
global  financial  markets  is  robust  and  well  placed  to  withstand  financial 
shocks. 

iii. 

Full, timely and consistent implementation of the PFMIs is fundamental to 
ensuring  the  safety,  soundness  and  efficiency  of  key  FMIs  and  for 
supporting  the  resilience  of  the  global  financial  system.  In  addition,  the 
PFMIs play an important part in the G20's mandate that all standardized 
over-the-counter  (OTC)  derivatives  should  be  centrally  cleared.  Global 
central clearing requirements reinforce the importance of strong safeguards 
and consistent oversight of derivatives CCPs in particular. 

Financial Market Infrastructure (FMI) 

iv.  The  Principles  apply  to  systematically  important  financial  market 
infrastructures  entities  such  as  Central  Counterparty  (CCP),  Central 
Securities Depository (CSD)/ Securities Settlement System (SSS), Payment 
and Settlement systems, and Trade Repository (TR) which are responsible 
for  providing  clearing,  settlement  and  recording  of  monetary  and  other 

                                                           
85 Reference Circular SEBI/MRD/DRMNP/26/2013 dated September 04, 2013 

 

83 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

financial transactions. The principles are international standards set forth 
to – 
a.  Enhance  safety  and  efficiency  in  payment,  clearing,  settlement,  and 

recording arrangements, 

b.  Reduce systemic risk. 
c.  Foster transparency and financial stability and 
d.  Promote protection of participants and investors. 

v. 

Financial Market Infrastructure (FMI) are critically  important  institutions 
responsible for providing clearing, settlement and recording of monetary 
and  other  financial  transactions.  The  different  categories  of  FMIs,  as 
identified under PFMIs, are listed below - 
 
Payment Systems (PSS) 
 
A  payment  system  is  a  set  of  instruments,  procedures,  and  rules  for  the 
transfer of funds between or among participants. The system includes the 
participants  and  the  entity  operating  the  arrangement.  Payment  systems 
are typically based on an agreement between or among participants and the 
operator of the arrangement, and the transfer of funds is effected using an 
agreed-upon operational infrastructure. 

Central Securities Depositories (CSD) 
 
Central  securities  depository  provides  securities  accounts,  central 
safekeeping  services,  and  asset  services,  which  may 
include  the 
administration  of  corporate  actions  and  redemptions,  and  plays  an 
important role in helping to ensure the integrity of securities issues (that is, 
ensure  that  securities  are  not  accidentally  or  fraudulently  created  or 
destroyed  or  their  details  changed).  A  CSD  can  hold  securities  either  in 
physical  form  (but  immobilised)  or  in  dematerialised  form  (that  is,  they 
exist only as electronic records). A CSD may maintain the definitive record 
of  legal  ownership  for  a  security;  in  some  cases,  however,  a  separate 
securities registrar will serve this notary function. 

Securities Settlement Systems (SSS) 
 
A  securities  settlement  system  enables  securities  to  be  transferred  and 
settled by book entry according to a set of predetermined multilateral rules. 
Such systems allow transfers of securities either free of payment or against 

84 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

payment.  When  transfer  is  against  payment,  many  systems  provide 
delivery versus payment (DvP), where delivery of the security occurs if and 
only  if  payment  occurs.  An  SSS  may  be  organised  to  provide  additional 
securities  clearing  and  settlement  functions,  such  as  the  confirmation  of 
trade and settlement instructions. 

Central Counterparties (CCP) 
 
A central counterparty interposes itself between counterparties to contracts 
traded in one or more financial markets, becoming the buyer to every seller 
and the seller to every buyer and thereby ensuring the performance of open 
contracts. A CCP becomes counterparty to trades with market participants 
through novation, an open-offer system, or through an analogous legally 
binding arrangement. CCPs have the potential to significantly reduce risks 
to participants through the multilateral netting of trades and by imposing 
moreeffective risk controls on all participants. For example, CCPs typically 
require participants to provide collateral (in the form of initial margin and 
other financial resources) to cover current and potential future exposures. 
CCPs  may  also  mutualise  certain  risks  through  devices  such  as  default 
funds.  As  a  result  of their  potential  to reduce  risks  to  participants,  CCPs 
also can reduce systemic risk in the markets they serve. 
 
Trade Repositories (TR) 
 
A trade repository is an entity that maintains a centralised electronic record 
(database) of transaction data. TRs have emerged as a new type of FMI and 
have  recently  grown  in  importance,  particularly  in  the  OTC  derivatives 
market. By centralising the collection, storage, and dissemination of data, a 
well  designed  TR  that  operates  with  effective  risk  controls  can  serve  an 
important role in enhancing the transparency of transaction information to 
relevant  authorities  and  the  public,  promoting  financial  stability,  and 
supporting  the  detection  and  prevention  of  market  abuse.  An  important 
function  of  a  TR  is  to  provide  information  that  supports  risk  reduction, 
operational  efficiency  and  effectiveness,  and  cost  savings  for  both 
individual entities and the market as a whole. Such entities may include the 
principals  to  a  trade,  their  agents,  CCPs,  and  other  service  providers 
offering complementary services, including central settlement of payment 
obligations, electronic novation and affirmation, portfolio compression and 
reconciliation, and collateral. 
 

85 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Adoption of Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures 
 

vi.  All CPSS and IOSCO members are required to strive to adopt the PFMIs 

vii. 

and implement them in their respective jurisdictions. 
 
SEBI  as  a  member  of  IOSCO  is  committed  to  the  adoption  and 
implementation  of  the  new  CPSS-IOSCO  standards  of  PFMIs  in  its 
regulatory functions of oversight, supervision and governance of the key 
financial market infrastructures under its purview. 
 

infrastructures  provide  essential 

viii.  Depositories  and  Clearing  Corporations  regulated  by  SEBI  are  FMIs  in 
terms  of  the  criteria  described  above.  These  systemically  important 
financial 
facilities  and  perform 
systemically critical functions in the market and shall hence be required to 
comply with the principles of financial market infrastructures specified by 
CPSS-IOSCO  as  applicable  to  them.  The  list  of  SEBI  regulated  FMIs  is 
provided in Annexure 2. 
 

ix.  All FMIs in the securities market shall be monitored and assessed against 

the PFMIs on a periodic basis. 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

86 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure 1 

Principles for financial market infrastructures 

 

General Organisation 
 
Principle 1: Legal basis 

 
An  FMI  should  have  a  well-founded,  clear,  transparent,  and  enforceable 
legal  basis  for  each  material  aspect  of  its  activities  in  all  relevant 
jurisdictions. 
 

Principle 2: Governance 

 
An  FMI  should  have  governance  arrangements  that  are  clear  and 
transparent, promote the safety and efficiency of the FMI, and support the 
stability  of  the  broader  financial  system,  other  relevant  public  interest 
considerations, and the objectives of relevant stakeholders.  
 

Principle 3: Framework for the comprehensive management of risks 

 
An  FMI  should  have  a  sound  risk-management 
for 
comprehensively managing legal, credit, liquidity, operational, and other 
risks. Credit and liquidity risk management. 
 

framework 

Principle 4: Credit risk 

 
An  FMI  should  effectively  measure,  monitor,  and  manage  its  credit 
exposures to participants and those arising from its payment, clearing, and 
settlement processes. An FMI should maintain sufficient financial resources 
to cover its credit exposure to each participant fully with a high degree of 
confidence. In addition, a CCP that is involved in activities with a more-
complex  risk  profile  or  that  is  systemically  important  in  multiple 
jurisdictions  should  maintain  additional  financial  resources  sufficient  to 
cover a wide range of potential stress scenarios that should include, but not 
be  limited  to,  the  default  of  the  two  participants  and  their  affiliates  that 
would potentially cause the largest aggregate credit exposure to the CCP in 
extreme but plausible market conditions. All other CCPs should maintain 
additional financial resources sufficient to cover a wide range of potential 
stress scenarios that should include, but not be limited to, the default of the 

 

87 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

participant  and  its  affiliates  that  would  potentially  cause  the  largest 
aggregate  credit  exposure  to  the  CCP  in  extreme  but  plausible  market 
conditions. 
 

Principle 5: Collateral 

 
An  FMI  that  requires  collateral  to  manage  its  or  its  participants’  credit 
exposure  should  accept  collateral  with  low  credit,  liquidity,  and  market 
risks.  An  FMI  should  also  set  and  enforce  appropriately  conservative 
haircuts and concentration limits. 
 

Principle 6: Margin 

 
A CCP should cover its credit exposures to its participants for all products 
through  an  effective  margin  system  that  is  risk-based  and  regularly 
reviewed. 
 

Principle 7: Liquidity risk 

 
An FMI should effectively measure, monitor, and manage its liquidity risk. 
An  FMI  should  maintain  sufficient  liquid  resources  in  all  relevant 
currencies  to  effect  same-  day  and,  where  appropriate,  intraday  and 
multiday  settlement  of  payment  obligations  with  a  high  degree  of 
confidence  under  a  wide  range  of  potential  stress  scenarios  that  should 
include, but not be limited to, the default of the participant and its affiliates 
that would generate the largest aggregate liquidity obligation for the FMI 
in extreme but plausible market conditions. 
 

Settlement 

 

Principle 8: Settlement finality 

 
An FMI should provide clear and certain final settlement, at a minimum by 
the end of the value date. Where necessary or preferable, an FMI should 
provide final settlement intraday or in real time. 
 

Principle 9: Money settlements 

 
An FMI should conduct its money settlements in central bank money where 
practical and available. If central bank money is not used, an FMI should 

 

88 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

minimise and strictly control the credit and liquidity risk arising from the 
use of commercial bank money.  
 

Principle 10: Physical deliveries 

 
An FMI should clearly state its obligations with respect to the delivery of 
physical  instruments  or  commodities  and  should  identify,  monitor,  and 
manage the risks associated with such physical deliveries. 
 

Central securities depositories and exchange-of-value settlement systems 

 

Principle 11: Central securities depositories 

 
A CSD should have appropriate rules and procedures to help ensure the 
integrity of securities issues and minimise and manage the risks associated 
with  the  safekeeping  and  transfer  of  securities.  A  CSD  should  maintain 
securities  in  an  immobilised  or  dematerialised  form  for  their  transfer  by 
book entry. 
 

Principle 12: Exchange-of-value settlement systems 

 
If  an  FMI  settles  transactions  that  involve  the  settlement  of  two  linked 
obligations  (for  example,  securities  or  foreign  exchange  transactions),  it 
should eliminate principal risk by conditioning the final settlement of one 
obligation upon the final settlement of the other. 
 

Default management 

 

Principle 13: Participant-default rules and procedures 

 
An FMI should have effective and clearly defined rules and procedures to 
manage  a  participant  default.  These  rules  and  procedures  should  be 
designed to ensure that the FMI can take timely action to contain losses and 
liquidity pressures and continue to meet its obligations. 
 

Principle 14: Segregation and portability 

A CCP should have rules and procedures that enable the segregation and 
portability  of  positions  of  a  participant’s  customers  and  the  collateral 
provided to the CCP with respect to those positions. 

 

 

89 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
General business and operational risk management 

 

Principle 15: General business risk 

 
An FMI should identify, monitor, and manage its general business risk and 
hold sufficient liquid net assets funded by equity to cover potential general 
business losses so that it can continue operations and services as a going 
concern if those losses materialise. Further, liquid net assets should at all 
times  be  sufficient  to  ensure  a  recovery  or  orderly  wind-down  of  critical 
operations and services. 
 

Principle 16: Custody and investment risks 

 
An FMI should safeguard its own and its participants’ assets and minimise 
the risk of loss on and delay in access to these assets. An FMI’s investments 
should be in instruments with minimal credit, market, and liquidity risks. 
 

Principle 17: Operational risk 

 
An  FMI  should  identify  the  plausible  sources  of  operational  risk,  both 
internal  and  external,  and  mitigate  their  impact  through  the  use  of 
appropriate systems, policies, procedures, and controls. Systems should be 
designed to ensure a high degree of security and operational reliability and 
should have adequate, scalable capacity. Business continuity management 
should aim for timely recovery of operations and fulfillment of the FMI’s 
obligations, including in the event of a wide-scale or major disruption. 
 
Access 
 

Principle 18: Access and participation requirements 

 
An FMI should have objective, risk-based, and publicly disclosed criteria 
for participation, which permit fair and open access. 
 

Principle 19: Tiered participation arrangements 

 
An FMI should identify, monitor, and manage the material risks to the FMI 
arising from tiered participation arrangements. 
 

 

 

90 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
Principle 20: FMI links 

 
An  FMI  that  establishes  a  link  with  one  or  more  FMIs  should  identify, 
monitor, and manage link-related risks. 
 

Efficiency 

 

Principle 21: Efficiency and effectiveness 

 
An FMI should be efficient and effective in meeting the requirements of its 
participants and the markets it serves. 
 

Principle 22: Communication procedures and standards 

 
An  FMI  should  use,  or  at  a  minimum  accommodate,  relevant 
internationally accepted communication procedures and standards in order 
to facilitate efficient payment, clearing, settlement, and recording. 
 

Transparency 

 

Principle 23: Disclosure of rules, key procedures, and market data 

 
An FMI  should have clear and comprehensive rules and procedures and 
should  provide  sufficient  information  to  enable  participants  to  have  an 
accurate understanding of the risks, fees, and other material costs they incur 
by participating in the FMI. All relevant rules and key procedures should 
be publicly disclosed. 
 

Principle 24: Disclosure of market data by trade repositories 

 
A TR should provide timely and accurate data to relevant authorities and 
the public in line with their respective needs. 

 

 

 

End of Annexure 1 

 
 
 
 
 

91 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure 2 

1.  Clearing Corporations 

 

a.  Indian Clearing Corporation Ltd. (ICCL) 
b.  Metropolitan Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (MCCIL) 
c.  National Securities Clearing Corporation Ltd. (NSCCL) 

 

2.  Depositories 

 

a.  Central Depository Services Ltd. (CDSL) 
b.  National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) 

End of Annexure 2 

92 

 

 
 
4.18 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annual System Audit of Depositories 86 

i.  The  depositories  should  annually  conduct  System  Audit  as  per  the 
System  Audit  Framework.  The  system  audit  framework  encompasses 
the System Audit Process, Auditor Selection Norms, Terms of Reference 
(TOR), and Audit Report Guidelines as per the annexure below. 

ii.  The  Systems  Audit  Reports  and  Compliance  Status  should  be  placed 
before the Governing Board of the  depositories  and the system audit 
report along with comments of  depositories should be communicated 
to SEBI. Further, along with the audit report, depositories are advised 
to submit a declaration from the MD / CEO certifying the security and 
integrity of their IT Systems. 

    Annexure 

System Audit Framework 

Audit Process 

Following  steps  would  be  repeated  annually  to  ensure  that  the  process  is 
comprehensive & effective: 

1.  The  Audit  shall  be  conducted  according  to  the  Norms,  Terms  of  References 

(TOR) and Guidelines issued by SEBI. 

2.  Stock  Exchange  /  Depository  (Auditee)  may  negotiate  and  the  board  of  the 
Stock  Exchange  /  Depository  shall  appoint  the  Auditors  based  on  the 
prescribed  Auditor  Selection  Norms  and  TOR.  The  Auditors  can  perform  a 
maximum  of  3  successive  audits.  The  proposal  from  Auditor  must  be 
submitted to SEBI for records. 

3.  Audit schedule shall be submitted to SEBI at-least 2 months in advance, along 

with scope of current audit & previous audit. 

4.  The  scope  of  the  Audit  may  be  extended  by  SEBI,  considering  the  changes 

which have taken place during last year or post previous audit report 

5.  Audit has to be conducted and the Audit report be submitted to the Auditee. 
The  report  should  have  specific  compliance  /  non-compliance  issues, 
observations for minor deviations as well as qualitative comments for scope 
for  improvement.  The  report  should  also  take  previous  audit  reports  in 

                                                           
86 Circular No. CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2011 dated November 29, 2011 

 

93 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

consideration and cover any open items therein. 

6.  The  Auditee  management  provides  their  comment  about  the  Non-
Conformities  (NCs)  and  observations.  For  each  NC,  specific  time-bound 
(within 3 months) corrective action must be taken and reported to SEBI. The 
auditor should indicate if a follow-on audit is required to review the status of 
NCs.  The  report  along  with  Management  Comments  shall  be  submitted  to 
SEBI, within 1 month of completion of the audit. 

7.  Follow-on audit, if any, has to be scheduled within 3 months of the Audit to 

ensure that the corrective actions have been taken. 

8.  If follow-on audit is not required, the Auditee management has to submit a 
report  of  actions  taken  and  evidence  of  corrections  to  the  Auditors  &  SEBI 
within 3 months. This report should include updated Issue-Log to indicate the 
corrective actions taken, verified by the auditors. 

 

 

Auditor Selection Norms 

1.  Auditor must have minimum 3 years of experience in IT audit of  Securities 
Industry participants e.g. stock exchanges, clearing houses, depositories etc. 
The  audit  experience  should  have  covered  all  the  Major  Areas  mentioned 
under SEBI's Audit Terms of Reference (TOR). 

2.  The Auditor must have experience in / direct access to experienced resources 
in the areas covered under TOR. It is recommended that resources employed 
shall  have  relevant  industry  recognized  certifications  e.g.  CISA  (Certified 
Information  Systems  Auditor)  from  ISACA,  CISM  (Certified  Information 
Securities  Manager)  from  ISACA,  GSNA  (GIAC  Systems  and  Network 
Auditor),  CISSP  (Certified  Information  Systems  Security  Professional)  from 
International 
Information  Systems  Security  Certification  Consortium, 
commonly known as (ISC)2. 

3.  The  Auditor  should  have  IT  audit/governance  frameworks  and  processes 

conforming to industry leading practices like CobiT. 

4.  The Auditor must not have any conflict of interest in conducting fair, objective 
and independent audit of the Exchange / Depository. It should not have been 
engaged  over  the  last  three  years  in  any  consulting  engagement  with  any 
departments / units of the entity being audited. 

The Auditor may not have any  cases pending against its previous auditees, 
which fall under SEBI's jurisdiction, which point to its incompetence and/or 
unsuitability to perform the audit task. 

 

94 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Terms of Reference (ToR) 

 

1.  General Controls for Data Center Facilities - It must include 

>  Application access - Segregation of duties, Database & Application access    
etc. 
>  Maintenance access - Vendor engineers. 
>  Physical access - Permissions, logging, exception reporting & alerts. 
>  Environmental controls - Fire protection, AC monitoring etc. 
>  Fault resolution mechanism. 
>  Folder sharing and Back-up controls - Safeguard critical information on 

local desktops 

>  Incidences of violations in last year & corrective actions taken 
 

2.  Software Change Control - It must include 

>  User awareness 
>  Processing of new feature request 
>  Fault reporting / tracking mechanism & process for resolutions 
>  Testing of New releases / Bug-fixes - Testing process (automation level) 
>  Version Control - History, Change Management process etc. 
>  Development / Test/ Production environment - Segregation 
>  New release in Production - Promotion, Release note approvals 
>  Production issues / disruptions reported during last year & corrective 

actions taken. 
 

3.  Data communication / Network controls - It must include 

-  Redundancy,  Monitoring,  breakdown 

>  Network  Administration 
resolution etc. 
>  WAN Management - Connectivity provisions for business continuity. 
>  Encryption - Router based as well as during transmission 
>  Connection Permissions - Restriction on need to have basis 
>  Fallback mechanism - Dial-up connections controls etc. 
>  Hardware based Signing Process 
>  Incidences of access violations in last year & corrective actions taken 
 

4.  Security Controls - General office infrastructure - It must include 

>  Security Policy & quality of implementation of the same 
>  LAN security control and monitoring 
>  OS & Database Security controls & monitoring 
>  Internet  connection  controls  -  Firewall  protection,  Intrusion  Detection 

System, Access rights and privileges. 

 

95 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

>  Virus protection - Controls to mitigate the Virus attacks / Outbreaks. 
>  Secured  (digitally  signed)  e-mail  with  other  entities  like  SEBI,  other 

partners 

>  Email Archival Implementation 
>  Incidences of security violations in last year & corrective actions taken. 
 

5.  Access policy and controls 
 
6.  Electronic Document controls 
 
7.  General Access controls 
 
8.  Performance audit - It must include 

>  Comparison of changes in transaction volumes since previous audit 
>  Review  of  systems  (hardware,  software,  network)  performance  over 

period 

>  Review  of  the  current  volumes  against  the  last  Performance  Test 

performed 

 

9.  Business Continuity / Disaster Recovery Facilities - It must include 

>  BCP manual, including Business Impact Analysis, Risk Assessment 

and DR process 

>  Implementation of policies 
>  Back-up procedures and recovery mechanism using back-ups. 
>  Storage of Back-up (Remote site, DRS etc.) 
>  Redundancy - Equipment, Network, Site etc. 
>  DRS  installation  and  Drills  -  Management  statement  on  targeted 
resumption capability (in terms of time required & extent of loss of data)  
>  Evidence  of  achieving  the  set  targets  during  the  DRS  drills  in  event  of 

various disaster scenarios. 

>  Debrief  /  review  of  any  actual  event  when  the  DR/BCP  was  invoked 

during the year 

 

10.  IT Support & IT Asset Management - It must include 

>  Utilization monitoring - including report of prior year utilization 
>  Capacity planning - including projection of business volumes 
>  IT (S/W, H/W & N/W) Assets, Licenses & maintenance contracts 
>  Insurance 
>  Disposal - Equipment, Media, etc. 
 

 

96 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

11. Entity Specific Software 
 
12. Any other Item 

>  Electronic Waste Disposal 
>  Based upon previous Audit report as well as any other specific 

information given by SEBI 

 

 
 

 

Audit Report Guidelines 

The Audit report should have explicit coverage of each Major Area mentioned in 
the TOR, indicating any Nonconformity (NCs) or Observations (or lack of it).  For 
each  section  -  auditors  should  also  provide  qualitative  input  about  ways  to 
improve the process, based upon the best practices observed. The report should 
also include tabulated data to show NCs / Observations for each Major Area in 
TOR.  Fully  detailed  report  should  be  submitted,  along  with  an  Executive 
Summary in tabulated form including following information: 

Issue  Log  Column 
Heading 
Major Area 

Description 

Major area/relevant clause in Terms of 
Reference against which compliance is being 
audited 

Responsibility 

Auditor 

Description of 
Finding/ 
Observation 

Describe the findings in sufficient detail, 
referencing any accompanying evidence (e.g. 
procedure annual, interview notes, reports etc.) 

Auditor 

Reference 

Reference to the section in detailed report – 
where full background information about the 
findings are available 

Auditor 

Process/ Unit 

Process or unit where the audit is conducted 
and the finding pertains to 

Auditor 

Category of Findings  Major/Minor Nonconformity, Observation, 

Auditor 

Suggestion etc. 

Audited By 

Which Auditor covered the findings 

Auditor 

 

97 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
Root Cause Analysis  A detailed analysis on the cause of the 

nonconformity 

Remediation 

The action (to be) taken to correct the 
nonconformity 

Auditee 

Auditee 

Target  Completion 
Date 
for  Remedial 
Action 
Status 

The date by which remedial action must be/will 
be completed 

Auditor/ 
Auditee 

Status of finding on reporting date (open/close)  Auditor/ 

Verified By 

Auditing personnel (upon verification that 
finding can be closed) 

Auditee 

Auditor 

Closing Date 

Date when finding is verified and can be closed  Auditor 

The  Executive  Summary  should  also  include  an  overall  comment  from  the 
Auditors  to  indicate  if  a  follow-on  audit  is  required  and  the  time  lines  of 
respective corrective action for non conformities. Further, along with the audit 
report, the Stock Exchange / Depository shall also submit a declaration from the 
MD / CEO certifying the integrity and security of IT Systems. 

4.19 

Guidelines  for  Business  Continuity  Plan  (BCP)  and  Disaster  Recovery 
(DR) 87 

i.  The  stock  exchanges  and  depositories  should  have  in  place  Business 
Continuity Plan (BCP) and Disaster Recovery Site (DRS) so as to maintain 
data and transaction integrity. 

ii.  Apart from DRS, stock exchanges should have a Near Site (NS) to ensure 
zero data loss whereas, the depositories should also ensure zero data loss 
by adopting a suitable mechanism. 

iii.  The DRS should be set up sufficiently away, i.e. in a different seismic zone, 
from Primary Data Centre (PDC) to ensure that both DRS and PDC are not 
affected by the same disasters. 

iv.  The  manpower  deployed  at  DRS  /  NS  should  have  similar  expertise  as 

                                                           
87 Circular No. CIR/MRD/DMS/12/2012 dated April 13, 2012 and clarification issued vide 
Circular No. CIR/MRD/ DMS/17/2012 dated June 22, 2012 

 

98 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

available  at  PDC  in  terms  of  knowledge  /  awareness  of  various 
technological  and  procedural  systems  and  processes  relating  to  all 
operations such that DRS / NS can function at short notice, independently. 

v.  Configuration of DRS / NS with PDC 

a)  Hardware,  system  software,  application  environment,  network  and 
security devices and associated application environments of DRS / NS 
and PDC should have one to one correspondence between them. 

b)  Exchanges / Depositories should have Recovery Time Objective (RTO) 
and  Recovery  Point  Objective  (RPO)  not  more  than  4  hours  and  30 
minutes, respectively. 

c)  Solution  architecture  of  PDC  and  DRS  /  NS  should  ensure  high 
availability, fault tolerance, no single point of failure, zero data loss, and 
data and transaction integrity. 

d)  Any  updates  made  at  the  PDC  should  be  reflected  at  DRS  /  NS 
immediately  (before  end  of  day)  with  head  room  flexibility  without 
compromising any of the performance metrics. 

e)  Replication architecture, bandwidth and load consideration between the 
DRS / NS and PDC should be within stipulated RTO and ensure high 
availability, right sizing, and no single point of failure. 

f)  Replication between PDC and NS should be synchronous to ensure zero 
data loss. Whereas the one between PDC and DR and between NS and 
DR may be asynchronous. 

g)  Adequate resources (with appropriate training and experience) should 
be available at all times to handle operations on a regular basis as well 
as during disasters. 

vi.  DR Drills / Testing 

a)  DR drills should be conducted on quarterly basis. In case of exchanges, 
these  drills  should  be  closer  to  real  life  scenario  (trading  days)  with 
minimal notice to DR staff involved. 

b)  During  the  drills,  the  staff  based  at  PDC  should  not  be  involved  in 
supporting  operations  in  any  manner.  To  begin  with,  initial  three  DR 
drills from the date of this circular may be conducted with the support 
of staff based at PDC. 

c)  The drill should include running all operations from DRS for at least 1 

99 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

full trading day. 

d) Before  DR  drills,  the  timing  diagrams  clearly  identifying  resources  at 

both ends (DRS as well as PDC) should be in place. 

e)  The results and observations of these drills should be documented and 
placed before the Governing  Board of Stock Exchange / Depositories. 
Subsequently,  the  same  along  with  the  comments  of  the  Governing 
Board should be forwarded to SEBI within a month of the DR drill. 

f)  The system auditor while covering the BCP - DR as a part of mandated 
annual system audit should also comment on documented results and 
observations of DR drills. 

vii.  BCP - DR Policy Document 

a)  The BCP - DR policy of stock exchanges and depositories should be well 
documented covering all areas as mentioned above including disaster 
escalation hierarchy. 

b)  The stock exchanges should specifically address their preparedness in 
terms of proper system and infrastructure in case disaster strikes during 
business hours. 

c)  Stock  Exchanges  /  Depositories  /  Clearing  Houses  or  Clearing  
Corporations  of  Stock  Exchanges  should  also  demonstrate  their  
preparedness to handle any issue which  may arise due to trading halts 
in    stock  exchanges  and  /  or  failure  or    stoppages  at  other  Stock 
Exchanges / Depositories / Clearing Corporations 

d)  The policy document and subsequent changes / additions / deletions 
should  be  approved  by  Governing  Board  of  the  Stock  Exchange  / 
Depositories and thereafter communicated to SEBI. 

viii. Considering  the  above,  stock  exchanges  and  depositories  are  advised  to 
submit their BCP - DR policy to SEBI within 3 months from the date of this 
circular.  Further,  they  should  also  ensure  that  point  1  (vi)  (f)  mentioned 
above is also included in scope of system audit as mentioned in the circular 
no. CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2011 dated November 29, 2011. 

These  guidelines  will  be  applicable  to  depositories,  stock  exchanges  having 
nation-wide  terminals  and  stock  exchanges  having  trading  on  their  own 
platforms.  Further  stock  exchanges,  currently  having  no  trading  on  their  own 
platforms,  will  be  required 
these  guidelines  before 
recommencement  of  trading  on  their  own  platforms  in  terms  of  Circular  No. 
MRD/DSA/SE/Cir-12/09 dated October 07, 2009. 

to  comply  with 

 

100 

 

 
 
4.20 
 

i. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Information Technology) IT Governance For Depositories88 

SEBI  constituted  the  Depository  System  Review  Committee  (DSRC)  to 
undertake a comprehensive review of the Indian depository system. Based 
on  the  recommendations  of  DSRC,  following  guidelines  are  issued  to 
strengthen  the    information  Technology  (IT)  governance  framework  of 
depositories. 
 

ii.  Depositories shall formulate an IT strategy committee at the Board level of 
depository to provide insight and advice to the Board in various areas that 
may include: 
 
a.  Developments in IT from a business perspective. 
b.  The alignment of IT with the business direction. 
c.  The availability of IT resources to meet strategic objectives. 
d.  Competitive aspects of IT Investments. 
e.  Alignment  of  the  IT  architecture  to  the  organization  needs  and  its 

approval. 

f.  Setting priorities and milestones. 

 

iii.  Depositories  shall  formulate  an  executive  level  IT  Steering  Committee  to 
assist the IT Strategy Committee in Implementation of IT strategy. The IT 
steering  committee  shall  comprise  of  representatives  from  IT,  Human 
Resources (HR), Legal and various business functions as felt appropriate. 
 

iv.  The  Depositories  shall  formulate  an  IT  strategy  document  and  an 
Information Security policy which should be approved by the Board and 
reviewed annually. 
 

v.  The  Depositories  shall  create  an  Office  of  Information  Security  and 
designate  a  senior  official  as  Chief  Information  Security  Officer  (CISO) 
whose  work  would  be  to  assess,  identify  and  reduce  information 
technology (IT) risks, respond to incidents, establish appropriate standards 
and controls, and direct the establishment and implementation of policies 
and procedures. 
 
SEBI  has  laid  down  Guidelines  for  Business  Continuity  Plan  (BCP)  and 
Disaster Recovery (DR) for stock exchange and depositories vide circular 

vi. 

                                                           
88 Reference: MRD/DMS/03/2014 dated January 21, 2014 

 

101 

 

 
 

4.21 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

dated 

April 

13, 

and 
CIR/MRD/DMS/12/2012 
CIR/MRD/DMS//17/2012  dated  June  22,  2012.  In  Addition  to  the 
requirements of the aforementioned circulars, depositories shall designate 
a senior official as the head of BCP function. 
 
Guidelines 
Depositories89 
 

inspection  of  Depository  Participants 

(DPs)  by 

2012 

for 

i.  Depository System Review Committee (DSRC) was constituted by SEBI to 
undertake  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  depository  system  of  Indian 
Securities market.  
 

ii.  As  a  first  measure,  DSRC  has  reviewed  framework  adopted  by  the 
depositories with regard to the inspection of depository participants (DPs). 
Considering  the  recommendations  of  the  committee,  it  has  been  decided 
that depositories shall ensure the following while inspecting their DPs.  

 
 Inspection Areas and Sample Size 
 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

For  conducting  inspection  of  DPs,  depositories  shall  inspect  the  areas  as 
mentioned  in  Annexure  -  I.  During  inspection,  depositories  shall  cover 
implementation of circulars / guidelines issued by SEBI and guidelines / 
operating instructions / directions by depositories in respect of these areas. 
In addition, Depositories may include such other areas as felt appropriate.  
 
For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  size  of  sample,  depositories  shall  be 
guided  by 
'Adaptive  Sample  Size  determination  methodology'  as 
mentioned at Annexure - II.  

 
 Categorization / Risk Rating of DPs 
  
For the purpose of computing total risk score of DPs, depositories shall be 
guided by “DP Rating Model / Categorization” as mentioned at Annexure 
– III.  
 

vi.  Depositories should periodically undertake risk - impact analysis for each 
of  the  inspection  areas,  assign  appropriate  risk  weightage,  calculate  risk 
scores for each DPs in the lines mentioned below.  

                                                           
89 Reference Circular SEBI/MRD/DMS/05/2014 dated February 07, 2014 

 

102 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.  Risk  Weightage:  Depositories  shall  assign  risk  weights  for  each  of 

inspection areas after taking into consideration following factors:  

1.  Operational risks in each of the inspection areas.  
2.  Category of DPs (such as stock broker DPs, bank DP, etc)  
3.  Size of Operation  
4.   Repetitive violations  
5.  IT Security and BCP  
6.  Complaints received and redressed  

b.  Quantitative  Score  Calculation:  Depositories  shall  arrive  at  a 
Quantitative  Risk  Score  for  each  inspection  area  by  multiplying 
to 
percentage  of  non-compliance 
the 
corresponding assigned risk weight.  

the  sample  size  with 

c.  Qualitative Score Calculation: Depositories shall arrive at a Qualitative 
Risk Score for each qualitative area by multiplying the score assigned 
by inspection team to DP with corresponding assigned risk weight.  

d.  Total  DP  Risk  Score  shall  be  the  summation  of  quantitative  and 

qualitative scores assigned to the DP.  

e.  Depositories shall  suitably normalize the scales of the qualitative and 

quantitative scores in arriving at the Total DP risk score.  

vii.  Depositories  shall  categorize  their  DPs  as  'High  Risk',  'Medium  to  High 
Risk',  'Medium  Risk',  and  'Low  Risk'  DPs  based  on  the  percentile  of  risk 
score.  
 

Risk 

DP 
Categorization 

High 

Medium-High 

Medium 

Rating 

/ 

Percentile of Risk Score 

≥ 80 

46-79 

21-45 

 

103 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Low 

≤ 20 

 
viii.  After arriving at the risk rating / categorization as mentioned above, for 
subsequent  inspections,  depositories  shall  use  the  DP  risk  rating/ 
categorization to decide on the frequency of inspection of DPs  

 

 

ix.  Apart  from  the  above,  depositories  may  undertake  specific  purpose 
inspections  for  DPs  which  score  high  in  the  specific  inspection  areas  as 
mentioned at Annexure - I.  

 

x.  Depositories  shall  jointly  inspect  DPs  which  are  registered  with  both 
depositories to have better control over DPs, avoid duplicity of manpower, 
time and cost and also to reduce the possibility of regulatory arbitrage, if 
any.  Depositories  shall  share  the  risk  rating  /  categorization  of  common 
DPs  with  each  other.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  sample  size  and 
frequency  of  the  joint  inspection  of  such  common  DPs,  the  higher  risk 
categorization assigned by any of the Depository shall prevail.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

104 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure –I 

List of Inspection Areas 

 

1.  Depositories  shall  inspect  the  areas  mentioned  at  para  2  below  during 

inspection of DPs with regards to any 

1.1. Circulars / Guidelines issued by SEBI on the areas mentioned below. 

1.2. Guidelines / Operating Instructions / Directions from depositories on the 

areas mentioned below. 

2.  In  case  there  are  built  in  system  checks  at  the  depository  that  ensure 
compliance of any of the inspection areas / sub –areas with regard to point 1.1 
and 1.2 above, the depository may decide on the including the same during the 
inspection of DPs 

Inspection Areas 

A.  Account Opening / KYC Documents  

A.1.  Account Opening forms 

A.2.  KYC Documents 

A.2.1.  PAN Verification 

A.2.2.  In-person verification 

A.2.3.  Forwarding of Documents to KYC Registration Agency (KRA) 

A.3.  Proof of Identity (POI) 

A.4.  Proof of Address 

A.5.  Correspondence Address 

A.6.  Authorized Signatories 

A.7.  Completeness  /  Validation  of  data  entered  into  DPM  with  data 

provided in the Account Opening forms 

A.8.  Minor BO / Joint / HUF accounts 

A.9.  Account Activation 

A.10.  PMS Accounts 

A.11.  Nomination 

A.12.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

 

105 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

B.  Basic Service Demat Account (BSDA) 

B.1.  Procedures and Checks pertaining to BSDA 

B.2.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 
 

C.  Client Data Modification (CDM) 

C.1.  Procedure for CDM 

C.2.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
D.  Demat / Remat / Conversion /Reconversion request 

D.1.  Procedure  for  receiving/processing  requests  pertaining  to  Demat  / 

Remat / Conversion /Reconversion request 

D.2.  Procedure  for  forwarding  requests  pertaining  to  Demat  /  Remat  / 

Conversion /Reconversion request to RTA / issuer 

D.3.  Arrangement for Safekeeping of Security / Share Certificates 

D.4.  Tracking of demat requests 

D.5.  Rejection of above requests attributable to DPs 

D.6.  Checks  pertaining  to  processing  of  Demat  /  Remat  /  Conversion  / 

Reconversion request 

D.7.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

E.  Delivery Instruction Slip (DIS)  

E.1. 

Issuance of DIS 

E.2. 

Inventory Control  of DIS 

E.3.  First Instruction Slip Booklet 

E.4.  Requisition Slip 

E.5.  Procedure for Loose DIS 

E.6.  Depository specific areas 

E.7.  Verification of DIS 

E.8.  Procedure for accepting DIS 

E.9.  Time Stamping and related Areas 

106 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

E.10.  Accepting DIS by Fax 

E.11.  Accepting DIS in form of Annexure 

E.12.  Completeness of DIS 

E.13.  Accepting DIS in electronic form 

E.14.  Procedure for Verification of DIS 

E.15.  Signature Verification 

E.16.  Corrections / Cancellations to DIS 

E.17.  Blocking of used / executed / lost / misplaced / Stolen DIS 

E.18.  Procedure for processing of DIS 

E.19.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

F.  Transaction 

F.1.  Checks pertaining to setting up / processing of transactions 

F.2. 

Future dated transactions 

F.3.  Transfer of all ISINs of BO account having 5 or more ISINs  

F.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

G.  Transaction Statement (TS) 

G.1.  Validation of TS 

G.2.  Maintenance of records of TS 

G.3. 

Issuance of TS to BOs 

G.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

H.  Compliance under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) 

H.1.  Compliance with PMLA Act, 2002 and SEBI Guidelines on areas such as 
Customer due diligence, suspicious transaction monitoring , reporting 
and record keeping 

H.2.  Appointment of Principal officer as required under PMLA Act,2002 

H.3.  Mechanism to deal with alerts provided by Depository 

H.4.  Suspicious Transactions reports to FIU 

107 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

H.5.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
I.  Maintenance of record and documents 

I.1. 

Information regarding place(s) of record keeping 

I.2.  Outsourcing of record keeping activities 

I.3.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

J.  Service Centre Opening and closing/ modification of service centers 

J.1. 

Procedure for Opening /Closure  of Service centers 

J.2.  Details of Service centre on Depository website 

J.3.  Qualified persons at service centers 

J.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
K.  Information Technology areas 

K.1.  Hardware, Software and Network requirements / configurations 

K.2.  Logical and Physical restrictions / safeguards 

K.3. 

IT Security 

K.4.  Procedure for alteration of parameters / configurations 

K.5.  Redundancy 

K.6.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

L.  Power of Attorney (POA) 

L.1.  Documents executed 

L.2.  Maintenance of POA Register 

L.3.  Clauses of POA 

L.4.  Registration of BO for SMS Alert facility for POA 

L.5.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

M. Inter Depository Transfers (IDT) 

M.1.  Processing of IDT 

108 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

M.2.  Checks pertaining to IDT 

M.3.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

N.  Account Transfer 

N.1.  Procedure followed for account transfer 

N.2.  Checks pertaining to Account transfer 

N.3.  Waiver claimed for inter depository transfer 

N.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

O.  Transmission 

O.1.  Procedure followed for transmission 

O.2.  Checks pertaining to Transmission 

O.3.  Waiver Claimed for inter depository transfer 

O.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
P.  Pledge / Unpledge 

P.1.  Procedure followed for Pledge / Unpledge  

P.2.  Checks pertaining to Pledge / Unpledge 

P.3.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

Q.  Freeze / Unfreeze 

Q.1.  Freeze facility 

Q.2.  Procedure followed for Freeze 

Q.3.  Checks pertaining to freeze 

Q.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
R.  Miscellaneous areas 

R.1. 

Investor Grievance 

R.2.  Forms for various activities 

R.3.  Execution of any supplementary agreement/ Letter of Confirmation 

109 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

R.4. 

Submission  of  Internal  Audit  /  Concurrent  Audit  /  Net  worth 
Certificate 

R.5. 

Submission of Annual Financial Statement 

R.6.  Outsourcing of Activities 

R.7.  Closure / transfer of Balances 

R.8. 

Submission of Information sought by Depositories specifically through 
Circulars / Letters. 

R.9.  Half Yearly Compliance 

R.10.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
S.  Status of compliance for deviations / observations noted in last inspection 

 

T.  Complaints 

T.1.  Account Opening  

T.2.  Demat / Remat 

T.3.  Transaction Statement  

T.4. 

Improper Service  

T.5.  Charges  

T.6.  Delivery Instruction Related  ( DIS ) 

T.7.  Closure 

T.8.  Manipulation / Unauthorized Action 

T.9.  Monthly report for client complaints 

T.10.  Other Complaints 

 

110 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure –II 

Adaptive Sample Size Determination methodology 

1.  Sample Size for inspection area of 'Account Opening' 

  The sample selection for account opening shall cover all categories of clients 

such as individuals, HUF, Corporate, FIIs etc.  

  Base  sample  size:  5%  of  Account  Opening  Forms  (AOFs)  or  150  AOFs 

whichever is higher, with a maximum cap of 1000 accounts.  

  Final  Sample  Size:  The  final  sample  size  shall  also  be  dependent  on  past 
rating  /  categorization  of  DP.  The  following  multipliers  shall  be  used  to 
determine the final sample size for the current inspection. In case the total 
number of instances / cases is less than the final sample size, then 100% of 
the samples shall be verified. 

DP Rating / Categorization 

Multiplier 

High risk 

Medium High risk 

Medium risk 

Low risk 

3 

2 

1.5 

1 

  The selected sample shall maintain the proportion of new accounts opened 
in each category, except for Account Opening Forms (AOF) relating to FIIs 
where it shall be checked on a 100% basis. 

2.  Sample Size for inspection area relating to DIS 

  Base  sample  size:  10%  of  total  DIS  processed  or  200  processed  DIS 

whichever is higher, with a maximum cap of 1000 DIS.  

  Final  Sample  Size:  The  sample  size  shall  also  be  dependent  on  rating  / 
categorization of DP. The following multipliers shall be used to determine 
the final sample size for the current inspection. In case the total number of 
instances / cases is less than the final sample size, then 100% of the samples 
shall be verified. 

DP Rating / Categorization 

Multiplier 

High risk 

Medium High risk 

3 

2 

 

111 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Medium risk 

Low risk 

1.5 

1 

  Out of total intra depository instructions to be verified, the percentage of 

on and off market instructions would be in the ratio of 1/3 and 2/3. 

  DIS issuance sample size shall be 5% of the total samples verified for DIS. 

 

3.  Sample Sizes for inspection areas of 'Demat / Remat  request' and 'Pledge / 

Unpledge'  

  5% of Demat / Remat request processed or 100 requests whichever is higher 

with a maximum cap of 500 such requests.   

  5% of Pledge / Unpledge request processed or 100 requests whichever is 

higher with a maximum cap of 500 such requests.   

4.  Sample  Size 

for 

inspection  area  of 

'Client  Data  Modification', 

'Miscellaneous areas' and 'Other depository specific requirements' 

  Base Sample Size  

o  Address change = 50 

  Samples from Urban, Semi Urban and Rural Areas shall be equally 

represented if available. 

o  Nomination Change  = 25 

o  Signature change = 100 

o  Addition / Deletion / Modification of POA = 100 

o  Freeze  / Unfreeze  = 50 

o  Bank Details Change  = 100 

o  PAN modification = 100 

o  Account closure initiated by clients = 25 

o  Closure initiated by DPs = 25 

o  Demat rejection = 30 

o  Transactions = 25 

o  Change in e-mail Id = 25 

o  Change in mobile number = 25 

 

112 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

o  Change in SMS flag = 50 

o  Change in standing instruction flag = 50 

o  Transmission = 50% of total transmission cases 

o  Previous compliance = 100% of total samples 

o  Final  sample  size  shall  be  arrived  at  after  multiplying  with  the 
the  DP  Risk  rating  / 
respective  multiplier  corresponding 
categorization as given below. In case the total number of instances / 
cases is less than the final sample size, then 100% of the samples shall be 
verified. 

to 

DP Rating/ Categorisation 

Multiplier 

High risk 

Medium High risk 

Medium risk 

Low risk 

 

5.  Other Aspects 

3 

2 

1.5 

1 

  A  uniform  Base  sample  size  of  100  shall  be  adopted  in  case  of  all  other 
activities. In case the total number of samples is less than 100, then 100% of 
the samples shall be verified.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

113 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure-III 

DP Rating / Categorization Model 

I.  Quantitative Score Calculation: Specific weights shall be assigned to each 
area as decided by each depository. The Total Quantitative Score shall be 
the summation of all individual inspection scores. 
 

Table: Indicative Table for calculation of Quantitative Score 

Sr No 

Inspection Areas 

Weight 

(A) 

B = No of 
Instances 
divided by 
Sample size 

Inspection 

Score 

 

IS = A*B 

A.   

Inspection Area 1 

A.1.   Inspection Sub Area A 1 

A.2.   Inspection Sub Area 2 

 

 

 

Total Score for Inspection Area 1 

B.   

Inspection Area 2 

B.1.   Inspection Sub Area B 1 

B.2.   Inspection Sub Area B 2 

B.3.   Inspection Sub Area B 3 

 

 

 

 

 

Total Score for Inspection Area 2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Depositories  shall  include  all  inspection  areas  and  sub  areas,  as  per 
Annexure –I (List of Inspection Areas) of this circular, in the above model 
to arrive at the Quantitative Score for a DP. 
 

114 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
Table:  Indicative  Table  for  calculation  of  Quantitative  Score  for  Complaints 
Received 

Sr No  Type and Nature of 

Weight 

Complaint 

(A) 

(Number of 
Complaints 
redressed) / 
Number of 
Complaints 

received) 

Inspection 

Score 

 

IS = A*B 

T 

Complaints 

T.1  Complaint Sub Area 1 

T.2  Complaint Sub Area 2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Total Score for Complaints 

 

 

 

Quantitative Score = Σ (Scores of Inspection Areas including Total score for 
Complaints) 

II.  Qualitative Score Calculation: Specific weights shall be assigned to each 
area  as  decided  by  depository.  The  Total  Qualitative  Score  shall  be  the 
summation of all area scores. 

 

Sr. 
No 

Qualitative Factors 

Point on the 
scale of 1 to 

Weight 

10.  

(A) 

[10 being the 

Worst] 

(B) 

Area 
score 
=(A) * 

(B) 

1  Ownership and Governance  
2 

IT security and Business Continuity   

3 

4 

Regulatory / procedural Compliance  

Automation of systems and processes 
for critical activities 

 

 

 

 

5  Quality of Management 
6 

 
Financial Status / profitability of DPs     
Pending enquires / Penalties imposed 
by SEBI / Depositories on DP 
operations 

7 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

115 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

8 

Complaints redressal  

9 

Adverse findings of other activities 
(eg. Broking / custodian / banks etc) 
Total Qualitative Score = Σ (Area Scores) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Following indicative factors shall be taken into account for arriving at above 
mentioned qualitative score: 

(a) Ownership and Governance 

1.  Constitution  of  Board  of  DP  –  Number  of  promoter  directors, 

Independent Directors etc. 

2.  Role of non-executive directors / Independent directors. 

(b) Quality of Management 

1.  Experience, Fit and Proper and Qualification of Key Personnel. 

2.  Existence  of  Succession  planning  for  top  management  especially  in 

control functions. 

3.  Chinese walls between the activities in terms of manpower, resources 

etc. 

4.  Training and development of employees.  

5.  Adequacy of staff strength.  

6.  Compliance  level  of  previous  inspection  observations/  directions  of 

regulatory bodies 

(c)  IT security and Business Continuity 

1.  High Availability. 

2.  Appropriate Interconnected Architecture. 

3.  Appropriate  Recovery  Time  Objective  (RTO)  and  Recovery  Point 

Objective (RPO) and near “Zero Data Loss”.  

4.  Periodic drills that simulate the real life disaster scenarios on a regular 

basis. 

5.  Technological glitches in the past period and remedies taken. 

6.  Information security.  

7.  Upgradation of technology 

116 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(d) Financial Status / profitability of DPs 

1.  The  net-worth  of  the  DPs  (whether  reducing  or  increasing  from 

previous years) 

2.  Net Profits of DPs operations. 

(e) Complaints redressal 

1.  Complaint redressal system  

2.  Percentage of complaints pending and resolved.  

(f)  Other adverse findings 

1.  Actions taken by Stock exchange and SEBI / RBI with respect to other 

activities  

2.  Actions taken by other depository. 

 
III.  Total Score = Qualitative Score + Quantitative Score 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

117 

 

 
 
4.22 

4.23 

 
4.24 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Activity of Demat of warehouse receipts90 
 
The  aforesaid  activity  is  not  in  compliance  with  Regulation  28  of  SEBI 
(D&P) Regulations, 1996 and therefore depositories cannot carry out this 
activity.  Depositories  are  therefore  advised  to  take  suitable  steps  in  this 
regard, either to hive-off or to discontinue the activity. 
 
Voting rights in respect of securities held in pool account91 
 
It was informed that the corporate benefits availed by the clearing member, 
clearing corporation and intermediaries shall be held in trust on behalf of 
beneficiary owners. Therefore, the clearing member, clearing corporation 
as  well  as  the  intermediaries  cannot  have  voting  rights  in  respect  of 
securities held in the pool account. 

Risk Management Policy at the Depositories92   
 

i.  The depositories are advised to establish a clear, comprehensive and well 
documented  risk  management  framework  which  shall  include  the 
following: 

a)  an  integrated  and  comprehensive  view  of  risks  to  the  depository 
including those emanating from participants, participants' clients  and 
third parties to whom activities are outsourced etc.; 

b)  list  out  all relevant  risks,  including  technological,  legal,  operational, 
custody and general business risks and the ways and means to address 
the same; 

c)  the systems, policies and procedures to identify, assess, monitor and 

manage the risks that arise in or are borne by the depository ; 

d)  the depository's risk-tolerance policy;  

e)  responsibilities  and  accountability  for  risk  decisions  and  decision 

making process in crises and emergencies. 

 

ii.  The  Depositories  shall  put  in  place  mechanism  to  implement  the  Risk 
through  a  Risk  Management  Group/ 

Management  Framework 

                                                           
90 Reference: MRD/DP/SG-OW/202/2012 and MRD/DP/SG-OW/203/2012 dated January 4, 
2012 
91 Reference: SMDRP/NSDL/26563/2001 dated April 10, 2001 
92 Reference: CIR/MRD/DP/1/2015 dated January 12, 2015 

 

118 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Committee  which  shall  be  headed  by  a  Chief  Risk  Officer  (CRO).    The 
responsibilities of the said Committee shall include the following: 

a)  It shall meet periodically in order to continuously identify, evaluate 
and  assess  applicable  risks  in  depository  system  through  various 
sources such as  investors complaints, inspections, system audit etc.; 

b)  It shall suggest  measures to mitigate risk wherever applicable;  

c)  It shall monitor and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk 

management framework and the system of internal control; 

d)  It  shall  review  and  update  the  risk  management  framework 

periodically. 

 
The Board of the depository shall approve the Risk Management Framework and  
the Chief Risk Officer shall have access to the Board. The CRO shall be 
responsible, accountable and answerable to the board on overall risk 
management issues. 
 
4.25 
 

Outsourcing by Depositories93 

Based  on  recommendations  by  DSRC,  the  depositories  are  advised  to 
ensure the following:  

i.  Depositories shall formulate and document an outsourcing policy duly 
approved by their Board based on the guidelines given below and the 
principles  outlined  in  the  SEBI  circular  CIR/MIRSD/24/2011  dated 
December 15, 2011. 

 

Core activities of Depositories  

ii.  Core and critical activities of depositories shall not be outsourced. The 

core activities of the depositories shall include but not limited to the 
following:  
a)  Processing  of  the  applications  for  admission  of  Depository 
Participants (DPs), Issuers and Registrar & Transfer Agents (RTAs).  

b)  Facilitating Issuers/RTAs to execute Corporate Actions.  
c)  Allotting ISINs for securities.  
d)  Maintenance and safekeeping of Beneficial Owner’s data.  

                                                           
93 Reference: CIR/MRD/DP/19/2015 dated December 09, 2015 

 

119 

 

 
 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

e)  Execution  of  settlement  and  other  incidental  activities  for  pay-in/ 

pay-out of securities. 

f)  Execution of transfer of securities and other transactions like pledge, 

freeze, etc. 

g)  Provision of internet based facilities for access to demat accounts and 

submitting delivery instructions.  

h)  Ensuring  continuous  connectivity 

to  DPs,  RTAs,  Clearing 

Corporations and other Depository. 

i)  Monitoring and redressal of investor grievances. 
j)  Inspection of DPs and RTAs.  
k)  Surveillance Functions. 
l)  Compliance Functions. 
 

iii.  Core IT (Information Technology) support infrastructure / activities 
for running the core activities of depositories shall not be outsourced 
to the extent possible.  
 

Due Diligence 

iv.  The depositories shall conduct appropriate due diligence in selecting 

the third party to whom activity is proposed to be outsourced and 
ensure that only reputed entities having proven high delivery 
standards are selected.  
 
Risk Management & Monitoring 

v.  Depositories shall ensure that outsourced activities are further 

outsourced downstream only with the prior consent of the depository 
and with appropriate safeguards including proper legal 
documentation/ agreement.  

vi.  Depositories shall ensure that risk impact analysis is undertaken 

before outsourcing any activity and appropriate risk mitigation 
measures like back up/ restoration system are in place.  

vii.  An effective monitoring of the entities selected for outsourcing shall be 
done to ensure that there is check on the activities of outsourced entity. 
Depositories shall strive to automate their processes and workflows to 

120 

 

 
 

 
4.26 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

viii. 

the extent possible which shall enable real time monitoring of 
outsourced activities.  
 
Audit 
The outsourcing policy document shall act as a reference for audit of 
the outsourced activities. Audit of implementation of risk assessment 
and mitigation measures listed in the outsourcing policy document 
and outsourcing agreement/ service level agreements pertaining to IT 
systems shall be part of System Audit of Depositories.  

Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience framework of Depositories94 

i. 

ii. 

SEBI  as  a  member  of  IOSCO  has  adopted  the  Principles  for  Financial 
Market  Infrastructures  (PFMIs)  laid  down  by  CPMI-IOSCO  and  has 
issued guidance for implementation of  the  principles in the  securities 
market. 

that  systemically 

Principle  17  of  PFMI  that  relates  to  management  and  mitigation  of 
‘Operational  risk’  requires 
important  market 
infrastructures  institutions  “should  identify  the  plausible  sources  of 
operational risk, both internal and external, and mitigate their impact through 
the  use  of  appropriate  systems,  policies,  procedures,  and  controls.  Systems 
should be designed to ensure a high degree of security and operational reliability 
and should have adequate, scalable capacity. Business continuity management 
should  aim  for  timely  recovery  of  operations  and  fulfilment  of  the  FMI’s 
obligations, including in the event of a wide-scale or major disruption.” 

iii.  Depositories  (hereafter  referred  as  Market  Infrastructure  Institutions  or 
MIIs) are systemically important market infrastructure institutions. As 
part of the operational risk management, these MIIs need to have robust 
cyber  security  framework  to  provide  essential  facilities  and  perform 
systemically  critical  functions  relating  to  trading,  clearing  and 
settlement in securities market.  

iv. 

In  view  of  the  above,  SEBI  along  with  the  Technical  Advisory 
Committee (TAC) engaged in detailed discussions with MIIs to develop 
necessary guidance in the area of cyber security and cyber resilience.  

                                                           
94 Reference: Circular CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015 dated July 06, 2015 

 

121 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

v. 

Based on the consultations and recommendations of Technical Advisory 
Committee TAC, it has been decided to lay down the framework placed 
at Annexure below that MIIs would be required to comply with regard 
to cyber security and cyber resilience.  

Annexure 

1. 
Cyber  attacks  and  threats  attempt  to  compromise  the  Confidentiality, 
Integrity  and  Availability  (CIA)  of  the  computer  systems,  networks  and 
databases.95 Cyber security framework include measures, tools and processes that 
are  intended  to  prevent  cyber  attacks  and  improve  cyber  resilience.  Cyber 
Resilience is an organisation’s ability to prepare and respond to a cyber attack and 
to continue operation during, and recover from, a cyber attack. 

Governance 

2. 
As part of the operational risk management framework to manage risk to 
systems,  networks  and  databases  from  cyber  attacks  and  threats,  MII  should 
formulate a comprehensive cyber security and cyber resilience policy document 
encompassing the framework mentioned hereunder. The policy document should 
be  approved  by  the  Board,  and  in  case  of  deviations  from  the  suggested 
framework,  reasons  for  such  deviations  should  also  be  provided  in  the  policy 
document. The policy  document should be reviewed by the MII’s Board atleast 
annually  with  the  view  to  strengthen  and  improve  its  cyber  security  and  cyber 
resilience framework. 

3. 
The cyber security and cyber resilience policy should include the following 
process  to  identify,  assess,  and  manage  cyber  security  risk  associated  with 
processes, information, networks and systems.  

a.  ‘Identify’ critical IT assets and risks associated with such assets,  

b.  ‘Protect’ assets by deploying suitable controls, tools and measures, 

c.  ‘Detect’ 

incidents,  anomalies  and  attacks 

through  appropriate 

monitoring tools / processes,  

                                                           
95 Confidentiality refers to limiting access of systems and information to authorized users, Integrity 
is the assurance that the information is reliable and accurate, and Availability refers to guarantee 
of reliable access to the systems and information by authorized users 

 

122 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

d.  ‘Respond’ by taking immediate steps after identification of the incident, 

anomaly or attack,  

e.  ‘Recover’  from  incident  through  incident  management,  disaster 

recovery and business continuity framework. 

4. 
The Cyber security policy should encompass the principles prescribed by 
National  Critical  Information  Infrastructure  Protection  Centre  (NCIIPC)  of 
National  Technical  Research  Organisation  (NTRO),  Government  of  India  in  the 
report  titled 
‘Guidelines  for  Protection  of  National  Critical  Information 
Infrastructure’ and subsequent revisions, if any, from time to time.  

5. 
MII  should  also  incorporate  best  practices  from  standards  such  as  ISO 
27001, ISO 27002, COBIT 5, etc., or their subsequent revisions, if any, from time to 
time. 

6. 
MII should designate a senior official as Chief Information Security Officer 
(CISO)  whose  function  would  be  to  assess,  identify  and  reduce  cyber  security 
risks,  respond  to  incidents,  establish  appropriate  standards  and  controls,  and 
direct the establishment and implementation of processes and procedures as per 
the cyber security and resilience policy approved by the Board of the MII. 

The Oversight Standing Committee on Technology96 of the stock exchanges 
7. 
and  of  the  clearing  corporations  and  the  IT  Strategy  Committee97  of  the 
depositories should on a quarterly basis review the implementation of the cyber 
security and resilience policy approved by their Boards, and such review should 
include review of their current IT and cyber security and resilience capabilities, set 
goals  for  a  target  level  of  cyber  resilience,  and  establish  a  plan  to  improve  and 
strengthen cyber security and cyber resilience.  

8. 
MII should establish a reporting procedure to facilitate communication of 
unusual  activities  and  events  to  CISO  or  to  the  senior  management  in  a  timely 
manner.  

9. 

The  aforementioned  committee  and  the  senior  management  of  the  MII, 

                                                           
96Refer 

SEBI  Circulars 

SMD/POLICY/Cir-2/98 
CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012 dated December 13, 2012. 

dated 

January 

14, 

1998 

and 

97 Refer SEBI CIR/MRD/DMS/ 03 /2014 dated January 21, 2014. 

 

123 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
including the CISO, should periodically review instances of cyber attacks, if any, 
domestically and globally, and take steps to strengthen cyber security and cyber 
resilience framework. 

10.  MII should define responsibilities of its employees, outsourced staff, and 
employees of vendors, members or participants and other entities, who may have 
access  or  use  systems  /  networks  of  MII,  towards  ensuring  the  goal  of  cyber 
security. 

Identify 

11.  MII should identify critical assets based on their sensitivity and criticality 
for business operations, services and data management. To this end, MII should 
maintain  up-to-date  inventory  of  its  hardware  and  systems,  software  and 
information  assets  (internal  and  external),  details  of  its  network  resources, 
connections to its network and data flows. 

12.  MII  should  accordingly  identify  cyber  risks  (threats  and  vulnerabilities) 
that  it  may  face,  alongwith  the  likelihood  of  such  threats  and  impact  on  the 
business and thereby, deploy controls commensurate to the criticality.  

13.  MII  should  also  encourage  its  third-party  providers,  such  as  service 
providers, stock brokers, depository participants, etc. to have similar standards of 
Information Security. 

Protection 

Access Controls  

14.  No person by virtue of rank or position should have any intrinsic right to 
access confidential data, applications, system resources or facilities.   

15.  Any access to MII’s systems, applications, networks, databases, etc., should 
be for a defined purpose and for a defined period. MII should grant access to IT 
systems, applications, databases and networks on a need-to-use basis and based on 
the principle of least privilege. Such access should be for the period when the access 
is required and should be authorized using strong authentication mechanisms.  

16.  MII  should  implement  strong  password  controls  for  users’  access  to 

 

124 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
systems, applications, networks and databases. Password controls should include 
a change of password upon first log-on, minimum password length and history, 
password  complexity  as  well  as  maximum  validity  period.  The  user  credential 
data should be stored using strong and latest hashing algorithms. 

17.  MII should ensure that records of user access are uniquely identified and 
logged for audit and review purposes. Such logs should be maintained and stored 
in encrypted form for a time period not less than two (2) years. 

18.  MII should deploy additional controls and security measures to supervise 
staff with elevated system access entitlements (such as admin or privileged users). 
Such  controls  and  measures  should  inter-alia  include  restricting  the  number  of 
privileged  users,  periodic  review  of  privileged  users’  activities,  disallow 
privileged  users  from  accessing  systems  logs  in  which  their  activities  are  being 
captured, strong controls over remote access by privileged users, etc. 

19.  Account access lock policies after failure attempts should be implemented 
for all accounts. 

20. 
Employees and outsourced staff such as employees of vendors or service 
providers,  who  may  be  given  authorised  access  to  the  MII’s  critical  systems, 
networks  and  other  computer  resources,  should  be  subject  to  stringent 
supervision, monitoring and access restrictions.  

Two-factor authentication at log-in should be implemented for all users that 

21. 
connect using online / internet facility. 

22.  MII should formulate an Internet access policy to monitor and regulate the 
use of internet and internet based services such as social media sites, cloud-based 
internet storage sites, etc.  

23. 
Proper  ‘end  of  life’  mechanism  should  be  adopted  to  deactivate  access 
privileges of users who are leaving the organization or who access privileges have 
been withdrawn. 

Physical security 

24. 
Physical  access  to  the  critical  systems  should  be  restricted  to  minimum. 
Physical  access  of  outsourced  staff  /  visitors  should  be  properly  supervised  by 

 

125 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
ensuring at the minimum that outsourced staff / visitors are accompanied at all 
times by authorised employees. 

Physical access to the critical systems should be revoked immediately if the 

25. 
same is no longer required. 

26.  MII should ensure that the perimeter of the critical equipments room are 
physically secured and monitored by employing physical, human and procedural 
controls such as the use of security guards, CCTVs, card access systems, mantraps, 
bollards, etc. where appropriate. 

Network Security Management  

27.  MII should establish baseline standards to facilitate consistent application 
of security configurations to operating systems, databases, network devices and 
enterprise  mobile  devices  within  the  IT  environment.  The  MII  should  conduct 
regular  enforcement  checks  to  ensure  that  the  baseline  standards  are  applied 
uniformly. 

28.  MII  should  install  network  security  devices,  such  as  firewalls  as  well  as 
intrusion detection and prevention systems, to protect its IT infrastructure from 
security exposures originating from internal and external sources. 

29.  Anti-virus  software  should  be  installed  on  servers  and  other  computer 
systems. Updation of Anti-virus definition files and automatic anti-virus scanning 
should be done on a regular basis.   

Security of Data 

30.  Data-in  motion  and  Data-at-rest  should  be  in  encrypted  form  by  using 
strong encryption methods such as Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), RSA, 
SHA-2, etc. 

31.  MII should implement measures to prevent unauthorised access or copying 
or transmission of data / information held in contractual or fiduciary capacity. It 
should be ensured that confidentiality of information is not compromised during 
the process of exchanging and transferring information with external parties.  

32. 

The  information security policy should also  cover use of devices such as 

 

126 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
mobile phone, faxes, photocopiers, scanners, etc. that  can be used for capturing 
and transmission of data. 

33.  MII should allow only authorized data storage devices through appropriate 
validation processes. 

Hardening of Hardware and Software 

34.  Only a hardened and vetted hardware / software should be deployed by 
the MII. During the hardening process, MII should inter-alia ensure that default 
passwords are replaced with strong passwords and all  unnecessary services are 
removed or disabled in equipments / software. 

35.  All  open  ports  which  are  not  in  use  or  can  potentially  be  used  for 
exploitation of data should be blocked. Other open ports should be monitored and 
appropriate measures should be taken to secure the ports. 

 

Application Security and Testing  

36.  MII  should  ensure  that  regression  testing  is  undertaken  before  new  or 
modified system is implemented. The scope of tests should cover business logic, 
security controls and system performance under various stress-load scenarios and 
recovery conditions. 

Patch Management 

37.  MII  should  establish  and  ensure  that  the  patch  management  procedures 
include the identification, categorization and prioritisation of security patches. An 
implementation  timeframe  for  each  category  of  security  patches  should  be 
established to implement security patches in a timely manner. 

38.  MII should perform rigorous testing of security patches before deployment 
into the production environment so as to ensure that the application of patches do 
not impact other systems. 

Disposal of systems and storage devices 

39.  MII  should  frame  suitable  policy  for  disposals  of  the  storage  media  and 
systems. The data / information on such devices and systems should be removed 

 

127 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
by  using  methods  viz.  wiping  /  cleaning  /  overwrite,  degauss  and  physical 
destruction, as applicable. 

Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing (VAPT) 

40.  MII  should  regularly  conduct  vulnerability  assessment  to  detect  security 
vulnerabilities  in  the  IT  environment.  MII  should  also  carry  out  periodic 
penetration tests, atleast once in a year, in order to conduct an in-depth evaluation 
of the security posture of the system through simulations of actual attacks on its 
systems and networks. 

Remedial  actions  should  be  immediately  taken  to  address  gaps  that  are 

41. 
identified during vulnerability assessment and penetration testing. 

42. 
 In  addition,  MII  should  perform  vulnerability  scanning  and  conduct 
penetration  testing  prior  to  the  commissioning  of  a  new  system  which  offers 
internet accessibility and open network interfaces. 

Monitoring and Detection 

43.  MII  should  establish  appropriate  security  monitoring  systems  and 
processes  to  facilitate  continuous  monitoring  of  security  events  and  timely 
detection  of  unauthorised  or  malicious  activities,  unauthorised  changes, 
unauthorised  access  and  unauthorised  copying  or  transmission  of  data  / 
information  held  in  contractual  or  fiduciary  capacity,  by  internal  and  external 
parties. The security logs of systems, applications and network devices should also 
be monitored for anomalies. 

44. 
Further, to ensure high resilience, high availability and timely detection of 
attacks on systems and networks, MII should implement suitable mechanism to 
monitor capacity utilization of its critical systems and networks.  

45. 
Suitable  alerts  should  be  generated  in  the  event  of  detection  of 
unauthorized or abnormal system activities, transmission errors or unusual online 
transactions. 

 

 

128 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
Response and Recovery  

46.  Alerts generated from monitoring and detection systems should be suitably 
investigated,  including  impact  and  forensic  analysis  of  such  alerts,  in  order  to 
determine activities that are to be performed to prevent expansion of such incident 
of cyber attack or breach, mitigate its effect and eradicate the incident. 

47. 
The response and recovery plan of the MII should aim at timely restoration 
of systems affected by incidents of cyber attacks or breaches. The recovery plan 
should  be  in  line  with  the  Recovery  Time  Objective  (RTO)  and  Recovery  Point 
Objective (RPO) specified by SEBI. 

48. 
The  response  plan  should  define  responsibilities  and  actions  to  be 
performed by its employees and support / outsourced staff in the event of cyber 
attacks or breach of cyber security mechanism.  

49.  Any incident of loss or destruction of data or systems should be thoroughly 
analyzed  and  lessons  learned  from  such  incidents  should  be  incorporated  to 
strengthen the security mechanism and improve recovery planning and processes.  

50.  MII should also conduct suitable periodic drills to test the adequacy and 
effectiveness of response and recovery plan. 

Sharing of information 

51.  Quarterly  reports  containing  information  on  cyber  attacks  and  threats 
experienced  by  MII  and  measures  taken  to  mitigate  vulnerabilities,  threats  and 
attacks  including  information  on  bugs  /  vulnerabilities  /  threats  that  may  be 
useful for other MIIs, should be submitted to SEBI.  

52. 
Such details as are felt useful for sharing with other MIIs in masked and 
anonymous manner shall be shared using mechanism to be specified by SEBI from 
time to time.  

Training 

53.  MII should conduct periodic training programs to enhance awareness level 
among the employees and outsourced staff, vendors, etc. on IT / Cyber security 
policy and standards. Special focus should be given to build awareness levels and 

 

129 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
skills of staff from non-technical disciplines. 

The training program should be reviewed and updated to ensure that the 

54. 
contents of the program remain current and relevant.  

Periodic Audit 

55. 
The Terms of Reference for the System Audit of MII specified vide circular 
CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2011  dated  November  29,  2011  shall  be  accordingly 
modified to include audit of implementation of the aforementioned areas.  

End of Annexure 

 
 
4.27 
 

Database for Distinctive Number (DN) of Shares98  

1.  Share capital reconciliation of the entire issued capital of the company by 
the issuer or its agent is a mandatory requirement under Regulation 55 of 
the SEBI (Depositories & Participants) Regulations, 1996. 

2.   In  order  to  ensure  centralised  record  of  all  securities,  including  both 
physical  and  dematerialised  shares,  issued  by  the  company  and  its 
reconciliation thereof, the Depositories are advised to create and maintain 
a database of distinctive numbers (DN) of equity shares of listed companies 
with details of DN in respect of all physical shares and overall DN range 
for dematerialised shares. 

3.  The  DN  database  shall  make  available,  information  in  respect  of  issued 
capital, such as DN Range, number of equity shares issued, name of stock 
exchange  where  the  shares  are  listed,  date  of  in-principle  listing  /  final 
trading  approval /  dealing  permission,  shares  held  in  physical  or demat 
form,  date  of  allotment,  shares  dematerialized  under  temporary  (frozen) 
ISIN (International Securities Identification Number) or Permanent (active) 
ISIN etc., at one place. 

                                                           
98 Reference: Circular CIR/MRD/DP/10/2015 dated June 05, 2015 

 

130 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.  Based  on  consultations  with  the  Depositories  and  Stock  Exchanges,  the 
following  guidelines  are  given  for  the  operationalisation  of  the  DN 
database - 

4.1. Instructions to the Depositories 

4.1.1. 

The  depositories  shall  create  and  maintain  a  database  to 
capture DN in respect of all physical equity shares and overall DN 
range for dematerialised equity shares issued by listed companies. 

4.1.2. 

The  depositories  shall  provide  an  interface  to  the  Stock 
Exchange,  Issuers/RTAs  for  online  updation  and  to  the  DPs  for 
online enquiry. The same shall be released for live updates latest by 
September 30, 2015. 

4.1.3. 

The database shall include the following information - 

i.  Distinctive Numbers (From) 

vii. Trading  start date 

ii.  Distinctive Numbers (To) 

viii. Physical/demat 

iii.  Number of Equity shares 

iv.  Name of stock exchange  

v.  Date  of  in-principle  listing  

approval  

vi.  Date of final trading approval 

/ dealing permission 

 

ix. Date of allotment and date 
of  issue  (date  of  credit  to  BO 
account)  

x.  ISIN  along  with  name  of 
company 

xi.  Nature of ISIN [Temporary 
(Frozen) 
Permanent 
(Active)] 

or 

4.1.4. 

The depositories shall ensure that the database maintained by 
them  is  continuously  updated  and  synchronised.  The  initial 
synchronisation may be in batch mode and shall thereafter shift to 
online mode. 

131 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.1.5. 

The Depositories, in co-ordination with the Stock Exchanges, 
having nationwide trading terminals and the Issuers/RTAs, shall 
facilitate  the  process  of  populating  the  database  with  details  of 
equity share capital and the corresponding DN information as on 
September 30, 2015. 

4.2. Instructions to the Stock Exchanges 

4.2.1. 

The Stock Exchanges shall provide the following information 
of  all  companies  listed  on  the  concerned  Stock  Exchange  as  on 
September 30, 2015 - 

i.  Total  number  of  equity  shares  (A)  for  which  final  trading 

approval / dealing permission has been granted. 

ii.  Total number of equity shares (B) for which in-principle listing 
approval has been granted but final trading approval / dealing 
permission is pending. 

iii.  Total number of equity shares comprising the paid-up capital i.e. 

(A+B). 

4.2.2. 

The Stock Exchanges shall use the interface provided by the 

Depositories for the following - 

i. 

In  respect  of  companies  where  the  final  trading  approval  / 
dealing  permission  was  awaited  as  on  September  30,  2015, 
consequent to update of DN information by Issuers/RTAs, the 
stock exchange shall validate the DN information updated by the 
Issuer/RTA  and  update  the  date  of 
‘in-principle’  listing 
approval,  date  of  final  trading  approval  /  dealing  permission 
and trading start date [as per point nos. (v), (vi) and (vii) of 5.1.3], 
immediately upon granting of such permissions. 

ii.  In  respect  of  further  issue  of  shares  by  listed  companies, 
consequent to update of DN information by Issuers/RTAs, the 
stock exchange shall validate the DN information updated by the 
Issuer/RTA  and  update  the  date  of 
‘in-principle’  listing 
approval,  date  of  final  trading  approval  /  dealing  permission 

132 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

and trading start date [as per point nos. (v), (vi) and (vii) of 5.1.3], 
immediately upon granting of such permissions. 

iii.  In  respect  of  companies  coming  out  with  initial  public  offer  or 
new listings on stock exchanges, the stock exchange shall update 
the DN database with the total number of equity shares for which 
final trading approval / dealing permission has been granted. 

iv.  In respect of companies whose capital is changed/altered for any 
reason other than further issuance of shares such as buy-back of 
shares,  forfeiture  of  shares,  capital  reduction,  etc.,  the  stock 
exchange shall confirm such change/alteration in the capital as 
updated by the Issuer/RTA in the DN database. 

4.2.3. 

In  case  the  DN  data  on  listed  shares  as  per  the  records  of 
Issuers/RTAs does not match with records of the Stock Exchanges, 
the  Stock  Exchanges  shall  coordinate  with  the  Issuer/RTA  to 
reconcile such differences. 

4.3. Instructions to the Issuers/RTAs 

4.3.1. 

Issuers/RTAs  shall  use  the  interface  provided  by  the 

Depositories for the following - 

i.  To update DN information in respect of all physical share capital 
and  overall  DN  range  for  dematerialised  share  capital  for  all 
listed companies. 

ii.  Updating the fields (i)-(iv), (viii) and (ix) given in para 5.1.3, on a 
continuous  basis  for  subsequent  changes  including  changes  in 
case  of  further  issue,  fresh  issuance  /  new  listing  and  other 
change  /  alteration  in  capital  (such  as  buy-back  of  shares, 
forfeiture of shares, capital reduction, etc.). 

iii.  Capturing / updating the DN information on a continuous basis 
while processing, dematerialisation / rematerialisation requests 
confirmation, executing corporate action, etc. 

133 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.3.2. 

 Issuers/RTAs shall take all necessary steps to update the DN 
database.  If there is mismatch in the DN information with the data 
provided / updated by the Stock Exchanges in the DN database, 
the Issuer/RTA shall take steps to match the records and update 
the same latest by December 31, 2015. 

4.3.3. 

Failure  by  the  Issuers/RTAs  to  ensure  reconciliation  of  the 
records as required in terms of para above shall attract appropriate 
actions under the extant laws. 

4.4. Instructions to the DPs 

4.4.1. 

The DPs shall use the interface provided by the Depositories 
to  check  the  DNs  of  certificates  of  equity  shares  submitted  for 
dematerialisation  and  ensure  that  appropriate  ISIN  is  filled  in 
Dematerialisation  Request  Form,  as  applicable,  while  processing 
request for dematerialisation. 

 

 
 

 

4.28 

Ticker on Website - For Investor awareness99 

In  order  to  create  wider  awareness  about  the  same,  Depositories  and 
Depository  Participants  are  advised  to  run  the  following  ticker  on  their 
websites: 

"No need to issue cheques by investors while subscribing to IPO. Just 
write  the  bank  account  number  and  sign  in  the  application  form  to 
authorise your bank to make payment in case of allotment. No worries 
for refund as the money remains in investor's account." 

Depositories  are  advised  to  communicate  the  above  to  their  depository 
participants and ensure its implementation. 

 

 

                                                           
99 Reference: Email on “Ticker on Website - For Investor awareness” dated November 05, 2015 

 

134 

 

 
 
4.29 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Separate mobile number/ email id for the clients of Depository Participants 
(DPs)100 

i. 

It has been observed that DPs do not have the procedure to check that 
separate mobile number/ email id is uploaded for each client. 

ii.  In  view  of  the  same  Depositories  are  advised  to  instruct  their 
participants to ensure that separate mobile number/E-mail address is 
uploaded  for  each  client.  However,  under  exceptional  circumstances, 
the participants may, at the specific written request of a client, upload 
the  same  mobile  number/E-mail  address  for  more  than  one  client 
provided  such  clients  belong  to  one  family.  ‘Family’  for  this  purpose 
would mean self, spouse, dependent children and dependent parents. 

 

 

                                                           
100 Email on Separate mobile number/ email id for the clients of Depository Participants (DPs) 
dated January 16, 2015. 

 

135 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
SCHEDULE   
 

CIRCULARS 

1.  Circular No. SMDRP/Policy/Cir-28/99 dated August 23, 1999.  
2.  Circular No. SMDRP/Policy/Cir-05/2001 dated February 1, 2001. 
3.  Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/Cir-09/2002 dated July 4, 2002.  
4.  Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/Cir-10/2002 dated September 25, 2002. 
5.  Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/Cir-13/2002 dated November 1, 2002. 
6.  Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/CIR - 12/2002 dated October 30, 2002.  
7.  Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/Cir-15/2002 dated December 27, 2002. 
8.  Circular No. LGL/Cir-2/2003 dated February 19, 2003. 
9.  Circular No. DCC/FITTC/Cir-19/2003 dated March 4, 2003 
10. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/Policy/AT/Cir-19/2004 dated April 21, 2004. 
11. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-27/2004 dated August 16, 2004. 
12. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-29/2004 dated August 24, 2004.  
13. Circular No. MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-36/04 dated October 27, 2004. 
14. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/SE/DEP/Cir-4/2005 dated January 28, 2005. 
15. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-16/2005 dated August 04, 2005. 
16. Circular No. MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-18/2005 dated September 2, 2005. 
17. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-22 /05 dated November 09, 2005. 
18. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-24/05 dated December 22, 2005. 
19. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-2/06 dated January 19, 2006. 
20. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-3/06 dated February 21, 2006.  
21. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 dated July 20, 2006. 
22. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-13/06 dated September 26, 2006. 
23. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-17/06 dated October 27, 2006. 
24. Circular No. MRD/Dep/Cir- 20/06 dated December 11, 2006. 
25. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-22/06 dated December 18, 2006. 
26. Circular  No.  MRD/DSA/SE/Dep/Cust/Cir-23/06  dated  December  22, 

2006. 

27. Circular No. SEBI/CFD/DILDIP/29/2008/01/02 dated February 1, 2008. 
28. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/Dep/Cir-03/2007 dated February 13, 2007. 
29. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Cir- 5/2007 dated April 27, 2007.  
30. Circular No. MIRSD/DPS-III/Cir-9/07 dated July 3, 2007. 

 

136 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

31. Circular No. MIRSD/DPS- III/Cir-23/08 dated July 25, 2008. 
32. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/Dep/Cir-03/2008 dated February 28, 2008. 
33. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Cir-20/2008 dated June 30, 2008. 
34. Circular No. MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-2/2009 dated February 10, 2009. 
35. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/19/2010 dated June 10, 2010. 
36. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/20/2010 dated July 1, 2010. 
37. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/22/2010 dated July 29, 2010. 
38. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DO/37/2010 dated December 14, 2010. 
39. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/04/2011 dated April 07, 2011. 
40. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/05/2011 dated April 27, 2011. 
41. Circular No. MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011 dated October 5, 2011. 
42. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2011 dated November 29, 2011. 
43. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DMS/12/2012 dated April 13, 2012  
44. Circular No. CIR/MRD/ DMS/17/2012 dated June 22, 2012 
45. Circular No. CIR/MRD/ICC/16/2012 dated June 15, 2012. 
46. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/21/2012 dated August 02, 2012. 
47. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/09/2012 dated August 13, 2012. 
48. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/22/2012 dated August 27, 2012. 
49. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MIRSD /11/2012 dated September 05, 2012. 
50. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/24/2012 dated September 11, 2012. 
51. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/DA/25/2012 dated September 21, 2012. 
52. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/27/2012 dated November 01, 2012. 
53. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/32/2012 dated December 06, 2012. 
54. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MIRSD/01/2013 dated January 04, 2013. 
55. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/10/2013 dated March 21, 2013. 
56. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MRD/DRMNP/26/2013 dated September 04, 2013. 
57. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MIRSD /07/2013 dated September 12, 2013. 
58. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MIRSD/09/2013 dated October 08, 2013. 
59. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/10/2013 dated October 28, 2013. 
60. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MIRSD/ 12/2013 dated December 04, 2013. 
61. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MRD/DOP/01/2014 dated January 07, 2014. 
62. Circular No. CIR MRD/DMS/03/2014 dated January 21, 2014. 
63. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MRD/DMS/05/2014 dated February 07, 2014. 
64. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/21/2014 dated July 01, 2014. 
65. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/22/2014 dated July 04, 2014. 

137 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

66. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/31/2014 dated November 12, 2014. 
67. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/1/2015 dated January 12, 2015.  
68. Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/1/2015 dated March 04, 2015. 
69. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/10/2015 dated June 05, 2015. 
70. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015 dated July 06, 2015. 
71. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/2/2015 dated August 26, 2015. 
72. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/18/2015 dated December 09, 2015. 
73. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/19/2015 dated December 09, 2015. 
74. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/20/2015 dated December 11, 2015. 
75. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/29/2016 dated January 22, 2016 
 
 

COMMUNICATIONS 
  

1.  SMDRP/NSDL / 3055 /1998 dated August 11, 1998. 
2.  SMDRP/RKD /NSDL/2494 /98 dated November 18, 1998. 
3.  SMDRP/NSDL/4615 /2000 dated March 13, 2000. 
4.  SMDRP/CDSL / 18300 /2000 dated November 16, 2000. 
5.  SMDRP/NSDL/26563/2001 dated April 10, 2001. 
6.  D&CC/ 1099 / 2002 dated November 01, 2002. 
7.  MRD/DRK/SU/16034/2003 dated August 22, 2003. 
8.  MRD/VSS/ARR/ 12255/2004 dated June 10, 2004. 
9.  MRD/DoP/ Dep/82334 /2006 dated December 14, 2006. 
10. MRD/DEP/PP/123624 /2008 dated April 23, 2008. 
11. MRD/DoP/MC/141442 /2008 dated October 17, 2008. 
12. SEBI/ MRD/CDSL/ 149156 /2009 dated January 01, 2009. 
13. MRD/CDSL/VM/ 155773 /2009 dated February 27, 2009. 
14. MRD/NSDL/VM/158886 /2009 dated March 30, 2009. 
15. MRD/DoP/NSDL/VM/ 162378 /2009 dated May 06, 2009. 
16. MRD/DoP/NSDL/VM/168994 /2009 dated July 07, 2009. 
17. MRD/CDSL/VM/168989 /2009 dated July 07, 2009. 
18. SEBI/MRD/DEP/VM/169784 /09 dated July 15, 2009. 
19. MRD/DoP/Dep/VM/182963/2009 dated November 12, 2009. 
20. MRD/DoP/MAS – OW/16723/2010 dated August 17, 2010. 

 

138 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

21. MRD/DP/SG-OW/202/2012  and  MRD/DP/SG-OW/203/2012  dated 

January 4, 2012. 

22. MRD/DP/SG-OW/2010/2012 dated January 20, 2012. 
23. CFD email dated November 05, 2015. 
24. MIRSD email dated January 16, 2015. 

 

139 

