 

MASTER CIRCULAR FOR DEBENTURE TRUSTEES 

 

 

SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ DOP2/ CIR/ P/ 2018/ 0000000063 

 

 

 

April 09, 2018 

 

 

 

To, 

All Debenture Trustees 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

Subject: Master Circular for Debenture Trustees (DTs) 

Securities      and      Exchange      Board      of      India      (SEBI)      has      been      issuing      various 
circulars/directions from time to time.  In  order  to  enable  the  users  to  have  an access  to  all  
the  applicable  circulars/directions  at  one  place,  Master  Circular  for Debenture Trustees (DTs) 
has been prepared.  

This Master Circular is a compilation of the circulars/communications issued by SEBI up to March 
31, 2018 and shall come into force from the date of its issue. 

In  case  of  any  inconsistency  between  the  Master  Circular  and  the  applicable  circulars,  the 
contents of the relevant circular shall prevail. 

The Master  Circular  is  a  compilation  of  all  the  existing/ applicable circulars issued  by  the 
Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department  of  SEBI to  Debenture Trustees. 
Efforts  have  been  made  to incorporate applicable  provisions  of existing  circulars issued  by  
other  Departments of SEBI relevant to Debenture Trustees. 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Surabhi Gupta 
Deputy General Manager 
Phone No. 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 32 

 

 

 

 

Table of Contents 

Section 1: Terms of Registration 

1.1  Online Registration Mechanism for Debenture Trustees 
1.2  Digital Mode of Payment 
1.3  Grant of prior approval for change in control to Debenture Trustees 
1.4  Surrender of Certificate of Registration 
1.5  Designated e-mail ID for regulatory communication with SEBI 

 
Section 2: Obligations, Disclosures and Reporting requirements 

2.1  Contents of Trust Deed 
2.2  Sharing of information regarding Issuer Companies between Debenture Trustees and 

Credit Rating Agencies 

2.3  Monitoring of Interest/ Principal repayment and sharing of such information with Credit 

Rating Agencies by Debenture Trustees 

2.4  Dissemination of Information on Debentures 
2.5  Centralized Database for Corporate Bonds/ Debentures 
2.6  Periodic Reporting by the Debenture Trustees 

 
Section 3: Redressal of Investor Grievances 

3.1  Exclusive e-mail ID for redressal of Investor Complaints 
 

Redressal of investor grievances through SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES) 
platform 

3.3  Dissemination of Information regarding Grievance Redressal Mechanism 

 
Section 4: Others 

4.1  Guidelines on Outsourcing of Activities by Debenture Trustees 
4.2  Unauthenticated  news  circulated  by  SEBI  registered  market  intermediaries  through 

various modes of communication 

4.3  General Guidelines for dealing with Conflicts of Interest of Debenture Trustees and their 

Associated Persons in Securities Market 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 32 

Section 1: Terms of Registration  

1.1  Online Registration Mechanism for Debenture Trustees 1 

 

1.1.1  SEBI 

has 

to 

decided 

operationalize 

Portal 
(https://siportal.sebi.gov.in) for the SEBI registered Debenture Trustees to submit all 
the registration applications online. The SEBI Intermediary Portal shall include online 
application  for  registration,  processing  of  application,  grant  of  final  registration, 
application for surrender / cancellation, submission of periodical reports, requests for 
change of name/ address/ other details, etc. Link for SEBI Intermediary Portal is also 
available on SEBI website – www.sebi.gov.in. 

SEBI 

Intermediary 

1.1.2  SEBI Intermediary Portal has been made operational for Debenture Trustees. 

1.1.3  Henceforth,  all  applications  for  registration/  surrender/other  requests  will  be  made 
through SEBI Intermediary Portal only. The applicants will be separately required to 
submit  relevant  documents  viz.  declarations/  undertakings  required  as  a  part  of 
application forms prescribed in relevant regulations, in physical form, only for records 
without impacting the online processing of applications for registration. 

1.1.4 

In case of any queries and clarifications with regard to the SEBI Intermediary Portal, 
Debenture  Trustees  may  contact  on  022-26449364  or  may  write  at 
portalhelp@sebi.gov.in.  

1.2  Digital Mode of Payment2 

1.2.1  SEBI has notified the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) (Amendment) 
Regulations,  2017  on  March  06,  2017  to  enable  digital  mode  of  payment 
(RTGS/NEFT/IMPS etc.) of fees/penalties/remittance/other payments etc.  

1.2.2  Pursuant to  above,  SEBI  has  been receiving  direct  credit  of  amounts from  various 

intermediaries / other entities.  

1.2.3 

In order to identify and account such direct credit in the SEBI account, it has been 
decided  that  Debenture  Trustees  shall  provide  the  information  as  mentioned  in 
Annexure to SEBI once the payment is made.  

1.2.4  The above information should be emailed to the respective department(s) as well as 

to Treasury & Accounts division at tad@sebi.gov.in.  

 

 

                                                           
1 SEBI Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/38 dated May 02, 2017.  
2 SEBI Circular SEBI/HO/GSD/T&A/CIR/P/2017/42 dated May 16, 2017 

Page 3 of 32 

Annexure 

 

Date 

Department 

of SEBI 

Name of Intermediary/ 

Type of 

Other Entities  

Intermediary  

SEBI Registration 
Number (if any)  

 

 

 

PAN  

Amount (in `)  

Purpose of Payment 

 

 

(including the period for 

which payment was 
made e.g. quarterly, 

 

annually)  

 

 

 

 

Bank name and 
Account number 

from which 

payment is remitted  

 

UTR No  

 

Page 4 of 32 

 

1.3  Grant of prior approval for change in control to Debenture Trustees3 

1.3.1  Debenture Trustees are required to obtain prior approval of SEBI in case of change 
in control. With a view to expedite the process of granting prior approval, SEBI has 
adopted a ‘single window clearance at SEBI’, for the Debenture Trustees in case of 
their having multiple registrations with SEBI. 

1.3.2  Therefore, in case a Debenture Trustee holds multiple registrations with SEBI, it shall 
make only one application to SEBI addressed to "Chief General Manager, MIRSD, 
SEBI"  accompanied  by  the  following  information  about  itself,  the  acquirer  and  the 
directors/ partners of the acquirer; 

  Whether any application was made in the past to SEBI seeking registration in 

any capacity but it was not granted? If yes, details thereof. 

  Whether any action has been initiated / taken under SCRA/SEBI Act or rules 
and regulations made thereunder? If yes, status thereof along with corrective 
action  taken  to  avoid  such  violations  in  the  future.  The  acquirer  shall  also 
confirm  that  it  shall  honour  all  past  liabilities  /  obligations  of  the  applicant,  if 
any. 

  Whether  any  investor  complaint  is  pending?  If  yes,  steps  taken  and 

confirmation that the acquirer shall resolve the same. 

  Details of litigation, if any. 

  That all the fees due to SEBI have been paid. 

  That there will not be any change in the Board of Directors of incumbent, till 

the time prior approval is granted. 

  That  the  incumbent  shall  inform  all  its  existing  investors  /  clients  in  order  to 
enable them to take informed decision regarding their continuance or otherwise 
with the entity with new management. 

                                                           
3 SEBI Circular CIR/MIRSD/14/2011 dated August 02, 2011.  

Page 5 of 32 

 

1.3.3  Further,  in  case  the  incumbent  is  a  registered  stock  broker  and  /  or  depository 
participant, in addition to the above, it shall obtain approval / NOC from all the Stock 
Exchanges / Depositories, where the incumbent is a member / Depository Participant 
and forward a self-attested copy of the same to SEBI. 

1.3.4  The prior approval granted by SEBI shall be valid for a period of 180 days from the 

date of communication. 

1.4  Surrender of Certificate of Registration4 

1.4.1 

If a Debenture Trustee wishes to surrender the registration voluntarily, it shall transfer, 
wherever relevant, it’s existing business/ client accounts to another SEBI registered 
debenture trustee, before they make request to SEBI for accepting the surrender the 
certificate of registration. 

1.4.2  The Debenture Trustee may, if he so desires, make a representation for dispensing 
with  the  procedure,  along  with  the  application,  for  surrender  in  terms  of  the  first 
proviso to Regulation 33B of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008 in the prescribed format placed as Annexure. 

1.4.3 

In all cases of transfer of business or client accounts to another registered Debenture 
Trustee, the clients shall not be subjected to any additional cost. 

 
 

 

                                                           
4 SEBI Circular No. SEBI/MIRSD/DR-2/SRP/Cir - 2/ 2005 dated January 4, 2005. 

Page 6 of 32 

Annexure 

Letter of Representation for Debenture Trustee 

 

To 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Dear Sir, 

Sub: Surrender of Certificate of Registration as Debenture Trustee, Registration No. __  . 

1.  We hereby surrender our certificate of registration as Debenture Trustee. 

2.  We enclose the original certificate of registration (or indemnity in case the certificate is lost or 

stolen) for cancellation. 

3.  We hereby confirm that: 

a.  no complaint /disciplinary proceeding is pending against us;  

b.  no investigation / inquiry by SEBI is pending against us with respect to our activities as a 

Debenture Trustee;  

c.  as on date of application, we have paid all fees;  

d.  we shall continue to be liable for all liabilities/obligations (including monetary penalties, if 
any)  for  violations,  if  any,  of  the  provisions  of  the  SEBI  Act  and  the  SEBI  (Debenture 
Trustee)  Rules  and  Regulations,  1993  that  have  taken  place  before  our  surrender  of 
certificate of registration;  

e.  all our current assignments as a Debenture Trustee have been either duly terminated or 

transferred to another registered Debenture Trustee _____ with registration no.___ ; 

f.  we  have  issued  a  public  notice  in  a  widely  circulated  national  and  a  vernacular  daily 
dated________  informing  surrender  of  our  registration  as  Debenture  Trustee  (Please 
enclose a clipping of the said public notice);  

g.  we have notified the Depositories and all the stock exchanges where our client companies 

are listed about the surrender of our registration.  

4.  *We  hereby  request  SEBI  to  dispense  with  the  procedure  laid  down  in  Regulation  33B  of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 while processing 
our request for surrender of certificate of registration. 

Thanking you, 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Name: 

(Whole time/ Managing Director/ Principal Officer) 

*Please strike off, if not applicable. 

Page 7 of 32 

 

1.5  Designated e-mail ID for regulatory communication with SEBI5 

1.5.1  SEBI has been communicating with the Debenture Trustees through circulars, letters, 
directions etc. In order to facilitate the issuance of digitally signed circulars, Debenture 
Trustees are required to create a designated email id for regulatory communications. 
This email id shall be an exclusive email id only for the above purpose and should not 
be a person centric email id. 

1.5.2  The  Designated  e-mail  ID  shall  be  communicated  to  SEBI  by  emailing  a  file  to 

intermediary@sebi.gov.in, as per the format prescribed below: 

i. 

ii. 

The file should be an excel file. 

The  name  of  the  file  and  the  subject  of  the  email  shall  specify  the  type  of 
intermediary  and  the  name  of  the  intermediary.  For  example  –  “Debenture 
Trustee – ABC co. Ltd.” 

iii. 

The file shall contain the following details: 

 

 

Name  Address  Category  Registration 

  
 

  
 

  
 

No. 
  
 

Designated 
email id 
  
 

of 
Name 
compliance officer 
 
 

                                                           
5 SEBI Circular No. MIRSD/ DPSIII/ Cir-21/ 08 dated July 7, 2008. 

Page 8 of 32 

Section 2: Obligations, Disclosures and Reporting requirements 

 

 

2.1  Contents of Trust Deed6 

2.1.1 

It has been observed during inspections that certain clauses are included in the trust 

deed that limit or extinguish the obligations of Debenture Trustees in relation to any 

rights or interests of investors or are in conflict with the provisions of the Regulations. 

It  may  be  noted  that  such  clauses  in  the  existing  or  new  trust  deeds  shall  not  be 

applicable and shall stand null and void. 

 

2.2  Sharing  of  information  regarding  Issuer  Companies  between  Debenture 

Trustees and Credit Rating Agencies7 

2.2.1  SEBI (Debenture Trustee) Regulations, 1993 require the Debenture Trustees (DTs) 
to share information regarding the issuer companies that are their clients, with Credit 
Rating Agencies (CRAs). The purpose of the Regulations is to enable Credit Rating 
Agencies to perform their obligations effectively.  

2.2.2  Debenture Trustees have also expressed the need to receive relevant information on 

issuer companies from Credit Rating Agencies.  

2.2.3 

In  consultation  with  Debenture  Trustees  and  Credit  Rating  Agencies,  it  has  been 
decided that Debenture Trustees and Credit Rating Agencies shall share information 
with each other as specified in the Annexure. Debenture Trustees and Credit Rating 
Agencies  shall  share  any  other  information  from  time  to  time  in  respect  of 
issues/issuer companies which would help them in effective discharge of their duties.  

2.2.4  Further, the Debenture Trustees and Credit Rating Agencies shall assign designated 
email addresses for sending and receiving such information and ensure appropriate 
action, if any, based on the information received. 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
6Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/25/2011 dated December 19, 2011. 
7 Circular CIR/MIRSD/3/2013 dated March 15, 2013 

Page 9 of 32 

 

Annexure  

 

Sharing  of  information  between  Debenture  Trustees  (DTs)  and  Credit  Rating  Agencies 
(CRAs) 

A.  Information from Credit Rating Agencies to Debenture Trustees 

1.  Rating assigned/revised for debt securities along with the rationale for the same. 

2.  Press release, outstanding ratings etc. in respect of debt securities. 

3.  Non-cooperation  by  the  issuers  with  respect  to  sharing  necessary  information  for 

monitoring the credit quality of the rated instrument with Credit Rating Agencies. 

4.  Press release and separate communication to Debenture Trustee on withdrawal of rating 

post redemption of entire amount due towards. 

B.  Information from Debenture Trustees to Credit Rating Agencies 

1.  Whether  the  asset  in  respect  of  which  security  has  been  created  is  free  from  any 

encumbrance and adequate to ensure asset cover for the debentures or if there is any 

breach of the terms of creation of the security. This information shall be shared on half 

yearly basis. 

2.  Funds  transferred  to  Debenture  Redemption  Reserve  (DRR),  depletion  of  the  DRR 

/invocation  of  guarantee  which  could  affect  the  payment  of  debenture  obligations.  This 

information shall be shared annually. 

3.  Details of redemption of the issue. 

4.  Any  default  committed  including  the  default  in  payment  of  interest  or  redemption  of 

debentures or delay in creation of security. 

5.  Any change or restructuring of the terms of the issue. 

6.  Periodic reports from lead banks about the progress of the project for which funds have 

been  raised  through  debentures  and  certificate  from  issuer's  auditors  in  respect  of 

utilization of funds. 

7.  Details of grievances filed by debenture-holders and action taken to resolve them. 

8.  Non-cooperation  by  the  issuer  with  respect  to  furnishing  required  reports/  certificates/ 

information. Information pertaining to points 3 to 8 shall be shared as and when available. 

Page 10 of 32 

2.3  Monitoring  of  Interest/  Principal  repayment  and  sharing  of  such  information 

with Credit Rating Agencies by Debenture Trustees8 

2.3.1 

It is clarified that the Debenture Trustees shall have adequate systems to ascertain 
the status of payment of interest/ principal by issuer companies on due dates in timely 
manner and efficiently share such information with the Credit Rating Agencies in order 
to comply with the abovementioned provisions, which shall include the following: 

 

i)  The Debenture Trustees shall, at least 7 days prior to the due date of interest/ 
principal payment, seek ISIN-wise information from issuer companies under 
intimation  to  Credit  Rating  Agencies  advising  them  to  confirm  the  status  of 
payment of interest/ principal on or before the due date. 

ii) 

If the issuer company confirms the status of payment or where no information 
is received from the issuer company on or before the due date, the Debenture 
Trustees shall accordingly provide ISIN-wise information to the Credit Rating 
Agencies latest by one day after such due date which shall state the following: 

 

 

Information about payment made on or before the due date or; 

Information about delay/ default in payment or; 

  No  information  forthcoming  from  the  issuer  company  on  the  payment 

status. 

iii)  In cases where the Credit Rating Agencies have been informed as per point 
no. 2(ii) above that no information is forthcoming from the issuer company on 
the payment status, the Debenture Trustees shall update the payment status 
to Credit Rating Agencies as and when any such information is available with 
the Debenture Trustees. 

2.3.2 

In  addition  to  the  above,  it  is  reiterated  that  the  Debenture  Trustees  shall  also 
ascertain the status of payment by the Issuer Company on the due dates from various 
sources  available  at  their  disposal  which,  inter  alia,  include  the  websites  of  stock 
exchange & Issuer Company, debenture holders and quarterly reports submitted by 
Issuer Companies. 

2.3.3  The  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015 
require the listed entity to submit a certificate to the stock exchange within two days 
of the interest or principal of the listed debt securities becoming due that it has made 
timely payment [Regulation 57(1)] and the Debenture Trustee Regulations mandate 
the Debenture Trustees to exercise due diligence to ensure compliance by the body 
corporate, with the provisions of the Companies Act, the listing agreement of the stock 
exchange or the trust deed [Regulation 15(1)(i)].  

In this regard, it is clarified that the Debenture Trustees in their communication to the 
Issuer Companies as mentioned in point no. 2.3.1(i) above shall inform them that non-
furnishing of information regarding status of payment by due date or non-disclosure 
of  information  with  respect  to  timely  payment  by  them  on  stock  exchange  website 
may be considered as suppression of material information and may attract provisions 
of Section 12A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and SEBI 
(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) 
Regulations, 2003 

Page 11 of 32 

 

2.3.4  The Debenture Trustee Regulations also mandate that the Debenture Trustees shall 
not make untrue statement or suppress any material fact in any documents, reports, 
papers or information furnished to the Board [Clause 19 of Code of Conduct read with 
Regulation  16]  and  adequate  disclosures  are  made  to  the  debenture  holders,  in  a 
comprehensible  and  timely  manner  so  as  to  enable  them  to make  a  balanced  and 
informed decision [Clause 15 of Code of Conduct read with Regulation 16].  

It is clarified that if no information regarding payment by Issuer Company is received 
by the Debenture Trustees by due date or such information is not disclosed by the 
issuer company on the stock exchange website, then, the Debenture Trustees shall 
make  reference  to  SEBI  accordingly  and  disclose  the  non-availability  of  such 
information on their website. It is further clarified that failure to make such reference 
to SEBI in this regard and non-disclosure on its website shall be considered as aiding 
and  abetting  the  issuer  company  in  suppression  of  material  information  and  may 
attract provisions of Section 12A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992  and  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to 
Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. 

 

2.4  Dissemination of Information on Debentures9 

2.4.1  The  –Debenture  Trustees  shall  disclose  the  information  to  the  investors  and  the 
general public by issuing a press release regarding default by Issuer Company to pay 
interest on debentures or redemption amount, failure to create a charge on the assets 
and revision of rating assigned to the debentures. Further, such information shall also 
be placed on the website of the Debenture Trustee, the issuer company and the stock 
exchanges. It is clarified that such actions shall be taken by the Debenture Trustee 
promptly and in any case not later than next day of the occurrence of such events.  

 

2.5  Centralized Database for Corporate Bonds/ Debentures10 

2.5.1  SEBI,  in  consultation  with  various  stakeholders,  decided  to  create  a  centralized 
database  regarding  corporate  bonds  which  are  available  in  demat  form  for  public 
dissemination.  Both  the  depositories’  viz.  NSDL  and  CDSL,  jointly,  made  the 
repository of information pertaining to the corporate bonds/ debentures.  

2.5.2  Contents  of  Database:  The  data  field  for  which  the  information  has  to  be  made 
available in the centralized database of bonds/ debentures by Debenture Trustees is: 

i.  Default History Information:  

Default  history  details: Whether  there  have  been  any  defaults/delays  in 
servicing any other debentures/bonds issued by the Issuer? If yes details 
thereof: 

Nature  of 
the Issue  

Issue 
size  

Due 
of 
interest/redemption  

date 

Actual  payment  date 
and details  

Default 
details 

                                                           
8 SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD3/CIR/P/2017/ 72 dated June 30, 2017. 
9 SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD3/CIR/P/2017/ 72 dated June 30, 2017. 
10 Circular No. CIR/IMD/DF/17/2013 dated October 22, 2013. 

Page 12 of 32 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.5.3  The depositories shall obtain requisite information regarding bonds/ debentures from 
Issuers,  Stock  Exchanges,  Credit  Rating  Agencies  and  Debenture  Trustees.  Such 
information  providers  are  provided  with  secure  logins  by  the  depositories  for 
verification and updation of the requisite information in the database. 

2.5.4  The  Debenture  Trustees  shall  access  the  database  to  verify  and  update  the 
information  regarding  default  history  by  the  issuer  and  other  relevant  information 
pertaining to Debenture Trustees, within the time stipulated as below: 

S.No  Activity 
1.   

2.   

Updation  of  default  history  information  about  the 
instrument, as applicable in the database 
Updation/verification of the relevant information in 
respect of legacy data for bonds/debentures with 
its records and confirmation to depositories 

Timeline 
Within  7  days  of 
knowledge of default. 
Within 7 days from the 
receipt 
the 
information 

of 

2.5.5  The Debenture Trustees shall update the information in the database on an ongoing 

basis, as mentioned above. 

 

2.6  Periodic Reporting by the Debenture Trustees11 

2.6.1  The  Debenture  Trustees  are  required  to  furnish  Half  Yearly  Report  to  SEBI  in  the 
format placed as Annexure in electronic form only (one file in pdf format and the other 
in excel format). The Compliance Officer of the  –Debenture Trustee shall send the 
report to SEBI at dt@sebi.gov.in on half yearly basis within three months of the expiry 
of the corresponding half year. 

2.6.2  The Debenture Trustees shall also report compliance of Regulation 15 (1) (c) of SEBI 
(Debenture Trustee) Regulations, 1993, and the provisions mentioned under Paras 
2.3 and 2.4 in the Half Yearly Reports.12 

2.6.3  The  board  of  directors  of  Debenture  Trustee  shall  review  the  report  and  record  its 
observations  on  (i)  the  deficiencies  and  non-compliances,  and  (ii)  corrective 
measures initiated to avoid such instances in future. 

 

 

                                                           
11Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 25/ 2011 dated Dec 19, 2011 
12Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD3/CIR/P/2017/ 72 dated June 30, 2017 

Page 13 of 32 

ANNEXURE – FORMAT OF HALF – YEARLY REPORT 

 

 

REPORT OF DEBENTURE TRUSTEES FOR THE HALF YEAR ENDED MARCH/ SEPTEMBER  20.. 
 
NAME: 
REGISTRATION NO.: 
DATE OF REGISTRATION (in dd/mm/yy) 
 
SECTION I: ACTIVITIES  
 
A.  Details of Debenture Issues (Public (P) / Rights (R)/ Privately Placed Listed (PPL) / Privately Placed Unlisted (PPUL) 
 

Cumulative  No.  of 
debenture  issues 
handled  up  to  the 
half  year  ended 
March / Sep 20.. 
 
 
 
 

` 

(in 

Size 
crores)  of 
debenture  issues  accepted 
during  the  half  year  ended 
March / Sep 20.. 

Secured  Unsecured  Total 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

Cumulative  Size  (in  ` 
crores)  of  debenture 
issues  handled  up  to 
the  half  year  ended 
March / Sep 20.. 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
B.  Activities other than debenture trusteeship  
Activity Type 
 

Description of the activity 
 

Name of Compliance Officer 
Email ID 

 

Number of clients 
 

Page 14 of 32 

Type  

No. of debenture issues accepted 
during the half year ended March / 
Sep 20.. 

Secured  Unsecured  Total 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
Public 
Rights 
Privately 
Placed 
Listed 
Privately 
Placed 
Unlisted 
Total 
 

 

Name of the Debenture Trustee 

Section II - REDRESSAL OF INVESTOR GRIEVANCES 

 

For the Half – year ended Mar/ Sep 20… 

 

A.  Status of Investor grievances 

Name  of  the 
(tranche wise) 

issuer 

Pending  complaints  at 
the end of the previous 
half year 

of 

No. 
complaints 
received during the half 
year 

of 

No. 
complaints 
resolved during  the half 
year 

No  of  complaints 
pending  at  the  end 
of half year 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B.  Details of the complaints pending for more than 30 days 

of 

Nature of the Complaint (s) 

Steps  taken  for 
redressal 

Status  of the 
complaint  (if 
redressed, 
date 
redressal) 
 

of 

No. 
complaints 
pending 
more 
days 
 

for 
than  30 

 

Name  of 
Issuer 

the 

 

 
Name of Compliance Officer 
Email ID 

Delay in payment 
of interest 

Delay 
payment 
redemption 

in 
of 

Any other 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 15 of 32 

Information regarding default by the Issuer Companies in Public (P) / Rights (R) / Privately Placed Listed (PPL) Issues of 
Debentures up to the half year ended March/September 20.. 

Section III–DEFAULT DETAILS 

 

 

 

Name of the 
Issuer 
  

Secured / Unsecured 

  

Type 
(P/R/PPL) 
  

Issue Size ( in ` 
crores ) 
  

Type of Default* 

  

Details of action 
taken 
  

* Type of Default: 

1.  Non-payment of interest; 
2.  Non-payment of redemption; 
3.  Delay in payment of interest/redemption; 
4.  Any other (like non-creation of security) 

Name of Compliance Officer 
Email ID 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Page 16 of 32 

COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE FOR THE HALF YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER / MARCH 20.. 
 
A.  No conflict of interests with other activities 

Section IV–COMPLIANCE 

 

The activities other than debenture trusteeship performed by DT are not in conflict with DT activities and appropriate systems 
and policies have been put in place to protect the interests of debenture holders. 

 

B.  Change in status or constitution 

Reporting of 'changes in status or constitution' of DT (In terms of SEBI Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/10/2011 dated June 20, 2011) 

 

C.  Other Information 
 

i.  Details of arrest / conviction of key officials of DT 

 

ii.  Details of prosecution cases or criminal complaints filed by investors against the DT 

 

iii.  Details of any fraudulent activity by the employees associated with DT activities and action taken by the DT 

 

iv.  Details of conviction of any offence involving moral turpitude or any economic offence by employees of DT 

 

v.  Action taken by the DT on the above issues 

 
D.  Compliance with registration requirements 
 

i.  Certified that the requirements specified for SEBI registration as DT are fulfilled, the details are as under; 

 

ii.  Net worth (audited)  as defined in the Regulations as on FY ended ………(as per the latest audited financials) 

 

iii.  Any change in infrastructure since the last report / registration/ renewal 

 

iv.  Changes in Key personnel during the half year ended……….) 

 
 

Page 17 of 32 

Name(s) of the key 
personnel 

  

 

Appointment / 
Cessation 

Date of 
appointment / 
cessation  

Qualification  Experience  Functional areas 

 

of work 

  

  

  

  

  

E.  Details of deficiencies and non compliances 

 

F.  Details of the review of the report by the Board of Directors 

 
Date of Board Review (dd/mm/yyyy) 
 
Observation of the BoD on 
 
i. 
ii. 

the deficiencies and non compliances 
corrective measures initiated 

 
 

Certified that we have complied with SEBI (Debenture Trustee) Regulations, 1993,  applicable provisions of SEBI (Issue and 
Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008, Circulars issued by SEBI and any other laws applicable from time to time except 
the deficiencies and non compliances those specifically reported at Section IV (E) above: 
 
 
 
Name of Compliance Officer 
Email ID 

Page 18 of 32 

 

Section 3: Redressal of Investor Grievances 

3.1  Exclusive e-mail ID for redressal of Investor Complaints13 

3.1.1 

In  order  to  address  the  issue  of  having  a  direct  and  quicker  forum  for  enabling 
investors to register their complaints expeditiously with the Debenture Trustees, it is 
felt desirable to designate an exclusive e-mail ID of the grievance redressal division / 
compliance officer in which the investors would be able to register their complaints 
and also take necessary follow-up actions as necessary. 

3.1.2  Accordingly,  Debenture  Trustees  are  advised  to  designate  an  e-mail  ID  of  the 
grievance  redressal  division/compliance  officer  exclusively  for  the  purpose  of 
registering complaints by investors. They are also advised to display the email ID and 
other 
the  various 
materials/pamphlets/advertisement campaigns initiated by them for creating investor 
awareness. 

relevant  details  prominently  on 

their  websites  and 

in 

3.2  Redressal  of investor  grievances  through  SEBI  Complaints  Redress  System 

(SCORES) platform14 

3.2.1  SEBI  launched  a  centralized  web  based  complaints  redress  system  ‘SCORES’  in 
June 2011. The purpose of SCORES is to provide a platform for aggrieved investors, 
whose  grievances,  pertaining  to  securities  market,  remain  unresolved  by  the 
concerned  listed  company  or  SEBI  registered  Debenture  Trustees  after  a  direct 
approach. SCORES also provides a platform, overseen by SEBI through which the 
investors can approach the concerned listed company or SEBI registered Debenture 
Trustees in an endeavor towards speedy redressal of grievances of investors in the 
securities market. It would, however, be advisable that investors may initially take up 
their grievances for redressal with the concerned listed company or SEBI registered 
Debenture  Trustees,  who  are  required  to  have  designated  persons/  officials  for 
handling issues relating to compliance and redressal of investor grievance. 

3.2.2  The salient features of SCORES are: 

i)  Centralized database of all complaints. 
ii)  Online  movement  of  complaints  to  the  concerned  SEBI  registered  Debenture 

Trustees 

iii)  Online upload of Action Taken Reports (ATRs) by the concerned entities, and 
iv)  Online viewing by investors of action on the complaints and its current status. 

 
 
 
 

                                                           
13 Circular No. MIRSD/DPS III//Cir-01/07 dated January 22, 2007. 
14 Circular No. CIR/ OIAE/ 1/ 2014 dated Dec 18, 2014 

Page 19 of 32 

 

3.2.3  Debenture  Trustees  are  hereby  advised  to  send  their  details,  as  per  Form  -  B 
annexed,  to  SEBI  in  hard  copy  and  by  email  to  scores@sebi.gov.in  and  obtain 
SCORES user id and password immediately within a period of one month from the 
date  of  registration.  The  email  id  to  be  furnished  by  the  Debenture  Trustees  for 
receiving SCORES user id and password from SEBI has to be preferably a corporate 
email id and necessarily a permanent one. Failure by any SEBI registered Debenture 
Trustees to obtain the SCORES user ID and password would not only be deemed as 
non-redressal of investor grievances but also indicate willful avoidance of the same. 

3.2.4  The  Debenture  Trustees  shall  submit  the  details  in  hard  copy  (Form  -  B)  to  the 
Department/ Division of SEBI which has granted them registration to operate in the 
securities market. SCORES user id and password of the Debenture Trustee shall be 
created  only  after  receiving  approval  from  the  concerned  Department/  Division  of 
SEBI. 

3.2.5 

investors’  grievances  redressal 
 The  Debenture  Trustees  shall  review 
mechanism so as to further strengthen it and correct the existing shortcomings, if any. 
The SEBI registered Debenture Trustees to whom complaints are forwarded through 
SCORES,  shall  take  immediate  efforts  on  receipt  of  a  complaint,  for  its  resolution, 
within  thirty  days.  The  SEBI  registered  Debenture  Trustees  shall  keep  the 
complainant duly informed of the action taken thereon. 

their 

3.2.6  The Debenture Trustees shall update the ATR along with supporting documents, if 
any, electronically in SCORES. ATR in physical form need not be sent to SEBI. The 
proof  of  dispatch  of  the  reply  of  the  SEBI  registered  Debenture  Trustees  to  the 
concerned investor should also be uploaded in SCORES and preserved by the SEBI 
registered intermediary, for future reference. 

3.2.7  Action  taken  by  the  Debenture  Trustees  will  not  be  considered  as  complete  if  the 
relevant  details/  supporting  documents  are  not  uploaded  in  SCORES  and 
consequently, the complaints will be treated as pending. 

3.2.8  A complaint shall be treated as resolved/ disposed/ closed only when SEBI disposes/ 
closes the complaint in SCORES. Hence, mere filing of ATR by a Debenture Trustees 
with respect to a complaint  will not mean that the complaint  is not pending against 
them. 

3.2.9  Failure by Debenture Trustees to file ATR under SCORES within thirty days of date 
of receipt of the grievance shall not only be treated as failure to furnish information to 
SEBI but shall also be deemed to constitute non-redressal of investor grievance. 

3.2.10  The  Board  of  Directors/  Proprietor/  Partner  of  the  Debenture  Trustees  shall  be 

responsible for ensuring compliance with the provisions of this Circular. 

 

 

 

Page 20 of 32 

FORM - B 

 

AUTHENTICATION FOR SCORES BY SEBI REGISTERED DEBENTURE 

TRUSTEES 

 

1.  Name of SEBI registered Debenture Trustee: 

2.  Nature of registered intermediary: 

3.  SEBI registration no. 

4.  PAN of SEBI registered Debenture Trustee: 

5.  Date of SEBI registration of Debenture Trustee: 

6.  SEBI registration valid up to: 

7.  Office address of the intermediary: 

8.  The details of the concerned person of the Debenture Trustee to whom User id 

and password will be sent: 

Name: 

Designation: 

Email id: (corporate and permanent email id) 

Mobile no. 

Telephone No. : 

Fax No. : 

 

Place:  

 

Date:  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signature: 

Name: 

Designation: 

Seal: 

 

 

Note: A scanned copy to be sent by email to scores@sebi.gov.in followed by hard 
copy  to  the  concerned  Department/Division  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India, Plot No. C4-A, 'G' Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai - 400 051 

Important: Please note that SCORES has the provision for updating SEBI registered 
Debenture Trustee's details by the intermediary itself. Any field (except the e-mail id 
which  is  permanent)  such  as  registered  office  address,  name/details  of  the 
compliance  officer,  telephone  numbers,  etc.  should  be  changed  by  the  SEBI 
registered Debenture Trustee immediately when warranted. 

 

Page 21 of 32 

3.3  Dissemination of Information regarding Grievance Redressal Mechanism15 

3.3.1  For information of all investors who deal/ invest/ transact in the market, it has now 
been decided that the information as provided below shall be prominently displayed 
in the offices of Debenture Trustees: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dear Investor, 

In case of any grievance / complaint against the Intermediary: 

  Please  contact  Compliance  Officer  of  the  Intermediary  (Name  and 
-  91- 

(xxx.@email.com)  and  Phone  No. 

/  email-id 

Address) 
XXXXXXXXXX. 
 

  You  may  also  approach  CEO  /  Partner  /  Proprietor  (Name)  /  email  id 

 

 

(xxx.@email.com) and Phone No. - 91-XXXXXXXXXX. 
 
If  not  satisfied  with  the  response  of  the  intermediary  you  can  lodge 
your  grievances  with  SEBI  at  http://scores.gov.in  or  you  may  also 
write  to  any  of  the  offices  of  SEBI.  For  any  queries,  feedback  or 
assistance,  please  contact  SEBI  Office  on  Toll  Free  Helpline  at 
1800 22 7575 / 1800 266 7575 
 

 

                                                           
15 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/3/2014 dated August 28, 2014. 

Page 22 of 32 

4.1  Guidelines on Outsourcing of Activities by Debenture Trustees16 

Section 4: Others 

 

4.1.1  SEBI Regulations for various intermediaries require that they shall render at all times 
high standards of service and exercise due diligence and ensure proper care in their 
operations.  

4.1.2 

It has  been  observed  that  often  intermediaries resort  to  outsourcing  with  a  view  to 
reduce costs, and at times, for strategic reasons. 

4.1.3  Outsourcing may be defined as the use of one or more than one third party – either 
within  or  outside  the  group  -  by  a  registered  intermediary  to  perform  the  activities 
associated with services which the intermediary offers. 

4.1.4  The  principles  for  outsourcing  by  intermediaries  have  been  framed  (placed  as 
Annexure).  These  principles  shall  be  followed  by  all  intermediaries  registered  with 
SEBI.  

4.1.5  The Debenture Trustees desirous of outsourcing their activities shall not, however, 
outsource their core business activities and compliance functions. A few examples of 
core  business  activities  may  be  –  execution  of  orders  and  monitoring  of  trading 
activities of clients in case of stock brokers; dematerialization of securities in case of 
depository  participants;  investment  related  activities  in  case  of  Mutual  Funds  and 
Portfolio Managers. Regarding Know Your Client (KYC) requirements, the Debenture 
Trustees  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of  SEBI  {KYC  (Know  Your  Client) 
Registration Agency} Regulations, 2011 and Guidelines issued thereunder from time 
to time. 

4.1.6  The  Debenture  Trustees  shall  be  responsible  for  reporting  of  any  suspicious 
transactions / reports to FIU or any other competent authority in respect of activities 
carried out by the third parties. 

 

                                                           
16 SEBI Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/24/2011 dated December 15, 2011 

Page 23 of 32 

PRINCIPLES FOR OUTSOURCING FOR INTERMEDIARIES 

Annexure 

 

1. 

An intermediary seeking to outsource activities shall have in place a comprehensive 
policy  to  guide  the  assessment  of  whether  and  how  those  activities  can  be 
appropriately  outsourced.  The  Board  /  partners  (as  the  case  may  be)  {hereinafter 
referred to as the “the Board”} of the intermediary shall have the responsibility for the 
outsourcing  policy  and  related  overall responsibility  for  activities  undertaken  under 
that policy. 

1.1  The  policy  shall  cover  activities  or  the  nature  of activities  that  can  be  outsourced, the 
authorities  who  can  approve  outsourcing  of  such  activities,  and  the  selection  of  third 
party to whom it can be outsourced. For example, an activity shall not be outsourced if it 
would  impair  the  supervisory  authority’s  right  to  assess,  or  its  ability  to  supervise  the 
business  of  the  intermediary.  The  policy  shall  be  based  on  an  evaluation  of  risk 
concentrations, limits on the acceptable overall level of outsourced activities, risks arising 
from outsourcing multiple activities to the same entity, etc. 

1.2  The Board shall mandate a regular review of outsourcing policy for such activities in the 
wake  of  changing  business  environment.  It  shall  also  have  overall  responsibility  for 
ensuring  that  all  ongoing  outsourcing  decisions  taken  by  the  intermediary  and  the 
activities undertaken by the third-party, are in keeping with its outsourcing policy. 

2. 

The  intermediary  shall  establish  a  comprehensive  outsourcing  risk  management 
programme  to  address  the  outsourced  activities  and  the  relationship  with  the  third 
party. 

2.1  An intermediary shall make an assessment of outsourcing risk which depends on several 
factors, including the scope and materiality of the outsourced activity, etc. The factors 
that could help in considering materiality in a risk management programme include- 

a)  The  impact  of  failure  of  a  third  party  to  adequately  perform  the  activity  on  the 
financial, reputational and operational performance of the intermediary and on the 
investors / clients; 

b)  Ability of the intermediary to cope up with the work, in case of non-performance or 

failure by a third party by having suitable back-up arrangements; 

c)  Regulatory status of the third party, including its fitness and probity status; 

d)  Situations involving conflict of interest between the intermediary and the third party 
and  the  measures  put  in  place  by  the  intermediary  to  address  such  potential 
conflicts, etc. 

2.2  While there shall not be any prohibition on a group entity / associate of the intermediary 
to act as the third party, systems shall be put in place to have an arm’s length distance 
between  the  intermediary  and  the  third  party  in  terms  of  infrastructure,  manpower, 
decision-making,  record  keeping,  etc.  for  avoidance  of  potential  conflict  of  interests. 
Necessary disclosures in this regard shall be made as part of the contractual agreement. 
It shall be kept in mind that the risk management practices expected to be adopted by 

Page 24 of 32 

 

an intermediary while outsourcing to a related party or an associate would be identical 
to those followed while outsourcing to an unrelated party. 

2.3  The records relating to all activities outsourced shall be preserved centrally so that the 
same is readily accessible for review by the Board of the intermediary and / or its senior 
management, as and when needed. Such records shall be regularly updated and may 
also  form  part  of  the  corporate  governance  review  by  the  management  of  the 
intermediary. 

2.4  Regular  reviews  by  internal  or  external  auditors  of  the  outsourcing  policies,  risk 
management system and requirements of the regulator shall be mandated by the Board 
wherever  felt  necessary.  The  intermediary  shall  review  the  financial  and  operational 
capabilities  of  the  third  party  in  order  to  assess  its  ability  to  continue  to  meet  its 
outsourcing obligations. 

3. 

The  intermediary  shall  ensure  that  outsourcing  arrangements  neither  diminish  its 
ability  to  fulfill  its  obligations  to  customers  and  regulators,  nor  impede  effective 
supervision by the regulators. 

3.1  The  intermediary  shall  be  fully  liable  and  accountable  for  the  activities  that  are  being 

outsourced to the same extent as if the service were provided in-house. 

3.2  Outsourcing arrangements shall not affect the rights of an investor or client against the 
intermediary in any manner. The intermediary shall be liable to the investors for the loss 
incurred by them due to the failure of the third party and also be responsible for redressal 
of the grievances received from investors arising out of activities rendered by the third 
party. 

3.3  The facilities / premises / data that are involved in carrying out the outsourced activity by 
the  service  provider  shall  be  deemed  to  be  those  of  the  registered  intermediary.  The 
intermediary itself and Regulator or the persons authorized by it shall have the right to 
access the same at any point of time. 

3.4  Outsourcing  arrangements  shall  not  impair  the  ability  of  SEBI/SRO  or  auditors  to 
exercise its regulatory responsibilities such as supervision/inspection of the intermediary. 

4. 

The intermediary shall conduct appropriate due diligence in selecting the third party 
and in monitoring of its performance. 

4.1  It  is  important  that  the  intermediary  exercises  due  care,  skill,  and  diligence  in  the 
selection of the third party to ensure that the third party has the ability and capacity to 
undertake the provision of the service effectively. 

4.2  The due diligence undertaken by an intermediary shall include assessment of: 

a) 

third  party’s  resources  and  capabilities,  including  financial  soundness,  to  perform 
the outsourcing work within the timelines fixed; 

b)  compatibility of the practices and systems of the third party with the intermediary’s 

requirements and objectives; 

Page 25 of 32 

 

c)  market  feedback  of  the  prospective  third  party’s  business  reputation  and  track 

record of their services rendered in the past; 

d) 

level of concentration of the outsourced arrangements with a single third party; and 

e) 

the environment of the foreign country where the third party is located. 

5. 

Outsourcing relationships shall be governed by written contracts / agreements / terms 
and  conditions  (as  deemed  appropriate)  {hereinafter  referred  to  as  “contract”}  that 
clearly  describe  all  material  aspects  of  the  outsourcing  arrangement,  including  the 
rights,  responsibilities  and  expectations  of  the  parties  to  the  contract,  client 
confidentiality issues, termination procedures, etc. 

5.1  Outsourcing  arrangements  shall  be  governed  by  a  clearly  defined  and  legally  binding 
written contract between the intermediary and each of the third parties, the nature and 
detail of which shall be appropriate to the materiality of the outsourced activity in relation 
to the ongoing business of the intermediary. 

5.2  Care shall be taken to ensure that the outsourcing contract: 

a)  clearly  defines  what  activities  are  going  to  be  outsourced,  including  appropriate 

service and performance levels; 

b)  provides for mutual rights, obligations and responsibilities of the intermediary and 

the third party, including indemnity by the parties; 

c)  provides  for  the  liability  of  the  third  party  to  the  intermediary  for  unsatisfactory 

performance/other breach of the contract 

d)  provides for the continuous monitoring and assessment by the intermediary of the 
third party so that any necessary corrective measures can be taken up immediately, 
i.e., the contract shall enable the intermediary to retain an appropriate level of control 
over the outsourcing and the right to intervene with appropriate measures to meet 
legal and regulatory obligations; 

e) 

includes, where necessary, conditions of sub-contracting by the third-party, i.e. the 
contract shall enable intermediary to maintain a similar control over the risks when 
a third party outsources to further third parties as in the original direct outsourcing; 

f)  has  unambiguous  confidentiality  clauses  to  ensure  protection  of  proprietary  and 
customer  data  during  the  tenure  of  the  contract  and  also  after  the  expiry  of  the 
contract; 

g)  specifies  the  responsibilities  of  the  third  party  with  respect  to  the  IT  security  and 
contingency  plans,  insurance  cover,  business  continuity  and  disaster  recovery 
plans, force majeure clause, etc.; 

h)  provides for preservation of the documents and data by third party ; 

i) 

j) 

provides for the mechanisms to resolve disputes arising from implementation of the 
outsourcing contract; 

provides  for  termination  of  the  contract,  termination  rights,  transfer  of  information 
and exit strategies; 

Page 26 of 32 

 

k)  addresses  additional  issues  arising  from  country  risks  and  potential  obstacles  in 
exercising  oversight  and  management  of  the  arrangements  when  intermediary 
outsources its activities to foreign third party. For example, the contract shall include 
choice-of-law provisions and agreement covenants and jurisdictional covenants that 
provide for adjudication of disputes between the parties under the laws of a specific 
jurisdiction; 

l) 

neither  prevents  nor  impedes  the  intermediary  from  meeting  its  respective 
regulatory obligations, nor the regulator from exercising its regulatory powers; and 

m)  provides for the intermediary and /or the regulator or the persons authorized by it to 
have the ability to inspect, access all books, records and information relevant to the 
outsourced activity with the third party. 

6. 

The intermediary and its third parties shall establish and maintain contingency plans, 
including a plan for disaster recovery and periodic testing of backup facilities. 

6.1  Specific  contingency  plans  shall  be  separately  developed  for  each  outsourcing 

arrangement, as is done in individual business lines. 

6.2  An  intermediary  shall  take  appropriate  steps  to  assess  and  address  the  potential 
consequence of a business disruption or other problems at the third party level. Notably, 
it shall consider contingency plans at the third party; co-ordination of contingency plans 
at both the intermediary and the third party; and contingency plans of the intermediary in 
the event of non-performance by the third party. 

6.3  To ensure business continuity, robust information technology security is a necessity. A 
breakdown  in  the  IT  capacity  may  impair  the  ability  of  the  intermediary  to  fulfill  its 
obligations  to  other  market  participants/clients/regulators  and  could  undermine  the 
privacy interests of its customers, harm the intermediary’s reputation, and may ultimately 
impact  on  its  overall  operational  risk  profile.  Intermediaries  shall,  therefore,  seek  to 
ensure  that  third  party  maintains  appropriate  IT  security  and  robust  disaster  recovery 
capabilities. 

6.4  Periodic tests of the critical security procedures and systems and review of the backup 
facilities  shall  be  undertaken  by  the  intermediary  to  confirm  the  adequacy  of the third 
party’s systems. 

7. 

The  intermediary  shall  take  appropriate  steps  to  require  that  third  parties  protect 
confidential information of both the intermediary and its customers from intentional 
or inadvertent disclosure to unauthorized persons. 

7.1  An  intermediary  that  engages  in  outsourcing  is  expected  to  take  appropriate  steps  to 
protect  its  proprietary  and  confidential  customer  information  and  ensure  that  it  is  not 
misused or misappropriated. 

7.2  The intermediary shall prevail upon the third party to ensure that the employees of the 
third party have limited access to the data handled and only on a “need to know” basis 
and the third party shall have adequate checks and balances to ensure the same. 

Page 27 of 32 

 

7.3  In  cases  where  the  third  party  is  providing  similar  services  to  multiple  entities,  the 
intermediary  shall  ensure  that  adequate  care  is  taken  by  the  third  party  to  build 
safeguards for data security and confidentiality. 

8. 

Potential  risks  posed  where  the  outsourced  activities  of  multiple  intermediaries  are 
concentrated with a limited number of third parties. 

In instances, where the third party acts as an outsourcing agent for multiple intermediaries, it 
is the duty of the third party and the intermediary to ensure that strong safeguards are put in 
place so that there is no co-mingling of information /documents, records and assets. 

Page 28 of 32 

 

4.2  Unauthenticated  news circulated  by  SEBI  registered  market  intermediaries through 

various modes of communication17 

4.2.1 

It has been observed by SEBI that unauthenticated news related to various scrips are 
circulated in blogs/ chat forums/ e-mail etc. by employees of Broking Houses/ Other 
Intermediaries  without  adequate  caution  as  mandated  in  the  Code  of  Conduct  for 
Stock Brokers and respective Regulations of various intermediaries registered with 
SEBI 

4.2.2  Further, in various instances, it has been observed that the Intermediaries do not have 
proper  internal  controls and  do  not  ensure  that proper  checks  and  balances  are  in 
place to govern the conduct of their employees. Due to lack of proper internal controls 
and poor training, employees of such intermediaries are sometimes not aware of the 
damage which can be caused by circulation of unauthenticated news or rumours. It 
is  a  well-established  fact  that  market  rumours  can  do  considerable  damage  to  the 
normal  functioning  and  behaviour  of  the  market  and  distort  the  price  discovery 
mechanisms. 

4.2.3 

In view of the above facts, Debenture Trustees are directed that: 

i)  Proper internal code of conduct and controls should be put in place. 

ii)  Employees/temporary  staff/voluntary  workers  etc.  employed/working  in  the 
Offices  of  SEBI  registered  Debenture  Trustees  do  not  encourage  or  circulate 
rumours or unverified information obtained from client, industry, any trade or any 
other sources without verification. 

iii)  Access 

to  Blogs/Chat 

forums/Messenger  sites  etc.  should  either  be 

restricted under supervision or access should not be allowed. 

iv)  Logs  for  any  usage  of  such  Blogs/Chat  forums/Messenger  sites  (called  by 
any  nomenclature)  shall  be  treated  as  records  and  the  same  should  be 
maintained  as  specified  by  the  respective  Regulations  which  govern  the 
concerned intermediary. 

v)  Employees should be directed that any market related news received by them 
either in their official mail/personal mail/blog or in any other manner, should be 
forwarded only after the same has been seen and approved by  the concerned 
SEBI registered Debenture Trustees' Compliance Officer. If an employee fails to 
do so, he/ she shall be deemed to have violated the various provisions contained 
in  SEBI  Act/  Rules/  Regulations  etc.  and  shall  be  liable  for  action.  The 
Compliance Officer shall also be held liable for breach of duty in this regard.18 

                                                           
17 Circular No. CIR/ISD/1/2011 dated March 23, 2011 
18 Circular No. CIR/ISD/2/2011 dated March 24, 2011 

Page 29 of 32 

 

4.3  General Guidelines for dealing with Conflicts of Interest of Debenture Trustees 

and their Associated Persons in Securities Market19 

4.3.1  All intermediaries, recognised stock exchanges, recognised clearing corporations and 
depositories  (hereinafter  collectively  referred  to  as  "such  entities")  are  presently 
governed by the provisions for avoidance of conflict of interest as mandated in the 
respective regulations read with relevant circulars issued from time to time by SEBI. 
On the lines of Principle 8 of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO) Objectives and Principles of Securities Regulations, it has been decided to 
put  in  place  comprehensive  guidelines  to  collectively  cover  such  entities  and  their 
associated persons, for elimination of their conflict of interest, as detailed hereunder. 

4.3.2  Such entities shall adhere to these guidelines for avoiding or dealing with or managing 
conflict of interest. They shall be responsible for educating their associated persons 
for compliance of these guidelines. 

4.3.3  For the purpose of these guidelines "intermediaries" and "associated persons" have 
the same meaning as defined in Securities and Exchange Board of India Certification 
of Associated Persons in the Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007.  

4.3.4  Such entities and their associated persons shall, 

i) 

lay  down,  with  active  involvement  of senior  management,  policies  and  internal 
procedures to identify and avoid or to deal or manage actual or potential conflict 
of  interest,  develop  an  internal  code  of  conduct  governing  operations  and 
formulate standards of appropriate conduct in the performance of their activities, 
and ensure to communicate such policies, procedures and code to all concerned; 

ii)  at all times maintain high standards of integrity in the conduct of their business; 

iii)  ensure fair treatment of their clients and not discriminate amongst them; 

iv)  ensure that their personal interest does not, at any time conflict with their duty to 
their clients and client’s interest always takes primacy in their advice, investment 
decisions and transactions; 

v)  make appropriate disclosure to the clients of possible source or potential areas 
of conflict of interest which would impair their ability to render fair, objective and 
unbiased services; 

vi)  endeavor to reduce opportunities for conflict through prescriptive measures such 
as through information barriers to block or hinder the flow of information from one 
department/ unit to another, etc.; 

vii)  place  appropriate  restrictions  on  transactions  in  securities  while  handling  a 
mandate of issuer or client in respect of such security so as to avoid any conflict; 

viii)  not deal in securities while in possession of material non - published information 

ix)  not  to  communicate  the  material  non-published  information  while  dealing  in 

securities on behalf of others 

x)  not in any way contribute to manipulate the demand for or supply of securities in 

the market or to influence prices of securities; 

Page 30 of 32 

 

xi)  not have an incentive structure that encourages sale of products not suiting the 

risk profile of their clients; 

xii)  not share information received from clients or pertaining to them, obtained as a 

result of their dealings, for their personal interest; 

4.3.5  The  Boards  of  such  entities  shall  put  in  place  systems  for  implementation  of  this 
circular  and  provide  necessary  guidance  enabling  identification,  elimination  or 
management of conflict of interest situations. The Boards shall review the compliance 
of this circular periodically. 

4.3.6  The  said  guidelines  shall  be  in  addition  to  the  provisions,  if  any,  contained  in 
respective  regulations/  circulars  issued  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time  regarding 
dealing with conflict of interest, in respect of such entities 

 

 

                                                           
19 SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 5/ 2013 dated August 27, 2013 

Page 31 of 32 

 

 

SCHEDULE 

Circulars 

 

1.  Circular No. SEBI/MIRSD/DR-2/SRP/Cir - 2/ 2005 dated January 4, 2005. 

2.  Circular No. MIRSD/DPS III//Cir-01/07 dated January 22, 2007. 

3.  Circular No. MIRSD/ DPSIII/ Cir-21/ 08 dated July 7, 2008. 

4.  Circular No. CIR/ISD/1/2011dated March 23, 2011. 

5.  Circular No. CIR/ISD/2/2011 dated March 24, 2011. 

6.  Circular CIR/MIRSD/14/2011 dated August 02, 2011 

7.  Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/24/2011dated December 15, 2011. 

8.  Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/25/2011 dated December 19, 2011. 

9.  Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/3/2013 dated March 15, 2013. 

10. Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 5/ 2013 dated August 27, 2013 

11. Circular No. CIR/IMD/DF/17/2013 dated October 22, 2013. 

12. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/3/2014 dated August 28, 2014 

13. Circular No. CIR/ OIAE/ 1/ 2014 dated Dec 18, 2014. 

14. Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/38 dated May 02, 2017. 

15. Circular SEBI/HO/GSD/T&A/CIR/P/2017/42 dated May 16, 2017 

16. Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD3/CIR/P/2017/ 72 dated June 30, 2017. 

 

 

Page 32 of 32 

