 

MASTER CIRCULAR FOR CREDIT RATING AGENCIES 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

       May 02, 2018  

 
 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP2/CIR/P/2018/76 
 
 
To,  
 
All Credit Rating Agencies 
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 

Subject: Master Circular for Credit Rating Agencies 

 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  has  been  issuing  various  circulars/ 
guidelines from time to time. In order to enable the industry and other users to have access 
to  all  the  applicable  circulars/  directions  at  one  place,  Master  Circular  for  Credit  Rating 
Agencies (CRAs) has been prepared.  
 
This Master Circular is a compilation of the circulars issued by SEBI up to March 31, 2018, 
which are operational as on the date of this circular. 
 
In  case  of  any  inconsistency  between  the  Master  Circular  and  the  applicable  circulars,  the 
contents of the relevant circular shall prevail. 
 
The Master  Circular  is  a  compilation  of  all  the  existing/ applicable circulars issued  by  
the  Market  Intermediaries  Regulation  and  Supervision  Department    of    SEBI  to    CRAs. 
Efforts  have  been  made  to incorporate applicable  provisions  of existing  circulars  issued  
by  other  Departments of SEBI relevant to CRAs. 
 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
Surabhi Gupta 
Deputy General Manager  
Phone No.: 022 - 26449315 
Email ID: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

 

1 

 
 

 

 

Table of Contents 

SECTION 1: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS 

1.1  Online Registration Mechanism for Securities Market Intermediaries 

1.2 

Digital Mode of Payment 

1.3  Grant of Prior approval for change in control to Credit Rating Agencies 

1.4 

Surrender of Certificate of Registration 

 

SECTION 2: RATING OPERATIONS 

2.1 

Standardization of Rating Symbols and Definitions 

2.2  Operations Manual/ Internal governing document 

2.3 

Rating Process 

2.4  Monitoring and Review of Ratings 

2.5 

2.6 

2.7 

2.8 

2.9 

Standardization of Press Release for Rating Actions 

Rating Agreement between the Issuer and the CRA 

Dealing with Conflict of interest 

Unsolicited Credit Ratings 

Policy in respect of non-co-operation by the issuer  

2.10  Withdrawal of ratings 

2.11  Sharing of information regarding issuer companies between Debenture 

Trustees and Credit Rating Agencies 

2.12  Rating of instruments other than “securities” 

 

SECTION 3: REPORTING AND DISCLOSURES 

Default Studies 

Periodic Disclosures 

Continuous Disclosures and Reporting 

Rating Criteria, Rating Process and their Disclosure 

Periodical report to be submitted to SEBI 

Centralized Database for Corporate Bonds/ Debentures 

3.1 

3.2 

3.3 

3.4 

3.5 

3.6 

 

SECTION 4: INTERNAL AUDIT FOR CREDIT RATING AGENCIES (CRAs) 

4.1 

4.2 

 

Internal Audit for Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) 

Requirements related to Internal Audit of CRAs  

2 

 
 

 

SECTION 5: REDRESSAL OF INVESTOR GRIEVANCES 

5.1 

5.2 

Designated e-mail ID for regulatory communication with SEBI 

Redressal of investor grievances through SEBI Complaints Redress System 
(SCORES) platform 

5.3 

Information regarding Grievance Redressal Mechanism 

 

SECTION 6: OTHERS 

6.1  Guidelines on Outsourcing of Activities by Credit Rating Agencies 

6.2 

Unauthenticated news circulated by SEBI Registered Market Intermediaries 
through various modes of communication 

6.3  General Guidelines for dealing with Conflicts of Interest of Credit Rating 

Agencies and their Associated Persons in Securities Market 

 

SCHEDULE: List of Circulars 

 

 

 
 
 

3 

SECTION 1: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS 

 

 
 

 

1.1  Online Registration Mechanism for Securities Market Intermediaries1 

1.1.1.  SEBI has operationalized SEBI Intermediary Portal (https://siportal.sebi.gov.in) for 
the  intermediaries,  inter  alia  for  CRAs,  to  submit  all  the  registration  applications 
online.  The  SEBI 
for 
registration,  processing  of  application,  grant  of  final  registration,  application  for 
surrender /  cancellation,  submission  of  periodical  reports,  requests for  change of 
name/  address/  other  details,  etc.,  Link  for  SEBI  Intermediary  Portal  is  also 
available on SEBI website – www.sebi.gov.in. 

include  online  application 

Intermediary  Portal  shall 

 

1.1.2.  All  applications  for  registration/  surrender/other  requests  will  be  made  through 
SEBI Intermediary Portal only. The applicants will be separately required to submit 
relevant  documents  viz.  declarations/  undertakings  required  as  a  part  of 
application  forms  prescribed  in  relevant  regulations,  in  physical  form,  only  for 
records without impacting the online processing of applications for registration. 

 

1.1.3.  In  case  of  any  queries  and  clarifications  with  regard  to  the  SEBI  Intermediary 
intermediaries  may  contact  on  022-26449364  or  may  write  at 

Portal, 
portalhelp@sebi.gov.in. 

 
1.2  Digital Mode of Payment2 
 

1.2.1.   SEBI  has  notified  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees  and  Mode  of  Payment) 
(Amendment)  Regulations,  2017  on  March  06,  2017  to  enable  digital  mode  of 
payment  (RTGS/NEFT/IMPS  etc.)  of  fees/penalties/remittance/other  payments 
etc.  
 

1.2.2.  Pursuant to above, SEBI has been receiving direct credit of amounts from various 

intermediaries / other entities.  
 

1.2.3.  In order to identify and account such direct credit in the SEBI account, it has been 
decided  that  the  various  intermediaries  /  other  entities  shall  provide  the 
information as mentioned in Annexure to SEBI once the payment is made.  
 

1.2.4.  The above information should be emailed to the respective department(s) as well 

as to Treasury & Accounts division at tad@sebi.gov.in.  

                                                           
1 SEBI Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/38 dated May 02, 2017.  
2 SEBI Circular SEBI/HO/GSD/T&A/CIR/P/2017/42 dated May 16, 2017 

 

4 

 

Annexure 

Date 

Department 

of SEBI 

Name of Intermediary/ 

Other Entities  

Type of 

Intermediary  

SEBI Registration 
Number (if any)  

 

 

 

PAN  

Amount (in `)  

Purpose of Payment 

 

 

(including the period for 

which payment was 
made e.g. quarterly, 

annually)  

 

Bank name and 
Account number 

from which 

payment is remitted  

 

UTR No. 

 

5 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

1.3  Grant of Prior approval for change in control to Credit Rating Agencies3 
 

1.3.1.  All  registered  CRAs  are  required  to  obtain  prior  approval  of  SEBI  in  case  of 

change in control. 

 

1.3.2.  In  case  a  CRA  holds  multiple  registrations  with  SEBI,  it  shall  make  only  one 
application  to  SEBI  addressed  to  "Chief  General  Manager,  MIRSD,  SEBI" 
accompanied  by  the  following  information  about  itself,  the  acquirer  and  the 
directors/ partners of the acquirer; 

 
a.  Whether  any  application  was  made  in  the  past  to  SEBI  seeking  registration  in 

any capacity but it was not granted? If yes, details thereof. 

b.  Whether any action has been initiated / taken under SCRA/SEBI Act or rules and 
regulations made thereunder? If yes,  status thereof along with corrective action 
taken to avoid such violations in the future. The acquirer shall also confirm that it 
shall honour all past liabilities / obligations of the applicant, if any. 

c.  Whether any investor complaint is pending? If yes, steps taken and confirmation 

that the acquirer shall resolve the same. 

d.  Details of litigation, if any. 
e.  That all the fees due to SEBI have been paid. 
f.  That there will not be any change in the Board of Directors of incumbent, till the 

time prior approval is granted. 

g.  That  the  incumbent  shall  inform  all  its  existing  investors  /  clients  in  order  to 
enable them to take informed decision regarding their continuance or otherwise 
with the entity with new management. 

 

1.3.3.  The prior approval granted by SEBI shall be valid for a period of 180 days from the 

date of communication. 

1.4  Surrender of Certificate of Registration4 

1.4.1 

If a CRA wishes to surrender the registration voluntarily, it shall transfer, wherever 
relevant,  it’s  existing  business/  client  accounts  to  another  SEBI  registered 
intermediary, before they make request to SEBI for accepting the surrender of the 
certificate of registration. 

 
1.4.2  The  CRA  may,  if  it  so  desires,  make  a  representation  for  dispensing  with  the 
procedure, along with the application, for surrender in terms of the first proviso to 
Regulation  33B  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008 in the prescribed format placed as Annexure. 
 
In  all  cases  of  transfer  of  business  or  client  accounts  to  another  registered 
intermediary, the clients shall not be subjected to any additional cost. 

1.4.3 

                                                           
3 SEBI Circular CIR/MIRSD/14/2011 dated August 02, 2011. 
4 SEBI Circular No. SEBI/MIRSD/DR-2/SRP/Cir - 2/ 2005 dated January 4, 2005. 

 

6 

 
 

 

Annexure 

Letter of Representation for Credit Rating Agency 

To, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
 
 Dear Sir, 
 
 Sub:  Surrender  of  Certificate  of  Registration  as  Credit  Rating  Agency,  Registration 
No.  ___________  . 
 
1.  We hereby surrender our certificate of registration as Credit Rating Agency. 
 
2.  We  enclose  the  original  certificate  of  registration  (or  indemnity  in  case  the  certificate  is 

lost or stolen) for cancellation. 

 

3.  We hereby confirm that: 

a.  no complaint /disciplinary proceeding is pending against us;  
b.  no investigation / inquiry by SEBI is pending against us with respect to our activities 

as a Credit Rating Agency;  

c.  as on date of application, we have paid all fees;  
d.  we  shall  continue  to  be  liable  for  all  liabilities/obligations  (including  monetary 
penalties, if any) for violations, if any, of the provisions of the SEBI Act and the SEBI 
(Credit Rating Agency) Regulations, 1999 that have taken place before our surrender 
of certificate of registration;  

e.  all  our  current  assignments  as  a  Credit  Rating  Agency  have  been  either  duly 
terminated  or  transferred  to  another  registered  Credit  Rating  Agency  _____  with 
registration no.___ ;  

f.  we have issued a public notice in a widely circulated national and a vernacular daily 
dated________  informing  surrender  of  our  registration  as  Credit  Rating  Agency 
(Please enclose a clipping of the said public notice);  

g.  we  have  notified  the  Depositories  and  all  the  stock  exchanges  where  our  client 

companies are listed about the surrender of our registration.  
 

4.  *We hereby request SEBI to dispense with the procedure laid down in Regulation 16(1) 
of  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 
Regulations, 2002 while processing our request for surrender of certificate of registration. 

 
  Thanking you, 
 

Yours faithfully, 
 
Name: 
(Whole time/Managing Director/Principal Officer) 

* Please strike off, if not applicable. 

 

7 

 
 

 

SECTION 2: RATING OPERATIONS 

 
2.1  Standardization of Rating Symbols and Definitions5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.1.1.  It  is  felt  that  common  rating  symbols  and  definitions  are  needed  (i)  for  easy 
understanding of the rating symbols and their meanings by the investors, and (ii) 
to achieve high standards of integrity and fairness in ratings. 

2.1.2.  The  issue  was  discussed  in  the  meeting  of  Corporate  Bonds  and  Securitisation 
Advisory  Committee  of  SEBI.  The  Committee  recommended  that  the  rating 
symbols and their definitions should be standardised. 

2.1.3.  Pursuant  to  the  above,  in  consultation  with  the  CRAs  and  considering  the 
international  practices,  standardised  symbols  and  their  definitions  have  been 
devised for the following: 

a. Long term debt instruments; 
b. Short term debt instruments; 
c. Long term structured finance instruments; 
d. Short term structured finance instruments; 
e. Long term mutual fund schemes; and 
f.  Short term mutual fund schemes. 

2.1.4.  The  symbols  and  definitions  as  given  in  Annexures  1-6  shall  be  used  for  the 

ratings/ reviews by the CRAs. 
 

2.1.5.  A CRA may undertake rating of structured finance products, namely, instruments/ 
pay-outs  resulting  from  securitization  transactions.  In  such  cases,  apart  from 
following  all  the  applicable  requirements  in  case  of  non-structured  ratings,  the 
following additional requirements shall also be complied with:6 

a.  The  rating  symbols  shall  clearly  indicate  that  the  ratings  are  for  structured 

finance products. 

b.  The  CRA  shall  include  all  the  assumptions/  covenants  made  while  carrying 

out the review of such products in the Press Release.7 

 

2.1.6.  For  structured  products/  market  linked  debentures,  the  credit  rating  shall  bear  a 
prefix ‘PP-MLD’ denoting Principal Protected Market Linked Debentures, followed 
by the standardized rating symbols for long/ short term debt on the lines specified 
below.8 

 

                                                           
5 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/4/2011 dated June 15, 2011 
6 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/ CRA/ 6/ 2010 May 3, 2010 
7 Circular No. SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ MIRSD4/ CIR/ P/ 2017/ 71 dated June 30, 2017 
8 Cir. /IMD/DF/17/2011 dated September 28, 2011 

 

8 

 
 

 

ANNEXURE 1 

 

Rating Symbols and Definitions for Long Term Debt Instruments 

 
Long  term  debt  instruments:  The  instruments  with  original  maturity  exceeding  one 
year 
 
Rating symbols should have CRA’s first name as prefix 
 
AAA  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  the  highest  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry lowest credit risk. 
 
AA  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  high  degree  of  safety  regarding 
timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry very low credit risk. 
 
A - Instruments with this rating are considered to have adequate degree of safety regarding 
timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry low credit risk. 
 
BBB  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  moderate  degree  of  safety 
regarding  timely  servicing  of  financial  obligations.  Such  instruments  carry  moderate  credit 
risk. 
 
BB - Instruments with this rating are considered to have moderate risk of default regarding 
timely servicing of financial obligations. 
 
B - Instruments with this rating are considered to have high risk of default regarding timely 
servicing of financial obligations. 
 
C  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  very  high  risk  of  default  regarding 
timely servicing of financial obligations. 
 
D - Instruments with this rating are in default or are expected to be in default soon. 
 
Modifiers {"+" (plus) / "-"(minus)} can be used with the rating symbols for the 
categories AA to C. The modifiers reflect the comparative standing within the 
category. 
 
 

 

9 

 
 

 

 

ANNEXURE 2 

Rating Symbols and Definitions for Short Term Debt instruments 

 
Short term debt instruments: The instruments with original maturity of up to one year 
 
Rating symbols should have CRA’s first name as prefix 
 
A1  –  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  very  strong  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligations. Such instruments carry lowest credit risk. 
 
A2  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  strong  degree  of  safety  regarding 
timely payment of financial obligations. Such instruments carry low credit risk. 
 
A3 - Instruments with this rating are considered to have moderate degree of safety regarding 
timely  payment  of  financial  obligations.  Such  instruments  carry  higher  credit  risk  as 
compared to instruments rated in the two higher categories. 
 
A4- Instruments with this rating are considered to have minimal degree of safety regarding 
timely payment of financial obligations. Such instruments carry very high credit risk and are 
susceptible to default. 
 
D - Instruments with this rating are in default or expected to be in default on maturity. 
 
Modifier {"+" (plus)} can be used with the rating symbols for the categories A1 to A4. 
The modifier reflects the comparative standing within the category. 

 
 
 

10 

 

 
 

 

ANNEXURE 3 

 

Rating Symbols and Definitions for Long Term Structured Finance Instruments 

 
Long  term  structured  finance  instruments:  The  instruments  with  original  maturity 
exceeding one year 
 
Rating symbols should have CRA’s first name as prefix 
 
AAA (SO) - Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree of safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry lowest credit risk. 
 
AA  (SO)  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  high  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry very low credit risk. 
 
A  (SO)  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  adequate  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such instruments carry low credit risk. 
 
BBB (SO) - Instruments with this rating are considered to have moderate degree of  safety 
regarding  timely  servicing  of  financial  obligations.  Such  instruments  carry  moderate  credit 
risk. 
 
BB(SO)  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  moderate  risk  of  default 
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. 
 
B(SO)  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  high  risk  of  default  regarding 
timely servicing of financial obligations. 
 
C  (SO)  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  very  high  likelihood  of  default 
regarding timely payment of financial obligations. 
 
D (SO) - Instruments with this rating are in default or are expected to be in default soon. 
 
Modifiers  {"+"  (plus)  /  "-"(minus)}  can  be  used  with  the  rating  symbols  for  the 
categories AA(SO) to C(SO). The modifiers reflect the comparative standing within the 
category. 
 
 

 

11 

 
 

 

ANNEXURE 4 

 

Rating Symbols and Definitions for Short Term Structured Finance Instruments 

 
Short term  structured finance instruments: The instruments with original maturity of 
upto one year 
 
Rating symbols should have CRA’s first name as prefix 
 
A1 (SO) – Instruments with this rating are considered to have very strong degree of safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligation. Such instruments carry lowest credit risk. 
 
A2  (SO)  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  strong  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligation. Such instruments carry low credit risk. 
 
A3  (SO)  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  moderate  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligation. Such instruments carry higher credit risk as 
compared to instruments rated in the two higher categories. 
 
A4  (SO)  -  Instruments  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  minimal  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely payment of financial obligation. Such instruments carry very high credit risk 
and are susceptible to default. 
 
D (SO) - Instruments with this rating are in default or expected to be in default on maturity. 
 
Modifier {"+" (plus)} can be used with the rating symbols for the categories A1(SO) to 
A4(SO). The modifier reflects the comparative standing within the category. 
 
 

 

12 

 
 

 

 

ANNEXURE 5 

Rating Symbols and Definitions for Long Term Debt Mutual Fund Schemes 

 
Long  term  debt  mutual  fund  schemes:  The  debt  mutual  fund  schemes  that  have  an 
original maturity exceeding one year. 
 
Rating symbols should have CRA’s first name as prefix 
 
AAAmfs  –  Schemes  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  the  highest  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely receipt of payments from the investments that they have made. 
 
AAmfs  –  Schemes  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  the  high  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely receipt of payments from the investments that they have made. 
 
Amfs  –  Schemes  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  the  adequate  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely receipt of payments from the investments that they have made. 
 
BBBmfs - Schemes with this rating are considered to have the moderate degree of safety 
regarding timely receipt of payments from the investments that they have made. 
 
BBmfs - Schemes with this rating are considered to have moderate risk of default regarding 
timely receipt of payments from the investments that they have made. 
 
Bmfs - Schemes with this rating are considered to have high risk of default regarding timely 
receipt of timely receipt of payments from the investments that they have made. 
 
Cmfs - Schemes with this rating are considered to have very high risk of default regarding 
timely receipt of timely receipt of payments from the investments that they have made. 
 
Modifiers  {"+"  (plus)  /  "-"(minus)}  can  be  used  with  the  rating  symbols  for  the 
categories AAmfs to Cmfs. The modifiers reflect the comparative standing within the 
category. 
 
 

 

13 

 
 

 

 

ANNEXURE 6 

Rating Symbols and Definitions for Short Term Debt Mutual Fund Schemes 

 
Short  term  debt  mutual  fund  schemes:  The  debt  mutual  fund  schemes  that  have  an 
original maturity of upto one year. 
 
Rating symbols should have CRA’s first name as prefix 
 
A1mfs  -  Schemes  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  very  strong  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely receipt of payments from the investments that they have made. 
 
A2mfs - Schemes with this rating are considered to have strong degree of safety regarding 
timely receipt of payments from the investments that they have made. 
 
A3mfs  -  Schemes  with  this  rating  are  considered  to  have  moderate  degree  of  safety 
regarding timely receipt of payments from the investments that they have made. 
 
A4mfs - Schemes with this rating are considered to have minimal degree of safety regarding 
timely receipt of payments from the investments that they have made. 
 
Modifier {"+" (plus)} can be used with the rating symbols for the categories A1mfs to 
A4mfs. The modifier reflects the comparative standing within the category. 

 

14 

 
 

 

2.2  Operations Manual/ Internal governing document9 
 

2.2.1.  The  Operations  Manual/  Internal  governing  document,  formulated  by  the  CRA, 
shall,  inter-alia,  cover  operating  guidelines,  criteria,  policies  and  procedures 
related to the rating process.  
 

2.2.2.  The contents of the Operations Manual/ Internal governing document, as well as 
any  changes  to  the  same,  shall  be  communicated  to  employees  promptly,  and 
training of employees on the same shall be conducted at regular intervals.  

 

2.2.3.  The  following  shall  be  specified  in  the  Operations  Manual/  Internal  governing 

document of CRAs:  

 

 

a. Basic Minimum information required for conducting the Rating Exercise  
b. External entities (bankers, auditors etc.) that need to be contacted  
c. Mode  of  seeking  information  from  external  entities.  CRAs  should  endeavour 

to obtain such information/confirmation in writing.  

d. Policy  regarding  internal  approvals  and  timelines  at  each  step  of  the  Rating 

Exercise  

e. Policy  regarding  monitoring  and  review  of  ratings,  including  the  timelines 

within which such review is to be completed  

2.2.4.  Rating  Criteria:  At  the  least,  the  following  rating  criteria  shall  be  formulated  by 

each CRA and should be reviewed periodically:  
 
Criteria on:  

a.  Default recognition and post-default curing period (Instrument-wise definition 

of default to be followed by all CRAs is provided in the Annexure)  

b.  Financial  ratios  (Explaining  how  a  CRA  analyses  various  financial  ratios 
including  adjustments  made  to  financial  statements  for  the  interpretation  of 
financial ratios)  

c.  Consolidation of companies  
d.  Parent support/group/government support  
e.  Manufacturing, trading companies, and services sector  
f.  Banks and financial institutions  
g.  Securitization transactions  
h.  Public finance  
i. 

Infrastructure ratings  

2.2.5.  Rating Process and Policies: Each CRA shall frame detailed guidelines on the 

following: 
 

a.  General nature of compensation arrangements with rated entities  
b.  Policy  for  appeal  by  Issuer  against  the  rating  being  assigned  to  its 

 

 

instruments  

c.  Policy for placing ratings on credit watch  
d.  Guidelines on what constitutes non-cooperation.  
e.  Gift policy  

                                                           
9 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119 dated November 1, 2016  

 

15 

f.  Confidentiality policy  
g.  Policy on outsourcing of activities  
h.  Policy on provisional ratings  
i.  FAQs on ratings  
j.  Disclosure on managing conflict of interest 

 

16 

 

 

 

 

Facilities 

Annexure: Instrument-wise definition of default 

Rating 
Scale 

Proposed Definition of Default 

 

Fund-based facilities & Facilities with pre-defined repayment schedule  

Term Loan 
Working Capital Term Loan  
Working  Capital  Demand  Loan 
(WCDL)  
Debentures/Bonds  

Long Term 

Certificate  of  Deposits 
Fixed Deposits (FD) 

(CD)/ 

Short  Term/ 
Long term 

Commercial Paper 
Packing  Credit 
credit) 
Buyer’s Credit  

(pre-shipment 

Short term 
Short Term 

Short Term 

A  delay  of  1  day  even  of  1  rupee  (of 
principal  or 
 
the 
scheduled repayment date. 

interest) 

from 

 

than  30 

for  more 

Overdue/unpaid 
days.     
Continuously overdrawn for more than 
30 days.  
Overdue/unpaid 
days.     

for  more 

than  30 

Bill 
discounting/Foreign 
discounting 
(BP/BD/FBP/FBDN)  
Fund-based facilities & No Pre - Defined Repayment Schedule  

Purchase/Bill 
bill 
/Negotiation 

Short Term 

Cash Credit 

Overdraft  

Long Term 

Short Term 

Continuously overdrawn for more than 
30 days.  
Continuously overdrawn for more than 
30 days. 

Non fund-based facilities  

Letter of credit (LC) 

Short Term 

Bank 
(BG)(Performance/ Financial) 
Other Scenarios  

Guarantee 

Short Term 

When 
rescheduled: 

rated 

instrument 

is 

  

Curing Period 

 

 Overdue  for  more  than  30  days  from 
the day of devolvement. 
Amount  remaining  unpaid  from  30 
days from invocation of the facility. 

shall 

Non-servicing of the debt (principal as 
well  as  interest)  as  per  the  existing 
repayment  terms  in  anticipation  of  a 
favourable response from the banks of 
restructuring 
their 
accepting 
application/ 
proposal 
be 
considered as a default. 
Rescheduling  of  the  debt  instrument 
by  the  lenders  prior  to  the  due  date 
of payment  will  not  be 
treated  as 
default,  unless  the  same  is  done  to 
avoid default or bankruptcy. 
90  Days  –  for  Default  to  Speculative 
Grade  and  generally  365  Days  for 
Default to Investment Grade. 

 
*For bank loan ratings, default recognition will need to be in line with the RBI guidance. 
 

 

17 

2.2.6.  Accountability of Rating Analysts of CRAs:  

 

 

 

a. Roles and responsibilities of the rating analysts of CRAs shall be clearly laid 

out in the CRA’s Operations Manual/ Internal governing document.  
 

b. Analysts shall be responsible for undertaking the rating process and adhering 
to  the  timelines  as  specified  in  the  Operations  Manual/  Internal  governing 
document.  

2.2.7.  Functioning and Evaluation of Rating Committees/Sub-Committees  

a. Each  CRA  shall  define  the  obligations,  responsibilities,  areas  of  conflict  of 
interest, etc. of rating committee members in its Operations Manual/ Internal 
governing  document.  The  following  shall  be  specifically  set  out  in  the 
Operations  Manual/  Internal  governing  document  of  each  CRA  and 
disclosed on its website  

i.  Eligibility for becoming committee/sub-committee members  
ii.  Composition of committee/sub-committee  
iii.  Minimum quorum required  
iv.  Duties of committee members  
v.  System of voting and recording of dissent.  
vi.  Managing conflict of interest in the rating committee/sub-committee.  

b. Persons  who  have  business  responsibility  shall  not  be  part  of  the  Rating 
Committee.  However,  the  MD/  CEO  may  be  a  member  of  the  Rating 
Committee 
the  Rating  Committee  members  are 
independent.  ("Independent"  would  mean  people  not  having  any  pecuniary 
relationship with the CRA or any of its employees).  

the  majority  of 

if 

c. Minutes  of  each  case  discussed  at  the  committee  shall  be  maintained  and 
signed  (digitally  or  manually)  by  the  Chairperson.  Standard  format  for  the 
Minutes of Rating Committee Meeting is placed at the Annexure below.  

d. The  process  of  discussion  of  case  by  circulation  must  be  avoided,  unless 

there is urgency in taking a rating action.  

e. Chairperson(s) of each rating committee/sub-committee of the CRA shall, on 
an  annual  basis,  undertake  a  review  of  the  decisions  taken  by  the 
Committees in that year, which would, inter alia, include:  

 

i.  Ratings assigned by the rating committees/ sub-committees including 
ratings assigned based on best available information in cases of non-
cooperation by the issuer.  

ii.  Sharp changes in ratings.  

The review report thereof shall be placed before the Board of the CRA.  

 

18 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Annexure: Summary Record of the Rating Committee Meeting (RCM) 

 

  

A. Preliminary Information 
 

  Date of the RCM 
  Names of all the persons attending the RCM 
  Names  of  rating  committee  members  present  (only  rating  committee  members  will 

have voting rights) 

  Name of the chairperson of the meeting 
  Any other special invitees (if any) 

 

B. Information Relating to Rating Decision 
 
Following information/details of each rating decision shall be captured: 
 

  Name of the rated issuer/entity 
  Rating exercise i.e. whether it is a fresh rating or review/ surveillance case  
  Rating  outcome  i.e.  rating  assigned,  along  with  rating  outlook  and  special  rating 

symbol, if any 

  Summary of key issues discussed during the RCM 
  Dissent (if any) by any RCM member  

 
C. Authentication and Maintenance of Rating Committee Summary  

 

  The  summary  of  the  RCM  shall  be  approved/  signed  by  the  Chairperson,  either 

manually or digitally. 

  The approved/ signed summary shall be maintained either manually or electronically.  

 
 

 

19 

 
 

2.3  Rating Process10 
 

 

 

 

2.3.1.  A CRA shall keep the following records in support of each credit rating and review/ 

surveillance thereof: 

a. The important factors underlying the credit rating and sensitivity of such credit 

rating to changes in these factors, 

b. Summary  of  discussions  with  the  issuer,  its  management,  auditors  and 

bankers which have a bearing on the credit rating, 

c. Decisions  of  the  rating  committee(s),  including  voting  details  and  notes  of 

dissent, if any, by any member of the rating committee, and 

d. If a quantitative model is a substantial component of the credit rating process, 
the rationale for any material difference between the credit rating implied by 
the model and the credit rating actually assigned. 

e. These  records  should  be  maintained  till  five  years  after  maturity  of 
instruments and be made available to auditors and regulatory bodies  when 
sought by them. 

2.3.2.  The CRAs shall at all times observe high standards and fairness in conduct of the 
business and any act of omission or commission in contravention of the provisions 
of clauses 12 and/or 23 of Code of Conduct , as specified under Third Schedule of 
the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999, in letter or spirit, may result 
in violation of the provisions of section 12A of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India Act,1992 and SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 2003. 11 

 
 
2.4  Monitoring and Review of Ratings12 
 

2.4.1.  Monitoring of repayment schedules: 

 

a.  CRAs  have  to  be  proactive  in  early  detection  of  defaults/  delays  in  making 
payments.  In  this  regard,  CRAs  are  required  to  track  the  servicing  of  debt 
obligations  for  each  instrument  rated  by  them,  ISIN-wise,  and  look  for  potential 
deterioration  in  financials  which  might  lead  to  defaults/  delays,  particularly 
before/ around the due date(s) for servicing of debt obligations, on the basis of 
monitoring of indicators including, but not restricted to, the following: 

 

i. 

Earnings  Before 
Interest,  Taxes,  Depreciation,  and  Amortization 
(EBITDA)  not  being  sufficient  to  meet  even  the  interest  payments  for 
last 3 years 

ii.  Deterioration in liquidity conditions of the Issuer 
iii. 
iv. 

Abnormal increase in borrowing cost of the Issuer 
Any  other  information  indicating  deterioration  in  credit  quality/  debt 
servicing capability of the Issuer. 

 

                                                           
10 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/CRA/6/2010 dated May 3, 2010 
11 Circular No. SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ MIRSD4/ CIR/ P/ 2016/ 119 dated November 1, 2016 
12 Circular No. SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ MIRSD4/ CIR/ P/ 2017/ 71 dated June 30, 2017 

 

20 

b.  The CRA shall also monitor the Exchange website for disclosures made by the 

 

Issuer in this regard.  

 

2.4.2.  Material Events requiring a review:  

 

a.  CRAs  shall  carry  out  a  review  of  the  ratings  upon  the  occurrence  of  or 
announcement/  news  of  material  events  including,  but  not  restricted  to,  the 
following: 

i.  Quarterly/ Half-yearly/ Annual results 
ii.  Merger/ Demerger/ Amalgamation/ Acquisition 
iii.  Corporate debt restructuring, reference to BIFR and winding-up petition 

iv. 

v. 
vi. 

filed by any party /creditors. 
Significant  decline  in  share  prices/bond  prices  of  the  issuer  or  group 
companies which is not linked to overall market movement 
Significant increase in debt level or cost of debt of the issuer company 
Losses,  sharp  revenue  de-growth  etc.  based  on  publicly  disclosed 
financial statements, which are not in line with CRA’s earlier estimates  

vii.  Granting,  withdrawal,  surrender,  cancellation  or  suspension  of  key 

licenses or regulatory approvals. 

viii.  Disruption/  commencement/  postponement  of  operations  of  any  unit  or 

ix. 
x. 

division of the listed entity. 
Any attachment or prohibitory orders against the Issuer 
Any rating action taken by an International Rating Agency  with respect 
to rating assigned to the Issuer/ Instruments issued by the Issuer. 

 

 

2.4.3.  ‘No Default Statement’ to be sought from the Issuer on a monthly basis: 

 

a.  In order to enable timely recognition of default by the CRA, the CRA shall seek 
a  ‘No  Default  Statement  (NDS)’  from  the  Issuer  at  the  end  of  each  month, 
which shall be provided to the CRA by the Issuer on the first working day of the 
next month.  
 

b.  The NDS shall require the Issuer to explicitly confirm to the CRA that it has not 

delayed on any payment of interest/ principal in the previous month.  
 

c.  A standardized format of the NDS is provided as Annexure.  

 
 

21 

 

 

Annexure: Standard Template for No Default Statement (Minimum Information 

be sought) 

 

 
 

 

To 

<CRA Name and Address> 

Dear Sir/ Madam, 

1.  We  hereby  Confirm  that  as  on  date  there  are  no  Over  dues  or  default  on  our  debt 

obligations 

2.  We also confirm that in the month ended <Month and Year name>, there has been 

no instance of delay in servicing of our debt obligations. 

3.  We  also  confirm  that  there  has  not  been  any  instance  of  devolvement  of  Letter  of 

Credit in the month ended <Month and Year name>. 

4.  We also confirm that in the month ended <Month and Year name>, there has been 

no instance of delay in servicing of debt obligations guaranteed by us. 

5.  We also confirm that there has been no overdraw of the drawing power  sanctioned 
by the bank for a period of more than 30 consecutive days in case of bank facilities 
which do not have scheduled maturity/repayment dates. 

6.  Details of delay/ default/ rescheduling of interest or principal as on date/ in the month 

ISIN 

to 

Actual  Date 
of Payment 
 
 

Remarks 

 
 

 
 

Amount 
be paid  
 
 

Due  Date  of 
Payment 
 
 

ended <Month and Year name>, in any of the above case (if any) : 
 
Name  of  the 
Instrument 
 
 
 
 
Thanking You, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
<Authorized Signatory of Issuer> 

 

22 

 
 

 

2.5  Standardization of Press Release for Rating Actions13 

 

2.5.1. CRAs are mandated to issue a Press Release after assigning a rating. With a view to 
harmonizing  the  format  of  the  Press  Release,  it  has  been  decided  that  all  CRAs 
shall  follow  a  standardised  template,  which  is  attached  as  Annexure.  It  may  be 
noted that this template specifies the minimum information that must be covered in 
the Press Release. CRAs can include additional information, while maintaining the 
basic format of the Press Release.  

 

2.5.2. While the Press release for the initial rating of bonds, debentures, etc. shall disclose 
information  about  the  rated  amount  of  the  instrument,  the  subsequent  Press 
Releases shall also disclose additional details of the rated instrument, viz. coupon, 
maturity date, etc.  

 

2.5.3. Each CRA shall assign a rating Outlook and disclose the same in the Press Release.  

 

2.5.4. Rating Outlooks may not be assigned for:14 

 

a.  Short term ratings 
b.  Ratings in the ‘C’ and ‘D’ categories 
c.  Ratings on watch  
d.  Ratings  of  securitization  transactions  backed  by  pool  of  loans,  as  CRAs  are 
already  mandated  to  disclose  at  least  once  in  every  six  months  the 
performance of the rated pool, as per the provision at paragraph 3.2.1.4.  

e.  Credit  quality  ratings  of  mutual  fund  schemes,  provided  surveillance  of  the 

fund’s holdings is carried out by the CRAs on a monthly basis. 

 

2.5.5. Press Release related to review of rating shall also carry the rating transition/ history 
of all instruments of that issuer, rated by the CRA in the past 3 years, irrespective of 
whether the instrument is currently outstanding or not.  

 
 

                                                           
13 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119 dated November 1, 2016 
14 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2017/28 dated March 31, 2017 

 

23 

 
 

 

Annexure: Standard Template for Press Release (Minimum Information be disclosed) 

 

Name of the Company  

 

Date of Press Release  

 

Details of Instrument(s) 

Coupon rate   Maturity 

 

Name of the 
instrument  

Date of 
issuance  

 

 

 

Size of the 
issue  

 

Rating assigned, 
along with Rating 
Outlook 
 

Date  

 

 

Rating action (assigned/ upgraded/ downgraded) for the instrument.  

Detailed Rationale justifying the Rating Action/ rating assigned.  

List of key rating drivers for the Rating Action i.e. factors justifying favourable assessment 
(strengths) and factors constituting risk (weakness).  

Detailed description of key rating drivers highlighted above.  

Analytical approach (wherever applicable) taken by the CRA to assign the rating. 

Hyperlink/ reference to the applicable "Criteria" for rating the instrument.  

About  the  Company:  Factual  details  of  the  company  along  with  the  major  financial 
information for the last and current financial year. This shall include key financial indicators 
and ratios for the Issuer for the last and current financial year, in tabular form, as well as any 
other significant information relevant to the Issuer and its Sector.15 

Status of non-cooperation with previous CRA (if applicable): Reason and comments on 
status of non-co-operation with the previous CRA (if applicable). 

Any other information:  

Rating History for last three years:  
 
S.No  Name 

of 

Current Rating (Year T) 

Instrument 
(NCD/  Bank 
Loan/  Non-
Fund  based 
facilities/ 
Commercial 
Paper etc.) 

1 
2 

 
 

Type 
(long 
term/ 
Short 
term) 

 
 

Amount 
Outstand
(` 
ing 
Crores) 

 
 

 
 

Rating  Date(s) 

Chronology  of  Rating  History 
for  the  past  3  years  (Rating 
Assigned  and  Press  Release 
Date)  along  with  Outlook/ 
Watch, if applicable 

& 
Rating(s) 
assigned 
in  Year 
T-1 
 
 

Date(s) 
& 
Rating(s) 
assigned 
in  Year 
T-2 
 
 

Date(s) 
& 
Rating(s) 
assigned 
in  Year 
T-3 
 
 

                                                           
15 Circular No. SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ MIRSD4/ CIR/ P/ 2017/ 71 dated June 30, 2017 

 

24 

 

 
 
 
Note on complexity levels of the rated instrument:  
 
Name and Contact Details of the Rating Analyst(s):  
 
About CRA:  
 
CRA Disclaimer: 
 

Note: Considering the nature of instruments, following details may not be provided under the 
head “Details of Instrument(s)”: 16 
 

Interest rate/ coupon rate for all types of bank loan facilities. 

i. 
ii.  Maturity details for working capital facilities (including cash credit facilities). 
iii. 

Tranche-wise  interest  rate  and  maturity  details  for  money  market  instruments 
such as Commercial Papers, Certificate of Deposit and short-term NCDs which 
are  reissued  frequently.  However,  the  range  of  duration  of  these  instruments 
(e.g. 7 - 90 days) shall be provided in the press release. 

 
 

                                                           
16 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2017/28 dated March 31, 2017 

 

25 

 
 

 

2.6  Rating Agreement between the Issuer and the CRA17 

 

2.6.1. Rating  Agreement 

to  be  signed  between 

Issuer  and  CRA  prior 

to 

commencement of rating exercise: 
 

2.6.1.1.  Regulation 14 of SEBI (CRA) Regulations, 1999 requires CRAs to enter into a 

written agreement with each client whose securities it proposes to rate.  
 

2.6.1.2.  In  this regard,  it  has  come  to  the  notice that  in some  instances,  CRAs have 
provided  indicative  ratings  to  Issuers  without  entering  into  a  written 
agreement  with  such  Issuers  and  have  thereafter  not  disclosed  such 
ratings on their websites. 
 

2.6.1.3.  CRAs  are  advised  to  refrain  from  giving  Indicative  Ratings  without  having  a 
written agreement in place. In case such Indicative Ratings are provided by 
the  CRA,  it  shall  be  considered  as  aiding  and  abetting  the  Issuer  in 
suppression  of  material  information  by  the  CRA  which  would  be  in 
contravention of Clause 12 of Code of Conduct of CRAs and may result in 
violation  of  the  provisions  of  section  12A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  Act,  1992  and  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair 
Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Market)  Regulations,  2003  by  the 
CRA. 

 

2.6.2. Strengthening of Rating Agreement: 

 

 

2.6.2.1. The  Rating  Agreement,  signed  between  the  CRA  and  its  client  (issuer/ 

borrower), shall have an additional clause stating that - 18 

"The  client  (issuer/  borrower)  agrees  to  disclose  the  history  and  status 
(non-cooperation, non-payment of fees etc.) of previous rating relation with 
the  earlier  CRA(s)  to  the  new  CRA  along  with  reasons  for  non- 
cooperation, etc. if applicable."  

 

2.6.2.2. In order to ensure cooperation from the Issuer, as required under Regulation 
14(d)  of  SEBI  (CRA)  Regulations,  1999,  the  following  enabling  clauses 
maybe built in the Rating Agreement: 

 

a.  “The  client  (issuer/  borrower)  agrees  to  provide  the  information  sought 
by  the  CRA  immediately,  but  not  later  than  7  days  from  the  date  of 
seeking such information by the CRA.  
 
In  cases  of  delay/  default  in  servicing  debt  obligations,  the  information 
shall be provided immediately. Failure to provide the same immediately 
shall  be  considered  as  suppression  of  material  information  and  may 
result in violation of the provisions of section 12A of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent 

                                                           
17 Circular No. SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ MIRSD4/ CIR/ P/ 2017/ 71 dated June 30, 2017 
18 Circular No. SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ MIRSD4/ CIR/ P/ 2016/ 119 dated November 1, 2016 

 

26 

 

 

and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Market)  Regulations, 
2003” 
 

b.  "The client (issuer/ borrower) agrees to inform the CRA details about the 
instrument  in  the  format  below  immediately,  but  not  later  than  7  days 
from  the  date  of  placing  the  debt  security.  For  instruments  already 
listed,  the  information  will  be  provided  at  the  time  of  signing  the 
agreement.” 

 

ISIN 

Instrume
nt type 

Issue 
Size  (` 
cr) 

Coupo
n Rate 

Coupo
n 
Payme
nt 
Dates 

Terms 
of 
Redem
ption 

Redem
ption 
date 

Details 
of 
top 
10 
investo
rs 

Name 
and 
conta
ct 
details 
of 
Deben
ture 
Truste
e 

 

c. 

 “The  client  (Issuer/  borrower)  undertakes  to  provide  the  CRA  a  No 
Default Statement on a monthly basis wherein the Issuer shall explicitly 
confirm that  it  has  not  delayed  on  any  payment of  interest/  principal  in 
the  previous  month.  Such  statement  shall  be  provided  to  the  CRA  on 
the first working day of the next month.” 

2.7  Dealing with Conflict of interest19 
 

2.7.1.  A CRA shall formulate the policies and internal codes for dealing with the conflict 

of interest. 

2.7.2.  A CRA shall ensure: 

a. that  its  analysts  do  not  participate  in  any  kind  of  marketing  and  business 
development including negotiations of fees with the issuer whose securities 
are being rated, 

b. that the employees’ involved in the credit rating process and their dependants 

do not have ownership of the shares of the issuer. 

c. prompt  review  of  the  credit  ratings  of  the  securities  as  and  when  any  of  its 

employees joins the respective issuer. 
 

2.7.3.  While undertaking rating of structured finance products, apart from following all the 
applicable requirements in case of non-structured ratings, the following additional 
requirements shall also be complied with  
 

a.  A CRA or its subsidiaries shall not provide consultancy or advisory services 

regarding the design of structured finance instrument. 
 

 

 

 

                                                           
19 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/CRA/6/2010 dated May 3, 2010 

27 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.7.4.  Guidelines  for  dealing  with  Conflict  of  Interest  for  investment/  trading  by 

CRAs, Access Persons and other employees20 

 

a. These Guidelines shall be applicable in case of investment / trading by CRAs 
and  Access  Persons  connected  to  CRAs  and  in  case  of  disclosures  to  all 
employees of CRAs.  
 
Explanation:  "Access  Persons"  means  officials  of  CRA  appointed  as  Chief 
Executive  or  by  any  other  designation  (such  as  CEO/MD/President  or  by 
whatever  name  called  who  are  performing  functions  similar  to  those  of  the 
Chief  Executive),  the  employees  of  CRA  doing  the  function  of  analyst,  or 
compliance, or heads of the departments or divisions or any other employee 
as decided by CRA and the members of the Rating Committee of the CRA.  
 

b. These  guidelines  shall  cover  transactions  for  purchase  or  sale  of  securities 
either  individually  or  jointly  or  in  the  name  of  their  dependents  or  as  a 
member of HUF.  
 

c. With  a  view  to  adopting  best  industry  practices  and  systems  by  CRAs  for 
managing  conflict  of  interest  in  case  of  investment/  trading  in  securities 
(except  schemes of Mutual Funds) done by CRAs or their Access Persons 
as  defined  hereunder,  the  following  guidelines,  framed  in  consultation  with 
CRAs are laid down:  

i.  CRAs  shall  adopt  adequate  systems,  procedures  and  policies  to 
ensure  that  they  address  conflict  of  interest  while  making  their  own 
investments in securities.  

ii. 

b.  The  CRAs,  their  employees  and  Access  Persons  shall  not  take 
undue advantage of any price sensitive information that they may have 
about any company.  

iii.  Access Persons to seek prior approval for transactions: 

  An Access Person shall apply to the Compliance Officer for prior 
approval  of  transactions  for  purchase  or  sale  of  securities  of  the 
companies  which  have  been  rated  or  graded  by  the  CRA  or 
whose  securities  /  instruments  /facilities  have  been  rated  or 
graded by the CRA.  

  The  Compliance  Officer  of  the  CRA  shall  apply  to  the  Chief 

Executive of the CRA for such prior approval.  

  The CEO/Compliance Officer shall ensure that there is no conflict 

of interest while considering the request for prior approval.  

  Such approvals, if granted, shall be valid for 7 working days from 

the date of approval.  

iv.  Disclosures: 

  Any person, who becomes an employee of the CRA, shall submit 
a  statement  of  holding  of  all  securities  in  respect  of  persons 
mentioned  at  2.7.4  (b)  above  to  the  Compliance  officer  or  Chief 

                                                           
20 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/6/2013 dated August 28, 2013 

28 

 

 

 

 

 

Executive,  as  the  case  may  be,  within  7  working  days  of  joining 
CRA.  

  All employees of CRA including the Access Persons shall submit 
the  following  details  to  the  CEO/Compliance  Officer,  as  the  case 
may be:  

o  Details  of  purchase  or  sale  transactions  effected  within  7 

working days from the date of transaction.  

o  A  consolidated  statement  of  holding  of  all  securities  within 

30 working days from the end of the Financial Year.  

 

  The  members  of  the  Rating  Committee  shall  upfront  declare  / 
disclose  their  interest,  if  any,  to  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  or 
Compliance Officer, as per the policy of the CRA, in the securities 
/instruments/  facilities  that  are  considered  for  rating  /  grading  by 
the CRA.  

v.  Restrictions on employees holding ownership of securities of the 
issuer:  A  CRA  shall  ensure  that  employees  involved  in  the  rating  / 
grading  process  shall  not  have  ownership  of  the  securities  of  the 
issuer. 
 

2.8  Unsolicited Credit Ratings21 
 

2.8.1.  In  case  of  unsolicited  credit  ratings,  i.e.  the  credit  ratings  not  arising  out  of  the 
agreement  between  a  CRA  and  the  issuer,  credit  rating  symbol  shall  be 
accompanied by the word “UNSOLICITED” in the same font size. 
 

2.8.2.  A  CRA  shall  monitor  and  disclose  credit  rating  during  the  life  of  the  rated 

securities, as if it were a solicited rating. 

 
 
2.9  Policy in respect of non-co-operation by the issuer 22 
 

2.9.1.  In  case  of  non-cooperation  by  the  issuer  (such  as  not  providing  information 
required for rating, non-payment of fees for conducting surveillance), in line with 
the existing Regulations, the CRA shall continue to review the instrument, on an 
ongoing basis throughout the instrument’s lifetime, on the basis of best available 
information,  in  accordance  with  the  rating  process  and  policies  set  forth  in  its 
Operations Manual/ Internal governing document.  
 

2.9.2.  In  such  cases  the  credit  rating  symbol  shall  be  accompanied  by  the  suffix 
“ISSUER  NOT  COOPERATING*”in  the  same  font  size.  The  suffix  shall  be 
explained  below  and  shall  read  as  ‘Issuer  did  not  cooperate;  based  on  best 
available information’.23  

 

2.9.3.  The  rating  action(s)  in  such  cases  shall  be  promptly  disclosed  through  press 

release(s), which shall mention, at least, the following:  

                                                           
21 Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ CRA/ 6/ 2010 dated May 3, 2010 
22 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119 dated November 1, 2016 
23 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2017/28 dated March 31, 2017 

 

29 

 

a.  Date of Press Release  
b.  Details of Instrument  
c.  Rating  Action  and  Indicative/updated  rating  based  on  best  available 

information  

d.  A  brief  write-up  on  the  non-co-operation  by  the  Issuer/  Borrower  and  the 

consistent follow-up done by the CRA for getting the information.  

e.  Hyperlink/ reference to the applicable "Criteria"  
f.  Limitations  regarding  information  availability  (shall  have  a  suitable  caveat 

cautioning the investors/lenders /public)  

g.  Rating History for last three years  
h.  Name and contact details of the Rating Analyst(s)  

 
 

 

2.9.4.  In  case  an  issuer,  having  not  co-operated  with  a  CRA  in  the  past,  approaches 
another  CRA  for  rating,  the  new  CRA  shall,  in  its  Press  Release,  disclose  the 
aspect of non-co-operation.  

 
2.10  Withdrawal of ratings24 
 

2.10.1. Bank  loans/  facilities  generally  being  non-transferable  in  nature  and  their  only 
user  being  banks,  withdrawal  of  ratings  is  permitted.  All  norms/  standards 
prescribed in this regard at paragraph 2.12 shall continue to apply. 
 

2.10.2. Open  ended  Mutual  Fund  schemes  being  perpetual  in  nature  and  having  no 
specified maturity, withdrawal of rating of such schemes is permitted. However, 
as  units  of  such  schemes  are  held  by  many  investors,  such  ratings  shall  be 
placed  on  notice  of  withdrawal  for  at  least  30  days,  which  shall  be  publicly 
available on the CRA’s website.  

 

2.10.3. Ratings  of  the  aforementioned  facilities/  securities  can  be  withdrawn  after 
receiving request for withdrawal from the Asset Management Company (AMC) in 
case of mutual funds; or request for withdrawal from the Borrower along with No 
Objection from the lending bank(s) in case of Bank facilities.   
 

2.10.4. At the time of withdrawal, the CRA shall assign a rating to such facility/  security 
and  issue  a  press  release  as  per  the  format  prescribed  at  the  Annexure  to 
paragraph  2.5.  The  Press  Release  shall  also  mention  the  reason(s)  for 
withdrawal.  

 

2.11  Sharing of information regarding issuer companies between Debenture Trustees 

and Credit Rating Agencies25 

 

2.11.1. SEBI  (Debenture  Trustee)  Regulations,  1993  require  the  Debenture  Trustees 
(DTs) to share information regarding the issuer companies that are their clients, 
with Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs). The purpose of the Regulations is to enable 
CRAs to perform their obligations effectively. 

 

                                                           
24 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2017/28 dated March 31, 2017 
25 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/3/2013 dated March 15, 2013 

 

30 

 

2.11.2. DTs  have  also  expressed  the  need  to  receive  relevant  information  on  issuer 

companies from CRAs. 

 

2.11.3. In consultation with DTs and CRAs, it has been decided that registered DTs and 
CRAs shall share information with each other as specified in the Annexure. DTs 
and  CRAs  may  share  any  other  information  from  time  to  time  in  respect  of 
issues/issuer  companies  which  would  help  them  in  effective  discharge  of  their 
duties. 
 

2.11.4. Further, the DTs and CRAs shall assign designated email addresses for sending 
and receiving such information and ensure appropriate action,  if any, based on 
the information received. 

 

31 

 

 

ANNEXURE: Sharing of information between Debenture Trustees (DTs) and 

Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A. Information from CRAs to DTs 

i.  Rating  assigned/revised  for  debt  securities  along  with  the  rationale  for 

the same. 
Press release, outstanding ratings etc. in respect of debt securities. 

ii. 
iii.  Non-cooperation  by  the  issuers  with  respect  to  sharing  necessary 
information for monitoring the credit quality of the rated instrument with 
CRAs. 
Press  release  and  separate  communication  to  DT  on  withdrawal  of 
rating post redemption of entire amount due towards debenture-holders. 

iv. 

v.  Default of any type committed by the issuer. 

B. Information from DTs to CRAs 

i.  Whether the asset in respect of which security has been created is free 
from  any  encumbrance  and  adequate  to  ensure  asset  cover  for  the 
debentures  or  if  there  is  any  breach  of  the  terms  of  creation  of  the 
security. This information shall be shared on half yearly basis. 
Funds transferred to Debenture Redemption Reserve (DRR), depletion 
of  the  DRR/invocation  of  guarantee  which  could  affect  the  payment  of 
debenture obligations. This information shall be shared annually. 

ii. 

iii.  Details of redemption of the issue. 
iv. 

v. 
vi. 

Any  default  committed  including  the  default  in  payment  of  interest  or 
redemption of debentures or delay in creation of security. 
Any change or restructuring of the terms of the issue. 
Periodic  reports  from  lead  banks  about  the  progress  of  the  project  for 
which  funds  have  been  raised  through  debentures  and  certificate  from 
issuer's auditors in respect of utilization of funds. 

vii.  Details  of  grievances  filed  by  debenture-holders  and  action  taken  to 

resolve them. 

viii.  Non-cooperation  by  the  issuer  with  respect  to  furnishing  required 

reports/ certificates/ information. 

Information pertaining to points iii. to viii. above shall be shared as and 
when available. 

32 

 
 

 

 
 

2.12  Rating of instruments other than “securities”26 
 

 

2.12.1. According  to  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  Regulations,  1999,  CRA  has  been 
defined  as  a  body  corporate  which  is  engaged  in  the  business  of  rating  of 
securities  offered  by  way  of  public  or  rights  issues.  The  term  “securities”  has 
been defined in Clause (h) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
Act, 1956.  

2.12.2. However it is observed that the CRAs registered with SEBI also carry out rating 
of  other  securities  /  instruments  and  loans  /  facilities  provided  by  banks  which 
are not regulated by SEBI. Such ratings are being used by the other regulators 
or their regulated entities for the specified purposes. 

2.12.3. Therefore, it is desirable that in addition to the review/accreditation process put 
in place by these regulators, if any, such ratings should also be governed by the 
same  stringent  norms  as  applicable  for  rating  of  securities  issued  by  way  of 
public and rights issues.  

2.12.4. In view of the above, it has been decided in consultation with the CRAs and also 
with other regulators that for the above mentioned ratings, CRAs shall follow the 
applicable  requirements  pertaining  to  rating  process  and  methodology  and  its 
records, transparency and disclosures, avoidance of conflict of interest, code of 
conduct, etc. as prescribed in the Regulations and circulars issued by SEBI from 
time to time.  

2.12.5. The  half-yearly  internal  audit  for  the  CRAs  as  prescribed  by  SEBI  shall  also 

cover the above mentioned ratings.  

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
26 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/3/2012 dated March 01, 2012 

33 

 

 
 

 

SECTION 3: REPORTING AND DISCLOSURES 

 
3.1  Default Studies27 
 

 

 

 

 

3.1.1.  Default  studies  are  central  to  evaluating  the  performance  of  a  credit  rating 
agency and whether its ratings can predict default over a period of time. In order 
to promote transparency and to enable the market to best judge the performance 
of  the  ratings,  the  CRA,  should  publish  information  about  the  historical  default 
rates of CRA rating categories and whether the default rates of these categories 
have  changed  over  time,  so  that  the  public  can  understand  the  historical 
performance  of  each  category  and  if  and  how  rating  categories  have  changed, 
and be able to draw quality comparisons among ratings given by different CRAs. 

3.1.2.  The default rates shall be calculated in the following manner: 

a. One Year Default Rate is the weighted average of default rates of all possible 

1 year static pools in the 5-year period. 
 

b. Cumulative  Default  Rate:  The  cumulative  default  rate  (CDR)  represents  the 
likelihood  of  an  entity  that  was  rated  at  the  beginning  of  any  multi-year 
period  defaulting  at  any  time  during  the  multi-year  period.  Three-year 
cumulative default rate shall be computed as: 

Three-year CDR for rating category X = No. of issuers which defaulted over 
the  three-year  period  /  No.  of  issuers  outstanding  at  the  beginning  of  the 
three-year period. 

3.1.3.  For the above purposes, the following terms shall have the meaning as under: 

 

a. Static  Pool  Non-defaulted  ratings  that  were  outstanding  at  the  beginning  of 

any period. 
 

b. Default: Non-payment of interest or principal amount in full on the pre-agreed 
date. A CRA shall recognize default at the first instance of delay in servicing 
of interest or principal on the rated debt instrument. 
 

c. Default  Rate:  The  number  of  defaults  among  rated  entities  in  the  static pool 

as a percentage of the total number of entities in the static pool. 
 

d. Averaging:  All  averaging  across  static  pools  for  default  rate  computations 
must be based on the weighted average method where the weights are the 
number of ratings in each static period. 

 
3.2  Periodic Disclosures 
 

3.2.1.  A CRA shall make all the disclosures stipulated below on their websites. In case 
of listed securities, the CRA shall also make disclosures to the stock exchanges 
as specified in the SEBI (Credit Ratings) Regulations, 1999. For ratings assigned 

                                                           
27 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/CRA/6/2010 dated May 3, 2010 

34 

 

 

and their periodic reviews, the CRA shall issue press releases which shall also 
be  kept  on  their  websites.  Where  a  specific  format  has  been  prescribed,  the 
disclosures shall be made in that format. 

3.2.1.1.  Rating  Procedure:  A  CRA  shall  formulate  and  disclose  its  policies, 
methodology  and  procedures  in  detail  regarding  solicited  and  unsolicited 
credit ratings. 

3.2.1.2.  Credit Rating History and Defaults : A CRA shall disclose in the formats 

specified below: 

a. Details  of  new  credit  ratings  assigned  during 

last  six-months 

(Annexure I), 
 

b. Movement  of  credit  rating  of  all  outstanding  securities  during  the  last 

six-months: 

 

i.  Movement of each credit rating (Annexure II), 
ii.  Movement  of  each  credit  rating  from  investment  grade  to 

noninvestment grade and vice versa (Annexure III) and 

iii.  Movement of each credit rating that has moved by more than 

one notch (Annexure IV). 

c. The history of credit rating of all outstanding securities (Annexure V), 

d. On  annual  basis,  the  list  of  defaults  separately  for  each  rating 
category  (e.g.  AAA,  AA,  A,  BBB,  BB,  B,  C)  {(Annexure  VI)}.  This 
shall include the initial credit rating assigned by the CRA, month and 
year  of  initial  rating,  month  and  year  of  default,  last  credit  rating 
assigned  by  the  CRA  before  the  issuer  defaulted,  comments  of 
CRAs, if any. 

e. On  annual  basis,  the  average  one-year  and  three-year  cumulative 
default  rates  (based  on  weighted  average),  for  the  last  5  years, 
separately for each following category: 

i.  each  credit  rating  category  (e.g.  AAA,  AA,  A,  BBB,  BB,  B,  C), 

separately (Annexure VII),; 

ii.  structured 

instruments 

and  non-structured 

instruments, 

separately (Annexure VII), 

 

3.2.1.3.  Income 

a.  A  CRA  shall  disclose  the  general  nature  of  its  compensation 

arrangements with the issuers. 

 

b.  A  CRA  shall  disclose,  in  case  of  accepted  ratings,  its  conflict  of 
interest, if any, including the details of relationship  – commercial or 
otherwise  –  between  the  issuer  whose  securities  are  being  rated  / 
any of its associate of such issuer and the CRA or its subsidiaries. 
 

c. A CRA shall disclose annually 

35 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i.  its total receipt from rating services and non-rating services, 
ii.  issuer wise percentage share of non-rating income of the CRA 
and  its  subsidiary  to  the  total  revenue  of  the  CRA  and  its 
subsidiary from that issuer, and 

iii.  names  of  the  rated  issuers  who  along  with  their  associates 
contribute  10%  or  more  of  total  revenue  of  the  CRA  and  its 
subsidiaries. 

3.2.1.4.  Structured Finance Products 

from 

a.  While publishing the ratings of structured finance products and their 
movements,  a  CRA  apart 
the  applicable 
requirements  in  case  of  non-structured  ratings  shall  also  disclose 
the track record of the originator and details of nature of underlying 
assets  while  assigning  the  credit  rating.  The  track  record  shall 
include  a  brief  description  of  the  financials  of  the  originator,  rating 
migrations to speculative categories and defaults. 
 

following  all 

the 

b.  A  CRA  shall  also  disclose  at  least  once  in  every  six  months,  the 
performance  of 
i.e.,  collection  efficiency, 
delinquencies. A CRA shall also provide a detailed description of the 
underlying  pools  including  ageing,  Credit  enhancements  such  as 
liquidity  supports,  first  and  second  loss  guarantee  provided  shall 
also be disclosed. 

rated  pool, 

3.2.1.5.  Unsolicited Credit Ratings 

a.  While  publishing  unsolicited  ratings  and  their  movements,  a  CRA 
apart  from  following  all  the  applicable  requirements  in  case  of 
solicited ratings shall make the following disclosures: 

 

i. 

ii. 

the  extent  of  participation  by  the  issuer,  its  management, 
bankers and auditors in the credit rating process. 
the information used and its source in arriving at and reviewing 
the credit rating. 

b.  A CRA shall disclose annually 

i. 

ii. 

all the unsolicited ratings carried out in the last three financial 
years (Annexure VIII); 
names  of  issuers,  out  of  those  mentioned  in  (i)  above,  which 
were given solicited rating in the last financial year (Annexure 
VIII). 

3.2.1.6.  Shareholding - A CRA shall disclose its shareholding pattern as prescribed 
by  stock  exchanges  for  a  listed  company  under  clause  35  of  Listing 
Agreement. 

3.2.1.7.  Compliance  Status  of  IOSCO  Code  of  Conduct  -  A  CRA  shall  disclose 

the compliance status of each provision of IOSCO code of conduct. 

3.2.2.  The  half-yearly  disclosures  stipulated  above  shall  be made  by  the  CRAs  within 
15  days  from  the  end  of  the  half-year  (March  /  September).  The  yearly 

36 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

disclosures stipulated above shall be made by the CRAs within 30 days from the 
end of the financial year. 

3.2.3.  A  CRA  can make  additional  disclosures  other  than  those  stipulated  above  with 

 

the prior approval of its Board. 

 

3.3  Continuous Disclosures and Reporting28 

 

3.3.1.  The  rating  history,  Press  Releases  and  Rating  Reports,  including  those  ratings 

which have been withdrawn, shall be available on the CRA's website.  
 

3.3.2.  In case no confirmation of servicing of debt obligation by the Issuer is received 
by the CRA from the Debenture Trustee within 1 day post the due date, the CRA 
shall immediately follow up with the Issuer for confirmation of payment. In case 
no  response  is  received  from  the  Issuer  within  2  days  of  such  communication, 
the  CRA  shall  issue  a  Press  Release  as  enlisted  at  paragraph  3.3.7.c.  and 
disseminate  the  same  on  its  website  and  to  all  stock  exchanges  where  the 
security is listed. 

 

3.3.3.  The  CRA  shall  also  make  a  reference  to  SEBI  regarding  such  suppression  of 
information  by  the  issuer/  non-cooperation  of Issuer  with  CRA.  Failure  to make 
such  reference  shall  be  considered  as  aiding  and  abetting  the  Issuer  in 
suppression of material information by the CRA which would be in contravention 
of  Clause  12  of  Code  of  Conduct  of  CRAs  and  may  result  in  violation  of  the 
provisions  of  section  12A  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 
1992 and SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to 
Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 by the CRA. 

 

3.3.4.  Upon  the  occurrence  of  or  announcement/  news  of  material  events,  as 
elaborated at paragraph 2.4.2, CRAs shall publish on their website press release 
regarding the rating action (including reiteration of existing rating), if warranted, 
immediately, but not later than 7 days of occurrence of the said event. 
 

3.3.5.  In  case  there  have  been  delays  in  the  payment  of  interest/  principal  by  the 
Issuer,  the  Issuers  shall  state  the  same  in  this  statement  and  the  CRA  shall 
promptly  conduct  a  rating  review  and  disseminate  the  rating  action  through 
Press Release within 2 days of receipt of such statement.  
 

3.3.6.  Timelines of review and Press Releases 

 

a.  In order to enable CRAs to disseminate information on ratings promptly through 
press  releases  as  per  requirements  of  Regulation  15  and  16  of  SEBI  (CRA) 
Regulations, following is clarified: 

 
i. 

Initial Rating: 

 

Scenario 

Timelines  – 
not later than 

immediately  but 

                                                           
28  Circular  No.  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119  dated  November  1,  2016  and  SEBI/  HO/  MIRSD/ 
MIRSD4/ CIR/ P/ 2017/ 71 dated June 30, 2017 

 

37 

 

5 working days of communication 
of rating by the CRA to the Issuer 
In  case  rating  is  not  accepted  by 
the 
Issuer  within  a  month  of 
communication  of  rating  by  the 
CRA to the Issuer, the same shall 
be  disclosed  as  Non-Accepted 
Rating on the CRA’s website 

2  working  days  of  acceptance  of 
Rating by the Issuer 

Timeline  -  immediately  but  not 
later than 
5  working  days  of  Rating 
Committee Meeting 

Acceptance  of  Rating/  Appeal  for 
Review of Rating by the Issuer 
Disclosure  of 
accepted Rating 

rating  as  non-

Dissemination  of  Press  Release 
on  CRA’s  website  and  intimation 
of  same 
to  Stock  Exchange/ 
Debenture Trustee 

 

ii. 

Periodic Surveillance: 

 

Scenario 

Dissemination  of  Press  Release 
on  CRA’s  website  and  intimation 
of  same 
to  Stock  Exchange/ 
Debenture Trustee 

 
 

iii.  Dissemination of Press Release on CRA’s website and intimation of 
same to Stock Exchange/ Debenture Trustee in case of event based 
review: 

 

Scenario 

Intimation  from  Issuer/  Debenture 
Trustee/  Bankers  of  the  Issuer 
regarding  delay  in  servicing  debt 
obligation 
Material  Events  requiring  review 
(as stated in paragraph 2.4.2) 

Timeline-  immediately  but  not 
later than 

2 working days of intimation 

7  working  days  of  occurrence  of 
the event. 

 

 

3.3.7.  Disclosures in case of considerable delay in  providing information by the 

Issuer: 

 

a.  As  per  Regulation  18(2)  of  SEBI  (CRA)  Regulations,  1999,  the  CRA,  while 
covering  the  analysis  of  the  various  factors  justifying  the  assessment  in  press 
release, shall also disclose the factors constituting a risk.  

 

b.  Accordingly,  it  is  further  clarified  that  if  the  issuer  does  not  share  information 
sought  by  the  CRA  within  7  days  of  seeking  such  information  from  the  Issuer, 
even  after  repeated  reminders  (within  these  7  days)  from  the  CRA,  the  CRA 
shall  take  appropriate  rating  action  depending  upon  the  severity  of  information 
risk of the issuer.  

 

38 

 

 

 

c.  The Press Release in such cases shall mention the efforts made by the CRA in 

seeking such information and limitations regarding such information availability. 

 

3.3.8.  Disclosures in case of rating not accepted by an issuer 

 

a.  Each CRA shall disclose on its  website details  of all ratings assigned by them, 
irrespective of whether the rating is accepted by the issuer or not, even in case 
of  non-public  issues.  Details  disclosed  shall  include  the  name  of  the  issuer, 
name/ type of instrument, size of the issue, rating and outlook assigned, etc.  

3.3.9.  Disclosures in case of delay in periodic review  

a.  Each CRA shall promptly disclose on its website details of all such ratings where 
the  review  became  due  but  was  not  completed  by  the  due  date,  as  per  the 
timelines  specified  in  the  CRA’s  Operations  Manual/  Internal  governing 
document. Details disclosed shall include the name of the issuer, name/ type of 
instrument,  size  of  the  issue,  date  of  last  review,  reasons  for  delay  in  periodic 
review, hyperlink to the last Press Release, etc.  

 

3.3.10.  Disclosure of guidelines for dealing with Conflict of Interest:29 

 

a.  The policies adopted by the CRAs for effective implementation of guidelines for 
dealing  with  Conflict  of  Interest  for  investment/  trading  by  CRAs,  Access 
Persons and other employees, shall be disclosed on the CRAs’ website. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
29 SEBI Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/6/2013 dated August 28, 2013 

 

39 

 
 

 

ANNEXURE I to VIII 

 

Annexure I - Details of new credit ratings assigned during last six-months 

New Ratings assigned between Apr-Sep / Oct - Mar 

S. No 

Name  of 
Issuer 

the 

Instrument Type  

Issue  Size 
million) 

(` 

Rating 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

Annexure II–Movement* of Each Credit Rating 

Rating Movements between Apr-Sep / Oct - Mar 

S. No 

Name of the Issuer  Rating prior to Revision  

Rating post Revision 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

*Will cover only rating changes. Reaffirmations shall be excluded 

 

Annexure III - Movement of each credit rating from investment grade to non-

investment grade and vice versa 

Rating Movement from Investment Grade and Non-investment Grade 

between Apr-Sep / Oct - Mar 

From Investment Grade to Non-investment Grade 

S. No 

Name of the Issuer 

Rating prior to Revision  

Rating post Revision 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

From Speculative Grade to Investment Grade 

S. No 

Name of the Issuer 

Rating prior to Revision  

Rating post Revision 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

40 

 

 

Annexure IV: Movement of each credit rating that has moved by more than one 

Rating Movement by more than one notch between Apr-Sep/ Oct -Mar 

notch30 

 

S. No.  Name of the Issuer 

Rating post revision 

Notch Difference 

1.   

2.   

1.   

2.   

1.   

2.   

1.   

2.   

1.   

2.   

1.   

2.   

  

  

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.   

2.   

 

Rating prior to revision- AAA category 

  

  

  

  

Rating prior to revision- AA category 

  

  

  

  

Rating prior to revision- A category 

 

 

 

 

Rating prior to revision- BBB category 

 

 

 

 

Rating prior to revision- BB category 

 

 

 

 

Rating prior to revision- B category 

 

 

 

 

Rating prior to revision- C category 

 

 

 

 

 

Date of 
Rating 
Change 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
30 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119 dated November 1, 2016 

 

41 

Annexure V – History of Credit Rating of all Outstanding Securities 

 

Initial 
Ratin
g 

Nam
e  of 
the 
Issu
er 

Date 
of 
Initial 
Ratin
g 

History of Credit Rating of all Outstanding Securities 
Rating 
after 
3rd  
Revisio
n 

Rating 
after 
2nd 
Revisio
n 

Date  of 
2nd 
Revisio
n 

Rating 
after 1st 
Revisio
n 

Date  of 
1st 
Revisio
n 

……
… 

Date  of 
3rd  
Revisio
n 

 
 

S. 
N
o 

 

Annexure VI – List of Defaults Separately for Each Rating Category 

Annexure VI A – Long Term Scale 

Rating Movement by more than one notch between Apr-Sep/ Oct -Mar 

S. No.  Name of the Issuer 

Initial rating  Date of Initial Rating 

Date of Default 
Recognition 

1.      

2.      

1.      

2.      

1.     

2.     

1.     

2.     

1.     

2.     

1.     

2.     

1.   

2.     

 

Rating prior to default- AAA category 

  

  

  

  

Rating prior to default- AA category 

  

  

  

  

Rating prior to default- A category 

 

 

 

 

Rating prior to default- BBB category 

 

 

 

 

Rating prior to default- BB category 

 

 

 

 

Rating prior to default- B category 

 

 

 

 

Rating prior to default- C category 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure VI B – Short Term Scale 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rating Movement by more than one notch between Apr-Sep/ Oct -Mar 

S. No.  Name of the Issuer 

Initial rating  Date of Initial Rating 

Rating prior to default- A1 category 

Date of Default 
Recognition 

 

42 

1.      

2.      

1.      

2.      

1.     

2.     

1.     

2.     

  

  

  

  

Rating prior to default- A2 category 

  

  

  

  

Rating prior to default- A3 category 

 

 

 

 

Rating prior to default- A4 category 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Annexure VII – Average Default Rates for the last 5-Financial Year Period  

Annexure VII A- STRUCTURED INSTRUMENTS 

Rating Category 

1-Year Default Rate 

3-Year Cumulative Default 

AAA 
AA 
A 

BBB 
BB 
B 
C 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Rate 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Annexure VII B- NON - STRUCTURED INSTRUMENTS 

Rating Category 

1-Year Default Rate 

3-Year Cumulative Default 

AAA 
AA 
A 

BBB 
BB 
B 
C 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Rate 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Unsolicited Credit rating* 

ANNEXURE VIII 

S. No. 

 

 

 

Name  of  the 
Issuer 
 

 

Rating assigned 

Financial  Year 
1 
 

Financial  Year 
2 
 

Financial Year 3 

 

43 

 
 
* If in a particular financial year, a rating has subsequently been changed, then that shall 
also be disclosed 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Solicited Credit Ratings assigned to those issuers mentioned in the table above in the 
last financial year** 
 
S. No. 
 
 
 
** Any subsequent revision of the rating in the same year shall also be disclosed 
 
 

Name of the Issuer 
 
 
 

Rating assigned 
 
 
 

 

44 

 
 

 
3.4  Rating Criteria, Rating Process and their Disclosure31 

 

3.4.1  Rating 'Criteria’  

 

 

a.  Each CRA shall frame detailed rating criteria, include the same in its Operations 

Manual/ Internal governing document and disclose the same on its website. 
 

b.  Periodicity  of review  shall  be  disclosed  on  the  CRA's  website. While  disclosing 
the  revised  criteria  on  their  website,  CRAs  shall  also  provide  a  reference/ 
hyperlink  to  the  original  criteria  (before  revision),  so  as  to  enable  investors  to 
discern the changes made to the same.  
 

c.  The  criteria  shall  be  placed  on  the  CRA’s  website  in  a  user-friendly  manner  in 

order to facilitate easy and ready access of the same by investors.  
 

d.  Press  Release,  related  to  rating  action,  shall  provide  a  reference/  hyperlink  to 

the specific criteria applied for the rating.  

3.4.2  Rating Process and Policies  

 

a.  CRAs are mandated to have in place a proper rating process and disclose the 

same on their website 
 

b.  Each CRA shall frame detailed guidelines in line with policies mentioned at para 
2.2.5  above,  include  them  in  its  Operations  Manual/  Internal  governing 
document and disclose the same on its website. 
 

c.  Any  change  in  the  rating  process  or  policies  shall  be  disclosed  on  the  CRA's 
website,  while  also  providing  a  reference/  hyperlink  to  the  original  provision/ 
process/  policy,  to  enable  the  investors  to  discern  the  changes  made  to  the 
same.  

 

 

 

3.5  Periodical report to be submitted to SEBI32 

 

 

3.5.1  All CRAs shall report the following change(s) to SEBI while submitting the Action 
Taken Report in accordance with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/ MIRSD/ CRA/ Cir-01/ 
2010 dated January 06, 2010: 

a.  Amalgamation,  demerger,  consolidation  or  any  other  kind  of  corporate 
restructuring falling within the scope of section 391 of the Companies Act, 1956 
(1 of 1956) or the corresponding provision of any other law for the time being in 
force; 
 

b.  Change in Director, including managing director/ whole-time director; 

 

c.  Change in shareholding not resulting in change in control. 

                                                           
31 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119 dated November 1, 2016 
32 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/8/2011 dated June 17, 2011 

 

45 

If  there  is  no  change  during  the  relevant  half  year,  it  shall  be  indicated  in  the 
report. 

 

 

3.5.2 

 

 

3.6  Centralized Database for Corporate Bonds/ Debentures33 

 

3.6.1.  SEBI, in consultation with various stakeholders, decided to create a centralized 
database regarding corporate bonds which are available in demat form for public 
dissemination.  Both  the  depositories,  viz.  NSDL  and  CDSL,  jointly,  made  the 
repository of information pertaining to the corporate bonds/ debentures.  

 

3.6.2.  Contents 

of 

The 

for 
which  the  information  has  to  be  made  available  in  the  centralized  database  of 
bonds/ debentures by CRAs in first phase are as under: 

Database: 

various 

data 

fields 

 

 

 

 

a. Credit Rating with name of Credit Rating Agency and Date of Credit Rating: 

i.  Current  rating  (if  rated  by  multiple  Credit  Rating  Agencies,  include  all 

such ratings): 
 

ii. 

Name of the CRA 
 

Credit Rating 
 

Date of Credit Rating 
 

iii. 

Earlier rating and date of rating (if any): 

Name of the CRA  Credit Rating  Date of Credit 

 

 

3.6.3.  Information providers: 

 

Rating 
 

Date of Rating 
change 
 

 

 

 

a. The  issuers  shall  provide  the  ISIN  details  to  the  CRAs,  along  with  the 
reference  number  and  date  of  the  rating  letter,  pursuant  to  issue  of 
instruments for review/ updation of credit ratings by CRAs  in the database, 
within 2 days after allotment of ISIN. 
 

b. CRAs shall be provided secure logins by the depositories for verification and 

updation of the requisite information in the database on an ongoing basis. 

c. CRAs  shall  access  the  database  and  shall  update  the  credit  rating  provided 
by  the  agency  and  the  subsequent  rating  migrations,  within  the  time 
stipulated below: 

Sr. 
No. 
1 

Activity 

Remarks 

Verification of initial rating information 
provided by the Issuer in respect of the ISINs 

In case of any variation, 
CRAs to update the 

                                                           
33 Circular No. CIR/IMD/DF/17/2013 dated October 22, 2013. 

 

46 

for the instruments.  

2 

 

Updation of subsequent rating migrations 
information in the database.  

 

same within 3 working 
days.  
Within one working day 
from the press release  

3.6.4.  Updation 

of 

The 

database: 

information  mentioned 

this 
circular  shall  be  provided  by  the  issuer  at  the  time  of  applying  for  ISIN  to 
Depositories  and  shall  hosted  by  the  Depositories.  In  case  of  any  changes/ 
updation  to  the  information,  as  available  in  the  database,  the  Issuer  must 
promptly  inform  the  Depositories  and  the  information  providers  such  as  Stock 
Exchanges,  Credit  Rating  Agencies  and  Debenture  Trustees  shall  update  the 
same. 

in 

47 

 

 

SECTION 4: INTERNAL AUDIT FOR CREDIT RATING AGENCIES 

(CRAs) 

 

 
 

 

4.1 Internal Audit for Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs)34 

4.1.1  The  audit  envisaged  under  Regulation  22  of 

the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating 
Regulations),  1999  shall  include  an  internal  audit  to  be  undertaken  in  the 
following manner: 

 

 

a.  It shall be conducted on a half yearly basis. 

 

b.  It  shall  be  conducted  by  Chartered  Accountants,  Company  Secretaries  or 
Cost  and  Management  Accountants  who  are  in  practice  and  who  do  not 
have any conflict of interest with the CRA. 
 
It  shall  cover  all  aspects  of  CRA  operations  and  procedures,  including 
investor  grievance 
the 
requirements  stipulated  in  the  SEBI  Act,  Rules  and  Regulations  made 
thereunder, and guidelines issued by SEBI from time to time. 
 

redressal  mechanism, 

c. 

compliance  with 

d.  The  report  shall  state  the  methodology  adopted,  deficiencies  observed, 

and consideration of response of the management on the deficiencies.  
 

e.  The report shall include a summary of operations and of the audit, covering 
the  size  of  operations,  number  of transactions  audited  and  the  number of 
instances  where  violations  /  deviations  were  observed  while  making 
observations on the compliance of any regulatory requirement. 
 

f.  The  report  shall  comment  on  the  adequacy  of  systems  adopted  by  the 
CRA  for  compliance  with  the  requirements  of  regulations  and  guidelines 
issued by SEBI and investor grievance redressal. 

4.2 Requirements related to Internal Audit of CRAs 35 

 

4.2.1  Eligibility of Auditors for conducting the Internal Audit of the CRA  

 

 

a.  The  audit  firm  shall  have  a  minimum  experience  of  three  years  in  the 

financial sector.  
 

b.  The internal auditor of a CRA shall declare that  

                                                           
34 Circular No. SEBI/MIRSD/CRA/Cir-01/2010 dated January 06, 2010 
35 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119 dated November 1, 2016 

 

48 

i.  The firm has not been employed by other CRAs for any other services 
(such as statutory audit, taxation, consultancy/ retainership etc.) in the 
past two years, and  

ii.  The partners/ firm do not have any association with any other CRA.  

 

c.  The  audit  team  must  be  composed  of,  at  least,  a  Chartered  Accountant 

(ACA/FCA) and a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA).  

 

4.2.2  Rotation of Internal Auditors: An auditor shall be appointed for a maximum 

term of five years, with a cooling-off period of two years.  
 

4.2.3  Scope of the Internal Audit: The scope of the internal audit shall be expanded 

to include the following additional checks: 

a.  CRA  and  its  employees,  who  are  associated  directly  or  indirectly  with  the 

rating business, have complied with the regulations and code of conduct.  
 

b.  CRA has defined processes for operations that have been followed during 

the rating exercise.  
 

c.    Rating analysts have adhered to their roles and responsibilities laid down in 
the  Operations  Manual/Internal  governing  document  and  processes 
disclosed on the CRA's website, during the rating  
 

d.  Policy  in respect  of non-cooperation by the issuer, including procedures to 

be followed for the same, have been complied with.  
 

e.  CRA has framed a policy for default recognition, consistent with regulatory 
guidelines, and is adhering to the same. At a minimum, it shall be checked if 
any  irregularities/  delays/  defaults  in  debt  servicing  had  been  indicated  by 
any  of  the  below  mentioned  entities  and  suitable  action  with  regard  to  the 
same was taken by the CRA:  

i.  The issuer/ borrower  
ii.  The Company’s statutory auditor  
iii.  The borrower’s bankers, during interactions with the CRA  
iv.  Debenture Trustees  

 
Cases  where  there  are  deviations  to  the  checklist  shall  be  documented  by 
the auditor as part of the audit report submitted to the board.  

f.   Review of ratings has been carried out as per the review policy of the CRA.  

 

g.  Dissents, if any, have been recorded for each committee meeting, as stated 

in the Operations Manual/ Internal governing document.  
 

h.  CRA has complied with the timelines for publication of press release/ rating 
rationale  for  the  ratings  assigned,  as  set  out  in  its  Operations  Manual/ 
Internal governing document.  
 

49 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i. The  Press  Releases  issued  are  broadly  in  line  with  the  standard  template 

prescribed by SEBI.  
 

j. Verify the rating disclosures made by the CRAs on their website.  

 

k. Comment on the conflict of interest, if any, arising due to composition of the 

rating committee and participation in the rating committee meetings.  

4.2.4  Action on the Internal Audit Report:  

 

a.  The  CRA  shall  receive  the  report  of  the  internal  audit  within  two  months 

from the end of the half-year.36 

 
b.  Upon receipt of the internal audit report, the Compliance Officer of the CRA 
shall  provide  detailed  comments  on  each  of  the  observations  therein  and 
place the same before the Board of the CRA.  

 
c.    The  final  action  taken  report,  including  the  comments/  recommendations 
made  by  Compliance  Officer  and  the  Board  of  the  CRA  as  well  as  the 
corrective  steps  taken  by  the  CRA,  shall  be  submitted  to  SEBI  within  2 
months from the date of receipt of the internal audit report or 1 month from 
the  date  of  Board  Meeting  of  the  CRA,  whichever  is  later,  in  the  following 
format:  

Sr. 
No.  

Observations 
of the auditor  

 

 

 

 

Remarks  by  the 
Compliance 
Officer  
 

Comments 
of  the  Board 
of the CRA  
 

 

 

Corrective 
actions taken  

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
36 Circular No. SEBI/MIRSD/CRA/Cir-01/2010 dated January 06, 2010 

 

50 

 
 

 

SECTION 5: REDRESSAL OF INVESTOR GRIEVANCES 

5.1 Designated e-mail ID for regulatory communication with SEBI37 

 

5.1.1.  SEBI  has  been  communicating  with  the  registered  market  intermediaries 
through  circulars,  letters,  directions  etc.  In  order  to  facilitate  the  issuance  of 
digitally  signed  circulars,  all  registered  intermediaries  are  required  to  create  a 
designated  email  id  for  regulatory  communications.  This  email  id  shall  be  an 
exclusive  email  id  only  for  the  above  purpose  and  should  not  be  a  person 
centric email id. 

 

5.1.2.  The Designated e-mail ID shall be communicated to SEBI by emailing a file to 

intermediary@sebi.gov.in , as per the format prescribed below: 

 

a.  The file should be an excel file. 
b.  The  name  of  the  file  and  the  subject  of  the  email  shall  specify  the  type  of 
intermediary  and  the  name  of  the  intermediary.  For  example  –  “Credit 
Rating Agency – ABC co. Ltd.” 

c.   The file shall contain the following details: 

 

Name  Address  Category  Registrati

  

  

  

 

on No. 
  

Designated 
email id 
  

Name 
of 
compliance officer 
 

5.2 Redressal  of  investor  grievances  through  SEBI  Complaints  Redress  System 

(SCORES) platform38 

 

to  securities  market, 

5.2.1.  SEBI launched a centralized web based complaints redress system ‘SCORES’ 
in June 2011. The purpose of SCORES is to provide a platform for aggrieved 
investors,  whose  grievances,  pertaining 
remain 
unresolved by the concerned listed company or SEBI registered Credit Rating 
Agencies after a direct approach. SCORES also provides a platform, overseen 
by  SEBI  through  which  the  investors  can  approach  the  concerned  listed 
company  or  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  in  an  endeavor  towards 
speedy  redressal  of grievances  of  investors  in  the  securities  market.  It  would, 
however,  be  advisable  that  investors  may  initially  take  up  their  grievances  for 
redressal with the concerned listed company or SEBI registered Credit Rating 
Agencies,  who  are  required  to  have  designated  persons/  officials  for  handling 
issues relating to compliance and redressal of investor grievance. 
 

5.2.2.  The salient features of SCORES are: 

a.  Centralized database of all complaints. 
b.  Online  movement  of  complaints  to  the  concerned  SEBI  registered  Credit 

Rating Agencies 

                                                           
37 SEBI Circular No. MIRSD/ DPSIII/ Cir-21/ 08 dated July 7, 2008. 
38 Circular No. CIR/ OIAE/ 1/ 2014 dated December 18, 2014 

 

51 

 

c.  Online upload of Action Taken Reports (ATRs) by the concerned entities, 

and 

d.  Online  viewing  by  investors  of  action  on  the  complaints  and  its  current 

status. 
 

5.2.3.  All  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  are  hereby  advised  to  send  their 
details,  as  per  Form  -  B  annexed,  to  SEBI  in  hard  copy  and  by  email  to 
scores@sebi.gov.in  and  obtain  SCORES  user  id  and  password  immediately 
within  a  period  of  one  month  from  the  date  of  registration.  The  email  id  to  be 
furnished by the SEBI registered Credit Rating Agencies for receiving SCORES 
user id and password from SEBI has to be preferably a corporate email id and 
necessarily  a  permanent  one.  Failure  by  any  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating 
Agency  to  obtain  the  SCORES  user  ID  and  password  would  not  only  be 
deemed  as  non-redressal  of  investor  grievances  but  also  indicate  willful 
avoidance of the same. 
 

5.2.4.  The  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  shall  submit  the  details  in  hard 
copy  (Form  -  B)  to the Department/  Division  of SEBI  which  has  granted  them 
registration to operate in the securities market. SCORES user id and password 
of  the  Credit  Rating  Agencies  shall  be  created  only  after  receiving  approval 
from the concerned Department/ Division of SEBI. 
 

5.2.5.  All  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  shall  review  their  investors’ 
grievances redressal mechanism so as to further strengthen it and correct the 
existing  shortcomings,  if  any.  The  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  to 
whom complaints are forwarded through SCORES, shall take immediate efforts 
on  receipt  of  a  complaint,  for  its  resolution,  within  thirty  days.  The  SEBI 
registered Credit Rating Agencies shall keep the complainant duly informed of 
the action taken thereon. 
 

5.2.6.  The  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  shall  update  the  ATR  along  with 
supporting documents, if any, electronically in SCORES. ATR in physical form 
need  not  be  sent  to  SEBI.  The  proof  of  dispatch  of  the  reply  of  the  SEBI 
registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  to  the  concerned  investor  should  also  be 
uploaded  in  SCORES  and  preserved  by  the  SEBI  registered  intermediary,  for 
future reference. 
 

5.2.7.  Action  taken  by  the  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  will  not  be 
considered  as  complete  if  the  relevant  details/  supporting  documents  are  not 
uploaded  in  SCORES  and  consequently,  the  complaints  will  be  treated  as 
pending. 
 

5.2.8.  A  complaint  shall  be  treated  as  resolved/  disposed/  closed  only  when  SEBI 
disposes/  closes  the  complaint  in  SCORES.  Hence,  mere  filing  of  ATR  by  a 
SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  with  respect  to  a  complaint  will  not 
mean that the complaint is not pending against them. 
 

5.2.9.  Failure by SEBI registered Credit Rating Agencies to file ATR under SCORES 
within thirty days of date of receipt of the grievance shall not only be treated as 
failure  to  furnish  information  to  SEBI  but  shall  also  be  deemed  to  constitute 
non-redressal of investor grievance. 
 

52 

 

 

5.2.10. The Board of Directors/ Proprietor/ Partner of the SEBI registered Credit Rating 
Agencies  shall  be  responsible  for  ensuring  compliance  with  the  provisions  of 
this Circular. 

 

53 

 

 

 

AUTHENTICATION FOR SCORES BY SEBI REGISTERED CREDIT RATING 

FORM - B 

AGENCIES 

 

1.  Name of SEBI registered Credit Rating Agency: 

2.  Nature of registered intermediary: 

3.  SEBI registration no. 

4.  PAN of SEBI registered Credit Rating Agency: 

5.  Date of SEBI registration of Credit Rating Agency: 

6.  SEBI registration valid upto: 

7.  Office address of the Credit Rating Agency: 

8.  The  details  of  the  concerned  person  of  the  Credit  Rating  Agency  to  whom 

User id and password will be sent: 

Name: 

Designation: 

Email id: (corporate and permanent email id) 

Mobile no. 

Telephone No. : 

Fax No.: 

 

Place:  

 

Date:  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signature: 

Name: 

Designation: 

Seal: 

Note:  A  scanned  copy  to  be  sent  by  email  to  scores@sebi.gov.in  followed  by 
hard  copy  to  the  concerned  Department/Division  of  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India, Plot No. C4-A, 'G' Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai - 400 
051 

Important:  Please  note  that  SCORES  has  the  provision  for  updating  SEBI 
registered Credit Rating Agency’s details by the Credit Rating Agency itself. Any 
field (except the e-mail id which is permanent) such as registered office address, 
name/  details  of  the  compliance  officer,  telephone  numbers,  etc.  should  be 
changed  by  the  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agency  immediately  when 
warranted. 

54 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

5.3 Information regarding Grievance Redressal Mechanism39 
 

5.3.1.  For information of all investors who deal/ invest/ transact in the market, it has 
now been decided that the information as provided below shall be prominently 
displayed in the offices of the CRAs:   

Dear Investor,  
 
In case of any grievance / complaint against the Credit Rating Agency:  
 

  Please  contact  Compliance  Officer  of  the  Credit  Rating  Agency 
(Name and Address) / email-id (xxx.@email.com) and Phone No. - 
91-XXXXXXXXXX.  

 

 

 

  You  may  also  approach  CEO  /  Partner  /  Proprietor  (Name)  / 

email-id (xxx.@email.com) and Phone No. - 91-XXXXXXXXXX.  

 

If  not  satisfied  with  the  response  of  the  CRA  you  can  lodge  your 
grievances with SEBI at http://scores.gov.in or you may also write 
to  any  of  the  offices  of  SEBI.  For  any  queries,  feedback  or 
assistance,  please  contact  SEBI  Office  on  Toll  Free  Helpline  at 
1800 22 7575 / 1800 266 7575.  

                                                           
39 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/3/2014 dated August 28, 2014 

55 

 

 

 

 

SECTION 6: OTHERS 

 

6.1 Guidelines on Outsourcing of Activities by Credit Rating Agencies40 

 

6.1.1.  SEBI Regulations for various intermediaries require that they shall render at all 
times high standards of service and exercise due diligence and ensure proper 
care in their operations.  
 

6.1.2.  It has been observed that often intermediaries resort to outsourcing with a view 

to reduce costs, and at times, for strategic reasons. 

 

6.1.3.  Outsourcing may be defined as the use of one or more than one third party  – 
either within or outside the group - by a registered intermediary to perform the 
activities associated with services which the intermediary offers. 

 

6.1.4.  The  principles for  outsourcing  by  intermediaries  have  been  framed (placed  as 
Annexure).  These  principles  shall  be  followed  by  all  intermediaries  registered 
with SEBI.  

 

6.1.5.  The  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  desirous  of  outsourcing  their 
activities  shall  not,  however,  outsource  their  core  business  activities  and 
compliance  functions.  A  few  examples  of  core  business  activities  may  be  – 
execution  of  orders  and  monitoring  of  trading  activities  of  clients  in  case  of 
stock brokers; dematerialization of securities in case of depository participants; 
investment  related  activities  in  case  of  Mutual  Funds  and  Portfolio  Managers. 
Regarding  Know  Your  Client  (KYC)  requirements,  the  SEBI  registered  Credit 
Rating  Agencies  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of  SEBI  {KYC  (Know  Your 
Client)  Registration  Agency}  Regulations,  2011  and  Guidelines 
issued 
thereunder from time to time. 

 

6.1.6.  The  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  shall  be  responsible for  reporting 
of any suspicious transactions / reports to FIU or any other competent authority 
in respect of activities carried out by the third parties. 

 

                                                           
40 SEBI Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/24/2011dated December 15, 2011. 

 

56 

 
 

 

PRINCIPLES FOR OUTSOURCING FOR INTERMEDIARIES 

Annexure 

1.  An 

intermediary  seeking  to  outsource  activities  shall  have 

in  place  a 
comprehensive  policy  to  guide  the  assessment  of  whether  and  how  those 
activities  can  be  appropriately  outsourced.  The  Board  /  partners  (as  the  case 
may  be)  {hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “the  Board”}  of  the  intermediary  shall 
have  the  responsibility 
the  outsourcing  policy  and  related  overall 
responsibility for activities undertaken under that policy. 

for 

1.1  The  policy  shall  cover  activities  or  the  nature  of activities  that  can  be  outsourced, 
the authorities who can approve outsourcing of such activities, and the selection of 
third  party  to  whom  it  can  be  outsourced.  For  example,  an  activity  shall  not  be 
outsourced if it would impair the supervisory authority’s right to assess, or its ability 
to  supervise  the  business  of  the  intermediary.  The  policy  shall  be  based  on  an 
evaluation  of  risk  concentrations,  limits  on  the  acceptable  overall  level  of 
outsourced activities,  risks arising from outsourcing multiple activities to the same 
entity, etc. 

1.2  The Board shall mandate a regular review of outsourcing policy for such activities in 
the wake of changing business environment. It shall also have overall responsibility 
for  ensuring  that  all  ongoing  outsourcing  decisions  taken  by  the  intermediary  and 
the  activities  undertaken  by  the  third-party,  are  in  keeping  with  its  outsourcing 
policy. 

2.  The  intermediary  shall  establish  a  comprehensive  outsourcing  risk  management 
programme  to  address  the  outsourced  activities  and  the  relationship  with  the 
third party. 

2.1  An  intermediary  shall make  an  assessment  of  outsourcing risk  which  depends  on 
several factors, including the scope and materiality of the outsourced activity, etc. 
The  factors  that  could  help  in  considering  materiality  in  a  risk  management 
programme include- 

a)  The  impact of failure of a third party to adequately perform the activity  on the 
financial, reputational and operational performance of the intermediary and on 
the investors / clients; 

b)  Ability of the intermediary to cope up with the work, in case of non-performance 

or failure by a third party by having suitable back-up arrangements; 

c)  Regulatory status of the third party, including its fitness and probity status; 

d)  Situations  involving  conflict  of  interest  between  the  intermediary  and  the  third 
party  and  the  measures  put  in  place  by  the  intermediary  to  address  such 
potential conflicts, etc. 

2.2  While  there  shall  not  be  any  prohibition  on  a  group  entity  /  associate  of  the 
intermediary  to  act  as  the  third  party,  systems  shall  be  put  in  place  to  have  an 
arm’s  length  distance  between  the  intermediary  and  the  third  party  in  terms  of 
infrastructure,  manpower,  decision-making,  record  keeping,  etc.  for  avoidance  of 
potential conflict of interests. Necessary disclosures in this regard shall be made as 
part of the contractual agreement. It shall be kept in mind that the risk management 

 

57 

 

 

practices expected to be adopted by an intermediary while outsourcing to a related 
party or an associate would be identical to those followed while outsourcing to an 
unrelated party. 

2.3  The records relating to all activities outsourced shall be preserved centrally so that 
the same is readily accessible for review by the Board of the intermediary and / or 
its  senior  management,  as  and  when  needed.  Such  records  shall  be  regularly 
updated  and  may  also  form  part  of  the  corporate  governance  review  by  the 
management of the intermediary. 

2.4  Regular  reviews  by  internal  or  external  auditors  of  the  outsourcing  policies,  risk 
management  system  and  requirements  of  the  regulator  shall  be  mandated  by  the 
Board  wherever  felt  necessary.  The  intermediary  shall  review  the  financial  and 
operational capabilities of the third party in order to assess its ability to continue to 
meet its outsourcing obligations. 

3.  The intermediary shall ensure that outsourcing arrangements neither diminish its 
ability  to  fulfill its  obligations  to  customers and  regulators,  nor  impede  effective 
supervision by the regulators. 

3.1  The  intermediary  shall  be  fully  liable  and  accountable  for  the  activities  that  are 

being outsourced to the same extent as if the service were provided in-house. 

3.2  Outsourcing arrangements shall not affect the rights of an investor or client against 
the intermediary in any manner. The intermediary shall be liable to the investors for 
the  loss  incurred  by  them  due  to  the  failure  of  the  third  party  and  also  be 
responsible  for  redressal  of  the  grievances  received  from  investors  arising  out  of 
activities rendered by the third party. 

3.3  The  facilities  /  premises  /  data  that  are  involved  in  carrying  out  the  outsourced 
activity  by  the  service  provider  shall  be  deemed  to  be  those  of  the  registered 
intermediary. The intermediary itself and Regulator or the persons authorized by it 
shall have the right to access the same at any point of time. 

3.4  Outsourcing  arrangements  shall  not  impair  the  ability  of  SEBI/SRO  or  auditors  to 
exercise  its  regulatory  responsibilities  such  as  supervision/inspection  of  the 
intermediary. 

4.  The  intermediary  shall  conduct  appropriate  due  diligence  in  selecting  the  third 

party and in monitoring of its performance. 

4.1 It  is  important  that  the  intermediary  exercises  due  care,  skill,  and  diligence  in  the 
selection of the third party to ensure that the third party has the ability and capacity to 
undertake the provision of the service effectively. 

4.2  The due diligence undertaken by an intermediary shall include assessment of: 

a) 

third  party’s  resources  and  capabilities,  including  financial  soundness,  to 
perform the outsourcing work within the timelines fixed; 

b)  compatibility  of  the  practices  and  systems  of  the  third  party  with  the 

intermediary’s requirements and objectives; 

 

58 

 

 

c)  market feedback of the prospective third party’s business reputation and track 

record of their services rendered in the past; 

d) 

level of concentration of the outsourced arrangements with a single third party; 
and 

e) 

the environment of the foreign country where the third party is located. 

5.  Outsourcing  relationships  shall  be  governed  by written  contracts  / agreements / 
terms  and  conditions  (as  deemed  appropriate)  {hereinafter  referred  to  as 
“contract”}  that  clearly  describe  all  material  aspects  of  the  outsourcing 
arrangement, including the rights, responsibilities and expectations of the parties 
to the contract, client confidentiality issues, termination procedures, etc. 

5.1 Outsourcing arrangements shall be governed by a clearly defined and legally binding 
written  contract  between  the  intermediary  and  each  of  the  third  parties,  the  nature 
and detail of which shall be appropriate to the materiality of the outsourced activity in 
relation to the ongoing business of the intermediary. 

5.2  Care shall be taken to ensure that the outsourcing contract: 

a)  clearly defines what activities are going to be outsourced, including appropriate 

service and performance levels; 

b)  provides  for  mutual  rights,  obligations  and  responsibilities  of  the  intermediary 

and the third party, including indemnity by the parties; 

c)  provides for the liability of  the third party to the intermediary for unsatisfactory 

performance/other breach of the contract 

d)  provides for the continuous monitoring and assessment by the intermediary of 
the  third  party  so  that  any  necessary  corrective  measures  can  be  taken  up 
immediately,  i.e.,  the  contract  shall  enable  the  intermediary  to  retain  an 
appropriate level of control over the outsourcing and the right to intervene with 
appropriate measures to meet legal and regulatory obligations; 

e) 

includes, where necessary, conditions of sub-contracting by the third-party, i.e. 
the  contract  shall  enable  intermediary  to  maintain  a  similar  control  over  the 
risks  when  a  third  party  outsources  to  further  third  parties  as  in  the  original 
direct outsourcing; 

f)  has unambiguous confidentiality clauses to ensure protection of proprietary and 
customer data during the tenure of the contract and also after the expiry of the 
contract; 

g)  specifies the responsibilities of the third party with respect to the IT security and 
contingency plans, insurance cover, business continuity and disaster recovery 
plans, force majeure clause, etc.; 

h)  provides for preservation of the documents and data by third party ; 

i) 

j) 

provides for the mechanisms to resolve disputes arising from implementation of 
the outsourcing contract; 

provides  for  termination  of  the  contract,  termination  rights,  transfer  of 
information and exit strategies; 

k)  addresses  additional  issues  arising  from  country  risks  and  potential  obstacles 
the  arrangements  when 

in  exercising  oversight  and  management  of 

 

59 

 

 

intermediary  outsources  its  activities  to  foreign  third  party.  For  example,  the 
contract  shall  include  choice-of-law  provisions  and  agreement  covenants  and 
jurisdictional  covenants  that  provide  for  adjudication  of  disputes  between  the 
parties under the laws of a specific jurisdiction; 

l) 

neither  prevents  nor  impedes  the  intermediary  from  meeting  its  respective 
regulatory  obligations,  nor  the  regulator from  exercising  its regulatory  powers; 
and 

m)  provides for the intermediary and /or the regulator or the persons authorized by 
it  to  have  the  ability  to  inspect,  access  all  books,  records  and  information 
relevant to the outsourced activity with the third party. 

6.  The  intermediary  and  its  third  parties  shall  establish  and  maintain  contingency 
plans,  including  a  plan  for  disaster  recovery  and  periodic  testing  of  backup 
facilities. 

6.1  Specific  contingency  plans  shall  be  separately  developed  for  each  outsourcing 

arrangement, as is done in individual business lines. 

6.2  An  intermediary  shall  take  appropriate  steps  to  assess  and  address  the  potential 
consequence  of  a  business  disruption  or  other  problems  at  the  third  party  level. 
Notably,  it  shall  consider  contingency  plans  at  the  third  party;  co-ordination  of 
contingency  plans  at  both  the  intermediary  and  the  third  party;  and  contingency 
plans of the intermediary in the event of non-performance by the third party. 

6.3  To  ensure  business  continuity,  robust  information  technology  security  is  a 
necessity. A breakdown in the IT capacity may impair the ability of the intermediary 
to  fulfill  its  obligations  to  other  market  participants/clients/regulators  and  could 
undermine  the  privacy  interests  of  its  customers,  harm  the  intermediary’s 
reputation,  and  may  ultimately  impact  on  its  overall  operational  risk  profile. 
Intermediaries shall, therefore, seek to ensure that third party maintains appropriate 
IT security and robust disaster recovery capabilities. 

6.4  Periodic  tests  of  the  critical  security  procedures  and  systems  and  review  of  the 
backup facilities shall be undertaken by the intermediary to confirm the adequacy of 
the third party’s systems. 

7.  The intermediary shall take appropriate steps to require that third parties protect 
confidential  information  of  both  the  intermediary  and  its  customers  from 
intentional or inadvertent disclosure to unauthorized persons. 

7.1 An intermediary that engages in outsourcing is expected to take appropriate steps 
to protect its proprietary and confidential customer information and ensure that it is 
not misused or misappropriated. 

7.2  The intermediary shall prevail upon the third party to ensure that the employees of 
the  third  party  have  limited  access  to  the  data  handled  and  only  on  a  “need  to 
know” basis and the third party shall have adequate checks and balances to ensure 
the same. 

7.3  In  cases  where  the third  party  is  providing  similar  services  to multiple  entities,  the 
intermediary  shall  ensure  that  adequate  care  is  taken  by  the  third  party  to  build 
safeguards for data security and confidentiality. 

 

60 

 
8.  Potential  risks  posed  where  the  outsourced  activities  of  multiple  intermediaries 

 

are concentrated with a limited number of third parties. 

8.1. In  instances,  where  the  third  party  acts  as  an  outsourcing  agent  for  multiple 
intermediaries,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  third  party  and  the  intermediary  to  ensure  that 
strong  safeguards  are  put  in  place  so  that  there  is  no  co-mingling  of  information 
/documents, records and assets. 

 

61 

 
 

 

6.2  Unauthenticated  news  circulated  by  SEBI  Registered  Market  Intermediaries 

through various modes of communication41 

 

6.2.1.  It  has  been  observed  by  SEBI  that  unauthenticated  news  related  to  various 
scrips are circulated in blogs/ chat forums/ e-mail etc. by employees of Broking 
Houses/  Other  Intermediaries  without  adequate  caution  as  mandated  in  the 
Code  of  Conduct  for  Stock  Brokers  and  respective  Regulations  of  various 
intermediaries registered with SEBI 

 

6.2.2.  Further,  in  various  instances,  it  has  been  observed  that  the  Intermediaries  do 
not  have  proper  internal  controls  and  do  not  ensure  that  proper  checks  and 
balances are in place to govern the conduct of their employees. Due to lack of 
proper internal controls and poor training, employees of such intermediaries are 
sometimes  not  aware  of  the  damage  which  can  be  caused  by  circulation  of 
unauthenticated  news  or  rumours.  It  is  a  well-established  fact  that  market 
rumours can do considerable damage to the normal functioning and behaviour 
of the market and distort the price discovery mechanisms. 

 

6.2.3.  In view of the above facts, SEBI registered Credit Rating Agencies are directed 

that: 

a.  Proper internal code of conduct and controls should be put in place. 
b.  Employees/temporary  staff/voluntary  workers  etc.  employed/working  in 

the 
Offices of SEBI registered CRAs do not encourage or circulate rumours or 
unverified  information  obtained  from  client,  industry,  any  trade  or  any 
other sources without verification. 

c.  Access  to  Blogs/Chat  forums/Messenger  sites  etc.  should  either  be 

restricted under supervision or access should not be allowed. 

d.  Logs for any usage of such Blogs/Chat forums/Messenger sites (called by 
any  nomenclature)  shall  be  treated  as  records  and  the  same  should  be 
maintained  as  specified  by  the  respective  Regulations  which  govern  the 
concerned intermediary. 

e.  Employees should be directed that any market  related news received by 
them either in their official mail/personal mail/blog or in any other manner, 
should be forwarded only after the same has been seen and approved by 
the  concerned  SEBI  registered  CRAs’  '  Compliance  Officer.  If  an 
employee  fails  to  do  so,  he/  she  shall  be  deemed  to  have  violated  the 
various  provisions  contained  in  SEBI  Act/  Rules/  Regulations  etc.  and 
shall be liable for action. The Compliance Officer shall also be held liable 
for breach of duty in this regard.42 

 

                                                           
41 Circular No. CIR/ISD/1/2011 dated March 23, 2011 
42 Circular No. CIR/ISD/2/2011 dated March 24, 2011 

 

62 

 

 General  Guidelines  for  dealing  with  Conflicts  of  Interest  of  Credit  Rating 
Agencies and their Associated Persons in Securities Market43 

 

 
6.3 

 

6.3.1.  All 

intermediaries, 

recognised  stock  exchanges, 

recognised  clearing 
corporations  and  depositories  (hereinafter  collectively  referred  to  as  "such 
entities")  are  presently  governed  by  the  provisions  for  avoidance  of  conflict  of 
interest  as  mandated  in the respective  regulations  read  with  relevant  circulars 
issued from time to time by SEBI. On the lines of Principle 8 of the International 
Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Objectives and Principles of 
Securities  Regulations,  it  has  been  decided  to  put  in  place  comprehensive 
guidelines  to  collectively  cover  such  entities  and  their  associated  persons,  for 
elimination of their conflict of interest, as detailed hereunder. 

 

6.3.2.  Such  entities  shall  adhere  to  these  guidelines  for  avoiding  or  dealing  with  or 
managing  conflict  of  interest.  They  shall  be  responsible  for  educating  their 
associated persons for compliance of these guidelines. 

 

6.3.3.  For the purpose of these guidelines "intermediaries" and "associated persons" 
have the same meaning as defined in Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Certification  of  Associated  Persons  in  the  Securities  Markets)  Regulations, 
2007.  

 

6.3.4.  Such entities and their associated persons shall,  

 

a.  lay  down,  with  active  involvement  of  senior  management,  policies  and 
internal  procedures  to  identify  and  avoid  or  to  deal  or  manage  actual  or 
potential  conflict  of  interest,  develop  an  internal  code  of  conduct 
governing  operations  and  formulate  standards  of  appropriate  conduct  in 
the  performance  of  their  activities,  and  ensure  to  communicate  such 
policies, procedures and code to all concerned; 

b.  at  all  times  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity  in  the  conduct  of  their 

business; 

c.  ensure fair treatment of their clients and not discriminate amongst them; 
d.  ensure that their personal interest does not, at any time conflict with their 
duty  to  their  clients  and  client’s  interest  always  takes  primacy  in  their 
advice, investment decisions and transactions; 

e.  make appropriate disclosure to the clients of possible source or potential 
areas of conflict of interest which  would  impair their ability to render fair, 
objective and unbiased services; 

f.  endeavor 

to  reduce  opportunities 

through  prescriptive 
measures such as through information barriers to block or hinder the flow 
of information from one department/ unit to another, etc.; 

for  conflict 

                                                           
43 SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 5/ 2013 dated August 27, 2013 

 

63 

 

g.  place appropriate restrictions on transactions in  securities while handling 
a mandate of issuer or client in respect of such security so as to avoid any 
conflict; 

h.  not  deal  in  securities  while  in  possession  of  material  non  -  published 

information 

i.  not  to  communicate  the  material  non-published  information  while 

dealing in securities on behalf of others 

j.  not  in  any  way  contribute  to  manipulate  the  demand  for  or  supply  of 

securities in the market or to influence prices of securities; 

k.  not  have  an  incentive  structure  that  encourages  sale  of  products  not 

suiting the risk profile of their clients; 

l.  not  share  information  received  from  clients  or  pertaining  to  them, 

obtained as a result of their dealings, for their personal interest; 

 

6.3.5.  The  Boards  of  such  entities  shall  put  in  place  systems  for  implementation  of 
this circular and provide necessary guidance enabling identification, elimination 
or  management  of  conflict  of  interest  situations.  The  Boards  shall  review  the 
compliance of this circular periodically. 

 

6.3.6.  The  said  guidelines  shall  be  in  addition  to  the  provisions,  if  any,  contained  in 
respective  regulations/  circulars  issued  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time 
regarding dealing with conflict of interest, in respect of such entities 

64 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE: List of Circulars 

 
 

1.  Circular No. SEBI/MIRSD/DR-2/SRP/Cir - 2/ 2005 dated January 4, 2005. 

2.  Circular No. MIRSD/ DPSIII/ Cir-21/ 08 dated July 7, 2008. 

3.  Circular No. SEBI/MIRSD/CRA/Cir-01/2010 dated January 06, 2010 

4.  Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/CRA/6/2010 dated May 3, 2010 

5.  Circular No. CIR/ISD/1/2011 dated March 23, 2011 

6.  Circular No. CIR/ISD/2/2011 dated March 24, 2011 

7.  Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/4/2011 dated June 15, 2011 

8.  Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/8/2011 dated June 17, 2011 

9.  Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/14/2011 dated August 02, 2011 

10. Circular No. Cir. /IMD/DF/17/2011 dated September 28, 2011 

11. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/24/2011 dated December 15, 2011 

12. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/3/2012 dated March 01, 2012 

13. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/3/2013 dated March 15, 2013 

14. Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 5/ 2013 dated August 27, 2013 

15. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/6/2013 dated August 28, 2013 

16. Circular No. CIR/IMD/DF/17/2013 dated October 22, 2013. 

17. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/3/2014 dated August 28, 2014 

18. Circular No. CIR/ OIAE/ 1/ 2014 dated Dec 18, 2014 

19. Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2016/119 dated November 1, 2016 

20. Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD4/CIR/P/2017/28 dated March 31, 2017 

21. Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/38 dated May 02, 2017 

22. Circular No. SEBI/HO/GSD/T&A/CIR/P/2017/42 dated May 16, 2017 

23. Circular No. SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ MIRSD4/ CIR/ P/ 2017/ 71 dated June 30, 2017 

 

65 

 
 

 

