 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

             May 11, 2018 

 
 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP1/CIR/P/2018/80  
 
To, 
 
All Underwriters registered with SEBI 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Subject: Master Circular for Underwriters registered with SEBI 
 
1.  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  has  been  issuing  various 
circulars/directions from time to time. In order to enable the users to have an 
access to the applicable circulars/directions at one place, Master Circular for 
Underwriters registered with SEBI has been prepared. 

2.  This  Master  Circular  is  a  compilation  of  the  circulars  issued  by  SEBI  up  to 
March 31, 2018, which are operational as on the date of this circular. References 
in the circular to the statutes / Regulations which now stand repealed, have 
been suitably updated. 

3.  In    case    of    any    inconsistency    between  the    Master    Circular    and    the  

applicable  circulars,  the contents of the relevant circular shall prevail. 

4.  The Master  Circular  is  a  compilation  of  all  the  existing/ applicable circulars 
issued    by    the    Market    Intermediaries    Regulation    and    Supervision 
Department        of        SEBI    to        Underwriters.  Efforts    have  been    made    to 
incorporate  applicable    provisions    of  existing    circulars    issued    by    other  
Departments of SEBI relevant to Underwriters.  

 

 
 

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Surabhi Gupta 
Deputy General Manager 
Phone No.: 022 -26449315 
Email ID: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

1 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Table of Contents 

Particulars 

Page No. 

Regulatory Compliance and Periodic Reporting 

Grievance Redressal Mechanism 

General obligations 

Schedule - I  - List of Circulars 

3 

8 

17 

26 

2 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CHAPTER - I - REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND PERIODIC 

REPORTING 

 

 

 

1.  Conditions  for  granting  registration  where  a  connected  persons  has    been 

granted registration1 
1.1. The  Board  may  consider  grant  of  certificate 

to  an  applicant, 
notwithstanding that another entity in the same group has been previously 
granted registration by the Board, if the following conditions are fulfilled: 
1.1.1.  The entities are incorporated as separate legal entities. 
1.1.2.  The  entities  have  independent  Board  of  Directors.  Independent 
Board  of  Directors  for  this  purpose  means  that  common  directors 
should not be in majority in both the Boards. 

1.1.3.  There  is  absolute  arm’s  length  relationship  with  reference  to  their 

operations. 

1.1.4.  The  key  personnel  and  infrastructure  are  independently  available 

for each entity. 

1.1.5.  Each  entity  has  independent  regulatory  controls  and  supervisory 

mechanism 

1.2. It  is  also  clarified  that  when  as  per  the  above  policy,  two  entities  in  the 
same group are granted registration, any action by way of suspension or 
cancellation  of  registration  taken  by  SEBI  against  one  entity,  may  entail 
action under Regulation 25 of the said Regulations against other entities of 
the same group registered in terms of the said Regulations. 

Explanation: For the purposes of this circular, two entities are considered 
to be in the same group if: 

1. the same person, by himself or in combination with relatives, directly or 
indirectly exercises control over both the entities or, 

2. the entities are related parties as defined under SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 or, 

                                                           
1 RUW Circular No. 1 (2002-2003) dated September 23, 2002 
 

 

3 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.  where  one  entity  directly  or  indirectly  exercises  control  over  the  other 
entity. 

[‘Control’ for this purpose means control as defined in regulation 2(1)(e) of 
the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations, 
2011] 

2.  Designated e-mail ID for regulatory communication with SEBI2 

2.1. SEBI has been communicating with the registered market intermediaries, 
stock exchanges and depositories etc. through circulars, letters, directions 
etc. SEBI has already put in place a system for issuance of digitally signed 
circulars  with  respect  to  stock  exchanges,  depositories  and  merchant 
bankers. 

2.2. In line with the above, it has been decided to extend the system of issuance 

of digitally signed circulars to all other registered intermediaries. 

2.3. In order to facilitate the above, all registered intermediaries are required to 
create a designated email id for regulatory communications. This email id 
shall be an exclusive email id only for the above purpose and should not 
be a person centric email id. 

2.4. The  Designated  e-mail 

ID  shall  be  communicated 

to  SEBI  at 

intermediary@sebi.gov.in as per the format prescribed at Annexure I. 

ANNEXURE I 
 

Format for sending the Designated e-mail ID for regulatory communication with 

SEBI 

1. The file should be an excel file. 
2. The name of the file and the subject of the email shall specify the type of intermediary 
and the name of the intermediary. For example – “Registrar to an issue – ABC co. Ltd.” 
3. The file shall contain the following details: 

Name 

Address 

Category 

Registration 
No 

Designated 
email id 

Name 
of 
compliance 
officer 

                                                           
2 SEBI Circular No. MIRSD/ DPSIII/ Cir-21/ 08 dated July 07, 2008 
 

 

4 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

The file shall be emailed to intermediary@sebi.gov.in. 
 
3.  Periodic Reporting on change in status or constitution3 

3.1. All  underwriters  shall  report  the  following  change(s)  to  SEBI  on  a  half-
yearly basis within 15 days of expiry of the half-year, commencing from 
the half-year ended September 30, 2011 : 
i. Amalgamation, demerger, consolidation or any other kind of corporate 
restructuring falling within the scope of section 230 of the Companies Act, 
2013 or the corresponding provision of any other law for the time being in 
force 
ii. Change in Director, including managing director/ whole-time director 
iii. In case of a partnership firm any change in partners not amounting to 
dissolution of the firm 
iv. Change in shareholding not resulting in change in control 
If there is no change during the relevant half-year, it shall be indicated in 
the report. 

3.2. The above report shall be submitted in electronic form only to e-mail id 
uw@sebi.gov.in,  with  the  subject  line  ”Report  on  change  of  status  or 
constitution submitted by aaa for the half-year ended xxx yyyy” where aaa 
represents the name of underwriter, xxx represents the month at the end 
of  the  half-year  and  yyyy  represents  the  year.  For  example,  if  an 
underwriter  ABC  Limited  submits  the  aforesaid  report  for  the  half-year 
ended  September  2011,  the  e-mail  sent  to  uw@sebi.gov.in  shall  bear  the 
subject line “Report on change of status or constitution submitted by ABC 
Limited for the half-year ended September 2011”. 

 
 
4.  Revised procedure for seeking prior approval for change in control through 

single window4 
4.1. With a view to expedite the process of granting prior approval, it has been 
decided to adopt a ‘single window clearance at SEBI’, for the Stock Brokers 
and Sub-brokers, Merchant Bankers, Debenture Trustees, Registrar to an 

                                                           
3 SEBI Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/6/2011 dated June 17, 2011 
4 SEBI Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/14/2011 dated August 02, 2011 
 

 

5 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Issue and Share Transfer Agents, Underwriters, Depository Participants, 
Bankers  to  an  Issue  and  Credit  Rating  Agencies,  in  case  of  their  having 
multiple  registrations  with  SEBI.  Accordingly,  in  consultation  with  the 
major  stock  exchanges  and  market  participants,  it  has  been  decided  to 
adopt the following procedure; 
4.1.1.  In case an applicant holds multiple registrations with SEBI, it shall 
make  only  one  application  to  SEBI  accompanied  by  the  following 
information about itself, the acquirer and the directors/partners of the 
acquirer; 
•  Whether  any  application  was  made  in  the  past  to  SEBI  seeking 
registration  in  any  capacity  but  it  was  not  granted?  If  yes,  details 
thereof. 
• Whether any action has been initiated / taken under SCRA/SEBI Act 
or rules and regulations made thereunder? If yes, status thereof along 
with corrective action taken to avoid such violations in the future. The 
acquirer  shall  also  confirm  that  it  shall  honour  all  past  liabilities  / 
obligations of the applicant, if any. 
• Whether any investor complaint is pending? If yes, steps taken and 
confirmation that the acquirer shall resolve the same. 
• Details of litigation, if any. 
• That all the fees due to SEBI have been paid. 
•  That  there  will  not  be  any  change  in  the  Board  of  Directors  of 
incumbent, till the time prior approval is granted. 
• That the incumbent shall inform all its existing investors / clients in 
order  to  enable  them  to  take  informed  decision  regarding  their 
continuance or otherwise with the entity with new management. 

4.1.2.  Further, in case the incumbent is a registered stock broker and / or 
depository  participant,  in  addition  to  the  above,  it  shall  obtain 
approval / NOC from all the Stock Exchanges / Depositories, where 
the  incumbent  is  a  member  /  Depository  Participant  and  forward  a 
self-attested copy of the same to SEBI. 

4.1.3.  The  application  shall  be  addressed  to  "Chief  General  Manager, 

MIRSD, SEBI". 

4.1.4.  The prior approval granted by SEBI shall be valid for a period of 180 

days from the date of communication. 

 

6 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
5.  Online Registration Mechanism for Securities Market Intermediaries5 

5.1. SEBI  has  decided 

to  operationalize  SEBI 

Intermediary  Portal 
(https://siportal.sebi.gov.in)  for  the  intermediaries  to  submit  all  the 
registration applications online. The SEBI Intermediary Portal shall include 
online application for registration, processing of application, grant of final 
registration,  application  for  surrender  /  cancellation,  submission  of 
periodical  reports,  requests  for  change  of  name/address/  other  details, 
etc., Link for SEBI Intermediary Portal is also available on SEBI website - 
www.sebi.gov.in.    

5.2. SEBI Intermediary Portal is made operational for following intermediaries:  

5.2.1.  Stock Brokers  
5.2.2.  Sub-brokers  
5.2.3.  Merchant Bankers (MB)   
5.2.4.  Underwriters (UW)  
5.2.5.  Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents (RTA)   
5.2.6.  Debenture Trustees (DT)  
5.2.7.  Bankers To An Issue (BTI)  
5.2.8.  Credit Rating Agency (CRA) 
5.2.9.  Depository Participants (DP) 
 

5.3. Henceforth,  all  applications  for  registration/  surrender/other  requests 
shall be made through SEBI Intermediary Portal only. The applications in 
respect  of  stock  brokers/  sub-broker  and  depository  participants  shall 
continue  to  be  made  through  the  stock  exchanges  and  depositories 
respectively.  

5.4.  The applicants will be separately required to submit relevant documents 
viz.  declarations/  undertakings  required  as  a  part  of  application  forms 
prescribed  in  relevant  regulations,  in  physical  form,  only  for  records 
without impacting the online processing of applications for registration.  

5.5.  Where applications are made through the stock exchanges / depositories, 
the  hard  copy  of  the  applications  made  by  their  members  shall  be 
preserved by them and shall be made available to SEBI, as and when called 
for.  

5.6.  In  case  of  any  queries  and  clarifications  with  regard  to  the  SEBI 
Intermediary Portal, intermediaries may contact on 022-26449364 or may 
write at portalhelp@sebi.gov.in. 

                                                           
5 SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/38 dated May 02, 2017 
 

 

7 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
6.  Grievance Redressal Mechanism6 

6.1. All registered Merchant Bankers, registered Registrars to an Issue/ Share 
Transfer  Agents,  registered  Debenture  Trustees,  registered  Bankers  to 
Issue and registered Underwriters are advised to designate an e-mail ID of 
the  grievance  redressal  division/compliance  officer  exclusively  for  the 
purpose of registering complaints by investors. 

6.2. The  above  entities  are  also  advised  to  display  the  email  ID  and  other 
relevant  details  prominently  on  their  websites  and  in  the  various 
materials/pamphlets/advertisement  campaign  initiated  by  them  for 
creating investor awareness. 

6.3. As an additional measure and for information of all investors who deal/ 
invest/  transact  in  the  market,  it  has  now  been  decided  that  offices  of 
intermediaries shall prominently display basic information, as provided in 
Annexure  II,  about  the  grievance  redressal  mechanism  available  to 
investors. 
 

 
Dear Investor, In case of any grievance / complaint against the Intermediary:  

FOR OTHER INTERMEDIARIES 

ANNEXURE II 

-id 

(xxx.@email.com) and Phone No. - 91-XXXXXXXXXX.  
 

(xxx.@email.com) and Phone No. - 91-XXXXXXXXXX.  
 

-id 

 If not satisfied with the response of the intermediary you can lodge your grievances 

with SEBI at http://scores.gov.in or you may also write to any of the offices of SEBI. For 
any queries, feedback or assistance, please contact SEBI Office on Toll Free Helpline at 
1800 22 7575 / 1800 266 7575.  
 

 

6.4. All newly listed companies and SEBI registered intermediaries (excluding 
Stock  Brokers,  Sub-Brokers  and  Depository  Participants)  are  hereby 
advised to send their details as per Form-A and Form-B annexed to this 

                                                           
6 SEBI Circulars No. MIRSD/DPS III/Cir-01/07 dated January 22, 2007,CIR/MIRSD/17/2011 dated August 
24,  2011,CIR/MIRSD/3/2014  dated  August  28,  2014,  CIR/OIAE/1/2014  dated  December  18,  2014  and 
SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/CIR/P/2018/58 dated March 26, 2018. 
 

 

 

8 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Circular (as Annexure III and Annexure IV respectively), to SEBI in hard 
copy and by email to scores@sebi.gov.in and obtain SCORES user id and 
password immediately. The email id to be furnished by the listed company 
/  SEBI  registered  intermediary  for  receiving  SCORES  user  id  and 
password  from  SEBI  has  to  be  preferably  a  corporate  email  id  and 
necessarily  a  permanent  one.  Failure  by  any  listed  company  or  SEBI 
registered  intermediary  to  obtain  the  SCORES  user  ID  and  password 
would not only be deemed as non-redressal of investor grievances but also 
indicate willful avoidance of the same. 

ANNEXURE III 

 

AUTHENTICATION FOR SCORES BY LISTED COMPANIES  

 

FORM - A  

 

1.  Name of the Company:  

 

2.  PAN of Company :   

 

 

3.  CIN of Company:  

 

4.  Date of incorporation of company:  

 

5.  Registered Office address of company:  

 

6.  Complaints processed through:  □RTI/STA    □Company  

 

7.  Please indicate the following:  
 
    Name of the RTI/STA (if through RTI/STA):  
 
    Whether complaints will be passed to RTI/STA by the company     
□ directly to the RTI/STA □ through SCORES  
 
8.  Stock exchange on which company is listed/ proposed to be listed:  

 

9.  The details of the concerned person of the company to whom User id and       password 

will be sent:  

 

 

 

9 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Name : 
 
    Designation:  
 
    Email id : (Corporate and permanent email id)  
 
    Mobile no.  
 
    Telephone No. :  
 
    Fax No. :  
 
10. Name, PAN and address of the promoters and directors of the company:  
 
   Place:                                                        Signature of Compliance Officer of company:  
 
   Date:                                                         Name:  
                                                                     Designation:                                                                                                                              
Company Seal:  
 
Note:  A scanned copy to be sent by email to scores@sebi.gov.in followed by hard copy 
to Office of the Investor Assistance and Education, Securities and Exchange Board of 
India, Plot No. C4-A, 'G' Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai - 400 051  
 
Important:  Please note that SCORES has the provision for updating company details by 
the company itself. Any field (except the e-mail id which is permanent) such as registered 
office address, name of the RTI/STA, name/details of the compliance officer, telephone 
numbers, etc should be changed by the company immediately when warranted.  

 
 
ANNEXURE IV 
 

FORM - B 

AUTHENTICATION FOR SCORES BY SEBI REGISTERED INTERMEDIARIES 
1. Name of the registered intermediary : 
2. Nature of registered intermediary: 
3. SEBI registration no. 
4. PAN of registered intermediary : 
5. Date of SEBI registration of intermediary: 

 

 

10 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
6. SEBI registration valid upto: 
7. Office address of the intermediary: 
8. The details of the concerned person of the intermediary to whom User id and 
password will be sent: 
Name : 
Designation: 
Email id : (corporate and permanent email id) 
Mobile no. 
Telephone No. : 
Fax No. : 
Place: Signature: 
Date: Name: 
Designation: 
Seal: 
 

Note: A scanned copy to be sent by email to scores@sebi.gov.in followed by hard copy 
to the concerned Department/Division of Securities and Exchange Board of India, Plot 
No. C4-A, 'G' Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai - 400 051 
Important:  Please  note  that  SCORES  has  the  provision  for  updating  intermediary's 
details by the intermediary itself. Any field (except the e-mail id which is permanent) 
such as registered office address, name/details of the compliance officer, telephone 
numbers, etc should be changed by the intermediary immediately when warranted. 
 
6.5. The registered intermediaries shall submit the details in hard copy (Form-
B)  to  the  Department/Division  of  SEBI  which  has  granted  them 
registration  to  operate  in  the  securities  market.  SCORES  user  id  and 
password of an intermediary shall be created only after receiving approval 
from the concerned Department/Division of SEBI. 

6.6. In case of complaints against listed companies, the same can be processed 
by companies in-house or through its Registrar to Issue and Share Transfer 
Agent (RTI/STA). In case the complaints are processed by the RTI/STA on 
behalf of the listed company, the company should indicate in the enclosed 
Form-A  whether  they  require  the  facility  to  forward  complaints  to  the 
RTI/STA, so that the ATRs can be uploaded by them. In such cases, the 
name  of  the  RTI/STA,  the  name  of  the  Compliance  Officer  of  the  listed 
company and email id of the listed company should be furnished, so that 
the  user  id  and  password  can  be  provided  accordingly.  In  case  the 
complaints are processed by the RTI/STA on behalf of the listed company, 
any failure on the part of the RTI/STA to redress the complaints or failure 

 

 

11 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

to update ATR in SCORES, will be treated as failure of the listed company 
to furnish information to SEBI and non redressal of investor complaints by 
the listed company. 

6.7. Intermediaries can view the complaints in the SCORES system by logging 
in  with  their  user  id  and  password  which  will  be  communicated 
separately.  

6.8. A  daily  alert  on  pending  complaints  will  be  forwarded  at  the  e-mail  

ID registered with SEBI for regulatory communications.   

6.9. All listed companies and SEBI registered intermediaries shall review their 
investors grievances redressal mechanism so as to further strengthen it and 
correct the existing shortcomings, if any. The listed companies and SEBI 
registered  intermediaries  to  whom  complaints  are  forwarded  through 
SCORES,  shall  take  immediate  efforts  on  receipt  of  a  complaint,  for  its 
resolution, within thirty days. The listed companies and SEBI registered 
intermediaries  shall  keep  the  complainant  duly  informed  of  the  action 
taken thereon. 

6.10. 

The  listed  companies  and  SEBI  registered  intermediaries  shall 
update the ATR along with supporting documents, if any, electronically in 
SCORES.  ATR  in  physical  form  need  not  be  sent  to  SEBI.  The  proof  of 
dispatch of the reply of the listed company / SEBI registered intermediary 
to  the  concerned  investor  should  also  be  uploaded  in  SCORES  and 
preserved by the listed company / SEBI registered intermediary, for future 
reference. 

6.11. 

Action  taken  by  the 

listed  companies  and  SEBI  registered 
intermediaries will not be considered as complete if the relevant details/ 
supporting documents are not uploaded in SCORES and consequently, the 
complaints will be treated as pending. 

6.12. 

A  complaint  shall  be  treated  as  resolved/disposed/closed  only 
when SEBI disposes/closes the complaint in SCORES. Hence, mere filing 
of ATR by a listed company or SEBI registered intermediary with respect 
to  a  complaint  will  not  mean  that  the  complaint  is  not  pending  against 
them. 

6.13. 

Failure by listed companies and SEBI registered intermediaries to file 
ATR under SCORES within thirty days of date of receipt of the grievance 
shall not only be treated as failure to furnish information to SEBI but shall 
also be deemed to constitute non-redressal of investor grievance. 

12 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

6.14. 

The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  listed  company  or  the  Board  of 
Directors/  Proprietor/Partner  of  the  registered  intermediary  shall  be 
responsible for ensuring compliance with the provisions of this Circular. 

6.15. 

In order to resolve the investor grievances faster, the investors may 
approach  the  concerned  listed  company  or  registered  intermediary  first 
with all the requisite details to redress the complaints. In case, the listed 
company or registered intermediary fails to redress the complaint to the 
investor’s satisfaction, the investor may file a complaint in SCORES. 

6.16. 

At  present  following  types  of  complaints  are  not  dealt  through 

SCORES:  
6.16.1.  Complaints against the companies which are unlisted/delisted, in 

dissemination board of Stock Exchanges,  

6.16.2. Complaints those are sub-judice i.e. relating to cases which are under 

consideration by court of law, quasi-judicial proceedings etc.  

6.16.3. Complaints falling under the purview of other regulatory bodies viz. 
RBI, IRDAI, PFRDA, CCI, etc., or under the purview of other ministries 
viz., MCA, etc.  

6.16.4. Complaints  against  a  sick  company  or  a  company  where  a 
moratorium order is passed in winding up / insolvency proceedings.  
6.16.5. Complaints  against  the  companies  where  the  name  of  company  is 
struck off from RoC or a vanishing company as per list published by 
MCA.  

6.16.6. Suspended companies, companies under liquidation / BIFR / etc.  

6.17. 

To  enhance  investor  satisfaction  on  complaint  redressal,  SEBI  has 
already put in place a ‘Complaint Review facility’ under SCORES wherein 
an investor if unsatisfied with the redressal may within 15 days from the 
date of closure of his complaint in SCORES opt for review of the complaint 
and the complaint shall be escalated  

6.18. 

Effective  from  August  01,  2018,  following  procedure  shall  be 

followed for filing and redressal of investor grievances using SCORES:  
6.18.1.  Investors who wish to lodge a complaint on SCORES are requested 
to register themselves on www.scores.gov.in by clicking on “Register 
here”.  While  filing  the  registration  form,  details  like  Name  of  the 
investor,  PAN,  Contact  details,  Email  id,  Aadhaar  card  number 
(optional), CKYC ID(optional)   etc. (Annexure V) may be provided for 
effective communication and speedy redressal of the grievances. Upon 
successful  registration,  a  unique  user  id  and  a  password  shall  be 

13 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

communicated to the investor through an acknowledgement email / 
SMS.   

ANNEXURE V 
Details to be provided while registering on SCORES with effect from August 01, 2018: 
i. Name of the complainant* 
ii. Pan Number* 
iii. Aadhaar Number (Optional) 
iv. CKYC ID (Optional) 
v. DP id & Client Id 
vi. Postal address for communication* 
vii. Contact number – Mobile* : Landline 
viii.  Email  id*  –  For  receipt  of  acknowledgement  letter  /  updates  of  complaints  on 
SCORES. 
ix. Bank account details – To facilitate direct credit of benefits to investor. 
x. Client id as given by Broker / Stock Exchange. 
Note: * are mandatory fields. 
 

6.18.2. An  investor  shall  use  login  credentials  for  lodging  complaint  on 
SCORES (“Login for registered user” section). Details on how to lodge 
a complaint on SCORES is at Annexure VI.  

 

 

14 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

How to lodge a complaint on SCORES with effect from August 01, 2018.   ANNEXURE VI 

  

CLICK    

CLICK    

Enter    

TYPE    

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
CLICK    
  

  

SCORES Portal   

http://www.scores.gov.in    
/ 

User Registration 

  

Under “ 
( 

Register Here ” )   

Press submit to complete the registration.    

An Email/ SMS informing User ID and Password will be sent to investor.    

    

As per nature of complaint 
( 

)   

Login to  SCORES and Click on  

“ Complaint Registration ”   

  Details like   Period of cause of event, Date of grievance taken up with the entity,  
address of direct complaint to the entity,  

Share certificate number /  

folio number etc  .   

Complaint details in brief 

  

(1000  characters )   

  

Upload supporting documents 
) 
  

( upto 2 MB in PDF format 

  

Add   

Enter   

Character shown in image 

  

CLICK    

Submit   

Complaint Registration Number is generated and sent to  

email id and to mobile number of the complainant.  

  

 

 

15 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

6.18.3. The complainant may use SCORES to submit the grievance directly 
to companies / intermediaries and the complaint shall be forwarded 
to  the  entity  for  resolution.  The  entity  is  required  to  redress  the 
grievance  within  30  days,  failing  which  the  complaint  shall  be 
registered in SCORES  

6.18.4. Presently,  the  limitation  period  for  filing  an  arbitration  reference 
with stock exchanges is three year. In line with the same and in order 
to enhance ease, speed & accuracy in redressal of investor grievance, 
the  investor  may  lodge  a  complaint  on  SCORES  within  three  years 
from the date of cause of complaint, where;  

6.18.4.1. 

Investor  has  approached  the  listed  company  or  registered 

intermediary for redressal of the complaint and,  

6.18.4.2.  The  concerned  listed  company  or  registered  intermediary 

rejected the complaint or,  

6.18.4.3.  The complainant does not receive any  communication from 

the listed company or intermediary concerned or,  

6.18.4.4.  The complainant is not satisfied with the reply given to him 
listed  company  or  an 

or  redressal  action  taken  by  the 
intermediary.  
 

 

16 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CHAPTER - II- GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 

7.  Prevention  of  circulation  of  unauthenticated  news  by  SEBI  Registered 

Market Intermediaries through various modes of communication7 
7.1. SEBI Registered Market Intermediaries are directed that: 

7.1.1.  Proper internal code of conduct and controls should be put in place. 
7.1.2.  Employees/temporary 
etc. 
employed/working  in  the  Offices  of  market  intermediaries  do  not 
encourage  or  circulate  rumours  or  unverified  information  obtained 
from  client,  industry,  any  trade  or  any  other  sources  without 
verification. 

staff/voluntary 

workers 

7.1.3.  Access to Blogs/Chat forums/Messenger sites etc. should either be 

restricted under supervision or access should not be allowed. 

7.1.4.  Logs  for  any  usage  of  such  Blogs/Chat  forums/Messenger  sites 
(called by any nomenclature) shall be treated as records and the same 
should be maintained as specified by the respective Regulations which 
govern the concerned intermediary. 

7.1.5.  Employees should be directed that any market related news received 
by them either in their official mail/personal mail/blog or in any other 
manner, should be forwarded only after the same has been seen and 
approved by the concerned Intermediary’s Compliance Officer. If an 
employee fails to do so, he/she shall be deemed to have violated the 
various provisions contained in SEBI Act/Rules/Regulations etc. and 
shall  be  liable  for  action.  The  Compliance  Officer  shall  also  be  held 
liable for breach of duty in this regard. 

 

8.  Guidelines on Outsourcing of Activities by Intermediaries8 

8.1. Principles for Outsourcing 

The  risks  associated  with  outsourcing  may  be  operational  risk, 
reputational risk, legal risk, country risk, strategic risk, exit-strategy risk, 

                                                           
7 SEBI Circulars No Cir/ ISD/1/2011 dated March 23, 2011 and Cir/ ISD/2/2011 dated March 24, 2011 
8 SEBI Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/24/2011 dated December 15, 2011 
 

 

17 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

counter party risk, concentration and systemic risk. In order to address the 
concerns arising from the outsourcing of activities by intermediaries based 
on the principles advocated by the IOSCO and the experience of Indian 
markets, SEBI had prepared a concept paper on outsourcing of activities 
related to services offered by intermediaries. 
Based  on  the  feedback  received  on  the  discussion  paper  and  also 
discussion  held  with  various  intermediaries,  stock  exchanges  and 
depositories, the principles for outsourcing  by intermediaries have been 
framed  (Annexure  VII).  These  principles  shall  be  followed  by  all 
intermediaries registered with SEBI. 

 
ANNEXURE VII 

PRINCIPLES FOR OUTSOURCING FOR INTERMEDIARIES 

 
1. An intermediary seeking to outsource activities shall have in place a comprehensive 
policy to guide the assessment of whether and how those activities can be appropriately 
outsourced. The Board / partners (as the case 
may be) {hereinafter referred to as the “the Board”} of the intermediary shall 
have the responsibility for the outsourcing policy and related overall responsibility for 
activities undertaken under that policy. 
1.1 The policy shall cover activities or the nature of activities that can be outsourced, the 
authorities who can approve outsourcing of such activities, and the selection of third party 
to whom it can be outsourced. For example, an activity shall not be outsourced if it would 
impair the supervisory authority’s right to assess, or its ability to supervise the business 
of  the  intermediary.  The  policy  shall  be  based  on  an  evaluation  of  risk  concentrations, 
limits  on  the  acceptable  overall  level  of  outsourced  activities,  risks  arising  from 
outsourcing multiple activities to the same entity, etc. 
1.2 The Board shall mandate a regular review of outsourcing policy for such activities in 
the wake of changing business environment. It shall also have overall responsibility for 
ensuring  that  all  ongoing  outsourcing  decisions  taken  by  the  intermediary  and  the 
activities undertaken by the third-party, are in keeping with its outsourcing policy. 
2  The  intermediary  shall  establish  a  comprehensive  outsourcing  risk  management 
programme  to  address  the  outsourced  activities  and  the  relationship  with  the  third 
party. 
2.1  An  intermediary  shall  make  an  assessment  of  outsourcing  risk  which  depends  on 
several  factors, including  the  scope  and  materiality  of  the  outsourced  activity,  etc.  The 
factors  that  could  help  in  considering  materiality  in  a  risk  management  programme 
include: 
a. The impact of failure of a third party to adequately perform the activity on the 

 

 

18 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
financial,  reputational  and  operational  performance  of  the  intermediary  and  on  the 
investors / clients; 
b. Ability of the intermediary to cope up with the work, in case of non performance or 
failure by a third party by having suitable back-up arrangements; 
c. Regulatory status of the third party, including its fitness and probity status; 
d. Situations involving conflict of interest between the intermediary and the third party 
and the measures put in place by the intermediary to address such potential 
conflicts, etc. 
2.2  While  there  shall  not  be  any  prohibition  on  a  group  entity  /  associate  of  the 
intermediary to act as the third party, systems shall be put in place to have an arm’s length 
distance  between  the  intermediary  and  the  third  party  in  terms  of  infrastructure, 
manpower,  decision-making,  record  keeping,  etc.  for  avoidance  of  potential  conflict  of 
interests.  Necessary  disclosures  in  this  regard  shall  be  made  as  part  of  the  contractual 
agreement.  It  shall  be  kept  in  mind  that  the  risk  management  practices  expected  to  be 
adopted by an intermediary while outsourcing to a related party or an associate would be 
identical to those followed while outsourcing to an unrelated party. 
2.3 The records relating to all activities outsourced shall be preserved centrally so that the 
same is readily accessible for review by the Board of the intermediary and / or its senior 
management, as and when needed. Such records shall be regularly updated and may also 
form part of the corporate governance review by the management of the intermediary. 
2.4 Regular reviews by internal or external auditors of the outsourcing policies, risk 
management system and requirements of the regulator shall be mandated by the 
Board  wherever  felt  necessary.  The  intermediary  shall  review  the  financial  and 
operational capabilities of the third party in order to assess its ability to continue to 
meet its outsourcing obligations. 
3  The  intermediary  shall  ensure  that  outsourcing  arrangements  neither  diminish  its 
ability  to  fulfill  its  obligations  to  customers  and  regulators,  nor  impede  effective 
supervision by the regulators. 
3.1 The intermediary shall be fully liable and accountable for the activities that are being 
outsourced to the same extent as if the service were provided in-house. 
3.2 Outsourcing arrangements shall not affect the rights of an investor or client against the 
intermediary in any manner. The intermediary shall be liable to the investors for the loss 
incurred by them due to the failure of the third party and also be responsible for redressal 
of the grievances received from investors arising out of activities rendered by the third 
party. 
3.3  The  facilities  /  premises  /  data  that  are  involved  in  carrying  out  the  outsourced 
activity by the service provider shall be deemed to be those of the registered intermediary. 
The intermediary itself and Regulator or the persons authorized by it shall have the 
right to access the same at any point of time. 
3.4  Outsourcing  arrangements  shall  not  impair  the  ability  of  SEBI/SRO  or  auditors  to 
exercise its regulatory responsibilities such as supervision/inspection of the intermediary. 

 

 

19 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
4 The intermediary shall conduct appropriate due diligence in selecting the third party 
and in monitoring of its performance. 
4.1  It  is  important  that  the  intermediary  exercises  due  care,  skill,  and  diligence  in  the 
selection of the third party to ensure that the third party has the ability and capacity to 
undertake the provision of the service effectively. 
4.2 The due diligence undertaken by an intermediary shall include assessment of: 
a. third party’s resources and capabilities, including financial soundness, to perform the 
outsourcing work within the timelines fixed; 
b. compatibility of the practices and systems of the third party with the intermediary’s 
requirements and objectives; 
c. market feedback of the prospective third party’s business reputation and track 
record of their services rendered in the past; 
d. level of concentration of the outsourced arrangements with a single third party; and 
e. the environment of the foreign country where the third party is located. 
5 Outsourcing relationships shall be governed by written contracts / agreements /terms 
and  conditions  (as  deemed  appropriate)  {hereinafter  referred  to  as  “contract”}  that 
clearly  describe  all  material  aspects  of  the  outsourcing  arrangement,  including  the 
rights,  responsibilities  and  expectations  of  the  parties  to  the  contract,  client 
confidentiality issues, termination procedures, etc. 
5.1 Outsourcing arrangements shall be governed by a clearly defined and legally binding 
written contract between the intermediary and each of the third parties, the nature and 
detail of which shall be appropriate to the materiality of the outsourced activity in relation 
to the ongoing business of the intermediary. 
5.2 Care shall be taken to ensure that the outsourcing contract: 
a. clearly defines what activities are going to be outsourced, including appropriate service 
and performance levels; 
b. provides for mutual rights, obligations and responsibilities of the intermediary and the 
third party, including indemnity by the parties; 
c.  provides  for  the  liability  of  the  third  party  to  the  intermediary  for  unsatisfactory 
performance/other breach of the contract 
d. provides for the continuous monitoring and assessment by the intermediary of the third 
party  so  that  any  necessary  corrective  measures  can  be  taken  up  immediately,  i.e.,  the 
contract shall enable the intermediary to retain an appropriate level of control over the 
outsourcing  and  the  right  to  intervene  with  appropriate  measures  to  meet  legal  and 
regulatory obligations; 
e.  includes,  where  necessary,  conditions  of  sub-contracting  by  the  third-party,  i.e.  the 
contract shall enable intermediary to maintain a similar control over the risks when a third 
party outsources to further third parties as in the original direct outsourcing; 
f.  has  unambiguous  confidentiality  clauses  to  ensure  protection  of  proprietary  and 
customer data during the tenure of the contract and also after the expiry of the contract; 

 

 

20 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
g.  specifies  the  responsibilities  of  the  third  party  with  respect  to  the  IT  security  and 
contingency plans, insurance cover, business continuity and disaster recovery plans, force 
majeure clause, etc.; 
h. provides for preservation of the documents and data by third party ; 
i.  provides  for  the  mechanisms  to  resolve  disputes  arising  from  implementation  of  the 
outsourcing contract; 
j. provides for termination of the contract, termination rights, transfer of information and 
exit strategies; 
k.  addresses  additional  issues  arising  from  country  risks  and  potential  obstacles  in 
exercising oversight and management of the arrangements when intermediary outsources 
its activities to foreign third party. For example, the contract shall include choice-of-law 
provisions  and  agreement  covenants  and  jurisdictional  covenants  that  provide  for 
adjudication of disputes between the parties under the laws of a specific jurisdiction; 
l. neither prevents nor impedes the intermediary from meeting its respective regulatory 
obligations, nor the regulator from exercising its regulatory powers; and 
m. provides for the intermediary and /or the regulator or the persons authorized by it to 
have  the  ability  to  inspect,  access  all  books,  records  and  information  relevant  to  the 
outsourced activity with the third party. 
6 The intermediary and its third parties shall establish and maintain contingency plans, 
including a plan for disaster recovery and periodic testing of backup facilities. 
6.1  Specific  contingency  plans  shall  be  separately  developed  for  each  outsourcing 
arrangement, as is done in individual business lines. 
6.2  An  intermediary  shall  take  appropriate  steps  to  assess  and  address  the  potential 
consequence of a business disruption or other problems at the third party level. Notably, 
it shall consider contingency plans at the third party; co-ordination of contingency plans 
at both the intermediary and the third party; and contingency plans of the intermediary 
in the event of non-performance by the third party. 
6.3 To ensure business continuity, robust information technology security is a necessity. 
A breakdown in the IT capacity may impair the ability of the intermediary to fulfill its 
obligations  to  other  market  participants/clients/regulators  and  could  undermine  the 
privacy interests of its customers, harm the intermediary’s reputation, and may ultimately 
impact  on  its  overall  operational  risk  profile.  Intermediaries  shall,  therefore,  seek  to 
ensure  that  third  party  maintains  appropriate  IT  security  and  robust  disaster  recovery 
capabilities. 
6.4 Periodic tests of the critical security procedures and systems and review of the backup 
facilities  shall  be  undertaken by  the  intermediary  to  confirm  the  adequacy  of the  third 
party’s systems. 
7  The  intermediary  shall  take  appropriate  steps  to  require  that  third  parties  protect 
confidential information of both the intermediary and its customers from intentional 
or inadvertent disclosure to unauthorised persons. 

 

 

21 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
7.1 An intermediary that engages in outsourcing is expected to take appropriate steps to 
protect  its  proprietary  and  confidential  customer  information  and  ensure  that  it  is  not 
misused or misappropriated. 
7.2 The intermediary shall prevail upon the third party to ensure that the employees of 
the third party have limited access to the data handled and only on a “need to know” basis 
and the third party shall have adequate checks and balances to ensure the same. 
7.3 In cases where the third party is providing similar services to multiple entities, the 
intermediary  shall  ensure  that  adequate  care  is  taken  by  the  third  party  to  build 
safeguards for data security and confidentiality. 
8 Potential risks posed where the outsourced activities of multiple intermediaries are 
concentrated with a limited number of third parties. 
In  instances,  where  the  third  party  acts  as  an  outsourcing  agent  for  multiple 
intermediaries, it is the duty of the third party and the intermediary to ensure that strong 
safeguards  are  put in  place  so  that there is no  co-mingling  of  information/documents, 
records and assets. 
 
 

8.2. Activities that shall not be Outsourced 

The  intermediaries  desirous  of  outsourcing  their  activities  shall  not, 
however,  outsource  their  core  business  activities  and  compliance 
functions. A few examples of core business activities may be – execution 
of  orders  and  monitoring  of  trading  activities  of  clients  in  case  of  stock 
brokers; dematerialisation of securities in case of depository participants; 
investment  related  activities  in  case  of  Mutual  Funds  and  Portfolio 
Managers.  Regarding  Know  Your  Client  (KYC)  requirements,  the 
intermediaries shall comply with the provisions of SEBI {KYC (Know Your 
Client)  Registration  Agency}  Regulations,  2011  and  Guidelines  issued 
there under from time to time. 

8.3. Other Obligations 

i.  Reporting  To  Financial  Intelligence  Unit  (FIU)  -  The  intermediaries 
shall be responsible for reporting of any suspicious transactions / reports 
to FIU or any other competent authority in respect of activities carried out 
by the third parties. 
ii. Need for Self Assessment of existing Outsourcing Arrangements – In 
view  of  the  changing  business  activities  and  complexities  of  various 
financial products, intermediaries shall conduct a self assessment of their 
existing  outsourcing  arrangements  within  a  time  bound  plan,  not  later 
than six months from the date of issuance of this circular and bring them 
in line with the requirements of the guidelines/principles. 

 

 

22 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

9.  General Guidelines for dealing with conflicts of interest9 

9.1. All  intermediaries,  recognised  stock  exchanges,  recognised  clearing 
corporations and depositories (hereinafter collectively referred to as "such 
entities") are presently governed by the provisions for avoidance of conflict 
of  interest  as  mandated  in  the  respective  regulations  read  with  relevant 
circulars issued from time to time by SEBI. On the lines of Principle 8 of the 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Objectives 
and Principles of Securities Regulations, it has been decided to put in place 
comprehensive  guidelines  to  collectively  cover  such  entities  and  their 
associated persons, for elimination of their conflict of interest, as detailed 
hereunder. 

9.2. Such entities shall adhere to these guidelines for avoiding or dealing with 
or managing  conflict  of interest. They shall  be responsible for educating 
their associated persons for compliance of these guidelines. 

9.3. For  the  purpose  of  these  guidelines  "intermediaries"  and  "associated 
persons"  have  the  same  meaning  as  defined  in  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India(Certification  of  Associated  Persons  in  the  Securities 
Markets) Regulations, 2007. 

9.4. Such entities and their associated persons shall, 

9.4.1.  lay down, with active involvement of senior management, policies 
and  internal  procedures  to  identify  and  avoid  or  to  deal  or  manage 
actual  or  potential  conflict  of  interest,  develop  an  internal  code  of 
conduct governing operations and formulate standards of appropriate 
conduct  in  the  performance  of  their  activities,  and  ensure  to 
communicate such policies, procedures and code to all concerned; 

9.4.2.  at  all  times  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity  in  the  conduct  of 

their business; 

9.4.3.  ensure fair treatment of their clients and not discriminate amongst 

them; 

9.4.4.  ensure that their personal interest does not, at any time conflict with 
their duty to their clients and client’s interest always takes primacy in 
their advice, investment decisions and transactions; 

9.4.5.  make  appropriate  disclosure  to  the  clients  of  possible  source  or 
potential areas of conflict of interest which would impair their ability 

                                                           
9 SEBI Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/5/2013 dated August 27, 2013 
 

 

23 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

to render fair, objective and unbiased services; 

9.4.6.  endeavor  to  reduce  opportunities  for  conflict  through  prescriptive 
measures such as through information barriers to block or hinder the 
flow of information from one department/ unit to another, etc.; 

9.4.7.  place  appropriate  restrictions  on  transactions  in  securities  while 
handling a mandate of issuer or client in respect of such security so as 
to avoid any conflict; 

9.4.8.  not deal in securities while in possession of material non published 

information; 

9.4.9.  not to communicate the material non published information while 

dealing insecurities on behalf of others; 

9.4.10. not in any way contribute to manipulate the demand for or supply 

of securities in the market or to influence prices of securities; 

9.4.11. not have an incentive structure that encourages sale of products not 

suiting the risk profile of their clients; 

9.4.12. not  share  information received  from  clients  or  pertaining  to  them, 

obtained as a result of their dealings, for their personal interest; 

9.5. The Boards of such entities shall put in place systems for implementation 
of  this  circular  and  provide  necessary  guidance  enabling  identification, 
elimination  or  management  of  conflict  of  interest  situations.  The  Boards 
shall review the compliance of this circular periodically. 

9.6. Such entities shall conduct assessment of their existing policies on conflict 
of interest in a time bound manner, not later than 6 months from the date 
of  this  circular  and  bring  them  in  line  with  the  requirements  of  these 
guidelines. 

9.7. The said guidelines shall be in addition to the provisions, if any, contained 
in respective regulations/ circulars issued by the Board from time to time 
regarding dealing with conflict of interest, in respect of such entities. 
 

10. Digital Mode of Payment10 

10.1. 

SEBI has notified the SEBI (Payment of Fees and Mode of Payment) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2017 on March 06, 2017 to enable digital mode of 
payment 
fees/penalties/remittance/other 
payments etc.  

(RTGS/NEFT/IMPS  etc.)  of 

                                                           
10 SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/GSD/T&A/CIR/P/2017/42 dated May 16, 2017 
 

 

24 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

10.2. 

Pursuant to above, SEBI has been receiving direct credit of amounts 

from various intermediaries / other entities.  

10.3. 

In  order  to  identify  and  account  such  direct  credit  in  the  SEBI 
account, it has been decided that the various intermediaries / other entities 
shall provide the information as mentioned in Annexure –VIII to SEBI once 
the payment is made.  

PA
N  

 
Amo
unt 
(in 
Rs.)  

Type 
of 
Interm
ediary  

SEBI 
Regis
tratio
n 
Num
ber (if 
any)  

ANNEXURE VIII 

UTR 
No  

Bank name 
and 
Account 
number 
from which 
payment is 
remitted  

Purpose of 
Payment 
(including 
the period 
for which 
payment was 
made e.g. 
quarterly, 
annually)  

Date   Dep
artm
ent 
of 
SEBI  

 

Na
me 
of 
Inte
rme
diar
y/ 
Oth
er 
Enti
ties  

10.4. 

The  above  information  should  be  emailed  to  the  respective 
department(s) as well as to Treasury& Accounts division at tad@sebi.gov.in.  
 

11. Intermediaries in IFSC11 

11.1. 

Clause 8 of SEBI IFSC Guidelines which specifies that any recognised 
entity  or  entities  desirous  of  operating  in  IFSC  as  an  intermediary,  may 
form  a  company  to  provide  such  financial  services  relating  to  securities 
market has been amended as follows:  
“8.  (1)  Any  SEBI-registered  intermediary  (except  trading  member  or  clearing 
member) or its international associates in collaboration with such SEBI-registered 
intermediary may provide financial services relating to securities market, in IFSC, 
without forming a separate company, subject to the prior approval of the Board.  

********* 

SEBI 

No. 

                                                           
11 
SEBI/HO/CIR/P/2017/85 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2017/117 dated October 17, 2017 
 

Circulars 

dated 

July 

27, 

2017 

and 

 

25 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Schedule I 

List of Circulars incorporated in Master Circular 

Footnote no. 

Circular No. and Date 

Subject 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

 

 

RUW  Circular  No.  1  (2002-2003)  dated 
September 23, 2002 

Conditions 
for  granting  registration 
where  a  connected  persons  has    been 
granted registration 

MIRSD/  DPSIII/  Cir-21/  08  dated  July  07, 
2008 

Designated  e-mail  ID  for  regulatory 
communication with SEBI 

CIR/MIRSD/6/2011 dated June 17, 2011 

Periodical 
approval to underwriters 

report-  Grant  of  prior 

CIR/MIRSD/14/2011 dated August 02, 2011  Revised  procedure  for  seeking  prior 
approval  for  change  in  control  through 
single window 

Circular 

SEBI 
No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/38 
dated May 02, 2017 

Online  Registration  Mechanism 
Securities Market Intermediaries  

for 

MIRSD/DPS III/Cir-01/07 dated January 22, 
2007, 

Exclusive  e-mail  ID  for  redressal  of 
Investor Complaints 

CIR/MIRSD/17/2011 dated August 24, 2011,  Processing  of  Investor  Complaints  in 
System 

SEBI  Complaints  Redress 
(SCORES) 

CIR/MIRSD/3/2014 dated August 28, 2014 

Information 
Redressal Mechanism 

regarding 

Grievance 

CIR/OIAE/1/2014 dated December 18, 2014  Redressal of investor grievances through 
System 

SEBI  Complaints  Redress 
(SCORES) platform 

26 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/CIR/P/2018/58 
dated March 26, 2018 

Investor grievance redress mechanism – 
new policy measures 

7 

Cir/ ISD/1/2011 dated March 23, 2011  

Cir/ ISD/2/2011 dated March 24, 2011 

Unauthenticated  news  circulated  by 
SEBI  Registered  Market  Intermediaries 
through 
of 
communication 

various 

modes 

Addendum 
Cir/ISD/1/2011 dated March 23, 2011 

Circular 

to 

no. 

8 

9 

10 

11 

 

 

 

CIR/MIRSD/24/2011  dated  December  15, 
2011 

Guidelines on Outsourcing of Activities 
by Intermediaries 

CIR/MIRSD/5/2013 dated August 27, 2013 

General  Guidelines  for  dealing  with 
Conflicts  of  Interest  of  Intermediaries, 
Recognised 
Exchanges, 
Recognised  Clearing  Corporations, 
Depositories 
their  Associated 
Persons in Securities Market 

Stock 

and 

SEBI/HO/GSD/T&A/CIR/P/2017/42 dated 
May 16, 2017 

Digital mode of payment 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
Services 
(International 
Centres) 
– 
Amendments 

Guidelines, 

Financial 

2015 

 Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Services 
(International 
Centres) 
– 
Amendments 

Guidelines, 

Financial 

2015 

SEBI /HO /CIR /P /2017 /85 dated July 27, 
2017  

SEBI /HO /MRD /DSA /CIR /P /2017 /117 
dated October 17, 2017 

27 

