 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

MASTER CIRCULAR 

 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP1/CIR/P/2018/87                                                              June 01, 2018 
 
To,  
 
All Stock Exchanges 
All Registered Stock Brokers  
 
Dear Sir / Madam,  
 

Subject: Master Circular for Stock Brokers  

 
1.  Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), from time to time, has been issuing 
various  circulars/directions  to  Stock  Brokers.  In  order  to  enable  the  users  to  have 
access  to  the  applicable  circulars  at  one  place,  Master  Circular  in  respect  of  Stock 
Brokers has been prepared.  
 

2.  This Master Circular is a compilation of relevant circulars issued by SEBI which are 
operational  as  on  date  of  this  circular.  References  in  the  circular  to  the  Statutes  / 
Regulations which now stand repealed, have been suitably updated.  

 

3.  The Master Circular is a compilation of all the existing / applicable circulars issued 
by  Market  Intermediaries  Regulation  and  Supervision  Department  of  SEBI 
pertaining  to  Stock  Brokers.  Efforts  have  been  made  to  incorporate  applicable 
provisions  of  existing  circulars  issued  by  other  Departments  of  SEBI  relevant  to 
Stock  Brokers.  A  list  of  SEBI  circulars  compiled  in  this  Master  Circular  is  given  in 
Appendix at the end of this Master Circular. 

 

4.  In  case  of  any  inconsistency  between  the  Master  Circular  and  the  applicable 

circulars, the content of the relevant circular shall prevail. 

5.  This circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully 

 
Debashis Bandyopadhyay 
General Manager 

 

 

 
 

1 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 

I.  REGISTRATION OF STOCK BROKERS 

Subject 

Page no. 

 

 

S. No. 

1. 
2. 
3. 

4. 

  Registration of Brokers – Verification of antecedents of the applicant 
  Conversion of individual membership into corporate membership 
  Additional  information  to  be  submitted  at  the  time  of  registration  of  Stock 

Broker with SEBI 

  Additional  requirements  for  processing  applications  of  Stock  Brokers  for 
Registration/  Prior  approval  for  sale  of  membership/  Change  of  name/  trade 
name 

5. 
6. 

  Merger/ Amalgamation of Trading Members 
  Intimation to the brokers to permit their Sub-Brokers to start business only after 

receipt of Sub-Broker registration certificate from SEBI 

  Admission of Limited Liability Partnerships as Members of Stock Exchanges 
  Simplification of registration requirements for Stock Brokers 
  Single registration for Stock Brokers & Clearing Members 

7. 
8. 
9. 
10.    Registration of Members of Commodity Derivatives Exchanges 
11.    Online Registration Mechanism for Securities Market Intermediaries 
12.    Integration of broking activities in Equity Markets and Commodity Derivatives 

Markets under single entity 

6 
6 
6 

12 

14 
14 

14 
15 
16 
18 
19 
19 

II.  TRADING ACCOUNT OPENING, UNIQUE CLIENT CODE, KNOW YOUR CLIENT, KYC 

REGISTRATION AGENCY, CENTRAL KYC RECORDS REGISTRY 

13.    Unique Client Code 
14.    Simplification and Rationalization of Trading Account Opening Process 
15.    Requirements relating to dealings between a Client and a Stock Broker (Trading 

Members included) 

16.    SARAL Account Opening Form for Resident Individuals 
17.    The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (KYC  Registration  Agency) 

Regulations, 2011 

18.    Operationalisation of Central KYC Records Registry (CKYCR) 
19.    AADHAAR 
20.    Guidelines on Identification of Beneficial Ownership 

III. SUPERVISION & OVERSIGHT 

21 
21 
24 

26 
27 

30 
31 
33 

21.    Oversight  of  Members  (Stock  Brokers/Trading  Members/Clearing  Members  of 

35 

any Segment of Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) 

22.    Policy  of  Annual  Inspection  of  Members  by  Stock  Exchanges/Clearing 

41 

Corporations 

23.    Enhanced Supervision of Stock Brokers / Depository Participants 
24.    Annual System Audit of Stock Brokers / Trading Members 

43 
61 

 

2 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

IV. DEALINGS WITH CLIENT 

25.    Regulation of Transactions Between Clients and Brokers 
26.    Collateral deposited by Clients with Brokers 
27.    Severance of connections with other businesses 
28.    Applicability  of  Rule  8(1)(f)  and  8(3)(f)  of  the  Securities  Contract  (Regulation) 

Rules, 1957 

29.    Mode of payment and delivery 
30.    Pre- funded instruments / Electronic fund transfers 
31.    Disclosure of proprietary trading by Broker to Client 
32.    “Pro – account” trading terminal 
33.    Review of norms relating to trading by Members/ Sub-Brokers 
34.    Market Access through Authorised Persons 
35.    SMS and E-mail alerts to investors by Stock Exchanges 
36.    Prevention of Unauthorised Trading by Stock Brokers 
37.    Execution  of  Power  of  Attorney  (PoA)  by  the  Client  in  favour  of  the  Stock 

Broker/ Stock Broker and Depository Participant 

83 
85 
86 
86 

86 
87 
87 
88 
89 
90 
93 
95 
96 

38.    Modification  of  Client  Codes  of  Non-institutional  Trades  Executed  on  Stock 

100 

Exchanges (All Segments) 

39.    Margin Trading Facility 

V.  TECHNOLOGY RELATED 

40.    Electronic Contract Note 
41.    Conditions to be met by Broker for providing Internet Based Trading Service 
42.    Securities Trading through Wireless medium on Wireless Application Protocol 

(WAP) platform 

43.    Securities Trading using Wireless Technology 
44.    Additional  Requirements  for  Internet  Based  Trading  (IBT)  and  Securities 

trading using Wireless Technology (STWT) 

45.    Direct Market Access facility 
46.    Smart Order Routing 
47.    Broad Guidelines on Algorithmic Trading 
48.    Testing of Software used in or related to Trading and Risk Management 
49.    Safeguards to avoid trading disruption in case of failure of software vendor 

VI. CHANGE IN STATUS, CONSTITUTION, CONTROL, AFFILIATION 
50.    Surrender  of  Certificate  of  Registration  of  Sub-Brokers  and  Change  of 

Affiliation of Sub-Brokers 

51.    Change in affiliation of Sub-Brokers 
52.    Periodical  Report  –  Grant  of  prior  approval  to  members  of  Stock  Exchanges/ 

Sub-Brokers 

102 

108 
111 
115 

117 
119 

120 
129 
132 
136 
140 

142 

145 
148 

 

3 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

53.    Revised  procedure  for  seeking  prior  approval  for  change  in  control  through 

150 

single window 

VII. 

SUBSIDIARY 

54.    Floating  of  a  Subsidiary/Company  by  a  Stock  Exchange to  acquire  the 

152 

membership of other Stock Exchange 

55.    Exclusion of turnover from the turnover of the Subsidiary 
56.    Eligibility for Trading Member 
57.    Restructuring of the Subsidiary Management 
58.    Access to unauthorized persons by the Members of Subsidiaries 

153 
153 
154 
155 

VIII. 

FOREIGN ACCOUNTS TAX COMPLIANCE ACT 

59.    Inter-Governmental  Agreement  with  United  States  of  America  under  Foreign 

156 

Accounts Tax Compliance Act – Registration 

60.    Implementation  of  the  Multilateral  Competent  Authority  Agreement  and 

157 

Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act 

IX. SCORES, INVESTOR GRIEVANCES 

61.    Exclusive e-mail ID for redressal of Investor Complaints 
62.    Redressal  of  investor  complaints  against  Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers  in 

SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES) 

63.    Information regarding Grievance Redressal Mechanism 

X.  GENERAL 

64.    Advertisement by Brokers/ Sub-Brokers and grant of trading terminals 
65.    Registration  Number  of  Brokers 

/  Sub-Brokers  to  be  quoted  on  all 

correspondences with SEBI 

158 
158 

159 

160 
160 

66.    Maintenance of books of accounts and other documents sought by Enforcement 

160 

Agencies from Stock Exchanges and Brokers 

67.    Display of Details by Stock Brokers (including Trading Members) 
68.    Unauthenticated  news  circulated  by  SEBI  Registered  Market  Intermediaries 

through various modes of communication 

69.    Guidelines on Outsourcing of Activities by Intermediaries 
70.    General  Guidelines  for  dealing  with  Conflicts  of  Interest  of  Intermediaries, 
Recognised  Stock  Exchanges,  Recognised  Clearing  Corporations,  Depositories 
and their Associated Persons in Securities Market 

71.    Digital Mode of Payment 
72.    Regulatory Framework for Commodity Derivatives Brokers 
73.    Annexures pertaining to Section II 

161 
161 

162 
169 

170 
171 

i.  Annexure 1 
ii.  Annexure 2 
iii.  Annexure 3 
iv.  Annexure 4 
v.  Annexure 5 

 

4 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

vi.  Annexure 6 
vii.  Annexure 7 

74.    Appendix - List of Circulars / Notifications 

 
***** 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

5 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

I. 

REGISTRATION OF STOCK BROKERS 

1.  Registration of Brokers - Verification of antecedents of the applicant1 

 
1.1.  In  terms  of  Rule  8(1)(e)  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957,  "no 
person shall be eligible to be elected as a member if he has been convicted of an 
offence involving fraud or dishonesty". 

 
1.2.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  verify  the  antecedents  of  the  applicant  before  granting 
admission as a member of Stock Exchange and also submit a declaration at the 
time of forwarding the applications for registration with SEBI, to the effect that 
the  member  has  not  been  convicted  of  any  offence  involving  fraud  or 
dishonesty. 

 

2.  Conversion of individual membership into corporate membership2 

 
2.1.  In  case  of  corporatisation  of  individual  membership,  the  individual  member 
may  trade  in  his  individual  name  pending  registration  of  the  corporate 
member by SEBI. 
 

2.2.  In  case  the  corporate  member  acquires  the  membership  through  purchase  of 
membership card of an individual member, the corporate member shall not be 
entitled  to  trade  because  of  the  provisions  of  Section  12  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, till registration is granted to the corporate 
member by SEBI. 

 

3.  Additional information to be submitted at the time of registration of Stock Broker 

with SEBI3 

3.1.  In  terms  of  Regulation  3(2)  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Stock 
Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  Rules  and  Regulation  1992,  a  Stock  Broker  has  to 
apply  in  Form  A  duly  recommended  by  the  Stock  Exchange  of  which  he  is  a 
member, for registration as a Stock Broker by SEBI.  

3.2.  While  forwarding  the  applications  in  Form  A,  Stock  Exchanges  shall  ensure 
that additional information as per enclosed format is also submitted along with 
the  application  for  all  the  cases  sent  henceforth  for  registration. Additional 
information to be submitted is prescribed in Annexure below: 

 

 

 
 
 
 

                                                           
1 Reference: Circular SMD/POLICY/CIRCULAR/30/97 dated November 25, 1997. 
2 Reference: Circular SMD/POLICY/CIR-34/97 dated December 11, 1997. 
3 Reference: Circular SMD/POLICY/CIR-11/98 dated March 16, 1998. 

 

6 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

ANNEXURE 

1.  Name of the Stock Exchange 
2.  Name of the Applicant Member Broker 
3.  Exchange Clearing Code No. (If allotted by the Stock Exchange) 
4.  Trade Name of Member 
5.  Address of Member 

 
Tel. No. (O): 
Tel No. (R):  
Fax No. 
 

6.  Form of Organisation: Please tick the relevant entity 

6.1  Partnership 
6.2  Corporate Body 

a.  Financial Institution 
b.  Others 
c.  Foreign Joint Ventures 

 
(If  an  Indian  Company  is  holding  more  than  25%  of  total  equity  in  the  joint 
venture, please give details of top five shareholders of Indian Company).  

 
Name of Indian Company 
Top five Shareholders 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
FIPB Approval, if applicable 
 
Sole Proprietorship: 
 

% Holding 
 
 
 
 
 

Name 
proprietor 

of 

Educational 
Qualification  

 

 

Age (on the date of 
filing 
of 
application) 
 

Experience 
(specify  the  nature 
and years) 
 

 
Partnership: 
 
Name 
partners 

of 

Age  (on  the 
date 
of 
application) 

Educational 
Qualification 

Experience 
(specify 
nature 
years) 

the 
and 

7 

case 

In 
partner(s) 
is/are 
registered 
with 
give 

SEBI, 
SEBI 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

Regd. No. 
 

 
Corporate Body (Financial Institution /Others) 
 
MOA object clause contains stock broking as one of the object in 
 
Main Object 
Other Object  
Incidental Object 
 
(If,  stock  broking  clause  appears  in  other  object  please  attach  a  copy  of  special 
resolution to amend the MOA to incorporate Stock Broking in main object clause) 
 
Mention relevant clause no. (Please enclose copy of the relevant clause of the MOA 
duly  certified  by  the  Stock  Exchange. If  certified  copy  is  not  enclosed  application 
would be returned). 
 
Information regarding directors 
 

Name of 
directors with 
designation 
(whether whole 
time/designated/ 
additional  

Percentage  of 
Share holding 

Educational 
Qualification 

Experience 
(specify 
nature 
years) 

and 

 

 

 

 

in 

in 

Whether 
directors 
other 
corporate 
bodies 
engaged 
capital 
markets 
give 
(please 
names 
and 
SEBI  Regd. 
No.) 
 

 
Details of top five shareholders 
 
Name 
shareholders 

Share 

of 

Percentage 
of 
holding 

Educational 
Qualification 

Experience 
(specify 
nature 
years) 

and 

 

 

 

 

8 

Whether 
shareholders in 
other  corporate 
bodies  engaged 
in 
capital 
markets  (please 
give  names  and 
SEBI 
Regd. 
No.) 
 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

7.  Date of Admission to Membership of the Stock Exchange. 
 
8.  Mode of Acquiring Membership (Please attach old SEBI Registration certificate 

in all cases other than the cases of new membership) 
8.1  New Membership 
8.2  Conversion 
8.3  Succession 
8.4  Auction Purchase 

(In case member has become defaulter)  

8.5  Market Purchase 
8.6  Transfer to another Company under same management 

   (please specify reasons)  

8.7  Others, please specify 

 
9.  Please give the following information in all the cases other than the case of new 

membership 

 

9.1  Name of the previous holder of the card 
9.2  SEBI Registration No. 
9.3  Date of Registration with SEBI 

 
10.  Whether the applicant is member of more than one Stock Exchange? YES/  NO 
 
11.  If  yes,  please  give  name(s)  of  the  Stock  Exchange(s)  with  Code  No.  and  SEBI 

registration no. 

 
12.  Whether  any  of  the  Associate  Companies/Partnership/  Proprietorship  Firm  is 
/are having direct/indirect interest (* as defined below) in capital market? YES 
/ NO 

 
* The member is deemed to have direct/indirect interest in the following conditions: 
 

12.1  Where  he  is  individual,  he  or  any  of  his  relative  being  a  broker/any 
intermediary,  he  or  any  of  his  relative  being  a  partner  in  a  broking 
firm/any  intermediary,  he  or  any  of  his  relative  being  a  director  in  a 
broking company/any intermediary or he or any of his relatives clubbed 
together  holding  substantial  equity 
in  any  broking  company/any 
intermediary engaged in capital market. 
 

12.2  Where 

it 

is  partnership 

of 
partner(s)/director(s)  in  the  firm(s)/corporate  body  being  a  broker/any 
intermediary or being partner(s)/director(s) in any broking/intermediary 
or the same set of shareholders holding substantial equity in other broking 
/ any intermediary engaged in capital market. 

firm/company, 

the 

relative(s) 

9 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

12.3  Relative shall mean husband, wife, brother, unmarried sister or any linear 

ascendant or descendant of an individual.  

12.4  If yes, please give details (you may attach separate sheet, if required)  

Name 

Form 
Organisation 

of 

Type 
of 
Intermediary# 

 

 

 

Whether 
registered 
with 
(give 
No.) 
 

SEBI 
Regd. 

Nature 
interest 

of 

 

#  Merchant  Banker,  Portfolio  Manager,  Registrar  to  Issue  &  Share  Transfer  Agent, 
Banker to an Issue, Mutual Fund, Venture Capital , Underwriter, Debenture Trustee, 
FII. 
 
13.  Disciplinary Action initiated/taken against the Associate entities, as indicated in 
12.4 above. (Please state details of nature of violation, action initiated/taken and 
by which authority) 

 

 

 

 

13.1  Disciplinary action taken by SEBI (if yes, please attach details mentioning 

nature of violation and action taken) YES / NO 

13.2  Disciplinary  action taken by  any  other  authority  (please  attach  details  of 

nature of violation and action initiated) YES / NO 

13.3  Disciplinary action initiated by SEBI (if yes, please attach details of nature 

of violation and action taken) YES / NO 

13.4  Disciplinary action initiated by any other authority (please attach details of 

nature of violation and action initiated ) YES / NO 

 
14.  Net-worth as per the requirement of the exchange (Rs in Lakhs) 
 
15.  Applicant’s  net-worth  in  accordance  with  formula  prescribed  by  concerned 
Stock  Exchange  (Rs  in  Lakhs) (Certificate  from  a  qualified  CA  certifying  the 
above should be enclosed)  

 
16.  Please indicate the net-worth as per the following formula (Rs in Lakhs) 
 

16.1 Paid up Capital 
16.2 Free Reserves (Exclusive of Revaluation Reserves) 
16.3 Less - Misc. expenditure not written off  

 
Total Net-worth (16.1 + 16.2 + 16.3) 
 

10 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

I/we  declare  that  the  information  given  in  this  form  is  true  to  the  best  of  my 
knowledge and belief.  
 
Date: Signature 
 
Name and Address of the applicant 
 
List of Enclosures: 
 
a.  Registration  fees  –Rs  50,000/-  through  NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any  other  mode 
allowed by RBI or by draft in favour of “The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India”. 

b.  Copy of relevant clause of MOA duly certified by the Stock Exchange. 
c.  Certificate from the qualified Chartered Accountant certifying the networth and 

paid up capital. 

d.  Undertaking  by  applicant  that  he/  it  had  not  introduced  through  any  member 
broker/  sub-broker  of  the  Exchange  any  fake/forged/stolen  shares  in  the 
Exchange/market.  If  yes,  details  thereof  including  action  taken,  if  any,  by  the 
applicant. 

 
Certification by Stock Exchange 
 
The  above  details  have  been  scrutinised  as  per  record  made  available  to  the  Stock 
Exchange. 
 
SIGNATURE: 
 
NAME: 
 
DESIGNATION: 
 
SEAL OF STOCK EXCHANGE 
 
Certification from the Stock Exchange: 
 
This is to certify that  
i) The member is eligible to be admitted as the member of the Exchange as per the 
provisions  of  SC(R)A,  SC(R)R,  bye-laws  of  the  exchange  and  circulars  issued  by 
Government of India and SEBI, in particular the GOI guidelines dated November 09, 
1989 and SEBI circular dated May 14, 1993. 
ii) -------------------  is  admitted  as  a  member  of  this  exchange  as  approved  by  the 
Council of Management in its meeting held on _. 
iii)  No  complaints/  arbitration  cases/  disciplinary  action  are  pending  against  the 
transferor M/s _ and all the complaints received by the Exchange or referred by SEBI 
have been settled to the satisfaction of the Stock Exchange. 
iv) We  have  verified  the  educational  qualification,  age,  experience  of  the  member 

11 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

with respect to the original record and found it to be correct as per the information 
given in the application. 
v) No litigation with regard to transfer of card is pending in court of law.  

 

 

  

The  application  is  recommended  for  registration  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  under  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Stock  Brokers  and 
Sub-Brokers) Rules and Regulations, 1992. 
 
Signature: 
 
Name: 
 
Designation:  
  
List of Enclosures alongwith application: 
  
1. Turnover fee details of the transferor in the prescribed format (enclosed). 
2. Disciplinary record of the transferor 
3. Board Resolution approving the membership (will be submitted by the Exchange)  

 
4.  Additional  requirements  for  processing  applications  of  Stock  Brokers  for 
Registration/  Prior  approval  for  sale  of  Membership/  Change  of  name/  Trade 
name4 
 
4.1.  The  applications  for  grant  of  registration  /  requisite  approvals  are  processed 
by  SEBI  based  on  information  communicated  by  the  Exchange/  members  to 
SEBI.  Such  information  can  undergo  a  change  within  a  very  short  period  of 
time.  It  has  been  observed  that  in  many  cases  information/  documents 
enclosed  along  with  the  applications  are  outdated  for  SEBI  to  take  any 
cognizance of the same. 

 
4.2.  In  order  to  improve  the  standard  of  information  flow  so  as  to  enable  SEBI  to 
take an informed decision while processing applications, the following norms 
may be adhered to: 

 

4.2.1.  Application for registration of stock brokers: 

 

 

a.  Stock Exchanges shall ensure that the following documents which are 
forwarded by the Exchanges along with registration applications are 
not  more  than  three  months  old  from  the  date  of  forwarding  of  the 
application. 

i.  Form A 
ii.  Additional Information Form 

                                                           
4 Reference: Circular SMD/DBA-II/CIR-22/2002 dated September 12, 2002. 

 

12 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

iii.  Undertakings furnished by the Applicant 

 
4.2.2.  Change of name applications for Brokers 

a.  Stock Exchanges shall ensure that change of name applications should 
be accompanied by information from the Exchange as to whether the 
change  in  name  is  accompanied  by  /  associated  with  change  in 
majority  shareholding  /  management  /  control.  Applications  not 
accompanied  with  such  information  from  the  Exchange  would  be 
returned to the concerned exchanges. 

 

 

b.  Stock Exchanges shall instruct all the member brokers of the exchange 
to  comply  with  the  above  instructions  and  ensure  that  applications 
forwarded  to  SEBI  strictly  adhere  with  the  above  time  schedules  / 
documents  failing  which  the  applications  would  be  returned  to  the 
concerned Exchange. 

 
4.3.  Clarification  regarding  eligibility  for  availing  fee  continuity  benefit  by 
corporate  entity  formed  by  converting  partnership  membership  card  of  the 
Exchange 

4.3.1. 

In order to get benefit of clause I (4) of Schedule III of SEBI (Stock Brokers 
and  Sub-Brokers)  Regulations,  1992,  all  erstwhile  partner(s)  should  be 
wholetime directors in the corporate entity so formed, and the wholetime 
director  shall  individually  (in  case  there  is  one  wholetime  director)  or 
jointly (in case there are more than one wholetime directors) have to hold 
atleast  40%  of  the  paid  up  equity  capital  of  the  corporate  entity  formed 
for a period of atleast three years from the date of such conversion. 

4.3.2. 

In case of Exchanges which do not grant membership to the partnership 
firms,  but  permit  individual  members  to  form  partnerships,  each  of  the 
erstwhile  member  partner,  now  wholetime  director  of  the  corporate 
entity, will have to individually or jointly hold atleast 40% of the paid-up 
capital of the corporate entity so formed for a period of atleast three years 
from the date of such conversion. 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

13 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
5.  Merger/ Amalgamation of Trading Members5 

 
5.1.  When two or more corporate broking firms merge leading to creation of a new 
entity,  the  SEBI  registration  granted  to  the  extinguishing  entity  does  not 
automatically devolve upon the emerging entity and the new entity has to fulfil 
the eligibility criteria and apply afresh for registration and pay the registration 
fees.  

 
5.2.  The  emerging  entity  may  be  allowed  to  trade  on  the  registration  of  the 
extinguishing entity for a period of say 45 days. However, the emerging entity 
should apply to SEBI at the earliest and give an undertaking to be liable for the 
act  of  the  extinguishing  entity  and  such  applications  in  any  case  should  be 
made  not  later  than  30  days  of  the  registration  granted  by  the  Registrar  of 
companies to the emerging entity. 

 

6.  Intimation to the Brokers to permit their Sub-Brokers to start business only after 

receipt of Sub-Broker registration certificate from SEBI6 
 
6.1.  As  per  Section  12(1)  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992  read  with  Rule  3  of  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  Rule  1992,  no  sub-
broker shall buy, sell, deal in securities, unless he holds a certificate granted by 
the Board under the Regulations. Stock Exchanges shall inform all the brokers 
that their  sub-brokers  are  permitted  to  start  business  only  after  clearance  and 
receipt  of  registration  certificate  from  SEBI.  If  any  person  contravenes  or 
attempts to contravene or abets the contravention of the above said rule, shall 
be punishable under section 24(1) of SEBI Act 1992. 

 

7.  Admission of Limited Liability Partnerships as Members of Stock Exchanges7 

 
7.1.  Securities  Contract  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957 (SCRR)  do  not  explicitly  mention 
Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs) as the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 
2008  was  a  subsequent  development.  As  per  the  LLP  Act,  LLP  is  a  body 
corporate.  Sub-rule  4A  and  5  of  Rule  8  of  the  SCRR  provides  that  Limited 
Liability Companies (LLC) and partnership firms are eligible to be admitted as 
members of Stock Exchanges. In this context it may be stated that LLPs are akin 

                                                           
5 Reference: Circular SMD/POLICY(BRK.REG.)/CIR-18/98 dated July 09, 1998.  
Paragraph in Circular SMD/POLICY(BRK.REG.)/CIR-18/98 dated July 09, 1998, which read “It 
is  generally  seen  that  while  the  application  comes  to  SEBI  after  the  court  has  approved  the  scheme  of 
amalgamation/  merger,  the  existing  entity  is  required  to  seek  prior  approval  from  SEBI  in  case  of  any 
change  in  its  constitution,  in  terms  of  Rule  4(c)  of  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-brokers)  Rules  and 
Regulations, 1992. Therefore, you are advised that as soon as the application for merger is filed before the 
High  Court,  the  extinguishing  broking  entity  should  approach  SEBI  through  the  Stock  Exchange  for 
obtaining  prior  permission,  to  the  scheme  of  merger/  amalgamation  giving  all  necessary  details  of  the 
proposal.” deleted in view of Notification LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/03/12650 dated April 19, 2011. 
6 Reference: Circular SUB-BROK/CIR/02/2001 dated January 15, 2001. 
7 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/12/2011 dated July 11, 2011. 

 

14 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

to LLC and partnership firms. 
 

7.2.  In  view  of  the  above  and  since  the  Parliament  has  put  in  place  a  legal 
framework  for  LLPs,  Stock  Exchanges  may  consider  granting  membership  to 
LLPs subject to LLP complying with the conditions laid down in Rule 8(4A) of 
the SCRR, as far as it can apply to LLPs. 

 

8.  Simplification of registration requirements for Stock Brokers8 
 

8.1.  As  per  the  amendment  to  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  Regulations, 
1992 (hereinafter referred to as Broker Regulations) vide Notification No. LAD-
NRO/GN/2013-14/25/24775 dated September 27, 2013, the existing practice of 
obtaining  multiple  registrations  for  operating  in  different  segments  of  a  Stock 
Exchange / Clearing Corporation has been done away with and instead a single 
registration  per  Stock  Exchange  /  Clearing  Corporation  shall  be  required.  For 
operating  in  multiple  segments,  approval  will  be  required  from  the  Stock 
Exchange or Clearing Corporation. 

 

 

8.2.  The implementation of the revised registration requirements will be as per the 

following guidelines: 

8.2.1. 

8.2.2. 

If a new entity intends to register as a stock broker or clearing member in 
any segment(s) of a Stock Exchange or a Clearing Corporation promoted 
by  that  Stock  Exchange,  then  the  entity  shall  apply  to  SEBI  through  the 
respective  Stock  Exchange  or  Clearing  Corporation  in  the  manner 
prescribed in the Broker Regulations in any one segment. The entity shall 
be  issued  a  certificate  with  a  unique  registration  number  for  each  Stock 
Exchange  or  Clearing  Corporation,  as  the  case  may  be,  irrespective  of 
number of segments. 
 
If  an  entity  is  already  registered  with  SEBI  in  any  segment  of  the  Stock 
Exchange, then for operating in any other segment of that Stock Exchange 
or  for  operating  in  the  Clearing  Corporation  promoted  by  that  Stock 
Exchange, the entity need not apply to SEBI. The entity can directly apply 
to  the  concerned  Stock  Exchange  or  Clearing  Corporation  as  per  the 
procedure prescribed in the Broker Regulations for approval. 

 
8.2.3.  Similarly, if any entity is already registered with SEBI in any segment of 
the Clearing Corporation, then for operating in any other segment of the 
Clearing  Corporation  or  for  operating  in  the  Stock  Exchange  which  has 
promoted that Clearing Corporation, the entity shall follow the procedure 
as prescribed in Clause 8.2.2 above. 

 

                                                           
8 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/8/2013 dated September 30, 2013. 

 

15 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

8.2.4.  Fees  shall  be  applicable  for  all  the  stock  brokers,  self  clearing  members 
and  clearing  members  as  per  Schedule  V  of  the  Broker  Regulations.  As 
per current practice, the entity shall continue to be liable to pay fees for 
each  additional  segment  approved  by  the  Stock  Exchange  or  Clearing 
Corporation,  as  per  the  Schedule  to  the  Brokers  Regulations.  For  stock 
brokers coming under Schedule III, fees shall continue to be applicable as 
per that Schedule till such time as the Schedule V becomes applicable to 
them. 

8.3.  The  Stock  Exchange  or  Clearing  Corporation  shall  grant  approval  for  any 
additional  segment  to  the  stock  broker,  self-clearing  member  or  clearing 
member,  as  the  case  may  be,  after  exercising  due  diligence  and  on  being 
satisfied about the compliance of all relevant eligibility requirements, and shall 
also ensure: 

 

8.3.1.  The applicant, its directors, proprietor, partners and associates satisfy the 
Fit  and  Proper  Criteria  as  defined 
in  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008 and whether any past actions taken / initiated against 
them by SEBI / Stock Exchange(s) or other regulators. 

8.3.2.  The  Stock  Exchange  or  Clearing  Corporation  shall  satisfy  itself  that  the 
applicant  has  taken  corrective  steps  to  rectify  the  deficiencies  or 
irregularities  observed  in  the  past.  They  may  also  seek  details  whether 
the  Board  of  the  applicant  is  satisfied  about  the  steps  taken.  They  may 
also carry out inspection, wherever considered appropriate. 

 
8.3.3.  Recover all pending fees / dues payable to SEBI and / or stock exchange. 

 
9.  Single registration for Stock Brokers & Clearing Members9 
 

9.1.  As  per  the  amendment  to  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  Regulations, 
1992 (hereinafter referred to as Broker Regulations) vide Notification No. LAD-
NRO/GN/2014-15/15/1671  dated  October  08,  2014,  the  requirement  of 
obtaining  registration  as  stock  broker/  clearing  member  for  each  Stock 
Exchange/ Clearing Corporation has been done away with and instead a single 
registration with any Stock Exchange/ Clearing Corporation shall be required. 
For  operating  in  any  other  Stock  Exchange(s)/  Clearing  Corporation  (s), 
approval  will  be  required  from  the  concerned  Stock  Exchange  or  Clearing 
Corporation. 

9.2.  The implementation of the revised registration requirements will be as per the 

following guidelines: 

 

 

                                                           
9 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/4/2014 dated October 13, 2014. 

 

16 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

9.2.1. 

9.2.2. 

If  a  new  entity  desires  to  register  as  a  stock  broker  or  clearing  member 
with  any  Stock  Exchange  or  Clearing  Corporation,  as  the  case  may  be, 
then the entity shall apply to SEBI through the respective Stock Exchange 
or  Clearing  Corporation  in  the  manner  prescribed  in  the  Broker 
Regulations.  The  entity  shall  be  issued  one  certificate  of  registration, 
irrespective of the Stock Exchange(s)/ Clearing Corporation(s) or number 
of segment(s).  
 
If  the  entity  is  already  registered  with  SEBI  as  a  stock  broker  with  any 
Stock Exchange, then for operating on any other Stock Exchange(s) or any 
Clearing  Corporation,  the  entity  can  directly  apply  for  approval  to  the 
concerned Stock Exchange or Clearing Corporation, as per the procedure 
prescribed 
in  the  Broker  Regulations  for  registration.  The  Stock 
Exchange/ Clearing Corporation shall report to SEBI about such grant of 
approval.  

 
9.2.3.  Similarly,  if  any  entity  is  already  registered  with  SEBI  as  a  clearing 
member  in  any  Clearing  Corporation,  then  for  operating  in  any  other 
Clearing Corporation(s) or any Stock Exchange, the entity shall follow the 
procedure as prescribed in Clause 9.2.2 above.  

 
9.2.4.  Fees  shall  be  applicable  for  all  the  stock  brokers,  self-clearing  members 
and  clearing  members  as  per  Schedule  V  of  the  Broker  Regulations.  As 
per current requirement, the entity shall continue to be liable to pay fees 
for  each  segment  approved  by  the  Stock  Exchange  or  Clearing 
Corporation, as per the Schedule to the Brokers Regulations. 

9.3.  The Stock Exchange or Clearing Corporation shall grant approval for operating 
in any segment(s) or additional segment(s) to the SEBI registered stock broker, 
self-clearing member or clearing member, as the case may be, after exercising 
due  diligence  and  on  being  satisfied  about  the  compliance  of  all  relevant 
eligibility requirements, and shall also, inter-alia ensure:  

 
9.3.1.  The applicant, its directors, proprietor, partners and associates satisfy the 
in  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries) 

Fit  and  Proper  Criteria  as  defined 
Regulations, 2008;  
 

9.3.2.  The  applicant  has  taken  satisfactory  corrective  steps  to  rectify  the 
deficiencies  or  irregularities  observed  in  the  past  in  actions  initiated/ 
taken  by  SEBI/  Stock  Exchanges(s)  or  other  regulators.  The  Stock 
Exchange  or  Clearing  Corporation  may  also  seek  details  whether  the 
Board  of  the  applicant  is  satisfied  about  the  steps  taken.  They  may  also 
carry out inspection, wherever considered appropriate; and  

 
9.3.3.  Recovery of all pending fees/ dues payable to SEBI, Stock Exchange and 

17 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Clearing Corporation. 

9.4.  Recover all pending fees / dues payable to SEBI and / or stock exchange. 

 
10.  Registration of Members of Commodity Derivatives Exchanges10 

 
10.1.  Any  person  desirous  of  becoming  a  member  of  any  commodity  derivatives 
exchange(s), shall have to meet the eligibility criteria to become a member of an 
exchange  and  conditions  of  registration,  as  specified  in  Securities  Contract 
(Regulation)  Rules,  1957  and  SEBI 
(Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers) 
Regulations, 1992, respectively.  

 

 

10.2.  The application for registration shall be made in the manner prescribed in the 
Stock  Broker  Regulations,  through  the  commodity  derivatives  exchange,  of 
which it holds membership, in the prescribed form, along with the applicable 
fees.  The  application  shall  be  accompanied  by  additional  information  as 
prescribed in para 3 above regarding additional information to be submitted at 
the time of registration of stock broker with SEBI). 

 

10.3.  The  minimum  net  worth  specified  for  members  of  commodity  derivatives 
exchanges,  as  per  Stock  Broker  Regulations,  shall  have  to  be  computed  as 
follows: 
  Capital +Free reserves 
  Less non-allowable assets viz., 

a.  Fixed assets 
b.  Pledged securities 
c.  Member’s card 
d.  Non-allowable securities (unlisted securities) 
e.  Bad deliveries 
f.  Doubtful debts and advances* 
g.  Prepaid expenses, losses 
h.  Intangible assets 
i.  30% of marketable securities 

 
*Explanation – includes debts/advances overdue for more than three months or 
given to associates. 

10.4.  It  is  clarified  that,  “business  in  goods  related  to  the  underlying”  and/  or 
“business  in  connection  with  or  incidental  to  or  consequential  to  trades  in 
commodity  derivatives”,  by  a  member  of  a  Stock  Exchange,  would  not  be 

                                                           
10 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/4/2015 dated September 29, 2015,  
Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/04 dated September 21, 2017 and  
Circular FITTC/DC/CR-1/98 dated June 16, 1998. 

 

18 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

disqualified  under  Rule  8(1)(f)  and  Rule  8(3)(f)  of  the  Securities  Contract 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

 
11.  Online Registration Mechanism for Securities Market Intermediaries11 
 

11.1.  SEBI 

has 

the 

intermediaries 

to  submit  all 

Portal 

(https://siportal.sebi.gov.in) 

Intermediary 
for 

been 
operationalized 
the  registration 
applications  online.  The  SEBI  Intermediary  Portal  includes  online  application 
for  registration,  processing  of  application,  grant  of  final  registration, 
application  for  surrender  /  cancellation,  submission  of  periodical  reports, 
requests for change of name / address / other details etc. 

 

 

 

11.2.  All  applications  for  registration  /  surrender  /  other  requests  shall  be  made 
through  SEBI  Intermediary  Portal  only.  The  application  in  respect  of  stock 
brokers  /  sub-broker  and  depository  participants  shall  continue  to  be  made 
through the Stock Exchanges and Depositories respectively. 

11.3.  The  applicants  will  be  separately  required  to  submit  relevant  documents  viz. 
declarations  /  undertakings,  in  physical  form,  only  for  records  without 
impacting the online processing of applications for registration. 

11.4.  Where applications are made through the Stock Exchanges / Depositories, the 
hard  copy  of  the  applications  made  by  their  members  shall  be  preserved  by 
them and shall be made available to SEBI, as and when called for. 

 
12.  Integration  of  broking  activities  in  Equity  Markets  and  Commodity  Derivatives 

Markets under single entity12 

 

12.1.  Government of India vide Gazette notification no. G.S.R. 664(E) dated June 27, 
2017  amended  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957  (hereinafter 
referred  to  as  "SCRR")  and  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Stock 
Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  (Amendment)  Regulations 2017 which was  notified 
on July 13, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as "the Stock Broker Regulation"). 

 
12.2.  Through  these  amendments,  restriction  on  stock  brokers  dealing  in  securities 
(other than commodity derivatives) to deal in commodity derivatives has been 
done away with. Similarly, restriction on stock brokers dealing in commodity 
derivatives to deal in other securities has also been done away with. Therefore, 
post these amendments, a stock broker can deal in commodity derivatives and 
other  securities  under  a  single  entity,  thereby  facilitating  ease  of  doing 
business. 

 
12.3.  As per the existing procedure under single registration mechanism, a one-time 

                                                           
11 Reference: Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/38 dated May 02, 2017. 
12 Reference: Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/04 dated September 21, 2017. 

 

19 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

certificate of registration as stock broker / clearing member shall be granted by 
SEBI and subsequent permissions to act as a stock broker / clearing member of 
other  Stock  Exchanges  /  Clearing  Corporation,  shall  be  granted  by  the 
respective Stock Exchange / Clearing Corporation after proper due diligence. 

 
12.4.  Prior  approval from  SEBI  will  be  required  to  be  obtained  by  the  stock broker 
only  in  cases  where  integration  leads  to  change  in  control  of  the  stock 
broker/clearing member. 

 
12.5.  Further, to facilitate integration between stock brokers, it is clarified that client 
account may be transferred from one stock broker to the other stock broker, by 
taking  the  express  consent  of  the  client  through  a  verifiable  mode  of 
communication and thereby continuing with the existing set of documentation 
in respect of broker client relationship. 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

***** 

20 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

II. 

TRADING ACCOUNT OPENING, UNIQUE CLIENT CODE, KNOW 

YOUR CLIENT, KYC REGISTRATION AGENCY, CENTRAL KYC 

RECORDS REGISTRY 

 

13.  Unique Client Code13 

 

13.1.  It shall be mandatory for the broker to use unique client code for all clients. For 
this  purpose  the  broker  shall  collect  and  maintain  in  their  back  office  the 
Permanent Account Number (PAN) allotted by the Income Tax Department for 
all their clients. 

 

13.2.  In case of other entities – 

 

13.2.1.  Brokers shall verify the documents with respect to the unique code retain 

a copy of the document. 

 

13.2.2.  The brokers shall also be required to furnish the above particulars of their 
clients  to  the  Stock  Exchanges/Clearing  Corporations  and  the  same 
would  be  updated  on  a  monthly  basis.  Such  information  for  a  specific 
month should reach the exchange within 7 working days of the following 
month. 

 

13.2.3.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  be  required  to  maintain  a  database  of  client 
details  submitted  by  brokers.  Historical  records  of  all  quarterly 
submissions shall be maintained for a period of 7 years by the exchanges. 

 

14.  Simplification and Rationalization of Trading Account Opening Process14 

 

14.1.  SEBI  has  devised  the  uniform  documentation  to  be  followed  by  all  the  stock 
brokers  /  trading  members;  a  copy  thereof  to  be  provided  by  them  to  the 
clients. The details of such documents are listed below: 

 

14.1.1.  Index  of  documents  giving  details  of  various  documents  for  client 

account opening process: Annexure-1. 
 

14.1.2.  Client Account Opening Form in two parts:  
 

                                                           
13  Reference:  Circular  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-39/2001  dated  July  18,  2001  and  Circular 
SEBI/MRD/SE/CIR-34/2003/29/09 dated September 29, 2003. 
14 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/16/2011 dated August 22, 2011,  
Circular MIRSD/SE/CIR-21/2011 dated October 05, 2011,  
Circular CIR/MIRSD/13/2013 dated December 26, 2013,  
Circular CIR/MIRSD/64/2016 dated July 12, 2016 and  
Circular CIR/MIRSD/66/2016 dated July 21, 2016. 

 

21 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

a.  Know Your Client (KYC) form capturing the basic information about 

the client and instruction/check list to fill up the form: Annexure-2.  
 
The KYC template finalised by Central Registry of Securitization and 
Asset Reconstruction and Security interest of India (CERSAI) shall be 
used  by  the  registered  intermediaries  as  Part  I  of  AOF  for 
individuals.  
 
KYC form for Non-individuals shall be as specified by SEBI. 
 

b.  Document  capturing  additional  information  about  the  client  related 

to trading account: Annexure-3.  
 

14.1.3.  Document  stating  the  Rights  &  Obligations  of  stock  broker,  sub-broker 
and  client  for  trading  on  exchanges  (including  additional  rights  & 
obligations  in  case  of  internet  /  wireless  technology  based  trading): 
Annexure–4. 
 

14.1.4.  Uniform  Risk  Disclosure  Documents  (for  all  segments  /  exchanges): 

Annexure-5.  

 
14.1.5.  Guidance  Note  detailing  Do’s  and  Don’ts  for  trading  on  exchanges: 

Annexure-6. 

 

14.2.  In  the  account  opening  process,  the  stock  brokers  /  trading  members  would 

also give the following useful information to the clients:  
 

14.2.1.  A tariff sheet specifying various charges, including brokerage, payable by 

the client to avoid any disputes at a later date. 

 

14.2.2.  Information on contact details of senior officials within the stock broking 
firm and investor grievance cell in the  Stock Exchange, so that the client 
can approach them in case of any grievance. 

 

14.3.  It  may  be  noted  that  any  voluntary  clause  /  document  added  by  the  stock 
brokers  shall  form  part  of  the  non-mandatory  documents.  The  stock  broker 
shall  ensure  that  any  voluntary  clause/document  shall  neither  dilute  the 
responsibility  of  the  stock  broker  nor  it  shall  be  in  conflict  with  any  of  the 
clauses  in  the  mandatory  documents,  Rules,  Bye-laws,  Regulations,  Notices, 
Guidelines and Circulars issued by SEBI and the Stock Exchanges from time to 
time.  Any  such  clause  introduced  in  the  existing  as  well  as  new  documents 
shall stand null and void. 

 

14.4.  The  client  will  now  be  required  to  sign  only  on  one  document  i.e.  Account 
Opening  Form.  Further,  in  the  same  form,  the  client shall  continue  to  put  his 

22 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

signatures instead of saying ‘yes’ or ‘tick mark’ while indicating preferences for 
trading  in  different  exchanges  /  segments,  in  accordance  with  existing 
requirements.  However,  in  case  the  investor  wants  to  avail  Running  Account 
facility,  execute  Power  of  Attorney,  etc.,  he  would  have  to  give  specific 
authorization to the stock broker in order to avoid any dispute in the future. 

 

14.5.  In  case  the  stock  broker  is  also  a  depository  participant,  he  can  use  the  same 
KYC  form  (as  specified  in  Annexure-2)  for  basic  details  and  take  additional 
information pertaining to demat account. 

14.6.  Stock  Broker/  Depository  Participant  shall  make  available  these  standard 
documents to the clients, either in electronic or physical form, depending upon 
the preference of the client as part of account opening kit. The preference of the 
client  shall  be  sought  as  part  of  the  account  opening  form.  In  case  the 
documents  are  made  available  in  electronic  form,  stock  broker/  depository 
participant shall maintain logs of the same. 

14.7.  Stock Exchanges / Depositories / stock brokers/ depository participants shall 
continue  to  make  the  documents  mentioned  in  para  14.1.3  to  14.1.5  above, 
available on their website and keep the clients informed about the same. 

14.8.  Further, with a view to bring about uniformity in securities markets, the KYC 
form  in  Annexure-2  above  and  supporting  documents  shall  also  be  used  by 
Depository  Participants,  Mutual  Funds,  Portfolio  Managers,  Collective 
Investment Schemes and Venture Capital Funds. The KYC form shall be filled 
by  an  investor  at  the  account  opening  stage  while  dealing  with  any  of  the 
above  intermediaries.  Additional  details  specific  to  the  area  of  activity  of  the 
intermediary  being  obtained  now  but  not  covered  in  the KYC  form  shall  also 
be obtained from the investors in Part II of the account opening form. 

14.9.  The  additional  information  (Part  II)  shall  be  prescribed  by  Depositories  for 
their  depository  participants  and  by  Association  of  Mutual  Funds  in  India 
(AMFI) for all mutual funds. The Portfolio Managers, Venture Capital Funds, 
and  Collective  Investment  Schemes  shall  capture  the  additional  information 
specific  to  their  area  of  activities,  as  considered  appropriate  by  them.  The 
intermediaries  shall  also  continue  to  abide  by  Circulars  issued  by  SEBI  from 
time to time for prevention of money laundering. 

23 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
15.  Requirements relating to dealings between a Client and a Stock Broker (Trading 

Members included)15 
 
15.1.  Running Account Authorization 
 

15.1.1.  Unless  otherwise  specifically  agreed  to  by  a  Client,  the  settlement  of 
funds/securities shall be done within 24 hours of the payout. However, a 
client  may  specifically  authorize  the  stock  broker  to  maintain  a  running 
account subject to the following conditions: 
 
a.  The  authorization  shall  be  signed  by  the  client  only  and  not  by  any 
authorised  person  on  his  behalf  or  any  holder  of  the  Power  of 
Attorney.  

b.  The  authorisation  shall  be  dated  and  shall  contain  a  clause  that  the 
clients  may  revoke  the  authorisation  at  any  time.  The  stock  brokers, 
while  sending  periodical  statement  of  accounts  to  the  clients,  shall 
mention  therein  that  their  running  account  authorisation  would 
continue until it is revoked by the clients. 

c.  For the clients having outstanding obligations on the settlement date, 
the  stock  broker  may  retain  the  requisite  securities/funds  towards 
such  obligations  and  may  also  retain  the  funds  expected  to  be 
required  to  meet  margin  obligations  for  next  5  trading  days, 
calculated in the manner specified by the exchanges.  

d.  The  actual  settlement  of  funds  and  securities  shall  be  done  by  the 
broker,  at  least  once  in  90  days  /  30  days,  depending  on  the 
preference  of  the  client.  While  settling  the  account,  the  broker  shall 
send to the client a ‘statement of accounts’ containing an extract from 
the  client  ledger  for  funds  and  an  extract  from  the  register  of 
securities  displaying  all  receipts/deliveries  of  funds/securities.  The 
statement shall also explain the retention of funds/securities and the 
details of the pledge, if any.  

e.  The  client  shall  bring  any  dispute  arising  from  the  statement  of 
account  or  settlement  so  made  to  the notice  of  the  broker  preferably 
within 7 working days from the date of receipt of funds/securities or 
statement, as the case may be. 

f.  Such periodic settlement of running account may not be necessary:  
for clients availing margin trading facility as per SEBI circular.  
for funds received from the clients towards collaterals/margin in 
the form of bank guarantee (BG)/Fixed Deposit receipts (FDR).  

i. 
ii. 

g.  The  stock  broker  shall  transfer  the  funds  /  securities  lying  in  the 
credit of the client within one working day of the request if the same 
are lying with him and within three working days from the request if 

                                                           
15 Reference: Circular MIRSD/SE/CIR-19/2009 dated December 03, 2009,  
Circular SEBI/MIRSD/CIR/01/2011 dated May 13, 2011 and  
Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/95 dated September 26, 2016. 

 

24 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

the same are lying with the Clearing Member/Clearing Corporation.  
h.  There  shall  be  no  inter-client  adjustments  for  the  purpose  of 

settlement of the ‘running account’.  

i.  These conditions shall not apply to institutional clients settling trades 

through custodians. The existing practice may continue for them. 

 
15.2.  Authorization for Electronic Contract Notes 
 

15.2.1.  The stock broker may issue electronic contract notes (ECN) if specifically 

authorized by the client subject to the following conditions: 
 
a.  The authorization shall be in writing and be signed by the client only 
and not by any authorised person on his behalf or holder of the Power 
of Attorney.  

b.  The email id shall not be created by the broker. The client desirous of 
receiving  ECN  shall  create/provide  his  own  email  id  to  the  stock 
broker.  

c.  The authorization shall have a clause to the effect that that any change 
in the email-id shall be communicated by the client through a physical 
letter  to  the  broker.  In  respect  of  internet  clients,  the  request  for 
change of email id may be made through the secured access by way of 
client specific user id and password. 

 

15.3.  The stock broker shall have documentary evidence of financial details provided 
by  the  clients  who  opt  to  deal  in  the  derivative  segment.  In  respect  of  other 
clients, the stock broker shall obtain the documents in accordance with its risk 
management system. 

15.4.  There shall be a mandatory document dealing with policies and procedures for 

each of the following under appropriate headings: 

 
15.4.1.  refusal of orders for penny stocks 

 

15.4.2.  setting up client’s exposure limits 
 
15.4.3.  applicable brokerage rate 
 
15.4.4.  imposition  of  penalty/delayed  payment  charges  by  either  party, 
specifying the rate and the period (This must not result in funding by the 
broker in contravention of the applicable laws) 

 
15.4.5.  the  right  to  sell  clients’  securities  or  close  clients’  positions,  without 
giving  notice  to  the  client,  on  account  of  non-payment  of  client’s  dues 
(This shall be limited to the extent of settlement/margin obligation) 

 

25 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

15.4.6.  shortages in obligations arising out of internal netting of trades 
 
15.4.7.  conditions  under  which  a  client  may  not  be  allowed  to  take  further 

position or the broker may close the existing position of a client 

 
15.4.8.  temporarily  suspending  or  closing  a  client’s  account  at  the  client’s 

request, and 

 
15.4.9.  deregistering a client 
 

15.5.  All  the  documents  in  both  the  mandatory  and  the  non-mandatory  parts  shall 

be printed in minimum font size of 11. 

 

15.6.  A  copy  of  all  the  documents  executed  by  client  shall  be  given  to  him,  free  of 
charge,  within  7  days  from  the  date  of  execution  of  documents  by  the  client. 
The stock broker shall take client’s acknowledgement for receipt of the same. 

 

15.7.  The  stock  brokers  having  own  web-sites  shall  display  all  the  documents 
executed  by  a  client,  client’s  position,  margin  and  other  related  information, 
statement of accounts, etc. in the web-site and allow secured access by way of 
client-specific user id and password. 

 

15.8.  The  stock  broker  shall  frame  the  policy  regarding  treatment  of  inactive 
accounts which should, inter-alia, cover aspects of time period, return of client 
assets and procedure for reactivation of the same. It shall display the same on 
its web site, if any. 

 

15.9.  As on 31st March of every year, a statement of balance of Funds and Securities 

in hard form and signed by the broker shall be sent to all the clients. 

 
16.  SARAL Account Opening Form for Resident Individuals16 
 

16.1.  A majority of new investors in the securities market begin with participation in 
the  cash  segment  without  obtaining  various  other  facilities  such  as  internet 
trading, margin trading, derivative trading and use of power of attorney. 

 

16.2.  With a view to encourage their participation, it is, therefore, decided that such 
individual investors can open a trading account and demat account by filling 
up a simplified Account Opening Form ('AOF') termed as 'SARAL AOF' given 
at  Annexure-7.  This form  will  be  separately  available  with  the  intermediaries 
and  can  also  be  downloaded  from  the  Exchanges'  and  Depositories'  website. 
The  investors  who  open  account  through  SARAL  AOF  will  also  have  the 
option  to  obtain  other  facilities,  whenever  they  require,  on  furnishing  of 

                                                           
16 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/1/2015 dated March 04, 2015. 

 

26 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

additional information as per prescribed regulations/circulars. 

16.3.  The standard set of documents viz. Rights and Obligations document, Uniform 
Risk Disclosure Document and Guidance Note and documentary proof related 
to  identity  and  address  as  specified  by  SEBI  shall  continue  to  remain 
applicable. It is further clarified that the provisions laid down under the PML 
Act, PML  Rules,  SEBI  Master  Circular  on  AML  dated  December  31,  2010  and 
SEBI  Circular  on  AML  dated  March  12,  2014  shall  also  continue  to  remain 
applicable for set of individual investors mentioned in paragraph 16.2 above. 

16.4.  For these set of individual investors, the requirement of submission of ‘proof of 

address’ is as follows: 

16.4.1.  Henceforth, individual investor may submit only one documentary proof 
of  address  (either  residence/correspondence  or  permanent)  while 
opening a trading account and / or demat account or while undergoing 
updation. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16.4.2.  In  case  the  proof  of  address  furnished  by  the  said  investor  is  not  the 
address  where  the  investor  is  currently  residing,  the  intermediary  may 
take a declaration of the residence/correspondence address on which all 
correspondence will  be made  by  the intermediary  with  the  investor.  No 
proof  is  required  to  be  submitted  for  such  correspondence/residence 
address.  In  the  event  of  change  in  this  address  due  to  relocation  or  any 
other reason, investor may intimate the new address for correspondence 
to  the  intermediary  within  two  weeks  of  such  a  change.  The  residence/ 
correspondence address and any such change thereof may be verified by 
the 
(i) 
acknowledgment  of  receipt  Welcome  Kit/  dispatch  of  contract  notes  / 
any periodical statement, etc. (ii) telephonic conversation; (iii) visits, etc. 

confirmation’ 

such  as 

intermediary 

through 

‘positive 

 
17.  The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (KYC  Registration  Agency) 

Regulations, 201117 

 

 

17.1.  To avoid duplication of KYC process by the client with every intermediary, a 
mechanism  for  centralization  of  the  KYC  records  in  the  securities  market  has 
been developed. 

17.2.  An  intermediary  shall  perform  the  initial  KYC  of  its  clients  and  upload  the 

                                                           
17 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/22/2011 dated October 25, 2011,  
Circular MIRSD/CIR-23/2011 dated December 02, 2011,  
Circular MIRSD/CIR-26 dated December 23, 2011,  
SEBI  (KYC  Registration  Agency)  Amendment  Regulation  2013  vide  Notification  no.  LAD-
NRO/GN/2012-13/35/6998 dated March 22, 2013 and 
Circular CIR/MIRSD/4/2013 dated March 28, 2013. 

 

27 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

details  on  the  system  of  the  KRA.  When  the  client  approaches  another 
intermediary,  the  intermediary  can  verify  and  download  the  client’s  details 
from the system of the KRA. As a result, once the client has done KYC with a 
SEBI  registered  intermediary,  he  need  not  undergo  the  same  process  again 
with another intermediary. 

 

17.3.  Accordingly,  SEBI  has  formulated  the  KYC  Registration  Agency  (KRA) 
Regulations,  which  have  been  notified  vide  notification  no.  LAD-
NRO/GN/2011-12/29/36772  dated  December  2,  2011.  The  Regulations  cover 
the  registration  of  KRAs,  functions  and  responsibilities  of  the  KRAs  and 
intermediaries, code of conduct, data security, etc. 

17.4.  Guidelines for Intermediaries 

17.4.1.  The  intermediary  shall  perform  the  initial  KYC/due  diligence  of  the 
client,  upload  the  KYC  information  with  proper  authentication  on  the 
system of the KRA, furnish the scanned images of the KYC documents to 
the KRA, and retain the physical KYC documents: 

Provided that in the case of clients of a mutual fund, the Registrar to an 
Issue  and  Share  Transfer  Agent  appointed  by  the  mutual  fund  may 
perform  the  initial  KYC/due  diligence  of  the  client,  upload  the  KYC 
information  with  proper  authentication  on  the  system  of  the  KRA,  and 
furnish the scanned images of KYC documents to the KRA. 

17.4.2.  The intermediary or the mutual fund, as the case may be, shall furnish the 
physical  KYC  documents  or  authenticated  copies  thereof  to  the  KRA, 
whenever so desired by the KRA. 

17.4.3.  In  case  a  client’s  scanned  images  of  KYC  documents  sent  by  the 
intermediary to KRA are not complete, the KRA shall inform the same to 
the 
information  / 
documents promptly to KRA.  

intermediary  who  shall  forward  the  required 

17.4.4.  The intermediary shall carry out KYC when the client chooses to trade/ 

invest / deal through it.  

17.4.5.  The  intermediaries  shall  maintain  electronic  records  of  KYCs  of  clients 

and keeping physical records would not be necessary.  

17.4.6.  The  intermediary  shall  promptly  provide  KYC  related  information  to 

KRA, as and when required.  

17.4.7.  The  intermediary  shall  have  adequate  internal  controls  to  ensure  the 

security / authenticity of data uploaded by it. 

28 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

17.5.  Guidelines for KRAs 

17.5.1.  KRA  system  shall  provide  KYC  information  in  data  and  image  form  to 

the intermediary.  

17.5.2.  KRA shall send a letter to the client within 10 working days of the receipt 
of the initial/updated KYC documents from intermediary, confirming the 
details thereof and maintain the proof of dispatch.  

17.5.3.  KRA(s)  shall  develop  systems,  in  co-ordination  with  each  other,  to 
prevent  duplication  of  entry  of  KYC  details  of  a  client  and  to  ensure 
uniformity  in  formats  of  uploading  /  modification  /  downloading  of 
KYC data by the intermediary.  

17.5.4.  KRA  shall  maintain  an  audit  trail  of  the  upload  /  modifications  / 

downloads made in the KYC data, by the intermediary in its system.  

 
17.5.5.  KRA  shall  ensure  that  a  comprehensive  audit  of  its  systems,  controls, 
procedures,  safeguards  and  security  of  information  and  documents  is 
carried out annually by an independent auditor. The Audit Report along 
with  the  steps  taken  to  rectify  the  deficiencies,  if  any,  shall  be  placed 
before  its  Board  of  Directors.  Thereafter,  the  KRA  shall  send  the  Action 
Taken Report to SEBI within 3 months.  

17.5.6.  KRA systems shall clearly indicate the status of clients falling under PAN 
exempt  categories  viz.  investors  residing  in  the  state  of  Sikkim,  UN 
entities  /  multilateral  agencies  exempt  from  paying  taxes  /  filing  tax 
returns in India.  

17.5.7.  A client can start trading / investing/ dealing with the intermediary and 
its  group  /  subsidiary  /  holding  company  as  soon  as  the  initial  KYC  is 
done  and  other  necessary  information  is  obtained  while  the  remaining 
process of KRA is in progress. 

17.6.  In-Person Verification (IPV) 

17.6.1.  In  line  with  the  uniformity  brought  out  in  the  KYC  procedure  across 
intermediaries, the IPV requirements for all the intermediaries have now 
been streamlined and harmonized, as follows: 

a.  It shall be mandatory for intermediaries viz. stock brokers, depository 
participants, mutual funds, portfolio managers, venture capital funds, 
collective investment schemes to carry out IPV of their clients.  

b.  The intermediary shall ensure that the details like name of the person 

29 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

doing IPV, his designation, organization with his signatures and date 
are recorded on the KYC form at the time of IPV.  

c.  The IPV carried out by one SEBI registered intermediary can be relied 

upon by another intermediary.  

d.  In  case  of  Stock  brokers,  their  sub-brokers  or  Authorised  Persons 
(appointed  by  the  stock  brokers  after  getting  approval  from  the 
concerned Stock Exchanges in terms of provisions specified in para 34 
below  on  Market  Access  through  Authorised  Persons)  can  perform 
the IPV.  

f. 

e.  The subsidiaries of Stock Exchanges, acting as stock brokers, may rely 
upon  the  ‘in-person’  verification  done  by  their  sub-brokers  (who  are 
also  registered  with  SEBI  as  stock  brokers  of  the  parent  Stock 
Exchange)  for  their  respective  clients.  However,  the  ultimate 
responsibility  for  ‘in-person’  verification  would  remain  with  the 
subsidiaries  and  they  shall  obtain  the  necessary  IPV  documents  for 
their records. 
In case of Mutual Funds, their Asset Management Companies (AMCs) 
and  the  distributors  who  comply  with  the  certification  process  of 
National  Institute  of  Securities  Market  (NISM)  or  Association  of 
Mutual  Funds  (AMFI)  and  have  undergone  the  process  of  ‘Know 
Your  Distributor  (KYD)’,  can  perform  the  IPV.  However,  in  case  of 
applications  received  by  the  mutual  funds  directly  from  the  clients 
(i.e.  not  through  any  distributor),  they  may  also  rely  upon  the  IPV 
performed by the scheduled commercial banks. 

 
18.  Operationalisation of Central KYC Records Registry (CKYCR)18 
 

18.1.  Government of India has authorized the Central Registry of Securitization and 
Asset  Reconstruction  and  Security  interest  of  India  (CERSAI),  set  up  under 
subsection  (1)  of  Section  20  of  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of  Financial 
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, to act as, and to perform 
the functions of, the Central KYC Records Registry under the PML Rules 2005, 
including  receiving,  storing,  safeguarding  and  retrieving  the  KYC  records  in 
digital form of a “client”, as defined in clause (ha) sub-section (1) of Section 2 of 
the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 

 

 

18.2.  As per the 2015 amendment to PML (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005 (the 
rules),  every  reporting  entity  shall  capture  the  KYC  information  for  sharing 
with the Central KYC Records Registry in the manner mentioned in the Rules, 
as per the KYC template for “individuals” finalised by CERSAI. 

18.3.  The “live run” of the CKYCR started with effect from July 15, 2016 in a phased 
manner  beginning  with  new  “individual  accounts”.  Further,  “Test 

                                                           
18  Reference:  Circular  CIR/MIRSD/66/2016  dated 
CIR/MIRSD/120/2016 dated November 10, 2016. 

July 

21, 

2016 

and  Circular 

 

30 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Environment”  has  also  been  made  available  by  CERSAI  for  the  use  of  the 
reporting entities. 

18.4.  In the first phase, the registered intermediaries shall upload the KYC data with 
CKYCR, in respect of all individual accounts opened on or after August 1, 2016, 
wherever KYC is required to be carried out as per the circulars issued by SEBI 
from time to time and accordingly, shall take steps to prepare their systems for 
uploading the KYC data. 

 

18.5.  Government  of  India,  vide  its  letter  dated  October  04,  2016,  directed  the 

following with regard to KYC details of existing and new individual clients: 

 
18.5.1.  Registered  intermediaries  have  to  update  their  IT  systems  as  well  as 
register  all  new  accounts  of  individuals  in  accordance  with  the  CKYCR 
template, mandatorily by October 31, 2016. 

 

18.5.2.  Mutual  funds  and  Intermediaries  other  than  mutual  funds  may  follow 
the following time lines in respect of uploading KYC data of the existing 
individual clients with CKYCR. 

 
18.5.3.  Mutual funds may ensure 30% completion of uploading of existing KYC 
data by November 30, 2016, another 30% of KYC data by January 31, 2017 
and the rest 40% data by March 31, 2017. 

 
18.5.4.  Intermediaries  other  than  mutual  funds  may  ensure  50%  completion  of 
uploading of existing KYC data by November 30, 2016 and the remaining 
50% of KYC data by December 31, 2016. 

18.6.  In  case  of  mutual  funds,  compliance  of  the  above  shall  be  monitored  by  the 
Boards of Asset Management Companies and the Trustees and in case of other 
intermediaries by their Board of Directors.  

 

19.  AADHAAR19 
 

19.1.  Aadhaar  Letter  issued  by  Unique  Identification  Authority  of  India  (UIDAI) 
shall  be  admissible  as  Proof  of  Address  in  addition  to  it  being  recognized  as 
Proof of Identity. 

 

19.2.  e-KYC service launched by UIDAI shall be accepted as a valid process for KYC 
verification. The information containing relevant client details and photograph 
made  available  from  UIDAI  as  a  result  of  e-KYC  process  shall  be  treated  as 

                                                           
19 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/09/2012 dated August 13, 2012,  
Circular CIR/MIRSD/09/2013 dated October 08, 2013 and  
Circular CIR/MIRSD/29/2016 dated January 22, 2016. 

 

31 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

sufficient Proof of Identity and Address of the client. However, the client shall 
have to authorize the intermediary to access his data through UIDAI system. 

19.3.  The  Hon'ble  Supreme  Court,  in  Writ  Petition  (Civil)  No.  494  of  2012  in  the 
matter  of  Justice  K.S.  Puttaswamy  (Retd.)  &  Another  vs  Union  of  India  & 
Others, vide order dated August 11, 2015 and October 15, 2015 directed that the 
usage of the Aadhaar card as issued by the Unique Identification Authority of 
India  (UIDAI)  is  voluntary.  In  view  of  the  said  orders,  the  usage  of  Aadhaar 
card is optional and purely on a voluntary basis, subject to the final judgment 
of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the aforesaid petition. 

19.4.  For accessing the details enabling client identification and authentication from 
UIDAI  based  on  client  authorisation,  on  voluntary  basis,  intermediaries  who 
utilize  the  services  of  KYC  Service  Agencies  (KSAs)  would  be  registered  as 
KYC User Agencies (KUA) with UIDAI. 

19.5.  For  entering  into  account  based  relationship,  the  client  may  provide  the 

following information to the intermediary: 

19.5.1.  Name  
19.5.2.  AADHAAR Number 
19.5.3.  Permanent Account Number (PAN) 
 

19.6.  The  above  information  can  be  provided  by  the  client  electronically  including 

through any web enabled device. 

19.7.  The  intermediary  shall  perform  verification  of  the  client  with  UIDAI  through 
biometric  authentication  (fingerprint  or  iris  scanning). Mutual  Funds  can  also 
perform  verification  of  the  client  with  UIDAI  through  One  Time  password 
(OTP) received on client’s mobile number or on e-mail address registered with 
UIDAI provided, the amount invested by the client does not exceed Rs. 50,000 
per financial year per Mutual Fund and payment for the same is made through 
electronic  transfer  from  the  client’s  bank  account  registered  with  that  Mutual 
Fund. 

 

19.8.  PAN of such client is to be verified from the income tax website. 

19.9.  After  due  validation  of  Aadhaar  number  provided  by  the  client,  the 
intermediary  (acting  as  KUA)  shall  receive  the  KYC  information  about  the 
client from UIDAI through KSA. 

19.10. The  information  downloaded  from  UIDAI  shall  be  considered  as  sufficient 
information  for  the  purpose  of  KYC  verification.  The  intermediary  shall 
upload  this  KYC  information  on  the  KRA  system  in  terms  of  KRA 
Regulations. 

 

32 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

19.11. In case material difference is observed either in the name (as observed in the 
is  not  clear,  the 
PAN  vis-a-visAadhaar)  or  photograph 
intermediary shall carry out additional due diligence and maintain a record of 
the additional documents sought pursuant to such due diligence. 

in  Aadhaar 

 

 

 

19.12. The  records  of  KYC  information  so  received  shall  be  maintained  by  the 
intermediary  as  per  the  SEBI  Act,  Regulations  and  various  circulars  issued 
thereunder. 

 
20.  Guidelines on Identification of Beneficial Ownership20 
 

 

 

 

20.1.  SEBI  Master  Circular  No.  CIR/ISD/AML/3/2010  dated  December  31,  2010 
has  mandated  all  registered  intermediaries  to  obtain,  as  part  of  their  Client 
Due  Diligence  policy,  sufficient  information  from  their  clients  in  order  to 
identify and verify the identity of persons who beneficially own or control the 
securities account. The beneficial owner has been defined in the circular as the 
natural  person  or  persons  who  ultimately  own,  control  or  influence  a  client 
and/or  persons  on  whose  behalf  a  transaction  is  being  conducted,  and 
includes a person who exercises ultimate effective control over a legal person 
or arrangement. 

20.2.  SEBI  has  also  prescribed  uniform  Know  Your  Client (KYC)  requirements  for 
the  securities  markets  vide  circular  nos.  CIR/MIRSD/16/2011  dated  August 
22,  2011  and  MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011  dated  October  5,  2011.  The  SEBI  KYC 
Registration  Agency  (KRA)  Regulations,  2011  have  been  notified  and 
guidelines have been issued under these regulations from time to time. 

20.3.  Further,  the  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  Rules,  2005  also  require  that 
every  banking  company,  financial  institution  and  intermediary,  as  the  case 
may  be,  shall  identify  the  beneficial  owner  and  take  all  reasonable  steps  to 
verify  his  identity.  The  Government  of  India  in  consultation  with  the 
regulators  has  now  specified  a  uniform  approach  to  be  followed  towards 
determination  of  beneficial  ownership.  Accordingly,  the  intermediaries  shall 
comply with the following guidelines. 

20.3.1.  For clients other than individuals or trusts - Where the client is a person 
other  than  an  individual  or  trust,  viz.,  company,  partnership  or 
unincorporated  association/body  of  individuals,  the  intermediary  shall 
identify the beneficial owners of the client and take reasonable measures 
to verify the identity of such persons, through the following information: 

 

a.  The  identity  of  the  natural  person,  who,  whether  acting  alone  or 
together,  or  through  one  or  more  juridical  person,  exercises  control 
through  ownership  or  who  ultimately  has  a  controlling  ownership 

                                                           
20 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/2/2013 dated January 24, 2013. 

 

33 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

interest. 

 

 

Explanation:  Controlling  ownership 
of/entitlement to: 

interest  means  ownership 

i.  more  than  25%  of  shares  or  capital  or  profits  of  the  juridical 

person, where the juridical person is a company;  

ii.  more  than  15%  of  the  capital  or  profits  of  the  juridical  person, 

where the juridical person is a partnership; or  

iii.  more than 15% of the property or capital or profits of the juridical 
is  an  unincorporated 

juridical  person 

person,  where 
association or body of individuals. 

the 

b.  In  cases  where  there  exists  doubt  under  clause  20.3.1(a)  above  as  to 
whether  the  person  with  the  controlling  ownership  interest  is  the 
beneficial  owner  or  where  no  natural  person  exerts  control  through 
ownership  interests,  the  identity  of  the  natural  person  exercising 
control over the juridical person through other means. 

Explanation:  Control  through  other  means  can  be  exercised  through 
voting rights, agreement, arrangements or in any other manner. 

c.  Where  no  natural  person  is  identified  under  clauses  20.3.1(a)  or 
20.3.1(b) above, the identity of the relevant natural person who holds 
the position of senior managing official. 

20.3.2.  For client which is a trust - Where the client is a trust, the intermediary 
shall  identify  the  beneficial  owners  of  the  client  and  take  reasonable 
measures  to  verify  the  identity  of  such  persons,  through  the  identity  of 
the  settler  of  the  trust,  the  trustee,  the  protector,  the  beneficiaries  with 
15% or more interest in the trust and any other natural person exercising 
ultimate  effective  control  over  the  trust  through  a  chain  of  control  or 
ownership. 

20.3.3.  Exemption in case of listed companies -Where the client or the owner of 
the  controlling  interest  is  a  company  listed  on  a  stock  exchange  or  is  a 
majority-owned  subsidiary  of  such  a  company,  it  is  not  necessary  to 
identify and verify the identity of any shareholder or beneficial owner of 
such companies. 

20.3.4.  Applicability for foreign investors - Intermediaries dealing with foreign 
investors’  viz.,  Foreign  Institutional  Investors,  Sub  Accounts  and 
Qualified  Foreign  Investors,  may  be  guided  by  the  clarifications  issued 
vide SEBI circular CIR/MIRSD/11/2012 dated September 5, 2012, for the 
purpose of identification of beneficial ownership of the client. 

34 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

III. 

SUPERVISION & OVERSIGHT 

21.  Oversight  of  Members  (Stock  Brokers/Trading  Members/Clearing  Members  of 

any Segment of Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations)21 
 
21.1.  Inspection of Members by Stock Exchanges / Clearing Corporations 
 

21.1.1.  The  Stock  Exchange  or  the  Clearing  Corporation,  as  the  case  may  be, 
shall, in consultation with SEBI, formulate a policy for annual inspection 
of their members in various segments and follow up action thereon. The 
policy  shall also  cover  various  kinds  of  risks  posed  to  the  investors  and 
market  at  large  on  account  of  the  activities/business  conduct  of  their 
members. 
 

21.1.2.  The Stock Exchange or the Clearing Corporation, as the case may be, shall 
conduct inspection of their members in various segments in terms of the 
above policy and in case of members who hold multiple memberships of 
the exchanges, the Stock Exchanges shall establish an information sharing 
mechanism with one another on the important outcome of inspection in 
order to improve the effectiveness of supervision. 

 

 

 

21.1.3.  The inspection shall cover: 
 

a.  Compliance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Act,  Rules  and 
Regulations  made  there  under,  Rules  and  Regulation  of  the  Stock 
Exchange  /  Clearing  Corporation  and  the  circulars  issued  by  SEBI 
and Stock Exchanges / Clearing Corporations from time to time, and 

b.  Efficacy of the investor grievance redressal mechanism and discharge 
of  various  obligations  towards  clients,  for  the  preceding  one  year 
unless a longer period is warranted in the circumstances. 

21.1.4.  An illustrative list of common violations/deficiencies observed by SEBI in 
its inspections of members is enclosed as Annexure. The Stock Exchanges 
and  Clearing  Corporations  are  advised  to  bring  this  list  to  the  notice  of 
members with an advice to them to avoid these violations/deficiencies. 

21.1.5.  The Stock Exchange or the Clearing Corporation, as the case may be, shall 
initiate  all  the  follow  up  action  –  remedial,  penal  and  disciplinary  - 
required on inspection findings, within 6 months from the conclusion of 
the inspection. 

 
 

                                                           
21  Reference:  Circular  SEBI/MIRSD/MASTER  CIR-04/2010  dated  March  17,  2010  and  Circular 
CIR/MIRSD/13/2012 dated December 07, 2012.  
 

 

35 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

21.2.  Internal Audit 

 
21.2.1.  The member shall carry out complete internal audit on a half yearly basis 
by  an  independent  qualified  Chartered  Accountant,  Company  Secretary 
or  Cost  and  Management  Accountant  who  is  in  practice  and  does  not 
have any conflict of interest. 

21.2.2.  The audit shall cover, inter alia, 
 

a.  the existence, scope and efficiency of the internal control system, 
b.  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992,  Securities 
Contracts  (Regulation)  Act  1956,  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008,  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  Regulations,  1992, 
circulars issued by SEBI from time to time, Bye Laws and Regulations 
and circulars issued by the Stock Exchange / Clearing Corporation, 

c.  data security and insurance in respect of operations, and 
d.  efficacy of the investor grievance redressal mechanism and discharge 

of various obligations towards clients. 

 

 

 

21.2.3.  The  internal  auditor  shall  submit  the  audit  report  to  the  member,  who 
shall place it before its Board of Directors/Proprietor/Partners and shall 
forward the same along with para-wise comments to the respective Stock 
Exchange/ Clearing Corporation within two months22 from the end of the 
half year period. 

21.2.4.  The Stock Exchange/Clearing Corporation shall analyze the audit reports 

so received and take appropriate follow up action. 

21.2.5.  The  Stock  Exchange/Clearing  Corporation  shall  initiate  appropriate 
actions  –  remedial,  penal  or  disciplinary  -  against  the  members  where 
deficiencies  are  noticed  in  audit  reports  or  where  audit  report  has  not 
been  received,  and inform  the  details  of action taken  to  SEBI,  within  six 
months from the end of the half year period. 

 
21.3.  Default in case of Multiple Membership 
 

21.3.1.  Whenever a member of any segment is declared defaulter, the concerned 
Stock  Exchange/Clearing  Corporation  shall  immediately  declare  it  a 
defaulter  in  all  its  segments.  It  shall  also  immediately  inform  all  other 
Stock  Exchanges/Clearing  Corporations  the  details  of  the  defaulter 
member  such  as  name  of 
the 
proprietors/partners/promoters/dominant shareholders, as applicable.  

the  names  of 

the  member, 

 

                                                           
22  Words  “three  months”  replaced  with  “two  months”  in  view  of  Para  4.5.1  of  Annexure  of  SEBI 
circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/95 dated September 26, 2016. 

 

36 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

21.3.2.  Immediately on receipt of the information about default of a member, the 
Stock  Exchange  /  Clearing  Corporation  shall  declare  the  said  member 
defaulter on all its segments. 

21.3.3.  The  Stock  Exchanges  /  Clearing  Corporations  shall  take  appropriate 
action  against  the  associates  of  defaulter  member.  For  this  purpose,  the 
term ‘associate’ shall include a person: 

 

a.  who,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  itself,  or  in  combination  with  other 
persons, exercises control over the member, whether individual, body 
corporate or firm or holds substantial share of not less than 15% in the 
capital of such entities; or 

b.  in respect of whom the member, individual or body corporate or firm, 
directly  or indirectly,  by  itself  or  in combination  with  other  persons, 
exercises control; or 

c.  whose director or partner is also a director or partner of the member, 

body corporate or the firm, as the case may be. 

Explanation:  The  expression  “control"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as 
defined  under  clause  (e)  of  Regulation  2  of  the  SEBI  (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011.23 

ANNEXURE24 

 

The  common  irregularities  observed  in  the  Stock  Brokers/trading  members 
books are bought to the notice of all. They are as follows: 

S. No. 
I 

 

Description 

Relating to KYC 
 
1. 

‘In  person  verification’  not  done  while  opening  the  account.  Photo 
copy of KYC &Rights and Obligations document are not provided to 
clients; if provided proof of delivery/dispatch is not maintained. 

 
2.  Adding  clauses  in  Rights  and  Obligations  document  which  are 
contrary  to  the  clauses  as  prescribed  by  SEBI.  Voluntary  clauses  are 
not  highlighted  as  ‘voluntary’  and  signatures  of  clients  taken  on  all 
the documents. 

                                                           
23  Words  “clause  (c)  of  Regulation  2  of  the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 
Regulations,  1997”  replaced  with  “clause  (e)  of  Regulation  2  of  the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of 
Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011”  in  view  of  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997  being  repealed  and  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 being in force as on date. 
24  Para  VI(37)  of  Annexure  of  Circular  SEBI/MIRSD/MASTER  CIR-04/2010  dated  March  17, 
2010, deleted in view of Notification LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/03/12650 dated April 19, 2011. 

 

37 

 

 

 

II 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Relating to Contract notes 
 
3.  Contract  notes  are  not  bearing  serial  numbers,  SEBI  registration 
numbers,  Order  no.  &  time.  Contract  notes  are  not  issued  in  the 
prescribed format/not issued within 24 hours of trade execution/not 
signed properly by the broker or his authorized representatives. 

 
4.  Duplicates/counterfoils/acknowledged  copies  of  the  contract  notes 

issued not being maintained or maintained with inadequate details. 

 
5.  Not  issuing  contracts  in  the  prescribed  format  while  acting  as 

principal. 

 
6.  Appropriate stamp duty not paid and charging Securities Transaction 

Tax (STT) on non equity funds transactions by the brokers. 

 
7.  Brokerage is not shown separately on contract notes. The correct rate 

at which the transaction was executed is not passed on to the client. 

 
8.  Charges  other  than  brokerage  and  statutory  charges  levied  on  the 
clients  which  are  not  specifically  agreed  upon  by  the  clients  or 
charging more than the limits prescribed. 

 
9.  In case the Electronic Contract Notes (ECN) are issued, the same are 
not  made  available  on  brokers’  websites/  sending  ECN  on  single 
email-id  for  a  group  of  clients/not  maintaining  ECN  logs  for  ECN 
sent to the clients. 

III 

 
Relating to Investor services 
 
10.  Deficiency in service to the clients. 

 

11.  Non  maintenance  of  investor  grievance  register  and  lack  of  proper 
system  for  receipt  and  reconciliation  of  investor  grievances/not 
taking adequate steps for redressal of grievances of investors within 
one month from the date of receipt of the complaint. 

 
12.  Non  maintenance  of  client  database  or  details  captured  wrongly  in 

the database. 

 
13.  There are delays between pay-out by the exchange to their members 
and  the  transmission  of  shares/money  received  in  such  pay-out  to 
their clients by brokers without any record of reasons for such delay. 

 
14.  Non  dissemination  of  email  ID  created  for  receiving  investor 

38 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

grievances to the investors. 

 
15.  Freezing of accounts of clients without giving adequate reason. 
 
16.  Providing multiple client codes to one client/using same PAN no. for 

more than one client. 

 
17.  Frequent  trade  modification/client  code  modification  done  in  client 

account 

 
18.  Daily margin statement and quarterly statements not sent to clients 
 
19.  Relationship managers acting as portfolio managers by entering into 

verbal agreement with clients for trading on their behalf. 

IV 

V 

 
Relating to funds and securities 
 
20.  Unauthorized trading activities carried out in client’s account. 
 
21.  Not  having  separate  account  for  clients'  funds/securities  or  having 
clients' 

clients  but  not 

separate  accounts 
funds/securities from its own funds/securities. 

segregating 

for 

 
22.  The  brokers  are  found  involved  in  funding  activities  -  with  the 
to  or 

in  connection  with  or 

incidental 

exception  of 
consequential upon the securities business. 

those 

 
23.  Non collection of margin from clients/wrong reporting of collection 

of margins to exchanges/clearing members. 

 
24.  Accepting  cash  from  the  clients.  Accepting/giving  third  party 

payments/receipts. 

 
25.  The details of shares pledged not being informed to client25. 
 
Relating to terminals 
 
26.  Not  putting  the  unique  client  code  (UCC)  of  clients  while  placing 

orders in the trading system. 

 
27.  The  broker  granting  the  trading  terminals  at  places  other  than  that 

                                                           
25  Words  “Pledging  client’s  securities  without  explicit  authorization  from  client”  in  Para  IV(25)  of 
Annexure  of  Circular  SEBI/MIRSD/MASTER  CIR-04/2010  dated  March  17,  2010,  deleted  in 
view  of  Para  2(c)  of  SEBI  circular  CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/64  dated  June  22, 
2017. 

 

39 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

specified  by  SEBI  e.g.  registered  office,  branch  office  or  registered 
sub-brokers’ offices. 

 
28.  Terminals  operated  by  personnel  without  having  proper 
not 

qualification/ 
employees/remisiers/sub-brokers of stock brokers. 

terminal 

are 

persons 

operating 

the 

VI 

 
Others 
 
29.  Non-maintenance  or  improper  maintenance  of  Books  of  Accounts 
which are required to be maintained as per Rule 15 of SC (R) Rules, 
1957  and  Regulation  17  of  SEBI  (Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers) 
Regulations 1992. 

 
30.  Non-compliance with provisions relating to spot/negotiated deals. 
 
31.  Instances  of  the  broker/dealers/others  connected  with  the  broker, 
involved  in  front  running,  circular  trading,  creating  false  markets, 
misuse  of 
financing 
transactions, entering fictitious transactions and illegal transactions. 

the  exchange  mechanism 

for  securing 

 
32.  Non  submission  of  audit  report/internal  audit  reports  within  the 

prescribed time limit. 

 
33.  Dealing  with  unregistered  sub-brokers/acting  through  brokers  of 
other exchanges for its clients without registering as a sub-broker of 
these brokers. 

 
34.  Involved in business other than the securities business in violation of 

applicable laws. 

 
35.  Non  payment/  inadequate  payment  of  SEBI  registration  fees  by  the 

stock brokers and also by their sub-brokers. 

 
36.  Not complying with the provisions of advertisements/internet based 

trading 

 
37.  Non appointment of compliance officer. 
 
38.  Non-  compliance  with  trading  restrictions 

Exchanges 

imposed  by  Stock 

 
39.  Trading  in  unlisted  securities  and  in  securities  prior  to  their 

admission to dealings by Exchanges 

 

40 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

40.  Not  reporting  off-the-floor  transactions  (e.g.)  (a)  The  transactions 
with  stock  brokers  of  other  exchanges  (b)  Principal  to  principal 
transactions with clients (c) Transactions done after the trading hours. 

 
41.  Not  informing  the  investors/general  public  about  cancellation  of 

registration of its sub-broker(s) 

 
42.  Non-formation 

of 

controls, 
employee/insider  trading,  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  (PML) 
etc. If policies are formulated, they are not implemented. 

internal 

policies 

related 

to 

 
43.  Delivery  vs  payment  (DvP)  trades  are  done  in  other  than  those 

circumstances as prescribed. 

22.  Policy  of  Annual  Inspection  of  Members  by  Stock  Exchanges/Clearing 

Corporations26 

 

 

22.1.  Policy  for  annual  inspection  of  members,  as  decided  in  consultations  with 

Stock Exchanges/Clearing Corporations, is prescribed in Annexure below. 

ANNEXURE 

 
1.  The criteria for selection of members for annual inspection are as follows:  

 
1.1.  Stock  Brokers  servicing  investors,  getting  disabled  on  account  of  funds 
shortages on more than 3 times in a month shall be inspected irrespective of the 
fact of when they were last inspected.  

 

1.2.  Stock Brokers servicing investors, having overnight disablement on account of 
margin shortage for more than 2 days shall be inspected irrespective of the fact 
of when they were last inspected.  

 

1.3.  Top 25 stock brokers paying high and recurring penalties for non-reporting or 
short reporting of margin/Client Code modification/CTCL mismatch fines or 
any other similar high risk compliance issue shall be inspected irrespective of 
when they were last inspected.  

 

1.4.  Top 25 stock brokers in terms of investor complaints and arbitration cases filed 
by  investors  shall  be inspected  irrespective  of  the  fact  of  when  they were  last 
inspected.  

 

1.5.  Stock Brokers having adverse observations in the internal audit report on high 
risk  issues  like  wrong  reporting  of  margins,  transfer  of  trades,  pledging  of 

                                                           
26 Reference: Circular CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/73 dated June 30, 2017. 

 

41 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

client  securities,  dealing  with  unregistered  intermediaries  etc.,  shall  be 
inspected irrespective of the fact of when they were last inspected.  

1.6.  Subsidiaries of Regional Stock Exchanges shall be inspected every year.  

 

1.7.  Stock  Exchange  shall  frame  internal  policy  for  selection  of  stock  brokers  for 

inspection based on inputs/alerts from Risk Based Supervision.  

 

1.8.  Besides the above, the special purpose/limited inspections shall be carried out 
based  on  any  triggers  like  patterns  found  during  investor  complaint 
resolution/Arbitration,  complaints  on  specific  malpractices  of  a  broker  or 
references from various authorities. The inspection shall be irrespective of the 
fact of when the last inspection was carried out.  

 

1.9.  Apart  from  the  above  few  stock  brokers  shall  be  selected  by  the  Stock 

Exchanges on a random basis for inspection.  
 

1.10.  Stock  Brokers  who  do  not  fall  under  any  of  the  above  category  shall  be 

inspected by the Stock Exchanges at least once in three years.  
 

1.11.  Stock Brokers selected on the above category shall be inspected for all segments 
and  also  for  clearing  activity  if  the  stock  broker  is  undertaking  clearing  for 
other stock brokers.  

 

1.12.  Inspections  of Professional  Clearing  Members  shall  be conducted  by  Clearing 

Corporations once in two years.  

 

2.  Clearing  activity  undertaken  by  stock  brokers  for  other  stock  brokers  shall  be 
inspected  by  Clearing  Corporations.  Other  activities  of  stock  brokers  shall  be 
inspected  by  Stock  Exchanges.  If  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing  Corporations  so 
desire,  they  can  conduct  joint  inspections  of  stock  brokers.  Where  Clearing 
Corporation has not been set up, Stock Exchange shall inspect all activities of stock 
brokers including activity of clearing for other stock brokers.  
 

3.  The Stock Exchanges/Clearing Corporations are advised to continuously assess the 
risks posed by their members and review/revise the policy of annual inspection, as 
and when required, in consultation with SEBI.  
 

4.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  establish  an  information  sharing  mechanism  with  one 
another  on  the  important  outcome  of  inspection  of  members  who  hold  multiple 
memberships of the exchanges in order to improve the effectiveness of supervision 
and  shall  also  bring  cases  of  repetitive  and  /  or  serious  violations  to  the  notice  of 
SEBI.  

 
 

 

42 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
23.  Enhanced Supervision of Stock Brokers / Depository Participants27 
 

23.1.  SEBI  constituted  a  committee  on  “Enhanced  Supervision  of  Stock  Brokers”, 
which  included  representatives  from  Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories  and 
Brokers.  With  a  view  to  implement  the  recommendations,  the  guidelines  in 
Annexure below have been issued. These guidelines cover the following broad 
areas: 

 
23.1.1.  Uniform  nomenclature 

to  be 

for 
Naming/Tagging of Bank and Demat Accounts and the reporting of such 
accounts to the Stock Exchanges/Depositories.  

stock  brokers 

followed  by 

 

23.1.2.  Monitoring  of  Clients’  Funds  lying  with  the  stock  broker  by  the  Stock 
reconciliation 

sophisticated  alerting  and 

Exchanges, 
mechanism, to detect any misutilisation of clients’ fund.  

through  a 

 

23.1.3.  Changes 

in 

the  existing  system  of 

for  stock 
brokers/depository  participants  viz.  appointment,  rotation  of  Internal 
Auditors, formulation  of  objective sample criteria,  monitoring  of quality 
of  Internal  Audit  Reports,  timeline  for  submissions  of  Internal  Audit 
Reports, etc. 

internal  audit 

 

23.1.4.  Monitoring of Financial Strength of Stock Brokers by Stock Exchanges so 
as  to  detect  any  signs  of  deteriorating  financial  health  of  stock  brokers 
and  serve  as  an  early  warning  system  to  take  preemptive  and  remedial 
measures.  

 

23.1.5.  Imposition  of  uniform  penal  action  on  stock  brokers/depository 
participants  by  the  Stock  Exchanges/Depositories  in  the  event  of  non-
compliance with specified requirements. 

 

23.1.6.  Other Requirements:  
 

a)  Uploading  client's  funds  and  securities  balances  by  Stock  Brokers  to 
Stock Exchange System and onwards transmission of the same to the 
clients for better transparency.  

b)  Clarification on Running Account Settlement  
c)  Providing PAN details of Directors, Key Management Personnel and 

Dealers, to Stock Exchanges and any change thereof. 

 

23.2.  The  provisions  of  enhanced  supervision  circular  is  not  applicable  to  Regional 

                                                           
27 Reference: Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/95 dated September 26, 2016, 
Circular CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/64 dated June 22, 2017,  
Circular CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/PB/2017/107 dated September 25, 2017 and  
Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/123 dated November 29, 2017. 

 

43 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Commodity Exchanges till further notice. 

 

ANNEXURE 

 
1.  Naming/Tagging of Bank and Demat Accounts by Stock Broker 

 
1.1.  Bank  accounts  and  Demat  accounts  maintained  by  all  stock  brokers  shall  have 
appropriate  nomenclature  to  reflect  the  purpose  for  which  those  bank/demat 
accounts are being maintained.  

 

 

 

1.2.  The nomenclature for bank accounts and demat accounts to be followed is given 

as under:  

 
1.2.1.  Bank  account(s)  which  hold  clients  funds  shall  be  named  as  "Name  of 

Stock Broker - Client Account".  

1.2.2.  Demat account(s) which hold clients' securities shall be named as "Name 

of Stock Broker- Client Account".  
 

1.2.3.  Demat account(s), maintained by the stock broker for depositing securities 
collateral  with  the  Clearing  Corporation,  shall  be  named  as  "Name  of 
Stock Broker-Collateral Account". 
 

1.2.4.  Demat  account(s) held  for  the  purpose  of  settlement would  be named as 

“Name of Stock Broker - Pool account".  
 

1.2.5.  Bank  account(s)  held  for  the  purpose  of  settlement  would  be  named  as 

“Name of Stock Broker - Settlement Account". 

1.3.  Naming proprietary bank/demat  accounts of the stock broker as 'Stock Broker- 
Proprietary  Account'  is  voluntary.  It  is  however  clarified  that  bank/demat 
account  which  do  not  fall  under  the  above  clauses  from  1.2.1  to  1.2.5  would  be 
deemed to be proprietary. 

 
2.  Reporting of Bank and Demat accounts maintained by Stock Broker: 
 

2.1.  The  stock  brokers  shall  inform  the  Stock  Exchanges  of  existing  and  new  bank 

account(s) in the following format: 

 

Name and 
address  of 
Bank 

Name  of 
the 
Branch 

Account 
Number 

IFSC 
Code 

Name of 
Account 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

44 

of 

Purpose 
Account 
(Own/Client/ 
Settlement) 
 

Date  of 
Opening 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

2.1.1.  Stock  Broker  which  is  also  Bank,  may  be  required  to  report  to  the  Stock 
Exchanges only those bank accounts that are used for their stock broking 
activities. 

2.2.  The  stock  brokers  shall  inform  the  Stock  Exchanges  of  existing  and  new  demat 

account(s) in the following format: 

Name  of 
DP 

Account 
Number/ 
Client ID 

DP 
ID 

Name 
Account 
Holder 

of 

PAN 

 

 

 

 

 

Sub-type/  tag  of 
Demat  Account 
(Proprietary/ 
Client/ 
Collateral) 
 

Pool/ 

Date  of 
Opening 

 

2.3.  Stock  Exchanges  and/or  Depositories,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  ensure  the 

following:  

2.3.1.  All  new  bank  and  demat  accounts  opened  by  the  stock  brokers  shall  be 
named  as  per  the  above  given  nomenclature  and  the  details  shall  be 
communicated to the Stock Exchanges within one week of the opening of 
the account.  
 
In  case  of  closure  of  any  of  the  reported  bank  and  demat  accounts,  the 
same  shall  be communicated  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  within  one week  of 
its closure.  
 

2.3.2. 

2.3.3.  Depositories  shall  ensure  that  once  the  nomenclature  for  a  particular 
demat account has been assigned by the stock broker, then the same shall 
not be modified.  
 

2.3.4.  Any  non-compliance/non-reporting  in  this  regard  by  the  stock  broker 

shall attract penal action as per the provisions of Stock Exchanges. 
 

2.3.5.  Based  on  the  list  of  stock  brokers  (including  PANs)  provided  by  the 
respective Stock Exchanges, Depositories shall also provide stock broker-
wise  details  of  all  the  demat  accounts  opened  by  a  stock  broker  to  the 
concerned  Stock  Exchanges  to  facilitate  reconciliation  with  the  data 
submitted by the stock broker. 

 

2.4.  In line with the prevalent regulatory requirement, it is reiterated that; 

2.4.1.  Stock  Broker  shall  not  use  client  funds  and  securities  for  proprietary 

purposes including settlement of proprietary obligations.  

2.4.2.  Transfer  of  funds  between  "Name  of  Stock  Broker  -  Client  Account"  and 

45 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

"Name  of  Stock  Broker  -  Settlement  Account"  and  client's  own  bank 
accounts  is  permitted.  Transfer  of  funds  from  "Name  of  Stock  Broker  - 
Client  Account"  to  "Name  of  Stock  Broker  -  Proprietary  Account"  is 
permitted  only  for  legitimate  purposes,  such  as,  recovery  of  brokerage, 
statutory dues, funds shortfall of debit balance clients which has been met 
by  the  stock  broker,  etc.  For  such  transfer  of  funds,  stock  broker  shall 
maintain  daily  reconciliation  statement  clearly  indicating  the  amount  of 
funds transferred.  

2.4.3.  Transfer  of  securities  between  "Name  of  the  Stock  Broker  -  Client 
Account” and individual client's BO account, “Name of the Stock Broker – 
Pool  Account"  and  “Name  of  the  Stock  Broker  –  Collateral  Account"  is 
permitted.  Transfer  of  securities  between  ”Name  of  the  Stock  Broker  - 
Client  Account”  to  ”Name  of  the  Stock  Broker  -  Proprietary  Account”  is 
permitted  only  for  legitimate  purposes  such  as,  implementation  of  any 
Government/Regulatory  directions  or  orders,  in  case  of  erroneous 
transfers pertaining to client's securities, for meeting legitimate dues of the 
stock  broker,  etc.  For  such  transfer  of  securities,  stock  broker  shall 
maintain a stock transfer register clearly indicating the day-wise details of 
securities transferred. 

2.4.4.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  monitor  compliance  with 

the  above 
requirements,  during  inspections  and  the  same  shall  be  reviewed  by  the 
internal auditor of the broker during the half yearly internal audits. 

 

2.5.  As  per  existing  norms,  a  stock  broker  is  entitled  to  have  a  lien  on  client's 
securities  to  the  extent  of  the  client's  indebtedness  to  the  stock  broker  and  the 
stock broker may pledge those securities. Pledge of such securities is permitted, 
only  if,  the  same  is  done  through  Depository  system  in  compliance  with 
Regulation  58  of  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations,  1996.  To 
strengthen the existing mechanism, the stock brokers shall ensure the following: 

2.5.1.  Securities of only those clients can be pledged who have a debit balance in 

their ledger.  

2.5.2.  Funds raised against such pledged securities for a client shall not exceed 

the debit balance in the ledger of that particular client.  

2.5.3.  Funds raised against such pledged securities shall be credited only to the 

bank account named as "Name of the Stock Broker - Client Account".  

2.5.4.  The securities to be pledged shall be pledged from BO account tagged as 

"Name of the Stock Broker - Client Account". 

2.5.5.  Stock Brokers shall send a statement reflecting the pledge and funding to 

46 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

the  clients  as  and  when  their  securities  are  pledged/unpledged  as  given 
below: 

D 

E 

F 

G 

H 

Collateral of client available with 
Broker 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A 

Da
te 

 
B 

Cli
ent 
Co
de 

 

 

C 

Led
ger 
debi
t at 
the 
end 
of 
trad
e 
day
** 
 

Total 
Quan
tity 

ISIN 
/ 
Secu
rity 
Nam
e 

Previ
ous 
day’s 
closi
ng 
price 

Total 
Valu
e 
(Tota
l 
Quan
tity * 
Previ
ous 
day 
closi
ng 
price
) 
 

Borro
wing 

Pled
ged 
Quan
tity 

Pled
ged 
valu
e 

Deta
ils of 
Pled
gee 

Total 
Value 
(Adju
sted 
for 
applic
able 
haircu
t) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
**Ledger  debit  would  be  after  adjusting  for  open  bills  of  clients,  uncleared  cheques  deposited  by 
clients and uncleared cheques issued to clients 
 

2.6.  Stock Brokers shall not grant further exposure to the clients when debit balances 
arise  out  of  client's  failure  to  pay  the  required  amount  and such  debit  balances 
continues beyond the fifth trading day, as reckoned from date of pay-in, except, 
in  accordance  with  the  margin  trading  facility  provided  vide  SEBI  circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/54/2017  dated  June  13,  2017  or  as  may  be  issued  from  time  to 

 

47 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

time. 
 

3.  Monitoring of Clients’ Funds lying with the Stock Broker by the Stock Exchanges 
 

3.1.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  put  in  place  a  mechanism  for  monitoring  clients’  funds 
lying with the stock broker to generate alerts on any misuse of clients’ funds by 
stock brokers, as per the guidelines stipulated in para 3.2 & 3.3 below.  

 

 

3.2.  The uploading of the following data by the stock broker to the Stock Exchanges 
shall be on weekly basis i.e. stock brokers shall submit the data as on last trading 
day  of  every  week  on  or  before  the  next  three  trading  days.  Further,  the  Stock 
Broker  shall  not  be  required  to  upload  data  with  respect  to  custodian  settled 
clients. 

A-  Aggregate  of  fund  balances  available  in  all  Client  Bank  Accounts,  including 
the  Settlement  Account,  maintained  by  the  stock  broker  across  Stock 
Exchanges. 
 

B-  Aggregate  value  of  collateral  deposited  with  Clearing  Corporation  and/or 
clearing  member  (in  cases  where  the  trades  are  settled  through  clearing 
member)  in  form  of  Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents  (Fixed  deposit  (FD),  Bank 
guarantee (BG), etc.) (across Stock Exchanges). Only funded portion of the BG, 
i.  e.  the  amount  deposited  by  stock  broker  with  the  bank  to  obtain  the  BG, 
shall be considered as part of B.  

 
C-  Aggregate value of Credit Balances of all clients as obtained from trial balance 
across  Stock  Exchanges  (after  adjusting  for  open  bills  of  clients,  uncleared 
cheques deposited by clients and uncleared cheques issued to clients and the 
margin obligations). 

 
D-  Aggregate value of Debit Balances of all clients as obtained from trial balance 
across  Stock  Exchanges  (after  adjusting  for  open  bills  of  clients,  uncleared 
cheques  deposited  by  clients,  uncleared  cheques  issued  to  clients  and  the 
margin obligations). 

 
E-  Aggregate value of proprietary non-cash collaterals i.e. securities which have 
been  deposited  with  the  Clearing  Corporation  and/or  clearing  member 
(across Stock Exchanges). 

 
F-  Aggregate value of Non-funded part of the BG across Stock Exchanges. 
 
P-   Aggregate value of Proprietary Margin Obligation across Stock Exchanges. 
 
MC-  Aggregate  value  of  Margin  utilized  for  positions  of  Credit  Balance  Clients 

across Stock Exchanges. 

 

48 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
MF- Aggregate value of Unutilized collateral lying with the Clearing Corporation 

and/or clearing member across Stock Exchanges. 

 

3.3.  Based  on  the  aforesaid  information  submitted  by  the  stock  broker,  Stock 
Exchanges shall put in place a mechanism for monitoring of clients’ funds lying 
with the stock brokers on the principles enumerated below: 
 
3.3.1.  Funds  of  credit  balance  clients  used  for  settlement  obligation  of  debit 

clients or for own purpose: 

 

 

 

Principle:  
 
The  total  available  funds  i.e.  cash  and  cash  equivalents  with  the  stock 
broker  and  with  the  Clearing  Corporation/clearing  member  (A  +  B) 
should  always  be  equal  to  or  greater  than  Clients’  funds  as  per  ledger 
balance (C). 
 
Stock Exchanges shall calculate the difference i.e. G as follows – 

G = (A+B) - C 
 

If  difference  G  is  negative,  then  the  total  available  fund  is  less  than  the 
ledger credit balance of clients. The value of G may indicate utilization of 
clients'  funds  for  other  purposes  i.e.  funds  of  credit  balance  clients  are 
being  utilized  either for  settlement  obligations  of  debit  balance  clients  or 
for  the  stock  brokers'  own  purposes.  The  negative  value  of  G  acts  as  an 
alert to the Stock Exchanges.  
 
Thereafter, the absolute value of G shall be compared with debit balance 
of all clients as per client ledger D as follows:  
 
If  the  absolute  value  of (G)  is  lesser  than |D|, then  the  stock broker  has 
possibly  utilised  funds  of  credit  balance  clients  towards  settlement 
obligations of debit balance clients to the extent of value of G.  
 
If the absolute value of (G) is greater than |D|, then the stock broker has 
possibly  utilised  a  part  of  funds  of  credit  balance  clients  towards 
settlement  obligations  of  debit  balance clients  and  remaining  part for  his 
own  purposes.  In  such  cases  the  amount  of  client  funds  used  for  own 
purpose is calculated as follows: 

H= |G|- |D| 
 

 

3.3.2.  Funds of clients used for Margin obligation of proprietary trading: 

 
Stock  Exchanges  shall  thereafter,  verify  whether  the  proprietary  margin 

 

49 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

obligations  (across  Stock  Exchanges)  is  less  than  the  own  funds  and 
securities lying with the Stock Exchanges as collateral deposit, as follows: 
 
Principle: 
 
The sum of Proprietary funds and securities i.e. (G + E + F) lying with the 
Clearing Corporation/clearing member should be greater than or equal to 
Proprietary margin obligations (P). 
 
If  value  of  G  is  positive  (i.e.  A+B  >  C),  then  proprietary  funds  are  lying 
with  the  Clearing  Corporation/clearing  member  and/or  client  bank 
accounts along with the clients funds to the extent of positive value of G. 
 
The  sum  of  the  proprietary  funds  (positive  value  of  G),  the  value  of 
proprietary  securities  (E)  and  the  non-funded  portion  of  bank  guarantee 
(F)  available  in  the  Stock  Exchanges  is  compared  with  the  Proprietary 
margin obligations (P). 
 
If P > (G+E+F), then Stock Exchange shall calculate the difference I, which 
is the amount of proprietary margin obligation funded from clients assets. 
 

I = P - (G+E+F) 

 

If  G  is  negative,  then,  value  of  G  is  considered  as  0,  as  there  is  no 
proprietary funds lying with the Stock Exchange. 
 
The value of I indicates the extent of funds and securities of clients which 
is possibly utilised towards proprietary margin obligations. This value of I 
acts  as  an  alert  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  on  the  possible  mis-utilisation  of 
clients' assets towards proprietary margin obligations. 
 

3.3.3.  Funds  of  credit  balance  clients  used  for  Margin  obligations  of  debit 

balance clients and proprietary trading: 

Stock  Exchanges  shall  thereafter,  verify  whether  the  clients  funds  lying 
with  the  Clearing  Corporation/clearing  member  are  utilised  towards 
margin  obligations  of  debit  balance  clients  and  proprietary  margin 
obligations. 
 
Principle: 
 
The  clients'  funds  lying  with  the  Clearing  Corporation/clearing  member 
should  be  less  than  or  equal  to  sum  of  credit  clients'  margin  obligations 
(MC)  and 
the  Clearing 
Corporation/clearing member (MF). 

free  collateral  deposits  available  with 

50 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
If value of G is negative (i.e. A+B < C), then fund lying with the Clearing 
Corporation/ clearing member (B) is entirely clients' fund. In such cases, B 
is compared with Margin obligations of credit balance clients and the free 
deposits  available  with  the  Clearing  Corporation/  clearing  member.  The 
value of J is calculated as under: 
 

J = B - (MC + MF) 

 

If value of G is positive (i.e. A+B > C), then fund lying with the Clearing 
Corporation/clearing  member  (B)  may  contain  proprietary  and  clients' 
fund.  Hence,  the  value  of  clients  funds  lying  with  the  Clearing 
Corporation/ clearing member i.e. (C-A) shall be considered in the place 
of B. 
 
In such cases, (C-A) is compared with Margin obligations of credit balance 
clients 
the  Clearing 
Corporation/clearing  member.  The  value  of  J,  which  is  clients'  funds 
utilised  towards  margin  obligations  of  debit  balance  clients  and 
proprietary margin obligations, is calculated as under: 
 

available  with 

free  deposits 

and 

the 

J = (C - A) - (MC + MF) 

 

The  value  of  J,  if  positive,  indicates  the  extent  of  clients'  funds  utilised 
towards  margin  obligations  of  debit  balance  clients  and  proprietary 
margin obligations. This value of J acts as an alert to the Stock Exchanges 
on the possible misutilisation of clients' funds towards margin obligations 
of debit balance clients and proprietary margin obligations. 
 

3.4.  Based on the alerts generated, Stock Exchange shall, inter-alia, seek clarifications, 
carry out inspections and initiate appropriate actions to protect the clients’ funds 
from  being  misused.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  also  maintain  records  of  such 
clarifications  sought  and  details  of  such  inspections.  The  aforesaid  calculations 
are  illustrated  in  tabular  format  in  Table  1,  2  &  3  given  at  the  end  of  the 
Annexure. 
 

3.5.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  carry  out  the  monitoring  of  clients’  funds  for  all  stock 
brokers, except for those who are carrying out only proprietary trading and/or 
only trading for institutional clients. 
 

3.6.  Stock Brokers shall ensure due compliance in submitting the information to the 

Exchanges within the stipulated time. 

 
 
 

51 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
4.  Internal Audit of Stock Broker 

 
4.1.  SEBI  has  mandated  half  yearly  internal  audit  for  stock  brokers/clearing 
members. The following additional requirements in relation to internal auditors 
shall become applicable: 

 
4.2.  Appointment and Rotation of Internal auditors 

 
4.2.1.  Stock Exchanges shall ensure that; 

 

4.2.1.1.  Stock Broker obtains from the internal auditor the following details 

and shares the same with the Stock Exchange: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a.  Declaration 

stating 

that 

its 
directors/partners  have  no  interest  in  or  relation  with  the  stock 
broker  concerned  other  than  the  proposed  internal  audit 
assignment, and 

auditor  or 

internal 

the 

b.  Details  of  the  internal  auditor  viz.,  Name,  Address,  PAN, 
Designation  of  Auditor,  Name  &  Address  of  the  Audit  Firm, 
registration  number  of  the  Auditor  and  the  Audit  firm,  any 
regulatory 
internal 
taken 
auditor/partner/director, if any, etc. 

against 

action 

4.2.1.2.  No stock broker shall appoint or re-appoint— 

 
a.  an individual as internal auditor for more than one term of five 

consecutive years; 

and 
b.  an audit firm as internal auditor for more than two terms of five 

consecutive years. 

Provided that— 

4.2.1.3.  An  individual  internal  auditor  who  has  completed  his  term  under 
clause  4.2.1.2  (a)  above  shall  not  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  as 
internal  auditor  for  the  same  stock  broker  for  five  years  from  the 
completion of his term. 

4.2.1.4.  An audit firm which has completed its term under clause 4.2.1.2 (b) 
above, shall not be eligible for re-appointment as internal auditor for 
the  same  stock  broker  for  five  years  from  the  completion  of  such 
term;  Provided  further  that as  on  the  date  of  appointment no  audit 
firm  having  a  common  partner  or  partners  to  the  other  audit  firm, 
whose  tenure  has  expired  in  a  stock  broker  immediately  preceding 
the financial year, shall be appointed as internal auditor for the same 

52 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

stock broker for a period of five years. 

4.2.1.5.  The block of five years shall start from FY 2016-17. 

4.3.  Formulation of objective sample criteria for Internal Audit 

 
4.3.1.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall,  in  consultation  with  each  other,  develop  for 
each  theme/area  of  the  internal  audit,  a  pre-defined  objective  sample 
criteria, which shall mention not only the sample size but also the method 
used  for  arriving  at  the  sample  size.  For  example,  with  respect  to 
verification of compliance with KYC norms, instead of the current practice 
of  selecting  a  minimum  number  of  KYCs,  the  sample  selected  may  be  a 
certain  percentage  of  the  top  clients  in  each  client  category  (Corporate, 
Partnership,  Individual,  Trust,  Others)  based  on  total  turnover  on  the 
Stock  Exchange  and  whose  account  has  been  opened  during  the  audit 
period.  For  each  theme/area  of  audit,  internal  audit  report  shall  clearly 
specify  the  sample  size  verified,  number  of  instances  where  adverse 
observations  have  been  made  as  also  the  details  of  the  adverse 
observations.  
 

4.4.  Monitoring of quality of Internal Audit Reports 

 

actions 

taken 

against 

regulatory 

4.4.1.  The Stock Exchange shall every year identify a certain number of internal 
auditors  based  on  criteria,  such  as,  number  and  size  of  stock  brokers 
audited,  discrepancy  in  findings  of  auditor  vis-à-vis  Stock  Exchange 
inspection, 
the 
auditor/partners/directors,  etc.  A  certain  number  of  stock  brokers  who 
have  been  audited  by  these  identified  internal  auditors  shall  be  selected 
for inspection by the Stock Exchanges. The selection of these stock brokers 
shall be on the basis of the Supervisory Risk Rating Score derived from the 
Risk  Based  Supervisory  System.  Further,  the  sample  and  period  of 
inspection shall be the same as that used for internal audit. 
 
In  cases  where  material  deviations  are  observed  between  the  findings  of 
the  internal  audit  report  and  the  Stock  Exchange  inspection  report,  the 
Stock  Exchanges  shall  caution  the  stock  broker  to  reconsider  the 
appointment  of  that  particular  internal  auditor.  The  same  shall  also  be 
brought  to  notice  of  all  the  stock  brokers  who  are  audited  by  that 
particular  internal  auditor.  The  Stock  Exchange  shall  also  bring  the 
deviations  to  the  notice  of  the  internal  auditor.  The  Stock  Exchange 
inspections shall be so planned that at least one client (i.e. stock broker) of 
each internal auditor is covered at least once in three years28. 

4.4.2. 

 

                                                           
28 Words “five years” replaced with “three years” in view of Para 1(j) of Annexure of SEBI Circular 
CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/73 dated June 30, 2017. 

 

53 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.5.  Submissions of Internal Audit Report 

 
4.5.1.  Stock Brokers shall ensure that the internal audit reports are submitted to 
the  Exchanges  within  two  months  of  the  end  of  respective  half  years  for 
which the audit is being conducted. The due date for submissions shall be 
as under: 

 

Due date for submission 

S. No.  Period of Audit 
1 
2 

For half year ending September 30th  November 30th 
For half year ending March 31st 

May 31st 

 

4.6.  Other requirements 
 

4.6.1.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  provide  a  mechanism  to  enable  the  internal 
auditor  to  report  directly  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  in  the  event  of  non-
cooperation by the stock broker. 

 

 

 

4.6.2.  Stock Exchanges shall ensure that, the Internal Auditors also monitor the 
corrective  steps  taken  by  the  stock  brokers  to  rectify  the  deficiencies 
observed  in  the  inspection  carried  out  by  SEBI/Stock  Exchanges  and  the 
compliance  thereof.  The  compliance  status  shall  be  made  as  part  of  the 
internal audit report. 

 

5.  Monitoring of Financial Strength of Stock Brokers 

 
5.1.  The Stock Exchanges shall monitor the following financial indicators and ratios 

of stock brokers. 
 
5.1.1.  Financial Indicators: 

 

a.  Percentage change in net worth over last year/last submission. 
b.  Percentage  change  in  reserves  and  surplus  or  in  accumulated  losses 

over last year. 

c.  Percentage  change  in  advance/margin/collaterals  from  customers 

over last year/submission. 

d.  Percentage  change  in  inter  corporate  deposits  given  over  last 

year/submission. 

 

5.1.2.  Financial Ratios: 

 
a.  (Total outside liabilities i.e. all liabilities of a broker except those owed 

to his shareholders) / (Net worth). 

b.  (Value  of  Investments  or  advances  or  loans  to  group  companies  or 

associates or firms or entities) / (Net worth). 

c.  (Value of maximum outstanding inter corporate debt during the year) 

 

54 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

/ (Net worth). 

d.  (Value of maximum outstanding inter corporate debt during the year) 

/ (Share capital). 
 

5.2.  Stock  Brokers  shall  submit  financial  statements to  Stock  Exchanges  in  the  same 
format as prescribed under Companies Act, 2013 irrespective of whether they fall 
under the purview of Companies Act, 2013 or not. The due date for submission 
of  the  aforesaid  financial  statements  to  Stock  Exchanges  shall  be  the  same  as 
prescribed under Companies Act, 2013 for submission to Registrar of Companies. 
 

5.3.  No stock broker shall appoint or re-appoint— 

 
5.3.1.  an  individual  as  statutory  auditor  for  more  than  one  term  of  five 

consecutive years; 

and 

5.3.2.  an  audit  firm  as  statutory  auditor  for  more  than  two  terms  of  five 

consecutive years: 

 
Provided that –  
 

5.4.  An individual statutory auditor who has completed his term under clause 5.3.1 
above  shall  not  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  as  statutory  auditor  in  the  same 
stock broker for five years from the completion of his term. 
 

5.5.  A  statutory  audit  firm  which  has  completed  its  term  under  clause  5.3.2  above, 
shall  not  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  as  statutory  auditor  in  the  same  stock 
broker for five years from the completion of such term. 
 

5.6.  Provided  further  that  as  on  the  date  of  appointment  no  statutory  audit  firm 
having a common partner or partners to the other audit firm, whose tenure has 
expired  in  a  stock  broker  immediately  preceding  the  financial  year,  shall  be 
appointed as statutory auditor of the same stock broker for a period of five years. 

 

6.  Standard  Operating  Procedures  for  Stock  Brokers/Depository  Participants  - 
Actions to be contemplated by Stock Exchanges/Depositories for any event based 
discrepancies 
 
6.1.  As  per  existing  norms,  Stock  Exchanges  /Depositories  are  required  to  monitor 
their  members/depository  participants.  It  has  been  decided  that  the  Stock 
Exchanges and Depositories shall frame various event based monitoring criteria 
based  on  market  dynamics  and  market  intelligence.  An  illustrative  list  of  such 
monitoring criterias are given below: 
 
6.1.1.  Monitoring criteria for Stock Brokers 
 

 

55 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

a.  Failure  to  furnish  Networth  certificate  to  Stock  Exchange  within  60 
days for half year ending September 30th and half year ending March 
31st.  

b.  Failure  to  furnish  Internal  Audit  report  to  Stock  Exchanges  for  half 
year  ending  September 30th by  November  30th and half  year  ending 
March 31st by May 31st.  

c.  Failure to furnish Annual Audited Accounts by September 30th of the 

relevant year.  

d.  Failure  to  co-operate  with  the  Stock  Exchange  for  conducting 
inspection  by  not  submitting  all  the  information/records  sought 
within 45 days from the due date specified in the letter of intimation.  

e.  Failure  to  submit  data  for  the  half  yearly  Risk  Based  Supervision 

within the time specified by Stock Exchange.  

f.  Failure  to  assign  appropriate  Bank  and  Demat  nomenclature  within 

the time specified and to report the same to the Stock Exchanges.  

g.  Failure  to  report  new  bank  and  demat  accounts  opened  by  the  stock 
broker  to  exchanges  within  the  time  specified  for  reporting  of  such 
accounts.  

h.  Complaints pending for more than 30 days and total value of which is 

i. 

j. 

more than 50 per cent of the Networth of the Broker.  
If,  at  any  point  of  time, Net  worth  of  the  Broker  is  negative  or  lower 
than 75 per cent of the requirement.  
In case stock broker shares incomplete/wrong data or fails to submit 
data on time.  

k.  Failure to submit financial statements as per timeline prescribed under 

Companies Act, 2013. 
 

6.1.2.  Monitoring criteria for Depository Participants 

 

a.  Failure  to  furnish  Networth  certificate  to  Depository  for  year  ending 

March 31st by September 30th.  

b.  Failure  to  furnish  Internal  Audit  report  to  Depository  for  half  year 
ending September 30th by November 15th and half year ending March 
31st by May 15th.  

c.  Failure to co-operate with the Depository for conducting inspection by 
not submitting all the information/records sought within 45 days from 
the due date specified in the letter of intimation.  

d.  Failure  to  submit  data  for  the  half  yearly  Risk  Based  Supervision 

within the time specified by Depositories.  

e.  Failure  to  furnish  half  yearly  compliance  certificate/report  to 
Depository  for  half  year  ending  June  30th  by  July  30th  and  half  year 
ending December 31st by January 31st.  

f.  Failure  to  furnish  monthly  Investor  grievance  report  by  10th  day  of 

next month.  

g.  In  case  depository  participant  shares  incomplete/wrong  data  or  fails 

56 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

to submit data on time.  

h.  Failure to submit financial statements as per timeline prescribed by the 

Depositories. 
 

6.1.3.  The  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories  shall  jointly  frame  uniform  penal 
action  on  stock  brokers  and  depository  participants  respectively,  in  the 
event  of  noncompliance  with  the  illustrative  criteria  listed  above. 
Provided  further  that  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories  may  also  frame 
more stringent criteria than as mentioned above. 
 

7.  Uploading  clients'  fund  balance  and  securities  balance  by  the  Stock  Brokers  on 

Stock Exchange system 
 
7.1.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  put  in  place  a  mechanism  and  ensure  that  stock 
brokers upload the following data on a monthly basis for every client onto each 
Stock Exchange system where the broker is a member: 

 

 

 

7.1.1.  Exchange-wise  end  of  day  fund  balance  as  per  the  client  ledger, 
consolidated across all segments and also net funds payable or receivable 
by the broker to/from the client across all Exchanges. 

7.1.2.  End  of  day  securities  balances  ISIN  wise  (as  on  last  trading  day  of  the 
month)  and  End  of  day securities  balances  (as  on  last  trading  day  of  the 
month)  consolidated  ISIN  wise  (i.e.,  total  number  of  ISINs  and  total 
number of securities across all ISINs). 

7.1.3. 

ISIN wise number of securities pledged, if any, and the funds raised from 
the  pledging  of  such  securities  and  consolidated  number  of  securities 
pledged (i.e., total number of ISINs and total number of securities across 
all ISINs), if any and the funds raised from the pledging of such securities.  

 
7.1.4.  The data at Para 7.1.1, 7.1.2 and 7.1.3 pertains to the last trading day of the 
month.  The  stock  broker  shall  submit  the  aforesaid  data  within  seven 
calendar days of the last trading day of the month.  

 
7.1.5.  Stock  Broker  shall  not  be  required  to  upload  the  data  for  the  following 

clients onto the Stock Exchange system: 
a.  Custodian settled clients 
b.  Client with zero funds and securities zero balances and also not traded 

in the last 12 months. 

 

7.2.  Each Stock Exchange shall in turn forward –  

 
7.2.1. 

Information at Para 7.1.1, 7.1.2 and 7.1.3 to clients via Email on the email 
IDs uploaded by the stock broker to the exchange for their clients.  

 

57 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Information  at  Para  7.1.1,  7.1.2  (only  consolidated  data)  and  7.1.3  (only 
consolidated data) to clients via SMS on mobile numbers uploaded by the 
stock broker to the Exchange for their clients. 

7.2.2. 

 

8.  Running Account Settlement 

 
8.1.  The stock broker shall ensure that; 

 
8.1.1.  There must be a gap of maximum 90/30 days (as per the choice of client 

viz. Quarterly/Monthly) between two running account settlements. 

 
8.1.2.  For the purpose of settlement of funds, the mode of transfer of funds shall 
be  by  way  of  electronic  funds  transfer  viz.,  through  National  Electronic 
Funds Transfer (NEFT), Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS), etc. 

 
8.1.3.  The  required  bank  details  for  initiating  electronic  fund  transfers  shall  be 
obtained from new clients and shall be updated for existing clients. Only 
in  cases  where  electronic  payment  instructions  have  failed  or  have  been 
rejected by the bank, then the stock broker may issue a physical payment 
instrument. 

 
8.1.4.  Statement of accounts containing an extract from client ledger for funds & 
retention  of 
securities  along  with  a  statement  explaining 
funds/securities  shall  be  sent  within  five  days  from  the  date  when  the 
account is considered to be settled. 

the 

 

9.  Providing PAN Number 

 

9.1.  The  stock  brokers  shall  provide  Permanent  Account  Numbers  of  all  their 
Directors, Key Management Personnel and dealers to the Stock Exchanges. Any 
change  in  the  aforesaid  details/information  shall  be  intimated  to  the  Stock 
Exchanges within seven days of such change. 
 
Table 1  
 

RECONCILIATION - Funds of credit balance clients used for settlement obligation of 
debit balance clients or for own purpose: 
 

Difference  Calculate only if G is negative 

accounts 

Funds  Available  in  client 
bank 
and 
equivalent 
cash/cash 
deposits  with  Clearing 
Corporation/ 
clearing 
member - across all Stock 

Clients' 
Funds  as 
per 
the 
client 
ledger 
across  all 

 

58 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Exchanges 

Total  of 
end 
of 
the  day 
balance 
in 
Client 
Bank 
Accounts 

all 

Stock 
Exchanges 
Total 
Credit 
Balance  of 
all  clients 
(after 
adjusting 
for  open 
bills  and 
uncleared 
cheques) 

Collateral 
deposited 
with 
Clearing 
Corporation/ 
clearing 
in 
member 
form  of  Cash 
and 
Cash 
Equivalents* 

Amount 
of  funds 
of 
one 
client 
used  for 
another 
client 

Total 
debit 
balance 
(after 
adjusting 
for  open 
bills  and 
uncleared 
cheques) 

A 

B 

C 

G=(A+B)-

D 

C 

G, if 
|G|< 
|D| 

Amount 
of 
fund 
used  for 
own 
purpose 
(only 
if 
absolute 
value  G 
is 
greater 
than 
debit 
balance 
clients) 
H = |G| 

- |D| 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
* Cash equivalents contains other components of collateral deposited by the stock broker, 
such  as,  FD,  bank  Guarantee  etc.  excluding  the Non-  cash  component.  If  G  is  negative, 
then  there  is  utilization  of  clients'  funds  for  other  purposes  i.e.  either  funds  of  credit 
balance clients are being utilized for settlement obligations of debit balance clients or for 
the stock brokers' own purposes. The difference has following two components:  
 
Component I: Use of fund of one client for giving exposure to another client  
Component II: Use of client fund for own purposes by stock broker 
 
Amount of funds of one client used for settlement obligation another client = Total Debit 
balances of all Clients (after adjusting for open bills and uncleared cheques) 

 

Misuse of client’s fund for own purpose = Absolute value of G - Total Debit balances of 
all clients (after adjusting for open bills and uncleared cheques) 
 
Table 2 
 
RECONCILIATION - Funds of clients used for Margin obligation of proprietary trading: 
 

G(if  positive)  - 
own money 

Value  of  Own 
Securities 
Deposited 
as 
Collateral  with 
Clearing 

funded 
Non 
the 
portion  of 
Bank  Guarantee 
(F)  -  across  all 
Stock Exchanges 

Proprietary 
margin 
Obligation 
across  all  Stock 
Exchanges 

Difference 

 

59 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Corporation/ 
Clearing  member 
-  across  all  Stock 
Exchanges 
E 

F 

P 

I  =  P 
(G+E+F) 

- 

 

 

 

 

the 

I 

(from 

G 
reconciliation 
stage 
- 
positive value) 
 

 
Proprietary  Obligation  mentioned  in  column  P  shall  be  the  sum  of  cash  margin 
obligations  and  derivative  margin  obligations  for  proprietary  trading  as  on  reporting 
day. 
 
Table 3  
 
RECONCILIATION  -  Funds  of  credit  balance  clients  used  for  Margin  obligations  of 
debit balance clients and proprietary trading: 
 

Total 
Credit 
Balance  of 
all  clients 
(after 
adjusting 
for  open 
bills  and 
uncleared 
cheques)- 
across  all 
Stock 
Exchanges 

C 

Difference 

Margin 
utilized for 
positions 
of  Credit 
Balance 
Clients  (all 
exchanges) 

Free/unblocked 
Collateral 
deposited  with 
Clearing 
Corporation/ 
clearing 
member (MF) 

Collateral 
deposited 
with 
Clearing 
Corporation/ 
clearing 
member 
in 
form  of  Cash 
and 
Cash 
Equivalents 
across 
Stock 
Exchanges 

all 

B 

MC 

MF 

B-(MC+M 
F)  Or  (C-
A)- 
(MC+MF) 

 

 

 

 

 

Total  of  end 
of 
the  day 
balance in all 
Client  Bank 
Accounts 
across 
Stock 
Exchanges 

all 

1 

A  (from  the 
reconciliation 
stage 
- 
positive 
value) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

60 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
24.  Annual System Audit of Stock Brokers / Trading Members29 

 

24.1.  System  audit  guidelines  for  Stock  Brokers  /  Trading  members  prescribed 
below includes System Audit Process, Auditor Selection Norms and Terms of 
Reference (TOR). 
 

24.2.  The  Stock  Exchanges  should  ensure  that  system  audit  of  stock  brokers  / 

trading members is conducted in accordance with the prescribed guidelines. 

 

24.3.  Exchanges are advised to keep track of findings of system audits of all brokers 
on  quarterly  basis  and  ensure  that  all  major  audit  findings,  specifically  in 
critical  areas,  are  rectified  /  complied  in  a  time  bound  manner  failing  which 
follow up inspection of such brokers may be taken up for necessary corrective 
steps / actions thereafter, if any. 
 

24.4.  Stock  Exchange  should  report  all  major  non-compliances  /  observations  of 

system auditors, broker wise, on a quarterly basis to SEBI. 
 

Stock Broker System Audit Framework 

 

1.  Audit Process 

 

1.1.  System Audit of stock brokers should be conducted with the following periodicity: 

 
1.1.1.  Annual system audit is prescribed for stock brokers who satisfy any of the following criteria: 

 
a.  Stock  Brokers  who  use  [Computer-to-Computer  Link  (CTCL)  or  Intermediate  Messaging 
Layer  (IML)]  (or  other  similar  trading  facilities)  /  Internet  Based  Trading  (IBT)/  Direct 
Market Access (DMA)/ Securities Trading using Wireless Technology (STWT) / Smart Order 
Routing (SOR) and have presence in more than 10 locations or number of terminals are more 
than 50. 

b.  Stock Brokers who are depository participants or are involved in offering any other financial 

 

services. 

1.1.2.  Half yearly system audit has been prescribed for stock brokers who use Algorithmic Trading or 
provide  their  clients  with  the  facility  of  Algorithmic  Trading  as  per  SEBI  Circular 
CIR/MRD/16/2013 dated May 21, 2013. 

 
1.1.3.  For all other stock brokers, system audit shall be conducted once in two years. 
 

1.2.  Such audit shall be conducted in accordance with the Norms, Terms of Reference (ToR) and Guidelines 
issued by SEBI and / or by Stock Exchanges. Separate ToRs are specified for the following categories of 
brokers: 

                                                           
29 Reference: Circular CIR/MRD/DMS/34/2013 dated November 06, 2013. 

 

61 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
1.2.1.  Type  I  Broker:  Brokers who  trade  through  exchange  provided  terminals  such  as  NSE’s  NEAT, 

BSE’s BOLT, MCX-SX’s TWS, etc. (ToR attached as Annexure I below);30 

 
1.2.2.  Type II Broker: Brokers who trade through API based trading terminals like [CTCL or IML] or 
IBT/DMA/STWT  or  SOR  facility  and  who  may  also  be  TYPE  I  Brokers.  (ToR  attached  as 
Annexure II below) 

 
1.2.3.  Type  III  Broker:  Brokers  who  use  Algorithmic  Trading  facility  to  trade  and  who  may  also  be 

TYPE II Brokers. (ToR attached as Annexure III below) 

 

1.3.  Stock brokers shall select auditors as per the selection norms provided in the guidelines and directions 
issued  by  Stock  Exchanges  and  SEBI  from  time  to  time.  The  Auditor  may  perform  a  maximum  of  3 
successive audits of the stock broker. 
 

1.4.  The Stock Exchanges shall periodically review ToR of such system audit and, if required, shall suitably 
revise  the  ToR  after  taking  into  consideration  developments  that  have  taken  place  in  the  securities 
market since the last review of ToR, observations reported in the audit reports of the stock brokers and 
directions issued by SEBI from time to time in this regard. 
 

1.5.  The  auditor  in  its  report  shall  specify  compliance  /  non-compliance  status  with  regard  to  areas 
mentioned in ToR. Observations on minor / major deviations as well as qualitative comments for scope 
for improvement shall also be specified in the report. The auditor shall also take into consideration the 
observations / issues mentioned in the previous audit reports and cover open items in the report. The 
audit report submitted by the auditor should be forwarded to the Stock Exchange by the Stock Broker 
along with management comments, within 1 month of submission of report by the auditor. 

 

1.6.  Stock Exchange shall ensure that the management of the stock broker provides their comment about the 
non-compliance  /  non-conformities  (NCs)  and  observations  mentioned  in  the  report.  For  each  NC, 
specific time-bound (within 3 months of submission of report by the exchange) corrective action must 
be  taken  and  reported  to  the  Stock  Exchange.  The  auditor  should  indicate  if  a  follow-on  audit  is 
required to review the status of NCs. 
 

1.7.  In order to ensure that the corrective actions are taken by the stock broker, follow-on audit, if any, shall 
be  scheduled  by  the  stock  broker  within  6  months  of  submission  of  the  audit  report  by  the  system 
auditor. 
 

1.8.  The  system  auditors  should  follow  the  reporting  standard  as  specified  in  Annexure  IV  of  this 
Framework for the executive summary of the System Audit report to highlight the major findings of the 
System Audit. 
 
 

                                                           
30 Vide Letter MRD/DMS/OW/9500/2015 dated March 31, 2015, SEBI informed Stock Exchanges 
that  System  Audit  requirement  for  Type  I  brokers  may  be  kept  on  hold  till  further 
communication from SEBI. 

 

62 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

2.  Auditor Selection Norms 

 

2.1.  The Auditor shall have minimum 3 years of experience in IT audit of securities market participants e.g. 
Stock  Exchanges,  Clearing  Corporation,  Depositories,  stock  brokers,  depository  participants  etc.  The 
audit  experience  should  cover  all  the  major  areas  mentioned  under  Terms  of  Reference  (ToR)  of  the 
system audit specified by SEBI / Stock Exchange. 
 

2.2.  It is recommended that resources employed shall have relevant industry recognized certifications e.g. 
D.I.S.A.  (ICAI)  Qualification,  CISA  (Certified  Information  System  Auditor)  from  ISACA,  CISM 
(Certified Information Securities Manager) from ISACA, CISSP (Certified Information Systems Security 
Professional)  from  International  Information  Systems  Security  Certification  Consortium,  commonly 
known as (ISC)². 
 

2.3.  The Auditor should have experience of IT audit/governance frameworks and processes conforming to 

industry leading practices like CobiT. 
 

2.4.  The Auditor shall not have any conflict of interest in conducting fair, objective and independent audit 
of the stock broker. Further, the directors / partners of Auditor firm shall not be related to any stock 
broker including its directors or promoters either directly or indirectly. 
 

2.5.  The Auditor shall not have any cases pending against its previous audited companies/firms, which fall 
under  SEBI’s  jurisdiction,  which  point  to  its  incompetence  and/or  unsuitability  to  perform  the  audit 
task. 
 

 

3.  Terms of Reference (ToR) for Type I Broker 

 
The system auditor shall at the minimum cover the following areas: 

Annexure I 

 

3.1.  System controls and capabilities 

 

3.1.1.  Order  Tracking  –  The  system  auditor  should  verify  system  process  and  controls  at  exchange 
provided terminals with regard to order entry, capturing of IP address of order entry terminals, 
modification  /  deletion  of  orders,  status  of  the  current  order/outstanding  orders  and  trade 
confirmation. 

 

3.1.2.  Order Status/ Capture – Whether the system has capability to generate / capture order id, time 

stamping, order type, scrip details, action, quantity, price and validity etc. 

 

3.1.3.  Rejection  of  orders  –  Whether  system  has  capability  to  reject  orders  which  do  not  go  through 
order  level  validation  at  the  end  of  the  stock  broker  and  at  the  servers  of  respective  Stock 
Exchanges. 

 

3.1.4.  Communication of Trade Confirmation / Order Status – Whether the system has capability to 

 

63 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

timely  communicate  to  Client  regarding  the  Acceptance/  Rejection  of  an  Order  /  Trade  via 
various media including e-mail; facility of viewing trade log. 

 

 

 

3.1.5.  Client ID Verification – Whether the system has capability to recognize only authorized Client 

Orders and mapping of Specific user Ids to specific predefined location for proprietary orders. 

 

3.2.  Risk Management System (RMS) 

 

3.2.1.  Online risk management capability – The system auditor should check whether the system of 
online risk management (including upfront real-time risk management) is in place for all orders 
placed through exchange provided terminals. 

 

3.2.2.  Trading  Limits  –Whether  a  system  of  pre-defined  limits  /  checks  such  as  Order  Quantity  and 
Value Limits, Symbol wise User Order / Quantity limit, User / Branch Order Limit, Order Price 
limit,  etc)  are  in  place  and  only  such  orders  which  are  within  the  parameters  specified  by  the 
RMS are allowed to be pushed into exchange trading engines. The system auditor should check 
that no user or branch in the system is having unlimited limits on the above parameters. 

 

3.2.3.  Order  Alerts  and  Reports  –Whether  the  system  has  capability  to  generate  alerts  when  orders 
that  are  placed  are  above  the  limits  and  has  capability  to  generate  reports  relating  to  Margin 
Requirements, payments and delivery obligations. 

 

3.2.4.  Order  Review  –Whether  the  system  has  capability  to  facilitate  review  of  such  orders  were  not 

validated by the system. 

 

3.2.5.  Back  testing  for  effectiveness  of  RMS  –  Whether  the  system  has  capability  to  identify  trades 
which have exceeded the pre-defined limits (Order Quantity and Value Limits, Symbol wise User 
Order  /  Quantity  limit,  User  /  Branch  Order  Limit,  Order  Price  limit)  and  also  exceed 
corresponding margin availability of clients. Whether deviations from such pre-defined limits are 
captured by the system, documented and corrective steps taken. 

 

3.2.6.  Log  Management  –  Whether  the  system  maintains  logs  of  alerts  /  changes  /  deletion  / 
activation / deactivation of client codes and logs of changes to the risk management parameters 
mentioned above. Whether the system allows only authorized users to set the risk parameter in 
the RMS. 

 

3.3.  Password Security 

 

3.3.1.  Organization  Access  Policy  –  Whether  the  organization  has  a  well  documented  policy  that 
provides  for  a  password  policy  as  well  as  access  control  policy  for  the  exchange  provided 
terminals. 

 

3.3.2.  Authentication  Capability  –  Whether  the  system  authenticates  user  credentials  by  means  of  a 
password before allowing the user to login, and whether there is is a system for authentication of 
orders originating from Internet Protocol by means of two-factor authentication, including Public 

 

64 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Key Infrastructure (PKI) based implementation of digital signatures. 

 

 

 

3.3.3.  Password Best Practices – Whether there is a system provision for masking of password, system 
prompt  to  change  default  password  on  first  login,  disablement  of  user  id  on  entering  multiple 
wrong  passwords  (as  defined  in  the  password  policy  document),  periodic  password  change 
mandate  and  appropriate  prompt  to  user,  strong  parameters  for  password,  deactivation  of 
dormant user id, etc. 

 

3.4.  Session Management 

 

3.4.1.  Session  Authentication  –  Whether  the  system  has  provision  for  Confidentiality,  Integrity  and 
Availability  (CIA)  of  the  session  and  the  data  transmitted  during  the  session  by  means  of 
appropriate user and session authentication mechanisms like SSL etc. 

 

3.4.2.  Session  Security  –  Whether  there  is  availability  of  an  end-to-end  encryption  for  all  data 

exchanged between client and broker systems. or other means of ensuring session security. 

 
3.4.3.  Inactive Session – Whether the system allows for automatic trading session logout after a system 

defined period of inactivity. 

 

3.4.4.  Log  Management  –  Whether  the  system  generates  and  maintain  logs  of  Number  of  users, 

activity logs, system logs, Number of active clients. 

 

3.5.  Network Integrity 

 

3.5.1.  Seamless  connectivity  –  Whether  stock  broker  has  ensured  that  a  backup  network  link  is 

available in case of primary link failure with the exchange. 

 

3.5.2.  Network Architecture – Whether the web server is separate from the Application and Database 

Server. 

 

3.5.3.  Firewall Configuration – Whether appropriate firewall is present between stock broker's trading 
setup  and  various  communication  links  to  the  exchange.  Whether  the  firewall  is  appropriately 
configured to ensure maximum security. 

 

3.6.  Access Controls 

 

3.6.1.  Access to server rooms – Whether adequate controls are in place for access to server rooms and 

proper audit trails are maintained for the same. 

 

3.6.2.  Additional Access controls – Whether the system provides for any authentication mechanism to 
access to various components of the exchange provided terminals. Whether additional password 
requirements are set for critical features of the system. Whether the access control is adequate 

 
 

 

65 

 

 

3.7.  Backup and Recovery 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.7.1.  Backup  and  Recovery  Policy  –  Whether  the  organization  has  a  well  documented  policy  on 

periodic backup of data generated from the broking operations. 

 

3.7.2.  Log generation and data consistency - Whether backup logs are maintained and backup data is 

tested for consistency. 

 

3.7.3.  System Redundancy – Whether there are appropriate backups in case of failures of any critical 

system components. 

 

3.8.  BCP/DR (Only applicable for Stock Brokers having BCP / DR site) 

 

3.8.1.  BCP / DR Policy – Whether the stock broker has a well documented BCP/ DR policy and plan. 

The system auditor should comment on the documented incident response procedures. 

 

3.8.2.  Alternate  channel  of  communication  –  Whether  the  stock  broker  has  provided  its  clients  with 
alternate  means  of  communication  including  channel  for  communication  in  case  of  a  disaster. 
Whether  the  alternate  channel  is  capable  of  authenticating  the  user  after  asking  for  additional 
details or OTP (One-Time-Password). 

 

3.8.3.  High  Availability  –  Whether  BCP  /  DR  systems  and  network  connectivity  provide  high 
availability  and  have  no  single  point  of  failure  for  any  critical  operations  as  identified  by  the 
BCP/DR policy. 

 

3.8.4.  Connectivity with other FMIs – The system auditor should check whether there is an alternative 

medium to communicate with Stock Exchanges and other FMIs. 

 

3.9.  Segregation of Data and Processing facilities – The system auditor should check and comment on the 
segregation of data and processing facilities at the stock broker in case the stock broker is also running 
other business. 
 

3.10.  Back office data 

 

3.10.1.  Data  consistency  –  The  system  auditor  should  verify  whether  aggregate  client  code  data 
available at the back office of broker matches with the data submitted / available with the Stock 
Exchanges through online data view / download provided by exchanges to members. 

 

3.10.2.  Trail Logs – The system auditor should specifically comment on the logs of Client Code data to 
ascertain  whether  editing  or  deletion  of  records  have  been  properly  documented  and  recorded 
and does not result in any irregularities. 

 

3.11.  IT  Infrastructure  Management  (including  use  of  various  Cloud  computing  models  such  as 
Infrastructure as a service (IaaS), Platform as a service (PaaS), Software as a service (SaaS), Network as 
a service (NaaS)) 

 

66 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.11.1.  IT  Governance  and  Policy  –  The  system  auditor  should  verify  whether  the  relevant  IT 
Infrastructure-related  policies  and  standards  exist  and  are  regularly  reviewed  and  updated. 
Compliance with these policies is periodically assessed. 

 

3.11.2.  IT Infrastructure Planning – The system auditor should verify whether the plans/policy for the 
appropriate  management  and  replacement  of  aging  IT  infrastructure  components  have  been 
documented,  approved,  and  implemented.  The  activities,  schedules  and  resources  needed  to 
achieve  objectives  related  to  IT  infrastructure  have  been  integrated  into  business  plans  and 
budgets. 

 

3.11.3.  IT Infrastructure Availability (SLA Parameters) – The system auditor should verify whether the 
broking firm has a process in place to define its required availability of the IT infrastructure, and 
its tolerance to outages. In cases where there is huge reliance on vendors for the provision of IT 
services  to  the  brokerage  firm  the  system  auditor  should  also  verify  that  the  mean  time  to 
recovery  (MTTR)  mentioned  in  the  Service  Level  Agreement  (SLA)  by  the  service  provider 
satisfies the requirements of the broking firm. 

 

3.11.4.  IT  Performance  Monitoring  (SLA  Monitoring)  –  The  system  auditor  should  verify  that  the 
results of SLA performance monitoring are documented and are reported to the management of 
the broker. 

 

3.12.  Exchange specific exceptional reports – The additional checks recommended by a particular exchange 
need  to  be  looked  into  and  commented  upon  by  the  system  auditor  over  and  above  the  ToR  of  the 
system audit. 
 

Annexure II 

 

4.  ToR for Type II Broker 

 

The system auditor shall at the minimum cover the following areas: 

 

4.1.  System controls and capabilities (CTCL / IML terminals and servers) 

 

4.1.1.  Order Tracking – The system auditor should verify system process and controls at CTCL / IML 
terminals and CTCL/ IML servers covering order entry, capturing of IP address of order entry 
terminals,  modification  /  deletion  of  orders,  status  of  current  order/outstanding  orders  and 
trade confirmation. 

 

4.1.2.  Order Status/ Capture – Whether the system has capability to generate / capture order id, time 

stamping, order type, scrip details, action, quantity, price and validity, etc. 

 

4.1.3.  Rejection  of  orders  –  Whether  system  has  capability  to  reject  orders  which  do  not  go  through 

order level validation at CTCL servers and at the servers of respective Stock Exchanges. 

 

 

67 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.1.4.  Communication of Trade Confirmation / Order Status – Whether the system has capability to 
timely  communicate  to  Client  regarding  the  Acceptance/  Rejection  of  an  Order  /  Trade  via 
various media including e-mail; facility of viewing trade log. 

 

4.1.5.  Client ID Verification – Whether the system has capability to recognize only authorized Client 

Orders and mapping of Specific user Ids to specific predefined location for proprietary orders. 

 

4.1.6.  Order type distinguishing capability – Whether system has capability to distinguish the orders 

originating from (CTCL or IML) / IBT/ DMA / STWT. 

 

4.2.  Software  Change  Management  -  The  system  auditor  should  check  whether  proper  procedures  have 

been followed and proper documentation has been maintained for the following: 
 

4.2.1.  Processing / approval methodology of new feature request or patches. 

 

4.2.2.  Fault reporting / tracking mechanism and process for resolution. 

 

4.2.3.  Testing of new releases / patches / modified software / bug fixes. 

 

4.2.4.  Version control- History, Change Management process, approval etc. 

 

4.2.5.  Development / Test / Production environment segregation. 

 

4.2.6.  New release in production – promotion, release note approvals. 

 

4.2.7.  Production  issues  /  disruptions  reported  during  last  year,  reasons  for  such  disruptions  and 

corrective actions taken. 

 

4.2.8.  User Awareness. 

 

The system auditor should check whether critical changes made to the (CTCL or IML)  / IBT / DMA / 
STWT/ SOR are well documented and communicated to the Stock Exchange. 

 

4.3.  Risk Management System (RMS) 

 

4.3.1.  Online  risk  management  capability  –  The  system  auditor  should  check  whether  system  of 
online risk management including upfront real-time risk management, is in place for all orders 
placed through (CTCL or IML) / IBT / DMA / STWT. 

 

4.3.2.  Trading  Limits  –  Whether  a  system  of  pre-defined  limits  /checks  such  as  Order  Quantity  and 
Value Limits, Symbol wise User Order / Quantity limit, User / Branch Order Limit, Order Price 
limit,  etc.,  are  in  place  and  only  such  orders  which  are  within  the  parameters  specified  by  the 
RMS are allowed to be pushed into exchange trading engines. The system auditor should check 
that no user or branch in the system is having unlimited limits on the above parameters. 

 

 

68 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.3.3.  Order  Alerts  and  Reports  –  Whether  the  system  has  capability  to  generate  alerts  when  orders 
that  are  placed  are  above  the  limits  and  has  capability  to  generate  reports  relating  to  margin 
requirements, payments and delivery obligations. 

 

4.3.4.  Order Review – Whether the system has capability to facilitate review of such orders that were 

not validated by the system. 

 

4.3.5.  Back testing for effectiveness of RMS – Whether system has capability to identify trades which 
have exceeded the pre-defined limits (Order Quantity and Value Limits, Symbol wise User Order 
/ Quantity limit, User / Branch Order Limit, Order Price limit) and also exceed corresponding 
margin availability of clients. Whether deviations from such pre-defined limits are captured by 
the system, documented and corrective steps taken. 

 

4.3.6.  Log  Management  –  Whether  the  system  maintains  logs  of  alerts  /  changes  /  deletion  / 
activation / deactivation of client codes and logs of changes to the risk management parameters 
mentioned above. Whether the system allows only authorized users to set the risk parameter in 
the RMS. 

 

4.4.  Smart order routing (SOR) - The system auditor should check whether proper procedures have been 

followed and proper documentation has been maintained for the following: 
 

4.4.1.  Best Execution Policy – System adheres to the Best Execution Policy while routing the orders to 

the exchange. 

 

4.4.2.  Destination Neutral – The system routes orders to the recognized Stock Exchanges in a neutral 

manner. 

 

4.4.3.  Class Neutral – The system provides for SOR for all classes of investors. 

 

4.4.4.  Confidentiality - The system does not release orders to venues other than the recognized Stock 

Exchange. 

 

4.4.5.  Opt–out – The system provides functionality to the client who has availed of the SOR facility, to 

specify for individual orders for which the clients do not want to route order using SOR. 

 

4.4.6.  Time  stamped  market  information  –  The  system  is  capable  of  receiving  time  stamped  market 
prices  from  recognized  Stock  Exchanges  from  which  the  member  is  authorized  to  avail  SOR 
facility. 

 

4.4.7.  Audit Trail - Audit trail for SOR should capture order details, trades and data points used as a 

basis for routing decision. 

 

4.4.8.  Server Location – The system auditor should check whether the order routing server is located in 

India. 

 

 

69 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.4.9.  Alternate  Mode  -  The  system  auditor  should  check  whether  an  alternative  mode  of  trading  is 

available in case of failure of SOR Facility. 

 

4.5.  Password Security 

 

4.5.1.  Organization Access Policy – Whether organization has a well documented policy that provides 
for a password policy as well as access control policy for exchange provided terminals and for 
API based terminals. 

 

4.5.2.  Authentication  Capability  –  Whether  the  system  authenticates  user  credentials  by  means  of  a 
password before allowing the user to login, and whether there is a system for authentication of 
orders originating from Internet Protocol by means of two-factor authentication, including Public 
Key Infrastructure (PKI) based implementation of digital signatures. 

 

4.5.3.  Password Best Practices – Whether there is a system provision for masking of password, system 
prompt  to  change  default  password  on  first  login,  disablement  of  user  id  on  entering  multiple 
wrong  passwords  (as  defined  in  the  password  policy  document),  periodic  password  change 
mandate  and  appropriate  prompt  to  user,  strong  parameters  for  password,  deactivation  of 
dormant user id, etc. 

 

4.6.  Session Management 

 

4.6.1.  Session  Authentication  –  Whether  system  has  provision  for  Confidentiality,  Integrity  and 
Availability  (CIA)  of  the  session  and  the  data  transmitted  during  the  session  by  means  of 
appropriate user and session authentication mechanisms like SSL etc. 

 

4.6.2.  Session  Security  –  Whether  there  is  availability  of  an  end-to-end  encryption  for  all  data 
exchanged  between  client  and  broker  systems  or  other  means  of  ensuring  session  security. 
Whether session login details are stored on the devices used for IBT and STWT. 

 

4.6.3.  Inactive Session – Whether the system allows for automatic trading session logout after a system 

defined period of inactivity. 

 

4.6.4.  Log  Management  –  Whether  the  system  generates  and  maintains  logs  of  Number  of  users, 

activity logs, system logs, Number of active clients. 

 

4.7.  Database Security 

 

4.7.1.  Access  –  Whether  the  system  allows  CTCL  or  IML  database  access  only  to  authorized  users  / 

applications. 

 

4.7.2.  Controls  –  Whether  the  CTCL  or  IML  database  server  is  hosted  on  a  secure  platform,  with 

Username and password stored in an encrypted form using strong encryption algorithms. 

 
 

 

70 

 

 

4.8.  Network Integrity 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.8.1.  Seamless  connectivity  –  Whether  the  stock  broker  has  ensured  that  a  backup  network  link  is 

available in case of primary link failure with the exchange. 

 

4.8.2.  Network Architecture – Whether the web server is separate from the Application and Database 

Server. 

 

4.8.3.  Firewall Configuration – Whether appropriate firewall is present between stock broker's trading 
setup  and  various  communication  links  to  the  exchange.  Whether  the  firewall  is  appropriately 
configured to ensure maximum security. 

 

4.9.  Access Controls 

 

4.9.1.  Access to server rooms – Whether adequate controls are in place for access to server rooms and 

proper audit trails are maintained for the same. 

 

4.9.2.  Additional  Access  controls  –  Whether  the  system  provides  for  two  factor  authentication 
mechanism  to  access  to  various  CTCL  or  IML  components.  Whether  additional  password 
requirements are set for critical features of the system. Whether the access control is adequate. 

 

4.10.  Backup and Recovery 

 

4.10.1.  Backup  and  Recovery  Policy  –  Whether  the  organization  has  a  well  documented  policy  on 

periodic backup of data generated from the broking operations. 

 

4.10.2.  Log generation and data consistency - Whether backup logs are maintained and backup data is 

tested for consistency. 

 

4.10.3.  System Redundancy – Whether there are appropriate backups in case of failures of any critical 

system components. 

 

4.11.  BCP/DR (Only applicable for Stock Brokers having BCP / DR site) 

 

4.11.1.  BCP / DR Policy – Whether the stock broker has a well documented BCP/ DR policy and plan. 

The system auditor should comment on the documented incident response procedures. 

 

4.11.2.  Alternate  channel  of  communication  –  Whether  the  stock  broker  has  provided  its  clients  with 
alternate  means  of  communication  including  channel  for  communication  in  case  of  a  disaster. 
Whether  the  alternate  channel  is  capable  of  authenticating  the  user  after  asking  for  additional 
details or OTP (One-Time-Password). 

 

4.11.3.  High  Availability  –  Whether  BCP  /  DR  systems  and  network  connectivity  provide  high 
availability  and  have  no  single  point  of  failure  for  any  critical  operations  as  identified  by  the 
BCP/ DR policy. 

 

71 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.11.4.  Connectivity with other FMIs – The system auditor should check whether there is an alternative 

medium to communicate with Stock Exchanges and other FMIs. 

 

4.12.  Segregation of Data and Processing facilities – The system auditor should check and comment on the 
segregation of data and processing facilities at the stock broker in case the stock broker is also running 
other business. 
 

4.13.  Back office data 

 

4.13.1.  Data  consistency  –  The  system  auditor  should  verify  whether  aggregate  client  code  data 
available at the back office of broker matches with the data submitted / available with the Stock 
Exchanges through online data view / download provided by exchanges to members. 

 

4.13.2.  Trail Logs – The system auditor should specifically comment on the logs of Client Code data to 
ascertain  whether  editing  or  deletion  of  records  have  been  properly  documented  and  recorded 
and does not result in any irregularities. 

 

4.14.  User Management 

 

4.14.1.  User Management Policy – The system auditor should check whether the stock broker has a well 
documented  policy  that  provides  for  user  management  and  the  user  management  policy 
explicitly defines user, database and application Access Matrix. 

 

4.14.2.  Access to Authorized users – The system auditor should check whether the system allows access 
only  to  the  authorized  users  of  the  CTCL  or  IML  System.  Whether  there  is  a  proper 
documentation of the authorized users in the form of User Application approval, copies of User 
Qualification and other necessary documents. 

 

4.14.3.  User Creation / Deletion – The system auditor should check whether new users ids were created 
/ deleted as per CTCL or IML guidelines of the exchanges and whether the user ids are unique in 
nature. 

 

4.14.4.  User Disablement – The system auditor should check whether non-complaint users are disabled 

and appropriate logs (such as event log and trade logs of the user) are maintained. 

 

4.15.  IT  Infrastructure  Management  (including  use  of  various  Cloud  computing  models  such  as 
Infrastructure as a service (IaaS), Platform as a service (PaaS), Software as a service (SaaS), Network as 
a service (NaaS)) 
 

4.15.1.  IT  Governance  and  Policy  –  The  system  auditor  should  verify  whether  the  relevant  IT 
Infrastructure-related  policies  and  standards  exist  and  are  regularly  reviewed  and  updated. 
Compliance with these policies is periodically assessed. 

 

4.15.2.  IT Infrastructure Planning – The system auditor should verify whether the plans/policy for the 

 

72 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

appropriate  management  and  replacement  of  aging  IT  infrastructure  components  have  been 
documented,  approved,  and  implemented.  The  activities,  schedules  and  resources  needed  to 
achieve  objectives  related  to  IT  infrastructure  have  been  integrated  into  business  plans  and 
budgets. 

 

 

 

4.15.3.  IT Infrastructure Availability (SLA Parameters) – The system auditor should verify whether the 
broking firm has a process in place to define its required availability of the IT infrastructure, and 
its tolerance to outages. In cases where there is huge reliance on vendors for the provision of IT 
services  to  the  brokerage  firm  the  system  auditor  should  also  verify  that  the  mean  time  to 
recovery  (MTTR)  mentioned  in  the  Service  Level  Agreement  (SLA)  by  the  service  provider 
satisfies the requirements of the broking firm. 

 

4.15.4.  IT  Performance  Monitoring  (SLA  Monitoring)  –  The  system  auditor  should  verify  that  the 
results of SLA performance monitoring are documented and are reported to the management of 
the broker. 

 

4.16.  Exchange specific exceptional reports – The additional checks recommended by a particular exchange 
need  to be  looked  into  and  commented  upon  by  the  System Auditor  over  and  above  the  ToR  of the 
System audit. 
 

4.17.  Software  Testing  Procedures  -  The  system  auditor  should  check  whether  the  stock  broker  has 
complied  with  the  guidelines  and  instructions  of  SEBI  /  Stock  Exchanges  with  regard  to  testing  of 
software and new patches, including the following: 
 

4.17.1.  Test Procedure Review – The system auditor should evaluate whether the procedures for system 

and software testing were proper and adequate. 

 

4.17.2.  Documentation – The system auditor should verify whether the documentation related to testing 
procedures,  test  data,  and  resulting  output  were  adequate  and  follow  the  organization's 
standards. 

 

4.17.3.  Test  Cases  –  The  system  auditor  should  review  the  internal  test  cases  and  comment  upon  the 

adequacy of the same with respect to the requirements of the Stock Exchange and SEBI. 

 

 

5.  ToR for Type III Broker 

 

Annexure III 

The system auditor shall at the minimum cover the following areas: 

 

5.1.  System controls and capabilities (CTCL/IML Terminals and servers) 

 

5.1.1.  Order Tracking – The system auditor should verify system process and controls at CTCL / IML 
terminals  and  CTCL/  IML  servers  covering  order  entry,  capturing  IP  address  of  order  entry, 
modification  /  deletion  of  orders,  status  of  current  order/outstanding  orders  and  trade 

 

73 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

confirmation. 

5.1.2.  Order Status/ Capture – Whether the system has capability to generate / capture order id, time 

stamping, order type, scrip details, action, quantity, price and validity etc. 

 

5.1.3.  Rejection of orders – Whether the system has capability to reject orders which do not go through 

order level validation at CTCL servers and at the servers of respective exchanges. 

 

5.1.4.  Communication of Trade Confirmation / Order Status – Whether the system has capability to 
timely  communicate  to  client  regarding  the  Acceptance/  Rejection  of  an  Order  /  Trade  via 
various media including e-mail; facility of viewing trade log. 

 

5.1.5.  Client ID Verification – Whether the system has capability to recognize only authorized Client 

Orders and mapping of Specific user Ids to specific predefined location for proprietary orders. 

 

5.1.6.  Order  type  distinguishing  capability  –  Whether  the  system  has  capability  to  distinguish  the 

orders originating from (CTCL or IML) / IBT / DMA / STWT / SOR / Algorithmic Trading. 

 

5.2.  Software  Change  Management  -  The  system  auditor  should  check  whether  proper  procedures  have 

been followed and proper documentation has been maintained for the following: 
 

5.2.1.  Processing / approval methodology of new feature request or patches. 

 

5.2.2.  Fault reporting / tracking mechanism and process for resolution. 

 

5.2.3.  Testing of new releases / patches / modified software / bug fixes. 

 

5.2.4.  Version control- History, Change Management process, approval etc. 

 

5.2.5.  Development / Test / Production environment segregation. 

 

5.2.6.  New release in production – promotion, release note approvals. 

 

5.2.7.  Production  issues  /  disruptions  reported  during  last  year,  reasons  for  such  disruptions  and 

corrective actions taken. 

 

5.2.8.  User Awareness. 

 

The system auditor should check whether critical changes made to the (CTCL or IML) / IBT / DMA / 
STWT/ SOR are well documented and communicated to the Stock Exchange. 

 

5.3.  Risk Management System (RMS) 

 

5.3.1.  Online risk management capability – The system auditor should check whether the online risk 
management  including  upfront  real-time  risk  management,  is  in  place  for  all  orders  placed 

 

74 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

through (CTCL or IML) / IBT/ DMA / SOR / STWT / Algorithmic Trading. 

 

 

 

5.3.2.  Trading Limits – Whether a system of pre-defined limits / checks such as Order Quantity and 
Value Limits, Symbol wise User Order / Quantity limit, User / Branch Order Limit, Order Price 
limit,  etc.,  are  in  place  and  only  such  orders  which  are  within  the  parameters  specified  by  the 
RMS are allowed to be pushed into exchange trading engines. The system auditor should check 
that no user or branch in the system is having unlimited limits on the above parameters. 

 

5.3.3.  Order  Alerts  and  Reports  –  Whether  the  system  has  capability  to  generate  alerts  when  orders 
that  are  placed  are  above  the  limits  and  has  capability  to  generate  reports  relating  to  margin 
requirements, payments and delivery obligations. 

 

5.3.4.  Order Review – Whether the system has capability to facilitate review of such orders that were 

not validated by the system. 

 

5.3.5.  Back  testing  for  effectiveness  of  RMS  –  Whether  the  system  has  capability  to  identify  trades 
which have exceeded the pre-defined limits (Order Quantity and Value Limits, Symbol wise User 
Order  /  Quantity  limit,  User  /  Branch  Order  Limit,  Order  Price  limit)  and  also  exceed 
corresponding  margin  availability  of  clients.  Whether  deviations  from  such  pre-defined  limits 
should be captured by the system, documented and corrective steps taken. 

 

5.3.6.  Log  Management  –  Whether  the  system  maintains  logs  of  alerts  /  changes  /  deletion  / 
activation / deactivation of client codes and logs of changes to the risk management parameters 
mentioned above. Whether the system allows only authorized users to set the risk parameter in 
the RMS. 

 

5.4.  Smart order routing  (SOR) - The system auditor should check whether proper procedures have been 

followed and proper documentation has been maintained for the following: 
 

5.4.1.  Best Execution Policy – System adheres to the Best Execution Policy while routing the orders to 

the exchange. 

 

5.4.2.  Destination Neutral – The system routes orders to the recognized Stock Exchanges in a neutral 

manner. 

 

5.4.3.  Class Neutral – The system provides for SOR for all classes of investors. 

 

5.4.4.  Confidentiality - The system does not release orders to venues other than the recognized Stock 

Exchange. 

 

5.4.5.  Opt–out – The system provides functionality to the client who has availed of the SOR facility, to 

specify for individual orders for which the clients do not want to route order using SOR. 

 

5.4.6.  Time  stamped  market  information  –  The  system  is  capable  of  receiving  time  stamped  market 
prices  from  recognized  Stock  Exchanges  from  which  the  member  is  authorized  to  avail  SOR 

 

75 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

facility. 

 

5.4.7.  Audit Trail - Audit trail for SOR should capture order details, trades and data points used as a 

basis for routing decision. 

 

5.4.8.  Server Location – The system auditor should check whether the order routing server is located in 

India. 

 

5.4.9.  Alternate  Mode  -  The  system  auditor  should  check  whether  an  alternative  mode  of  trading  is 

available in case of failure of SOR Facility. 

 

5.5.  Algorithmic  Trading  -  The  system  auditor  should  check  whether  proper  procedures  have  been 

followed and proper documentation has been maintained for the following: 
 

5.5.1.  Change  Management  –  Whether  any  changes  (modification/addition)  to  the  approved  algos 
were  informed  to  and  approved  by  Stock  Exchange.  The  inclusion  /  removal  of  different 
versions of algos should be well documented. 

 

5.5.2.  Online Risk Management capability - The CTCL or IML server should have capacity to monitor 
orders  /  trades  routed  through  algo  trading  and  have  online  risk  management  for  all  orders 
through Algorithmic trading and ensure that Price Check, Quantity Check, Order Value Check, 
Cumulative Open Order Value Check are in place. 

 

5.5.3.  Risk  Parameters  Controls  –  The  system  should  allow  only  authorized  users  to  set  the  risk 

parameter. The System should also maintain a log of all the risk parameter changes made. 

 

5.5.4.  Information / Data Feed – The auditor should comment on the various sources of information / 
data for the algo and on the likely impact (run away /loop situation) of the failure one or more 
sources to provide timely feed to the algorithm. The system auditor should verify that the algo 
automatically stops further processing in the absence of data feed. 

 

5.5.5.  Check for  preventing loop or runaway situations –  The system auditor should check whether 
the  brokers  have  real  time  monitoring  systems  to  identify  and  shutdown/stop  the  algorithms 
which have not behaved as expected. 

 

5.5.6.  Algo  /  Co-location  facility  Sub-letting  –  The  system  auditor  should  verify  if  the  algo  /  co-

location facility has not been sub-letted to any other firms to access the exchange platform. 

 
5.5.7.  Audit Trail – The system auditor should check the following areas in audit trail: 

a.  Whether  the  audit  trails  can  be  established  using  unique  identification  for  all  algorithmic 

orders and comment on the same. 

b.  Whether the broker maintains logs of all trading activities. 
c.  Whether the records of control parameters, orders, traders and data emanating from trades 

executed through algorithmic trading are preserved/ maintained by the stock broker. 

d.  Whether changes to the control parameters have been made by authorized users as per the 

 

76 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Access Matrix. The system auditor should specifically comment on the reasons and frequency 
for changing of such control parameters. Further, the system auditor should also comment on 
the possibility of such tweaking leading to run away/loop situation. 

e.  Whether the system captures the IP address from where the algo orders are originating. 

 

 

 

5.5.8.  Systems  and  Procedures  –  The  system  auditor  should  check  and  comment  on  the  procedures, 
systems  and  technical  capabilities  of  stock  broker  for  carrying  out  trading  through  use  of 
Algorithms.  The  system  auditor  should  also  identify  any  misuse  or  unauthorized  access  to 
algorithms or the system which runs these algorithms. 

 

5.5.9.  Reporting  to  Stock  Exchanges  –  The  system  auditor  should  check  whether  the  stock  broker  is 
informing  the  Stock  Exchange  regarding  any  incidents  where  the  algos  have  not  behaved  as 
expected. The system auditor should also comment upon the time taken by the stock broker to 
inform the Stock Exchanges regarding such incidents. 

 

5.6.  Password Security 

 

5.6.1.  Organization  Access  Policy  –  The  system  auditor  should  whether  the  stock  broker  has  a  well 
documented  policy  that  provides  for  a  password  policy  as  well  as  access  control  policy  for 
exchange provided terminals and for API based terminals. 

 

5.6.2.  Authentication  Capability  –  Whether  the  system  authenticates  user  credentials  by  means  of  a 
password  before  allowing  the  user  to  login.  Whether  there  is  a  system  for  authentication  of 
orders originating from Internet Protocol by means of two-factor authentication, including Public 
Key Infrastructure (PKI) based implementation of digital signatures. 

 

5.6.3.  Password  Best  Practices  –  Whether  there  is  a  system  should  for  masking  of  password,  system 
prompt  to  change  default  password  on  first  login,  disablement  of  user  id  on  entering  multiple 
wrong  passwords  (as  defined  in  the  password  policy  document),  periodic  password  change 
mandate  and  appropriate  prompt  to  user,  strong  parameters  for  password,  deactivation  of 
dormant user id, etc. 

 

5.7.  Session Management 

 

5.7.1.  Session  Authentication  –  Whether  the  system  has  provision  for  Confidentiality,  Integrity  and 
Availability  (CIA)  of  the  session  and  the  data  transmitted  during  the  session  by  means  of 
appropriate user and session authentication mechanisms like SSL etc. 

 

5.7.2.  Session  Security  –  Whether  there  is  availability  of  an  end-to-end  encryption  for  all  data 
exchanged  between  client  and  broker  system  or  other  means  of  ensuring  session  security. 
Whether session login details are stored on the devices used for IBT and STWT. 

 

5.7.3.  Inactive Session – Whether the system allows for automatic trading session logout after a system 

defined period of inactivity. 

 

 

77 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

5.7.4.  Log  Management  –  Whether  the  system  generates  and  maintains  logs  of  number  of  users, 

activity logs, system logs, number of active clients. 

 

5.8.  Database Security 

 

5.8.1.  Access  –  Whether  the  system  allows  CTCL  or  IML  database  access  only  to  authorized  users  / 

applications. 

 

5.8.2.  Controls  –  Whether  the  CTCL  or  IML  database  server  is  hosted  on  a  secure  platform,  with 

username and password stored in an encrypted form using strong encryption algorithms. 

 

5.9.  Network Integrity 

 

5.9.1.  Seamless  connectivity  –  Whether  the  stock  broker  has  ensured  that  a  backup  network  link  is 

available in case of primary link failure with the exchange. 

 

5.9.2.  Network Architecture – Whether the web server is separate from the Application and Database 

Server. 

 

5.9.3.  Firewall  Configuration  –  Whether  appropriate  firewall  are  present  between  the  stock  broker's 
trading setup and various communication links to the exchange. Whether the firewalls should be 
appropriately configured to ensure maximum security. 

 

5.10.  Access Controls 

 

5.10.1.  Access  to  server  rooms  –  Whether  adequate  controls  are  in  place  for  access  to  server  rooms, 

proper audit trails should be maintained for the same. 

 

5.10.2.  Additional Access controls -  Whether  the  system  should  provide  for  two  factor  authentication 
mechanism  to  access  to  various  CTCL  or  IML  components.  Whether  additional  password 
requirements are set for critical features of the system. Whether the access control is adequate. 

 

5.11.  Backup and Recovery 

 

5.11.1.  Backup  and  Recovery  Policy  –  Whether  the  organization  has  a  well  documented  policy  on 

periodic backup of data generated from the broking operations. 

 

5.11.2.  Log  generation  and  data  consistency  –  Whether  backup  logs  are  maintained  and  backup  data 

should be tested for consistency. 

 

5.11.3.  System Redundancy – Whether there are appropriate backups in case of failures of any critical 

system components 

 
 
 

 

78 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

5.12.  BCP/DR (Only applicable for Stock Brokers having BCP / DR site) 

 

5.12.1.  BCP / DR Policy – Whether the stock broker has a well documented BCP / DR policy and plan. 

The system auditor should comment on the documented incident response procedures. 

 

5.12.2.  Alternate  channel  of  communication  –  Whether  the  stock  broker  has  provided  its  clients  with 
alternative means of communication including channel for communication in case of a disaster. 
Whether  the  alternate  channel  is  capable  of  authenticating  the  user  after  asking  for  additional 
details or OTP (One-Time-Password). 

 

5.12.3.  High  Availability  –  Whether  BCP  /  DR  systems  and  network  connectivity  provide  high 
availability and have no single point of failure for any critical operations as identified by the BCP 
/ DR policy. 

 

5.12.4.  Connectivity with other FMIs – The system auditor should check whether there is an alternative 

medium to communicate with Stock Exchanges and other FMIs. 

 

5.13.  Segregation of Data and Processing facilities – The system auditor should check and comment on the 
segregation of data and processing facilities at the stock broker in case the stock broker is also running 
other business. 
 

5.14.  Back office data 

 

5.14.1.  Data  consistency  –  The  system  auditor  should  verify  whether  aggregate  client  code  data 
available at the back office of broker matches with the data submitted / available with the Stock 
Exchanges through online data view / download provided by exchanges to members. 

 

5.14.2.  Trail Logs – The system auditor should specifically comment on the logs of Client Code data to 
ascertain  whether  editing  or  deletion  of  records  have  been  properly  documented  and  recorded 
and does not result in any irregularities. 

 

5.15.  User Management 

 

5.15.1.  User Management Policy – The system auditor should verify whether the stock broker has a well 
documented  policy  that  provides  for  user  management  and  the  user  management  policy 
explicitly defines user, database and application access matrix. 

 

5.15.2.  Access to Authorized users – The system auditor should verify whether the system allows access 
only  to  the  authorized  users  of  the  CTCL  or  IML  system.  Whether  there  is  a  proper 
documentation  of  the  authorized  users  in  the form  of  user  application  approval,  copies  of  user 
qualification and other necessary documents. 

 

5.15.3.  User Creation / Deletion – The system auditor should verify whether new users ids should be 
created / deleted as per CTCL or IML guidelines of the exchanges and whether the user ids are 
unique in nature. 

 

79 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

5.15.4.  User Disablement – The system auditor should verify whether non-complaint users are disabled 

and appropriate logs such as event log and trade logs of the user should be maintained. 

 

5.16.  IT  Infrastructure  Management  (including  use  of  various  Cloud  computing  models  such  as 
Infrastructure as a service (IaaS), Platform as a service (PaaS), Software as a service (SaaS), Network as 
a service (NaaS)) 
 

5.16.1.  IT  Governance  and  Policy  –  The  system  auditor  should  verify  whether  the  relevant  IT 
Infrastructure-related  policies  and  standards  exist  and  are  regularly  reviewed  and  updated. 
Compliance with these policies is periodically assessed. 
 

5.16.2.  IT Infrastructure Planning – The system auditor should verify whether the plans/policy for the 
appropriate  management  and  replacement  of  aging  IT  infrastructure  components  have  been 
documented,  approved,  and  implemented.  The  activities,  schedules  and  resources  needed  to 
achieve  objectives  related  to  IT  infrastructure  have  been  integrated  into  business  plans  and 
budgets. 

 

5.16.3.  IT Infrastructure Availability (SLA Parameters) – The system auditor should verify whether the 
broking firm has a process in place to define its required availability of the IT infrastructure, and 
its tolerance to outages. In cases where there is huge reliance on vendors for the provision of IT 
services  to  the  brokerage  firm  the  system  auditor  should  also  verify  that  the  mean  time  to 
recovery  (MTTR)  mentioned  in  the  Service  Level  Agreement  (SLA)  by  the  service  provider 
satisfies the requirements of the broking firm. 

 

5.16.4.  IT  Performance  Monitoring  (SLA  Monitoring)  –  The  system  auditor  should  verify  that  the 
results of SLA performance monitoring are documented and are reported to the management of 
the broker. 

 

5.17.  Exchange specific exceptional reports – The additional checks recommended by a particular exchange 
need  to  be  looked  into  and  commented  upon  by  the  system  auditor  over  and  above  the  ToR  of  the 
system audit. 
 

5.18.  Software Testing Procedures - The system auditor shall audit whether the stock broker has complied 
with the guidelines and instructions of SEBI / Stock Exchanges with regard to testing of software and 
new patches including the following: 
 

5.18.1.  Test  Procedure  Review  –  The  system  auditor  should  review  and  evaluate  the  procedures  for 

system and program testing. The system auditor should also review the adequacy of tests. 

 

5.18.2.  Documentation – The system auditor should review documented testing procedures, test data, 
and resulting output to determine if they are comprehensive and if they follow the organization's 
standards. 

 

5.18.3.  Test Cases – The system auditor should review the test cases and comment upon the adequacy of 

 

80 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

the same with respect to the requirements of the Stock Exchange and various SEBI Circulars. 

Annexure IV 

Executive Summary Reporting Format 

Audit 
TOR 
Clause 

Audi
ted 
by 

Impact 
Analy
sis 

Root 
cause 
Anal
ysis 

Risk 
Ratin
gs  of 
Findi
ngs 

Sugge
sted 
Correc
tive 
action 

Deadlin
e  for  the 
Correcti
ve 
Action 

Ve
rifi
ed 
By 

Cl
osi
ng 
da
te 

 

 

 

 

 

For Preliminary Audit 
Audit 
Date 

Depart
ment 

Obse
rvati
on 

Descr
iption 
of 
Findi
ng 

Statu
s  / 
Natu
re  of 
Find
ings 
 

 

 

 
Description of relevant Table heads 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.  Audit Date – This indicates the date of conducting the audit 
2.  Description  of  Findings/  Observations  –  Description  of  the  findings  in  sufficient  detail,  referencing  any 

accompanying evidence (e.g. copies of procedures, interview notes, screen shots etc.) 

3.  Status/ Nature of Findings - the category can be specified for example: 

a.  Non Compliant 
b.  Work In progress  
c.  Observation  
d.  Suggestion 

4.  Risk Rating of Findings – A rating has to been given for each of the observations based on their impact and 

severity to reflect the risk exposure, as well as the suggested priority for action. 

 

 

 

Rating 
HIGH  Weakness in control those represent exposure to the organization or risks 
that could lead to instances of non compliance with the requirements of 
TORs. These risks need to be addressed with utmost priority. 

Description 

MEDIUM  Potential weakness in controls, which could develop into an exposure or 
issues that represent areas of concern and may impact internal controls. 
These should be addressed reasonably promptly. 
Potential  weaknesses  in  controls,  which  in  combination  with  other 
weakness  can  develop  into  an  exposure.  Suggested  improvements  for 
situations not immediately/directly affecting controls. 

LOW 

5.  Audit TOR Clause – The TOR clause corresponding to this observation. 
6.  Root cause Analysis –A detailed analysis on the cause of the nonconformity 
7.  Impact Analysis – An analysis of the likely impact on the operations/ activity of the organization. 
8.  Suggested Corrective Action –The action to be taken by the broker to correct the nonconformity. 

 
 
 

 

81 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

For Follow on / Follow up System Audit 
 

S. 
No. 

Preli
minar
y 
Audit 
Date 

Prelimin
ary 
Observa
tion 
Number 

Prelim
inary 
Status 

Prelim
inary 
Correc
tive 
Action 

Current 
Finding 

Current 
Status 

Revised 
Correct
ive 
Action 

 

 

 
Description of relevant Table heads  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Deadlin
e  for  the 
Revised 
Correcti
ve 
Action 
 

Verifi
ed By 

Closing 
date 

 

 

 

1.  Preliminary Status – The original finding as per the preliminary System Audit Report. 
2.  Preliminary  Corrective  Action  –  The  original  corrective  action  as  prescribed  in  the  preliminary  System 

Audit report. 

3.  Current Finding – The current finding w.r.t. the issue. 
4.  Current Status – Current status of the issue viz Compliant, Non Compliant, Work In Progress (WIP). 
5.  Revised  Corrective  Action  –  The  revised  corrective  action  prescribed  w.r.t.  the  Non  Compliant  /  WIP 

issues. 

 

***** 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

82 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

IV.  DEALINGS WITH CLIENT 

25.  Regulation of Transactions Between Clients and Brokers31 

 
25.1.  It shall be compulsory for all Member brokers to keep the money of the clients 
in a separate account and their own money in a separate account. No payment 
for transactions in which the Member broker is taking a position as a principal 
will be allowed to be made from the client’s account. The above principles and 
the  circumstances  under  which  transfer  from  client’s  account  to  Member 
broker’s account would be allowed are enumerated below. 

 

 

 

 

25.1.1.  Member Broker to keep accounts: Every member broker shall keep such 
books  of  accounts,  as  will  be  necessary,  to  show  and  distinguish  in 
connection with his business as a member: 
 
a.  Moneys received from or on account of each of his clients and 
b.  the moneys received and the moneys paid on Member’s own account 

25.1.2.  Obligation  to  pay  money  into  "clients’  accounts".  Every  member  broker 
who  holds  or  receives  money  on  account  of  a  client  shall  forthwith  pay 
such money to current or deposit account at bank to be kept in the name 
of  the  member  in  the  title  of  which  the  word  "clients"  shall  appear 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  "clients  account").  Member  broker  may  keep 
one consolidated clients account for all the clients or accounts in the name 
of  each  client,  as  he  thinks  fit.  Provided  that  when  a  Member  broker 
receives  a  cheque  or  draft  representing  in  part  money  belonging  to  the 
client  and  in  part  money  due  to  the  Member,  he  shall  pay  the  whole  of 
such  cheque  or  draft  into  the  clients  account  and  effect  subsequent 
transfer as laid down below in para 25.1.4(b). 

25.1.3.  What  moneys  to  be  paid  into  "clients  account".  No  money  shall  be  paid 

into clients account other than 

 

a.  money held or received on account of clients. 
b.  such  money  belonging  to  the  Member  as  may  be  necessary  for  the 

purpose of opening or maintaining the account. 

c.  money for replacement of any sum which may by mistake or accident 
have  been  drawn  from  the  account  in  contravention  of  25.1.4  given 
below. 

d.  a cheque or draft received by the Member representing in part money 

belonging to the client and in part money due to the Member. 

25.1.4.  What moneys to be withdrawn from "clients account". No money shall be 

drawn from clients account other than 

                                                           
31 Reference: Circular SMD/SED/CIR/93/23321 dated November 18, 1993. 

 

83 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
a.  money properly required for payment to or on behalf of clients or for 
or  towards  payment  of  a  debt  due  to  the  Member  from  clients  or 
money  drawn  on  client’s  authority,  or  money  in  respect  of  which 
there  is  a  liability  of  clients  to  the  Member,  provided  that  money  so 
drawn shall not in any case exceed the total of the money so held for 
the time being for such each client;  

b.  such money belonging to the Member as may have been paid into the 

client account under 25.1.3(b) or 25.1.3(d) given above;  

c.  money  which  may  by  mistake  or  accident  have  been  paid  into  such 

account in contravention of para 25.1.3 above. 

25.1.5.  Right  to  lien,  set-off  etc.,  not  affected.  Nothing  in  this  para  25.1  shall 
deprive  a  Member  broker  of  any  recourse  or  right,  whether  by  way  of 
lien,  set-off,  counter-claim  charge  or  otherwise  against  moneys  standing 
to the credit of clients account. 

 
25.2.  It  shall  be  compulsory  for  all  Member  brokers  to  keep  separate  accounts  for 
client’s securities and to keep such books of accounts, as may be necessary, to 
distinguish  such  securities  from  his/their  own  securities.  Such  accounts  for 
client’s securities shall, inter-alia provide for the following: 
 

25.2.1.  Securities received for sale or kept pending delivery in the market. 

 

25.2.2.  Securities fully paid for, pending delivery to clients. 
 
25.2.3.  Securities received for transfer or sent for transfer by the Member, in the 

name of client or his nominee(s). 

 
25.2.4.  Securities that are fully paid for and are held in custody by the Member 
as  security/margin  etc.  Proper  authorization  from  client  for  the  same 
shall be obtained by Member. 

 
25.2.5.  Fully paid for client’s securities registered in the name of Member, if any, 

towards margin requirements etc. 

 
25.2.6.  Securities  given  on  Vyaj-badla.  Member  shall  obtain  authorization  from 

clients for the same. 

 
25.3.  Member  Brokers  shall  make  payment  to  their  clients  or  deliver  the  securities 
purchased  within  24  hours  of  pay-out  unless  the  client  has  requested 
otherwise32. 

                                                           
32 Words “two working days” replaced with “24 hours” in view of Para 12 of Annexure-A of SEBI 
circular MIRSD/SE/CIR-9/2009 dated December 03, 2009. 

 

84 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

25.4.  Member brokers shall issue the contract note for purchase/sale of securities to 

a client within 24 hours of the execution of the contract. 

 
25.5.  In case of purchases on behalf of clients, Member brokers shall be a liberty to 
close  out  the  transactions  by  selling  the  securities,  in  case  the  client  fails  to 
make the full payment to the Member Broker for the execution of the contract 
within  two  days  of  contract  note  having  been  delivered  for  cash  shares  and 
seven  days  for  specified  shares  or  before  pay-in  day  (as  fixed  by  Stock 
Exchange for the concerned settlement period), whichever is earlier; unless the 
client already has an equivalent credit with the Member. The loss incurred in 
this regard, if any, will be met from the margin money of that client. 

 
25.6.  In case of sales on behalf of clients, Member broker shall be at liberty to close 
out the contract by effecting purchases if the client fails to deliver the securities 
sold with valid transfer documents within 48 hours of the contract note having 
been delivered or before delivery day (as fixed by  Stock Exchange authorities 
for  the  concerned  settlement  period),  whichever  is  earlier.  Loss  on  the 
transaction, if any, will be deductible from the margin money of that client. 

 

26.  Collateral deposited by Clients with Brokers33 

 
26.1.  For  brokers  to  maintain  proper  records  of  client  collateral  and  to  prevent 

misuse of client collateral, it is advised that: 

 

 

 

26.1.1.  Brokers should have adequate systems and procedures in place to ensure 
that client collateral is not used for any purposes other than meeting the 
respective  client’s  margin  requirements  /  pay-ins.  Brokers  should  also 
maintain records to ensure proper audit trail of use of client collateral. 

26.1.2.  Brokers  should  further  be  able  to  produce  the  aforesaid  records  during 

inspection. The records should include details of: 

 

a.  Receipt of collateral from client and acknowledgement issued to client 

on receipt of collateral. 

b.  Client  authorization  for  deposit  of  collateral  with  the  exchange  / 

Clearing Corporation / clearing house towards margin. 

c.  Record  of  deposit  of  collateral  with  Stock  Exchange  /  Clearing 

Corporation / Clearing House. 

d.  Record of return of collateral to client. 
e.  Credit of corporate action benefits to clients. 

26.1.3.  The  records  should  be  periodically  reconciled  with  the  actual  collateral 

deposited with the broker. 

                                                           
33 Reference: Circular MRD/DoP/SE/CIR-11/2008 dated April 17, 2008. 

 

85 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

26.1.4.  Brokers  should  issue  a  daily  statement  of  collateral  utilization  to 
clients which shall  include,  inter-alia,  details  of  collateral  deposited, 
collateral  utilised  and  collateral  status  (available balance  /  due  from 
client)  with  break  up  in  terms  of  cash,  Fixed  Deposit  Receipts  (FDRs), 
Bank Guarantee and securities. 

 
26.2.  In case of complaints against brokers related to misuse of collateral deposited 
by  clients,  exchanges  should  look  into  the  allegations,  conduct  inspection  of 
broker if required and based on its findings take necessary action. 

 
26.3.  In  case  client  collateral  is  found  to  be  mis-utilised,  the  broker  would  attract 
appropriate deterrent penalty for violation of norms provided under Securities 
Contract  Regulation  Act,  SEBI  Act,  SEBI  Regulations  and  circulars,  Exchange 
Byelaws, Rules, Regulations and circulars. 

 

27.  Severance of connections with other businesses34 

 
27.1.  Rule 8(1)(f) and Rule 8(3)(f) of the Securities Contract (Regulation) Rules, 1957, 
requires that members of a Stock Exchange, whether individual, partnership or 
corporate, shall not engage in any business other than that of securities. Stock 
Exchanges should be ensured that the applicants do not attract the above stated 
rule. 

 

28.  Applicability  of  Rule  8(1)(f)  and  8(3)(f)  of  the  Securities  Contract  (Regulation) 

Rules, 195735 
 
28.1.  Borrowing and lending of funds, by a trading member, in connection with or 
incidental  to  or  consequential  upon  the  securities  business,  would  not  be 
disqualified  under  Rule  8(1)(f)  and  8(3)(f)  of  the  Securities  Contract 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957. 

 

29.  Mode of payment and delivery36 

 
29.1.  Brokers and sub-brokers should not accept cash from the client whether against 
obligations or as margin for purchase of securities and / or give cash against 
sale of securities to the clients. 
 

29.2.  All  payments  shall  be  received  /  made  by  the  brokers  from  /  to  the  clients 
strictly by account payee crossed cheques / demand drafts or by way of direct 
credit into the bank account through EFT, or any other mode allowed by RBI. 
The  brokers  shall  accept cheques drawn  only  by  the  clients  and  also 

                                                           
34 Reference: Circular SMD/VRN/1476/95 dated April 27, 1995. 
35 Reference: Circular SMD/POLICY/CIR-6/97 dated May 07, 1997. 
36 Reference: Circular SEBI/MRD/SE/CIR-33/2003/27/08 dated August 27, 2003. 

 

86 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

issue cheques in favour of  the  clients  only,  for  their  transactions.  However,  in 
exceptional circumstances the broker or sub-broker may receive the amount in 
cash, to the extent not in violation of the Income Tax requirement as may be in 
force from time to time. 
 

29.3.  Similarly, in the case of securities also giving / taking delivery of securities in 
“demat mode”  should  be  directly  to  /  from  the  “beneficiary  accounts”  of  the 
clients except delivery of securities to a recognized entity under the approved 
scheme of the Stock Exchange and / or SEBI. 

 

30.  Pre- funded instruments / Electronic fund transfers37 

 
30.1.  To  address  the  concerns  regarding  flow  of  third  party  funds  /  unidentified 

money, following guidelines shall be followed:  

 

 

 

30.1.1.  If the aggregate value of pre-funded instruments is Rs 50,000/- or more, 
per  day  per  client,  the  stock  brokers  may  accept  the  instruments  only  if 
the  same  are  accompanied  by  the  name  of  the  bank  account  holder  and 
number of the bank account debited for the purpose, duly certified by the 
issuing bank. The mode of certification may include the following: 
 
a.  Certificate from the issuing bank on its letterhead or on a plain paper 

with the seal of the issuing bank.  

b.  Certified copy of the requisition slip (portion which is retained by the 

bank) to issue the instrument.  

c.  Certified  copy  of  the  passbook/bank  statement  for  the  account 

debited to issue the instrument.  

d.  Authentication of the bank account-number debited and name of the 

account holder by the issuing bank on the reverse of the instrument. 

30.1.2.  Maintain  an  audit  trail  of  the  funds  received  through  electronic  fund 

transfers to ensure that the funds are received from their clients only. 

31.  Disclosure of proprietary trading by Broker to Client38 

 
31.1.  With  a  view  to  increase  the  transparency  in  the  dealings  between  the  broker 
and  the  client,  every  broker  shall  disclose  to  his client whether he  does  client 
based business or proprietary trading as well. 
 

31.2.  The broker shall disclose this information upfront to his new clients at the time 

of entering into the Know Your Client agreement. 
 

31.3.  In  case  of  a  broker  who  at  present  does  not  trade  on  proprietary  account, 

                                                           
37 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/03/2011 dated June 09, 2011. 
38 Reference: Circular SEBI/MRD/SE/CIR-42/2003 dated November 19, 2003. 

 

87 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

chooses to do so at a later date, he shall be required to disclose this to his clients 
before carrying out any proprietary trading. 

 

32.  “Pro – account” trading terminal39 

 
32.1.  During  the  course  of  inspections  carried  out  by  SEBI  and  Stock  Exchanges  of 
the  books  of  accounts  and  other  documents  of  members,  following 
observations were made: 
 

32.1.1.  Certain members are putting large number of orders on pro-account from 
various locations rather than using “pro-account” at the terminals located 
at  the  corporate  office  from  where  the  owner  /  directors  normally 
function.  
 

32.1.2.  These  trades  executed  from  various  locations  under  “pro-account”  are, 
many a time, transferred subsequently to the respective clients in the back 
office of the members.  

 
32.2.  The  aforementioned  practices  clearly  violate  the  requirement  of  putting  the 

orders of clients under the appropriate client code through trading terminals. 
 

32.3.  With a view to check such misuse of the above facility, if any, Stock Exchanges 

are directed to ensure the following:- 

32.3.1.  Facility  of  placing  orders  on  “pro-account”  through  trading  terminals 
shall  be  extended  only  at  one  location  of  the  members  as  specified  / 
required by the members. 

32.3.2.  Trading  terminals  located  at  places  other  than  the  above  location  shall 
have  a  facility  to  place  orders  only  for  and  on  behalf  of  a  client  by 
entering  client  code  details  as  required  /  specified  by  the  Exchange  / 
SEBI. 

32.3.3.  In case any member requires the facility of using “pro-account” through 
trading  terminals  from  more  than  one  location,  such  member  shall  be 
required  to  submit  an  undertaking  to  the  Stock  Exchange  stating  the 
reason  for  using  the  “pro-account”  at  multiple  locations  and  the  Stock 
Exchange  may,  on  case  to  case  basis  after  due  diligence,  consider 
extending  the  facility  of  allowing  use  of  “pro-account”  from  more  than 
one location. 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

                                                           
39 Reference: Circular SEBI/MRD/SE/CIR-32/2003/27/08 dated August 27, 2003 

 

88 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
33.  Review of norms relating to trading by Members/ Sub-Brokers40 

 
33.1.  During the course of inspections carried out by SEBI of the books of accounts 
and  other  documents  of  members/sub-brokers,  following  observation  was 
made: 
 

33.1.1.  Certain  members/sub-brokers  are  dealing  through  a  large  number  of 
other  stock  brokers/sub-brokers  of  the  same  exchange/other  exchange 
for their proprietary trades as well as trades on behalf of clients. 

 
33.2.  Trading through large number of brokers/sub-brokers raises serious issues of 
regulatory  concerns  including  taking  excessive  exposure,  executing  pro 
account trading from multiple locations in violation of provisions  specified in 
para 32.3 above (Pro-account Trading Terminal), possibility of over leveraging 
and default etc.  

 
33.3.  With a view to address these concerns, Stock Exchanges are directed to ensure 

the following: 

 

 

 

33.3.1.  A  stock  broker/  sub-broker  of  an  exchange  cannot  deal  with 
brokers/sub-brokers of the same exchange either for proprietary trading 
or for trading on behalf of clients, except with the prior permission of the 
exchange.  The  Stock  Exchanges  while  giving  such  permission,  shall 
consider the  reasons stated  by  the  brokers/sub-brokers  for  dealing with 
brokers/sub-brokers  of  the  same  exchange  and  after  carrying  out  due 
diligence  allow  such  brokers/sub-brokers  to  deal  with  only  one  stock 
broker/sub-broker of the same exchange. 

33.3.2.  A  stock  broker/sub-broker  of  an  exchange  can  deal  with  only  one 
broker/sub-broker  of  another  exchange  for  proprietary  trading  after 
intimating the names of such stock broker/sub-broker to his parent Stock 
Exchange. 

33.3.3.  As  per  Regulation  15(1) (e)  of  the  SEBI (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers) 
Regulations,  1992  a  sub-broker  shall  not  be  affiliated  to  more  than  one 
stock broker of one Stock Exchange. It is reiterated that a stock broker of 
an exchange can deal with only one broker of another exchange on behalf 
of clients after obtaining necessary registration as a sub-broker.  

 
 
 
 
 

                                                           
40 Reference: Circular SEBI/MIRSD/CIR-06/2004 January 13, 2004 

 

89 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
34.  Market Access through Authorised Persons41 

 
The  framework  governing  the  market  access  through  authorised  persons  is 
prescribed  below.  This  framework  provides  the  minimum  requirements  and  the 
Stock  Exchanges  and  stock  brokers  may  prescribe  additional  requirements,  as  they 
may deem appropriate, in the interest of investors and market. 
 

Regulatory Framework for Market Access through Authorised Persons 

 
34.1.  Who is an “Authorised Person”?  
 

Any  person  -  individual,  partnership  firm,  LLP  or  body  corporate  –  who  is 
appointed  as  such  by  a  stock  broker  (including  trading  member)  and  who 
provides  access  to  trading  platform  of  a  Stock  Exchange  as  an  agent  of  the 
stock broker. 
 

34.2.  Appointment of Authorised Person 
 

A stock broker may appoint one or more authorised person(s) after obtaining 
specific  prior  approval  from  the  Stock  Exchange  concerned  for  each  such 
person. The approval as well as the appointment shall be for specific segment 
of the exchange. 

 
34.3.  Procedure for Appointment 
 

34.3.1.  Stock  Broker  shall  select  a  person  in  compliance  with  the  criteria  laid 
down  by  the  Exchange  and  this  framework  for  appointment  as  an 
authorized  person  and  forward  the  application  of  the  person  to  Stock 
Exchange for approval.  
 

34.3.2.  On receipt of the aforesaid application, the Stock Exchange 
 

a.  may accord approval on satisfying itself that the person is eligible for 

appointment as authorized person, or  

b.  may refuse approval on satisfying itself that the person is not eligible 

for appointment as authorized person. 

 
34.4.  Eligibility Criteria 
 

34.4.1.  An individual is eligible to be appointed as authorised person if he: 

 

is a citizen of India;  

a. 
b.  is not less than 18 years of age;  

                                                           
41  Reference:  Circular  MIRSD/DR-1/CIR-16/09  dated  November  06,  2009  and  Circular 
SEBI/CIR/MIRSD/AP/8/2010 dated July 23, 2010. 

 

90 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

c.  has not been convicted of any offence involving fraud or dishonesty;  
d.  has good reputation and character;  
e.  has passed at least 10th standard or equivalent examination from an 

institution recognized by the Government; and  

34.4.2.  A partnership firm, LLP or a body corporate is eligible to be appointed as 

authorized person  
 
a. 

if  all  the  partners  or  directors,  as  the  case  may  be,  comply  with  the 
requirements contained in clause 34.4.1 above.  

b.  the  object  clause  of  the  partnership  deed  or  of  the  Memorandum  of 
Association  contains  a  clause  permitting  the  person  to  deal  in 
securities business.  

34.4.3.  The  person  shall  have  the  necessary  infrastructure  like  adequate  office 
space, equipment and manpower to effectively discharge the activities on 
behalf of the stock broker. 

34.4.4.  The  approved  users  and/or  sales  personnel  of Authorised  Persons  shall 
have the necessary certification of the respective segments at all points of 
time. 

 

 

 

 
34.5.  Conditions of Appointment 
 

34.5.1.  The following are the conditions of appointment of an authorised person:  

 

a.  The  stock  broker  shall  be  responsible  for  all  acts  of  omission  and 

commission of the authorized person.  

b.  All acts of omission and commission of the authorized person shall be 

deemed to be those of the stock broker.  

c.  The  authorized  person  shall  not  receive  or  pay  any  money  or 
securities  in  its  own  name  or  account.  All  receipts  and  payments  of 
securities and funds shall be in the name or account of stock broker.  

d.  The authorised person shall receive his remuneration  - fees, charges, 
commission,  salary,  etc.  -  for  his  services  only  from  the  stock  broker 
and he shall not charge any amount from the clients.  

e.  A  person  shall not  be  appointed  as  authorized  person  by  more  than 

one stock broker on the same Stock Exchange.  

f.  A partner or director of an authorised person  shall not be appointed 

as an authorised person on the same Stock Exchange.  

g.  The  stock  broker  and  authorised  person  shall  enter  into  written 
agreement(s)  in  the  form(s)  specified  by  Exchange.  The  agreement 
shall 
the  activities,  responsibilities, 
confidentiality  of  information,  commission  sharing,  termination 
clause, etc. 
 

inter-alia  cover  scope  of 

91 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

34.6.  Withdrawal of Approval 
 

34.6.1.  Approval given to an authorised person may be withdrawn by the Stock 

Exchange: 
 
a.  on receipt of a request to that effect from the stock broker concerned 
or the authorised person, subject to compliance with the requirements 
prescribed by the Stock Exchange, or 

b.  on  being  satisfied  that  the  continuation  of  authorised  person  is 
detrimental  to  the  interest  of  investors  or  securities  market  or  the 
authorised  person  at  a  subsequent  date  becomes  ineligible  under 
clause 34.4 above. 

 
34.7.  Obligations of Stock Broker 
 

34.7.1.  The  stock  broker  shall  be  responsible  for  all  acts  of  omission  and 
commission  of  his  authorised  person(s)  and/or  their  employees, 
including liabilities arising there from.  
 

34.7.2.  If any trading terminal is provided by the stock broker to an authorised 
person, the place where such trading terminal is located shall be treated 
as branch office of the stock broker.  

 
34.7.3.  Stock  Broker  shall  display  at  each  branch  office  additional  information 
such  as  particulars  of  authorised  person  in  charge  of  that  branch,  time 
lines for dealing through authorised person, etc., as may be specified by 
the Stock Exchange.  

 
34.7.4.  Stock  Broker  shall notify  changes, if any, in  the  authorised  person  to  all 

registered clients of that branch at least thirty days before the change.  

 
34.7.5.  Stock  Broker  shall  conduct  periodic  inspection  of  branches  assigned  to 

authorised persons and records of the operations carried out by them.  

 
34.7.6.  The  client  shall  be  registered  with  stock  broker  only.  The  funds  and 
securities of the clients shall be settled directly between stock broker and 
client  and  all  documents  like  contract  note,  statement  of  funds  and 
securities  would  be  issued  to  client  by  stock  broker.  Authorised  person 
may provide administrative assistance in procurement of documents and 
settlement but shall not issue any document to client in its own name. No 
fund/securities of clients shall go to account of authorized person.  

 
34.7.7.  On noticing irregularities, if any, in the operations of authorised person, 
stock broker shall seek withdrawal of approval, withhold all moneys due 
to authorised person till resolution of investor problems, alert investors in 

92 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

the location where authorised person operates, file a complaint with the 
police, and take all measures required to protect the interest of investors 
and market. 

 
34.8.  Obligations of Exchange 
 

34.8.1.  The  Stock  Exchange  shall  maintain  a  database  of  all  the  authorised 

persons which shall include the following: 

 

 

 

 

a.  PAN Number of authorised person and in case of partnership or body 
corporate,  PAN  Number  of  all  the  partners  or  directors  as  the  case 
may be.  

b.  Details of the broker with whom the authorised person is registered.  
c.  Locations of branch assigned to authorised person(s).  
d.  Number  of  terminals  and  their  details,  given  to  each  authorised 

person. 

e.  Withdrawal of approval of authorised person.  
f.  Change in status or constitution of authorised person.  
g.  Disciplinary  action  taken  by  the  Exchange  against  the  authorised 

person. 

All the above details, except (a) above, shall be made available on web 
site of the Stock Exchange. 

34.8.2.  While conducting the inspection of the stock broker, the  Stock Exchange 
shall  also  conduct  inspection  of  branches  where  the  terminals  of 
authorised persons are located and records of the operations carried out 
by them.  
 

34.8.3.  Dispute  between  a  client  and  an  authorised  person  shall  be  treated  as 
dispute  between  the  client  and  the  stock  broker  and  the  same  shall  be 
redressed by the Stock Exchange accordingly.  

34.8.4.  In  case  of  withdrawal  of  approval  of  authorised  person  due  to 
disciplinary  action,  the  Stock  Exchange  shall  issue  a  press  release  and 
disseminate  the  names  of  such  authorised  persons  on  its  website  citing 
the reason for cancellation. 

 

35.  SMS and e-mail alerts to investors by Stock Exchanges42 

 
Stock Exchanges shall send details of the transactions to the investors, by the end of 
trading day, through SMS and E-mail alerts. This would be subject to the following 
guidelines: 

                                                           
42  Reference:  Circular  CIR/MIRSD/15/2011  dated  August  02,  2011  and  SEBI  communication 
SE/10118 dated October 12, 1992. 

 

93 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
35.1.  Applicability –  

 
35.1.1.  These guidelines are applicable to equity - cash and derivative - segments 

of the Stock Exchanges. 

 
35.2.  Uploading of mobile number and E-mail address by stock brokers 
 

35.2.1.  Stock Exchanges shall provide a platform to stock brokers to upload the 
details  of  their  clients,  preferably,  in  sync  with  the  UCC  updation 
module.  

 

 

 

35.2.2.  Stock  Brokers  shall  upload  the  details  of  clients,  such  as,  name,  mobile 

number, address for correspondence and E-mail address.  

35.2.3.  Stock Brokers shall ensure that the mobile numbers/E-mail addresses of 
their  employees/sub-brokers/remisiers/authorized  persons  are  not 
uploaded on behalf of clients.  

35.2.4.  Stock  Brokers  shall  ensure  that  separate  mobile  number/E-mail  address 
is  uploaded  for  each  client.  However,  under  exceptional  circumstances, 
the stock broker may, at the specific written request of a client, upload the 
same  mobile number/E-mail  address  for  more  than  one  client  provided 
such clients belong to one family. ‘Family’ for this purpose would mean 
self, spouse, dependent children and dependent parents. 

 

35.3.  Verification by the Stock Exchanges 
 

35.3.1.  After uploading of details by the stock brokers, the Stock Exchanges shall 
take  necessary  steps  to  verify  the  details  by  any  mode  as  considered 
appropriate by them which may include the following: 
 
a.  By  way  of  sending  SMS  and  E-mail  directly  to  the  investors  at  the 

numbers/E-mail address uploaded by the stock brokers.  

b.  By way of sending letters to the address of the investors uploaded by 

the stock brokers. 

 
35.4.  Sending of alerts by the Stock Exchanges 
 

35.4.1.  Upon  receipt  of  confirmation  from  the  investors,  the  Stock  Exchanges 
shall  commence  sending  the  transaction  details  generated  based  on 
investors’ Permanent Account Number, directly to them. 

 
35.5.  Handling of discrepancies, if any 
 

94 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

35.5.1.  If  any  discrepancy  is  observed  by  the  Stock  Exchanges  in  the  details 
uploaded  by  the  stock  brokers  including  non-confirmation  by  investors, 
bounced E-mails, undelivered SMS/letters, etc., the Stock Exchanges shall 
inform the respective stock broker. 

 
35.6.  Meeting out the expenses for providing SMS and E-mail alerts 
 

35.6.1.  The Stock Exchanges may use the amount set aside from the listing fees 
(20% of the listing fees) for providing services to the investing public, to 
meet the expenses for providing this facility. 
 

36.  Prevention of Unauthorised Trading by Stock Brokers43 

 
36.1.  SEBI in the past has taken several steps to tackle the menace of “Unauthorized 
Trades”  viz  Periodic  Running  Account  Settlement,  Post 
transactions 
SMS/email  by  Stock  Exchanges/Depositories,  Ticker  on  broker/DP  websites 
etc. It was observed that in spite of measures taken, a considerable proportion 
of investor complaints is of the nature of “Unauthorized Trades”. 

 
36.2.  To  further  strengthen  regulatory  provisions  against  un-authorized  trades  and 
also  to  harmonise  the  requirements  across  markets,  it  has  now  been  decided 
that all brokers shall execute trades of clients only after keeping evidence of the 
client placing such order, it could be, inter alia, in the form of:  

 

a. Physical record written & signed by client,  
b. Telephone recording,  
c. Email from authorized email id,  
d. Log for internet transactions,  
e. Record of SMS messages,  
f. Any other legally verifiable record.  

 
36.3.  When a dispute arises, the broker shall produce the above mentioned records 
for the disputed trades. However, for exceptional cases such as technical failure 
etc.  where  broker  fails  to  produce  order  placing  evidences,  the  broker  shall 
justify with reasons for the same and depending upon merit of the same, other 
appropriate evidences like post trade confirmation by client, receipt/payment 
of  funds/  securities  by  client  in  respect  of  disputed  trade,  etc.  shall  also  be 
considered. 

 
36.4.  Further, wherever the order instructions are received from clients through the 
telephone, the stock broker shall mandatorily use telephone recording system 
to  record  the  instructions  and  maintain  telephone  recordings  as  part  of  its 
records. 

 

                                                           
43 Reference: Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP1/CIR/P/2018/54 dated March 22, 2018. 

 

95 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

36.5.  The Brokers are required to maintain the records specified at Para 36.2 above 
for  a  minimum  period for  which  the  arbitration  accepts  investors’  complaints 
as  notified  from  time  to  time  currently  three  years.  However,  in  cases  where 
dispute  has  been  raised,  such  records  shall  be  kept  till  final  resolution  of  the 
dispute. 

 
36.6.  If  SEBI  desires  that  specific  records  be  preserved  then  such  records  shall  be 

kept till further intimation by SEBI. 

 

37.  Execution of Power of Attorney (PoA) by the Client in favour of the Stock Broker/ 

Stock Broker and Depository Participant44 
 

37.1.  A  Power  of  Attorney  (PoA)  is  executed  by  the  client  in  favour  of  the  stock 
broker  /stock  broker  and  depository  participant  to  authorize  the  broker  to 
operate the client’s demat account and bank account to facilitate the delivery of 
shares and pay – in/ pay – out of funds. 
 

37.2.  Generally, the PoA is taken from the clients who want to avail internet based 
trading  services.  For  offering  internet  based  trading  services,  a  Stock  Broker 
requires necessary authorizations for seamless trading, collection of margins as 
well as settlement of funds and securities. Further, some of the Stock Brokers 
also  obtain  authorizations  from  their  clients  to  offer  non-internet  based 
services. 

 

37.3.  It came to SEBI’s notice that the clients are compelled to give irrevocable power 
of  attorney  to  manage  client’s  demat  account  and  bank  account  so  that  the 
client is able to pay funds or deliver shares to its broker on time. In some cases, 
the PoA even allows a broker to open and close accounts on behalf of the client 
and to trade on client’s account without the consent of the client. 

37.4.  In  order  to  standardize  the  norms  to  be  followed  by  stock  brokers/  stock 
broker  and  depository  participants  while  obtaining  PoA  from  the  clients, 
guidelines  as  set  out  in  the  Annexure  shall  be  made  applicable  to  stock 
brokers/ stock broker and depository participants. 

 

 

37.5.  Standardizing the norms for PoA must not be construed as making the PoA a 
condition  precedent  or  mandatory  for  availing  broking  or  depository 
participant  services.  PoA  is  merely  an  option  available  to  the  client  for 
instructing  his  broker  or  depository  participant  to  facilitate  the  delivery  of 
shares  and  pay-in/pay-out  of  funds  etc.  No  stock  broker  or  depository 
participant shall deny services to the client if the client refuses to execute a PoA 
in their favour. However, internet based trading is exempted from this clause. 

                                                           
44 
CIR/MRD/DMS/28/2010 dated August 31, 2010. 

Reference:  Circular  CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2010 

 

 

96 

dated  April 

23, 

2010 

and 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

37.6.  Stock  Broker/  DP  may  revoke  those  authorizations  that  are  inconsistent  with 
the  present  guidelines  by  communicating  the  inconsistent  clauses  to  the 
existing clients. In the event, the deleted clauses are not accepted by the client, 
Stock  Broker/  DP  may  be  required  to  either  obtain  fresh  PoA  or  close  the 
account. In case of any addition to the existing PoA, Stock Broker / DP shall be 
required to obtain a new PoA from clients. 

1.  PoA favouring Stock Brokers 

 

ANNEXURE 

 

 

1.1.  PoA executed in favour of a stock broker by the client should be  limited to 

the following: 

 

1.1.1.  Securities 

 

a)  Transfer of securities held in the beneficial owner account(s) of the 
client(s)  towards  Stock  Exchange  related  margin  /  delivery 
obligations  arising  out  of  trades  executed  by  the  Client(s)  on  the 
Stock Exchange through the same stock broker. Margin / Delivery 
obligations shall also include settlement obligations, if any. 

 

b)  Pledge  the  securities  in  favour  of  stock  broker  for  the  limited 
purpose  of  meeting  the  margin  requirements  of  the  client(s)  in 
connection  with  the  trades  executed  by  the  clients  on  the  Stock 
Exchange  through  the  same  stock  broker.  Necessary  audit  trail 
should be available with the stock broker for such transactions. 

 

in  open  offers,  redemptions  etc.  pursuant 

c)  To  apply  for  various  products  like  Mutual  Funds,  Public  Issues 
(shares  as  well  as  debentures),  rights,  offer  of  shares,  tendering 
shares 
the 
instructions of the Client(s). However, a proper audit trail should 
be  maintained  by  the  stock  broker  to  prove  that  the  necessary 
application/act was made/done pursuant to receipt of instruction 
from Client. 

to 

 
1.1.2.  Funds 

 

Transfer  of  funds  from  the  bank  account(s)  of  the  clients  for  the 
following: 
 
a.  For  meeting  the  settlement  obligations  of  the  client(s)/  margin 
requirements  of  the  client(s)  in  connection  with  the  trades 
executed  by  the  clients  on  the  Stock  Exchange  through  the  same 
stock broker. 

97 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

b.  For  recovering  any  outstanding  amount  due  from  the  client(s) 
arising  out  of  clients  trading  activities  on  the  Stock  Exchanges 
through the same stock broker. 

c.  For  meeting  obligations  arising  out  of  the  client  subscribing  to 
such  other  products/facilities/services  through  the  stock  broker 
like  Mutual  Funds,  Public  Issues  (shares  as  well  as  debentures), 
rights, offer of shares in etc. 

d.  Towards  monies/fees/charges,  etc.  due  to  the  stock  broker 
/depository participant/ principal payable by virtue of the client 
using/subscribing  to  any  of  the  facilities/services  availed  by  the 
client at his/her instance. 

 

 

 

Necessary  audit  trail  should  be  available  with  the  stock  broker  for 
such transactions. 

 
2.  PoA favouring Stock Brokers and Depository Participants 
 

2.1.  PoA executed in favour of a stock broker and Depository Participant by the 

client should: 

 

 

2.1.1. 

Identify/provide  the  particulars  of  the  beneficial  owner  account(s) 
and the bank account(s) of the client(s) that the stock broker is entitled 
to operate. 

2.1.2.  Provide the list of clients’ & brokers’ Bank accounts & demat accounts 
where  funds  and  securities  can  be  moved.  Such  bank  &  demat 
accounts should be accounts of related party only.  The list of clients’ 
and  brokers’  Bank  account  and  demat  accounts  may  be  updated  / 
amended  by  proper  communication  without  executing  a  new  PoA 
every  time.  Copies  of  such  communication  may  be  preserved  as 
annexure to PoA. 

 
2.1.3.  Be executed in the name of the concerned SEBI registered entity only 
and  not  in  the  name  of  any  employee  or  representative  of  the  stock 
broker /depository participant. 

 
2.1.4.  Not  provide  the  authority  to  transfer  the  rights  in  favour  of  any 

assignees of the stock broker/depository participant. 

 

2.1.5.  Be  executed  and  stamped  as  per  the  rules  /  law  prevailing  in  the 
place where the PoA is executed or the place where the PoA is kept as 
a record, as applicable. 

98 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
2.1.6.  Contain  a  clause  by  which  the  stock  broker  would  return  to  the 
client(s),  the  securities  or  fund  that  may  have  been  received  by  it 
erroneously  or  those  securities  or  fund  that  it  was  not  entitled  to 
receive from the client(s). 

 
2.1.7.  Be  revocable  at  any  time.  However,  such  revocation  shall  not  be 
applicable for any outstanding settlement obligation arising out of the 
trades  carried  out  prior  to  receiving  request  for  revocation  of  PoA. 
Further,  the  PoA  revocation  requests  should  be  dated  and  time 
stamped by the brokers for ensuring proper audit trail. 

 

2.1.8.  Be executed by all the joint holders (in case of  a demat account held 
jointly).  If  the  constitution  of  the  account  is  changed  for  whatever 
reason, a new PoA should be executed. 

 

2.1.9.  Authorize 

the 

stock  broker/depository  participant 

send 
consolidated  summary  of  Client's  scrip-wise  buy  and  sell  positions 
taken  with  average  rates  to  the  client  by  way  of  SMS  /  email  on  a 
daily basis, notwithstanding any other document to be disseminated 
as specified by SEBI from time to time. 

to 

 

 

3.  General Guidelines 

 
3.1.  The POA shall not facilitate the stock broker to do the following: 
 

3.1.1.  Off-market  trades  between  parties  other  than  the  related  parties  as 

mentioned in the PoA. 
 

3.1.2.  Transfer  of  funds  from  the  bank  account(s)  of  the  Clients  for  trades 

executed by the clients through another stock broker. 

 
3.1.3.  Open a broking / trading facility with any stock broker or for opening 

a beneficial owner account with any depository participant. 

 
3.1.4.  Execute  trades  in  the  name  of  the  client(s)  without  the  client(s) 

consent. 

3.1.5.  Prohibit  issue  of  Delivery  Instruction  Slips  (DIS)  to  beneficial  owner 

(client). 

3.1.6.  Prohibit client(s) from operating the account. 

3.1.7.  Merging of balances (dues) under various accounts to nullify debit in 

any other account. 

 

 

 

99 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.1.8.  Open  an  email  ID/  email  account  on  behalf  of  the  client(s)  for 
receiving  statement  of  transactions,  bills,  contract  notes  etc.  from 
stock broker / depository participant. 

 
3.1.9.  Renounce  liability  for  any  loss  or  claim  that  may  arise  due  to  any 
blocking  of  funds  that  may  be  erroneously  instructed  by  the  stock 
broker to the designated bank. 

 
4.  Stock Broker / Depository Participant should ensure that: 

 
4.1.  A duplicate/ certified true copy of the PoA is provided to the Client(s) after 

execution. 
 

4.2.  In case of merger/ demerger of the stock broker/depository participant with 
another entity/ into another entity, the scheme of merger/ demerger should 
be  approved  by  High  Court  and  one  month  prior  intimation  given  to  the 
client  about  the  corporate  restructuring  to  facilitate  investor/  client  to 
continue or discontinue with the broker. 

 
 

38.  Modification  of  Client  Codes  of  Non-institutional  Trades  executed  on  Stock 

Exchanges (All Segments)45 

 

38.1.  Stock  Exchanges  may  allow  modifications  of  client  codes  of  non-institutional 
trades  only  to  rectify  a  genuine  error  in  entry  of  client  code  at  the  time  of 
placing / modifying the related order. 

 

38.2.  If a Stock Exchange wishes to allow trading members to modify client codes of 

non-institutional trades, it shall 
 

38.2.1.  lay  down  strict  objective  criteria,  with  the  approval  of  its  Governing 
Board,  for  identification  of  genuine  errors  in  client  codes  which  may  be 
modified, and disclose the same to market in advance, 

 

38.2.2.  set  up  a  mechanism  to  monitor  that  the  trading  members  modify  client 

codes only as per the strict objective criteria, and 

 

38.2.3.  ensure that modification of client codes is covered in the internal audit of 

trading members. 

 
 
 
                                                           
45  Reference:  Circular  CIR/DNPD/6/2011  dated 
CIR/MRD/DP/29/2014 dated October 21, 2014. 

 

100 

July 

05, 

2011 

and  Circular 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

38.3.  Notwithstanding the above, 

38.3.1.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  levy  a  penalty  from  trading  members  and 

credit the same to its Investor Protection Fund as under: 
 

‘a’ as % of ‘b’ 

Penalty as % of ‘a’ 

≤ 5 
> 5 

 

1 
2 

Where 
a  =  Value  (turnover)  of  non-institutional  trades  where  client  codes  have  been 
modified by a trading member in a segment during a month.  
b  =  Value  (turnover)  of  non-institutional  trades  of  the  trading  member  in  the 
segment during the month. 
 

38.3.2.  The  Stock  Exchange  shall  conduct  a  special  inspection  of  the  trading 
member to ascertain whether the modifications of client codes are being 
carried on as per the strict objective criteria set by the Stock Exchange, as 
directed in Para 38.2 above, if ‘a’ as % of ‘b’, as defined above, exceeds 1% 
during  a  month  and  take  appropriate  disciplinary  action,  if  any 
deficiency is observed. 

38.4.  Shifting  of  trades  to  the  error  account  of  broker  would  not  be  treated  as 
modification  of  client  code,  provided  the  trades  in  error  account  are 
subsequently liquidated in the market and not shifted to some other code. 

 

 

38.5.  Further,  brokers  shall  disclose  the  codes  of  accounts  which  are  classified  as 
‘error  accounts’  to  the  Stock  Exchanges.  Each  broker  should  have  a  well-
documented  error  policy  approved  by  the  management  of  the  broker.  Stock 
Exchanges shall periodically review the trades flowing to the error accounts of 
the brokers. 

38.6.  Waiver of Penalty 

 

 
38.6.1.  Stock exchanges may waive penalty for a client code modification where 
stock  broker  is  able  to  produce  evidence  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  stock 
exchange to establish that the modification was on account of a genuine 
error. 

 

38.6.2.  Not  more  than  one  such  waiver  per  quarter  may  be  given  to  a  stock 
broker  for  modification  in  a  client  code.  Explanation:  If  penalty  wavier 
has  been  given  with  regard  to  a  genuine  client  code  modification  from 
client  code  AB  to  client  code  BA,  no  more  penalty  waivers  shall  be 
allowed  to  the  stock  broker  in  the  quarter  for  modifications  related  to 
client codes AB and BA. 

101 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

38.7.  Proprietary trades shall not be allowed to be modified as client trade and vice 

 

versa 

 

38.8.  Stock exchanges shall submit a report to SEBI every quarter regarding all such 

client code modifications where penalties have been waived. 

 

38.9.  Stock  exchanges  shall  undertake  stringent  disciplinary  actions  against  stock 

brokers who undertake frequent client code modifications. 

 

39.  Margin Trading Facility46 

 

39.1.  Equity  Shares  that  are  classified  as  'Group  I  security'  shall  be  eligible  for 
margin trading facility. Group I securities are liquid securities which are traded 
at least 80% of the days over the previous six months and impact cost for which 
over  the  previous  six  months  is  less  than  or  equal  to  1%.  (For  securities  that 
have been listed for less than six months, the trading frequency and the impact 
cost shall be computed using the entire trading history of the scrip) 

 

39.2.  Margin Requirement 

 
39.2.1.  In  order  to  avail  margin  trading  facility,  initial margin  required shall  be 

as under: 

 

Category of Stock 

Applicable margin 

Group  I  stocks  available  for  trading  in 
the F & O Segment 
Group I stocks other than F&O stocks 

VaR + 3 times of applicable ELM(*) 

VaR + 5 times of applicable ELM(*) 

(*)  For  aforesaid  purpose  the  applicable  VaR  and  ELM  shall  be  as  in  the  cash 
segment for a particular stock. 
 

39.2.2.  The initial margin payable by the client to the stock broker shall be in the 
form of cash, cash equivalent or Group I equity shares, with appropriate 
haircut as specified by SEBI. 

 

39.2.3.  The  stock  brokers  shall  be  required  to  comply  with  the  following 

conditions: 

 

a.  The  stocks  deposited  as  collateral  with  the  stock  broker  for  availing 
margin  trading  facility  (Collaterals)  and  the  stocks  purchased  under 
the  margin  trading  facility  (Funded  stocks)  shall  be  identifiable 

                                                           
46  Reference:  Circular  CIR/MRD/DP/54/2017  dated 
CIR/MRD/DP/86/2017 dated August 01, 2017. 

June  13,  2017  and  Circular 

 

102 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

separately  and  no  comingling  shall  be  permitted  for  the  purpose  of 
computing funding amount;  

b.  Collateral  and  Funded  stocks  shall  be  marked  to  market  on  a  daily 

basis;  

c.  In case of increase in the value of Collaterals, stock brokers may have 
the  option  of  granting  further  exposure  to  their  clients  subject  to 
applicable haircuts;  

d.  However, no such exposure shall be permitted on the increased value 

of funded stocks. 

 

39.2.4.  Stock  Brokers  shall  ensure  maintenance  of  the  aforesaid  margin  at  all 
times  during  the  period  that  the  margin trading  facility is  being availed 
by  the  client.  In  case  of  short  fall,  stock  broker  shall  make  necessary 
margin calls. 

 

39.2.5.  The exchange/stock broker, based on the risk assessment, shall have the 
discretion  to  impose/collect  higher  margin  than  the  margin  specified  in 
para 39.2.1 above. 

 
39.3.  Liquidation of Securities by the stock broker in case of default by the client  
 

39.3.1.  The  stock  broker  shall  list  out  situations/conditions  in  which  the 
securities  may  be  liquidated  and  such  situations/conditions  shall  be 
included  in  the  “Rights  and  Obligations  Document”.  The  broker  shall 
liquidate the securities, if the client fails to meet the margin call to comply 
with  the  conditions  as  mentioned  in  this  circular  or  specified  in  the 
"Rights and Obligations Document" specified by exchange.  

 

39.3.2.  However,  the  broker  shall  not  liquidate  or  use  in  any  manner  the 
securities  of  the  client  in  any  situation  other  than  the  conditions 
stipulated at para 39.3.1 above. 

 

39.4.  Eligibility requirements for stock brokers to provide Margin Trading Facility to 

clients  

39.4.1.  Only  corporate  stock  brokers  with  a  net  worth  of  at  least  Rs.3.00  crore 

shall be eligible to offer margin trading facility to their clients.  

 

39.4.2.  The  “net  worth”  for  the  purpose  of  margin  trading  facility  shall  be  as 

specified in SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992.  

 

39.4.3.  The  stock  brokers  shall  submit  to  the  Stock  Exchange  a  half-yearly 
certificate,  as  on  31st  March  and  30th  September  of  each  year,  from  an 

103 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

auditor confirming the net worth. Such a certificate shall be submitted not 
later than 30th April and 31st October of every year. 

39.5.  Source of Funds  
 

39.5.1.  For  the  purpose  of  providing  the  margin  trading  facility,  a  stock  broker 
may  use  own  funds  or borrow  funds from  scheduled  commercial banks 
and/or  NBFCs  regulated  by  RBI.  Stock  Brokers  may  borrow  funds  by 
way of issuance of Commercial Paper (CP) and by way of unsecured long 
term loans from their promoters and directors. The borrowing by way of 
issuance  of  CPs  shall  be  subject  to  compliance  with  appropriate  RBI 
Guidelines. The borrowing by way of unsecured long term loans from the 
promoters and directors shall be subject to the appropriate provisions of 
Companies Act. 

39.5.2.  A  stock  broker  shall  not  be  permitted  to  borrow  funds  from  any  other 

source, except the sources stated at para 39.5.1 above 

 

39.5.3.  The  stock  broker  shall  not  use  the  funds  of  any  client  for  providing  the 
margin trading facility to another client, even if the same is authorized by 
the first client. 

 
39.6.  Leverage and Exposure Limits 
 

39.6.1.  At  any  point  of  time,  the  total  indebtedness  of  a  stock  broker  for  the 
purpose  of  margin  trading  shall  not  exceed  5  times  of  its  net  worth, 
calculated as per para 39.4.2 above.  

 

39.6.2.  The  maximum  allowable  exposure  of  the  broker  towards  the  margin 
trading  facility  shall  be  within  the  self  imposed  prudential  limits  and 
shall  not,  in  any  case,  exceed  the  borrowed  funds  and  50%  of  his  “net 
worth”.  

 

39.6.3.  While providing the margin trading facility, the broker shall ensure that:  
 

a)  exposure to any single client at any point of time shall not exceed 10% 
of  the  broker’s  maximum  allowable  exposure,  as  specified  in  para 
39.6.2 above.  

b)  exposure towards stocks purchased under margin trading facility and 
collateral kept in the form of stocks are well diversified. Stock Brokers 
shall have appropriate Board approved policy in this regard. 

 
 

104 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

39.7.  Disclosure Requirement 
 

39.7.1.  The  stock  broker  shall  disclose  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  details  on  gross 
exposure  towards  margin  trading  facility  including  name  of  the  client, 
Category  of  holding  (Promoter/promoter  group  or  Non-promoter), 
clients'  Permanent  Account  Number  ("PAN"),  name  of  the  scrips 
(Collateral  stocks  and  Funded  stocks)  and  if  the  stock  broker  has 
borrowed  funds  for  the  purpose  of  providing  margin  trading  facility, 
name  of  the  lender  and  amount  borrowed,  on  or  before  12  noon  on  the 
following trading day. The format for this disclosure by the stock broker 
to the stock exchange is enclosed at Annexure. 

 

39.7.2.  The Stock Exchanges shall disclose on their websites the scrip wise gross 
outstanding  in  margin  accounts  with  all  brokers  to  the  market.  Such 
disclosure  regarding  margin  trading  done  on  any  day  shall  be  made 
available  after  the  trading  hours,  on  the  following  day,  through  its 
website. 

 

39.7.3.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  put in  place  a  suitable  mechanism  to  capture 
and  maintain  all  relevant  details  including  member-wise,  client-wise, 
scrip-wise information regarding outstanding positions in margin trading 
facility  and  also  source  of  funds  of  the  stock  brokers,  on  the  exchange 
both on daily as well as on cumulative basis. 

 
39.8.  Rights and Obligations for Margin Trading 
 

39.8.1.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  frame  a  Rights  and  Obligations  document 
laying down the rights and obligations of stock brokers and clients for the 
purpose of margin trading facility. The Rights and Obligations document 
shall be mandatory and binding on the Broker/Trading Member and the 
clients for executing trade in the Margin Trading framework.  

 

39.8.2.  The broker/exchange may modify the Rights and Obligations document 
only for stipulating any additional or more stringent conditions, provided 
that  no  such  modification  shall  have  the  effect  of  diluting  any  of  the 
conditions  laid  down  in  the  circular  or  in  the  Rights  and  Obligations 
document. 

 
39.9.  Maintenance of Records 
 

39.9.1.  The stock broker shall maintain separate client-wise ledgers for funds and 

securities of clients availing margin trading facility.  

 

39.9.2.  The stock broker shall maintain a separate record of details of the funds 

105 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

used and sources of funds for the purpose of margin trading.  

 

39.9.3.  The  books  of  accounts,  maintained  by  the  broker,  with  respect  to  the 
margin  trading  facility  offered  by  it,  shall  be  audited  on  a  half  yearly 
basis.  The  stock  broker  shall  submit  an  auditor’s  certificate  to  the 
exchange  within  one  month  from  the  date  of  the  half  year  ending  31st 
March  and  30th  September  of  a  year  certifying,  inter  alia,  the  extent  of 
compliance with the conditions of margin trading facility. This certificate 
is in addition to the certificate on net worth specified in para 39.4.2 above. 

 

39.10. Other Conditions 
 

39.10.1.  A  broker  shall  take  adequate  care  and  exercise  due  diligence  before 

providing margin trading facility to any client. 

 

39.10.2.  Any  disputes  arising  between  the  client  and  the  stock  broker  in 
connection  with  the  margin  trading  facility  shall  have  the  same 
treatment  as  normal  trades  and  should  be  covered  under  the  investor 
grievance  redressal  mechanism,  arbitration  mechanism  of  the  Stock 
Exchange. 

 

39.10.3.  SGF  and  IPF  shall  be  available  for  transactions  done  on  the  exchange, 
whether through normal or margin trading facility. However, any losses 
suffered  in  connection  with  the  margin  trading  facility  availed  by  the 
client from the stock broker shall not be covered under IPF. 

 
39.10.4.  The  stock  brokers  wishing  to  extend  margin  trading  facility  to  their 
clients  shall  be  required  to  obtain  prior  permission  from  the  exchange 
where  the  margin  trading  facility  is  proposed  to  be  offered.  The 
exchange  shall  have  right  to  withdraw  this  permission  at  a  later  date, 
after giving reasons for the same. 

 

ANNEXURE 

 
Format of the Daily Reporting by the members to the Exchange on the amount 
financed by them under the Margin Trading Facility 
 
Name of the member 
Clearing No. 
 

Name 
of 
Client  
 

Category of Holding 
(Promoter/Promoter 
Group 
or  Non 
Promoter  
 

PAN  
 

Name  of 
Stock  
(Collateral 
or Funded 
Stock)  

Stock 
Exchange  
 

Qty 
Financed 
(Number 
of 
shares)  

Amount 
Financed  
(In 
lakhs)  

106 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

S. No. 

 

 

 

Particulars 

1 
2 
3 
4 

Total outstanding on the beginning of the day  
Add: Fresh exposure taken during the day  
Less: Exposure liquidated during the day  
Net outstanding at the end of the day  

 

(Rs in Lakhs) 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
Source of Funds 
 

1 
2 
3 

Out of net worth  
Out of borrowed funds  
If  borrowed,  name  of  lenders  and  amount 
borrowed to be specified separately  

 
 
 

 
Note:  Disclosure  is  required  to  be  made  on  or  before  12  noon  on  the  following 
trading day. 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

***** 

107 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

V. 

TECHNOLOGY RELATED 

40.  Electronic Contract Note47 

 
40.1.  Brokers  are  allowed  to  issue  contract  notes  authenticated  by  means  of  digital 
signatures  provided  that  the  broker  has  obtained  digital  signature  certificate 
from Certifying Authority under the IT Act, 2000. 

 

40.2.  Contract notes can be issued by the brokers in electronic form authenticated by 

means of digital signatures. 

 
40.3.  All  the  members  of  stock  exchanges  who  are  desirous  of  issuing  Electronic 
Contract  Notes  (ECNs)  to  their  clients  shall  comply  with  the  following 
conditions: 

40.3.1.  Authorization for Electronic Contract Notes - The stock broker may issue 
electronic  contract  notes  (ECN)  if  specifically  authorized  by  the  client 
subject to the following conditions: 

 
a.  The authorization shall be in writing and be signed by the client only 
and not by any authorised person on his behalf or holder of the Power 
of Attorney.  

b.  The email id shall not be created by the broker. The client desirous of 
receiving  ECN  shall  create/provide  his  own  email  id  to  the  stock 
broker.  

c.  The authorization shall have a clause to the effect that that any change 
in the email-id shall be communicated by the client through a physical 
letter  to  the  broker.  In  respect  of  internet  clients,  the  request  for 
change of email id may be made through the secured access by way of 
client specific user id and password. 

40.3.2.  Issuing ECNs when specifically consented 

a.  The  digitally  signed  ECNs  may  be  sent  only  to  those  clients  who 
have opted to receive the contract notes in an electronic form, either 
in  the  Member  –  Client  agreement  / Tripartite agreement  or  by  a 
separate  letter.  The  mode  of  confirmation  shall  be  as  per  the 
agreement entered into with the clients. 

 

 

 

 
 
 

                                                           
47 Reference: Circular SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-56/00 dated December 15, 2000,  
Circular SEBI/SMD/SE/15/2003/29/04 dated April 29, 2003,  
Circular MRD/DoP/SE/CIR-20/2005 dated September 08, 2005 and  
Circular MIRSD/SE/CIR-19/2009 dated December 03, 2009. 

 

108 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

40.3.3.  Where to send ECNs 

a.  The usual mode of delivery of ECNs to the clients shall be through 
e-mail. For  this  purpose,  the  client  shall  provide  an  appropriate  e-
mail  account  to  the  member  which  shall  be  made  available  at  all 
times for such receipts of ECNs. 

40.3.4.  Requirement of digital signature 

a.  All  ECNs  sent  through  the  e-mail  shall  be  digitally  signed, 
encrypted, non-tamperable and shall comply with the provisions of 
the  IT  Act,  2000.  In  case  the  ECN  is  sent  through  e-mail  as  an 
attachment,  the  attached  file  shall  also  be  secured  with  the  digital 
signature, encrypted and non-tamperable. 

40.3.5.  Requirements for acknowledgement, proof of delivery, log report etc. 

a.  Acknowledgement 

i. 

The  acknowledgement  of  the  e-mail  shall  be  retained  by  the 
member in a soft and non-tamperable form. 

b.  Proof of delivery 

i. 

ii. 

The proof of delivery i.e., log report generated by the system at 
the time of sending the contract notes shall be maintained by the 
member for the specified period under the extant regulations of 
SEBI/stock  exchanges  and  shall  be  made  available  during 
inspection, audit, etc. 
The  member  shall  clearly  communicate  to  the  client  in  the 
agreement  executed  with  the  client  for  this  purpose  that  non-
receipt of bounced mail notification by the member shall amount 
to delivery of the contract note at the e-mail ID of the client. 

c.  Log Report for rejected or bounced mails 

i. 

The log report shall also provide the details of the contract notes 
that  are  not  delivered  to  the  client/e-mails  rejected  or  bounced 
back. 

ii.  Also, the member shall take all possible steps (including settings 
of mail servers, etc) to ensure receipt of notification of bounced 
mails  by  the  member  at  all  times  within  the  stipulated  time 
period under the extant regulations of SEBI/stock exchanges. 

40.3.6.  When to issue or send in Physical mode 

109 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

a.  Issue in Physical mode 

i. 

In the case of those clients who do not opt to receive the contract 
notes  in  the  electronic  form,  the  member  shall  continue  to  send 
contract notes in the physical mode to such clients. 

b.  Send in Physical mode 

i.  Wherever  the  ECNs  have  not  been  delivered  to  the  client  or  has 
been rejected (bouncing of mails) by the e-mail ID of the client, the 
member shall send a physical contract note to the client within the 
stipulated  time  under  the  extant  regulations  of  SEBI/stock 
exchanges  and  maintain  the  proof  of  delivery  of  such  physical 
contract notes. 

40.3.7.  General requirements 

a.  ECNs through website 

i. 

In  addition  to  the  e-mail  communication  of  the  ECNs  in  the 
manner stated above, in order to further strengthen the electronic 
communication channel, the member shall simultaneously publish 
the  ECN  on his  designated  website  in  a  secured  way  and  enable 
relevant access to the clients. 

b.  Access to the website 

i. 

In  order  to  enable  clients  to  access  the  ECNs  posted  in  the 
designated  website  in  a  secured  way,  the  member  shall  allot  a 
unique user name and password for the purpose, with an option 
to  the  client  to  access  the  same  and  save  the  contract  note 
electronically or take a print out of the same. 

c.  Preservation/Archive of electronic documents 

i. 

The  member  shall  retain/archive  such  electronic  documents  as 
per  the  extant  rules/regulations/circulars/guidelines  issued  by 
SEBI/Stock Exchanges from time to time. 

110 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
41.  Conditions to be met by Broker for providing Internet Based Trading Service48 

 
41.1.  Internet  Based  trading  can  take  place  through  order  routing  systems,  which 
will route client orders, to exchange trading systems, for execution of trades on 
the existing stock exchanges. SEBI Registered Brokers can introduce the service 
after  obtaining  permission  from  respective  Stock  Exchanges.  Exchanges  while 
giving permission will be required to ensure minimum conditions specified in 
the report which is available on the SEBI’s web site. The salient conditions to be 
met are: 

 
41.2.  Application for permission by Brokers  
 

41.2.1.  SEBI  registered  Stock  Brokers  interested  in  providing  Internet  based 
trading services will be required to apply to the respective stock exchange 
for  a  formal  permission.  The  stock  exchange  should  grant  approval  or 
reject the application as the case may be, and communicate its decision to 
the member within 30 calendar days of the date of completed application 
submitted to the exchange.  
 

41.2.2.  The stock exchange, before giving permission to brokers to start Internet 
based  services  shall  ensure  the  fulfilment  of  the  following  minimum 
conditions: 

 

 

a.  Networth Requirement 

i. 

The  broker  must  have  a  minimum  net  worth  of  Rs.50  lacs  if  the 
broker  is  providing  the  Internet  based  facility  on  his  own. 
However, if some brokers collectively approach a service provider 
for  providing  the  internet  trading  facility,  net  worth  criteria  as 
stipulated by the stock exchange will apply. The net worth will be 
computed as follows: 

  Capital +Free reserves 
  Less non-allowable assets viz., 

Fixed assets 
Pledged securities 

Bad deliveries 

i. 
ii. 
iii.  Member’s card 
iv.  Non-allowable securities (unlisted securities) 
v. 
vi.  Doubtful debts and advances* 
vii. 
viii. 

Prepaid expenses, losses 
Intangible assets 

                                                           
48  Reference:  Circular  SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-06/2000  dated  January  31,  2000  and  Circular 
FITTC/DC/CIR-1/98 dated June 16, 1998. 

 

111 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

ix. 

30% of marketable securities 

 
*Explanation – includes debts/advances overdue for more than 
three months or given to associates. 

b.  Operational and System Requirements 

i.  Operational  Integrity:  The  Stock  Exchange  must  ensure  that  the 
system  used  by  the  broker  has  provision  for  security,  reliability 
and confidentiality of data through use of encryption technology. 
(Basic  minimum  security  standards  are  specified  in  following 
paras).  The  Stock  Exchange  must  also  ensure  that  records 
maintained in electronic form by the broker are not susceptible to 
manipulation. 
 
System  Capacity:  The  Stock  Exchange  must  ensure  that  the 
brokers  maintain  adequate  backup  systems  and  data  storage 
capacity.  The  Stock  Exchange  must  also  ensure  that  the  brokers 
have  adequate  system  capacity  for  handling  data  transfer,  and 
arranged  for  alternative  means  of  communications  in  case  of 
Internet link failure. 

ii. 

iii.  Qualified  Personnel:  The  Stock  Exchange  must  lay  down  the 
minimum qualification for personnel to ensure that the broker has 
suitably  qualified 
to  handle 
communication  including  trading  instructions  as  well  as  other 
back  office  work  which  is  likely  to  increase  because  of  higher 
volumes. 

adequate  personnel 

and 

iv.  Written  Procedures:  Stock  Exchange  must  develop  uniform 
written  procedures  to  handle  contingency  situations  and  for 
review of incoming and outgoing electronic correspondence. 

v. 

Signature  Verification/  Authentication:  It 
is  desirable  that 
participants  use  authentication  technologies.  For  this  purpose  it 
should be mandatory for participants to use certification agencies 
as  and  when  notified  by  Government  /  SEBI.  They  should  also 
clearly specify when manual signatures would be required. 

c.  Client Broker Relationship  

i.  Know Your Client: The Stock Exchange must ensure that brokers 
comply  with  all  requirements  of  "Know  Your  Client"  and  have 
sufficient,  verifiable  information  about  clients,  which  would 
facilitate risk evaluation of clients.  

112 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

Broker-Client  Agreement:  Brokers  must  enter  into  an  agreement 
with clients spelling out all obligations and rights. This agreement 
should  also  include  inter  alia,  the  minimum  service  standards  to 
be  maintained  by  the  broker  for  such  services  specified  by 
SEBI/Exchanges for the Internet based trading from time to time.  

Exchanges will prepare a model agreement for this purpose. The 
broker agreement with clients should not have any clause that is 
less  stringent/contrary  to  the  conditions  stipulated  in  the  model 
agreement.  

Investor  Information:  The  broker  web  site  providing  the  internet 
based  trading  facility  should  contain  information  meant  for 
investor  protection  such  as  rules  and  regulations  affecting  client 
broker relationship, arbitration rules, investor protection rules etc. 
The  broker  web  site  providing  the  Internet  based  trading  facility 
should  also  provide  and  display  prominently,  hyper  link  to  the 
web  site/  page  on  the  web  site  of  the  relevant stock  exchange(s) 
displaying rules/ regulations/circulars. Ticker/quote/order book 
displayed  on  the  web-site  of  the  broker  should  display  the  time 
stamp as well as the source of such information against the given 
information.  

v.  Order/Trade  Confirmation:  Order/Trade  confirmation  should 
also be sent to the investor through email at client’s discretion at 
the  time  period  specified  by  the  client  in  addition  to  the  other 
mode  of  display  of  such  confirmations  on  real  time  basis  on  the 
broker  web  site.  The  investor  should  be  allowed  to  specify  the 
time interval on the web site itself within which he would like to 
receive this information through email. Facility for reconfirmation 
of orders which are larger than that specified by the member’s risk 
management  system  should  be  provided  on  the  internet  based 
system.  

vi.  Handling  Complaints  by  Investors:  Exchanges  should  monitor 
complaints from investors regarding service provided by brokers 
to  ensure  a  minimum  level  of  service.  Exchange  should  have 
separate  cell  specifically  to  handle  Internet  trading  related 
complaints. It is desirable that exchanges should also have facility 
for on-line registration of complaints on their web-site. 

d.  Risk Management 

i. 

Exchanges must ensure that brokers have a system-based control 

113 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

on  the  trading  limits  of  clients,  and  exposures  taken  by  clients. 
Brokers must set pre-defined limits on the exposure and turnover 
of each client. 

The broker systems should be capable of assessing the risk of the 
client as soon as the order comes in. The client should be informed 
of acceptance/rejection of the order within a reasonable period. In 
case system based control rejects an order because of client having 
exceeded  limits  etc.,  the  broker  system  may  have  a  review  and 
release facility to allow the order to pass through. 

ii. 

 

 

iii. 

Reports  on  margin  requirements,  payment  and  delivery 
obligations,  etc.  should  be  informed  to  the  client  through  the 
system. 

e.  Contract Notes 

i.  Contract  notes  must  be 

issued  to  clients  as  per  existing 

regulations, within 24 hours of the trade execution. 

f.  Cross Trades 

i.  As  in  the  case  of  existing  system,  brokers  using  Internet  based 
systems  for  routing  client  orders  will  not  be  allowed  to  cross 
trades of their clients with each other. All orders must be offered 
to the market for matching. 

 

ii. 

It  is  emphasised  that  in  addition  to  the  requirements  mentioned 
above,  all  existing  obligations  of  the  broker  as  per  current 
regulation  will  continue  without  changes.  Exchanges  may  also 
like to specify more stringent standards as they may deem fit for 
allowing Internet based trading facilities to their brokers. 

g.  Network Security 

The  following  security  features  are  mandatory  for  all  Internet  based 
trading systems: 

i.  User id  
ii. 
iii.  Automatic  expiry  of  passwords  at  the  end  of  a  reasonable 

First Level password (Private code)  

duration. Reinitialise access on entering fresh passwords  

iv.  All  transaction  logs  with  proper  audit  facilities  to  be  maintained 

in the system.  
Secured Socket Level Security for server access through Internet  

v. 

114 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

vi. 

Suitable Firewalls between trading set-up directly connected to an 
Exchange trading system and the Internet trading set-up. 

The following advanced security products are advisable. 

i.  Microprocessor based SMART cards  
ii.  Dynamic Password (Secure ID Tokens)  
iii. 
iv. 

64 bit/128 bit encryption **  
Second  Level  password  (personal  information  e.g.  village  name, 
birth date etc.) 

**DOT policy and regulations will govern the level of encryption. 

h.  Standards for Web Interfaces and Protocols 

i. 

Between  a  Trading  Web  Server  and  Trading  Client  Terminals, 
Interfaces  Standards  as  per  recommendations  of  IETF  (Internet 
Engineering Task Force) and W3C (World Wide Web Consortium) 
may be adopted. E.g.: HTTP Ver 4 or above HTML Ver 4/XML. 

i.  Systems Operations 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

Brokers  should  follow  the  similar  logic/priorities  used  by  the 
Exchange to treat client orders. 
Brokers  should  maintain  all  activities/  alerts  log  with  audit  trail 
facility  
Broker  Web  Server  should  have  internally  generated  unique 
numbering for all client order/trades  
Brokers  should  seek  permission  from  the  Exchange  before 
commencement  of  Internet  trading  facility  after  providing 
complete details of the features of implemented systems.  
Brokers  should  make  periodic  reporting  to  the  Exchange  as 
specified by the Exchange. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

42.  Securities  Trading  through  Wireless  medium  on  Wireless  Application  Protocol 

(WAP) platform49 
 
42.1.  A  broker  providing  stock  trading  through  WAP  must  be  a  SEBI  registered 
broker  who  also  has  an  Internet  website  which  complies  with  all  the 
requirements laid in para 41 above. With regard to the requirements mentioned 
above, some additional requirements are to be met by the broker for providing 
securities  transaction  through  WAP.  These  requirements  are  provided  in  the 
following criteria: 

 

                                                           
49 Reference: Circular SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-48/2000 dated October 11, 2000. 

 

115 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

42.2.  Network Security 
 

42.2.1.  The break in data encryption at the WAP gateway server raises security 
issues.  Until  the  shortcoming  is  addressed  by  WAP,  the  WAP  server 
should be hosted by the broker itself and not by a third party. 

42.2.2.  Suitable  firewalls  should  be  installed  between  trading  set-up  directly 

connected to an Exchange trading system and the WAP server. 
 

42.2.3.  WTLS (Wireless Transport Layer Security) level security or a higher level 
of  security  (as  and  when  available)  for  wireless  communication  is 
mandatory for wireless transactions. 
 

42.2.4.  The  WTLS  encrypts  data  upto  the  WAP  Gateway  server.  Transmission 
from  the  WAP  Gateway  server  to  the  Internet  server  should  be  secured 
using  Secured  Socket  Level  Security,  preferably with  128 bit  encryption, 
for server access through Internet. Alternately, the WAP Gateway server 
and Internet server may be co-hosted. The server resource should not be 
shared for any other applications. 
 

42.2.5.  The  following  security  measures  applicable  for  fixed  Internet  based 

systems should be made mandatory: 

a.  User ID  
b.  First Level password (Private code)  
c.  Automatic  expiry  of  passwords  at  the  end  of  a  reasonable  duration. 

Reinitialize access on entering fresh passwords  

d.  All  transaction  logs  with  proper  audit  facilities  to  be  maintained  in 

the system. 

 

42.2.6.  Digitally  signed  transactions  ensure  client  authentication  and  support 
nonrepudiation.  Digital 
for 
participants  as  and  when  certification  agencies  are  notified  by 
Government / SEBI. 

should  be  mandatory 

certification 

 

 

 

42.2.7.  In  case  of  failure  of  the  network,  alternative  means  of  communication 

such as telephone, Internet or e-mail should be available. 

 
42.3.  Price Quotes/ Order/ Trade Confirmations 
 

42.3.1.  Stock quotes should be time-stamped.  

 

42.3.2.  All  orders  and  trades  must  be  identified  by  a  unique  ID.  Order 
confirmation must be provided to the user on submitting the order. Order 
modification/  cancellation  facilities  must  also  be  provided.  This  may  be 
provided  using  alternate  protocols  in case the  same  is not  supported by 

116 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

WAP.  
 

42.3.3.  Trade  confirmation  should  be  provided  to  the  user  through  e-mail 

and/or on the mobile phone. 

 
42.4.  System operations 
 

42.4.1.  Brokers  should  follow  the  similar  logic/priorities  used  by  the  Exchange 

to treat client orders.  

 

42.4.2.  Orders/  trades  placed  through  either  fixed  Internet  or  WAP  system 

should be accessible from both systems.  

42.4.3.  Brokers should maintain all activities/ alerts log with audit trail facility.  

42.4.4.  Broker  Web  Server  should  have  internally  generated  unique  numbering 

for all client order/trades. 

 
42.5.  Risk Management 
 

42.5.1.  It is emphasised that risk management should be comprehensive and the 
risk management systems should take into account the overall positions 
of clients, irrespective of the medium of trading. 

 

43.  Securities Trading using Wireless Technology50 

 
43.1.  SEBI registered brokers who provide Internet Based Trading shall be eligible to 
provide securities trading using wireless technology. All relevant requirements 
applicable  to  internet  based  trading  shall  also  be  applicable  to  securities 
trading using wireless technology.  

 
43.2.  Securities  Trading  using  Wireless  technology  shall  include  devices  such  as 

mobile phone, laptop with data card, etc, that use Internet Protocol (IP).  

 
43.3.  In addition, the stock exchange shall ensure that the broker complies with the 

following: 

 

 

43.3.1.  There shall be secure access, encryption and security of communication 
for  internet  based  trading  and  securities  trading  using  wireless 
technology.  DOT  policy  and  regulation  shall  govern  the  level  of 
encryption.  

43.3.2.  Adequate  measures 

identification, 
authentication  and  access  control  using  means  such  as  user-id, 

should  be 

taken 

for  user 

                                                           
50 Reference: Circular CIR/MRD/DP/ 25/2010 dated August 27, 2010. 

 

117 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

passwords,  smart  cards,  biometric  devices  or  other  reliable  means,  to 
prevent misuse of facility by unauthorized persons.  

 

43.3.3.  Unique identification number as given in case of internet based trading 
shall be made applicable for securities trading using wireless technology.  

 

43.3.4.  In  case  of  failure  of  the  wireless  network,  alternative  means  of 

communication for placing orders should be available. 

43.3.5.  Additional  provisions  specifying  possible  risks,  responsibilities  and 
liabilities  associated  with  securities  trading  using  wireless  technology 
should be incorporated in the Broker-Client agreement as an addendum 
or by bringing to the notice of clients, who are desirous of availing such 
facility, and taking their concurrence on the same. 

43.3.6.  As it may not be possible to give detailed information to the investor on 
a hand held device e.g. mobile phones, it may be ensured that minimum 
information  may  be  given  with  addresses  of  the  Internet  web  site/web 
page where detailed information would be available. 

43.3.7.  Order  confirmation  should  be  provided  to  the  user  on  submitting  the 
order.  Order  modification  /  cancellation  facilities  should  also  be 
provided. Trade confirmation should be provided to the user, along with 
history of trades for the day.  

43.3.8.  Session  login  details  should  not  be  stored  on  the  devices  used  for 
internet based trading and securities trading using wireless technology.  

43.3.9.  Network  security  protocols  and  interface  standards  should  be  as  per 
prevalent industry standards and sound audit trails should be available 
for all transactions conducted using wireless devices.  

43.3.10.  The broker’s server routing orders to the exchange trading system shall 

be located in India.  

43.3.11.  Stock  exchanges  shall  arrange  for  periodic  systems  audits  of  broker 
systems to ensure that requirements specified in the circulars are being 
met.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

43.3.12.  Stock  exchange  shall  also  include  securities  trading  using  wireless 
technology  in  their  ongoing  investor  awareness  and  educational 
programme. 

 
43.4.  Stock  exchanges  may  take  such  other  measures  and  implement  such  other 
safeguards  as  they  deem  fit  to  ensure  security  and  integrity  of  transactions 
conducted using wireless technology. 

118 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
44.  Additional Requirements for Internet Based Trading (IBT) and Securities trading 

using Wireless Technology (STWT)51 
 
44.1.  The stock exchange shall ensure that the broker comply with the following 
 

44.1.1.  The  broker  shall  capture  the  IP  (Internet  Protocol)  address  (from  where 

the orders are originating), for all IBT/ STWT orders.  

44.1.2.  The  brokers  system  should  have  built-in  high  system  availability  to 

address any single point failure.  

44.1.3.  There  should  be  secure  end-to-end  encryption  for  all  data  transmission 
between  the  client  and  the  broker  through  a  Secure  Standardized 
Protocol.  A  procedure  of  mutual  authentication  between  the  client  and 
the broker server should be implemented. 

 
44.1.4.  The broker system should have adequate safety features to ensure it is not 

susceptible to internal/ external attacks 

44.1.5.  In case of failure of IBT/ STWT, the alternate channel of communication 
identification  and 

capabilities 

shall  have  adequate 
authentication.  

for 

client 

44.1.6.  Two-factor  authentication  for  login  session  may  be  implemented  for  all 
orders emanating using Internet Protocol. Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) 
based  implementation  using  digital  signatures,  supported  by  one  of  the 
agencies  certified  by  the  government  of  India,  is  advisable.  Further  the 
two  factors  in  the  Two-factor  authentication  framework  should  not  be 
same.  

44.1.7.  In  case  of  no  activity  by  the  client,  the  system  should  provide  for 

automatic trading session logout.  

Further to the above, the following practice is advisable –  

44.1.8.  The  back-up  and  restore  systems  implemented  by  the  broker  should  be 
adequate  to  deliver  sustained  performance  and  high  availability.  The 
broker  system  should  have  on-site  as  well  as  remote  site  back-up 
capabilities 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

                                                           
51 Reference: Circular CIR/MRD/DP/08/2011 dated June 30, 2011. 

 

119 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
45.  Direct Market Access facility52 

to 

the  exchange 

 
45.1.  Direct Market Access (DMA) is a facility which allows brokers to offer clients 
direct  access 
the  broker’s 
infrastructure  without  manual  intervention  by  the  broker.  Some  of  the 
advantages  offered  by  DMA  are  direct  control  of  clients  over  orders,  faster 
execution of client orders, reduced risk of errors associated with manual order 
entry,  greater  transparency,  increased  liquidity,  lower  impact  costs  for  large 
orders, better audit trails and better use of hedging and arbitrage opportunities 
through the use of decision support tools / algorithms for trading.  

trading  system 

through 

 
45.2.  While  ensuring  conformity  with  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  Contract 
(Regulations)  Act,  1956  (42  of  1956),  Stock  Exchanges  may  facilitate  Direct 
Market Access for investors subject to the following conditions: 

 
45.3.  Application for Direct Market Access (DMA) facility 
 

45.3.1.  Brokers interested to offer DMA facility shall apply to the respective stock 
exchanges  giving  details  of  the  software  and  systems  proposed  to  be 
used, which shall be duly certified by a Security Auditor as reliable. 
 

45.3.2.  The stock exchange should grant approval or reject the application as the 
case  may  be  and  communicate  its  decision  to  the  member  within  30 
calendar  days  of  the  date  of  completed  application  submitted  to  the 
exchange. 

 

45.3.3.  The  stock  exchange,  before  giving  permission  to  brokers  to  offer  DMA 

facility shall ensure the fulfillment of the conditions specified below. 

 
45.4.  Operational specifications 
 

45.4.1.  All DMA orders shall be routed to the exchange trading system through 
the broker’s  trading  system.  The  broker’s  server routing  DMA  orders  to 
the exchange trading system shall be located in India.  
 

45.4.2.  The broker should ensure sound audit trail for all DMA orders and trades 
and be able to provide identification of actual user-id for all such orders 
and trades. The audit trail data should available for at least 5 years.  
 

45.4.3.  Exchanges  should  be  able  to  identify  and  distinguish  DMA  orders  and 
trades from other orders and trades. Exchanges shall maintain statistical 
data on DMA trades and provide information on the same to SEBI on a 

                                                           
52 Reference: Circular MRD/DoP/SE/CIR-7/2008 dated April 03, 2008,  
Circular MRD/DoP/SE/CIR-03/2009 dated February 20, 2009 and  
Circular CIR/MRD/DP/20/2012 dated August 02, 2012. 

 

120 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

need basis.  
 

45.4.4.  The  DMA  system  shall  have  sufficient  security  features  including 
password protection for the user ID, automatic expiry of passwords at the 
end  of  a  reasonable  duration,  and  reinitialisation  of  access  on  entering 
fresh passwords.  
 

45.4.5.  Brokers  should  follow  the  similar  logic/priorities  used  by  the  Exchange 
to treat DMA client orders. Brokers should maintain all activities/ alerts 
log  with  audit  trail  facility.  The  DMA  Server  should  have  internally 
generated unique numbering for all such client order/trades.  
 

45.4.6.  A systems audit of the DMA systems and software shall be periodically 
carried  out  by  the  broker  as  may  be  specified  by  the  exchange  and 
certificate in this regard shall be submitted to the exchange.  
 

45.4.7.  The  exchanges  and  brokers  should  provide  for  adequate  systems  and 

procedures to handle the DMA trades. 

 
45.5.  Risk Management 
 

45.5.1.  The  broker  shall  ensure  that  trading  limits/  exposure  limits/  position 
limits are set for all DMA clients based on risk assessment, credit quality 
and  available  margins  of  the  client.  The  broker  system  shall  have 
appropriate authority levels to ensure that the limits can be set up only by 
persons authorized by the risk / compliance manager. 

45.5.2.  The  broker  shall  ensure  that  all  DMA  orders  are  routed  through 
electronic/automated risk management systems of the broker to carry out 
appropriate validations of all risk parameters including Quantity Limits, 
Price  Range  Checks,  Order  Value,  and  Credit  Checks  before  the  orders 
are released to the Exchange. 

45.5.3.  All DMA orders shall be subjected to the following limits: 

a.  Order  quantity  /  order  value  limit  in  terms  of  price  and  quantity 

specified for the client.  

b.  All the position limits which are specified in the derivatives segment 

as applicable.  

c.  Net  position  that  can  be  outstanding  so  as  to  fully  cover  the  risk 
emanating from the trades with the available margins of the specific 
client.  

d.  Appropriate  limits  for  securities  which  are  subject  to  FII  limits  as 

specified by RBI. 

 

 

 

 
 

121 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

45.6.  Broker to be liable for DMA trades 
 

45.6.1.  The broker shall be fully responsible and liable for all orders emanating 
through their DMA systems. It shall be the responsibility of the broker to 
ensure that only clients who fulfill the eligibility criteria are permitted to 
use the DMA facility. 

 
45.7.  Cross Trades 
 

45.7.1.  Brokers using DMA facility for routing client orders shall not be allowed 
to cross trades of their clients with each other. All orders must be offered 
to the market for matching. 

 
45.8.  Other legal provisions 
 

45.8.1.  In addition to the requirements mentioned above, all existing obligations 
of  the  broker  as  per  current  regulations  and  circulars  will  continue 
without change. Exchanges may also like to specify additional safeguards 
/  conditions  as  they  may  deem  fit  for  allowing  DMA  facilities  to  their 
brokers. 

 
45.9.  The facility of DMA provided by the stock broker shall be used by the client or 
an  investment  manager  of  the  client.  A  SEBI  registered  entity  shall  be 
permitted to act as an investment manager on behalf of institutional clients. In 
case the facility of DMA is used by the client through an investment manager, 
the investment manager may execute the necessary documents on behalf of the 
client(s). 

 
45.10. Exchange shall specify from time to time the categories of investors to whom 
the  DMA  facility  can  be  extended.  Currently,  this  facility  is  available  for 
institutional  clients.  Brokers  shall  specifically  authorize  clients  or  investment 
managers acting on behalf of clients for providing DMA facility, after fulfilling 
Know  Your  Client  requirements  and  carrying  out  necessary  due  diligence. 
The broker shall maintain proper records of such due diligence. 

 
45.11. The  exchange/  broker  shall  ensure  that  proper  audit  trails  are  available  to 
establish identity  of  the ultimate  client.  The  exchange  may  put  in  place  such 
other safeguards as it deems fit to mitigate any concerns it may have. 

 
45.12. The  terms  and  conditions  for  the  purpose  of  DMA  is  specified  in  Annexure 
below.  The  “Terms  and  Conditions”  shall  be  provided  to  the  client  or 
investment  manager  acting  on  behalf  of  a  client  (s)  for  availing  the  DMA 
facility. In case the DMA facility provided by the stock broker is used by the 
client the paragraphs 1 to 18 of Part A of Annexure shall be applicable. In case 
the DMA facility provided by the stock broker is used by the client through an 
investment  manager  the  paragraphs  1  to  18  of  Part  B  of  Annexure  shall  be 

122 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

applicable and additionally, the investment manager shall provide to the stock 
broker the details as specified at the end of the Annexure. 

ANNEXURE 

PART A: DMA FACILITY USED BY THE CLIENT 

 

 

 

1.  The  client  is  expected  to  be  fully  aware  of  the  risks  associated  with  the  market 
and  the  financial  instruments  being  traded  on  stock  exchanges  through  DMA. 
The  client  shall  be  responsible  for  complying  with  laws,  rules,  regulations, 
notifications etc issued by regulatory authorities as may be applicable from time 
to time. 
 

2.  The client shall ensure that DMA facility provided by the Broker is used only to 
execute the trades of the client and shall not be used for transactions on behalf of 
any other person / entity. 
 

3.  The  client  shall  be  responsible  for  ensuring  that,  only  persons  authorized  by  it 
shall  access  and  use  the  DMA  facility  provided  by  the  Broker.  All  orders 
originating from such facility / system shall be deemed to be authorized by the 
client. 
 

4.  Where  the  client  accesses  or  proposes  to  access  the  Broker’s  DMA  platform 
through  external  applications,  including  but  not  restricted  to  services  of  third 
party  service  provider(s),  own  application(s),  etc.,  the  client  shall  ensure  that 
such  applications  have  adequate  security  features  including  but  not  limited  to 
access controls, password protection etc; and that appropriate agreement(s) with 
such  third  party  service  provider(s)  etc.  for  ensuring  secured  access  and 
communication has been executed and are in place. 
 

5.  The  client  shall  ensure  that  no  person  authorized  by  them  to  place  orders 
through  DMA  facility  provided  by  the  broker  has  been  /  is  involved  in  any 
adverse action by any regulatory authorities in any jurisdiction. 
 

6.  The client shall provide the names of authorized individual users to the broker 

prior to placing DMA orders. 
 

7.  The client shall not use or allow the use of DMA facility to engage in any form of 
market  misconduct  including  insider  trading  and  market  manipulation  or 
conduct that is otherwise in breach of applicable laws, rules and regulation. 
 

8.  The  client  is  aware  that  Algorithmic  trading  i.e.  generation  of  orders  using 
automated execution logic is governed by Algorithmic trading guidelines issued 
by SEBI and Exchanges and requires prior approval of the exchanges. The client 
shall  ensure  that  new  algorithms  and  changes  to  existing  approved  algorithms 
are not used through the DMA facility without prior approval of concerned stock 

123 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

exchanges.  The  client  shall  ensure  that  it  has  necessary  checks  and  balances,  in 
place to identify and control dysfunctional algorithms and the Broker shall have 
the  right  to  shut  down  the  DMA  facility  and  remove  any  outstanding  client 
orders in case of any suspected dysfunctional algo. 
 

9.  The client is aware that authentication technologies and strict security measures 
are required for routing orders through DMA facility and undertakes to ensure 
that the password of the client and/or his representative are not revealed to any 
third party. 
 

10.  The client acknowledges that all DMA orders placed by them through the DMA 
facility  would  be  validated  by  the  risk  management  system  of  the  broker.  The 
Broker has the right to accept or reject any DMA order placed by the client at its 
sole discretion. 
 

11.  The client shall be solely responsible for all acts or omissions of any person using 
a DMA facility and shall be bound to accept and settle all transactions executed 
through  the  DMA  facility  provided  by  the  Broker  notwithstanding  that  such 
order(s)  may  have  been  submitted  erroneously  or  by  an  unauthorized  user,  or 
that  its  data  is  inaccurate  or  incomplete  when  submitted,  or  the  client 
subsequently  determines  for  whatever  reason  that  the  order  should  not  have 
been submitted. 
 

12.  The  client  shall  notify  the  Broker  in  the  event  of  DMA  facility  being 
compromised.  Upon  receipt  of  this  notice,  client’s  DMA  facility  shall  be 
promptly disabled but the client shall continue to be responsible for any misuse 
of the DMA facility or any orders placed through the DMA facility as a result of 
the compromise of the DMA facility at their end. The Broker shall not be liable 
for any loss, liability or cost whatsoever arising as  a result of any unauthorized 
use of DMA facility at the client’s end. 
 

13.  In the event of winding-up or insolvency of the client or his otherwise becoming 
incapable of settling their DMA obligation, broker may close out the transaction 
of the client as permissible under bye-laws, rules, regulations of the exchanges. 
The  client  shall  continue  to  be  liable  for  any  losses,  costs,  damages  arising 
thereof. 
 

14.  The client is fully aware of the risks of transmitting DMA orders to the Broker’s 
DMA facility through vendor systems or service providers and the Broker is not 
responsible for such risks. 
 

15.  The  client  should  be  aware  of  the  fact  that  neither  the  DMA  facility  will  be 
uninterrupted nor error free nor the results that may be obtained from the use of 
the service or as to the timeliness, sequence, accuracy, completeness, reliability or 
content  of  any  information,  service  or  transaction  provided  through  DMA.  The 

124 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

DMA service is provided on an "as is", "as available" basis without warranties of 
any  kind,  either  express  or  implied,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  those  of 
information access, order execution, merchantability and fitness for a particular 
purpose. The Broker shall not be liable for any loss, damage or injury including 
but  not  limited  to  direct  lost  profits  or  trading  losses  or  any  consequential, 
special,  incidental,  indirect,  or  similar  damages  from  the  use  or  inability  to  use 
the service or any part thereof. 
 

16.  The Broker shall have the right to withdraw the DMA facility in case of:- 

 
16.1.  Breach of the limits imposed by the broker or any regulatory authority.  

 

16.2.  On  account  of  any  misuse  of  the  DMA  facility  by  the  client  or  on 

instructions from SEBI/Exchanges.  
 

16.3.  Any other reason, at the discretion of the broker. 
 
Broker shall endeavor to give reasonable notice to the client in such instances. 
 

17.  The  Broker  shall  not  be  liable  or  responsible  for  non-execution  of  the  DMA 
orders  of  the  client  due  to  any  link/system  failure  at  the  client/  Broker/ 
exchange(s) end. 
 

18.  This document shall not be altered, amended and /or modified by the parties in 
a manner that shall be in contravention of any other provisions of this document. 
Any additional terms and conditions should not be in contravention with rules / 
regulations /bye-laws/circulars, of the relevant authorities including applicable 
stock exchanges as amended from time to time. 
 

PART – B: DMA FACILITY USED BY THE CLIENT THROUGH AN 

INVESTMENT MANAGER 

 

1.  The client shall be solely responsible for all acts or omissions of any person using 
a DMA facility and shall be bound to accept and settle all transactions executed 
through  the  DMA  facility  provided  by  the  Broker  to  the  investment  manager 
acting on behalf of the client, notwithstanding that such order(s) may have been 
submitted erroneously or by an unauthorized user, or that its data is inaccurate 
or  incomplete  when  submitted,  or  the  client  subsequently  determines  for 
whatever reason that the order should not have been submitted. 
 

2.  The  investment  manager  is  expected  to  be  fully  aware  of  the  risks  associated 
with the market and the financial instruments being traded on stock exchanges 
through DMA. The investment manager shall be responsible for complying with 
laws, rules, regulations, notifications etc issued by regulatory authorities as may 
be applicable from time to time. 
 

125 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.  Where  the  DMA  facility  provided  by  the  Broker  is  used  to  execute  trade  on 
behalf of one or more clients, by the investment manager, then it is represented 
and warranted that, at each time an order is placed by such investment manager 
through the DMA facility of the Broker - 
 
3.1.  The investment manager has due authority to deal on behalf of the client(s) 
through  the  Broker,  specifying  the  roles  and  responsibilities  of  the 
investment manager in execution of transactions on behalf of the client(s). 

 
3.2.  The  investment  manager  shall  comply  with  any  applicable  laws,  rules  and 

regulations affecting or relating to trading operations. 

 
3.3.  The  investment  manager  and  the  client(s)  are  bound  by  the  terms  and 

conditions hereof; 

 
3.4.  The investment manager using the DMA facility for routing client(s) orders 
shall  not  cross  trades  of  their  client(s)  with  each  other.  Accordingly,  all 
orders should be offered in the market. 

 
3.5.  The stock exchange or SEBI may at any time call for any information from a 
client(s)  or  an  investment  manager  acting  on  behalf  of  the  client(s)  with 
respect to any matter relating to the activity of the investment manager. The 
investment manager shall also furnish any information specifying the roles 
and  responsibilities  of  the  investment  manager in  execution  of  transactions 
on behalf of the client(s), as and when required by the exchanges or SEBI. 

 

4.  The  investment  manager  shall  be  responsible  for  ensuring  that,  only  persons 
authorized  by  it  shall  access  and  use  the  DMA  facility  provided  by  the Broker. 
All  orders  originating  from  such  facility  /  system  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
authorized by the client. 
 

5.  Where the investment manager accesses or proposes to access the Broker’s DMA 
platform through external applications, including but not restricted to services of 
third party service provider(s), own application(s), etc., the investment manager 
shall ensure that such applications have adequate security features including but 
not  limited  to  access  controls,  password  protection  etc;  and  that  appropriate 
agreement(s) with such third party service provider(s) etc. for ensuring secured 
access and communication has been executed and are in place. 
 

6.  The investment manager shall ensure that no person authorized by them to place 
orders  through  DMA  facility  provided  by  the  broker  has  been  /  is  involved  in 
any adverse action by any regulatory authorities in any jurisdiction. 
 

7.  The investment manager shall provide the names of authorized individual users 

to the broker prior to placing DMA orders. 

126 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

8.  The investment manager shall not use or allow the use of DMA facility to engage 
in  any  form  of  market  misconduct  including  insider  trading  and  market 
manipulation or conduct that is otherwise in breach of applicable laws, rules and 
regulation. 
 

9.  The  investment  manager  is  aware  that  Algorithmic  trading  i.e.  generation  of 
orders  using  automated  execution  logic  is  governed  by  Algorithmic  trading 
guidelines  issued  by  SEBI  and  Exchanges  and  requires  prior  approval  of  the 
exchanges.  The  investment  manager  shall  ensure  that  new  algorithms  and 
changes to existing approved algorithms are not used through the DMA facility 
without  prior  approval of  concerned  stock  exchanges.  The investment manager 
shall  ensure  that  it  has  necessary  checks  and  balances,  in  place  to  identify  and 
control  dysfunctional  algorithms  and  the  Broker  shall  have  the  right  to  shut 
down the DMA facility and remove any outstanding client orders in case of any 
suspected dysfunctional algo. 
 

10.  The  investment  manager  is  aware  that  authentication  technologies  and  strict 
security  measures  are  required  for  routing  orders  through  DMA  facility  and 
undertakes  to  ensure  that  the  password  of  the  investment  manager  and/or  his 
representative are not revealed to any third party. 
 

11.  The  investment  manager  acknowledges  that  all  DMA  orders  placed  by  them 
through the DMA facility would be validated by the risk management system of 
the broker. The Broker has the right to accept or reject any DMA order placed by 
the investment manager at its sole discretion. 
 

12.  The  investment  manager  shall  notify  the  Broker  in  the  event  of  DMA  facility 
being  compromised.  Upon  receipt  of  this  notice,  client’s  DMA  facility  shall  be 
promptly disabled but the client shall continue to be responsible for any misuse 
of the DMA facility or any orders placed through the DMA facility as a result of 
the compromise of the DMA facility at their end. The Broker shall not be liable 
for any loss, liability or cost whatsoever arising as a result of any unauthorized 
use of DMA facility at the client’s end. 

 

13.  In the event of winding-up or insolvency of the client or his otherwise becoming 
incapable  of  honoring  their  DMA  obligation,  broker  may  close  out  the 
transaction of the client as permissible under bye-laws, rules, regulations of the 
exchanges.  The  client  shall  continue  to  be  liable  for  any  losses,  costs,  damages 
arising thereof. 
 

14.  The investment manager is fully aware of the risks of transmitting DMA orders 
to  the  Broker’s  DMA  facility  through  vendor  systems  or  service  providers  and 
the Broker is not responsible for such risks. 
 

127 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

15.  The  investment  manager  should  be  aware  of  the  fact  that  neither  the  DMA 
facility will be uninterrupted nor error free nor the results that may be obtained 
from  the  use  of  the  service  or  as  to  the  timeliness,  sequence,  accuracy, 
completeness,  reliability  or  content  of  any  information,  service  or  transaction 
provided  through  DMA.  The  DMA  service  is  provided  on  an  "as  is",  "as 
available"  basis  without  warranties  of  any  kind,  either  express  or  implied, 
including,  but  not  limited  to,  those  of  information  access,  order  execution, 
merchantability  and  fitness  for  a  particular  purpose.  The  Broker  shall  not  be 
liable  for  any  loss,  damage  or  injury  including  but  not  limited  to  direct  lost 
profits  or  trading  losses  or  any  consequential,  special,  incidental,  indirect,  or 
similar damages from the use or inability to use the service or any part thereof. 
 

16.  The Broker shall have the right to withdraw the DMA facility in case of:- 

 
16.1.  Breach of the limits imposed by the broker or any regulatory authority.  

 

16.2.  On  account  of  any  misuse  of  the  DMA  facility  by  the  client/  investment 

manager or on instructions from SEBI/Exchanges.  

 

16.3.  Any other reason, at the discretion of the broker. 
 

Broker  shall  endeavor  to  give  reasonable  notice  to  the  client  in  such 
instances. 
 

17.  The  Broker  shall  not  be  liable  or  responsible  for  non-execution  of  the  DMA 
orders  of  the  client  due  to  any  link/system  failure  at  the  client/  Broker/ 
exchange(s) end. 
 

18.  This document shall not be altered, amended and /or modified by the parties in 
a manner that shall be in contravention of any other provisions of this document. 
Any additional terms and conditions should not be in contravention with rules / 
regulations /bye-laws/circulars, of the relevant authorities including applicable 
stock exchanges as amended from time to time. 

 

 

DETAILS TO BE PROVIDED TO THE STOCK BROKER 

On the letter head of the Investment manager 

 
PART A 
 
DETAILS OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGER:  
NAME OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGER:  
NAME OF THE HOME REGULATOR  
COUNTRY OF JURISDICTION OF HOME  
REGULATOR REGISTERED /REGULATED IN HOME JURISDICTION AS:  

128 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SEBI REGISTRATION NUMBER: 
 
PART B 
 
CLIENT(s) DETAILS: 
 

NAME  OF 
THE 
ENTITY 
 

S. 
No. 

 

 

 

NAME OF THE 
REGULATOR 

REGULATED 
IN INDIA AS 

REGISTRATION 
NUMBER 

PAN 

 

 

 

 

46.  Smart Order Routing53 
 

46.1.  Smart  Order  Routing  allows  the  brokers  trading  engines  to  systematically 
choose  the  execution  destination  based  on  factors  viz.  price,  costs,  speed, 
likelihood of execution and settlement, size, nature or any other consideration 
relevant to the execution of the order. 

46.2.  Stock Exchanges are advised to ensure the following conditions with regard to 

the Smart Order Routing facility: 

46.2.1.  Stock broker interested to offer Smart Order Routing facility shall apply 

to the respective stock exchanges. 

46.2.2.  Stock broker shall submit a third party system audit of its Smart Order 
Routing  system  and  software.  Stock  exchanges  shall  disseminate  to  its 
stock  brokers  a  list  of  approved  system  auditors  (CISA  or  equivalent) 
qualified to undertake such system audits. 

 

46.2.3.  Stock  broker  shall  provide  the  following  to  the  respective  stock 

exchanges: 

a.  An  undertaking to  the  respective  stock  exchanges  that  Smart  Order 

Routing shall route orders in a neutral manner. 

b.  Provide the features of the Smart Order Routing to stock exchange. 

 

 

 

 

 

46.2.4.  Stock  exchange  shall  communicate  its  decision  to  the  broker  within  30 
calendar  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  complete  application  by  the 
stock  exchange.  Stock  exchange  shall  not  consider  testing  and 
demonstration  of  the  SOR  system/software  as  a  criterion  for  declaring 
the  application  of  the  broker  as  ‘complete’.  Further,  testing  and 
demonstration  of  SOR  system/software,  if  required,  shall  be  suitably 
scheduled within the aforesaid period of 30 calendar days. 

                                                           
53  Reference:  Circular  CIR/MRD/DP/26/2010  dated  August  27,  2010  and  Circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/36/2010 dated December 09, 2010. 

 

129 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

46.2.5.  In case of rejection of the application on smart order routing of  a stock 
broker, the stock exchange shall communicate such reasons of rejections 
to  the  stock  broker.  Further,  the  decision  of  the  stock  exchange  on  the 
SOR application of the stock broker and reasons for rejection of the SOR 
application shall also be communicated to all the other stock exchanges 
where the broker’s SOR facility intends to route orders. 
 

46.2.6.  Stock  exchange  shall  ensure  that  brokers  adhere  to  the  best  execution 

policy while using Smart Order Routing. 

46.2.7.  Smart Order Routing facility shall be provided to all class of investors. 

46.2.8.  Stock Broker shall communicate to all clients the features, possible risks, 
rights,  responsibilities  and  liabilities  associated  with  the  smart  order 
routing facility. The client desirous of availing such facility shall do so by 
entering  into  a  broker-client  agreement,  as  applicable.  For  the  existing 
clients,  the  same  shall  be  implemented  through  an  addendum  to  the 
existing broker-client agreement, as applicable. 

 
46.2.9.  Stock  broker  shall  maintain  logs  of  all  activities  to  facilitate  audit  trail. 
Broker  shall  maintain  record  of  orders,  trades  and  data  points  for  the 
basis of decision. 

46.2.10.  Stock exchange shall permit smart order routing for all orders, without 
restricting to any specific type of order. The choice on order types shall 
be left to the client. 

 
46.2.11.  If stock exchange desires to advise its brokers to seek re-approval, it may 

do so only in case of – 

 

a.  Inclusion of a new stock exchange for offering SOR facility; and/or, 
b.  Material changes in the software/system of the smart order routing 

facility. 

 
46.2.12.  In case the client has availed Smart Order Routing facility and does not 
want  to  use  the  same  for  a  particular  order,  the  same  shall  be  well 
documented by the stock broker. 

46.2.13.  System audit of the Smart Order Routing systems and software shall be 
periodically  carried  out  by  the  brokers  as  may  be  specified  by  the 
exchange  and  certificate  in  this  regard  shall  be  submitted  to  the 
exchange. 

130 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

46.2.14.  Stock  exchange  shall  ensure  that  Smart  Order  Routing  is  not  used  to 

place orders at venues other than the recognised stock exchanges. 

46.2.15.  The  stock  broker  shall  carry  out  appropriate  validation  of  all  risk 
parameters  before  the  orders  are  placed  in  the  Smart  Order  Routing 
system. 

46.2.16.  Stock  exchange  shall  provide  unique  identification  number  for  the 
orders  placed  through  Smart  Order  Routing  system.  Further,  stock 
exchanges  shall  maintain  data  on  Smart  Order  Routing  orders  and 
trades. 

46.2.17.  Stock exchange shall have necessary surveillance mechanism in place to 

monitor trading done through Smart Order Routing. 

46.2.18.  Stock  broker  shall  ensure  that  alternative  mode  of  trading  system  is 

available in case of failure of Smart Order Routing facility. 

46.2.19.  Stock  exchange  shall  ensure  that  within  a  period  of  three  months  from 
implementation of Smart Order Routing, a system is put in place to time 
stamp market data feed that is disseminated to the market, if the same is 
not already available. 

46.2.20.  Stock  exchange  shall  strengthen  investor  grievance  cell  in  order  to 
address complaints, if any, received with regard to Smart Order Routing. 
Further,  in  case  of  any  disputes  or  complaints,  stock  exchanges  shall 
share  necessary  data  as  and  when  required  in  order  to  facilitate 
necessary examination. 

46.2.21.  Stock  exchange shall  synchronise  their  system  clocks with  atomic  clock 

before the start of market. 

46.2.22.  The  broker  server  routing  orders  placed  through  Smart  Order  Routing 
system  to  the  exchange  trading  system  shall  be  located  in  India.  Stock 
exchange  shall  permit  SOR  approved  brokers  to  offer  SOR  facility 
through all their servers irrespective of their location in India. 

46.2.23.  All  other  existing  obligations  for  the  broker  as  per  current  regulations 

and circulars will continue. 

46.2.24.  Stock  exchange  may  specify  additional  safeguards  as  they  deem  fit  for 

allowing Smart Order Routing facility to their brokers. 

131 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
47.  Broad Guidelines on Algorithmic Trading54 
 

47.1.  Any order that is generated using automated execution logic shall be known as 

algorithmic trading. 

47.2.  Guidelines to the stock exchanges and the stock brokers: 

 

Stock exchanges shall ensure the following while permitting algorithmic trading: 

47.2.1.  The  stock  exchange  shall  have  arrangements,  procedures  and  system 
capability to manage the load on their systems in such a manner so as to 
achieve consistent response time to all stock brokers. The stock exchange 
shall continuously study the performance of its systems and, if necessary, 
undertake  system  upgradation,  including  periodic  upgradation  of  its 
surveillance  system,  in  order  to  keep  pace  with  the  speed  of  trade  and 
volume of data that may arise through algorithmic trading. 
 

47.2.2.  In  order  to  ensure  maintenance  of  orderly  trading  in  the  market,  stock 
exchange shall put in place effective economic disincentives with regard 
to  high  daily  order-to-trade  ratio  of  algo  orders  of  the  stock  broker. 
Further,  the  stock  exchange  shall  put  in  place  monitoring  systems  to 
identify and initiate measures to impede any possible instances of order 
flooding by algos. 

47.2.3.  The stock exchange shall ensure that all algorithmic orders are necessarily 
routed  through  broker  servers  located  in  India  and  the  stock  exchange 
has  appropriate  risk  controls  mechanism  to  address  the  risk  emanating 
from  algorithmic  orders  and  trades.  The  minimum  order-level  risk 
controls shall include the following: 

a.  Price check - The price quoted by the order shall not violate the price 
bands defined by the exchange for the security. For securities that do 
not  have  price  bands,  dummy  filters  shall  be  brought  into  effective 
use  to  serve  as  an  early  warning  system  to  detect  sudden  surge  in 
prices. 

b.  Quantity  Limit  check  -  The  quantity  quoted  in  the  order  shall  not 
violate the maximum permissible quantity per order as defined by the 
exchange for the security. 

 

 

 

 

47.2.4.  In the interest of orderly trading and market integrity, the stock exchange 
shall  put  in  place  a  system  to  identify  dysfunctional  algos  (i.e.  algos 
leading  to  loop  or  runaway  situation)  and  take  suitable  measures, 
including advising the member, to shut down such algos and remove any 

                                                           
54  Reference:  Circular  CIR/MRD/DP/09/2012  dated  March  30,  2012  and  Circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/16/2013 dated May 21, 2013. 

 

132 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

outstanding  orders  in  the  system  that  have  emanated  from  such 
dysfunctional algos. Further, in exigency, the stock exchange should be in 
a position to shut down the broker’s terminal. 

47.2.5.  Terminals  of  the  stock  broker  that  are  disabled  upon  exhaustion  of 
collaterals shall be enabled manually by the stock exchange in accordance 
with its risk management procedures. 

47.2.6.  The  stock  exchange  may  seek  details  of  trading  strategies  used  by  the 

algo for such purposes viz. inquiry, surveillance, investigation, etc. 

47.2.7.  In order to strengthen the surveillance mechanism related to algorithmic 
trading  and  prevent  market  manipulation,  stock  exchanges  shall  take 
necessary steps to ensure effective monitoring and surveillance of orders 
and  trades  resulting  from  trading  algorithms.  Stock  exchanges  shall 
periodically  review  their  surveillance  arrangements  in  order  to  better 
detect and investigate market manipulation and market disruptions. 

47.2.8.  The  stock  exchange  shall  include  a  report  on  algorithmic  trading  on  the 
stock exchange in the Monthly Development Report (MDR) submitted to 
SEBI  inter-alia  incorporating  turnover  details  of  algorithmic  trading, 
algorithmic  trading  as  percentage  of  total  trading,  number  of  stock 
brokers  /  clients  using  algorithmic  trading,  action  taken  in  respect  of 
dysfunctional algos, status of grievances, if any, received and processed, 
etc. 

47.2.9.  The  stock  exchange  shall  synchronize  its  system  clock  with  the  atomic 
clock before the start of market such that its clock has precision of atleast 
one microsecond and accuracy of atleast +/- one millisecond. 

47.3.  Stock  exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  stock  broker  shall  provide  the  facility  of 
algorithmic  trading  only  upon  the  prior  permission  of  the  stock  exchange. 
Stock  exchange  shall  subject  the  systems  of  the  stock  broker  to  initial 
conformance tests to ensure that the checks mentioned below are in place and 
that  the  stock  broker’s  system  facilitate  orderly  trading  and  integrity  of  the 
securities  market.  Further,  the  stock  exchange  shall  suitably  schedule  such 
conformance  tests  and  thereafter,  convey  the  outcome  of  the  test  to  the  stock 
broker. 

47.4.  For  stock  brokers  already  providing  algo  trading,  the  stock  exchange  shall 
ensure  that  the  risk  controls  specified  herein  are  implemented  by  the  stock 
broker. 

47.5.  The stock brokers / trading members that provide the facility of algorithmic 
trading shall subject their algorithmic trading system to a system audit every 

133 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

six months in order to ensure that the requirements prescribed by SEBI / stock 
exchanges  with  regard  to  algorithmic  trading  are  effectively  implemented. 
Such  system  audit  of  algorithmic  trading  system  shall  be  undertaken  by  a 
system auditor who possess any of the following certifications: 

 
47.5.1.  CISA (Certified Information System Auditors) from ISACA; 

 

47.5.2.  DISA  (Post  Qualification  Certification  in  Information  Systems  Audit) 

from Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI); 

 
47.5.3.  CISM (Certified Information Securities Manager) from ISACA; 
 
47.5.4.  CISSP  (Certified  Information  Systems  Security  Professional)  from 
International  Information  Systems  Security  Certification  Consortium, 
commonly known as (ISC)². 

47.6.  Deficiencies or issues identified during the process of system audit of trading 
algorithm / software shall be reported by the stock broker / trading member 
to the stock exchange immediately on completion of the system audit. Further, 
the stock broker / trading member shall take immediate corrective actions to 
rectify such deficiencies / issues. 

47.7.  In case of serious deficiencies / issues or failure of the stock broker / trading 
member  to  take  satisfactory  corrective  action,  the  stock  exchange  shall  not 
allow  the  stock  broker  /  trading  member  to  use  the  trading  software  till 
deficiencies / issues with the trading software are rectified and a satisfactory 
system audit report is submitted to the stock exchange. Stock exchanges may 
also consider imposing suitable penalties in case of failure of the stock broker 
/ trading member to take satisfactory corrective action to its system within the 
time-period specified by the stock exchanges. 

47.8.  The stock broker, desirous of placing orders generated using algos, shall satisfy 
the  stock  exchange  with  regard  to  the  implementation  of  the  following 
minimum levels of risk controls at its end - 

47.8.1.  Price  check  –  Algo  orders  shall  not  be  released  in  breach  of  the  price 

bands defined by the exchange for the security. 

47.8.2.  Quantity  check  –  Algo  orders  shall  not  be  released  in  breach  of  the 

quantity limit as defined by the exchange for the security. 

47.8.3.  Order  Value  check  -  Algo  orders  shall  not  be  released  in  breach  of  the 

‘value per order’ as defined by the stock exchanges. 

47.8.4.  Cumulative  Open  Order  Value  check  –  The  individual  client  level 

134 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

cumulative open order value check, may be prescribed by the broker for 
the clients. Cumulative Open Order Value for a client is the total value of 
its unexecuted orders released from the stock broker system. 

47.8.5.  Automated  Execution  check  –  An  algo  shall  account  for  all  executed, 
unexecuted and unconfirmed orders, placed by it before releasing further 
order(s).  Further,  the  algo  system  shall  have  pre-defined  parameters  for 
an automatic stoppage in the event of algo execution leading to a loop or 
a runaway situation. 

47.8.6.  All  algorithmic  orders  are  tagged  with  a  unique  identifier  provided  by 

the stock exchange in order to establish audit trail. 

47.9.  The other risk management checks already put in place by the exchange shall 
continue and the exchange may re-evaluate such checks if deemed necessary 
in view of algo trading. 

47.10. The  stock  broker,  desirous  of  placing  orders  generated  using  algos,  shall 

submit to the respective stock exchange an undertaking that - 

47.10.1.  The  stock  broker  has  proper  procedures,  systems  and  technical 

capability to carry out trading through the use of algorithms. 

47.10.2.  The  stock  broker  has  procedures  and  arrangements  to  safeguard 

algorithms from misuse or unauthorized access. 

47.10.3.  The stock broker has real-time monitoring systems to identify algorithms 
that may not behave as expected. Stock broker shall keep stock exchange 
informed of such incidents immediately. 

47.10.4.  The stock broker shall maintain logs of all trading activities to facilitate 
audit trail. The stock broker shall maintain record of control parameters, 
orders, trades and data points emanating from trades executed through 
algorithm trading. 

47.10.5.  The stock broker shall inform the stock exchange on any modification or 

change to the approved algos or systems used for algos. 

47.11. The stock exchange, if required, shall seek conformance of such modified algo 

or systems to the requirements specified above. 

47.12. In  order  to  discourage  repetitive  instances  of  high  daily  order-to-trade  ratio, 
stock exchanges shall impose an additional penalty in form of suspension of 
proprietary  trading  right  of  the  stock  broker  /  trading  member  for  the  first 
trading hour on the next trading day in case a stock broker / trading member 

135 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

is penalized for maintaining high daily order-to-trade ratio, provided penalty 
was  imposed  on  the  stock  broker  /  trading  member  on  more  than  ten 
occasions in the previous thirty trading days. 

 
48.  Testing of software used in or related to Trading and Risk Management55 

 
48.1.  The term ‘software’ shall mean electronic systems or applications used by stock 
brokers  /  trading  members  for  connecting  to  the  stock  exchanges  and  for  the 
purposes  of  trading  and  real-time  risk  management,  including  software  used 
for  Internet  Based  Trading  (IBT),  Direct  Market  Access  (DMA),  Securities 
Trading  using  Wireless  Technology  (STWT),  Smart  Order  Routing  (SOR), 
Algorithmic Trading (AT) etc. 

 
48.2.  Testing of Software 
 

48.2.1.  In addition to the testing and approval requirements specified by SEBI on 
IBT, DMA, STWT, SOR and AT, stock exchanges shall frame appropriate 
testing policies for functional as well as technical testing of the software. 
Such framework shall at the minimum include the following: 

 

 

 

a.  Testing  in  a  simulated  test  environment:  Stock  exchanges  shall 
provide suitable facilities to market participants / software vendors to 
test  new  software  or  existing  software  that  have  undergone  change. 
Subjecting the new software or existing software that have undergone 
change  to  such  testing  facility  shall  be  mandatory  for  market 
participants, before putting it in use. 

b.  Mock testing 

i. 

 

 

ii. 

iii. 

Stock  exchanges  shall  organize  mock  trading  sessions  on  regular 
basis, atleast once in a calendar month, to facilitate testing of new 
software  or  existing  software  that  has  undergone  any  change  of 
functionality, 
in  a  close-to-real  trading  environment.  Stock 
exchanges  shall  suitably  design  and  plan  such  mock  trading 
sessions  to  ensure  maximum  participation  and  sufficient  trading 
volumes for the purpose of testing. 

Stock  exchanges  shall  mandate  a  minimum  time  period  for  such 
testing in the mock trading sessions. 

In order to improve the efficacy of the mock trading sessions, all 
stock  brokers  /  trading  members  shall  ensure  that  all  user-ids 
approved  for  Algo  trading,  irrespective  of  the  algorithm  having 

                                                           
55  Reference:  Circular  CIR/MRD/DP/24/2013  dated  August  19,  2013  and  Circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/06/2014 dated February 07, 2014. 

 

136 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

undergone  change  or  not,  shall  participate  in  the  mock  trading 
sessions. 

iv.  User Acceptance Test (UAT): The stock broker / trading member 
shall undertake UAT of the software to satisfy itself that the newly 
developed / modified software meets its requirements. 

c.  With  respect  to  testing  of  software  related  to  (i)  fixes  to  bugs  in  the 
software,  (ii)  changes  undertaken  to  the  stock  brokers’  software  / 
systems pursuant to a change to any stock exchange's trading system, 
and (iii) software purchased from a software vendor that has already 
been  tested  in  the  mock  environment  by  certain  number  of  stock 
brokers,  stock  exchanges  may  prescribe  a  faster  approval  process  to 
make the process of approval expeditious. 

48.2.2.  Stock  brokers  /  trading  members  shall  also  engage  system  auditor(s)  to 
examine reports of mock tests and UAT in order  to certify that the tests 
were satisfactorily undertaken. 

48.2.3.  Stock  exchanges  shall  monitor  compliance  of  stock  brokers  /  trading 
members, who use trading algorithm, with regard to the requirement of 
participation in mock trading session as mandated herein. In cases where 
stock exchanges find that the stock broker / trading member has failed to 
participate  in  such  mock  trading  sessions,  stock  exchange  shall  call  for 
reasons and if found unsatisfactory, shall suspend the proprietary trading 
rights of the stock broker / trading member for a minimum period of one 
trading day. 

48.2.4.  Stock  exchanges  shall  also  ensure  that  the  system  auditors  examine  the 
compliance  of  stock  broker  /  trading  member,  who  use  trading 
algorithms,  with  regard  to  the  requirement  of  participation  in  mock 
trading  session,  as  mandated  herein,  and  provide  suitable  comments  in 
the periodic system audit report. In cases where the system audit report 
indicate that the stock broker / trading member has failed to participate 
in such mock trading sessions, stock exchange shall call for reasons from 
the  stock  broker  /  trading  member  and  if  found  unsatisfactory,  shall 
suspend  the  proprietary  trading  rights  of  the  stock  broker  /  trading 
member for a minimum period of one trading day. 

48.2.5.  For pre-approval / periodic system audit of Computer-to-Computer Link 
(CTCL) or Intermediate Messaging Layer (IML), IBT, DMA, STWT, SOR 
and AT, stock brokers / trading members shall engage a system auditor 
with  any  of  the  certifications  specified  in  para  47.5.1  to  47.5.4  above. 
While  finalizing  the  system  auditor,  stock  brokers  /  trading  members 
shall ensure the system auditor does not have any conflict of interest with 
the stock broker and the directors / promoters of the system auditor are 

137 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

not directly or indirectly related to the current directors or promoters of 
stock broker / trading member. 

 
48.3.  Approval of Software of stock broker / trading member 
 

48.3.1.  Stock  brokers  /  trading  members  shall  seek  approval  of  the  respective 
stock  exchanges  for  deployment  of  the  software  in  the  securities  market 
by  submitting  necessary  details  required  by  stock  exchange  including 
details of software, tests undertaken and certificate / report provided by 
the  system  auditor.  Stock  exchange  may  seek  additional  details  as 
deemed  necessary  for  evaluating  the  application  of  the  stock  broker  / 
trading member. 

48.3.2.  Stock exchanges shall grant approval or reject the application of the stock 
broker  as  the  case  may  be,  and  communicate  the  decision  to  the  stock 
broker  /  trading  member  within  fifteen  working  days  from  the  date  of 
receipt  of  completed  application  (or  within  any  other  such  time  period 
specified vide SEBI circulars on DMA, IBT, STWT, SOR, AT, etc.). In case 
of rejection of the application, the stock exchange shall also communicate 
reasons  of  rejection  to  the  stock  broker  /  trading  member  within  such 
time period. 

 
48.3.3.  Before  granting  approval  to  use  software  in  securities  market,  stock 
exchange  shall  ensure  that  the  requirements  specified  by  SEBI  /  stock 
exchange with  regard  to  software  are  met by  the  stock broker  /  trading 
member. 

48.3.4.  Stock exchanges may suitably schedule the requirements of mock testing, 
certification  of  test  reports  by  system  auditor(s)  and  the  software 
approval  process,  so  as  to  facilitate  a  speedy  approval  and  a  smooth 
transition of the stock brokers to the new / upgraded software. 

 

 

 

48.3.5.  In  order  to  ensure  that  stock  brokers  are  not  using  software  without 
requisite approval of the stock exchanges, stock exchanges are advised to 
put in place suitable mechanism to prevent any unauthorized change to 
the approved software. 

 
48.4.  Undertaking to be provided by stock brokers / trading members 
 

48.4.1.  Stock  brokers  /  trading  members  shall  submit  an  undertaking  to  the 

respective stock exchanges stating the following at the minimum: 

 

a.  M/s …….(name of the stock broker / trading member)…… will take 
all necessary steps to ensure that every new software and any change 
thereupon  to  the  trading  and/or  risk  management  functionalities  of 
the software will be tested as per the framework prescribed by SEBI / 

138 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

stock  exchange  before  deployment  of  such  new /  modified software 
in securities market. 

b.  M/s  …….(name  of  the  stock  broker  /  trading  member)……  will 
ensure  that  approval  of  the  stock  exchange  is  sought  for  all  new  / 
modified  software  and  will  comply  with  various  requirements 
specified by SEBI or the stock exchange from time to time with regard 
to usage, testing and audit of the software. 

c.  The  absolute  liability  arising  from  failure  to  comply  with  the  above 
provisions shall lie entirely with M/s …….(name of the stock broker / 
trading member)……. 

 

48.4.2.  Stock  exchanges  may  include  additional clauses  as  deemed necessary  in 

the undertaking. 

 
48.5.  Sharing of Application Programming Interface (API) specifications by the stock 

exchange with stock brokers / trading members 

 

 

 

 

48.5.1.  API  is  an  interface  that  enables  interaction  of  software  with  other 
software and typically includes language and message format that is used 
by an application program to communicate with the operating system or 
other  application  program.  Stock  brokers  /  trading  members  and 
software  vendors  require  relevant  API  specifications  to  facilitate 
interaction  of  the  developed  software  with  the  systems  of  the  stock 
exchanges. 

48.5.2.  Stock  exchanges  shall  provide  relevant  API  specifications  to  all  stock 
brokers  /  trading  members  and  software  vendors  who  are  desirous  of 
developing  software  for  the  securities  market,  after  establishing  their 
respective credentials. 

48.5.3.  In case of refusal to share APIs, stock exchanges shall provide reasons in 
writing  to  the  desirous  stock  brokers  /  trading  members  or  software 
vendors within a period of fifteen working days from the date of receipt 
of such request for sharing of API. 

48.5.4.  Further,  stock  exchanges  shall  not  selectively  release  updates  / 
modifications,  if  any,  of  the  existing  API  specifications  to  few  stock 
brokers / trading members or software vendors ahead of others and shall 
provide such updated / modified API specifications to all stock brokers / 
trading  members  and  software  vendors  with  whom  the  earlier  API 
specifications were shared. 

 
48.6.  Penalty on malfunction of software used by stock broker / trading member: 
 

48.6.1.  Stock  exchanges  shall  examine  the  cases  of  malfunctioning  of  software 
used  by  stock  brokers  /  trading  members  and  apply  deterrent  penalties 

139 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

in  form  of  fines  or  suspension  to  the  stock  broker  /  trading  member 
whose  software  malfunctioned.  In  addition,  stock  brokers  /  trading 
members shall implement various mechanisms including the following to 
minimize their losses in the event of software malfunction: 

a. 

include suitable clauses in their agreement with the software vendors 
to  define  liabilities  of  software  vendor  and  stock  broker  /  trading 
member in case of software malfunction, and / or, 

b.  consider  taking  suitable  insurance  cover  to  meet  probable  losses  in 

case of software malfunction. 

 
48.7.  With regard to changes / updates to stock broker's trading software that intend 
to modify the 'look and feel' and do not affect the risk management system of 
the  stock  broker  or  the  connectivity  of  the  trading  software  with  stock 
exchange's  trading  system,  it  is  clarified  that  mock  testing  and  consequent 
system audit may not be insisted upon by the stock exchanges. 

 
48.8.  Stock  exchanges  shall  direct  their  stock  brokers  to  put  in  place  adequate 
mechanism  to  restore  their  trading  systems to  'production  state'  at  the  end  of 
testing session so as to ensure integrity of stock brokers' trading system. 

 

49.  Safeguards to avoid trading disruption in case of failure of software vendor56 

 
49.1.  Software  vendors  who  provide  software  to  market  participants  and  market 
infrastructure  institutions  for  the  purpose  of  trading,  risk  management, 
clearing  and  settlement  play  a  crucial  role  in  the  securities  market.  Any 
inability  on  the  part  of  such  software  vendors  to  provide  software  or  related 
services in timely and continuous manner may create a situation of stress in the 
securities market. 

 
49.2.  Adequate  mechanism  /  procedure  should  be  in  place  to  ensure  smooth 
transition by stock broker(s) to another software vendor in case of inability of 
the existing software vendor to provide software and related services in timely 
and continuous manner. 

 
49.3.  Stock exchanges may advise the stock brokers to take the following measures: 
 

49.3.1.  Explore  the  possibility  of  establishing  a  'software  escrow  arrangement' 

with their existing software vendors. 

 

 

49.3.2.  In case of large stock brokers, consider reducing dependence on a single 
software vendor for trading and risk management systems, by engaging 
more than one software vendor. 

                                                           
56 Reference: Circular CIR/MRD/DP/07/2014 dated February 11, 2014. 

 

140 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

49.3.3.  Consider  including  the  following  in  their  contracts  with  the  software 

vendors: 

 

a.  access to documents related to design and development specifications 
in  the  event  software  vendor  fails  to  provide  continuous  and  timely 
services to the stock broker; 

b.  development  of  expertise  at  the  end  of  the  stock  broker  through 
appropriate training with regard to software usage and maintenance; 
c.  appropriate  penalty  clauses  for  cases  of  disruptions  to  the  trading 
system of the stock broker on account of (i) software vendor failing to 
provide  continuous  and  timely  services  to  the  stock  broker  or  (ii) 
glitches to the software provided by the software vendor; 

d.  obligation on the part of the software vendor to cooperate in case of 

audit of software including forensic audit, if required. 

***** 

141 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

VI. 

CHANGE IN STATUS, CONSTITUTION, CONTROL, AFFILIATION 

 

 

 

50.  Surrender of Certificate of Registration of Sub-Brokers and Change of Affiliation 

of Sub-Brokers57 
 
50.1.  Surrender of registration by sub-broker 
 

50.1.1.  The  affiliating  stock  broker  shall  issue  a  public  advertisement  in  a  local 
newspaper with wide circulation where the sub-broker’s place of work is 
situated,  informing  the  investors/general  public  about  the  surrender  of 
registration of his sub-broker and not to deal with such sub-broker. 

50.1.2.  An application for surrender of registration has to be made to SEBI by the 

sub-broker, along with the following: 

a.  the letter of de-recognition issued by the Exchange; 
b.  a  certificate  from  the  affiliating  broker  that  the  sub-broker  has  been 

disabled from trading; 

c.  copies of two advertisements issued by the affiliating broker informing 
the  investors/  general  public  about  the  cancellation  of  his/their  sub-
broker(s)  and  advising  them  not  to  deal  with  such  sub-broker(s).  One 
advertisement  shall  be  issued  in  a  local  newspaper  where  the  sub-
broker’s  Registered  Office/  Head  Office/  Corporate  Office  is  situated 
and  another 
in  English  daily/vernacular  newspaper  with  wide 
circulation; 

d.  the original  certificate  of  registration  for  cancellation.  In  case  the 
surrender  is  made  by  the  affiliating  broker,  the  application  for 
surrender shall be made by the broker along with evidence of service of 
notice of termination of agreement; and, 

e.  an undertaking that it / he would be liable for all liabilities/obligations 
(including  monetary  penalties,  if  any)  for  violations  if  any,  of  the 
provisions  of  the  SEBI  Act  and  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-
Brokers)  Rules  and  Regulations,  1992  that  have  taken  place  before  the 
surrender. 

50.1.3.  Fees, as may be due, as per Schedule III (II) of the SEBI (Stock Broker and 
Sub-Broker) Regulations, 1992 as on the date of de-recognition of the sub-
broker by  the  Exchange,  shall  be  paid  along  with  the  application  for 
surrender. 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
57 Reference: Circular MIRSD-DR 1/SRP/CIR-43/28408/04 dated December 15, 2004.  
Circular CIR/MIRSD/2/2011 dated June 03, 2011,  
Circular CIR/MIRSD/10/2012 dated August 27, 2012. 
Para A (1 & 2) of Circular MIRSD-DR 1/SRP/CIR-43/28408/04 dated December 15, 2004, deleted 
in view of Notification LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/03/12650 dated April 19, 2011.   

 

142 

 

 

  

  

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

50.1.4.  On receipt of the application for surrender and being found suitable in all 
respects, the procedure as prescribed in the SEBI (Stock Broker and Sub-
Broker) Regulations, 1992 read with Regulation 15(i) the SEBI (Procedure 
for Holding Inquiry) Regulations, 2002, shall be followed. 

50.1.5.  The  sub-broker  may,  if  he  so  desires,  make  a  representation  for 
dispensing with the procedure, along with the application for surrender 
in  terms  of fresh  proviso  to  regulations  16(i)  of the  SEBI  ((Procedure  for 
Holding Inquiry and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002. 

50.1.6.  If  the  surrender  application  is  accepted  by  SEBI,  registration  would  be 
cancelled  by  SEBI  with  effect  from  the  date  of  de-recognition  by  the 
Exchange.  Until  SEBI  cancels  the  registration  and  issues  no  due 
certificate, the deposit, if any, of the sub- broker shall not be released to 
the sub-broker by the Exchange. 

 
50.2.  In  case  of  transition  from  sub-broker  to  Authorized  Person  (AP)  (where  the 
sub-broker  surrenders  registration  while  seeking  approval  as  AP)  with  the 
same  stock  broker  and  the  same  Stock  Exchange,  issue  of  advertisement  in 
newspaper  regarding  surrender  of  sub-broker  registration  shall  not  be 
required.  However,  the  affiliating  stock  broker  shall  furnish  an  undertaking/ 
confirmation  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  at  the  time  of  surrender  of  sub-broker 
registration  that  he  has  sent  communication  to  the  clients  of  the  sub-broker 
individually  about  the  surrender  of  sub-brokership  and  also  the  fact  of 
approval as AP. 

 
50.3.  The affiliating stock broker and/or Stock Exchange shall publish the details of 
sub-brokers whose registration has been surrendered or their new status as AP, 
as  the  case  may  be  on  their  respective  websites  for  the  information  of  the 
investors. 

 
50.4.  Forwarding of application 
 

50.4.1.  On receipt of the application(s) for prior approval and / or for surrender 
and  /  or  registration,  as  the  case  may  be,  of  the  sub-broker(s),  the 
Exchange shall forward the same to SEBI within a month of receipt of the 
application  by  the  Exchange  only  after  it  has  approved  the  same  and 
recognized and / derecognized the sub-broker(s) concerned, along with a 
confirmation  (if  not  possible  to  confirm,  details  may  be  given)  on  the 
following: 

 

a.  no complaint/  arbitration  /disciplinary  proceeding  /investigation 

/inquiry is pending against the sub-broker with the exchange, 

b.  as on  date  of  application, 

the  sub-broker,  has  paid  fees  as 
per Schedule III (II) of the Regulations, along with interest, if any, till 
the date on which the exchange has de-recognised the sub-broker. 

 

143 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
50.5.  Change of constitution of the affiliating broker  
 

50.5.1.  The change in status and constitution of the affiliating broker would not 
constitute change in status and constitution of the  sub-broker. However, 
if the change in status and constitution of the affiliating broker results in a 
fresh registration for the broker, the outgoing broker shall ensure that the 
all the sub-brokers affiliated to him either surrender their registrations or 
get  their  registrations  affiliated  against  the  new  registration  number  of 
the incoming broker in accordance with the following: 

 

a.  If  the  registrations  of  the  sub-brokers  are  to  be  surrendered,  the 
surrender  requests  of  the  sub-brokers  must  be  submitted  to  SEBI 
before  or  at  the  time  of  application  for  change  in  status  and 
constitution  of  the  broker  and  the  procedure  specified  in  para  50.1 
above shall be followed. 

b.  If brokers are to be affiliated with the incoming broker, the incoming 
broker  must  submit  applications  for  change  of  affiliation  from  the 
outgoing broker to the incoming broker, along with its application for 
fresh registration. The sub-brokers shall enter into a fresh stock broker 
–  sub-broker  agreement  with  the  incoming  broker  in  terms  of 
Regulation  15(1)(c)  of  the  SEBI  (Stock  Broker  and  Sub-Broker) 
Regulations  and  a  copy  of  the  same  shall  be  enclosed  with  the 
application  for  change  of  affiliation.  The  application  for  change  of 
affiliation  shall  also  be  accompanied  with  the  original  certificate  of 
registration of the sub-broker for carrying out the necessary changes. 
Though the affiliation of the sub-broker will change, it shall be liable 
for all its activities before the change of affiliation. 

 
50.6.  Change in name of sub-broker or affiliating broker 
 

50.6.1.  Change in name of the sub-broker or in name of affiliating broker would 
not  amount  to  change  in  status  and  constitution  of  the  sub-broker  and 
hence no approval is required for the same. If a sub-broker changes name, 
it  shall  be  the  responsibility  of  the  affiliating  broker  to  submit  the 
registration certificate of such sub-broker to SEBI through the concerned 
exchange  for  recording  change  of  name  on  the  registration  certificate.  If 
the  name  of  the  affiliating  broker  changes,  the  broker  shall  submit  the 
registration  certificates  of  all  its  sub-brokers  to  SEBI  through  the 
concerned  exchange  for  carrying  out  appropriate  changes  on  the 
certificate.  All  requests  for  recording  such  changes  in  the  certificate  of 
registration must be sent to SEBI within 7 days of change of name. 

 
 
 

 

144 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
51.  Change in affiliation of Sub-Brokers58 

 
51.1.  Regulation 11(2) of the SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992 
stipulates that: “No fresh certificate needs to be obtained under sub-regulation 
(1) where a sub-broker merely changes his affiliation from one stock broker to 
another stock broker, being a member of the same Stock Exchange.” 

 
51.2.  Though no fresh certificate needs to be obtained for change in affiliation, such a 

change may require approval from the Board. 

 
51.3.  The procedure to be followed and the documents to be submitted for seeking 
approval  for  change  in  affiliation  by  the  sub-brokers  is  specified  in  the  table 
given below: 

S. 
No. 

i. 

ii. 

 
Scenarios 

 

 

(A) 

 

Remarks 

 

(B) 

by 

  A  sub-broker 
intends 
to 
discontinue 
business  with 
broker 
one 
and 
start 
business  with 
another 
broker 
changing 
affiliation. 
  A 
merges 
amalgamates 
with  another 
is 
broker  or 
acquired 
by 
another 
broker. 

broker 
/ 

The  sub-broker  shall  submit  the  application 
for  change  in  affiliation  to  the  exchange 
through  the  broker  with  whom  affiliation  is 
being sought and exchange shall forward the 
application 
to 
its 
recommendation. 

along-with 

SEBI 

The  sub-broker  affiliated 
to  merging  / 
amalgamating / acquired broker entities may 
either  choose  to  surrender  registration  or 
affiliate with the incoming entity or any other 
broker.  
 
The  broker  must  ensure  that  all  the  sub-
brokers affiliated to it submit the application 
for change in affiliation or surrender within a 
period of 15 days.  
 
The application for surrender of certificate of 
registration  of  sub-broker  shall  be  submitted 
to  the  exchange  through  the  existing  broker 
in 
whereas 

the  application 

for  change 

Procedure and Documents to 
be 
the 
applicant. 

submitted 

by 

(C) 

through 

for  change 

Procedure: 
 
Application 
in 
affiliation  to  be  submitted  to 
the  exchange 
the 
broker  with  whom  affiliation 
is being sought. 
 
The  exchange  shall  ensure 
and  confirm  that  there  is  no 
complaint(s)  /  action(s) 
is 
/are pending against the sub-
broker  seeking  change 
in 
affiliation  and  the  sub-broker 
has  no 
fee 
against it.  
 
The  Exchange  shall  forward 
the  application  complete  in 
all  respects  to  SEBI  along 
with its recommendation.  
 
SEBI  shall  take  the  change  in 
affiliation  on 
record  and 
effect the changes on the sub-
broker certificate.  

outstanding 

                                                           
58 Reference: Circular MIRSD-DR 1/MK/CIR-15/111600/07 dated December 20, 2007. 

 

145 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

iii. 

  A 
applies 
surrender. 

broker 
for 

iv. 

broker 

  A 
undergoes 
in 
change 
or 
control 
in 
change 
status 
and 
constitution  / 
sale / transfer 
/ 
transmission 

for  change 

the  application 

affiliation of sub-broker shall be submitted to 
the exchange through the broker with whom 
affiliation is being sought. The exchange shall 
forward  the  application  for  surrender  / 
change in affiliation to SEBI for approval. 
Sub-Brokers  affiliated  to  a  broker  who  has 
applied  for  surrender  of  registration  may 
apply  for  change  in  affiliation  to  another 
broker or apply for surrender.  
 
The  broker  must  ensure  that  all  the  sub-
brokers affiliated to it submit the application 
for  change  in  affiliation  or  surrender  at  the 
time  broker  applies  for  surrender.  The 
application  must  be  submitted  through  the 
exchange.  
 
The application for surrender of certificate of 
registration  of  sub-broker  shall  be  submitted 
to  the  exchange  through  the  existing  broker 
whereas 
in 
affiliation of sub-broker shall be submitted to 
the  exchange  through  broker  with  whom 
affiliation  is  being  sought.  Exchange  shall 
forward  the  application  for  surrender  / 
change in affiliation to SEBI for approval. 
Sub-brokers  affiliated  to  a  broker  who  has 
undergone  change 
in 
transfer/  sale/ 
status  or  constitution  / 
transmission,  may  apply  for  change 
in 
affiliation  to  another  broker  or  apply  for 
surrender.  
 
The  broker  undergoing  change  must  ensure 
that all the sub-brokers affiliated to it submit 
the  sub-brokers’  application  for  change  in 
affiliation  or  surrender  after  the  issuance  of 
prior  approval  to  the  broker  and  before  the 
registration  of  the  incoming  broking  entity. 
The  application  must  be  submitted  through 
the exchange. 
 
In  case  the  broker  expires,  the  sub-brokers 
may  change  their  affiliation  within  a  period 
of  six  months  from  the  date  on  which  the 

in  control/change 

 

146 

sub-broker 

 
The  modified  certificate  shall 
be dispatched to the exchange 
to  be  handed  over  to  the 
broker / sub-broker. 
 
The 
seeking 
change  in  affiliation  shall  be 
eligible  to  do  business  with 
till 
the  old  broker 
the 
application 
is 
granted 
approval by SEBI. Thereafter, 
on  grant  of  approval  by  SEBI 
the exchange shall ensure that 
affiliation of the sub-broker is 
changed  to  new  broker  with 
immediate effect. 
 
Documents to be submitted: 
 
Exchange 
recommendation 
and  recommendation  by  the 
broker  with  whom  affiliation 
is being sought. 
 
Certificate  of  registration  in 
original  for  recording  change 
in  affiliation.  In  case  of  lost 
/misplaced 
an 
affidavit  (on  stamp  paper  of 
appropriate 
value) 
indemnifying 
from 
possible  harm  caused  by  loss 
of  certificate  and  a  copy  of 
FIR/ police complaint lodged 
by  the  sub-broker  is  required 
to be furnished.  
 
Letter  from  the  sub-broker 
seeking  change  in  affiliation 
addressed to SEBI. 
 
No  Objection  Certificate 
(NOC) 
the  existing 
affiliated  broker  with  whom 

certificate, 

SEBI 

from 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

to 

the  sub-broker  wishes 
discontinue business. 
 
Certified  true  copy  of  the 
agreement 
the 
broker and the sub-broker. 

between 

sub-broker(s) 

broker  ceases  to  exist  or  the  registration  will 
be deemed cancelled. 
 
The application for surrender of certificate of 
registration  of 
shall  be 
submitted  to  the  exchange  through  the 
existing  broker  whereas  the  application  for 
change  in  affiliation  of  sub-broker  shall  be 
submitted  to  the  exchange  through  the 
broker with whom affiliation is being sought. 
The  exchange  shall  forward  the  application 
for  surrender  /  change  in  affiliation  to  SEBI 
for approval. 
Sub-Brokers  affiliated  to  a  broker  against 
whom  punitive  action  has  been  taken,  may 
apply  for  change  in  affiliation  to  another 
broker  or  apply  for  surrender  The  sub-
brokers  must  apply  for  change  in  affiliation 
or  surrender  through  the  exchange  within  a 
period of one (1) month from the date of the 
SEBI order. 
 
The application for surrender of certificate of 
registration  of 
shall  be 
submitted  to  the  exchange  through  the 
existing  broker  whereas  the  application  for 
change  in  affiliation  of  sub-broker  shall  be 
submitted  to  the  exchange  through  the 
broker with whom affiliation is being sought. 
The  exchange  shall  forward  the  application 
for  surrender  /  change  in  affiliation  to  SEBI 
for approval.  
In  case 
the  sub-broker 
terminates  the  agreement,  the  sub-broker 
may  apply  for  change 
in  affiliation  or 
surrender registration.  
 
In  case  the  sub-broker  intends  change  in 
affiliation  and  broker  does  not  issue  NOC, 
the  sub-broker  may  apply  for  change  in 
affiliation  after  completion  of  one  month 
from  the  date  of  termination  of  agreement 
with  the  proof  of  request  to  the  broker  for 
NOC. 
 

the  broker  or 

sub-broker(s) 

v. 

takes 

  SEBI 
punitive 
action  against 
the 
broker 
like 
cancellation  / 
debarred 
from 
securities 
market  or  the 
broker 
is 
a 
declared 
defaulter 
or 
expelled  from 
exchange. 

vi. 

  The  broker  or 
the 
sub-
broker 
terminates the 
agreement. 

 

147 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

terminates 

the  sub-broker 

In  case 
the 
agreement,  the  sub-broker  shall  submit  an 
application  to  the  exchange  for  surrender  of 
certificate  of  registration  as  sub-broker  and 
enclose  proof  of  service  of  notice 
for 
termination of agreement with the broker. 
 
In case the sub-broker is not traceable or does 
not  either  apply  for  change  in  affiliation  or 
surrender  after  termination  of  agreement  by 
the  broker,  the  broker  may  submit  an 
application 
for  surrender  of  registration 
along  with  proof  of  service  of  notice  to  the 
sub-broker after a period of one month from 
the date of termination of agreement. 
The  sub-brokers  may  only  submit  certificate 
of  registration  in  original  for  the  change  in 
affiliating  broker’s  name  to  be  recorded  on 
certificate. 

vii. 

  Broker 
undergoes  a 
change 
in 
name.  

 
51.4.  The exchange shall provide to SEBI only its recommendation and the certificate 
of  the  sub-broker  seeking  change  in  affiliation  /  copy  of  police  complaint  or 
FIR as attachments if the certificate is misplaced or lost along with an affidavit 
(on  stamp  paper  of  appropriate  value)  indemnifying  SEBI  from  any  possible 
harm due to loss of certificate. The other documents mentioned above may be 
retained by exchange at its end. The exchange shall provide these documents to 
SEBI as and when required. 

 

52.  Periodical Report – Grant of prior approval to members of Stock Exchanges/ Sub-

Brokers59 
 
52.1.  With  the  amendment  in  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  Regulations, 
1992  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  "the  said  Regulations")  vide  Notification  No. 
LAD-NRO/GN/2011-12/03/12650  dated  April  19,  2011,  the  requirement  of 
members  of  the  Stock  Exchanges  and  sub-brokers  to  obtain  prior  approval 
from  SEBI  for  change  in  status  or  constitution  has  been  done  away  with. 
However, the members of the Stock Exchanges would be required to take prior 
approval from SEBI for change in control. 

 
52.2.  The  Stock  Exchanges  will  continue  to  grant  prior  approval  to  their  members 
and sub-brokers for change in status or constitution, which would include the 
following: 

 

52.2.1.  in case of a body corporate — 

                                                           
59 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/2/2011 dated June 03, 2011. 

 

148 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

a.  amalgamation,  demerger,  consolidation  or  any  other  kind  of 
corporate  restructuring  falling  within  the  scope  of  section  230  of  the 
Companies  Act,  201360  or  the  corresponding  provision  of  any  other 
law for the time being in force;  

b.  change  in  its  managing  director,  whole-time  director  or  director 
appointed in compliance with clause (v) of sub-rule (4A) of rule 8 of 
the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957; and  

c.  any change in control over the body corporate; 

52.2.2.  any  change  between  the  following  legal  forms  -  individual,  partnership 
firm,  Hindu  undivided  family,  private  company,  public  company, 
unlimited company or statutory corporation and other similar changes;  

 

52.2.3.  in  case  of  a  partnership  firm  any  change  in  partners  not  amounting  to 

dissolution of the firm;  

 
52.2.4.  any  other  purpose  as  may  be  considered  appropriate  by  the  Stock 

Exchanges. 

 
52.3.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  submit  a  periodical  report  with  details  of  the 
changes  in  status  or  constitution  of  the  members  /  sub-brokers,  as  per  the 
format and in accordance with guidelines given at Annexure below. 

 

ANNEXURE 

 

Format for reporting changes in "status or constitution" of Members/ Sub-Brokers 

 
Name of the Stock Exchange: 
Report for the quarter ending: June/September/December/March                             Year:- 
Date of report: 

Name  of 
the 
member/ 
sub-
broker 
 
 

 
S. No.  Date 

of 
receipt 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

Registration 
number 
INB/F/E 
INS 

Type  of 
change 

Details  of 
changes 
Pre  Post 

PAN 
(incoming 
entities) 

Date  of 
Change 

Date 
of 
approval 
by  Stock 
Exchange 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

                                                           
60  Words  “section  391  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956)”  replaced  with  “section  230  of  the 
Companies Act, 2013” in view of Companies Act 2013 being in force. 

 

149 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Type 

I 

II 

Description of Change 

Amalgamation,  demerger,  consolidation  or  any  other  kind  of  corporate  restructuring 
falling  within  the  scope  of  section  230  of  the  Companies  Act,  2013  or  the  corresponding 
provision of any other law for the time being in force. 
Change  in  managing  director,  whole-time  director  or  director  appointed  in  compliance 
with  clause  (v)  of  sub-rule  (4A)  of  rule  8  of  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules, 
1957. 

III  Change in control. 
IV  Any  change  between  the  following  legal  forms  -  individual,  partnership  firm,  Hindu 
undivided  family,  private  company,  public  company,  unlimited  company  or  statutory 
corporation and other similar changes. 
In case of a partnership firm any change in partners not amounting to dissolution of the 
firm. 

V 

VI  Any other purpose as may be considered appropriate by the Stock Exchanges. 

Guidelines to fill up the format and sending the same to SEBI 

 

 

1.  A  separate  annexure  shall  be  submitted for  each  "Type  of  change"  as  specified  in  the 

format.  

2.  The report shall be signed by an authorized representative of the Stock Exchange and 

the same shall be stamped.  

3.  The Stock Exchanges shall furnish the report to SEBI by 7th day of month following the 

end of each quarter. 

4.  The report shall be submitted by e-mail at serpa@sebi.gov.in. A hard copy of the report 

shall also be submitted to SEBI. 

 

53.  Revised procedure for seeking prior approval for change in control through single 

window61 
 
53.1.  Pursuant  to  amendments  in  Regulations  for  certain  intermediaries  viz.,  Stock 
Brokers and Sub-Brokers, Merchant Bankers, Debenture Trustees, Registrar to 
an  Issue  and  Share  Transfer  Agents,  Underwriters,  Depository  Participants, 
Bankers  to  an  Issue  and  Credit  Rating  Agencies,  vide  Notification  No.  LAD-
NRO/GN/2011-12/03/12650  dated  April  19,  2011,  the  requirement  of 
obtaining  prior  approval  for  change  in  status  or  constitution  has  been 
dispensed  with.  However,  in  case  of  change  in  control  of  the  above 
intermediaries except for sub-brokers, prior approval of SEBI is required. 

 
53.2.  With  a  view  to  expedite  the  process  of  granting  prior  approval,  a  ‘single 
window clearance at SEBI’ will be adopted for the above intermediaries in case 
of  their  having  multiple  registrations  with  SEBI.  Accordingly,  in  consultation 
with  the  major  Stock  Exchanges  and  market  participants,  the  following 
procedure has been devised: 

                                                           
61 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/14/2011 dated August 02, 2011 

 

150 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

53.2.1.  In case an applicant holds multiple registrations with SEBI, it shall make 
only  one  application  to  SEBI  accompanied  by  the  following  information 
about itself, the acquirer and the directors/partners of the acquirer: 
 
a.  Whether  any  application  was  made  in  the  past  to  SEBI  seeking 
registration  in  any  capacity  but  it  was  not  granted?  If  yes,  details 
thereof.  

b.  Whether any action has been initiated / taken under SCRA/SEBI Act 
or rules and regulations made thereunder? If yes, status thereof along 
with corrective action taken to avoid such violations in the future. The 
acquirer  shall  also  confirm  that  it  shall  honour  all  past  liabilities  / 
obligations of the applicant, if any.  

c.  Whether  any  investor  complaint  is  pending?  If  yes,  steps  taken  and 

confirmation that the acquirer shall resolve the same.  

d.  Details of litigation, if any.  
e.  That all the fees due to SEBI have been paid.  
f.  That  there  will  not  be  any  change  in  the  Board  of  Directors  of 

incumbent, till the time prior approval is granted.  

g.  That the incumbent shall inform all its existing investors / clients in 
order  to  enable  them  to  take  informed  decision  regarding  their 
continuance or otherwise with the entity with new management. 

53.2.2.  Further,  in  case  the  incumbent  is  a  registered  stock  broker  and  /  or 
depository participant, in addition to the above, it shall obtain approval / 
NOC from all the Stock Exchanges / Depositories, where the incumbent 
is a member / depository participant and forward a self attested copy of 
the same to SEBI. 

53.2.3.  The  application  shall  be  addressed  to  "Chief  General  Manager,  MIRSD, 

SEBI". 

53.2.4.  The prior approval granted by SEBI shall be valid for a period of 180 days 

from the date of communication. 

***** 

151 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

VII.  SUBSIDIARY 

54.  Floating  of  a  Subsidiary/  Company  by  a  Stock  Exchange to  acquire  the 

membership of other Stock Exchange62 
 
54.1.  Small  Stock  Exchanges  may  promote/float  a  subsidiary/company  to  acquire 
membership  rights  of  other  Stock  Exchange  subject  to  the  under  noted 
conditions: 

 

54.1.1.  The  subsidiary/company  shall  be  100%  owned  by  the  Stock  Exchange 

promoting/floating such a subsidiary/company.  
 

54.1.2.  For the  purposes of fulfillment of above condition, the Exchange and its 
members  shall  together  hold  100%  in  nominal  value  of  the  equity  share 
capital  of  the  subsidiary/company  with  exchange  holding  not  less  than 
51% 
the 
subsidiary/company. 
 

in  nominal  value  of 

the  equity 

share  capital  of 

54.1.3.  The name of the subsidiary/company shall not contain the words "Stock 

Exchange". 
 

54.1.4.  The  members  of  the  Stock  Exchange  shall  register  themselves  as  sub-
brokers  of  the  subsidiary/company  to  enable  them  trade  through  the 
subsidiary/company. 

 
54.1.5.  The subsidiary/company shall not undertake any dealing in securities on 

its own account. 

 
54.1.6.  The  subsidiary/company  shall  register  only  the  members  of  the  Stock 
Exchange, which is promoting the subsidiary/company as its sub-broker 
and  no  other  client/sub-broker 
the 
subsidiary/company.  Hence,  the  member  has  to  be  eligible  to  trade  on 
parent  Stock  Exchange  to  be  eligible  to  trade  through  the  subsidiary 
company as its sub-broker. 

shall  be  entertained  by 

 
54.1.7.  The  sub-brokers  of  the  subsidiary/company  shall  maintain  separate 
deposit  with  the  subsidiary/company.  The  Base  Minimum  Capital 
deposited by the sub-broker with the promoting Stock Exchange shall not 
be  transferred  to  the  subsidiary/company.  This  deposit  could  be 
maintained  25%  in  the  form  of  cash  and  the  balance  75%  in  irrevocable 

                                                           
62 Reference: Circular SMD-II/POLICY/CIR-37/99 dated November 26, 1999,  
Circular SMD-I/POLICY/CIR-40/99 dated December 16, 1999,  
Circular SMD-II/ALLSE/CIR-02/2000 dated January 10, 2000,  
Circular SMDRPD/POLICY/CIR-8/2001 dated February 07, 2001 and  
Circular SEBI/SMD/SE/CIR-20/2003/02/06 dated June 02, 2003. 

 

152 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

bank guarantees / Fixed Deposit Receipts (FDRs). These FDRs would be 
discharged 
the 
subsidiary/company  would  be  given  a  complete  unencumbered  and 
unconditional lien on these FDRs. 

subsidiary/company 

and 

in 

favour  of 

the 

 
54.1.8.  The  trading/exposure  limit  of  the  sub-brokers  shall  be  based  on  the 
deposit  received  by  the  subsidiary/company  from  the  sub-brokers  and 
these  limits  shall  not  exceed  the  limits  as  prescribed  by  the  Stock 
Exchange of which the subsidiary/company is a member. 

 
54.1.9.  The  subsidiary/company  shall  collect  margins  from  the  sub-brokers  for 
the  payment  of  margins  to  the  respective  Stock  Exchanges  of  which  the 
subsidiary/company 
imposed  by  the 
subsidiary/company on its sub-brokers shall not be less than the margin 
payable to the Stock Exchanges of which the subsidiary/company is the 
member. 

is  a  member.  The  margin 

 
54.1.10. The Stock Exchange shall incorporate the above mentioned conditions in 
the 

the  Memorandum  of  Association/Articles  of  Association  of 
subsidiary/company. 

 

55.  Exclusion of turnover from the turnover of the Subsidiary63 

 
55.1.  Where a Stock Exchange has formed a subsidiary company, which has become 
a stock broker of another Stock Exchange, then the turnover of the stock broker 
who is buying, selling or dealing in securities, through the subsidiary company 
as  a  sub-broker,  shall  be  excluded  from  the  turnover  of  the  subsidiary 
company, only if the stock broker has paid five years turnover based fees plus 
fee  for  a  block  of  five  years  in  accordance  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  Regulations,  1992,  on  the 
concerned Stock Exchange which has formed the subsidiary company. 

 
56.  Eligibility for Trading Member64 

 
56.1.  Subsidiaries  of  the  Stock  Exchanges  can  become  trading  and  or  clearing 
members  of  the  derivatives  segment  on  fulfilling  the  eligibility  criteria  laid 
down by the exchanges and prescribed under the SEBI (Stock Broker and Sub-
Broker) Regulations, subject to the following conditions: 
 

56.1.1.  All  the  risk  containment  measures  laid  down  by  SEBI  shall  be  followed 

by these subsidiary companies and 

                                                           
63  Reference:  Circular  SMD/POLICY/CIR.  No.  24/25374/2001  dated  March  22,  2001  and  SEBI 
(Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2000 dated August 30, 2000. 
64 Reference: Circular SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-41/2001 dated August 09, 2001. 

 

153 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

56.1.2.  These subsidiaries shall not undertake proprietary trade. 

 

 

 

57.  Restructuring of the Subsidiary Management65 

 
57.1.  Subsidiary company shall be required to comply with minimum requirements 
in  order  to  ensure  that  the  transactions  in  subsidiaries  are  conducted  in  a 
manner  which  are  not  detrimental  to  the  interest  of  the  investors  and  also  to 
enable  the  subsidiaries  to  provide  a  safe  and  transparent  mechanism  for 
transactions in securities. 

 
57.2.  The management structure of subsidiaries of small Stock Exchanges shall be as 

under: 

 

 

 

57.2.1.  Chief  Executive  Officer  -  The  subsidiary  company  shall  appoint  a  Chief 
Executive Officer (CEO) who shall not hold any position concurrently in 
the  Stock  Exchange  (parent  exchange).  The  appointment,  the  terms  and 
conditions of service, the renewal of appointment and the termination of 
service of CEO shall be subject to prior approval of SEBI. 

57.2.2.  Reconstitution  of  Governing  Board  -  The  Governing  Board  of  the 

subsidiary company shall have the following composition: 

a.  The CEO of the subsidiary company shall be a director on the Board 
of  Subsidiary.  The  CEO  shall  not  be  a  sub-broker  of  the  subsidiary 
company or a broker of the parent exchange.  

b.  At  least  50%  of  Directors  representing  on  the  Governing  Board  of 
subsidiary  company  shall  not  be  sub-brokers  of  the  subsidiary 
company  or  brokers  of  the  promoter  /  holding  exchange  (parent 
exchange). These directors (excluding CEO) shall be called the Public 
Representatives.  

c.  The  Public  Representatives  shall  be  nominated  by  the  parent 

exchange (subject to prior approval of SEBI).  

d.  Public  Representatives  to  be  nominated  as  directors  of  subsidiary 
company  shall  be  from  amongst  the  persons  of  integrity  having 
necessary professional competence and experience in the areas related 
to securities market.  

e.  For  purpose  of  nomination  as  Public  Representatives  the  Governing 
body of parent exchange may forward the names of the persons to the 
SEBI  for  its  approval.  The  SEBI  shall,  however  have  the  right  to 
nominate  persons,  whose  names  have  not  been  forwarded  by  the 
governing body of the Stock Exchange.  

f.  The Public Representatives to be appointed as directors shall hold the 
office  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of  assumption  of  the 
office  or  till  the  Annual  General  Meeting  of  subsidiary  company 

                                                           
65 Reference: Circular SMD/POLICY/CIR-4/ 2003 dated February 11, 2003. 

 

154 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

whichever is earlier.  

g.  There should be a gap of at least one year after a consecutive period of 
three  years  before  re-nomination  of  any  person  for  the  post  of  non-
member director. 

h.  The parent exchange may appoint a maximum of two directors who 
are officers of the parent exchange. Such directors shall be in addition 
to  50%  non-member  directors  (public  representatives)  mentioned 
above. 

 
57.2.3.  Staff of the Subsidiary - The subsidiary company shall have its own staff 
none of whom shall be concurrently working for or holding any position 
of office in the parent exchange. 

 
57.2.4.  Responsibilities  of  Parent  Exchange  towards  Subsidiary  Company  -  The 
parent  exchange  shall  be  responsible  for  all  risk  management  of  the 
subsidiary  company  and  shall  set  up  appropriate  mechanism  for  the 
supervision  of  the  trading  activity  of  subsidiary  company.  Such 
mechanism shall include:  

 

a.  Verification  of  compliance  of  margin  payments  and  other  risk 
management  measures  applicable  to  the  subsidiary  company  as  a 
broker member of another exchange.  

b.  Reporting  requirements  between  the  subsidiary  and  exchange,  such 
as  placing  quarterly  reports  on  the  financial  and  accounts  of  the 
subsidiary  and  on  review  of  operations  of  the  subsidiary  before  the 
Governing Board of exchange at its meetings. 

c.  Conducting of half-yearly inspections of the subsidiary and 20% of its 
sub-brokers and placing such reports before the Governing Board of 
exchange. 

d.  Handling  of  investor  complaints  of  sub-brokers  of  the  subsidiary 

company. 

 
58.  Access to unauthorized persons by the Members of Subsidiaries66 

 
58.1.  The  Stock  Exchanges  which  have  formed  subsidiaries  shall  note  that 
appropriate  penal  action  including  fine,  suspension  of  trading  rights  of  the 
subsidiaries/sub-brokers, etc., would be initiated, in case, any of the members 
of the exchange who are sub-brokers of the subsidiary is found to be providing 
unauthorized access to persons for illegal trading and/or providing their own 
terminal  for  illegal  trading.  The  exchanges  shall  exercise  vigilance  and 
surveillance on their subsidiaries/its members to ensure that the members do 
not indulge in these types of activities.  

 

                                                           
66 Reference: Circular SEBI/MRD/SE/15958/2003 dated August 22, 2003. 

 

155 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

VIII.  FOREIGN ACCOUNTS TAX COMPLIANCE ACT 

 
59.  Inter-Governmental  Agreement  with  United  States  of  America  under  Foreign 

Accounts Tax Compliance Act - Registration67 

 

 

 

 

 

 

59.1.  The  Government  of  India  has  advised  that  India  and  the  United  States  of 
America (US) have reached an agreement in substance on the terms of an Inter-
Governmental  Agreement  (IGA) 
implement  Foreign  Accounts  Tax 
Compliance Act (FATCA) and India is now treated as having an IGA in effect 
from  April  11,  2014.  However,  the  IGA  may  be  signed  in  due  course. 
Information on FATCA is available at:  
http://www.irs.gov/Businesses/Corporations/Foreign-Account-Tax-
ComplianceAct-FATCA. 

to 

59.2.  As advised by the Government, the following points may be noted by all SEBI 

registered intermediaries: 

59.2.1. Indian Financial Institutions would have time upto December 31, 2014 
to  register  with  US  authorities  and  obtain  a  Global  Intermediary 
Identification Number (GIIN). This time limit would also be applicable 
to  Indian  Financial  Institutions  having  overseas  branches  in  Model  1 
jurisdictions,  including  those  jurisdictions  where  an  agreement  under 
Model  1  has  been  reached  in  substance.  Registration  should  be  done 
only after the formal IGA is signed.  

59.2.2. Overseas  branches  of  Indian  Financial  Institutions  in  a  jurisdiction 
having IGA 2 agreement or in a jurisdiction that does not have an IGA 
but  permits  financial  institutions  to  register  and  agree  to  a  Foreign 
Financial Institution (FFI) agreement, may register with US authorities 
within the stipulated time period and obtain a GIIN in accordance with 
the requirements to avoid potential withholding under FATCA. 

59.2.3. Overseas branches of Indian Financial Institutions in a jurisdiction that 
does  not  have  an  IGA  and  does  not  permit  financial  institutions  to 
register  and  agree  to  an  FFI  agreement  may  not  register  and  their 
overseas  branches  would  eventually  be  subject  to  withholding  under 
FATCA. 

59.2.4. The  Government  has  further  advised  that  if  registration  of  the  parent 
intermediary/  head  office  is  a  pre-requisite  for  a  branch  to  register, 
such intermediaries may register as indicated at 59.2.1 and 59.2.2 above. 

 
 

                                                           
67 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/2/2014 dated June 30, 2014. 

 

156 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
60.  Implementation of the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement and Foreign 

Account Tax Compliance Act68 

60.1.  India  joined  the  Multilateral  Competent  Authority  Agreement  (MCAA)  on 
Automatic  Exchange  of  Financial  Account  Information  on  June  03,  2015.  In 
terms of the MCAA, all countries which are signatory to MCAA, are obliged to 
exchange a wide range of financial information after collecting the same from 
financial institutions in their country / jurisdiction. 

60.2.  On  July  09,  2015,  the  Governments  of  India  and  United  States  of  America 
(USA)  signed  an  agreement  to  improve  international  tax  compliance  and  to 
implement  the  Foreign  Account  Tax  Compliance  Act  (FATCA)  in  India.  The 
USA  enacted  FATCA  in  2010  to  obtain  information  on  accounts  held  by  US 
taxpayers in other countries. As per the aforesaid agreement, foreign financial 
institutions (FFIs) in India will be required to report tax information about US 
account holders / taxpayers directly to the Indian Government which will, in 
turn, relay that information to the IS Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 

60.3.  For implementation of the MCAA and agreement with USA, the Government 
of India has made necessary legislative changes to Section 285BA of the Income 
Tac  Act,  1961.  Further,  the  Government  of  India  has  notified  Rules  114F  to 
114H (herein after referred to as “the Rules”) under the Income Tax Rules, 1962 
and form No. 61B for furnishing of statement of reportable account specified in 
the Rules. The Rule is available at  
http://www.incometaxindia.gov.in/communications/notification/notificatio
n%20no.%2062%20dated%2007-08-2015.pdf 

60.4.  A “Guidance Note on implementation of Reporting Requirements under Rules 
114F  to  114H  of  the  Income  Tax  Rules”  as  issued  by  the  Department  of 
Revenue, Ministry of Finance vide F.No.500/137/2011-FTTR-III dated August 
31, 2015 is available at 
http://www.incometaxindia.gov.in/communications/notification/guidance_
notes_on_im  plementation_31_08_2015.pdf,  for  information  and  necessary 
action. 

60.5.  All  registered  intermediaries  shall  take  necessary  steps  to  ensure  compliance 
with  the  requirements  specified  in  the  aforesaid  Rules  after  carrying  out 
necessary due diligence. 

***** 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

                                                           
68Reference:  Circular  CIR/MIRSD/2/2015  dated  August 
CIR/MIRSD/3/2015 dated September 10, 2015. 

26, 

2015 

and  Circular 

 

157 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

IX. 

SCORES, INVESTOR GRIEVANCES 

61.  Exclusive e-mail ID for redressal of Investor Complaints69 
 

61.1.  All  the  Stock  Exchanges/registered  brokers/registered  sub-brokers/listed 
companies/Depositories/registered depository participants  shall designate an 
e-mail ID of the grievance redressel division/compliance officer exclusively for 
the purpose of registering complaints by investors. The above entities shall also 
display the email ID and other relevant details prominently on their websites 
and in the various materials/pamphlets/advertisement campaigns initiated by 
them for creating investor awareness. 

 
62.  Redressal of Investor complaints against Stock Brokers and Sub-Brokers in SEBI 

Complaints Redress System (SCORES)70 
 
62.1.  SEBI commenced processing of investor complaints in a centralized web based 

complaints redress system ‘SCORES’. The salient features of this system are:  
 

62.1.1.  Centralised database of all complaints,  

 

62.1.2.  Online movement of complaints to the concerned listed companies, 
 
62.1.3.  Online  upload  of  Action  Taken  Reports  (ATRs)  by  the  concerned 

companies, and  

 
62.1.4.  Online  viewing  by  investors  of  actions  taken  on  the  complaint  and  its 

current status. 

 
62.2.  The  investor  grievances  received  by  SEBI  against  stock  brokers  and  sub-
brokers  will  be  taken  up  electronically  with  the  concerned  Stock  Exchange(s) 
through SCORES (https://scores.gov.in/Admin). The Stock Exchange(s) shall, 
in turn, take up the matter with the concerned stock brokers/sub-brokers. 

 
62.3.  The complaint shall be redressed within a period of 15 days from the receipt of 
the complaint. In case additional information is required from the complainant, 
the  same  shall  be  sought  within  7  days  from  the  receipt  of  the  complaint.  In 
such  cases,  the  period  of  15  days  shall  run  from  the  receipt  of  additional 
information. 

 
 
 

                                                           
69  Reference: Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/CIR-22/06 dated December 18, 2006. 
70  Reference:  Circular  CIR/MIRSD/18/2011  dated  August  25,  2011  and  Circular 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD6/CIR/P/2017/20 dated March 10, 2017. 

 

158 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
63.  Information regarding Grievance Redressal Mechanism71 

 
63.1.  For information of all investors who deal/ invest/ transact in  the market, the 
offices  of  all  stock  brokers  (its  registered  sub-broker(s)  and  authorized 
person(s))  and  depository  participants  shall  prominently  display  basic 
information,  as  provided  in  Annexure  below,  about  the  grievance  redressal 
mechanism available to investors. 

 

ANNEXURE 

 

Dear Investor, 
 
In  case  of  any  grievance  /  complaint  against  the  Stock  Broker  /  Depository 
Participant: 
 
Please  contact  Compliance  Officer  of  the  Stock  Broker/  Depository  Participant 
(Name) / email-id (xxx.@email.com) and Phone No. - 91-XXXXXXXXXX. 
 
You  may  also  approach  CEO/  Partner/Proprietor 
(xxx.@email.com) and Phone No. - 91-XXXXXXXXXX. 
 
If not satisfied with the response of the Stock Broker/ Depository Participant, you 
may contact the concerned Stock Exchange / Depository at the following: 
 

(Name)  /  email-id 

 
NSE 
BSE 
MSEI 

 

 
CDSL 
NSDL 

Web Address 
www.bseindia.com 
www.nesindia.com 
www.msei.in 

Contact No. 
xxxxxxxxxx 
Xxxxxxxxxx 
xxxxxxxxxx 

Email-id 
xxx@bseindia.com 
xxx@nse.co.in 
xxx@msei.in 

Web Address 
www.cdslindia.com 
www.nsdl.co.in 

Contact No. 
xxxxxxxxxx 
xxxxxxxxxx 

Email-id 
xxx@cdslindia.com 
xxx@nsdl.co.in 

 
You  can  also  lodge  your  grievances  with  SEBI  at  http://scores.gov.in.  For  any 
queries, feedback or assistance, please contact SEBI Office on Toll Free Helpline at 
1800 22 7575 / 1800 266 7575. 

 

***** 

 
 
 
 
 

                                                           
71 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/3/2014 dated August 28, 2014. 

 

159 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

X. 

GENERAL 

64.  Advertisement by Brokers/ Sub-Brokers and grant of trading terminals72 

 
64.1.  The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  brokers  and  sub-brokers  do  not  issue 
advertisements  of  their  business,  including  in  their  internet  sites,  by 
subsidiaries, group companies etc. in contravention to Clause C(4) and C(5) of 
the Code of Conduct specified in Schedule II of Regulation 7 and Clause C(5) 
and  C(6)  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  specified  in  Schedule  II  of  Regulation  15  of 
SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  Regulations,  1992  and  Bye  Laws  of  the 
concerned  Stock  Exchange.  Similarly,  the  Stock  Exchanges  shall  inform  their 
brokers  to  ensure  that  their  sub-brokers  do  not  issue  such  advertisements  in 
future. 

 

64.2.  Stock Exchanges shall grant trading terminals only at the members’ registered 

office, branch offices and their registered sub-brokers’ offices.  

 

65.  Registration  Number  of  Brokers 

/  Sub-Brokers 

to  be  quoted  on  all 

correspondences with SEBI73 

 

65.1.  Stock  Exchanges  shall  quote  SEBI  Registration  Number  of  the  concerned 
Broker / Sub-Broker quoted on all correspondences with SEBI relating to them. 
Stock  Exchanges  shall  instruct  the  Brokers  /  Sub-Brokers  to  quote  their  SEBI 
Registration Number in all their correspondences with SEBI.  Stock Exchanges 
shall  also  advise  the  Brokers  /  Sub-Brokers  to  indicate  (i)  SEBI  Registration 
Number of the Broker / Sub-Broker and (ii) Name of the Broker/  Sub-Broker 
as  per  SEBI  registration  certificate  on  the  reverse  of  the  demand  drafts 
forwarded to SEBI. 

 

66.  Maintenance  of  books  of  accounts  and  other  documents  sought  by  Enforcement 

Agencies from Stock Exchanges and Brokers74 

 

66.1.  In  terms  of  Rules  14  and  15  of  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Rules,  1957 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  SCRR,  1957),  every  recognized  stock  exchange  and 
its  members  are  required  to  maintain  and  preserve  the  specified  books  of 
account  and  documents  for  a  period  ranging  from  two  years  to  five 
years. Further,  as  per  Regulation  18  of  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  &  Sub-Brokers) 
Regulations,  1992  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  Stock  Broker  Regulations),  every 
stock broker shall preserve the specified books of account and other records for 
a minimum period of five years. 
 

66.2.  Enforcement agencies like CBI, Police, Crime Branch etc. have been collecting 

                                                           
72 Reference: Circular SMD/POLICY/CIR-49/2001 dated October 22, 2001. 
73 Reference: Circular SMD/DBA-II/Cir-16/9618/03 dated May 05, 2003. 
74 Reference: Circular SEBI/MRD/SE/CIR-15/2005 dated August 04, 2005. 

 

160 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

copies  of  the  various  records/documents  during  the  course  of  their 
investigation. These  original  documents  both  in  physical  form  and  electronic 
form would be required by such enforcement agencies during trial of the case 
also. 
 

66.3.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  SCRR,  1957  and  the  Stock  Broker 
Regulations,  it  is  advised  to  preserve  the  originals  of  the  documents,  both  in 
electronic and physical form, copies of which have been taken by CBI, Police or 
any  other  enforcement  agency  during  the  course  of  any  investigation  till  the 
trial is completed. 

 

67.  Display of details by Stock Brokers (including Trading Members)75 

 
67.1.  While a stock broker may use the brand name / logo of its group companies, it 

must display more prominently:  
 
a. 

its  name  as  registered  with  SEBI,  its  own  logo,  if  any,  its  registration 
number,  and  its  complete  address  with  telephone  numbers  in  its  portal 
/web  site,  if  any,  notice  /  display  boards,  advertisements,  publications, 
know your client forms, and member client agreements;  

b.  its  name  as  registered  with  SEBI,  its  own  logo,  if  any,  its  registration 
number, and its complete address with telephone numbers, the name of the 
compliance  officer,  his  telephone  number  and  e-mail  address  in  contract 
notes,  statement  of  funds  and  securities,  and  correspondences  with  the 
clients. 

 

68.  Unauthenticated  news  circulated  by  SEBI  Registered  Market  Intermediaries 

through various modes of communication76 
 
68.1.  It  has  been  observed  by  SEBI  that  unauthenticated  news  related  to  various 
scrips are circulated in blogs/chat forums/e-mail etc. by employees of Broking 
Houses/Other  Intermediaries  without  adequate  caution  as  mandated  in  the 
Code  of  Conduct  for  Stock  Brokers  and  respective  Regulations  of  various 
intermediaries registered with SEBI. 

 
68.2.  Further,  in  various  instances,  it  has  been  observed  that  the  Intermediaries  do 
not  have  proper  internal  controls  and  do  not  ensure  that  proper  checks  and 
balances are in place to govern the conduct of their employees. Due to lack of 
proper  internal  controls  and  poor  training,  employees  of  such  intermediaries 
are sometimes not aware of the damage which can be caused by circulation of 
unauthenticated  news  or  rumours.  It  is  a  well  established  fact  that  market 
rumours can do considerable damage to the normal functioning and behaviour 

                                                           
75 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/9/2010 dated November 04, 2010. 
76  Reference:  Circular  CIR/ISD/1/2011  dated  March  23,  2011  and  Circular  CIR/ISD/2/2011 
dated March 24, 2011. 

 

161 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

of the market and distort the price discovery mechanisms. 

 
68.3.  In view of the above facts, SEBI Registered Market Intermediaries are directed 

that: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

68.3.1.  Proper internal code of conduct and controls should be put in place. 

68.3.2.  Employees/temporary staff/voluntary workers etc. employed/working 
in  the  Offices  of  market  intermediaries  do  not  encourage  or  circulate 
rumours  or  unverified  information  obtained  from  client,  industry,  any 
trade or any other sources without verification. 

68.3.3.  Access  to  Blogs/Chat  forums/Messenger  sites  etc.  should  either  be 

restricted under supervision or access should not be allowed. 

68.3.4.  Logs for any usage of such Blogs/Chat forums/Messenger sites (called 
by any nomenclature) shall be treated as records and the same should be 
maintained as specified by the respective Regulations which govern the 
concerned intermediary. 

68.3.5.  Employees should be directed that any market related news received by 
them  either  in  their  official  mail/personal  mail/blog  or  in  any  other 
manner,  should  be  forwarded  only  after  the  same  has  been  seen  and 
approved  by  the  concerned  Intermediary’s  Compliance  Officer.  If  an 
employee  fails  to  do  so,  he/she  shall  be  deemed  to  have  violated  the 
various  provisions  contained  in  SEBI  Act/Rules/Regulations  etc.  and 
shall be liable for action. The Compliance Officer shall also be held liable 
for breach of duty in this regard. 

69.  Guidelines on Outsourcing of Activities by Intermediaries77 

 
69.1.  SEBI Regulations for various intermediaries require that they shall render at all 
times high standards of service and exercise due diligence and ensure proper 
care in their operations. 

 
69.2.  It has been observed that often the intermediaries resort to outsourcing with a 

view to reduce costs, and at times, for strategic reasons. 

 

69.3.  Outsourcing may be defined as the use of one or more than one third party  – 
either within or outside the group - by a registered intermediary to perform the 
activities associated with services which the intermediary offers. 
 

69.4.  Principles for Outsourcing 
 

                                                           
77 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/24/2011 dated December 15, 2011. 

 

162 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

69.4.1.  The  risks  associated  with  outsourcing  may  be  operational  risk, 
reputational risk, legal risk, country risk, strategic risk, exit-strategy risk, 
counter  party  risk,  concentration  and  systemic  risk.  The  principles  for 
outsourcing are given below in Annexure. 

 
69.5.  Activities that shall not be Outsourced 
 

69.5.1.  The  intermediaries  desirous  of  outsourcing  their  activities  shall  not, 
however,  outsource  their  core  business  activities  and  compliance 
functions. A few examples of core business activities may be – execution 
of  orders  and  monitoring  of  trading  activities  of  clients  in  case  of  stock 
brokers; dematerialisation of securities in case of depository participants; 
investment  related  activities  in  case  of  Mutual  Funds  and  Portfolio 
Managers.  Regarding  Know  Your  Client  (KYC)  requirements,  the 
intermediaries  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of  SEBI  {KYC  (Know 
Your  Client)  Registration  Agency}  Regulations,  2011  and  Guidelines 
issued thereunder from time to time. 

 
69.6.  Other Obligations 
 

69.6.1.  Reporting To Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU)  - The intermediaries shall 
be  responsible  for  reporting  of  any  suspicious  transactions  /  reports  to 
FIU  or  any  other  competent  authority in  respect  of  activities carried  out 
by the third parties. 

 

 

 

ANNEXURE 

PRINCIPLES FOR OUTSOURCING FOR INTERMEDIARIES 

1.  An  intermediary  seeking  to  outsource  activities  shall  have 

in  place  a 
comprehensive  policy  to  guide  the  assessment  of  whether  and  how  those 
activities can be appropriately outsourced. The Board / partners (as the case may 
be) {hereinafter referred to as the “the Board”} of the intermediary shall have the 
responsibility  for  the  outsourcing  policy  and  related  overall  responsibility  for 
activities undertaken under that policy. 
 
1.1.  The  policy  shall  cover  activities  or  the  nature  of  activities  that  can  be 
outsourced, the authorities who can approve outsourcing of such activities, 
and the selection of third party to whom it can be outsourced. For example, 
an  activity  shall  not  be  outsourced  if  it  would  impair  the  supervisory 
authority’s  right  to  assess,  or  its  ability  to  supervise  the  business  of  the 
intermediary.  The  policy  shall  be  based  on  an  evaluation  of  risk 
concentrations, limits on the acceptable overall level of outsourced activities, 
risks arising from outsourcing multiple activities to the same entity, etc. 

 
1.2.  The  Board  shall  mandate  a  regular  review  of  outsourcing  policy  for  such 

163 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

activities  in  the  wake  of  changing  business  environment.  It  shall  also  have 
overall  responsibility  for  ensuring  that  all  ongoing  outsourcing  decisions 
taken by the intermediary and the  activities undertaken by the third-party, 
are in keeping with its outsourcing policy. 

 

2.  The intermediary shall establish a comprehensive outsourcing risk management 
programme  to  address  the  outsourced  activities  and  the  relationship  with  the 
third party. 
 
2.1.  An  intermediary  shall  make  an  assessment  of  outsourcing  risk  which 
depends  on  several  factors,  including  the  scope  and  materiality  of  the 
outsourced  activity,  etc.  The  factors  that  could  help  in  considering 
materiality in a risk management programme include- 

 

2.1.1.  The  impact  of  failure  of  a  third  party  to  adequately  perform  the 
activity on the financial, reputational and operational performance of 
the intermediary and on the investors / clients; 

 

2.1.2.  Ability of the intermediary to cope up with the work, in case of non 
performance  or  failure  by  a  third  party  by  having  suitable  back-up 
arrangements; 

 
2.1.3.  Regulatory status of the third party, including its fitness and probity 

status;  

 
2.1.4.  Situations involving conflict of interest between the intermediary and 
the third party and the measures put in place by the intermediary to 
address such potential conflicts, etc. 

 
2.2.  While there shall not be any prohibition on a group entity / associate of the 
intermediary to act as the third party, systems shall be put in place to have 
an  arm’s  length  distance  between  the  intermediary  and  the  third  party  in 
terms of infrastructure, manpower, decision-making, record keeping, etc. for 
avoidance  of  potential  conflict  of  interests.  Necessary  disclosures  in  this 
regard shall be made as part of the contractual agreement. It shall be kept in 
mind  that  the  risk  management  practices  expected  to  be  adopted  by  an 
intermediary while outsourcing to a related party or an associate would be 
identical to those followed while outsourcing to an unrelated party. 
 

2.3.  The records relating to all activities outsourced shall be preserved centrally 
so  that  the  same  is  readily  accessible  for  review  by  the  Board  of  the 
intermediary  and  /  or  its  senior  management,  as  and  when  needed.  Such 
records shall be regularly updated and may also form part of the corporate 
governance review by the management of the intermediary. 

 

164 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

2.4.  Regular reviews by internal or external auditors of the outsourcing policies, 
risk  management  system  and  requirements  of  the  regulator  shall  be 
mandated  by  the  Board  wherever  felt  necessary.  The  intermediary  shall 
review the financial and operational capabilities of the third party in order to 
assess its ability to continue to meet its outsourcing obligations. 

 

3.  The  intermediary  shall  ensure  that  outsourcing  arrangements  neither  diminish 
its  ability  to  fulfill  its  obligations  to  customers  and  regulators,  nor  impede 
effective supervision by the regulators. 
 
3.1.  The intermediary shall be fully liable and accountable for the activities that 
are being outsourced to the same extent as if the service were provided in-
house. 

 
3.2.  Outsourcing arrangements shall not affect the rights of an investor or client 
against the intermediary in any manner. The intermediary shall be liable to 
the  investors  for  the  loss  incurred  by  them  due  to  the  failure  of  the  third 
party  and  also be  responsible  for  redressal  of  the  grievances  received  from 
investors arising out of activities rendered by the third party. 

 
3.3.  The  facilities  /  premises  /  data  that  are  involved  in  carrying  out  the 
outsourced  activity  by  the  service  provider  shall  be  deemed  to  be  those  of 
the  registered  intermediary.  The  intermediary  itself  and  Regulator  or  the 
persons authorized by it shall have the right to access the same at any point 
of time. 

 
3.4.  Outsourcing  arrangements  shall  not  impair  the  ability  of  SEBI/SRO  or 
as 

responsibilities 

such 

to 

auditors 
regulatory 
supervision/inspection of the intermediary. 

exercise 

its 

 

4.  The  intermediary  shall conduct  appropriate  due  diligence  in  selecting  the  third 

party and in monitoring of its performance. 
 
4.1.  It is important that the intermediary exercises due care, skill, and diligence 
in the selection of the third party to ensure that the third party has the ability 
and capacity to undertake the provision of the service effectively. 

 
4.2.  The  due  diligence  undertaken  by  an  intermediary  shall  include  assessment 

 

of: 

4.2.1. 

resources  and  capabilities, 

third  party’s 
financial 
soundness,  to  perform  the  outsourcing  work  within  the  timelines 
fixed;  
 

including 

4.2.2.  compatibility of the practices and systems of the third party with the 

intermediary’s requirements and objectives;  

165 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

 

4.2.3.  market  feedback  of  the prospective  third  party’s  business  reputation 

and track record of their services rendered in the past;  

4.2.4. 

level  of  concentration  of  the  outsourced  arrangements  with  a  single 
third party; and  

4.2.5. 

the  environment  of  the  foreign  country  where  the  third  party  is 
located. 

5.  Outsourcing relationships shall be governed by written contracts / agreements / 
terms  and  conditions  (as  deemed  appropriate)  {hereinafter  referred  to  as 
“contract”}  that  clearly  describe  all  material  aspects  of  the  outsourcing 
arrangement, including the rights, responsibilities and expectations of the parties 
to the contract, client confidentiality issues, termination procedures, etc. 
 
5.1.  Outsourcing  arrangements  shall  be  governed  by  a  clearly  defined  and 
legally  binding  written  contract  between  the  intermediary  and  each  of  the 
third  parties,  the  nature  and  detail  of  which  shall  be  appropriate  to  the 
materiality of the outsourced activity in relation to the ongoing business of 
the intermediary. 

 
5.2.  Care shall be taken to ensure that the outsourcing contract: 
 

5.2.1.  clearly  defines  what  activities  are  going  to  be  outsourced,  including 

appropriate service and performance levels;  

 

 

 

 

 

5.2.2.  provides  for  mutual  rights,  obligations  and  responsibilities  of  the 
intermediary and the third party, including indemnity by the parties;  

5.2.3.  provides  for  the  liability  of  the  third  party  to  the  intermediary  for 

unsatisfactory performance/other breach of the contract  

5.2.4.  provides  for  the  continuous  monitoring  and  assessment  by  the 
intermediary  of  the  third  party  so  that  any  necessary  corrective 
measures can be taken up immediately, i.e., the contract shall enable 
the  intermediary  to  retain  an  appropriate  level  of  control  over  the 
outsourcing and the right to intervene with appropriate measures to 
meet legal and regulatory obligations;  

5.2.5. 

includes, where necessary, conditions of sub-contracting by the third-
party, i.e. the contract shall enable intermediary to maintain a similar 
control  over  the  risks when a  third  party  outsources  to  further  third 
parties as in the original direct outsourcing;  

5.2.6.  has  unambiguous  confidentiality  clauses  to  ensure  protection  of 

166 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

proprietary and customer data during the tenure of the contract and 
also after the expiry of the contract;  

5.2.7.  specifies  the  responsibilities  of  the  third  party  with  respect  to  the  IT 
security  and  contingency  plans,  insurance  cover,  business  continuity 
and disaster recovery plans, force majeure clause, etc.; 

5.2.8.  provides for preservation of the documents and data by third party;  

5.2.9.  provides  for  the  mechanisms  to  resolve  disputes  arising  from 

implementation of the outsourcing contract;  

5.2.10.  provides for termination of the contract, termination rights, transfer of 

information and exit strategies;  

in  exercising  oversight  and  management  of 

5.2.11.  addresses  additional  issues  arising  from  country  risks  and  potential 
obstacles 
the 
arrangements  when  intermediary  outsources  its  activities  to  foreign 
third  party.  For  example,  the  contract  shall  include  choice-of-law 
provisions and agreement covenants and jurisdictional covenants that 
provide  for  adjudication  of  disputes  between  the  parties  under  the 
laws of a specific jurisdiction;  

5.2.12.  neither  prevents  nor  impedes  the  intermediary  from  meeting  its 
respective regulatory obligations, nor the regulator from exercising its 
regulatory powers; and  

5.2.13.  provides  for  the  intermediary  and  /or  the  regulator  or  the  persons 
authorized by it to have the ability to inspect, access all books, records 
and  information  relevant  to  the  outsourced  activity  with  the  third 
party. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6.  The  intermediary  and  its  third  parties  shall establish  and  maintain contingency 
plans,  including  a  plan  for  disaster  recovery  and  periodic  testing  of  backup 
facilities. 
 
6.1.  Specific  contingency  plans  shall  be  separately  developed  for  each 

outsourcing arrangement, as is done in individual business lines. 

 
6.2.  An  intermediary  shall  take  appropriate  steps  to  assess  and  address  the 
potential consequence of a business disruption or other problems at the third 
party  level.  Notably,  it  shall  consider  contingency  plans  at  the  third  party; 
co-ordination  of  contingency  plans  at  both  the  intermediary  and  the  third 
party;  and  contingency  plans  of  the  intermediary  in  the  event  of  non-
performance by the third party. 

 

 

167 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

to 

fulfill 

to 

6.3.  To  ensure  business  continuity,  robust  information  technology  security  is  a 
necessity.  A  breakdown  in  the  IT  capacity  may  impair  the  ability  of  the 
intermediary 
other  market 
participants/clients/regulators and could undermine the privacy interests of 
its  customers,  harm  the  intermediary’s  reputation,  and  may  ultimately 
impact on its overall operational risk profile. Intermediaries shall, therefore, 
seek to ensure that third party maintains appropriate IT security and robust 
disaster recovery capabilities. 

obligations 

its 

 
6.4.  Periodic tests of the critical security procedures and systems and review of 
the backup facilities shall be undertaken by the intermediary to confirm the 
adequacy of the third party’s systems. 

 

7.  The intermediary shall take appropriate steps to require that third parties protect 
confidential  information  of  both  the  intermediary  and  its  customers  from 
intentional or inadvertent disclosure to unauthorised persons. 
 
7.1.  An intermediary that engages in outsourcing is expected to take appropriate 
steps  to  protect  its  proprietary  and  confidential  customer  information  and 
ensure that it is not misused or misappropriated. 

 
7.2.  The  intermediary  shall  prevail  upon  the  third  party  to  ensure  that  the 
employees  of  the  third  party  have  limited  access  to  the  data  handled  and 
only  on  a  “need  to  know”  basis  and  the  third  party  shall  have  adequate 
checks and balances to ensure the same. 

 
7.3.  In  cases  where  the  third  party  is  providing  similar  services  to  multiple 
entities,  the  intermediary  shall  ensure  that  adequate  care  is  taken  by  the 
third party to build safeguards for data security and confidentiality. 

 

8.  Potential risks posed where the outsourced activities of multiple intermediaries 

are concentrated with a limited number of third parties. 
 
8.1.  In instances, where the third party acts as an outsourcing agent for multiple 
intermediaries,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  third  party  and  the  intermediary  to 
ensure that strong safeguards are put in place so that there is no co-mingling 
of information /documents, records and assets. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

168 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
70.  General  Guidelines  for  dealing  with  Conflicts  of  Interest  of  Intermediaries, 
Recognised Stock Exchanges, Recognised Clearing Corporations, Depositories and 
their Associated Persons in Securities Market.78 
 
70.1.  All 

intermediaries, 

recognized  Stock  Exchanges, 

recognised  Clearing 
Corporations  and  Depositories  (hereinafter  collectively  referred  to  as  "such 
entities") are presently governed by the provisions for avoidance of conflict of 
interest as mandated in the respective regulations read with relevant circulars 
issued  from  time  to  time  by  SEBI.  On  the  lines  of  Principle  8  of  the 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Objectives and 
Principles  of  Securities  Regulations,  it  has  been  decided  to  put  in  place 
comprehensive  guidelines  to  collectively  cover  such  entities  and  their 
associated  persons,  for  elimination  of  their  conflict  of  interest,  as  detailed 
hereunder. 

 
70.2.  Such  entities  shall  adhere  to  these  guidelines  for  avoiding  or  dealing  with  or 
managing  conflict  of  interest.  They  shall  be  responsible  for  educating  their 
associated persons for compliance of these guidelines. 

 
70.3.  For  the  purpose  of  these  guidelines  "intermediaries"  and  "associated  persons" 
have the same meaning as defined in Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Certification  of  Associated  Persons  in  the  Securities  Markets)  Regulations, 
2007. 

 
70.4.  Such entities and their associated persons shall, 
 

70.4.1. 

lay  down,  with  active involvement  of  senior  management,  policies  and 
internal procedures to identify and avoid or to deal or manage actual or 
potential  conflict  of  interest,  develop  an  internal  code  of  conduct 
governing operations and formulate standards of appropriate conduct in 
the  performance  of  their  activities,  and  ensure  to  communicate  such 
policies, procedures and code to all concerned; 

70.4.2.  at all times maintain high standards of integrity in the conduct of their 

business; 

70.4.3.  ensure fair treatment of their clients and not discriminate amongst them; 

70.4.4.  ensure  that  their  personal  interest  does  not,  at  any  time  conflict  with 
their  duty  to  their  clients  and  client’s  interest  always  takes  primacy  in 
their advice, investment decisions and transactions; 

70.4.5.  make appropriate disclosure to the clients of possible source or potential 
areas  of  conflict  of  interest  which  would  impair  their  ability  to  render 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
78 Reference: Circular CIR/MIRSD/5/2013 dated August 27, 2013. 

 

169 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

fair, objective and unbiased services; 

70.4.6.  endeavor  to  reduce  opportunities  for  conflict  through  prescriptive 
measures  such  as  through  information  barriers  to  block  or  hinder  the 
flow of information from one department/ unit to another, etc.; 

70.4.7.  place  appropriate  restrictions  on  transactions 

in  securities  while 
handling a mandate of issuer or client in respect of such security so as to 
avoid any conflict; 

 
70.4.8.  not  deal  in  securities  while  in  possession  of  material  non  published 

information; 

70.4.9.  not  to  communicate  the  material  non  published  information  while 

dealing in securities on behalf of others; 

70.4.10.  not  in  any  way  contribute  to  manipulate  the  demand  for  or  supply  of 

securities in the market or to influence prices of securities; 

70.4.11.  not  have  an  incentive  structure  that  encourages  sale  of  products  not 

suiting the risk profile of their clients; 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

70.4.12.  not  share  information  received  from  clients  or  pertaining  to  them, 

obtained as a result of their dealings, for their personal interest; 

 
70.5.  The Boards of such entities shall put in place systems for implementation of the 
aforementioned  guidelines  and  provide  necessary  guidance  enabling 
identification, elimination or management of conflict of interest situations. The 
Boards shall review the compliance of the above guidelines periodically. 

 
70.6.  The said guidelines shall be in addition to the provisions, if any, contained in 
respective  regulations/  circulars  issued  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time 
regarding dealing with conflict of interest, in respect of such entities. 

 

71.  Digital Mode of Payment79 

 
71.1.  SEBI  has  notified  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees  and  Mode  of  Payment) 
(Amendment)  Regulations,  2017  on  March  06,  2017  to  enable  digital  mode  of 
payment 
fees/penalties/remittance/other 
payments etc. 

(RTGS/NEFT/IMPS 

etc.)  of 

 
71.2.  Pursuant  to  above,  SEBI  has  been  receiving  direct  credit  of  amounts  from 

various intermediaries / other entities. 

 

                                                           
79 Reference: Circular SEBI/HO/GSD/T&A/CIR/P/2017/42 dated May 16, 2017. 

 

170 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

71.3.  In  order  to  identify  and  account  such  direct  credit  in  the  SEBI  account, 
intermediaries  /  other  entities  shall  provide  the  information  as  mentioned  in 
Annexure below to SEBI once the payment is made. 

 
71.4.  The  above  information  should  be  emailed  to  the  respective  department(s)  as 

well as to Treasury & Accounts division at tad@sebi.gov.in. 

 
 

ANNEXURE 

Date  Depart

ment  of 
SEBI 

Name  of 
Intermedi
ary 
/ 
Other 
entities 

Type  of 
Interme
diary 

SEBI 
Registratio
n  No.  (If 
any) 

PAN  Amount 

(Rs) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Purpose  of 
Payment 
(including 
period 
the 
for  which 
payment 
was  made 
e.g. 
quarterly, 
annually) 
 

Bank 
name 
and 
Account 
number 
from 
which 
payment 
is 
remitted 
 

UTR 
No. 

 

72.  Regulatory Framework for Commodity Derivatives Brokers80 

 
72.1.  As  per  Section  131(B)  of  Finance  Act,  2015  all  rules,  directions,  guidelines, 
instructions, circulars, or any like instruments, made by the erstwhile Forward 
Markets  Commission  (FMC)  or  the  Central  Government  applicable  to 
recognized  associations  under  the  Forward  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1952 
shall  continue  to  remain  in  force  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  on 
which the FCRA is repealed (September 29, 2015), or till such time as notified 
by SEBI, whichever is earlier, as if the FCRA had not been repealed. 

 
72.2.  Erstwhile  FMC  issued  various  circulars/letters/  directions  to  exchanges 
dealing in commodity derivatives for compliance by their members from time 
to  time.  Consequent  to  merger  of  FMC  with  SEBI,  it  is  important  that 
regulatory  provisions  for  brokers  across  equity  and  commodity  derivatives 
markets be harmonized. Accordingly, regulatory provisions have been divided 
into three parts as described below. 

 

72.2.1.  Part A contains details of FMC circulars which shall stand repealed and 

relevant SEBI circulars which shall be applicable.  
 

72.2.2.  Part  B  contains  details  of  FMC  circulars  contents/norms  of  which  shall 

continue as they are specific to commodity derivative markets.  

                                                           
80  Reference:  Circular  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/92  dated  September  23,  2016 
and Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/104 dated September 21, 2017. 

 

171 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
72.2.3.  Part C contains details of FMC circulars which shall stand repealed.  

 
72.3.  Part  A:  Following  FMC  circulars  shall  stand  repealed  and  relevant  SEBI 
circulars shall be applicable to all commodity derivatives exchanges including 
regional commodity derivative exchanges for compliance by their members. 

 
 
 
S. No. 

i 

ii 

Subject 

FMC Circular being repealed  SEBI  circulars  being  made 

applicable 
a)  SMD/SED/CIR/93/23321 

dated Nov 18, 1993. 
b)  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir- 

11/2008  dated  Apr  17, 
2008. 

a)  Clause 12 of Annexure A to 
MIRSD/  SE  /Cir-19/2009 
dated Dec 3, 2009. 

b)  MIRSD  /Cir/  01/  2011 

dated May 13, 2011. 

Segregation  of  Client 
and  Own  Funds  and 
Securities 

No circular issued by FMC 

Running 
Settlement 

Account 

a)  FMC/4/2012/C/14 

No. 

1/2/2012/IR-I/Client-
Protect/ dated Feb 02, 2012. 
No. 

b)  FMC/4/2013/C/59 

1/2/2012/IR-I/Client-
Protect dated May 20, 2013. 
c)  No.  1/2/2012/IR-I/Client-

Protect dated Jun 25, 2013. 

d)  FMC/4/2014/C/121 

FMC/2014/04/23-
Quarterly  Settlement  dated 
Oct 17, 2014. 

iii 

Requirements  with 
to  Financial 
respect 
Documents, 
PAN, 
Inactive Clients etc. 

a)  No.IRD/Div/(1)FMCR/1/2

005 dated Feb 14, 2006. 

b)  Div. 

III/I/(53)/06/PAN 

No. dated Nov 28, 2006. 

a)  Clauses  6,8,14,15,16,18  and 
19  of  Annexure  A 
to 
MIRSD/  SE  /Cir-19/2009 
dated Dec 03, 2009.81 

c)  9/3/2008-MKT-II  dated  Jan 

b)  CIR/MIRSD/01 

/2013 

12, 2009. 

dated Jan 04, 2013. 

d)  No. 

18/1/2007/MKT-III 

c)  CIR/MIRSD/64/2016 

dated Feb 11, 2008. 

dated Jul 12, 2016. 

e)  No.  9/1/2009-MKT-I  dated 

For new client accounts. 

Dec 07, 2009. 

f)  No.  9/12009-MKT-I  dated 

                                                           
81 Words “Clauses 1 to 11 and Clauses 14 to 19 of Annexure A to MIRSD /SE/Cir-19/2009 dated Dec 3, 
2009” replaced with “Clause 6,8,14,15,16,18 and 19 of Annexure A to MIRSD/SE/CIR-19/2009 dated 
December 03, 2009” in view of Clauses 1,2,3,4,5,7,9,10,11 and 17 of SEBI Circular dated December 
03, 2009, being incorporated in various provisions of SEBI Circular  CIR/MIRSD/16/2011 dated 
August 22, 2011 and FMC Circular FMC/4/2011/G/30 dated December 16, 2011 and Annexures 
specified in these circulars. 

 

172 

 

 

iv 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

In-Person Verification  Part 

Aug 10, 2010. 
C 

of 

a)  Para  3  of  MIRSD/Cir-  26 

FMC/4/2015/C/0015No. 
FMC/COMPL/IV/KRA-
05/11/14 dated Mar 13, 2015. 

b)  Point 

4 

/2011 Dec 23, 2011. 
of 

Part 
'Instructions/Check List' of 
Annexure  3  of  Circular 
CIR/MIRSD/16/2011 
dated Aug 22, 2011. 

v 

KRA 

vi 

Anti-Money 
Laundering 
Maintenance 
Records 

FMC/4/2015/C/0015 
FMC/COMPL/IV/KRA-
05/11/14 dated Mar 13, 2015 

No. 

a)  MIRSD/Cir-23/2011  dated 

Dec 2, 2011. 

b)  Para  1  of  MIRSD/Cir-  26 

/2011 dated Dec 23, 2011. 

a)  No.7/1/2008- MKT-II dated 

a)  CIR/ISD/AML/3/2010 

Oct 30, 2009. 

dated Dec 31, 2010. 

b)  No.7/1/2008-MKT-II  dated 

b)  CIR/MIRSD/2/2013  dated 

and 
of 

Jan 25, 2010. 

Jan 24, 2013. 

c)  No. 7/1/2008-MKT-II dated 

c)  CIR/MIRSD/1/2014  dated 

Aug 25, 2010. 

Mar 12, 2014. 

MRD/SE/Cir-  33/2003/27/08 
dated Aug 27, 2003. 

CIR/MIRSD/03/2011 
Jun 9, 2011. 

dated 

CIR/MIRSD/15/2011 
Aug 02, 2011. 

dated 

vii 

Dealing in Cash 

viii 

ix 

Guidelines  on  Pre-
funded Instruments 

SMS  and  Email  alerts 
facility to clients 

d)  FMC/4/2013/C/163;  Div. 
III  /  I/  89  /  07  dated  Dec 
18, 2013. 

e)  No. 

7/1/2013-MKT-1(A) 

dated Feb 04, 2015. 

No. 
FMC/2/2014/C/23 
9/1/2014 -MKT-I dated Mar 12, 
2014. 
FMC/4/2011/G/0010FMC/Co
mplt/Circular  dated  Sep  27, 
2011. 
a)  FMC/4/2012/C/13 

No. 

FMC/IR-I/Client 
protection/2012  dated  Feb 
02, 2012. 

b)  FMC/Complt/Circular 

dated Jun 04, 2012. 

c)  No:IR 

(2)/5/2012/SMS-

Email dated Dec 07,2012. 

d)  No.IR(2)/5/2012/SMS-

Email dated Jan 21, 2013. 

e)  No.IR(2)/5/2012/SMS/Em

ail dated Mar 01, 2013. 

f)  No.IR(2)/5/2012/SMS/Em

ail dated Mar 06, 2013. 

g)  No.IR(2)/5/2012/SMS/Em

ail dated May 15, 2013. 

 

173 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

x 

Contract Note 

xi 

xii 

xiii 

xiv 

redressel 

Exclusive  e-mail  ID 
for 
of 
Investor Complaints 
Display 
of 
information  such  as 
logo, 
registration 
number  on  notice 
board  and  contract 
investor 
note 
grievance 
redressal 
mechanism  on  notice 
board 
Internal Audit  
 

and 

Inspection of brokers  
 

h)  No.IR(2)/5/2012/SMS/E-

mail dated Jun 21, 2013. 

a)  No.  07/2008/COMP/LAD-
ENF/AD(SN)/6609  dated 
Oct 27, 2009. 

b)  FMC/COMPL/IV/2010/03
/05/00011  dated  Apr  19, 
2011. 

c)  Div.III/I/89/07  dated  Mar 

13, 2014. 

d)  Div.III/I/89/07  dated  Dec 

24, 2014. 

No circular issued by FMC 

a)  SMDRP/Policy/Cir-

56/2000  dated  Dec  15, 
2000. 

b)  SMD/SE/15/2003/29/04 

dated Apr 29, 2003. 
c)  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-

20/2005 dated Sep 8, 2005. 
d)  Clause 13 of Annexure A to 
MIRSD/  SE  /Cir-19/2009 
dated Dec 3, 2009. 

MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-
22/06 dated Dec 18, 2006. 

No circular issued by FMC 

a)  Cir/MIRSD/ 9 /2010 dated 

Nov 4, 2010. 

b)  CIR/MIRSD/3/2014  dated 

Aug 28, 2014. 

Para  7 
to  11  of  circular 
MIRSD/Master  Cir-04/2010 
dated Mar 17, 2010. 
a)  Para  2  to  6  of  circular 
MIRSD/Master 
Cir-
04/2010  dated  Mar  17, 
2010. 

b)  CIR/MIRSD/13/2012 

dated Dec 07, 2012. 

No circular issued by FMC 

a)  No.  Div./III/I/301/2011-
12/Audit  dated  Dec  23, 
2011. 

b)  No.  Div./III/I/104/2008-
09/Audit  dated  Feb  02, 
2012. 

c)  FMC/1/2014/C/50No.Div.

III/I/300/2011-12/Audit 
dated Apr 23, 2014. 
d)  FMC/1/2014/C/47 

No. 

FMC/1/2014/Audit/C 
Dated Apr 23, 2014. 

xv 

Change 
constitution 

in  control/ 

a)  No.IRD-Div-III/1/143/10-

MR dated Aug 14, 2010. 

b)  Div:III/I/120/MR-2011/2 

a)  MIRSD/MSS/Cir- 
13289/03  dated 
2003. 

30/ 
Jul  09, 

dated Apr 07, 2011. 

b)  CIR/MIRSD/2/2011  dated 

c)  FMC/6/2011/C/0018  No. 

Jun 3, 2011. 

Div.III/I/68/MR/General 

c)  CIR/MIRSD/14/2011 

 

174 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

dated Sep 22, 2011. 

dated Aug 02, 2011. 

d)  FMC/6/2011/C/0019  No. 
Div. III/I/157/10-MRDated 
Sep 27, 2011. 

e)  FMC/4/2012/C/41 

No. 
III/I/157/10-MR 

Div. 
dated Apr 04, 2012. 

xvi 

Procedure 
surrender 
membership 

f)  Div. 

III/I/10/MR  dated 

Apr 30, 2015. 

for 
of 

a)  FMC/6/2011/C/0018  No. 

Div.III/I/68/MR/General 
dated Sep 22, 2011. 

b)  FMC/1/2014/C/146  dated 

Dec 31, 2014. 

c)  No.Div.II/I/112/2015/Ref

und  of  Deposit  dated  Jan 
19, 2015. 

d)  No.  III/I/10/MR  dated  Jul 

08, 2015. 

MIRSD/MSS/Cir- 
13289/03 dated Jul 09, 2003. 

30/ 

xvii 

xviii 

xix 

on 
of 
by 

Guidelines 
Outsourcing 
Activities 
Intermediaries 
BPO/KPO  services  - 
thereof 
Segregation 
from 
Commodity 
Derivatives Market 
Authorized Persons  
 

No circular issued by FMC  
 

CIR/MIRSD/24/2011 
Dec 15, 2011. 

dated 

No. S/1/2009/MD-I dated Mar 
28, 2011.  
 

a)  Rule  8(1)(f)  and  8(3)(f)  of 

SCRR, 1957. 

b)  SMD/POLICY/CIR-6//97 

dated May 07, 1997. 

No.6/3/2008-MKT 
II; 
FMC/2/2012/G/3  dated  Jan 
11, 2012. 

– 

a)  MIRSD/ DR-1/ Cir- 16 /09 

dated Nov 06, 2009. 

b)  Cir/MIRSD/AP/8/2010 

dated Jul 23, 2010. 

 
72.4.  Part B: Following FMC circulars are specific to commodity derivatives market. 
Contents/norms  specified  in  following  circulars  shall  continue  to  be  in  force 
beyond September 28, 2016. Provisions of these circulars shall be applicable to 
all  commodity  derivatives  exchanges 
regional  commodity 
derivatives exchanges for compliance by their members. 

including 

 
S. No. 
i 

Subject 

FMC Circular No. and Date 

Account Opening Process 

a)  No.-FMC/4/2011/G/30  Ref.  No.:  Div.  III/I/89/07 

dated Dec 16, 2011*. 

b)  Div.III/I/89/07 dated Aug 23, 2013. 
c)  F.No.FMC/COMPL/2013/10/30-FSLRC/FSDC  dated 

Mar 28, 2014. 

d)  Div.III/2/89/VOL IV dated Apr 23, 2014. 

 

175 

 

 

ii 

iii 

iv 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

e)  No.  FMC/COMPL/IV/KRA-05/11/14  dated  Feb  26, 

2015. 

No.FMC/Comp/VI/2009/04/06/114/5787  dated  Sep  16, 
2009. 

Customer  Protection  such 
as  keeping  evidence  of 
client placing order 
Nomenclature  of  Stock 
brokers 
Surrender of membership  F.No.1/4/2009/MD-I dated Jul 20, 2009. 

a)  4/5/2005- M&S/MCX/Unit-II dated Apr 25, 2006. 

 
*All clauses to remain except to the extent as modified as described below. Annexure 
- 3 (Rights and Obligations of Members, Authorized Persons and Clients) of Circular 
No.-FMC/4/2011/G/30 Ref. No.: Div. III/I/89/07 dated Dec 16, 2011 is modified as 
follows: 
 
In  Clause  30,  for  the  words  "in  the  Statement  immediately  but  not  later  than  30 
calendar  days  of  receipt  thereof,  to  the  Member.  A  detailed  statement  of  accounts 
must be sent every month to all the clients in physical form. The proof of delivery of 
the  same  should  be  preserved  by  the Member"  the  words  "in  the  Statement  within 
such time as may be prescribed by the relevant Exchange from time to time where 
the  trade  was  executed,  from  the  receipt  thereof  to  the  Stock  broker"  shall  be 
substituted. 
 
In Clause 31, for the words "monthly", the words "daily" shall be substituted. 
 
Para  3  C.A.iv  which  restricted  seeking  authorization  through  non-mandatory 
documents  for  any  adjustment  of  funds  among  securities  (stock)  exchange  and 
commodities exchange, will not be applicable, if such adjustment is within the same 
broking entity. 
 
72.5.  Part C: Following FMC circulars shall stand repealed. 
 
S. No. 
i 

FMC Circular No. and Date 

Subject 

Segregation  of  Client  Accounts  in 
Commodity  Futures  Exchange  and 
Spot Exchanges  
Member to obtain FMC Unique Code   No.  IRD/Div./III/(1)/FMCR/1/2005  dated  Oct 

FMC/2/2011/C/0008; 
dated Sep 26, 2011.  
 

No.9/1/2011-MKT/I 

Submission  of  networth  certificate 
from the members  
Nomenclature of Stock Brokers 

28, 2005. 
No. Div-III/I/122/10/MR dated Nov 22, 2010. 

No.  IRD-DIV-III/I/FCR-I/2009  dated  Dec  21, 
2009. 
No. DIV-III/I/122/10/MR dated Jun 25, 2010. 
6/3/2008-MKT –II dated Feb 18, 2011. 

72.6.  All commodity derivatives exchanges shall continue to levy penalties they are 

176 

ii 

iii 

iv 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

currently  levying  and  any  revision  thereof  shall  be  decided  in  consultation 
with  SEBI.  Accordingly,  FMC  circulars  dealing  with  penalties  including 
Uniform Penalty Circular dated Mar 05, 2010 shall stand repealed.  

***** 

177 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

ANNEXURES TO SECTION II 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Annexure - 1 

ACCOUNT OPENING KIT 

 

INDEX OF DOCUMENTS 

 
S. No.  Name of the Document 

Brief Significance of the Document 

 

Page No 

MANDATORY DOCUMENTS AS PRESCRIBED BY SEBI & EXCHANGES 

1 

Account Opening Form  

A. KYC  form  -  Document  captures  the  basic  information 

about the constituent and an instruction/check list. 

B. Document  captures  the  additional  information  about  the 
trading  account  and  an 

to 

constituent 
relevant 
instruction/check list. 

2 
 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

Rights and Obligations 

Risk Disclosure Document 
(RDD)  
Guidance note  

Policies and Procedures 

Tariff sheet 

Document  stating 
the  Rights  &  Obligations  of  stock 
broker/trading member, sub-broker and client for trading on 
exchanges (including additional rights & obligations in case 
of internet/wireless technology based trading). 
Document  detailing  risks  associated  with  dealing  in  the 
securities market.  
Document detailing do’s and don’ts for trading on exchange, 
for the education of the investors.  
Document  describing  significant policies  and procedures  of 
the stock broker (to be added by the stock broker). 
Document detailing the rate/amount of brokerage and other 
charges  levied  on  the  client  for  trading  on  the  stock 
exchange(s) (to be added by the stock broker). 

 

VOLUNTARY DOCUMENTS AS PROVIDED BY THE STOCK BROKER 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
Name of stock broker/trading member/clearing member: ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
SEBI Registration No. and date: ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Registered office address: ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Ph: ------------------------ Fax: ----------------------- Website: ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Correspondence office address: ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Ph: ------------------------ Fax: ----------------------- Website: ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Compliance officer name, phone no. & email id: --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
CEO name, phone no. & email id: ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
For any grievance/dispute please contact stock broker (name) at the above address or email id- xxx@email.com 
and  Phone  no.  91-XXXXXXXXXX.  In  case  not  satisfied  with  the  response,  please  contact  the  concerned 
exchange(s) at xyz@email.com and Phone no. 91-XXXXXXXXXX. 

CENTRAL KYC REGISTRY   | Know Your Customer (KYC) Application Form | Individual
Important Instructions:      
A) Fields marked with ‘*’ are mandatory fields.
 
B) Please fill the form in English and in BLOCK letters.
C) Please fill the date in DD-MM-YYYY format.
D) Please read section wise detailed guidelines / instructions 
     at the end.

E)  List of State / U.T code as per Indian Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 is available at the end.
F)  List of two character ISO 3166 country codes is available at the end.
G) KYC number of applicant is mandatory for update application.
H) For particular section update, please tick (    ) in the box available before the
    section number and strike off the sections not required to be updated.

For office use only
(To be filled by financial institution)

Application Type*
KYC Number 
Account

Type*     

New                Update         
 

 

(Mandatory for KYC update request)

                                Normal            Simplified (for low risk customers)            Small           

1.  PERSONAL DETAILS

(Please refer instruction A at the end)
Prefix

First Name

Middle Name

Last Name

     Name* (Same as ID proof) 
Maiden Name (If any*)
Father / Spouse Name*
Mother Name*
Date of Birth*
Gender*
Marital Status*
Citizenship*

Residential Status*

Occupation Type*

D D

M M

Y Y Y Y

M- Male
Married
IN- Indian

Resident Individual
Foreign National
S-Service
O-Others
B-Business
X- Not Categorised

F- Female
Unmarried
Others  (ISO 3166 Country Code           )

T-Transgender
Others

Non Resident Indian
Person of Indian Origin

(      Private Sector           Public Sector          Government Sector )
(      Professional              Self Employed        Retired        Housewife        Student)

PHOTO

Signature / Thumb

Impression

2.  TICK IF APPLICABLE

RESIDENCE FOR TAX PURPOSES IN JURISDICTION(S) OUTSIDE INDIA

(Please refer instruction B at the end)

ADDITIONAL DETAILS REQUIRED* 
ISO 3166 Country Code of Jurisdiction of Residence*
Tax Identification Number or equivalent (If issued by jurisdiction)* 
Place / City of Birth* 

(Mandatory only if section 2 is ticked)

 ISO 3166 Country Code of Birth*

3.  PROOF OF IDENTITY (PoI)*

(Please refer instruction C at the end)

(Certified copy of any one of the following Proof of Identity[PoI] needs to be submitted)

A- Passport Number                            
B- Voter ID Card              
C- PAN Card     
D- Driving Licence
E- UID (Aadhaar)
F- NREGA Job Card          
Z- Others (any document notified by the central government) 
S- Simplified Measures Account  - Document Type code  
 

D D

Passport Expiry Date                           
                       
                
Driving Licence Expiry Date       

D D

M M

Y Y Y Y

M M

Y Y Y Y

Identification Number
Identification Number

4.   PROOF OF ADDRESS (PoA)*
4.1 CURRENT / PERMANENT / OVERSEAS ADDRESS  DETAILS   

(Please see instruction D at the end)

(Certified copy of any one of the following Proof of Address [PoA] needs to be submitted)

Address Type*
Proof of Address*

Address
Line 1*        
Line 2         
Line 3        
District*

Residential / Business
Passport
Voter Identity Card
Simplified Measures Account  - Document Type code    

Residential
Driving Licence
NREGA  Job Card

Business
UID (Aadhaar)
Others

Registered Office

Unspecified

please specify

Pin / Post Code*

State / U.T Code*    

ISO 3166 Country Code*

City / Town / Village*

4.2 CORRESPONDENCE / LOCAL ADDRESS DETAILS * (Please see instruction E at the end)
Same as Current / Permanent / Overseas Address details  (In case of multiple correspondence / local addresses, please fill ‘Annexure A1’)      

Line 1*        
Line 2         
Line 3        
District*

Pin / Post Code*

State / U.T Code*    

ISO 3166 Country Code*

City / Town / Village*

4.3 ADDRESS IN THE JURISDICTION DETAILS WHERE APPLICANT IS RESIDENT OUTSIDE INDIA FOR TAX PURPOSES* (Applicable if section 2 is ticked)
Same as Current / Permanent / Overseas Address details 

Same as Correspondence / Local Address details 

Line 1*        
Line 2         
Line 3        
State*

ZIP / Post Code*

ISO 3166 Country Code*

City / Town / Village*

5.  CONTACT DETAILS 

(All communications will be sent on provided Mobile no. / Email-ID) (Please refer instruction F at the end) 

Tel. (Off)          
FAX                 

Tel. (Res) 
Email ID   

Mobile 

6.  DETAILS OF RELATED PERSON    (In case of additional related persons, please fill ‘Annexure B1’ ) (please refer instruction G at the end) 
Addition of Related Person             Deletion  of Related Person  

KYC Number of Related Person  (if available*)

Related Person Type*

Name*

 Guardian of Minor
Prefix

First Name

Assignee  

Authorized Representative
Middle Name

Last Name

(If KYC number and name are provided, below details of section 6 are optional)

PROOF  OF IDENTITY [PoI] OF RELATED PERSON* (Please see instruction (H) at the end)
A- Passport Number                            
B- Voter ID Card              
C- PAN Card     
D- Driving Licence
E- UID (Aadhaar)
F- NREGA Job Card          
Z- Others (any document notified by the central government) 
S- Simplified Measures Account  - Document Type code  
 
  
7.  REMARKS (If any)

D D

Passport Expiry Date                           
                       
                
Driving Licence Expiry Date       

D D

M M

Y Y Y Y

M M

Y Y Y Y

Identification Number
Identification Number

8.  APPLICANT DECLARATION
I hereby declare that the details furnished above are true and correct to the  best  of  my knowledge and  belief and  I  undertake
         to inform you of any changes
therein, immediately. In case any of the above information is found to be false or untrue or misleading or misrepresenting, I am aware that I may be held liable 
for it.

I hereby consent to receiving information from Central KYC Registry through SMS/Email on the above registered number/email address.

Date  :

D D

M M

Y Y Y Y

Place :

[Signature / Thumb Impression]

Signature / Thumb Impression  of Applicant

9. ATTESTATION / FOR OFFICE USE ONLY

Documents Received             Certified Copies

KYC VERIFICATION CARRIED OUT BY

INSTITUTION DETAILS

M M

Y Y Y Y

Name      

Code       

Date
D D
Emp. Name                             
Emp. Code                    
Emp. Designation           
Emp. Branch                    

[Employee Signature]

[Institution Stamp] 

CENTRAL KYC REGISTRY | Instructions / Check list / Guidelines for filling Individual KYC Application Form 
 

General Instructions:       

Fields marked with ‘*’ are mandatory fields.  
Tick ‘’ wherever applicable.  
Self-Certification of documents is mandatory.  
Please fill the form in English and in BLOCK Letters.  
Please fill all dates in DD-MM-YYYY format.  

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6  Wherever state code and country code is to be furnished, the same should be the two-digit code as per Indian Motor Vehicle, 1988 and ISO 3166 country code 

respectively list of which is available at the end. 
KYC number of applicant is mandatory for updation of KYC details.  
For particular section update, please tick () in the box available before the section number and strike off the sections not required to be updated. 
In case of ‘Small Account type’ only personal details at section number 1 and 2, photograph, signature and self-certification required. 
 

7 
8 
9 
 

 

Clarification / Guidelines on filling ‘Personal Details’ section  

1 

2 

 

Name:  Please  state  the  name  with  Prefix  (Mr/Mrs/Ms/Dr/etc.).  The  name  should  match  the  name  as  mentioned  in  the  Proof  of  Identity  submitted  failing  which  the 
application is liable to be rejected. 
Either father’s name or spouse’s name is to be mandatorily furnished. In case PAN is not available father’s name is mandatory.  

 
Clarification / Guidelines on filling details if applicant residence for tax purposes in jurisdiction(s) outside India  

1 

 

Tax  identification  Number  (TIN):  TIN  need  not  be  reported  if  it  has  not  been  issued  by  the  jurisdiction.  However,  if  the  said  jurisdiction  has  issued  a  high  integrity 
number with an equivalent level of identification (a “Functional equivalent”), the same may be reported. Examples of that type of number for individual include, a social 
security/insurance number, citizen/personal identification/services code/number, and resident registration number)   

 
Clarification / Guidelines on filling ‘Proof of Identity [PoI]’ section  

If driving license number or passport is provided as proof of identity then expiry date is to be mandatorily furnished.  
1 
2  Mention identification / reference number if ‘Z- Others (any document notified by the central government)’ is ticked.  
3 

In case of Simplified Measures Accounts for verifying the identity of the applicant, any one of the following documents can also be submitted and undernoted relevant 
code may be mentioned in point 3 (S). 

 

Document Code 

01 

02 

 

 

Description 
Identity card with applicant’s photograph issued by Central/ State Government Departments, Statutory/ Regulatory Authorities, Public Sector 
Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, and Public Financial Institutions. 
Letter issued by a gazetted officer, with a duly attested photograph of the person.  

 
Clarification / Guidelines on filling ‘Proof of Address [PoA] - Current / Permanent / Overseas Address details’  section  

1 
2 
3 

 

 

Document Code 

PoA to be submitted only if the submitted PoI does not have an address or address as per PoI is invalid or not in force.  
State / U.T Code and Pin / Post Code will not be mandatory for Overseas addresses. 
In case of Simplified Measures Accounts for verifying the address of the applicant, any one of the following documents can also be submitted and undernoted relevant 
code may be mentioned in point 4.1. 
Description 
Utility bill which is not more than two months old of any service provider (electricity, telephone, post-paid mobile phone, piped gas, water 
bill). 
Property or Municipal Tax receipt. 
Bank account or Post Office savings bank account statement. 
Pension or family pension payment orders (PPOs) issued to retired employees by Government Departments or Public Sector  Undertakings, if 
they contain the address. 
Letter of allotment of accommodation from employer issued  by State or Central Government  departments, statutory or regulatory  bodies, 
public sector undertakings, scheduled commercial banks, financial institutions and listed companies. Similarly, leave and license agreements 
with such employers allotting official accommodation. 
Documents issued by Government departments of foreign jurisdictions and letter issued by Foreign Embassy or Mission in India.  

05 

01 

02 
03 
04 

 

06 

 
Clarification / Guidelines on filling ‘Proof of Address [PoA] - Correspondence / Local Address details’ section  

1 
2 
 

 

To be filled only in case the PoA is not the local address or address where the customer is currently residing. No separate PoA is required to be submitted.   
In case of multiple correspondence / local addresses, Please fill ‘Annexure A1’ 
 

Clarification / Guidelines on filling ‘Contact details’ section  

1 
2 

 

Please mention two- digit country code and 10 digit mobile number (e.g. for Indian mobile number mention 91-9999999999).  
Do not add ‘0’ in the beginning of Mobile number. 

Clarification / Guidelines on filling ‘Related Person details’ section  

1 
 

 

Provide KYC number of related person if available. 
 

Clarification / Guidelines on filling ‘Related Person  details – Proof of Identity [PoI] of Related Person’ section   

1  Mention identification / reference number if ‘Z- Others (any document notified by the central government)’ is ticked. 
 

 

 

 
 

A 
 

 
B 
 

 
C 
 

 
D 
 

 
E 
 

F 
 

G 
 

H 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

List of two – digit state / U.T codes as per Indian Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 

State / U.T 

Andaman & Nicobar 
Andhra Pradesh 
Arunachal Pradesh 
Assam 
Bihar 
Chandigarh 
Chattisgarh 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli 
Daman & Diu 
Delhi 
Goa 
Gujarat 
Haryana 

 

 

 

Country 

Country 

Code 

Code 
AN 
AP 
AR 
AS 
BR 
CH 
CG 
DN 
DD 
DL 
GA 
GJ 
HR 

 

State / U.T 

Himachal Pradesh 
Jammu & Kashmir 
Jharkhand 
Karnataka 
Kerala 
Lakshadweep 
Madhya Pradesh 
Maharashtra 
Manipur 
Meghalaya 
Mizoram 
Nagaland 
Orissa 

 

Code 
HP 
JK 
JH 
KA 
KL 
LD 
MP 
MH 
MN 
ML 
MZ 
NL 
OR 

List of ISO 3166 two- digit Country Code 

Country 

Country 

Country 

State / U.T 

Code 

Pondicherry 
Punjab 
Rajasthan 
Sikkim 
Tamil Nadu 
Telangana 
Tripura 
Uttar Pradesh 
Uttarakhand 
West Bengal 
Other 
 
 

 

Country 

Code 

PY 
PB 
RJ 
SK 
TN 
TS 
TR 
UP 
UA 
WB 
XX 

 
 

Country 

Country 

Afghanistan 
Aland Islands  
Albania 
Algeria 
American Samoa 
Andorra 

Angola 
Anguilla 
Antarctica 
Antigua and Barbuda 
Argentina 
Armenia 
Aruba 
Australia 
Austria 
Azerbaijan 
Bahamas 
Bahrain 

Bangladesh 
Barbados 
Belarus 
Belgium 
Belize 
Benin 
Bermuda 
Bhutan 
Bolivia, Plurinational State of 
Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Botswana 
Bouvet Island 
Brazil 
British Indian Ocean Territory 
Brunei Darussalam 
Bulgaria 
Burkina Faso 
Burundi 
Cabo Verde 
Cambodia 
Cameroon 
Canada 
Cayman Islands 
Central African Republic 
Chad 
Chile 
China 
Christmas Island 
Cocos (Keeling) Islands 
Colombia 
Comoros 
Congo 
Congo, the Democratic Republic of 
the 
Cook Islands 
Costa Rica 
Cote d'Ivoire !Côte d'Ivoire 

Croatia 
Cuba 
Curacao !Curaçao 
Cyprus 
Czech Republic 

Denmark 
Djibouti 
Dominica 

 

 

AF 
AX 
AL 
DZ 
AS 
AD 

AO 
AI 
AQ 
AG 
AR 
AM 
AW 
AU 
AT 
AZ 
BS 
BH 

BD 
BB 
BY 
BE 
BZ 
BJ 
BM 
BT 
BO 
BQ 
BA 
BW 
BV 
BR 
IO 
BN 
BG 
BF 
BI 
CV 
KH 
CM 
CA 
KY 
CF 
TD 
CL 
CN 
CX 
CC 
CO 
KM 
CG 
CD 

CK 
CR 
CI 

HR 
CU 
CW 
CY 
CZ 

DK 
DJ 
DM 

Dominican Republic 
Ecuador 
Egypt 
El Salvador 
Equatorial Guinea 
Eritrea 

Estonia 
Ethiopia 
Falkland Islands (Malvinas) 
Faroe Islands 
Fiji 
Finland 
France 
French Guiana 
French Polynesia 
French Southern Territories 
Gabon 
Gambia 

Georgia 
Germany 
Ghana 
Gibraltar 
Greece 
Greenland 
Grenada 
Guadeloupe 
Guam 
Guatemala 
Guernsey 
Guinea 
Guinea-Bissau 
Guyana 
Haiti 
Heard Island and McDonald Islands 
Holy See (Vatican City State) 
Honduras 
Hong Kong 
Hungary 
Iceland 
India 
Indonesia 
Iran, Islamic Republic of 
Iraq 
Ireland 
Isle of Man 
Israel 
Italy 
Jamaica 
Japan 
Jersey 
Jordan 
Kazakhstan 

Kenya 
Kiribati 
Korea, Democratic People's Republic 
of 
Korea, Republic of 
Kuwait 
Kyrgyzstan 
Lao People's Democratic Republic 
Latvia 

Lebanon 
Lesotho 
Liberia 

Code 
DO 
EC 
EG 
SV 
GQ 
ER 

EE 
ET 
FK 
FO 
FJ 
FI 
FR 
GF 
PF 
TF 
GA 
GM 

GE 
DE 
GH 
GI 
GR 
GL 
GD 
GP 
GU 
GT 
GG 
GN 
GW 
GY 
HT 
HM 
VA 
HN 
HK 
HU 
IS 
IN 
ID 
IR 
IQ 
IE 
IM 
IL 
IT 
JM 
JP 
JE 
JO 
KZ 

KE 
KI 
KP 

KR 
KW 
KG 
LA 
LV 

LB 
LS 
LR 

Libya 
Liechtenstein 
Lithuania 
Luxembourg 
Macao 
Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of 
Madagascar 
Malawi 
Malaysia 
Maldives 
Mali 
Malta 
Marshall Islands 
Martinique 
Mauritania 
Mauritius 
Mayotte 
Mexico 

Micronesia, Federated States of 
Moldova, Republic of 
Monaco 
Mongolia 
Montenegro 
Montserrat 
Morocco 
Mozambique 
Myanmar 
Namibia 
Nauru 
Nepal 
Netherlands 
New Caledonia 
New Zealand 
Nicaragua 
Niger 
Nigeria 
Niue 
Norfolk Island 
Northern Mariana Islands 
Norway 
Oman 
Pakistan 
Palau 
Palestine, State of 
Panama 
Papua New Guinea 
Paraguay 
Peru 
Philippines 
Pitcairn 
Poland 
Portugal 

Puerto Rico 
Qatar 
Reunion !Réunion 

Romania 
Russian Federation 
Rwanda 
Saint Barthelemy !Saint Barthélemy 
Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da 
Cunha 
Saint Kitts and Nevis 
Saint Lucia 
Saint Martin (French part) 

 

LY 
LI 
LT 
LU 
MO 
MK 

MG 
MW 
MY 
MV 
ML 
MT 
MH 
MQ 
MR 
MU 
YT 
MX 

FM 
MD 
MC 
MN 
ME 
MS 
MA 
MZ 
MM 
NA 
NR 
NP 
NL 
NC 
NZ 
NI 
NE 
NG 
NU 
NF 
MP 
NO 
OM 
PK 
PW 
PS 
PA 
PG 
PY 
PE 
PH 
PN 
PL 
PT 

PR 
QA 
RE 

RO 
RU 
RW 
BL 
SH 

KN 
LC 
MF 

Saint Pierre and Miquelon 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
Samoa 
San Marino 
Sao Tome and Principe 
Saudi Arabia 

Senegal 
Serbia 
Seychelles 
Sierra Leone 
Singapore 
Sint Maarten (Dutch part) 
Slovakia 
Slovenia 
Solomon Islands 
Somalia 
South Africa 
South Georgia and the South Sandwich 
Islands 
South Sudan 
Spain 
Sri Lanka 
Sudan 
Suriname 
Svalbard and Jan Mayen 
Swaziland 
Sweden 
Switzerland 
Syrian Arab Republic 
Taiwan, Province of China 
Tajikistan 
Tanzania, United Republic of 
Thailand 
Timor-Leste 
Togo 
Tokelau 
Tonga 
Trinidad and Tobago 
Tunisia 
Turkey 
Turkmenistan 
Turks and Caicos Islands 
Tuvalu 
Uganda 
Ukraine 
United Arab Emirates 
United Kingdom 
United States 
United States Minor Outlying Islands 
Uruguay 
Uzbekistan 
Vanuatu 
Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of 

Viet Nam 
Virgin Islands, British 
Virgin Islands, U.S. 

Wallis and Futuna 
Western Sahara 
Yemen 
Zambia 
Zimbabwe 

 
 
 

Code 
PM 
VC 
WS 
SM 
ST 
SA 

SN 
RS 
SC 
SL 
SG 
SX 
SK 
SI 
SB 
SO 
ZA 
GS 

SS 
ES 
LK 
SD 
SR 
SJ 
SZ 
SE 
CH 
SY 
TW 
TJ 
TZ 
TH 
TL 
TG 
TK 
TO 
TT 
TN 
TR 
TM 
TC 
TV 
UG 
UA 
AE 
GB 
US 
UM 
UY 
UZ 
VU 
VE 

VN 
VG 
VI 

WF 
EH 
YE 
ZM 
ZW 

 
 
 

Mobile 

 

(Mandatory for KYC update request)

Application Type*
KYC Number 

New         Update       
 

5.  CONTACT DETAILS  (All communications will be sent on provided Mobile no. \ Email-ID) (Please refer instruction F at the end)) 

4.3 ADDRESS IN THE JURISDICTION DETAILS WHERE APPLICANT IS RESIDENT OUTSIDE INDIA FOR TAX PURPOSES* (Applicable if Section 2 is ticked    )
Same as Current / Permanent / Overseas Address details  (In case of multiple correspondence / local addresses, please fill ‘Annexure A1’)      

City / Town / Village*
ISO 3166 Country Code*

E)  List of State / U.T code as per Indian Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 is available at the end.
F)  List of two character ISO 3166 country codes is available at the end.
G) KYC number of applicant is mandatory for update application.
H) For particular section update, please tick (    ) in the box available before the
    section number and strike off the sections not required to be updated.
Tel. (Res) 
Email ID   

9.  APPLICANT DECLARATION
I hereby declare that the details furnished above are true and correct to the  best  of  my/our knowledge and  belief and  I  undertake  to inform you of any changes therein, immediately.
In case any of the above information is found to be false or untrue or misleading or misrepresenting, I am/we are aware that I/we may be held liable for it.
1.   CORRESPONDENCE / LOCAL ADDRESS DETAILS 
I would  like to share my personal / KYC details with Central KYC Registry
Same as Current / Permanent / Overseas Address details  
I hereby consent to receiving information from Central KYC Registry through SMS/Email on the above registered number/email address

CENTRAL KYC REGISTRY  | Instructions / Check list / Guidelines for filling  Know Your Customer (KYC) Application Form
Annexure A1
General Instructions:      
1  Fields marked with ‘*’are mandatory fields.
CENTRAL KYC REGISTRY  | Know Your Customer (KYC) Application Form | Individual | Correspondence  / Local Address
Line 1*        
2  Tick (  ) wherever applicable.
Important Instructions:      
Line 2         
3  Self-Certification form is mandatory.
A) Fields marked with ‘*’ are mandatory fields.
 
4  Please fill the form in English and in BLOCK Letters.
Line 3          
5  Please fill all dates in DD-MM-YYYY format.
B) Please fill the form in English and in BLOCK letters.
State / U.T Code*    
6  Wherever state code and country code is to be furnished, the same should be the two-digit code as per Indian Motor Vehicle, 1988 and ISO 3166 country code respectively.
C) Please fill the date in DD-MM-YYYY format.
7  List of State/U.T code as per Indian Motor Vehicle Act 1988 is available at the end
D) Please read section wise detailed guidelines / instructions 
8  List of two character ISO-3166 country codes is available at the end.
     at the end.
9  KYC number of applicant is mandatory for update application at the end.
Tel. (Off)          
10  For particular section update, please tick ((cid:31)) in the box available before the section number and strike off the sections not required to be updated.
11  In case of ‘Small Account type’ only personal details at section number 1 and 2, photograph, signature and self-certification required.
FAX                 
For office use only
 
A. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Personal Details’ section
(To be filled by financial institution)
1  Name: Please state the name with Prefix (Mr/Mrs/Ms/Dr/etc.). The name should match the name as mentioned in the Proof of Identity submitted failing which the application is liable to 
    be rejected.
2  Either father’s name or spouse’s name is to be mandatorily furnished. In case PAN is not available father’s name is mandatory.
(Please see instruction E at the end)
 
B. Clarification/guidelines on filling details if applicant residence for tax purposes in jurisdiction(s) outside India
1  Jurisdiction (s) of Residence: It may be mentioned that since US taxes the global income of its citizen, every US citizen if whatever nationality, is also a resident for tax purpose in USA.
Line 1*        
2  Tax identification Number (TIN): In the footnote it may be mentioned that TIN need not be reported if it has not been issued by the jurisdiction. However, if the said jurisdiction has issued 
Line 2         
Date  :
D D
    by high integrity number with an equivalent level of identification (a “Functional equivalent”), the same may be reported. Examples of that type of number for individual include, a social 
Line 3          
    security/insurance number, citizen/personal identification/services code/number, and resident registration number) 
Place :
 
District*
C.Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Proof of Identity’ section
10. ATTESTATION / FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
1  If driving license number or passport is provided as proof of identity then Expiry date is to be mandatorily furnished.
2.  CONTACT DETAILS  (All communications will be sent on provided Mobile no./ Email-ID) (Please refer instruction F at the end) 
2  Mention identification / reference number if ‘Z- Others (any document notified by the central government)’ is ticked.
Documents Received 
 
Tel. (Off)          
Risk Category             
D. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Proof of Address [PoA] - Current / Permanent / Overseas Address details’  section
FAX                 
1.  PoA to be submitted in only if the submitted PoI does not have an address or address as per PoI is invalid or not in force.
 
E. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Proof of Address [PoA] - Correspondence / Local Address details’ section
1  To be filled in only in case the PoA is not the local address or address where the customer is currently residing. No separate PoA is required to be submitted. 
Identity Verification        
2  In case of multiple correspondence / local addresses, Please fill ‘Annexure A1’
Date                               
 
F. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Contact details’ section
Emp. Name                             
1  Please mention two- digit country code and 10 digit mobile number (e.g. for Indian mobile number mention 91-9999999999). 
Emp. Code                    
2  Do not add ‘0’ in the beginning of Mobile number.
Date  :
M M
 
Emp. Designation           
G. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Related Person details section
Emp. Branch                    
1  Provide KYC number of related person if available.
 
H. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Related Person  details – Proof of Identity [PoI] section
1  In case of nominees, proof of identity is not required.
2  Mention identification / reference number if ‘Z- Others (any document notified by the central government)’ is ticked.

3.  APPLICANT DECLARATION
Done
I hereby declare that the details furnished above are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and I undertake  to inform you of any changes 
therein, immediately. In  case any of the above  information is found  to be false or untrue  or misleading or  misrepresenting, I am aware that I may be held 
liable for it.

True Copies
Medium

Tel. (Res) 
Email ID   

D D

Y Y Y Y

Place :

State / U.T Code*    

Signature / thumb Impression  of Applicant

ISO 3166 Country Code*

Notary
Low

Name      

Code       

[Signature / Thumb Impression]

Signature / Thumb Impression  of Applicant

IN PERSON VERIFICATON DETAILS

IN PERSON VERIFICATON DETAILS

City / Town / Village*

[Signature / Thumb Impression]

Self-Certified
High

M M

Y Y Y Y

Pin / Post Code*

Mobile 

[Institution Stamp] 

  

Pin / Post Code*

[Employee Signature]

  

D D

M M

True Copies
Medium

Application Type*
KYC Number 

(Mandatory for KYC update request)

Pin / Post Code*

f

New         Update         
 

 

5.  CONTACT DETAILS  (All communications will be sent on provided Mobile no. \ Email-ID) (Please refer instruction F at the end)) 

City / Town / Village*
ISO 3166 Country Code*

E)  List of State / U.T code as per Indian Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 is available at the end.
F)  List of two character ISO 3166 country codes is available at the end.
G) KYC number of applicant is mandatory for update application.
H) For particular section update, please tick (    ) in the box available before the
    section number and strike o  the sections not required to be updated.
Tel. (Res) 
Email ID   

Mobile 

4.3 ADDRESS IN THE JURISDICTION DETAILS WHERE APPLICANT IS RESIDENT OUTSIDE INDIA FOR TAX PURPOSES* (Applicable if Section 2 is ticked    )
Same as Current / Permanent / Overseas Address details  (In case of multiple correspondence / local addresses, please fill ‘Annexure A1’)      

9.  APPLICANT DECLARATION
I hereby declare that the details furnished above are true and correct to the  best  of  my/our knowledge and  belief and  I  undertake  to inform you of any changes therein, immediately.
1.  DETAILS OF RELATED PERSON     (Please refer instruction G at the end) 
In case any of the above information is found to be false or untrue or misleading or misrepresenting, I am/we are aware that I/we may be held liable for it.
Addition of Related Person              Deletion  of Related Person  
I would  like to share my personal / KYC details with Central KYC Registry
I hereby consent to receiving information from Central KYC Registry through SMS/Email on the above registered number/email address

CENTRAL KYC REGISTRY  | Instructions / Check list / Guidelines for filling  Know Your Customer (KYC) Application Form
 Annexure B1
General Instructions:      
CENTRAL KYC REGISTRY  | Know Your Customer (KYC) Application Form | Individual | Related Person
1  Fields marked with ‘*’are mandatory fields.
Line 1*        
2  Tick (  ) wherever applicable.
Important Instructions:      
Line 2         
3  Self-Certification form is mandatory.
A) Fields marked with ‘*’ are mandatory fields.
 
4  Please fill the form in English and in BLOCK Letters.
Line 3          
5  Please fill all dates in DD-MM-YYYY format.
B) Please fill the form in English and in BLOCK letters.
State / U.T Code*    
6  Wherever state code and country code is to be furnished, the same should be the two-digit code as per Indian Motor Vehicle, 1988 and ISO 3166 country code respectively.
C) Please fill the date in DD-MM-YYYY format.
7  List of State/U.T code as per Indian Motor Vehicle Act 1988 is available at the end
D) Please read section wise detailed guidelines / instructions 
8  List of two character ISO-3166 country codes is available at the end.
     .
     at the end.
9  KYC number of applicant is mandatory for update application at the end.
Tel. (Off)          
10  For particular section update, please tick ((cid:31)) in the box available before the section number and strike off the sections not required to be updated.
11  In case of ‘Small Account type’ only personal details at section number 1 and 2, photograph, signature and self-certification required.
FAX                 
For office use only
 
(To be filled by financial institution)
A. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Personal Details’ section
1  Name: Please state the name with Prefix (Mr/Mrs/Ms/Dr/etc.). The name should match the name as mentioned in the Proof of Identity submitted failing which the application is liable to 
    be rejected.
2  Either father’s name or spouse’s name is to be mandatorily furnished. In case PAN is not available father’s name is mandatory.
 
B. Clarification/guidelines on filling details if applicant residence for tax purposes in jurisdiction(s) outside India
Related Person Type*
1  Jurisdiction (s) of Residence: It may be mentioned that since US taxes the global income of its citizen, every US citizen if whatever nationality, is also a resident for tax purpose in USA.
2  Tax identification Number (TIN): In the footnote it may be mentioned that TIN need not be reported if it has not been issued by the jurisdiction. However, if the said jurisdiction has issued 
Date  :
Name*
    by high integrity number with an equivalent level of identification (a “Functional equivalent”), the same may be reported. Examples of that type of number for individual include, a social 
    security/insurance number, citizen/personal identification/services code/number, and resident registration number) 
Place :
 
PROOF  OF IDENTITY (PoI) OF RELATED PERSON*  (Please see instruction (H) at the end)
C.Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Proof of Identity’ section
10. ATTESTATION / FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
1  If driving license number or passport is provided as proof of identity then Expiry date is to be mandatorily furnished.
A- Passport Number                            
2  Mention identification / reference number if ‘Z- Others (any document notified by the central government)’ is ticked.
Self-Certified
Documents Received 
 
B- Voter ID Card              
Risk Category             
High
D. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Proof of Address [PoA] - Current / Permanent / Overseas Address details’  section
C- PAN Card     
1.  PoA to be submitted in only if the submitted PoI does not have an address or address as per PoI is invalid or not in force.
 
D- Driving Licence
IN PERSON VERIFICATON DETAILS
M M
E. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Proof of Address [PoA] - Correspondence / Local Address details’ section
E- UID (Aadhaar)
1  To be filled in only in case the PoA is not the local address or address where the customer is currently residing. No separate PoA is required to be submitted. 
Identity Verification        
2  In case of multiple correspondence / local addresses, Please fill ‘Annexure A1’
F- NREGA Job Card          
Date                               
 
Z- Others (any document notified by the central government) 
F. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Contact details’ section
Emp. Name                             
1  Please mention two- digit country code and 10 digit mobile number (e.g. for Indian mobile number mention 91-9999999999). 
S- Simplified Measures Account  - Document Type code  
 
Emp. Code                    
2  Do not add ‘0’ in the beginning of Mobile number.
 
Emp. Designation           
G. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Related Person details section
Emp. Branch                    
1  Provide KYC number of related person if available.
 
H. Clarification/guidelines on filling ‘Related Person  details – Proof of Identity [PoI] section
1  In case of nominees, proof of identity is not required.
2  Mention identification / reference number if ‘Z- Others (any document notified by the central government)’ is ticked.

2.  APPLICANT DECLARATION
I hereby declare that the details furnished above are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and  belief and I undertake to inform you of any changes
therein, immediately. In case any of the above  information is found to be  false or untrue or misleading or  misrepresenting,  I am aware that I may be held 
liable for it.

D D

Passport Expiry Date                           
                       
                
Driving Licence Expiry Date       

D D

 Guardian of Minor
Prefix
Y Y Y Y

(If KYC number and name are provided, below details of section 1 are optional)

Authorized Representative
Middle Name

Identification Number
Identification Number

Assignee  

First Name

Notary
Low

Name      

Code       

Last Name

[Signature / Thumb Impression]

Signature / thumb Impression  of Applicant

IN PERSON VERIFICATON DETAILS

Done

[Institution Stamp] 

[Signature / Thumb Impression]

M M

Y Y Y Y

Y Y Y Y

KYC Number of Related Person  (if available*)

[Employee Signature]

Date  :

D D

M M

Y Y Y Y

Place :

Signature / Thumb Impression  of Applicant

3. ATTESTATION / FOR OFFICE USE ONLY

Documents Received             Certified Copies

KYC VERIFICATION CARRIED OUT BY

INSTITUTION DETAILS

M M

Y Y Y Y

Name      

Code       

Date
D D
Emp. Name                             
Emp. Code                    
Emp. Designation           
Emp. Branch                    

[Employee Signature]

[Institution Stamp] 

KNOW YOUR CLIENT (KYC) APPLICATION FORM  For Non-Individuals  Please fill this form in ENGLISH and in BLOCK LETTERS.  A. IDENTITY DETAILS  1. Name of the Applicant: ________________________________________________________________ 2. Date of incorporation: _______________(dd/mm/yyyy) & Place of incorporation: ________________ 3. Date of commencement of business: ______________________________________________________ (dd/mm/yyyy) 4. a. PAN: _______________________________ b. Registration No. (e.g. CIN): _________________________________ 5. Status (please tick any one): Private Limited Co./Public Ltd. Co./Body Corporate/Partnership/Trust/Charities/NGO’s/FI/ FII/HUF/AOP/ Bank/Government Body/Non-Government Organization/Defense Establishment/BOI/Society/LLP/ Others (please specify) _______________ B. ADDRESS DETAILS 1. Address for correspondence: ________________________________________________________________________ _________ City/town/village: _____________ Pin Code: _________ State: ______________ Country: _______________ 2. Contact Details: Tel. (Off.) _______ Tel. (Res.) _______ Mobile No.: ________ Fax: ___________ Email id: __________ 3. Specify the proof of address submitted for correspondence address: ______________________________________ 4. Registered Address (if different from above): ____________________________________________________________ _________ City/town/village: _____________ Pin Code: _________ State: _____________ Country: ________________ C. OTHER DETAILS  1. Name, PAN, residential address and photographs of Promoters/Partners/Karta/Trustees and whole time directors: _________________________________________________________________________________________________ 2. a) DIN of whole time directors: _______________________________________________________________________ b) Aadhaar number of Promoters/Partners/Karta:______________________________________________ DECLARATION I/We hereby declare that the details furnished above are true and correct to the best of my/our knowledge and belief and I/we undertake to inform you of any changes therein, immediately. In case any of the above information is found to be false or untrue or misleading or misrepresenting, I am/we are aware that I/we may be held liable for it. _____________________________________                       Name & Signature of the Authorised Signatory                                                                                       Date: ___________ (dd/mm/yyyy)  FOR OFFICE USE ONLY  Originals verified and Self-Attested Document copies received       (………………………………………..) Name & Signature of the Authorised Signatory  Date ………………….                     Seal/Stamp of the intermediary   PHOTOGRAPH  Please affix the recent passport size photographs and sign across it  Annexure – 3 

 

TRADING ACCOUNT RELATED DETAILS 

A.  BANK ACCOUNT(S) DETAILS 

 

Bank 
Name 

Branch 
address 

Bank account no. 

Account Type:   Saving/Current/ 
Others-In case of NRI/NRE/NRO 

MICR 
Number 

IFSC code 

 

For Individuals & Non-individuals 

 

 

 

 

 
B.  DEPOSITORY ACCOUNT(S) DETAILS 

 

 

 

Depository Participant 

Depository Name 

Beneficiary name 

DP ID 

Beneficiary ID 

Name 

(NSDL/CDSL) 

(BO ID) 

 

 

 

 

 

 
C.  TRADING PREFERENCES  
*Please sign in the relevant boxes where you wish to trade. The segment not chosen should be struck off by the client. 

Exchanges 

Name of the 
Exchange -1 

 

Cash 

 
F&O 

Name of the 
Exchange -2 

Name of the 
Segments -1, 2... 

 

 

 

 

 

Segments 

Currency Derivative 

 

Name of other 
Segment s, if any 

      
  

 

 

# If, in future, the client wants to trade on any new segment/new exchange, separate authorization/letter should be taken 
from the client by the stock broker.  
 
D.  PAST ACTIONS 
  Details of any action/proceedings initiated/pending/ taken by SEBI/ Stock exchange/any other authority against the 
applicant/constituent  or  its  Partners/promoters/whole  time  directors/authorized  persons  in  charge  of  dealing  in 
securities during the last 3 years: ……………………………………………………………………………………………….. 

 
E.  DEALINGS THROUGH SUB-BROKERS AND OTHER STOCK BROKERS 
 

If client is dealing through the sub-broker, provide the following details: 
Sub-broker’s Name: …………………………….….  
Registered office address: ……………………..….  

SEBI Registration number: ………………………….….  
Ph: …….… Fax: ……….…. Website: ………………….  

  Whether  dealing  with  any  other  stock  broker/sub-broker  (if  case  dealing  with  multiple  stock  brokers/sub-brokers, 

provide details of all) 
Name of stock broker:……………………………………………Name of Sub-Broker, if any:…………………………..….. 
Client Code: …………………………….Exchange: …………………………………………….……………….…………..…. 
Details of disputes/dues pending from/to such stock broker/sub- broker: ……………………….………………….……… 

 
F.  ADDITIONAL DETAILS  
  Whether you wish to receive physical contract note or Electronic Contract Note (ECN) (please specify): …………….. 
Specify your Email id, if applicable: …………………………………………………………………………………………….. 
  Whether you wish to avail of the facility of internet trading/ wireless technology (please specify): ……………………… 
  Number of years of Investment/Trading Experience: …………………………………………………………………………. 
 
In case of non-individuals, name, designation, PAN, UID, signature, residential address and photographs of persons 
authorized to deal in securities on behalf of company/firm/others: ………………………………………………………….. 
  Any other information: ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 

 

G.  INTRODUCER DETAILS (optional) 
Name of the Introducer: ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 

(Surname) 

 (Name)  

(Middle Name) 

 

 

 

 

 I/We do not wish to nominate 

Status of the Introducer: Sub-broker/Remisier/Authorized Person/Existing Client/Others, please specify…………………… 
Address and phone no. of the Introducer: ……………………………. Signature of the Introducer: …………………………… 
 
H.  NOMINATION DETAILS (for individuals only) 
 I/We wish to nominate 
Name of the Nominee: ………………………………………. Relationship with the Nominee: …………………………………. 
PAN of Nominee: ……………………………………………... Date of Birth of Nominee: ………………...……………………… 
Address and phone no. of the Nominee: ……………………………………………………………………………………………. 
 
If Nominee is a minor, details of guardian: 
Name of guardian: ……………………… Address and phone no. of Guardian: ……………………………..…………………..  
Signature of guardian ……………………………………………………………………………….…………………………………. 
 
WITNESSES (Only applicable in case the account holder has made nomination) 
Name -------------------------   
Signature ---------------------   
Address -----------------------  
________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
 

Name ----------------------------- 
Signature ------------------------ 
Address -------------------------- 

 
 
 

 
 
 

DECLARATION 

 

1. 

2. 

3. 

I/We hereby declare that the details furnished above are true and correct to the best of my/our knowledge and belief 
and I/we undertake to inform you of any changes therein, immediately. In case any of the above information is found 
to be false or untrue or misleading or misrepresenting, I am/we are aware that I/we may be held liable for it. 
 
I/We confirm having read/been explained and understood the contents of the document on policy and procedures of 
the stock broker and the tariff sheet.  
 
I/We further confirm having read and understood the contents of the ‘Rights and Obligations’ document(s) and ‘Risk 
Disclosure Document’. I/We do hereby agree to be bound by such provisions as outlined in these documents. I/We 
have also been informed that the standard set of documents has been displayed for Information on stock broker’s 
designated website, if any. 

 
 
Place ----------------------- 
Date ------------------------ 
 
________________________________________________________________________________________________ 

           (---------------------------------------------------) 
Signature of Client/ (all) Authorized Signatory (ies) 

 
        

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

FOR OFFICE USE ONLY 

 

UCC Code allotted to the Client: -------------------- 

 

Name of the Employee 
Employee Code 
Designation of the employee 
Date 
Signature 

 

Documents verified with 
Originals 
 
 
 
 
 

Client Interviewed By 

In-Person Verification done by 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

I / We undertake that we have made the client aware of ‘Policy and Procedures’, tariff sheet and all the non-mandatory 
documents. I/We have also made the client aware of ‘Rights and Obligations’ document (s), RDD and Guidance Note. 
I/We  have  given/sent  him  a  copy  of  all  the  KYC  documents.  I/We  undertake  that  any  change  in  the  ‘Policy  and 
Procedures’,  tariff  sheet  and  all  the  non-mandatory  documents  would  be  duly  intimated  to  the  clients.  I/We  also 
undertake that any change in the ‘Rights and Obligations’ and RDD would be made available on my/our website, if any, 
for the information of the clients. 

 

……………………………………….. 
Signature of the Authorised Signatory 

 

         Seal/Stamp of the stock broker 
Date ………………….  
_______________________________________________________________________________________________ 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INSTRUCTIONS/ CHECK LIST 

1. Additional documents in case of trading in derivatives segments - illustrative list: 
 

Copy of ITR Acknowledgement 
In case of salary income - Salary Slip, Copy of Form 16 
Copy of demat account holding statement. 
Any other relevant documents substantiating ownership of 
assets. 
*In respect of other clients, documents as per risk management policy of the stock broker need to be provided by the 
client from time to time. 

Copy of Annual Accounts 
Net worth certificate 
Bank account statement for last 6 months 
Self declaration with relevant supporting documents. 

 
2.  Copy of cancelled cheque leaf/ pass book/bank statement  specifying name of the constituent, MICR Code or/and 

 

IFSC Code of the bank should be submitted.  

 
3.  Demat master or recent holding statement issued by DP bearing name of the client. 

 

4.  For individuals: 

a.  Stock broker has an option of doing ‘in-person’ verification through web camera at the branch office of the 

b. 

stock broker/sub-broker’s office.  
In  case  of  non-resident  clients,  employees  at  the  stock  broker’s  local  office,  overseas  can  do  in-person’ 
verification. Further, considering the infeasibility of carrying out ‘In-person’ verification of the non-resident 
clients  by  the  stock  broker’s  staff,  attestation  of  KYC  documents  by  Notary  Public,  Court,  Magistrate, 
Judge, Local Banker, Indian Embassy / Consulate General in the country where the client resides may be 
permitted. 

 

5.  For non-individuals: 

a.  Form need to be initialized by all the authorized signatories.  
b.  Copy  of  Board  Resolution  or  declaration  (on  the  letterhead)  naming  the  persons  authorized  to  deal  in 

securities on behalf of company/firm/others and their specimen signatures. 

________________________________________________________________________________________________ 

Annexure – 4 

 

RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF STOCK BROKERS, SUB-BROKERS AND CLIENTS 

as prescribed by SEBI and Stock Exchanges 

 

 

1.  The client shall invest/trade in those securities/contracts/other instruments admitted to dealings on the Exchanges 
as defined in the Rules, Byelaws and Regulations of Exchanges/ Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 
and circulars/notices issued there under from time to time.  
 

2.  The  stock  broker,  sub-broker  and  the  client  shall  be  bound  by  all  the  Rules,  Byelaws  and  Regulations  of  the 
Exchange and circulars/notices issued there under and Rules and Regulations of SEBI and relevant notifications of 
Government authorities as may be in force from time to time. 

3.  The  client  shall  satisfy  itself  of  the  capacity  of  the  stock  broker  to  deal  in  securities  and/or  deal  in  derivatives 
contracts and wishes to execute its orders through the stock broker and the client shall from time to time continue 
to satisfy itself of such capability of the stock broker before executing orders through the stock broker. 

4.  The stock broker shall continuously satisfy itself about the genuineness and financial soundness of the client and 

investment objectives relevant to the services to be provided. 

5.  The stock broker shall take steps to make the client aware of the precise nature of the Stock broker’s liability for 

business to be conducted, including any limitations, the liability and the capacity in which the stock broker acts. 
 

6.  The sub-broker shall provide necessary assistance and co-operate with the stock broker in all its dealings with the 

 

 

 

client(s). 
 

CLIENT INFORMATION 
 

 

 

 

7.  The client shall furnish all such details in full as are required by the stock broker in "Account Opening Form” with 

supporting details, made mandatory by stock exchanges/SEBI from time to time.  

8.  The  client  shall  familiarize  himself  with  all  the  mandatory  provisions  in  the  Account  Opening  documents.  Any 
additional clauses or documents  specified by the stock broker  shall be non-mandatory, as per terms & conditions 
accepted by the client. 

9.  The client shall immediately notify the stock broker in writing if there is any change in the information in the ‘account 
opening form’ as provided at the time of account opening and thereafter; including the information on winding up 
petition/insolvency  petition  or  any  litigation  which  may  have  material  bearing  on  his  capacity.  The  client  shall 
provide/update the financial information to the stock broker on a periodic basis. 

10.  The  stock  broker  and  sub-broker  shall  maintain  all  the  details of  the  client as mentioned  in  the  account  opening 
form or any other information pertaining to the client, confidentially and that they shall not disclose the same to any 
person/authority except as required under any law/regulatory requirements. Provided however that the stock broker 
may so disclose information about his client to any person or authority with the express permission of the client. 

 
MARGINS 
 

11.  The client shall pay applicable initial margins, withholding margins, special margins or such other margins as are 
considered necessary by the stock broker or the Exchange or as may be directed by SEBI from time to time as 
applicable  to  the  segment(s)  in  which  the  client  trades.  The  stock  broker  is  permitted  in  its  sole  and  absolute 
discretion  to  collect  additional  margins  (even  though  not  required  by  the  Exchange,  Clearing  House/Clearing 
Corporation or SEBI) and the client shall be obliged to pay such margins within the stipulated time. 

 

12.  The client understands that payment of margins by the client does not necessarily imply complete satisfaction of all 
dues. In spite of consistently having paid margins, the client may, on the settlement of its trade, be obliged to pay 
(or entitled to receive) such further sums as the contract may dictate/require. 
 

TRANSACTIONS AND SETTLEMENTS 
 

 

 

 

 

13.  The client shall give any order for buy or sell of a security/derivatives contract in writing or in such form or manner, 
as may be mutually agreed between the client and the stock broker. The stock broker shall ensure to place orders 
and execute the trades of the client, only in the Unique Client Code assigned to that client. 

14.  The stock broker shall inform the client and keep him apprised about trading/settlement cycles, delivery/payment 
schedules, any changes therein from time to time, and it shall be the responsibility in turn of the client to comply 
with such schedules/procedures of the relevant stock exchange where the trade is executed. 

15.  The stock broker shall ensure that the money/securities deposited by the client shall be kept in a separate account, 
distinct  from  his/its  own  account  or  account  of  any  other  client  and  shall  not  be  used  by  the  stock  broker  for 
himself/itself or for any other client or for any purpose other than the purposes mentioned in Rules, Regulations, 
circulars, notices, guidelines of SEBI and/or Rules, Regulations, Bye-laws, circulars and notices of Exchange. 

16.  Where the Exchange(s) cancels trade(s) suo moto all such trades including the trade/s done on behalf of the client 

shall ipso facto stand cancelled, stock broker shall be entitled to cancel the respective contract(s) with client(s). 

17.  The transactions executed on the Exchange are subject to Rules, Byelaws  and Regulations and circulars/notices 
issued thereunder of the Exchanges where the trade is executed and all parties to such trade shall have submitted 
to the jurisdiction of such court as may be specified by the Byelaws and Regulations of the Exchanges where the 
trade is executed for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of the Rules, Byelaws and Regulations of the 
Exchanges and the circulars/notices issued thereunder. 

 
BROKERAGE 
 

18.  The Client shall pay to the stock broker brokerage and statutory levies as are prevailing from time to time and as 
they  apply  to  the  Client’s  account,  transactions  and  to  the  services  that  stock  broker  renders  to  the  Client.  The 
stock  broker  shall  not  charge  brokerage  more  than  the  maximum  brokerage  permissible  as  per  the  rules, 
regulations and bye-laws of the relevant stock exchanges and/or rules and regulations of SEBI. 

 
LIQUIDATION AND CLOSE OUT OF POSITION 
 

19.  Without  prejudice  to  the  stock  broker's  other  rights  (including  the  right  to  refer  a  matter  to  arbitration),  the  client 
understands that the stock broker shall be entitled to liquidate/close out all or any of the client's positions for non-
payment of margins or other amounts, outstanding debts, etc. and adjust the proceeds of such liquidation/close out, 
if  any,  against  the  client's  liabilities/obligations.  Any  and  all  losses  and  financial  charges  on  account  of  such 
liquidation/closing-out shall be charged to and borne by the client. 

20.  In the event of death or insolvency of the client or his/its otherwise becoming incapable of receiving and paying for 
or delivering or transferring securities which the client has ordered to be bought or sold, stock broker may close out 
the transaction of the client and claim losses, if any, against the estate of the client. The client or his  nominees, 
successors, heirs and assignee shall be entitled to any surplus which may result there from. The client shall note 
that transfer of funds/securities in favor of a Nominee shall be valid discharge by the stock broker against the legal 
heir. 

 

 

21.  The  stock  broker  shall  bring  to  the  notice  of  the  relevant  Exchange  the  information  about  default  in 
is  a  corporate 

payment/delivery  and  related  aspects  by  a  client. 

In  case  where  defaulting  client 

entity/partnership/proprietary 
of 
Director(s)/Promoter(s)/Partner(s)/Proprietor as the case may be, shall also be communicated by the stock broker 
to the relevant Exchange(s).  

name(s) 

artificial 

firm 

or 

legal 

entity, 

any 

other 

then 

the 

 
DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
 

 

 

22.  The stock broker shall provide the client with the relevant contact details of the concerned Exchanges and SEBI. 

 

23.  The stock broker shall co-operate in redressing grievances of the client in respect of all transactions routed through 

it and in removing objections for bad delivery of shares, rectification of bad delivery, etc.  

24.  The client and the stock broker shall refer any claims and/or disputes with respect to deposits, margin money, etc., 
to  arbitration  as  per  the  Rules,  Byelaws  and  Regulations  of  the  Exchanges  where  the  trade  is  executed  and 
circulars/notices issued thereunder as may be in force from time to time.  

25.  The  stock  broker  shall  ensure  faster  settlement  of  any  arbitration  proceedings  arising  out  of  the  transactions 
entered  into  between  him  vis-à-vis  the  client  and  he shall be  liable  to  implement  the  arbitration  awards  made  in 
such proceedings.  
 

26.  The  client/stock-broker  understands  that  the  instructions  issued  by  an  authorized  representative  for  dispute 
resolution, if any, of the client/stock-broker shall be binding on the client/stock-broker in accordance with the letter 
authorizing the said representative to deal on behalf of the said client/stock-broker.  

 
TERMINATION OF RELATIONSHIP 
 

27.  This  relationship  between  the  stock  broker  and  the  client  shall  be  terminated;  if  the  stock  broker  for  any  reason 
ceases to be a member of the stock exchange including cessation of membership by reason of the stock broker's 
default, death, resignation or expulsion or if the certificate is cancelled by the Board. 
 

28.  The  stock  broker,  sub-broker  and  the  client  shall  be  entitled  to  terminate  the  relationship  between  them  without 
giving any reasons to the other party, after giving notice in writing of not less than one month to the other parties. 
Notwithstanding any such termination, all rights, liabilities and obligations of the parties arising out of or in respect 
of  transactions  entered  into  prior  to  the  termination  of  this  relationship  shall  continue  to  subsist  and  vest  in/be 
binding  on  the  respective  parties  or  his/its  respective  heirs,  executors,  administrators,  legal  representatives  or 
successors, as the case may be. 
 

29.  In  the  event  of  demise/insolvency  of  the  sub-broker  or  the  cancellation  of  his/its  registration  with  the  Board 
or/withdrawal of recognition of the sub-broker by the stock exchange and/or termination of the agreement with the 
sub broker by the stock broker, for any reason whatsoever, the client shall be informed of such termination and the 
client  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the  direct  client  of  the  stock  broker  and  all  clauses  in  the  ‘Rights  and  Obligations’ 
document(s) governing the stock broker, sub-broker and client shall continue to be in force as it is, unless the client 
intimates to the stock broker his/its intention to terminate their relationship by giving a notice in writing of not less 
than one month. 
 

ADDITIONAL RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS 
 

30.  The  stock  broker  shall  ensure  due  protection  to  the  client  regarding  client’s  rights  to  dividends,  rights  or  bonus 
shares,  etc.  in  respect  of  transactions  routed  through  it  and  it  shall  not  do  anything  which  is  likely  to  harm  the 
interest of the client with whom and for whom they may have had transactions in securities. 
 

31.  The  stock  broker  and  client  shall  reconcile  and  settle  their  accounts  from  time  to  time  as  per  the  Rules, 
Regulations, Bye Laws, Circulars, Notices and Guidelines issued by SEBI and the relevant Exchanges where the 
trade is executed.  

 

32.  The  stock  broker  shall  issue  a  contract  note  to  his  constituents  for  trades  executed  in  such  format  as  may  be 
prescribed  by  the  Exchange  from  time  to  time  containing  records  of  all  transactions  including  details  of  order 
number,  trade  number,  trade  time,  trade  price,  trade  quantity,  details  of  the  derivatives  contract,  client  code, 
brokerage, all charges levied etc. and with all other relevant details as required therein to be filled in and issued in 
such manner and within such time as prescribed by the Exchange. The stock broker shall send contract notes to 
the  investors  within  one  working  day  of  the  execution  of  the  trades  in  hard  copy  and/or  in  electronic  form  using 
digital signature.  
 

33.  The stock broker shall make pay out of funds or delivery of securities, as the case may be, to the Client within one 
working  day  of  receipt  of  the  payout  from  the  relevant  Exchange  where  the  trade  is  executed  unless  otherwise 
specified by the client and subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the relevant Exchange 
from time to time where the trade is executed. 
 

34.  The stock broker shall send a complete `Statement of Accounts’ for both funds and securities in respect of each of 
its clients in such periodicity and format within such time, as may be prescribed by the relevant  Exchange, from 
time to time, where the trade is executed. The Statement shall also state that the client shall report errors, if any, in 
the Statement within such time as may be prescribed by the relevant Exchange from time to time where the trade 
was executed, from the receipt thereof to the Stock broker. 
 

35.  The  stock  broker shall send daily  margin  statements  to  the  clients.  Daily  Margin statement  should  include, inter-
alia, details of collateral deposited, collateral  utilized and collateral status (available balance/due from client) with 
break up in terms of cash, Fixed Deposit Receipts (FDRs), Bank Guarantee and securities.  
 

36.  The Client shall ensure that it has the required legal capacity to, and is authorized to, enter into the relationship with 
stock broker and is capable of performing his obligations and undertakings hereunder. All actions required to be 
taken to ensure compliance of all the transactions, which the Client may enter into shall be completed by the Client 
prior to such transaction being entered into. 
 

ELECTRONIC CONTRACT NOTES (ECN) 

 

37.  In case, client opts to receive the contract note in electronic form, he shall provide an appropriate e-mail id to the 
stock broker. The client shall communicate to the stock broker any change in the email-id through a physical letter. 
If the client has opted for internet trading, the request for change of email id may be made through the secured 
access by way of client specific user id and password. 
 

38.  The stock broker shall ensure that all ECNs sent through the e-mail shall be digitally signed, encrypted, non-tamper 
able  and  in  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  IT  Act,  2000.  In  case,  ECN  is  sent  through  e-mail  as  an 
attachment, the attached file shall also be secured with the digital signature, encrypted and non-tamperable.  
 

39.  The client shall note that non-receipt of bounced mail notification by the stock broker shall amount to delivery of the 

contract note at the e-mail ID of the client.  
 

40.  The stock broker shall retain ECN and acknowledgement of the e-mail in a soft and non-tamperable form in the 
manner prescribed by the exchange in compliance with the provisions of the IT Act, 2000 and as per the extant 
rules/regulations/circulars/guidelines issued by SEBI/Stock Exchanges from time to time. The proof of delivery i.e., 
log  report  generated  by  the  system  at  the  time  of  sending  the  contract  notes  shall  be  maintained  by  the  stock 
broker for the specified period under the extant regulations of SEBI/stock exchanges. The log report shall provide 
the  details  of  the contract  notes  that  are  not  delivered  to  the  client/e-mails  rejected  or  bounced  back.  The  stock 
broker shall take all possible steps to ensure receipt of notification of bounced mails by him at all times within the 
stipulated time period under the extant regulations of SEBI/stock exchanges. 
 

41.  The  stock  broker  shall  continue  to  send  contract  notes  in  the  physical  mode  to  such  clients  who  do  not  opt  to 
receive the contract notes in the electronic form. Wherever the ECNs have not been delivered to the client or has 
been rejected (bouncing of mails) by the e-mail ID of the client, the stock broker shall send a physical contract note 
to the client within the stipulated time under the extant regulations of SEBI/stock exchanges and maintain the proof 
of delivery of such physical contract notes. 
 

42.  In addition to the e-mail communication of the ECNs to the client, the stock broker shall simultaneously publish the 
ECN  on  his  designated  web-site,  if  any,  in  a  secured  way  and  enable  relevant  access  to  the  clients  and  for  this 
purpose, shall allot a unique user name and password to the client, with an option to the client to save the contract 
note electronically and/or take a print out of the same. 

 
LAW AND JURISDICTION 

 

43.  In addition to the specific rights set out in this document, the stock broker, sub-broker and the client shall be entitled 
to  exercise  any  other  rights  which  the  stock  broker  or  the  client  may  have  under  the  Rules,  Bye-laws  and 
Regulations of the Exchanges in which the client chooses to trade and circulars/notices issued thereunder or Rules 
and Regulations of SEBI. 
 

44.  The  provisions  of  this  document  shall  always  be  subject  to  Government  notifications,  any  rules,  regulations, 
guidelines  and  circulars/notices  issued  by  SEBI  and  Rules,  Regulations  and  Bye  laws  of  the  relevant  stock 
exchanges, where the trade is executed, that may be in force from time to time. 
 

45.  The  stock  broker  and  the  client  shall  abide  by  any  award  passed  by  the  Arbitrator(s)  under  the  Arbitration  and 
Conciliation Act, 1996. However, there is also a provision of appeal within the stock exchanges, if either party is not 
satisfied with the arbitration award. 
 

46.  Words and expressions which are used in this document but which are not defined herein shall, unless the context 
otherwise  requires,  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  thereto  in  the  Rules,  Byelaws  and  Regulations  and 
circulars/notices issued thereunder of the Exchanges/SEBI. 
 

47.  All  additional  voluntary  clauses/document  added  by  the  stock  broker  should  not  be  in  contravention  with 
rules/regulations/notices/circulars of Exchanges/SEBI. Any changes in such voluntary clauses/document(s) need to 
be  preceded  by  a  notice  of  15  days.   Any  changes  in  the  rights  and  obligations  which  are  specified  by 
Exchanges/SEBI shall also be brought to the notice of the clients.  
 

48.  If the rights and obligations of the parties hereto are altered by virtue of change in Rules and regulations of SEBI or 
Bye-laws, Rules and Regulations of the relevant stock Exchanges where the trade is executed, such changes shall 
be deemed to have been incorporated herein in modification of the rights and obligations of the parties mentioned 
in this document. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

INTERNET & WIRELESS TECHNOLOGY BASED TRADING FACILITY PROVIDED BY STOCK BROKERS TO CLIENT 
(All  the  clauses  mentioned  in  the  ‘Rights  and  Obligations’  document(s)  shall  be  applicable.  Additionally,  the 
clauses mentioned herein shall also be applicable.)  
 

1.  Stock broker is eligible for providing Internet based trading (IBT) and securities trading through the use of wireless 
technology  that  shall  include  the  use  of  devices  such  as  mobile  phone,  laptop  with  data  card,  etc.  which  use 
Internet  Protocol  (IP).  The  stock  broker  shall  comply  with  all  requirements  applicable  to  internet  based 
trading/securities  trading  using  wireless  technology  as  may  be  specified  by  SEBI  &  the  Exchanges  from  time  to 
time. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.  The client is desirous of investing/trading in securities and for this purpose, the client is desirous of using either the 
internet  based  trading  facility  or  the  facility  for  securities  trading  through  use  of  wireless  technology.  The  Stock 
broker shall provide the Stock broker’s IBT Service to the Client, and the Client shall avail of the Stock broker’s IBT 
Service,  on  and  subject  to  SEBI/Exchanges  Provisions  and  the  terms  and  conditions  specified  on  the  Stock 
broker’s IBT Web Site provided that they are in line with the norms prescribed by Exchanges/SEBI.  
 

3.  The  stock  broker  shall  bring  to  the  notice  of  client  the  features,  risks,  responsibilities,  obligations  and  liabilities 
associated with securities trading through wireless technology/internet/smart order routing or any other technology 
should be brought to the notice of the client by the stock broker.  

4.  The  stock  broker  shall  make  the  client  aware  that  the  Stock  Broker’s  IBT  system  itself  generates  the  initial 

password and its password policy as stipulated in line with norms prescribed by Exchanges/SEBI. 

5.  The  Client  shall  be  responsible  for  keeping  the  Username  and  Password  confidential  and  secure  and  shall  be 
solely  responsible  for  all  orders  entered  and  transactions  done  by  any  person  whosoever  through  the  Stock 
broker’s IBT System using the Client’s Username and/or Password whether or not such person was authorized to 
do so.  Also the client  is aware that authentication technologies and strict security measures are required for the 
internet  trading/securities  trading  through  wireless  technology  through  order  routed  system  and  undertakes  to 
ensure  that  the  password  of  the  client  and/or  his  authorized  representative  are  not  revealed  to  any  third  party 
including employees and dealers of the stock broker 

6.  The Client shall immediately notify the Stock broker in writing if he forgets his password, discovers security flaw in 
Stock  Broker’s 
through  his 
username/password/account with full details of such unauthorized use, the date, the manner and the transactions 
effected pursuant to such unauthorized use, etc.   

IBT  System,  discovers/suspects  discrepancies/  unauthorized  access 

7.  The Client is fully aware of and understands the risks associated with availing of a service for routing orders over 
the  internet/securities  trading through  wireless  technology and  Client shall  be  fully  liable and  responsible  for  any 
and all acts done in the Client’s Username/password in any manner whatsoever.     

8.  The  stock  broker  shall  send  the  order/trade  confirmation  through  email  to  the  client  at  his  request.  The  client  is 
aware that the order/ trade confirmation is also provided on the web portal. In case client is trading using wireless 
technology, the stock broker shall send the order/trade confirmation on the device of the client. 
 

9.  The client is aware that trading over the internet involves many uncertain factors and complex hardware, software, 
systems, communication lines, peripherals, etc. are susceptible to interruptions and dislocations. The Stock broker 
and the Exchange do not make any representation or warranty that the Stock broker’s IBT Service will be available 
to the Client at all times without any interruption.  
 

10.  The  Client  shall  not  have  any  claim  against  the  Exchange  or  the  Stock  broker  on  account  of  any  suspension, 
interruption,  non-availability  or  malfunctioning  of  the  Stock  broker’s  IBT  System  or  Service  or  the  Exchange’s 
service  or  systems  or  non-execution  of  his  orders  due  to  any  link/system  failure  at  the  Client/Stock 
brokers/Exchange end for any reason beyond the control of the stock broker/Exchanges. 

Annexure – 5 

 

RISK DISCLOSURE DOCUMENT FOR CAPITAL MARKET AND DERIVATIVES SEGMENTS 

 
This  document  contains  important  information  on  trading  in  Equities/Derivatives  Segments  of  the  stock  exchanges.  All 
prospective constituents should read this document before trading in Equities/Derivatives Segments of the Exchanges. 
 
Stock  exchanges/SEBI  does  neither  singly  or  jointly  and  expressly  nor  impliedly  guarantee  nor  make  any  representation 
concerning  the  completeness,  the  adequacy  or  accuracy  of  this  disclosure  document  nor  have  Stock  exchanges  /SEBI 
endorsed or passed any merits of participating in the trading segments. This brief statement does not disclose all the risks 
and other significant aspects of trading.  
 
In the light of the risks involved, you should undertake transactions only if you understand the nature of the relationship into 
which you are entering and the extent of your exposure to risk. 
 
You must know and appreciate that trading in Equity shares, derivatives contracts or other instruments traded on the Stock 
Exchange,  which  have  varying  element  of  risk,  is  generally  not  an  appropriate  avenue  for  someone  of  limited 
resources/limited  investment  and/or  trading  experience  and  low  risk  tolerance.  You  should  therefore  carefully  consider 
whether such trading is suitable for you in the light of your financial condition. In case you trade on Stock exchanges and 
suffer  adverse  consequences  or  loss,  you  shall  be  solely  responsible  for  the  same  and  Stock  exchanges/its  Clearing 
Corporation and/or SEBI shall not be responsible, in any manner whatsoever, for the same and it will not be open for you to 
take a plea that no adequate disclosure regarding the risks involved was made or that you were not explained the full risk 
involved by the concerned stock broker. The constituent shall be solely responsible for the consequences and no contract 
can  be  rescinded  on  that  account.  You  must  acknowledge  and  accept  that  there  can  be  no  guarantee  of  profits  or  no 
exception  from  losses  while  executing  orders  for  purchase  and/or  sale  of  a  derivative  contract  being  traded  on  Stock 
exchanges. 
 
It must be clearly understood by you that your dealings on Stock exchanges through a stock broker shall be subject to your 
fulfilling  certain  formalities  set  out  by  the  stock  broker,  which  may  inter  alia  include  your  filling  the  know  your  client  form, 
reading the rights and obligations, do’s and don’ts, etc., and are subject to the Rules, Byelaws and Regulations of relevant 
Stock  exchanges, its  Clearing  Corporation, guidelines  prescribed  by  SEBI  and in  force  from  time  to  time  and  Circulars  as 
may be issued by Stock exchanges or its Clearing Corporation and in force from time to time. 
 
Stock exchanges does not provide or purport to provide any advice and shall not be liable to any person who enters into any 
business relationship with any stock broker of Stock exchanges and/or any third party based on any information contained in 
this document. Any information contained in this document must not be construed as business advice. No consideration to 
trade should be made without thoroughly understanding and reviewing the risks involved in such trading. If you are unsure, 
you must seek professional advice on the same. 
 
In considering whether to trade or authorize someone to trade for you, you should be aware of or must get acquainted with 
the following:- 
 
1.  BASIC RISKS:  
 
1.1 Risk of Higher Volatility: 
Volatility refers to the dynamic changes in price that a security/derivatives contract undergoes when trading activity continues 
on the Stock Exchanges. Generally, higher the volatility of a security/derivatives contract, greater is its price swings. There 
may  be  normally  greater  volatility  in  thinly  traded  securities  /  derivatives  contracts  than  in  active  securities  /derivatives 
contracts. As a result of volatility, your order may only be partially executed or not executed at all, or the price at which your 
order  got  executed may  be substantially  different  from  the  last  traded  price  or  change substantially  thereafter,  resulting  in 
notional or real losses. 
 

1.2 Risk of Lower Liquidity: 
Liquidity  refers  to  the  ability  of  market  participants  to  buy  and/or  sell  securities  /  derivatives  contracts  expeditiously  at  a 
competitive price and with minimal price difference. Generally, it is assumed that more the numbers of orders available in a 
market, greater is the liquidity. Liquidity is important because with greater liquidity, it is easier for investors to buy and/or sell 
securities / derivatives contracts swiftly and with minimal price difference, and as a result, investors are more likely to pay or 
receive a competitive price for securities / derivatives contracts purchased or sold. There may be a risk of lower liquidity in 
some securities / derivatives contracts as compared to active securities / derivatives contracts. As a result, your order may 
only be partially executed, or may be executed with relatively greater price difference or may not be executed at all. 
 
1.2.1 Buying or selling securities / derivatives contracts as part of a day trading strategy may also result into losses, because 
in such a situation, securities / derivatives contracts may have to be sold / purchased at low / high prices, compared to the 
expected price levels, so as not to have any open position or obligation to deliver or receive a security / derivatives contract. 
 
1.3 Risk of Wider Spreads: 
Spread refers to the difference in best buy price and best sell price. It represents the differential between the price of buying a 
security / derivatives contract and immediately selling it or vice versa. Lower liquidity and higher volatility may result in wider 
than normal spreads for less liquid or illiquid securities / derivatives contracts. This in turn will hamper better price formation. 
 
1.4 Risk-reducing orders: 
The placing of orders (e.g., "stop loss” orders, or "limit" orders) which are intended to limit losses to certain amounts may not 
be effective many a time because rapid movement in market conditions may make it impossible to execute such orders. 
 
1.4.1 A "market" order will be executed promptly, subject to availability of orders on opposite side, without regard to price and 
that,  while  the customer  may receive  a  prompt  execution of  a  "market" order,  the  execution  may  be  at available  prices  of 
outstanding  orders,  which  satisfy  the  order  quantity,  on  price  time  priority.  It may be  understood  that these  prices  may  be 
significantly different from the last traded price or the best price in that security / derivatives contract. 
 
1.4.2  A  "limit"  order  will  be  executed  only  at  the  "limit"  price  specified  for  the  order  or  a  better  price.  However,  while  the 
customer receives price protection, there is a possibility that the order may not be executed at all. 
 
1.4.3 A stop loss order is generally placed "away" from the current price of a stock / derivatives contract, and such order gets 
activated  if  and  when  the  security  /  derivatives  contract  reaches,  or  trades  through,  the  stop  price.  Sell  stop  orders  are 
entered  ordinarily  below  the  current  price,  and  buy  stop  orders  are  entered  ordinarily  above  the  current  price.  When  the 
security / derivatives contract reaches the pre -determined price, or trades through such price, the stop loss order converts to 
a  market/limit  order  and  is  executed  at  the  limit  or  better.  There  is  no  assurance  therefore  that  the  limit  order  will  be 
executable since a security / derivatives contract might penetrate the pre-determined price, in which case, the risk of such 
order not getting executed arises, just as with a regular limit order. 
 
1.5 Risk of News Announcements: 
News announcements that may impact the price of stock / derivatives contract may occur during trading, and when combined 
with lower liquidity and higher volatility, may suddenly cause an unexpected positive or negative movement in the price of the 
security / contract. 
 
1.6 Risk of Rumors: 
Rumors  about  companies  / currencies  at  times  float  in  the  market  through  word  of  mouth,  newspapers,  websites  or news 
agencies, etc. The investors should be wary of and should desist from acting on rumors. 
 
1.7 System Risk: 
High volume trading will frequently occur at the market opening and before market close. Such high volumes may also occur 
at any point in the day. These may cause delays in order execution or confirmation. 
 
1.7.1 During periods of volatility, on account of market participants continuously modifying their order quantity or prices or 
placing fresh orders, there may be delays in order execution and its confirmations. 

 
1.7.2 Under certain market conditions, it may be difficult or impossible to liquidate a position in the market at a reasonable 
price or at all, when there are no outstanding orders either on the buy side or the sell side, or if trading is halted in a security / 
derivatives  contract  due  to any  action on  account  of  unusual  trading activity  or  security  /  derivatives contract  hitting  circuit 
filters or for any other reason. 
 
1.8 System/Network Congestion: 
Trading  on  exchanges  is  in  electronic  mode,  based  on  satellite/leased  line  based  communications,  combination  of 
technologies and computer systems to place and route orders. Thus, there exists a possibility of communication failure or 
system  problems  or  slow  or  delayed  response  from  system  or  trading  halt,  or  any  such  other  problem/glitch  whereby  not 
being  able  to  establish  access  to  the  trading  system/network,  which  may  be  beyond  control  and  may  result  in  delay  in 
processing  or  not  processing  buy  or  sell  orders  either  in  part  or  in  full.  You  are  cautioned  to  note  that  although  these 
problems may be temporary in nature, but when you have outstanding open positions or unexecuted orders, these represent 
a risk because of your obligations to settle all executed transactions. 
 
2.  As  far  as  Derivatives  segments  are  concerned,  please  note  and  get  yourself  acquainted  with  the  following 
additional features:-  
 
2.1 Effect of "Leverage" or "Gearing": 
In the derivatives market, the amount of margin is small relative to the value of the derivatives contract so the transactions 
are  'leveraged'  or  'geared'.  Derivatives  trading,  which  is  conducted  with  a  relatively  small  amount  of  margin,  provides  the 
possibility of great profit or loss in comparison with the margin amount. But transactions in derivatives carry a high degree of 
risk. 
 
You  should  therefore  completely  understand  the  following  statements  before  actually  trading  in  derivatives  and  also  trade 
with caution while taking into account one's circumstances, financial resources, etc. If the prices move against you, you may 
lose a part of or whole margin amount in a relatively short period of time. Moreover, the loss may exceed the original margin 
amount. 
 
A. Futures trading involve daily settlement of all positions. Every day the open positions are marked to market based on the 
closing  level  of  the  index  /  derivatives contract.  If  the contract  has  moved against  you, you  will be  required  to  deposit  the 
amount  of  loss  (notional)  resulting  from  such  movement.  This  amount  will  have  to  be  paid  within  a  stipulated  time  frame, 
generally before commencement of trading on next day. 
 
B.  If  you  fail  to  deposit  the  additional  amount  by  the  deadline  or  if  an  outstanding  debt  occurs  in  your  account,  the  stock 
broker  may  liquidate  a  part  of  or  the  whole  position  or  substitute  securities.  In  this  case,  you  will  be  liable  for  any  losses 
incurred due to such close-outs. 
 
C. Under certain market conditions, an investor may find it difficult or impossible to execute transactions. For example, this 
situation can occur due to factors such as illiquidity i.e. when there are insufficient bids or offers or suspension of trading due 
to price limit or circuit breakers etc. 
 
D. In order to maintain market stability, the following steps may be adopted: changes in the margin rate, increases in the cash 
margin rate or others. These new measures may also be applied to the existing open interests. In such conditions, you will be 
required to put up additional margins or reduce your positions. 
 
E. You must ask your broker to provide the full details of derivatives contracts you plan to trade i.e. the contract specifications 
and the associated obligations. 
 
2.2 Currency specific risks: 
1.  The  profit  or  loss  in  transactions  in  foreign  currency-denominated  contracts,  whether  they  are  traded  in  your  own  or 
another  jurisdiction,  will  be  affected  by  fluctuations  in  currency  rates  where  there  is  a  need  to  convert  from  the  currency 
denomination of the contract to another currency.  

 

 
2. Under certain market conditions, you may find it difficult or impossible to liquidate a position. This can occur, for example 
when a currency is deregulated or fixed trading bands are widened.  
 
3.  Currency  prices  are  highly  volatile.  Price  movements  for  currencies  are  influenced  by,  among  other  things:  changing 
supply-demand  relationships;  trade,  fiscal,  monetary,  exchange  control  programs  and  policies  of  governments;  foreign 
political  and  economic  events  and  policies;  changes  in  national  and  international  interest  rates  and  inflation;  currency 
devaluation;  and sentiment  of  the  market  place.  None  of these  factors can  be  controlled  by  any  individual advisor  and  no 
assurance can be given that an advisor's advice will result in profitable trades for a participating customer or that a customer 
will not incur losses from such events.  
 
2.3 Risk of Option holders: 
1. An option holder runs the risk of losing the entire amount paid for the option in a relatively short period of time. This risk 
reflects the nature of an option as a wasting asset which becomes worthless when it expires. An option holder who neither 
sells his option in the secondary market nor exercises it prior to its expiration will necessarily lose his entire investment in the 
option.  If  the  price  of  the  underlying  does  not  change  in  the  anticipated  direction  before  the  option  expires,  to  an  extent 
sufficient to cover the cost of the option, the investor may lose all or a significant part of his investment in the option.  
 
2. The Exchanges may impose exercise restrictions and have absolute authority to restrict the exercise of options at certain 
times in specified circumstances.  
 
2.4 Risks of Option Writers:  
1.  If  the  price  movement  of  the  underlying  is  not  in  the  anticipated  direction,  the  option  writer  runs  the  risks  of  losing 
substantial amount.  
2. The risk of being an option writer may be reduced by the purchase of other options on the same underlying interest and 
thereby assuming a spread position or by acquiring other types of hedging positions in the options markets or other markets. 
However, even where the writer has assumed a spread or other hedging position, the risks may still be significant. A spread 
position is not necessarily less risky than a simple 'long' or 'short' position.  
3. Transactions that involve buying and writing multiple options in combination, or buying or writing options in combination with 
buying or selling short the underlying interests, present additional risks to investors. Combination transactions, such as option 
spreads,  are  more  complex  than  buying  or  writing  a  single  option.  And  it  should  be  further  noted  that,  as  in  any  area  of 
investing, a complexity not well understood is, in itself, a risk factor. While this is not to suggest that combination strategies 
should  not  be  considered,  it  is  advisable,  as  is  the  case  with  all  investments  in  options,  to  consult  with  someone  who  is 
experienced  and  knowledgeable  with  respect  to  the  risks  and  potential  rewards  of  combination  transactions  under  various 
market circumstances.  
 
3. TRADING THROUGH WIRELESS TECHNOLOGY/ SMART ORDER ROUTING OR ANY OTHER TECHNOLOGY: 
 
Any  additional  provisions  defining  the  features,  risks,  responsibilities,  obligations  and  liabilities  associated  with  securities 
trading through wireless technology/ smart order routing or any other technology should be brought to the notice of the client 
by the stock broker.  
 
4. GENERAL 
 
4.1 The term ‘constituent’ shall mean and include a client, a customer or an investor, who deals with a stock broker for the 
purpose of acquiring and/or selling of securities / derivatives contracts through the mechanism provided by the Exchanges. 
 
4.2 The term ‘stock broker’ shall mean and include a stock broker, a broker or a stock broker, who has been admitted as 
such by the Exchanges and who holds a registration certificate from SEBI. 
 

GUIDANCE NOTE - DO’s AND DON’Ts FOR TRADING ON THE EXCHANGE(S) FOR INVESTORS 

Annexure-6 

 

 
BEFORE YOU BEGIN TO TRADE 

 

1.  Ensure  that  you  deal  with  and  through  only  SEBI  registered  intermediaries.  You  may  check  their  SEBI  registration 
certificate number from the list available on the Stock exchanges www.exchange.com and SEBI website www.sebi.gov.in. 

2.  Ensure that you fill the KYC form completely and strike off the blank fields in the KYC form.   
3.  Ensure that you have read all the mandatory documents viz. Rights and Obligations, Risk Disclosure  Document, Policy 

and Procedure document of the stock broker. 

4.  Ensure to read, understand and then sign the voluntary clauses, if any, agreed between you and the stock broker. Note 

that the clauses as agreed between you and the stock broker cannot be changed without your consent. 

5.  Get a clear idea about all brokerage, commissions, fees and other charges levied by the broker on you for trading and the 

relevant provisions/ guidelines specified by SEBI/Stock exchanges. 

6.  Obtain a copy of all the documents executed by you from the stock broker free of charge. 
7. 

In case you wish to execute Power of Attorney (POA) in favour of the Stock broker, authorizing it to operate your bank and 
demat account, please refer to the guidelines issued by SEBI/Exchanges in this regard.  
 

TRANSACTIONS AND SETTLEMENTS 

 

8.  The  stock  broker  may  issue  electronic  contract  notes  (ECN)  if  specifically  authorized  by  you  in  writing.  You  should 

provide your email id to the stock broker for the same. Don’t opt for ECN if you are not familiar with computers.  

9.  Don’t share your internet trading account’s password with anyone. 
10.  Don’t make any payment in cash to the stock broker.  
11.  Make  the  payments  by  account  payee  cheque  in  favour  of  the  stock  broker.  Don’t  issue  cheques  in  the  name  of  sub-
broker.  Ensure  that  you  have  a  documentary  proof  of  your  payment/deposit  of  securities  with  the  stock  broker,  stating 
date, scrip, quantity, towards which bank/ demat account such money or securities deposited and from which bank/ demat 
account. 

12.  Note that facility of Trade Verification is available on stock exchanges’ websites, where details of trade as mentioned in 
the contract note may be verified. Where trade details on the website do not tally with the details mentioned in the contract 
note, immediately get in touch with the Investors Grievance Cell of the relevant Stock exchange.  

13.  In case you have given specific authorization for maintaining running account, payout of funds or delivery of securities (as 
the case may be), may not be made to you within one working day from the receipt of payout from the Exchange. Thus, 
the stock broker shall maintain running account for you subject to the following conditions: 
a)  Such  authorization  from  you  shall  be  dated,  signed  by  you  only  and  contains  the  clause  that  you  may  revoke  the 

same at any time. 

b)  The actual settlement of funds and securities shall be done by the stock broker, at least once in a calendar quarter or 
month, depending on your preference. While settling the account, the stock broker shall send to you a ‘statement of 
accounts’ containing an extract from the client ledger for funds and an extract from the register of securities displaying 
all  the  receipts/deliveries  of  funds  and  securities.  The  statement  shall  also  explain  the  retention  of  funds  and 
securities and the details of the pledged shares, if any. 

c)  On the date of settlement, the stock broker may retain the requisite securities/funds towards outstanding obligations 
and may also retain the funds expected to be required to meet derivatives margin obligations for next 5 trading days, 
calculated in the manner specified by the exchanges. In respect of cash market transactions, the stock broker may 
retain  entire  pay-in  obligation  of  funds  and  securities  due  from  clients  as  on  date  of  settlement  and  for  next  day’s 
business, he may retain funds/securities/margin to the extent of value of transactions executed on the day of such 

settlement in the cash market. 

d)  You need to bring any dispute arising from the statement of account or settlement so made to the notice of the stock 
broker in writing preferably within 7 (seven) working days from the date of receipt of funds/securities or statement, as 
the case may be. In case of dispute, refer the matter in writing to the Investors Grievance Cell of the relevant Stock 
exchanges without delay. 

14.  In case you have not opted for maintaining running account and pay-out of funds/securities is not received on the next 
working  day  of  the  receipt  of  payout  from  the  exchanges,  please  refer  the  matter  to  the  stock  broker.  In  case  there  is 
dispute, ensure that you lodge a complaint in writing immediately with the Investors Grievance Cell of the relevant Stock 
exchange. 

15.  Please register your mobile number and email id with the stock broker, to receive trade confirmation alerts/ details of the 

transactions through SMS or email, by the end of the trading day, from the stock exchanges. 
 

IN CASE OF TERMINATION OF TRADING MEMBERSHIP 

 

16.  In  case,  a  stock  broker  surrenders  his  membership,  is  expelled  from  membership  or  declared  a  defaulter;  Stock 
exchanges gives a public notice inviting claims relating to only the "transactions executed on the trading system" of Stock 
exchange, from the investors. Ensure that you lodge a claim with the relevant Stock exchanges within the stipulated period 
and with the supporting documents. 

17.  Familiarize yourself with the protection accorded to the money and/or securities you may deposit with your stock broker, 
particularly  in  the  event  of  a  default  or  the  stock  broker’s  insolvency  or  bankruptcy  and  the  extent  to  which  you  may 
recover such money and/or securities may be governed by the Bye-laws and Regulations of the relevant Stock exchange 
where the trade was executed and the scheme of the Investors’ Protection Fund in force from time to time. 
 

DISPUTES/ COMPLAINTS 

 

18.  Please  note  that  the  details  of  the  arbitration  proceedings,  penal  action  against  the  brokers  and  investor  complaints 

against the stock brokers are displayed on the website of the relevant Stock exchange. 

19.  In case your issue/problem/grievance is not being sorted out by concerned stock broker/sub-broker then you may take up 
the matter with the concerned Stock exchange. If you are not satisfied with the resolution of your complaint then you can 
escalate the matter to SEBI.  

20.  Note  that  all  the  stock  broker/sub-brokers  have  been  mandated  by  SEBI  to  designate  an  e-mail  ID  of  the  grievance 

redressal division/compliance officer exclusively for the purpose of registering complaints.  
 

 
 

ACCOUNT OPENING FORM FOR RESIDENT INDIVIDUALS TRADING IN CASH SEGMENT 

PHOTOGRAPH  

SARAL 

I  KYC - Please fill this form in BLOCK LETTERS.  

A. IDENTITY DETAILS 
1.  Name of the Applicant: ____________________________________________________ 
2.  Father’s/ Spouse Name:_________________________________________________ 
3.  a. Gender: Male/ Female b. Marital status: Single/ Married c. Date of birth:____(dd/mm/yyyy)  
4.  Nationality:________________ 
5.  a. PAN: ____________________ b. Aadhaar Number, if any: __________________________________ 
6.  Specify the proof of Identity submitted: ______________________________________________ 

Please affix your 
recent passport size 
photograph and 
sign across it 

B. ADDRESS DETAILS 
1.  Residence/ Correspondence Address: ________________________________________ City/town/village: 

___________ Pin Code: __________ State: ______________ Country: __________________ 

2.  Contact Details: Tel. (Off.) _______ Tel. (Res.) ________ Mobile No.: ________Fax: ___ Email id: _______________ 
3.  Permanent Address (if different from above address): __________________________________________________ 

City/town/village:__________ Pin Code: _______ State: _________ Country: _____________ 

4.  Specify the proof of address submitted for residence/correspondence /permanent address:________________ 

DECLARATION 

I hereby declare that the details furnished above are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and I undertake 
to inform you of any changes therein, immediately. In case any  of the above information is found to be false or untrue or 
misleading or misrepresenting, I am aware that I may be held liable for it.  

 

__________________               Signature of the Applicant               Date: __________(dd/mm/yyyy)                                            

 

 

 

Originals verified and Self-Attested Document copies received (………………………………………..)                   

 

 

 

 

Name & Signature of the Authorised Signatory   
         Seal/Stamp of the intermediary 

Date ………………….  
I I OTHER DETAILS: 
1. Bank account details: 

Bank Name  Branch address 

Bank account no.   Account Type: Saving/Current/  

 
 

MICR 
Number  
 

IFSC code 

 

 

 

 

2. Demat account details:(In case the client does not have DP account, this column may be crossed) 
DP name 
 
3. Whether DP account is also to be opened with the same intermediary  (Yes/No) 
4. Trading Preferences: Please sign the relevant boxes where you wish to trade.  

Beneficiary name 
 

NSDL/CDSL 
 

DP ID 
 

BO ID 
 

Exchange 
NSE 

Sign 
 

Exchange 
BSE 

Sign 
 

Exchange 
MCX-SX 

Sign 
 

5. Mode  of  receiving  Contract  Note/  Statement  of  Account:  Physical  /  Electronic  (Please  indicate  your 

preference)............................ 

6. Standing instructions to receive credits automatically into my BO account (Yes/No) 
7. Nomination details (Name, PAN, Address and Phone no. of nominee); relationship with the nominee (If nominee 

is a minor, details of Guardian like name, address, phone no. and signature of Guardian may be obtained) 

I have understood the contents of policy and procedures document, tariff sheet, 'Rights and Obligations' document and 'Risk 
Disclosure Document'. I do hereby agree to be bound by such provisions as outlined in these documents. I have also been 
informed that the standard set of documents has been displayed for information on stock broker's designated website.  

 
__________________               Signature of the Aplicant               Date: __________(dd/mm/yyyy)                                              
 
 

 
     

 
 

 
 

 

 

FOR OFFICE USE ONLY 

UCC Code allotted to the Client: ------------------- 

DP name 
 
 

 

Name of the Employee 
Employee Code 
Designation 
employee 
Date 
Signature 

of 

the 

NSDL/CDSL 
 

Beneficiary name 
 

DP ID 
 

BO ID 
 

Documents verified with 
Originals 
 
 
 

 
 

Client 
By 
 
 
 

 
 

Interviewed 

In-Person Verification done by 

 
 
 

 
 

I /  We  undertake that  I/we have  made the  client aware  of  ‘Policy and  Procedures’, tariff  sheet.  I/We  have also  made the 
client aware of ‘Rights and Obligations’ document (s), RDD and Guidance Note. I/We have given/sent him a copy of all the 
KYC documents. I/We undertake that any change in the ‘Policy and Procedures’, tariff sheet would be duly intimated to the 
clients. I/We also undertake that any change in the ‘Rights and Obligations’ and RDD would be made available on my/our 
website, if any, for the information of the clients. 

If the client chooses to avail the  demat facility from the same stock broker who is also a depository participant, the  stock 
broker may use the same form and provide the details of the demat account opened for the said client to the client while 
providing a copy of the KYC documents.  

……………………………………….. 

Signature of the Authorised Signatory 

Date ………………….                                                                                           Seal/Stamp of the stock broker 

NOTE:  This  form  is  applicable  for  individual  investors  trading  in  the  cash  segment.  If  such  investors  wish  to  trade  in 
segments other than cash segment and / or wish to avail facilities such as internet trading, running account, margin 
trading, Power  of  Attorney etc.,   they  may furnish additional details  required as per  prescribed  regulations to the 
concerned intermediary. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

LIST OF CIRCULARS / NOTIFICATIONS 

APPENDIX 

 

 

S. No. 
1. 

Circular / Notification No. and Date 

Subject 

  SEBI  communication  SE/10118  dated 

Listing fees from 1992-93 to 1996-97. 

October 12, 1992. 

2. 

  SMD/SED/CIR/93/23321 

dated 

November 18, 1993. 

3. 

  SMD/VRN/1476/95  dated  April  27, 

Regulation Of Transactions Between Clients and 
Brokers. 
Severance of connections with other businesses. 

1995. 

4. 

  SMD/POLICY/CIR-6/97  dated  May 

07, 1997. 

5. 

  SMD/POLICY/CIRCULAR/30/97 

dated November 25, 1997. 
  SMD/POLICY/CIR-34/97 

6. 

December 11, 1997. 

dated 

7. 

  SMD/POLICY/CIR-11/98 dated March 

16, 1998. 

8. 

  FITTC/DC/CR-1/98  dated  June  16, 

1998. 

Applicability  of  Rule  8(1)(f)  and  8(3)(f)  of  the 
Securities Contract (Regulation) Rules, 1957. 
Registration of Brokers. 

individual  membership 

Conversion  of 
Corporate membership. 
Additional  information  to  be  submitted  at  the 
time of registration of Stock Broker with SEBI. 
Derivatives Trading in India. 

into 

9. 

  SMD/POLICY(BRK.REG.)/CIR-18/98 

Merger/ Amalgamation of Trading Members. 

dated July 09, 1998. 

10.    SMD-II/POLICY/CIR-37/99 

dated 

November 26, 1999. 

11.    SMD-I/POLICY/CIR-40/99 

dated 

December 16, 1999. 

12.    SMD-II/ALLSE/CIR-02/2000 

dated 

January 10, 2000. 

13.    SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-  06/2000  dated 

January 31, 2000. 

14.    SMD/POLICY/CIR. 

No. 
24/25374/2001  dated  March  22,  2001 
and  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-
Brokers) 
Amendment) 
Regulations,  2000  dated  August  30, 
2000. 

(Second 

Floating  of  a  Subsidiary/Company  by  a  Stock 
Exchange  to  acquire  the  membership  of  other 
Stock Exchange. 
Floating  of  a  Subsidiary/Company  by  a  Stock 
Exchange  to  acquire  the  membership  of  other 
Stock Exchange. 
Meeting Of All Stock Exchanges. 

Conditions  to  be  met  by  Broker  for  providing 
Internet Based Trading Service. 
Exclusion  of  turnover  from  the  turnover  of  the 
Subsidiary. 

15.    SMDRP/Policy/Cir-48/2000 

dated 

October 11, 2000. 

16.    SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-56/00 

dated 

December 15, 2000. 

17.    SUB-BROK/CIR/02/2001 

dated 

January 15, 2001. 

Securities Trading through Wireless medium on 
Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) platform. 
Use of Digital Signature on Contract Notes. 

Intimation  to  the  Brokers  to  permit  their  Sub-
Brokers  to  start  business  only  after  receipt  of 
Sub-Broker registration certificate from SEBI. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

18.    SMDRPD/POLICY/CIR-8/2001  dated 

Composition of the deposit with Subsidiary. 

February 07, 2001. 

19.    SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-39/2001  dated 

Unique Client Code. 

July 18, 2001. 

20.    SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-41/2001  dated 

Eligibility for Trading Member. 

August 09, 2001. 

21.    SMD/POLICY/CIR-49/2001 

dated 

October 22, 2001. 

22.    CIR/MIRSD/24/2011  dated  December 

15, 2011. 

23.    SMD/DBA-II/CIR-22/2002 

dated 

September 12, 2002. 

24.    SMD/POLICY/CIR-4/ 

2003 

dated 

February 11, 2003. 

Advertisement  by  Brokers/  Sub-Brokers  and 
grant of trading terminals. 
Guidelines  on  Outsourcing  of  Activities  by 
Intermediaries. 
Additional 
processing 
applications  of  Stock  Brokers  for  Registration/ 
Prior  approval  for  sale of  membership/  Change 
of name/ trade name. 
Restructuring of the Subsidiary Management. 

requirements 

for 

25.    SEBI/SMD/SE/15/2003/29/04  dated 

Issuance of Contract Notes in electronic form. 

April 29, 2003. 

26.    SMD/DBA-II/Cir-16/9618/03 

dated 

May 05, 2003. 

27.    SEBI/SMD/SE/CIR-20/2003/02/06 

dated June 02, 2003. 

28.    SEBI/MRD/SE/15958/2003 

dated 

August 22, 2003. 

29.    SEBI/MRD/SE/CIR-32/2003/27/08 

dated August 27, 2003. 

SEBI  Registration  Number  of  Brokers  /  Sub-
Brokers  to  be  quoted  on  all  correspondences 
with SEBI. 
Eligibility  of  a  sub-broker  to  trade  through  the 
Subsidiary Company. 
Access to unauthorized persons by the members 
of Subsidiaries. 
“Pro – account” trading terminal. 

30.    SEBI/MRD/SE/CIR-33/2003/27/08 

Mode of payment and delivery. 

dated August 27, 2003. 

31.    SEBI/MRD/SE/CIR-34/2003/29/09 

Unique Client Code. 

dated September 29, 2003. 

32.    SEBI/MRD/SE/CIR-42/2003 

dated 

November 19, 2003. 

33.    SEBI/MIRSD/CIR-06/2004  January  13, 

2004. 

34.    SEBI/MRD/SE/CIR-15/2005 

dated 

August 04, 2005. 

35.    MRD/DoP/SE/CIR-20/2005 

dated 

September 08, 2005. 

36.    MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/CIR-22/06  dated 

December 18, 2006. 

37.    MIRSD-DR  1/MK/CIR-15/111600/07 

dated December 20, 2007. 

to 

trading  by 

Disclosure  of  proprietary  trading  by  Broker  to 
Client. 
Review  of  norms  relating 
Members/Sub-Brokers. 
Maintenance  of  books  of  accounts  and  other 
documents  sought  by  Enforcement  Agencies 
from Stock Exchanges and Brokers. 
Electronic issuance of contract notes – Additional 
conditions. 
Exclusive  e-mail  ID  for  redressel  of  Investor 
Complaints. 
Change in affiliation of Sub-Brokers. 

38.    MRD/DoP/SE/CIR-7/2008 dated April 

Introduction of Direct Market Access facility. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

03, 2008. 

39.    MRD/DoP/SE/CIR-11/2008 

dated 

Collateral deposited by Clients with Brokers. 

April 17, 2008. 

40.    MRD/DoP/SE/CIR-03/2009 

dated 

Direct Market Access – Clarification. 

February 20, 2009. 

41.    MIRSD/DR-1/CIR-16/09 

dated 

Market Access through Authorised Persons. 

November 06, 2009. 

42.    MIRSD/SE/CIR-19/2009 

dated 

December 03, 2009. 

43.    SEBI/MIRSD/MASTER  CIR-04/2010 

dated March 17, 2010. 

44.    CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2010  dated  April 

23, 2010. 

45.    SEBI/CIR/MIRSD/AP/8/2010  dated 

July 23, 2010. 

Dealings  between  a  client  and  a  stock  broker 
(trading members included). 
Master Circular on Oversight of Members (Stock 
Brokers/Trading  Members/Clearing  Members 
of any Segment of Stock Exchanges and Clearing 
Corporations). 
Execution  of  Power  of  Attorney  (PoA)  by  the 
Client  in  favour  of  the  Stock  Broker/  Stock 
Broker and Depository Participant. 
Market Access through Authorised Persons. 

46.    CIR/MRD/DP/  25/2010  dated  August 

Securities Trading using Wireless Technology. 

27, 2010. 

47.    CIR/MRD/DP/26/2010  dated  August 

Introduction of Smart Order Routing. 

27, 2010. 

48.    CIR/MRD/DMS/28/2010 

dated 

August 31, 2010. 

49.    CIR/MIRSD/9/2010  dated  November 

04, 2010. 

50.    CIR/MRD/DP/36/2010 

dated 

December 09, 2010. 

and  Depository 

Execution  of  Power  of  Attorney  (PoA)  by  the 
Client  in  favour  of  the  Stock  Broker/  Stock 
Broker 
– 
Clarifications. 
Display  of  Details  by  Stock  Brokers  (including 
Trading Members). 
Smart Order Routing (SOR) – Clarification. 

Participant 

51.    CIR/ISD/1/2011 dated March 23, 2011.  Unauthenticated  news  circulated  by  SEBI 
through 

Intermediaries 

Registered  Market 
various modes of communication. 

52.    CIR/ISD/2/2011 dated March 24, 2011.  Addendum  to  Circular  no.  Cir/ISD/1/2011 

53.    Notification 

LAD-NRO/GN/2011-

12/03/12650 dated April 19, 2011. 

54.    SEBI/MIRSD/CIR/01/2011  dated  May 

13, 2011. 

55.    CIR/MIRSD/2/2011  dated 

June  03, 

2011. 

56.    CIR/MIRSD/03/2011  dated  June  09, 

2011. 

dated March 23, 2011. 
(Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011. 
Clarification on circular dated December 3, 2009 
on  ‘Dealings  between  a  Client  and  a  Stock 
broker. 
Periodical  Report  –  Grant  of  prior  approval  to 
members of Stock Exchanges/Sub-Brokers.  
Pre-  funded 
transfers. 

instruments  /  electronic  fund 

57.    CIR/MRD/DP/08/2011  dated  June  30,  Review  of  Internet  Based  Trading  (IBT)  and 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

2011. 

Securities  trading  using  Wireless  Technology 
(STWT). 

58.    CIR/DNPD/6/2011 dated July 05, 2011.  Modification  of  Client  Codes  of  Non-
Stock 

on 

59.    CIR/MIRSD/12/2011  dated  July  11, 

2011. 

60.    CIR/MIRSD/14/2011 dated August 02, 

2011. 

61.    CIR/MIRSD/15/2011 dated August 02, 

2011. 

62.    CIR/MIRSD/16/2011 dated August 22, 

2011. 

63.    CIR/MIRSD/18/2011 dated August 25, 

2011. 

64.    MIRSD/SE/CIR-21/2011 dated October 

05, 2011. 

65.    CIR/MIRSD/22/2011  dated  October 

25, 2011. 

66.    MIRSD/CIR-23/2011  dated  December 

02, 2011. 

67.    MIRSD/CIR-26/2011  dated  December 

23, 2011. 

68.    CIR/MRD/DP/09/2012  dated  March 

30, 2012. 

institutional  Trades  Executed 
Exchanges (All Segments). 
Clarification  regarding  admission  of  Limited 
Liability  Partnerships  as  Members  of  Stock 
Exchanges. 
Revised procedure for seeking prior approval for 
change in control through single window. 
SMS  and  E-mail  alerts  to  investors  by  Stock 
Exchanges. 
Simplification  and  Rationalization  of  Trading 
Account Opening Process. 
Redressal  of  investor  grievances  against  Stock 
Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers  in  SEBI  Complaints 
Redress System (SCORES). 
Uniform Know Your Client (KYC) Requirements 
for the Securities Markets. 
‘In-person’  verification  (IPV)  of  Clients  by 
Subsidiaries  of  Stock  Exchanges,  acting  as  Stock 
Brokers. 
The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(KYC Registration Agency) Regulations, 2011. 
Guidelines 
in  pursuance  of  the  SEBI  KYC 
Registration  Agency  (KRA)  Regulations,  2011 
and for In-Person Verification (IPV). 
Broad Guidelines on Algorithmic Trading. 

69.    CIR/MRD/DP/20/2012  dated  August 

Direct Market Access – Clarification. 

02, 2012. 

70.    CIR/MIRSD/09/2012 dated August 13, 

2012. 

71.    CIR/MIRSD/10/2012 dated August 27, 

2012. 

72.    CIR/MIRSD/13/2012  dated  December 

07, 2012. 

73.    CIR/MIRSD/2/2013  dated  January  24, 

2013 

74.    Notification  no.  LAD-NRO/GN/2012-

13/35/6998 dated March 22, 2013. 

75.    CIR/MIRSD/4/2013  dated  March  28, 

2013. 

Aadhaar  Letter  as  Proof  of  Address  for  Know 
Your Client (KYC) norms. 
Rationalization  of  process  relating  to  surrender 
of registration by Sub-Brokers. 
Oversight  of  Members  (Stock  Brokers/Trading 
Members/Clearing  Members  of  any  segment  of 
Stock Exchanges/Clearing Corporations). 
Guidelines  on 
Ownership. 
SEBI  (KYC  Registration  Agency)  Amendment 
Regulation 2013. 
Amendment 
Registration Agency} Regulations, 
2011 and relevant circulars. 

Identification  of  Beneficial 

{(Know  Your  Client) 

to  SEBI 

76.    CIR/MRD/DP/24/2013  dated  August  Testing of software used in or related to Trading 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

19, 2013. 

77.    CIR/MIRSD/5/2013  dated  August  27, 

2013. 

78.    CIR/MRD/DP/16/2013  dated  May  21, 

2013. 

and Risk Management. 
General Guidelines for dealing with Conflicts of 
Interest  of  Intermediaries,  Recognised  Stock 
Exchanges,  Recognised  Clearing  Corporations, 
Depositories  and  their  Associated  Persons  in 
Securities Market. 
Broad Guidelines on Algorithmic Trading. 

79.    CIR/MIRSD/8/2013  dated  September 

30, 2013. 

80.    CIR/MIRSD/09/2013  dated  October 

Simplification  of  registration  requirements  for 
Stock Brokers. 
Know Your Client Requirements. 

08, 2013. 

81.    CIR/MRD/DMS/34/2013 

dated 

November 06, 2013. 

82.    CIR/MIRSD/13/2013  dated  December 

Annual System Audit of Stock Brokers / Trading 
Members. 
Know Your Client Requirements. 

26, 2013. 

83.    CIR/MRD/DP/06/2014 

February 07, 2014. 

84.    CIR/MRD/DP/07/2014 

February 11, 2014. 

dated 

dated 

85.    CIR/MIRSD/2/2014  dated 

June  30, 

2014. 

86.    CIR/MIRSD/3/2014  dated  August  28, 

2014. 

87.    CIR/MIRSD/4/2014  dated  October  13, 

2014. 

88.    CIR/MRD/DP/29/2014  dated  October 

21, 2014. 

89.    MIRSD-DR 

1/SRP/CIR-43/28408/04 

dated December 15, 2004. 

90.    CIR/MIRSD/1/2015  dated  March  04, 

2015. 

91.    CIR/MIRSD/2/2015  dated  August  26, 

2015. 

92.    CIR/MIRSD/3/2015  dated  September 

10, 2015. 

93.    CIR/MIRSD/4/2015  dated  September 

29, 2015. 

94.    CIR/MIRSD/29/2016 dated January 22, 

2016. 

on 

regarding  Grievance  Redressal 

Testing of software used in or related to Trading 
and Risk Management. 
Safeguards to avoid trading disruption in case of 
failure of software vendor. 
Inter-Governmental  Agreement  with  United 
States  of  America  under  Foreign  Accounts  Tax 
Compliance Act – Registration. 
Information 
Mechanism. 
Single  registration  for  Stock  Brokers  &  Clearing 
Members. 
Modification  of  Client  Codes  of  Non-
institutional  Trades  Executed 
Stock 
Exchanges (All Segments). 
Change  in  Status  and  Constitution  of  the  Sub-
Brokers,  Surrender  of  Certificate  of  Registration 
of Sub-Brokers and Change of Affiliation of Sub-
Brokers. 
SARAL  Account  Opening  Form  for  Resident 
Individuals. 
Implementation  of  the  Multilateral  Competent 
Authority  Agreement  and  Foreign  Account  Tax 
Compliance Act. 
Reporting  Requirement  under  Foreign  Account 
Tax  Compliance  Act  (FATCA)  and  Common 
Reporting Standards (CRS) – Guidance Note. 
Registration  of  Members  of  Commodity 
Derivatives Exchanges. 
Know  Your  Client  Requirements  -  Clarification 
on  voluntary  adaptation  of  Aadhaar  based  e-

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

95.    CIR/MIRSD/64/2016  dated  July  12, 

2016. 

96.    CIR/MIRSD/66/2016  dated  July  21, 

2016. 

97.    SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/20

16/92 dated September 23, 2016. 

98.    SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/20

16/95 dated September 26, 2016. 

99.    CIR/MIRSD/120/2016 

dated 

November 10, 2016. 

100. 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD6/CIR/P/20
17/20 dated March 10, 2017. 

101. 

102. 

103. 

104. 

105. 

106. 

107. 

108. 

109. 

110. 

 

 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/20
17/38 dated May 02, 2017. 
SEBI/HO/GSD/T&A/CIR/P/2017/42 
dated May 16, 2017. 
CIR/MRD/DP/54/2017  dated  June  13, 
 
2017. 
CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/201
 
7/64 dated June 22, 2017. 
CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/201
7/73 dated June 30, 2017. 
CIR/MRD/DP/86/2017  dated  August 
01, 2017. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/20
17/04 dated September 21, 2017. 

 

 

 

 

 

CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/PB/2
017/107 dated September 25, 2017. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/20
17/123 dated November 29, 2017. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP1/CIR/P/2018
/54 dated March 22, 2018. 

 

KYC process. 
Simplification of Account Opening Kit. 

of 

for 

Stock 

Framework 

Supervision 

Commodity 

Operationalisation  of  Central  KYC  Records 
Registry (CKYCR). 
Regulatory 
Derivatives Brokers. 
Enhanced 
Brokers/Depository Participants. 
Uploading  of  the  existing  clients'  KYC  details 
with  Central  KYC  Records  Registry  (CKYCR) 
System by the registered intermediaries. 
Redressal  of  complaints  against  Stock  Brokers 
and  Depository Participants  in  SEBI  Complaints 
Redress System (SCORES). 
Online  Registration  Mechanism  for  Securities 
Market Intermediaries. 
Digital Mode of Payment. 

Comprehensive  Review  of  Margin  Trading 
Facility. 
Clarification to Enhanced Supervision Circular. 

Policy  of  Annual  Inspection  of  Members  by 
Stock Exchanges/Clearing Corporations. 
Margin Trading Facility – Clarification. 

in  Equity 
Integration  of  broking  activities 
Markets  and  Commodity  Derivatives  Markets 
under single entity. 
Clarification to Enhanced Supervision Circular. 

Modification to Enhanced Supervision Circular.  

Circular on Prevention of Unauthorised Trading 
by Stock Brokers. 

 

***** 

