 

MASTER CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ DOS3/ CIR/ P/ 2018/ 104 

 

 

 

 

July 04, 2018 

 

To, 

All Intermediaries registered with SEBI under Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992.  

(Through  the  stock  exchanges  for  stock  brokers  and  sub  brokers,  depositories  for 
depository  participants,  Association  of  Mutual  Funds  in  India  (AMFI)  for  Asset 
Management Companies) 

Subject:  Guidelines  on  Anti-Money  Laundering  (AML)  Standards  and  Combating  the 
Financing of  Terrorism  (CFT)  /Obligations of Securities Market Intermediaries under the 
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and Rules framed there under 

1.  The  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  Act,  2002  (“PMLA”)  was  brought  into  force  with 
effect  from  1st  July  2005.  Necessary  Notifications  /  Rules  under  the  said  Act  were 
published in the Gazette of India on July 01, 2005 by the Department of Revenue, Ministry 
of Finance, Government of India. 
 

2.  As  per the provisions  of  the PMLA,  every  banking  company, financial  institution  (which 
includes chit fund company, a co-operative bank, a housing finance institution and a non-
banking financial company) and intermediary (includes a stock-broker, sub-broker, share 
transfer  agent,  banker  to  an  issue,  trustee  to  a  trust  deed,  registrar  to  an  issue,  asset 
management  company,  depository  participant,  merchant  banker,  underwriter,  portfolio 
manager, investment  adviser  and  any  other intermediary  associated  with  the  securities 
market and registered under Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act,  1992  (SEBI  Act))  shall  have  to  adhere  to  client  account  opening  procedures  and 
maintain records of such transactions as prescribed by the PMLA and rules notified there 
under. 
 

3.  Pursuant to amendments made to the PMLA and Rules thereunder, updated guidelines in 
the  context  of  recommendations  made  by  Financial  Action  Task  force  (FATF)  on  anti-
money  laundering  standards  is  enclosed. These  guidelines  have  been  divided  into  two 
parts; the first part is an overview on the background and essential principles that concern 
combating  Money  Laundering  (ML)  and  Terrorist  Financing  (TF).  The  second  part 
provides  a  detailed  account  of  the  procedures  and  obligations  to  be  followed  by  all 
registered  intermediaries  to  ensure  compliance  with  AML/  CFT  directives.  These 
guidelines shall also apply to their branches and subsidiaries located abroad, especially, 
in countries which do not or insufficiently apply the FATF Recommendations, to the extent 
local  laws  and  regulations  permit.  When  local  applicable  laws  and  regulations  prohibit 
implementation of these requirements, the same shall be brought to the notice of SEBI.   
 

 

1 

 

4.  The key circulars/ directives issued with regard to KYC, CDD, AML and CFT have been 
mentioned in Schedule I. These directives lay down the minimum requirements and it is 
emphasized  that  the  intermediaries  may,  according  to  their  requirements,  specify 
additional disclosures to be made by clients to address concerns of money laundering and 
suspicious  transactions  undertaken  by  clients.  Reference  to  applicable  statutes  and 
reporting  guidelines  for  intermediaries  is  available  at  the  website  of  the  Financial 
Intelligence Unit – India (FIU-IND). 
 

5.  This  Master  Circular  shall  supersede  the  earlier  Master  Circular  on  AML/  CFT  dated 

December 31, 2010.  
 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Surabhi Gupta 
Deputy General Manager 
Phone No. 022-26449315 
Email id: surabhig@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

2 

 

 

Table of Contents 

Section 1: Overview 
1.1. Introduction 
1.2. Background 
1.3. Policies and Procedures to Combat Money Laundering and Terrorist financing 

 
Section 2: Detailed Directives 

2.1. Written Anti Money Laundering Procedures 
2.2. Client Due Diligence (CDD) 
2.3. Record Keeping 
2.4. Information to be maintained 
2.5. Retention of Records 
2.6. Monitoring of transactions 
2.7. Suspicious Transaction Monitoring and Reporting 
2.8. List of Designated Individuals/ Entities 
2.9. Procedure  for  freezing  of  funds,  financial  assets  or  economic  resources  or  related 

services 

2.10. Reporting to Financial Intelligence Unit-India 
2.11. Designation of officers for ensuring compliance with provisions of PMLA 
2.12. Employees’ Hiring/Employee’s Training/ Investor Education 

 
SCHEDULE I 

List of key circulars/ directives issued with regard to KYC, CDD, AML and CFT 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

 

Section 1: Overview 

1.1. Introduction 

1.1.1  The Directives as outlined below provide a general background and summary of the 
main provisions of the applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing 
legislations in India. They also provide guidance on the practical implications of the 
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). The Directives also set out the 
steps  that  a  registered  intermediary  or  its  representatives  shall  implement  to 
discourage and to identify any money laundering or terrorist financing activities. The 
relevance and usefulness of these Directives will be kept under review and it may be 
necessary to issue amendments from time to time. 

1.1.2  These  Directives  are  intended  for  use  primarily  by  intermediaries  registered  under 
Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (SEBI Act). While 
it  is  recognized  that  a  “one-  size-fits-all”  approach  may  not  be  appropriate  for  the 
securities industry in India,  each registered intermediary shall consider the specific 
nature of its business, organizational structure, type of clients and transactions, etc. 
when implementing the suggested measures and procedures to ensure that they are 
effectively  applied.  The  overriding  principle  is  that  they  shall  be  able  to  satisfy 
themselves that the measures taken by them are adequate, appropriate and abide by 
the spirit of such measures and the requirements as enshrined in the PMLA. 

1.2. Background 

1.2.1  The PMLA came into effect from 1st July 2005. Necessary Notifications / Rules under 
the  said  Act  were  published  in  the  Gazette  of  India  on  1st  July,  2005  by  the 
Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, Government of India. The PMLA has 
been further amended vide notification  dated March  6, 2009 and inter alia provides 
that violating the prohibitions on manipulative and deceptive  devices, 
insider 
trading and substantial acquisition of securities or control as prescribed in Section 12 
A read with Section 24 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (SEBI 
Act) will now be treated as a scheduled offence under schedule B of the PMLA. 

1.2.2  As per the provisions of the PMLA, every banking company, financial institution (which 
includes chit fund company, a co-operative bank, a housing finance institution and a 
non-banking  financial  company)  and  intermediary  (which  includes  a  stock-broker, 
sub-broker, share transfer agent, banker to an issue, trustee to a trust deed, registrar 
to an issue, merchant banker, underwriter, portfolio manager, investment adviser and 
any  other  intermediary  associated  with  securities  market  and  registered  under 
Section 12 of the SEBI Act , shall have to maintain a record of all the transactions; 
the  nature  and  value  of  which  has  been  prescribed  in  the  Rules  under  the  PMLA. 
Such transactions include; 

i. 

ii. 

All cash transactions of the value of more than ` 10 lakh or its equivalent in 
foreign currency. 

All series of cash transactions integrally connected to each other which have 
been valued below ` 10 lakh or its equivalent in foreign currency where such 

 

4 

 

series  of  transactions  have  taken  place  within  a  month  and  the  monthly 
aggregate exceeds an amount of ten lakh rupees or its equivalent in foreign 
currency 

iii. 

All suspicious transactions whether or not made in cash and including, inter-
alia,  credits  or  debits  into  from  any  non-monetary  account  such  as  demat 
account, security account maintained by the registered intermediary. 

 

1.2.3 

It may, however, be clarified that for the purpose of suspicious transactions reporting, 
apart  from  ‘transactions  integrally  connected’,  ‘transactions  remotely  connected  or 
related’ shall also be considered. In case there is a variance in CDD/AML standards 
prescribed  by  SEBI  and  the  regulators  of  the  host  country,  branches/overseas 
subsidiaries of intermediaries are required to adopt the more stringent requirements 
of the two. 

1.3. Policies and Procedures to Combat Money Laundering and Terrorist financing 

1.3.1  Essential Principles: 

1.3.1.1  These Directives have taken into account the requirements of the PMLA as 
applicable to the intermediaries registered under Section 12 of the SEBI Act. 
The  detailed  Directives  in  Section  II  have  outlined  relevant  measures  and 
procedures to guide the registered intermediaries in preventing ML and TF. 
Some of these suggested measures and procedures may not be applicable in 
every  circumstance.  Each  intermediary  shall  consider  carefully  the  specific 
nature of its business, organizational structure, type of client and transaction, 
etc. to satisfy itself that the measures taken by it are adequate and appropriate 
and  follow  the  spirit  of  the  suggested  measures  in  Section  II  and  the 
requirements as laid down in the PMLA. 

1.3.2  Obligation to establish policies and procedures: 

1.3.2.1  Global  measures  taken  to  combat  drug  trafficking,  terrorism  and  other 
organized  and  serious  crimes  have  all  emphasized  the  need  for  financial 
institutions,  including  securities  market  intermediaries,  to  establish  internal 
procedures  that  effectively  serve  to  prevent  and  impede  money  laundering 
and  terrorist  financing.  The  PMLA  is  in  line  with  these  measures  and 
mandates that all intermediaries ensure the fulfillment of the aforementioned 
obligations. 

1.3.2.2  To  be  in  compliance  with  these  obligations,  the  senior  management  of  a 
registered  intermediary  shall  be  fully  committed  to  establishing  appropriate 
policies and procedures for the prevention of ML and TF and ensuring their 
effectiveness  and  compliance  with  all  relevant 
legal  and  regulatory 
requirements. The Registered Intermediaries shall: 
a)  issue  a  statement  of  policies  and  procedures,  on  a  group  basis  where 
applicable, for dealing with ML and TF reflecting the current statutory and 
regulatory requirements 

5 

 

 

 

b)  ensure  that  the  content  of  these  Directives  are  understood  by  all  staff 

members 

c)  regularly review the policies and procedures on the prevention of ML and 
TF  to  ensure  their  effectiveness.  Further,  in  order  to  ensure  the 
effectiveness of policies and procedures, the person doing such a review 
shall  be  different  from  the  one  who  has  framed  such  policies  and 
procedures 

d)  adopt client acceptance policies and procedures which are sensitive to the 

risk of ML and TF 

e)  undertake  client  due  diligence  (“CDD”)  measures  to  an extent that is 
sensitive  to  the  risk  of  ML  and  TF  depending  on  the  type  of  client, 
business relationship or transaction 

f)  have  in  system  a  place  for  identifying,  monitoring  and  reporting 
suspected ML or TF transactions to the law enforcement authorities; and 
g)  develop  staff  members’  awareness  and  vigilance  to  guard  against  ML 

and TF 

 

1.3.2.3  Policies and procedures to combat ML shall cover: 

a)  Communication 

of 

relating  to  prevention 
of ML and TF to all management and relevant staff that handle account 
information,  securities  transactions,  money  and  client  records  etc. 
whether in branches, departments or subsidiaries; 

group  policies 

b)  Client  acceptance  policy  and  client  due  diligence  measures,    including 

requirements for proper identification; 

c)  Maintenance of records; 
d)  Compliance with relevant statutory and regulatory requirements; 
e)  Co-operation with the relevant law enforcement authorities, including the 

timely disclosure of information; and 

f)  Role of internal audit or compliance function to ensure compliance with 
the policies, procedures, and controls relating to the prevention of ML and 
TF,  including  the  testing  of  the  system  for  detecting  suspected  money 
laundering  transactions,  evaluating  and  checking  the  adequacy  of 
exception  reports  generated  on  large  and/or  irregular  transactions,  the 
quality of reporting of suspicious transactions and the level of awareness 
of front line staff, of their responsibilities in this regard. The internal audit 
function shall be independent, adequately resourced and commensurate 
with  the  size  of  the  business  and  operations,  organization  structure, 
number of clients and other such factors 

 

 

 

6 

 

 

 

Section 2: Detailed Directives 

2.1. Written Anti Money Laundering Procedures 

2.1.1  Each registered intermediary  shall  adopt  written  procedures  to  implement  the  anti- 
money laundering provisions as envisaged under the PMLA. Such procedures shall 
include  inter  alia,  the  following  three  specific  parameters  which  are  related  to  the 
overall ‘Client Due Diligence Process’: 

a)  Policy for acceptance of clients 
b)  Procedure for identifying the clients 
c)  Transaction  monitoring  and  reporting  especially  Suspicious  Transactions 

Reporting (STR). 

2.2. Client Due Diligence (CDD) 

2.2.1  The CDD measures comprise the following: 

a)  Obtaining sufficient information in order to identify persons who beneficially own 
or  control  the  securities  account.  Whenever  it  is  apparent  that  the  securities 
acquired or maintained through an account are beneficially owned by a party other 
than  the  client,  that  party  shall  be  identified  using  client  identification  and 
verification procedures. The beneficial owner is the natural person or persons who 
ultimately  own,  control  or  influence  a  client  and/or  persons  on  whose  behalf  a 
transaction is being conducted. It also incorporates those persons who exercise 
ultimate effective control over a legal person or arrangement 

b)  Verify the client’s identity using reliable, independent source documents, data or 

information 

c)  Identify  beneficial  ownership  and  control,  i.e.  determine  which  individual(s) 
ultimately  own(s)  or  control(s)  the  client  and/or  the  person  on  whose  behalf  a 
transaction is being conducted -  
 
i.  1For clients other than individuals or trusts: Where the client is a person 
other than an individual or trust, viz., company, partnership or unincorporated 
association/body  of  individuals,  the  intermediary  shall  identify  the  beneficial 
owners of the client and take reasonable measures to verify the identity of such 
persons, through the following information: 
 

aa) The identity of the natural person, who, whether acting alone or together, 
or  through  one  or  more  juridical  person,  exercises  control  through 
ownership or who ultimately has a controlling ownership interest.  
 
Explanation:  Controlling  ownership 
of/entitlement to: 

interest  means  ownership 

i.  more than 25% of shares or capital or profits of the juridical person, 

where the juridical person is a company; 

                                                           
1CIR/ MIRSD/2/ 2013 dated January 24, 2013 

 

7 

 

ii.  more than 15% of the capital or profits of the juridical person, where 

the juridical person is a partnership; or 

iii.  more than 15% of the property or capital or profits of the juridical 
person, where the juridical person is an unincorporated association 
or body of individuals. 

 

bb) In cases where there exists doubt under clause (aa) above as to whether 
the person with the controlling ownership interest is the beneficial owner or 
where  no  natural  person  exerts  control  through  ownership  interests,  the 
identity  of  the  natural  person  exercising  control  over  the  juridical  person 
through other means. 
 
Explanation: Control through other means can be exercised through voting 
rights, agreement, arrangements or in any other manner. 
 

cc) Where no natural person is identified under clauses (aa) or (bb) above, the 
identity  of  the  relevant  natural  person  who  holds  the  position  of  senior 
managing official. 
 

ii.  For client which is a trust: Where the client is a trust, the intermediary shall 
identify the beneficial owners of the client and take reasonable measures to 
verify the identity of such persons, through the identity of the settler of the trust, 
the  trustee,  the  protector,  the  beneficiaries  with  15%  or  more  interest  in  the 
trust and any other natural person exercising ultimate effective control over the 
trust through a chain of control or ownership.  

 

iii.  Exemption in case of listed companies: Where the client or the owner of the 
controlling interest is a company listed on a stock exchange, or is a majority-
owned subsidiary of such a company, it is not necessary to identify and verify 
the identity of any shareholder or beneficial owner of such companies. 

 

iv.  Applicability  for  foreign  investors:  Intermediaries  dealing  with  foreign 
investors’  may  be  guided  by  the  clarifications  issued  vide  SEBI  circulars 
CIR/MIRSD/11/2012  dated  September  5,  2012  and  CIR/  MIRSD/  07/  2013 
dated  September  12,  2013,  for  the  purpose  of  identification  of  beneficial 
ownership of the client. 
 

v.  The  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories  shall  monitor  the  compliance  of  the 
aforementioned provision on identification of beneficial ownership through half-
yearly internal audits. In case of mutual funds, compliance  of the same shall 
be  monitored  by  the  Boards  of  the  Asset  Management  Companies  and  the 
Trustees and in case of other intermediaries, by their Board of Directors 

 
 
 

 

8 

 

d)  Verify the identity of the beneficial owner of the client and/or the person on whose 
behalf a transaction is being conducted, corroborating the information provided in 
relation to (c). 

e)  Understand the ownership and control structure of the client. . 
f)  Conduct ongoing due diligence and scrutiny, i.e.  Perform ongoing scrutiny of the 
transactions  and  account throughout  the  course of the  business  relationship to 
ensure that the transactions being conducted are consistent with the registered 
intermediary’s  knowledge  of  the  client,  its  business  and  risk  profile,  taking  into 
account, where necessary, the client’s source of funds; and 

g)  Registered  intermediaries  shall  periodically  update  all  documents,  data  or 
information of all clients and beneficial owners collected under the CDD process. 
 

2.2.2  Policy for acceptance of clients: 

2.2.2.1  All  registered  intermediaries  shall  develop  client  acceptance  policies  and 
procedures that aim to identify the types of clients that are likely to pose a 
higher  than  average  risk  of  ML  or  TF.  By  establishing  such  policies  and 
procedures, they will be in a better position to apply client due diligence on a 
risk sensitive basis depending on the type of client business relationship or 
transaction. In a nutshell, the following safeguards are to be followed while 
accepting the clients: 

 

a)  No account is opened in a fictitious / benami name or on an anonymous 

basis. 

b)  Factors of risk perception (in terms of monitoring suspicious transactions) 
of  the  client  are  clearly  defined  having  regard  to  clients’  location 
(registered  office  address,  correspondence  addresses  and  other 
addresses if applicable), nature of business activity, trading turnover etc. 
and  manner  of  making  payment  for  transactions  undertaken.  The 
parameters  shall  enable  classification  of  clients  into  low,  medium  and 
high risk. Clients of special category (as given below) may, if necessary, 
be  classified  even  higher.  Such  clients  require  higher  degree  of  due 
diligence and regular update of Know Your Client (KYC) profile. 

c)  Documentation  requirements  and  other  information  to  be  collected  in 
respect of different classes of clients depending on the perceived risk and 
having regard to the requirements of Rule 9 of the PML Rules, Directives 
and Circulars issued by SEBI from time to time. 

d)  Ensure that an account is not opened where the intermediary is unable 
to  apply  appropriate  CDD  measures/  KYC  policies.  This  shall  apply  in 
cases where it is not possible to ascertain the identity of the client, or the 
information provided to the intermediary is suspected to be non - genuine, 
or there is perceived non - co-operation of the client in providing full and 
complete information. The market intermediary shall not continue to do 
business with such a person and file a suspicious activity report. It shall 
also evaluate whether there is suspicious trading in determining whether 
to freeze or close the account. The market intermediary shall be cautious 
to  ensure that  it  does  not  return  securities  of money  that may  be  from 
suspicious  trades.  However,  the  market  intermediary  shall  consult  the 

 

9 

 

relevant  authorities  in  determining  what  action  it  shall  take  when  it 
suspects suspicious trading. 

e)  The circumstances under which the client is permitted to act on behalf of 
another person / entity shall be clearly laid down. It shall be specified in 
what  manner  the  account  shall  be  operated,  transaction  limits  for  the 
operation,  additional  authority  required  for  transactions  exceeding  a 
specified quantity/value and other appropriate details. Further the rights 
and responsibilities of both the persons i.e. the agent- client registered 
with the intermediary, as well as the person on whose behalf the agent is 
acting  shall  be  clearly  laid  down.  Adequate  verification  of  a  person’s 
authority to act on behalf of the client shall also be carried out. 

f)  Necessary checks and balance to be put into place before opening an 
account so as to ensure that the identity of the client does not match with 
any person having known  criminal background or is not banned in any 
other manner,  whether in  terms  of  criminal  or  civil  proceedings  by  any 
enforcement agency worldwide 

g)  The  CDD  process  shall  necessarily  be  revisited  when  there  are 

suspicions of money laundering or financing of terrorism (ML/FT). 
 

2.2.3  Risk-based Approach: 

2.2.3.1 

It is generally recognized that certain clients may be of a higher or lower risk 
category  depending  on  the  circumstances  such  as  the  client’s  background, 
type  of  business  relationship  or  transaction  etc.  As  such,  the  registered 
intermediaries shall apply each of the client due diligence measures on a risk 
sensitive  basis.  The  basic  principle  enshrined  in  this  approach  is  that  the 
registered  intermediaries  shall  adopt  an  enhanced  client  due  diligence 
process for higher risk categories of clients. Conversely, a simplified client due 
diligence process may be adopted for lower risk categories of clients. In line 
with the risk-based approach, the type and amount of identification information 
and documents that registered intermediaries shall obtain necessarily depend 
on the risk category of a particular client. 
 

2.2.3.2  Further, low risk provisions shall not apply when there are suspicions of ML/FT 
or when other factors give rise to a belief that the customer does not in fact 
pose a low risk 
 

2.2.3.3  Risk Assessment2 

a)  Registered  intermediaries  shall  carry  out  risk  assessment  to  identify, 
assess and take effective measures to mitigate its money laundering and 
terrorist financing risk with respect to its clients, countries or geographical 
areas,  nature  and  volume  of  transactions,  payment  methods  used  by 
clients, etc. The risk assessment shall also take into account any country 
specific  information  that  is  circulated  by  the  Government  of  India  and 
SEBI  from  time  to  time,  as  well  as,  the  updated  list  of  individuals  and 
entities who are subjected to sanction measures as required under the 

                                                           
2SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 1/ 2014 dated March 12, 2014 

10 

 

 

various  United  Nations'  Security  Council  Resolutions  (these  can  be 
- 
accessed 
http://www.un.org/sc/committees/1267/aq_sanctions_list.shtml 
and 
http://www.un.org/sc/committees/1988/list.shtml)  
 

URL 

the 

at 

b)  The risk assessment carried out shall consider all the relevant risk factors 
before determining the level of overall risk and the appropriate level and 
type of mitigation to be applied. The assessment shall be documented, 
updated regularly and made available to competent authorities and self-
regulating bodies, as and when required. 

2.2.4  Clients of special category (CSC): Such clients shall include the following: 

a)  Non - resident clients 
b)  High net-worth clients, 
c)  Trust,  Charities,  Non-Governmental  Organizations 

(NGOs)and 

organizations receiving donations 

d)  Companies having close family shareholdings or beneficial ownership 
e)  Politically Exposed Persons (PEP) are individuals who are or have been 
entrusted with prominent public functions in a foreign country, e.g., Heads 
of  States 
senior 
government/judicial/military  officers,  senior  executives  of  state-owned 
corporations, important political party officials, etc. The additional norms 
applicable  to  PEP  as  contained  in  the  subsequent  para  2.2.5  of  this 
circular shall also be applied to the accounts of the family members or 
close relatives of PEPs. 

of  Governments, 

politicians, 

senior 

or 

f)  Companies offering foreign exchange offerings 
g)  Clients in high risk countries where existence / effectiveness of money 
laundering controls is suspect, where there is unusual banking secrecy, 
countries active in narcotics production, countries where corruption (as 
per  Transparency  International  Corruption  Perception  Index)  is  highly 
prevalent,  countries  against  which  government  sanctions  are  applied, 
countries  reputed  to  be  any  of  the  following  –  Havens/  sponsors  of 
international terrorism, offshore financial centers, tax havens, countries 
where  fraud  is  highly  prevalent.  While  dealing  with  clients  in  high  risk 
countries where the existence/effectiveness of money laundering control 
is suspect, intermediaries apart from being guided by the Financial Action 
Task  Force  (FATF)  statements  that  identify  countries  that  do  not  or 
insufficiently apply the FATF Recommendations, published by the FATF 
on  its  website  (www.fatf-gafi.org),  shall  also  independently  access  and 
consider other publicly available information. 

h)  Non face to face clients 
i)  Clients with dubious reputation as per public information available etc. 

 

The  above  mentioned  list  is  only  illustrative  and  the  intermediary  shall 
exercise independent judgment to ascertain whether any other set of clients 
shall be classified as CSC or not. 
 

 

11 

 

2.2.5  Client identification procedure: 

2.2.5.1  The KYC policy shall clearly spell out the client identification procedure to be 
carried out at different stages i.e. while establishing the intermediary – client 
relationship,  while  carrying  out  transactions  for  the  client  or  when  the 
intermediary has doubts regarding the veracity or the adequacy of previously 
obtained client identification data. 

Intermediaries shall be in compliance with the following requirements while 
putting in place a Client Identification Procedure (CIP): 
a)  All  registered  intermediaries  shall  proactively  put  in  place  appropriate 
risk management systems to determine whether their client or potential 
client or the beneficial owner of such client is a politically exposed person. 
Such  procedures  shall  include  seeking  relevant  information  from  the 
client,  referring  to  publicly  available  information  or  accessing  the 
commercial electronic databases of PEPS. Further, the enhanced CDD 
measures as outlined in clause 2.2.5 shall also be applicable where the 
beneficial owner of a client is a PEP. 

b)  All registered intermediaries are required to obtain senior management 
approval  for  establishing  business  relationships  with  PEPs.  Where  a 
client  has  been  accepted  and  the  client  or  beneficial  owner  is 
subsequently found to be, or subsequently becomes a PEP, registered 
intermediaries shall obtain senior management approval to continue the 
business relationship. 

c)  Registered intermediaries shall also take reasonable measures to verify 
the sources of funds as well as the wealth of clients and beneficial owners 
identified as PEP. 

d)  The client shall be identified by the intermediary by using reliable sources 
including  documents  /  information.  The  intermediary  shall  obtain 
adequate information to satisfactorily establish the identity of each new 
client and the purpose of the intended nature of the relationship. 

e)  The  information  must  be  adequate  enough  to  satisfy  competent 
authorities  (regulatory  /  enforcement  authorities)  in  future  that  due 
diligence  was  observed  by  the  intermediary  in  compliance  with  the 
directives. Each original document shall be seen prior to acceptance of a 
copy. 

f)  Failure by prospective client to provide satisfactory evidence of identity 
shall be noted and reported to the higher authority within the intermediary 

12 

 

 

 

2.2.5.2  SEBI has  prescribed the minimum  requirements relating  to KYC for  certain 
classes of registered intermediaries from time to time as detailed in Schedule 
II. Taking into account the basic principles enshrined in the KYC norms which 
have already been prescribed or which may be prescribed by SEBI from time 
to time, all registered intermediaries shall frame their own internal directives 
based on their experience in dealing with their clients and legal requirements 
as per the established practices.  
Further, the intermediary shall conduct ongoing due diligence where it notices 
inconsistencies in the information provided. The underlying objective shall be 
to follow the requirements enshrined in the PMLA, SEBI Act and Regulations, 
directives and circulars issued thereunder so that the intermediary is aware of 
the clients on whose behalf it is dealing. 

2.2.5.3  Every  intermediary  shall  formulate  and  implement  a  CIP  which  shall 
incorporate the requirements of the PML Rules Notification No. 9/2005 dated 
July  01,  2005  (as  amended  from  time  to  time),  which  notifies  rules  for 
maintenance of records of the nature and value of transactions, the procedure 
and  manner  of  maintaining  and  time  for  furnishing  of  information  and 
verification of records of the identity of the clients of the banking companies, 
financial  institutions  and  intermediaries  of  securities  market  and  such  other 
additional requirements that it considers appropriate to enable it to determine 
the true identity of its clients.  

2.2.5.4 

It may be noted that irrespective of the amount of investment made by clients, 
no minimum threshold or exemption is available to registered intermediaries 
(brokers,  depository  participants,  AMCs  etc.)  from  obtaining  the  minimum 
information/documents  from  clients  as  stipulated  in  the  PML  Rules/  SEBI 
Circulars  (as  amended  from  time  to  time)  regarding  the  verification  of  the 
records of the identity of clients. Further no exemption from carrying out CDD 
exists in respect of any category of clients. In other words, there shall be no 
minimum  investment  threshold/  category-wise  exemption  available  for 
carrying out CDD measures by registered intermediaries. This shall be strictly 
implemented  by  all 
intermediaries  and  non-compliance  shall  attract 
appropriate sanctions. 

2.2.6  Reliance on third party for carrying out Client Due Diligence (CDD)3 

2.2.6.1  Registered intermediaries may rely on a third party for the purpose of  

a)  identification and verification of the identity of a client and  
b)  Determination  of  whether  the  client  is  acting  on  behalf  of  a  beneficial 
owner, identification of the beneficial owner and verification of the identity 
of the beneficial owner. Such third party shall be regulated, supervised or 
monitored for, and have measures in place for compliance with CDD and 
record-keeping requirements in line with the obligations under the PML 
Act. 

 

 

 

                                                           
3SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 1/ 2014 dated March 12, 2014 

13 

 

2.2.6.2  Such reliance shall be subject to the conditions that are specified in Rule 9 (2) 
of  the  PML  Rules  and  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the  regulations  and 
circulars/ guidelines issued by SEBI from time to time. Further, it is clarified 
that the registered intermediary shall be ultimately   responsible for CDD and 
undertaking enhanced due diligence measures, as applicable. 

 

2.3. Record Keeping 

2.3.1  Registered  intermediaries  shall  ensure  compliance  with  the  record  keeping 
requirements contained in the SEBI Act, 1992, Rules and Regulations made there-
under, PMLA as well as other relevant legislation, Rules, Regulations, Exchange Bye-
laws and Circulars. 

2.3.2  Registered  Intermediaries  shall  maintain  such  records  as  are  sufficient  to  permit 
reconstruction  of  individual  transactions  (including  the  amounts  and  types  of 
currencies involved, if any) so as to provide, if necessary, evidence for prosecution of 
criminal behaviour. 

2.3.3  Should  there  be  any  suspected  drug  related  or  other  laundered  money  or  terrorist 
property,  the  competent  investigating  authorities  would  need  to  trace  through  the 
audit trail for reconstructing a financial profile of the suspect account. To enable this 
reconstruction, registered intermediaries shall retain the following information for the 
accounts of their clients in order to maintain a satisfactory audit trail: 

a)  the beneficial owner of the account; 
b)  the volume of the funds flowing through the account; and 
c)  for selected transactions: 
i.  the origin of the funds 
ii.  the form in which the funds were offered or withdrawn, e.g. cheques, demand 

drafts etc. 

iii.  the identity of the person undertaking the transaction; 
iv.  the destination of the funds; 
v.  the form of instruction and authority. 

 

2.3.4  Registered  Intermediaries  shall  ensure  that  all  client  and  transaction  records  and 
information are available on a timely basis to the competent investigating authorities. 
Where required by the investigating authority, they shall retain certain records, e.g. 
client  identification,  account  files,  and  business  correspondence,  for  periods  which 
may exceed those required under the SEBI Act, Rules and Regulations framed there-
under  PMLA,  other  relevant  legislations,  Rules  and  Regulations  or  Exchange  bye-
laws or circulars. 

2.3.5  More  specifically,  all  the  intermediaries  shall  put  in  place  a  system  of  maintaining 
proper record of transactions prescribed under Rule 3 of PML Rules as mentioned 
below: 

a)  all cash transactions of the value of more than ten lakh rupees or its equivalent 

in foreign currency; 

 

14 

 

b)  all  series  of  cash  transactions  integrally  connected  to  each  other  which  have 
been  individually  valued  below  rupees  ten  lakh  or  its  equivalent  in  foreign 
currency where such series of transactions have taken place within a month and 
the monthly aggregate exceeds an amount of ten lakh rupees or its equivalent in 
foreign currency; 

c)  all cash transactions where forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes 
have  been  used  as  genuine  or  where  any  forgery  of  a  valuable  security  or  a 
document has taken place facilitating the transactions;  

d)  all  suspicious  transactions  whether  or  not  made  in  cash  and  by  way  of  as 

mentioned in the Rules. 

2.4. Information to be maintained 

2.4.1 

Intermediaries  are  required  to  maintain  and  preserve  the  following  information  in 
respect of transactions referred to in Rule 3 of PML Rules: 

a)  the nature of the transactions; 
b)  the amount of the transaction and the currency in which it is denominated; 
c)  the date on which the transaction was conducted; and 
d)  the parties to the transaction. 

2.5. Retention of Records4 

2.5.1 

Intermediaries  shall  take  appropriate  steps  to  evolve  an  internal  mechanism  for 
proper maintenance and preservation of such records and information in a manner 
that allows easy and quick retrieval of data as and when requested by the competent 
authorities.  Further,  the  records  mentioned  in  Rule  3  of  PML  Rules  have  to  be 
maintained  and  preserved  for  a  period  of  five  years  from  the  date  of  transactions 
between the client and intermediary. 

2.5.2  As stated in sub-section 2.2.5, intermediaries are required to formulate and implement 
the  CIP  containing  the requirements  as  laid  down in  Rule  9  of the PML Rules  and 
such other additional requirements that it considers appropriate. Records evidencing 
the identity of its clients and beneficial owners as well as account files and business 
correspondence shall be maintained and preserved for a period of five years after the 
business  relationship  between  a  client  and  intermediary  has  ended  or  the  account 
has been closed, whichever is later. 

2.5.3  Thus the following document retention terms shall be observed: 

a)  All necessary records on transactions, both domestic and international, shall be 
maintained at least for the minimum period prescribed under the relevant Act and 
Rules  (PMLA  and  rules  framed  thereunder  as  well  SEBI  Act)  and  other 
legislations, Regulations or exchange bye-laws or circulars. 

b)  Registered intermediaries shall maintain and preserve the records of documents 
evidencing the identity of its clients and beneficial owners (e.g. copies or records 
of official identification documents like passports, identity cards, driving licenses 

                                                           
4SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 1/ 2014 dated March 12, 2014 

15 

 

 

or similar documents) as well as account files and business correspondence for 
a  period  of  five  years  after  the  business  relationship  between  a  client  and 
intermediary has ended or the account has been closed, whichever is later. 

2.5.4 

In situations where the records relate to on-going investigations or transactions which 
have  been the subject  of  a  suspicious transaction  reporting,  they  shall  be  retained 
until it is confirmed that the case has been closed. 

2.5.5  Records  of  information  reported  to  the  Director,  Financial  Intelligence  Unit  – 
India (FIU – IND)5: Registered Intermediaries shall maintain and preserve the records 
of  information  related  to  transactions,  whether  attempted  or  executed,  which  are 
reported to the Director, FIU – IND, as required under Rules 7 and 8 of the PML Rules, 
for a period of five years from the date of the transaction between the client and the 
intermediary. 

2.6. Monitoring of transactions 

2.6.1  Regular  monitoring  of  transactions  is  vital  for  ensuring  effectiveness  of  the  AML 
procedures.  This  is  possible  only  if  the  intermediary  has  an  understanding  of  the 
normal activity of the client so that it can identify deviations in transactions / activities. 

2.6.2  The  intermediary  shall  pay  special  attention  to  all  complex  unusually  large 
transactions / patterns which appear to have no economic purpose. The intermediary 
may specify internal threshold limits for each class of client accounts and pay special 
attention  to  transactions  which  exceeds  these  limits.  The  background  including  all 
documents/office  records  /memorandums/clarifications  sought  pertaining  to  such 
transactions and purpose thereof shall also be examined carefully and findings shall 
be recorded in writing. Further such findings, records and related documents shall be 
made available to auditors and also to SEBI/stock exchanges/FIUIND/ other relevant 
Authorities,  during  audit,  inspection  or  as  and  when  required.  These  records  are 
required to be maintained and preserved for a period of five years from the date of 
transaction between the client and intermediary. 

2.6.3  The  intermediary  shall  ensure  a  record  of  the  transactions  is  preserved  and 
maintained in terms of Section 12 of the PMLA and that transactions of a suspicious 
nature or any other transactions notified under Section 12 of the Act are reported to 
the Director, FIU-IND. Suspicious transactions shall also be regularly reported to the 
higher authorities within the intermediary. 

2.6.4  Further, the compliance cell of the intermediary shall randomly examine a selection 
of transactions undertaken by clients to comment on their nature i.e. whether they are 
in the nature of suspicious transactions or not. 

 

                                                           
5 SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 1/ 2014 dated March 12, 2014 

16 

 

 

2.7. Suspicious Transaction Monitoring and Reporting 

2.7.1 

Intermediaries  shall  ensure  that  appropriate  steps  are  taken  to  enable  suspicious 
transactions  to  be  recognized  and  have  appropriate  procedures  for  reporting 
suspicious  transactions.  While  determining  suspicious  transactions,  intermediaries 
shall be guided by the definition of a suspicious transaction contained in PML Rules 
as amended from time to time. 

2.7.2  A list of circumstances which may be in the nature of suspicious transactions is given 
below. This list is only illustrative and whether a particular transaction is suspicious or 
not will depend upon the background, details of the transactions and other facts and 
circumstances: 

a)  Clients  whose  identity  verification  seems  difficult  or  clients  that  appear  not  to 

cooperate 

b)  Asset management services for clients where the source of the funds is not clear 

or not in keeping with clients’ apparent standing /business activity; 

c)  Clients based in high risk jurisdictions; 
d)  Substantial increases in business without apparent cause; 
e)  Clients  transferring  large  sums  of  money  to  or  from  overseas  locations  with 

instructions for payment in cash; 

f)  Attempted transfer of investment proceeds to apparently unrelated third parties; 
g)  Unusual  transactions  by  CSCs  and  businesses  undertaken  by  offshore 
banks/financial  services,  businesses  reported  to  be  in  the  nature  of  export- 
import of small items. 

2.7.3  Any  suspicious  transaction  shall  be  immediately  notified  to  the  Money  Laundering 
Control Officer or any other designated officer within the intermediary. The notification 
may  be  done  in  the  form  of  a  detailed  report  with  specific  reference  to  the  clients, 
transactions and the nature /reason of suspicion. However, it shall be ensured that 
there is continuity in dealing with the client as normal until told otherwise and the client 
shall not be told of the report/ suspicion. In exceptional circumstances, consent may 
not be given to continue to operate the account, and transactions may be suspended, 
in one or more jurisdictions concerned in the transaction, or other action taken. The 
Principal  Officer/  Money  Laundering  Control  Officer  and  other  appropriate 
compliance, risk management and related staff members shall have timely access to 
client identification data and CDD information, transaction records and other relevant 
information.  
 
It is likely that in some cases transactions are abandoned or aborted by clients on 
being  asked  to  give  some  details  or  to  provide  documents.  It  is  clarified  that 
intermediaries  shall  report  all  such  attempted  transactions  in  STRs,  even  if  not 
completed by clients, irrespective of the amount of the transaction. 

2.7.4 

 

 

17 

 

2.7.5  Clause  2.2.4  (g)  of  this  Master  Circular  categorizes  clients  of  high  risk  countries, 
including countries where existence and effectiveness of money laundering controls 
is  suspect  or  which  do  not  or  insufficiently  apply  FATF  standards,  as  ‘CSC’. 
Intermediaries  are  directed  that  such  clients  shall  also  be  subject  to  appropriate 
counter  measures.  These  measures  may  include  a  further  enhanced  scrutiny  of 
transactions,  enhanced  relevant  reporting  mechanisms  or  systematic  reporting  of 
financial  transactions,  and  applying  enhanced  due  diligence  while  expanding 
business relationships with the identified country or persons in that country etc. 

2.8. List of Designated Individuals/ Entities 

2.8.1  An  updated  list  of  individuals  and  entities  which  are  subject  to  various  sanction 
measures  such  as freezing  of  assets/accounts,  denial  of financial services  etc.,  as 
approved by the Security Council Committee established pursuant to various United 
Nations' Security Council Resolutions (UNSCRs) can be accessed at its website at 
http://www.un.org/sc/committees/1267/consolist.shtml. Registered intermediaries are 
directed to ensure that accounts are not opened in the name of anyone whose name 
appears  in  said  list.  Registered  intermediaries  shall  continuously  scan  all  existing 
accounts  to  ensure  that  no  account  is  held  by  or  linked  to  any  of  the  entities  or 
individuals included in the list. Full details of accounts bearing resemblance with any 
of the individuals/entities in the list shall immediately be intimated to SEBI and FIU-
IND. 

2.9. Procedure  for  freezing  of  funds,  financial  assets  or  economic  resources  or 

related services 

2.9.1  Section 51A of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA), relating to the 
purpose of prevention of, and for coping with terrorist activities was brought into effect 
through  UAPA  Amendment  Act,  2008.  In  this  regard,  the  Central  Government  has 
issued an Order dated August 27, 2009 detailing the procedure for the implementation 
of Section 51A of the UAPA. 

2.9.2  Under the aforementioned Section, the Central Government is empowered to freeze, 
seize or attach funds and other financial assets or economic resources held by, on 
behalf of, or at the direction of the individuals or entities listed in the Schedule to the 
Order, or any other person engaged in or suspected to be engaged in terrorism. The 
Government is also further empowered to prohibit any individual or entity from making 
any  funds, financial  assets  or  economic  resources  or  related  services  available for 
the benefit of the individuals or entities listed in the Schedule to the Order or any other 
person engaged in or suspected to be engaged in terrorism.  

2.9.3  The  stock  exchanges,  depositories  and  registered  intermediaries  shall  ensure 
effective  and  expeditious  implementation  of  the  procedure  laid  down  in  the  UAPA 
Order dated August 27, 2009 as listed below6 

a)  On  receipt  of  the  updated  list  of  individuals/  entities  subject  to  UN  sanction 
measures (hereinafter referred to as 'list of designated individuals/ entities)from 

                                                           
6SEBI Circular No. ISD/ AML/ CIR – 2/ 2009 dated October 23, 2009 

 

18 

 

the  Ministry  of  External  Affairs  (MHA)’;  SEBI  will  forward  the  same  to  stock 
exchanges, depositories and registered intermediaries for the following purposes: 
i.  To maintain updated designated lists in electronic form and run a check on 
the  given  parameters  on  a  regular  basis  to  verify  whether  individuals  or 
entities  listed  in  the  schedule  to  the  Order  (referred  to  as  designated 
individuals/entities)  are  holding  any  funds,  financial  assets  or  economic 
resources or related services held in the form of securities with them. 

ii.  In  the  event,  particulars  of  any  of  customer/s  match  the  particulars  of 
designated 
individuals/entities,  stock  exchanges,  depositories  and 
intermediaries  shall  immediately,  not  later  than  24  hours  from  the  time  of 
finding out such customer, inform full particulars of the funds, financial assets 
or economic resources or related services held in the form of securities, held 
by such customer on their books to the Joint Secretary (IS.I), Ministry of Home 
Affairs,  at  Fax  No.011-23092569  and  also  convey  over  telephone  on  011-
23092736. The particulars apart from being sent by post should necessarily 
be conveyed through e-mail at jsis@nic.in. 

iii.  Stock exchanges, depositories and registered intermediaries shall send the 
particulars of the communication mentioned in (ii) above through post/fax and 
through e-mail (sebi_uapa@sebi.gov.in) to the UAPA nodal officer of SEBI, 
Officer on Special Duty, Integrated Surveillance Department, Securities and 
Exchange  Board  of  India,  SEBI  Bhavan,  Plot  No.  C4-A,  “G”  Block,  Bandra 
Kurla  Complex,  Bandra  (E),  Mumbai  400  051  as  well  as  the  UAPA  nodal 
officer of the state/UT where the account is held, as the case may be, and to 
FIU-IND. 

iv.  In  case  the  aforementioned  details  of  any  of  the  customers  match  the 
particulars of designated individuals/entities beyond doubt, stock exchanges, 
depositories and registered intermediaries would prevent designated persons 
from  conducting  financial  transactions,  under  intimation  to  Joint  Secretary 
(IS.I),  Ministry  of  Home  Affairs,  at  Fax  No.  011-23092569  and  also  convey 
over telephone  on  011-23092736.  The  particulars  apart from  being sent by 
post should necessarily be conveyed through e-mail at jsis@nic.in. 

v.  Stock exchanges, depositories and registered intermediaries shall also file a 
Suspicious Transaction Report (STR) with FIU-IND covering all transactions 
in the accounts covered by paragraph 2.9.2 (a) (ii) above carried through or 
attempted, as per the prescribed format. 
 

b)  On receipt of the particulars as mentioned in paragraph 2.9.3 (a) (ii) above, IS-I 
Division of MHA would cause a verification to be conducted by the State Police 
and /or the Central Agencies so as to ensure that the individuals/ entities identified 
by  the  stock  exchanges,  depositories,  registered  intermediaries  are  the  ones 
listed  as  designated  individuals/entities  and  the  funds,  financial  assets  or 
economic  resources  or  related  services,  reported  by  stock  exchanges, 
depositories, 
the  designated 
individuals/entities.  This  verification  would  be  completed  within  a  period  not 
exceeding 5 working days from the date of receipt of such particulars. 
 

intermediaries  are  held  by 

registered 

c)  In case, the results of the verification indicate that the properties are owned by or 
held for the benefit of the designated individuals/entities, an order to freeze these 
assets under section51A of the UAPA would be issued within 24 hours of such 

 

19 

 

verification  and  conveyed  electronically  to  the  concerned  depository  under 
intimation to SEBI and FIU-IND. The order shall take place without prior notice to 
the designated individuals/entities. 

 

d)  Implementation  of  requests  received  from  foreign  countries  under  U.N. 

Securities Council Resolution 1373 of 2001. 

i.  U.N. Security Council Resolution 1373 obligates countries to freeze without 
delay the funds or other assets of persons who commit, or attempt to commit, 
terrorist acts or participate in or facilitate the commission of terrorist acts; of 
entities or controlled directly or indirectly by such persons; and of persons and 
entities acting on behalf of, or at the direction of such persons and entities, 
including funds or other assets derived or generated from property owned or 
controlled, directly or indirectly, by such persons and associated persons and 
entities. 

ii.  To give effect to the requests of foreign countries under U.N. Security Council 
Resolution 1373, the Ministry of External Affairs shall examine the requests 
made  by  the  foreign  countries  and  forward  it  electronically,  with  their 
comments, to the UAPA nodal officer for IS-I Division for freezing of funds or 
other assets. 

iii.  The UAPA nodal officer of IS-I Division of MHA, shall cause the request to be 
examined, within five working days so as to satisfy itself that on the basis of 
applicable  legal  principles,  the  requested  designation  is  supported  by 
reasonable  grounds,  or  a  reasonable  basis,  to  suspect  or  believe  that  the 
proposed  designee  is  a  terrorist,  one  who  finances  terrorism  or  a  terrorist 
organization,  and  upon  his  satisfaction,  request  would  be  electronically 
forwarded to the nodal officer in SEBI. The proposed designee, as mentioned 
above would be treated as designated individuals/entities. 

iv.  Upon receipt of the requests from the UAPA nodal officer of IS-I Division, the 
list would be forwarded to stock exchanges, depositories and intermediaries 
and  the  procedure  as  enumerated  at  paragraphs  2.9.2  (a)  and  (b)  shall  be 
followed. 

v.  The  freezing  orders  shall  take  place  without  prior  notice  to  the  designated 

persons involved. 
 

e)  Procedure for unfreezing of funds, financial assets or economic resources 
or  related  services  of  individuals/entities  inadvertently  affected  by  the 
freezing  mechanism  upon  verification  that  the  person  or  entity  is  not  a 
designated person 
 
i. 

Any individual or entity, if it has evidence to prove that the freezing of funds, 
financial  assets  or  economic resources  or  related  services,  owned/held by 
them  has  been  inadvertently  frozen,  shall  move  an  application  giving  the 
requisite evidence, in writing, to the concerned stock exchanges/depositories 
and  registered  intermediaries.  The  stock  exchanges/depositories  and 
registered intermediaries shall inform and forward a copy of the application 
together with full details of the asset frozen given by any individual or entity 
informing  of  the  funds,  financial  assets  or  economic  resources  or  related 
services have been frozen inadvertently, to the nodal officer of IS-I Division 
of MHA as per the contact details given in paragraph 5(ii) above within two 

 

20 

 

working days. The Joint Secretary (IS-I), MHA, being the nodal officer for (IS-
I) Division of MHA, shall cause such verification as may be required on the 
basis of the evidence furnished by the individual/entity and if he is satisfied, 
he  shall  pass  an  order,  within  fifteen  working  days,  unfreezing  the  funds, 
financial  assets  or  economic resources  or  related  services,  owned/held by 
such  applicant  under  intimation  to  the  concerned  stock  exchanges, 
depositories and registered intermediaries. However, if it is not possible for 
any  reason  to  pass  an  order  unfreezing  the  assets  within  fifteen  working 
days, the nodal officer of IS-I Division shall inform the applicant. 
 

f)  Communication  of  Orders  under  section  51A  of  Unlawful  Activities 

(Prevention) Act. 
 
i. 

All Orders under section 51A of the UAPA relating to funds, financial assets 
or economic resources or related services, would be communicated to stock 
exchanges, depositories and intermediaries through SEBI. 
 

2.10. Reporting to Financial Intelligence Unit-India 

2.10.1  In terms of the PML Rules, intermediaries are required to report information relating 
to cash and suspicious transactions to the Director, Financial Intelligence Unit-India 
(FIU-IND) at the following address: 

Director, FIU-IND, 
Financial Intelligence Unit-India, 
6th Floor, Hotel Samrat, 
Chanakyapuri, 
New Delhi-110021. 
Website: http://fiuindia.gov.in 
 

Entity 

– 

Furnishing 

2.10.2  Intermediaries shall carefully go through all the reporting requirements and formats 
that  are  available  on  the  website  of  FIU  –  IND  under  the  Section  Obligation  of 
Reporting 
Format 
(https://fiuindia.gov.in/files/downloads/Filing_Information.html).  These  documents 
contain detailed directives on the compilation and manner/procedure of submission 
of  the  reports  to  FIU-IND.  The  related  hardware  and  technical  requirement  for 
preparing reports, the related data files and data structures thereof are also detailed 
in these documents While detailed instructions for filing all types of reports are given 
in  the  instructions  part  of  the  related  formats,  intermediaries  shall  adhere  to  the 
following: 

Information 

– 

Reporting 

 

a)  The Cash Transaction Report (CTR) (wherever applicable) for each month shall 

be submitted to FIU-IND by 15th of the succeeding month. 

b)  The Suspicious Transaction Report (STR) shall be submitted within 7 days of 
arriving  at  a  conclusion that  any  transaction,  whether cash  or  non-cash,  or a 
series  of  transactions  integrally  connected  are  of  suspicious  nature.  The 
Principal Officer shall record his reasons for treating any transaction or a series 

 

21 

 

of transactions as suspicious. It shall be ensured that there is no undue delay 
in arriving at such a conclusion. 

c)  The Non Profit Organization Transaction Reports (NTRs) for each month shall 

be submitted to FIU-IND by 15th of the succeeding month. 

d)  The Principal Officer will be responsible for timely submission of CTR, STR and 

NTR to FIU-IND; 

e)  Utmost confidentiality shall be maintained in filing of CTR, STR and NTR to FIU-

IND.  

f)  No  nil  reporting  needs  to  be  made  to  FIU-IND  in  case  there  are  no  cash/ 

suspicious/ non – profit organization transactions to be reported. 
 
 

2.10.3  Intermediaries shall not put any restrictions on operations in the accounts where an 
STR  has  been  made.  Intermediaries  and  their  directors,  officers  and  employees 
(permanent and temporary) shall be prohibited from disclosing (“tipping off”) the fact 
that a STR or related information is being reported or provided to the FIU-IND. This 
prohibition  on  tipping  off  extends  not  only  to  the  filing  of  the  STR  and/  or  related 
information but even before, during and after the submission of an STR. Thus, it shall 
be ensured that there is no tipping off to the client at any level 

It  is  clarified  that  the  registered  intermediaries,  irrespective  of  the  amount  of 
transaction  and/or  the  threshold  limit  envisaged  for  predicate  offences  specified  in 
part B of Schedule of PMLA, 2002, shall file STR if they have reasonable grounds to 
believe that the transactions involve proceeds of crime. 

2.11.  Designation of officers for ensuring compliance with provisions of PMLA 

2.11.1  Appointment of a Principal Officer:  

2.11.1.1 To  ensure  that  the  registered  intermediaries  properly  discharge  their  legal 
obligations to report suspicious transactions to the authorities, the Principal 
Officer would act as a central reference point in facilitating onward reporting 
of suspicious transactions and for playing an active role in the identification 
and assessment of potentially suspicious transactions and shall have access 
to and be able to report to senior management at the next reporting level or 
the Board of Directors. Names, designation and addresses (including email 
addresses) of ‘Principal Officer’ including any changes therein shall also be 
intimated  to  the  Office  of  the  Director-FIU.  As  a  matter  of  principle,  it  is 
advisable that the ‘Principal Officer’ is of a sufficiently senior position and is 
able to discharge the functions with independence and authority. 

 

 

22 

2.11.2 Appointment of a Designated Director:7 

 

2.11.2.1 In addition to the existing requirement of designation of a Principal Officer, the 
registered  intermediaries  shall  also  designate  a  person  as  a  'Designated 
Director'.  In  terms  of  Rule  2  (ba)  of  the  PML  Rules,  the  definition  of  a 
Designated Director reads as under: 
“Designated  director means  a  person  designated  by  the   reporting  entity  to 
ensure overall compliance with the obligations imposed under chapter IV of 
the Act and the Rules and includes –  
a)  the Managing Director or a  Whole-Time Director duly authorizes by the 

Board of Directors if the reporting entity is a company, 

b)  the managing partner if the reporting entity is a partnership firm, 
c)  the proprietor if the reporting entity is a proprietorship firm, 
d)  the managing  trustee if the reporting entity is a trust, 
e)  a person or individual, as the case may be, who controls and manages 
the affairs of the reporting entity if the reporting entity is an unincorporated 
association or a body of individuals, and 

f)  such  other  person  or  class  of  persons  as  may  be  notified  by  the 
Government if the reporting entity does not fall in any of the categories 
above.” 

 

2.11.2.2 In  terms  of  Section  13  (2)  of  the  PMLA,  the  Director,  FIU  –  IND  can  take 
appropriate  action,  including  levying  monetary  penalty,  on  the  Designated 
Director  for  failure  of  the  intermediary  to  comply  with  any  of  its  AML/CFT 
obligations. 
 

2.11.2.3 Registered  intermediaries  shall  communicate  the  details  of  the  Designated 
Director, such as, name designation and address to the Office of the Director, 
FIU – IND. 

2.12. Employees’ Hiring/Employee’s Training/ Investor Education 

2.12.1  Hiring of Employees 

2.12.1.1 The  registered  intermediaries  shall  have  adequate  screening  procedures in 
place to ensure high standards when hiring employees. They shall identify the 
key positions within their own organization structures having regard to the risk 
of money laundering and terrorist financing and the size of their business and 
ensure  the  employees  taking  up  such  key  positions  are  suitable  and 
competent to perform their duties. 

 
 
 
 

                                                           
7SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 1/ 2-014 dated March 12, 2014 

23 

 

2.12.2 Employees’ Training: 

 

2.12.2.1 Intermediaries must have an ongoing employee training programme so that 
the members of the staff are adequately trained in AML and CFT procedures. 
Training requirements shall have specific focuses for frontline staff, back office 
staff,  compliance  staff,  risk  management  staff  and  staff  dealing  with  new 
clients.  It  is  crucial  that  all  those  concerned  fully  understand  the  rationale 
behind  these  directives,  obligations  and  requirements,  implement  them 
consistently and are sensitive to the risks of their systems being misused by 
unscrupulous elements. 

2.12.3  Investors Education 

2.12.3.1 Implementation  of  AML/CFT  measures  requires  intermediaries  to  demand 
certain  information  from  investors  which  may  be  of  personal  nature  or  has 
hitherto  never  been  called  for.  Such  information  can  include  documents 
evidencing  source  of  funds/income  tax  returns/bank  records  etc.  This  can 
sometimes lead to raising of questions by the client with regard to the motive 
and  purpose  of  collecting  such  information.  There  is,  therefore,  a  need  for 
intermediaries to sensitize their clients about these requirements as the ones 
emanating  from  AML  and  CFT  framework.  Intermediaries  shall  prepare 
specific literature/ pamphlets etc. so as to educate the client of the objectives 
of the AML/CFT programme. 

 

24 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE I 

 

List of key circulars/ directives issued with regard to KYC, CDD, AML and CFT 

S. 
No.  
1.    SEBI/  HO/ 

Circular Number  Date of 
 Circular 
June 30, 2017 

IMD/ 
FIIC/  CIR/  P/  2017/ 
068 

Subject 

Broad area covered 

 

 Acceptance of e -PAN card 
for KYC purpose 

E-PAN issued by CBDT for 
KYC compliance by FPI 

December  15, 
2016 

 Master Circulars for 
Depositories 

Opening of BO Accounts 

 Review  of  requirement  for 
copy of PAN Card to open 
accounts of FPIs  
 Uploading  of  the  existing 
clients'  KYC  details  with 
Central  KYC  Records 
Registry  (CKYCR)  System 
by 
 
registered  
intermediaries 
 Master Circular for 
Mutual Funds 

the 

Verification and submission 
of PAN Card by FPI 

Time  lines  for  registered 
intermediaries in respect of 
uploading  KYC  data  of  the 
new  and  existing  individual 
clients with CKYCR 

 

(CERSAI) 

 Operationalization 
of 
Central  KYC  Records 
Registry (CKYCR) 

Compliance with AML/ CFT 
CDD  directives  of  SEBI 
stipulated in Master Circular 
dated September 14, 2016 
Authorization  of    Central  
Registry    of    Securitization  
and  Asset    Reconstruction  
and    Security    interest    of  
for 
India 
receiving, 
storing, 
safeguarding,  retrieving the 
KYC  records  and  finalizing 
template of KYC  
Applicability 
Indian 
of 
KYC/AML  norms  for  Client 
Due 
KYC 
Suspicious 
Review, 
Report, 
Transactions 
Reporting 
complete 
trail  of  ODIs, 
transfer 
of  ODI 
Reconfirmation 
positions, 
Periodic 
Operational Evaluation 
Client 
 Know 
Client 
identification  and 
- 
authentication from  UIDAI, 
Requirements 
Clarification  on  voluntary 
Investment Limit and mode 

Client 
 Know 
(KYC)norms 
  ODI  
subscribers,  transferability 
of    ODIs,  reporting    of  
suspicious    transactions, 
periodic 
  of  
systems and  modified ODI 
reporting format 

Diligence, 

review 

Your 

of 

Your 

 

for 

 

25 

8.    CIR/  MIRSD/  29/ 

22, 

January 
2016 

2016 

2.    SEBI/  HO/  MRD/ 
DP/  CIR/  P/  2016/ 
134  
3.    CIR/ 

IMD/  FPIC/ 

123/ 2016 

4.    CIR/  MIRSD/  120  / 

2016 
 

November  17, 
2016 

November  10, 
2016 

5.    SEBI/  HO/  IMD  / 
DF3/  CIR/ P / 2016/ 
84 
 

September  14, 
2016 

6.    CIR/  MIRSD/  66/ 

July 21, 2016 

2016 

7.    CIR/  IMD/  FPI&C/ 

June 10, 2016 

59/ 2016 

 

 

9.    CIR/  IMD/  FIIC/  11/ 

June 16, 2014 

2014 

 Know  Your  Client  (KYC) 
requirements  for  Foreign 
Portfolio Investors (FPIs) 

10.   CIR/  MIRSD/  1/ 

March 12, 2014 Anti-Money 

2014 

adaptation  of  Aadhaar 
based e-KYC process 

Laundering/Countering  the 
Financing 
of  Terrorism 
(AML/CFT) 
Obligations  of  Securities 
Market 
Intermediaries 
under 
the  Prevention  of 
Money laundering 
Act, 2002 and Rules framed 
there under 

 

 

to 

Due 

of  payment 
to  Mutual 
Funds,  PAN  verification, 
additional  due  diligence  in 
case  of  material  difference 
in information 
Process  to  be  followed  by 
DDPs to share the relevant 
KYC  documents  of  FPIs 
with  
the  banks  and  record    of  
transfer  of  documents 
Consequential  
and  
modifications 
additions 
Master  
Circular  CIR/ ISD/ AML/ 3/ 
2010  dated  December  31,  
2010  in  respect  of  Risk 
Assessment,  Reliance  on 
third  party  for  carrying  out 
Client 
Diligence 
(CDD),  Record  keeping 
requirements,  Records  of 
information  reported  to  the 
Director, 
Financial 
Intelligence  Unit    -    India  
(FIU-IND), Appointment of  
a Designated Director 
Shifting 
certain 
information in Section C  of 
Part I to Part II of the AOF, 
information  required  to  be 
captured  in  the  systems  of 
KRAs 
Acceptance 
  of  e-KYC 
service  launched  by  UIDAI 
as    a    valid    process    for  
KYC  verification 
Partial  modification  to  the 
provisions  of  circular    No  
CIR/MIRSD/    11    /2012 
dated September 5, 2012, 
Classification  of  Eligible  
foreign  investors  investing  
under  Portfolio  Investment  
Scheme    ('PIS')    route  as  
Category  I,  II  and  III 
Modification  of  circulars  
dated  December  23,  2011  

of 

11.   CIR/  MIRSD/  13/ 

2013 

December  26, 
2013 

Know 
requirements 

Your 

Client 

12.   CIR/  MIRSD/  09/ 

October 8, 2013 Know 

Your 

2013 

Requirements 

Client 

13.   CIR/  MIRSD/  07  / 

2013 

September  12, 
2013 

Your 

Client 
Know 
Requirements  for  Eligible 
Foreign Investors 

14.   CIR 

/MIRSD/ 

4 

March 28, 2013 Amendment 

to 

/2013 

{(Know 

Your 

 

26 

SEBI 
Client) 

 

original 

investors 

to 

of 

January 
2013 

2013 

January 
2013 

17.   CIR/  MIRSD/  11/ 

Client 

other 

is  a 

/2013 

2012 

16.   CIR/  MIRSD/  01 

04, 

15.   CIR/  MIRSD/  2/ 

24, 

September 
2012 

5, 

Know 
Requirements 

Your 

 Guidelines on Identification 
of Beneficial Ownership 

Registration 
Regulations, 
2011 and relevant circulars 

Agency} 

 Rationalization  process  for 
obtaining PAN by Investors 

and  April  13,  2012, to the 
extent  of  requirement    for 
sending 
KYC 
documents of the clients to 
the KRA 
to 
Client  Due  Diligence 
the 
identify  and  verify 
identity  of  persons  who 
beneficially  own  or  control 
the  securities  account  for 
clients 
than 
trusts  and 
individuals  or 
client  which 
trust. 
Exemption  in case  of listed 
companies, Applicability for 
foreign 
and 
Implementation 
Verification  the    PAN    of  
clients  online  at the Income 
Tax website 
Clarifications 
for  Foreign 
Investors  viz.  FIIs,  Sub 
Accounts  and  QFIs  w.r.t. 
implementation  of  SEBI 
circulars  no.  CIR  /MIRSD/ 
16/ 2011  dated  August  22, 
2011  and  MIRSD/ SE/ Cir-
21/ 2011  dated  October  5,  
2011  on  know  your  client  
norms 
Admissibility  of  Aadhaar 
letter  issued  by  UIDAI  as 
Proof of Address in addition 
to 
its  presently  being 
recognized  as  Proof  of 
Identity 
 
avoid 
19.   MIRSD/ Cir-5 / 2012 April 13, 2012  Uploading  of  the  existing 
Process 
KYC, 
duplication 
clients’  KYC  details  in  the 
guidelines 
for  uploading  
KYC Registration 
the  KYC  data    of    the  
Agency  (KRA)  system  by 
the intermediaries 
existing    clients,  Schedule 
for implementation 
 
 
for 
Guidelines  in  pursuance  of 
Guidelines 
Intermediaries,  Guidelines 
the  SEBI  KYC  Registration 
Agency (KRA) 

August 13, 2012 Aadhaar  Letter  as  Proof  of 
for  Know  Your 

Address 
Client (KYC) norms. 

December  23, 
2011 

20.   MIRSD/  Cir-  26  / 

2011 

18.   CIR/  MIRSD/  09  / 

2012 

 

27 

 

21.   MIRSD/ 

2011 

Cir-23/ 

December 
2011 

2, 

22.   CIR/  MIRSD/  22/ 

25, 

October 
2011 

2011 

Securities 

Regulations,  2011  and  for 
In-Person Verification (IPV) 
 The 
and 
Exchange  Board  of  India 
(KYC Registration Agency) 
Regulations, 2011. 
 ‘In-person’ 
(IPV) 
clients 
of 
subsidiaries of stock 
exchanges, acting as stock 
brokers 

verification 
by 

for  KRAs,  Guidelines  w.r.t 
In-Person Verification (IPV) 
Centralization  of  the  KYC  
 
records to avoid duplication 
of KYC process 

Clarification  w.r.t    ultimate 
  
responsibility  for ‘in-person’ 
verification 

23.   MIRSD/  SE/  Cir-21/ 

2011 

October 5, 2011  Uniform  Know  Your  Client 
for 

(KYC)  Requirements 
the Securities Markets 

Clarification  w.r.t  different 
KYC forms used by Market 
Intermediaries,  Guidelines 
for KYC  form  capturing  the  
basic    details    about    the 
client and additional  details  
specific    to    the    area    of  
activity  of  the  intermediary  
being  obtained 
 
Client  account  opening 
 Simplification 
and 
Rationalization  of  Trading 
Process,  Client  Account 
Opening  Form,  Rights    & 
Account Opening Process 
Obligations of stock broker, 
sub-broker  and  client    for  
trading    on    exchanges 
Uniform  Risk  Disclosure 
Documents, Guidance Note 
detailing Do’s and Don’ts for 
trading 
Anti  -  Money  Laundering  
(AML) 
Standards/ 
Combating the Financing of 
Terrorism 
/ 
Obligations  of  Securities 
Intermediaries 
Market 
under 
the  Prevention  of 
Money  Laundering  Act, 
2002  and  Rules 
framed 
there under 
Capturing  of  address  other 
than  that  of  the  BO  as  the 
correspondence address. 
Clarifications 
the 
Execution  of  the  POA  by 
the client 

Acceptance  of  third  party 
address as correspondence 
address 
Guidelines on the Execution 
of Power of Attorney by the 
Client  in  favour  of  Stock 
Broker/ DP 

Master 
AML/CFT 

(CFT) 

Circular 

on 

on 

24.   CIR/  MIRSD/  16/ 

2011 

August 
22, 2011 

25.   CIR/  ISD/  AML/  3/ 

 December  31, 
2010 

2010 
 

26.   CIR/ MRD/ DP / 37/ 

2010 

27.   CIR/  MRD/  DMS/ 

13/ 2010 

December 
14, 2010 

August 31, 
2010 

 

28 

28.   CIR/  MRD/  DMS/ 

13/ 2010 

April 23, 
2010 

29.   CIR/  ISD/  AML/  2/ 

2010 

June 14, 
2010 

30.   CIR/  ISD/  AML/  1/ 

2010 

February 12, 
2010 

31.   SEBI/ MIRSD/ Cir 

No.02/ 2010 

January 18, 
2010 

32.  

ISD/  AML/  CIR-2/ 
2009 

October 23, 
2009 

33.  

ISD/  AML/  CIR-1/ 
2009 

September 
01, 2009 

34.  

ISD/ AML/ CIR- 
1/ 2008 

December 
19, 2008 

35.   MIRSD/ 

DPSIII/ 

130466/ 2008 

July 2, 
2008 

In-Person  verification  of 
clients by stock-brokers 

36.   MRD/  DoP/  Cir-20/ 

2008 

June 30, 
2008 

Mandatory  Requirement  of 
PAN 

 

29 

 

Guidelines on the Execution 
of Power of Attorney by the 
Client  in  favour  of  Stock 
Broker/ DP 
Additional Requirements for 
AML/ CFT 

Guidelines 
the 
Execution  of  Power  of 
Attorney by the Client 

on 

Additional Requirements on 
retention  of  documents, 
monitoring, 
off, 
updation  of  records  and 
other clarifications. 

tipping 

opening 

Mandatory  Requirement  of 
in-person 
verification  of 
clients. 

Master Circular –AML/ CFT Framework  for  AML/  CFT 
for 
including  procedures 
CDD,  client  identification, 
record keeping & retention, 
monitoring and reporting of 
STRs 
In-person  verification  done 
for 
beneficial 
owner’s  account  by  a  DP 
will  hold  good  for  opening 
trading  account  for  a  stock 
broker and vice versa, if the 
DP and the stock broker is 
the same entity or if one of 
them 
the  holding  or 
subsidiary. 
Procedure  to  be  followed 
for the freezing of assets of 
individual 
entities 
engaged in terrorism 
Additional 
requirements 
clarifications thereon 

Directives  on  CFT  under 
Unlawful 
Activities 
(Prevention) Act, 1967 

CFT 
and 

AML/ 

or 

is 

Additional AML/ CFT 
obligations 
of 
Intermediaries under PMLA, 
2002 and rules framed 
Master  Circular  on  AML/ 
CFT directives 

of 

Framework  for  AML/  CFT 
including  procedures 
for 
CDD,  client  identification, 
record keeping & retention, 
monitoring and reporting of 
suspicious transactions. 
stock 
Responsibility 
brokers 
in 
- 
person  verification  by  its 
own staff. 
Exception 
certain 
classes  of  persons  from 
PAN 
sole 
identification number for all 
participants  trading  in  the 
securities market. 

to  ensure 

being 

the 

for 

37.   F.No.47/ 2006/ ISD/ 

SR/ 122539 

38.   MRD/  DoP/  Cir-  20/ 

2008 

April 4, 
2008 

April 3, 
2008 

In-person  verification  of 
BO’s  when  opening  demat 
accounts 
Exemption  from  mandatory 
requirement of PAN. 

39.   F.No.47- 2006 /ISD/ 

SR/ 118153/ 2008 

February 
22, 2008 

In-Person  verification  of 
clients by depositories 

40.   MRD/  DoP/  Dep/ 

Cir- 12/ 2007 

September 
7, 2007 

KYC 
Depositories 

Norms 

for 

41.   MRD/  DoP/  Cir-05/ 

2007 

April 27, 
2007 

42.  

ISD /CIR/ RR/ AML/ 
2/ 06 

March 20, 
2006 

the 

to  be 

PAN 
sole 
identification  number  for  all 
transactions 
the 
securities market 
PMLA  Obligations  Of 
intermediaries  in  terms  of 
Rules notified there under 

in 

 

for 

In-person  verification  to  be 
carried  out  by  staff  of 
depository participant. 
for 
investors 
Exemption 
residing  in 
the  State  of 
Sikkim from PAN being the 
sole  identification  number 
for  trading  in  the  securities 
market. 
Clarification  on 
various 
topics relating to ‘in person’ 
verification  of  BOs  at  the 
time  of  opening  demat 
accounts 
Proof  of  Identity  (POI)  and 
Proof of Address (POA) for 
opening 
a  Beneficiary 
Owner  (BO)  Account  for 
non - body corporates 
Mandatory  requirement  of 
PAN 
participants 
transacting in the securities 
market. 
Procedure  for  maintaining 
and  preserving 
records, 
reporting requirements and 
formats  of  reporting  cash 
transactions and suspicious 
transactions 
Framework  for  AML  and 
CFT  including  policies  and 
procedures,  Client  Due 
Diligence 
requirements, 
record  keeping,  retention, 
monitoring and reporting 
Uniform  KYC  documentary 
requirements for trading on 
different  segments  and 
exchanges 
list  of 
Broadening 
documents 
that  may  be  
accepted  as  Proof  of 
Identity  (POI)  and/or  Proof 
of  Address  (POA)  for  the 
purpose  of  opening  a  BO 
Account  
Prohibition  on  acceptance/ 
giving  of  cash  by  brokers 

the 

43.  

ISD/ CIR/ RR/ AML/ 
1/ 
06 

January 18, 
2006 

Directives 
Standards 

on 

AML 

44.   SEBI/  MIRSD/  DPS 

- 1/ Cir-31/ 2004 

August 26, 
2004 

Uniform 
Requirements for trading 

Documentary 

45.   MRD/  DoP/  Dep/ 

Cir- 29/ 2004 

August 24, 
2004 

Proof  of  Identity  (POI)  and 
Proof of Address (POA) for 
opening 
Beneficiary 
Owner 

a 

46.   SEBI/ MRD/ SE /Cir- 

33/ 2003/ 27/ 08 

August 27, 
2003 

Mode  of  payment  and 
delivery 

 

30 

47.   SMDRP/ Policy/ Cir- 

August 4, 
2000 

36/ 2000 

48.   SMD/ 

CIRCULARS /5-97 

POLICY/ 

April 11, 
1997 

49.   SMD-1/ 23341 

Nov. 18, 
1993 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

KYC 
Depositories 

Norms 

Client Registration Form 

for 

Regulation  of 
between 
members 

transaction 
and 

clients 

and  on  third  party  transfer 
of securities 
Documentary  requirements 
for  opening  a  beneficiary 
account. 
Formats 
Registration  Form 
broker clients agreements 
Mandatory  requirement  to 
obtain  details  of  clients  by 
brokers. 

client 
and 

of 

31 

