 

MASTER CIRCULAR 

 

SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ DOP/ CIR/ P/ 2019/113   

 

 

 

      October 15, 2019 

 

To, 

All Intermediaries registered with SEBI under Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange 

Board of India Act, 1992.  

(Through the stock exchanges for stock brokers, depositories for depository participants, 

Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) for Asset Management Companies) 

Subject:  Guidelines  on  Anti-Money  Laundering  (AML)  Standards  and  Combating  the 

Financing of  Terrorism  (CFT)  /Obligations of Securities Market Intermediaries under the 

Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 and Rules framed there under 

1.  The  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  Act,  2002  (“PMLA”)  was  brought  into  force  with 

effect  from  1st  July  2005.  Necessary  Notifications  /  Rules  under  the  said  Act  were 

published in the Gazette of India on July 01, 2005 by the Department of Revenue, Ministry 

of Finance, Government of India. 

 

2.  As  per the provisions  of  the PMLA,  every  banking  company, financial  institution  (which 

includes chit fund company, a co-operative bank, a housing finance institution and a non-

banking financial company) and intermediary (includes a stock-broker, sub-broker, share 

transfer  agent,  banker  to  an  issue,  trustee  to  a  trust  deed,  registrar  to  an  issue,  asset 

management  company,  depository  participant,  merchant  banker,  underwriter,  portfolio 

manager, investment  adviser  and  any  other intermediary  associated  with  the  securities 

market and registered under Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Act,  1992  (SEBI  Act))  shall  have  to  adhere  to  client  account  opening  procedures  and 

maintain records of such transactions as prescribed by the PMLA and rules notified there 

under. 

 

 

1 

 

3.  Pursuant  to  amendments  made  to  the  PMLA  and  Rules  made  thereunder,  updated 

guidelines in the context of recommendations made by Financial Action Task force (FATF) 

on anti-money laundering standards is enclosed. These guidelines have been divided into 

two  parts;  the  first  part  is  an  overview  on  the  background  and  essential  principles  that 

concern combating Money Laundering (ML) and Terrorist Financing (TF). The second part 

provides  a  detailed  account  of  the  procedures  and  obligations  to  be  followed  by  all 

registered  intermediaries  to  ensure  compliance  with  AML/  CFT  directives.  These 

guidelines shall also apply to registered intermediaries’ branches and subsidiaries located 

abroad,  especially,  in  countries  which  do  not  or  insufficiently  apply  the  FATF 

Recommendations, to the extent local laws and regulations permit. When local applicable 

laws  and  regulations  prohibit  implementation  of  these  requirements,  the  same  shall  be 

brought to the notice of SEBI.   

 

4.  The key circulars/ directives issued with regard to KYC, CDD, AML and CFT have been 

mentioned in Schedule I. These directives lay down the minimum requirements and it is 

emphasized  that  the  intermediaries  may,  according  to  their  requirements,  specify 

additional disclosures to be made by clients to address concerns of money laundering and 

suspicious  transactions  undertaken  by  clients.  Reference  to  applicable  statutes  and 

reporting  guidelines  for  intermediaries  is  available  at  the  website  of  the  Financial 

Intelligence Unit – India (FIU-IND). 

 

5.  This Master Circular shall supersede the earlier Master Circular on AML/ CFT dated July 

04, 2018.  

 

Yours faithfully, 

 

Rajesh Kumar Dangeti 

General Manager 

Phone No. 022-26449242 

Email id: rajeshkd@sebi.gov.in 

 

 

2 

Table of Contents 

 

Section 1: Overview 

1.1. Introduction 

1.2. Background 

1.3. Policies and Procedures to Combat Money Laundering and Terrorist financing 

 

Section 2: Detailed Directives 

2.1. Written Anti Money Laundering Procedures 

2.2. Client Due Diligence (CDD) 

2.3. Record Keeping 

2.4. Information to be maintained 

2.5. Retention of Records 

2.6. Monitoring of transactions 

2.7. Suspicious Transaction Monitoring and Reporting 

2.8. List of Designated Individuals/ Entities 

2.9. Procedure  for  freezing  of  funds,  financial  assets  or  economic  resources  or  related 

services 

2.10. Reporting to Financial Intelligence Unit-India 

2.11. Designation of officers for ensuring compliance with provisions of PMLA 

2.12. Employees’ Hiring/Employee’s Training/ Investor Education 

 

SCHEDULE I 

List of key circulars/ directives issued with regard to KYC, CDD, AML and CFT 

 
ANNEXURES 

 

Annexure 1: Government order dated August 27, 2009 

Annexure 2: Government order dated March 14, 2019 

 

 

 

 

3 

Section 1: Overview 

 

1.1. Introduction 

1.1.1  The Directives as outlined below provide a general background and summary of the 

main provisions of the applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing 

legislations in India. They also provide guidance on the practical implications of the 

Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). The Directives also set out the 

steps  that  a  registered  intermediary  or  its  representatives  shall  implement  to 

discourage and to identify any money laundering or terrorist financing activities. The 

relevance and usefulness of these Directives will be kept under review and it may be 

necessary to issue amendments from time to time. 

1.1.2  These  Directives  are  intended  for  use  primarily  by  intermediaries  registered  under 

Section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (SEBI Act). While 

it  is  recognized  that  a  “one-  size-fits-all”  approach  may  not  be  appropriate  for  the 

securities industry in India,  each registered intermediary shall consider the specific 

nature of its business, organizational structure, type of clients and transactions, etc. 

when implementing the suggested measures and procedures to ensure that they are 

effectively  applied.  The  overriding  principle  is  that  they  shall  be  able  to  satisfy 

themselves that the measures taken by them are adequate, appropriate and abide by 

the spirit of such measures and the requirements as enshrined in the PMLA. 

1.2. Background 

1.2.1  The PMLA came into effect from 1st July 2005. Necessary Notifications / Rules under 

the  said  Act  were  published  in  the  Gazette  of  India  on  1st  July,  2005  by  the 

Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, Government of India. The PMLA has 

been further amended vide notification  dated March  6, 2009 and inter alia provides 

that violating the prohibitions on manipulative and deceptive  devices, 

insider 

trading and substantial acquisition of securities or control as prescribed in Section 12 

A read with Section 24 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (SEBI 

Act) will now be treated as a scheduled offence under schedule B of the PMLA. 

 

4 

 

1.2.2  As per the provisions of the PMLA, every banking company, financial institution (which 

includes chit fund company, a co-operative bank, a housing finance institution and a 

non-banking  financial  company)  and  intermediary  (which  includes  a  stock-broker, 

sub-broker, share transfer agent, banker to an issue, trustee to a trust deed, registrar 

to an issue, merchant banker, underwriter, portfolio manager, investment adviser and 

any  other  intermediary  associated  with  securities  market  and  registered  under 

Section 12 of the SEBI Act , shall have to maintain a record of all the transactions; 

the  nature  and  value  of  which  has  been  prescribed  in  the  Rules  under  the  PMLA. 

Such transactions include; 

i. 

All cash transactions of the value of more than ` 10 lakh or its equivalent in 

foreign currency. 

ii. 

All series of cash transactions integrally connected to each other which have 

been valued below ` 10 lakh or its equivalent in foreign currency where such 

series  of  transactions  have  taken  place  within  a  month  and  the  monthly 

aggregate exceeds an amount of ten lakh rupees or its equivalent in foreign 

currency 

iii. 

All suspicious transactions whether or not made in cash and including, inter-

alia,  credits  or  debits  into  from  any  non-monetary  account  such  as  demat 

account, security account maintained by the registered intermediary. 

1.2.3 

It may, however, be clarified that for the purpose of suspicious transactions reporting, 

apart  from  ‘transactions  integrally  connected’,  ‘transactions  remotely  connected  or 

related’ shall also be considered. In case there is a variance in CDD/AML standards 

prescribed  by  SEBI  and  the  regulators  of  the  host  country,  branches/overseas 

subsidiaries of intermediaries are required to adopt the more stringent requirements 

of the two. 

 

5 

 

 

 

1.3. Policies and Procedures to Combat Money Laundering and Terrorist financing 

1.3.1  Essential Principles: 

1.3.1.1  These Directives have taken into account the requirements of the PMLA as 

applicable to the intermediaries registered under Section 12 of the SEBI Act. 

The  detailed  Directives  in  Section  II  have  outlined  relevant  measures  and 

procedures to guide the registered intermediaries in preventing ML and TF. 

Some of these suggested measures and procedures may not be applicable in 

every  circumstance.  Each  intermediary  shall  consider  carefully  the  specific 

nature of its business, organizational structure, type of client and transaction, 

etc. to satisfy itself that the measures taken by it are adequate and appropriate 

and  follow  the  spirit  of  the  suggested  measures  in  Section  II  and  the 

requirements as laid down in the PMLA. 

1.3.2  Obligation to establish policies and procedures: 

1.3.2.1  Global  measures  taken  to  combat  drug  trafficking,  terrorism  and  other 

organized  and  serious  crimes  have  all  emphasized  the  need  for  financial 

institutions,  including  securities  market  intermediaries,  to  establish  internal 

procedures  that  effectively  serve  to  prevent  and  impede  money  laundering 

and  terrorist  financing.  The  PMLA  is  in  line  with  these  measures  and 

mandates that all intermediaries ensure the fulfillment of the aforementioned 

obligations. 

1.3.2.2  To  be  in  compliance  with  these  obligations,  the  senior  management  of  a 

registered  intermediary  shall  be  fully  committed  to  establishing  appropriate 

policies and procedures for the prevention of ML and TF and ensuring their 

effectiveness  and  compliance  with  all  relevant 

legal  and  regulatory 

requirements. The Registered Intermediaries shall: 

a)  issue  a  statement  of  policies  and  procedures,  on  a  group  basis  where 

applicable, for dealing with ML and TF reflecting the current statutory and 

regulatory requirements 

b)  ensure  that  the  content  of  these  Directives  are  understood  by  all  staff 

members 

6 

 

 

 

c)  regularly review the policies and procedures on the prevention of ML and 

TF  to  ensure  their  effectiveness.  Further,  in  order  to  ensure  the 

effectiveness of policies and procedures, the person doing such a review 

shall  be  different  from  the  one  who  has  framed  such  policies  and 

procedures 

d)  adopt client acceptance policies and procedures which are sensitive to the 

risk of ML and TF 

e)  undertake  client  due  diligence  (“CDD”)  measures  to  an extent that is 

sensitive  to  the  risk  of  ML  and  TF  depending  on  the  type  of  client, 

business relationship or transaction 

f)  have  in  system  a  place  for  identifying,  monitoring  and  reporting 

suspected ML or TF transactions to the law enforcement authorities; and 

g)  develop  staff  members’  awareness  and  vigilance  to  guard  against  ML 

and TF 

 

1.3.2.3  Policies and procedures to combat ML shall cover: 

a)  Communication 

of 

group  policies 

relating  to  prevention 

of ML and TF to all management and relevant staff that handle account 

information,  securities  transactions,  money  and  client  records  etc. 

whether in branches, departments or subsidiaries; 

b)  Client  acceptance  policy  and  client  due  diligence  measures,    including 

requirements for proper identification; 

c)  Maintenance of records; 

d)  Compliance with relevant statutory and regulatory requirements; 

e)  Co-operation with the relevant law enforcement authorities, including the 

timely disclosure of information; and 

f)  Role of internal audit or compliance function to ensure compliance with 

the policies, procedures, and controls relating to the prevention of ML and 

TF,  including  the  testing  of  the  system  for  detecting  suspected  money 

laundering  transactions,  evaluating  and  checking  the  adequacy  of 

exception  reports  generated  on  large  and/or  irregular  transactions,  the 

quality of reporting of suspicious transactions and the level of awareness 

of front line staff, of their responsibilities in this regard. The internal audit 

 

7 

 

function shall be independent, adequately resourced and commensurate 

with  the  size  of  the  business  and  operations,  organization  structure, 

number of clients and other such factors 

 

 

 

 

 

8 

Section 2: Detailed Directives 

 

2.1. Written Anti Money Laundering Procedures 

2.1.1  Each registered intermediary  shall  adopt  written  procedures  to  implement  the  anti- 

money laundering provisions as envisaged under the PMLA. Such procedures shall 

include  inter  alia,  the  following  three  specific  parameters  which  are  related  to  the 

overall ‘Client Due Diligence Process’: 

a)  Policy for acceptance of clients 

b)  Procedure for identifying the clients 

c)  Transaction  monitoring  and  reporting  especially  Suspicious  Transactions 

Reporting (STR). 

2.2. Client Due Diligence (CDD) 

2.2.1  The CDD measures comprise the following: 

a)  Obtaining sufficient information in order to identify persons who beneficially own 

or  control  the  securities  account.  Whenever  it  is  apparent  that  the  securities 

acquired or maintained through an account are beneficially owned by a party other 

than  the  client,  that  party  shall  be  identified  using  client  identification  and 

verification procedures. The beneficial owner is the natural person or persons who 

ultimately  own,  control  or  influence  a  client  and/or  persons  on  whose  behalf  a 

transaction is being conducted. It also incorporates those persons who exercise 

ultimate effective control over a legal person or arrangement 

b)  Verify the client’s identity using reliable, independent source documents, data or 

information 

c)  Identify  beneficial  ownership  and  control,  i.e.  determine  which  individual(s) 

ultimately  own(s)  or  control(s)  the  client  and/or  the  person  on  whose  behalf  a 

transaction is being conducted -  

 

 

9 

 

i.  1For clients other than individuals or trusts: Where the client is a person 

other than an individual or trust, viz., company, partnership or unincorporated 

association/body  of  individuals,  the  intermediary  shall  identify  the  beneficial 

owners of the client and take reasonable measures to verify the identity of such 

persons, through the following information: 

 

aa) The identity of the natural person, who, whether acting alone or together, 

or  through  one  or  more  juridical  person,  exercises  control  through 

ownership or who ultimately has a controlling ownership interest.  

 

Explanation:  Controlling  ownership 

interest  means  ownership 

of/entitlement to: 

i.  more than 25% of shares or capital or profits of the juridical person, 

where the juridical person is a company; 

ii.  more than 15% of the capital or profits of the juridical person, where 

the juridical person is a partnership; or 

iii.  more than 15% of the property or capital or profits of the juridical 

person, where the juridical person is an unincorporated association 

or body of individuals. 

 

bb) In cases where there exists doubt under clause (aa) above as to whether 

the person with the controlling ownership interest is the beneficial owner or 

where  no  natural  person  exerts  control  through  ownership  interests,  the 

identity  of  the  natural  person  exercising  control  over  the  juridical  person 

through other means. 

 

Explanation: Control through other means can be exercised through voting 

rights, agreement, arrangements or in any other manner. 

 

                                                           
1CIR/ MIRSD/2/ 2013 dated January 24, 2013 

10 

 

cc) Where no natural person is identified under clauses (aa) or (bb) above, the 

identity  of  the  relevant  natural  person  who  holds  the  position  of  senior 

 

managing official. 

 

ii.  For client which is a trust: Where the client is a trust, the intermediary shall 

identify the beneficial owners of the client and take reasonable measures to 

verify the identity of such persons, through the identity of the settler of the trust, 

the  trustee,  the  protector,  the  beneficiaries  with  15%  or  more  interest  in  the 

trust and any other natural person exercising ultimate effective control over the 

trust through a chain of control or ownership.  

 

iii.  Exemption in case of listed companies: Where the client or the owner of the 

controlling interest is a company listed on a stock exchange, or is a majority-

owned subsidiary of such a company, it is not necessary to identify and verify 

the identity of any shareholder or beneficial owner of such companies. 

 

iv.  Applicability  for  foreign  investors:  Intermediaries  dealing  with  foreign 

investors’  may  be  guided  by  the  clarifications  issued  vide  SEBI  circulars 

CIR/MIRSD/11/2012  dated  September  5,  2012  and  CIR/  MIRSD/  07/  2013 

dated  September  12,  2013,  for  the  purpose  of  identification  of  beneficial 

ownership of the client. 

 

v.  The  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories  shall  monitor  the  compliance  of  the 

aforementioned provision on identification of beneficial ownership through half-

yearly internal audits. In case of mutual funds, compliance  of the same shall 

be  monitored  by  the  Boards  of  the  Asset  Management  Companies  and  the 

Trustees and in case of other intermediaries, by their Board of Directors 

 

d)  Verify the identity of the beneficial owner of the client and/or the person on whose 

behalf a transaction is being conducted, corroborating the information provided in 

relation to (c). 

e)  Understand the ownership and control structure of the client. . 

 

11 

 

f)  Conduct ongoing due diligence and scrutiny, i.e.  Perform ongoing scrutiny of the 

transactions  and  account  throughout  the  course of the  business  relationship to 

ensure that the transactions being conducted are consistent with the registered 

intermediary’s  knowledge  of  the  client,  its  business  and  risk  profile,  taking  into 

account, where necessary, the client’s source of funds; and 

g)  Registered  intermediaries  shall  periodically  update  all  documents,  data  or 

information of all clients and beneficial owners collected under the CDD process. 

 

2.2.2  Policy for acceptance of clients: 

2.2.2.1  All  registered  intermediaries  shall  develop  client  acceptance  policies  and 

procedures that aim to identify the types of clients that are likely to pose a 

higher  than  average  risk  of  ML  or  TF.  By  establishing  such  policies  and 

procedures, they will be in a better position to apply client due diligence on a 

risk sensitive basis depending on the type of client business relationship or 

transaction. In a nutshell, the following safeguards are to be followed while 

accepting the clients: 

 

a)  No account is opened in a fictitious / benami name or on an anonymous 

basis. 

b)  Factors of risk perception (in terms of monitoring suspicious transactions) 

of  the  client  are  clearly  defined  having  regard  to  clients’  location 

(registered  office  address,  correspondence  addresses  and  other 

addresses if applicable), nature of business activity, trading turnover etc. 

and  manner  of  making  payment  for  transactions  undertaken.  The 

parameters  shall  enable  classification  of  clients  into  low,  medium  and 

high risk. Clients of special category (as given below) may, if necessary, 

be  classified  even  higher.  Such  clients  require  higher  degree  of  due 

diligence and regular update of Know Your Client (KYC) profile. 

c)  Documentation  requirements  and  other  information  to  be  collected  in 

respect of different classes of clients depending on the perceived risk and 

having regard to the requirements of Rule 9 of the PML Rules, Directives 

and Circulars issued by SEBI from time to time. 

 

12 

 

d)  Ensure that an account is not opened where the intermediary is unable 

to  apply  appropriate  CDD  measures/  KYC  policies.  This  shall  apply  in 

cases where it is not possible to ascertain the identity of the client, or the 

information provided to the intermediary is suspected to be non - genuine, 

or there is perceived non - co-operation of the client in providing full and 

complete information. The market intermediary shall not continue to do 

business with such a person and file a suspicious activity report. It shall 

also evaluate whether there is suspicious trading in determining whether 

to freeze or close the account. The market intermediary shall be cautious 

to  ensure that  it  does  not  return  securities  of money  that may  be  from 

suspicious  trades.  However,  the  market  intermediary  shall  consult  the 

relevant  authorities  in  determining  what  action  it  shall  take  when  it 

suspects suspicious trading. 

e)  The circumstances under which the client is permitted to act on behalf of 

another person / entity shall be clearly laid down. It shall be specified in 

what  manner  the  account  shall  be  operated,  transaction  limits  for  the 

operation,  additional  authority  required  for  transactions  exceeding  a 

specified quantity/value and other appropriate details. Further the rights 

and responsibilities of both the persons i.e. the agent- client registered 

with the intermediary, as well as the person on whose behalf the agent is 

acting  shall  be  clearly  laid  down.  Adequate  verification  of  a  person’s 

authority to act on behalf of the client shall also be carried out. 

f)  Necessary checks and balance to be put into place before opening an 

account so as to ensure that the identity of the client does not match with 

any person having known criminal background or is not banned in any 

other manner,  whether in  terms  of  criminal  or  civil  proceedings  by  any 

enforcement agency worldwide 

g)  The  CDD  process  shall  necessarily  be  revisited  when  there  are 

suspicions of money laundering or financing of terrorism (ML/FT). 

 

 

13 

2.2.3  Risk-based Approach: 

 

2.2.3.1 

It is generally recognized that certain clients may be of a higher or lower risk 

category  depending  on  the  circumstances  such  as  the  client’s  background, 

type  of  business  relationship  or  transaction  etc.  As  such,  the  registered 

intermediaries shall apply each of the client due diligence measures on a risk 

sensitive  basis.  The  basic  principle  enshrined  in  this  approach  is  that  the 

registered  intermediaries  shall  adopt  an  enhanced  client  due  diligence 

process for higher risk categories of clients. Conversely, a simplified client due 

diligence process may be adopted for lower risk categories of clients. In line 

with the risk-based approach, the type and amount of identification information 

and documents that registered intermediaries shall obtain necessarily depend 

on the risk category of a particular client. 

 

2.2.3.2  Further, low risk provisions shall not apply when there are suspicions of ML/FT 

or when other factors give rise to a belief that the customer does not in fact 

pose a low risk 

 

2.2.3.3  Risk Assessment2 

a)  Registered  intermediaries  shall  carry  out  risk  assessment  to  identify, 

assess and take effective measures to mitigate its money laundering and 

terrorist financing risk with respect to its clients, countries or geographical 

areas,  nature  and  volume  of  transactions,  payment  methods  used  by 

clients, etc. The risk assessment shall also take into account any country 

specific  information  that  is  circulated  by  the  Government  of  India  and 

SEBI  from  time  to  time,  as  well  as,  the  updated  list  of  individuals  and 

entities who are subjected to sanction measures as required under the 

various  United  Nations'  Security  Council  Resolutions  (these  can  be 

accessed 

at 

the 

URL 

- 

http://www.un.org/sc/committees/1267/aq_sanctions_list.shtml 

and 

http://www.un.org/sc/committees/1988/list.shtml)  

                                                           
2SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 1/ 2014 dated March 12, 2014 

14 

 

 

 

b)  The risk assessment carried out shall consider all the relevant risk factors 

before determining the level of overall risk and the appropriate level and 

type of mitigation to be applied. The assessment shall be documented, 

updated regularly and made available to competent authorities and self-

regulating bodies, as and when required. 

2.2.4  Clients of special category (CSC): Such clients shall include the following:  

a)  Non - resident clients 

b)  High net-worth clients, 

c)  Trust,  Charities,  Non-Governmental  Organizations 

(NGOs)and 

organizations receiving donations 

d)  Companies having close family shareholdings or beneficial ownership 

e)  Politically Exposed Persons (PEP) are individuals who are or have been 

entrusted with prominent public functions in a foreign country, e.g., Heads 

of  States 

or 

of  Governments, 

senior 

politicians, 

senior 

government/judicial/military  officers,  senior  executives  of  state-owned 

corporations, important political party officials, etc. The additional norms 

applicable  to  PEP  as  contained  in  the  subsequent  para  2.2.5  of  this 

circular shall also be applied to the accounts of the family members or 

close relatives of PEPs. 

f)  Companies offering foreign exchange offerings 

g)  Clients in high risk countries. While dealing with clients from or situate in 

high  risk  countries  or  geographic  areas  or  when  providing  delivery  of 

services  to  clients  through  high  risk  countries  or  geographic  areas  i.e. 

places  where  existence  or  effectiveness  of  action  against  money 

laundering or terror financing is suspect, intermediaries apart from being 

guided by the Financial Action task Force (FATF) statements that inter 

alia  identify  such  countries  or  geographic  areas  that  do  not  or 

insufficiently apply the FATF Recommendations, published by the FATF 

on  its  website  (www.fatf-gafi.org)  from  time  to  time,  shall  also 

independently  access  and  consider  other  publicly  available information 

along with any other information which they may have access to.  

 

15 

 

However,  this  shall  not  preclude  intermediaries  from  entering  into 

legitimate  transactions  with  clients  from  or  situate  in  such  high  risk 

countries and geographic areas or delivery of services through such high 

risk countries or geographic areas. 

h)  Non face to face clients 

i)  Clients with dubious reputation as per public information available etc. 

 

The  above  mentioned  list  is  only  illustrative  and  the  intermediary  shall 

exercise independent judgment to ascertain whether any other set of clients 

shall be classified as CSC or not. 

 

2.2.5  Client identification procedure: 

2.2.5.1  The KYC policy shall clearly spell out the client identification procedure to be 

carried out at different stages i.e. while establishing the intermediary – client 

relationship,  while  carrying  out  transactions  for  the  client  or  when  the 

intermediary has doubts regarding the veracity or the adequacy of previously 

obtained client identification data. 

Intermediaries shall be in compliance with the following requirements while 

putting in place a Client Identification Procedure (CIP): 

a)  All  registered  intermediaries  shall  proactively  put  in  place  appropriate 

risk management systems to determine whether their client or potential 

client or the beneficial owner of such client is a politically exposed person. 

Such  procedures  shall  include  seeking  relevant  information  from  the 

client,  referring  to  publicly  available  information  or  accessing  the 

commercial electronic databases of PEPS. Further, the enhanced CDD 

measures as outlined in clause 2.2.5 shall also be applicable where the 

beneficial owner of a client is a PEP. 

b)  All registered intermediaries are required to obtain senior management 

approval  for  establishing  business  relationships  with  PEPs.  Where  a 

client  has  been  accepted  and  the  client  or  beneficial  owner  is 

subsequently found to be, or subsequently becomes a PEP, registered 

16 

 

 

 

intermediaries shall obtain senior management approval to continue the 

business relationship. 

c)  Registered intermediaries shall also take reasonable measures to verify 

the sources of funds as well as the wealth of clients and beneficial owners 

identified as PEP. 

d)  The client shall be identified by the intermediary by using reliable sources 

including  documents  /  information.  The  intermediary  shall  obtain 

adequate information to satisfactorily establish the identity of each new 

client and the purpose of the intended nature of the relationship. 

e)  The  information  must  be  adequate  enough  to  satisfy  competent 

authorities  (regulatory  /  enforcement  authorities)  in  future  that  due 

diligence  was  observed  by  the  intermediary  in  compliance  with  the 

directives. Each original document shall be seen prior to acceptance of a 

copy. 

f)  Failure by prospective client to provide satisfactory evidence of identity 

shall be noted and reported to the higher authority within the intermediary 

2.2.5.2  SEBI has  prescribed the minimum  requirements relating  to KYC for  certain 

classes of registered intermediaries from time to time as detailed in Schedule 

II. Taking into account the basic principles enshrined in the KYC norms which 

have already been prescribed or which may be prescribed by SEBI from time 

to time, all registered intermediaries shall frame their own internal directives 

based on their experience in dealing with their clients and legal requirements 

as per the established practices.  

Further, the intermediary shall conduct ongoing due diligence where it notices 

inconsistencies in the information provided. The underlying objective shall be 

to follow the requirements enshrined in the PMLA, SEBI Act and Regulations, 

directives and circulars issued thereunder so that the intermediary is aware of 

the clients on whose behalf it is dealing. 

 

 

17 

 

2.2.5.3  Every  intermediary  shall  formulate  and  implement  a  CIP  which  shall 

incorporate the requirements of the PML Rules Notification No. 9/2005 dated 

July  01,  2005  (as  amended  from  time  to  time),  which  notifies  rules  for 

maintenance of records of the nature and value of transactions, the procedure 

and  manner  of  maintaining  and  time  for  furnishing  of  information  and 

verification of records of the identity of the clients of the banking companies, 

financial  institutions  and  intermediaries  of  securities  market  and  such  other 

additional requirements that it considers appropriate to enable it to determine 

the true identity of its clients.  

2.2.5.4 

It may be noted that irrespective of the amount of investment made by clients, 

no minimum threshold or exemption is available to registered intermediaries 

(brokers,  depository  participants,  AMCs  etc.)  from  obtaining  the  minimum 

information/documents  from  clients  as  stipulated  in  the  PML  Rules/  SEBI 

Circulars  (as  amended  from  time  to  time)  regarding  the  verification  of  the 

records of the identity of clients. Further no exemption from carrying out CDD 

exists in respect of any category of clients. In other words, there shall be no 

minimum  investment  threshold/  category-wise  exemption  available  for 

carrying out CDD measures by registered intermediaries. This shall be strictly 

implemented  by  all 

intermediaries  and  non-compliance  shall  attract 

appropriate sanctions. 

2.2.6  Reliance on third party for carrying out Client Due Diligence (CDD)3 

2.2.6.1  Registered intermediaries may rely on a third party for the purpose of  

a)  identification and verification of the identity of a client and  

b)  Determination  of  whether  the  client  is  acting  on  behalf  of  a  beneficial 

owner, identification of the beneficial owner and verification of the identity 

of the beneficial owner. Such third party shall be regulated, supervised or 

monitored for, and have measures in place for compliance with CDD and 

 

 

                                                           
3SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 1/ 2014 dated March 12, 2014 

18 

 

 

record-keeping requirements in line with the obligations under the PML 

Act. 

2.2.6.2  Such reliance shall be subject to the conditions that are specified in Rule 9 (2) 

of  the  PML  Rules  and  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the  regulations  and 

circulars/ guidelines issued by SEBI from time to time. Further, it is clarified 

that the registered intermediary shall be ultimately   responsible for CDD and 

undertaking enhanced due diligence measures, as applicable. 

2.3. Record Keeping 

2.3.1  Registered  intermediaries  shall  ensure  compliance  with  the  record  keeping 

requirements contained in the SEBI Act, 1992, Rules and Regulations made there-

under, PMLA as well as other relevant legislation, Rules, Regulations, Exchange Bye-

laws and Circulars. 

2.3.2  Registered  Intermediaries  shall  maintain  such  records  as  are  sufficient  to  permit 

reconstruction  of  individual  transactions  (including  the  amounts  and  types  of 

currencies involved, if any) so as to provide, if necessary, evidence for prosecution of 

criminal behaviour. 

2.3.3  Should  there  be  any  suspected  drug  related  or  other  laundered  money  or  terrorist 

property,  the  competent  investigating  authorities  would  need  to  trace  through  the 

audit trail for reconstructing a financial profile of the suspect account. To enable this 

reconstruction, registered intermediaries shall retain the following information for the 

accounts of their clients in order to maintain a satisfactory audit trail: 

a)  the beneficial owner of the account; 

b)  the volume of the funds flowing through the account; and 

c)  for selected transactions: 

i.  the origin of the funds 

ii.  the form in which the funds were offered or withdrawn, e.g. cheques, demand 

drafts etc. 

iii.  the identity of the person undertaking the transaction; 

iv.  the destination of the funds; 

v.  the form of instruction and authority. 

19 

 

 

 

2.3.4  Registered  Intermediaries  shall  ensure  that  all  client  and  transaction  records  and 

information are available on a timely basis to the competent investigating authorities. 

Where required by the investigating authority, they shall retain certain records, e.g. 

client  identification,  account  files,  and  business  correspondence,  for  periods  which 

may exceed those required under the SEBI Act, Rules and Regulations framed there-

under  PMLA,  other  relevant  legislations,  Rules  and  Regulations  or  Exchange  bye-

laws or circulars. 

2.3.5  More  specifically,  all  the  intermediaries  shall  put  in  place  a  system  of  maintaining 

proper record of transactions prescribed under Rule 3 of PML Rules as mentioned 

below: 

a)  all cash transactions of the value of more than ten lakh rupees or its equivalent 

in foreign currency; 

b)  all  series  of  cash  transactions  integrally  connected  to  each  other  which  have 

been  individually  valued  below  rupees  ten  lakh  or  its  equivalent  in  foreign 

currency where such series of transactions have taken place within a month and 

the monthly aggregate exceeds an amount of ten lakh rupees or its equivalent in 

foreign currency; 

c)  all cash transactions where forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank notes 

have  been  used  as  genuine  or  where  any  forgery  of  a  valuable  security  or  a 

document has taken place facilitating the transactions;  

d)  all  suspicious  transactions  whether  or  not  made  in  cash  and  by  way  of  as 

mentioned in the Rules. 

2.4. Information to be maintained 

2.4.1 

Intermediaries  are  required  to  maintain  and  preserve  the  following  information  in 

respect of transactions referred to in Rule 3 of PML Rules: 

a)  the nature of the transactions; 

b)  the amount of the transaction and the currency in which it is denominated; 

c)  the date on which the transaction was conducted; and 

 

20 

d)  the parties to the transaction. 

2.5. Retention of Records4 

 

2.5.1 

Intermediaries  shall  take  appropriate  steps  to  evolve  an  internal  mechanism  for 

proper maintenance and preservation of such records and information in a manner 

that allows easy and quick retrieval of data as and when requested by the competent 

authorities.  Further,  the  records  mentioned  in  Rule  3  of  PML  Rules  have  to  be 

maintained  and  preserved  for  a  period  of  five  years  from  the  date  of  transactions 

between the client and intermediary. 

2.5.2  As stated in sub-section 2.2.5, intermediaries are required to formulate and implement 

the  CIP  containing  the requirements  as  laid  down in  Rule  9  of the PML Rules  and 

such other additional requirements that it considers appropriate. Records evidencing 

the identity of its clients and beneficial owners as well as account files and business 

correspondence shall be maintained and preserved for a period of five years after the 

business  relationship  between  a  client  and  intermediary  has  ended  or  the  account 

has been closed, whichever is later. 

2.5.3  Thus the following document retention terms shall be observed: 

a)  All necessary records on transactions, both domestic and international, shall be 

maintained at least for the minimum period prescribed under the relevant Act and 

Rules  (PMLA  and  rules  framed  thereunder  as  well  SEBI  Act)  and  other 

legislations, Regulations or exchange bye-laws or circulars. 

b)  Registered intermediaries shall maintain and preserve the records of documents 

evidencing the identity of its clients and beneficial owners (e.g. copies or records 

of official identification documents like passports, identity cards, driving licenses 

or similar documents) as well as account files and business correspondence for 

a  period  of  five  years  after  the  business  relationship  between  a  client  and 

intermediary has ended or the account has been closed, whichever is later. 

                                                           
4SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 1/ 2014 dated March 12, 2014 

21 

 

 

2.5.4 

In situations where the records relate to on-going investigations or transactions which 

have  been the subject  of  a  suspicious transaction  reporting,  they  shall  be  retained 

until it is confirmed that the case has been closed. 

2.5.5  Records  of  information  reported  to  the  Director,  Financial  Intelligence  Unit  – 

India (FIU – IND)5: Registered Intermediaries shall maintain and preserve the records 

of  information  related  to  transactions,  whether  attempted  or  executed,  which  are 

reported to the Director, FIU – IND, as required under Rules 7 and 8 of the PML Rules, 

for a period of five years from the date of the transaction between the client and the 

intermediary. 

2.6. Monitoring of transactions 

2.6.1  Regular  monitoring  of  transactions  is  vital  for  ensuring  effectiveness  of  the  AML 

procedures.  This  is  possible  only  if  the  intermediary  has  an  understanding  of  the 

normal activity of the client so that it can identify deviations in transactions / activities. 

2.6.2  The  intermediary  shall  pay  special  attention  to  all  complex  unusually  large 

transactions / patterns which appear to have no economic purpose. The intermediary 

may specify internal threshold limits for each class of client accounts and pay special 

attention  to  transactions  which  exceeds  these  limits.  The  background  including  all 

documents/office  records  /memorandums/clarifications  sought  pertaining  to  such 

transactions and purpose thereof shall also be examined carefully and findings shall 

be recorded in writing. Further such findings, records and related documents shall be 

made available to auditors and also to SEBI/stock exchanges/FIUIND/ other relevant 

Authorities,  during  audit,  inspection  or  as  and  when  required.  These  records  are 

required to be maintained and preserved for a period of five years from the date of 

transaction between the client and intermediary. 

2.6.3  The  intermediary  shall  ensure  a  record  of  the  transactions  is  preserved  and 

maintained in terms of Section 12 of the PMLA and that transactions of a suspicious 

nature or any other transactions notified under Section 12 of the Act are reported to 

the Director, FIU-IND. Suspicious transactions shall also be regularly reported to the 

higher authorities within the intermediary. 

 

22 

 

2.6.4  Further, the compliance cell of the intermediary shall randomly examine a selection 

of transactions undertaken by clients to comment on their nature i.e. whether they are 

in the nature of suspicious transactions or not. 

2.7. Suspicious Transaction Monitoring and Reporting 

2.7.1 

Intermediaries  shall  ensure  that  appropriate  steps  are  taken  to  enable  suspicious 

transactions  to  be  recognized  and  have  appropriate  procedures  for  reporting 

suspicious  transactions.  While  determining  suspicious  transactions,  intermediaries 

shall be guided by the definition of a suspicious transaction contained in PML Rules 

as amended from time to time. 

2.7.2  A list of circumstances which may be in the nature of suspicious transactions is given 

below. This list is only illustrative and whether a particular transaction is suspicious or 

not will depend upon the background, details of the transactions and other facts and 

circumstances: 

a)  Clients  whose  identity  verification  seems  difficult  or  clients  that  appear  not  to 

cooperate 

b)  Asset management services for clients where the source of the funds is not clear 

or not in keeping with clients’ apparent standing /business activity; 

c)  Clients based in high risk jurisdictions; 

d)  Substantial increases in business without apparent cause; 

e)  Clients  transferring  large  sums  of  money  to  or  from  overseas  locations  with 

instructions for payment in cash; 

f)  Attempted transfer of investment proceeds to apparently unrelated third parties; 

g)  Unusual  transactions  by  CSCs  and  businesses  undertaken  by  offshore 

banks/financial  services,  businesses  reported  to  be  in  the  nature  of  export- 

import of small items. 

 
 
 

 

                                                           
5 SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 1/ 2014 dated March 12, 2014 

23 

 

 

2.7.3  Any  suspicious  transaction  shall  be  immediately  notified  to  the  Money  Laundering 

Control Officer or any other designated officer within the intermediary. The notification 

may  be  done  in  the  form  of  a  detailed  report  with  specific  reference  to  the  clients, 

transactions and the nature /reason of suspicion. However, it shall be ensured that 

there is continuity in dealing with the client as normal until told otherwise and the client 

shall not be told of the report/ suspicion. In exceptional circumstances, consent may 

not be given to continue to operate the account, and transactions may be suspended, 

in one or more jurisdictions concerned in the transaction, or other action taken. The 

Principal  Officer/  Money  Laundering  Control  Officer  and  other  appropriate 

compliance, risk management and related staff members shall have timely access to 

client identification data and CDD information, transaction records and other relevant 

information.  

 

2.7.4 

It is likely that in some  cases transactions are abandoned or aborted by clients on 

being  asked  to  give  some  details  or  to  provide  documents.  It  is  clarified  that 

intermediaries  shall  report  all  such  attempted  transactions  in  STRs,  even  if  not 

completed by clients, irrespective of the amount of the transaction. 

2.7.5  Clause  2.2.4  (g)  of  this  Master  Circular  categorizes  clients  of  high  risk  countries, 

including countries where existence and effectiveness of money laundering controls 

is  suspect  or  which  do  not  or  insufficiently  apply  FATF  standards,  as  ‘CSC’. 

Intermediaries  are  directed  that  such  clients  shall  also  be  subject  to  appropriate 

counter  measures.  These  measures  may  include  a  further  enhanced  scrutiny  of 

transactions,  enhanced  relevant  reporting  mechanisms  or  systematic  reporting  of 

financial  transactions,  and  applying  enhanced  due  diligence  while  expanding 

business relationships with the identified country or persons in that country etc. 

 
 
 

 

24 

2.8. List of Designated Individuals/ Entities 

 

2.8.1  An  updated  list  of  individuals  and  entities  which  are  subject  to  various  sanction 

measures  such  as freezing  of  assets/accounts,  denial  of financial services  etc.,  as 

approved by the Security Council Committee established pursuant to various United 

Nations' Security Council Resolutions (UNSCRs) can be accessed at its website at 

http://www.un.org/sc/committees/1267/consolist.shtml. Registered intermediaries are 

directed to ensure that accounts are not opened in the name of anyone whose name 

appears  in  said  list.  Registered  intermediaries  shall  continuously  scan  all  existing 

accounts  to  ensure  that  no  account  is  held  by  or  linked  to  any  of  the  entities  or 

individuals included in the list. Full details of accounts bearing resemblance with any 

of the individuals/entities in the list shall immediately be intimated to SEBI and FIU-

IND. 

2.9. Procedure  for  freezing  of  funds,  financial  assets  or  economic  resources  or 

related services 

2.9.1  Section 51A of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA), relating to the 

purpose of prevention of, and for coping with terrorist activities was brought into effect 

through  UAPA  Amendment  Act,  2008.  In  this  regard,  the  Central  Government  has 

issued an Order dated August 27, 2009 (Annexure 1) detailing the procedure for the 

implementation of Section 51A of the UAPA.6 

2.9.2 

In view of the reorganization of Divisions in the Ministry of Home Affairs and allocation 

of work relating to countering of terror financing to the Counter Terrorism and Counter 

Radicalization (CTCR) Division, the Government has modified the earlier order dated 

August  27,  2009  by  the  order  dated  March  14,  2019  (Annexure  2)  for  strict 

compliance.7 

 
 

                                                           
6 SEBI Circular No. ISD/ AML/ CIR – 2/ 2009 dated October 23, 2009 
7 SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2019/69 dated May 28, 2019 

25 

 

2.10. Reporting to Financial Intelligence Unit-India 

2.10.1  In terms of the PML Rules, intermediaries are required to report information relating 

to cash and suspicious transactions to the Director, Financial Intelligence Unit-India 

 

(FIU-IND) at the following address: 

Director, FIU-IND, 

Financial Intelligence Unit-India, 

6th Floor, Hotel Samrat, 

Chanakyapuri, 

New Delhi-110021. 

Website: http://fiuindia.gov.in 

 

2.10.2  Intermediaries shall carefully go through all the reporting requirements and formats 

that  are  available  on  the  website  of  FIU  –  IND  under  the  Section  Obligation  of 

Reporting 

Entity 

– 

Furnishing 

Information 

– 

Reporting 

Format 

(https://fiuindia.gov.in/files/downloads/Filing_Information.html).  These  documents 

contain detailed directives on the compilation and manner/procedure of submission 

of  the  reports  to  FIU-IND.  The  related  hardware  and  technical  requirement  for 

preparing reports, the related data files and data structures thereof are also detailed 

in these documents While detailed instructions for filing all types of reports are given 

in  the  instructions  part  of  the  related  formats,  intermediaries  shall  adhere  to  the 

following: 

a)  The Cash Transaction Report (CTR) (wherever applicable) for each month shall 

be submitted to FIU-IND by 15th of the succeeding month. 

b)  The Suspicious Transaction Report (STR) shall be submitted within 7 days of 

arriving  at  a  conclusion that  any  transaction,  whether cash  or  non-cash,  or a 

series  of  transactions  integrally  connected  are  of  suspicious  nature.  The 

Principal Officer shall record his reasons for treating any transaction or a series 

of transactions as suspicious. It shall be ensured that there is no undue delay 

in arriving at such a conclusion. 

c)  The Non Profit Organization Transaction Reports (NTRs) for each month shall 

be submitted to FIU-IND by 15th of the succeeding month. 

 

26 

 

d)  The Principal Officer will be responsible for timely submission of CTR, STR and 

NTR to FIU-IND; 

e)  Utmost confidentiality shall be maintained in filing of CTR, STR and NTR to FIU-

IND.  

f)  No  nil  reporting  needs  to  be  made  to  FIU-IND  in  case  there  are  no  cash/ 

suspicious/ non – profit organization transactions to be reported. 

2.10.3  Intermediaries shall not put any restrictions on operations in the accounts where an 

STR  has  been  made.  Intermediaries  and  their  directors,  officers  and  employees 

(permanent and temporary) shall be prohibited from disclosing (“tipping off”) the fact 

that a STR or related information is being reported or provided to the FIU-IND. This 

prohibition  on  tipping  off  extends  not  only  to  the  filing  of  the  STR  and/  or  related 

information but even before, during and after the submission of an STR. Thus, it shall 

be ensured that there is no tipping off to the client at any level 

It  is  clarified  that  the  registered  intermediaries,  irrespective  of  the  amount  of 

transaction  and/or  the  threshold  limit  envisaged  for  predicate  offences  specified  in 

part B of Schedule of PMLA, 2002, shall file STR if they have reasonable grounds to 

believe that the transactions involve proceeds of crime. 

27 

 

 

 

2.11.  Designation of officers for ensuring compliance with provisions of PMLA 

2.11.1  Appointment of a Principal Officer:  

 

2.11.1.1 To  ensure  that  the  registered  intermediaries  properly  discharge  their  legal 

obligations to report suspicious transactions to the authorities, the Principal 

Officer would act as a central reference point in facilitating onward reporting 

of suspicious transactions and for playing an active role in the identification 

and assessment of potentially suspicious transactions and shall have access 

to and be able to report to senior management at the next reporting level or 

the Board of Directors. Names, designation  and addresses (including email 

addresses) of ‘Principal Officer’ including any changes therein shall also be 

intimated  to  the  Office  of  the  Director-FIU.  As  a  matter  of  principle,  it  is 

advisable that the ‘Principal Officer’ is of a sufficiently senior position and is 

able to discharge the functions with independence and authority. 

2.11.2 Appointment of a Designated Director:8 

2.11.2.1 In addition to the existing requirement of designation of a Principal Officer, the 

registered  intermediaries  shall  also  designate  a  person  as  a  'Designated 

Director'.  In  terms  of  Rule  2  (ba)  of  the  PML  Rules,  the  definition  of  a 

Designated Director reads as under: 

“Designated  director means  a  person  designated  by  the   reporting  entity  to 

ensure overall compliance with the obligations imposed  under chapter IV of 

the Act and the Rules and includes –  

 

a)  the Managing Director or a  Whole-Time Director duly authorizes by the 

Board of Directors if the reporting entity is a company, 

b)  the managing partner if the reporting entity is a partnership firm, 

c)  the proprietor if the reporting entity is a proprietorship firm, 

d)  the managing  trustee if the reporting entity is a trust, 

                                                           
8SEBI Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/ 1/ 2-014 dated March 12, 2014 

28 

 

 

e)  a person or individual, as the case may be, who controls and manages 

the affairs of the reporting entity if the reporting entity is an unincorporated 

association or a body of individuals, and 

f)  such  other  person  or  class  of  persons  as  may  be  notified  by  the 

Government if the reporting entity does not fall in any of the categories 

above.” 

2.11.2.2 In  terms  of  Section  13  (2)  of  the  PMLA,  the  Director,  FIU  –  IND  can  take 

appropriate  action,  including  levying  monetary  penalty,  on  the  Designated 

Director  for  failure  of  the  intermediary  to  comply  with  any  of  its  AML/CFT 

obligations. 

2.11.2.3 Registered  intermediaries  shall  communicate  the  details  of  the  Designated 

Director, such as, name designation and address to the Office of the Director, 

FIU – IND. 

 

2.12. Employees’ Hiring/Employee’s Training/ Investor Education 

2.12.1  Hiring of Employees 

2.12.1.1 The  registered  intermediaries  shall  have  adequate  screening  procedures in 

place to ensure high standards when hiring employees. They shall identify the 

key positions within their own organization structures having regard to the risk 

of money laundering and terrorist financing and the size of their business and 

ensure  the  employees  taking  up  such  key  positions  are  suitable  and 

competent to perform their duties. 

29 

 

 

 

 

 

2.12.2 Employees’ Training: 

 

2.12.2.1 Intermediaries must have an ongoing employee training programme so that 

the members of the staff are adequately trained in AML and CFT procedures. 

Training requirements shall have specific focuses for frontline staff, back office 

staff,  compliance  staff,  risk  management  staff  and  staff  dealing  with  new 

clients.  It  is  crucial  that  all  those  concerned  fully  understand  the  rationale 

behind  these  directives,  obligations  and  requirements,  implement  them 

consistently and are sensitive to the risks of their systems being misused by 

unscrupulous elements. 

2.12.3  Investors Education 

2.12.3.1 Implementation  of  AML/CFT  measures  requires  intermediaries  to  demand 

certain  information  from  investors  which  may  be  of  personal  nature  or  has 

hitherto  never  been  called  for.  Such  information  can  include  documents 

evidencing  source  of  funds/income  tax  returns/bank  records  etc.  This  can 

sometimes lead to raising of questions by the client with regard to the motive 

and  purpose  of  collecting  such  information.  There  is,  therefore,  a  need  for 

intermediaries to sensitize their clients about these requirements as the ones 

emanating  from  AML  and  CFT  framework.  Intermediaries  shall  prepare 

specific literature/ pamphlets etc. so as to educate the client of the objectives 

of the AML/CFT programme. 

 

30 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE I 

 

List of key circulars/ directives issued with regard to KYC, CDD, AML and CFT 

S. 

Circular Number  Date of 

Subject 

Broad area covered 

 

No.  

 Circular 

1.    SEBI/HO/MIRSD/D

May 28, 2019 

 Combating  Financing  of 

Procedure to be followed for 

OP/CIR/P/2019/69 

 

Terrorism 

(CFT)  under 

the  freezing  of  assets  of 

Unlawful 

Activities 

individual 

or 

entities 

(Prevention)  Act,  1967  –

engaged in terrorism 

Directions 

to 

stock 

exchanges, 

depositories 

and 

all 

registered 

intermediaries 

2.    SEBI/  HO/ 

IMD/ 

June 30, 2017 

 Acceptance of e -PAN card 

E-PAN issued by CBDT for 

FIIC/  CIR/  P/  2017/ 

for KYC purpose 

KYC compliance by FPI 

068 

3.    SEBI/  HO/  MRD/ 

December  15, 

 Master Circulars for 

Opening of BO Accounts 

DP/  CIR/  P/  2016/ 

2016 

Depositories 

134  

4.    CIR/ 

IMD/  FPIC/ 

November  17, 

 Review  of  requirement  for 

Verification and submission 

123/ 2016 

2016 

copy of PAN Card to open 

of PAN Card by FPI 

accounts of FPIs  

5.    CIR/  MIRSD/  120  / 

November  10, 

 Uploading  of  the  existing 

Time  lines  for  registered 

2016 

 

2016 

clients'  KYC  details  with 

intermediaries in respect of 

Central  KYC  Records 

uploading  KYC  data  of  the 

Registry  (CKYCR)  System 

new  and  existing  individual 

by 

the 

 

registered  

clients with CKYCR 

intermediaries 

6.    SEBI/  HO/  IMD  / 

September  14, 

 Master Circular for 

Compliance with AML/ CFT 

DF3/  CIR/ P / 2016/ 

2016 

Mutual Funds 

84 

31 

 

 

 

 

CDD  directives  of  SEBI 

stipulated in Master Circular 

dated September 14, 2016 

7.    CIR/  MIRSD/  66/ 

July 21, 2016 

 Operationalization 

of 

Authorization  of    Central  

2016 

Central  KYC  Records 

Registry    of    Securitization  

Registry (CKYCR) 

and  Asset    Reconstruction  

and    Security    interest    of  

India 

 

(CERSAI) 

for 

receiving, 

storing, 

safeguarding,  retrieving the 

KYC  records  and  finalizing 

template of KYC  

8.    CIR/  IMD/  FPI&C/ 

June 10, 2016 

 Know 

Your 

Client 

Applicability 

of 

Indian 

59/ 2016 

(KYC)norms 

 

for 

  ODI  

KYC/AML  norms  for  Client 

subscribers,  transferability 

Due 

Diligence, 

KYC 

of    ODIs,  reporting    of  

Review, 

Suspicious 

suspicious    transactions, 

Transactions 

Report, 

periodic 

 

review 

  of  

Reporting 

of 

complete 

systems and  modified ODI 

transfer 

trail  of  ODIs, 

reporting format 

Reconfirmation 

of  ODI 

positions, 

Periodic 

Operational Evaluation 

9.    CIR/  MIRSD/  29/ 

January 

22, 

 Know 

Your 

Client 

Client 

identification  and 

2016 

2016 

Requirements 

- 
authentication from  UIDAI, 

Clarification  on  voluntary 

Investment Limit and mode 

adaptation  of  Aadhaar 

of  payment 

to  Mutual 

based e-KYC process 

Funds,  PAN  verification, 

additional  due  diligence  in 

case  of  material  difference 

in information 

 

32 

10.   CIR/  IMD/  FIIC/  11/ 

June 16, 2014 

 Know  Your  Client  (KYC) 

Process  to  be  followed  by 

2014 

requirements  for  Foreign 

DDPs to share the relevant 

Portfolio Investors (FPIs) 

KYC  documents  of  FPIs 

 

with  

the  banks  and  record    of  

transfer  of  documents 

11.   CIR/  MIRSD/  1/ 

March 12, 2014 Anti-Money 

Consequential  

2014 

Laundering/Countering  the 

modifications 

 

and  

Financing 

of  Terrorism 

additions 

to 

Master  

(AML/CFT) 

Circular  CIR/ ISD/ AML/ 3/ 

Obligations  of  Securities 

2010  dated  December  31,  

Market 

Intermediaries 

2010  in  respect  of  Risk 

under 

the  Prevention  of 

Assessment,  Reliance  on 

Money laundering 

third  party  for  carrying  out 

Act, 2002 and Rules framed 

Client 

Due 

Diligence 

there under 

(CDD),  Record  keeping 

requirements,  Records  of 

information  reported  to  the 

Director, 

Financial 

Intelligence  Unit    -    India  

(FIU-IND), Appointment of  

a Designated Director 

Your 

Client 

Shifting 

of 

certain 

12.   CIR/  MIRSD/  13/ 

December  26, 

Know 

2013 

2013 

requirements 

information in Section C  of 

Part I to Part II of the AOF, 

information  required  to  be 

captured  in  the  systems  of 

KRAs 

13.   CIR/  MIRSD/  09/ 

October 8, 2013 Know 

Your 

Client 

Acceptance 

  of  e-KYC 

2013 

Requirements 

service  launched  by  UIDAI 

as    a    valid    process    for  

KYC  verification 

 

33 

14.   CIR/  MIRSD/  07  / 

September  12, 

Know 

 

Your 

Client 

Partial  modification  to  the 

2013 

2013 

Requirements  for  Eligible 

provisions  of  circular    No  

Foreign Investors 

CIR/MIRSD/    11    /2012 

dated September 5, 2012, 

Classification  of  Eligible  

foreign  investors  investing  

under  Portfolio  Investment  

Scheme    ('PIS')    route  as  

Category  I,  II  and  III 

15.   CIR 

/MIRSD/ 

4 

March 28, 2013 Amendment 

to 

SEBI 

Modification  of  circulars  

/2013 

{(Know 

Your 

Client) 

dated  December  23,  2011  

Registration 

Agency} 

and  April  13,  2012, to the 

Regulations, 

extent  of  requirement    for 

2011 and relevant circulars 

sending 

original 

KYC 

documents of the clients to 

the KRA 

16.   CIR/  MIRSD/  2/ 

January 

24, 

 Guidelines on Identification 

Client  Due  Diligence 

to 

2013 

2013 

of Beneficial Ownership 

identify  and  verify 

the 

identity  of  persons  who 

beneficially  own  or  control 

the  securities  account  for 

clients 

other 

than 

individuals  or 

trusts  and 

client  which 

is  a 

trust. 

Exemption  in case  of listed 

companies, Applicability for 

foreign 

investors 

and 

Implementation 

17.   CIR/  MIRSD/  01 

January 

04, 

 Rationalization  process  for 

Verification  the    PAN    of  

/2013 

2013 

obtaining PAN by Investors 

clients  online  at the Income 

Tax website 

 

34 

18.   CIR/  MIRSD/  11/ 

September 

5, 

Know 

Your 

Client 

Clarifications 

for  Foreign 

2012 

2012 

Requirements 

Investors  viz.  FIIs,  Sub 

 

Accounts  and  QFIs  w.r.t. 

implementation  of  SEBI 

circulars  no.  CIR  /MIRSD/ 

16/ 2011  dated  August  22, 

2011  and  MIRSD/ SE/ Cir-

21/ 2011  dated  October  5,  

2011  on  know  your  client  

norms 

19.   CIR/  MIRSD/  09  / 

August 13, 2012 Aadhaar  Letter  as  Proof  of 

Admissibility  of  Aadhaar 

2012 

Address 

for  Know  Your 

letter  issued  by  UIDAI  as 

Client (KYC) norms. 

Proof of Address in addition 

to 

its  presently  being 

recognized  as  Proof  of 

Identity 

 

20.   MIRSD/ Cir-5 / 2012 April 13, 2012  Uploading  of  the  existing 

Process 

to 

avoid 

clients’  KYC  details  in  the 

duplication 

of 

KYC, 

KYC Registration 

guidelines 

for  uploading  

Agency  (KRA)  system  by 

the  KYC  data    of    the  

the intermediaries 

existing    clients,  Schedule 

for implementation 

 

 

21.   MIRSD/  Cir-  26  / 

December  23, 

Guidelines  in  pursuance  of 

Guidelines 

for 

2011 

2011 

the  SEBI  KYC  Registration 

Intermediaries,  Guidelines 

Agency (KRA) 

for  KRAs,  Guidelines  w.r.t 

Regulations,  2011  and  for 

In-Person Verification (IPV) 

In-Person Verification (IPV) 

 

35 

 

22.   MIRSD/ 

Cir-23/ 

December 

2, 

 The 

Securities 

and 

Centralization  of  the  KYC  
 

2011 

2011 

Exchange  Board  of  India 

records to avoid duplication 

(KYC Registration Agency) 

of KYC process 

Regulations, 2011. 

23.   CIR/  MIRSD/  22/ 

October 

25, 

 ‘In-person’ 

verification 

Clarification  w.r.t    ultimate 
  

2011 

2011 

(IPV) 

of 

clients 

by 

responsibility  for ‘in-person’ 

subsidiaries of stock 

verification 

exchanges, acting as stock 

brokers 

24.   MIRSD/  SE/  Cir-21/ 

October 5, 2011  Uniform  Know  Your  Client 

Clarification  w.r.t  different 

2011 

(KYC)  Requirements 

for 

KYC forms used by Market 

the Securities Markets 

Intermediaries,  Guidelines 

for KYC  form  capturing  the  

basic    details    about    the 

client and additional  details  

specific    to    the    area    of  

activity  of  the  intermediary  

being  obtained 

 

25.   CIR/  MIRSD/  16/ 

August 

 Simplification 

and 

Client  account  opening 

2011 

22, 2011 

Rationalization  of  Trading 

Process,  Client  Account 

Account Opening Process 

Opening  Form,  Rights    & 

Obligations of stock broker, 

sub-broker  and  client    for  

trading    on    exchanges 

Uniform  Risk  Disclosure 

Documents, Guidance Note 

detailing Do’s and Don’ts for 

trading 

Circular 

on 

Anti  -  Money  Laundering  

26.   CIR/  ISD/  AML/  3/ 

 December  31, 

Master 

2010 

 

 

2010 

AML/CFT 

(AML) 

Standards/ 

Combating the Financing of 

36 

 

Terrorism 

(CFT) 

/ 

Obligations  of  Securities 

Market 

Intermediaries 

under 

the  Prevention  of 

Money  Laundering  Act, 

2002  and  Rules 

framed 

there under 

27.   CIR/ MRD/ DP / 37/ 

December 

Acceptance  of  third  party 

Capturing  of  address  other 

2010 

14, 2010 

address as correspondence 

than  that  of  the  BO  as  the 

address 

correspondence address. 

28.   CIR/  MRD/  DMS/ 

August 31, 

Guidelines on the Execution 

Clarifications 

on 

the 

13/ 2010 

2010 

of Power of Attorney by the 

Execution  of  the  POA  by 

Client  in  favour  of  Stock 

the client 

Broker/ DP 

29.   CIR/  MRD/  DMS/ 

April 23, 

Guidelines on the Execution 

Guidelines 

on 

the 

13/ 2010 

2010 

of Power of Attorney by the 

Execution  of  Power  of 

Client  in  favour  of  Stock 

Attorney by the Client 

Broker/ DP 

30.   CIR/  ISD/  AML/  2/ 

June 14, 

Additional Requirements for 

Additional Requirements on 

2010 

2010 

AML/ CFT 

retention  of  documents, 

monitoring, 

tipping 

off, 

updation  of  records  and 

other clarifications. 

31.   CIR/  ISD/  AML/  1/ 

February 12, 

Master Circular –AML/ CFT Framework  for  AML/  CFT 

2010 

2010 

including  procedures 

for 

CDD,  client  identification, 

record keeping & retention, 

monitoring and reporting of 

STRs 

32.   SEBI/ MIRSD/ Cir 

January 18, 

Mandatory  Requirement  of 

In-person  verification  done 

No.02/ 2010 

2010 

in-person 

verification  of 

for 

opening 

beneficial 

clients. 

owner’s  account  by  a  DP 

will  hold  good  for  opening 

 

37 

 

trading  account  for  a  stock 

broker and vice versa, if the 

DP and the stock broker is 

the same entity or if one of 

them 

is 

the  holding  or 

subsidiary. 

33.  

ISD/  AML/  CIR-2/ 

October 23, 

Directives  on  CFT  under 

Procedure  to  be  followed 

2009 

2009 

Unlawful 

Activities 

for the freezing of assets of 

(Prevention) Act, 1967 

individual 

or 

entities 

engaged in terrorism 

34.  

ISD/  AML/  CIR-1/ 

September 

Additional AML/ CFT 

Additional 

AML/ 

CFT 

2009 

01, 2009 

obligations 

of 

requirements 

and 

Intermediaries under PMLA, 

clarifications thereon 

2002 and rules framed 

35.  

ISD/ AML/ CIR- 

December 

Master  Circular  on  AML/ 

Framework  for  AML/  CFT 

1/ 2008 

19, 2008 

CFT directives 

including  procedures 

for 

CDD,  client  identification, 

record keeping & retention, 

monitoring and reporting of 

suspicious transactions. 

36.   MIRSD/ 

DPSIII/ 

July 2, 

In-Person  verification  of 

Responsibility 

of 

stock 

130466/ 2008 

2008 

clients by stock-brokers 

brokers 

to  ensure 

in 

- 

person  verification  by  its 

own staff. 

37.   MRD/  DoP/  Cir-20/ 

June 30, 

Mandatory  Requirement  of 

Exception 

for 

certain 

2008 

2008 

PAN 

classes  of  persons  from 

PAN 

being 

the 

sole 

identification number for all 

participants  trading  in  the 

securities market. 

38.   F.No.47/ 2006/ ISD/ 

April 4, 

In-person  verification  of 

In-person  verification  to  be 

SR/ 122539 

2008 

BO’s  when  opening  demat 

carried  out  by  staff  of 

accounts 

depository participant. 

 

38 

39.   MRD/  DoP/  Cir-  20/ 

April 3, 

Exemption  from  mandatory 

Exemption 

for 

investors 

2008 

2008 

requirement of PAN. 

residing  in 

the  State  of 

 

Sikkim from PAN being the 

sole  identification  number 

for  trading  in  the  securities 

market. 

40.   F.No.47- 2006 /ISD/ 

February 

In-Person  verification  of 

Clarification  on 

various 

SR/ 118153/ 2008 

22, 2008 

clients by depositories 

topics relating to ‘in person’ 

verification  of  BOs  at  the 

time  of  opening  demat 

accounts 

41.   MRD/  DoP/  Dep/ 

September 

KYC 

Norms 

for 

Proof  of  Identity  (POI)  and 

Cir- 12/ 2007 

7, 2007 

Depositories 

Proof of Address (POA) for 

opening 

a  Beneficiary 

Owner  (BO)  Account  for 

non - body corporates 

42.   MRD/  DoP/  Cir-05/ 

April 27, 

PAN 

to  be 

the 

sole 

Mandatory  requirement  of 

2007 

2007 

identification  number  for  all 

PAN 

for 

participants 

transactions 

in 

the 

transacting in the securities 

securities market 

market. 

43.  

ISD /CIR/ RR/ AML/ 

March 20, 

PMLA  Obligations  Of 

Procedure  for  maintaining 

2/ 06 

2006 

intermediaries  in  terms  of 

and  preserving 

records, 

Rules notified there under 

reporting requirements and 

formats  of  reporting  cash 

transactions and suspicious 

transactions 

44.  

ISD/ CIR/ RR/ AML/ 

January 18, 

Directives 

on 

AML 

Framework  for  AML  and 

1/ 

06 

2006 

Standards 

CFT  including  policies  and 

procedures,  Client  Due 

Diligence 

requirements, 

record  keeping,  retention, 

monitoring and reporting 

 

39 

 

45.   SEBI/  MIRSD/  DPS 

August 26, 

Uniform 

Documentary 

Uniform  KYC  documentary 

- 1/ Cir-31/ 2004 

2004 

Requirements for trading 

requirements for trading on 

different  segments  and 

exchanges 

46.   MRD/  DoP/  Dep/ 

August 24, 

Proof  of  Identity  (POI)  and 

Broadening 

the 

list  of 

Cir- 29/ 2004 

2004 

Proof of Address (POA) for 

documents 

that  may  be  

opening 

a 

Beneficiary 

accepted  as  Proof  of 

Owner 

Identity  (POI)  and/or  Proof 

of  Address  (POA)  for  the 

purpose  of  opening  a  BO 

Account  

47.   SEBI/ MRD/ SE /Cir- 

August 27, 

Mode  of  payment  and 

Prohibition  on  acceptance/ 

33/ 2003/ 27/ 08 

2003 

delivery 

giving  of  cash  by  brokers 

and  on  third  party  transfer 

of securities 

48.   SMDRP/ Policy/ Cir- 

August 4, 

KYC 

Norms 

for 

Documentary  requirements 

36/ 2000 

2000 

Depositories 

for  opening  a  beneficiary 

account. 

49.   SMD/ 

POLICY/ 

April 11, 

Client Registration Form 

Formats 

of 

client 

CIRCULARS /5-97 

1997 

Registration  Form 

and 

broker clients agreements 

50.   SMD-1/ 23341 

Nov. 18, 

Regulation  of 

transaction 

Mandatory  requirement  to 

1993 

between 

clients 

and 

obtain  details  of  clients  by 

members 

brokers. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

40 

