 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

MASTER CIRCULAR  

 

 

             October 25, 2019 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/117 
 
To, 
 
All Recognized Stock Exchanges 
All Recognized Clearing Corporations 

 

 

 

 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 

Sub: Master Circular for Stock Exchange and Clearing Corporation 

1.  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI),  from  time  to  time,  has  been 

issuing  various  circulars/directions  to  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 

Corporations. In order to enable the users to have an access to all the applicable 

circulars/directions  at  one  place,  Master  Circular  for  Stock  Exchanges  and 

Clearing Corporations has been prepared. 

2.  This Master Circular is a compilation of the relevant circulars/communications 

issued by SEBI up to March 31, 2019 and shall come into force from the date of 

its  issue.  References  in  the  circular  to  the  Statutes/Regulations  which  now 

stand repealed, have been suitably updated. 

 

3.  The  Master  Circular  is  a  compilation  of  all  the  existing/applicable  circulars 

issued  by  Market  Regulation  Department  of  SEBI  pertaining  to  Stock 

Exchanges and Clearing Corporations. Efforts have been made to incorporate 

applicable provisions of existing circulars issued by other Departments of SEBI 

relevant to Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations.  

 

4.  In case of any inconsistency between the  Master Circular and the applicable 

circulars, the content of the relevant circular shall prevail. 

Page 1 of 2 

  

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और तितिमय बोर्ड 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

5.  This  Master  Circular 

shall 

supersede  previous  Master  Circular 

CIR/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2016/135 dated December 16, 2016 and is available on 

SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 

 

Yours faithfully 
 
 
 
Amit Tandon 

General Manager                                                                                           

                                                                                                            
 
Encl: 
 
Chapter 1- Trading 
Chapter 2- Trading Software Technology BCP New 
Chapter 3- Settlement 
Chapter 4- Comprehensive Risk Management for Cash Market 
Chapter 5- Exchange Traded Derivatives 
Chapter 6- Administration of Stock Exchanges 
Chapter 7- TFTS 
Chapter 8- IFSC 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

