भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

MASTER CIRCULAR  

 

             October 25, 2019 

 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/118    
 
To, 
 
All Recognized Depositories 

 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 

 

 

 

Subject: Master Circular for Depositories 

1.  Securities and Exchange Board of India  (SEBI), from time to time, has 
been  issuing  various  circulars/directions  to  Depositories.  In  order  to 
enable 
the  applicable 
circulars/directions  at  one  place,  Master  Circular  for  Depositories  has 
been prepared. 

to  have  an  access 

the  users 

to  all 

is 

a 

2.  This  Master  Circular 

compilation  of 

relevant 
circulars/communications  issued  by  SEBI  up  to  March  31,  2019  and 
shall  come  into  force  from  the  date  of  its  issue.  References  in  the 
circular  to  the  Statutes/Regulations  which  now  stand  repealed,  have 
been suitably updated. 
 

the 

3.  The  Master  Circular  is  a  compilation  of  all  the  existing/applicable 
circulars  issued  by  Market  Regulation  Department  of  SEBI  pertaining 
to  Depositories.  Efforts  have  been  made  to  incorporate  applicable 
provisions  of  existing  circulars  issued  by  other  Departments  of  SEBI 
relevant to Depositories.  
 

4.  In  case  of  any  inconsistency  between  the  Master  Circular  and  the 

applicable circulars, the content of the relevant circular shall prevail. 

1 

  

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

5.  This  Master  Circular  shall  supersede  previous  Master  Circular 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2016/134 dated December 15, 2016 and is 
available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in. 
 

Yours faithfully 
 
 
 
Amit Tandon 
General Manager 

 
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                            
 
 
 
 

2 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Table of Contents 

 

Section - 1: Beneficial Owner (BO) Accounts  

1.1  Opening of BO Account by non-body corporates 

1.1.1  Proof of Identity (PoI)  
1.1.2  Proof of Address (PoA)  
1.1.3  Clarification  on  voluntary  adaptation  of  Aadhaar  based  e-

KYC process 

1.1.4  SARAL Account Opening Form for resident individuals 
1.1.5  Clarifications  with  regard  to  KYC  requirement  for  eligible 

Foreign Investors 

1.1.6  Acceptance  of  third  party  address  as  correspondence 

address 

1.2  Exemptions from and clarifications relating to mandatory requirement 

of PAN 

1.3  Simplification of demat account opening process  

(DP-BO Rights and Obligation Document) 
1.4  Opening of demat account in case of HUF 
1.5  Operation of minor’s demat account 
1.6  Facility for a Basic Services Demat Account (BSDA) 
1.7  Change of Name in the Beneficial Owner (BO) Account 
1.8  Fees/Charges to be paid by BO  
1.9  Safeguards on transfer of securities in dematerialized mode 
1.10  Delivery Instruction Slip (DIS) Issuance and Processing 
1.11  Transmission of shares 
1.12  SMS alerts for demat accounts operated by Power of Attorney 
1.13  Exemption  from  sending  quarterly  statements  of  transactions  by 
depository  participants  (DPs)  to  clients  in  respect  of  demat  accounts 
with no transactions and no security balances 

1.14  Discontinuation   of  sending   transaction   statements   by   depository 

participants to clients 

1.15  Exemption  to  Depository  Participants  (DPs)  from  providing  hard 

copies of transaction statements to BOs 

1.16  Transfer of funds and securities from Clearing Member pool account to 

BO Account 

1.17  Consolidated Account Statement (CAS) for all securities assets 

3 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

1.18  Procedure  for  filing  and  redressal  of  investor  grievances  using 

SCORES 

 

Section - 2: Depository Participants (DP) Related 

2.1  Online Registration Mechanism for Securities Market Intermediaries 
2.2  Supervision of branches of depository participants 
2.3 
2.4 

Incentivisation to Depositories Participants (DPs) 
Implementation  of  the  Multilateral  Competent  Authority  Agreement 
and Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act  

2.5  Printing  of  Grievances  Redressal  Mechanism  on  Delivery  Instruction 

Form Book 

2.6  Operationlisation of Central KYC Records Registry (CKYCR) 
2.7  Recording  of  Non  Disposal  Undertaking(NDU)  in  the  Depository 

System 

2.8  Cyber  Security  &  Cyber  Resilience  framework  for  Depository 

Participants 

2.9  Reporting  for  Artificial  Intelligence  (AI)  and  Machine  Learning  (ML) 

applications and systems offeredand usedby market intermediaries 

2.10  Flashing a link to SCOREs on the dashboard of Demat Accounts 
 

 

Section - 3: Issuer related  

3.1  Charges to be paid by Issuers  
3.2  Activation  of  International  Securities  Identification  Number  (ISIN)  in 

case of IPOs and additional issue of shares/ securities 

3.3  Registrar and Share Transfer Agents 
3.4  Mandatory admission of debt instruments on both the Depositories 
3.5  Specifications  related    to  International    Securities    Identification    
Number  (ISINs)  for debt  securities  issued  under  the  SEBI  (Issue  
and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities)  Regulations, 2008. 

3.6  American  Depository  Receipts  (ADRs)/Global  Depository  Receipts    

 

(GDRs) 

3.7  Electronic Clearing System (ECS) facility 
         3.6.1 Use of ECS for refund in public/ rights issues 
         3.6.2 Usage of electronic payment modes for making cash payment to 

the investors 

4 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

3.8  Withdrawal by issuers from the depository 
3.9  Further  issue  of  shares  under  Section  86  of  Companies  Act  and 
Companies  (Issue  of  Share  capital  with  Differential  Voting  Rights) 
Rules, 2001 
 

Section - 4: Depositories Related  

4.1  Online Registration Mechanism and Filing System for Depositories 
4.2  Activity schedule for depositories for T+2 rolling Settlement   
4.3  Settlement of transactions in case of holidays 
4.4  Deadline time for accepting non pay-in related instructions 
4.5  Approval of amendments to Bye Laws / Rules of Stock Exchanges and 

Depositories 

4.6  Preservation of Records 
4.7  Pledge of Shares through depository system 
4.8  Foreign investments in infrastructure companies in securities markets 
4.9  Designated e-mail ID for regulatory communication with SEBI 
4.10  Designated e-mail ID for redressal of investor complaints 
4.11  Redressal  of  complaints  against  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories 

through SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES) 

4.12  Limitation period for filing an arbitration reference 
4.13  Disclosure of investor complaints and arbitration details on Depository  

website 

4.14  Disclosure of regulatory orders and arbitration awards on  Depository 

website 

4.15  Arbitration / Appellate Arbitration fees on the remanded back matter 

for fresh arbitration proceedings 

4.16  Establishment  of  connectivity  by  Clearing  House  /  Clearing 

Corporation (CH/CC) with the Depository – Clarification 

4.17  Computing  and  monitoring  of  the  Aggregate  Value  of  Portfolio  of 
Securities  (AVPS)  of  the  BOs  held  in  dematerialised  form  by  Stock 
Broker DPs 

4.18  Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, 2012 (RGESS) 
4.19  Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMIs) 
4.20  Annual System Audit of Depositories 
4.21  Exceptional  Observation  Reporting 

format 

for  System  Audit 

Observation 

5 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

4.22  Guidelines for Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and Disaster Recovery     

(DR) 

4.23  (Information Technology) IT Governance For Depositories 
4.24  Guidelines  for 

inspection  of  Depository  Participants  (DPs)  by 

Depositories 

4.25  Activity of Demat of warehouse receipts  
4.26  Voting rights in respect of securities held in pool account 
4.27  Risk Management Policy at the Depositories 
4.28  Outsourcing by Depositories 
4.29  Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience framework of Depositories 
4.30  Database for Distinctive Number (DN) of Shares 
4.31  Ticker on Website - For Investor awareness 
4.32  Separate  mobile  number/  email  id  for  the  clients  of  Depository 

Participants (DPs) 

4.33  Investor Protection Fund (IPF) of Depositories 
4.34  Enhanced Supervision of Depository Participant 
4.35  Amendment pursuant to comprehensive review of Investor Grievance 

Redressal Mechanism 

4.36  Digital Mode of Payment 
4.37  Monitoring of Foreign Investment limits in listed Indian companies 
4.38  Disclosure    of  performance    of    CRAs  on  Stock  Exchange    and  

Depository website 

4.39  Early Warning Mechanism to prevent diversion of client securities 
4.40  Reporting   for Artificial   Intelligence(AI)   and   Machine   Learning   
(ML)  applications      and      systems      offered  and      used  by  Market   
Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs) 

4.41  Measures to expedite Dematerisation of securities 
4.42  Capacity Planning Framework for the Depositories 
4.43  Committees at Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs) 

 
 
 
SCHEDULE  

 
 

 

 

List of Circulars & Communications

6 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Section 1: Beneficial Owner (BO) Accounts 

 

1.1  Opening of BO Account by non body corporates 

1.1.1 

 

 

Proof of Identity (PoI)  

i.  Permanent Account Number (PAN) to be the sole identification number 

for all transactions in the securities market1 
 
With effect from July 02, 2007, PAN is the sole identification number for all 
transactions  in  the  securities  market,  irrespective  of  the  amount  of 
transaction. A copy of the PAN card with photograph may be accepted as 
Proof of Identity. In this regard, intermediaries shall:- 

 

 

 

a.  Put necessary systems in place so that the databases of the clients and 

their transactions are linked to the PAN details of the client.  

b.  Build  necessary  infrastructure  to  enable  accessibility  and  query  based 

on PAN thereby enabling retrieval of all the details of the clients.  

c.  Collect copies of PAN cards issued to the existing as well as new clients 
by  the  Income  Tax  Department  and  maintain  the  same  in  their  record 
after verifying with the original. 

d.  Cross-check  the  aforesaid  details  collected  from  their  clients  with  the 

details  on 
http://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/challan/enterpanforchallan.jsp2. 

Income  Tax  Department 

i.e.    

the  website  of 

the 

List of documents admissible as Proof of Identity3 

a.  Unique  Identification  Number  (UID)  (Aadhaar)/  Passport/  Voter  ID 

card/ Driving license. 

b.  PAN card with photograph. 
c.  Identity  card/  document  with  applicant’s  Photo,  issued  by  any  of  the 
its  Departments, 

following:  Central/State  Government 

and 

                                                           
1 Reference: Circular MRD/DoP/Cir-5/2007 dated April 27, 2007 
2 Income Tax Department since changed the link for verification to:       
  https://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/e-Filing/Services/KnowYourPanLink.html 
3 Reference: Circular MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011 dated October 05, 2011 

7 

 
 

 

 

 

1.1.2 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Statutory/Regulatory  Authorities,  Public  Sector  Undertakings, 
Scheduled  Commercial  Banks,  Public  Financial  Institutions,  Colleges 
affiliated  to  Universities,  Professional  Bodies  such  as  ICAI,  ICWAI, 
ICSI, Bar Council etc., to their Members; and Credit cards/Debit cards 
issued by Banks. 

d.  e-KYC  service  launched  by  UIDAI  shall  also  be  accepted  as  a  valid 
process  for  KYC  verification.  The  information  containing  the  relevant 
client details and photograph made available from UIDAI as a result of 
e-KYC process shall be treated as a valid proof of Identity.4 

e.  With a view to bring about operational flexibility and in order to ease 
the PAN verification process, the intermediaries may verify the PAN of 
their  clients online at  the Income Tax  website without insisting on the 
original PAN card, provided  that  the client has presented a document 
for Proof of Identity other than the PAN card.5 
 

Proof of Address (PoA)6         
 
List of documents admissible as Proof of Address:  
(*Documents  having  an  expiry  date  should  be  valid  on  the  date  of 
submission.)  
a.  Passport/ Voters Identity Card/ Ration Card/ Registered Lease or Sale 
Agreement  of  Residence/  Driving  License/  Flat  Maintenance  bill/ 
Insurance Copy. 

b.  Utility  bills  like  Telephone  Bill  (only  land  line),  Electricity  bill  or  Gas 

bill - Not more than 3 months old. 

c.  Bank Account Statement/Passbook -- Not more than 3 months old. 
d.  Self-declaration  by  High  Court  and  Supreme  Court  judges,  giving  the 

new address in respect of their own accounts. 

e.  Proof  of  address  issued  by  any  of  the  following:  Bank  Managers  of 
Scheduled 
Co-Operative 
Bank/Multinational  Foreign  Banks/Gazetted  Officer/Notary  public/ 
elected 
Legislative 
Assembly/Parliament/Documents  issued  by  any  Govt.  or  Statutory 

Banks/Scheduled 

Commercial 

representatives 

to 

the 

                                                           
4 Reference: Circular SEBI/MIRSD/09/2013 dated October 08, 2013 
5 Reference: Circular SEBI/MIRSD/01/2013 dated January 04, 2013 
6Reference: Circular MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011 dated October 05, 2011 

8 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Authority.  

f.  Identity  card/document  with  address,  issued  by  any  of  the  following: 
Central/State  Government  and  its  Departments,  Statutory/Regulatory 
Authorities, Public Sector Undertakings, Scheduled Commercial Banks, 
Public  Financial  Institutions,  Colleges  affiliated  to  Universities  and 
Professional Bodies such as ICAI, ICWAI, ICSI, Bar Council etc., to their 
Members. 

g.  For FII/sub account, Power of Attorney given by FII/sub-account to the 
(which  are  duly  notarized  and/or  apostiled  or 

Custodians 
consularised) that gives the registered address should be taken. 

h.  The proof of address in the name of the spouse may be accepted.  
i.  Aadhaar  Letter  issued  by  UIDAI  shall  be  admissible  as  Proof  of 

Address in addition to Proof of Identity.7 

j.  e-KYC  service  launched  by  UIDAI  shall  also  be  accepted  as  a  valid 
process  for  KYC  verification.  The  information  containing  the  relevant  
client details and photograph made available from UIDAI as a result of 
e-KYC process shall be treated as a valid proof of address.8 

DP  shall  ensure  that  all  documents  pertaining  to  proof  of  identity  and 
proof of address are collected from all the account holders.9 Submission of 
the  aforesaid  documents  is  the  minimum  requirement  for  opening  a  BO 
Account. DPs must verify the copy of the aforementioned documents with 
the  original  before  accepting  the  same  as  valid.  While  opening  a  BO 
Account, DPs shall exercise due diligence10 while establishing the identity 
of the person to ensure the safety and integrity of the depository system. 

 

 

 

1.1.3 

Clarification on voluntary adaptation of Aadhaar based e-KYC process11 

 

SEBI has enabled Aadhaar based e-KYC service offered by UIDAI for KYC 

                                                           
7Reference: Circular MIRSD/09/2012 dated August 13, 2012 
8 Reference: Circular SEBI/MIRSD/09/2013 dated October 08, 2013 
9 Reference: Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-29/2004 dated August 24, 2004 
10 Reference: Point 5 of part II on ‘Customer Due Diligence’ of master circular no. ISD/AML/CIR-
1/2008 dated December 19, 2008 
11 Reference: Circular SEBI/MIRSD/09/2013 dated October 08, 2013 

9 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

verification. Intermediaries have sought clarifications from SEBI on certain 
operational aspects of the same. It is clarified that for accessing the details 
enabling  client  identification  and  authentication  from  UIDAI  based  on 
client  authorisation,  on  voluntary  basis,  intermediaries  who  utilize  the 
services of KYC Service Agencies (KSAs) would be registered as KYC User 
Agencies (KUA) with UIDAI.12 
  
For  entering  into  account  based  relationship,  the  client  may  provide  the 
following information to the intermediary: 

i. 

a)  Name 

b)  Aadhaar number 

c)  Permanent Account Number (PAN) 

ii.  The  above  information  can  be  provided  by  the  client  electronically 

including through any web enabled device.  

iii.  The  intermediary  shall  perform  verification  of  the  client  with  UIDAI 
through  biometric  authentication  (fingerprint  or  iris  scanning).  Mutual 
Funds can also perform verification of the client with UIDAI through One 
Time  password  (OTP)  received  on  client’s  mobile  number  or  on  e-mail 
address  registered  with  UIDAI  provided,  the  amount  invested  by  the 
client does not exceed Rs. 50,000 per financial year per Mutual Fund and 
payment for the same is made through electronic transfer from the client’s 
bank account registered with that Mutual Fund.  

iv. 

PAN of such client is to be verified from the income tax website. 

v.  After  due  validation  of  Aadhaar  number  provided  by  the  client,  the 
intermediary (acting as KUA) shall receive the KYC information about the 
client from UIDAI through KSA. 

vi.  The information downloaded from UIDAI shall be considered as sufficient 
information  for  the  purpose  of  KYC  verification.  The  intermediary  shall 
upload  this  KYC  information  on  the  KRA  system  in  terms  of  KRA 
Regulations. 

                                                           
12 Reference: Circular: CIR/MIRSD/29/2016 dated January 22, 2016 

10 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

vii. 

In case material difference is observed either in the name (as observed in 
the  PAN  vis-a-vis  Aadhaar)  or  photograph  in  Aadhaar  is  not  clear,  the 
intermediary  shall  carry  out  additional  due  diligence  and  maintain  a 
record  of  the  additional  documents  sought  pursuant  to  such  due 
diligence. 

viii.  The  records  of  KYC  information  so  received  shall  be  maintained  by  the 
intermediary as per the SEBI Act, Regulations and various circulars issued 
thereunder. 

 

1.1.4 

i. 

SARAL Account Opening Form for resident individuals13 
 
It  is  gathered  that  a  majority  of  new  investors  in  the  securities  market 
begin  with  participation  in  the  cash  segment  without  obtaining  various 
other facilities such as internet trading, margin trading, derivative trading 
and use of power of attorney. 

ii.  The  account  opening  process  can  be  simplified  for  such  individual 
investors.  With  a  view  to  encourage  their  participation,  it  is,  therefore, 
decided  that  such  individual  investors  can  open  a  trading  account  and 
demat  account  by  filling  up  a  simplified  Account  Opening  Form  ('AOF') 
termed  as  'SARAL  AOF'  given  at  Annexure  A.  This  form  will  be 
separately available with the intermediaries and can also be downloaded 
from  the  Exchanges'  and  Depositories'  website.  The  investors  who  open 
account  through  SARAL  AOF  will  also  have  the  option  to  obtain  other 
facilities,  whenever they  require, on furnishing  of additional information 
as per prescribed regulations/circulars. 

iii.  The  standard  set  of  documents  viz.  Rights  and  Obligations  document, 
Uniform Risk Disclosure Document and Guidance Note and documentary 
proof related to identity and address as specified in SEBI Circulars dated 
August 22, 2011 and October 5, 2011 shall continue to remain applicable. It 
is further clarified that the provisions laid down under the PML Act, PML 
Rules,  SEBI  Master  Circular  on  AML  dated  December  31,  2010  and  SEBI 
Circular  on  AML  dated  March  12,  2014  shall  also  continue  to  remain 

                                                           
13 Reference Circular MIRSD/1/2015 dated March 04, 2015 

11 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

iv. 

applicable  for  set  of  individual  investors  mentioned  in  paragraph  (ii) 
above. 

For  these  set  of  individual  investors,  it  has  been  decided  to  simplify  the 
requirement  of  submission  of  ‘proof  of  address’.  The  matter  has  been 
examined  in  the  light  of  amendment  to  the  PML  Rules,  2005  and 
accordingly,  the  requirement  of  submission  of  ‘proof  of  address’  is  as 
follows: 

a.  Henceforth,  individual  investor  may  submit  only  one  documentary 
proof of address (either residence/correspondence or permanent) while 
opening a trading account and / or demat account or while undergoing 
updation. 

b.  In  case  the  proof  of  address  furnished  by  the  said  investor  is  not  the 
address  where  the  investor  is  currently  residing,  the  intermediary may 
take a declaration of the residence/correspondence address on which all 
correspondence will be made by the intermediary with the investor. No 
proof  is  required  to  be  submitted  for  such  correspondence/residence 
address. In the event of change in this address due to relocation or any 
other reason, investor may intimate the new address for correspondence 
to the intermediary within two weeks of such a change. The residence/ 
correspondence address and any such change thereof may be verified by 
the 
(i) 
acknowledgment  of  receipt  Welcome  Kit/  dispatch  of  contract  notes  / 
any periodical statement, etc. (ii) telephonic conversation; (iii) visits, etc. 

‘positive  confirmation’ 

such  as 

intermediary 

through 

 

1.1.5 

 

i. 

Clarifications  with  regard  to  KYC  requirement  for  eligible  Foreign 
Investors14 

SEBI  has  received  representations  regarding  operational  issues  in  the 
implementation of SEBI circulars No CIR/MIRSD/16/2011 dated August 
22, 2011 and MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011 dated October 5, 2011 on know your 
client  norms  for  the  securities  market  SEBI  Circulars  in  case  of  foreign 

                                                           
14 Reference CIR MIRSD/11/2012 dated September 05, 2012 and CIR MIRSD/07/2013 dated 
September 12, 2013 

12 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

investors viz. Foreign Institutional Investors, Sub Accounts and Qualified 
Foreign Investors. In consultation with the Stock Exchanges, Depositories 
and Intermediaries, certain clarifications are issued, as given in Annexure 
A, with respect to these investors. 

ii.  Eligible  foreign  investors  investing  under  Portfolio  Investment  Scheme 
('PIS')  route  shall  be  classified  as  Category  I,  II  and  III  as  provided  in 
Annexure B. The intermediary shall follow risk based Know Your  Client 
norms.  Accordingly,  certain  clarifications  are  hereby  issued,  as  given  in 
Annexure C, based on the category of these investors. 

iii.  Eligible  foreign  investors  investing  under  PIS  route  shall  be  subject  to 
KYC  review  as  and  when  there  is  any  change  in  material  information  / 
disclosure. 

Annexure A 

Sr 
No. 

on 

requirements 

Relevant 
KYC Form 
as  per  SEBI  Circulars  dated 
August 
22, 2011 and October 5, 2011 

1. 

Authorized signatories list with 
specimen 
to  be 
submitted. 

signatures 

2. 

3. 

form 

from 

filled 

Intermediary  has  to  get  the 
KYC 
the 
clients. 
PAN to be taken for individual 
promoters  holding  control  - 
indirectly, 
either  directly  or 

13 

Clarifications 
Investors viz. FIIs, 
Sub Accounts and QFIs 

for 

Foreign 

If  the  client  has  authorized  the 
Global  Custodian 
-  an  entity 
regulated by an appropriate foreign 
regulatory 
authority  or  Local 
Custodian registered with SEBI as a 
signatory  by  way  of  a  Power  of 
Attorney  ('PoA')  to  sign  on  its 
behalf, such PoA may be accepted. 
The  Global  Custodian  or  the  Local 
Custodian may fill the KYC form, if 
authorized through the PoA. 
Not applicable. 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

directors 

Partners/Trustees,  whole  time 
directors/two 
in 
charge of day to day operations 
and persons authorized to deal 
in  securities  on  behalf  of 
company/firm/others. 
For  foreign  nationals,  (allowed 
to  trade  subject  to  RBI  and 
FEMA  guidelines),  copy  of 
passport/PIO  Card/OCI  Card 
is mandatory. 

For  foreign  entities,  CIN 
is 
optional;  and  in  the  absence  of 
DIN  no.  for  the  directors  their 
passport copy should be given. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

It shall be mandatory for all the 
Intermediaries  addressed 
in 
this  circular  to  carry  out  In 
person  verification  of 
their 
clients. 

14 

 

 
 

 

 

Proof  of  Identity  document  duly 
attested  by  the  entities  authorized 
for  the  same  as  per  SEBI  Circular 
dated October 5, 2011 or authorised 
signatories  as  mentioned  at  point  1 
above  may  be  adequate  in  lieu  of 
the passport copy. 
CIN  no.  is  provided  as  an  example 
and requires the client’s registration 
number in its respective country. If 
the  foreign  entity  does  not  have 
CIN,  the  equivalent  registration 
number  of 
the  entity  may  be 
mentioned.  If  it  does  not  have  any 
then  SEBI 
registration  number, 
Registration  number  may 
be 
mentioned. 
 
In case the directors (as per point 3 
above), of the client do not have an 
equivalent  of  DIN  in  the  client’s 
respective 
"Not 
Applicable" may be stated. Copy of 
the Passport may not be provided. 
In  person  verification 
applicable 
Client. 
 
In  case  of  QFI  –  Individual  Client, 
IPV  shall  be  carried  out  by  SEBI 

is  not 
for  a  non-individual 

jurisdiction, 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

7. 

8. 

Copies  of  all  the  documents 
submitted  by 
the  applicant 
should  be  self-attested  and 
accompanied  by  originals  for 
verification. 
In  case  the  original  of  any 
document  is  not  produced  for 
verification,  then  the  copies 
should  be  properly  attested  by 
entities authorized for attesting 
the  documents,  as  per  the  list 
mentioned in the circular dated 
Aug 22, 2011. 
A.  Copy  of  the  balance  sheets 
for the last 2 financial years (to 
be 
submitted  every  year), 
annual  gross  income  and  net 
worth details. 
 
B. Copy of latest share holding 
pattern 
list  of  all 
those  holding  control,  either 
directly  or  indirectly,  in  the 
company 
terms  of  SEBI 
takeover  Regulations,  duly 
certified  by 
company 
secretary/Whole 
time 
director/MD  (to  be  submitted 
every year).  
POI  and  POA  of  individual 
promoters  holding  control  - 
either directly or indirectly. 

including 

in 

the 

9.  Name, 

address, 
photograph,  POI  and  POA  of 

residential 

15 

registered intermediary as per SEBI 
Circular dated August 22, 2011. 
In  the  absence  of  originals  for 
verification,  documents  may  be 
attested as per SEBI Circulars dated 
August  22,  2011  and  October  5, 
2011  or  authorised  signatories  as 
mentioned at point 1 above. 

A. Though it is not mandatory, the 
intermediaries  shall  carry  out  due 
diligence  as  per  the  PMLA  and 
SEBI  Master  Circular  on  AML 
about  the  financial  position  of  the 
client. 
 
B.  List  of  beneficial  owners  with 
shareholding  or  beneficial  interest 
in  the  client  equal  to  or  above  25% 
to be obtained. If Global Custodian 
/Local  Custodian  provides  an 
undertaking to submit these details, 
then  intermediary  may  take  such 
undertaking  only.  Any  change  in 
the list to be obtained based on risk 
profile of the client. 

A. Not required if Global Custodian 
an 
/Local  Custodian 

gives 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

directors 

Partners/Trustees,  whole  time 
directors/two 
in 
charge of day to day operations 
and 
promoters 
holding control - either directly 
or indirectly. 

individual 

10.  Copy  of  SEBI 

registration 

certificate to be provided. 

11.  Every  client  has  to  provide  the 
trading  account  related  details, 
as  required  by  Annexure  3  to 
the  SEBI  circular  dated  August 
22, 2011. 

16 

 

 
 

 

 

to 

provide 

undertaking 
the 
following  documents  as  and  when 
requested for by intermediary: 
1  A  resolution  from  the  Board  of 
Directors and power of attorney 
granted to its managers, officers 
or  employees  to  transact  on  its 
behalf; and 

2  An  officially  valid  document  in 
respect  of  managers,  officers  or 
employees  holding  an  attorney 
to transact on its behalf. 

If  Global  Custodian/Local 
B. 
Custodian  does  not  provide  such 
undertaking  as  stated  in  A  above, 
intermediary  shall  take  required 
details from Foreign Investors. 
Custodian  shall  verify  the  SEBI 
registration  certificate  copy  with 
the  originals  or  with  the  details 
available  on  SEBI  website  and 
provide duly certified copy of such 
verified SEBI registration certificate 
to the intermediary. 
Annexure  3  to  the  circular  dated 
August  22,  2012  pertaining 
to 
trading  account  related  details  is 
not  applicable  for  FIIs  and  Sub 
Accounts. 
 
However, 
are 
required  to  update  details  of  any 
action 
proceedings 
initiated  against  the  entity  by  the 
foreign  regulators  or  SEBI/  Stock 
exchanges. 

Intermediaries 

taken 

or 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
For  QFI,  the  intermediary  shall 
collect the 
following details from Annexure 3: 
  Bank Account details 
  Depository account 
  Regulatory 

Actions 

as 

mentioned above 

Intermediary  shall  display  these 
standard  documents  prescribed  by 
SEBI  on  its  web  site,  intimate  the 
clients regarding the link and email 
a copy of the same to the client. 
If  place  of  incorporation  is  not 
available, Intermediary should take 
Registered office address/ principal 
place of business of entity. 
Not applicable 

If FII or Sub Account does not have 
certificate  of 
Incorporation  or 
Memorandum  and  Articles  of 
Association,  then  any  reasonable 
equivalent 
document 
evidencing formation of entity may 
be allowed. 
 

legal 

Not applicable. 

12. 

of 

all 

Intermediary  shall  provide  a 
set 
executed 
documents to the client, free of 
charge. 

the 

13.  Place of incorporation 

14.  Date  of  commencement  of 

business 

15.  Copies  of  the  Memorandum 
and Articles of Association and 
certificate of incorporation 

16.  Copy  of  the  Board  Resolution 
in  securities 

investment 

for 
market. 

 

Exemptions - 
In case of Sovereign Wealth Fund, Foreign Governmental Agency, Central 
bank,  International  or  Multilateral  organization  and  Central  or  State 

17 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Government Pension Fund, the intermediary shall satisfy itself about their 
status and thereafter, only provisions at point 9 above shall be applicable. 
Further,  these  entities  shall  also  be  a  part  of  KRA  centralised  system  of 
KYCs. 
 

Annexure B 

Category 
I. 

II. 

III. 

Governmental 

Eligible Foreign Investors 
Government  and  Government  related 
foreign investors such as Foreign Central 
Banks, 
Agencies, 
Sovereign  Wealth  Funds,  International/ 
Multilateral Organizations/ Agencies. 
a)  Appropriately  regulated  broad  based 
as  Mutual  Funds, 
funds 
Investment  Trusts, 
Insurance  / 
Reinsurance  Companies,  Other  Broad 
Based Funds etc. 
 

such 

b)  Appropriately  regulated  entities  such 
Banks,  Asset  Management 
Investment  Managers/ 

as 
Companies, 
Advisors, Portfolio Managers etc. 

 
c)  Broad  based  funds  whose  investment 

manager is appropriately regulated. 

 
d)  University Funds and Pension Funds 
 
e)  University 

related 

Endowments 
registered  with  SEBI  as 

already 
FII/Sub Account 
All  other  eligible 
investors 
investing  in  India  under  PIS  route  not 
eligible  under  Category  I  and  II  such  as 
Endowments,  Charitable  Societies/Trust, 

foreign 

18 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Document 
Type 
Entity level 

Constitutive 
Docs 
 
Proof of 
Address 

Foundations,  Corporate  Bodies,  Trusts, 
Individuals, Family Offices, etc. 

Annexure C 

Category – I  Category  – 

Category – III 

Required 

II 
Required 

Required 

Required 
Power of 
Attorney, 
mentioning 
the address, 
is 
acceptable 
as 
address 
proof 

Required 
Power of 
Attorney, 
mentioning 
the 
address, 
is 
acceptable 
as 
address 
proof 
Required 
Exempt 

Required 
- Address 
proof other 
than 
Power of 
Attorney 
should 
be submitted. 

Required 
Risk based 
- Financial 
data 
sufficient. 
Required 

PAN Card 
Financials 

Required 
Exempt 

SEBI 
Registration 
Certificate 
Board 
Resolution 
KYC Form 
List 
Proof Of 
Identity 

Senior 
Management 
(Whole Time 

Required 

Required 

Exempt 

Required 

Required 

Required 
Required 
Exempt 

Required 
Required 
Exempt 

Required 
Required 
Entity declares 
on 

19 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Directors/ 
Partners/ 
Trustees/ 
etc.) 

Authorized 
Signatories 

Exempt 

Proof of 
Address 
Photographs   Exempt 
List & 
Signatures 

Required 
- List of 
Global 
Custodian 
('GC') 
signatories 
can be 
given in 
case of POA 
to 
GC 
Not 
required 
Not 
required 

Proof Of 
Identity 
Proof of 
Address 
Photographs  Not 

List 

required 
Exempt 

Ultimate 
Beneficial 
Owner 
('UBO') 

Exempt 

Proof Of 
Identity 
Proof of 
Address 
Photographs  Exempt 

Exempt 

20 

letterhead - 
full name, 
nationality 
and DoB OR 
Photo-identity 
proof' 
Declaration on 
letter head 
Exempt 
Required 

Not required 

Not required 

Required 

Required 

Required 

Exempt 

Exempt 
Required 
- List of GC 
signatories 
can be 
given in 
case of 
POA to GC 
 

Not 
required 
Not 
required 
Not 
required 
Required 
- Can 
declare "no 
UBO 
over 25%" 
Exempt 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Exempt 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

1.1.6 

Acceptance of third party address as correspondence address15 

 

 

 

 
1.2 

i.  SEBI  has  no  objection  to  a  BO  authorizing  the  capture  of  an  address  of  a 
third  party  as  a  correspondence  address,  provided  that  the  Depository 
Participant (DP) ensures that all prescribed ‘Know Your Client’ norms are 
fulfilled for the third party also. The DP shall obtain proof of identity and 
proof of address for the third party. The DP shall also ensure that customer 
due  diligence  norms  as  specified  in  Rule  9  of  Prevention  of  Money 
Laundering Rules, 2005 are complied with in respect of the third party. 

ii.  The  depository  participant  should  further  ensure  that  the  statement  of 
transactions  and  holding  are  sent  to  the  BO’s  permanent  address  at  least 
once in a year. 

iii.  However,  the  above  provision  shall  not  apply  in  case  of  PMS  (Portfolio 

Management Services) clients.  

Exemptions  from  and  clarifications  relating  to  mandatory  requirement  of 
PAN 

 

1.2.1  Mandatory requirement of Permanent Account Number (PAN) 16 

 
The  demat  accounts  for  which  PAN  details  have  not  been  verified  are 
“suspended  for  debit”  until  the  same  is  verified  with  the  Depository 
Participant  (DP).  With  effect  from  August  16,  2010  such  PAN  non-
compliant demat accounts were also "suspended for credit" other than the 
credits arising out of automatic corporate actions. It was clarified that other 
credits 
issue,  off-market 
transactions  or  any  secondary  market  transactions  would  not  be  allowed 
into such accounts. 

including  credits 

from 

IPO/FPO/Rights 

 
1.2.2  Central and State Government and officials appointed by Courts17 
                                                           
15 Reference: Circular CIR/MRD/DP/37/2010 dated December 14, 2010 
16 Reference: Circular MRD/DP/22/2010 dated July 29, 2010 

21 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
PAN card may not be insisted upon in case of transactions undertaken on 
behalf  of  Central  Government  and/or  State  Government  and  where 
transactions  are  conducted  by  officials  appointed  by  Courts  e.g.  Official 
liquidator, Court receiver etc.18 
 
However DPs, before implementing the above exemption, shall verify the 
veracity  of  the  claim  of  the  organizations  by  collecting  sufficient 
documentary evidence in support of their claim for such an exemption. 

 

1.2.3  Investors in Sikkim19 

 
Investors residing in the state of Sikkim are exempted from the mandatory 
requirement of furnishing PAN card details for their demat accounts.20 DPs 
shall verify the veracity of the claim of the investors that they are residents 
of Sikkim, by collecting sufficient documentary evidence in support of their 
address 
 

1.2.4  UN  entities  and  multilateral  agencies  exempt  from  paying  taxes/  filling 

tax returns in India21 
 
UN  entities/  multilateral  agencies  exempt  from  paying  taxes/filing  tax 
returns  in  India  are  also  exempt  from  the  mandatory  requirement  of 
submitting  their  PAN  card  details,  subject  to  the  DPs  collecting 
documentary evidence in support of such claims. 
 

1.2.5  FIIs/Institutional Clients22 

 
Custodians  shall  verify  the  PAN  card  details  of  institutional  clients  with 
the  original  PAN  card  and  provide  duly  certified  copies  of  such  verified 
                                                                                                                                                                             
17 Reference: Circular MRD/DoP/Cir-20/2008 dated June 30, 2008 
18 Reference: Rule 114C (1)(c) of Income Tax Rules 
19 Reference: Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 dated July 20, 2006 
20 Reference: Hon’ble High Court of Sikkim judgment dated March 31, 2006 
21 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 dated July 20, 2006 
22 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-13/06 dated September 26, 2006 

22 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

PAN  details  to  the  brokers.  This  requirement  is  applicable  in  respect  of 
institutional  clients,  namely,  FIIs,  MFs,  VCFs,  FVCIs,  Scheduled 
Commercial  Banks,  Multilateral  and  Bilateral  Development  Financial 
Institutions,  State 
Insurance 
Companies  registered  with  IRDA  and  Public  Financial  Institution  as 
defined under section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956. 

Industrial  Development  Corporations, 

 
1.2.6  HUF,  Association  of  Persons  (AoP),  Partnership  Firm,  unregistered 

Trust, Registered Trust, Corporate Bodies, minors, etc.15    
 
The BO account shall be in the name of natural persons, PAN card details 
of  the  respective  HUF,  AoP,  Partnership  Firm,  Unregistered  Trust,  etc 
shall be obtained. The PAN number of Registered Trust, Corporate Bodies 
and  minors  shall  be  obtained  when  accounts  are  opened  in  their 
respective names. 

 
1.2.7  Difference in maiden name and current name of investors. 15    

 
DPs  can  collect  the  PAN  card  proof  as  submitted  by  the  account  holder 
subject to the DPs verifying the veracity of the claim of such investors by 
collecting  sufficient  documentary  evidence  in  support  of  the  identity  of 
the investors.23   

 
1.2.8  NRI/PIOs24 

 
Citizens of India residing outside India, foreign citizens and other persons 
(like companies/ trusts/ firms) having no office of their own in India may 
obtain  PAN  card  based  on  the  copy  of  their  passport  as  ID  proof  and  a 
copy  of  passport/  bank  account  in  the  country  of  residence  as  address 
proof, based on the Directorate of Income Tax (Systems) guidelines.25  
 

1.2.9    Foreign Portfolio Investors26 
                                                           
23 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-29/2004 dated August 24, 2004 
24 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-17/06 dated October 27, 2006 
25 Reference Income Tax (Systems) PAN Circular No. 4 dated October 11, 2006 
26 Reference: Circular CIR/IMD/FPIC/123/2016 dated November 17, 2016 

23 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

1.3 
 

i. 

 

 PAN  verification  process  at  the  time  of  account  opening  of  FPIs,  it  is 
decided  that  the  intermediaries  can  verify  the  PAN  of  FPIs  online  from 
website  authorised  by  Income  Tax  department  at  the  time  of  account-
opening  for  FPIs.  However,  FPIs  need    to    provide    the    copy    of    PAN  
card  within  60  days  of  account-opening  or  before remitting funds out 
of India, whichever is earlier to their intermediaries. 
 
Central    Board    of    Direct    Taxes    (CBDT)    has    recently    introduced    a  
facility  of E-PAN (electronic  PAN  card)  vide  press release  dated  April  
11,  2017.  Accordingly it is clarified that E-PAN issued by CBDT can also 
be produced by FPI for KYC compliance.27 
 

  Simplification of demat account opening process28 

SEBI  has  taken  a  number  of  steps  in  the  recent  past  to  simplify  the 
Account  opening  and  KYC  process  in  the  securities  markets.  In 
continuation of the efforts in the same direction, it has now been decided 
in  consultation  with  both  the  Depositories  and  Associations  of  stock 
brokers and Depository Participants to further simplify and rationalize the 
demat account opening process.  

ii.  The existing Beneficial Owner-Depository Participant Agreements shall be 
replaced  with  a  common  document  “Rights  and  Obligations  of  the 
Beneficial  Owner  and  Depository  Participant”.  The  document  annexed 
herewith  shall  be  mandatory  and  binding  on  all  the  existing  and  new 
clients  and  depository  participants.  This  will  harmonize  the  account 
opening  process  for  trading  as  well  as  demat  account.  This  will  also 
rationalise the number of signatures by the investor, which he is required 
to affix at present on a number of pages. 
 

iii.  The Depository Participant shall provide a copy of Rights and Obligations 
Document to the beneficial owner and shall take an acknowledgement of 

                                                           
27 Reference: Circular SEBI/HO/IMD/FIIC/CIR/P/2017/068 dated June 30, 2017  
28 Reference Circular SEBI/MIRSD/ 12/2013 dated December 04, 2013 
 

24 

 
 

 

 

 

iv. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

the  same.  They  shall  ensure  that  any  clause  in  any  voluntary  document 
neither dilutes the responsibility of the depository participant nor it shall 
be  in  conflict  with  any  of  the  clauses  in  this  Document,  Rules,  Bye-laws, 
Regulations,  Notices,  Guidelines  and  Circulars  issued  by  SEBI  and  the 
Depositories from time to time. Any such clause introduced in the existing 
as well as new documents shall stand null and void. 
 

In  consultation  with  market  participants,  with  a  view    to  simplify  the 
account  opening  kit,  SEBI  has  decided  that  Depository  Participant  shall 
make  available  this  document  “Rights  and  Obligations  of  the  Beneficial 
Owner  and  Depository  Participant”  to  the  clients,  either  in  electronic  or 
physical  form,  depending  upon  the  preference  of  the  client  as  part  of 
account  opening  kit.  In  case  the  documents  are  made  available  in 
electronic  form,  Depository  Participant  shall  maintain  the  logs  of  the 
same.  It  is  also  reiterated  that  Depositories/Depository  participant  shall 
continue  to  make  the  aforesaid  document  available  on  their  website  and 
keep the clients informed about the same.29     

 

ANNEXURE 

 

Rights  and  Obligations  of  Beneficial  Owner  and  Depository  Participant  as 
prescribed by SEBI and Depositories 
 
General Clause 

1.  The Beneficial Owner and the Depository participant (DP) shall be bound 
by  the  provisions  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  SEBI  (Depositories  and 
Participants)  Regulations,  1996,  Rules  and  Regulations  of  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Circulars/Notifications/Guidelines issued 
there  under,  Bye  Laws  and  Business  Rules/Operating  Instructions  issued 
by  the  Depositories  and  relevant  notifications  of  Government  Authorities 
as may be in force from time to time. 

                                                           
29  Reference: Circular  CIR/MIRSD/64/2016 dated July 12, 2016 

25 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

2.  The  DP  shall  open/activate  demat  account  of  a  beneficial  owner  in  the 
depository  system  only  after  receipt  of  complete  Account  opening  form, 
KYC and supporting documents as specified by SEBI from time to time. 

 

 

 

Beneficial Owner information 

3.  The  DP  shall  maintain  all  the  details  of  the  beneficial  owner(s)  as 
mentioned in the account opening form, supporting documents submitted 
by  them  and/or  any  other  information  pertaining  to  the  beneficial  owner 
confidentially  and  shall  not  disclose  the  same  to  any  person  except  as 
required by any statutory, legal or regulatory authority in this regard. 

4.  The Beneficial Owner shall immediately notify the DP in writing, if there is 
any change in details provided in the account opening form as submitted 
to the DP at the time of opening the demat account or furnished to the DP 
from time to time. 

Fees/Charges/Tariff 

5.  The Beneficial Owner shall pay such charges to the DP for the purpose of 
holding and transfer of securities in dematerialized form and for availing 
depository services as may be agreed to from time to time between the DP 
and the Beneficial Owner as set out in the Tariff Sheet provided by the DP. 
It  may  be  informed  to  the  Beneficial  Owner  that  "no  charges  are  payable 
for opening of demat accounts” 

6.   In  case  of  Basic  Services  Demat  Accounts,  the  DP  shall  adhere  to  the 
charge structure as laid down under the relevant SEBI and/or Depository 
circulars/directions/notifications issued from time to time. 

7.  The  DP  shall  not  increase  any  charges/tariff  agreed  upon  unless  it  has 
given  a  notice  in  writing  of  not  less  than  thirty  days  to  the  Beneficial 
Owner regarding the same. 

Dematerialization 

26 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

8.  The Beneficial Owner shall have the right to get the securities, which have 
been admitted on the Depositories, dematerialized in the form and manner 
laid down under the Bye Laws, Business Rules and Operating Instructions 
of the depositories. 

Separate Accounts 

9.  The DP shall open separate accounts in the name of each of the beneficial 
owners  and  securities  of  each  beneficial  owner  shall  be  segregated  and 
shall not be mixed up with the securities of other beneficial owners and/or 
DP’s own securities held in dematerialized form. 

10. The  DP  shall  not  facilitate  the  Beneficial  Owner  to  create  or  permit  any 
pledge  and  /or  hypothecation  or  any  other  interest  or  encumbrance  over 
all or any of such securities submitted for dematerialization and/or held in 
demat  account  except  in  the  form  and  manner  prescribed  in  the 
Depositories  Act,  1996,  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations, 
1996  and  Bye-Laws/Operating 
the 
Depositories. 

Instructions/Busines  Rules  of 

Transfer of Securities 

11. The  DP  shall  effect  transfer  to  and  from  the  demat  accounts  of  the 
Beneficial  Owner  only  on  the  basis  of  an  order,  instruction,  direction  or 
mandate  duly  authorized  by  the  Beneficial  Owner  and  the  DP  shall 
maintain the original documents and the audit trail of such authorizations. 

12. The Beneficial Owner reserves the right to give standing instructions with 
regard to the crediting of securities in his demat account and the DP shall 
act according to such instructions. 

Statement of account 

13. The  DP  shall  provide  statements  of  accounts  to  the  beneficial  owner  in 
such  form  and  manner  and  at  such  time  as  agreed  with  the  Beneficial 
Owner and as specified by SEBI/depository in this regard. 

27 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

14. However, if there is no transaction in the demat account, or if the balance 
has become Nil during the year, the DP shall send one physical statement 
of holding annually to such BOs and shall resume sending the transaction 
statement as and when there is a transaction in the account. 

15. The  DP  may  provide  the  services  of  issuing  the  statement  of  demat 
accounts in an Electronic mode if the Beneficial Owner so desires. The DP 
will furnish to the Beneficial Owner the statement of demat accounts under 
its  digital  signature,  as  governed  under  the  Information  Technology  Act, 
2000.  However  if  the  DP  does  not  have  the  facility  of  providing  the 
statement  of  demat  account  in  the  electronic  mode,  then  the  Participant 
shall  be  obliged  to  forward  the  statement  of  demat  accounts  in  physical 
form. 

16. In case of Basic Services Demat Accounts, the DP shall send the transaction 

statements as mandated by SEBI and/or Depository from time to time. 

 

 

 

Manner of Closure of Demat account 

17. The  DP  shall  have  the  right  to  close  the  demat  account  of  the  Beneficial 
Owner, for any reasons whatsoever, provided the DP has given a notice in 
writing of not less than thirty days to the Beneficial Owner as well as to the 
Depository.  Similarly,  the  Beneficial  Owner  shall  have  the  right  to  close 
his/her demat account held with the DP provided no charges are payable 
by him/her to the DP. In such an event, the Beneficial Owner shall specify 
whether  the  balances  in  their  demat  account  should  be  transferred  to 
another demat account of the Beneficial Owner held with another DP or to 
rematerialize the security balances held. 

18. Based on the instructions of the Beneficial Owner, the DP shall initiate the 
procedure  for  transferring  such  security  balances  or  rematerialize  such 
security balances within a period of thirty days as per procedure specified 

28 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

from  time  to  time  by  the  depository.  Provided  further,  closure  of  demat 
account  shall  not  affect  the  rights,  liabilities  and  obligations  of  either  the 
Beneficial Owner or the DP and shall continue to bind the parties to their 
satisfactory completion. 

Default in payment of charges 

19. In  event of  Beneficial  Owner  committing  a default  in  the  payment  of  any 
amount provided in Clause 5 &  6 within a period of thirty days from the 
date of demand, without prejudice to the right of the DP to close the demat 
account  of  the  Beneficial  Owner,  the  DP  may  charge  interest  at  a  rate  as 
specified  by  the  Depository  from  time  to  time  for  the  period  of  such 
default. 

20.  In case the Beneficial Owner has failed to make the payment of any of the 
amounts  as  provided  in  Clause  5&6  specified  above,  the  DP  after  giving 
two  days  notice  to  the  Beneficial  Owner  shall  have  the  right  to  stop 
processing of instructions of the Beneficial Owner till such time he makes 
the payment along with interest, if any. 

Liability of the Depository 

21. As per Section 16 of Depositories Act, 1996, 

a.  Without prejudice to the provisions of any other law for the time being 
in force, any loss caused to the beneficial owner due to the negligence 
of  the  depository  or  the  participant,  the  depository  shall  indemnify 
such beneficial owner. 

b.  Where  the  loss  due  to  the  negligence  of  the  participant  under  Clause 
(1) above, is indemnified by the depository, the depository shall have 
the right to recover the same from such participant. 

Freezing/ Defreezing of accounts 

22. The  Beneficial  Owner  may  exercise  the  right  to  freeze/defreeze  his/her 
demat account maintained with the DP in accordance with the procedure 

29 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

and subject to the restrictions laid down under the Bye Laws and Business 
Rules/Operating Instructions. 

23. The  DP  or  the  Depository  shall  have  the  right  to  freeze/defreeze  the 
accounts of the Beneficial Owners on receipt of instructions received from 
any regulator or court or any statutory authority. 

Redressal of Investor grievance 

The DP shall redress all grievances of the Beneficial Owner against the DP within 
a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  complaint.Authorized 
representative 

24. If the Beneficial Owner is a body corporate or a legal entity, it shall, along 
with  the  account  opening  form,  furnish  to  the  DP,  a  list  of  officials 
authorized  by  it,  who  shall  represent  and  interact  on  its  behalf  with  the 
Participant.  Any  change  in  such  list  including  additions,  deletions  or 
alterations thereto shall be forthwith communicated to the Participant. 

Law and Jurisdiction 

25. In addition to the specific rights set out in this document, the DP and the 
Beneficial owner shall be entitled to exercise any other rights which the DP 
or  the  Beneficial  Owner  may  have  under  the  Rules,  Bye  Laws  and 
Regulations  of  the  respective  Depository  in  which  the  demat  account  is 
opened and circulars/notices issued there under or Rules and Regulations 
of SEBI. 

26. The  provisions  of  this  document  shall  always  be  subject  to  Government 
notification, any rules, regulations, guidelines and circulars/ notices issued 
by  SEBI  and  Rules,  Regulations  and  Bye-laws  of  the  relevant  Depository, 
where  the  Beneficial  Owner  maintains  his/  her  account,  that  may  be  in 
force from time to time. 

27. The  Beneficial  Owner  and  the  DP  shall  abide  by  the  arbitration  and 
conciliation  procedure  prescribed  under  the  Bye-laws  of  the  depository 

30 

 
 

 

 

 

1.4 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

and  that  such  procedure  shall  be  applicable  to  any  disputes  between  the 
DP and the Beneficial Owner. 

28. Words and expressions which are used in this document but which are not 
defined herein  shall unless the context otherwise requires, have the same 
meanings as assigned  thereto in the Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations and 
circulars/notices issued there under by the depository and /or SEBI. 

29. Any  changes  in  the  rights  and  obligations  which  are  specified  by 
SEBI/Depositories shall also be brought to the notice of the clients at once. 

30. If  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  hereto  are  altered  by  virtue  of 
change  in  Rules  and  regulations  of  SEBI  or  Bye-laws,  Rules  and 
Regulations  of  the  relevant  Depository,  where  the  Beneficial  Owner 
maintains  his/her  account,  such  changes  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been 
incorporated  herein  in  modification  of  the  rights  and  obligations  of  the 
parties mentioned in this document. 

Opening of demat account in case of HUF30 
 
It is noted that as per law, in case of HUF, shares can be held in the name 
of  Existing  Karta  on  behalf  of  HUF.  Therefore,  HUF  demat  accounts  can 
be opened in the name of Existing Karta but not in the name of Deceased 
Karta and HUF entity. 
After examined the issues regarding difference in opening of HUF demat 
account and procedure adopted in the event of death of Karta of HUF, it 
has  been  decided  that  opening  of  HUF  demat  account  and  procedure 
adopted  in  the  event  of  death  of  Karta  of  HUF  shall  be  as  per  the 
following guidelines31: 
 
1.1 Opening of HUF Demat Account 

                                                           
30 Reference: SEBI/ MRD/CDSL/ 149156 /2009 dated January 01, 2009 
31 Reference: SEBI letter No. SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/OW/2016/25739/1  & 25740/1 dated September 14, 2016 

31 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

      a) The Demat account shall be opened in the name of HUF entity as the   
name  of  entity  appears  on  the  PAN  Card.  The  PAN  details  of  the  
both  the  HUF  entity  and  Karta  of  HUF  shall  be  submitted  to  the  
Depository Participant (DP) 

 
1.2 Death of Karta 
      a)  In  the  event  of  death  of  Karta  of  HUF,  the  name  of  the  deceased         

Karta in the Beneficial Owner (BO) account shall be replaced by the 
new Karta appointed by the member of the HUF who in such a case 
shall be senior most member of the family, except married daughters. 

 
     b)  The  new  Karta  shall  submit  the  new  list  of  members,  a  notarized 
copy  of  death  certificate  of  the  deceased  Karta  and  a  no  objection 
from the surviving members of the HUF for him/her to act as Karta 
of the HUF. 

 
    c) In the event of death of Karta of HUF, the existing BO account need 
not  to  be  closed  and  the  same  account  may  continue.  The  death  of 
Karta shall not mean that the securities lying in the BO account of the 
HUF  is  deemed  to  have  divided  among  coparceners  as  if  the 
partition has taken place. 

 
1.3 Partition of HUF 
     a) A total or partial partition shall be recognized only if a claim to that 

effect is made by one or more coparceners. 

 
     b) An intimation of a total or partial partition shall be accompanied by 
a  signed  letter  mentioning  the  names  of  the  members  and  their 
confirmation of a partition having taken place. 

  

32 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
1.5 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

     c)  In  case  of  partial  partition  of  the  HUF,  if  desired  by  one  or  more 
coparceners,  the  new  Karta  shall  transfer  shares  to  the  said 
coparceners who seek partition and the BO account of the HUF shall 
continue.  The  account  of  such  coparceners  shall  be  treated  as  their 
individual accounts. 

 
    d)  In  case  of  full  partition  of  the  HUF,  the  shares  shall  be  divided 
amongst all the coparceners in the manner specified by the applicant 
subject  to  fulfillment  of  clause  1.3(b)  above  and  the  HUF  account 
shall cease to exist. 

      

 

Operation of minor’s demat account32  
 
Under  [The] Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act,  1956,  permission of 
Court  is  required  in  the  case  of  transfer  by  a  natural  guardian  of 
immovable  property  of  a  minor.    However,  shares  are  not  immovable 
properly.  Section  2(7)  of  Sale  of  Goods  Act,  1930  includes  shares  within 
the definition of "goods''.   Neither the Indian Contract Act nor the Sale of 
Goods Act provide for transfer by sale or otherwise by guardian /natural 
guardian  of  goods/movable  property  in  the  name  of  minor  to  the  effect 
that permission of court is required in the matter of such transfer.   In the 
case of accounts of minor in banks also, the guardian is entitled to open, 
operate and even close the account also.   The DP account can, therefore, 
be  operated  by  a  natural  guardian  without  any  order  from  the  court 
though the same is neither expressly permitted nor prohibited. 
 

1.6 

  Facility for a Basic Services Demat Account (BSDA)3334 

 

                                                           
32 Reference: SMDRP/NSDL/4615 /2000 dated March 13, 2000 
33 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/22/2012 dated August 27, 2012 and Modified vide Circular    
CIR/MRD/DP/21/2014 dated July 01, 2014 and Circular CIR/MRD/DP/31/2014 dated 
November 12, 2014 
34 Modified vide Circular  CIR/MRD/DP/20/2015 dated December 11, 2015 

33 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

1.6.1  All  depository  participants  (DPs)  shall  make  available  a  "Basic  Services 
Demat  Account"  (BSDA)  with  limited  services  as  per  terms  specified 
herein. 

 

1.6.2  Eligibility:  Individuals  shall  be  eligible  to  opt  for  BSDA  subject  to  the 

following conditions-  

i.  All  the  individuals  who  have  or  propose  to  have  only  one  demat 

ii. 

account where they are the sole or first holder.  
Individuals having any other demat account/s where they are not the 
first  holder  shall  be  eligible  for  BSDA  in  respect  of  the  single  demat 
account where they are sole or first holder.  

iii.  The  individual  shall  have  only  one  BSDA  in  his/her  name  across  all 

depositories.  

iv.  Value of securities held in the demat account shall not exceed Rupees 

Two Lakhs at any point of time. 

 

1.6.3  Option to open BSDA: The DP shall give option:  

i.  To  open  BSDA  to  all  eligible  individuals  who  open  a  demat  account 

after the date of applicability of this circular;  

iii. 

ii.  To  all  the  existing  eligible  individuals  to  convert  their  demat  account 
into  BSDA  on  the  date  of  the  next  billing  cycle  based  on  value  of 
holding  of  securities  in  the  account  as  on  the  last  day  of  previous 
billing cycle. 
In  order  to  facilitate  the  eligible  individuals  to  avail  the  benefits  of 
BSDA, DPs are advised to convert all such eligible demat accounts into 
BSDA unless such Beneficial Owners (BOs) specifically opt to continue 
to avail the facility of a regular demat account. 
 

1.6.4  Charges: 

i.  The charge structure may be on a slab basis as indicated below:  

a.  No  Annual  Maintenance  Charges  (AMC)  shall  be  levied,  if  the 

value of holding is upto Rs. 50,000.  

b.  For  the  value  of  holding  from  Rs  50,001  to  Rs  200,000,  AMC  not 

exceeding Rs 100 may be charged.  

 

34 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ii.  The value of holding shall be determined by the DPs on the basis of the 
daily closing price or NAV of the securities or units of mutual funds, 
as  the  case  may  be.  Where  such  price  is  not  available  the  last  traded 
price may be taken into account and for unlisted securities other than 
units  of  mutual  funds,  face  value  may  be  taken  in  to  account.  The 
value  of  suspended  securities  may  not  be  considered  for  the  purpose 
of determining eligibility of demat account as BSDA. 
 
If the value of holding in such BSDA exceeds the prescribed criteria at 
any  date, the DPs may levy charges as applicable to regular accounts 
(non BSDA) from that date onwards.  
 

iii. 

iv.  The DPs shall assess the eligibility of the BOs at the end of the current 

billing cycle and convert eligible demat accounts into BSDA. 

 
1.6.5  Services for Basic Services Demat Accounts: 

 

i.  Transaction statements: 

a.  Transaction  statements  shall  be  sent  to  the  BO  at  the  end  of  each 
quarter.  If  there  are  no  transactions  in  any  quarter,  no  transaction 
statement may be sent for that quarter.  

b.  If there are no  transactions and no  security balance in an account,   

then no further transaction statement needs to be provided.  

c.  Transaction  statement  shall  be  required  to  be  provided  for  the 

quarter in which the account became a zero balance account. 

 

ii.  Holding Statement:  

a.  DP  shall  send  atleast  one  annual  physical  statement  of  holding  to 
the  stated  address  of  the  BO  in  respect  of  accounts  with  no 
transaction and nil balance even after the account has remained in 
such  state  for  one  year.  The  DP  shall  inform  the  BO  that  the 
dispatch  of  the  physical  statement  may  be  discontinued  if  the 
account continues to remain zero balance even after one year.  

b.  One  annual  statement  of  holding  shall  be  sent  in  respect  of 
remaining  accounts  in  physical  or  electronic  form  as  opted  for  by 
the BO. 

35 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
iii.  Charges for statements: Electronic statements shall be provided free of 
cost.  In  case  of  physical  statements,  the  DP shall  provide  at  least  two 
statements  free  of  cost  during  the  billing  cycle.  Additional  physical 
statement may be charged at a fee not exceeding Rs.25/- per statement.  

 

iv.  All  BOs  opting  for  the  facility  of  BSDA,  shall  register  their  mobile 

number for availing the SMS alert facility for debit transactions.  

v.  At least Two Delivery Instruction Slips (DIS) shall be issued at the time 

of account opening.  
 

vi.  All  other  conditions  as  applicable  to  regular  demat  accounts,  other 
than the ones mentioned in this circular shall continue to apply to basic 
services demat account. 

 
1.6.6  Rationalisation of services with respect to regular accounts.  
 

In  partial  modification  of 
rationalisation measures shall be available for regular demat accounts:  

the  earlier  directions, 

the 

following 

i.  Accounts  with  zero  balance  and  nil  transactions  during  the  year:  DP 
shall  send  atleast  one  annual  physical  statement  of  holding  to  the 
stated address of the BO in respect of accounts with no transaction and 
nil  balance  even  after  the  account  has  remained  in  such  state  for  one 
year.  The  DP  shall  inform  the  BO  that  if  no  Annual  Maintenance 
Charge  (AMC)  is  received  by  the  DP,  the  dispatch  of  the  physical 
statement  may  be  discontinued  for  the  account  which  continues  to 
remain zero balance even after one year.  
 

ii.  Accounts  which  become  zero  balance  during  the  year:  For  such 
accounts, no transaction statement may be sent for the duration when 
the balance remains nil. However, an annual statement of holding shall 
be sent to the BO.  

36 

 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

iii.  Accounts with credit balance: For accounts with credit balance but no 
transactions during the year, half yearly statement of holding for  shall 
be sent to the BO. 

 

1.7 

  Change of Name in the Beneficial Owner (BO) Account35 
 
1.7.1 

In  order  to  simplify  the  procedure  of  change  of  name  in  individual 
Beneficial  Owner’s  (BO)  account,  it  has  been  decided  that  an  individual 
BO may be allowed to change his/ her name, subject to the submission of 
following  documents  at  the  time  of  change  of  name  of  the  individual  in 
the BO account. 

i. 

In case of change in name on account of marriage following documents   
shall be submitted: 

  Marriage  Certificate  or  copy  of  Passport  showing  husband’s  name  or 

publication of name change in official gazette. 

ii. 

In case of change in name on account of reasons other than marriage 

            Publication of name change in official gazette. 

 
In  case  of  change  of  name  of  an  individual  residing  in  the  State  of 
Karnataka and Punjab, for reasons other than marriage, the same may 
be  allowed  for  the  individual  in  the  BO  account  subject  to  the 
submission of following documents36: 
a)  Request letter for change of name; 
b)  Sworn  affidavit  executed  before  the  Notary  Public/  Magistrate  of 
First Class/ Executive Magistrate mentioning the reason for change 
of name and his complete address; 

c)  Paper  publication  in  one  local  newspaper  and  one  national 

newspaper; and 

d)  KYC in changed name 

 

 

iii. 

In case of change in father’s name: 

                  Publication of name change in official gazette. 
 
                                                           
35 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/27/2012 dated November 01, 2012 
36 Reference: Circular CIR/MRD/DP/158/2018 dated December 27, 2018 

37 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

1.7.2  The  Depository  Participants  (DPs)  shall  collect  the  self-attested  copies  of 
above  documents  and  maintain  the  same  in  their  records  after  verifying 
with the original document. 

 
1.8 
 
1.8.1  Account opening, custody and credit of securities37 

Fees/Charges to be paid by BO  

 

 

With effect from February 1, 2005 

i.  No investor shall pay any charge towards opening of a Beneficial Owner 

(BO) Account except for statutory charges as applicable; 

ii.  No  investor  shall  pay any  charge  for  credit of  securities  into  his/her  BO 

account; and 
 No custody charge shall be levied on any investor who  is opening a BO 
account. 

iii. 

 

1.8.2  Account Closure38 

 
No Account closure charges shall be levied on BO on the closure of any 
account.  

 
 
 

1.8.3  Inter Depository Transfer39 

 
Inter-depository transfer of shares does not attract Stamp duty and it does 
not require compliance with section 108 of the Companies Act 1956. 
 

1.8.4  Transfer of a BO Account40 

 
With effect from January 09, 2006   

                                                           
37 Reference Circular MRD/DoP /SE/Dep/Cir-4/2005 dated January 28, 2005 
38 Reference Circular D&CC/FITTC/CIR - 12/2002 dated October 30, 2002 
39 Reference Circular SMDRP/Policy/Cir-29/99 dated August 23, 1999 
40 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-22 /05 dated November 9, 2005 

38 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
No charges shall be levied by a depository on any DP and by a DP on any 
BO when the BO transfers all the securities lying in his account to another 
branch  of  the  same  DP  or  to  another  DP  under  the  same  depository  or 
another  depository,  provided  the  BO  Account(s)  at  transferee  DP  and  at 
transferor DP are one and the same, i.e. identical in all respects. In case the 
BO  Account  at  transferor  DP  is  a  joint  account,  the  BO  Account  at 
transferee  DP  should  also  be  a  joint  account  in  the  same  sequence  of 
ownership. 

 
1.8.5  Account Maintenance Charges collected upfront on annual/ half  yearly 

basis on demat accounts41 

 

i. 

ii. 

In  the  event  of  closing  of  the  demat  account  or  shifting  of  the  demat 
account  from  one  DP  to  another,  the  AMC  collected  upfront  on 
annual/half yearly basis by the DP, shall be refunded by the DP to the BO 
for  the  balance  of  the  quarter/s.  For  instance,  in  case  annual  AMC  has 
been  paid  by  the  BO  and  if  the  BO  closes/shifts  his  account  in  the  first 
quarter,  he  shall  be  refunded  the  amount  of  the  balance  3  quarters  i.e. 
3/4th of the AMC. Likewise, if a BO closes/shifts his account in the third 
quarter, he shall be refunded the amount for the balance one quarter i.e. 
1/4th of the AMC. 
 
For  the  purpose  of  the  above  requirement  the  year  shall  begin  from  the 
date of opening of the account in quarterly rests. 
 

iii.  The  above  requirements  shall  be  applicable  to  all  existing  and  new 
accounts held with DPs which collect annual/half yearly upfront AMC. It 
is  clarified  that  the  above  requirements  shall  not  be  applicable  to  those 
DPs who collect quarterly/ monthly AMC. 
 

 
 

                                                           
41 Reference Circular MRD/DP/20/2010 dated July 1, 2010 

39 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

1.8.6  Dissemination  of  tariff/charge  structure  of  DPs  on  the  website  of 

depositories 42 
 

i.  DPs shall submit to their depository the tariff/charge structure every year, 
latest  by  30th  April,  and  also  inform  the  depository  the  changes  in  their 
tariff/charge  structure  as  and  when  they  are  effected  with  a  view  to 
enabling  the  BOs  to  have  a  comparative  analysis  of  the  tariff/charge 
structure of various DPs. 
 
For  this  purpose  depositories  shall  put  in  place  necessary  systems  and 
procedures  including  formats,  periodicity,  etc.  for  collection of  necessary 
data from the DPs and dissemination of the same on their website which 
would  enable  the  investors  to  have  a  comparative  analysis  of  the 
tariff/charge structure of various DPs. 

ii. 

Safeguards  to  address  the  concerns  of  the  investors  on  transfer  of 
securities in dematerialized mode43  

Following safeguards shall be put in place to address the concerns of the 
investors arising out of transfer of securities from the BO Accounts:  

 
1.9 

 

 

i.  The  depositories  shall  give  more  emphasis  on  investor  education 
particularly  with  regard  to  careful  preservation  of  Delivery  Instruction 
Slip (DIS) by the BOs. The Depositories may advise the BOs not to leave 
“blank or signed” DIS with the Depository Participants (DPs) or any other 
person/entity. 
 

ii.  The  DPs  shall  not  accept  pre-signed  DIS  with  blank  columns  from  the 

iii. 

BO(s). 
 
If the DIS booklet is lost / stolen / not traceable by the BO, then the BO 
shall immediately intimate the DP in writing about the loss.  On receipt of 
such intimation, the DP shall cancel the unused DIS of the said booklet. 

                                                           
42 Reference Circular MRD/Dep/Cir- 20/06 dated December 11, 2006 
43Reference  Circular  SEBI/MRD/Dep/Cir-03/2007  dated  February  13,  2007  and  Circular    
SEBI/MRD/Dep/Cir-03/2008 dated February 28, 2008  

40 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

iv.  The DPs shall not issue more than 10 loose DIS to one accountholder in a 
financial  year  (April  to  March).  The  loose  DIS  can  be  issued  only  if  the 
BO(s)  come  in  person  and  sign  the  loose  DIS  in  the  presence  of  an 
authorised  DP official 
 

v.  The  DP  shall  also  ensure  that  a  new  DIS  booklet  is  issued  only  on  the 
strength  of  the  DIS  instruction  request  slip  (contained  in  the  previous 
booklet) duly complete in all respects, unless the request for fresh booklet 
is due to loss, etc., as referred to in clause (c) above 
 

vi.  The DPs shall put in place appropriate checks and balances with regard to 

verification of signatures of the BOs while processing the DIS.  
 

vii.  The DPs shall  cross check with the BOs under exceptional circumstances 

before acting upon the DIS. 

 
viii.  The DPs shall mandatorily verify with a BO before acting upon the DIS, in 
case  of  an  account  which  remained  inactive  i.e.,  where  no  debit 
transaction  had  taken  place  for  a  continuous  period  of  6  months, 
whenever all the ISIN balances in that account (irrespective of the number 
of  ISINs)  are  transferred  at  a  time.  However,  in  case  of  active  accounts, 
such verification may be  mandatory only if the BO account has 5 or more 
ISINs and all such ISIN balances are transferred at a time. The authorized 
official of the DP verifying such transactions with the BO, shall record the 
details of the process, date, time, etc., of the verification on the instruction 
slip under his signature. 

 
1.10 
 
 

Delivery Instruction Slip (DIS) Issuance and Processing44 
 
 Standardization of DIS 
 

i.  Depositories  shall  ensure  that  the  DIS  is  standardized  across  all  DPs  in 

terms of:  

                                                           
44 Circular SEBI/MRD/DOP/01/2014 dated  January 07, 2014 

41 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

a.  Serial Numbering of Delivery Instruction Slips so as to enable system 

level checks by the depositories. 

b.  Layout  and  size  of  DIS  so  as  to  facilitate  scanning  and  easy 

retrievability of records  

ii. 

The  DIS  must  bear  a  pre-printed  serial  number,  DP  ID,  and  a  pre-
printed/pre  stamped  Beneficial  Owner  (BO)  ID.  The  depositories  shall 
prescribe  a  standard  method  of  serial  numbering  and  ensure  that  serial 
numbers issued by a DP are unique within the DP-ID.   

 

iii.  DPs shall ensure that  

a.  same  DIS  shall  not  be  used  for  giving  both  market  and  off-market 

instructions  

b.  a single DIS shall not be used for transactions with multiple execution 

dates.  

 

Monitoring of DIS 
 

iv.  Upon  issuance  of  DIS  booklets  or  loose  slips  to  BO,  the  DPs  shall  make 
available  immediately  the  following  details  of  the  DIS  to  the  depository 
system electronically: 
a.  the DIS serial number  
b.  BO ID 
c.  date of issuance, and 
d.  any other relevant details as decided by the depository 

 

vi. 

v.  At the time of execution of DIS, DPs shall enter the serial number of DIS in 
the  depository  system  for  validation.  The  depositories  shall  make 
provisions in their systems to facilitate the same.  
 
In  respect  of  all  the  transfer  instructions  on  a  DIS,  Depositories  shall 
validate  the  serial  number  of  DIS  and  shall  ensure  that  no  instructions 
accompanied by a used DIS or unissued DIS are processed.  
 
Scanning of DIS 
 

42 

 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

vii.  DPs  shall  scan  every  DIS  executed  during  a  day  along  with  all 
Annexures/ Computer printouts, if any, by the end of the next working 
day in the manner specified by the depository.  

 

viii.  The depositories shall ensure that their DPs have adequate infrastructure, 
systems and processes to implement scanning, storage and transfer of the 
scanned DIS in the manner specified by the depositories.  
 
The depositories shall ensure that the systems set up by the DPs maintain 
proper  records  of  all  scanned  DIS  images  including  audit  trails  for 
changes made, if any and put in place adequate checks and procedures to 
prevent unauthorized changes to scanned DIS.  

ix. 

x. 

xi. 

 

 

 

Depositories  shall  utilize  the  archived  scanned  images  for  off-site 
inspection.  

Provisions  of  this  circular  shall  not  be  applicable  for  the  instructions 
received from the clients by the DPs electronically in a manner approved 
by the Depository.  

xii.  Once  a  new  DIS  booklet  is  issued  to  a  BO  as  per  provisions  of  this 
circular, old DIS issued to such a BO shall not be accepted by the DP. A 
period of one month may be given for receipt of DIS by the BOs. The DPs 
may  accept  old  DIS  during  this  transit  period.45  All  DIS  issued  prior  to 
this circular shall be phased out within a period of 2 years from the date 
of this circular. The measures listed above under the head 'Monitoring of 
DIS' shall be made applicable to the DIS issued as per the provisions of 
this circular.  
 
Transmission of shares46,47 
 

1.11 

1.11.1  In  cases  of  transmission  of  shares  of  a  deceased  security  holder,  where 
the  shareholding  in  the  BO  account  of  the  deceased  member,  as 

                                                           
45 Reference: CIR/MRD/DP/22/2014 dated July 04, 2014 
46 Reference: MRD/DoP/Dep/VM/182963/2009 dated November 12, 2009 
47 Reference: CIR/MIRSD/10/2013 dated October 28, 2013 

43 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

calculated  on  the  date  of  application  for  transmission,  is  within  the 
threshold  limit of Rupees Five lakh in value, the DPs shall not insist on 
additional  documents  other  than  any  one  or  more  of  the  documents 
mentioned below. 

 

i.  Affidavit – to the effect of the claim of legal ownership of the shares 

 

ii.  Deed of indemnity – indemnifying the depository and DP 

 

iii.  NOC from other legal heir(s), wherever applicable, along with the Claim 
Form/TRF  and  copy  of  death  certificate  duly  notarized/  attested  by  a 
Gazetted  officer  or  Family  Settlement  Deed  as  an  alternate  to  the  NOC 
duly  executed  by  all  the  legal  heirs  of  the  deceased  Beneficial  Owner, 
provided that: 
 
a.  The  Family  Settlement  Deed  clearly  vests  the  securities  in  favour  of 

the person seeking transmission in his/ her name. 

b.  Vesting  of  securities  in  favour  of  the  person  seeking  transmission  in 
his/ her name is not contingent upon any other onerous conditions in 
such Family Settlement Deed. 

 

Note:  If  the  division  of  shares  as  per  the  Family  Settlement  Deed  is 
amongst  more than one person, then the Family  Settlement Deed can 
be considered as an NOC for transmission of shares to each legal heirs 
applying  for  transmission.  However,  if  DPs  still  have  problems  in 
comprehending  the  contents  of  the  Family  Settlement  Deed,  they 
should refer the matter to Depositories for necessary advice on case-to-
case basis. 

 

1.11.2  DP(s) shall automatically open new account in the name of the surviving 
members(s),  in  the  same  order  as  in  the  original  account,  on  an 
application  by  the  surviving  member(s)  based  on  existing  documents 
required  as  per  the  KYC  norms.  Submission  of  new  account  opening 
form shall not be insisted upon. 
 

44 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

1.11.3  A uniform time frame of 7 days, after receipt of all requisite documents, 

shall be prescribed for processing of Transmission requests. 
 

1.11.4  In case of multiple successors, NOC of non-applicants shall be recorded 
on the TRF of the applicant instead of insisting separate TRF from each of 
the successors. 
 

1.11.5  Nomination  facility  shall  be  encouraged  by  the  Depositories  specifically 
targeting  BOs  who  have  not  opted  for  nomination.  As  regards  new 
accounts,  it  shall  be  provided  for  at  the  account  opening  stage  itself.  In 
case  the  person  (both  an  existing  and  new  account  holder)  is  not 
interested  to  nominate,  then  such  person  would  have  to  give  a  positive 
declaration to that effect. 

 

1.11.6  The  depositories  may  permit  upto  three  nominees  with  respect  to  a 

demat account.48 
 

1.11.7  In case of transmission of securities held in physical mode:  

 

i.  Where  the  securities  are  held  in  single  name  with  a  nominee, 
STAs/issuer  companies  shall  follow  the  standardized  documentary 
requirement as given in Annexure A. 

 

ii.  Where  the  securities  are  held  in  single  name  without  a  nominee,  the 
STAs/issuer companies shall follow, in the normal course, the simplified 
documentation  as  given  in  Annexure  A,  for  a  threshold  limit  of  Rs. 
2,00,000  (Rupees  Two  lakh  only)  per  issuer  company.  However,  the 
Issuer  companies,  at  their  discretion,  may  enhance  the  value  of  such 
securities. 

 

1.11.8  The timeline  for processing the transmission requests for securities held 
in dematerialized mode and physical  mode shall be 7 days and 21 days 
respectively, after receipt of the prescribed documents.  

                                                           
48 Reference: SEBI Letter No. MRD//DP/OW/23881/2015 dated August 24, 2015 regarding multiple 
nominations in demat accounts 

45 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

1.11.9  To  improve  the  awareness  of  nomination  facility,  all  Registrars  to  an 
Issue  and  Share  Transfer  Agents  shall  publicize  nomination  as  an 
additional right available to investors, while sending communications to 
the investors.  

 

1.11.10In    terms    of  Securities    and  Exchange    Board    of    India    (Listing  
Obligations    and    Disclosure  Requirements)    (Sixth    Amendment)  
Regulations,    2018,succession    certificate    or    probate    of  will  or  will  or 
letter of administration or court decree, as may be applicable in terms of 
Indian  Succession  Act,  1925  has  been  prescribed  as  documentary 
requirement for transmission of securities held in physical mode.49 

 

1.11.11With  regard  to  transmission  of  securities  held  in  dematerialized  mode, 
the  same  is  dealt  in  terms  of  bye  laws  of  the  Depositories.  In  order  to 
harmonize the procedures for transmission of securities in dematerialized 
mode with that of transmission of securities in physical mode, it has been 
decided that transmission of securities held in dematerialized mode shall 
be dealt in line  with Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  
Obligations 
  Disclosure  Requirements)  (Sixth  Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018. 

  and 

 
 

 

                                                           
49 Reference Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2019/05 dated January 04, 2019 

46 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure A 

 

Documentary requirement for securities held in physical mode 

 
1  For securities held in single name with a nominee:  

 

i.  Duly signed transmission request form by the nominee.  
ii.  Original or Copy of death certificate duly attested by a Notary Public or 

iii. 

by a Gazetted Officer.  
Self attested copy of PAN card of the nominee. (Copy of PAN card may be 
substituted  with  ID  proof  in  case  of  residents  of  Sikkim  after  collecting  address 
proof)  

 
2  For  securities  held  in  single  name  without  a  nominee,  following  additional 

documents may be sought:  
 
i.  Affidavit made on appropriate non judicial stamp paper – to the effect of 

identification and claim of legal ownership to the securities  

ii. 

For value of securities upto Rs. 2,00,000 (Rupees Two lakh only) per issuer 
company as on date of application, one or more of the following 
documents:  

a.  No objection certificate [NOC] from all legal heir(s) who do not object to 
such transmission (or) copy of Family Settlement Deed duly notarized or 
attested by a Gazetted Officer and executed by all the legal heirs of the 
deceased holder.  

b.  Indemnity made on appropriate non judicial stamp paper – indemnifying 

the STA/Issuer Company.  

iii. 

 For value of securities more than Rs. 2,00,000 (Rupees Two lakh only) per 
issuer company as on date of application:  

a.  Succession certificate (or) Probate of will (or) Letter of Administration (or) 

Court decree.  

 

End of Annexure A 

 

47 

 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SMS alerts for demat accounts operated by Power of Attorney50 
 
Subscription  to  SMS  Alert  facility  for  depository  accounts  operated 
through Power of Attorney (POA) would be mandatory except in case of 
accounts held by non-individuals, foreign nationals, and NRIs. 

Exemption  from  sending  quarterly  statements  of  transactions  by 
depository participants (DPs) to clients in respect of demat accounts with 
no transactions and no security balances51 
 
SEBI  has  provided  exemption  to  Depository  Participants  from  sending 
quarterly transaction statements to the clients in respect of demat accounts 
with  no  transactions  and  no  security  balances  subject  to  the  following 
conditions: 
 
a.  Client is informed in advance that it will not be receiving Transaction 
Statements  for  such  accounts  till  there  are  any  transactions  or 
security holdings in the demat account.  

b.  KYC and PAN requirement in respect of all such depository accounts 

are complied.  

c.  No Annual Maintenance Charges are levied for such an account.  
d.  Information which is required to be disseminated by Participants by 
way  of  a  note  in  the  Transaction  Statements  will  be  required  to  be 
communicated to such Clients separately.  

e.  The Internal Auditor of the Participant shall comment in its internal 

audit report on compliance of the aforesaid requirements.  
 

Further,  depository  may  like  to  consider  whether,  DPs  should  send  a 
consolidated Transaction Statements for the entire financial year in case of 
the BOs to whom quarterly Transaction Statements are not sent. 

 

 
1.12 

 
1.13 

i. 

ii. 

 

                                                           
50 Reference: SEBI/MRD/DEP/VM/169784 /09 dated July 15, 2009 
51 Reference: MRD/CDSL/VM/155773/2009 dated February 27, 2009,   

MRD/DoP/NSDL/VM/168994 /2009 dated July 07, 2009 and MRD/CDSL/VM/168989 /2009 
dated July 07, 2009 

48 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Discontinuation   of  sending   transaction   statements   by   depository 
participants to clients52 

 

1.14 

 

SEBI  allowed  discontinuation  of  sending  transaction  statements  by 
depository participants to clients subject to the following conditions: 
 

i.  Transaction  statements  were  returned  undelivered  on  three  consecutive 

occasions. 

ii.  The  depository  participant  (DP)  maintains  proof  that  the  transaction 

statements were returned undelivered. 

iii.  The  transaction  statements  were  returned  undelivered  for  the  reasons 
which  clearly  establish  that  the  client  no  longer  resides  at  the  given 
address  (i.e.  party  shifted,  etc.)  and  not  for  other  reasons  (i.e. 
residence/office closed, address incorrect, address incomplete, etc.). 

iv.  The DP informs such clients through alternative means (such as outbound 
call,  SMS  or  email)  that  their  transaction  statements  are  returned 
undelivered and they need to communicate the proper (new) address. 

1.15 

is 

v.  The  DP  ensures  that  on  receipt  of  request  for  address  modification  from 
the  client  as  per  the  stipulated  procedure,  the  dispatch  of  transaction 
statements 
immediately  started.  Further,  the  DP  ensures  that 
transaction  statements  that  were  not  delivered  and  dispatched  due  to 
discontinuation  are  also  dispatched  immediately  without  any  additional 
cost to the clients. 
 
Exemption to Depository Participants (DPs) from providing  hard copies 
of transaction statements to BOs53  
 
DPs are permitted to provide transaction statements and other documents 
to  the  BOs  under  Digital  signature,  as  governed  under  the  Information 
Technology Act, 2000, subject to the DP entering into a legally enforceable 
arrangement with the BO for the said purpose.  While such practice in the 
aforesaid manner shall be deemed to be in compliance of the provisions of 
the Regulation 60 of SEBI (Depositories & Participants) Regulations, 2018; 

                                                           
52 Reference: MRD/NSDL/VM/158886 /2009 dated March 30, 2009 
53  Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-27/2004 dated August 16, 2004 

49 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

1.16 

 

if the BO  is still desirous of receiving statements in hard  copy, DPs shall 
be duty bound to provide the same. 

Transfer  of  funds  and  securities  from  Clearing  Member  pool  account  to 
BO Account54 

i.  Clearing  members  shall  transfer  the  funds  and  securities  from  their 
respective  pool  account  to  the  respective  beneficiary  account  of  their 
clients within 1 working day after the pay-out day. The securities lying in 
the pool account beyond the stipulated period shall attract a penalty at the 
rate  of  6  basis  point  per  week  on  the  value  of  securities.  The  penalty  so 
collected by the depositories shall be credited to a separate account with 
the  depository  and  earmarked  for  defraying  the  expenses  in  connection 
with the investors’  education and awareness programs conducted by the 
depository. 
 

ii.  The securities lying in the pool account beyond the above period shall not 
be  eligible  either  for  delivery  in  the  subsequent  settlement(s)  or  for 
pledging  or  stock  lending  purpose,  until  the  same  are  credited  to  the 
beneficiary accounts. 

 

to 

iv. 

iii.  The  securities  lying  in  the  Clearing  member’s  pool  account  beyond  the 
specified time period shall be identified based on the settlement number. 
The clearing corporation/houses of the stock exchanges shall provide the 
settlement-wise  details  of  securities 
the 
depositories shall maintain the settlement-wise records for the purpose. 
 
Further,  stock  exchanges  shall  execute  direct  delivery  of  securities  to  the 
investors.  Clearing  corporation/clearing  house  (CC/CH)  shall  ascertain 
from  each  clearing  member,  the  beneficial  account  details  of  their 
respective  clients  due  to  receive  pay  out  of  securities.  Based  on  this,  the 
CC/CH  shall  send  pay  out  instructions  to  the  depositories  so  that  the 
client  receives  pay  out  of  securities  directly  to  the  extent  of  instructions 
received  from  the  respective  clearing  members.  To  the  extent  of 

the  depositories  and 

                                                           
54Reference  Circular  SMDRP/Policy/Cir-05/2001  dated  February  1,  2001  &  Circular 

SEBI/MRD/Policy/AT/Cir-19/2004 dated April 21, 2004 

50 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
1.17 
 

i. 

instruction  not  received,  the  securities  shall  be  credited  to  the  CM  pool 
account. 

Consolidated Account Statement (CAS) for all securities assets55   

Pursuant to the Interim Budget announcement in 2014 to create one record 
for all financial assets of every individual, it has been decided to enable a 
single  consolidated  view  of  all  the  investments  of  an  investor  in  Mutual 
Funds (MF) and securities held in demat form with the Depositories.  

ii.  The  Depositories  and  the  Asset  Management  Companies  (AMCs)/  MF-
RTAs  shall  put  in  place  systems  to  facilitate  generation  and  dispatch  of 
single  Consolidated  Account  Statements  (CAS)  for  investors  having  MF 
investments  and  holding  demat  accounts.    AMCs/  RTAs  shall  share  the 
requisite  information  with  the  Depositories  on  monthly  basis  to  enable 
generation of CAS. 

iii.  Consolidation of account statement shall be done on the basis of PAN. In 
case of multiple holding, it shall be PAN of the first holder and pattern of 
holding.  Based  on  the  PANs  provided  by  the  AMCs/MF-RTAs,  the 
Depositories  shall  match  their  PAN  database  to  determine  the  common 
PANs  and  allocate  the  PANs  among  themselves  for  the  purpose  of 
sending  CAS.  For  PANs  which  are  common  between  depositories  and 
AMCs, the Depositories shall send the CAS. In other cases (i.e. PANs with 
no demat account and only MF units holding), the AMCs/ MF-RTAs shall 
continue to send the CAS to their unit holders as is being done presently 
in  compliance  with  the  Regulation  36(4)  of  the  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 
Regulations.  

iv. 

In  case  investors  have  multiple  accounts  across  the  two  depositories,  the 
depository having the demat account which has been opened earlier shall 
be 
the  default  depository  which  will  consolidate  details  across 
depositories  and  MF  investments  and  dispatch  the  CAS  to  the  investor. 
However, option shall be given to the demat account holder by the default 
depository to choose the depository through which the investor wishes to 
receive the CAS. 

                                                           
55 Circular CIR/MRD/DP/31/2014 dated November 12, 2014 

51 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

v.  The  CAS  shall  be  generated  on  a  monthly  basis.  The  AMCs  /MF-RTAs 
shall  provide  the  data  with  respect  to  the  common  PANs  to  the 
depositories within three days from the month end. The depositories shall 
then  consolidate  and  dispatch  the  CAS  within  ten  days  from  the  month 
end.  

vi.  Where  statements  are  presently  being  dispatched  by  email  either  by  the 
Mutual  Funds  or  by  the  Depositories,  CAS  shall  be  sent  through  email. 
However, where an investor does not wish to receive CAS through email, 
option shall be given to the investor to receive the CAS in physical form at 
the address registered in the Depository system. 

vii.  A  proper  grievance  redressal  mechanism  shall  be  put  in  place  by  the 
depositories and the AMCs/MF-RTAs which shall also be communicated 
to the investors through CAS. AMCs/MF-RTAs would be accountable for 
the  authenticity  of  the  information  provided  through  CAS  in  respect  of 
MF 
information  with 
Depositories.  The  Depositories  would  be  responsible  for  the  timely 
dispatch of CAS to the investors serviced by them and the demat account 
information.  

timely  sharing  of  such 

investments  and 

viii.  The depositories and the AMCs/ MF-RTAs shall ensure data integrity and 
confidentiality in respect of the shared information. The depositories shall 
utilise  the  shared  data  only  for  the  purpose  of  providing  CAS  and  shall 
not share the same with their Depository Participants. Where Depositories 
are required to share such information with unregulated entities like third 
party  printers, 
into  necessary  data 
confidentiality agreements with them. 

the  depositories  shall  enter 

ix.  The  CAS  shall  be  implemented  from  the  month  of  March  2015  with 
respect to the transactions carried out during the month of February 2015.  

x. 

If an investor does not wish to receive CAS, an option shall be given to the 
investor  to  indicate  negative  consent.  Depositories  shall  accordingly 
inform investors in their statements from the month of January 2015 about 
the  facility  of  CAS  and  give  them  information  on  how  to  opt  out  of  the 
facility if they do not wish to avail it. 

52 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

xi.  Where such an option is exercised, the concerned depository shall inform 
the  AMC/MF-RTA  accordingly  and  the  data  with  respect  to  the  said 
investor shall not be shared by the AMC/MF-RTA with the depository. 

xii. 

If there is any transaction in any of the demat accounts of the investor or 
in any of his mutual fund folios, then CAS shall be sent to that investor on 
monthly basis.  In case there is no  transaction in any  of the mutual fund 
folios and demat accounts then CAS with holding details shall be sent to 
the investor on half yearly basis. However, in case of demat accounts with 
nil balance and no transactions in securities and in mutual fund folios, the 
requirement to send physical statement shall be applicable as specified at 
para 1.6.5 and 1.6.6 of this chapter. 

xiii. 

Further,  the  holding  statement  dispatched  by  the  DPs  to  their  BOs  with 
respect  to  the  dormant  demat  accounts  with  balances  shall  also  be 
dispatched half-yearly. 

xiv.  The  dispatch  of  CAS  by  the  depositories  to  BOs  would  constitute 
compliance  by  the  Depository  Participants  with  requirement  under 
Regulation  60  of  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations,  to 
provide statements of account to the BOs as also compliance by the MFs 
with  the  requirement  under  Regulation  36(4)  of  SEBI  (Mutual  Funds) 
Regulations. 

1.18 

  Procedure for filing and redressal of investor grievances using SCORES56 
 

i. 

Investors  who  wish  to  lodge  a  complaint  on  SCORES  are  requested  to 
register  themselves  on  www.scores.gov.in  by  clicking  on  “Register  here”. 
While filing the registration form, details like Name of the investor, PAN, 
Contact  details,  Email  id,  Aadhaar  card  number  (optional),  CKYC  ID 
(optional)  etc. 
for  effective 
communication and speedy redressal of the grievances. Upon  successful  
registration, a  unique  user  id  and  a  password  shall  be communicated 
to the investor through an acknowledgement email / SMS.  

(Annexure  A)  may  be  provided 

                                                           
56 Reference Circular SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/CIR/P/2018/58 dated March 28, 2018  

53 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

ii.  An investor shall use login credentials for lodging complaint on SCORES 
(“Login for registered user” section). Details on how to lodge a complaint 
on SCORES is at Annexure B. 

iii.  The  complainant  may  use  SCORES  to  submit  the  grievance  directly  
to  companies  /  intermediaries  and  the  complaint  shall  be  forwarded  to 
the  entity  for  resolution.  The  entity  is  required  to  redress  the  grievance 
within 30 days, failing which the complaint shall be registered in SCORES 

iv. 

Presently,  the  limitation  period  for  filing  an  arbitration  reference  with 
stock  exchanges  is  three  year.  In  line  with  the  same  and  in  order  to 
enhance  ease,  speed  &accuracy  in  redressal  of  investor  grievance,  the 
investor  may  lodge  a complaint  on  SCORES  within  three  years  from  the 
date of cause of complaint, where; 

Investor  has  approached  the  listed  company  or  registered  intermediary  
for redressal of the complaint and, 

The  concerned  listed  company  or  registered  intermediary  rejected  the 
complaint or, 

The  complainant  does  not  receive  any  communication  from  the  listed 
company or intermediary concerned or, 

The    complainant    is    not  satisfied    with    the    reply    given    to    him    or  
redressal  action taken by the listed company or an intermediary. 

 

Annexure A 

Details  to  be  provided  while  registering  on  SCORES  with  effect  from 
August 01, 2018: 

Pan Number* 

i.  Name of the complainant* 
ii. 
iii.  Aadhaar Number (Optional) 
iv.  CKYCID(Optional) 
v.  DP id & Client Id 
vi. 
vii.  Contact number –Mobile* :  Landline 

Postal address for communication* 

54 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

viii. 

ix. 

Email  id*  –For  receipt  of  acknowledgement  letter  /  updates  of 
complaints on SCORES. 
Bank  account  details  –To  facilitate  direct  credit  of  benefits  to 
investor. 

x.  Client id as given by Broker / Stock Exchange. 

             Note: * are mandatory fields. 

Annexure B 

How to lodge a complaint on SCORES with effect from August 01, 2018. 

SCORES Portal 

http://www.scores.gov.in/ 

User Registration 

(Under “Register Here”) 

Press submit to complete the registration. 

An Email/ SMS informing User ID and Password will be sent to investor. 

(As per nature of complaint) 

Login to SCORES and Click on 

“Complaint Registration” 

Details like Period of cause of event, Date of grievance taken up with the entity, 
address of direct complaint to the entity, Share certificate number / folio number etc. 

Complaint details in brief 

(1000 charcters) 

55 

CLICK 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
CLICK 
 

 

 
Enter 
 

 

 

TYPE 

 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

                 Upload supporting documents (upto 2 MB in PDF format) 

Add 

Character shown in image 

Submit 

Complaint Registration Number is generated and sent to email id and to mobile 

number of the complainant. 

 

 

CLICK 

Enter 

CLICK 

 

 

Section 2: Depository Participants Related 

 
2.1  Online Registration Mechanism for Securities Market Intermediaries57 

 

 

i. 

Intermediary 

Portal 

(https://siportal.sebi.gov.in)has 

SEBI 
operationalized        for        the        intermediaries        to        submit        all        the    
registration applications online.  The  SEBI  Intermediary  Portal  includes  
online    application  for        registration,        processing        of        application,   
grant    of    final    registration, application  for  surrender  /  cancellation,  
submission  of  periodical  reports, requests for change of name / address 
/ other details etc. 

been 

ii.  All  applications  for  registration  /  surrender  /  other  requests  shall  be  
made  through    SEBI    Intermediary    Portal    only.  The    application    in  
respect    of    stock  brokers    /    sub-broker    and    depository    participants  

                                                           
57 Reference Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/38 dated May 02, 2017 

56 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

shall    continue    to    be    made  through  the  Stock  Exchanges  and 
Depositories respectively. 

iii.  The    applicants    will    be    separately    required    to    submit    relevant  
documents  viz. declarations   /   undertakings,   in   physical   form,   only   
for   records   without impacting the online processing of applications for 
registration. 

iv.  Where applications are made through the Stock Exchanges / Depositories, 
the hard  copy  of  the  applications  made  by  their  members  shall  be  
preserved    by  them  and  shall  be  made  available  to  SEBI,  as  and  when 
called for. 

 
 

2.2  Supervision of branches of DPs58 

 

v.  To  ensure  compliance  with  Regulation  63  of  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and 
Participants) Regulations, 2018, and Clause 19 of the Code of Conduct for 
Participants  contained  in  the  Third  Schedule  to  the  Regulations  the  DP 
shall  ensure  that  it  has  satisfactory  internal  control  procedure  in  place, 
inclusive  of  their  branch  offices.  DPs  are  therefore  required  in  terms  of 
these  provisions  to  put  in  place  appropriate  mechanisms  to  ensure  that 
their  branches  are  carrying  on  the  operations  in  compliance  with  the 
applicable regulations, bye-laws, etc. DPs are also required to put in place 
suitable  internal  control  systems  to  ensure  that  all  branches  exercise  due 
diligence  in  opening  accounts,  complying  with  KYC  requirements,  in 
ensuring systems safety in complying  with client instructions, manner of 
uploading  client  instructions,  in  verifying  signatures  and  maintaining 
client  records,  etc.  DPs  shall  also  ensure  that  the  branches  are  suitably 
integrated.  
 

vi.  Depositories shall examine the adequacy of the above mechanisms during 
their  inspections  of  DPs.  The  Depositories  shall  also  carry  out  surprise 
inspections/ checks of the DP branches apart from the regular inspection 

                                                           
58Reference Circular MIRSD/DPS-III/Cir-9/07 dated July 3, 2007 
     
 

57 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

2.3 

i. 

of  the  DPs.  Depositories  shall  also  put  in  place  appropriate  mechanisms 
for monitoring opening of branches by DPs.  
 
Incentivisation to Depositories Participants (DPs)59 
 
In  order  to  compensate  the  DPs  towards  the  cost  of  opening  and 
maintaining Basic Services Demat Accounts (BSDA), the depositories shall 
pay  an  incentive  of  Rs.  100/-  for  every  new  BSDA  opened  by  their 
participants in other than the top 15 cities. The name of the top 15 cities is 
given in following table:  

Top 15 Cities 

Name of the City 

DELHI 
AHMEDABAD 
BANGALORE 
CHENNAI 
PUNE 
KOLKATA 
THANE 

Sr. 
No. 
1.  MUMBAI 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9.  HYDERABAD 
10. 
11. 
12.  VADODARA 
13. 
14.  RAJKOT 
15. 
INDORE 

SURAT 
JAIPUR 

SECUNDARABAD 

 

ii.  The incentive shall be provided at the end of the financial year only with 
respect  to  the  new  BSDA  opened  during  the  financial  year  and  which 
displayed at least one credit in the account during the Financial Year. 
 

                                                           
59 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/18/2015 dated December 09, 2015 

58 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 

iii. 

Further to the above, in order to incentivize the DPs to promote holdings 
in  the  BSDA,  the  depositories  may  pay  an  amount  of  Rs.  2  per  folio  per 
ISIN  to  the  respective depository  participant  (DP),  in  respect  of  the  ISIN 
positions  held  in  Basic  Service  Demat  Accounts  (BSDA).  This  incentive 
may be provided with respect to all the BSDA in the depository system. 

iv.  The reimbursement to DPs shall be made on an annual basis at the end of 
the financial year. The depositories shall set aside 20% of the incremental 
revenue  received  from  the  Issuers  to  manage  the  aforementioned 
incentive  schemes.  Any  surplus  after  reimbursement  of  DPs  may  be 
utilized by the depositories to incentivize the DPs for promoting financial 
inclusion,  encouraging  investors  to  hold  Mutual  Fund  Units  in  demat 
account and familiarizing the investors on the OFS mechanism, etc. 

v.  The incentive scheme may be reviewed after a period of two years. 

 

2.4 

i. 

ii. 

Implementation of the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement and 
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act60 
 
It is brought to the attention of all the intermediaries that India has joined 
the  multilateral  competent  Authority  Agreement  (MCAA)  on  Automatic 
Exchange  of  Financial  Account  Information  on  June  3,  2015.  In  terms  of 
the MCAA, all countries which are a signatory to the MCAA, are obliged 
to exchange a wide range of financial information after collecting the same 
from financial institutions in their country/jurisdiction. 

Further,  on  July  9,  2015  the  Governments  of  India  and  United  States  Of 
America  (USA)  have  signed  an  agreement  to  improve  International  tax 
compliance  and  to  implement  the  Foreign  Account  Tax  Compliance  Act 
(FATCA)  in  India.  The  USA  has  enacted  FATCA  in  2010  to  obtain 
information on accounts held by U.S taxpayers in other countries. As per 
the aforesaid agreement,  foreign financial institutions (FFIs) in India will 
account 
be 

about  U.S 

information 

required 

to 

report 

tax 

                                                           
60 Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/2/2015 dated August 26, 2015 

59 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

iii. 

holders/taxpayers directly to the Indian Government which will, in turn, 
relay that information to the U.S Internal Revenue Services (IRS). 

For  implementation  of  the  MCAA  and  agreement  with  USA,  the 
Government  of  India  has  made  necessary  legislative  changes  to  section 
285BA of the Income-tax Act,  1961. Further the Government of India has 
notified  Rules  114F  to  114H  (herein  after  referred  as  “the  Rules”)  under 
the Income Tax Rules, 1962 and form No. 61B for furnishing of statement 
of reportable account as specified in the Rules. The Rule is available at 

http://www.incometaxindia.gov.in/communications/notification/notific
ation%20no.%2062%20dated%2007-08-2015.pdf  

iv.  All registered intermediaries are advised to take necessary steps to ensure 
compliance  with  the  requirements  specified  in  the  aforesaid  Rules  after 
carrying out necessary due diligence. 

2.5 

Printing  of  Grievances  Redressal  Mechanism  on  Delivery  Instruction 
Form Book 61  

 

 

To  promote  investor  awareness  regarding  mechanism  for  redressing 
investor grievances, the information placed below shall be printed on the 
inside  back  cover  of  the  Delivery  Instruction  Form  (DIF)  Book  issued  by 
all Depository Participants. 

In case you have grievances against a listed company or intermediary registered 
with  SEBI,  you  should  first  approach  the  concerned  company  or  intermediary 
against whom you have grievance. If you are not satisfied with their response, 
you may approach SEBI or other regulatory bodies. You can approach SEBI for 
following type of grievances. 

Listed Companies 
  Refund / Allotment/ Bonus/ Dividend/ 

Brokers and stock exchanges 
  Stock Brokers 

                                                           
61 Circular No. SEBI/MRD/DP/25/2012 dated September 21, 2012 
 

60 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Rights/ Redemption/ Interest 

  Prelisting offer documents (shares) 
  Prelisting  offer  documents  (debentures 

  Sub brokers 
  Portfolio managers 
  Stock exchanges 

and bonds) 

  Delisting of Securities 
  Buyback of Securities 
  Takeover and Restructuring 
  Corporate  Governance  and  Listing 

conditions   

Registrar and Transfer Agents 

Mutual Funds 

Depository and Depository Participants 

Information to SEBI: 
  Price Manipulation 
 

Insider trading 

Other entities 
Collective Investment Schemes 
Debenture Trustees 
Merchant Bankers 
Bankers to Issue 
Credit Rating Agencies 
Custodian of Securities 
Foreign Institutional Investors 
Underwriters 
Venture Capital Funds 
KYC Registration Agency(KRA) 
Alternative Investment Fund 

You  can  file  your  complaints  online  at  http://scores.gov.in  or  alternately  send 
your  complaints  to  Office  of  Investor  Assistance  and  Education  of  SEBI  at 
Mumbai or Regional Offices at the following addresses: 

Address of SEBI Offices 

  Office 

of 

Investor  Assistance 

SEBI  Bhavan, 
Plot  No.C4-A,  'G'  Block,  Bandra  Kurla  Complex,  Bandra  (E),  Mumbai  400 
051 Tel: 022-26449188 / 26449199 (http://scores.gov.in) 

and  Education, 

  SEBI,  Northern  Regional  Office,  5th  Floor,  Bank  of  Baroda  Building,  16, 
Sansad Marg, New Delhi -110001 Tel: 011-23724001-05 (sebinro@sebi.gov.in) 

61 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

  SEBI,  Eastern  Regional  Office,  L&T  Chambers,  3rd  Floor,  16,  Camac  Street, 

Kolkata - 700 016 Tel: 033-23023000. (sebiero@sebi.gov.in) 

  SEBI,  Southern  Regional  Office,  7th  Floor,  Overseas  Towers,  756-L,  Anna 

Salai Chennai 600 0102 

-24674000/ 24674150 (sebisro@sebi.gov.in) 

  SEBI,  Ahmedabad  Regional  Office,  Unit  No:  002,  Ground  Floor,  SAKAR  I, 
Near  Gandhigram  Railway  Station,  Opp.  Nehru  Bridge  Ashram  Road, 
Ahmedabad - 380 009 Tel : 079-26583633-35 (sebiaro@sebi.gov.in) 

For more information visit our website - http://scores.gov.in 

 
Operationlisation of Central KYC Records Registry (CKYCR)62  

 

2.6 

 

1.   Government of India has authorized the central Registry  of  Securitization  
and Asset  Reconstruction  and  Security  interest  of  India  (CERSAI),  set  
up under sub-section (1) of Section 20  of  Securitisation and  Reconstruction 
of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, to act as,  
and  to  perform  the  functions  of,  the  Central  KYC  Records  Registry  under  
the    PML    Rules    2005,  including  receiving,  storing,  safeguarding  and 
retrieving the KYC records in digital form of a client. 

 
2.   As per the 2015 amendment to PML (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005  
(the  rules),  every  reporting  entity  shall  capture  the  KYC  information  for 
sharing with the Central KYC Records Registry in the manner mentioned in 
the Rules, as per the KYC template for „individuals‟ finalised by CERSAI. 

 
3.      Accordingly,  the  KYC  template  finalised  by  CERSAI  shall  be  used  by  the 
registered  intermediaries  as  Part  I  of  AOF  for  individuals.  The  KYC 
template  for  “individuals”  and    the    “Central    KYC    Registry    Operating  
Guidelines    2016”    for    uploading    KYC  records  on  CKYCR  finalised  by 
CERSAI.  In    this    regard,    it    is    clarified  that    the    requirement  for  
Permanent  Account  Number  (PAN)  would  continue  to  be mandatory 

                                                           
62 Reference Circular CIR/MIRSD/ 66 /2016 dated July 21, 2016 

62 

 
 

 

 

 

 

2.7 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

for completing the KYC process. 

Recording  of  Non  Disposal  Undertaking  (NDU)  in  the  Depository 
System63 
SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and   Takeovers)  Regulations,  
2011,    requires  promoters   of    a    company   to    disclose    details   of    their  
encumbered    shares    including  NDUs      by      promoters      which      are   
covered   under   the   scope   of   disclosures   of 'Encumbrances'. It  has  
been    observed    that    some    shareholders,    primarily    promoters,    enter  
into    non-disposal    agreements/    non-disposal    undertaking   (NDU)    for  
borrowing 
  are  typically 
undertakings    given    by    a    shareholder    not    to  transfer    or    otherwise  
alienate  the  securities  and  are  in  the  nature  of  negative  lien given in 
favour of another party, usually a lender. 

  lenders.  NDUs 

  funds 

  from  various 

i.  Depositories  shall  develop  a  separate  module/  transaction  type  in  their 

system for recording NDUs. 

ii.  Both  parties  to  the  NDU  shall  have  a  demat  account  with  the  same 

iii. 

depository and be KYC compliant. 
Pursuant to entering the NDU, the Beneficial Owner (BO) along with the 
other party shall make an application through the participant (where the 
BO holds his securities) to the depository, for the purpose of recording the 
NDU transaction. 

iv.  The   application   shall necessarily   include   details   of   BO   ID,   PAN,   
email-id, signature(s), name  of  the  entity  in  whose  favor  such  NDU  is  
entered   and   the  quantity    of   securities.    Such    entity   in   whose    favor  
NDU  is  entered  shall  also authorize the participant of the BO holding 
the  shares,  to  access  the  signatures  as  recorded  in  that  entity’s  demat 
account. 

v.  The  participant  after  being  satisfied  that  the  securities  are  available  for 
NDU shall record  the  NDU  and  freeze  for  debit  the  requisite  quantity  
of  securities  under NDU in the depository system.     

vi.  The depositories shall make suitable provisions for capturing the details of 
BO ID and PAN of the entity in whose favor such NDU is entered by the 
participant.  The  depositories    shall    also    make    available  to    the    said  

                                                           
63 Reference circular number CIR/MRD/DP/56/2017 dated June 14, 2017 

63 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

participant,  the    details    of  authorized    signatories    as    recorded    in  the 
demat  account of  the  entity  in  whose favor such NDU is entered. 

vii.  On creation of freeze in the depository system, the depository/ participant 
of  the  BO    holding    shares,    shall    inform    both    parties    of    the    NDU  
regarding  creation  of freeze under NDU.  

viii.  The    depositories    shall    make    suitable    provisions    for    capturing    the  

ix. 

details  of company/ promoters if they are part of the NDU. 
In  case  if  the  participant  does  not  create  the  NDU,  it  shall  intimate  the 
same to the parties of the NDU along with the reasons thereof. 

x.  Once  the  freeze  for  debits  is  created  under  the  NDU  for  a  particular 
quantity of shares, the   depository   shall   not   facilitate   or   effect   any   
transfer,      pledge,  hypothecation,  lending,  rematerialisation  or  in  any 
manner alienate or otherwise allow dealing in the shares held under NDU 
till receipt of instructions from both parties for the cancellation of NDU. 

xi.  The  entry  of  NDU  made as  per para  4.34 (v) above may  be  cancelled  
by    the  depository/participant  of  the  BO  through  unfreeze  of  specified 
quantity if parties to   the   NDU jointly   make   such   application   to   the   
depository   through   the participant of the BO. 

xii.  On  unfreeze  of  shares  upon  termination/  cancellation  of  NDU,  the  
depository shall inform both parties of the NDU in the form and manner 
agreed upon at the time  of  creating the  freeze. The  unfreeze  shall  be  
effected  in  the  depository system  after  a  cooling  period  of  2  clear  
business  days  but  no  later  than  4  clear business days. 

xiii.  The  freeze  and  unfreeze  instructions  executed  by  the  Participant  for 

recording NDUs will be subject to 100% concurrent audit. 

xiv.  The  DPs  shall  not  facilitate  or  be  a  party  to  any  NDU  outside  the 

2.8 

depository system as outlined herein. 
 
Cyber  Security  &  Cyber  Resilience 
Participant64 

framework 

for  Depository 

i.  Rapid      technological      developments      in      securities      market      have   
highlighted      the      need      for  maintaining    robust    cyber    security    and  
cyber  resilience  framework  to  protect  the  integrity  of data and guard 
against breaches of privacy.  

                                                           
64 Reference circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/CIR/PB/2018/147 dated December 03, 2018 

64 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ii. 

Since    depository    participants    perform    significant    functions    in  
providing services  to  holders  of  securities,  it  is  desirable  that these  
entities  have    robust    cyber    security  and  cyber  resilience  framework  in 
order  to  provide  essential  facilities  and  perform  systemically  critical 
functions relating to securities market.  

iii.  Accordingly,   after   discussions   with   Exchanges,   Depositories  and  
Stock  Brokers’  and Depository Participants’ associations, a framework on 
cyber security and cyber resilience has been  designed,  which  is  placed  
at  Annexure 1.  The framework would be required to be complied by all 
Depository Participants registered with SEBI.  
 

Annexure -1 

1.  Cyber-attacks  and  threats  attempt  to  compromise  the  Confidentiality,  
Integrity  and Availability (CIA)of  the  computer  systems,  networks  and  
databases    (Confidentiality  refers  to  limiting  access  of  systems  and 
information  to  authorized  users,  Integrity  is  the  assurance    that    the  
information    is    reliable    and  accurate,  and  Availability    refers    to 
guarantee    of    reliable    access    to    the    systems  and  information    by 
authorized    users).  Cyber  security  framework  includes  measures,  tools 
and processes that are intended to prevent   cyber-attacks   and   improve   
cyber      resilience.      Cyber      Resilience      is      an  organization’s    ability    to  
prepare    and    respond    to    a    cyber-attack    and    to    continue  operation 
during, and recover from, a cyber-attack. 
 
Governance 

2.  As  part  of  the  operational  risk  management   framework  to  manage  
risk    to    systems,  networks    and    databases    from    cyber-attacks    and  
threats,    Depository  Participants  should    formulate    a    comprehensive  
Cyber  Security  and  Cyber  Resilience policy  document  encompassing  
the  framework  mentioned  hereunder.  In  case  of deviations  from  the  
suggested    framework,    reasons    for    such    deviations,    technical    or 
otherwise, should be provided in the policy document.  
The  policy  document  should  be  approved  by  the  Board  /  Partners  /  
Proprietor    of    the  Stock  Broker  /  Depository  Participants.  The  policy 
document  should  be  reviewed  by  the  aforementioned    group    at    least  

65 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

annually  with  the  view  to  strengthen  and  improve  its Cyber Security 
and Cyber Resilience framework. 

3.  The  Cyber  Security  Policy  should  include  the  following  process  to 
identify,  assess,  and  manage    Cyber    Security    risk    associated    with  
processes,  information,  networks  and systems: 
a. 
b. 
c. 

‘Identify’ critical IT assets and risks associated with such assets. 
‘Protect’ assets by deploying suitable controls, tools and measures. 
‘Detect’ 
monitoring tools/processes. 
‘Respond’  by  taking  immediate  steps  after  identification  of  the 
incident, anomaly or attack. 
‘Recover’  from  incident  through  incident  management  and  other 
appropriate recovery mechanisms. 

incidents,  anomalies  and  attacks  through  appropriate 

d. 

e. 

4.  The    Cyber    Security    Policy    of    Stock    Brokers    trading    through    APIs  
based    terminal  /  Depository    Participants  should    consider    the  
principles    prescribed    by    National    Critical  Information    Infrastructure  
Protection    Centre    (NCIIPC)    of    National    Technical    Research 
Organization  (NTRO),  Government  of  India  (titled  ‘Guidelines  for 
Protection  of  National  Critical 
Infrastructure’)  and 
subsequent revisions, if any, from time to time. 

Information 

5.  Stock  Brokers  trading  through  APIs  based  terminal  /  Depository 
Participants  may  refer  to    best    practices    from    international    standards  
like    ISO    27001,    COBIT    5,    etc.,    or    their  subsequent  revisions,  if  any, 
from time to time.  

6.  Depository      Participants  should      designate      a      senior      official      or 
management  personnel  (henceforth,  referred  to  as  the  “Designated  
Officer”)  whose  function    would    be    to    assess,    identify,    and    reduce  
security    and    Cyber    Security    risks,  respond    to    incidents,    establish  
appropriate  standards  and  controls,  and  direct  the establishment  and  
implementation    of    processes    and    procedures    as    per    the    Cyber 
Security Policy. 

7.  The  Board  /  Partners  /  Proprietor  of  the Depository  Participants shall 
constitute    an    Technology    Committee65    comprising    experts.    This  
Technology  Committee    should    on    a    half    yearly    basis    review    the  

                                                           
65 Reference Circular CIR/HO/MIRSD/DOS2/CIR/PB/2019/038 dated March 15, 2019 - in Para 7, the 
words “Internal Technology Committee” stands replaced as “Technology Committee”. 

66 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

implementation    of    the    Cyber  Security    and    Cyber    Resilience    policy  
approved    by    their    Board    /    Partners    /    Proprietor,  and  such  review 
should  include  review  of  their  current  IT  and  Cyber  Security  and  Cyber 
Resilience  capabilities,  set  goals  for  a  target  level  of  Cyber  Resilience,  
and  establish plans  to  improve  and  strengthen  Cyber  Security  and  
Cyber    Resilience.    The    review  shall    be    placed    before    the    Board    /  
Partners  /  Proprietor  of  the Stock  Brokers  / Depository Participants 
for appropriate action. 

8.  Depository  Participants  should  establish  a  reporting  procedure  to 
facilitate  communication  of  unusual  activities  and  events  to  the 
Designated Officer in a timely manner. 

9.  The  Designated  officer  and  the  technology  committee  of  the  Depository 
Participants  should    periodically    review    instances    of    cyber-attacks,    if  
any,  domestically and  globally,  and  take  steps  to  strengthen  Cyber  
Security  and  cyber  resilience framework.  

10. Depository  Participants  should  define  responsibilities  of  its  employees, 
outsourced  staff,  and  employees  of  vendors,  members  or  participants  
and    other  entities,  who  may  have  privileged  access  or  use  systems  / 
networks  of  Depository  Participants  towards  ensuring  the  goal  of  Cyber 
Security. 
 
Identification 
 

11. Depository  Participants should  identify  critical  assets  based  on  their 
sensitivity  and  criticality  for  business  operations,  services  and  data  
management.  To this end, Depository Participants should maintain up-to-
date  inventory  of    its    hardware    and    systems    and    the    personnel    to  
whom    these    have    been    issued,  software      and      information      assets   
(internal   and   external),   details   of   its   network resources, connections 
to its network and data flows. 

12. Depository  Participants  should  accordingly  identify  cyber  risks  (threats 
and  vulnerabilities)  that  it  may  face,  along  with  the  likelihood  of  such 
threats  and  impact  on  the  business  and  thereby,  deploy  controls 
commensurate to the criticality.  
 
Protection 

67 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
Access controls  
 

13. No  person  by  virtue  of  rank  or  position  should  have  any  intrinsic  
right    to    access  confidential  data,  applications,  system  resources  or 
facilities. 

14. Any  access  to  Depository  Participants  systems,  applications,  networks, 
databases,  etc.,  should  be  for  a  defined  purpose  and  for  a  defined  
period.  Depository    Participants  should    grant    access    to    IT    systems,  
applications,  databases    and    networks    on    a    need-to-use    basis    and  
based  on  the  principle  of  least privilege. Such access should be for the 
period when the access is required and should be authorized using strong 
authentication mechanisms. 

15. Depository    Participants  should    implement    an    access    policy    which 
addresses    strong    password    controls    for    users’    access    to    systems,  
applications,  networks  and  databases.  Illustrative  examples  for  this  are 
given in Annexure C. 

16. All  critical  systems  of  the  Depository  Participant  accessible  over  the 
internet should have two-factor security (such as VPNs, Firewall controls 
etc.) 

17. Depository  Participants should  ensure  that  records  of  user  access  to 
critical    systems,    wherever    possible,    are    uniquely    identified    and  
logged  for  audit  and review purposes. Such logs should be maintained 
and  stored  in  a  secure  location  for  a  time  period  not  less  than  two  (2) 
years. 

18. Depository Participants should  deploy controls and security measures to  
supervise    staff    with    elevated    system    access    entitlements    (such    as  
admin  or privileged  users)  to  Stock  Broker/  Depository  Participant’s  
critical  systems.  Such controls  and  measures  should  inter-alia  include  
restricting    the    number    of    privileged  users,    periodic    review    of  
privileged    users’    activities,    disallow    privileged    users    from  accessing  
systems    logs    in    which    their    activities    are    being    captured,    strong  
controls over remote access by privileged users, etc. 

19. Employees    and    outsourced    staff    such    as    employees  of    vendors    or  
service    providers,  who    may    be    given    authorized    access    to    the 
Depository    Participants  critical  systems,  networks  and  other  computer 

68 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

resources,  should  be  subject  to  stringent  supervision,  monitoring  and 
access restrictions.  

20. Depository  Participants should  formulate  an  Internet  access  policy  to 
monitor  and  regulate  the  use  of  internet  and  internet  based  services  
such  as  social media   sites,   cloud-based   internet   storage   sites,   etc. 
within   the  Depository Participant’s critical IT infrastructure. 

21. User  Management  must  address  deactivation  of  access  of  privileges  of 
users  who  are  leaving  the  organization  or  whose  access  privileges  have 
been withdrawn.  
 
Physical Security 
 

22. Physical    access    to    the    critical  systems    should    be    restricted    to  
minimum    and    only    to  authorized    officials.    Physical  access  of 
outsourced  staff/visitors  should  be  properly supervised by ensuring at 
the minimum that  outsourced staff/visitors are accompanied at all times 
by authorized employees. 

23. Physical  access  to  the  critical  systems  should  be  revoked  immediately  if 

the same is no longer required. 

24. Depository  Participants  should  ensure  that  the  perimeter  of  the  critical 
equipments  room,  if  any,  are  physically  secured  and  monitored  by 
employing physical, human  and  procedural  controls  such  as  the  use  
of  security  guards,  CCTVs,  card access systems, mantraps, bollards, etc. 
where appropriate.  
 
Network Security Management 
 

25. Depository  Participants  should  establish  baseline  standards  to  facilitate 
consistent  application  of  security  configurations  to  operating  systems,  
databases, network  devices  and  enterprise  mobile  devices  within  their  
IT    environment.    The  LAN  and  wireless  networks  should  be  secured 
within the Depository Participants’ premises with proper access controls. 

26. For  algorithmic  trading  facilities,  adequate  measures  should  be  taken  to 
isolate  and  secure  the  perimeter  and  connectivity  to  the  servers  running 
algorithmic trading applications. 

69 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

27. Depository  Participants  should  install  network  security  devices,  such  as 
firewalls, proxy servers, intrusion detection and prevention systems (IDS) 
to  protect  their  IT  infrastructure  which  is  exposed  to  the  internet,  from 
security exposures originating from internal and external sources. 

28. Adequate  controls  must  be  deployed  to  address  virus  /  malware  / 
ransomware  attacks.  These  controls  may  include  host  /  network  / 
application  based  IDS  systems,  customized  kernels  for  Linux,  anti-virus 
and anti-malware software etc. 
 
Data security 

 

29. Critical  data  must  be  identified  and  encrypted  in  motion  and  at  rest  by 
using strong encryption methods. Illustrative measures in this regard are 
given in Annexure A and B. 

30. Depository  Participants  should 

implement  measures 

to  prevent 
unauthorized  access  or  copying  or  transmission  of  data  /  information 
held  in  contractual  or  fiduciary  capacity.  It  should  be  ensured  that 
confidentiality  of  information  is  not  compromised  during  the  process  of 
exchanging and transferring information with external parties. Illustrative 
measures  to  ensure  security  during  transportation  of  data  over  the 
internet are given in Annexure B. 

31. The information security policy should also  cover use of devices such as 
mobile  phones,  faxes,  photocopiers,  scanners,  etc.,  within  their  critical  IT 
infrastructure, that can be used for capturing and transmission of sensitive 
data.  For  instance,  defining  access  policies  for  personnel,  and  network 
connectivity for such devices etc. 

32. Depository  Participants  should  allow  only  authorized  data  storage 
devices  within  their  IT  infrastructure  through  appropriate  validation 
processes. 
 
Hardening of Hardware and Software 
 

33. Depository  Participants  should  only  deploy  hardened  hardware  / 
software,  including  replacing  default  passwords  with  strong  passwords 
and  disabling  or  removing  services  identified  as  unnecessary  for  the 
functioning of the system. 

70 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

34. Open ports on networks and systems which are not in use or that can be 
potentially used for exploitation of data should be blocked and measures 
taken to secure them. 

 

Application Security in Customer Facing Applications 
 

35. Application  security  for  Customer  facing  applications  offered  over  the 
Internet  such  as  IBTs  (Internet  Based  Trading  applications),  portals 
containing  sensitive  or  private  information  and  Back  office  applications 
(repository  of  financial  and  personal  information  offered  by  Brokers  to 
Customers)  are  paramount  as  they  carry  significant  attack  surfaces  by 
virtue  of  being  available  publicly  over  the  Internet  for  mass  use.  An 
illustrative  list  of  measures  for  ensuring  security  in  such  applications  is 
provided in Annexure C. 
 
Certification of off-the-shelf products 
 

36. Depository  Participants  should  ensure  that  off  the  shelf  products  being 
used  for  core  business  functionality  (such  as  Back  office  applications) 
should bear Indian Common criteria certification of Evaluation Assurance 
Level  4.  The  Common  criteria  certification  in  India  is  being  provided  by 
(STQC)  Standardisation  Testing  and  Quality  Certification  (Ministry  of 
Electronics  and  Information  Technology).  Custom  developed  /  in-house 
software  and  components  need  not  obtain  the  certification,  but  have  to 
undergo intensive regression testing, configuration testing etc. The scope 
of tests should include business logic and security controls. 
 
Patch management 
 

37. Depository  Participants  should  establish  and  ensure  that  the  patch 
management  procedures  include  the  identification,  categorization  and 
prioritization  of  patches  and  updates.  An  implementation  timeframe  for 
each category of patches should be established to apply them in a timely 
manner. 

71 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

38. Depository  Participants  should  perform  rigorous  testing  of  security 
patches  and  updates,  where  possible,  before  deployment  into  the 
production environment so as to ensure that the application of patches do 
not impact other systems. 
 
Disposal of data, systems and storage devices 
 

39. Depository  Participants  should  frame  suitable  policy  for  disposal  of 
storage  media  and  systems.  The  critical  data  /  Information  on  such 
devices and systems should be removed by using methods such as crypto 
shredding / degauss / Physical destruction as applicable. 

40. Depository  Participants  should  formulate  a  data-disposal  and  data- 
retention  policy  to  identify  the  value  and  lifetime  of  various  parcels  of 
data. 
 
Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing (VAPT) 
 

41. Depository  Participants 

conduct  vulnerability 
assessment  to  detect  security  vulnerabilities  in  their  IT  environments 
exposed to the internet. 

should 

regularly 

42. Depository Participants with systems publicly available over the internet 
should  also  carry  out  penetration  tests,  at-least  once  a  year,  in  order  to 
conduct  an  in-depth  evaluation  of  the  security  posture  of  the  system 
through simulations of actual attacks on its systems and networks that are 
exposed to the internet. 
In  addition,  Depository  Participants  should  perform  vulnerability 
scanning and conduct penetration testing prior to the commissioning of a 
new system that is accessible over the internet. 

43. In  case  of  vulnerabilities  discovered  in  off-the-shelf  products  (used  for 
core business) or applications provided by exchange empanelled vendors, 
Depository  Participants  should  report  them  to  the  vendors  and  the 
exchanges in a timely manner. 

44. Remedial  actions  should  be  immediately  taken  to  address  gaps  that  are 

identified during vulnerability assessment and penetration testing. 
 
Monitoring and Detection 

72 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

45. Depository Participants  should establish appropriate security monitoring 
systems  and  processes  to  facilitate  continuous  monitoring  of  security 
events  /  alerts  and  timely  detection  of  unauthorised  or  malicious 
activities,  unauthorised  changes,  unauthorised  access  and  unauthorised 
copying  or  transmission  of  data  /  information  held  in  contractual  or 
fiduciary  capacity,  by  internal  and  external  parties.  The  security  logs  of 
systems, applications and network devices exposed to the internet should 
also be monitored for anomalies. 

46. Further, to ensure high resilience, high availability and timely detection of 
attacks on systems and networks exposed to the internet, Stock Brokers / 
Depository  Participants  should 
implement  suitable  mechanisms  to 
monitor  capacity  utilization  of  its  critical  systems  and  networks  that  are 
exposed to the internet, for example, controls such as firewalls to monitor 
bandwidth usage. 
 
Response and Recovery 
 

47. Alerts  generated  from  monitoring  and  detection  systems  should  be 
suitably  investigated  in  order  to  determine  activities  that  are  to  be 
performed  to  prevent  expansion  of  such  incident  of  cyber-attack  or 
breach, mitigate its effect and eradicate the incident. 

48. The  response  and  recovery  plan  of  the  Depository  Participants  should 
have  plans  for  the  timely  restoration  of  systems  affected  by  incidents  of 
cyber-attacks  or  breaches,  for  instance,  offering  alternate  services  or 
systems  to  Customers.  Stock  Brokers  /  Depository  Participants  should 
have  the  same  Recovery  Time  Objective  (RTO)  and  Recovery  Point 
Objective (RPO) as specified by SEBI for Market Infrastructure Institutions 
vide  SEBI  circular  CIR/MRD/DMS/17/20  dated  June  22,  2012  as 
amended from time to time 

49. The  response  plan  should  define  responsibilities  and  actions  to  be 
performed by its employees and support / outsourced staff in the event of 
cyber-attacks or breach of Cyber Security mechanism. 

50. Any  incident  of  loss  or  destruction  of  data  or  systems  should  be 
thoroughly  analyzed  and  lessons  learned  from  such  incidents  should  be 

73 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

incorporated to strengthen the security mechanism and improve recovery 
planning and processes. 

51. Depository Participants should also conduct suitable periodic drills to test 
the  adequacy  and  effectiveness  of  the  aforementioned  response  and 
recovery plan. 
 
Sharing of Information 
 

52. Quarterly  reports  containing  information  on  cyber-attacks  and  threats 
experienced  by  Depository  Participants  and  measures  taken  to  mitigate 
vulnerabilities,  threats  and  attacks  including  information  on  bugs  / 
vulnerabilities  /  threats  that  may  be  useful  for  other  Depository 
Participants should be submitted to Depositories. 
 
Training and Education 
 

53. Depository Participants should work on building Cyber Security and basic 
system  hygiene  awareness  of  staff  (with  a  focus  on  staff  from  non-
technical disciplines). 

54.  Depository  Participants  should  conduct  periodic  training  programs  to 
enhance  knowledge  of  IT  /  Cyber  Security  Policy  and  standards  among 
the  employees  incorporating  up-to-date  Cyber  Security  threat  alerts. 
Where possible, this should be extended to outsourced staff, vendors etc. 

55. The training programs should be reviewed and updated to ensure that the 

contents of the program remain current and relevant. 
 
Systems managed by vendors 
 

56. Where  the  systems  (IBT,  Back  office  and  other  Customer  facing 
applications,  IT  infrastructure,  etc.)  of  a  Stock  Brokers  /  Depository 
Participants are managed by vendors and the Stock Brokers / Depository 
Participants  may  not  be  able  to  implement  some  of  the  aforementioned 
guidelines  directly,  the  Depository  Participants  should  instruct  the 
vendors to adhere to the applicable guidelines in the Cyber Security and 
Cyber  Resilience  policy  and  obtain  the  necessary  self-certifications  from 
them to ensure compliance with the policy guidelines. 

74 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Systems managed by MIIs 
 

57. Where  applications  are  offered  to  customers  over  the  internet  by  MIIs 
(Market Infrastructure Institutions), for eg.: NSE’s NOW, BSE’s BEST etc., 
the  responsibility  of  ensuring  Cyber  Resilience  on  those  applications 
reside  with  the  MIIs  and  not  with  the  Depository  Participant.  The 
Depository  Participant  is  exempted  from  applying  the  aforementioned 
guidelines to such systems offered by MIIs such as NOW, BEST, etc. 
Periodic Audit 
 

58. The  Terms  of  Reference  for  the  System  Audit  of  Stock  Brokers  specified 
vide  circular  no.  CIR/MRD/DMS/34/2013  dated  November  06,  2013, 
shall accordingly stand modified to include audit of implementation of the 
aforementioned areas. 

59. The  Depository  Participants  and  Type  I  Stock  Brokers  (  as  defined  in 
CIR/MRD/DMS/34/2013  dated  November  06,  2013)  shall  arrange  to 
have their  systems audited on an annual basis by a CERT-IN empanelled 
auditor  or  an  independent  CISA/CISM  qualified  auditor  to  check 
compliance  with  the  above  areas  and  shall  submit  the  report  to  Stock 
Exchanges  /  Depositories  along  with  the    comments  of  the  Board  / 
Partners / Proprietor of Stock Broker/ Depository Participant within three 
months of the end of the financial year. 

 

Illustrative  Measures 
Applications 

 

Annexure A 

for  Data  Security  on  Customer  Facing 

1.  Analyse  the  different  kinds  of  sensitive  data  shown  to  the  Customer  on 
the  frontend  application  to  ensure  that  only  what  is  deemed  absolutely 
necessary is transmitted and displayed. 

2.  Wherever  possible,  mask  portions  of  sensitive  data.  For  instance,  rather 
than displaying the full phone number or a bank account number, display 
only a portion of it, enough for the Customer to identify, but useless to an 
unscrupulous  party  who  may  obtain  covertly  obtain  it  from  the 
Customer’s  screen.  For  instance,  if  a  bank  account  number  is  “123  456 
789”, consider displaying something akin to “XXX XXX 789” instead of the 

75 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

whole number. This also has the added benefit of not having to transmit 
the full piece of data over various networks. 

3.  Analyse  data  and  databases  holistically  and  draw  out  meaningful  and 
“silos”  (physical  or  virtual)  into  which  different  kinds  of  data  can  be 
isolated and cordoned off. For instance, a database with personal financial 
information need not be a part of the system or network that  houses the 
public  facing  websites  of  the  Stock  Broker.  They  should  ideally  be  in 
discrete silos or DMZs. 

4.  Implement  strict  data  access  controls  amongst  personnel,  irrespective  of 
their  responsibilities,  technical  or  otherwise.  It  is  infeasible  for  certain 
personnel  such  as  System  Administrators  and  developers  to  not  have 
privileged access to databases. For such cases, take strict measures to limit 
the  number  of  personnel  with  direct  access,  and  monitor,  log,  and  audit 
their activities. Take measures to ensure that the confidentiality of data is 
not compromised under any of these scenarios. 

5.  Use  industry  standard,  strong  encryption  algorithms  (eg:  RSA,  AES  etc.) 
wherever encryption is implemented. It is important to identify data that 
warrants encryption as encrypting all data is infeasible and may open up 
additional  attack  vectors.  In  addition,  it  is  critical  to  identify  the  right 
personnel to be in charge of, and the right methodologies for storing the 
encryption  keys,  as  any  compromise  to  either  will  render  the  encryption 
useless. 

6.  Ensure  that  all  critical  and  sensitive  data  is  adequately  backed  up,  and 
that the backup locations are adequately secured. For instance, on servers 
on isolated networks that have no public access endpoints, or on-premise 
servers  or  disk  drives  that  are  off-limits  to  unauthorized  personnel. 
Without  up-to-date  backups,  a  meaningful  recovery  from  a  disaster  or 
cyber-attack scenario becomes increasingly difficult. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

76 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Illustrative Measures for Data Transport Security 

Annexure B 

 

1.  When  an  Application  transmitting  sensitive  data  communicates  over  the 
Internet  with  the  Stock  Brokers’  systems,  it  should  be  over  a  secure, 
encrypted  channel  to  prevent  Man-  In-The-Middle  (MITM)  attacks,  for 
instance,  an  IBT  or  a  Back  office  communicating  from  a  Customer’s  web 
browser or Desktop with the Stock Brokers’ systems over the internet, or 
intra or inter organizational communications. Strong transport encryption 
mechanisms  such  as  TLS  (Transport  Layer  Security,  also  referred  to  as 
SSL) should be used. 

2.  For Applications carrying sensitive data that are served as web pages over 
the internet, a valid, properly configured TLS (SSL) certificate on the web 
server is mandatory, making the transport channel HTTP(S). 

3.  Avoid  the  use  of  insecure  protocols  such  as  FTP  (File  Transfer  Protocol) 
that can be easily compromised with MITM attacks. Instead, adopt secure 
protocols such as FTP(S), SSH and VPN tunnels, RDP (with TLS) etc. 

 
 

Illustrative Measures for Application Authentication Security 

Annexure C 

1.  Any  Application  offered  by  Stock  Brokers  to  Customers  containing 
sensitive,  private,  or  critical  data  such  as  IBTs,  SWSTs,  Back  office  etc. 
referred  to  as  “Application”  hereafter)  over  the  Internet  should  be 
password  protected.  A  reasonable  minimum  length  (and  no  arbitrary 
maximum length cap or character class requirements) should be enforced. 
While 
longer 
passphrases have more entropy and offer better security in general. Stock 
Brokers should attempt to educate Customers of these best practices. 

to  quantify  password  “complexity”, 

it 

is  difficult 

2.  Passwords,  security  PINs  etc.  should  never  be  stored  in  plain  text  and 
should  be  one-way  hashed  using  strong  cryptographic  hash  functions 
(e.g.: bcrypt, PBKDF2) before being committed to storage. It is important 
to  use  one-way  cryptographic  hashes  to  ensure  that  stored  password 
hashes are never transformed into the original plaintext values under any 
circumstances. 

77 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.  For added security, a multi-factor (e.g.: two-factor) authentication scheme 
may  be  used  (hardware  or  software  cryptographic  tokens,  VPNs, 
biometric devices, PKI etc.). 
In  case  of  IBTs  and  SWSTs,  a  minimum  of  two-factors 
authentication flow are mandatory. 

in  the 

4.  In case of Applications installed on mobile devices (such as smartphones 
two-factor 

secure  biometric 

a 

tablets), 

and 
cryptographically 
authentication mechanism may be used. 

5.  After a reasonable number of failed login attempts into Applications, the 
Customer’s account can be set to a “locked” state where further logins are 
not possible until a password and authentication reset is performed via an 
out-of-band  channel  validation,  for  instance,  a  cryptographically  secure 
unique link that is sent to the Customer’s registered e-mail, a random OTP 
(One Time Password) that is sent as an SMS to the Customer’s registered 
mobile  number,  or  manually  by  the  Broker  after  verification  of  the 
Customer’s identity etc. 

6.  Avoid forcing Customers to change passwords at frequent intervals which 
may  result  in  successive,  similar,  and  enumerated  passwords.  Instead, 
focus  on  strong  multi-factor  authentication  for  security  and  educate 
Customers  to  choose  strong  passphrases.  Customers  may  be  reminded 
within  reasonable  intervals  to  update  their  password  and  multi-factor 
credentials,  and  to  ensure  that  their  out-of-band  authentication  reset 
information (such as e-mail and phone number) are up-to-date. 

7.  Both  successful  and  failed  login  attempts  against  a  Customer’s  account 
may  be  logged  for  a  reasonable  period  of  time.  After  successive  login 
failures,  it  is  recommended  that  measures  such  as  CAPTCHAs  or  rate-
limiting  be  used  in  Applications  to  thwart  manual  and  automated  brute 
force and enumeration attacks against logins. 

 

78 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

2.9 

Reporting  for  Artificial  Intelligence  (AI)  and  Machine  Learning  (ML) 
applications and systems offered and used by market intermediaries66 
 
Background 
 

1.  There  is    increasing    usage    of    AI    (Artificial    Intelligence)    and    ML  
(Machine  Learning)  as  product  offerings  by  market  intermediaries  and 
participants (eg: “robo   advisors”)   in   investor   and   consumer   facing   
products.   SEBI   is conducting a survey and creating an inventory of the 
AI  /  ML  landscape  in  the  Indian  financial  markets  to  gain  an  in-depth 
understanding of the adoption of such technologies in the markets and to 
ensure preparedness for any AI / ML policies that may arise in the future. 
2.  As  most  AI  /  ML  systems  are  black  boxes  and  their  behavior  cannot  be 
easily  quantified,    it    is    imperative    to    ensure    that    any    advertised  
financial    benefit  owing  to  these  technologies  in  investor  facing  financial 
products  offered  by 
to 
misrepresentation  
 
Scope definition 

intermediaries 

should  not 

constitute 

3.  Any    set    of    applications    /    software    /    programs    /    executable    /  
systems  (computer  systems)  –cumulatively  called  application  and 
systems, 
1.  that    are    offered    to    investors    (individuals    and    institutions)    by 

market intermediaries to facilitate investing and trading,  

2.  to disseminate investments strategies and advice,  

3.  to carry out compliance operations / activities, 

OR 

OR 

where AI / ML is portrayed as a part of the public product offering or 
under  usage  for  compliance  or  management  purposes,  is  included  in 
the  scope  of  this  circular.  Here,  “AI”  /  “ML”  refers  to  the  terms 
“Artificial Intelligence”  and  “Machine  Learning”  used  as  a  part  of  
the    product  offerings.  In  order  to  make  the  scope  of  this  circular 
inclusive  of  various  AI  and  ML  technologies  in  use,  the  scope  also 

                                                           
66 Reference Circular  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOS2/CIR/P/2019/10 dated Jan 04, 2019 

79 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

covers  Fin-Tech  and  Reg-Tech    initiatives    undertaken    by    market  
participants  that  involves AI and ML 

 

 

4.  Technologies  that  are  considered  to  be  categorized  as  AI  and  ML 

technologies in the scope of this circular, are explained in Annexure B. 
 
Regulatory requirements 
 

5.  All  registered  Stock  Brokers  /  Depository  Participant  offering  or  using 
applications  or  systems  as  defined  in  Annexure  B,  should  participate  in 
the  reporting  process  by  completing  the  AI  /  ML  reporting  form  
(see Annexure A). 

6.  With  effect  from  quarter  ending  March  2019,  registered  Stock  Brokers  / 
Depository  Participant  using  AI  /  ML  based  application  or  system  as 
defined in Annexure B, are required to fill in the form(Annexure A) and 
make    submissions  on    quarterly    basis  within  15  calendar  days  of    the 
expiry of the quarter. 

7.  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories  have  to  consolidate  and  compile  a 
report, on  AI  /  ML  applications  and  systems  reported  by registered 
Stock  Brokers/      Depository      Participants  in      the      reporting      format 
(Annexure  C)  on  quarterly  basis.  The  said  report  (Annexure  C)  shall  be 
submitted  in  soft  copy  only  at  AI_SE@sebi.gov.in  (for  Stock  Exchange)  /  
AI_DEP@sebi.gov.in    (for  Depositories)to    SEBI  within  30    calendar  days 
of  the  expiry  of  the quarter,  starting  from  quarter  ending  March 2019. 

 
Annexure  A  -  Form  to  report  on  AI  and  ML  technologies  –  To  be  submitted 
quarterly 
Intimation to Stock Exchange / Depository for the use of the AI and ML 
application and systems 

 

SNo.  Head 
1 
2 
3 
4 

Entity SEBI registration number 
Registered entity category 
Entity name 
Entity PAN no. 

80 

Value 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 

execution 

<order 
/ 
Advisory services / KYC / 
AML  /  Surveillance  / 
compliance/others  (please 
specify in 256 characters)> 
<Yes / NO> 

<Yes / NO> 

<Yes / NO> 

<Yes / NO> 

<free text field> 

<free text field> 

through

solution 

<Internally  / 
 
provider / Jointly with a 
solution 
provider or third party> 
<free text field> 

<Yes / NO / NA> 

<free text field> 

Application / System name 
Date from when the Application / System was 
used 
Type of area where AI or ML is used 

Does the system involve order initiation, routing 
and execution? 
Does  the  system  fall  under  discretionary 
investment or Portfolio management activities? 
Does the system disseminate investment  or 
trading advice or strategies? 
Is the application/system used in area of Cyber 
Security to detect attacks 

What claims have been made regarding AI and 
ML 
Application / System – if any? 
What is the name of the Tool / Technology that is 
categorized as AI and ML system / Application 
and 
submissions are declared vide this response 
How was the AI or ML project implemented 

Are  the  key  controls  and  control  points  in  your 
AI  or  ML  application  or  systems  in  accordance 
to circular of SEBI that mandate cyber security 
control requirements 

Is the AI / ML system included in the system 
audit, if applicable? 
Describe the application / system and how it 
uses 
AI / ML as portrayed in the product offering 

81 

 

5 
6 

7 

7.a 

7.b 

7.c 

7.d 

7.e 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

13 

What safeguards are in place to prevent 
abnormal 
behavior of the AI or ML application / System 

<free text field> 

 

Annexure B–Systems deemed to be based on AI and ML technology 
Applications      and      Systems      belonging      but      not      limited      to      following   
categories   or   a combination of these: 
1.  Natural  Language  Processing  (NLP),  sentiment  analysis  or  text  mining 
systems that gather intelligence from unstructured data –In this case, Voice to 
text, text to intelligence systems in any natural language will be considered in 
scope.  Eg: robo chat bots, big data intelligence gathering systems. 

2.  Neural Networks or a modified form of it –In this case, any systems that uses 
a  number  of  nodes    (physical  or    software    simulated    nodes)    mimicking  
natural  neural  networks  of  any scale,  so  as  to  carry  out  learning  from  
previous  firing  of  the  nodes  will  be  considered   in scope. Eg: Recurrent 
Neural networks and Deep learning Neural Networks 

3.  Machine 

learning 

through  supervised,  unsupervised 

learning  or  a 
combination of both. –In this  case,  any application  or  systems  that  carry  
out    knowledge    representation    to    form    a  knowledge  base  of  domain,  by 
learning  and  creating  its  outputs  with  real  world  input  data  and  deciding 
future outputs based upon the knowledge base. Eg: System based on Decision 
tree,  random  forest,    K  mean,  Markov  decision  process,  Gradient  boosting 
Algorithms. 

4.  A  system  that   uses  statistical  heuristics  method  instead  of  procedural  
algorithms    or    the  system    /    application    applies    clustering    or  
categorization    algorithms    to    categorize    data  without  a  predefined  set  of 
categories 

5.  A  system  that  uses  a  feedback  mechanism  to  improve  its  parameters  

and  bases  it subsequent execution steps on these parameters. 

6.  A  system  that  does  knowledge  representation  and  maintains  a  knowledge 

base 

 

 

 
 

 

 

82 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Annexure C –Consolidated Quarterly Reporting Form  

Consolidated  Quarterly  report  to  SEBI  of  all  registered  intermediaries  with 
Stock  Exchange/  Depositories  using  AI  and  ML  application  and  systems  for 
the Quarter Ended DD/MM/YYYY 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To be filled if System Audit is 

If  system  audit  report  is 
submitted by entity later 
than “date used from” 

applicable 
If  system  audit  report 
is 
submitted  with 
adverse  remarks  and 
Stock 
Exchange/Depositorie
s 
to inspect the entity 
Was the entity 
inspected 
in 
past 1 year 

is  entitled 

If 
inspect
ed  was 
any 
irregula
rity 
noted 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

there 

Is 
any 
adverse 
comment 
in 
the 
System 
audit 
report 
 

D/DOS2/CIR
/P 
 
/2019/10 
 
dated January 
4, 2019 of SEBI   

<Yes / NO/>  <Yes / 
NO/> 

<Yes / NO> 

<Yes / 
NO> 

/ 

Entity 
registr
ati on 
numb
er 

 
Ent
ity 
na
me 

 
Ent
ity 
PA
N 
no. 

 
Applica
tion 
/
 
stem 
name 

Sy

 
Dat
e 
use
d 
fro
m 

Type of area 
where AI or ML 
is used 

Does system 
audit report 
comply to 
circular no 
SEBI/HO/MI
RS 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

/ 

<order 
execution 
Advisory 
services  /  KYC 
/  AML 
/ 
Surveillance 
compliance/ot
hers 

(please 

83 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

specify  in  256 
characters)> 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Add separate rows for each system or application. 

2.10 

Flashing a link to SCOREs on the dashboard of Demat Accounts67 

1.  A study was conducted under aegis of Quality Council of India (QCI) to 
understand  some  of  the  root  causes  of  grievances  /  complaints  on 
securities  market  related  issues  lodged  on  Centralised  Public  Grievance 
Redressal  and  Monitoring  System  (CPGRAMS)  portal  and  the  measures 
suggested  to  address  the  issues  included  providing  a  link  to  SCORES 
portal  within  Demat/Trading  Account  Dashboard  of  the  Clients/ 
investors to make it easier to lodge grievances. 

2.  The suggestion has been examined and it has been decided to implement 
the  same.  Accordingly,  stock  exchanges  and  depositories  are  advised  to 
issue  necessary  directions  to  stock  brikers/depository  participants  to 
ensure that the Demat / Trading Account Dashboard of clients / investors 
provides a link to SCORES portal.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                           
67 Reference: SEBI letter MIRSD2/DB/AEA/OW/2018/7292 dated March 07, 2018 

84 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SECTION 3: Issuer Related 

Charges paid by Issuers 68,69 

i.  With  effect  from  April  27,  2011  depositories  may  levy  and  collect  the 
charges  towards  custody  from  the  issuers,  on  the  basis  of  average  no.  of 
folios    (ISIN  position)    during  the  previous    financial  year,  as  per  the 
details given below: 

 

ii. 

Issuers  to  pay  @  Rs.11.00  (*)  per  folio  (ISIN  position)  in  the  respective 
depositories, subject to a minimum as mentioned below: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Nominal  value  of  admitted 
securities  (Rs.)  

Upto 5 crore 
Above 5 crore and upto 10 crore 
Above 10 crore and upto 20 crore 
Above 20 crore 

Annual  Custodial 
Fee 
payable by a Issuer to each 
Depository (Rs.)  (*) 

9,000 
22,500 
45,000 
75,000 

* Plus service tax as applicable 

iii.  The average no. of folios (ISIN positions) for an Issuer may be arrived at 
by dividing the total number of  folios for the entire financial year by the 
total number of working days in the said financial year. 
 

iv.  Temporary ISIN shall not be considered for the purpose of computing the 

annual issuer charges. 

v. 

If  the  issuer  fails  to  make  the  payment,  Depositories  may  charge  penal 
interest subject to a maximum of 12% per annum.  

 

 
3.1 
 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
68  Reference  Circular  MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-2/2009  dated  February  10,  2009  and  Circular 

SEBI/MRD/SE/DEP/Cir-4/2005 dated January 28, 2005 

69  Reference  Circular  CIR/MRD/  DP/05/2011  dated  April  27,  2011  and  Circular 

CIR/MRD/DP/18/2015 dated December 09,2015 

85 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
 

Activation  of  ISIN  in  case  of  IPO  and  additional  issue  of  shares/ 
securities  

Depositories shall activate the ISINs only on the date of commencement of 
trading  on  the  stock  exchanges  in  case  of  IPOs  for  both  the  equity  and 
debt securities.70   

Further,  in  order  to  curtail  the  transfer  of  additional  issue  of  shares/ 
securities  including  by  way  of  further  public  offerings,  rights  issue, 
preferential  allotment,  bonus  issue  etc  of  the  listed  company,  prior  to 
receipt  of  final  listing  /  trading  approval,  the  depositories  shall  devise  a 
mechanism so that such new securities created shall be frozen till the time 
final listing/ trading permission is granted by the exchange.71 
 
In  order  to  achieve  the  above,  the  Depositories  are  advised  to  allot  such 
additional  shares/securities  under  a  new  temporary  ISIN  which  shall  be 
kept frozen. Upon receipt of the final listing/ trading permission from the 
exchange  for  such  additional  shares/  securities,  the  shares/securities 
credited in the new temporary ISIN shall be debited and the same would 
get  credited  in  the  preexisting  ISIN  for  the  said  security.  Thereafter,  the 
additional securities shall be available for trading. 

 

 
 
3.2 

i. 

ii. 

 

iii.  The stock exchanges are advised to provide the details to the depositories 
whenever final listing / trading permission is given to securities. Further, 
in case of issuance of equity shares by a company, listed on multiple stock 
exchanges, the concerned stock exchanges shall synchronize their effective 
dates of listing / trading approvals and intimate the same to depositories 
in advance.34 

                                                           
70  Reference  Circular  SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-2/06  dated  January  19,  2006  and  Circular      

CIR/MRD/DP/ 21 /2012 dated August 02, 2012 

71 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/24/2012 dated September 11, 2012 

86 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent 

3.3 
 
3.3.1   Appointment of a single agency for share registry work72 
 
All  work  related  to  share  registry  pertaining  in  terms  of  both  physical  and 
electronic shares shall be maintained at a single point i.e. either in-house by the 
company or by a SEBI registered Registrar and Transfer Agent. 
 
3.3.2    Inter-Depository transfers73 

In  case  of  inter-Depository  transfers  of  securities,  the  Registrars  shall 
communicate the confirmation of such transfers within two hours, failing 
which  such  transfers  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  confirmed.  The 
Registrars shall not reject inter-Depository transfers except where 
 

i.  A  Depository does not have adequate balance of securities in its account 

ii. 

or  
there is mismatch of transfer requests from the Depositories. 
 

3.3.3    Common Registrars and Share Transfer agents74  

 
Every  company  shall  appoint  the  same  Registrars  and  Share  Transfer 
agents for both the depositories.  

 
3.3.4    Dematerialisation requests 75 

 

i. 

agents 

shall 

and  Share  Transfer 

  Registrars 
accept  partial 
dematerialisation  requests  and  will  not  reject  or  return  the  entire 
dematerialization  request  where  only  a  part  of  the  request  had  to  be 
rejected.  In  cases  where  a  DP  has  already  sent  information  about 
dematerialisation electronically to a Registrar but physical shares have 
not yet been delivered, the Registrar shall accept the demat request and 

                                                           
72 Reference Circular D&CC/FITTC/Cir-15/2002 dated December 27, 2002 
73 Reference Circular no. SMDRP/Policy/Cir-28/99 dated August 23, 1999 
74 Reference Circular SMDRP/Policy/Cir-28/99 dated August 23, 1999 
75 Reference: D&CC/ 1099 / 2002 dated November 01, 2002 

87 

 
 

 

 

 

 

ii. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

carry out dematerialization on an indemnity given by the DP and proof 
of dispatch of document given by DP. 

It  is  clarified  that  the  above  provision  shall  be  applicable  to  all  the 
securities  like  scrips,  bonds,  debentures,  debenture  stock  or  other 
marketable  securities  eligible  to  be  held  in  dematerialised  form  in  a 
depository  as  defined  in  Regulation  42  of  the  SEBl  (Depository  and 
Participants) Regulations, 2018. 

Mandatory admission of debt instruments on both the Depositories76 

3.4 
 

3.5 

Debt instruments shall necessarily be admitted on both the Depositories.  
 
Specifications  related    to  International    Securities    Identification    
Number  (ISINs)  for  debt   securities   issued  under   the   SEBI   (Issue  
and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities)  Regulations, 200877 
 

3.5.1  International Securities Identification Number (ISINs): 

3.5.1.1  A  maximum number of  17 International  Securities  Identification  
Numbers    (ISINs)  maturing  in    any  financial    year  shall    be  
allowed.  Additionally 12  ISINs  shall  also  be available  for  the  
issuance    of    the    capital    gains    tax  debt    securities  by  the  
authorized issuers under section 54EC of the Income Tax Act 1961 
on private placement basis. 

3.5.1.2  Out  of  17  ISINs  maturing  in  a  financial  year, the  bifurcation  of  

ISINs  shall  be  as under: 
i.  A  maximum  of  12  ISINs  maturing  per  financial  year  shall  be 
allowed only for plain vanilla debt securities.  Further, within 
these  12  ISINs,  the  issuer  can  issue  both  secured  and 
unsecured debt securities  

ii.  A  maximum  of  5  ISINs  (i.e.    for  structured  debt    securities 
such    as  debt  securities  with  call  and/or  put  option,  etc.) 
maturing  per  financial  year  shall  be  allowed  only  for 

                                                           
76Reference  Circular  D&CC/FITTC/Cir-13/2002  dated  November  1,  2002  and  Circular 

MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-36/04 dated October 27, 2004 

77 Reference Circular CIR/IMD/DF-1/67/2017 dated June 30,2017 

88 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

structured  products/market  linked  debt  securities  issued 
under 
circular  Cir/IMD/DF/17/2011dated  
September  28,  2011,  relating  to 
listing  of 
structured/market linked debt securities. 

  and 

issue 

the 

SEBI 

3.5.1.4 

3.5.1.3  An  issuer  issuing  only  structured/market  linked  debt  securities, 
may utilise the entire bucket of 12 ISINs in a financial year only for 
structured/market  linked  debt  securities.  However,  in  such  a 
scenario, the additional 5 ISINs as mentioned in paragraph 3.5.1.2ii 
above  shall  not  be  available  to  an  issuer  for  utilization,  either  
for  structured  debt securities or for plain vanilla debt securities.  
In  case  of  structured  /market  linked  debt  securities  which  have 
embedded options viz. call  and/or  put  option,  the maturity  of  
ISINs  shall   be  reckoned  on   basis  of  original maturity date of 
debt securities.  
For    e.g.  if    a    structured  debt    securities  having    maturity    of    5  
years ,  which  is callable after 3   years and  thereafter   every year 
until  its  redemption,  then  the    debt  securities  shall  be  grouped  in 
the bucket of 5 years maturity period which is its original maturity 
period even though it may be callable after a period of 3 years.  

3.5.1.5  The  provisions    of    this    circular    shall    be    applicable    for    debt 
securities  issued    in    the  financial  year  (FY)  2017-18  i.e.  after  the 
date  of  this  circular  and  shall  not  be  applicable  to  the  ISINs 
maturing  in  respect  of  the  debt  securities  issued  prior  to  the  FY 
2017-18.  However,  post  FY  2017-18,  whatever  issuances  are  made 
by  the  issuer,  the  issues  shall  be  grouped  and  consolidated  under 
the ISIN maturing in the same FY.   
 

3.5.2  Exemptions from applicability of ISINs: 

The  following  classes  of  debt  securities issued  for  raising  regulatory  
capital  are exempted from the applicability of provisions of this circular: 
 

3.5.2.1  Tier    II    bonds  issued  by    Housing    Finance    Companies    (HFCs),  
the  maturity  period  of which is not less than five years issued as 
per  “Master  Circular-The  Housing  Finance  Companies  (NHB) 
Directions, 2010” dated July 01, 2016; 

89 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.5.2.2  Tier  II  bonds  issued  by  the  standalone  Primary  dealers,  with 
minimum  maturity  of  five  years    issued    as  per  “Standalone  
primary  Dealers  (Reserve  Bank)  Directions,  2016”dated August 
25, 2016;  

3.5.2.3  Subordinated    debt  issued  by    insurance    companies,    which    is  
either  perpetual  or  the maturity  period  of  which  is  not  less  
than  ten    years    for    life,  general    and  reinsurance  companies  and 
seven  years  for  health  insurance  companies  issued  as  per  the 
“IRDAI  (Other  forms  of  Capital)  Regulations,  2015”  dated 
November 13, 2015; 

3.5.2.4  Additional  Tier  1  bonds,  which  are  perpetual,  issued  by  banks 
under  Basel  III  norms  and    Tier    II    bonds,    having    minimum  
maturity  period  of  five  years,  issued  by  banks under  the  Basel  
III 
  the  “Master  Circular-Basel  III  Capital 
Regulations” dated July 01, 2015. 

  norms  as 

  per 

3.5.2.5  Bonds  issued  by  banks  to raise  resources  for  lending  to  long  term 
infrastructure  sub-sectors  and  affordable  housing,  which  have  a 
minimum maturity of seven years issued as per  RBI  circular dated 
July 15, 2014 on “Issue  of  Long  Term  bonds  by  banks-Financing 
of infrastructure and affordable housing”. 

3.5.2.6  Perpetual  debt  instrument  issued  by  Systemically  Important  Non-
Deposit taking Non-Banking   Financial  Companies issued  as per  
RBI  circular  dated  October  29,  2008  on “Enhancement of NBFCs’ 
capital raising option for capital adequacy purposes”;  

3.5.2.7  Tier  II  bonds  issued  by  Non-Systemically  Important  Non-Deposit 
taking  Non-Banking  Financial      Company  issued      as  per      RBI“ 
Master  Direction-Non-Banking 
  Financial  Company-Non-
Systemically  important  Non-deposit  taking  Company  (Reserve  
Bank) Directions, 2016”dated September 01, 2016. 
 

 

3.5.3  Mechanism  for  honouring  debt  obligations  arising  out  of  capping  of 

ISINs : 

3.5.5.1  An  issuer  may  honour  its      debt      obligations/liabilities,      arising   
out      of      such      ISIN  restriction,    in    the    manner    as    deemed  
feasible  to  them i.e. the  issuer  can  make staggered repayments or 
bullet maturity re-payments or in any other manner deemed so. 

90 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.5.5.2  An issuer may offer different type of payment options to different 
category of investors subject to such disclosures being made in the 
information  memorandum  in  order  to  manage  their  asset  liability 
mismatch.  
insurance  company  may  be  offered  staggered 
For  e.g.  an 
redemption, however mutual fund may be offered bullet payment.   
3.5.5.3  Also, in case of any modification in terms or structure of the issue 
viz.  change  in  terms  of    payment,    change    in    interest    pay-out  
frequency    etc.  the  issuer  may    make  such  modification  by 
following  procedure  as  has  been  laid  out  in  Regulation  59  of  the 
SEBI 
and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.  

(Listing  Obligations 

3.5.5.4  Record  Date:  There  may  be  cases  where  multiple  record  dates 
would  arise  on  account  of  staggered  payment  or  other  cases  viz. 
frequency  of  payment  etc.  In  such  a  case,  when  announcing  
multiple  record  dates,  the  issuer  has  to  disclose  clearly  to the  
stock exchanges the basis of payment to the investors viz. pro-rata, 
first cum basis etc. 
 

3.5.4  Time  limit    for    carrying    out    necessary    changes    to    the    Articles    of  

Association (AOA)/charter/constitution of the issuer: 
In order to comply with the provisions of clause (a) of Regulation 20A of 
the  SEBI  (ILDS)  regulations,  the  issuer  shall  have  a  time  period  of  six 
months from the date of this circular to make an enabling provision in its 
Articles of Association to carry out consolidation and re-issuance of debt 
securities. 
 

3.5.5  Reporting and Monitoring: 

3.5.5.1  Issuers: 

i.  All    the    issuers    who    have    made    private    placement  of    debt  
securities    under    the    SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities) 
Regulations,  2008,  shall  within  fifteen  working  days    of    issue    of  
this  circular  submit  a statement containing  data  in  the  format  
as prescribed below: 

91 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Name 
of  
the 
issuer 
 

ISIN 
number 

Issuance 
date 

Maturity 
date 

Coupon 
rate 

Payment 
frequency 

Embedded 
option 
if 
any 

Amount 
issued 

Amount 
outstanding 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ii.  Also,  an  issuer  shall  within  fifteen  working  days  from  the  end  of 
every  half  year,  submit  a  statement,  to  the  recognized  stock 
exchange,  where  its  debt  securities  are  listed,  as  well  as  to  the 
depository containing data in the format as prescribed above. 
In case there is any  modification in terms or structure of the issue 
viz.  change  in  terms  of  payment,  change  in  interest  pay-out 
frequency  etc.as  specified  in  paragraph  3.5.5.3  above,  the  issuer 
shall, forthwith, inform the same to the depository. 

iii. 

iv.  An issuer shall within thirty working days from end of six months 
from  the  date  of  this  circular  submit  a  confirmation  certificate  to   
Stock      Exchanges      with      respect      to  compliance  with  para  3.5.4 
above. 
  

3.5.5.2  Depositories: 

i.  Upon    receipt    of  the   report    as    specified    in    paragraph  3.5.5.1ii  
and  3.5.5.1iii  above,  the depository   shall   upload   the   same   on   
the      centralized      database      for      corporate  bonds/debentures  as 
per SEBI circular CIR/IMD/DF/17/2013 dated October 22, 2013 as 
well as the Integrated trade Repository for corporate bonds. 

ii.  The  RSE  shall  within  five working  days  of  the  expiry  of  the  
period    as    specified    in  paragraph  3.5.5.1ii    above,    send    the  
reports  received  by  it  to  the  depositories  for  the purposes of 
their reconciliation.  

iii.  The  depositories  shall  thereafter  within  five  working  days  of 
receipt  of  reports  from  the  recognised  stock  exchanges,  send  a 
status  report  to  the  latter  regarding  utilization  of  ISINs  by  the 
issuers. 

 

 
 

 

 

92 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Based  on  the  queries  and  representations  received  from  time  to  time, 
certain clarifications are issued:78 

i. 

It    is    clarified    that  structured  products/market    linked    debt  
securities  as    mentioned  in  paragraph    3.5.1.2ii  of  the  master 
circular  refer  to  the  structured 
linked 
debentures  as  per  the  SEBI  circular  Cir/IMD/DF/17/2011  dated 
September 28, 2011. 

  products/market 

 

ii.  With    respect    to  paragraph  3.5.1.3  of  the  master  circular,  it    is  
clarified    that    in    case    of   debt  securities,  where  call  and/or  put 
option  is  exercised,  the  issuer,  if  so  desires,  may  issue  additional  
debt  securities for  the  balance  period viz. remaining  period  of  
maturity    of  earlier  debt  securities.  For  example,  if  an  issuer  has 
issued  debt  securities  in  the  month  of  August  2017  having 
maturity period of three years and callable after one year, then in 
such  a  scenario  if  the  call  option  is  exercised  in  the  month  of 
August 2018, then for the balance two years period viz (September 
2018-August  2020)  the  issuer  may  issue  additional  debt  securities 
maturing in August 2020, under the same ISIN. 
Provided  that  the  aforesaid  additional  issue  shall  be subject  to  
the    condition    that  the  aggregate  count  of  outstanding  ISINs 
maturing  in  the  financial  year  in  which  the  original  issue    ofdebt  
securities  (bearing  call  and/or  put  option) is due  for expiring,  
shall not exceed the prescribed limit of ISINs. 
 

iii.  With    respect    to  paragraph  3.5.1.5  of  the  master  circular,    it    is  
clarified  that for  all  the debt securities issued in the financial year 
(FY) 2017-18 on or after July 01, 2017, all the ISINs corresponding 
to these issues, maturing in any financial year, shall adhere to the 
limit of 12/5 ISINs. 

iv.  Additionally,  it  may  be  noted  that  in  case  of  conversion  of  partly 
paid  debt  securities  to  fully    paid    debt    securities,    such  
conversion  shall    not    be    counted    as  an  additional    ISIN  under 
paragraph 3.5.1.2 of the master circular. 

                                                           
78 Reference circular CIR/DDHS/P/59/2018 dated March 28, 2018 

93 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

v.  With    respect    to  Paragraph    3.5.2  of  the  master  circular,    it    is  
clarified  that  the exemption as granted under paragraph 3.5.2.5 of 
the  master  circular  shall  also  be  available  to  All  India  Term 
Lending  and  Refinancing  Institutions  (AITLRI)  as  notified  by  RBI 
and  Infrastructure  Debt  Funds    registered    as    Non-Banking  
Finance  Companies subject  to  them  issuing debt securities with 
minimum five years maturity. 

vi.  All  the  exemption    from    the  applicability    of    ISIN    circular,    as  
have  been  outlined  in paragraph 3.5.2 of the master circular and 
paragraph  v  above  shall  be  available  only  till  June  30,    2020  and  
shall    not    continue    beyond    that    period.    Thus,  no  exemption 
from  the  applicability  of  ISIN  circular  shall  be  available  to  any 
issuer for debt securities issued on or after July 01, 2020. 
It  is  further  clarified  that  for  the  class  of  entities,  mentioned  in 
paragraph 3.5.2 of the master circular and paragraph v above, for 
whom  exemption  is  available,  the  said  exemption  shall  be 
applicable  only  from  paragraph  3.5.1  and  3.5.3  of  the  master 
circular. 

 

  disclose 

vii.  With    respect    to  paragraph    3.5.3    of  the  master    circular,    it    is  
clarified  that  the  issuer  shall, while   making   an   issue   of   debt   
securities, 
  Information 
Memorandum/Disclosure  Document  that  further  issuances  may 
be made under the same ISIN. However, if such a disclosure is not 
made by the issuer then compliance shall have to   be   made   with   
regulation      59      of      the      SEBI      (Listing      Obligations      and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 

  upfront 

 

in 

 

  the 

 

viii.  With  respect  to  paragraph  3.5.5.1ii  of  the  master  circular,  it  is 
clarified  that  the  statement  to  be  submitted    to    the    stock  
exchanges  shall  be  submitted half  yearly  on  the  basis  of  the 
financial year i.e. latest by April 15 and October 15 of each financial 
year. 

 
 
 
 

94 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

3.6 

American  Depository  Receipts  (ADRs)  /  Global  Depository  Receipts 
(GDRs) 

 
3.6.1    Delivery of underlying shares of GDRs/ADRs in dematerialised form79 

 
Underlying  shares  of  GDRs/ADRs  shall  be  compulsorily  delivered  in 
dematerialised  form.  Pursuant  to  RBI  directions  in  this  regard,  a  non-
resident holder of ADRs/GDRs issued by a company registered in India, 
on  surrender  of  such  ADRs/GDRs,  can  acquire  the  underlying  shares 
when such shares are released by the Indian Custodian of the ADR/GDR 
issue. Further, the company whose shares are so released, or a Depository 
shall enter in the register or books, wherein such securities are registered 
or inscribed, an address outside India of the non-resident holder of shares.  
 

3.6.2    Tracking of underlying shares of  GDRs/ADRs80 

 
To ensure easy tracking of the underlying shares released on conversion of 
the  “depositories  receipts”  all  such  shares  shall  be  credited  to  a  separate 
Depository  Receipts  (DRs)  account  of  the  respective  investor.  In  this 
regard,  Depositories  shall  ensure  that  the  following  information  is 
provided  to  the  domestic  custodian  holding  the  underlying  shares  on  a 
regular basis: 
 

i.  Total number of shares at the beginning of the month 
ii.  Number  of  shares  transferred  into  the  account  (credited)  during  the 

month 

iii.  Number  of  shares  transferred  out  of  the  account  (debited)  during  the 

month. 

iv.  Balance at the end of the month. 

 

This  service  can  be  availed  of  only  by  foreign  investors  other  than  the 
OCBs. 

                                                           
79 Reference Circular SMDRP/Policy/Cir-9/99 dated May 6, 1999 

80Reference  Circular  D&CC/FITTC/Cir-09/2002  dated 

July  4,  2002  and  Circular 

D&CC/FITTC/Cir-10/2002 dated September 25, 2002 

95 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

3.7 

Electronic Clearing System (ECS) facility 
 

3.7.1    Use of ECS for refund in public/ rights issues.81 

 
For  locations  where  facility  of  refund  through  ECS  is  available  details  of 
applicants shall be taken directly from the database of the depositories in 
respect  of  issues  made  completely  in  dematerialised  form.  Accordingly, 
DPs shall maintain and update on real time basis the MICR (Magnetic Ink 
Character Recognition) code of Bank branch of BOs and other bank details 
of the applicants in the database of depositories.  This is to ensure that the 
refunds through ECS are made in a smooth manner and that there are no 
failed/wrong credits. 

 
3.7.2  Updation  of  bank  accounts  details,  MICR  code  and  IFSC  of  bank 

branches by Depository Participants (DPs)82 

 

i.       It  has  been  informed  by  RBI  that  they  have  been  receiving  complaints 
from managers to the issues that the funds routed through the electronic 
mode are getting returned by destination banks because of incorrect or old 
account numbers provided by beneficiary account holders. 
 

ii.      RBI  has  stated  that  Investors  will  have  to  ensure  through  their  DPs  that 
bank  account  particulars  are  updated  in  master  record  periodically,  to 
ensure  that  their  refunds,  dividend  payments  etc.  reach  the  correct 
account,  without  loss  of  time.  RBI  has  also  suggested  incorporation  of 
Indian  Financial  System  Code  (IFSC)  of  customer's  bank  branches  apart 
from  9  digit  MICR  code;  since  IFSC  of  bank's  branches  is  used  for 
remittance through National Electronic Funds Transfer (NEFT). 
 

 

iii.       It  is  advised  that  necessary  action  be  taken  in  this  matter  to  ensure  that 
correct  account  particulars  of  investors  are  available  in  the  database  of 
depositories. 

                                                           
81Reference  Circular  SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-3/06  dated  February  21,  2006  and  circular 

SEBI/CFD/DIL/DIP/29/2008/01/02 dated February 1, 2008 
82 Reference: MRD/DEP/PP/123624 /2008 dated April 23, 2008 

96 

 
 

 

 

 

 
3.8 

 
3.9 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Withdrawal by issuers from the depository83 
 

i.  As  regards  voluntary  withdrawal  by  issuers  from  the  depository,  it  is 
informed that listed companies may not be allowed to withdraw from the 
depository  system  unless  they  delist  their  securities  from  the  stock 
exchanges.  
 

ii.  As regards companies under liquidation are concerned, it is informed that 
deactivation of the ISIN may be only done in cases where companies have 
been  liquidated.  In  other  cases  where  companies  are  being  liquidated, 
deactivation of ISIN resulting in total freezing  may not be desirable as  it 
will disallow investors to hold shares in dematerialized form 

Further issue of shares under Section 86 of Companies Act and Companies 
(Issue of Share capital with Differential Voting Rights) Rules, 200184 
 
In  all  cases  of  shares  issued  by  companies  under  Section  86(a)  (ii)  of 
Companies Act and Companies (Issue of Share Capital with Differential 
Voting Rights) Rules, 2001, separate ISIN may be allotted to differentiate 
such shares from ordinary shares. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                           
83 Reference: MRD/DoP/NSDL/VM/ 162378 /2009 dated May 06, 2009 
84 Reference: MRD/DoP/MC/141442 /2008 dated October 17, 2008 

97 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

4.1 

i. 

SECTION - 4: Depositories Related 

 

Online Registration Mechanism and Filing system for Depositories85 
 
In   order   to   ease   the process   of   application   for   recognition   /   
renewal,  reporting    and    other    filings    in    terms  of  Securities    and  
Exchange  Board  of India  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations, 
1996 and  other  circulars issued  from  time to  time, SEBI  has  introduced  
a  digital  platform  for  online filings related to Depositories. 

ii.  All  applicants  desirous  of  seeking  registration as a Depository in  terms  
of  Regulation  3  of    the  Securities    and    Exchange    Board    of    India 
(Depositories    and  Participants)    Regulations,  1996,  shall  now    submit  
their 
  online,  through  SEBI  Intermediary  Portal  at 
https://siportal.sebi.gov.in. 

  applications 

iii.  The  applicants  would  be required  to upload  scanned  copy  of  relevant 
documents  such  as  any  declaration  or  undertaking  or  notarised  copy  
of  documents  as  may  be  prescribed  in  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations  1996,  and  keep  hard 
copy of the same to be furnished to SEBI whenever required. 
Further,    all    other    filings  including  Annual    Financial    Statements    and  
Returns, Monthly Development  Report, Rules, Bye-laws,  etc.,  shall  also  
be  submitted online.  

iv. 

v.  The      aforesaid      online      registration      and      filing      system      for 
Depositories is operational.  Recognised Depositories are advised to note 
the same for immediate compliance. 

vi.  Link   for   SEBI   Intermediary   Portal   is   also   available   on   SEBI   
website –www.sebi.gov.in. In case of any queries and clarifications, users 
may refer to the manual provided in the portal or contact the SEBI Portal 
helpline on 022-26449364 or may write at portalhelp@sebi.gov.in. 
 
Activity schedule for depositories for T+2 rolling Settlement86 

4.2 
 

i.  The activity schedule for T+2 Rolling Settlement is as under: 

                                                           
85 Reference Circular SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2018/1 dated January 29, 2018 
86Reference  Circular  DCC/FITTC/Cir-19/2003  dated  March  4,  2003  and  Circular 

MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-18/2005 dated September 2, 2005 

98 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Day  Time 

Description of activity 

Sr. 
No. 
1 

T 

  
By 1.00 pm 

2 

T+1 

By 2.30 pm 

Trade Day 
Completion  of  custodial  confirmation  of 
trades  to  CC/CH.  (There  is  no  separate 
extended time limit for late confirmations).  
Completion  of  process  and  download 
obligation files to brokers/ custodians by the 
CC/CH. 

3 

T+2 

By 11.00 am  Pay-in of securities and funds.  
By 1.30 pm 

Pay-out of securities and funds.  

ii.  All  Depositories  shall  adhere  to  the  aforementioned  activity  schedule  to 
implement  T+2  rolling  settlement.  DPs  shall  adhere  to  the  designated 
activities within the prescribed time limits as under:  

a.  DPs shall accept instructions for pay-in of securities from clients in the 
physical form atleast upto 4 p.m. and in electronic form atleast upto 6 
p.m. on T+1. 

b.  DPs  shall  complete  execution  of  pay-in  instructions  latest  by  10:30  a. 

m. on T+2. 

c.  Depositories shall download the processed pay-in files to the Exchange 

/ Clearing House / Clearing Corporation latest by 11:00 a.m. on T+2. 

d.  Pay-out  of  securities  by  the  Exchange  /  Clearing  House  /  Clearing 
Corporation to the Depositories shall be executed by 1:30 p.m. on T+2. 
e.  Pay-out  of  securities  shall  be  completed  by  the  Depositories  by  2:00 

p.m. on T+2. 

iii.  All instructions received by the  DPs shall have an execution date, which 
may be either a current date or a future date. Instructions shall be valid till 
the  pay-in  deadline  or  till  'end  of  day'  (EOD)  of  the  execution  date, 
whichever  is  earlier.  DPs  shall  ensure  that  the  validity  period  of 
instructions  is  brought  to  the  notice  of  the  client  while  accepting  the 
instructions.  In  case  the  client  account  does  not  have  sufficient  balance 
before pay-in deadline or till EOD, such instructions shall fail. 

99 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

4.3 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Settlement of transactions in case of holidays87  

 

Due to lack of uniformity of holidays and force majeure conditions which 
necessitate sudden closure of one or more Stock Exchanges and banks in a 
particular state, result in situations where multiple settlements have to be 
completed  by  the  Stock  Exchanges  on  the  working  day  immediately 
following  the  day(s)  of  the  closure  of  the  banks.  Accordingly  the  Stock 
Exchanges/Depositories are advised to follow the guidelines and  adhere 
to the time line. 
 

i.  The Stock Exchanges shall clear and settle the trades on a sequential basis 
i.e.,  the  pay-in  and  the  pay-out  of  the  first  settlement  shall  be  completed 
before  the  commencement  of  the  pay-in  and  pay-out  of  the  subsequent 
settlement/s. 

ii.  The  cash/securities  pay  out  from  the  first  settlement  shall  be  made 
available  to  the  member  for  meeting  his  pay-in  obligations  for  the 
subsequent settlement/s.  

iii.  Further,  in-order  to  meet  his  pay-in  obligations  for  the  subsequent 
settlement, the member may need to move securities from one depository 
to another. The Depositories shall, therefore, facilitate the inter-depository 
transfers within one hour and before pay-in for the subsequent settlement 
begins.  

iv.  The  Stock  Exchanges/Depositories  shall  follow  a  strict  time  schedule  to 

ensure that the settlements are completed on the same day.  

v.  The  Clearing  Corporation/Clearing  House  of  the  Stock  Exchanges  shall 
execute Auto DO facility for all the settlements together, so as to make the 
funds and the securities available with the member on the same day for all 
the settlements, thereby enabling the availability of the funds/securities at 
the client level by the end of the same day. 

 
4.4 

Deadline time for accepting non pay-in related instructions88  

 

                                                           
87 Reference  Circular SEBI/MRD/Policy/AT/Cir- 19/2004 dated April 21, 2004 
88 Reference: MRD/VSS/ARR/ 12255/2004 dated June 10, 2004 

100 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

i.      The  depositories  are  advised  that  any  overrun  of  the  time  specified  for 
'spot delivery contract' in the SCRA would result in the contract becoming 
illegal  under  section  16  of  the  SCRA  (unless  it  is  put  through  the  stock 
exchange).  The  DP-BO  agreement  cannot  add  anything  to  or  subtract 
anything  from  this  position.  However,  it  should  be  the  responsibility  of 
the  DP  to  ensure  that  the  client's  contract  is  not  rendered  illegal  on 
account of delayed execution of the delivery instruction. 

 

ii.       Keeping  the  hardships  to  change  all  the  existing  DP-BO  agreements  to 
enforce  the  above  into  consideration,  it  is  advised  that  suitable  bye  laws 
can be made under section 26(2)(e) and (d)  of Depositories Act,   1996 for 
imposing   such   obligation   on   the   DPs.   Therefore,   it is advised to 
amend/insert bye laws which should expressly provide that the DPs shall 
execute the non pay-in related instructions on the same day or on the next 
day  of  the  instruction.  Further,  pending  such  amendment,  suitable 
instructions may be issued to DPs to adhere to such time limit. 

iii.       The  above  clause  may  be  suitably  incorporated  in  the  DP-BO  agreement 

while opening new accounts. 

 

4.5 

Approval  of  amendments  to  Bye  Laws  /  Rules  of  Stock  Exchanges  and 
Depositories89 

 
i.  Depositories and exchanges shall submit the following information while 
seeking SEBI approval for amendment to Bye Laws/ Rules/ Regulations 
and amendments thereto: 
 
a.  The objective/purpose of amendments. 
b.  Whether  the  amendment  is  consequential  to  any  directive/circulars/ 

guidelines from SEBI/ Government and the details thereof. 

c.  Whether such amendments necessitate any consequential amendments 

to any other Bye Laws/ Rules/ Regulations. 

                                                           
89 Reference Circular LGL/Cir-2/2003 dated February 19, 2003 

101 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

ii. 

d.  The proceedings of the Governing Board or Governing Council, as the 
case may be, wherein these proposed amendments were approved by 
the Exchanges/ Depositories. 

e.  If  documents  other  than  Bye  Laws/  Rules/  Regulations  are  sent  for 
approval,  the  justification  and  need  for  forwarding  the  same  to  SEBI, 
indicating whether it forms a part of any Bye Law/ Rule/ Regulation. 

 
Further,  all  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  requests  for  dispensation  of  the 
requirement  of  pre-publication  shall  be  accompanied  with  proper 
justification and indicate how the public interest or interest of trade shall 
be served by such dispensation of pre-publication.  

4.6 

Preservation of Records90 
 

 

i.  Depositories  and  Depository  Participants  are  required  to  preserve  the 

records and documents for a minimum period of 5 year. 

ii.  Depositories  and  DPs  shall  preserve  respective  original  forms  of 
documents either in physical form or an electronic record, copies of which 
have  been  taken  by  CBI,  Police  or  any  other  enforcement  agency  during 
the course of their investigation till the trial is completed.   

 

4.7 

i. 

Pledge of Shares through depository system91 
 
Section  12  of  the  Depositories  Act  and  Regulation  79  of  the  SEBI 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations,  2018 along with the relevant 
Bye  Laws  of  the  Depositories  clearly  enumerate  the  manner  of  creating 
pledge.  It is felt that  there is a need to communicate to the BOs that  any 
procedure followed other than as specified under the aforesaid provisions 
of law shall not be treated as pledge. 

ii. 

In  order  to  clarify  the  same,  the  depositories  are  advised  to  issue  a 
communiqué to the DPs advising them to inform BOs about the procedure 

                                                           
90Reference  Circular  SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-24/05  dated  December  22,  2005, 

circular 
SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-16/2005 dated August 04, 2005 and circular MRD/DoP/DEP/Cir-20/2009 
dated December 9, 2009 

91 Reference: MRD/DoP/MAS – OW/16723/2010 dated August 17, 2010 

102 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

for pledging of shares held in demat form as enumerated in the relevant 
sections of the Depositories Act and SEBI (Depositories and Participants) 
Regulations,  2018.  Depositories  may  also  advise  DPs  that  an  off-market 
transfer of shares leads to change in ownership and cannot be treated as 
pledge. Further, this issue may also be taken up in the investor awareness 
programs  wherein  the  manner  of  creation  of  pledge  can  be  effectively 
communicated to the BOs directly. 

Foreign investments in infrastructure companies in securities markets92  
 
Pursuant  to  Government  of  India  Policy,  foreign 
infrastructure  companies 
Exchanges, Depositories and Clearing Corporations shall be as under: 
 
a.  Foreign investment shall be allowed in such companies up to 49% with 
a  separate  Foreign  Direct  Investment  (FDI)  cap  of  26%  and  Foreign 
Institutional Investment (FII) cap of 23%; 

in 
in  the  securities  markets,  namely  Stock 

investments 

b.  FDI shall be allowed with specific prior approval of FIPB; 
c.  FII shall be allowed only through purchases in the secondary market; 
d.  FII  shall  not  seek  and  will  not  get  representation  on  the  Board  of 

Directors; 

e.  No  foreign  investor,  including  persons  acting  in  concert,  will  hold 

more than 5% of the equity in these companies. 

 

4.8 

i. 

 

ii.  The aforesaid limits for foreign investment in respect of recognised Stock 
Exchanges  shall  be  subject  to  5%  shareholding  limit  as  prescribed  under 
the  Securities  Contracts 
Increasing  and 
Maintaining  Public  Shareholding 
in  Recognised  Stock  Exchanges) 
Regulations, 2006. 

(Manner  of 

(Regulation) 

4.9 

Designated e-mail ID for regulatory communication with SEBI93  
 

 

                                                           
92 Reference Circular MRD/DSA/SE/Dep/Cust/Cir-23/06 dated December 22, 2006 
93 Reference Circular MIRSD/DPS- III/Cir-23/08 dated July 25, 2008 

103 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Depositories  shall  create  a  designated  e-mail 
for  regulatory 
communication and inform it to SEBI. This e-mail id shall be exclusive and 
shall not be person-centric.  

id 

 

4.10 

Designated e-mail ID for redressal of investor complaints94 

 
i.  Depositories and registered DPs shall designate an exclusive e-mail ID for 
the  grievance  redressal  division/compliance  officer  exclusively  for 
registering investor complaints. 
 

ii.  The  designated  email  ID  and  other  relevant  details  shall  be  prominently 
various 
the 

displayed 
materials/pamphlets/advertisement 
Depositories and DPs for creating investor awareness. 

campaigns 

in 

the 
initiated 

and 

on 

the 

websites 

by 

 
4.11 

Redressal of complaints against Stock Exchanges (SEs) and Depositories 
through SEBI Complaints Redress System (SCORES).95 
 

i.  The  complaints  received  by  SEBI  against  SEs  and  Depositories  shall  be 
electronically sent through SCORES. Depositories are advised to view the 
pending complaints at http://scores.gov.in/admin and submit the Action 
Taken  Report  (ATR)  along  with  supporting  documents  electronically  in 
SCORES.  Updation  of  action  taken  shall  not  be  possible  with  physical 
ATRs.  Hence,  submission  of  physical  ATR  shall  not  be  accepted  for 
complaints lodged in SCORES. 
 

ii.  The SEs and Depositories shall do the following:  

 
a.  indicate  a  contact  person  in  case  of  SCORES,  who  is  an  employee 
heading  the  complaint  services  division/cell/department.  Contact 
detail  (i.e.  phone  no.,  email  id,  postal  address)  of  the  said  contact 
person  be  made  widely  available  for  e.g.  on  the  websites  of 
Depositories.  

                                                           
94 Reference Circular MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-22/06 dated December 18, 2006 
95 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/ICC/16/2012 dated June 15, 2012 

104 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.12 
 

i. 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

b.  address/redress  the  complaints  within  a  period  of  15  days  upon 
receipt of complaint through SCORES96. In case additional information 
is  required  from  the  complainant,  the  same  shall  be  sought  within  7 
days from the receipt of the complaint through SCORES. In such case, 
the  period  of  15  days  will  be  counted  upon  the  receipt  of  additional 
information.  

c.  maintain  a  monthly  record  of  the  complaints  which  are  not 
addressed/redressed  within  15  days  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  the 
complaint/information, alongwith the reason for such pendency.  

d.  Upload/update  the  ATR  on  the  SCORES.  Failure  to  do  so  shall  be 
considered  as  non-redressal  of  the  complaint  and  the  complaint  shall 
be shown as pending. 
 

Limitation period for filing an arbitration reference97 

It  is  decided  that  the  limitation  period  for  filing  an  arbitration  reference 
shall be governed by the law of limitation, i.e., The Limitation Act,  1963. 
The modified limitation period shall also be applicable to cover inter alia 
the following cases:  

a.  where the limitation period (in terms of Limitation Act 1963) have not 
yet  elapsed  and  the  parties  have  not  filed  for  arbitration  with  the 
depository,  

OR 

b.  where the arbitration application was filed  but was rejected solely on 
the  ground  of  delay  in  filing  within  the  earlier  limitation  period; and 
the  limitation  period  (in  terms  of  Limitation  Act  1963)  have  not  yet 
elapsed. 

 

                                                           
96 Reference Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD6/CIR/P/2017/20 dated March 10, 2017 –replaced sentence 
from “within 7 days of receipt on SCORES” to “within 7 days from the receipt of the complaint through 
SCROES” 
97 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/4/2011 dated April 7, 2011 

105 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Disclosure  of  investor  complaints  and  arbitration  details  on  Depository   
website 98  
 
Depositories shall disclose the details of complaints lodged by Beneficiary 
Owners  (BO’s)/  investors  against  Depository  Participants  (DPs)  in  their 
website.  The  aforesaid  disclosure  shall  also  include  details  pertaining  to 
arbitration and penal action against the DPs. 

 

4.13 

 

The  format  for  the  reports  for  the  aforesaid  disclosure  consists  of  the 
following reports: 
 

i.  Report 1A: Complaints received against DPs during 2009-10 
ii.  Report 1B: Redressal of Complaints received against DPS during 2008-09 
iii.  Report 1C: Redressal of Complaints received against DPs during 2009-10 
iv.  Report 2A: Details of Arbitration Proceedings (where Investor is a party) 

during 2008-09:  

v.  Report  2B:  Details  of Arbitration  Proceedings  (where  Investor  is  a  party) 

during 2009-10 

vi.  Report 3A: Penal Actions against DPs during 2008-09 
vii.  Report 3B: Penal Actions against DPs during 2009-10 
viii.  Report  4A:  Redressal  of  Complaints  lodged  by  investors  against  Listed 

Companies during 2008 -09 

ix.  Report  4B:    Redressal  of  Complaints  lodged  by  investors  against  Listed 

Companies during 2009 -10 

                                                           
98 Reference Circular SEBI/MRD/ OIAE/ Dep/ Cir- 4/2010 dated January 29, 2010 

106 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Report 1A: Complaints received against Depository Participants (DPs)# during 2009-10: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to 
be updated weekly) (In excel sheet) 
 
Sl. 
No. 

Details of Complaint 
Type of 

Status of Complaint 

Name of 

SEBI Ref. 

Name of  

Status** 

 

Status 
Date## 

Date of 
Filing 

Date of 
Receipt 

Name of 

Complainant  

Complaint* 

No. (if 

DP 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

applicable  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

107 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Arbitration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

Date of 

Arbitrator(s) 

Arbitration 

Award 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
N 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

# including against its authorized persons, employees, etc. 
## Status date is the date of resolution/reference to arbitration/finding it non-actionable. If under process, it is the date of 
updation 
1

sheet. 

Table 

*/** 

As 

per 

of 

this 

 

 
 

 

 

108 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Report 1B:  Redressal of Complaints received against Depository Participants (DPs) during 2008-09: Updated on mmm 
dd yyyy (to be updated every quarter) (In excel sheet) 
 
Sl. 
No
. 
 

No. of Complaints 
No. of 
Arbitrat

Of the Complaints received during 2008-09 

No. of 
Compl
aints 
receive

Nam
e of 
the 
DP 

Resolved 
through 

Pending 

for 

No. of 
BOs 

by 

for 

Decided 

Pending 

Non 
action
able** 

Arbitr
ation 
Advis

Status of 

DP 

(active/ 
inactive/ 
in process 

of 

accounts  

at the 
beginnin
g of the 

terminatio

year 

n 

/withdraw

al) 

d 

against 
the DP 

* 

the 

Depositor

y 

ed 

 

redressal 

ion 

with 

filed by 

Depositor

BOs 

y 

Arbitrat
ors in 

favour of 
the BOs 

Redressal 

with 

Arbitrator

s 

Decide
d by 
the 
Arbitr
ators 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

109 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N 
 
Total 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*including against its authorized persons, employees, etc. 
**Non actionable means the complaint that are incomplete / outside the scope of Depository 
(Arrange the DPs in descending number of complaints filed against them during the period)  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

110 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Report 1C:  Redressal of Complaints received against Depository Participants (DPs) during 2009-10: Updated on mmm dd yyyy 
(to be updated every quarter) (In excel sheet) 
 
Sl. 
No
. 
 

No. of Complaints 
No. of 
Arbitrat

Of the Complaints received during 2008-09 

Nam
e of 
the 
DP 

Resolved 
through 

No. of 
Compla

ints 

receive

Decided 

Pending 

Status of 

DP 

Pending 

for 

by 

for 

No. of 
BOs 

account
s at the 
beginni
ng of 

the year 

(active/ 

inactive/ in 
process of 
termination 
/withdraw

d 

against 
the DP 

* 

the 

Depositor

y 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Non 
action
able** 

Arbitr
ation 
Advis

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

ed 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 111 - 

al) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N 

 

Decide
d by 
the 
Arbitr
ators 

redressal 

ion 

with 

filed by 

Depositor

BOs 

y 

Arbitrat
ors in 

favour of 
the BOs 

Redressal 

with 

Arbitrator

s 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

*including against authorized persons, employees, etc. 
**Non actionable means the complaint that are incomplete / outside the scope of Depository  
(Arrange the DPs in descending number of complaints filed against them during the period)  

 

- 112 - 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Report 2A: Details of Arbitration Proceedings (where BO is a party) during 2008-09: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to be updated 
every quarter) (In excel sheet) 
 

Sl. 
No. 

Name of 
Arbitrato

No. of 
Award

No. of Awards in 

favor of BOs 

r 

s 

Passed  

No. of 
Awards 
appealed 

No. of 
Awards 

Implemente

d 

Filed by  

Filed by 

 

DP 

BO 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 113 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

No. of cases pending for redressal  at the end 

Pending 

of period 

For more 

than 6 
months 

For more than 
3 months, but 

less than 6 

months 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
N 
Tota
l 

 
(In case of panel of arbitrators, the cases / awards would appear against every member of the panel) 
(Arrange the arbitrators in descending number of awards passed by them during the period) 
Report 2B: Details of Arbitration Proceedings (where BO is a party) during 2009-10: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to be updated 
every quarter) (In excel sheet) 
 

Sl. 
No. 

Name of 
Arbitrator 

No. of 
Awards 
Passed  

No. of 
Awards 
appealed 

 

No. of 
Awards 

Implemented 
 

No. of 

Awards in 
favor of BOs 
Filed 
Filed 
by  
DP 

by 
BO 

No. of cases pending for redressal  at the end of 

period 

Pending 

For more than 

6 months 

For more than 3 
months, but less 
than 6 months 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 114 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 
 
 
N 
Total 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
(In case of panel of arbitrators, the cases / awards would appear against every member of the panel) 
(Arrange the arbitrators in descending number of awards passed by them during the period) 

 

- 115 - 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Report 3A: Penal Actions against Depository Participants (DPs) during 2008-09: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to be updated every 
quarter) (in excel sheet) 
 

Sl. 
No. 

Name 
of DP 

Registration 

No. 

No. of 

Complaints 

received 

Action against DP, its authorized person and employees together 

No. of Penal Orders issued 

Monetary Penalties 

No. of Arbitration 

For complaints  For others 

levied (Rs. lakh) 
For 

For 

complaints 

others 

Awards issued 

against DP 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 116 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Report 3B: Penal Actions against Depository Participants (DPs) during 2009-10: Updated on mmm dd yyyy (to be updated every 
quarter) (in excel sheet) 
 

Sl. 
No. 

Name 
of DP 

Registration 

No. of 

Action against DP, its authorized person and employees together 

No. 

Complaints 

received 

No. of Penal Orders issued 

Monetary Penalties 

No. of Arbitration 

For complaints  For others 

levied (Rs. lakh) 
For 

For 

complaints 

others 

Awards issued 

against DP 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

- 117 - 

 

 

 

 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

Report 4A: Redressal of Complaints lodged by investors against Listed Companies during 2008 -09: Updated on mmm dd yyyy 
(to be updated every quarter) (In excel format) 
 
Sl. No.  Name of the Company 

No. of Complaints 
Non-Actionable*  Pending for  Redressal with Depository 

Received 

Redressed through 

Depository 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 118 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
N 
Total 
 
*Non actionable means the complaint that are incomplete / outside the scope of Depository 
(Arrange the companies in descending number of complaints filed against them during the period) 
 
 
Report 4B:  Redressal of Complaints lodged by investors against Listed Companies during 2009 -10: Updated on mmm dd yyyy 
(to be updated every quarter) (In excel format) 
 
Sl. No.  Name of the Company 

Received 

Redressed through 

Depository 

No. of Complaints 
Non-Actionable*  Pending for  Redressal with Depository 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
2 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

- 119 - 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N 
 
Total 
*Non actionable means the complaints that are incomplete / outside the scope of Depository 
(Arrange the companies in descending number of complaints filed against them during the period)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

- 120 - 

 

 
 
 

 

Type 
Type I 

I a  
I b 
I c 
I d 
I e 

 

Type II 

II a  
II b 
II c 

II d 

 

Type III 

III a 
III b 

 

Type IV 

IV a 
IV b 
IV c 
IV d 
IV e 
IV f 
IV g 

 

Type V 

V a 
V b 
V c 

 

Type VI 

VI a 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Table 1 A 

Details 

Account Opening Related  
Denial in opening an account 
Account opened in another name than as requested  
Non receipt of Account Opening Kit 
Delay in activation/ opening of account 
Non  Receipt  of  copy  of  DP  Client  Agreement/Schedule  A  of 
Charges 
 
Demat/Remat Related 
Delay in Dematerialisation request processing 
Delay in Rematerialisation request processing 
Delay  in/  Non-Receipt  of  Original  certificate  after  demat 
rejection 
Non Acceptance of demat/remat request 
 
Transaction Statement Related  
Delay in/ Non-Receipt of Statements from DP 
Discrepancy in Transaction statement 
 
Improper Service Related  
Insistence on Power of Attorney in its favour 
Deactivation/ Freezing/ Suspension related 
Defreezing related 
Transmission Related 
Pledge Related 
SMS Related 
Non-updation 
account 
signatories/bank details/ PAN/ Nomination etc.) 
 
Charges Related  
Wrong/ Excess Charges 
Charges paid but not credited 
Charges for Opening/closure of Account 
 
Delivery Instruction Related  (DIS ) 
Non acceptance of DIS for transfer  

(address/ 

in 

of 

changes 

121 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

VI b 
VI c 

 
 

Type VII 

VII a 
VII b 

 

Delay in/ non Execution of DIS 
Delay in Issuance / Reissuance of DIS Booklet 
 
 
Closure 
Non closure/ delay in closure of account  
Closure of a/c without intimation by DP 
 

Type VIII  Manipulation/ Unauthorised Action 
Unauthorised Transaction in account 

VIII a 
VIII b   Manipulation 
VIII c  

Unauthorised  changes  in  account  (address/  signatories/bank 
details/PAN etc.) 
 
Company/ RTA related   
Action – Cash  
Action – Non–Cash 
Initial Public Offer/ Follow-on Public Offer Related  
 
Others   

** Status 

Description 
Non actionable 
 
Complaint incomplete 
Outside the scope of Depository 
Pertains to non-responding company. 
 
Resolved 
Under Process 
Referred to Arbitration 
Forwarded to Company/RTA for appropriate action. 

122 

 

Type IX 

IX a 
IX b 
IX c 

 

Type X 

 

Type 
I  
 
I a 
I b 
I c 

II 
III 
IV 
V 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
4.14 

 

4.15 

1. 

2. 

4.16 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Disclosure  of  regulatory  orders  and  arbitration  awards  on  Depository 
website 99  

Depositories shall post all their regulatory orders and arbitration awards 
issued since April 1, 2007.  Further, all regulatory orders and arbitration 
awards as and when issued shall be posted on their website immediately. 

 

Arbitration  /  Appellate  Arbitration  fees  on  the  remanded  back  matter 
for fresh arbitration proceedings100  
It  has  been  observed  that  in  cases  remanded  by  court  of  law,  the  stock 
exchanges/depositories  are  directed  to  undertake  arbitration/appellate 
arbitration  proceedings  again.  In  some  cases,  the  clients/investors  are 
liable to pay the arbitration fees again, even when the same has been paid 
by them for the initial arbitration/appellate arbitration proceedings. 
It  has  been  decided  that  in  such  cases  where  the  arbitration/appellate 
arbitration  matter  has  been  remanded  by  the  Court  to  the  stock 
exchanges/depositories, the arbitration/appellate arbitration fees/deposit 
payable by the client shall be borne by such stock exchange/depository.  
   
Establishment of  connectivity by Clearing  House / Clearing  Corporation 
(CH/CC) with the Depository – Clarification101 

i.  On examination of the provisions of Regulations 35(a) and 45 of the SEBI    

(Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations,  2018,  it  is  advised  that 
registration  of  a  CC/CH  of  a  stock  exchange  as  a  DP  with  SEBI  is  not 
mandatory  and  a  pre-requisite  for  it  to  obtain  connectivity  with  the 
depositories.  However,  if  the  CC/CH  of  a  stock  exchange  desires  to 
function  as  any  other  "Depository  Participant",  i.e.  to  open  BO  accounts 
for investors or clearing member account, registration as DP with SEBI is 
mandatory.  
 
In  view  of  the  above,  Depositories  are  advised  to  provide  continuous 
electronic  means  of  communication  /  connectivity  to  the  CH/CC  of  the 
Exchanges without insisting for a mandatory registration as DP with SEBI 
with  a  condition  that  such  entities  would  not  be  permitted  to  open  BO 
accounts for investors or clearing member account. 
 

ii. 

                                                           
99 Reference Circular SEBI/MRD/ DP/ 19/2010 dated June 10, 2010 
100 Reference : SEBI letter SEBI/MRD/ICC/OW/P/2018/27066/1 dated September 25, 2018 
101 Reference: MRD/DoP/ Dep/82334 /2006 dated December 14, 2006 

 

123 

 

 
 
4.17 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Computing  and  monitoring  of  the  Aggregate  Value  of  Portfolio  of 
Securities (AVPS) of the BOs held in dematerialised form by Stock Broker 
DPs 
 

i.       For the purpose of computing the AVPS of the beneficial owners held in 
dematerialised  form  under  Regulation  35(a)(viii)  of  SEBI  (Depositories 
and  Participant)  Regulations,  2018,  the  securities  held  by  bank  and 
financial institutions as well as promoters holdings of a company held in 
dematerialised form, may be excluded102. 
 

ii.       In  view  of  the  potential  risk  to  the  system  and  also  to  maintain  the 
integrity  of  the  market,  the  depositories  are  advised  to  develop  an 
appropriate  systemic  alert  in  the  depository  system,  so  as  to  enable  the 
system to generate and convey automatic alerts to those SBDPs that reach 
a  pre-determined  level  of  exposure.  These  alerts  would  serve  as 
forewarnings  to  the  SBDPs  to  the  fact  that  they  are  approaching  their 
respective  maximum  exposure  limits.  [Note:  For  this  purpose,  the 
depositories  may  monitor  the  value  of  securities  with  its  SBDPs  on  an 
"end of the day" basis.]103 

4.18 

Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, 2012 (RGESS)104 

 

 

i.  Vide  notification  51/2012  dated  November  23,  2012,  Department  of 
Revenue, Ministry of Finance (MoF) has notified the Rajiv Gandhi Equity 
Savings Scheme (RGESS), 2012. The notification is available on the website 
of Income Tax Department under section “Notifications”. 

 

ii.  With  regard  to  implementation  of  the  MoF  notification,  the  following  is 

clarified: 
a.  For  RGESS  eligible  close-ended  Mutual  Funds  schemes,  advice  given 
by AMCs to the depository for extinguishment of units of close ended 
schemes  upon  maturity  of  the  scheme  shall  be  considered  as  settled 
through depository mechanism and therefore RGESS compliant. 
 

b.  AMCs  shall  disclose  that  the  concerned  RGESS  eligible  Exchange 
Traded  Funds  and  Mutual  Fund  schemes  is  in  compliance  with  the 

                                                           
102 Reference: SMDRP/RKD /NSDL/2494 /98 dated November 18, 1998, SMDRP/CDSL / 18300 
/2000 dated November 16, 2000 
103 Reference: MRD/DRK/SU/16034/2003 dated August 22, 2003 
104 Reference Circular CIR/MRD/DP/32/201 dated December 06, 2012 

 

124 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

provisions  of  RGESS  guidelines  notified  by  Ministry  of  Finance  vide 
notification no. 51/2012 F. No. 142/35/2012-TPL dated November 23, 
2012,  in  Scheme  Information  Document  (SID),  in  case  of  new  fund 
offer,  or  by  way  of  addendum,  in  case  of  existing  RGESS  eligible 
Exchange Traded Funds and Mutual Fund schemes. 

c.  Section 6(c) of the notification states that the eligible securities brought 
into the demat account will automatically be subject to lock-in during 
the first year, unless the new investor specifies otherwise and for such 
specifications,  the  new  retail  investors  shall  submit  a  declaration  in 
Form B indicating that such securities are not to be included within the 
above limit of investment. It is clarified that such declaration shall be 
submitted by an investor to its Depository Participant within a period 
of one month from the date of transaction. 
 

d.  For  transactions  undertaken  by  investors  through  their  RGESS 
designated  demat  account,  Depositories  may  seek  necessary 
transactional  details  from  stock  exchanges  viz.  Actual  Trade  value, 
Trading  date,  Settlement  number,  etc,  for  the  purpose  of  enforcing 
lock-in and for generating reports mandated vide MoF notification on 
RGESS. On receipt of such request from depositories, stock exchanges 
shall provide the details to depositories on an immediate basis. It shall 
also be ensured that a uniform file structure is used by stock exchanges 
and depositories for such intimation of transaction details. 

e.  With regard to point 3(ix) (a) & (b) of RGESS notification, depositories 

may seek confirmation, as applicable, from stock exchanges. 

f.  With  regard  to  the  securities  held  in  the  RGESS  designated  account, 

treatment of the corporate actions shall be as given at Annexure A. 
 

iii. 

Stock  exchanges  shall  furnish  list  of  RGESS  eligible  stocks  /  ETFs  /  MF 
schemes  on  their  website.  Further,  the  list  shall  also  be  forwarded  to  the 
depositories at monthly intervals and whenever there is any change in the 
said list. For this purpose, Mutual Funds / AMCs shall communicate list 
of RGESS eligible MF schemes / ETFs to the stock exchanges. 

 
 

125 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure A 

 

Treatment of corporate actions 

 

(i) Involuntary corporate actions: In case of corporate actions where investors has 
no choice in the matter, for example: demerger of companies, etc, the compliance 
status of RGESS demat account shall not change.  
 
(ii) Voluntary corporate actions: In case of corporate actions where investors has 
the  option  to  exercise  his  choice  and  thereby  result  in  debit  of  securities,  for 
example: buy-back, etc, the same shall be considered as a sale transaction for the 
purpose of the scheme. 
 
Consolidated list of ‘corporate actions’ 
 

Sr.  
No. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 

6 
7 
8 
9 
10 

11 
12 
13 
14 

15 
16 

 

Corporate Action 

Amalgamation 
Scheme of Arrangement 
Reduction of Capital 
Bonus issue 
Buy Back of Shares 

Stock Split 
Consolidation of Shares 
Conversion of Partly Paid up 
Dividend [Final/ Interim/ Special] 
Exchange of Share Certificate  
[Name change] 
Rights Issue 
Conversion (compulsory)* 
Conversion (optionally)* 
Redemption 

Dividend on Mutual Fund 
Redemption of Mutual Fund 

Classification (Involuntary or  
Voluntary) 
Involuntary 
Involuntary 
Involuntary 
Involuntary 
Voluntary (Involuntary in case  
of court intervention) 
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  

Voluntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary  
Involuntary (voluntary, if there  
is option to continue with  
revised terms) 
Involuntary 
Involuntary on maturity  
(voluntary, if there is option to  
shift between different  
scheme(s) or on account of exit  

126 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

option due to change in  
fundamental attributes of  
scheme) 

 
* Considering any conversion into equities (e.g.: Conversion of warrants into  
equities) 
 

 

 

End of Annexure A 

 

127 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure B – Illustration of lock-in period in RGESS 

I.  RGESS lock-in period if investments are brought in at once 

Nov 
23, 
2012 

Rs. 

50,000

Fixed 
lock in 
begins

Ends on 
Novembe

r 22, 
2013

Nov 
23,

2013

First year 
of flexible 

lock-in 
begins.

Ends  on 
Novembe

r 22, 
2014

Nov 23 
, 2014

Second 
year of 
flexible 
lock-in 
begins

Ends on 
Novembe

r 22, 
2015

Nov 
23, 
2015

Account 

is 

converte
d into an 
ordinary 
demat 
account

Applicable 

financial year 
for compliance 

Applicable 

financial year 
for compliance 

 

128 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

I.  RGESS lock-in period if investments are brought are in installments

Annexure B – Illustration of lock-in period in RGESS 

Period of Fixed lock-in 

Period of Flexible lock-in 

Fixed lock-in 

One year of Flexible 

Second year of 

                                     
 

                   

 

March 11, 2013 

ends 

 

Third set of 
Securities 

Rs. 10,000;  
1 year  

                                          

January 15, 2013 

 

Second set 
of Securities 

Rs. 30,000; 1 year 1 months 
24days 

 

             
 

November 23, 2012 

lock-in ends 

Flexible lock-in ends 

 

RGESS portfolio may 

change during this period 

First set of 
Securities 

Rs. 10,000; 1 year 3 months 16 days 

 

 

March 10, 

2014 

March 10, 

2015 

Applicable financial year for 
compliance will be 2014-15 

aaaaa 

March 10, 

2016 

 

Applicable financial for 
compliance will be 2015-16 

Applicable financial year for 
compliance will be 2015-16 

129 

 

 
 
4.19 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures (PFMIs)105 
 
Background 
 

i.  To  promote  and  sustain  an  efficient  and  robust  global  financial 
infrastructure,  the  Committee  on  Payments  and  Settlement  Systems 
(CPSS)  and  the  International  Organization  of  Securities  Commissions 
(IOSCO)  published  the  Principles  for  financial  market  infrastructures1 
(PFMIs) on April 2012. They replace the three existing sets of international 
standards  set  out  in  the  Core  Principles  for  Systemically  Important 
Payment  Systems 
for  Securities 
Settlement  Systems  (RSSS);  and  the  Recommendations  for  Central 
Counterparties  (RCCP).  CPSS  and  IOSCO  have  strengthened  and 
harmonised 
three  sets  of  standards  by  raising  minimum 
requirements,  providing  more  detailed  guidance  and  broadening  the 
scope  of  the  standards  to  cover  new  risk-management  areas  and  new 
types of FMIs. 

the  Recommendations 

(CPSIPS); 

these 

 

 

 

 

ii.  The  PFMIs  comprise  of  24  principles  (Annex  1)  for  Financial  Market 
Infrastructure  to  provide  for  effective  regulation,  supervision  and 
oversight  of  FMIs.  They  are  designed  to  ensure  that  the  infrastructure 
supporting global financial markets is robust and well placed to withstand 
financial shocks. 

iii. 

Full, timely and consistent implementation of the PFMIs is fundamental to 
ensuring  the  safety,  soundness  and  efficiency  of  key  FMIs  and  for 
supporting  the  resilience  of  the  global  financial  system.  In  addition,  the 
PFMIs play an important part in the G20's mandate that all standardized 
over-the-counter  (OTC)  derivatives  should  be  centrally  cleared.  Global 
central  clearing  requirements  reinforce 
importance  of  strong 
safeguards and consistent oversight of derivatives CCPs in particular. 

the 

Financial Market Infrastructure (FMI) 

iv.  The  Principles  apply  to  systematically  important  financial  market 
infrastructures  entities  such  as  Central  Counterparty  (CCP),  Central 

                                                           
105 Reference Circular SEBI/MRD/DRMNP/26/2013 dated September 04, 2013 
 
 

130 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Securities Depository (CSD)/ Securities Settlement System (SSS), Payment 
and Settlement systems, and Trade Repository (TR) which are responsible 
for  providing  clearing,  settlement  and  recording  of  monetary  and  other 
financial transactions. The principles are international standards set forth 
to – 
a.  Enhance  safety  and  efficiency  in  payment,  clearing,  settlement,  and 

recording arrangements, 

b.  Reduce systemic risk. 
c.  Foster transparency and financial stability and 
d.  Promote protection of participants and investors. 

Financial Market  Infrastructure (FMI) are critically  important  institutions 
responsible for providing clearing, settlement and recording of monetary 
and  other  financial  transactions.  The  different  categories  of  FMIs,  as 
identified under PFMIs, are listed below - 
 
Payment Systems (PSS) 
 
A  payment  system  is  a  set  of  instruments,  procedures,  and  rules  for  the 
transfer of funds between or among participants. The system includes the 
participants  and  the  entity  operating  the  arrangement.  Payment  systems 
are  typically  based  on  an  agreement  between  or  among  participants  and 
the operator of the arrangement, and the transfer of funds is effected using 
an agreed-upon operational infrastructure. 

Central Securities Depositories (CSD) 
 
Central  securities  depository  provides  securities  accounts,  central 
safekeeping  services,  and  asset  services,  which  may 
include  the 
administration  of  corporate  actions  and  redemptions,  and  plays  an 
important role in helping to ensure the integrity of securities issues (that 
is,  ensure  that  securities  are  not  accidentally  or  fraudulently  created  or 
destroyed  or  their  details  changed).  A  CSD  can  hold  securities  either  in 
physical  form  (but  immobilised)  or  in  dematerialised  form  (that  is,  they 
exist  only  as  electronic  records).  A  CSD  may  maintain  the  definitive 
record  of  legal  ownership  for  a  security;  in  some  cases,  however,  a 
separate securities registrar will serve this notary function. 

131 

 

 
 

 

v. 

 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Securities Settlement Systems (SSS) 
 
A  securities  settlement  system  enables  securities  to  be  transferred  and 
settled  by  book  entry  according  to  a  set  of  predetermined  multilateral 
rules. Such systems allow transfers of securities either free of payment or 
against  payment.  When  transfer  is  against  payment,  many  systems 
provide  delivery  versus  payment  (DvP),  where  delivery  of  the  security 
occurs if and only if payment occurs. An SSS may be organised to provide 
additional  securities  clearing  and  settlement  functions,  such  as  the 
confirmation of trade and settlement instructions. 

Central Counterparties (CCP) 
 
A  central  counterparty  interposes  itself  between  counterparties  to 
contracts traded in one or more financial markets, becoming the buyer to 
every  seller  and  the  seller  to  every  buyer  and  thereby  ensuring  the 
performance  of  open  contracts.  A  CCP  becomes  counterparty  to  trades 
with  market  participants  through  novation,  an  open-offer  system,  or 
through  an  analogous  legally  binding  arrangement.  CCPs  have  the 
potential  to  significantly  reduce  risks  to  participants  through  the 
multilateral netting of trades and by imposing moreeffective risk controls 
on  all  participants.  For  example,  CCPs  typically  require  participants  to 
provide  collateral  (in  the  form  of  initial  margin  and  other  financial 
resources) to cover current and potential future exposures. CCPs may also 
mutualise certain risks through devices such as default funds. As a result 
of  their  potential  to  reduce  risks  to  participants,  CCPs  also  can  reduce 
systemic risk in the markets they serve. 
 
Trade Repositories (TR) 
 
A  trade  repository  is  an  entity  that  maintains  a  centralised  electronic 
record (database) of transaction data. TRs have emerged as a new type of 
FMI  and  have  recently  grown  in  importance,  particularly  in  the  OTC 
derivatives  market.  By  centralising 
the  collection,  storage,  and 
dissemination of data, a well designed TR that operates with effective risk 
controls  can  serve  an  important  role  in  enhancing  the  transparency  of 
transaction information to relevant authorities and the public, promoting 
financial stability, and supporting the detection and prevention of market 

132 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

abuse.  An  important  function  of  a  TR  is  to  provide  information  that 
supports risk reduction, operational efficiency and effectiveness, and cost 
savings  for  both  individual  entities  and  the  market  as  a  whole.  Such 
entities  may  include  the  principals  to  a  trade,  their  agents,  CCPs,  and 
other service providers offering complementary services, including central 
settlement  of  payment  obligations,  electronic  novation  and  affirmation, 
portfolio compression and reconciliation, and collateral. 
 
Adoption of Principles of Financial Market Infrastructures 
 

vi.  All CPSS and IOSCO members are required to strive to adopt the PFMIs 

vii. 

and implement them in their respective jurisdictions. 
 
SEBI  as  a  member  of  IOSCO  is  committed  to  the  adoption  and 
implementation  of  the  new  CPSS-IOSCO  standards  of  PFMIs  in  its 
regulatory functions of oversight, supervision and governance of the key 
financial market infrastructures under its purview. 
 

infrastructures  provide  essential 

viii.  Depositories  and  Clearing  Corporations  regulated  by  SEBI  are  FMIs  in 
terms  of  the  criteria  described  above.  These  systemically  important 
financial 
facilities  and  perform 
systemically critical functions in the market and shall hence be required to 
comply with the principles of financial market infrastructures specified by 
CPSS-IOSCO  as  applicable  to  them.  The  list  of  SEBI  regulated  FMIs  is 
provided in Annexure 2. 
 

ix.  All FMIs in the securities market shall be monitored and assessed against 

the PFMIs on a periodic basis. 

 
 

 

Annexure 1 

Principles for financial market infrastructures 

 

General Organisation 
 
Principle 1: Legal basis 

 

 
 

 

133 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

An  FMI  should  have  a  well-founded,  clear,  transparent,  and  enforceable 
legal  basis  for  each  material  aspect  of  its  activities  in  all  relevant 
jurisdictions. 
 

Principle 2: Governance 

 
An  FMI  should  have  governance  arrangements  that  are  clear  and 
transparent, promote the safety and efficiency of the FMI, and support the 
stability  of  the  broader  financial  system,  other  relevant  public  interest 
considerations, and the objectives of relevant stakeholders.  
 

Principle 3: Framework for the comprehensive management of risks 

 
An  FMI  should  have  a  sound  risk-management 
for 
comprehensively managing legal, credit, liquidity, operational, and other 
risks. Credit and liquidity risk management. 
 

framework 

Principle 4: Credit risk 

 
An  FMI  should  effectively  measure,  monitor,  and  manage  its  credit 
exposures  to  participants  and  those  arising  from  its  payment,  clearing, 
and  settlement  processes.  An  FMI  should  maintain  sufficient  financial 
resources to cover its credit exposure to each participant fully with a high 
degree of confidence. In addition, a CCP that is involved in activities with 
a  more-complex  risk  profile  or that  is  systemically  important  in multiple 
jurisdictions  should  maintain  additional  financial  resources  sufficient  to 
cover  a  wide  range  of  potential  stress  scenarios  that  should  include,  but 
not  be  limited  to,  the  default  of  the  two  participants  and  their  affiliates 
that  would  potentially  cause  the  largest  aggregate  credit  exposure  to  the 
CCP  in  extreme  but  plausible  market  conditions.  All  other  CCPs  should 
maintain additional financial resources sufficient to cover a wide range of 
potential  stress  scenarios  that  should  include,  but  not  be  limited  to,  the 
default of the participant and its affiliates that would potentially cause the 
largest  aggregate  credit  exposure  to  the  CCP  in  extreme  but  plausible 
market conditions. 
 

Principle 5: Collateral 

 

 
 

 

134 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

An  FMI  that  requires  collateral  to  manage  its  or  its  participants’  credit 
exposure  should  accept  collateral  with  low  credit,  liquidity,  and  market 
risks.  An  FMI  should  also  set  and  enforce  appropriately  conservative 
haircuts and concentration limits. 
 

Principle 6: Margin 

 
A CCP should cover its credit exposures to its participants for all products 
through  an  effective  margin  system  that  is  risk-based  and  regularly 
reviewed. 
 

Principle 7: Liquidity risk 

 
An  FMI  should  effectively  measure,  monitor,  and  manage  its  liquidity 
risk.  An  FMI  should  maintain  sufficient  liquid  resources  in  all  relevant 
currencies  to  effect  same-  day  and,  where  appropriate,  intraday  and 
multiday  settlement  of  payment  obligations  with  a  high  degree  of 
confidence  under  a  wide  range  of  potential  stress  scenarios  that  should 
include,  but  not  be  limited  to,  the  default  of  the  participant  and  its 
affiliates that would generate the largest aggregate liquidity obligation for 
the FMI in extreme but plausible market conditions. 
 

Settlement 

 

Principle 8: Settlement finality 

 
An FMI  should provide clear and certain final settlement, at a minimum 
by  the  end  of  the  value  date.  Where  necessary  or  preferable,  an  FMI 
should provide final settlement intraday or in real time. 
 

Principle 9: Money settlements 

 
An  FMI  should  conduct  its  money  settlements  in  central  bank  money 
where practical and available. If central bank  money is not used, an FMI 
should  minimise  and  strictly  control  the  credit  and  liquidity  risk  arising 
from the use of commercial bank money.  
 

Principle 10: Physical deliveries 

 
 

 

135 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
An FMI should clearly state its obligations with respect to the delivery of 
physical  instruments  or  commodities  and  should  identify,  monitor,  and 
manage the risks associated with such physical deliveries. 
 

Central securities depositories and exchange-of-value settlement systems 

 

Principle 11: Central securities depositories 

 
A CSD should have appropriate rules and procedures to help ensure the 
integrity  of  securities  issues  and  minimise  and  manage  the  risks 
associated with the  safekeeping and transfer of securities. A  CSD  should 
maintain  securities  in  an  immobilised  or  dematerialised  form  for  their 
transfer by book entry. 
 

Principle 12: Exchange-of-value settlement systems 

 
If  an  FMI  settles  transactions  that  involve  the  settlement  of  two  linked 
obligations  (for  example,  securities  or  foreign  exchange  transactions),  it 
should eliminate principal risk by conditioning the final settlement of one 
obligation upon the final settlement of the other. 
 

Default management 

 

Principle 13: Participant-default rules and procedures 

 
An FMI should have effective and clearly defined rules and procedures to 
manage  a  participant  default.  These  rules  and  procedures  should  be 
designed  to  ensure  that  the  FMI  can  take  timely  action  to  contain  losses 
and liquidity pressures and continue to meet its obligations. 
 

Principle 14: Segregation and portability 

A CCP should have rules and procedures that enable the segregation and 
portability  of  positions  of  a  participant’s  customers  and  the  collateral 
provided to the CCP with respect to those positions. 

 
General business and operational risk management 

 

 
 

 

136 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
Principle 15: General business risk 

 
An  FMI  should  identify,  monitor,  and  manage  its  general  business  risk 
and  hold  sufficient  liquid  net  assets  funded  by  equity  to  cover  potential 
general business losses so that it can continue operations and services as a 
going concern if those losses materialise. Further, liquid net assets should 
at  all  times  be  sufficient  to  ensure  a  recovery  or  orderly  wind-down  of 
critical operations and services. 
 

Principle 16: Custody and investment risks 

 
An  FMI  should  safeguard  its  own  and  its  participants’  assets  and 
minimise the risk of loss on and delay in access to these assets. An FMI’s 
investments  should  be  in  instruments  with  minimal  credit,  market,  and 
liquidity risks. 
 

Principle 17: Operational risk 

 
An  FMI  should  identify  the  plausible  sources  of  operational  risk,  both 
internal  and  external,  and  mitigate  their  impact  through  the  use  of 
appropriate  systems,  policies,  procedures,  and  controls.  Systems  should 
be designed to ensure a high degree of security and operational reliability 
and  should  have  adequate,  scalable  capacity.  Business  continuity 
management should aim for timely recovery of operations and fulfillment 
of  the  FMI’s  obligations,  including  in  the  event  of  a  wide-scale  or  major 
disruption. 
 
Access 
 

Principle 18: Access and participation requirements 

 
An FMI should have objective, risk-based, and publicly disclosed criteria 
for participation, which permit fair and open access. 
 

Principle 19: Tiered participation arrangements 

 
An  FMI  should  identify,  monitor,  and  manage  the  material  risks  to  the 
FMI arising from tiered participation arrangements. 

 
 

 

137 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
Principle 20: FMI links 

 
An  FMI  that  establishes  a  link  with  one  or  more  FMIs  should  identify, 
monitor, and manage link-related risks. 
 

Efficiency 

 

Principle 21: Efficiency and effectiveness 

 
An FMI should be efficient and effective in meeting the requirements of its 
participants and the markets it serves. 
 

Principle 22: Communication procedures and standards 

 
An  FMI  should  use,  or  at  a  minimum  accommodate,  relevant 
internationally  accepted  communication  procedures  and  standards  in 
order to facilitate efficient payment, clearing, settlement, and recording. 
 

Transparency 

 

Principle 23: Disclosure of rules, key procedures, and market data 

 
An FMI  should have clear and comprehensive rules and procedures and 
should  provide  sufficient  information  to  enable  participants  to  have  an 
accurate  understanding  of  the  risks,  fees,  and  other  material  costs  they 
incur  by  participating  in  the  FMI.  All  relevant  rules  and  key  procedures 
should be publicly disclosed. 
 

Principle 24: Disclosure of market data by trade repositories 

 
A TR should provide timely and accurate data to relevant authorities and 
the public in line with their respective needs. 

 

 
 

 

 

End of Annexure 1 

 

138 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Annexure 2 

1.  Clearing Corporations 

 

a.  Indian Clearing Corporation Ltd. (ICCL) 
b.  Metropolitan Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (MCCIL) 
c.  National Securities Clearing Corporation Ltd. (NSCCL) 

 

2.  Depositories 

 

a.  Central Depository Services Ltd. (CDSL) 
b.  National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) 

End of Annexure 2 

139 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.20 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annual System Audit of Depositories 106 

i.  The  depositories  should  annually  conduct  System  Audit  as  per  the 
System  Audit  Framework.  The  system  audit  framework  encompasses 
the  System  Audit  Process,  Auditor  Selection  Norms,  Terms  of 
Reference  (TOR),  and  Audit  Report  Guidelines  as  per  the  annexure 
below. 

ii.  The  Systems  Audit  Reports  and  Compliance  Status  should  be  placed 
before  the  Governing  Board  of  the  depositories  and  the  system  audit 
report along with comments of  depositories should be communicated 
to SEBI. Further, along with the audit report, depositories are advised 
to submit a declaration from the MD / CEO certifying the security and 
integrity of their IT Systems. 

    Annexure 

System Audit Framework 

Audit Process 

Following  steps  would  be  repeated  annually  to  ensure  that  the  process  is 
comprehensive & effective: 

1.  The  Audit  shall  be  conducted  according  to  the  Norms,  Terms  of  References 

(TOR) and Guidelines issued by SEBI. 

                                                           
106 Circular No. CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2011 dated November 29, 2011 
 
 

140 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
2.  Stock  Exchange  /  Depository  (Auditee)  may  negotiate  and  the  board  of  the 
Stock  Exchange  /  Depository  shall  appoint  the  Auditors  based  on  the 
prescribed  Auditor  Selection  Norms  and  TOR.  The  Auditors  can  perform  a 
maximum  of  3  successive  audits.  The  proposal  from  Auditor  must  be 
submitted to SEBI for records. 

3.  Audit schedule shall be submitted to SEBI at-least 2 months in advance, along 

with scope of current audit & previous audit. 

4.  The  scope  of  the  Audit  may  be  extended  by  SEBI,  considering  the  changes 

which have taken place during last year or post previous audit report 

5.  Audit has to be conducted and the Audit report be submitted to the Auditee. 
The  report  should  have  specific  compliance  /  non-compliance  issues, 
observations for minor deviations as well as qualitative comments for scope 
for  improvement.  The  report  should  also  take  previous  audit  reports  in 
consideration and cover any open items therein. 

6.  The  Auditee  management  provides  their  comment  about  the  Non-
Conformities  (NCs)  and  observations.  For  each  NC,  specific  time-bound 
(within 3 months) corrective action must be taken and reported to SEBI. The 
auditor should indicate if a follow-on audit is required to review the status of 
NCs.  The  report  along  with  Management  Comments  shall  be  submitted  to 
SEBI, within 1 month of completion of the audit. 

7.  Follow-on audit, if any, has to be scheduled within 3 months of the Audit to 

ensure that the corrective actions have been taken. 

8.  If follow-on audit is not required, the Auditee management has to submit a 
report  of  actions  taken  and  evidence  of  corrections  to  the  Auditors  &  SEBI 
within  3  months.  This  report  should  include  updated  Issue-Log  to  indicate 
the corrective actions taken, verified by the auditors. 

 

 

Auditor Selection Norms 

1.  Auditor must have minimum 3 years of experience in IT audit of  Securities 
Industry participants e.g. stock exchanges, clearing houses, depositories etc. 
The  audit  experience  should  have  covered  all  the  Major  Areas  mentioned 
under SEBI's Audit Terms of Reference (TOR). 

2.  The Auditor must have experience in / direct access to experienced resources 
in the areas covered under TOR. It is recommended that resources employed 

 
 

 

141 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

shall  have  relevant  industry  recognized  certifications  e.g.  CISA  (Certified 
Information  Systems  Auditor)  from  ISACA,  CISM  (Certified  Information 
Securities  Manager)  from  ISACA,  GSNA  (GIAC  Systems  and  Network 
Auditor),  CISSP  (Certified  Information  Systems  Security  Professional)  from 
International 
Information  Systems  Security  Certification  Consortium, 
commonly known as (ISC)2. 

3.  The  Auditor  should  have  IT  audit/governance  frameworks  and  processes 

conforming to industry leading practices like CobiT. 

4.  The  Auditor  must  not  have  any  conflict  of  interest  in  conducting  fair, 
objective and independent audit of the Exchange / Depository. It should not 
have  been  engaged  over  the  last  three  years  in  any  consulting  engagement 
with any departments / units of the entity being audited. 

The Auditor may not have any  cases pending against its previous auditees, 
which fall under SEBI's jurisdiction, which point to its incompetence and/or 
unsuitability to perform the audit task. 

Terms of Reference (ToR) 

 

1.  General Controls for Data Center Facilities - It must include 

>  Application access - Segregation of duties, Database & Application access    
etc. 
>  Maintenance access - Vendor engineers. 
>  Physical access - Permissions, logging, exception reporting & alerts. 
>  Environmental controls - Fire protection, AC monitoring etc. 
>  Fault resolution mechanism. 
>  Folder sharing and Back-up controls - Safeguard critical information on 

local desktops 

>  Incidences of violations in last year & corrective actions taken 
 

2.  Software Change Control - It must include 

>  User awareness 
>  Processing of new feature request 
>  Fault reporting / tracking mechanism & process for resolutions 
>  Testing of New releases / Bug-fixes - Testing process (automation level) 
>  Version Control - History, Change Management process etc. 
>  Development / Test/ Production environment - Segregation 
>  New release in Production - Promotion, Release note approvals 

 
 

 

142 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

>  Production issues / disruptions reported during last year & corrective 

actions taken. 
 

3.  Data communication / Network controls - It must include 

-  Redundancy,  Monitoring,  breakdown 

>  Network  Administration 
resolution etc. 
>  WAN Management - Connectivity provisions for business continuity. 
>  Encryption - Router based as well as during transmission 
>  Connection Permissions - Restriction on need to have basis 
>  Fallback mechanism - Dial-up connections controls etc. 
>  Hardware based Signing Process 
>  Incidences of access violations in last year & corrective actions taken 
 

4.  Security Controls - General office infrastructure - It must include 

>  Security Policy & quality of implementation of the same 
>  LAN security control and monitoring 
>  OS & Database Security controls & monitoring 
>  Internet  connection  controls  -  Firewall  protection,  Intrusion  Detection 

System, Access rights and privileges. 

>  Virus protection - Controls to mitigate the Virus attacks / Outbreaks. 
>  Secured  (digitally  signed)  e-mail  with  other  entities  like  SEBI,  other 

partners 

>  Email Archival Implementation 
>  Incidences of security violations in last year & corrective actions taken. 
 

5.  Access policy and controls 
 
6.  Electronic Document controls 
 
7.  General Access controls 
 
8.  Performance audit - It must include 

>  Comparison of changes in transaction volumes since previous audit 
>  Review  of  systems  (hardware,  software,  network)  performance  over 

period 

>  Review  of  the  current  volumes  against  the  last  Performance  Test 

performed 

 

 
 

 

143 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
9.  Business Continuity / Disaster Recovery Facilities - It must include 

>  BCP manual, including Business Impact Analysis, Risk Assessment 

and DR process 

>  Implementation of policies 
>  Back-up procedures and recovery mechanism using back-ups. 
>  Storage of Back-up (Remote site, DRS etc.) 
>  Redundancy - Equipment, Network, Site etc. 
>  DRS  installation  and  Drills  -  Management  statement  on  targeted 
resumption capability (in terms of time required & extent of loss of data)  
>  Evidence  of  achieving  the  set  targets  during  the  DRS  drills  in  event  of 

various disaster scenarios. 

>  Debrief  /  review  of  any  actual  event  when  the  DR/BCP  was  invoked 

during the year 

 

10.  IT Support & IT Asset Management - It must include 

>  Utilization monitoring - including report of prior year utilization 
>  Capacity planning - including projection of business volumes 
>  IT (S/W, H/W & N/W) Assets, Licenses & maintenance contracts 
>  Insurance 
>  Disposal - Equipment, Media, etc. 
 

11. Entity Specific Software 
 
12. Any other Item 

>  Electronic Waste Disposal 
>  Based upon previous Audit report as well as any other specific 

information given by SEBI 

 

Audit Report Guidelines 

The Audit report should have explicit coverage of each Major Area mentioned in 
the  TOR,  indicating  any  Nonconformity  (NCs)  or  Observations  (or  lack  of  it).  
For each section - auditors should also provide qualitative input about ways to 
improve the process, based upon the best practices observed. The report should 
also include tabulated data to show NCs / Observations for each Major Area in 
TOR.  Fully  detailed  report  should  be  submitted,  along  with  an  Executive 
Summary in tabulated form including following information: 

Issue  Log  Column 
Heading 
 
 

 

Description 

Responsibility 

144 

 

 
 
Major Area 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Major area/relevant clause in Terms of 
Reference against which compliance is being 
audited 

Auditor 

Description of 
Finding/ 
Observation 

Describe the findings in sufficient detail, 
referencing any accompanying evidence (e.g. 
procedure annual, interview notes, reports etc.) 

Auditor 

Reference 

Reference to the section in detailed report – 
where full background information about the 
findings are available 

Auditor 

Process/ Unit 

Process or unit where the audit is conducted 
and the finding pertains to 

Auditor 

Category of Findings  Major/Minor Nonconformity, Observation, 

Auditor 

Suggestion etc. 

Audited By 

Which Auditor covered the findings 

Root Cause Analysis  A detailed analysis on the cause of the 

nonconformity 

Remediation 

The action (to be) taken to correct the 
nonconformity 

Auditor 

Auditee 

Auditee 

Target  Completion 
Date 
for  Remedial 
Action 
Status 

The date by which remedial action must be/will 
be completed 

Auditor/ 
Auditee 

Status of finding on reporting date (open/close)  Auditor/ 

Verified By 

Auditing personnel (upon verification that 
finding can be closed) 

Auditee 

Auditor 

Closing Date 

Date when finding is verified and can be closed  Auditor 

 
 

 

145 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
The  Executive  Summary  should  also  include  an  overall  comment  from  the 
Auditors  to  indicate  if  a  follow-on  audit  is  required  and  the  time  lines  of 
respective corrective action for non conformities. Further, along with the audit 
report,  the  Stock  Exchange  /  Depository  shall  also  submit  a  declaration  from 
the MD / CEO certifying the integrity and security of IT Systems. 

4.21 

Exceptional  Observation  Reporting 
Observation107 

format 

for  System  Audit 

In  this  context,  it  has  been  decided  that  Stock  Exchanges,  Clearing 
Corporations and Depositories (MIIs) shall: 

a.  Submit 

information  with  regards 

to  exceptional  major  non-
compliances  (NCs)  /  minor  NCs  observed  in  the  system  audit  as  per 
Annexure – A. 

b.  Categorically highlight those observations /NCs/ Suggestions pointed 
out  in  the  System  Audit  (Current  and  Previous)  which  are  not  yet 
complied with. 

The aforesaid information is to be duly certified by the Compliance Office, 
for  the  previous/  last  and  current  system  audits  conducted.  Information 
as sought in Annexure – A should also be provided for all future System 
Audits conducted along with the System Audit report submitted to SEBI.  

 

Annexure – A 

Exceptional Observation Reporting Format 

Note: MIIs are expected to submit following information with regards 
to exceptional major/minor NCs observed in the System Audit. MIIs 
should also categorically highlight those observation /NCs/ Suggestions 
pointed out in the System Audit (Current and Previous) which are not 
yet complied with. 

For Preliminary Audit 
 
Descri
ption 
of 
Findin

Depart
ment 

Risk 
Rating of 
Findings 
as per 

Status
/Natur
e of 
Findi
                                                           
107 Reference no. SEBI letter  OW/00000/04961/2017/1 dated May 11, 2017 
 
 

Audit 
TOR 
Claus
e 

Root 
Caus
e 
Anal

Aud
ited 
By 

146 

Impa
ct 
Anal
ysis 

Corre
ctive 
Actio
n 

Deadlin
e for the 
Correcti
ve 

Manageme
nt response 
in case of 
acceptance 

Whether 
similar 
observati
on was 

I. 

Audit 
Period 

Obser
vation 

 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

g  

ngs  Auditor 

ysis 

Action  of associate 

Propo
sed by 
Audit
or 

Risks 

observed 
in any of 
the 
previous 
3 audits 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Description of relevant table heads 

1.  Audit Period  - This indicated the period of audit 
2.  Description of Finding / Observation – Description of findings in 

sufficient details, referencing any accompanying evidence. 

3.  Status / Nature of Findings – The category can be specified for example: 

a.  Non-Compliant (Major/ minor) 
b.  Work in progress 
c.  Observation 
d.  Suggestion 

4.  Risk  Rating  of  Findings  –  A  rating  has  to  been  given  for  each  of  the 
observations  based  on  their  impact  and  severity  to  reflect  the  risk 
exposure, as well as suggested priority for action. 
Rating 

Description 

HIGH 

in  control  those  represent  exposure  to  the 
Weakness 
organization  or  risks  that  could 
instances  of 
noncompliance  with  the  requirement  of  TORs.  These  risks 
need to be addressed with utmost priority. 

lead  to 

MEDIUM  Potential  weakness  in  controls,  which  could  develop  into  an 
exposure  or  issues  that  represent  areas  of  concern  and  may 
impact 
internal  controls.  These  should  be  addressed 
reasonably promptly. 

LOW 

 

Potential  weakness  in  controls,  which  in  combination  with 
other  weakness  can  develop  into  an  exposure.  Suggested 
improvements 
immediately/directly 
affecting controls.  

for  situations  not 

5.  Audit TOR Clause –The TOR clause corresponding to this observation.  

 
 

 

147 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

6.  Root  cause  Analysis  –  A  detailed  analysis  on  the  cause  of  the  non  – 

conformity  

7.  Impact  Analysis  –  An  analysis  of  the  likely  impact  on  the  operations  / 

activity of the organization 

8.  Corrective Action – The action taken to correct the non-conformity. 

II. 

 
For Follow on / Follow up System Audit 
 

Prelimi
nary 
Audit 
Date 

Prelimi
nary 
Audit 
Period 

Prelim
inary 
Status 

Prelimina
ry 
Observati
on 
Number 

 

 

 

 

Prelimi
nary 
Correcti
ve 
Action 
as 
propose
d by 
Auditor 
 

Curre
nt 
Findi
ngs 

Curr
ent 
Statu
s 

Revise
d 
Correc
tive 
Action
, if any 

Deadlin
e for the 
Revised 
Correcti
ve 
Action 

Reason for 
delay in 
implement
ation / 
Complianc
e  

 

 

 

 

 

 
Description of relevant table heads 

1.  Preliminary  Status  –  The  original  finding  as  per  the  preliminary  System 

Audit Report 

2.  Preliminary  Corrective  Action  –  The  original  corrective  action  as 

prescribed in the preliminary System Audit Report 

3.  Current Findings - The current finding w.r.t. the issue. 
4.  Current Status -  Current status of the issue viz compliant, non-compliant, 

Work In Progress (WIP) 

5.  Revised  Corrective  Action  –  The  revised  corrective  action  prescribed 

w.r.t. the non-compliant/WIP issues 
 
 

4.22 

Guidelines  for  Business  Continuity  Plan  (BCP)  and  Disaster  Recovery 
(DR) 108 and 109 

                                                           
108 Circular No. CIR/MRD/DMS/12/2012 dated April 13, 2012 and clarification issued vide 
Circular No. CIR/MRD/ DMS/17/2012 dated June 22, 2012 
109 Reference Circular SEBI/HO/MRD/DMS1/CIR/P/2019/43 dated March 26, 2019 - extant framework  
re-examined and modified 
 
 

148 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

i. 

The stock  exchanges, clearing  corporations and  depositories(collectively 
referred as Market Infrastructure Institutions  –MIIs)should have in place 
BCP and DRS so as to maintain data and transaction integrity.  

ii.  Apart  from  DRS,  stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  should  also 
have  a    Near    Site    (NS)    to    ensure    zero    data    loss    whereas,    the  
depositories    should  also  ensure  zero  data  loss  by  adopting  a  suitable 
mechanism. 

iii.  The DRS should preferably be  set  up in  different  seismic  zones and  in  
case due  to  certain  reasons  such  as  operational  constraints,  change  of  
seismic  zones,  etc.,  minimum  distance  of  500  kilometer  shall  be  ensured 
between PDC and DRS so that both DRS and PDC are not affected by the 
same disaster 

iv.  The  manpower  deployed  at  DRS  /  NS  should  have  similar  expertise  as 
available  at  PDC  in  terms  of  knowledge  /  awareness  of  various 
technological  and  procedural  systems  and  processes  relating  to  all 
operations  such 
function  at  short  notice, 
independently.  MIIs  should  have  sufficient  number  of    trained    staff    at  
their   DRS  so  as  to   have  the  capability  of  running   live operations 
from DRS without involving staff of the primary site. 

that  DRS  /  NS  can 

v.  Configuration of DRS / NS with PDC 

a)  Hardware,  system  software,  application  environment,  network  and 
security devices and associated application environments of DRS / NS 
and PDC should have one to one correspondence between them. 

b)  MIIs  should    endeavor    to    develop    systems    that    do    not    require  
configuration  changes    at    the    end    of    trading    members/    clearing  
members/    depository  participants  for  switchover  from  the  PDC  to 
DRS.  Further,  MIIs  should  test  such  switchover  functionality  by 
conducting unannounced 2 day live trading session from its DRS. This 
would  help  to  gauge  the  state  of  readiness  of  various  other  processes 
and  procedure  relating  to  business  continuity  and  disaster  recovery 
that may not get tested in a planned exercise. 

c)  MIIs should have Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point 

Objective (RPO) not more than 4 hours and 30 minutes, respectively. 

d)  The  time  taken  to  define/  establish/  declare  a  disaster  should  not  be 

149 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

more  than  2  hours  and  the  total  RTO  including  the  time  taken  to 
declare  an  incident  as  disaster  should  not  be  more  than  4  hours. 
Further,  RTO  shall  be  calculated  from  the  occurrence  of  disaster  and 
not from the time an incident is declared a disaster. 

e)  Solution  architecture  of  PDC  and  DRS  /  NS  should  ensure  high 
availability,  fault  tolerance,  no  single  point  of  failure,  zero  data  loss, 
and data and transaction integrity. 

f)  Any  updates  made  at  the  PDC  should  be  reflected  at  DRS  /  NS 
immediately  (before  end  of  day)  with  head  room  flexibility  without 
compromising any of the performance metrics. 

g)  Replication  architecture,  bandwidth  and  load  consideration  between 
the  DRS  /  NS  and  PDC  should  be  within  stipulated  RTO  and  ensure 
high availability, right sizing, and no single point of failure. 

h)  Replication  between  PDC  and  NS  should  be  synchronous  to  ensure 
zero data loss. Whereas the one between PDC and DR and between NS 
and DR may be asynchronous. 

i)  Adequate resources (with appropriate training and experience) should 
be available at all times to handle operations on a regular basis as well 
as during disasters. 

vi.  DR Drills / Testing 

a)  DR drills should be conducted on quarterly basis. In case of exchanges, 
these  drills  should  be  closer  to  real  life  scenario  (trading  days)  with 
minimal notice to DR staff involved. 

b)  During  the  drills,  the  staff  based  at  PDC  should  not  be  involved  in 

supporting operations in any manner.  

c)  The drill should include running all operations from DRS for at least 1 

full trading day. 

d) Before  DR  drills,  the  timing  diagrams  clearly  identifying  resources  at 

both ends (DRS as well as PDC) should be in place. 

e)  The results and observations of these drills should be documented and 
placed before the Governing  Board of Stock Exchange / Depositories. 
Subsequently,  the  same  along  with  the  comments  of  the  Governing 
Board should be forwarded to SEBI within a month of the DR drill. 

150 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

f)  The system auditor while covering the BCP - DR as a part of mandated 
annual system audit should check the preparedness of the MII to shift 
its  operations  from  PDC  to  DRS  unannounced  and  should  also 
comment 
and 
observations of DR drills. 

documented 

on 

results 

g)  Live’  trading  sessions  from  DR  site  shall  be  scheduled  for  at  least 
two  consecutive  days  in  every  six  months.  Such  live  trading  sessions 
from the DRS shall be organized on normal working days (i.e.  not  on  
weekends    /    trading  holidays).The    stock    exchange/    clearing  
corporation  shall ensure  that  staff members working at DRS have the 
abilities and skills to run live trading session independent of the PDC 
staff. 

h)  Stock  exchanges  and  clearing  corporations  shall  include  a  scenario  of 
intraday  shifting    from    PDC    to    DR    during    the    mock    trading  
sessions  in  order  to demonstrate its preparedness to meet RTO/RPO 
as stipulated above. 

i)  MII  should  undertake  and  document  Root  Cause  Analysis  (RCA)  
of  their technical/  system  related  problems  in  order  to  identify  the  
causes  and  to prevent reoccurrence of similar problems. 

vii.  BCP - DR Policy Document 

a)  Stock  exchanges,  clearing  corporations  and  depositories,  depending 
upon  their  line  of  business  shall  decide  the  definition  of  ‘Disaster’ 
which  requires  them  to  move  from  the  PDC  to  DRS  and  include  the 
same in the BCP-DR Policy. The above policy shall be approved by the 
respective Governing Boards of MIIs. 

b)  The  BCP  -  DR  policy  of  stock  exchanges  and  depositories  should  be 
well  documented  covering  all  areas  as  mentioned  above  including 
disaster escalation hierarchy. 

c)  The stock exchanges should specifically address their preparedness in 
terms  of  proper  system  and  infrastructure  in  case  disaster  strikes 
during business hours. 

d) Depositories  should  also  demonstrate  their  preparedness  to  handle 

any issue which may arise due to trading halts in stock exchanges 

e)  The policy document and subsequent changes / additions / deletions 

151 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

should  be  approved  by  Governing  Board  of  the  Stock  Exchange  / 
Depositories and thereafter communicated to SEBI. 

f)  In  case  a  MII  desires  to  lease  its  premise  at  the  DRS  to  other  entities 
including  to  its  subsidiaries  or  entities  in  which  it  has  stake,  the  MII 
that  such  arrangements  do  not  compromise 
should  ensure 
confidentiality, 
integrity,  availability,  targeted  performance  and 
service levels of the MII’s systems at the DRS. The right of first use of 
all  the  resources  at  DRS  including  network  resources  should  be  with 
the  MII.  Further,  MII  should  deploy  necessary  access  controls  to 
restrict access (including physical access) of such entities to its critical 
systems and networks. 

viii. Considering  the  above,  stock  exchanges  and  depositories  are  advised  to 
submit  their  BCP  -  DR  policy  to  SEBI  within  3  months  from  the  date  of 
this  circular.  Further,  they  should  also  ensure  that  point  1  (vi)  (f) 
mentioned above is also included in scope of system audit.  

4.23 
 

i. 

 (Information Technology) IT Governance For Depositories110 

SEBI  constituted  the  Depository  System  Review  Committee  (DSRC)  to 
undertake a comprehensive review of the Indian depository system. Based 
on  the  recommendations  of  DSRC,  following  guidelines  are  issued  to 
strengthen  the    information  Technology  (IT)  governance  framework  of 
depositories. 
 

ii.  Depositories  shall  formulate  an  IT  strategy  committee  at  the  Board  level 
of depository to provide insight and advice to the Board in various areas 
that may include: 
 
a.  Developments in IT from a business perspective. 
b.  The alignment of IT with the business direction. 
c.  The availability of IT resources to meet strategic objectives. 
d.  Competitive aspects of IT Investments. 
e.  Alignment  of  the  IT  architecture  to  the  organization  needs  and  its 

approval. 

f.  Setting priorities and milestones. 

 

                                                           
110 Reference: MRD/DMS/03/2014 dated January 21, 2014 
 
 

152 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

iii.  Depositories  shall  formulate  an  executive  level  IT  Steering  Committee  to 
assist the IT Strategy Committee in Implementation of IT strategy. The IT 
steering  committee  shall  comprise  of  representatives  from  IT,  Human 
Resources (HR), Legal and various business functions as felt appropriate. 
 

iv.  The  Depositories  shall  formulate  an  IT  strategy  document  and  an 
Information Security policy which should be approved by the Board and 
reviewed annually. 
 

v.  The  Depositories  shall  create  an  Office  of  Information  Security  and 
designate  a  senior  official  as  Chief  Information  Security  Officer  (CISO) 
whose  work  would  be  to  assess,  identify  and  reduce  information 
technology  (IT)  risks,  respond  to 
incidents,  establish  appropriate 
standards and controls, and direct the establishment and implementation 
of policies and procedures. 
 
SEBI  has  laid  down  Guidelines  for  Business  Continuity  Plan  (BCP)  and 
Disaster Recovery (DR) for stock exchange and depositories vide circular 
CIR/MRD/DMS/12/2012 
and 
CIR/MRD/DMS//17/2012  dated  June  22,  2012.  In  Addition  to  the 
requirements of the aforementioned circulars, depositories shall designate 
a senior official as the head of BCP function. 
 
Guidelines 
for 
Depositories111 
 

inspection  of  Depository  Participants 

(DPs)  by 

2012 

dated 

April 

13, 

vi. 

4.24 

i.  Depository System Review Committee (DSRC) was constituted by SEBI to 
undertake  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  depository  system  of  Indian 
Securities market.  
 

ii.  As  a  first  measure,  DSRC  has  reviewed  framework  adopted  by  the 
depositories  with  regard  to  the  inspection  of  depository  participants 
(DPs).  Considering  the  recommendations  of  the  committee,  it  has  been 
decided that depositories shall ensure the following while inspecting their 
DPs.  

 

                                                           
111 Reference Circular SEBI/MRD/DMS/05/2014 dated February 07, 2014 
 
 

153 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 Inspection Areas and Sample Size 
 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

For  conducting  inspection  of  DPs,  depositories  shall  inspect  the  areas  as 
mentioned  in  Annexure  -  I.  During  inspection,  depositories  shall  cover 
implementation of circulars / guidelines issued by SEBI and guidelines / 
operating  instructions  /  directions  by  depositories  in  respect  of  these 
areas.  In  addition,  Depositories  may  include  such  other  areas  as  felt 
appropriate.  
 
For  the  purpose  of  determining  the  size  of  sample,  depositories  shall  be 
guided  by 
'Adaptive  Sample  Size  determination  methodology'  as 
mentioned at Annexure - II.  

 
 Categorization / Risk Rating of DPs 
  
For the purpose of computing total risk score of DPs, depositories shall be 
guided  by  “DP  Rating  Model  /  Categorization”  as  mentioned  at 
Annexure – III.  
 

vi.  Depositories should periodically undertake risk - impact analysis for each 
of  the  inspection  areas,  assign  appropriate  risk  weightage,  calculate  risk 
scores for each DPs in the lines mentioned below.  

 

 

 

 

a.  Risk  Weightage:  Depositories  shall  assign  risk  weights  for  each  of 

inspection areas after taking into consideration following factors:  

1.  Operational risks in each of the inspection areas.  
2.  Category of DPs (such as stock broker DPs, bank DP, etc)  
3.  Size of Operation  
4.   Repetitive violations  
5.  IT Security and BCP  
6.  Complaints received and redressed  

b.  Quantitative  Score  Calculation:  Depositories  shall  arrive  at  a 
Quantitative  Risk  Score  for  each  inspection  area  by  multiplying 
percentage  of  non-compliance 
to 
the 
corresponding assigned risk weight.  

the  sample  size  with 

154 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

c.  Qualitative Score Calculation: Depositories shall arrive at a Qualitative 
Risk Score for each qualitative area by multiplying the score assigned 
by inspection team to DP with corresponding assigned risk weight.  

d.  Total  DP  Risk  Score  shall  be  the  summation  of  quantitative  and 

qualitative scores assigned to the DP.  

e.  Depositories shall  suitably normalize the scales of the qualitative and 

quantitative scores in arriving at the Total DP risk score.  

 

 

 

vii.  Depositories  shall  categorize  their  DPs  as  'High  Risk',  'Medium  to  High 
Risk',  'Medium  Risk',  and  'Low  Risk'  DPs  based  on  the  percentile  of  risk 
score.  
 

Risk 

DP 
Categorization 

High 

Medium-High 

Medium 

Low 

Rating 

/ 

Percentile of Risk Score 

≥ 80 

46-79 

21-45 

≤ 20 

 
viii.  After arriving at the risk rating / categorization as mentioned above, for 
subsequent  inspections,  depositories  shall  use  the  DP  risk  rating/ 
categorization to decide on the frequency of inspection of DPs  

ix.  Apart  from  the  above,  depositories  may  undertake  specific  purpose 
inspections  for  DPs  which  score  high  in  the  specific  inspection  areas  as 
mentioned at Annexure - I.  

 

x.  Depositories  shall  jointly  inspect  DPs  which  are  registered  with  both 
depositories  to  have  better  control  over  DPs,  avoid  duplicity  of 
manpower, time and cost and also to reduce the possibility of regulatory 
arbitrage,  if  any.  Depositories  shall  share  the  risk  rating /  categorization 
of common DPs with each other. For the purpose of determining sample 

155 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

size and frequency of the joint inspection of such common DPs, the higher 
risk categorization assigned by any of the Depository shall prevail.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Annexure –I 

List of Inspection Areas 

 

1.  Depositories  shall  inspect  the  areas  mentioned  at  para  2  below  during 

inspection of DPs with regards to any 

1.1. Circulars / Guidelines issued by SEBI on the areas mentioned below. 

1.2. Guidelines  /  Operating  Instructions  /  Directions  from  depositories  on 

the areas mentioned below. 

2.  In  case  there  are  built  in  system  checks  at  the  depository  that  ensure 
compliance  of  any  of  the  inspection  areas  / sub  –areas  with  regard  to  point 
1.1  and  1.2  above,  the  depository  may  decide  on  the  including  the  same 
during the inspection of DPs 

Inspection Areas 

A.  Account Opening / KYC Documents  

A.1.  Account Opening forms 

156 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

A.2.  KYC Documents 

A.2.1.  PAN Verification 

A.2.2.  In-person verification 

A.2.3.  Forwarding of Documents to KYC Registration Agency (KRA) 

A.3.  Proof of Identity (POI) 

A.4.  Proof of Address 

A.5.  Correspondence Address 

A.6.  Authorized Signatories 

A.7.  Completeness  /  Validation  of  data  entered  into  DPM  with  data 

provided in the Account Opening forms 

A.8.  Minor BO / Joint / HUF accounts 

A.9.  Account Activation 

A.10.  PMS Accounts 

A.11.  Nomination 

A.12.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

B.  Basic Service Demat Account (BSDA) 

B.1.  Procedures and Checks pertaining to BSDA 

B.2.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 
 

C.  Client Data Modification (CDM) 

C.1.  Procedure for CDM 

C.2.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
D.  Demat / Remat / Conversion /Reconversion request 

D.1.  Procedure  for  receiving/processing  requests  pertaining  to  Demat  / 

Remat / Conversion /Reconversion request 

D.2.  Procedure  for  forwarding  requests  pertaining  to  Demat  /  Remat  / 

Conversion /Reconversion request to RTA / issuer 

157 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

D.3.  Arrangement for Safekeeping of Security / Share Certificates 

D.4.  Tracking of demat requests 

D.5.  Rejection of above requests attributable to DPs 

D.6.  Checks  pertaining  to  processing  of  Demat  /  Remat  /  Conversion  / 

Reconversion request 

D.7.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

E.  Delivery Instruction Slip (DIS)  

E.1. 

Issuance of DIS 

E.2. 

Inventory Control  of DIS 

E.3. 

First Instruction Slip Booklet 

E.4.  Requisition Slip 

E.5.  Procedure for Loose DIS 

E.6.  Depository specific areas 

E.7.  Verification of DIS 

E.8.  Procedure for accepting DIS 

E.9.  Time Stamping and related Areas 

E.10.  Accepting DIS by Fax 

E.11.  Accepting DIS in form of Annexure 

E.12.  Completeness of DIS 

E.13.  Accepting DIS in electronic form 

E.14.  Procedure for Verification of DIS 

E.15.  Signature Verification 

E.16.  Corrections / Cancellations to DIS 

E.17.  Blocking of used / executed / lost / misplaced / Stolen DIS 

E.18.  Procedure for processing of DIS 

E.19.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

158 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

F.  Transaction 

F.1.  Checks pertaining to setting up / processing of transactions 

F.2. 

Future dated transactions 

F.3.  Transfer of all ISINs of BO account having 5 or more ISINs  

F.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

G.  Transaction Statement (TS) 

G.1.  Validation of TS 

G.2.  Maintenance of records of TS 

G.3. 

Issuance of TS to BOs 

G.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

H.  Compliance under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) 

H.1.  Compliance with PMLA Act, 2002 and SEBI Guidelines on areas such 
, 

as  Customer  due  diligence,  suspicious  transaction  monitoring 
reporting and record keeping 

H.2.  Appointment of Principal officer as required under PMLA Act,2002 

H.3.  Mechanism to deal with alerts provided by Depository 

H.4.  Suspicious Transactions reports to FIU 

H.5.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
I.  Maintenance of record and documents 

I.1. 

Information regarding place(s) of record keeping 

I.2.  Outsourcing of record keeping activities 

I.3.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

J.  Service Centre Opening and closing/ modification of service centers 

J.1. 

Procedure for Opening /Closure  of Service centers 

J.2.  Details of Service centre on Depository website 

159 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

J.3.  Qualified persons at service centers 

J.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
K.  Information Technology areas 

K.1.  Hardware, Software and Network requirements / configurations 

K.2.  Logical and Physical restrictions / safeguards 

K.3. 

IT Security 

K.4.  Procedure for alteration of parameters / configurations 

K.5.  Redundancy 

K.6.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

L.  Power of Attorney (POA) 

L.1.  Documents executed 

L.2.  Maintenance of POA Register 

L.3.  Clauses of POA 

L.4.  Registration of BO for SMS Alert facility for POA 

L.5.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

M. Inter Depository Transfers (IDT) 

M.1.  Processing of IDT 

M.2.  Checks pertaining to IDT 

M.3.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

N.  Account Transfer 

N.1.  Procedure followed for account transfer 

N.2.  Checks pertaining to Account transfer 

N.3.  Waiver claimed for inter depository transfer 

N.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

160 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

O.  Transmission 

O.1.  Procedure followed for transmission 

O.2.  Checks pertaining to Transmission 

O.3.  Waiver Claimed for inter depository transfer 

O.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
P.  Pledge / Unpledge 

P.1.  Procedure followed for Pledge / Unpledge  

P.2.  Checks pertaining to Pledge / Unpledge 

P.3.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 

Q.  Freeze / Unfreeze 

Q.1.  Freeze facility 

Q.2.  Procedure followed for Freeze 

Q.3.  Checks pertaining to freeze 

Q.4.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
R.  Miscellaneous areas 

R.1. 

Investor Grievance 

R.2.  Forms for various activities 

R.3.  Execution of any supplementary agreement/ Letter of Confirmation 

R.4. 

Submission  of  Internal  Audit  /  Concurrent  Audit  /  Net  worth 
Certificate 

R.5. 

Submission of Annual Financial Statement 

R.6.  Outsourcing of Activities 

R.7.  Closure / transfer of Balances 

R.8. 

Submission of Information sought by Depositories specifically through 
Circulars / Letters. 

161 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

R.9.  Half Yearly Compliance 

R.10.  Any other area as may be specified by the depository 

 
S.  Status of compliance for deviations / observations noted in last inspection 

 

T.  Complaints 

T.1.  Account Opening  

T.2.  Demat / Remat 

T.3.  Transaction Statement  

T.4. 

Improper Service  

T.5.  Charges  

T.6.  Delivery Instruction Related  ( DIS ) 

T.7.  Closure 

T.8.  Manipulation / Unauthorized Action 

T.9.  Monthly report for client complaints 

T.10.  Other Complaints 

 

Annexure –II 

Adaptive Sample Size Determination methodology 

162 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
1.  Sample Size for inspection area of 'Account Opening' 

  The  sample  selection  for  account  opening  shall  cover  all  categories  of 

clients such as individuals, HUF, Corporate, FIIs etc.  

  Base  sample  size:  5%  of  Account  Opening  Forms  (AOFs)  or  150  AOFs 

whichever is higher, with a maximum cap of 1000 accounts.  

  Final  Sample  Size:  The  final  sample  size  shall  also  be  dependent  on  past 
rating  /  categorization  of  DP.  The  following  multipliers  shall  be  used  to 
determine the final sample size for the current inspection. In case the total 
number of instances / cases is less than the final sample size, then 100% of 
the samples shall be verified. 

DP Rating / Categorization 

Multiplier 

High risk 

Medium High risk 

Medium risk 

Low risk 

3 

2 

1.5 

1 

  The  selected  sample  shall  maintain  the  proportion  of  new  accounts 
opened  in  each  category,  except  for  Account  Opening  Forms  (AOF) 
relating to FIIs where it shall be checked on a 100% basis. 

2.  Sample Size for inspection area relating to DIS 

  Base  sample  size:  10%  of  total  DIS  processed  or  200  processed  DIS 

whichever is higher, with a maximum cap of 1000 DIS.  

  Final  Sample  Size:  The  sample  size  shall  also  be  dependent  on  rating  / 
categorization of DP. The following multipliers shall be used to determine 
the final sample size for the current inspection. In case the total number of 
instances  /  cases  is  less  than  the  final  sample  size,  then  100%  of  the 
samples shall be verified. 

DP Rating / Categorization 

Multiplier 

High risk 

Medium High risk 

Medium risk 

3 

2 

1.5 

163 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Low risk 

1 

  Out of total intra depository instructions to be verified, the percentage of 

on and off market instructions would be in the ratio of 1/3 and 2/3. 

  DIS issuance sample size shall be 5% of the total samples verified for DIS. 

 

3.  Sample Sizes for inspection areas of 'Demat / Remat  request' and 'Pledge / 

Unpledge'  

  5%  of  Demat  /  Remat  request  processed  or  100  requests  whichever  is 

higher with a maximum cap of 500 such requests.   

  5% of Pledge / Unpledge request processed or 100 requests whichever is 

higher with a maximum cap of 500 such requests.   

4.  Sample  Size 

for 

inspection  area  of 

'Client  Data  Modification', 

'Miscellaneous areas' and 'Other depository specific requirements' 

  Base Sample Size  

o  Address change = 50 

  Samples from Urban, Semi Urban and Rural Areas shall be equally 

represented if available. 

o  Nomination Change  = 25 

o  Signature change = 100 

o  Addition / Deletion / Modification of POA = 100 

o  Freeze  / Unfreeze  = 50 

o  Bank Details Change  = 100 

o  PAN modification = 100 

o  Account closure initiated by clients = 25 

o  Closure initiated by DPs = 25 

o  Demat rejection = 30 

o  Transactions = 25 

o  Change in e-mail Id = 25 

164 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

o  Change in mobile number = 25 

o  Change in SMS flag = 50 

o  Change in standing instruction flag = 50 

o  Transmission = 50% of total transmission cases 

o  Previous compliance = 100% of total samples 

o  Final  sample  size  shall  be  arrived  at  after  multiplying  with  the 
respective  multiplier  corresponding 
the  DP  Risk  rating  / 
categorization as given below. In case the total number of instances / 
cases is less than the final sample size, then 100% of the samples shall 
be verified. 

to 

DP Rating/ Categorisation 

Multiplier 

High risk 

Medium High risk 

Medium risk 

Low risk 

 

5.  Other Aspects 

3 

2 

1.5 

1 

  A  uniform  Base  sample  size  of  100  shall  be  adopted  in  case  of  all  other 
activities. In case the total number of samples is less than 100, then 100% 
of the samples shall be verified.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

165 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure-III 

DP Rating / Categorization Model 

I.  Quantitative Score Calculation: Specific weights shall be assigned to each 
area as decided by each depository. The Total Quantitative Score shall be 
the summation of all individual inspection scores. 
 

Table: Indicative Table for calculation of Quantitative Score 

Sr No 

Inspection Areas 

Weight 

(A) 

B = No of 
Instances 
divided by 
Sample size 

Inspection 

Score 

 

IS = A*B 

A.   

Inspection Area 1 

A.1.   Inspection Sub Area A 1 

A.2.   Inspection Sub Area 2 

 

 

 

Total Score for Inspection Area 1 

B.   

Inspection Area 2 

B.1.   Inspection Sub Area B 1 

B.2.   Inspection Sub Area B 2 

B.3.   Inspection Sub Area B 3 

 

 

 

 

 

Total Score for Inspection Area 2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

166 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Depositories  shall  include  all  inspection  areas  and  sub  areas,  as  per 
Annexure –I (List of Inspection Areas) of this circular, in the above model 
to arrive at the Quantitative Score for a DP. 

 
Table:  Indicative  Table  for  calculation  of  Quantitative  Score  for  Complaints 
Received 

Sr No  Type and Nature of 

Weight 

Complaint 

(A) 

(Number of 
Complaints 
redressed) / 
Number of 
Complaints 

received) 

Inspection 

Score 

 

IS = A*B 

T 

Complaints 

T.1  Complaint Sub Area 1 

T.2  Complaint Sub Area 2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Total Score for Complaints 

Quantitative Score = Σ (Scores of Inspection Areas including Total score for 
Complaints) 

II.  Qualitative Score Calculation: Specific weights shall be assigned to each 
area  as  decided  by  depository.  The  Total  Qualitative  Score  shall  be  the 
summation of all area scores. 

 

Sr. 
No 

Qualitative Factors 

Weight 

(A) 

Point on the 

scale of 1 to 10.  
[10 being the 

Worst] 

(B) 

Area 
score 
=(A) * 

(B) 

1  Ownership and Governance  
2 

IT security and Business Continuity   

3 

4 

Regulatory / procedural Compliance  

Automation of systems and processes 
for critical activities 

5  Quality of Management 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

167 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

6 

7 

8 

9 

Financial Status / profitability of DPs   

Pending enquires / Penalties imposed 
by SEBI / Depositories on DP 
operations 
Complaints redressal  

Adverse findings of other activities (eg. 
Broking / custodian / banks etc) 

Total Qualitative Score = Σ (Area Scores) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Following indicative factors shall be taken into account for arriving at above 
mentioned qualitative score: 

(a) Ownership and Governance 

1.  Constitution  of  Board  of  DP  –  Number  of  promoter  directors, 

Independent Directors etc. 

2.  Role of non-executive directors / Independent directors. 

(b) Quality of Management 

1.  Experience, Fit and Proper and Qualification of Key Personnel. 

2.  Existence  of  Succession  planning  for  top  management  especially  in 

control functions. 

3.  Chinese walls between the activities in terms of manpower, resources 

etc. 

4.  Training and development of employees.  

5.  Adequacy of staff strength.  

6.  Compliance  level  of  previous  inspection  observations/  directions  of 

regulatory bodies 

(c)  IT security and Business Continuity 

1.  High Availability. 

2.  Appropriate Interconnected Architecture. 

3.  Appropriate  Recovery  Time  Objective  (RTO)  and  Recovery  Point 

Objective (RPO) and near “Zero Data Loss”.  

168 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.  Periodic drills that simulate the real life disaster scenarios on a regular 

basis. 

5.  Technological glitches in the past period and remedies taken. 

6.  Information security.  

7.  Upgradation of technology 

(d) Financial Status / profitability of DPs 

1.  The  net-worth  of  the  DPs  (whether  reducing  or  increasing  from 

previous years) 

2.  Net Profits of DPs operations. 

(e) Complaints redressal 

1.  Complaint redressal system  

2.  Percentage of complaints pending and resolved.  

(f)  Other adverse findings 

1.  Actions taken by Stock exchange and SEBI / RBI with respect to other 

activities  

2.  Actions taken by other depository. 

 
III.  Total Score = Qualitative Score + Quantitative Score 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

169 

 

 
 

4.25 

4.26 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Activity of Demat of warehouse receipts112 
 
The  aforesaid  activity  is  not  in  compliance  with  Regulation  42  of  SEBI 
(D&P) Regulations,  2018 and therefore depositories cannot carry out this 
activity.  Depositories  are  therefore  advised  to  take  suitable  steps  in  this 
regard, either to hive-off or to discontinue the activity. 
 
Voting rights in respect of securities held in pool account113 
 
It  was  informed  that  the  corporate  benefits  availed  by  the  clearing 
member, clearing corporation and intermediaries shall be held in trust on 
behalf  of  beneficiary  owners.  Therefore,  the  clearing  member,  clearing 
corporation  as  well  as  the  intermediaries  cannot  have  voting  rights  in 
respect of securities held in the pool account. 

 
                                                           
112 Reference: MRD/DP/SG-OW/202/2012 and MRD/DP/SG-OW/203/2012 dated January 4, 
2012 
113 Reference: SMDRP/NSDL/26563/2001 dated April 10, 2001 
 
 

170 

 

 

 
 
4.27 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Risk Management Policy at the Depositories114   
 

i.  The  depositories  are  advised  to  establish  a  clear,  comprehensive  and 
well  documented  risk  management  framework  which  shall  include  the 
following: 

a)  an  integrated  and  comprehensive  view  of  risks  to  the  depository 
including  those  emanating  from  participants,  participants'  clients  
and third parties to whom activities are outsourced etc.; 

b)  list  out  all relevant  risks,  including  technological,  legal,  operational, 
custody  and  general  business  risks  and  the  ways  and  means  to 
address the same; 

c)  the systems, policies and procedures to identify, assess, monitor and 

manage the risks that arise in or are borne by the depository ; 

d)  the depository's risk-tolerance policy;  

e)  responsibilities  and  accountability  for  risk  decisions  and  decision 

making process in crises and emergencies. 

 

ii.  The  Depositories  shall  put  in  place  mechanism  to  implement  the  Risk 
Management Framework through a Risk Management Committee which 
shall  be  headed  by  a  Public  Interest  Director115.    The  responsibilities  of 
the said Committee shall include the following: 

a)  It shall meet periodically in order to continuously identify, evaluate 
and  assess  applicable  risks  in  depository  system  through  various 
sources such as  investors complaints, inspections, system audit etc.; 

b)  It shall suggest  measures to mitigate risk wherever applicable;  

c)  It shall monitor and assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk 

management framework and the system of internal control; 

d)  It  shall  review  and  update  the  risk  management  framework 

periodically. 

 

                                                           
114 Reference: CIR/MRD/DP/1/2015 dated January 12, 2015 
115 Reference: SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP2DSA2/CIR/P/2019/13 dated January 10, 2019 
 
 

171 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
The Board of the depository shall approve the Risk Management Framework and  
the Chief Risk Officer shall have access to the Board. The CRO shall be 
responsible, accountable and answerable to the board on overall risk 
management issues. 
 
4.28 
 

Outsourcing by Depositories116 

Based  on  recommendations  by  DSRC,  the  depositories  are  advised  to 
ensure the following:  

i.  Depositories shall formulate and document an outsourcing policy duly 
approved by their Board based on the guidelines given below and the 
principles  outlined  in  the  SEBI  circular  CIR/MIRSD/24/2011  dated 
December 15, 2011. 

 

Core activities of Depositories  

ii.  Core and critical activities of depositories shall not be outsourced. The 

core activities of the depositories shall include but not limited to the 
following:  
a)  Processing  of  the  applications  for  admission  of  Depository 
Participants (DPs), Issuers and Registrar & Transfer Agents (RTAs).  

b)  Facilitating Issuers/RTAs to execute Corporate Actions.  
c)  Allotting ISINs for securities.  
d)  Maintenance and safekeeping of Beneficial Owner’s data.  
e)  Execution  of  settlement  and  other  incidental  activities  for  pay-in/ 

pay-out of securities. 

f)  Execution  of  transfer  of  securities  and  other  transactions  like 

pledge, freeze, etc. 

g)  Provision  of  internet  based  facilities  for  access  to  demat  accounts 

and submitting delivery instructions.  
h)  Ensuring  continuous  connectivity 

Corporations and other Depository. 

to  DPs,  RTAs,  Clearing 

i)  Monitoring and redressal of investor grievances. 
j)  Inspection of DPs and RTAs.  

                                                           
116 Reference: CIR/MRD/DP/19/2015 dated December 09, 2015 
 
 

172 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

k)  Surveillance Functions. 
l)  Compliance Functions. 
 

iii.  Core IT (Information Technology) support infrastructure / activities 
for running the core activities of depositories shall not be outsourced 
to the extent possible.  
 

Due Diligence 

iv.  The depositories shall conduct appropriate due diligence in selecting 

the third party to whom activity is proposed to be outsourced and 
ensure that only reputed entities having proven high delivery 
standards are selected.  
 
Risk Management & Monitoring 

v.  Depositories shall ensure that outsourced activities are further 

outsourced downstream only with the prior consent of the depository 
and with appropriate safeguards including proper legal 
documentation/ agreement.  

vi.  Depositories shall ensure that risk impact analysis is undertaken 
before outsourcing any activity and appropriate risk mitigation 
measures like back up/ restoration system are in place.  

vii.  An effective monitoring of the entities selected for outsourcing shall be 
done to ensure that there is check on the activities of outsourced entity. 
Depositories shall strive to automate their processes and workflows to 
the extent possible which shall enable real time monitoring of 
outsourced activities.  
 
Audit 

viii.  The outsourcing policy document shall act as a reference for audit of 
the outsourced activities. Audit of implementation of risk assessment 
and mitigation measures listed in the outsourcing policy document 
and outsourcing agreement/ service level agreements pertaining to IT 
systems shall be part of System Audit of Depositories.  

173 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
4.29 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Cyber Security and Cyber Resilience framework of Depositories117 

i. 

ii. 

SEBI  as  a  member  of  IOSCO  has  adopted  the  Principles  for  Financial 
Market  Infrastructures  (PFMIs)  laid  down  by  CPMI-IOSCO  and  has 
issued guidance for implementation of the  principles in the  securities 
market. 

that  systemically 

Principle  17  of  PFMI  that  relates  to  management  and  mitigation  of 
‘Operational  risk’  requires 
important  market 
infrastructures  institutions  “should  identify  the  plausible  sources  of 
operational risk, both internal and external, and mitigate their impact through 
the  use  of  appropriate  systems,  policies,  procedures,  and  controls.  Systems 
should  be  designed  to  ensure  a  high  degree  of  security  and  operational 
reliability  and  should  have  adequate,  scalable  capacity.  Business  continuity 
management should aim for timely recovery of operations and fulfilment of the 
FMI’s obligations, including in the event of a wide-scale or major disruption.” 

iii.  Depositories  (hereafter  referred  as  Market  Infrastructure  Institutions  or 
MIIs) are systemically important market infrastructure institutions. As 
part  of  the  operational  risk  management,  these  MIIs  need  to  have 
robust  cyber  security  framework  to  provide  essential  facilities  and 
perform systemically critical functions relating to trading, clearing and 
settlement in securities market.  

iv. 

v. 

In  view  of  the  above,  SEBI  along  with  the  Technical  Advisory 
Committee  (TAC)  engaged  in  detailed  discussions  with  MIIs  to 
develop  necessary  guidance  in  the  area  of  cyber  security  and  cyber 
resilience.  

Based  on  the  consultations  and  recommendations  of  Technical 
Advisory  Committee  TAC,  it  has  been  decided  to  lay  down  the 
framework placed at Annexure below that MIIs would be required to 
comply with regard to cyber security and cyber resilience.  

                                                           
117 Reference: Circular CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015 dated July 06, 2015 
 
 

174 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Annexure 

1. 
Cyber  attacks  and  threats  attempt  to  compromise  the  Confidentiality, 
Integrity  and  Availability  (CIA)  of  the  computer  systems,  networks  and 
databases.118  Cyber  security  framework  include  measures,  tools  and  processes 
that  are  intended  to  prevent  cyber  attacks  and  improve  cyber  resilience.  Cyber 
Resilience  is  an  organisation’s  ability  to  prepare  and  respond  to  a  cyber  attack 
and to continue operation during, and recover from, a cyber attack. 

Governance 

2. 
As part of the operational risk management framework to manage risk to 
systems,  networks  and  databases  from  cyber  attacks  and  threats,  MII  should 
formulate a comprehensive cyber security and cyber resilience policy document 
encompassing  the  framework  mentioned  hereunder.  The  policy  document 
should be approved by the Board, and in case of deviations from the suggested 
framework,  reasons  for  such  deviations  should  also  be  provided  in  the  policy 
document. The policy  document should be reviewed by the MII’s Board atleast 
annually  with  the  view  to  strengthen  and  improve  its  cyber  security  and  cyber 
resilience framework. 

3. 
The  cyber  security  and  cyber  resilience  policy  should  include  the 
following  process  to  identify,  assess,  and  manage  cyber  security risk  associated 
with processes, information, networks and systems.  

a.  ‘Identify’ critical IT assets and risks associated with such assets,  

b.  ‘Protect’ assets by deploying suitable controls, tools and measures, 

c.  ‘Detect’ 

incidents,  anomalies  and  attacks 

through  appropriate 

monitoring tools / processes,  

d.  ‘Respond’  by  taking  immediate  steps  after  identification  of  the 

incident, anomaly or attack,  

                                                           
118  Confidentiality  refers  to  limiting  access  of  systems  and  information  to  authorized  users, 
Integrity is the assurance that the information is reliable and accurate, and Availability refers to 
guarantee of reliable access to the systems and information by authorized users 
 
 

175 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

e.  ‘Recover’  from  incident  through  incident  management,  disaster 

recovery and business continuity framework. 

4. 
The Cyber security policy should encompass the principles prescribed by 
National  Critical  Information  Infrastructure  Protection  Centre  (NCIIPC)  of 
National  Technical  Research  Organisation  (NTRO),  Government  of  India  in  the 
report  titled 
‘Guidelines  for  Protection  of  National  Critical  Information 
Infrastructure’ and subsequent revisions, if any, from time to time.  

5. 
MII  should  also  incorporate  best  practices  from  standards  such  as  ISO 
27001, ISO 27002, COBIT 5, etc., or their subsequent revisions, if any, from time 
to time. 

6. 
MII should designate a senior official as Chief Information Security Officer 
(CISO)  whose  function  would  be  to  assess,  identify  and  reduce  cyber  security 
risks,  respond  to  incidents,  establish  appropriate  standards  and  controls,  and 
direct the establishment and implementation of processes and procedures as per 
the cyber security and resilience policy approved by the Board of the MII. 

The  Standing  Committee  on  Technology119  of  the  stock  exchanges,  
7. 
clearing corporations and the depositories should on a quarterly basis review the 
implementation  of  the  cyber  security  and  resilience  policy  approved  by  their 
Boards,  and  such  review  should  include  review  of  their  current  IT  and  cyber 
security and resilience capabilities, set goals for a target level of cyber resilience, 
and  establish  a  plan  to  improve  and  strengthen  cyber  security  and  cyber 
resilience.  

8. 
MII should establish a reporting procedure to facilitate communication of 
unusual  activities  and  events  to  CISO  or  to  the  senior  management  in  a  timely 
manner.  

9. 
The  aforementioned  committee  and  the  senior  management  of  the  MII, 
including the CISO, should periodically review instances of cyber attacks, if any, 

                                                           
119Refer 

Circulars 

SEBI 

SMD/POLICY/Cir-2/98 

dated 

January 

14, 

1998 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP2DSA2/CIR/P/2019/13 dated January 10, 2019 

176 

 
 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
domestically and globally, and take steps to strengthen cyber security and cyber 
resilience framework. 

10.  MII should define responsibilities of its employees, outsourced staff, and 
employees  of  vendors,  members  or  participants  and  other  entities,  who  may 
have access or use systems / networks of MII, towards ensuring the goal of cyber 
security. 

Identify 

11.  MII should identify critical assets based on their sensitivity and criticality 
for business operations, services and data management. To this end, MII should 
maintain  up-to-date  inventory  of  its  hardware  and  systems,  software  and 
information  assets  (internal  and  external),  details  of  its  network  resources, 
connections to its network and data flows. 

12.  MII  should  accordingly  identify  cyber  risks  (threats  and  vulnerabilities) 
that  it  may  face,  alongwith  the  likelihood  of  such  threats  and  impact  on  the 
business and thereby, deploy controls commensurate to the criticality.  

13.  MII  should  also  encourage  its  third-party  providers,  such  as  service 
providers,  stock  brokers,  depository  participants,  etc.  to  have  similar  standards 
of Information Security. 

Protection 

Access Controls  

14.  No person by virtue of rank or position should have any intrinsic right to 
access confidential data, applications, system resources or facilities.   

15.  Any  access  to  MII’s  systems,  applications,  networks,  databases,  etc., 
should  be  for  a  defined  purpose  and  for  a  defined  period.  MII  should  grant 
access to IT systems, applications, databases and networks on a need-to-use basis 
and based on the principle of least privilege. Such access should be for the period 
when  the  access 
is  required  and  should  be  authorized  using  strong 
authentication mechanisms.  

 
 

 

177 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
16.  MII  should  implement  strong  password  controls  for  users’  access  to 
systems,  applications,  networks  and  databases.  Password  controls  should 
include a change of password upon first log-on, minimum password length and 
history,  password  complexity  as  well  as  maximum  validity  period.  The  user 
credential data should be stored using strong and latest hashing algorithms. 

17.  MII should ensure that records of user access are uniquely identified and 
logged  for  audit  and  review  purposes.  Such  logs  should  be  maintained  and 
stored in encrypted form for a time period not less than two (2) years. 

18.  MII should deploy additional controls and security measures to supervise 
staff  with  elevated  system  access  entitlements  (such  as  admin  or  privileged 
users).  Such  controls  and  measures  should  inter-alia  include  restricting  the 
number  of  privileged  users,  periodic  review  of  privileged  users’  activities, 
disallow  privileged  users  from  accessing  systems  logs  in  which  their  activities 
are being captured, strong controls over remote access by privileged users, etc. 

19.  Account access lock policies after failure attempts should be implemented 
for all accounts. 

20. 
Employees and outsourced staff such as employees of vendors or service 
providers,  who  may  be  given  authorised  access  to  the  MII’s  critical  systems, 
networks  and  other  computer  resources,  should  be  subject  to  stringent 
supervision, monitoring and access restrictions.  

Two-factor  authentication  at  log-in  should  be  implemented  for  all  users 

21. 
that connect using online / internet facility. 

22.  MII should formulate an Internet access policy to monitor and regulate the 
use of internet and internet based services such as social media sites, cloud-based 
internet storage sites, etc.  

23. 
Proper  ‘end  of  life’  mechanism  should  be  adopted  to  deactivate  access 
privileges  of  users  who  are  leaving  the  organization  or  who  access  privileges 
have been withdrawn. 

 
 

 

178 

 

 
 
Physical security 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

24. 
Physical  access  to  the  critical  systems  should  be  restricted  to  minimum. 
Physical  access  of  outsourced  staff  /  visitors  should  be  properly  supervised  by 
ensuring at the minimum that outsourced staff / visitors are accompanied at all 
times by authorised employees. 

Physical  access  to  the  critical  systems  should  be  revoked  immediately  if 

25. 
the same is no longer required. 

26.  MII should ensure that the perimeter of the critical equipments room are 
physically  secured  and  monitored  by  employing  physical,  human  and 
procedural  controls  such  as  the  use  of  security  guards,  CCTVs,  card  access 
systems, mantraps, bollards, etc. where appropriate. 

Network Security Management  

27.  MII should establish baseline standards to facilitate consistent application 
of security configurations to operating systems, databases, network devices and 
enterprise  mobile  devices  within  the  IT  environment.  The  MII  should  conduct 
regular  enforcement  checks  to  ensure  that  the  baseline  standards  are  applied 
uniformly. 

28.  MII  should  install  network  security  devices,  such  as  firewalls  as  well  as 
intrusion detection and prevention systems, to protect its IT infrastructure from 
security exposures originating from internal and external sources. 

29.  Anti-virus  software  should  be  installed  on  servers  and  other  computer 
systems.  Updation  of  Anti-virus  definition  files  and  automatic  anti-virus 
scanning should be done on a regular basis.   

Security of Data 

30.  Data-in  motion  and  Data-at-rest  should  be  in  encrypted  form  by  using 
strong encryption methods such as Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), RSA, 
SHA-2, etc. 

 
 

 

179 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
31.  MII  should  implement  measures  to  prevent  unauthorised  access  or 
copying  or  transmission  of  data  /  information  held  in  contractual  or  fiduciary 
capacity.  It  should  be  ensured  that  confidentiality  of  information  is  not 
compromised  during  the  process  of  exchanging  and  transferring  information 
with external parties.  

32. 
The information security policy should also  cover use of devices such as 
mobile phone, faxes, photocopiers, scanners, etc. that  can be used for capturing 
and transmission of data. 

33.  MII  should  allow  only  authorized  data  storage  devices  through 
appropriate validation processes. 

Hardening of Hardware and Software 

34.  Only a hardened and vetted hardware / software should be deployed by 
the MII. During the hardening process, MII should inter-alia ensure that default 
passwords are replaced with strong passwords and all unnecessary services are 
removed or disabled in equipments / software. 

35.  All  open  ports  which  are  not  in  use  or  can  potentially  be  used  for 
exploitation  of  data  should  be  blocked.  Other  open  ports  should  be  monitored 
and appropriate measures should be taken to secure the ports. 

 

Application Security and Testing  

36.  MII  should  ensure  that  regression  testing  is  undertaken  before  new  or 
modified system is implemented. The scope of tests should cover business logic, 
security  controls  and  system  performance  under  various  stress-load  scenarios 
and recovery conditions. 

Patch Management 

37.  MII  should  establish  and  ensure  that  the  patch  management  procedures 
include  the  identification,  categorization  and  prioritisation  of  security  patches. 
An  implementation  timeframe  for  each  category  of  security  patches  should  be 

 
 

 

180 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
established to implement security patches in a timely manner. 

38.  MII  should  perform  rigorous 
testing  of  security  patches  before 
deployment into the production environment so as to ensure that the application 
of patches do not impact other systems. 

Disposal of systems and storage devices 

39.  MII  should  frame  suitable  policy  for  disposals  of  the  storage  media  and 
systems. The data / information on such devices and systems should be removed 
by  using  methods  viz.  wiping  /  cleaning  /  overwrite,  degauss  and  physical 
destruction, as applicable. 

Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing (VAPT) 

40.  MII  should  regularly  conduct  vulnerability  assessment  to  detect  security 
vulnerabilities  in  the  IT  environment.  MII  should  also  carry  out  periodic 
penetration  tests,  atleast  once  in  a  year,  in  order  to  conduct  an  in-depth 
evaluation  of  the  security  posture  of  the  system  through  simulations  of  actual 
attacks on its systems and networks. 

Remedial  actions  should  be  immediately  taken  to  address  gaps  that  are 

41. 
identified during vulnerability assessment and penetration testing. 

42. 
 In  addition,  MII  should  perform  vulnerability  scanning  and  conduct 
penetration  testing  prior  to  the  commissioning  of  a  new  system  which  offers 
internet accessibility and open network interfaces. 

Monitoring and Detection 

43.  MII  should  establish  appropriate  security  monitoring  systems  and 
processes  to  facilitate  continuous  monitoring  of  security  events  and  timely 
detection  of  unauthorised  or  malicious  activities,  unauthorised  changes, 
unauthorised  access  and  unauthorised  copying  or  transmission  of  data  / 
information  held  in  contractual  or  fiduciary  capacity,  by  internal  and  external 
parties.  The  security  logs  of  systems,  applications  and  network  devices  should 

 
 

 

181 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
also be monitored for anomalies. 

44. 
Further, to ensure high resilience, high availability and timely detection of 
attacks on systems and networks, MII should implement suitable mechanism to 
monitor capacity utilization of its critical systems and networks.  

45. 
Suitable  alerts  should  be  generated  in  the  event  of  detection  of 
unauthorized  or  abnormal  system  activities,  transmission  errors  or  unusual 
online transactions. 

 

Response and Recovery  

46.  Alerts  generated  from  monitoring  and  detection  systems  should  be 
suitably  investigated,  including  impact  and  forensic  analysis  of  such  alerts,  in 
order  to  determine  activities  that  are  to  be  performed  to  prevent  expansion  of 
such  incident  of  cyber  attack  or  breach,  mitigate  its  effect  and  eradicate  the 
incident. 

47. 
The  response  and  recovery  plan  of  the  MII  should  aim  at  timely 
restoration  of  systems  affected  by  incidents  of  cyber  attacks  or  breaches.  The 
recovery  plan  should  be  in  line  with  the  Recovery  Time  Objective  (RTO)  and 
Recovery Point Objective (RPO) specified by SEBI. 

48. 
The  response  plan  should  define  responsibilities  and  actions  to  be 
performed by its employees and support / outsourced staff in the event of cyber 
attacks or breach of cyber security mechanism.  

49.  Any  incident  of  loss  or  destruction  of  data  or  systems  should  be 
thoroughly  analyzed  and  lessons  learned  from  such  incidents  should  be 
incorporated  to  strengthen  the  security  mechanism  and  improve  recovery 
planning and processes.  

50.  MII should also conduct suitable periodic drills to test the adequacy and 
effectiveness of response and recovery plan. 

 
 

 

182 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
Sharing of information 

51.  Quarterly  reports  containing  information  on  cyber  attacks  and  threats 
experienced  by  MII  and  measures  taken  to  mitigate  vulnerabilities,  threats  and 
attacks  including  information  on  bugs  /  vulnerabilities  /  threats  that  may  be 
useful for other MIIs, should be submitted to SEBI.  

52. 
Such details as are felt useful for sharing with other MIIs in masked and 
anonymous  manner  shall  be  shared  using  mechanism  to  be  specified  by  SEBI 
from time to time.  

Training 

53.  MII  should  conduct  periodic  training  programs  to  enhance  awareness 
level  among  the  employees  and  outsourced  staff,  vendors,  etc.  on  IT  /  Cyber 
security policy and standards. Special focus should be given to build awareness 
levels and skills of staff from non-technical disciplines. 

The training program should be reviewed and updated to ensure that the 

54. 
contents of the program remain current and relevant.  

Periodic Audit 

55. 
The Terms of Reference for the System Audit of MII specified vide circular 
CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2011  dated  November  29,  2011  shall  be  accordingly 
modified to include audit of implementation of the aforementioned areas.  

Cyber Security Operation Center (C-SOC)120 

1.  Recognizing  the  need  for  a  robust  Cyber  Security  and  Cyber  Resilience 
framework at Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs), i.e., Stock Exchanges, 
Clearing  Corporations 
SEBI  Circular 
CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015 dated July 06, 2015, a detailed regulatory framework 
on cyber security and cyber resilience was prescribed. 

and  Depositories, 

vide 

                                                           
120 Reference circular CIR/MRD/CSC/148/2018 dated December 07, 2018 
 
 

183 

 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
2.  With the view to further strengthening the aforesaid framework, particularly 
in respect of monitoring of cyber threats and cyber resiliency, the matter was 
discussed  with  SEBI’s  Technical  Advisory  Committee  (TAC),  SEBI’s  High 
Powered Committee on Cyber Security (HPSC-CS) and the MIIs. 

3.  Accordingly,  it  has  been  decided  that  MIIs  shall  have  a  Cyber  Security 
Operation  Center  (C-SOC)  that  would  be  a  24x7x365  set-up  manned  by 
dedicated  security  analysts  to  identify,  respond,  recover  and  protect  from 
cyber security incidents. 

4.  The C-SOC shall function in accordance with the framework specified in SEBI 
Circular CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015 dated July 06, 2015. Illustrative list of broad 
functions  and  objectives  to  be  carried  out  by  a  C-SOC  are  mentioned 
hereunder: 
4.1. Prevention of cyber security incidents through proactive actions: 

a)  Continuous threat analysis, 
b)  Network and host scanning for vulnerabilities and breaches, 
c)  Countermeasure deployment coordination, 
d)  Deploy  adequate  and  appropriate  technology  at  the  perimeter  to 
prevent attacks originating from external environment and internal 
controls  to  manage  insider  threats.  MIIs  may  implement  necessary 
controls to achieve zero trust security model. 

4.2. Monitoring,  detection,  and  analysis  of  potential  intrusions  /  security 
incidents in real time and through historical trending on security-relevant 
data sources. 

4.3. Response to confirmed incidents, by coordinating resources and directing 

use of timely and appropriate countermeasures. 

4.4. Analysis  of  the  intrusions  /  security  incidents  (including  Forensic 

Analysis and Root Cause Analysis) and preservation of evidence. 

4.5. Providing  situational  awareness  and  reporting  on  cyber  security  status, 
incidents, and trends in adversary behavior to appropriate organizations 
including to CERT- In and NCIIPC. 

4.6. Engineer  and  operate  network  defense  technologies  such  as  Intrusion 

Detection Systems (IDSes) and data collection / analysis systems. 

 
 

 

184 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.7. MIIs  to  adopt  security  automation  and  orchestration  technologies  in  C-
SOC to automate the incident identification, analysis and response as per 
the defined procedures. 

5.  Further to the above, the C-SOC of MII shall, at the minimum, undertake the 

following activities: 
5.1. In order to detect intrusions / security incidents in real time, the C-SOC 
should  monitor  and  analyze  on  a  24x7x365  basis  relevant  logs  of  MII’s 
network  devices,  logs  of  MII’s  systems,  data  traffic,  suitable  cyber 
intelligence  (intel)  feeds  sourced  from  reliable  vendors,  inputs  received 
from other MIIs, inputs received from external agencies such as CERT-In, 
etc.  The  cyber  intelligence  (intel)  feeds  may  include  cyber  news  feeds, 
signature updates, incident reports, threat briefs, and vulnerability alerts. 
5.2. To  this  end,  appropriate  alert  mechanisms  should  be  implemented 
including  a  comprehensive  dashboard,  tracking  of  key  security  metrics 
and provide for cyber threat scorecards. 

5.3. The  C-SOC  should  conduct  continuous  assessment  of  the  threat 
landscape  faced  by  the  MII  including  undertaking  periodic  VAPT 
(Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing). 

5.4. The  C-SOC  should  have  the  ability  to  perform  Root  Cause  Analysis, 
Incident  Investigation, Forensic Analysis, Malware Reverse Engineering, 
etc.  to  determine  the  nature  of  the  attack  and  corrective  and/or 
preventive actions to be taken thereof. 

5.5. The  C-SOC  should  conduct  periodic  (at  the  minimum  quarterly)  cyber 
attack simulation to aid in developing cyber resiliency measures. The C-
SOC should develop and document mechanisms and standard operating 
procedures  to  recover  from  the  cyber-attacks  within  the  stipulated  RTO 
of  the  MII.  The  C-SOC  should  also  document  various  scenarios  and 
standard  operating  procedures  for  resuming  operations  from  Disaster 
Recovery (DR) site of MII. 

5.6. The C-SOC should conduct periodic awareness and training programs at 
the MII and for its members / participants / intermediaries with regard 
to cyber security, situational awareness and social engineering. 

 
 

 

185 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

5.7. The C-SOC should be capable to prevent attacks similar to those already 
faced. The C-SOC should also deploy multiple honey pot services which 
are  dynamic  in  characteristics  to  avoid  being  detected  as  honey  pot  by 
attackers. 

6.  As  building  an  effective  C-SOC  requires  appropriate  mix  of  right  people, 
suitable  security  products  (Technology),  and  well-defined  processes  and 
procedures  (Processes),  an  indicative  list  of  areas  that  MIIs  should  consider 
while designing and implementing a C-SOC are as follows: 
6.1. The  MII  shall  ensure  that  the  governance  and  reporting  structure of  the 
C-SOC  is  commensurate  with  the  risk  and  threat  landscape  of  the  MII. 
The  C-SOC  shall  be  headed  by  the  Chief  Information  Security  Officer 
(CISO)  of  the  MII.  The  CISO  shall  be  designated  as  a  Key  Managerial 
Personnel  (KMP)  and  relevant  provisions  relating  to  KMPs  in  the  SEBI 
Securities  Contracts 
(Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 
Corporations)  Regulations,  2012  and  the  subsequent  circulars  issued  by 
SEBI relating to KMPs, shall apply to the CISO. 

(Regulation) 

6.2. While the CISO is expected to work closely with various departments of 
MIIs, 
including  MII’s  Network  team,  Cyber  Security  team  and 
Information  Technology  (IT)  team,  etc.,  the  reporting  of  CISO  shall  be 
directly to the MD & CEO of the MII. 

6.3. The  roles  and  responsibilities  of  CISO  may  be  drawn  from  Ministry  of 
Electronics and IT notification No. 6(12)/2017-PDP-CERT-In dated March 
14, 2017. 

6.4. The  C-SOC  should  deploy  appropriate  technology  tools  of  adequate 
capacity  to  cater  to  its  requirements.  Such  tools  shall,  at  the  minimum, 
include Security Analytics Engine, Malware detection tools, Network and 
User Traffic Monitoring and Behavior Analysis systems, Predictive Threat 
Modelling  tools,  Tools  for  monitoring  of  System  parameters  for  critical 
systems / servers, Deep Packet Inspection tools, Forensic Analysis tools, 
etc. 

6.5. Each  MII  is  advised  to  formulate  a  Cyber  Crisis  Management  Plan 
(CCMP)  based  on  its  architecture  deployed,  threats  faced  and  nature  of 
operations. The CCMP should define the various cyber events, incidents 

 
 

 

186 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

and  crisis  faced  by  the  MII,  the  extant  cyber  threat  landscape,  the  cyber 
resilience  envisaged, 
incident  prevention,  cyber  crisis  recognition, 
mitigation and management plan. The CCMP should be approved by the 
respective Standing Committee on Technology / IT- Strategy Committee 
of the MIIs and the governing board of the MII. The CCMP should also be 
reviewed and updated annually. 

6.6. The  C-SOC  should  have  well-defined  and  documented  processes  for 
monitoring of its systems and networks, analysis of cyber security threats 
and  potential  intrusions  /  security  incidents,  usage  of  appropriate 
technology tools deployed by C-SOC, classification of threats and attacks, 
escalation  hierarchy  of  incidents,  response  to  threats  and  breaches,  and 
reporting (internal and external) of the incidents. 

6.7. The C-SOC should employ domain experts in the field of cyber security 

and resilience, network security, data security, end-point security, etc. 

6.8. The MIIs are also advised to build a contingent C-SOC at their respective 
DR sites with identical capabilities w.r.t. the primary C-SOC in line with 
the  SEBI  Circular  CIR/MRD/DMS/12/2012  dated  April  13,  2012  read 
with  SEBI  Circular  CIR/MRD/DMS/17/2012  dated  June  22,  2012. 
Additionally, the MIIs should perform monthly live-operations from their 
DR-C-SOC. 

6.9. The  C-SOC  should  document  the  cases  and  escalation  matrices  for 

declaring a disaster. 

7.  In view of the feedback received from MIIs, it has been decided that MIIs may 

choose any of the following models to set-up their C-SOC : 
i.  MII’s own C-SOC manned primarily by its internal staff, 
ii.  MII’s own C-SOC, staffed by a service provider, but supervised by a full 

time staff of the MII. (Refer to 7.3) 

iii.  C-SOC that may be shared by the MII with its group entities (that are 

also SEBI recognized MIls), 

iv.  C-SOC that may be shared by the MII with other SEBI recognized MII(s). 

 

 
 

 

187 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

7.1. The responsibility of cyber security of an MII, adherence to business 

continuity and recovery objectives, etc. should lie with the respective MII, 
irrespective of the model adopted for C-SOC. 

7.2. The respective risk committee(s) of the MII should evaluate the risks of 

outsourcing the respective activity. 

7.3. The MII may outsource C-SOC activities in line with the guidelines as 

given in Annexure-A. 

8.  A  report on the functioning  of the C-SOC, including details of  cyber-attacks 
faced  by  the  MII,  major  cyber  events  warded  off  by  the  MII,  cyber  security 
breaches,  data  breaches  should  be  placed  on  a  quarterly  basis  before  the 
board of the MII. 

9.  The system auditor of the MII shall audit the implementation of the aforesaid 
guidance in the annual system audit of the MII. The Scope and/or Terms of 
Reference  (ToR)  of  the  annual  system  would  accordingly  be  modified  to 
include audit of the implementation of the aforementioned areas. 

10. Further,  in  continuation  to  the  requirement  specified  at  para  52  of  the 
Annexure A to the aforementioned SEBI Circular dated July 06, 2015, the C-
SOC  shall  share  relevant  alerts  and  attack  information  with  members  / 
participants / intermediaries of the MII, other MIIs, external cyber response 
agencies such as CERT-In, and SEBI. 

11. MIIs are directed to take necessary steps to put in place appropriate systems 
and  processes  for  implementation  of  the  circular,  including  necessary 
amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations, if any, within six 
months from the date of the circular. In case wherein a MII currently has a C-
SOC set-up that is different from that mentioned at para 7(i) - 7(iv), such MIIs 
are directed to adopt and transit to one of the models mentioned at para 7(i) - 
7(iv) within a period of one year from the date of issuance of this circular. 

 

Annexure A 

1.  Level of support definitions for outsourcing/in-house are as follows: 

1.1. 

Security Analyst Level 1 (L1): This function may be mostly outsourced 

 
 

 

188 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

a)  Monitoring SIEM Solution console for identifying the security events 

generated by the log sources integrated with SIEM tools. 

b)  Identification of security events that are false +ve before qualifying 

event as an incident. 

c)  Identify the exceptions which are identified as an event (e.g. VA 
scanning performed by SEBI appointed 3rd party which may be 
identified as port scanning attack) . 

d)  Perform first level event analysis before qualifying the incidents. 
e)  Qualifying the event as an incident using Knowledgebase. 
f)  Escalating exceptions & Events to L2 level. 
g)  Log Incident tickets in service management tool and assign it to the 

respective team. 

h)  Follow-up for the closure of the incident tickets generated. 

 
Security Analyst Level 2 (L2): Combination of Outsource / In-House 

1.2. 

(a) Exception Analysis. 
(b) Analysis of extended events. 
(c)  Confirmation of False +ve & update Knowledge Base. 
(d) Qualify Incident & provide mitigation suggestions. 
(e) Escalate incident to next level. 
(f)  Update /configuration correlation rules after approval. 

 
Security Analyst Level 3 (L3): Combination of Outsource / In-House 

1.3. 

(a) Analysis of escalated Incidents. 
(b) Define correlation rules. 
(c)  Analysis of impact on SIEM over all correlation rules and operations for 

the correlation rules suggested by Level 2 Analyst. 
(d) Approve correlation rules after the impact analysis. 
(e) Perform impact analysis before deployment of correlation rules. 
(f)  Perform  impact  analysis  for  update  and  upgrade  of  SIEM  &  Advance 

security solutions components. 

(g) Define Mitigation suggestions for newly identified incidents. 
(h) Approve the reports before sharing with others. 

189 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
SOC Manager (L4) : In-house 

1.4. 

(a) Lead and manage Security Operations Centre. 
(b) Provide strategic directions to SOC team and organization for security 

posture improvements. 

(c)  To 

identify  key  contacts 

for 

incident  escalation  and  change 

management activities. 

(d) Ensure compliance to SLA. 
(e) Ensure  process  adherence  and  process  improvisation  to  achieve 

operational objectives. 

(f)  Revise  and  develop  processes  to  strengthen  the  current  Security 

Operations. 

(g) Responsible for team and vendor management. 
(h) Responsible  for  overall  use  of  resources  and  initiation  of  corrective 

action where required for Security Operations Center. 

(i)  Escalate  to  the  other  IT  Infra.  Management  teams  or  application 

maintenance teams, as necessary. 

(j)  Overall responsibility for delivery of in scope activities as a part of this 

engagement. 

(k) Point of contact for problem escalation and reporting. 

1.5. 

 
Security Subject Matter Expert for Security technologies: In-house with 
reliance on external expertise 

 (a) Subject Matter Expert (SME) for SIEM and Advance security solutions. 
(b) Assist you with troubleshooting steps to be performed by you in order 
to  re-establish  connectivity  between  the  SIEM  System  and  SEBI’s 
locations. 

(c)  Provide software-level management for the SIEM System components; 
(d) Verify data collection and log continuity; 
(e) Manage user access including user and group permissions updates; 
(f)  Review  application  performance,  capacity,  and  availability  make 

recommendations as appropriate; 

(g) Review SIEM System disk space usage; 

190 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(h) Verify time synchronization among SIEM System components; 
(i)  Perform  archival  management  and  retrieval  per  change  management 

process; 

(j)  Provide problem determination / problem source identification for the 
SIEM System, consisting of creating tickets & tracking progress of Open 
tickets 

(k) Managing  tickets  to  resolution  /  closure,  in  accordance  with  the 
in  the  Integrated  and  Transition  vendor 

processes  as  defined 
announcements & manage SIEM System update alerts; 

(l)  Install  application  patches  and  software  updates  in  order  to  improve 

performance, or enable additional functionality 

Illustrative Training Requirements Security Analyst Level 1 (L1): 

1) 

2) 

SEC401: Security Essentials Bootcamp Style 
https://www.sans.org/event/cyber-defence-canberra-
2018/course/security-essentials-bootcamp-style 
SEC301: Introduction to Cyber Security 
https://www.sans.org/course/introduction-cyber-security 

Security Analyst Level 2 (L2): 

1)  SEC542: Web App Penetration Testing and Ethical Hacking 

https://www.sans.org/event/cyber-defence-canberra-2018/course/web-
app-penetration-testing-ethical-hacking 

2)  SEC566: Implementing and Auditing the Critical Security Controls -In-

Depth 
https://www.sans.org/private-training/course/implementing-auditing-
critical-security-controls 

3)  SEC575: Mobile Device Security and Ethical Hacking 

https://www.sans.org/private-training/course/mobile-device-security-
ethical-hacking 
 

Security Analyst Level 3 (L3): 

 
 

 

191 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

1)  SEC504: Hacker Tools, Techniques, Exploits, and Incident Handling 

https://www.sans.org/event/cyber-defence-canberra-
2018/course/hacker-techniques-exploits-incident-handling 

2)  FOR508: Advanced Digital Forensics, Incident Response, and Threat 

Hunting 
https://www.sans.org/event/digital-forensics-summit-
2018/course/advanced-incident-response-threat-hunting-training 

3)  SEC501: Advanced Security Essentials -Enterprise Defender 

https://www.sans.org/private-training/course/advanced-security-
essentials-enterprise-defender 

4)  MGT414: SANS Training Program for CISSP® Certification 

https://www.sans.org/course/sans-plus-s-training-program-cissp-
certification-exam 

SOC Manager (L4): 

1)  Cyber Security Specialist 

http://www.leaderquestonline.com/it-career-training/cybersecurity-
specialist/ 

2)  Managing Security Operations: Detection, Response, and Intelligence 

https://www.sans.org/event/rocky-mountain-2018/course/managing-
security-operations-detection-response-and-intelligence 

3)  SIEM with Tactical Analytics 

https://www.sans.org/private-training/course/siem-with-tactical-
analytics 

4)  SEC511: Continuous Monitoring and Security Operations 

https://www.sans.org/course/continuous-monitoring-security-
operations 

5)  SEC599:  Defeating  Advanced  Adversaries  -Implementing  Kill  Chain 

Defenses 
https://www.sans.org/course/defeating-advanced-adversaries-kill-chain-
defenses 
 

192 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 
4.30 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Database for Distinctive Number (DN) of Shares121  

1.  Share capital reconciliation of the entire issued capital of the company by 
the issuer or its agent is a mandatory requirement under Regulation 75 of 
the SEBI (Depositories & Participants) Regulations, 2018. 

2.   In  order  to  ensure  centralised  record  of  all  securities,  including  both 
physical  and  dematerialised  shares,  issued  by  the  company  and  its 
reconciliation thereof, the Depositories are advised to create and maintain 
a  database  of  distinctive  numbers  (DN)  of  equity  shares  of  listed 
companies with details of DN in respect of all physical shares and overall 
DN range for dematerialised shares. 

3.  The  DN  database  shall  make  available,  information  in  respect  of  issued 
capital, such as DN Range, number of equity shares issued, name of stock 
exchange  where  the  shares  are  listed,  date  of  in-principle  listing  /  final 
trading  approval /  dealing  permission,  shares  held  in  physical  or demat 
form,  date  of  allotment,  shares  dematerialized  under  temporary  (frozen) 
ISIN  (International  Securities  Identification  Number)  or  Permanent 
(active) ISIN etc., at one place. 

4.  Based  on  consultations  with  the  Depositories  and  Stock  Exchanges,  the 
following  guidelines  are  given  for  the  operationalisation  of  the  DN 
database - 

4.1. Instructions to the Depositories 

4.1.1. 

The  depositories  shall  create  and  maintain  a  database  to 
capture DN in respect of all physical equity shares and overall DN 
range for dematerialised equity shares issued by listed companies. 

4.1.2. 

The  depositories  shall  provide  an  interface  to  the  Stock 
Exchange,  Issuers/RTAs  for  online  updation  and  to  the  DPs  for 
online enquiry. The same shall be released for live updates latest 
by September 30, 2015. 

                                                           
121 Reference: Circular CIR/MRD/DP/10/2015 dated June 05, 2015 
 
 

193 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.1.3. 

The database shall include the following information - 

i.  Distinctive Numbers (From) 

vii. Trading  start date 

ii.  Distinctive Numbers (To) 

viii. Physical/demat 

iii.  Number of Equity shares 

iv.  Name of stock exchange  

v.  Date  of 
approval  

in-principle 

listing  

vi.  Date  of  final  trading  approval 

/ dealing permission 

 

ix.  Date  of  allotment  and  date 
of  issue  (date  of  credit  to  BO 
account)  

x.  ISIN  along  with  name  of 
company 

xi.  Nature of ISIN [Temporary 
(Frozen) 
Permanent 
(Active)] 

or 

4.1.4. 

The  depositories  shall  ensure  that  the  database  maintained 
by  them  is  continuously  updated  and  synchronised.  The  initial 
synchronisation may be in batch mode and shall thereafter shift to 
online mode. 

4.1.5. 

The Depositories, in co-ordination with the Stock Exchanges, 
having nationwide trading terminals and the Issuers/RTAs, shall 
facilitate  the  process  of  populating  the  database  with  details  of 
equity share capital and the corresponding DN information as on 
September 30, 2015. 

4.2. Instructions to the Stock Exchanges 

4.2.1. 

The  Stock  Exchanges 

following 
information  of  all  companies  listed  on  the  concerned  Stock 
Exchange as on September 30, 2015 - 

shall  provide 

the 

194 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

i.  Total  number  of  equity  shares  (A)  for  which  final  trading 

approval / dealing permission has been granted. 

ii.  Total number of equity shares (B) for which in-principle listing 
approval has been granted but final trading approval / dealing 
permission is pending. 

iii.  Total  number  of  equity  shares  comprising  the  paid-up  capital 

i.e. (A+B). 

4.2.2. 

The Stock Exchanges shall use the interface provided by the 

Depositories for the following - 

i. 

In  respect  of  companies  where  the  final  trading  approval  / 
dealing  permission  was  awaited  as  on  September  30,  2015, 
consequent to update of DN information by Issuers/RTAs, the 
stock  exchange  shall  validate  the  DN  information  updated  by 
the  Issuer/RTA  and  update  the  date  of  ‘in-principle’  listing 
approval,  date  of  final  trading  approval  /  dealing  permission 
and  trading  start  date  [as  per  point  nos.  (v),  (vi)  and  (vii)  of 
5.1.3], immediately upon granting of such permissions. 

ii.  In  respect  of  further  issue  of  shares  by  listed  companies, 
consequent to update of DN information by Issuers/RTAs, the 
stock  exchange  shall  validate  the  DN  information  updated  by 
the  Issuer/RTA  and  update  the  date  of  ‘in-principle’  listing 
approval,  date  of  final  trading  approval  /  dealing  permission 
and  trading  start  date  [as  per  point  nos.  (v),  (vi)  and  (vii)  of 
5.1.3], immediately upon granting of such permissions. 

iii.  In  respect  of  companies  coming  out  with  initial  public  offer  or 
new  listings  on  stock  exchanges,  the  stock  exchange  shall 
update the DN database with the total number of equity shares 
for which final trading approval / dealing permission has been 
granted. 

195 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

iv.  In  respect  of  companies  whose  capital  is  changed/altered  for 
any  reason  other  than  further  issuance  of  shares  such  as  buy-
back  of  shares,  forfeiture  of  shares,  capital  reduction,  etc.,  the 
stock  exchange  shall  confirm  such  change/alteration  in  the 
capital as updated by the Issuer/RTA in the DN database. 

4.2.3. 

In  case  the  DN  data  on  listed  shares  as  per  the  records  of 
Issuers/RTAs  does  not  match  with  records  of  the  Stock 
Exchanges,  the  Stock  Exchanges  shall  coordinate  with  the 
Issuer/RTA to reconcile such differences. 

4.3. Instructions to the Issuers/RTAs 

4.3.1. 

Issuers/RTAs  shall  use  the  interface  provided  by  the 

Depositories for the following - 

i.  To  update  DN  information  in  respect  of  all  physical  share 
capital  and  overall  DN  range  for  dematerialised  share  capital 
for all listed companies. 

ii.  Updating the fields (i)-(iv), (viii) and (ix) given in para 5.1.3, on 
a continuous basis for subsequent changes including changes in 
case  of  further  issue,  fresh  issuance  /  new  listing  and  other 
change  /  alteration  in  capital  (such  as  buy-back  of  shares, 
forfeiture of shares, capital reduction, etc.). 

iii.  Capturing  /  updating  the  DN  information  on  a  continuous 
basis  while  processing,  dematerialisation  /  rematerialisation 
requests confirmation, executing corporate action, etc. 

4.3.2. 

 Issuers/RTAs  shall  take  all  necessary  steps  to  update  the 
DN database.  If there is mismatch in the DN information with the 
data  provided  /  updated  by  the  Stock  Exchanges  in  the  DN 
database,  the  Issuer/RTA  shall  take  steps  to  match  the  records 
and update the same latest by December 31, 2015. 

196 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

4.3.3. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Failure  by  the  Issuers/RTAs  to  ensure  reconciliation  of  the 
in  terms  of  para  above  shall  attract 

records  as  required 
appropriate actions under the extant laws. 

4.4. Instructions to the DPs 

4.4.1. 

The DPs shall use the interface provided by the Depositories 
to  check  the  DNs  of  certificates  of  equity  shares  submitted  for 
dematerialisation  and  ensure  that  appropriate  ISIN  is  filled  in 
Dematerialisation  Request  Form,  as  applicable,  while  processing 
request for dematerialisation. 

4.31 

Ticker on Website - For Investor awareness122 

In  order  to  create  wider awareness  about  the  same,  Depositories  and 
Depository  Participants  are  advised  to  run  the  following  ticker  on  their 
websites: 

"No need to issue cheques by investors while subscribing to IPO. Just 
write  the  bank  account  number  and  sign  in  the  application  form  to 
authorise your bank to make payment in case of allotment. No worries 
for refund as the money remains in investor's account." 

Depositories  are  advised  to  communicate  the  above  to  their  depository 
participants and ensure its implementation. 

4.32 

Separate  mobile  number/  email  id  for  the  clients  of  Depository 
Participants (DPs)123 

i. 

It has been observed that DPs do not have the procedure to check that 
separate mobile number/ email id is uploaded for each client. 

ii.  In  view  of  the  same  Depositories  are  advised  to  instruct  their 
participants to ensure that separate mobile number/E-mail address is 
uploaded  for  each  client.  However,  under  exceptional  circumstances, 
the participants may, at the specific written request of a client, upload 
the  same  mobile  number/E-mail  address  for  more  than  one  client 

                                                           
122 Reference: Email on “Ticker on Website - For Investor awareness” dated November 05, 2015 
123 Email on Separate mobile number/ email id for the clients of Depository Participants (DPs) 
dated January 16, 2015. 
 
 

197 

 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

provided  such  clients  belong  to  one  family.  ‘Family’  for  this  purpose 
would mean self, spouse, dependent children and dependent parents. 

4.33 

 Investor Protection Fund (IPF) of Depositories124 

1.  The  Depository  System  Review  Committee  (DSRC)  had  examined 
various  aspects  of  the  depository  IPF  including  utilization  and 
investment  policy  of  IPF  and  quantum  of  funds  to  be  transferred  to 
IPF. The Expert Committee on Clearing Corporations also deliberated 
the  issue  with  regard  to  quantum  of  funds  to  be  transferred  by  the 
Depositories to their IPF. 

2.  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2012 
require  every  depository  to  establish  and  maintain  an  Investor 
the  aforesaid  committee 
Protection  Fund 
recommendations, 
and  Participants) 
Regulations  were  amended  mandating  the  depositories  to  credit  five 
per  cent  or  such  percentage  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board,  of  its 
profits from depository operations every year to the IPF.  

(IPF).  Pursuant 

(Depositories 

the 

SEBI 

to 

3.  Based  on  recommendations  of  DSRC  and  Expert  Committee  on 
Clearing Corporations, the following guidelines are being issued with 
regard to IPF of the Depositories.  

 

Utilization of the IPF 

4.  The  IPF  may  be  utilized  for  the  following  purposes  with  a  focus  on 

depository related services: 

i.  Promotion  of 

investor  education  and 

investor  awareness 
programmes through seminars, lectures, workshops, publications 
(print  and  electronic  media),  training  programmes  etc.  aimed  at 
enhancing  securities  market 
literacy  and  promoting  retail 
participation in securities market.  

ii.  To  aid,  assist,  subsidise,  support,  promote  and  foster  research 

activities for promotion/ development of the securities market.  

                                                           
124 Reference: Circular  SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2016/58 dated June 07, 2016 
 
 

198 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

iii.  To  utilize  the  fund  for  supporting  initiatives  of  Depository 
Participants  for  promotion  of  investor  education  and  investor 
awareness programmes. 

iv.  To  utilize  the  fund  in  any  other  manner  as  may  be  prescribed/ 

permitted by SEBI in the interest of investors. 

5.  Depositories  shall  frame  their  internal  guidelines  on  utilisation  of  the 
funds  in  accordance  with  the  aforementioned  objectives  and  post 
approval of their board, submit the same to SEBI within 30 days from 
the date of this circular. Depositories shall also keep SEBI informed of 
any  subsequent  changes  in  internal  guidelines  with  regard  to 
utilization of IPF.  

Constitution and Management of the IPF 

6.  The  IPF  shall  be  administered  by  way  of  a  Trust  created  for  the 

purpose.  

i.  The IPF Trust shall consist of atleast one Public Interest Director 
(PID)  of  the  depository,  one  person  of  eminence  from  an 
academic  institution  from  the  field  of  finance  /  an  expert  in  the 
field of investor education / a representative from the registered 
investor associations recognized by SEBI and Managing Director 
of the Depository.  

ii.  The Depository shall provide the secretariat for the IPF Trust.  

iii.  The Depository shall ensure that the funds in the IPF are kept in a 
separate  account  designated  for  this  purpose  and  that  the  IPF  is 
immune from any liabilities of the Depository.  

Contribution to the IPF  

7.  The  following  contributions  shall  be  made  by  the  Depository  to  the 

IPF. 

i.  5%  of  their  profits  from  Depository  operations  every  year.  The 
depositories  shall  transfer  the  amount  with  effect  from  the 
Financial Year 2012-13 as specified in the SEBI (Depositories and 
Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016.  

ii.  All  fines  and  penalties  recovered  from  Depository  Participants 
and other users including Clearing Member pool account penalty 

199 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

as  specified  in  SEBI  circular  no.  SMDRP/Policy/Cir-05/2001 
dated February 01, 2001.  

iii.  Interest or Income received out of any investments made from the 

IPF.  

iv.  Funds  lying  to  the  credit  of  IPR  (Investor  Protection  Reserve)  / 
BOPF  (Beneficial  Owners  Protection  Fund)  of  the  Depository  or 
any  other  such  fund  /  reserve  of  the  Depository  shall  be 
transferred to IPF.  

v.  Any other sums as may be prescribed by SEBI from time to time  

Investments of Fund  

8.  Funds  of  the  Trust  shall  be  invested  in  instruments  such  as  Central 
Government  securities,  fixed  deposits  of  scheduled  banks  and  any 
such  instruments  which  are  allowed  as  per  the  investment  policy 
approved by the Board of the Depository. The investment policy shall 
be  devised  with  an  objective  of  capital  protection  along  with  highest 
degree of safety and least market risk.  

9.  The  balance  available  in  the  IPF  as  at  the  end  of  the  month  and  the 
amount utilised during the month including the manner of utilization 
shall  be  reported  in  the  Monthly  Development  Report  of  the 
Depository.  

 

4.34 

Enhanced Supervision of Depository Participant 125 

1.  Uniform  nomenclature 

to  be 

followed  by 

stock  brokers 

for     

Naming/Tagging of Bank and Demat Accounts and the reporting of such 
accounts to the Depositories. 

1.1. Bank accounts and Demat accounts maintained by all stock brokers shall 
have  appropriate  nomenclature  to  reflect  the  purpose  for  which  those 
bank/demat accounts are being maintained. 

 

1.2. The nomenclature for bank accounts and demat accounts to be  followed 

is given as under:  

                                                           
125 Reference: Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/95 dated September 26, 2016. 
 
 

200 

 

 

 
 

  

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

1.2.1.  Bank account(s) which hold clients funds shall be named as "Name of 

Stock Broker - Client Account".  

  

1.2.2.  Deleted126 

  

1.2.3.  Demat  account(s)  which  hold  clients'  securities  shall  be  named  as 

"Name of Stock Broker- Client Account".  

  

1.2.4.  Deleted127  

  

1.2.5.  Demat  account(s),  maintained  by  the  stock  broker  for  depositing 
securities  collateral  with  the  clearing  corporation,  shall  be  named  as 
"Name of Stock Broker-Collateral Account".  

 

1.2.6.  Demat account(s) held for the purpose of settlement would be named 

as “Name of Stock Broker - Pool account".  

  

1.2.7.  Bank account(s) held for the purpose of settlement would be named as 

“Name of Stock Broker - Settlement Account" 

Accordingly naming proprietary bank/demat accounts of the stock broker 
as  'Stock  Broker-Proprietary  Account'  is  voluntary.  It    is  however    
clarified    that  bank/demat    account  which    do    not    fall    under    the  

                                                           
126 Paragraph 1.2.2 in circular number SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/95 dated September 26, 
2016 which read as “Bank account(s) which hold own funds of the stock broker shall be named as "Name of 
Stock Broker - Proprietary Account" deleted in view of CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/64 dated 
June 22,2017 
127 Paragraph 1.2.4 in circular number SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/95 dated September 26, 
2016 which read as “Demat account(s), which hold own securities of the stock broker, shall be named as 
"Name of Stock Broker-Proprietary Account" deleted in view of CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/64 
dated June 22,2017 
 
 

201 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Clauses  1.2.1,1.2.3,  1.2.5  ,  1.2.6  and  1.2.7  would  be  deemed  to  be 
proprietary.128 

2.  Imposition  of  uniform  penal  action  on  depository  participants  by  the 

Depositories in the event of non-compliance with specified requirements. 

Monitoring criteria for Depository Participants  

a.  Failure  to  furnish  Networth  certificate  to  Depository  for  year  ending 

March 31st by September 30th.  

b.  Failure to furnish Internal Audit report to Depository for half year ending 
September  30th  by  November  15th  and  half  year  ending  March  31st  by 
May 15th.  

c.  Failure to co-operate with the Depository for conducting inspection by not 
submitting  all  the  information/records  sought  within  45  days  from  the 
due date specified in the letter of intimation.  

d.  Failure  to  submit  data  for  the  half  yearly  Risk  Based  Supervision  within 

the time specified by Depositories.   

e.  Failure to furnish half yearly compliance certificate/report to Depository 
for half year ending June 30th by July 30th and half year ending December 
31st by January 31st.   

f.  Failure to furnish monthly Investor grievance report by 10th day of next 

month.   

g.  In  case  depository  participant  shares  incomplete/wrong  data  or  fails  to 

submit data on time.  

h.  Failure  to  submit  financial  statements  as  per  timeline  prescribed  by  the 

Depositories. 

 
4.35 

Amendment  pursuant  to  comprehensive  review  of  Investor  Grievance 
Redressal Mechanism129 

In order to enhance the effectiveness of grievance redressal mechanism at 
Market  Infrastructure  Institutions  (MIIs),  SEBI  has  comprehensively 
reviewed  the  existing  framework 
in  consultation  with  the  Stock 

                                                           
128 Reference circular number CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/64 dated June 22,2017 
 
129 Reference: Circular  SEBI/HO/DMS/ CIR/P/2017/15 dated February 23, 2017 
 
 

202 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Exchanges and Depositories (inter alia, issues relating to strengthening of 
arbitration mechanism and investor protection mechanism).  

Based  on  the  aforesaid  review,  it  has  been  decided  to  revamp  the 
grievance  redressal  mechanism  at  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories 
(wherever applicable), as follows:-  

1.  Investor Grievance Resolution Panel (IGRP)/ Arbitration Mechanism  

The existing IGRP/ arbitration mechanism to be modified as follows: 

A. Public dissemination of profiles of arbitrators  

In  order  to  enhance  transparency  and  also  to  provide  choice  to 
parties,  Stock  Exchanges/  Depositories 
shall  disseminate 
information  w.r.t.  brief  profile,  qualification,  areas  of  experience/ 
expertise,  number  of  arbitration  matters  handled,  pre-arbitration 
experience, etc. of the arbitrators on their website.  

B. Submission of documents in soft copies  

In order to assist the arbitrators in pronouncing comprehensive and 
speedy  awards,  Stock  Exchanges/  Depositories  shall  make 
necessary  arrangements  in  terms  of  hardware  viz.,  computer, 
scanner,  printer,  etc.  and  required  software’s  at  exchange  offices/ 
Investor  Service  Centers  (ISCs)  to  facilitate  the  clients  to  type/ 
convert  their  documents  into  electronic  format/  soft  copy.  Such 
electronic  format/  soft  copies  shall  be  provided  to  the  arbitrators 
along with original submissions in physical copies.  

C. Review and Training of arbitrators  

Investor  Service  Committee  of  the  Stock  Exchanges/  Depositories 
shall  review  the  performance  of  the  arbitrators  annually  and 
submit  the  review  report  to  the  Board  of  the  Stock  Exchange/ 
Depository.  Training  need  of  the  arbitrators  will  be  catered  by 
National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM). Cost of training of 
arbitrators may be incurred from ISF.  

203 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

D. Mechanism for implementation of award  

Stock  Exchanges/  Depositories  shall  create a  common  database  of 
defaulting  clients  accessible  to  members/  depository  participants 
across the Stock Exchanges/ Depositories.  

For this purpose, a client may be identified as defaulter if the client 
does  not  pay  the  award  amount  to  the  member/  depository 
participant  as  directed 
in  the  IGRP/  arbitration/  appellate 
arbitration  order  and  also  does  not  appeal  at  the  next  level  of 
redressal mechanism within the timelines prescribed by SEBI or file 
an  application  to  court  to  set  aside  such  order  in  accordance  with 
Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (in case of 
aggrieved by arbitration/ appellate award).  

E.  Empanelment  of  arbitrators  and  segregation  of  arbitration  and 
appellate arbitration panel  

There  shall  be  separate  panels  for  arbitration  and  appellate 
arbitration.  Further,  for  appellate  arbitration,  at  least  one  member 
of the panel should be a Retired Judge.  

Stock Exchanges/ Depositories shall obtain prior approval of SEBI 
before empanelment of arbitrators/ appellate arbitrators.  

F. Empanelment of IGRP members  

Stock  Exchanges  shall  empanel  IGRP  members  and  no  arbitrator/ 
appellate arbitrator shall be empaneled as IGRP member.  

G. Revision in professional fee of arbitrators  

The  arbitrator  fee  shall  be  upwardly  revised  to  Rs.18,000/-  (Rs. 
Eighteen  thousand)  per  case.  Consequent  to this  upward  revision, 
the additional expenses attributable to a client over and above the 
fee  structure  specified  in  point  J,  shall  be  borne  by  the  client 
(wherever  applicable)  and  Stock  Exchange/  Depository  equally. 
The  total  expense  attributable  to  the  member/  depository 
participant has to be borne by the concerned member/ depository 
participant.  

204 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

H. Place of arbitration/ appellate arbitration  

In case award amount is more than Rs. 50 lakh (Rs. Fifty lakh), the 
next level of proceedings (arbitration or appellate arbitration) may 
take  place  at  the  nearest  metro  city,  if  desired  by  any  of  the  party 
involved. The additional cost for arbitration, if any, to be borne by 
the appealing party.  

I. Arbitration/ appellate arbitration award  

In  order  to  safeguard  the  interest  of  the  parties  involved  in 
arbitration and to ensure speedy implementation of the arbitration 
award, the rate of interest on the award passed by arbitrators shall 
be  in  compliance  with  Arbitration  and  Conciliation  (Amendment) 
Act, 2015.  

J. Speeding up grievance redressal mechanism  

(i)  In  order  to  have  faster  implementation  of  award  and  to 
discourage  delayed  filling  of  arbitrations  by  members,  the  fee 
structure (exclusive of statutory dues - stamp duty, service tax, 
etc.) for filling arbitration reference shall be as follows:-  

Amount  of 
Claim / 

Counter 
Claim, 
whichever  is 
higher (Rs.) 

≤ 10,00,000 

claim 

If 
is 
filed  within 
six  months 
from  the  date 
of dispute 

If  claim  is  filed 
after  six  months 
from  the  date  of 
dispute  or  after 
one  month  from 
the  date  of  IGRP 
order, whichever is 
later  

1.3% subject to 
a  minimum  of 
Rs.10,000 

3.9%  subject  to  a 
minimum 
of 
Rs.30,000 

If the claim is filed 
beyond 
the 
timeline prescribed 
in column 3,   (only 
for member) 

3,000/- 

fee  of 
Additional 
Rs. 
per 
month  over  and 
fee 
above 
prescribed 
in 

205 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

> 10,00,000 -  
25,00,000 ≤ 

Rs. 13,000 plus 
0.3%  amount 
above  Rs.  10 
lakh 

Rs. 
39,000  plus 
0.9% amount above 
Rs. 10 lakh 

> 25,00,000 

Rs.  52,500  plus  0.6 
%  amount  above 
Rs.  25  lakh  subject 
to  maximum  of 
Rs.90,000 

Rs. 17,500 plus 
0.2  %  amount 
above  Rs.  25 
lakh  subject  to 
maximum  of 
Rs. 

30,000 

column 3 

6,000/- 

fee  of 
Additional 
per 
Rs. 
month  over  and 
fee 
above 
prescribed 
in 
column 3 

fee  of 
Additional 
Rs.  12,000/-  per 
month  over  and 
above 
fee 
prescribed 
in 
column 3 

(ii) The  filing  fee  will  be  utilized  to  meet  the  fee  payable  to  the 

arbitrators.  

(iii) 

 A  client, who  has a claim / counter claim upto Rs. 10 lakh 
(Rs.  Ten  lakh)  and  files  arbitration  reference,  will  be  exempted 
from filing the deposit.  

(iv)  Excess of filing fee over fee payable to the arbitrator, if any, 

to be deposited in the IPF of the respective Stock Exchange.  

(v) In  all  cases,  on  issue  of  the  arbitral  award  the  stock  exchange 
shall refund the deposit to the party in whose favour the award 
has been passed. 

2.  Investor  Protection  fund  (IPF),  Investor  Service  fund  (ISF),  Interest 

on IPF and Interest on ISF  

A. IPF and ISF management structure  

206 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(i)  In order to ensure effective utilization of interest income on IPF, 
supervision of utilization of interest on IPF will rest with the IPF 
Trust.  

(ii) In  order  to  have  better  management  and  control  on  the 
contributions  and  utilization  of  ISF  fund,  supervision  of  the 
same will rest with the Investor Service Committee.  

B. Investor Protection fund corpus  

In  order  to  ensure  the  adequacy  of  corpus  of  the  IPF,  Stock 
Exchanges and Depositories shall periodically review the sources of 
the fund and the eligible compensation amount so as to recalibrate 
the fund to make suitable recommendation for enhancement.  

C. Utilization of IPF, ISF, interest on IPF and interest on ISF  

Modified guidelines for utilization of IPF, Interest on IPF, ISF and Interest on ISF 
would be as follows  

Particulars 

Sr. 
No. 

Utilization 

1 

IPF 

Stock Exchanges: 

To meet the legitimate investment claims of the clients of 
the defaulting   members. 

Depository: 

a) Promotion  of 

investor  education  and 

investor 
awareness  programmes  through  seminars,  lectures, 
workshops,  publications  (print  and  electronic  media), 
training  programmes  etc.  aimed  at  enhancing 
securities  market 
literacy  and  promoting  retail 
participation in securities market; 

b) To  utilize  the  fund  for  supporting  initiatives  of 
Depository  Participants  for  promotion  of  investor 

207 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

education and investor awareness programmes; 

c)  To  utilize  the  fund  in  any  other  manner  as  may  be 
prescribed/  permitted  by  SEBI  in  the  interest  of 
investors; 

d) To meet the legitimate claims of the beneficial owners, 
upto  the  maximum  cap  as  to  be  determined  by  the 
depository,  in  case  the  same  is  not  settled  by  the 
beneficial owner indemnity insurance; 

2 

Interest  on 
IPF 

Stock Exchanges: 

a) To  further  strengthen  the  corpus,  75%  of  interest  on 
IPF  earned  every  year  should  be  treated  as  corpus  of 
IPF; 

investor  education  and 

b) The balance 25%  may  be utilized  by  the exchange for 
promotion  of 
investor 
awareness  programmes  through  seminars,  lectures, 
workshops,  publications  (print  and  electronic  media), 
training  programmes  etc.  aimed  at  enhancing 
securities  market 
retail 
participation  in  securities  market  and  undertaking 
research activities related to securities market. Capital 
expenditure  would  be  permissible  only  w.r.t.  setting 
up  of 
Investor  Service  Centre.  However,  no 
expenditure  to  be  incurred  on  product  promotion  in 
any manner.   

literacy, 

promoting 

c) In any other manner as may be prescribed/ permitted 

by SEBI in the interest of investors; 

Depositories: 

To further strengthen the corpus, 100% of Interest on IPF 
should be treated as corpus of IPF 

208 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3 

ISF 

Exchanges: 

a) ISF  may  be  utilized  only  for  promotion  of  investor 
education  and 
investor  awareness  programmes 
through  seminars,  lectures,  workshops,  publications 
(print and electronic media), training programmes etc. 
aimed  at  enhancing  securities  market  literacy  and 
promoting retail participation in securities market; 

b) At least 50% should be spent at Tier II & Tier III cities; 

c)  Cost of training of arbitrators; 

d) In any other manner as may be prescribed/ permitted 

by SEBI in the interest of investors; 

4 

Interest  on 
ISF 

Exchanges:  Interest  on  ISF  should  be  ploughed  back  to 
ISF 

D.  Admissibility  of  claim  for  making  payment  out  of  IPF  in  Stock 
Exchanges  

In the event of default by the member, all transactions executed on 
exchange platform shall be eligible for settlement from IPF (subject 
to maximum limit), subject to the appropriate norms laid down by 
the Defaulters’ Committee.  

E.  Determination  of  legitimate  claims  from  IPF  for  clients  of  the 
defaulter member  

The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  ensure  that  once  a  member  has  been 
declared  defaulter,  the  claim  (s)  shall  be  placed  before  the 
Defaulters’ Committee for sanction and ratification. The Defaulters’ 
Committee’s advice w.r.t. legitimate claims shall be sent to the IPF 
Trust for disbursement of the amount immediately.  

In case the claim amount is more than the coverage limit under IPF 
or  the  amount  sanctioned  and  ratified  by  the  Defaulters’ 

209 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Committee  is less than the claim amount then the investor will be 
at  liberty  to  prefer  for  arbitration  mechanism  for  claim  of  the 
balance amount.  

F.  Threshold  limit  for  interim  relief  paid  out  of  IPF  in  Stock 
Exchanges  

In  partial  modification  to  Circular  No.  CIR/MRD/ICC/30/2013 
dated  September  26,  2013  on  “Investor  Grievance  Redressal 
Mechanism” the following changes are prescribed:  

(i)  Stock  Exchanges,  in  consultation  with  the  IPF  Trust  and  SEBI, 
shall  review  and  progressively  increase  the  amount  of  interim 
relief  available  against  a  single  claim  for  an  investor,  atleast 
every three years.  

(ii) The  Stock  Exchanges  shall  disseminate  the  interim  relief  limit 
fixed by them and any change thereof, to the public through a 
Press Release and also through its website.  

(iii) 

In case, award is in favour of client and the member opts for 
arbitration  wherein  the  claim  value  admissible  to  the  client  is 
not  more  than  Rs.  20  lakhs  (Rs.  Twenty  lakhs),  the  following 
steps shall be undertaken by the Stock Exchange:  

a) In case the IGRP award is in favour of the client then 50% of 
the admissible claim value or Rs. 2.00 lakhs (Rs. Two lakhs), 
whichever is less, shall be released to the client from IPF of the 
Stock Exchange.  

b) In case the arbitration award is in favour of the client and the 
member opts for appellate arbitration then 50% of the amount 
mentioned in the arbitration award or Rs. 3.00 lakhs (Rs. Three 
lakhs), whichever is less, shall be released to the client from IPF 
of the Stock Exchanges. The amount released shall exclude the 
amount already released to the client at clause (a) above.  

c) In case the appellate arbitration award is in favour of the 
client and the member opts for making an application under 
Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 to set 

210 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

aside the appellate arbitration award, then 75% of the amount 
determined in the appellate arbitration award or Rs. 5.00 lakhs 
(Rs. Five Lakhs), whichever is less, shall be released to the client 
from IPF of the Stock Exchanges. The amount released shall 
exclude the amount already released to the client at clause (a) 
and (b) above.  

d) Total amount released to the client through the facility of 
interim relief from IPF in terms of this Circular shall not exceed 
Rs. 10.00 lakhs (Ten lakhs) in a financial year.  

3.  Disciplinary  Action  Committee,  Defaulters’  Committee,  Investors 

Service Committee, Arbitration Committee and IPF Trust  

(i)  In  partial  modification  to  circular  no.  MRD/DoP/SE/Cir-
38/2004  dated  October  28,  2004  and  CIR/MRD/DSA/33/2012 
dated  December  13,2012,  the  functions  and  composition  of  the 
Disciplinary  Action  Committee,  Defaulter’s  Committee, 
Investors Service Committee and IPF Trust will be as follows:  

Sr. 
No. 

Name 
Committee 

of 

Functions handled 

Composition 

1  Disciplinary 

Action 
Committee 

the  policy 

i. 
The  Committee  shall 
for 
formulate 
regulatory  actions  including 
warning,  monetary 
fine, 
suspension,  withdrawal  of 
trading terminal, expulsion, to 
be taken for various violations 
by 
the 
exchange. 

the  members  of 

ii. 
Based on the laid down 
policy,  the  Committee  shall 
consider 
of 
violations  observed  during 
inspection,  etc  and 
impose 
appropriate  regulatory  action 

cases 

the 

211 

(i)  The  Committee  should 
have  a  minimum  of  3 
members and a maximum 
of 5 members; 

(ii)  The  Public  Interest 
form  a 
Directors  shall 
majority 
of 
the 
Committee; 

(iii)  A  maximum  of  two 
key 
management 
personnel of the exchange 
can  be  on  the  committee 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

2  Defaulters’ 
Committee 

the  members  of 

on 
exchange.  

the 

 While 

imposing 

iii. 
the 
regulatory  measure, 
the 
Committee  shall  adopt  a  laid 
down  process,  based  on  the 
'Principles of natural justice'. 

member 

i. 
To  realize  all  the  assets 
/  deposits  of  the  defaulter/ 
expelled 
and 
appropriate the same amongst 
various  dues  and 
claims 
defaulter/ 
against 
expelled 
in 
accordance  with  the  Rules, 
Byelaws  and  Regulations  of 
the exchange.  

the 

member 

ii. 
In  the  event  both  the 
clearing  member  and  his 
constituent  trading  member 
are  declared  defaulter,  then 
the  Defaulter’s  Committee  of 
the  stock  exchange  and  the 
Defaulter's  Committee  of  the 
clearing 
shall 
work  together  to  realise  the 
assets  of  both  the  clearing 

corporation 

212 

and  one  of  which  shall 
necessarily 
the 
Managing  Director  of  the 
stock exchange; 

be 

(iv)  The  Committee  may 
also  include  independent 
external  persons  such  as 
retired judge, etc.; 

(v)  SEBI  may  nominate 
the 
members 
Committee, 
felt 
necessary in the interest of 
securities market; 

in 
if 

(i)  The  Committee  should 
have  a  minimum  of  3 
members and a maximum 
of 5 members; 

(ii)  The  Public  Interest 
Directors  shall 
form  a 
majority 
the 
of 
Committee; 

(iii)  A  maximum  of  two 
key 
management 
personnel of the exchange 
can be on the Committee; 

(iv)  The  Committee  may 
also  include  independent 
external  persons  such  as 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

member  and 
member.  

the 

trading 

retired judge, etc.; 

 

iii. 
Admission  or  rejection 
of  claims  of  client/      trading 
members/  clearing  members 
over 
the 
defaulter/ expelled member.  

assets 

the 

of 

3 

Investor 
Services 
Committee 

iv. 
Advise in respect of the 
claims  to  the  Trustees  of  the 
IPF on whether the claim is to 
be  paid  out  of 
IPF  or 
otherwise. 

(i) Supervising the functioning 
of  Investors’  Services  Cell  of 
the  Exchange  which  includes 
review of complaint resolution 
process,  review  of  complaints 
remaining  unresolved  over 
long  period  of  time,  estimate 
the  adequacy  of  resources 
dedicated to investor services, 
etc.; 

(ii)    Supervision  of  utilization 
of ISF; 

arbitrators 

 (iii) To have annual review of 
and 
the 
arbitration/ 
(both 
quantum  and  quality  of  the 
awards). 

awards 

213 

(v)  SEBI  may  nominate 
the 
members 
Committee, 
felt 
necessary in the interest of 
securities market; 

in 
if 

(i)  The  Committee  should 
have  a  minimum  of  3 
members and a maximum 
of 5 members; 

 

(ii)  The  Public  Interest 
form  a 
Directors  shall 
majority 
of 
the 
Committee; 

(iii)  A  maximum  of  two 
key 
management 
personnel of the exchange 
can be on the Committee; 

(iv)  The  Committee  may 
also  include  independent 
external persons; 

(v)  SEBI  may  nominate 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

in 
if 

the 
members 
Committee, 
felt 
necessary in the interest of 
securities market; 

(i)  The  Trust  should  have 
maximum  5 trustees; 

(ii)  The 
comprise of: 

trustee  should 

a.  Three  Public  Interest 

Directors; 

representative 
investor 

b.  One 
from 
associations 
recognized  by  SEBI; 
and  

c.  The 

principal 
regulatory  compliance 
officer of the MII; 

(iii)  The  maximum  tenure 
of a trustee (excluding the 
principal 
regulatory 
compliance  officer  of  the 
trusteeship 
MII,  whose 
would  be 
co-terminus 
with  the  service)  should 
be 
five  years  or  as 
specified by SEBI; 

4 

IPF Trust 

IPF 

The 

(i) 
be 
administered  by  way  of  a 
Trust created for this purpose; 

shall 

IPF  Trust 
the 

shall 
(ii)  The 
disburse 
amount  of 
compensation from IPF to the 
investor 
a 
compensation  shall  not  be 
more 
the  maximum 
amount  fixed  for  a  single 
claim of an investor; 

such 

than 

and 

IPF  Trust  shall 
(iii)  The 
disburse  the  compensation  to 
the  investors  as  and  when 
claims  have  been  crystallized 
against a defaulter member; 

(iv)    The  IPF  Trust  need  not 
wait  for  realization  of  assets 
of  the  defaulter  member  for 
disbursements of the claims; 

(v)  Upon  receipt  of  advice  of 
the Defaulters’ Committee, for 
payment, the IPF Trust should 
take  necessary 
for 
disbursement  of  the  amount 

steps 

214 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

at the earliest 

(ii) The Arbitration Committee of the Stock Exchanges shall stand 

discontinued.  

 

 

215 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
4.36 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Digital Mode of Payment130 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

 
SEBI   has   notified   the   SEBI   (Payment   of   Fees   and   Mode   of   
Payment)  (Amendment)    Regulations,    2017    on    March    06,    2017    to  
enable    digital    mode    of  payment          (RTGS/NEFT/IMPS          etc.)          of     
fees/penalties/remittance/other payments etc. 
Pursuant  to  above,  SEBI  has  been  receiving  direct  credit  of  amounts  
from various intermediaries / other entities. 
In    order    to    identify    and    account    such    direct    credit    in    the    SEBI  
account, intermediaries  /  other  entities  shall  provide  the  information  
as  mentioned  in Annexurebelow to SEBI oncethe payment is made. 

iv.  The 

above 

information 
as 

department(s)as  well 
tad@sebi.gov.in 

should  be 
to  Treasury  &Accounts  division 

respective 
at 

emailedto 

the 

 

Date  Depar

tment   
of  
SEBI 
 

Name    
of  
Intermed
iary  
/  
Other  
entities 

Annexure 

Type   of  
Intermedi
ary 

SEBI  
Registration 
No.    (If 
any) 

PAN  Amount 

(Rs.) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Purpose of 
Payment  
(including 
the period  
for which 
payment  
was made 
e.g. 
quarterly, 
annually) 
 

Bank 
name  
and  
Account  
number  
from  
which  
payment  
is  
remitted 
 

UTR 
No. 

 

4.37 

Monitoring of Foreign Investment limits in listed Indian companies131 

i.  As    per    FEMA,    the    onus    of    compliance    with    the    various    foreign  
investment  limits  rests  on  the Indian company. In order to facilitate the 
listed  Indian  companies  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  various  foreign 
investment  limits,  SEBI  in  consultation  with  RBI  has  decided  to  put  in 
place  a  new  system  for  monitoring  the  foreign  investment  limits.  The 
architecture of the new system has been explained in Annexure A. 

                                                           
130 Reference circular number SEBI/HO/GSD/T&A/CIR/P/2017/42 dated May 16, 2017 
131 Reference circular IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/61 dated April 05, 2018 
 
 

216 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

ii.  The  depositories (NSDL  and  CDSL) shall  put  in  place  the  necessary  
infrastructure    and    IT  systems    for    operationalizing    the    monitoring  
mechanism described at  Annexure  A.  

Annexure A 

Architecture of the System for Monitoring Foreign Investment Limits in listed 
Indian companies 

Housing of the System 

i.  The  system  for  monitoring  the  foreign  investment  limits  in  listed  Indian 
companies shall be implemented and housed at the depositories (NSDL and 
CDSL). 

Designated Depository 

ii.  A  Designated  Depository  is  a  depository  which  has  been  appointed  by  an 
Indian company to facilitate the monitoring of the foreign investment limits 
of  that  company.  As  defined  at  Regulation  2(xxiii)  of  FEMA,  the  term 
‘Indian  company’  means  a  company  incorporated  in  India  and  registered 
under the Companies Act, 2013. 

iii.  The  Designated  Depository  shall  act  as  a  lead  depository  and  the  other 

depository shall act as a feed depository. 

Company Master 

iv.  The  company  shall  appoint  any  one  depository  as  its  Designated 

Depository for the purpose of monitoring the foreign investment limit. 

v.  The  stock  exchanges  (BSE,  NSE  and  MSEI)  shall  provide  the  data  on  the 
paid-up equity capital of an Indian company to its Designated Depository. 
This data shall include the paid-up equity capital of the company on a fully 
diluted  basis.  As  defined  at  Regulation  2(xvii)  of  FEMA,  the  term  “fully 
diluted basis” means the total number of shares that would be outstanding 
if all possible sources of conversion are exercised. 

vi.  The  depositories  shall  provide  an  interface  wherein  the  company  shall 

provide the following information to its Designated Depository: 
1.  Company Identification Number (CIN) 
2.  Name 
3.  Date of incorporation 
4. 
5.  Applicable Sector 
6.  Applicable Sectoral Cap 

PAN number 

217 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Permissible Aggregate Limit for investment by FPIs 
Permissible Aggregate Limit for investment by NRIs 

7. 
8. 
9.  Details  of  shares  held  by  FPI,  NRIs  and  other  foreign  investors,  on 

repatriable basis, in demat as well as in physical form 

10.  Details  of  indirect  foreign  investment  which  are  held  in  both  demat 

and physical form 

11.  Details of demat accounts of Indian companies making indirect foreign 

investment in the capital of the company 

12.  Whether the Indian company that has total foreign investment in it , is 
either  not  owned  and not  controlled  by resident  Indian  Citizens  or  is 
owned or controlled by person’s resident outside India (Yes or No) 
ISIN-wise  details  of  the  downstream  investment  in  other  Indian 
companies 

13. 

The  information  provided  by  the  companies  shall  be  stored  in  a  Company 
Master  database.  The  Designated  Depository,  if  required,  may  seek  additional 
information  from  the  company  for  the  purpose  of  monitoring  the  foreign 
investment  limits.  The  companies  shall  ensure  that  in  case  of  any  corporate 
action,  the  necessary  modification  is  reflected  immediately  in  the  Company 
Master database. 

vii. 

In the event of any change in any of the details pertaining to the company, 
such  as  increase/decrease  of  the  aggregate  FPI/NRI  limits  or  the  sectoral 
cap or a change of the sector of the company, etc. the company shall inform 
such  changes  along  with  the  supporting  documentation  to  its  Designated 
Depository. Such documentation may include: 
1. 
2.  General body resolution approving the increase/decrease 
3.  Company Secretary certificate for compliance with FEMA, 1999 

Board of Directors resolution approving the increase/decrease 

Reporting of trades 

viii.  At present, as  per SEBI  guidelines, the custodians are reporting confirmed 
trades of their FPI clients to the depositories on a T+1 basis. This reporting 
shall  continue  and  the  data  shall  be  the  basis  of  calculating  FPI 
investments/holding in Indian companies. 

ix.  With  respect  to  NRI  (repatriable)  trades,  Authorized  Dealer  (AD)  Banks 
shall report the transactions of their NRI clients to the depositories. The AD 
Banks shall be guided by the circulars issued by RBI in this regard. 

Activation of a Red Flag Alert 

 
 

 

218 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 
 
x.  The monitoring of the foreign investment limits shall be based on the paid-
up equity capital of the company on a fully diluted basis to ensure that all 
foreign investments are in compliance with the foreign investment limits.  

xi.  A red flag shall be activated whenever the foreign investment within 3% or 
less than 3% of the aggregate NRI/FPI limits or the sectoral cap. This shall 
be done as follows : 

        Aggregate NRI investment limit in the company 

1.  The  system  shall  calculate  the  percentage  of  NRI  holdings  in  the 
company  and  the  investment  headroom  available  as  at  the  end  of  the 
day with respect to the aggregate NRI investment limit 

2.  If  the  available  headroom  is  3%  or  less  than  3%  of  the  aggregate  NRI 

investment limit, a red flag shall be activated for that company. 

3.  Thereafter,  the  depositories  and  exchanges  shall  display  the  available 
investment headroom, in terms of available shares, for all companies for 
which the red flag has been activated, on their respective websites. 

4.  The  data  on  the  available  investment  headroom  shall  be  updated  on  a 

daily end-of-day basis as long as the red flag is activated. 

 

        Aggregate FPI investment limit of the company 

5.  The system shall calculate the percentage of FPI holding in the company 
and  the  investment  headroom  available  as  at  the  end  of  the  day  with 
respect to the aggregate FPI investment limit 

6.  If  the  available  headroom  is  3%  or  less  than  3%  of  the  aggregate  FPI 

investment limit, a red flag shall be activated for that company. 

7.  Thereafter,  the  depositories  and  exchanges  shall  display  the  available 
investment headroom, in terms of available shares, for all companies for 
which the red flag has been activated, on their respective websites. 

8.  The  data  on  the  available  investment  headroom  shall  be  updated  on  a 

daily end-of-day basis as long as the red flag is activated. 

          

          Sectoral cap of the company 

9.  The  system  shall  calculate  the  total  foreign  investment  in  the  company 
by  adding  the  aggregate  NRI  investment  on  the  stock  exchange,  the 
aggregate FPI investment in the company and other foreign investment 
as provided by the company in the company master. 

219 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

10. If the total foreign investment in a company is within 3% or less than 3% 

of the sectoral cap, then a red flag shall be activated for that company. 

11. Thereafter,  the  depositories  and  exchanges  shall  display  the  available 
investment headroom, in terms of available shares, for all companies for 
which the red flag has been activated, on their respective websites. 

12. The  data  on  the  available  investment  headroom  shall  be  updated  on  a 

daily end-of-day basis as long as the red flag is activated. 

 

 
 

  

xii.  The depositories shall inform the exchanges about the activation of the red 
flag  for  the  identified  scrip.  The  exchanges  shall  issue  the  necessary 
circulars/public  notifications  on  their  respective  websites.  Once  a  red  flag 
has  been  activated  for  a  given  scrip,  the  foreign  investors  shall  take  a 
conscious  decision  to  trade  in  the  shares  of  the  scrip,  with  a  clear 
understanding that in the event of a breach of the aggregate NRI/FPI limits 
or  the  sectoral  cap,  the  foreign  investors  shall  be  liable  to  disinvest  the 
excess  holding  within  five  trading  days  from  the  date  of  settlement  of  the 
trades. 

Breach of foreign investment limits 

xiii.  Once  the  aggregate  NRI/FPI  investment  limits  or  the  sectoral  cap  for  a 
given  company  have  been  breached,  the  depositories  shall  inform  the 
exchanges  about  the  breach.  The  exchanges  shall  issue  the  necessary 
circulars/public notifications on their respective websites and shall halt all 
further purchases by : 
1.  FPIs, if the aggregate FPI limit is breached 
2.  NRIs, if the aggregate NRI limit is breached 
3.  All foreign investors, if the sectoral cap is breached 
In  the  event  of  a  breach  of  the  sectoral  cap/aggregate  FPI  limit/aggregate 
NRI  limit,  the  foreign  investors  shall  divest  their  excess  holding  within  5 
trading days from the date of settlement of the trades, by selling shares only 
to domestic investors. 

xiv. 

Method of disinvestment 

xv.  The  proportionate  disinvestment  methodology  shall  be  followed  for 
disinvestment of the excess shares so as to bring the foreign investment in a 
company within permissible limits. In this method, depending on the limit 
being  breached,  the  disinvestment  of  the  breached  quantity  shall  be 
uniformly  spread  across  all  foreign  Investors/FPIs/NRIs  which  are  net 

 
 

 

220 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

buyers  of  the  shares  of  the  scrip  on  the  day  of  the  breach.  The  foreign 
investors are required to disinvest the excess quantity by selling them only 
to domestic investors, within 5 trading days of the date of settlement of the 
trades that caused the breach. 

xvi.  This  method  has  been  illustrated  with  the  help  of  an  example  provided 

below. 

Total shares that can be purchased by foreign investors till 
sectoral cap is not breached 
Total quantity purchased by foreign investors on T day 
Breach quantity 

600 

1000 
400 

 

 

Time 

Foreign 
Investor 

Purchase
d 
quantity 

1000 hrs  ABC 
XYZ 
1015 hrs 
1145 hrs 
TYU 
1230 hrs 
POI 
1300 hrs  QSX 
1400 hrs 
REW 
1410 hrs 
LOP 
Total 

 

100 
250 
50 
180 
120 
150 
150 
1000 

Cumulativ
e Purchase 
by foreign 
investor 
100 
350 
400 
580 
700 
850 
1000 

 

to  be 
by 

Quantity 
disinvested 
the foreign 
investor 
40 
100 
20 
72 
48 
60 
60 
400 

xviii. 

xvii.  As can be observed from the above table, the foreign investors/FPIs/NRIs 
which are required to disinvest shall be identified and shall be informed of 
the excess quantity that they are required to disinvest. 
In  the  case  of  FPIs  which  have  been  identified  for  disinvestment  of  excess 
holding,  the  depositories  shall  issue  the  necessary  instructions  to  the 
custodians  of  these  FPIs  for  disinvestment  of  the  excess  holding  within  5 
trading days of the date of settlement of the trades. 
In the case of NRIs which have been identified for disinvestment of excess 
holding,  the  depositories  shall  issue  the  necessary  instructions  to  the 
Authorized  Dealer  (AD)  Banks  for  disinvestment  of  the  excess  holding 
within 5 trading days of the date of settlement of the trades. 

xix. 

xx.  The depositories shall utilize the FPI trade data provided by the custodians, 
post  custodial  confirmation,  on  T+1  day,  where  T  is  the  trade  date.  The 
breach of investment limits (if any) shall be detected at the end of T+1 day 

 
 

 

221 

 

 
 

xxi. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

and therefore, the announcement pertaining to the breach shall be made at 
the end of T+1 day. The foreign investors who have purchased the shares of 
the  scrip  during  the  trading  hours  on  T+1  day  shall  also  be  given  a  time 
period  of  5  trading  days  from  the  date  of  settlement  of  such  trades,  to 
disinvest the holding accruing from the aforesaid purchase trades. In other 
words, the purchase trades of such foreign investors which have taken place 
of  T+1  day,  shall  be  settled  on  T+3  day  and  thereafter  a  time  period  from 
T+4  day  to  T+8  day  shall  be  available  to  them  to  disinvest  their  entire 
holding arising from purchases on T+1 day. 
If T+1 is a settlement holiday,  then the custodial confirmation of the trade 
executed on T day shall be done on T+2 day and the subsequent settlement 
of the trade on T+3 day. In such a scenario, the breach would be detected at 
the end of T+2 day. 

xxii.  A table summarizing the breach-disinvestment scenario is given below 

Parameter 
Date of breach 
Date of trade 
Date of detection 
of breach 

Date of 
settlement of 
transaction 

Disinvestme
nt time frame 

 

 

 

Purchase on T Day 
T day 
T day 
T+1 day (End of day) 

Purchase on T+1 
T day 
T+1 day 
T+1 day (End of day) 

T+2 day (End of Day, if T+1 is a 
settlement holiday 

T+2 day 

T+3 day, if either T+1 day or T+2 
day is a settlement holiday 

5  trading  days  from  the  date  of 
settlement  of 
transactions 
which  were  executed  on  the  day 
of the breach 
i.e. 5 trading days from T+2 day 

the 

 

 

 

T+2 day (End of Day), if T+1 is a 
settlement holiday 

T+3 day 

T+4 day, if either T+2 day or 
T+3 day is a settlement holiday 

5 trading days from the date of 
settlement  of  the  transactions 
which  were  executed  on  T+1 
day i.e. 5 trading days from T+3 
day 

If  T+1  day  or  T+2  day  is  a 
settlement holiday, then 5 trading 
days from T+3 day 

If  T+2  day  or  T+3  day  is  a 
settlement  holiday, 
then  5 
trading days from T+4 day 

 

 
 

 

222 

 

 
 

xxiii. 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

In  the  event  the  foreign  shareholding  in  a  company  comes  within 
permissible  limit  during  the  time  period  for  disinvestment,  on  account  of 
sale by other FPI or other group of FPIs, the original FPIs, which have been 
advised  to  disinvest,  would  still  have  to  do  so  within  the  disinvestment 
time period, irrespective of the fresh availability of an investment headroom 
during the disinvestment time period. 

xxiv.  There shall be no annulment of the trades which have been executed on the 
trading  platform  of  the  stock  exchanges  and  which  are  in  breach  of  the 
sectoral caps/aggregate FPI limits/aggregate NRI limits. 

 Failure to disinvest within 5 trading days 

xxv. 

If a breach of the investment limits has taken place on account of  the FPIs 
and the identified FPIs have failed to disinvest within 5 trading days, then 
necessary action shall be taken by SEBI against the FPIs. 

Fees 

xxvi.  The  Designated  Depository  shall  levy  reasonable  fee/charges  on  the 
company  towards  development,  ongoing  maintenance  and  monitoring 
costs at an agreed upon frequency.   

 
 
4.38  Disclosure  of performance  of  CRAs on Stock Exchange  and  Depository 

website132 

Each CRA shall furnish data on sharp  rating actions in investment grade 
rating  category,  as  per  the  format  specified  in  Annexure  B,  to  Stock 
Exchanges and Depositories for disclosure on website on half-yearly basis, 
within 15 days from the end of the half-year (31stMarch/ 30thSeptember). 

 

Annexure B 

Sharp rating actions in investment grade rating category 

(Excluding non-cooperative issuers) 

S. No.  Rating action 

1.    Number of rating downgrades of more than 3 notches 
2.    Number  of  downgrades  to  default  from investment 

grade ratings 

Number of ratings 
 
 

                                                           
132 Reference circular SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ DOS3/ CIR/ P/ 2018/ 140 dated November 13, 2018 
 
 

223 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

3.    Number of rating upgrades of more than 3 notches 
4.    Number of outstanding ratings as on March 31/ 

 
 

September 30 

 
 
4.39  Early Warning Mechanism to prevent diversion of client securities133 

1.  There    have    been    instances  where  stock    brokers  had  diverted  clients’  
securities  received  as  collaterals  towards  margin  obligations  and  /  or 
settlement  obligations,  for  raising    loan    against    shares    on    their    own  
account    and    /    or    for    meeting  securities  shortages    in  settlement  
obligations on  its  own  account. However,  such instances  of diversion  
of  securities  come  to  light when stock  broker failed  in  meeting   the  
margin  and/  or  settlement  obligations  to  Stock  Exchange  /  Clearing 
Corporation.  

2.  It  has  been  decided  to  put  in  place  an  Early  Warning  Mechanism 
and  sharing    of  information    between    Stock    Exchanges,    Depositories  
and  Clearing  Corporations  to detect the diversion of client’s securities by 
the  stock  broker  at  an  early  stage  so  as  to  take  appropriate  preventive 
measures.  The  threshold  for  such  early  warning  signals  shall  be  decided 
by  the  Stock  Exchanges,  Depositories  and  Clearing  Corporations  with 
mutual consultation. 

3.  Early  warning  signals,  for  prevention  of  diversion  of  clients’  securities, 

may include the following: 
3.1. Deterioration  in  financial  health  of  the  stock  broker/  depository 

participant based on any of the following parameters: 
a)  Significant reduction in net worth over previous half-year / year. 
b)  Significant losses in the previous half years / years. 
c)  Delay  in  reporting  of  Annual  Report,  Balance  Sheet,  Internal  
Audit  Reports, Risk Based Supervision (RBS) data and any other 
data  related  to  its  financial  health  to  the  Stock  Exchanges/ 
Depositories.  

d)  Failure  to  submit  information  sought  by  the  Stock  Exchange/ 

Depositories on its dealing with related parties / promoters.    

e)  Significant  mark-to-market  loss  on  proprietary  account/  related 

party accounts  

f)  Repeated instances of pay-in shortages. 

                                                           
133 Reference Circular SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2018/153 dated December 17, 2018 
 
 

224 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

g)  Significant  trading  exposure  or  amount  of  loans  or  advances  

given  to  and investments made in related parties/ group. 

h)  Sudden  activation  of  significant  number  of  dormant  client’s 

accounts and/ or significant activity in the dormant account/s. 

i)  Significant number of UCC modifications. 
j)  Resignation of Statutory Auditors or Directors. 

 

3.2. Early  warning  signals  in  relation  to securities  pledge  transactions 
by the  stock broker  to  be  identified by  the Depositories  and shall  
be shared  with  Stock Exchanges which may include: 
a)  Alerts  for  stock  brokers  maintaining  multiple  proprietary  demat 
accounts and opening any new demat account in the name of stock 
broker for client purpose. 

b)  Movement  of    shares  to/from  a  large  number  of  clients’  demat 
accounts or large value shares to stock broker proprietary accounts 
and vice a versa. 

c)  Transfer  of large  value  of  shares through  off-market  transfers  

other  than  for settlement purposes.  

d)  Invocation of  pledge  of  securities  by  lenders  against  stock  broker 

or his clients. 

e)  Significant    depletion    of    client’s    shares    in    the    stock    broker  

client  account maintained by the stock broker. 

3.3. Increase  in    number    of    investor    complaints    against    the    stock  
broker  /  depository participant  alleging  un-authorized  trading  /  
unauthorized  delivery  instructions being processed and non-receipt 
of funds and securities and non-resolution of the same. 

3.4. Alerts  generated  from  the  monthly/  weekly  submissions made  by  
stock    broker  under    Risk    Based    Supervision    (RBS)    or    Enhanced  
Supervision to  the  Stock Exchanges. 
a)  Non-recovery    of    significant    dues    from    debit    balance    clients 

over  a  period  of time. 

b)  Significant dues to credit balance clients over a period of time. 
c)  Failure  by  stock  broker  to  upload  weekly  data  regarding 
monitoring of clients’ funds  as  specified  in   SEBI’s  circular  on  
Enhanced  Supervision,  for  3 consecutive weeks.  

d)  Pledging  securities  in  case  of  clients  having  credit  balance  and 
using  the  funds  so  raised  against  them  for  own  purposes  or  for 
funding debit balance of clients.   

225 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

e)  Mis-reporting / wrong reporting about the client funds/securities. 
f)  Significant increase in RBS score. 
 

3.5. Stock  broker’s  terminal  disabled  for  certain  number  of  days  in  any 

segment / Stock Exchange in previous quarter. 

 

4.  Stock  Exchanges  and  Depositories  shall  frame  an  internal  policy  / 
guidelines  regarding  non-cooperation  by  stock  brokers  and  depository 
participants during inspections which shall  lay  down  the  time  period,  
the  type  of  documents  critical  for  closing  the inspections, which if not 
submitted, can be treated as non-cooperation. 
4.1. Failure  to  submit  data  sought  for  inspections  especially  relating  to 
bank / demat accounts, client ledgers etc. despite repeated reminders. 
4.2. Failure  to  provide  reasonable  access  to  the  records  or  any  office 

premise 
 

5.  Stock  Exchanges/  Clearing  Corporations/  Depositories,  shall  devise  a 
mechanism  to  detect  diversion  of  clients’  securities    and    to    share  
information  among  themselves  in respect of: 
5.1. Diversion of pay-out of securities to non-client accounts 
5.2. Mis-matches between gross (client-wise) securities pay-in and pay-out 
files  of  a  stock    brokers  generated  by    the    Clearing    Corporation 
which  shall  be  compared with actual transfer of securities to/from 
the client’s depository accounts by the Depository.  The  cases  of  any  
mismatch  found  out  by  the  Depository  shall  be informed to the 
concerned Stock Exchange / Clearing Corporation.  

5.3. Stock  Exchange  shall  seek  clarification  from  the  concerned  stock 
broker  on  the  mismatches  reported    by    Depository    and    identify 
transfer  to  a  non-client  /  third party, without any trade obligation.  
5.4. Such  information  on  wrong  /  fraudulent  /  unauthorized  transfer 

shall be shared by the Stock Exchange with other Stock Exchange/s. 

 

6.  Any    other    alerts    as    the    Stock    Exchanges    /    Clearing    Corporations  

and  Depositories may deem fit. 

7.  Alerts  triggered  at  one    Stock    Exchange    /  Clearing    Corporation/ 
Depository    through  early  warning  mechanism  shall  be  immediately 
shared  with  other  Stock  Exchanges  /  Depositories  with  respect  to  the 
stock broker / depository participant. 

226 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

8.  Based  on  the analysis  of  the  early  warning  data,  if  it  is  established  
that   the    stock  broker’s  financial  health  has  deteriorated  and/  or he  has 
made  unauthorized  transfer  of  funds  /  securities  of  the  client,  in  such 
cases Stock Exchanges / Depositories shall jointly take preventive actions 
on the stock broker which may include one or more of, but not limited, to 
the following: 
8.1. Actions to be initiated by the Stock Exchanges like: 

a)  Blocking  of  certain  percentage  of  available  collaterals  towards 

margin. 

b)  Check  securities  register  in  respect    of    securities    received    and  
transferred against pay-in/pay-out against settlement and client’s 
securities received as collateral. 

c)  Check    details    of    funds    and    securities    available    with    the  
clearing  member, Clearing Corporation and the Depository of that 
stock broker. 

d)  Impose limits on proprietary trading by the stock broker. 
e)  Prescribe  and  monitor  shorter  time  duration  for    settlement    of 

Running Account of clients. 

f)  Conduct  meeting    with    the    designated    directors    of    the    stock  

broker  to  seek appropriate explanation.  

g)  Uniform    action    of    deactivation    of    trading    terminals    by    all  
Stock  Exchanges based on the communication received from other 
Stock Exchange. 

h)  Initiate inspection of the stock broker/depository participant. 
i)  Cross    check  information  submitted    by  stock  broker    with  other 
independent  sources    like    collateral    details    with    the    Clearing  
Corporation,    transactions    in  Bank  and  Depositories,  with 
statement collected directly etc 

j)  Where    client  money    and    securities    diversion    is    suspected,  
appoint  forensic  auditor  to  trace  trails  of  entire  funds  and 
securities of clients. 
 

8.2. Actions to be taken by the Depositories: 

a)  Restriction  on  further  pledge  of  client  securities  from  the  client’s 

account by freezing the stock broker client account for debit. 

b)  Imposition of 100% concurrent audit on the depository participant. 
c)  Cessation/  restriction on  uses  of  Power  of  Attorney  (POA)  given 
to  stock  broker  by  clients  mapped  to  such  brokers  only  to  meet 

227 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

settlement  obligation  of  that  client.  Clients  to  issue  instructions 
electronically  or  through  Delivery  Instruction  Slip  (DIS)  for 
delivery of shares for off market transfers. 

8.3. Any  other  measures  that  Stock  Exchanges/  Clearing  Corporations/ 

Depositories may deem fit. 

 
4.40  Reporting      for  Artificial      Intelligence(AI)      and      Machine      Learning   
(ML)  applications      and      systems      offered  and      used  by  Market   
Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs)134 

Background 

in 

the 

Indian 

financial  markets 

1.  SEBI  is  conducting  a  survey  and  creating  an  inventory  of  the  AI  /  ML 
landscape 
in-depth 
understanding of the adoption of such technologies in the markets and to 
ensure preparedness for any AI / ML policies that may arise in the future.  
 
Scope definition 
 

to  gain  an 

2.  Any  set  of  applications  /  software  /  programs/  executable  /  systems 

(computer systems) –cumulatively   called   application   and   systems, to   
carry   out compliance  operations  /  activities, where  AI  /  ML  is used 
for  compliance  or management  purposes,  is  included  in  the  scope  of  
this    circular.    In  order  to  make  the  scope  of  this  circular  inclusive  of 
various  AI  and  ML  technologies  in  use,  the  scope  also  covers  Fin-Tech  
and Reg-Tech initiatives undertaken by MIIs that involves AI and ML. 

3.  Technologies  that  are  considered  to  be  categorized  as  AI  and  ML 

technologies in the scope of this circular, are explained in Annexure A. 
 
Regulatory requirements 
 

4.  All MIIs shall fill in the AI / ML reporting form (Annexure B) in respect of 
the  AI  or  ML  based  applications  or  systems  as  defined  in  Annexure  A 
offered  or  used  by  them,  and  submit  the  same  in  soft  copy  only  at 
AI_MII_SE@sebi.gov.in (for stock Exchanges) / AI_MII_ DEP@sebi.gov.in 

                                                           
134 Reference Circular SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP1/CIR/P/2019/24 dated January 31, 2019 
 
 

228 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(for Depositories) /AI_MII_CC@sebi.gov.in (for Clearing Corporations) to 
SEBI on a quarterly basis within 15 days of the expiry of the quarter, with 
effect from quarter ending March 31, 2019. 
 
Annexure A – Systems deemed to be based on AI and ML technology 
 
Applications  and  Systems  belonging  but  not  limited  to  following 
categories or a combination of these: 
 

1.  Natural  Language  Processing  (NLP),  sentiment  analysis  or  text  mining 
systems  that  gather  intelligence  from  unstructured  data.  –  In  this  case, 
Voice to text, text to intelligence systems in any natural language will be 
considered  in  scope.  Eg:  robo  chat  bots,  big  data  intelligence  gathering 
systems. 

 

2.  Neural  Networks  or  a  modified  form  of  it.  –  In  this  case,  any  systems 
that  uses  a  number  of  nodes  (physical  or  software  simulated  nodes) 
mimicking  natural  neural  networks  of  any  scale,  so  as  to  carry  out 
learning  from  previous  firing  of  the  nodes will  be  considered  in  scope. 
Eg: Recurrent Neural networks and Deep learning Neural Networks 

 

3.  Machine  learning  through  supervised,  unsupervised  learning  or  a 
combination of both. – In this case, any application or systems that carry 
out knowledge representation to form a knowledge base of domain, by 
learning  and  creating  its  outputs  with  real  world  input  data  and 
deciding  future  outputs  based  upon  the  knowledge  base.  Eg:  System 
based  on  Decision  tree,  random  forest,  K  mean,  Markov  decision 
process, Gradient boosting Algorithms. 
 

4.  A  system  that  uses  statistical  heuristics  method  instead  of  procedural 
the  system  /  application  applies  clustering  or 
algorithms  or 
categorization algorithms to categorize data without a predefined set of 
categories 
 

5.  A system that uses a feedback mechanism to improve its parameters and 

bases it subsequent execution steps on these parameters. 
 

229 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

6.  A  system  that  does  knowledge  representation  and  maintains  a 

knowledge base. 

 

Annexure  B  -  Form  to  report  on  AI  and  ML  technologies  –  to  be  submitted 
quarterly 

Value 

<free text field> 

<Internally  /  through  solution 
provider / Jointly with a solution 
provider or third party> 
<free text field> 

<Yes / No> 

<free text field> 

<free text field> 

 
Entity SEBI registration number 
 
Registered entity category 
 
Entity name 
 
Entity PAN no. 
 
Application / System name 
 
Date used from 
 
Type  of  area  where  AI  or  ML  is 
execution 
used 
/ 
Surveillance  / 
compliance  / 
others).  In  case  of  others,  please 
specify. 
What  is  the  name  of  the  Tool  / 
Technology  that  is  categorized  as 
AI  and  ML  system  /  Application 
and submissions are declared vide 
this response 

(order 

How was the AI or ML project 
implemented 

or 

systems 

Are  the  key  controls  and  control 
points 
in  your  AI  or  ML 
application 
in 
accordance with circular(s) of SEBI 
that mandate/s cyber security 
control requirements 
Is the AI / ML system included in 
the system audit 
Describe the application / system 
and how it uses AI / ML 
What safeguards are in place to 
prevent abnormal behavior of the 
AI or ML application / System 

230 

S/N  Head 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

4.41  Measures to expedite Dematerisation of securities135 

1.  In order to enable prompt execution of demat requests, Depositories shall 
provide additional details, such as PAN, Address and Residential status of 
investors in the DRF itself. 

2.  To  include  a  provision  in  DRF  to  capture  2  signatures  –  one  registered 
with  DP  at  the  time  of  demat  account  opening  and  the  other  registered 
with issuer/RTA at the time of allotment /transfer. The request submitted 
by  BO  would  be  only  processed  when  both  two  signatures  i.e  one 
registered  with  RTA  and  other  registered  with  DP  matches  with  two 
respective  signatures  on  DRF.  In  case  of  mismatch  of  any  of  the  two 
signatures the existing process of verifying signature may be followed. 

3.  To  advise  Depository  Participants  to  update  bank  account  details  of  all 

demat account holders in their records. 

 

4.42  Capacity Planning Framework for the Depositories136 

1.  The  capacity  planning  framework  of  the  Stock  Exchanges  and 
Clearing  Corporations  was  reviewed  by  Technical  Advisory 
Committee  (TAC)  of  SEBI.  Based  on  recommendations  of  the 
committee,  circular  no.  CIR/MRD/DP/17/2015  dated  October 
08,  2015  was  issued  to  the  Stock  Exchanges  and  Clearing 
Corporations with regard to their capacity planning. 

 

2.  Depositories  have  been 

identified  as 

Institutions  which 

financial  Market 
Infrastructure 
facilitate  and  perform 
systemically critical functions in the securities market. In view of 
their  importance  in  the  smooth  functioning  of  the  securities 
market, the framework for capacity planning of the Depositories 
was  also  discussed  in  TAC.  Based  on  recommendations  of  the 
committee,  it  has  been  decided  to  put  in  place  following 
requirements for Depositories while planning capacities for their 

                                                           
135 Reference: SEBI letter MRD/DoPII/DSAII/MIRSD/DOS3/OW/2018/28162/1 dated October 22, 2018 
136 Reference: SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2017/29 dated April 03, 2017 
 
 

231 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

operations: 

a.The  installed  capacity  shall  be  at  least  1.5  times  (1.5x)  of 

the projected peak load. 

b. 

The  projected  peak  load  shall  be  calculated  for  the 
next 60 days based on the per hour peak load trend of the 
past 180 days. 

c. The  Depositories  shall  ensure  that  the  utilisation  of 
resources  in  such  a  manner  so  as  to  achieve  work 
completion in 70% of the allocated time. 

d. 

All  systems  pertaining  to  Depository  operations 
shall be considered in this process including all technical 
components  such  as  network,  hardware,  software,  etc., 
and  shall  be  adequately  sized  to  meet  the  capacity 
requirements. 

e. In case the actual capacity utilization exceeds 75% of the 
installed  capacity  for  a  period  of  15  days  on  a  rolling 
basis,  immediate  action  shall  be  taken  to  enhance  the 
capacity. 

f. The  actual  capacity  utilisation  shall  be  monitored 
especially  during  the  period  of  the  day  in  which  pay-in 
and  pay-out  of  securities  takes  place  for  meeting 
settlement obligations. 

3.  Depositories  shall  implement  suitable  mechanisms,  including 
generation  of  appropriate  alerts,  to  monitor  capacity  utilisation 

232 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

on  a  real-time  basis  and  shall  proactively  address  issues 
pertaining to their capacity needs. 

 
4.43  Statutory Committees137 

1. 

2. 

In  order  to  ensure  effective  oversight  of  the  functioning  of  depositories 
(hereafter referred as Market Infrastructure Institutions or MIIs), Regulation 30 
of  the  SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations,  2018  [SEBI  (D&P) 
Regulations,  2018],  mandates  MIIs  to  constitute  three  functional  committees 
and  four  oversight  committees  within  each  MII.  A  list  of  all  such  mandatory 
committees  for  MIIs  along  with  their  functions  and  detailed  composition 
requirements is provided at Annexure A.  

Further, while the aforementioned annexure provides for the composition that 
is  specific  to  each  statutory  committee  at  MII,  the  overarching  principles  for 
composition and quorum of the statutory committee at MIIs shall be as under, 
which  shall  be  applicable  to  all  committees  with  an  exception  for  Investor 
Grievance Redressal Committee (IGRC) and Advisory Committee:  

2.1  On  each  committees  at  MIIs,  except  IGRC  and  Advisory  Committee,  the 
number  of  Public  Interest  Directors  (PIDs)  shall  not  be  less  than  the  total  of 
number  of  shareholder  directors,  Key  Management  Personnel  (KMPs), 
independent  external  persons,  etc.  put  together,  wherever  shareholder 
directors, KMPs,  independent  external  persons,  etc.  are  part of  the  concerned 
committee. 

2.2 PID shall be chairperson of each committee at MII. 

2.3 To constitute the quorum for the meeting of the MII committee, the number 
of PIDs on each of the committees at MIIs shall not be less than total number of 
other  members  (shareholder  directors,  KMPs,  independent  external  persons, 
etc. as applicable) put together. 

2.4 The voting on a resolution in the meeting of the committees at MIIs shall be 
valid  only  when  the  number  of  PIDs  that  have  cast  their  vote  on  such 
resolution  is  equal  to  or  more  than  the  total  number  of  other  members 
(shareholder  directors,  KMPs, 
independent  external  persons,  etc.,  as 
applicable) put together who have cast their vote on such resolution. 

2.5  The  casting  vote  in  the  meetings  of  the  committees  shall  be  with  the 
chairperson of the committee. 

                                                           
137 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP2DSA2/CIR/P/2019/13 dated January 10, 2019 and Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP2DSA2/CIR/P/2019/26 dated February 5, 2019  
 
 

233 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

2.6 Apart from that specifically provided in the Annexure, whenever required, 
a  committee  may  invite  Managing  Director,  other  relevant  KMPs  and 
employees of the MII. However such invitee shall not have any voting rights. 

As regards the composition and quorum of IGRC and Advisory Committee, the 

same shall be as prescribed in   the enclosed Annexure A.  

3. 

Further, MIIs are directed to adhere to the following: 

3.1 Over and above the statutory committees mentioned at point 1 above, the 
committees that are mandated by relevant law for listed companies shall apply 
mutatis mutandis to MIIs. 

3.2  MIIs  shall  lay  down  policy  for  the  frequency  of  meetings,  etc.,  for  the 
statutory committees. 

3.3 PIDs in Committees at MIIs: 

3.3.1 SEBI (D&P) Regulations 2018 prescribes that a PID on the board of a 
MII  shall  not  act  simultaneously  as  a  member  on  more  than  five 
committees of that MII. 

3.3.2  It  is  clarified  that  the  above  limitation  on  maximum  number  of 
committees  that  a  PID  can  be  member  of,  shall  be  applicable  only  to 
statutory committees prescribed by SEBI under SEBI (D&P) Regulations, 
2018, and circulars issued thereunder. The said requirement shall not be 
applicable to committees  constituted under  Companies Act,  2013,  SEBI 
(Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements),  2015,  amongst 
others. 

3.3.3 In case of non-availability of adequate number of PIDs in a MII, the 
relevant  MII  shall  take  steps  to  induct  more  PIDs  in  order  to  fulfil  the 
requirement of composition of committees within a MII. 

3.4 Meeting of PIDs: 

3.4.1 As per code of conduct for PIDs provided SEBI (D&P) Regulations 
2018, the PIDs shall be required to meet separately every six months. It 
is added that  all the PIDs shall necessarily  attend all such meetings of 
PIDs 

3.4.2  The  objective  of  such  meetings,  shall  include  inter  alia  reviewing 
the  status  of  compliance  with  SEBI  letters/  circulars,  reviewing  the 
functioning  of  regulatory  departments  including  the  adequacy  of 
resources dedicated to regulatory functions, etc. PIDs shall also prepare 

234 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

a  report  on  the  working  of  the  committees  of  which  they  are  member 
and  circulate  the  same  to  other  PIDs.  The  consolidated  report  in  this 
regard shall be submitted to the governing board of the MIIs. Further, 
PIDs  shall  identify  the  important  issues  which  may  involve  conflict  of 
interest  for  the  MII  or  may  have  significant  impact  on  the  market and 
report the same to SEBI, from time to time.  

3.5 Independent external persons in committees at MIIs: 

3.5.1  The  independent  external  persons  forming  a  part  of  committees 
shall  be  from  amongst  the  persons  of  integrity,  having  a  sound 
reputation  and  not  having  any  conflict  of  interest.  They  shall  be 
specialists in the field of work assigned to the committee; however they 
shall  not  be  associated  in  any  manner  with  the  relevant  MII  and  its 
members. 

3.5.2  MIIs  shall  frame  the  guidelines  for  appointment,  tenure,  code  of 
conduct, etc., of independent external persons. Extension of the tenure 
may  be  granted  to  independent  external  persons  at  the  expiry  of  the 
tenure, subject to performance review in the manner prescribed by SEBI 
for  PIDs.  Further,  the  maximum  tenure  limit  of  Independent  external 
persons  in  a  committee  of  MII  shall  be  at  par  with  that  of  PIDs,  as 
prescribed under Regulation 25(3) of the SEBI (D&P) Regulations, 2018.  

3.6 The existing MIIs shall submit a confirmation report to SEBI with regard 
to  the  formation  and  composition  of  the  Committees  listed  out  in  the 
Annexure A and compliance with other norms prescribed in the circular, 
at the earliest but not later than three months from the date of the circular. 

4.  Performance review of Public Interest Directors (PIDs)138: 

4.1 In  respect  of  Public  Interest  Directors  (PIDs)  appointed  in  the 
governing  board  of  MIIs,  Regulation  25(3)  of  SEBI(D&P) 
Regulations, 2018, provides the following: 

“Public  interest  directors  shall  be  nominated  for  a  term  of  three  years, 
extendable  by  another  term  of  three  years,  subject  to  performance 
review in the manner as may be specified by the Board:  

 

Provided  that  post  the  expiry  of  term(s)  at  the  recognized  stock 
 
exchange  or  the  recognized  clearing  corporation  /  depository,  a  public 
interest  director  may  be  nominated  for  a  further  term  of  three  years  in 

                                                           
138 Circular No. SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP2DSA2/CIR/P/2019/31 dated February 15, 2019 
 
 

235 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

other  recognized  clearing  corporation  or  recognized  stock  exchange,  or  a 
depository, only after a cooling-off period of one year: 

 

 
Provided  further  that  a  person  may  be  nominated  as  a  public 
interest  director  for  a  maximum  of  three  terms  across  recognized  stock 
exchanges  /  recognized  clearing  corporations  /  depositories,  subject  to  a 
maximum age limit of seventy five years.” 

4.2 For  complying  with 

the  aforementioned  regulation,  while 
developing  a  framework  for  performance  review  of  PIDs,  MIIs 
need to consider the following:  

4.2.1  Policy for Performance review of PIDs:   

4.2.1.1 

4.2.1.2 

4.2.1.3 

4.2.1.4 

The Nomination and Remuneration committee 
(NRC)  of  the  MIIs  will  be  responsible  for 
framing  the  performance  review  policy  for 
PIDs. 

Such  performance  review  policy  shall  include 
criteria 
evaluation, 
methodology adopted for such evaluation and 
analyzing the results, amongst others.  

performance 

for 

Performance review policy of PID shall include 
scope  for  both  internal  evaluation  as  well  as 
external evaluation. 

Further,  as  performance  review  is  not  a  static 
process  and  requires  periodical  review,  NRC 
shall  also  be  responsible  for  reviewing  such 
performance  review  policy,  at  least  once  in  3 
years.  

4.2.1.5 

Such  performance  review  policy  and  changes 
made  therein,  shall  be  approved  by  the 
governing board of MII.  

4.2.2  Guiding criteria of Performance Review:  

As  a  part  of  framing  performance  review  policy,  NRC  shall  be  primarily 
responsible for formulation of performance evaluation criteria. The criteria 
for  performance  review  of  PIDs,  which  shall  be  considered  for  both 
internal  evaluation  and  external  evaluation,  may  be  framed  by  NRC 

236 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

taking  into  consideration  guiding  principles  provided  at  Annexure  B. 
These principles would serve as a guidance for MIIs and the same may be 
adopted  by  respective  MIIs,  as  considered  appropriate,  with  additional 
principles, if any.  

4.2.3  Evaluation mechanism: 

4.2.3.1 

4.2.3.2 

4.2.3.3 

PIDs  shall  be  subjected  to  internal  evaluation 
as  well  as  external  evaluation,  carrying  equal 
weightage. 

Internal  evaluation:  All  the  governing  board 
members  shall  evaluate  the  performance  of 
each  PID,  on  an  annual  basis  at  the  end  of 
every financial year.  

resources 

consulting 

External  evaluation:  PIDs  shall  also  be  subject 
to external evaluation during their last year of 
the  term  in  a  MII,  by  a  management  or  a 
human 
firm.  The 
consultant  shall  take  into  consideration  the 
performance  of  the  PID  for  the  entire  tenure 
served  in  a given MII,  at  least  up to  4  months 
before  expiry  of  his/  her  term.  In  order  to 
avoid  any  bias  or  conflict  of  interest,  external 
consultant  should  not  be  a  related  party  or 
associated  with  the  MII,  the  concerned  PID  or 
any other governing board members.  

4.2.3.4 

Such  performance  review  should  be  carried 
out  in  fair  &  objective  manner  and  the  review 
should  be  recorded  with  clarity  and  verifiable 
facts in a  standardized format covering all the 
relevant criteria / aspects. 

4.2.3.5  While  evaluating  conflict  of  interest  of  a  PID, 
the governing board of MII shall also take into 
consideration  provisions  of  Clause  2(d)  of 
Schedule II Part C of  SEBI (D&P) Regulations, 
2018  under  the  head  ‘Public  Interest  Director’; 
and  conflict  of  interest,  if  any,  of  any  PIDs 

237 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

should  be  disclosed  to  SEBI  by  the  governing 
board with their comments/ views.   

4.2.4  Disclosure:  Performance  evaluation  criteria  for  PIDs 
shall be disclosed in their annual report as well as on the 
website of the concerned MII.  

4.2.5  Recommendation to SEBI: After taking into account the 
performance of a PID in the concerned MII, on the basis 
of  internal  evaluation  and  external  evaluation  both 
carrying  equal  weightage,  NRC  shall  consider  and 
recommend  extension  of  his  /  her  tenure  to  the 
Governing Board of the MII. The Governing Board of the 
MII shall in-turn consider and recommend to SEBI if the 
tenure  of  the  PID  is  desired  to  be  extended  by  another 
term of three years. 

4.2.6 

In  addition  to  the  other  requirements  prescribed  in 
performance review policy of the MIIs along-with norms 
specified in SEBI (D&P) Regulations, 2018, the following 
may be considered by NRCs of MIIs: 

4.2.6.1 

It  shall  be  ensured  that  the  concerned  PID 
hasn’t  remained  absent  for  three  consecutive 
meetings  of  the  governing  board  and  has 
attended  seventy  five  per  cent  of  the  total 
meetings  of  the  governing  board  in  each 
calendar year; failing which PID shall be liable 
to vacate office.  

4.2.6.2 

It  shall  be  ensured  that  PIDs  in  the  governing 
boards of MIIs are selected from diverse fields 
of  work,  in  terms  of  their  qualification  and 
experience. 

4.3 The application for extension of term of a PID shall be accompanied 
with  the  attendance  details  of  PID  in  the  meetings  of  various 
mandatory  committees  and  of  the  governing  board  of  the  MII 
along-with specific reasons for seeking extension of his / her term 
as a PID. Such specific reasons shall include facts such as whether 
the  concerned  PID,  during  the  term  served,  had  identified  any 
important issues concerning any matter which may involve conflict 
of interest, or have significant impact on functioning of MII, or may 

238 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

not be in the interest of securities market as a whole, and whether 
the PID had reported the same to SEBI. 

4.4 In  terms  of  SEBI  (D&P)  Regulations,  2018,  it  is  clarified  that  a 
minimum  of  two  names  shall  be  submitted  by  MIIs  at  the  time  of 
making request for appointment of PID and extension of the term 
of  existing  PID,  including  appointment  of  PID  for  the  purpose  of 
broad basing the governing board, against each such vacancy.  

4.5 It is clarified that the aforementioned norms specify the minimum 
requirements that  have to be complied with by MIIs, however the 
NRCs  of  MIIs  may  adopt  additional  and  more  stringent  norms 
while  framing  a  policy  for  performance  review  of  PIDs.    With 
regard  to  the  detailed  criteria  for  performance  evaluation,  as 
provided in  Annexure  B to the circular, the  same shall  serve as an 
illustrative guide for MIIs to frame performance evaluation criteria 
–both for internal as well as external evaluation, and the same may 
be  adopted  by  MIIs  as  considered  appropriate,  with  additional 
criteria, if any.  

4.5.1  Additionally, with regard to tenure of existing PIDs as on 

date of this circular, following is clarified: 

4.5.1.1 

4.5.1.2 

The  term of  existing  PIDs  serving  in  a  MII  for 
more than three years, can be extended, subject 
to  his  /  her  performance  review  and  a 
maximum  tenure  of  6  years  as  PID  in  that 
particular MII. 

The  term  of  existing  PIDs,  that  have  already 
served  for  six  years  or  more  in  a  single  MII, 
shall  not  be  eligible  for  further  extension  in 
that MII.  

239 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

CIRCULARS 

1.  Circular No. SMDRP/Policy/Cir-28/99 dated August 23, 1999.  
2.  Circular No. SMDRP/Policy/Cir-05/2001 dated February 1, 2001. 
3.  Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/Cir-09/2002 dated July 4, 2002.  
4.  Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/Cir-10/2002 dated September 25, 2002. 
5.  Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/Cir-13/2002 dated November 1, 2002. 
6.  Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/CIR - 12/2002 dated October 30, 2002.  
7.  Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/Cir-15/2002 dated December 27, 2002. 
8.  Circular No. LGL/Cir-2/2003 dated February 19, 2003. 
9.  Circular No. DCC/FITTC/Cir-19/2003 dated March 4, 2003 
10. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/Policy/AT/Cir-19/2004 dated April 21, 2004. 
11. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-27/2004 dated August 16, 2004. 
12. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-29/2004 dated August 24, 2004.  
13. Circular No. MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-36/04 dated October 27, 2004. 
14. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/SE/DEP/Cir-4/2005 dated January 28, 2005. 
15. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-16/2005 dated August 04, 2005. 
16. Circular No. MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-18/2005 dated September 2, 2005. 
17. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-22 /05 dated November 09, 2005. 
18. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-24/05 dated December 22, 2005. 
19. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-2/06 dated January 19, 2006. 
20. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/DEP/Cir-3/06 dated February 21, 2006.  
21. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-09/06 dated July 20, 2006. 
22. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-13/06 dated September 26, 2006. 
23. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-17/06 dated October 27, 2006. 
24. Circular No. MRD/Dep/Cir- 20/06 dated December 11, 2006. 
25. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Dep/SE/Cir-22/06 dated December 18, 2006. 
26. Circular  No.  MRD/DSA/SE/Dep/Cust/Cir-23/06  dated  December  22, 

2006. 

27. Circular No. SEBI/CFD/DILDIP/29/2008/01/02 dated February 1, 2008. 
28. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/Dep/Cir-03/2007 dated February 13, 2007. 
29. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Cir- 5/2007 dated April 27, 2007.  
30. Circular No. MIRSD/DPS-III/Cir-9/07 dated July 3, 2007. 
31. Circular No. MIRSD/DPS- III/Cir-23/08 dated July 25, 2008. 

240 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

32. Circular No. SEBI/MRD/Dep/Cir-03/2008 dated February 28, 2008. 
33. Circular No. MRD/DoP/Cir-20/2008 dated June 30, 2008. 
34. Circular No. MRD/DoP/SE/Dep/Cir-2/2009 dated February 10, 2009. 
35. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/19/2010 dated June 10, 2010. 
36. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/20/2010 dated July 1, 2010. 
37. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/22/2010 dated July 29, 2010. 
38. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DO/37/2010 dated December 14, 2010. 
39. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/04/2011 dated April 07, 2011. 
40. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/05/2011 dated April 27, 2011. 
41. Circular No. MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011 dated October 5, 2011. 
42. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DMS/13/2011 dated November 29, 2011. 
43. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DMS/12/2012 dated April 13, 2012  
44. Circular No. CIR/MRD/ DMS/17/2012 dated June 22, 2012 
45. Circular No. CIR/MRD/ICC/16/2012 dated June 15, 2012. 
46. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/21/2012 dated August 02, 2012. 
47. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/09/2012 dated August 13, 2012. 
48. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/22/2012 dated August 27, 2012. 
49. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MIRSD /11/2012 dated September 05, 2012. 
50. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/24/2012 dated September 11, 2012. 
51. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/DA/25/2012 dated September 21, 2012. 
52. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/27/2012 dated November 01, 2012. 
53. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/32/2012 dated December 06, 2012. 
54. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MIRSD/01/2013 dated January 04, 2013. 
55. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/10/2013 dated March 21, 2013. 
56. Circular  No.  CIR  SEBI/MRD/DRMNP/26/2013  dated  September  04, 

2013. 

57. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MIRSD /07/2013 dated September 12, 2013. 
58. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MIRSD/09/2013 dated October 08, 2013. 
59. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/10/2013 dated October 28, 2013. 
60. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MIRSD/ 12/2013 dated December 04, 2013. 
61. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MRD/DOP/01/2014 dated January 07, 2014. 
62. Circular No. CIR MRD/DMS/03/2014 dated January 21, 2014. 
63. Circular No. CIR SEBI/MRD/DMS/05/2014 dated February 07, 2014. 

241 

 

 
 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

64. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/21/2014 dated July 01, 2014. 
65. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/22/2014 dated July 04, 2014. 
66. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/31/2014 dated November 12, 2014. 
67. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/1/2015 dated January 12, 2015.  
68. Circular No. CIR/ MIRSD/1/2015 dated March 04, 2015. 
69. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/10/2015 dated June 05, 2015. 
70. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/13/2015 dated July 06, 2015. 
71. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/2/2015 dated August 26, 2015. 
72. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/18/2015 dated December 09, 2015. 
73. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/19/2015 dated December 09, 2015. 
74. Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/20/2015 dated December 11, 2015. 
75. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/29/2016 dated January 22, 2016 
76. Circular No. SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2016/58 dated June 07, 2016. 
77. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/64/2016 dated July 12, 2016 
78. Circular No. CIR/MIRSD/66/2016 dated July 21, 2016 
79. Circular 

No.SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2016/95 

dated 

September 26, 2016 

80. Circular No. CIR/IMD/FPIC/123/2016 dated November 17, 2016 
81. Circular No. SEBI/HO/DMS/CIR/P/2017/15 dated February 23, 2017 
82. Circular  No.  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD6/CIR/P/2017/20  dated  March 

10, 2017 

83. Circular No. SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/CIR/P/2017/29 dated April 03, 2017 
84. Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD1/CIR/P/2017/38 dated May 02, 

2017 

85. Circular  number  SEBI/HO/GSD/T&A/CIR/P/2017/42  dated  May  16, 

2017 

86. Circular number CIR/MRD/DP/56/2017 dated June 14, 2017 
87. Circular  number  CIR/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD2/CIR/P/2017/64  dated  June 

22, 2017 

88. Circular  number  SEBI/HO/IMD/FIIC/CIR/P/2017/068  dated  June  30, 

2017 

89. Circular number CIR/IMD/DF-1/67/2017 dated June 30,2017 

242 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

90. Circular number SEBI/HO/MRD/DSA/CIR/P/2018/1 dated January 29, 

2018 

91. Circular number CIR/DDHS/P/59/2018 dated March 28, 2018 
92. Circular  number  SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/CIR/P/2018/58  dated  March 

28, 2018 

93. Circular number IMD/FPIC/CIR/P/2018/61 dated April 05, 2018 
94.  Circular  number  SEBI/  HO/  MIRSD/  DOS3/  CIR/  P/  2018/  140  dated 

November 13, 2018 

95.  Circular  number  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/CIR/PB/2018/147  dated  December 

03, 2018 

96.  Circular number CIR/MRD/CSC/148/2018 dated December 07, 2018 
97.  Circular  number 
December 17, 2018 

SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2018/153  dated 

98.  Circular number CIR/MRD/DP/158/2018 dated December 27, 2018 
99.  Circular  SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOS2/CIR/P/2019/10 dated Jan 04, 2019 
100. Circular number SEBI/HO/MIRSD/DOP/CIR/P/2019/05 dated January 

04, 2019 

101. Circular  No. 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP2DSA2/CIR/P/2019/13  dated 

January 10, 2019 

102. Circular  No. 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP2-DSA2/CIR/P/2019/22  dated 

January 23, 2019 

103. Circular  number  SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP1/CIR/P/2019/24  dated  January 

31, 2019 

104. Circular  number  SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP2DSA2/CIR/P/2019/26  dated 

February 05, 2019 

105. Circular  No. 

SEBI/HO/MRD/DOP2DSA2/CIR/P/2019/31  dated 

February 15, 2019 

106. Circular  number  CIR/HO/MIRSD/DOS2/CIR/PB/2019/038  dated 

March 15, 2019 

107. Circular  number  SEBI/HO/MRD/DMS1/CIR/P/2019/43  dated  March 

26, 2019 
 

 

 
 

 

243 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 
 

 
 

COMMUNICATIONS 
  

1.  SMDRP/NSDL / 3055 /1998 dated August 11, 1998. 
2.  SMDRP/RKD /NSDL/2494 /98 dated November 18, 1998. 
3.  SMDRP/NSDL/4615 /2000 dated March 13, 2000. 
4.  SMDRP/CDSL / 18300 /2000 dated November 16, 2000. 
5.  SMDRP/NSDL/26563/2001 dated April 10, 2001. 
6.  D&CC/ 1099 / 2002 dated November 01, 2002. 
7.  MRD/DRK/SU/16034/2003 dated August 22, 2003. 
8.  MRD/VSS/ARR/ 12255/2004 dated June 10, 2004. 
9.  MRD/DoP/ Dep/82334 /2006 dated December 14, 2006. 
10. MRD/DEP/PP/123624 /2008 dated April 23, 2008. 
11. MRD/DoP/MC/141442 /2008 dated October 17, 2008. 
12. SEBI/ MRD/CDSL/ 149156 /2009 dated January 01, 2009. 
13. MRD/CDSL/VM/ 155773 /2009 dated February 27, 2009. 
14. MRD/NSDL/VM/158886 /2009 dated March 30, 2009. 
15. MRD/DoP/NSDL/VM/ 162378 /2009 dated May 06, 2009. 
16. MRD/DoP/NSDL/VM/168994 /2009 dated July 07, 2009. 
17. MRD/CDSL/VM/168989 /2009 dated July 07, 2009. 
18. SEBI/MRD/DEP/VM/169784 /09 dated July 15, 2009. 
19. MRD/DoP/Dep/VM/182963/2009 dated November 12, 2009. 
20. MRD/DoP/MAS – OW/16723/2010 dated August 17, 2010. 
21. MRD/DP/SG-OW/202/2012  and  MRD/DP/SG-OW/203/2012  dated 

January 4, 2012. 

22. MRD/DP/SG-OW/2010/2012 dated January 20, 2012. 
23. CFD email dated November 05, 2015. 
24. MIRSD email dated January 16, 2015. 
25. SEBI Letter No. MRD//DP/OW/23881/2015 dated August 24, 2015SEBI 
letter  No.  SEBI/HO/MRD/DP/OW/2016/25739/1    &  25740/1  dated 
September 14, 2016 

26. SEBI letter No.  OW/00000/04961/2017/1 dated May 11, 2017 

244 

 
 

 

भारतीय प्रततभूतत और वितिमय बोर्ड 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

27. SEBI letter MIRSD2/DB/AEA/OW/2018/7292 dated March 07, 2018 
28. SEBI  letter  SEBI/MRD/ICC/OW/P/2018/27066/1  dated  September  25, 

2018 

29. SEBI letter MRD/DoPII/DSAII/MIRSD/DOS3/OW/2018/28162/1 dated 

October 22, 2018 
 

245 

 

 
 

 
 

 

