OFFICER ON SPECIAL DUTY 
INTEGRATED SURVEILLANCE DEPARTMENT  
EMAIL – ramanns@sebi.gov.in 
TEL : 022 26449450 
Fax : 022 26449029 

ISD/AML/CIR-1/2008 
December 19, 2008 
 

 
To  all  Intermediaries  registered  with  SEBI  under  section  12  of  the 
SEBI Act. 
(Through  the  stock  exchanges  for  stock  brokers,  sub  brokers  and 
depositories for depository participants) 
 
Sub: Anti Money Laundering (AML) Standards/Combating Financing 
of  Terrorism 
(CFT)/Obligations  of  Securities  Market 
Intermediaries  under  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  Act, 
2002  and  Rules  framed  there-under-  Master  Circular  on 
AML/CFT 

 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 

1.  The  Prevention  of  Money  Laundering  Act,  2002  (PMLA)  was 
brought  into  force  with  effect  from  1st  July  2005.  Necessary 
Notifications  /  Rules  under  the  said  Act  were  published  in  the 
Gazette  of  India  on  July  01,  2005.  Subsequently,  SEBI  issued 
necessary guidelines vide circular no. ISD/CIR/RR/AML/1/06 dated 
January  18,  2006  to  all  securities  market  intermediaries  as 
registered  under  Section  12  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992.  These 
guidelines  were  issued  in  the  context  of  the  recommendations 
made  by  the  Financial  Action  Task  Force  (FATF)  on  anti-money 

Page 1 of 34 

laundering  standards.    Compliance  with  these  standards  by  all 
intermediaries      and      the  country      has  become  imperative      for 
international   financial relations.  

 
2.  As per the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 
every  banking  company,  financial  institution  (which  includes  chit 
fund  company,  a  co-operative  bank,  a  housing  finance  institution 
and  a  non-banking  financial  company)    and  intermediary  (which 
includes a stock-broker, sub-broker, share transfer agent, banker to 
an  issue,  trustee  to  a  trust  deed,  registrar  to  an  issue,  merchant 
banker, underwriter, portfolio manager, investment adviser and any 
other intermediary associated with securities market and registered 
under  section  12  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
Act,  1992)  shall  have  to  maintain  a  record  of  all  the  transactions; 
the  nature  and  value  of  which  has  been  prescribed  in  the  Rules  
notified under the PMLA. Such transactions include :  

(cid:190)  All  cash  transactions  of  the  value  of  more  than  Rs  10 

lakhs or its equivalent in foreign currency. 

(cid:190)  All  series  of  cash  transactions  integrally  connected  to 
each other which have been valued below Rs 10 lakhs or 
its  equivalent  in  foreign  currency  where  such  series  of 
transactions take place within one calendar month. 

(cid:190)  All suspicious transactions whether or not made in cash.  

 

 

that 

the 

intermediaries  may,  according 

3.  The  Guidelines  laid  down  the  minimum  requirements  and  it  was 
their 
emphasised 
requirements, specify additional disclosures to be made by clients 
to  address  concerns  of  Money  Laundering  and  suspicious 
transactions  undertaken  by  clients.  All  intermediaries  were  also 
advised  to  ensure  that  a  proper  policy  framework  as  per  the 

to 

Page 2 of 34 

Guidelines  on  anti-money  laundering  measures  is  put  into  place 
and  to  designate  an  officer  as  ‘Principal  Officer’  who  would  be 
responsible for ensuring compliance of the provisions of the PMLA. 
Names, designation and addresses (including e-mail addresses) of 
‘Principal  Officer’  shall  also  be  intimated  to  the  Office  of  the 
Director-FIU,  6th  Floor,  Hotel  Samrat,  Chanakyapuri,  New  Delhi  -
110021, India on an immediate basis.  

4.  The  detailed  procedure  incorporating  the  manner  of  maintaining 
information  and  matters  incidental  thereto  for  SEBI  registered 
intermediaries,  under  the  prevention  of  Money  Laundering  Act, 
2002 and the Rules made there-under and formats for reporting by 
the  intermediaries  were  also  issued  subsequently  vide  circular 
reference no. ISD/CIR/RR/AML/2/06 dated March 20, 2006. 

5.  This  Master  circular  consolidates  all  the  requirements/obligations 
issued  with  regard  to  AML/CFT  till  December  15,  2008.  This 
Circular is being issued to all the intermediaries as specified at para 
2  above.  The  circular  shall  also  apply  to  their  branches  and 
subsidiaries located abroad, especially, in countries which do not or 
insufficiently apply the FATF Recommendations, to the extent local 
laws  and  regulations  permit.  When  local  applicable  laws  and 
regulations  prohibit  implementation  of  these  requirements,  the 
same should be brought to the notice of SEBI. In case there is a 
variance  in  KYC/AML  standards  prescribed  by  SEBI  and  the 
regulators  of  the  host  country,  branches/overseas  subsidiaries  of 
intermediaries  are 
the  more  stringent 
requirements of the two. 

to  adopt 

required 

6.  This Master circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred 
under Section 11 (1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Page 3 of 34 

 

 

 

Act,  1992,  and  Rule    7  of  Prevention  of  Money-laundering 
(Maintenance of Records of the Nature and Value of Transactions, 
the Procedure and Manner of Maintaining and Time for Furnishing 
Information  and  Verification  and  Maintenance  of  Records  of  the 
Identity  of  the  Clients  of  the  Banking  Companies,  Financial 
Institutions and Intermediaries) Rules, 2005 to protect the interests 
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to 
regulate the securities market. 

 

7.  All the registered intermediaries are directed to ensure compliance 
with  the  requirements  contained  in  this  Master  Circular  on  an 
immediate  basis.  Stock  exchanges  and  depositories  are  also 
directed to bring the contents of this circular to the attention of their 
member  brokers/  depository  participants  and  verify  compliance 
during inspections.  

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
S. Ramann 
 

Page 4 of 34 

SEBI Master Circular on Anti Money Laundering (AML and 
Combating Financing of Terrorism (CFT)- Obligations of 

Intermediaries under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 

and Rules Framed there-under 

 

(Consolidated upto December 15, 2008) 

 

OVER VIEW 

PART -I 
 
Introduction 
1 
2  Background 
3  Policies and Procedures to Combat Money Laundering and 

Terrorist financing   

3.1  Guiding Principles 
3.2  Obligations to establish policies and procedures  
 
DETAILED OBLIGATIONS 

PART -II 
 
4  Written Anti Money Laundering Procedures 
5  Customer Due Diligence  

5.1 Elements of Customer Due Diligence 
5.2 Policy for acceptance of clients  
5.3 Risk Based Approach  
5.4 Clients of special category (CSC) 
5.5 Client identification procedure 

Information to be maintained 

6  Record Keeping 
7 
8  Retention of Records 
9  Monitoring of transactions 
10 Suspicious Transaction Monitoring & Reporting 
11 Reports to Financial Intelligence Unit- India 

Page 5 of 34 

12 Designation of an officer for reporting of suspicious transaction 
13 Employees’ Hiring/Training and Investor Education 
14 List of Key Circulars/Guidelines issued having a bearing on 

AML/CFT framework 

15 Annexure- List of various Reports and their formats 

Page 6 of 34 

 
1.  Introduction 
 

terrorist 

laundering  and 

1.1 The Guidelines as outlined below provide a general background on 
the  subjects  of  money 
financing 
summarizes  the  main  provisions  of  the  applicable  anti-money 
laundering  and  anti-terrorist  financing  legislation  in  India  and 
provides  guidance  on  the  practical  implications  of  the  Act.  The 
Guidelines also sets out the steps that a registered intermediary or 
any  of  its  representatives,  should  implement  to  discourage  and 
identify  any  money  laundering  or  terrorist  financing  activities.  The 
relevance  and  usefulness  of  these  Guidelines  will  be  kept  under 
review and it may be necessary to issue amendments from time to 
time. 

 
1.2 

that  a 

These  Guidelines  are  intended  for  use  primarily  by  intermediaries 
registered  under  Section  12  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992.  While  it  is 
recognized 
“one-size-fits-all”  approach  may  not  be 
appropriate  for  the  securities  industry  in  India,  each  registered 
intermediary  should  consider  the  specific  nature  of  its  business, 
organizational  structure,  type  of  customers  and  transactions,  etc. 
when  implementing  the  suggested  measures  and  procedures  to 
ensure that they are effectively applied. The overriding principle is 
that  they  should  be  able  to  satisfy  themselves  that  the  measures 
taken  by  them  are  adequate,  appropriate  and  follow  the  spirit  of 
these  measures  and  the  requirements  as  enshrined  in  the 
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. (PMLA) 

 
 
2.  Back Ground: 
 

Page 7 of 34 

2.1 The Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 came into effect from 
1st July 2005. Necessary Notifications / Rules under the said Act were 
published in the Gazette of India on 1st July 2005 by the Department of 
Revenue, Ministry of Finance, Government of India.  

 
2.2 As  per  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  every  banking  company,  financial 
institution  (which  includes  chit  fund  company,  a  co-operative  bank,  a 
housing finance institution and a non-banking financial company)  and 
intermediary (which includes a stock-broker, sub-broker, share transfer 
agent, banker to an issue, trustee to a trust deed, registrar to an issue, 
merchant  banker,  underwriter,  portfolio  manager,  investment  adviser 
and  any  other  intermediary  associated  with  securities  market  and 
registered under section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India Act, 1992) shall have to maintain a record of all the transactions; 
the nature and value of which has been prescribed in the Rules  under 
the PMLA. Such transactions include:  

 

(cid:136)  All cash transactions of the value of more than Rs 10 lacs or its 

equivalent in foreign currency. 

(cid:136)  All series of cash transactions integrally connected to each other 
which have been valued below Rs 10 lakhs or its equivalent in 
foreign  currency  where  such  series  of  transactions  take  place 
within one calendar month. 

(cid:136)  All  suspicious  transactions  whether  or  not  made  in  cash  and 
including, inter-alia, credits or debits  into from any non monetary 
account such as d-mat account, security account maintained by 
the registered intermediary. 

 
It  may,  however,  be  clarified  that  for  the  purpose  of  suspicious 
transactions 
integrally 

reporting,  apart 

from 

‘transactions 

Page 8 of 34 

connected’,  ‘transactions  remotely  connected  or  related’  should 
also be considered. 

 
3.  Policies  and  Procedures  to  Combat  Money  Laundering  and 

Terrorist financing 

3.1 Guiding Principles 

3.1.1  These Guidelines have taken into account the requirements 
of  the  Prevention  of  the  Money  Laundering  Act,  2002  as 
applicable to the intermediaries registered under Section 12 
of  the  SEBI  Act.  The  detailed  guidelines  in  Part  II  have 
outlined  relevant  measures  and  procedures  to  guide  the 
registered  intermediaries  in  preventing  money  laundering 
and terrorist financing. Some of these suggested measures 
and  procedures  may  not  be  applicable 
in  every 
circumstance.  Each  intermediary  should  consider  carefully 
the  specific  nature  of  its  business,  organizational  structure, 
type of customer and transaction, etc. to satisfy itself that the 
measures  taken  by  them  are  adequate  and  appropriate  to 
follow the spirit of the suggested measures in Part II and the 
requirements  as  laid  down  in  the  Prevention  of  Money 
Laundering Act, 2002. 

 
 
 

3.2 Obligation to establish policies and procedures 

 
 
 

 
 

3.2.1  International  initiatives  taken  to  combat  drug  trafficking, 
terrorism  and  other  organized  and  serious  crimes  have 
including  securities 
concluded 

institutions 

that 

financial 

Page 9 of 34 

market intermediaries must establish procedures of internal 
control aimed at preventing and impeding money laundering 
and terrorist financing. The said obligation on intermediaries 
has  also  been  obligated  under  the  Prevention  of  Money 
Laundering Act, 2002. In order to fulfill these requirements, 
there is also a need for registered intermediaries to have a 
system  in  place  for  identifying,  monitoring  and  reporting 
suspected  money 
financing 
transactions to the law enforcement authorities. 

laundering  or 

terrorist 

 
3.2.2  In  light  of  the  above,  senior  management  of  a  registered 
intermediary  should  be  fully  committed  to  establishing 
appropriate  policies  and  procedures  for  the  prevention  of 
money laundering and terrorist financing and ensuring their 
effectiveness  and  compliance  with  all  relevant  legal  and 
regulatory  requirements.  The  Registered 
Intermediaries 
should: 

(a) issue a statement of policies and procedures, on a group 
for  dealing  with  money 
basis  where  applicable, 
laundering  and  terrorist  financing  reflecting  the  current 
statutory and regulatory requirements; 

 

(b)  ensure 

the  content  of 
understood by all staff members; 

that 

these  Guidelines  are 

(c)  regularly  review 

the  policies  and  procedures  on 
prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing to 
ensure  their  effectiveness.  Further  in  order  to  ensure 
effectiveness  of  policies  and  procedures,  the  person 
doing such a review should be different from the one who 
has framed such policies and procedures; 

Page 10 of 34 

(d)  adopt  customer  acceptance  policies  and  procedures 
which are sensitive to the risk of money laundering and 
terrorist financing; 

(e) undertake customer due diligence (“CDD”) measures to 
an extent that is sensitive to the risk of money laundering 
and 
type  of 
customer, business relationship or transaction; and 

financing  depending  on 

terrorist 

the 

(f) develop staff members’ awareness and vigilance to guard 

against money laundering and terrorist financing. 

 

3.2.3  Policies  and  procedures  to  combat  Money  Laundering 

should cover: 

 

relating 

a.  Communication  of  group  policies 

laundering  and 

to 
terrorist 
prevention  of  money 
financing to all management and relevant staff that 
handle account information, securities transactions, 
money  and  customer  records  etc.  whether 
in 
branches, departments or subsidiaries; 

b.  Customer  acceptance  policy  and  customer  due 
for 

including  requirements 

diligence  measures, 
proper identification; 

c.  Maintenance of records; 
d.  Compliance  with  relevant  statutory  and  regulatory 

requirements; 

e.  Co-operation  with  the  relevant  law  enforcement 
timely  disclosure  of 

including 

the 

authorities, 
information; and 

f.    Role  of  internal  audit  or  compliance  function  to 
ensure  compliance  with  policies,  procedures,  and 
controls relating to prevention of money laundering 

Page 11 of 34 

and  terrorist  financing,  including  the  testing  of  the 
system  for  detecting  suspected  money  laundering 
transactions, evaluating and checking the adequacy 
of  exception  reports  generated  on  large  and/or 
irregular  transactions,  the  quality  of  reporting  of 
suspicious transactions and the level of awareness 
of  front  line  staff  of  their  responsibilities  in  this 
regard. 

DETAILED GUIDELINES 

 
PART II 
 
 
4.  Written Anti Money Laundering Procedures 
 
 

4.1 Each  registered  intermediary  should  adopt  written  procedures  to 
implement  the  anti  money  laundering  provisions  as  envisaged 
under  the  Anti  Money  Laundering  Act,  2002.  Such  procedures 
should  include  inter  alia,  the  following  three  specific  parameters 
which are related to the overall ‘Client Due Diligence Process’: 

a.  Policy for acceptance of clients  
b.  Procedure for identifying the clients  
c.  Transaction  monitoring  and  reporting  especially  Suspicious 

Transactions Reporting (STR) 

 
5.  Customer Due Diligence 
 
5.1 
following:  
 

The customer due diligence (“CDD”) measures comprise the 

(a) Obtaining sufficient information in order to identify persons who 
beneficially own or control securities account. Whenever it is 

Page 12 of 34 

apparent that the securities acquired or maintained through an 
account are beneficially owned by a party other than the client, 
that  party  should  be  identified  using  client  identification  and 
verification  procedures.  The  beneficial  owner  is  the  natural 
person or persons who ultimately own, control or influence a 
client and/or persons on whose behalf a transaction is being 
conducted.  It  also  incorporates  those  persons  who  exercise 
ultimate effective control over a legal person or arrangement. 

 
(b) Verify the customer’s identity using reliable, independent source 

documents, data or information;  

 
(c) Identify  beneficial  ownership  and  control,  i.e.  determine  which 
individual(s) ultimately own(s) or control(s) the customer and/or 
the person on whose behalf a transaction is being conducted;  

 
(d) Verify the identity of the beneficial owner of the customer and/or 
the  person  on  whose  behalf  a  transaction  is  being  conducted, 
corroborating the information provided in relation to (c); and  

 
(e)  Conduct  ongoing  due  diligence  and  scrutiny,  i.e.  perform 
ongoing scrutiny of the transactions and account throughout the 
course  of 
the 
transactions being conducted are consistent with the registered 
intermediary’s knowledge of the customer, its business and risk 
profile,  taking  into  account,  where  necessary,  the  customer’s 
source of funds. 

the  business  relationship 

to  ensure 

that 

 

 

 
5.2 Policy for acceptance of clients:  
 

Page 13 of 34 

5.2.1  All  registered 

intermediaries  should  develop  customer 
acceptance policies and procedures that aim to identify the 
types of customers that are likely to pose a higher than the 
average  risk  of  money  laundering  or  terrorist  financing.  By 
establishing such policies and procedures, they will be in a 
better  position  to  apply  customer  due  diligence  on  a  risk 
sensitive basis depending on the type of customer business 
relationship  or  transaction.  In  a  nutshell,  the  following 
safeguards are to be followed while accepting the clients: 

 

a)  No account is opened in a fictitious / benami name or on 

an anonymous basis.  

addresses 

and 

 
b)  Factors  of  risk  perception  (in 

to  clients’ 
correspondence 

terms  of  monitoring 
suspicious  transactions)  of  the  client  are  clearly  defined 
location  (registered  office 
having  regard 
address, 
other 
addresses  if  applicable),  nature  of  business  activity, 
trading turnover etc. and manner of making payment for 
transactions undertaken.  The parameters should enable 
classification  of  clients  into  low,  medium  and  high  risk.  
Clients  of  special  category  (as  given  below)  may,  if 
necessary,  be  classified  even  higher.    Such  clients 
require  higher  degree  of  due  diligence  and  regular 
update of KYC profile. 

 

c)  Documentation  requirement  and  other  information  to  be 
collected 
in  respect  of  different  classes  of  clients 
depending  on  perceived  risk  and  having  regard  to  the 
requirement to the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 

Page 14 of 34 

 

 

2002,  guidelines  issued  by  RBI  and  SEBI  from  time  to 
time.  

d)  Ensure  that  an  account  is  not  opened  where  the 
intermediary  is  unable  to  apply  appropriate  clients  due 
diligence  measures  /  KYC  policies.    This  may  be 
applicable  in  cases  where it is not possible to ascertain 
the  identity  of  the  client,  information  provided  to  the 
intermediary  is  suspected  to  be  non  genuine,  perceived 
non  co-operation  of  the  client  in  providing  full  and 
complete  information.  The  market  intermediary  should 
not continue to do business with such a person and file a 
suspicious activity report. It should also evaluate whether 
there  is  suspicious  trading  in  determining  whether  to 
freeze  or  close  the  account.  The  market  intermediary 
should  be  cautious  to  ensure  that  it  does  not  return 
securities of money that may be from suspicious trades.  
However,  the  market  intermediary  should  consult  the 
relevant  authorities  in  determining  what  action  it  should 
take when it suspects suspicious trading.  

e)  The circumstances under which the client is permitted to 
act on behalf of another person / entity should be clearly 
laid  down.      It  should  be  specified  in  what  manner  the 
account  should  be  operated,  transaction  limits  for  the 
operation,  additional  authority  required  for  transactions 
exceeding  a  specified  quantity 
/  value  and  other 
appropriate details.  Further the rights and responsibilities 
of both the persons (i.e the agent- client registered with 
the intermediary, as well as the person on whose behalf 
laid  down). 
the  agent 

is  acting  should  be  clearly 

Page 15 of 34 

Adequate  verification  of  a  person’s  authority  to  act  on 
behalf the customer should also be carried out. 

f)  Necessary  checks  and  balance  to  be  put  into  place 
before  opening  an  account  so  as  to  ensure  that  the 
identity  of  the  client  does  not  match  with  any  person 
having  known  criminal  background  or  is  not  banned  in 
any  other  manner,  whether  in  terms  of  criminal  or  civil 
proceedings by any enforcement agency worldwide. 

 

5.3  Risk-based Approach  

 

 
 
 

5.3.1  It is generally recognized that certain customers may 
be  of  a  higher  or  lower  risk  category  depending  on 
circumstances  such  as  the  customer’s  background, 
type  of  business  relationship  or  transaction  etc.  As 
such, the registered intermediaries should apply each 
of  the  customer  due  diligence  measures  on  a  risk 
sensitive  basis.  The  basic  principle  enshrined  in  this 
approach is that the registered intermediaries should 
adopt  an  enhanced  customer  due  diligence  process 
for higher risk categories of customers. Conversely, a 
simplified  customer  due  diligence  process  may  be 
adopted for lower risk categories of customers. In line 
with the risk-based approach, the type and amount of 
identification 
that 
registered  intermediaries  should  obtain  necessarily 
depend on the risk category of a particular customer.  

information  and  documents 

 
 

 

5.4  Clients of special category (CSC): 
 

Page 16 of 34 

Such clients include the following-  

 

a.  Non resident clients 
b.  High networth clients,  
c.  Trust,  Charities,  NGOs  and  organizations 

receiving 

donations  

d.  Companies  having  close  family  shareholdings  or  beneficial 

ownership 

e.  Politically exposed persons (PEP) of foreign origin 
f.  Current  /  Former  Head  of  State,  Current  or  Former  Senior 
High  profile  politicians  and  connected  persons  (immediate 
family,  Close  advisors  and  companies 
in  which  such 
individuals have interest or significant influence) 
g.  Companies offering foreign exchange offerings  
h.  Clients in high risk countries (where existence / effectiveness 
of  money  laundering  controls  is  suspect,  where  there  is 
unusual  banking  secrecy,  Countries  active  in  narcotics 
production,  Countries  where 
per 
Transparency  International  Corruption  Perception  Index)  is 
highly  prevalent,  Countries  against  which  government 
sanctions  are  applied,  Countries  reputed  to  be  any  of  the 
following  –  Havens  /  sponsors  of  international  terrorism, 
offshore financial centers, tax havens, countries where fraud 
is highly prevalent.   

corruption 

(as 

i.  Non face to face clients  
j.  Clients  with  dubious  reputation  as  per  public  information 

available etc. 

The  above  mentioned  list  is  only  illustrative  and  the  intermediary  should 
exercise  independent  judgment  to  ascertain  whether  new  clients  should 
be classified as CSC or not. 
 

Page 17 of 34 

 

 

5.5    Client identification procedure: 

(cid:190)  The  ‘Know  your  Client’  (KYC)  policy  should  clearly  spell  out  the 
client  identification  procedure  to  be  carried  out  at  different  stages 
i.e.  while  establishing  the  intermediary  –  client  relationship,  while 
carrying out transactions for the client or when the intermediary has 
doubts  regarding  the  veracity  or  the  adequacy  of  previously 
obtained client identification data.   

 
(cid:190)  The KYC /client identification procedures have been specified and 
strengthened by SEBI from time to time. For example, SEBI vide its 
circular no. SMD-1/23341 dated November 18, 2003 laid down the 
mandatory  requirement  to  obtain  details  of  clients  by  brokers  and 
formats  of  clients  registration  form  and  broker  client  agreements 
were  specified  vide  circular  no.  SMD/POLICY/CIRCULARS/5-97 
dated  April  11,  1997.  Subsequently  in  order  to  bring  about 
uniformity in documentary requirements across different segments 
and  exchanges  as  also  to  avoid  duplication  and  multiplicity  of 
documents,  uniform  documentary  requirements  for  trading  across 
different segments and exchanges have been specified vide SEBI 
circular  no/  SEBI/MIRSD/DPS-1/Cir-31/2004  dated  August  26, 
2004. Similarly KYC circulars with regard to depositories have been 
issued  vide  circulars  no.  SMDRP/Policy/Cir-36/2000  dated  August 
04, 2000, circular no. MRD/DOP/Dep/Cir-29/2004 dated August 24, 
2004 and circular no. MRD/DoP/Dep/Cir-12/2007 dated September 
7,  2007.  Similarly  prohibition  on  acceptance  of  cash  from  clients 
has  been  specified  vide  SEBI  circular  no.  SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-
33/2003/27/08 dated August 27, 2003. 

(cid:190)  In  order  to  further  strengthen  the  KYC  norms  and  identify  every 
participant  in  the  securities  market  with  their  respective  PAN 

Page 18 of 34 

thereby ensuring sound audit trail of all the transactions, PAN has 
been made sole identification number for all participants transacting 
in  the  securities  market,  irrespective  of  the  amount  of  transaction 
vide SEBI Circular reference MRD/DoP/Cir-05/2007 dated April 27, 
2007,  subject 
to  certain  exemptions  granted  under  circular 
reference  MRD/DoP/MF/Cir-08/208  dated  April  03,  2008  and 
MRD/DoP/Cir-20/2008 dated June 30, 2008.   

 

(cid:190)  All  registered 

intermediaries  should  put 

in  place  necessary 
procedures  to  determine  whether  their  existing/potential  customer 
is  a  politically  exposed  person  (PEP).  Such  procedures  would 
include  seeking  additional  information  from  clients,  accessing 
publicly available information etc.  

 
(cid:190)  All 

registered 

required 

intermediaries  are 

to  obtain  senior 
management  approval  for  establishing  business  relationships  with 
Politically Exposed Persons. Where a customer has been accepted 
and the customer or beneficial owner is subsequently found to be, 
or  subsequently  becomes  a  PEP,  registered  intermediaries  shall 
obtain  senior  management  approval  to  continue  the  business 
relationship. 

 
(cid:190)  Registered intermediaries shall take reasonable measures to verify 

source of funds of clients identified as PEP. 

 
(cid:190)  The client should be identified by the intermediary by using reliable 
sources  including  documents  /  information.    The  intermediary 
should  obtain  adequate  information  to  satisfactorily  establish  the 
identity of each new client and the purpose of the intended nature 
of the relationship.   

 

Page 19 of 34 

(cid:190)  The  information  should  be  adequate  enough  to  satisfy  competent 
authorities (regulatory / enforcement authorities) in future that due 
diligence was observed by the intermediary in compliance with the 
Guidelines.    Each  original  documents  should  be  seen  prior  to 
acceptance of a copy. 

 
(cid:190)  Failure  by  prospective  client  to  provide  satisfactory  evidence  of 
identity should be noted and reported to the higher authority within 
the intermediary. 

 
(cid:190)  SEBI has prescribed the minimum requirements relating to KYC for 
certain class of the registered intermediaries from time to time as 
stated earlier in this para. Taking into account the basic principles 
enshrined in the KYC norms which have already been prescribed or 
which may be prescribed by SEBI from time to time, all registered 
intermediaries should frame their own internal guidelines based on 
their experience in dealing with their clients and legal requirements 
as  per  the  established  practices.  Further,  the  intermediary  should 
also maintain continuous familiarity and follow-up where it notices 
inconsistencies  in  the  information  provided.    The  underlying 
objective  should  be  to  follow  the  requirements  enshrined  in  the 
PML  Act,  2002  SEBI  Act,  1992  and  Regulations,  directives  and 
circulars issued thereunder so that the intermediary is aware of the 
clients on whose behalf it is dealing. 

 
(cid:190)  Every 

formulate  and 

intermediary  shall 

implement  a  client 
identification  programme  which  shall  incorporate  the  requirements 
of  the  Notification  No.  9/2005  dated  July  01,  2005  (as  amended 
from time to time), which notifies rules for maintenance of records 
of the nature and value of transactions, the procedure and manner 
of maintaining and time for furnishing of information and verification 

Page 20 of 34 

of  records  of  the  identity  of  the  clients  of  the  banking  companies, 
financial  institutions  and  intermediaries  of  securities  market  and 
such other additional requirements that it considers appropriate to 
enable it to determine the true identity of its clients. A copy of the 
client  identification  programme  shall  be  forwarded  to  the  Director, 
FIU- IND. 

 
(cid:190)  It may be noted that while risk based approach may be adopted at 
the  time  of  establishing  business  relationship  with  a  client,  no 
exemption from obtaining the minimum information/documents from 
clients  as  provided  in  the  PMLA  Rules  is  available  to  brokers  in 
respect  of  any  class  of  investors  with  regard  to  the  verification  of 
the records of the identity of clients. 

Record Keeping 

6.1  Registered  intermediaries  should  ensure  compliance  with 
the record keeping requirements contained in the SEBI Act, 
1992,  Rules  and  Regulations  made  there-under,  PML  Act, 
2002  as  well  as  other 
legislation,  Rules, 
Regulations, Exchange Bye-laws and Circulars. 

relevant 

 
6. 
 

 

6.2  Registered  Intermediaries  should  maintain  such  records  as 
are  sufficient 
individual 
transactions (including the amounts and types of currencies 
involved, if any) so as to provide, if necessary, evidence for 
prosecution of criminal behavior. 

reconstruction  of 

to  permit 

 
6.3  Should  there  be  any  suspected  drug  related  or  other 
laundered  money  or 
the  competent 
investigating  authorities  would  need  to  trace  through  the 

terrorist  property, 

Page 21 of 34 

this 

reconstruction, 

audit trail for reconstructing a financial profile of the suspect 
account.  To  enable 
registered 
intermediaries should retain the following information for the 
accounts  of 
to  maintain  a 
satisfactory audit trail:  
(a) the beneficial owner of the account; 
(b) the volume of the funds flowing through the account; and 
(c) for selected transactions: 

their  customers 

in  order 

• the origin of the funds; 
•  the  form  in  which  the  funds  were  offered  or 

the  person  undertaking 

identity  of 

withdrawn, e.g. cash, cheques, etc.; 
the 

• 
transaction; 
• the destination of the funds; 
• the form of instruction and authority. 
 

the 

to 

the  competent 

6.4 Registered Intermediaries should ensure that all customer and 
transaction  records  and  information  are  available  on  a  timely 
basis 
investigating  authorities.  Where 
appropriate, they should consider retaining certain records, e.g. 
customer 
business 
correspondence,  for  periods  which  may  exceed  that  required 
under the SEBI Act, Rules and Regulations framed there-under 
PMLA 2002, other relevant legislations, Rules and Regulations 
or Exchange bye-laws or circulars. 

identification, 

account 

files, 

and 

 

6.5  More  specifically,  all  the  intermediaries  shall  put  in  place  a 
system of maintaining proper record of transactions prescribed 
under  Rule  3,  notified  under 
the  Prevention  of  Money 
Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002 as mentioned below:   

Page 22 of 34 

transactions 

all cash transactions of the value of more than 
rupees  ten  lakh  or  its  equivalent  in  foreign 
currency; 
all  series  of  cash 
integrally 
connected  to  each  other  which  have  been 
valued below rupees ten lakh or its equivalent 
in  foreign  currency  where  such  series  of 
transactions  have  taken  place  within  a  month 
and  the  aggregate  value  of  such  transactions 
exceeds rupees ten lakh; 
all  cash 
forged  or 
counterfeit currency notes or bank notes have 
been used as genuine and where any forgery 
of a valuable security has taken place; 
all  suspicious  transactions  whether  or  not 
made  in  cash  and  by  way  of  as  mentioned  in 
the Rules. 

transactions  where 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

 

Information to be maintained 

7. 
 
Intermediaries are required to maintain and preserve the following 
information in respect of transactions referred to in Rule 3 of PMLA Rules:  

the nature of the transactions; 

I. 
II.  the amount of the transaction and the currency in 

which it denominated; 

III. the date on which the transaction was 

conducted; and 

IV. the parties to the transaction. 

 
Retention of Records 

8. 
 

Page 23 of 34 

8.1 

for 

proper  maintenance 

Intermediaries  should  take  appropriate  steps  to  evolve  an 
internal  mechanism 
and 
preservation  of  such  records  and  information  in  a  manner 
that  allows  easy  and  quick  retrieval  of  data  as  and  when 
requested by the competent authorities. Further, the records 
mentioned in Rule 3 of PMLA Rules have to be maintained 
and  preserved  for  a  period  of  ten  years  from  the  date  of 
cessation  of 
the  client  and 
intermediary.  

transactions  between 

the 

 
8.2  As  stated  in  para  5.5,    intermediaries  are  required  to 
formulate  and  implement  the  client  identification  program 
containing the requirements as laid down in Rule 9 and such 
other  additional  requirements  that  it  considers  appropriate. 
The records of the identity of clients have to be maintained 
and  preserved  for  a    period  of    ten  years  from  the  date  of 
cessation  of 
the  client  and 
intermediary.  

transactions  between 

the 

 

8.3 

 

Thus the following document retention terms should be 
observed: 

(a) All necessary records on transactions, both domestic and 
international,  should  be  maintained  at  least  for  the 
minimum  period  prescribed  under  the  relevant  Act 
(PMLA,  2002  as  well  SEBI  Act,  1992)  and  other 
legislations,  Regulations  or  exchange  bye-laws  or 
circulars.  

 
(b)  Records  on  customer  identification  (e.g.  copies  or 
like 

identification  documents 

records  of  official 

Page 24 of 34 

passports,  identity  cards,  driving  licenses  or  similar 
documents), account files and business correspondence 
should also be kept for the same period. 

 
 In  situations  where 
to  on-going 
investigations or transactions which have been the subject of 
a  suspicious  transaction  reporting,  they  should  be  retained 
until it is confirmed that the case has been closed. 

records 

the 

relate 

8.4 

9. 
 

 

 

 
Monitoring of transactions  

9.1  Regular  monitoring  of  transactions  is  vital  for  ensuring 
effectiveness of the Anti Money Laundering procedures. This 
is possible only if the intermediary has an understanding of 
the normal activity of the client so that they can identify the 
deviant transactions / activities.   

9.2 

9.3 

Intermediary  should  pay  special  attention  to  all  complex, 
unusually large transactions / patterns which appear to have 
no  economic  purpose.    The  intermediary  may  specify 
internal threshold limits for each class of client accounts and 
pay special attention to the transaction which exceeds these 
limits.   

The  intermediary  should  ensure  a  record  of  transaction  is 
preserved  and  maintained  in  terms  of  section  12  of  the 
PMLA 2002 and that transaction of suspicious nature or any 
other  transaction  notified  under  section  12  of  the  act  is 
reported  to  the  appropriate  law  authority.    Suspicious 
transactions should also be regularly reported to the higher 
authorities / head of the department. 

Page 25 of 34 

 
9.4 

Further  the  compliance  cell  of  the  intermediary  should 
randomly examine a selection of transaction undertaken by 
clients  to  comment  on  their  nature  i.e.  whether  they  are  in 
the suspicious transactions or not. 

 
10.  Suspicious Transaction Monitoring & Reporting  
 

10.1 

Intermediaries  should  ensure  to  take  appropriate  steps  to 
enable  suspicious  transactions  to  be  recognised  and  have 
appropriate procedures for reporting suspicious transactions. 
While  determining  suspicious  transactions,  intermediaries 
should  be  guided  by  definition  of  suspicious  transaction 
contained in PML Rules as amended from time to time. 

 
10.2  A  list  of  circumstances  which  may  be  in  the  nature  of 
suspicious  transactions  is  given  below.    This  list  is  only 
illustrative and whether a particular transaction is suspicious 
or  not  will  depend  upon  the  background,  details  of  the 
transactions and other facts and circumstances: 

  

a)  Clients  whose  identity  verification  seems  difficult  or 

clients appears not to cooperate  

b)  Asset  management  services  for  clients    where  the 
source of the funds is not clear or not in keeping with 
clients  apparent standing /business activity; 

c)  Clients  in  high-risk  jurisdictions  or  clients  introduced 
by  banks  or  affiliates  or  other  clients  based  in  high 
risk jurisdictions;  

d)  Substantial  increases  in    business  without  apparent 

cause; 

Page 26 of 34 

e)  Unusually large cash deposits made by an individual 

or business; 

f)  Clients    transferring  large  sums  of  money  to  or  from 
overseas  locations  with  instructions  for  payment  in 
cash; 

g)  Transfer  of 

investment  proceeds 

to  apparently 

unrelated third parties; 

h)  Unusual 

transactions  by  CSCs  and  businesses 
undertaken  by  shell  corporations,  offshore  banks 
/financial  services,  businesses  reported  to  be  in  the 
nature of export-import of small items. 

 

10.3  Any suspicion transaction should be immediately notified to 
the  Money  Laundering  Control  Officer  or  any  other 
designated  officer  within  the  intermediary.  The  notification 
may  be  done  in  the  form  of  a  detailed  report  with  specific 
reference to the clients, transactions and the   nature /reason 
of  suspicion.  However,  it  should  be  ensured  that  there  is 
continuity  in  dealing  with  the  client  as  normal  until  told 
otherwise  and 
the 
report/suspicion. In exceptional circumstances, consent may 
not  be  given  to  continue  to  operate  the  account,  and 
transactions may be suspended, in one or more jurisdictions 
concerned in the transaction, or other action taken. 

the  client  should  not  be 

told  of 

 
10.4 

likely 

that 

is 

in  some  cases 

It 
transactions  are 
abandoned/aborted  by  customers  on  being  asked  to  give 
some  details  or  to  provide  documents.  It  is  clarified  that 
intermediaries should report all such attempted transactions 
in STRs, even if not completed by customers, irrespective of 
the amount of the transaction. 

Page 27 of 34 

 
11.  Reporting to Financial Intelligence Unit-India 
 
11.1 

In  terms  of  the  PMLA  rules,  intermediaries  are  required  to  report 
information  relating  to  cash  and  suspicious  transactions  to  the 
Director, Financial Intelligence Unit-India (FIU-IND) at the following 
address: 

Director, FIU-IND, 
Financial Intelligence Unit-India, 
6th Floor, Hotel Samrat, 
Chanakyapuri,  
New Delhi-110021. 
Website: http://fiuindia.gov.in 
 

11.2 

through  all 

the  reporting 
Intermediaries  should  carefully  go 
requirements  and  formats  enclosed  with  this  circular.  These 
requirements  and  formats  are  divided  into  two  parts-  Manual 
Formats and Electronic Formats. Details of these formats are given 
in  the  documents  (Cash  Transaction  Report-  version  1.0  and 
Suspicious  Transactions  Report  version  1.0)  which  are  also 
enclosed  with  this  circular.  These  documents  contain  detailed 
guidelines on the compilation and manner/procedure of submission 
of the manual/electronic reports to FIU-IND.  The related hardware 
and 
in 
manual/electronic format, the related data files and data structures 
thereof are also detailed in these documents. Intermediaries, which 
are not in a position to immediately file electronic reports, may file 
manual  reports  to  FIU-IND  as  per  the  formats  prescribed.    While 
detailed  instructions  for  filing  all  types  of  reports  are  given  in  the 
instructions  part  of  the  related  formats,  intermediaries  should 
adhere to the following:   

requirement 

technical 

for 

preparing 

reports 

Page 28 of 34 

  

(a)   The  cash  transaction  report  (CTR)  (wherever  applicable) 
for each month should be submitted to FIU-IND by 15th of 
the succeeding month.  

(b)   The  Suspicious  Transaction  Report  (STR)  should  be 
submitted within 7 days of arriving at a conclusion that any 
transaction,  whether  cash  or  non-cash,  or  a  series  of 
transactions  integrally  connected  are  of  suspicious  nature.  
The Principal Officer should record his reasons for treating 
any transaction or a series of transactions as suspicious. It 
should be ensured that there is no undue delay in arriving 
at such a conclusion.  

(c)   The  Principal  Officer  will  be 

responsible 

for 

timely 

submission of CTR and STR  to  FIU-IND;  

(d)    Utmost confidentiality should be maintained in filing of CTR 
and  STR  to  FIU-IND.  The  reports  may  be  transmitted  by 
speed/registered post/fax at the notified address.  

(e)  No nil reporting needs to be made to FIU-IND in case there 

are no cash/suspicious transactions to be reported. 

  

11.3 

Intermediaries should not put any restrictions on operations in the 
accounts where an STR has been made. Intermediaries and their 
directors,  officers  and  employees  (permanent  and  temporary) 
should  be  prohibited  from  disclosing  (“tipping  off”)  the  fact  that  a 
STR or related information is being reported or provided to the FIU-
IND. Thus, it should be ensured that there is no tipping off to the 
client at any level. 

  
12.   Designation of an officer for reporting of suspicious 

transactions  

 

Page 29 of 34 

that 
their 

to 

the  registered 
legal  obligations 

intermediaries  properly 
To  ensure 
discharge 
report  suspicious 
transactions to the authorities, the Principal Officer would act 
as a central reference point in facilitating onward reporting of 
suspicious transactions and for playing an active role in the 
identification  and  assessment  of  potentially  suspicious 
transactions.  Names,  designation  and  addresses  (including 
e-mail  addresses)  of 
including  any 
changes therein shall also be intimated to the Office of the 
Director-FIU. As a matter of principle, it is advisable that the 
‘Principal  Officer’  is  of  a  sufficiently  higher  position  and  is 
able  to  discharge  his  functions  with  independence  and 
authority. 

‘Principal  Officer’ 

12.1 

 

13.  Employees’ Hiring/Employee’s Training/ Investor Education 
 

in  place 

13.1  Hiring of Employees 
 
The  registered  intermediaries  should  have  adequate  screening 
procedures 
to  ensure  high  standards  when  hiring 
employees. They should identify the key positions within their own 
organization  structures  having  regard 
the  risk  of  money 
laundering and terrorist financing and the size of their business and 
ensure  the  employees  taking  up  such  key  positions  are  suitable 
and competent to perform their duties. 

to 

 
 

13.2  Employees’ Training 
 
Intermediaries  must  have  an  ongoing  employee 
training 
programme so that the members of the staff are adequately trained 

Page 30 of 34 

in  AML  and  CFT  procedures.  Training  requirements  should  have 
specific  focuses  for  frontline  staff,  back  office  staff,  compliance 
staff, risk management staff and staff dealing with new customers. 
It is crucial that all those concerned fully understand the rationale 
behind  these  guidelines,  obligations  and  requirements,  implement 
them  consistently  and  are  sensitive  to  the  risks  of  their  systems 
being misused by unscrupulous elements.  

Investors Education 

13.3 
 
Implementation  of  AML/CFT  measures  requires  intermediaries  to 
demand  certain  information  from  investors  which  may  be  of 
personal nature or which has hitherto never been called for. Such 
information  can 
include  documents  evidencing  source  of 
funds/income  tax  returns/bank  records  etc.  This  can  sometimes 
lead  to  raising  of  questions  by  the  customer  with  regard  to  the 
motive  and  purpose  of  collecting  such  information.  There  is, 
therefore,  a  need  for  intermediaries  to  sensitize  their  customers 
about  these  requirements  as  the  ones  emanating  from  AML  and 
CFT  framework.  Intermediaries  should  prepare  specific  literature/ 
pamphlets etc. so as to educate the customer of the objectives of 
the AML/CFT programme. 

List of key circulars issued with regard to KYC/AML/CFT 

 

 

 
 
14. 

of 

Subject 

 

Circular No. 

1.  MRD/DoP/Cir-

05/2007 

Date 
circular 
April 
2007 

27, 

to  be 

PAN 
the 
sole  identification 
for  all 
number 

Broad area covered 
 
In  order  to  strengthen 
KYC  and  identify  every 
the 
participant 

in 

Page 31 of 34 

in 
securities 

transactions 
the 
market 

2.  ISD/CIR/RR/A

ML/2/06 
 

March  20, 
2006 

3.  ISD/CIR/RR/A

ML/1/06 
 

January 
18, 2006 

of 

Prevention 
Money 
Laundering  Act, 
2002-  Obligations 
of 
intermediaries 
in  terms  of  Rules 
notified 
there 
under 
Guidelines 
Anti 
Laundering 
Standards 

on 
Money 

4.  SEBI/MIRSD/

DPS-1/Cir-
31/2004 

August  26, 
2004 

Uniform 
Documentary 
Requirements  for 
trading 

5.  MRD/DoP/De
p/Cir-29/2004 
 
 

August  24, 
2004 
 

Proof  of  Identity 
(POI)  and  Proof 
of Address (POA) 
a 
for 

opening 

Page 32 of 34 

PAN 

securities  market  with 
their respective PAN, so 
as to ensure sound audit 
made 
trail, 
mandatory 
for 
participants 
transacting 
in the securities market. 
Procedure 
for 
maintaining 
and 
records, 
preserving 
reporting 
requirements  
and  formats  of  reporting 
cash 
transactions  and 
suspicious transactions 

Framework for AML and 
CFT 
including  policies 
and 
procedures, 
Customer Due Diligence 
requirements, 
record 
keeping, 
retention, 
monitoring and reporting 
Uniform 
KYC 
documentary 
requirements  for  trading 
on  different  segments 
and exchanges  
Broadening 
list  of 
the 
documents  that  may  be 
accepted  as  Proof  of 
(POI)  and/or 
Identity 

Beneficiary 
Owner 
(BO) 
Account  for  non-
body corporate 
Mode  of  payment 
and delivery 

6.  SEBI/MRD/SE

/Cir-
33/2003/27/08 

August  27, 
2003 

7.  SMD/POLICY/
CIRCULARS/
5-97 

8.  SMD-1/23341 

 
 

April 
1997 

11, 

Client 
Registration Form 

18, 

Nov. 
1993 
 

of 

clients 

Regulation 
transaction 
between 
and members 
 

Proof  of  Address  (POA) 
for 
the  purpose  of 
opening a BO Account 

Prohibition 
on 
acceptance/giving 
of 
cash  by  brokers  and  on 
third  party 
transfer  of 
securities 
client 
Formats 
Registration  Form  and 
broker 
clients 
agreements 
Mandatory 
requirement 
to  obtain  details  of 
clients by brokers. 

of 

 
15.  Annexure: 

 

List of various reports and their formats 

 

1.  Cash Transaction Report Version 1.0 (Guidance Note) 
2.  Summary of cash transaction report for an intermediary 
3.  Cash Transaction Report for an Intermediary 
4.  Annexure A- Individual data sheet for an intermediary 
5.  Annexure B- Legal person/Entity detail sheet for an intermediary 
6.  Suspicious Transaction Report Version 1.0 (Guidance Note) 
7.  Suspicious Transaction Report for an intermediary 
8.  Annexure A- Individual Detail Sheet for an intermediary  

Page 33 of 34 

9.  Annexure B- Legal Person/ Entity Detail Sheet for an intermediary  
10. Annexure C- Account Detail Sheet for an intermediary 

Page 34 of 34 

