THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART –III– SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, JUNE 6, 2008 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 6th June, 2008 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(ISSUE AND LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES) REGULATIONS, 2008 

 

LAD-NRO/GN/2008/13/127878-  In  exercise  of  the  powers  under  section  30  of  the  Securities 

and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  the  Board  hereby  makes  the  following 

regulations, namely:- 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title, and commencement 

1. (1) These Regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 

Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 

Definitions 

2. (1) In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,  

(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 

(b)  advertisement”  includes  notices,  brochures,  pamphlets,  circulars,  show  cards,  catalogues, 

hoardings,  placards,  posters,  insertions  in  newspaper,  pictures,  films,  cover  pages  of  offer 

documents  or  any  other  print  medium,  radio,  television  programmes  through  any  electronic 

medium; 

(c) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange  Board of  India established under provisions of 

Section 3 of Act; 

(d) “book building” means a process undertaken prior to filing of prospectus with the Registrar 

of Companies by means of circulation of a notice, circular, advertisement or other document by 

which the demand for the debt securities proposed to be issued by an issuer is elicited 

and the price and quantity of such securities is assessed; 

(e)  “debt  securities”  means  a  non-convertible  debt  securities  which  create  or  acknowledge 

indebtedness, and include debenture, bonds and such other securities of a body corporate or any 

statutory body constituted by virtue of a legislation, whether constituting a charge on the assets 

of the body corporate or not, but excludes bonds issued by Government or such other bodies as 

may be specified by the Board , security receipts and securitized debt instruments; 

(f)  “designated  stock  exchange”  means  a  stock  exchange  in  which  securities  of  the  issuer  are 

listed or proposed to be listed and which is chosen by the issuer for the purposes of a particular 

issue under these regulations; 

(g) "issuer” means any company, public sector undertaking or statutory corporation which makes 

or proposes to make an issue of debt securities in accordance with these regulations or which has 

its securities listed on a recognized stock exchange or which seeks to list its debt securities on a 

recognized stock exchange; 

1[(ga) "net worth" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (57) of section 2 of the 

Companies Act, 2013;] 

(h) “private placement” means an offer or invitation to less than fifty persons to subscribe to the 

debt securities in terms of sub-section (3) of section 67 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); 

(i)  “public  issue”  means  an  offer  or  invitation  by  an  issuer  to  public  to  subscribe  to  the  debt 

securities which is not in the nature of a private placement; 

(j) “offer document” means 2[a prospectus or a shelf prospectus] and includes any such document 

or  advertisement  whereby  the  subscription  to  debt  securities  are  invited  by  the  issuer  from 

public; 

(k) “recognised stock exchange” means any stock exchange which is recognised under section 4 

of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956; 

(l) “schedule" means a schedule annexed to these regulations; 

                                                           
1 Inserted by the SEBI(Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)(Amendment)Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 31-01-14. 
2  Substituted  for  "prospectus"  by  the  SEBI(Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities)(Amendment)Regulations,  2014 
w.e.f. 31-01-14. 
 

3[(la)  “shelf  prospectus"  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  it  in  section  31  of  the 

Companies Act, 2013;] 

(m) “specified” means specified by a general or special order or circular issued under the Act or 

these regulations4[;] 

5[(n) “wilful defaulter” means an issuer who is categorized as a wilful defaulter by any bank or 

financial institution or consortium thereof, in accordance with the guidelines on wilful defaulters 

issued  by  the  Reserve  Bank    of  India  and  includes  an  issuer  whose  director  or  promoter  is 

categorized as such.] 

(2)  All  other  words  and  expressions  used  but  not  defined  in  these  regulations,  shall  have  the 

same  meanings  respectively  assigned  to  them  in  the  Act  or  the  Companies  Act,  1956  or 

Securities Contracts  (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996 or the Rules and the 

Regulations  made  thereunder  or  any  statutory  modification  or  reenactment  thereto,  unless  the 

context requires otherwise. 

 

Applicability  

3. These regulations shall apply to- 

(a) public issue of debt securities; and 

(b)  listing  of  debt  securities  issued  through  public  issue  or  on  private  placement  basis  on  a 

recognized stock exchange. 

 

CHAPTER II 

ISSUE REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUES 

General Conditions 
4. 6[(1) No issuer shall make any public issue of debt securities if as on the date of filing of draft 

offer document or final offer document as provided in these regulations: 

                                                           
3 Inserted by the SEBI(Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)(Amendment)Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 31-01-14. 
4Substituted for "." by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)(Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 25-05-
16. 
5 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 25-05-16. 
6Substituted  for  sub-regulation  (1)  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2016 w.e.f. 25-05-16. Prior to substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under: 
“(1) No issuer shall make any public issue of debt securities if as on the date of filing of draft offer document and 
final  offer  document  as  provided  in  these  regulations,  the  issuer  or  the  person  in  control  of  the  issuer,  or  its 
promoter, has been restrained or prohibited or debarred by the Board from accessing the securities market or dealing 
in securities and such direction or order is in force.” 

 
(a) 

(b) 

the  issuer  or  the  person  in  control  of  the  issuer  or  its  promoter  or  its  director  is 
restrained or prohibited or debarred by the Board from accessing the securities market 
or dealing in securities; or 
the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter or it is in default of 
payment  of  interest  or  repayment  of  principal  amount  in  respect  of  debt  securities 
issued by it to the public, if any, for a period of more than six months.] 

(2)  No  issuer  shall  make  a  public  issue  of  debt  securities  unless  following  conditions  are 

satisfied, as on the date of filing of draft offer document and final offer document as provided in 

these regulations, 

(a) it has made an application to one or more recognized stock exchanges for listing of such 

securities therein: 

 

Provided  that  where  the  application  is  made  to  more  than  one  recognized  stock 

exchanges, the issuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange: 

 

Provided  further  that  where  any  of  such  stock  exchanges  have  nationwide  trading 

terminals, theissuer shall choose one of them as the designated stock exchange; 

 

Explanation: For any subsequent public issue, the issuer may choose a different stock exchange 

as a designated stock exchange subject to the requirements of this regulation; 

(b) it has obtained in-principle approval for listing of its debt securities on the recognized 

stock exchanges where the application for listing has been made; 

(c) credit rating has been obtained from at least one credit rating agency registered with the 

Board and is disclosed in the offer document: 

 

Provided that where credit ratings are obtained from more than one credit rating agencies, 

all the ratings, including the unaccepted ratings, shall be disclosed in the offer document; 

(d)  it  has  entered  into  an  arrangement  with  a  depository  registered  with  the  Board  for 

dematerialization  of  the  debt  securities  that  are  proposed  to  be  issued  to  the  public,  in 

accordance with the Depositories Act,1996 and regulations made thereunder. 

(3) The issuer shall appoint one or more merchant bankers registered with the Board at least one 

of whom shall be a lead merchant banker. 

(4) The issuer shall appoint one or more debenture trustees in accordance with the provisions of 

Section  117B  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956)  and  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993. 

(5) The issuer shall not issue debt securities for providing loan to or acquisition of shares of any 

person who is part of the same group or who is under the same management. 

(6) Explanation: For the purposes of sub-regulation (5), - 

(a) two persons shall be deemed to be “part of the same group” if they belong to the same 

group  within  the  meaning  of  clause  (ef)  of  section  2  of  the  Monopolies  and  Restrictive 

Trade  Practices  Act,  1969  (54  of  1969)  or  if  they  own  “inter-connected  undertakings” 

within the meaning of clause (g) of section 2 of that Act; 

(b)  the  expression  “under  the  same  management”  shall  have  the  meaning  derived  from 

sub-section (1B) of section 370 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). 

 

 

Disclosures in the offer document 

5.  (1)  The  offer  document  shall  contain  all  material  disclosures  which  are  necessary  for  the 

subscribers of the debt securities to take an informed investment decision. 

(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  sub-regulation  (1),  the  issuer  and  the  lead  merchant 

banker shall ensure that the offer document contains the following: 

(a) the disclosures specified in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 1956; 

(b) disclosure specified in Schedule I of these regulations; 

(c) additional disclosures as may be specified by the Board. 

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation,  “material”  means  anything  which  is  likely  to 

impact an investors‟ investment decision. 

 

Filing of draft offer document 

6.  (1)  No  issuer  shall  make  a  public  issue  of  debt  securities  unless  a  draft  offer  document  has 

been filed with the designated stock exchange through the lead merchant banker. 

(2) The draft offer document filed with the designated stock exchange shall be made public by 

posting the same on the website of the designated stock exchange for seeking public comments 

for  a  period  of  seven  working  days  from  the  date  of  filing  the  draft  offer  document  with  such 

exchange.  

(3)  The  draft  offer  document  may  also  be  displayed  on  the  website  of  the  issuer,  merchant 

bankers and the stock exchanges where the debt securities are proposed to be listed. 

(4)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  draft  offer  document  clearly  specifies  the 

names  and  contact  particulars  of  the  compliance  officer  of  the  lead  merchant  banker  and  the 

issuer including the postal and email address, telephone and fax numbers. 

(5)  The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  ensure  that  all  comments  received  on  the  draft  offer 

document are suitably addressed prior to the filing of the offer document with the Registrar 

of Companies.  

(6)  A  copy  of  draft  and  final  offer  document  shall  also  be  forwarded  to  the  Board  for  its 

records,7[along  with  regulatory  fees  as  specified  in  Schedule  V]  simultaneously  with  filing  of 

these documents with designated stock exchange. 

(7)  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall,  prior  to  filing  of  the  offer  document  with  the  Registrar  of 

Companies,  furnish  to  the  Board  a  due  diligence  certificate  as  per  Schedule  II  of  these 

regulations. 

(8) The debenture trustee shall, prior to  the opening of the public issue, furnish  to  the  Board a 

due diligence certificate as per Schedule III of these regulations. 

 

8["Filing of Shelf Prospectus. 

 

6A.  (1)  Without  prejudice  to  the  regulation  6,  following  companies  or  entities  may  file  shelf 

prospectus under section 31 of Companies Act, 2013 for public issuance of their debt securities,-  

a. 

Public financial institutions as defined under clause (72) of section 2 of the Companies 

Act, 2013, and scheduled banks as defined under clause (e) of section 2 of the Reserve 

Bank of India Act, 1934; or 

b. 

Issuers authorized by the notification of Central Board of Direct Taxes to make public 

issue of tax free secured bonds, with respect to such tax free bond issuances; or  

c. 

Infrastructure Debt  Funds – Non-Banking Financial Companies regulated by Reserve 

Bank of India; or 

d. 

Non-Banking  Financial  Companies  registered  with  Reserve  Bank  of  India  and 

Housing  Finance Companies registered  with  National  Housing  Bank complying with 

the following criteria: 

                                                           
7 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23. 05.14 
8 Inserted by the SEBI(Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)(Amendment)Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 31-01-14. 

i. 

having a net worth of at-least Rs.500 crore, as per the audited balance sheet of 

the preceding financial year; 

ii. 

iii. 

having consistent track record of distributable profit for the last three years; 

securities  issued  under  the  shelf  prospectus  have  been  assigned  a  rating  of  not 

less than "AA-" category or equivalent  by a credit rating agency registered with 

the Board; 

iv. 

no  regulatory  action  is  pending  against  the  company  or  its  promoters  or 

directors before the Board, Reserve Bank of India or National Housing Bank;  

v. 

the  issuer  has  not  defaulted  in  the  repayment  of  deposits  or  interest  payable 

thereon, redemption of debentures or preference shares or payment of dividend 

to any shareholder, or repayment of any term loan or interest payable thereon to 

any  public  financial  institution  or  banking  company,  in  the  last  three  financial 

years. 

or 

e. 

Listed entities complying with the following criteria: 

i. 

whose  public  issued  equity  shares  or  debt  securities  are  listed  on  recognized 

stock  exchange  for  a  period  of  at  least  three  years  immediately  preceding  the 

issue and have been complying with the listing agreement entered into between 

the  issuer  and  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  where  the  said  securities  of  the 

issuer are listed; 

ii. 

having a net worth of at-least Rs.500 crore, as per the audited balance sheet of 

the preceding financial year; 

iii. 

iv. 

having consistent track record of distributable profit for the last three years; 

securities  issued  under  the  shelf  prospectus  have  been  assigned  a  rating  of  not 

less than "AA-" category or equivalent  by a credit rating agency registered with 

the Board; 

v. 

no  regulatory  action  is  pending  against  the  company  or  its  promoters  or 

directors before the Board, Reserve Bank of India or National Housing Bank;  

vi. 

the  issuer  has  not  defaulted  in  the  repayment  of  deposits  or  interest  payable 

thereon, redemption of debentures or preference shares or payment of dividend 

to any shareholder, or repayment of any term loan or interest payable thereon to 

any  public  financial  institution  or  banking  company,  in  the  last  three  financial 

years. 

(2) The issuer filing a shelf prospectus shall file a copy of an information memorandum with the 

recognised stock exchanges and the Board, immediately on filing the same with the Registrar. 

(3)  The  information  memorandum  shall  contain  the  disclosures  specified  in  Companies  Act, 

1956  or    Companies  Act,  2013,  whichever  is  applicable  and  rules  made  thereunder  and  shall 

include  disclosures  regarding  summary  term  sheet,  material  updations  including  revision  in 

ratings,  if  any  along  with  the  rating  rationale  and  financial  ratios  specified  in  Schedule  I,  

indicating the pre and post issue change. 

(4) Not more than four issuances shall be made through a single shelf prospectus.] 

 

Mode of Disclosure of Offer Document 

7. (1) The draft and final offer document shall be displayed on the websites of stock exchanges 

and shall be available for download in PDF / HTML formats. 

(2) The offer document  shall be  filed with  the designated stock exchange, simultaneously  with 

filing  thereof  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies,  for  dissemination  on  its  website  prior  to  the 

opening of the issue. 

(3) Where any person makes a request for a physical copy of the offer document, the same shall 

be provided to him by the issuer or lead merchant banker. 

 

Advertisements for Public issues 

8.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  make  a  advertisement  in  an  national  daily  with  wide  circulation,  on  or 

before  the  issue  opening  date  and  such  advertisement  shall,  amongst  other  things,  contain  the 

disclosures as per Schedule IV. 

(2)  No  issuer  shall  issue  an  advertisement  which  is  misleading  in  material  particular  or  which 

contains any information in a distorted manner or which is manipulative or deceptive. 

(3) The advertisement shall be truthful, fair and clear and shall not contain a statement, promise 

or forecast which is untrue or misleading. 

(4) Any advertisement issued by the issuer shall not contain any matters which are extraneous to 

the contents of the offer document. 

(5)  The  advertisement  shall  urge  the  investors  to  invest  only  on  the  basis  of  information 

contained in the offer document.  

(6)  Any  corporate  or  product  advertisement  issued  by  the  issuer  during  the  subscription  period 

shall not make any reference to the issue of debt securities or be used for solicitation. 

 

Abridged Prospectus and application forms 

9. (1) The issuer and lead merchant banker shall ensure that: 

(a)  every  application  form  issued  by  the  issuer  is  accompanied  by  a  copy  of  the  abridged 

prospectus; 

(b) the abridged prospectus shall not contain matters which are extraneous to the contents of the 

prospectus; 

(c)  adequate  space  shall  be  provided  in  the  application  form  to  enable  the  investors  to  fill  in 

various details like name, address, etc. 

(2) The issuer may provide the facility for subscription of application in electronic mode. 

 

Electronic Issuances 

10. An issuer proposing  to  issue debt  securities to  the public through the on-line system of the 

designated  stock  exchange  shall  comply  with  the  relevant  applicable  requirements  as  may  be 

specified by the Board. 

 

Price Discovery through Book Building 

11. The issuer may determine the price of debt securities in consultation with the lead merchant 

banker and the issue may be at fixed price or the price may be determined through book building 

process in accordance with the procedure as may be specified by the Board. 

 

 

 

Minimum subscription. 

12.  (1)  The  issuer  may  decide  the  amount  of  minimum  subscription  which  it  seeks  to  raise  by 

issue of debt securities and disclose the same in the offer document. 

(2) In the event of non receipt of minimum subscription all application moneys received in the 

public issue shall be refunded forthwith to the applicants. 

 

Underwriting  

13. A public issue of debt securities may be underwritten by an underwriter registered with the 

Board and in such a case adequate disclosures regarding underwriting arrangements shall 

be disclosed in the offer document. 

 

Prohibitions of mis-statements in the offer document. 

14. (1) The offer document  shall not  omit  disclosure of  any material  fact which may make the 

statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, misleading. 

(2)  The  offer  document  or  abridged  prospectus  or  any  advertisement  issued  by  an  issuer  in 

connection  with  a  public  issue  of  debt  securities  shall  not  contain  any  false  or  misleading 

statement. 

 

Trust Deed  

15.  (1)  A  trust  deed  for  securing  the  issue  of  debt  securities  shall  be  executed  by  the  issuer  in 

favour of the debenture trustee within three months of the closure of the issue. 

(2)  The  trust  deed  shall  contain  such  clauses  as  may  be  prescribed  under  section  117A  of  the 

Companies Act, 1956 and those mentioned in Schedule IV of the Securities and Exchange Board 

of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993. 

(3) The trust deed shall not contain a clause which has the effect of – 

(i) limiting or extinguishing the obligations and liabilities of the debenture trustees or the issuer 

in  relation to any rights or interests of the investors; 

(ii) limiting or restricting or waiving the provisions of the Act , these regulations and circulars or 

guidelines issued by the Board; 

(iii). indemnifying the debenture trustees or the issuer for loss or damage caused by their act of 

negligence or commission or omission. 

 

Debenture Redemption Reserve 

16.  (1)  For  the  redemption  of  the  debt  securities  issued  by  a  company,  the  issuer  shall  create 

debenture redemption reserve in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 and 

circulars issued by Central Government in this regard. 

(2) Where the issuer has defaulted in payment of interest on debt securities or redemption thereof 

or  in  creation  of  security  as  per  the  terms  of  the  issue  of  debt  securities,  any  distribution  of 

dividend shall require approval of the debenture trustees. 

 

 

 

Creation of security 

17. (1) The proposal to create a charge or security , if any, in respect of secured debt securities 

shall be disclosed in the offer document along with its implications. 

(2) The issuer shall give an undertaking in the offer document that the assets on which charge is 

created are free from any encumbrances and if the assets are already charged to secure a debt, the 

permissions or consent to create second or paripasucharge on the assets of the issuer have been 

obtained from the earlier creditor. 

(3)  The  issue  proceeds  shall  be  kept  in  an  escrow  account  until  the  documents  for  creation  of 

security as stated in the offer document, are executed. 

 

9[Right to recall or redeem prior to maturity 

17A.  An  issuer  making  public  issue  of  debt  securities  may  recall    such  securities  prior  to 

maturity date at his option (call) or provide such right of redemption prior to maturity date (put) 

to all the investors or only to retail investors, at their option, subject to the following: 

a)  Such  right  to  recall  or  redeem  debt  securities  prior  to  maturity  date  is  exercised  in 

accordance  with  the  terms  of  issue  and  detailed  disclosure  in  this  regard  is  made  in  the 

offer  document  including  date  from  which  such  right  is  exercisable,  period  of  exercise 

(which  shall  not  be  less  than  three  working  days),  redemption  amount  (including  the 

premium or discount at which such redemption shall take place); 

                                                           
9 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. 24-03-15. 

b)  The  issuer  or  investor  may  exercise  such  right  with  respect  to  all  the  debt  securities 

issued or held by them respectively or with respect to a part of the securities so issued or 

held ; 

c)  In case of partial exercise of such right in accordance with the terms of the issue by the 

issuer , it shall be done on proportionate basis only; 

d)  No such right shall be exercisable before expiry of twenty four months from the date of 

issue of such debt securities; 

e)  Issuer shall send notice to  all the eligible holders of such debt  securities at  least  twenty 

one days before the date from which such right is exercisable;  

f)  Issuer shall also provide a copy of such notice to the stock exchange where the such debt 

securities  are  listed  for  wider  dissemination  and  shall  make  an  advertisement  in  the 

national daily having wide circulation indicating the details of such right and eligibility of 

the holders who are entitled to avail such right ; 

g)  Issuer  shall  pay  the  redemption  proceeds  to  the  investors  along  with  the  interest  due  to 

the  investors  within  fifteen  days  from  the  last  day  within  which  such  right  can  be 

exercised; 

h)  Issuer shall pay interest at the rate of fifteen per cent. per annum for the period of delay, 

if any,  

i)  After the completion of the exercise of such right, the issuer shall submit a detailed report 

to  the  stock  exchange  for  public  dissemination  regarding  the  debt  securities  redeemed 

during the exercise period and details of redemption thereof. 

Explanation.-  For  the  purpose  of  this  regulation,  retail  investor  shall  mean  the  holder  of  debt 

securities having face value not more than rupees two lakh.] 

 

Redemption and Roll-over 

18. (1) The issuer shall redeem the debt securities in terms of the offer document. 

(2) Where the issuer desires to roll-over the debt securities issued by it, it shall do so only upon 

passing of a special resolution of holders of such securities and give twenty one days notice of 

the proposed roll over to them. 

(3)  The  notice  referred  to  in  sub-  regulation  (2)  shall  contain  disclosures  with  regard  to  credit 

rating and rationale for roll-over. 

(4)  The  issuer  shall,  prior  to  sending  the  notice  to  holders  of  debt  securities,  file  a  copy  of  the 

notice  and  proposed  resolution  with  the  stock  exchanges  where  such  securities  are  listed,  for 

dissemination of the same to public on its website. 

(5)The debt securities issued can be rolled over subject to the following conditions :- 

(a)  The  roll-over  is  approved  by  a  special  resolutionpassed  by  the  holders  of  debt  securities 

through postal ballot having the consent of not less than 75% of the holders by value of such debt 

securities; 

(b) atleast one rating is obtained from a credit rating agency within a period of six months prior 

to the due date of redemption and is disclosed in the notice referred to in sub-regulation (2); 

(c) fresh trust deed shall be executed at the time of such roll –over or the existing trust deed may 

be continued if the trust deed provides for such continuation ; 

(d) adequate security shall be created or maintained in respect of such debt securities to be rolled 

–over. 

(6)  The  issuer  shall  redeem  the  debt  securities  of  all  the  debt  securities  holders,  who  have  not 

given their positive consent to the roll-over. 

 

CHAPTER III 

LISTING OF DEBT SECURITIES 

 

Mandatory listing.  

19.  (1)An  issuer  desirous  of  making  an  offer  of  debt  securities  to  the  public  shall  make  an 

application for listing to one or more recognized stock exchanges in terms of sub-section (1) of 

section 73 of the Companies Act,1956(1 of 1956). 

(2) The issuer shall comply with conditions of listing of such debt securities as specified in the 

Listing Agreement with the stock exchange where such debt securities are sought to be listed. 

 

10[(3)  Where  the  issuer  has  disclosed  the  intention  to  seek  listing  of  debt  securities  issued  on 

private  placement  basis,  the  issuer  shall  forward  the    listing  application  along  with  the 

disclosures specified in Schedule I to the recognized stock exchange within fifteen days from the 

date of allotment of such debt securities.] 

                                                           
10 Inserted by the SEBI(Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)(Amendment)Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. 12-10-12. 

 

Conditions for listing of debt securities issued on private placement basis 

20. (1) An issuer may list  its debt  securities issued on private placement  basis on a recognized 

stock exchange subject to the following conditions: 

(a) the issuer has issued such debt securities in compliance with the provisions of the Companies 

Act,1956, rules prescribed thereunder and other applicable laws; 

(b)  credit  rating  has  been  obtained  in  respect  of  such  debt  securities  from  at  least  one  credit 

rating agency registered with the Board; 

(c) the debt securities proposed to be listed are in dematerialized form ; 

(d) the disclosures as provided in regulation 21 have been made. 

11[(e) where the application is made to more than one recognized stock exchange, the issuer shall 

choose one of them as the designatedstock exchange.] 

(2) The issuer shall comply with conditions of listing of such debt securities as specified in the 

Listing Agreement with the stock exchange where such debt securities are sought to be listed. 

12[(3)  The  designated  stock  exchange  shall  collect  a  regulatory  fee  as  specified  in  Schedule  V 

from the issuer at the time of listing of debt securities issued on private placement basis.] 

 

13[Consolidation and re-issuance 

20A. An issuer may carry out consolidation and re-issuance of its debt securities, subject to the 

fulfillment of the following conditions: 

a)  there is such an enabling provision in its articles under which it has been incorporated; 

b)  the issue is through private placement; 

c)  the  issuer  has  obtained  fresh  credit  rating  for  each  re-issuance  from  at  least  one  credit 

rating agency registered with the Board and is disclosed;  

d)  such  ratings  shall  be  revalidated  on  a  periodic  basis  and  the  change,  if  any,    shall  be 

disclosed; 

e)  appropriate disclosures are made with regard to consolidation and re-issuance in the Term 

Sheet.] 

 

                                                           
11 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23. 05.14 
12 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23. 05.14 
13 Inserted by the SEBI(Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. 24-03-15. 

Disclosures in respect of Private Placements of Debt Securities 

21. (1) The issuer making a private placement of debt securities and seeking listing thereof on a 

recognized  stock  exchange  shall  make  disclosures  14[in  a  disclosure  document]  as  specified  in 

Schedule I of these regulations accompanied by the latest Annual Report of the issuer. 

(2)  The  disclosures  as  provided  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  made  on  the  web  sites  of  stock 

exchanges where such securities are proposed to be listed and shall be available for download in 

PDF / HTML formats. 

 

15[Filing of Shelf Disclosure Document.  

21A. (1) An issuer making a private placement of debt securities and seeking listing thereof on a 

recognised  stock  exchange  may  file  a  Shelf  Disclosure  Document  containing  disclosures  as 

provided in Schedule I.  

(2) An issuer filing a Shelf Disclosure Document under sub-regulation (1), shall not be required 

to file disclosure document, while making subsequent private placement of debt securities for a 

period of 180 days from the date of filing of the shelf disclosure document:  

Provided that the issuer while making any private placement under Shelf Disclosure Document, 

shall file with  the concerned stock exchange updated disclosure document  with  respect  to  each 

tranche,  containing  details  of  the  private  placement  and  material  changes,  if  any,  in  the 

information provided in Shelf Disclosure Document.] 

 

Relaxation of strict enforcement of rule 19 of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 

22.  In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation)  Rules,  1957,  the  Board  hereby  relaxes  the  strict  enforcement  of:  (a)  sub-rules  (1) 

and (3) of rule 19 the said rules in relation to listing of debt securities issued by way of a public 

issue or a private placement; 

(b) clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 19 of the said Rules in relation to listing of debt securities, 

(i) issued by way of a private placement by any issuer; 

                                                           
14 Ibid. 
15 Ibid. 

(ii) issued to public by an infrastructure company, a Government company, a statutory authority 

or  corporation  or  any  special  purpose  vehicle  set  up  by  any  of  them,  which  is  engaged  in 

infrastructure sector. 

Explanation:  For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation  the  terms  „infrastructure  company‟  and 

„infrastructure  sector‟  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  assigned  to  them  under  the  SEBI 

(Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 or any successor thereof. 

 

CHAPTER IV 

CONDITIONS FOR CONTINUOUS LISTING AND TRADING OF DEBT SECURITIES 

Continuous Listing Conditions 

23. (1) All the issuers making public issues of debt securities or seeking listing of debt securities 

issued  on  private  placement  basis  shall  comply  with  the  conditions  of  listing  specified  in  the 

respective listing agreement for debt securities. 

(2)  Every  rating  obtained  by  an  issuer  shall  be  periodically  reviewed  by  the  registered  credit 

rating agency and any revision in the rating shall be promptly disclosed by the issuer to the stock 

exchange(s) where the debt securities are listed. 

(3) Any change in rating shall be promptly disseminated to investors and prospective investors in 

such manner as the stock exchange where such securities are listed may determine from time to 

time. 

(4)  The  issuer,  the  respective  debenture  trustees  and  stock  exchanges  shall  disseminate  all 

information and reports on debt securities including compliance reports filed by the issuers and 

the  debenture  trustees  regarding  the  debt  securities  to  the  investors  and  the  general  public  by 

placing them on their websites. 

(5)  Debenture  trustee  shall  disclose  the  information  to  the  investors  and  the  general  public  by 

issuing a press release in any of the following events: 

(a) default by issuer to pay interest on debt securities or redemption amount; 

(b) failure to create a charge on the assets;  

(c) revision of rating assigned to the debt securities. 

(6) The information referred to in sub-regulation (5) shall also be placed on the websites, if any, 

of the debenture trustee, the issuer and the stock exchanges. 

 

Trading of Debt securities 

24. (1) The debt securities issued to the public or on a private placement basis, which are listed in 

recognized  stock  exchanges,  shall  be  traded  and  such  trades  shall  be  cleared  and  settled  in 

recognized stock exchanges subject to conditions specified by the Board. 

(2) In case of trades of debt securities which have been made over the counter, such trades shall 

be reported on a recognized stock exchange having a nation wide trading terminal or such other 

platform as may be specified by the Board. 

(3) The Board may specify conditions for reporting of trades on the recognized stock exchange 

or other platform referred to in sub-regulation (2). 

 

CHAPTER V 

OBLIGATIONS OF INTERMEDIARIES AND ISSUERS 

Obligations of Debenture Trustee 

25. (1) The debenture trustee shall be vested with the requisite powers for protecting the interest 

of holders of debt securities including a right to appoint a nominee director on the Board of the 

issuer in consultation with institutional holders of such securities. 

(2)  The  debenture  trustee  shall  carry  out  its  duties  and  perform  its  functions  under  these 

regulations, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993, 

the trust deed and offer document, with due care, diligence and loyalty. 

(3) The debenture trustee shall ensure disclosure of all material events on an ongoing basis. 

(4)  The  debenture  trustees  shall  supervise  the  implementation  of  the  conditions  regarding 

creation of security for the debt securities and debenture redemption reserve. 

 

Obligations of the Issuer , Lead Merchant Banker, etc. 

26. (1) The issuer shall disclose all the material facts in the offer documents issued or distributed 

to  the  public  and  shall  ensure  that  all  the  disclosures  made  in  the  offer  document  are  true,  fair 

and  adequate  and  there  is  no  mis-leading  or  untrue  statements  or  mis-statement  in  the  offer 

document. 

(2)  The  Merchant  Banker  shall  verify  and  confirm  that  the  disclosures  made  in  the  offer 

documents  are  true,  fair  and  adequate  and  ensure  that  the  issuer  is  in  compliance  with  these 

regulations  as  well  as  all  transaction  specific  disclosures  required  in  Schedule  I  of  these 

regulations and Schedule II of the Companies Act, 1956. 

(3) The issuer shall treat the applicants in a public issue of debt securities in a fair and equitable 

manner as per the procedures as may be specified by the Board. 

(4)  The  intermediaries  shall  be  responsible  for  the  due  diligence  in  respect  of  assignments 

undertaken by them in respect of issue, offer and distribution of securities to the public. 

(5) No person shall employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud in connection with issue or 

subscription  or  distribution  of  debt  securities  which  are  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  on  a 

recognized stock exchange. 

(6) The issuer and the merchant banker shall ensure that the security created to secure the debt 

securities is adequate to ensure 100% asset cover for the debt securities. 

 

CHAPTER VI 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS 

Inspection by the Board 

27. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of sections 11 and 11C of the Act and section 209A 

of the Companies Act, the Board may suo-motu or upon information received by it, appoint one 

or more persons to undertake the inspection of the books of account, records and documents of 

the  issuer  or  merchant  banker  or  any  other  intermediary  associated  with  the  public  issue, 

disclosure  or  listing  of  debt  securities,  as  governed  under  these  regulations,  for  any  of  the 

purposes specified in sub-regulation (2). 

(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows, namely:- 

(a)  to  verify  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,1956, 

Depositories Act,1996, the rules and regulations made thereunder in respect of issue of securities 

have been complied with;  

(b)  to  verify  whether  the  requirement  in  respect  of  issue  of  securities  as  specified  in  these 

regulations has been complied with; 

(c)  to  verify  whether  the  requirements  of  listing  conditions  and  continuous  disclosure 

requirement have been complied with; 

(d) to inquire into the complaints received from investors, other market participants or any other 

persons on any matter of issue and transfer of securities governed under these regulations; 

(e) to inquire into affairs of the issuer in the interest of investor protection or the integrity of the 

market governed under these regulations; 

(f) to inquire whether any direction issued by the Board has been complied with. 

(3)  While  undertaking  an  inspection  under  these  regulations,  the  inspecting  authority  or  the 

Board, as the case may be, shall follow the procedure specified by the Board for inspection of the 

intermediaries. 

 

Directions by the Board 

28. Without prejudice to the action under section 11, 11A, 11 B, 11D, sub- section (3) of section 

12, Chapter VIA and section 24 of the Act or section 621 of the Companies Act, 1956, the Board 

may  suo-motu  or  on  receipt  of  information  or  on  completion  or  pendency  of  inspection  or 

investigation, in the interests of the securities market, issue or pass such directions as it deems fit 

including any or all of the following – 

(a) directing the issuer to refund of the application monies to the applicants in a public issue; 

(b) directing the persons concerned not to further deal in securities in any particular manner; 

(c) directing the persons concerned not to access the securities market for a particular period; 

(d) restraining the issuer or its promoters or directors from making further issues of securities; 

(e) directing the person concerned to sell or divest the securities; 

(f) directing the issuer or the depository not to give effect transfer or directing further freeze of 

transfer of securities; 

(g) any other direction which Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case: 

Provided that the Board shall, either before or after issuing such directions, give an opportunity 

of being heard to the persons against whom the directions are issued or proposed to be issued: 

Provided further that if any ex-parte direction is required to be issued, the Board may give post 

decisional hearing to affected person. 

Appeal  

29.  Any  person  aggrieved  by  an  order  of  the  Board  or  Adjudicating  Officer  under  the  Act  or 

these regulations, may prefer an appeal to the Securities Appellate Tribunal in accordance with 

section 15T of the Act read with the Securities Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 2000. 

 

 

 

 

Delegation  

CHAPTER VII 

MISCELLANEOUS 

30. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by any 

officer of the Board to whom such powers are delegated by the Board. 

 

Power of the Board to issue general order or circular 

31.  (1)  The  Board  may  by  a  general  or  special  order  or  circular  specify  any  conditions  or 

requirement in respect of issue of debt securities. 

(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power and provisions of 

these  regulations,  such  orders  or  circulars  may  provide  for  all  or  any  of  the  following  matters, 

namely: 

(a) Electronic issuances and other issue procedures including the procedure for price discovery ; 

(b) Conditions governing trading , reporting, clearing and settlement of trade in debt securities; 

(c) Listing conditions. 

(3)  If  any  special  order  is  proposed  to  be  issued  to  any  particular  issuer  or  intermediary  on  a 

specific  issue,  no  such  order  shall  be  issued  unless  an  opportunity  to  represent  is  given  to  the 

person affected by such order. 

 

Power to remove difficulty 

32. (1) In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, 

the  Board  may  issue  clarifications  or  grant  relaxations  from  application  requirement  or 

conditions of these regulations, after recording reasons therefore. 

(2)  The  Board  may,  on  an  application  made  by  any  issuer,  relax  any  of  the  procedural 

requirements or conditions or strict enforcement of these regulations, if the Board is satisfied 

that: 

(a) requirement is procedural or technical in nature; or 

(b) requirement causes undue hardship to a particular class of industry or issuers from accessing 

the securities market; or 

(c) relaxation is in the interest of substantial number of investors; or 

(d) such relaxation will be in the interest of securities market. 

Repeal and Savings  

33.  (1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  the  provisions  of  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 in so far as they 

relate to issue and listing of debt securities shall stand rescinded. 

(2) Notwithstanding such rescission:- 

(a)  anything  done  or  any  action  taken  or  purported  to  have  been  done  or  taken  including 

observation  made  in  respect  of  any  draft  offer  document,  any  enquiry  or  investigation 

commenced or show cause notice issued in respect of the said guidelines shall be deemed to have 

been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these regulations; 

(b) any application made to the Board under the said Guidelines and pending before it shall be 

deemed to have been made under the corresponding provisions of these regulations. 

 

 

 

16[ SCHEDULE I  

                                                           
16  Substituted  by  the  SEBI(Issue  and  Listing  of  Debt  Securities)(Amendment)Regulations,  2012  w.e.f.  12-10-12. 
Prior ro its substitution, Schedule I read as under: 
SCHEDULE I 
[See Regulation 5 (2) (b)] 
DISCLOSURES 
1.  The  issuer  seeking  listing  of  its  debt  securities  on  a  recognized  stock  exchange  shall  forward  the  listing 
application to the stock exchange along with the following documents – 
(a). Memorandum and Articles of Association and a copy of the Trust Deed. 
(b). Copy of latest audited balance sheet and Annual Report. 
(c). Statement containing particulars of dates of, and parties to all material contracts and agreements: 
Provided that a recognized stock exchange may call for such further particulars or documents as it deems proper. 
2. The following disclosures shall be made where relevant: 
i. Name and address of the registered office of the issuer. 
ii. Names and addresses of the directors of the issuer. 
iii. A brief summary of the business/ activities of the issuer and its line of business. 
iv.  And  a  brief  history  of  the  issuer  since  its  incorporation  giving  details  of  its  activities  including  any 
reorganization, reconstruction or amalgamation, changes in its capital structure, (authorized, issued and subscribed) 
and borrowings, if any. 
v.  Details  of  debt  securities  issued  and  sought  to  be  listed  including  face  value,  nature  of  debt  securities  mode  of 
issue i.e. public issue or private placement. 
vi. Issue size . 
vii. Details of utilization of the issue proceeds. 
viii.  A  statement  containing  particulars  of  the  dates  of,  and  parties  to  all  material  contracts,  agreements  involving 
financial obligations of the issuer 
ix. Details of other borrowings including any other issue of debt securities in past; 
x. Any material event/ development or change at the time of issue or subsequent to the issue which may affect the 
issue or the investor‟s decision to invest / continue to invest in the debt secutities. 
xi. Particulars of the debt securities issued (i) for consideration other than cash,  whether  in  whole or part, (ii) at a 
premium or discount, or (iii) in pursuance of an option. 
xii. A list of highest ten holders of each class or kind of securities of the issuer as on the date of application along 
with particulars as to number of shares or debt securities held by them and the address of each such holder. 
xiii. An undertaking that the issuer shall use a common form of transfer 
xiv. Redemption amount, period of maturity, yield on redemption. 
xv. Information relating to the terms of offer or purchase. 
xvi. The discount at which such offer is made and the effective price for the investor as a result of such discount. 
xvii. The debt equity ratio prior to and after issue of the debt security. 
xviii.  Servicing  behavior  on  existing  debt  securities,  payment  of  due  interest  on  due  dates  on  term  loans  and  debt 
securities. 
xix. That the permission / consent from the prior creditor for a second or paripassucharge being created in favor of 
the trustees to the proposed issue has been obtained. 
xx. The names of the debenture trustee(s) shall be mentioned with a statement to the effect that debenture trustee(s) 
has  given  his  consent  to  the  issuer  for  his  appointment  under  regulation  4  (4)  and  also  in  all  the  subsequent 
periodical communications sent to the holders of debt securities. 
xxi. The rating rationale (s) adopted by the rating agencies shall be disclosed 
xxii. Names of all the recognised stock exchanges  where securities are proposed to be listed clearly indicating the 
designated  stock  exchange  and  also  whether  in  principle  approval  from  the  recognised  stock  exchange  has  been 
obtained. 
xxiii.  A  summary  term  sheet  shall  be  provided  which  shall  include  brief  information  pertaining  to  the  Secured  / 
Unsecured Non Convertible debt securities (or a series thereof) as follows (where relevant): 
• Issuer 
• Minimum Subscription of Debt securities and in multiples of __ Debt securities thereafter 
• Tenor __ Months from the Deemed Date of Allotment 
• Coupon Rate / Coupon Date __% p.a. (payable __) on __each year 

[See Regulation 5 (2) (b), Regulation 19(3), Regulation 21 and Regulation 21A] 

 

DISCLOSURES 

 

1.  The issuer seeking listing of its debt securities on a recognized stock exchange shall file the 

following disclosures along with the listing application to the stock exchange: 

 

A.  Memorandum and Articles of Association and necessary resolution(s) for the allotment 

of the debt securities;  

B.  Copy of last three years audited Annual Reports; 

C.  Statement  containing  particulars  of,  dates  of,  and  parties  to  all  material  contracts  and 

agreements; 

D.  Copy  of  the  Board  /  Committee  Resolution  authorizing  the  borrowing  and  list  of 

authorized signatories. 

E.  An undertaking from the issuer stating that the necessary documents for the creation of 

the  charge,  where  applicable,  including  the  Trust  Deed  would  be  executed  within  the 

time  frame  prescribed  in  the  relevant  regulations/act/rules  etc  and  the  same  would  be 

uploaded  on  the  website  of  the  Designated  Stock  exchange,  where  the  debt  securities 

have been listed, within five working days of execution of the same.   

F.  Any other particulars or documents that the recognized stock exchange may call for as it 

deems fit.  

                                                                                                                                                                                           
• Redemption Date 
• Put / Call option _________ 
• Proposed listing of the debt securities with ____ Stock Exchange 
• Issuance Physical /Demat mode 
• Trading Demat mode only 
• Depository _________ 
• Security 
• Rating ___ by ___ (All the credit rating/s, including any unaccepted credit ratings, shall be disclosed in the draft 

offer document to be filed with SEBI)  

• Settlement By way of [Insert details of payment procedure] 
• Issue Schedule: 

- Issue opens on: _________ 
- Issue closes on _________ 

• Pay-in date _________ 
• Deemed date of allotment _________ 
 
 

G.  An  undertaking  that  permission  /  consent  from  the  prior  creditor  for  a  second  or 

paripassucharge being created, where applicable, in favor of the trustees to the proposed 

issue has been obtained. 

 

2.  Issuer shall submit the following disclosures to the Debenture Trustee in electronic form (soft 

copy) at the time of allotment of the debt securities:  

 

A.  Memorandum and Articles of Association and necessary resolution(s) for the allotment 

of the debt securities; 

B.  Copy of last three years‟ audited Annual Reports; 

C.  Statement  containing  particulars  of,  dates  of,  and  parties  to  all  material  contracts  and 

agreements; 

D.  Latest  Audited  /  Limited  Review  Half  Yearly  Consolidated  (wherever  available)  and 

Standalone  Financial  Information  (Profit  &  Loss  statement,  Balance  Sheet  and  Cash 

Flow statement) and auditor qualifications , if any. 

E.  An  undertaking  to  the  effect  that  the  Issuer  would,  till  the  redemption  of  the  debt 

securities,  submit  the  details  mentioned  in  point  (D)  above  to  the  Trustee  within  the 

timelines  as  mentioned  in  Simplified  Listing  Agreement  issued  by  SEBI  vide  circular 

No.SEBI/IMD/BOND/1/2009/11/05 dated May 11, 2009 as amended from time to time, 

for furnishing / publishing its half yearly/ annual result.  Further, the Issuer shall within 

180 days from the end of the financial year, submit a copy of the latest annual report to 

the  Trustee  and  the  Trustee  shall  be  obliged  to  share  the  details  submitted  under  this 

clause  with  all  „Qualified  Institutional  Buyers‟  (QIBs)  and  other  existing  debenture-

holders within two working days of their specific request.  

 

3.  The following disclosures shall be made where relevant: 

A.  Issuer Information 

a.  Name and address of the following:- 

i.  Registered office of the Issuer 

ii.  Corporate office of the Issuer  

iii.  Compliance officer of the Issuer 

iv.  CFO of the Issuer 

v.  Arrangers, if any, of the instrument 

vi.  Trustee of the issue  

vii.  Registrar of the issue 

viii.  Credit Rating Agency (-ies) of the issue and  

ix.  Auditors of the Issuer 

 

b.  A  brief  summary  of  the  business/  activities  of  the  Issuer  and  its  line  of  business 

containing atleast following information:- 

 

i.  Overview 

ii.  Corporate Structure 

iii.  Key Operational and Financial Parameters * for the last 3 Audited years 

iv. 

Project cost and means of financing, in case of funding of new projects 

*  At  least  covering  the  following  -  Consolidated  basis  (wherever  available)  else 

on standalone basis 

 

 

Parameters 

Upto latest 

FY……

FY………  FY…

Half Year    

… 

…… 

For Non-Financial Entities 

Networth 

Total Debt 

    of which – Non Current Maturities of   

                      Long Term Borrowing 

                   - Short Term Borrowing 

                   - Current Maturities of   

                     Long Term Borrowing 

Net Fixed Assets 

Non Current Assets  

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Current Investments 

Current Assets 

Current Liabilities 

Net sales 

EBITDA 

EBIT 

Interest  

PAT 

Dividend amounts 

Current ratio   

Interest coverage ratio  

Gross debt/equity ratio 

Debt Service Coverage Ratios  

 

For Financial Entities 

Networth 

Total Debt 

    of which – Non Current Maturities of   

                      Long Term Borrowing 

                   - Short Term Borrowing 

                   - Current Maturities of   

                     Long Term Borrowing 

Net Fixed Assets 

Non Current Assets  

Cash and Cash Equivalents 

Current Investments 

Current Assets 

Current Liabilities 

Assets Under Management  

Off Balance Sheet Assets  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Interest Income 

Interest Expense 

Provisioning & Write-offs 

PAT 

Gross NPA (%) 

Net NPA (%) 

Tier I Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 

Tier II Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gross Debt: Equity Ratio of the Company:-   

 

Before 

the 

issue  of  debt 

 

securities 

After 

the 

issue  of  debt 

 

securities 

 

 

 

 

c.  A  brief  history  of  the  Issuer  since  its  incorporation  giving  details  of  its  following 

activities:-  

 

i.  Details of Share Capital as on last quarter end:- 

 

Share Capital 

Authorized Share Capital 

Issued,  Subscribed  and  Paid-up 

Share Capital 

Rs 

 

 

ii.  Changes in its capital structure as on last quarter end, for the last five years:- 

Date of Change ( AGM/EGM)  Rs 

Particulars 

 

 

 

 

 

iii. 

Equity Share Capital  History of the Company as  on last quarter end, for the last 

five years:- 

 

Date 

No 

Face 

Issue 

Considerat

Nature of 

Cumulative 

of 

of 

Valu

Price  

ion (Cash, 

Allotmen

Rem

arks 

Allotm

Equi

e  

(Rs) 

other than 

t 

No of 

Equity 

Equity 

ent 

ty 

(Rs) 

 

cash, etc) 

equity 

Share 

Share 

Shar

es 

shares 

Capital  

Premiu

 

(Rs) 

m (in 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

Notes: (If any)  

Rs) 

  

  

 

 

iv.  Details of any Acquisition or  Amalgamation in the last 1 year. 

 

v.  Details of any Reorganization or Reconstruction in the last 1 year:- 

Type of Event 

Date of 

Date of 

Details  

Announcement 

Completion 

 

 

 

 

d.  Details of the shareholding of the Company as on the latest quarter end:- 

i. 

Shareholding pattern of the Company as on last quarter end:- 

 

Sr No 

Particulars 

Total No of 

No of shares 

Total 

Equity Shares 

in demat form 

Shareholding 

 

 

 

 

Notes: - Shares pledged or encumbered by the promoters (if any) 

as % of total 

no of equity 

shares 

 

 

 

 

ii. 

List  of  top  10  holders  of  equity  shares  of  the  Company  as  on  the  latest  quarter 

end:- 

 

Sr No 

Name of the 

Total No of 

No of shares 

Total 

shareholders 

Equity Shares 

in demat form 

Shareholding 

 

 

 

 

e.  Following details regarding the directors of the Company:- 

as % of total 

no of equity 

shares 

 

i.  Details of the current directors of the Company* 

 

Name, 

Age 

Address  

Director of 

Details of 

Designation 

and DIN 

 

 

 

the Company 

other 

since 

 

directorship  

 

*  Company  to  disclose  name  of  the  current  directors  who  are  appearing  in  the  RBI 

defaulter list and/or ECGC default list, if any. 

 

 

ii.  Details of change in directors since last three years:- 

 

Name, 

Date of 

Director of the 

Remarks 

Designation and 

Appointment / 

Company since ( in 

DIN 

 

Resignation 

case of resignation) 

 

 

 

f.  Following details regarding the auditors of the Company:- 

i.  Details of the auditor of the Company:- 

Name  

 

Address  

 

Auditor since  

 

ii.  Details of change in auditor since last three years:- 

 

Name  

Address  

Date of 

Auditor of the 

Remarks 

Appointment / 

Company 

Resignation 

since ( in case 

of resignation) 

 

 

 

 

 

g.  Details of borrowings of the Company, as on the latest quarter end:- 

 

i.  Details of Secured Loan Facilities :-  

 

Lender‟s 

Type of 

Amt 

Principal 

Repayment  

Security 

Name 

Facility 

Sanctioned  

Amt 

Date / 

 

 

 

outstandin

Schedule 

g  

 

 

 

ii.  Details of Unsecured Loan Facilities:- 

 

Lender‟s 

Type 

of 

Amt 

Principal 

Repayment 

Name 

Facility 

Sanctioned  

Amt 

Date 

/ 

outstanding  

Schedule 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iii.  Details of NCDs:- 

 Debe

Tenor /  Coupon  Amo Date of 

Redempti Credit  Secured /  Secur

nture 

Period 

unt 

Allotment  on Date/ 

Rating  unsecure

ity 

d 

  

 

Series 

of 

Maturity 

Schedule 

  

  

  

  

  

  

 

iv. 

List of Top 10 Debenture Holders (as on ……) 

Sr. 

Name of 

Amount 

No. 

Debenture 

  

  

Holders 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

Note: Top 10 holders‟ (in value terms, on cumulative basis for all outstanding debentures issues) 

details should be provided. 

 

 

 

 

 

v. 

The  amount  of  corporate  guarantee  issued  by  the  Issuer  along  with  name  of  the 

counterparty  (like  name  of  the  subsidiary,  JV  entity,  group  company,  etc)  on 

behalf of whom it has been issued. 

vi.  Details  of  Commercial  Paper:-  The  total  Face  Value  of  Commercial  Papers 

Outstanding  as  on  the  latest  quarter  end  to  be  provided  and  its  breakup  in 

following table:-  

Maturity Date 

Amt Outstanding  

 

 

vii.  Details  of  Rest  of  the  borrowing  (  if  any  including  hybrid  debt  like  FCCB, 

Optionally Convertible    Debentures / Preference Shares ) as on ………….:-  

 

Party 

Type of 

Amt 

Principal 

Repaym

Credit 

Secured / 

Secur

Name ( 

Facility / 

Sanctioned  

Amt 

ent Date 

Rating 

Unsecured 

ity 

in case 

Instrument 

/ Issued 

outstanding  

/ 

of 

Facility

)  / 

Instrum

ent  

Name 

 

 

 

Schedule 

 

 

 

 

 

 

viii.  Details  of  all  default/s  and/or  delay  in  payments  of  interest  and  principal  of  any 

kind  of  term  loans,  debt  securities  and  other  financial  indebtedness  including 

corporate guarantee issued by the Company, in the past 5 years .  

 

 

ix.  Details of any outstanding borrowings taken/ debt securities issued where taken / 

issued  (i)  for  consideration  other  than  cash,  whether  in  whole  or  part,  (ii)  at  a 

premium or discount, or (iii) in pursuance of an option; 

h.  Details of Promoters of the Company:- 

 

i.  Details of Promoter Holding in the Company as on the latest quarter end:- 

Sr 

Name of the 

Total No 

No of 

Total 

No of Shares 

% of Shares 

No 

shareholders 

of Equity 

shares in 

shareholding 

Pledged 

pledged with 

Shares 

demat 

as % of total 

respect to 

form 

no of equity 

shares 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

shares 

owned. 

 

 

i.  Abridged  version  of  Audited  Consolidated  (wherever  available)  and  Standalone 

Financial  Information  (  like  Profit  &  Loss  statement,  Balance  Sheet  and  Cash  Flow 

statement) for at least last three years and auditor qualifications , if any. * 

 

j.  Abridged  version  of  Latest  Audited  /  Limited  Review  Half  Yearly  Consolidated 

(wherever  available)  and  Standalone  Financial  Information  (like  Profit  &  Loss 

statement, and Balance Sheet) and auditors qualifications, if any. * 

k.  Any  material  event/  development  or  change  having 

implications  on 

the 

financials/credit  quality  (e.g.  any  material  regulatory  proceedings  against  the 

Issuer/promoters, 

tax 

litigations 

resulting 

in  material 

liabilities,  corporate 

restructuring  event  etc)  at  the  time  of  issue  which  may  affect  the  issue  or  the 

investor‟s decision to invest / continue to invest in the debt securities. 

 

l.  The names of the debenture trustee(s) shall be mentioned with  statement to the effect 

that debenture trustee(s) has given his consent to the Issuer for his appointment under 

regulation  4  (4)  and  in  all  the  subsequent  periodical  communications  sent  to  the 

holders of debt securities. 

 

m.  The  detailed  rating  rationale  (s)  adopted  (not  older  than  one  year  on  the  date  of 

opening of the issue)/ credit rating letter issued (not older than one month on the date 

of opening of the issue) by the rating agencies shall be disclosed. 

 

n.  If the security is backed by a guarantee or letter of comfort or any other document / 

letter  with  similar  intent,  a  copy  of  the  same  shall  be  disclosed.  In  case  such 

document  does  not  contain  detailed  payment  structure(  procedure  of  invocation  of 

guarantee and receipt of payment by the investor along with timelines), the same shall 

be disclosed in the offer document.   

 

o.  Copy of consent letter from the Debenture Trustee shall be disclosed. 

 

p.  Names of all the recognised stock exchanges where the debt securities are proposed 

to be listed clearly indicating the designated stock exchange.  

q.  Other details 

i.  DRR creation - relevant regulations and applicability. 

ii. 

Issue/instrument  specific  regulations  -  relevant  details  (Companies  Act,  RBI 

guidelines, etc). 

iii.  Application process. 

 

*  Issuer  shall  provide  latest  Audited  or  Limited  Review  Financials  in  line  with  timelines  as 

mentioned 

in  Simplified  Lisitng  Agreement 

issued 

by  SEBI 

vide 

circular 

No.SEBI/IMD/BOND/1/2009/11/05  dated  May  11,  2009  as  amended  from  time  to  time  ,  for 

furnishing / publishing its half yearly/ annual result.   

 

 

 

B.  Issue details 

a.  Summary  term  sheet  shall  be  provided  which  shall  include  at  least  following 

information (where relevant) pertaining to the Secured / Unsecured Non Convertible 

debt securities (or a series thereof):- 

Security Name 

Name of the bond which includes (Issuer 

Name, Coupon and maturity year) e.g. 

8.70% XXX 2015. 

 

 

Secured or Unsecured  

Senior or Subordinated. 

Private placement 

 

 

Issuer 

Type of Instrument 

Nature of Instrument 

Seniority 

Mode of Issue 

Eligible Investors 

Listing  ( including name of stock 

Exchange(s) where it will be listed and 

timeline for listing) 

Rating of the Instrument 

_______ by _____ Ltd. 

Issue Size 

Option to retain oversubscription ( Amount )  

Objects of the Issue 

Details of the utilization of the Proceeds 

Coupon Rate 

Step Up/Step Down Coupon Rate 1   

Coupon Payment Frequency 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Coupon payment dates  

Dates on which coupon will be paid.   

Coupon Type 

Fixed, floating or other coupon structure. 

Coupon Reset Process (including rates, 

 

spread, effective date, interest rate cap and 

floor etc). 

Day Count Basis 

Interest on Application Money 

Default Interest Rate 

Tenor 

Redemption Date 

Redemption Amount 

Redemption Premium /Discount 

Actual/ Actual 

 

 

__      Months from the Deemed Date of 

Allotment 

Dates on which Principal will be repaid.   

 

 

Issue Price 

The price at which bond is issued  

Discount at which security is issued and the 

effective yield as a result of such discount. 

17[Put] Date 

18[Put] Price 

19[Call] Date 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
17Substituted  by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)(Amendment)Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. 24-03-15 for 
the words "Put option". 
18Ibid. 
19Substituted  by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)(Amendment)Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. 24-03-15 for 
the words "Call option". 

20[Call] Price 

 

Put Notification Time 

Timelines by which the investor need to 

 

intimate Issuer before exercising the  

21[put]. 

Call Notification Time 

Timelines by which the Issuer need to 

intimate investor before exercising the  

22[call]. 

Face Value 

Rs 10 lakhs per instrument for all the 

Minimum Application  and in multiples of __ 

 

issues 

Debt securities thereafter 

Issue Timing 

1.  Issue Opening Date 

2.  Issue Closing Date 

3.  Pay-in Date 

4.  Deemed Date of Allotment 

 

Issuance mode of the Instrument 

Demat only  (for private placement) 

Trading mode of the Instrument 

Demat only (for private placement) 

Settlement mode of the Instrument 

Insert details of payment procedure 

Depository 

Business Day Convention2 

Record Date 

 

 

15 days prior to each Coupon Payment / 

23[Put] Date / [Call] Date / Redemption 

Security (where applicable) 

(Including description, type of security, type 

date. 

 

                                                           
20Ibid 
21Substituted  by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)(Amendment) Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. 24-03-15 for 
the words "put option". 
22Substituted by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)(Amendment) Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. 24-03-15 for 
the words "call option". 
23Substituted by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities)(Amendment) Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. 24-03-15 for 
the words "Put option" and "Call option" respectively. 

of charge, likely date of creation of security, 

minimum security cover, revaluation, 

replacement of security). 

Transaction Documents 3 

Conditions Precedent to Disbursement 

Condition Subsequent to Disbursement 

Events of Default 

 

 

 

 

Provisions related to Cross Default Clause     N/A ( Not Applicable) in case clause is 

not there else full description of the 

clause to be provided 

Role and Responsibilities of Debenture 

Trustee 

Governing Law and Jurisdiction 

 

 

 

Notes:  

1.  If there is any change in Coupon Rate rate pursuant to any event including elapse of certain 

time period or downgrade in rating , then such new Coupon Rate and events which lead to 

such change should be disclosed. 

 

2.  The  procedure  used  to  decide  the  dates  on  which  the  payment  can  be  made  and  adjusting 

payment  dates  in  response  to  days  when  payment  can’t  be  made  due  to  any  reason  like 

sudden bank holiday etc., should be laid down. 

3.  The  list  of  documents  which  has  been  executed  or  will  be  executed  in  connection  with  the 

issue and subscription of debt securities shall be annexed. 

 

 

b.  In privately placed issues, additional Covenants shall be included as part of the Issue 

Details on the following lines, as per agreement between the issuer and investor: 

i. 

Security Creation (where applicable): In case of delay in execution of Trust Deed 

and Charge documents, the Company will refund the subscription with agreed rate 

of  interest  or  will  pay  penal  interest  of  atleast  2%  p.a.  over  the  coupon  rate  till 

these conditions are complied with at the option of the investor. 

 

 

ii.  Default  in  Payment:  In  case  of  default  in  payment  of  Interest  and/or  principal 

redemption  on  the  due  dates,  additional  interest    of  atleast  @  2%  p.a.  over  the 

coupon rate will be payable by the Company for the defaulting period 

iii.  Delay in Listing: In case of delay in listing of the debt securities beyond 20 days 

from the deemed date of allotment, the Company will pay penal interest  of atleast 

1 % p.a. over the coupon rate from the expiry of 30 days from the deemed date of 

allotment till the listing of such debt securities to the investor.  

 

The interest rates mentioned in above three cases are the minimum interest rates 

payable by the Company and are independent of each other. 

 

24[C. Disclosures pertaining to wilful default 

(1) In case of listing of debt securities made on private placement, the following disclosures 

shall be made: 

(a) Name of the bank declaring the entity as a wilful defaulter; 

(b) The year in which the entity is declared as a wilful defaulter; 

(c) Outstanding amount when the entity is declared as a wilful defaulter; 

(d) Name of the entity declared as a wilful defaulter;  

(e) Steps taken, if any, for the removal from the list of wilful defaulters; 

(f)  Other  disclosures,  as  deemed  fit  by  the  issuer  in  order  to  enable  investors  to 

take informed decisions; 

(g) Any other disclosure as specified by the Board. 

(2) The fact that the issuer or any of its promoters or directors is a wilful defaulter shall be 

disclosed prominently on the cover page with suitable cross-referencing to the pages. 

                                                           
24 Inserted by the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 25-05-16. 

(3)  Disclosures  specified  herein  shall  be  made  in  a  separate  chapter  or  section,  distinctly 

identifiable in the Index / Table of Contents.] 

 

 

SCHEDULE II 

[See regulation 6 (7) ] 

FORMAT FOR DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE AT THE TIME OF FILING THE 

OFFER DOCUMENT WITH REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES AND PRIOR TO 

OPENING OF THE ISSUE 

To, 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________LTD. 

 

1.   We confirm that neither the issuer nor its promoters or directors have been prohibited from 

accessing  the  capital  market  under  any  order  or  direction  passed  by  the  Board.  We  also 

confirm  that  none  of  the  intermediaries  named  in  the  offer  document  have  been  debarred 

from functioning by any regulatory authority. 

2.   We  confirm  that  all  the  material  disclosures  in  respect  of  the  issuer  have  been  made  in  the 

offer document and certify that any material development in the issue or relating to the issue 

up to the commencement of listing and trading of the shares offered through this issue shall 

be  informed  through  public  notices/  advertisements  in  all  those  newspapers  in  which  pre-

issue advertisement and advertisement for opening or closure of the issue have been given. 

3  We confirm that the offer document contains all disclosures as specified in the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008. 

4.   We  also  confirm  that  all  relevant  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956,  Securities 

Contracts, (Regulation) Act, 1956, Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and the 

Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Circulars issued thereunder are complied with.  

We confirm that all comments/ complaints received on the draft offer document filed on the 

website of ________ (designated stock exchange) have been suitably addressed. 

 

PLACE 

DATE: 

 

 

LEAD MERCHANT BANKER (S) 

 

 

SCHEDULE III 

[See regulation 6 (8)] 

FORMAT OF DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE DEBENTURE 

TRUSTEE BEFORE OPENING OF THE ISSUE 

To, 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

Dear Sir / Madam, 

SUB.: ISSUE OF ____________________ BY _______________LTD. 

We, the Debenture Trustee (s) to the above mentioned forthcoming issue state as follows: 

(1) We have examined documents pertaining to the said issue and other such relevant documents. 

(2)  On  the  basis  of  such  examination  and  of  the  discussions  with  the  issuer,  its  directors  and 

other officers, other agencies and of independent verification of the various relevant documents, 

WE CONFIRM that: 

(a)  The  issuer  has  made  adequate  provisions  for  and/or  has  taken  steps  to  provide  for 

adequate security for the debt securities to be issued. 

(b) The issuer has obtained the permissions / consents necessary for creating security on 

the said property (ies). 

(c)  The  issuer  has  made  all  the  relevant  disclosures  about  the  security  and  also  its 

continued obligations towards the holders of debt securities. 

(d) All disclosures made in the offer document with respect to the debt securities are true, 

fair and adequate to enable the investors to make a well informed decision as to the 

investment in the proposed issue. 

We have satisfied ourselves about the ability of the issuer to service the debt securities. 

PLACE 

DATE:  

 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEE TO THE ISSUE WITH HIS SEAL 

 

 

SCHEDULE IV 

[See regulation 8 (1)] 

FORMAT OF ISSUE ADVERTISEMENTS FOR PUBLIC ISSUES 

This is an advertisement for information purposes 

_________ _________ LIMITED 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as __________________ 

and subsequently renamed ______________ on __________) 

Registered Office: _____________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 
Corporate Office: _____________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

e-mail: _____________ Website: _____________________________ 

Public issue of ___________ debt securities of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ 

(Summary Details of Coupon, Redemption, etc shall be disclosed) 

 

THE ISSUE 

PROMOTERS 

XXXX 

PROPOSED LISTING 

Names of Stock Exchanges 
MERCHANT BANKERS 

(Names) 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF THE ISSUER 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address 

CREDIT RATING 

(The Rating Obtained shall be disclosed prominently along with the meaning of the same) 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES 

( Names) 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS 

Names of Issuer, Lead Managers, etc. (Addresses optional) 

AVAILABILITY OF OFFER DOCUMENT 

Investors are advised to refer to the offer document, and the risk factors contained therein, before 

applying in the issue. Full copy of the offer document is available on websites of issuer / lead 

manager(s) / Stock Exchange(s) on www.__________ 

ISSUE OPENS ON: 
ISSUE CLOSES ON: 

 
Issued by 
Directors of Issuer 
 
 

 

 

25[SCHEDULE V 

[See Regulations 6(6) and 20] 

REGULATORY FEES 

 
(1)There  shall  be  charged,  in  respect  of  every  draft  offer  document  filed  by  a 
leadmerchant  banker  with  the  Board  in  terms  of  these  regulations,  a  non-refundable 
fee of 0.00025% of issue size, subject to the minimum of twenty five thousand rupees 
and maximum of fifty lakh rupees.  
 
(2)The  fees  as  specifiedin  clause  (1)  aboveshall  be  paid  by  means  of  a  demand 
draftdrawn  in  favour of  „the Securities  and  Exchange  Board of  India‟ payable  at  the 
place where the draft offer document is filed with the Board. 
 
(3)There  shall  be  charged,  in  respect  of  every  private  placementof  debt  securities 
which  are  listed  in  terms  of  these  regulations,  a  non-refundable  fee  of  fivethousand 
rupees which shall be paid to the designated stock exchange at the time of listing of 
the debt securities.  
 
(4)Every designated stock exchange shall remit the regulatory fee collected during the 
month under clause (3) above to the Board before tenth day of the subsequent month 
by means of a demand draft drawn in favour of „the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India‟payable  at  Mumbai  along  with  the  details  of  the  issuances  listed  during  the 
month.] 
 

 

                                                           
25 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees) (Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f. 23. 05.14. 

