SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

 

Message for Investors 

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is a regulatory body established by 
an  Act  of  Parliament  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  securities,  to  promote  the 
development of, to regulate the securities market and for matters connected therewith or 
incidental thereto. 

This  message  is  issued  by  SEBI  in  the  interest  of  investors  with  regard  to  their 
investments in Art Funds, funds/schemes launched by companies or any entity formed for 
the purpose. From the analysis of the characteristics of ‘art funds’ these are ‘collective 
investment  schemes’  as  defined  under  section  11AA  (2)  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992.  The 
schemes/funds  have  been  launched  /  floated  by  these  entities  without  obtaining  a 
certificate of registration in accordance with the SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) 
Regulations, 1999 (the Regulations).  

In terms of section  12 (1B) of the SEBI Act, 1992 no “person” shall sponsor or cause to 
be sponsored or cause to be carried on a collective investment scheme unless he obtains a 
certificate of registration from the Board in accordance with the regulations.  

Regulation  3  of  the  Regulations  permits  only  a  ‘Collective  Investment  Management 
Company’ having certificate of registration from Board to launch collective investment 
scheme. Thus, only a company which has been granted certificate of registration by the 
Board in accordance with the Regulations can launch or sponsor a collective investment 
scheme.  In  other  words,  for  a  collective  investment  scheme  to  raise  money  from  the 
public  it  is  prerequisite  that  the  entity  must  (a)  be  a  company  and  (b)  registered  with 
SEBI as a Collective Investment Management Company. 

Therefore,  the  launching/  floating  of  the  ‘art  funds’  or  schemes  without  obtaining  a 
certificate of registration from the Board in terms of the provisions of the Regulations 
amounts to violation of the provisions of section 12 read with section 11 and 11AA of the 

SEBI  Act  and  the  Regulations.  For  such  violations,  appropriate  actions,  civil  and 
criminal, under the SEBI Act may be taken by SEBI against such funds/companies.  

 

Mumbai 

 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

Date: February 13, 2008   

