1557-.5-+74161-5

18-561/1,-418)618-5

+-+618-18-56-65+0--+15

,-)1/ 9160*4-4557*  *4-45

DOS

DOS

,5

(cid:2) Read the Prospectus/ Abridged Prospectus and carefully note:

(cid:2) Go  through  all  rules,  regulations,  bye-laws  and  disclosures  made  by  the

(cid:2) Before investing ensure that the entity is registered with SEBI.

exchanges.

(cid:2) Read the offer document of the scheme especially the risk factors carefully.

(cid:2) Trade  only  through  -  Trading  Member  (TM)  registered  with  SEBI  or  authorised

person of TM registered with the exchange.

(cid:2) Check the viability of the project.

DOS
(cid:2) Deal only with SEBI registered intermediaries.

(cid:2) Ensure that the intermediary has a valid registration certificate.

(cid:2) Ensure that the intermediary is permitted to transact in the market.

(cid:2) State clearly who will be placing orders on your behalf

(cid:2) Insist  on  client  registration  form  to  be  signed  by  the  intermediary  before

(cid:2) Risk factors pertaining to the issue.

(cid:2) Outstanding litigations and defaults, if any.

(cid:2) Financials of the issuer.

(cid:2) Object of the issue.

(cid:2) Company history.

(cid:2) Background of promoters.

(cid:2) Instructions before making application.

(cid:2) In case of any doubt/problem, contact the compliance officer named in the offer

document.

(cid:2) In  case  you  do  not  receive  physical  certificates/credit  to  demat  account  or
application  money  refund,  lodge  a  complaint  with  compliance  officer  of  issuer
company and post issue lead manager as stated in the offer document.

DON’TS

(cid:3) Do not fall prey to market rumours.

(cid:3) Do not go by any implicit/explicit promise made by the issuer or any one else.

(cid:2) While dealing with an authorised person, ensure that the contract note has been

issued by the TM of the authorized person only.

(cid:2) While  dealing  with  an  authorized  person,  pay  the  brokerage/payments/margins

etc. to the TM only.

(cid:2) Ensure that for every executed trade you receive duly signed contract note from

your TM highlighting the details of the trade along with your unique client-id.

(cid:2) Obtain receipt for collateral deposited with Trading Member (TM) towards margin.

(cid:2) Go through details of Client-Trading Member Agreement.

(cid:2) Know your rights and duties vis-à-vis those of TM/ Clearing Member.

(cid:2) Be  aware  of  the  risk  associated  with  your  positions  in  the  market  and  margin

calls on them.

(cid:2) Collect  /  pay  mark  to  market  margins  on  your  futures  position  on  a  daily  basis

from / to your Trading member.

(cid:3) Do not invest based on bull run of the market index/scrips of other companies in

same industry/issuer company.

(cid:3) Do not bank upon the price of the shares of the issuer company to go up in the

DON’TS

short run.

(cid:3) Do  not  start  trading  before  reading  and  understanding  the  Risk  Disclosure

Documents

(cid:3) Do  not  trade  on  any  product  without  knowing  the  risk  and  rewards  associated

with it

(cid:3) Do not get carried away by indicative returns.

(cid:3) Do not invest based on market rumours.

(cid:2) Check and verify the background/expertise of the promoters.

commencing operations.

(cid:2) Ensure clear and marketable title of the property/assets of the entity.

(cid:2) Enter  into  an  agreement  with  your  broker  or  sub-broker  setting  out  terms  and

conditions clearly.

(cid:2) Ensure that the Collective Investment Management Company has the necessary

(cid:2) Insist on contract note/ confirmation memo for trades done each day

infrastructure to carry out the scheme.

(cid:2) Insist on bill for every settlement.

(cid:2) Check the credit rating of the scheme and tenure of the rating.

(cid:2) Check for the appraisal of the scheme and read the brief appraisal report.

(cid:2) Read carefully the objects of the scheme.

(cid:2) Check for the promise vis-a-vis performance of the earlier schemes in the offer

document.

(cid:2) Ensure that broker’s name, trade time and number, transaction price and brokerage

are shown distinctly on the contract note.

(cid:2) Insist on periodical statement of accounts.

(cid:2) Issue cheques/drafts in trade name of the intermediary only.

(cid:2) Ensure receipt of payment/ deliveries within 48 hours of payout

(cid:2) In case of disputes, file written complaint to intermediary/ Stock Exchange/SEBI

within a reasonable time.

(cid:2) In case of sub-broker disputes, inform the main broker about the dispute within 6

(cid:2) Ensure that CIMC furnishes a copy of the Annual Report within two months from

months.

the closure of the financial year.

(cid:2) Note  that  SEBI  cannot  guarantee  or  undertake  the  repayment  of  money  to  the

(cid:2) Familiarise  yourself  with  the  rules,  regulations  and  circulars  issued  by  stock

exchanges/SEBI before carrying out any transaction

investors.

DON’TS

DON’TS

(cid:3) Do not deal with unregistered intermediaries

(cid:3) Do not pay more than the approved brokerage to the intermediary.

(cid:3) Do not invest in any CIS entity not having SEBI registration.

(cid:3) Do not undertake deals for others.

(cid:3) Do not neglect to set out in writing, orders for higher value given over phone.

(cid:3) Do not sign blank Delivery instruction slip(s) while meeting security payin obligation

(cid:3) Don’t accept unsigned/duplicate contract note/confirmation memo

(cid:3) Don’t accept contract note/confirmation memo signed by any unauthorised person.

(cid:3) Don’t delay payment/deliveries of securities to broker/ sub-broker.

(cid:3) Don’t get carried away by luring advertisements, if any.

(cid:3) Don’t be led by market rumours or get into shady transactions

Published in Public Interest by

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

 (www.sebi.gov.in)

(http://investor.sebi.gov.in)

Office of Investor Assistance and Education

Exchange Plaza

C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex

Mumbai - 400 051

Disclaimer: The information has been compiled to present the reader with a broad
unederstanding of the subject and is general in nature. The contents do not purport
to explain or interpret Acts, Circulars, Rules, Regulations and Guidelines.

18-561/1767).7,5

*7;*)+.5-+74161-5

2-..-47,-4 6)-8-4

,-)1/15-+74161-5

DOS

DOS

(cid:2) Read the offer document carefully before investing.

(cid:2) Read the special resolution regarding the proposed buy back in detail and then

DOS

(cid:2) Note that investments in Mutual Funds may be risky.

vote for it.

(cid:2) Ensure  that  you  are  aware  of  all  competitive  offers  and  revision  of  offer  before

(cid:2) Compare the price offered in buy back with market price during last few months,

deciding on accepting the offer

(cid:2) Mention your bank account number in the application form.

Earning per Share, Book Value etc.

(cid:2) Invest in a scheme depending upon your investment objective and risk appetite.

(cid:2) Determine whether the price offered is reasonable.

(cid:2) Note  that  Net  Asset  Value  of  a  scheme  is  subject  to  change  depending  upon

market conditions.

(cid:2) Insist  for  a  copy  of  the  offer  document/key  information  memorandum  before

investing.

(cid:2) Read the instructions for making the application for tendering of shares carefully

and follow them.

(cid:2) Ensure that your application reaches the collection centre well within time.

(cid:2) If you don’t get the letter of offer within reasonable period, contact the Merchant

Banker.

(cid:2) Note that past performance of a scheme is not indicative of future performance.

(cid:2) Mention all details as required in the letter of offer legibly.

(cid:2) Past performance of a scheme may or may not be sustained in future.

(cid:2) Furnish all the documents asked for in the letter of offer.

(cid:2) Refer to national dailies/ SEBI website for details of competitive offers or revisions

of offers.

(cid:2) Note that the offer would be subject to statutory approvals, if any, mentioned in

the Letter of Offer

(cid:2) Check whether the offer will result in delisting of the company.

(cid:2) In case of demateralised equity shares ensure credit is received to the Special

Depository Account before the closure of the Offer.

(cid:2) Carefully note the timings/days for hand delivery of the documents mentioned in

4-/7)615

(cid:2) Send application through the mode (post/courier/hand delivery/ ordinary post etc.)

the letter of offer.

specified in the letter of offer.

(cid:2) Contact  Merchant  Banker  (MB)  if  no  response  is  received  from  company/  MB

regarding consideration for tendered shares within stipulated time.

(cid:2) Contact  Compliance  Officer  mentioned  in  the  letter  of  offer  in  case  of  any

(cid:2) Keep track of the Net Asset Value of a scheme, where you have invested, on a

regular basis.

(cid:2) Ensure  that  you  receive  an  account  statement  for  the  money  that  you  have

invested.

(cid:2) Update yourself on the performance of the scheme on a regular basis.

grievance against the company.

DON‘TS

(cid:3) Do not invest in a scheme just because somebody is offering you a commission

or other incentive, gifts etc.

(cid:2) Contact  the  Registrar  of  Companies  in  case  you  feel  that  provision  of  the

Companies Act has been violated.

(cid:2) Contact  the  Merchant  Banker  in  case  of  any  grievance  against  the  procedure

followed in the buy back.

(cid:3) Do not get carried away by the name of the scheme/Mutual Fund.

DON’TS

(cid:3) Do not fall prey to promises of unrealistic returns.

(cid:3) Don’t submit multiple applications.

(cid:3) Do not forget to take note of risks involved in the investment.

(cid:3) Don’t forget to fill up the application legibly.

(cid:3) Do  not  hesitate  to  approach  concerned  persons  and  then  the  appropriate

authorities for any problem.

(cid:3) Do not deal with any agent/broker dealer who is not registered with Association

of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI).

(cid:3) Don’t mutilate the application form.

(cid:3) Don’t cross/ cut in the application form.

(cid:3) Don’t send the application at wrong address.

(cid:3) Don’t send the application after the close of offer.

(cid:3) Don’t forget to give complete information in the application form.

(cid:3) Don’t forget to sign on application form.

(cid:3) Don’t give wrong/ contradictory information on the application form.

(cid:2) Wait till last date for Offer Revision (i.e. 7 working days prior to date of closing

of offer) before tendering acceptance.

(cid:2) Submit the Form of Withdrawal accompanying the Letter of Offer at any specified
collection center upto 3 working days before date of closing of the Offer in case
you want to withdraw the shares tendered.

(cid:2) Ensure  that  signatures  on  Form  of  Acceptance,  Transfer  Deed,  Depository
Instruction and Form of Withdrawal are in same order and same as those lodged
with the company.

(cid:2) In case of non receipt of Offer Document, you can tender or withdraw from the

Offer by making an application on plain paper giving the necessary details

DON’TS

(cid:3) Don’t  wait  for  the  last  date  for  the  closure  of  the  offer  for  tendering  your

acceptance.

(cid:3) Don’t fill in the details of the buyer/transferee in the transfer deed to be sent.

(cid:3) Don’t file an incomplete application form/invalid documents.

DOS
(cid:2) Transact only through Stock Exchanges.
(cid:2) Deal only through SEBI registered intermediaries.
(cid:2) Complete  all  the  required  formalities  of  opening  an  account  properly  (Client

registration, Client agreement forms etc).

(cid:2) Ask for and sign “Know Your Client Agreement”.
(cid:2) Read and properly understand the risks associated with investing in securities /

derivatives before undertaking transactions.

(cid:2) Assess  the  risk  –  return  profile  of  the  investment  as  well  as  the  liquidity  and

safety aspects before making your investment decision.

(cid:2) Ask all relevant questions and clear your doubts with your broker before transacting.
(cid:2) Invest  based  on  sound  reasoning  after  taking  into  account  all  publicly  available

information and on fundamentals.

(cid:2) Give clear and unambiguous instructions to your broker / sub-broker / depository

participant.

(cid:2) Be vigilant in your transactions.
(cid:2) Insist on a contract note for your transaction.
(cid:2) Verify all details in contract note, immediately on receipt.
(cid:2) Crosscheck details of your trade with details as available on the exchange website.
(cid:2) Scrutinize  minutely  both  the  transaction  and  the  holding  statements  that  you

receive from your Depository participant.

(cid:2) Keep copies of all your investment documentation.
(cid:2) Handle Delivery Instruction Slips (DIS) Book issued by DP’s carefully.
(cid:2) Insist that the DIS numbers are pre-printed and your account number (client id)

(cid:2) Incase  you  are  not  transacting  frequently  make  use  of  the  freezing  facilities

be pre stamped.

provided for your demat account.

(cid:2) Pay the margins required to be paid in the time prescribed.
(cid:2) Deliver the shares in case of sale or pay the money in case of purchase within

the time prescribed.

(cid:2) Participate and vote in general meetings either personally or through proxy.
(cid:2) Be aware of your rights and responsibilities.
(cid:2) Incase of complaints approach the right authorities for redressal in a timely manner
DON’TS
(cid:3) Don’t undertake off-market transactions in securities.
(cid:3) Don’t deal with unregistered intermediaries.
(cid:3) Don’t fall prey to promises of unrealistic returns.
(cid:3) Don’t invest on the basis of hearsay and rumors; verify before investment.
(cid:3) Don’t forget to take note of risks involved in the investment.
(cid:3) Don’t be misled by rumours circulating in the market.
(cid:3) Don’t  be  influenced  into  buying  into  fundamentally  unsound  companies  (penny
stocks)  based  on  sudden  spurts  in  trading  volumes  or  prices  or  non  authentic
favorable looking articles / stories.

(cid:3) Don’t follow the herd or play on momentum - it could turn against you.
(cid:3) Don’t be misled by so called hot tips.
(cid:3) Don’t try to time the market.
(cid:3) Don’t  hesitate  to  approach  the  proper  authorities  for  redressal  of  your  doubts  /

grievances.

(cid:3) Don’t  leave  signed  blank  Delivery  Instruction  Slips  of  your  demat  account  lying

around carelessly or with anyone.

(cid:3) Do not sign blank Delivery Instruction Slips(DIS) and keep them with Depository
Participant(DP)  or  broker  to  save  time.  Remember  your  carelessness  can  be
your peril.

MESSAGE FOR INVESTORS

relating to

ISSUE OF SECURITIES

INVESTING IN DERIVATIVES

COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEME (CIS)

DEALING WITH BROKERS & SUB - BROKERS

INVESTING IN MUTUAL FUNDS

BUYBACK OF SECURITIES

OPEN OFFER UNDER TAKEOVER REGULATIONS

DEALING IN SECURITIES

