A Reference Guide for Investors on

Their Rights and Responsibilities

Securities and Exchange Board of India

What are the risks that I may encounter while investing in the Securities Market? 
Your expectations of income and/or growth may not materialize. 
Realisation of the values of the investment of an equity holder possible only  in  the share market. Thus this investment 
may not be easily Liquid. 
Disinvestment may result in capital losses also.  
Running into problems with the trading and transfer of securities. 
What are my rights as a shareholder? 
To receive the share certificates, on allotment or transfer (if opted for transaction in physical mode) as the case may be, in 
due time. 
To receive copies of the Annual Report containing the Balance Sheet, the Profit & Loss account and the Auditor’s Report. 
To participate and vote in general meetings either personally or through proxy. 
To receive dividends in due time once approved in general meetings. 
To receive corporate benefits like rights, bonus, etc. once approved. 
To apply to Company Law Board (CLB) to call or direct the Annual General Meeting. 
To inspect the minute books of the general meetings and to receive copies thereof. 
To proceed against the company by way of civil or criminal  proceedings. 
To apply for the winding up of the company. 
To receive the residual proceeds. 
Besides the above rights, which you enjoy as an individual shareholder, you also enjoy the following rights as a group: 
To requisite an Extra-ordinary General meeting. 
To demand a poll on any resolution. 
To apply to CLB to investigate the affairs of the company. 
To apply to CLB for relief in cases of oppression and/or mismanagement. 
What are my rights as a debenture holder? 
To receive interest/redemption in due time. 
To receive a copy of the trust deed on request. 
To apply for winding up of the company if the company fails 
to pay its debt. 
To approach the Debenture Trustee with your grievance. 
You  may  note  that  the  above  mentioned  rights  may  not  necessarily  be  absolute.  For  example,  the  right  to  transfer 
securities (in physical mode) is subject to the company’s right to refuse transfer as per statutory provisions. 
What are my responsibilities as a security holder? 
While you may be happy to note that you have so many rights as a stakeholder in the company that should not lead you 
to complacency; because you have also certain responsibilities to discharge. 
To be specific 
To remain informed 
To be vigilant 
To participate and vote in general meetings 
To exercise your rights on your own or as a group 
What are the advantages I have, of dealing through a Stock Exchange? 
If  you  choose  to  deal  (buy  or  sell)  directly  with  another  person,  you  are  exposed  to  counter  party  risk,  i.e.  the  risk  of 
nonperformance by that party. However, if you deal through a Stock Exchange, this counter party risk is reduced due to 
trade/settlement guarantee offered by the Stock Exchange mechanism. Further, you also have certain protections against 
defaults by your broker. 
When you operate through an exchange, you have the right to receive the best price prevailing at that time for the trade 
and the right to receive the money or securities on time. You also have the right to receive a contract note from the broker 
confirming the trade and indicating the time of execution of the order and other necessary details of the trade. If you have 

opted  for  transaction  in  physical  mode,  you  also  have  the  right  to  receive  good  delivery  and  the  right  to  insist  on 
rectification of bad delivery. If you have a dispute with your broker, you can resolve it through arbitration under the aegis 
of the exchange. 
Are my securities listed with SEBI? 
No. Your securities are not listed with SEBI. The securities of companies are listed on recognised Stock Exchange(s). 
How can I enter in a deal through a Stock Exchange? 
If  you  decide  to  operate  through  an  exchange,  you  have  to  avail  the  services  of  a  SECURITIES  AND  EXCHANGE 
BOARD  OF  INDIA  registered  broker/sub-broker.  You  have  to  enter  into  a  broker-client  agreement  and  file  a  client 
registration form. 
Since the contract note is a legally enforceable document, you should  insist on receiving it. You  have the obligation  to 
deliver the securities in case of sale or pay the money in case of purchase within the time prescribed. If you have opted 
for transaction in physical mode, in case of bad delivery of securities by you, you have the responsibility to rectify them or 
replace them with good ones. 
FOR SECURITIES IN PHYSICAL MODE: 
1. How does transfer of securities take place? 
To effect a transfer in the physical mode the securities should be sent to the company along with a valid, duly executed 
and stamped transfer deed duly signed by or on behalf of the transferor (seller) and transferee (buyer). It would be a good 
idea to retain photo-copies of the securities and the transfer deed when they are sent to the company for transfer. It is 
essential  that  you  send  them  by  registered  post  with  acknowledgement  due  and  watch  out  for  the  receipt  of  the 
acknowledgement  card.  If  you  do  not  receive  the  confirmation  of  receipt  within  a  reasonable  period,  you  should 
immediately approach the postal authorities for confirmation. 
Sometimes, for your own convenience, you may choose not to transfer the securities immediately. This may facilitate easy 
and quick selling of  the securities. In that case you should take care that the transfer deed remains valid. However, in 
order to avail the corporate benefits like the dividends, bonus or rights from the company, it is essential that you get the 
securities transferred in your name. 
2.What procedure does a company follow for transfer of securities? 
On receipt of your request for transfer, the company proceeds to transfer the securities as per provisions of the law. In 
case they cannot effect the transfer, the company returns back the securities giving details of the grounds under which the 
transfer could not be effected. This is known as company objection. 
3. What should I do in case a company sends company objection?  
When  you  happen  to  receive  a  company  objection  for  transfer,  you  should  proceed  to  get  the  errors/discrepancies 
corrected. 
You may have to contact the transferor (the seller) either directly or through your broker for rectification or replacement 
with good securities. Then you can resubmit the securities and the transfer deed to the company for affecting the transfer. 
In case you are unable to get the errors rectified or get them replaced, you have recourse to the seller and his broker 
through the Stock Exchange to get back your money. However, if you had transacted directly with the seller originally, you 
have to settle the matter with the seller directly. 
4. What should I do in case of my securities getting lost/ misplaced?  
Sometimes,  your  securities  in  physical  form  may  be  lost  misplaced.  You  should  immediately  request  the  company  to 
record  a  stop  transfer  of  the  securities  and  simultaneously  apply  for  issue  of  duplicate  securities.  For  effecting  stop 
transfer,  the  company  may  require  you  to  produce  a  court  order  or  the  copy  of  the  FIR  filed  by  you  with  the  Police. 
Further, to issue duplicate securities to you, the company may require you to submit indemnity bonds, affidavit, sureties 
etc. besides issue of a public notice. You have to comply with these requirements in order to protect your own interest. 
FOR SECURITIES IN DEMAT MODE: 
For more information on Dematerialization  of Securities, please refer to the "Dematerialization of Securities,Depositories, and  
Participants" in the FAQs section http://investor.sebi.gov.in/faq/dematfaq.html of our website: http://invesor.sebi.gov.in.(cid:13)(cid:10)

