¼ããÀ¦ããè¾ã   ¹ãÆãä¦ã¼ãîãä¦ã   ‚ããõÀ   ãäÌããä¶ã½ã¾ã   ºããñ¡Ã 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
 
 

PUBLIC NOTICE TO INVESTORS IN OFCDs OF 

1. SAHARA INDIA REAL ESTATE CORPORATION LIMITED (SIRECL) AND 

2. SAHARA HOUSING INVESTMENT CORPORATION LIMITED (SHICL) 

 

SIRECL  and  SHICL  have  been  issuing  Optionally  Fully  Convertible  Debentures  (OFCDs)  to 
investors  by  filing  a  Red-Herring  Prospectus  (RHP)  with  the  Registrar  of  Companies.  SEBI 
received certain complaints alleging that these companies have been issuing OFCDs to the public 
throughout  the  country  for  many  months  with  varying  face  values  and  maturity  periods 
extending upto 15 years. The RHPs show that the cost of projects of both of the companies is 
`20,000 crore each.  Further, the annual accounts filed with RoC reveal that SIRECL has already 
raised `4843.37 crore from the investors as on June 30,  2009. 
 
SEBI is of the view that the OFCDs issued by these two companies is a public issue and has not 
been done in compliance with the applicable requirements of the Companies Act, 1956 and the 
SEBI’s  regulations  relating  to  public  issue.  SEBI’s  regulations  on  public  issue  prescribes 
eligibility criteria for accessing public, mandates due diligence on company and its promoters by 
merchant  bankers,  grading  by  credit  rating  agency,  vetting  of  draft  RHP  by  SEBI  against 
rigorous  norms  of  disclosures  prescribed  in  the  regulations  and  mandates  listing  of  securities 
issued.  The  OFCDs  were  not  issued  in  compliance  with  the  applicable  SEBI  regulations  by 
SIRECL and SHICL.  Therefore, SEBI in discharging its duty to protect the interest of investors 
in  and  for  the  integrity  of  the  securities  market,  and  in  view  of  persistent  refusal  by  the  said 
companies to furnish information sought by SEBI, by an ad interim order dated November  24,  
2010 restrained these companies including the persons named as promoters and directors of the 
said companies in the respective RHP namely, Mr. Subrata Roy Sahara, Ms. Vandana Bharrgava, 

Mr.  Ravi  Shankar  Dubey  and  Mr.  Ashok  Roy  Choudhary  from  mobilizing  funds  inter  alia 
through these OFCDs, till further directions.  These companies were directed to show cause as to 
why action should not be  initiated against them including issuance of  directions to refund the 
money solicited and mobilized through OFCDs till now.  The companies/persons against whom 
the interim directions were issued were given opportunity to file their objections and avail the 
opportunity of personal hearing before SEBI.   
 
These companies challenged SEBI’s order in a writ petition filed by them before Lucknow bench 
of  the  Hon’ble  Allahabad  High  Court.  The  Hon’ble  High  Court  vide  its  interim  order  dated  
December 13, 2010, inter alia stayed the operation of the SEBI order with liberty to SEBI to 
proceed with the inquiry.   
 
SEBI filed a special leave petition before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against the order 
of the Hon’ble High Court. The Hon’ble Supreme Court vide its order dated January 4, 2011  
inter-alia  held  that  SEBI  would  be  entitled  to  call  for  any  information  which  it  deems  fit 
including the names of the investors who have invested in OFCDs in the course of the inquiry 
undertaken by it. The counsel for the companies submitted that they agree to give information 
that  SEBI  will  call  upon  them  without  prejudice  to  the  rights  and  contentions  in  the  pending 
matter.  In  view  of  the  stakes  involved  (including  protection  of  the  investors)  the  Hon’ble 
Supreme Court has directed the Hon’ble High Court to proceed with the hearing of the case on 
day to day basis from January 12, 2011 without adjourning the case. SEBI and RoC have been 
directed to file their counter affidavits by January 07, 2011.  
 
Investors may please note that no offer document, relating to the OFCDs issued by these two 
companies,  has  been  filed  by  these  companies  with  SEBI.  Furthermore,  the  Red  Herring 
Prospectus submitted to RoC has not been vetted by SEBI with reference to compliance to SEBI 
regulations.  Investors  may  also  note  that  the  OFCDs  are  not  proposed  to  be  listed  on  any 
recognized stock exchange.   
 
In  view  of  the  above,  it  is  brought  to  the  attention  of  investors  that  SEBI  will  not  be  able  to 
provide redress to any investor on any complaint in connection with these OFCDs. 

 
Investors  are  therefore,  advised  to  make  their  investment  decisions  in  OFCDs  of  these 
companies taking into account the facts and circumstances brought out above. This public 
notice is issued to safeguard the interest of investors. 
 

********* 

