 

 

Securities and Exchange Board Of India

A message for investors

Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is a regulatory body established to protect the interests of investors 
in securities and to promote the development of and to regulate the securities market and for matters connected 
therewith  or  incidental  thereto.  This  message  is  issued  by  SEBI  in  the  interest  of  investors  with  regard  to  their 
investments in Agro Bonds/Plantation Bonds etc. of various collective investment entities.

Background:

The Central Government vide its press release dated 18.11.97 decided that entities which issue instruments such as 
Agro Bonds, Plantation Bonds, etc. and the schemes through which such instruments are issued would be treated 
as Collective Investment Schemes (CIS) coming under the provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992.

Pursuant to the Government press release, SEBI constituted a committee under the chairmanship of Dr. S.A. Dave 
with  representation  from  the  Agro/Plantation  industry,  to  formulate  a  regulatory  framework  for  Collective 
Investment  Schemes.  While  finalising  the  report,  the  Dave  committee  also  considered  the  suggestions  of  the 
various Collective Investment Entities as well as the Industry Association.

The SEBI Board in its meeting held on 17.8.99 approved the regulations for CIS. On notification of regulations, 
the entities would be required to get themselves registered with SEBI.

Risk Revisited:

Investors investing in CIS would have done so with certain expectations about the performance of the schemes and 
the prospects of income accruing from such schemes.

While making such investments the investors would have:

 Taken note of and duly evaluated the various risks specially the risks associated with non realisation of 

income & Capital losses. 

 Satisfied themselves about the viability of the project and verified the background of the promoters. 

 Satisfied themselves that there is clear and marketable title of the land claimed to be owned by the entities. 

 Insisted that necessary mutations are made in their favour in the land revenue records, in case of land 

owning schemes. 

 Evaluated practicality of the promises of high returns, high incentives, safety of post-dated cheques etc. 

 Satisfied themselves that the promoters of these entities have sufficient expertise in agriculture/plantation 

activities and have the requisite infrastructure. 

However,  some  investors  would  have  experienced  that  their  expectations  with  regard  to  income  and/or  growth 
have not materialised. And some others would have lost their investments.

Remedial measures available to investors:

The  following  offices  of  SEBI  may  be  contacted  with  regard  to  investor  grievances  regarding  CIS  and  for  any 
other information connected thereto:

SEBI Offices

Head Office:

Jurisdiction  for  the  companies  having  their 
registered offices in

 

Mittal  court  'A'  Wing,  Ground  floor,  224,  Nariman 
Point, Mumbai 400 021.

Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, 
Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman Diu

PH: 2850451,52,53,54,55 FAX:204 5633

Northern Regional Office:

Block No.1, Rajendra Bhawan, Rajendra Place, District 
Centre, New Delhi 110 008.

PH: 573 2313, 9784 FAX: 5768992

Haryana,  Himachal  Pradesh,  Jammu  &  Kashmir, 
Punjab,  Rajasthan,  Uttar  Pradesh,  Delhi  and 
Chandigarh 

Eastern Regional Office:

 

FMC  Fortuna,  5th  Floor,  234/3A,  AJC  Bose  Road, 
Calcutta 700 020.

Assam,  Bihar,  Manipur,  Meghalaya,  Nagaland, 
Orissa, West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, 
Tripura, Sikkim and Andaman & Nicobar Islands

PH:240 2435, 4307, 6105 FAX: 240 4307

Southern Regional Office:

3rd Floor, D'Monte Building, 32, D'Monte Colony, TTK 
Road, Alwarpet, 

Chennai 600 018.

PH: 499 5676, 5525, 7385, 7480, 7540. FAX: 499 8083

Andhra  Pradesh,  Karnataka,  Kerala,  Tamilnadu, 
Pondicherry and Lakshadweep & Minicoy.

Investors  may  however  note  that  as  a  regulatory  body  SEBI  cannot  guarantee  or  undertake  the  repayment  of 
money  to  the  investors.  It  is  SEBI's  endeavour  to  educate  the  investors  of  the  general  risk  perception  of  such 
schemes.

 Investors can also approach District Consumer Redressal forums in case entities fail to honour their 

commitments or for any deficiency in service. 

 For bouncing of cheques, investors can move the Courts under section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments 

Act. The right to file criminal complaint exclusively vests with the beneficiary of the cheque. 

 Investors should note that wherever they do not have a right to the land or to the produce arising out of the 

land such investment may be a deposit and where a company fails to repay the deposits, it attracts the 
provisions of section 58A of the Indian Companies Act, 1956. It is clarified that SEBI has no jurisdiction 
over such deposits. 

Some facts to be noted by the investors:

 Many of the existing Collective Investment Schemes had collected funds from public prior to coming into 

force of the regulatory jurisdiction of SEBI and any action by SEBI against defaulting entities does not 
necessarily ensure the refund of money invested by the investors in such entities. 

 Once the entities are registered with SEBI, they would be in a position to float new schemes within the 

regulatory framework of SEBI. 

 Mere filing of information with SEBI by entities does not imply that the entities have obtained registration 

from SEBI. 

 No new schemes can be launched by any entity, existing or new, till the entities are granted registration by 

SEBI. 

 Till date no entity has been registered with SEBI. 

 Entities cannot issue Agro Bonds / Plantation Bonds etc. without obtaining rating from Credit Rating 

Agencies registered with SEBI. 

 Rating does not guarantee repayment of investments or income thereon. It helps the investor in taking 

informed decision as the instrument is rated by a professional agency. 

Some mandatory requirements for Collective Investment Entities:

 The entities should have filed information with SEBI in response to SEBI's press release/Public notice dated 

26.11.97/18.12.97. 

 As per the directions of SEBI dated 24.2.98, no entity can mobilise any money from the public or from the 

investors under their existing schemes unless rating from a credit rating agency has been obtained. 

 As per the directions of the Division Bench of Hon'ble Court at Mumbai in W.P.1043/98, entities should 

prominently display the rating obtained and its implications. 

 The entities should issue advertisement in accordance with the SEBI advertisement code. 

 The Hon'ble Delhi High Court in writ petition no. 3352/98 has, inter-alia, directed these entities to comply 

with the circular of SEBI dated 24.2.98. The entities have also been restrained from selling, disposing of 
and / or alienating their immovable properties or parting with the possession of the same. 

The Hon'ble High Court has further stated that its order will not come in the way of entities intending to refund the 
money to their investors.

 

