 

 

ATTENTION

EXISTING COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHMES

As you are aware the last date of making an application for grant of Registration in terms 

of Regulation 5(1) of SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999 was 

December 14, 1999.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you have not made an application for grant of Registration or were not desirous of obtaining 

provisional registration from SEBI, remember:

 That you are, as per the provisions of Regulation 73(1), compulsorily required to wind up 

the existing schemes and formulate a scheme of repayment for the existing investors. 

 That in terms of the provisions of Regulation 73(2), an intimation to wind up the schemes 
was given to you vide our registered letter dated December 10, 1999, Public Notice dated 
December 10, 1999 and reminder intimation letters dated December 15/29, 1999. 

 That as per Regulation 73(2) you are required to send an Information Memorandum to 
the investors who have subscribed to the schemes, within two months from the date of 
receipt of intimation from SEBI, detailing the following: 

a.

the state of affairs of the scheme, 

(b) the amount repayable to each investor, and

(c) the manner in which such amount is determined.

 That the said Information Memorandum shall be dated and signed by all the directors. 

That the said Information Memorandum shall be sent to all the investors within one week 
from the date of the Information Memorandum. 

 That the Information Memorandum shall explicitly state that investors desirous of 

continuing with the scheme shall have to give a positive consent to continue with the 
scheme within one month from the date of the Information Memorandum. 

 That the payment to the investors shall be made within three months of the date of the 

Information Memorandum. 

 That on completion of the winding up you are required to file a detailed report in this 

regard in the format specified by SEBI so as to reach SEBI within three and a half 
months of the date of the Information Memorandum. 

 

IT IS BROUGHT TO THE NOTICE OF THE INVESTORS THAT:

 SEBI does not approve/disapprove the repayment scheme nor vets the contents of the 

information memorandum to be sent to the investors by the existing collective investment 
entities. Investors should take informed decision in this regard. 

 If the positive consent to continue with the scheme is received from only twenty-five 

percent of less of the total number of existing investors, then the scheme shall be wound 

up by the collective investment entity. 

 SEBI cannot guarantee or undertakes the repayment of money to the investors. 

 Grant of provisional registration does not entitle a collective investment entity to launch 

any new schemes or raise moneys from the investors even under the existing schemes, 
unless it obtains the certificate of registration from SEBI. 

 Till date no entity has been registered with SEBI. 

 

 

 

Issued in public interest by

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

SEBI on internet:www.sebi.gov.in

 

