  ATTENTION INVESTORS/EXISTING COLLECTIVE INVESTMENT SCHEMES lIt has come to the notice of SEBI that some companies are still carrying on the business of Collective Investment Schemes without applying for registration with SEBI. As per Section 12(1B) of the SEBI Act, 1992, no person shall sponsor or carry on any Collective Investment Scheme (CIS) operating in the securities market unless he obtains a certificate of registration from SEBI in accordance with the Regulations. Contravention of the provision would amount to an offence punishable u/s 24 of the SEBI Act, 1992 with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine or with both. lThe SEBI (Collective Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999, had come into force w.e.f. October 15, 1999. The last date to submit an application for grant of registration in terms of the said Regulations had expired on December 14, 1999. The total number of applications received for grant of certificate of registration under the Regulations as on March 13, 2000 is 33. Therefore, having regard to the interest of investors who had invested in the CIS and also requests received from some entities, it has been decided to grant an opportunity to the applicants by extending the last date for filing of an application for registration till March 31, 2000. lAs per the provisions of Regulation 71 an existing collective investment entity can be granted provisional registration subject to, inter-alia, the following conditions:  a.the entity shall get the existing schemes rated by a credit rating agency within one year from the date of grant of provisional registration. b.the entity shall get the existing schemes audited by an auditor within a period of one year from the date of grant of provisional registration. c.the entity shall get the existing schemes appraised by an appraising agency within a period of one year from the date of grant of provisional registration. d.the entity shall create a trust and appoint trustees in the manner specified in Chapter IV of the Regulations within a period of one year from the date of grant of provisional registration. e.the entity shall not dispose of the scheme property except for meeting the obligations arising under the offer document of the scheme. lGrant of provisional registration does not entitle a collective investment entity to launch any new schemes or raise moneys from the investors even under the existing schemes. lOnly those collective investment entities which are granted the certificate of registration (as distinct from provisional registration) by SEBI can launch new schemes or raise moneys from the investors under the existing schemes within the framework of the Regulations. lTill date no entity has been granted registration by SEBI. lIn case an existing collective investment entity does not make an application for grant of registration by March 31, 2000 or is not desirous of obtaining provisional registration from SEBI, it has to compulsorily wind up the existing schemes and make payment to the investors. The last date for making such payment to the investors pursuant to the winding up of schemes is May 28, 2000. lA list of existing collective investment entities which fail to make an application for grant of registration by March 31, 2000 would be issued in due course. Members of the public are hereby cautioned that they should not invest in the collective investment schemes of any entity which has not been granted certificate of registration by SEBI. Investors are advised to promptly bring to the notice of SEBI information regarding any entity found to be mobilising funds from the public under collective investment schemes without obtaining certificate of registration from SEBI.   ISSUED IN PUBLIC INTEREST BY SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA SEBI on internet: www.sebi.gov.in  