Sub:  Invitation  for  Counter  Proposals/Revised  Proposals  in  Furtherance  of  the  Revised 

PUBLIC NOTICE 

Proposal Submitted by PACL Ltd. Dated July 03, 2018. 

 

I. 

The  Justice  (Retd.)  R.M.  Lodha  Committee  (in the  matter  of  PACL  Ltd.)  has  received  a 

revised  proposal  dated  July  03,  2018  from  PACL  Ltd.,  which  proposal  is  available  at 

https:://www.sebi.gov.in/PACL.html.    The  Committee  will  consider  counter  proposals/ 

revised  proposals  from  persons  /entities/  corporates  including  PACL  Ltd.  offering 

consideration  higher  than  the  revised  proposal  of  PACL  Ltd.  vide  letter  dated  July  03, 

2018, strictly on the terms and conditions contained in the communication dated March 

16, 2018 addressed by the Committee to PACL (also available at the abovementioned 

site).    The terms and conditions on which the counter/ revised proposal(s) would be 

considered,  contained  in  the  abovementioned  communication  dated  March  16,  2018, 

are reproduced herein below for ready reference:  

 

1.  The Justice (Retd) R.M. Lodha Committee (in the matter of PACL) (the “Committee”) in 

furtherance  of  the  abovementioned  order  dated  February  23,  2018  of  the  Hon'ble 

Supreme  Court  of  India,  whereby  the  Hon’ble  Court  has  stated  that  the  sale  of  the 

property can be conducted in terms of the report of Justice Lodha Committee and under 

the supervision of the said Committee, is willing to consider a proposal of PACL Ltd. for 

effecting  sale  of    its  properties  in  their  entirety    in  accordance  with  the  terms  and 

conditions as contained hereunder. 

2.  The Committee has already sold through auction, one hundred thirteen (113) properties, 

details of which have already been communicated vide letter dated 09.02.2018 annexed 

herewith, and certain properties stand released by Shri. R.S. Virk, District Judge (Retd.), 

appointed by the Committee, after hearing of objections/ representations from various 

parties, which are available on the SEBI website. 

3.  PACL Ltd. is therefore required to furnish to the Nodal Officer of the Committee, within a 

period not exceeding four (4) weeks from the date of this communication, all details of 

properties owned by PACL Ltd., either directly or indirectly, in terms of the order dated 

August  04,  2017  of  the  Hon'ble  Supreme  Court,  categorising  such  properties  as  those 

free from encumbrances /claims and those that are not.  

4.  PACL Ltd. may, as expeditiously as possible and in any event within two weeks from the 

date of this communication, submit to the Committee a proposal to be accompanied by 

a  Demand  Draft  of  Rs.500  Crores  in  favour  of  SEBI  and  payable  at  Mumbai,  together 

with  an  unconditional  Undertaking  in  respect  of  the  Properties  referred  to  in  3 

hereinabove,  including  the  properties  with  MR  Numbers  that  have  been  seized  by  the 

CBI, (the “Properties”). 

5.  The  unconditional  undertaking    referred  to  in  4  herein  above,  should  include  the 

following :– 

a)  The amount to be brought in by PACL Ltd. with respect to the properties shall not 

be less than the amount arrived at after computing the cumulative value of the 

Properties based on the prevailing circle rate and having regard to the prevalent 

market value (the “Consideration”). 

b)  The liability of PACL Ltd. towards investors shall not cease with the payment of 

the  Consideration  by  PACL  Ltd.  or  the  payment  of  Purchase  Price  by  any 

prospective buyer, and PACL shall continue to ensure deposit of further amounts 

as may be required till every investor claim is satisfied. 

c)  Out of the entire Consideration amount, forty (40) per cent, which shall include 

the  Rupees  Five  Hundred  (500)  Crore  deposited  as  EMD,  shall  be  deposited  by 

PACL  Ltd.  within  a  period  of  four  (4)  months  and  the  balance  of  the  entire 

Consideration  within  a  period  not  exceeding  one  (1)  year  from  the  date  of 

acceptance of the proposal of PACL Ltd. by the Committee. 

d)  PACL  shall  declare  that  the  terms  and  conditions  contained  in  the  Undertaking 

shall be binding on PACL and its Directors.  

e)  The  Undertaking  will  include  a  personal  undertaking  from  Mr.  N.S.  Bhangoo, 

Pearl Group Chairman, declaring therein that he will be unconditionally bound by 

the terms and conditions as contained in the Undertaking. 

f)  PACL shall declare that persons/entities, whose proposals are brought by it, are 

not related to or associated with PACL. 

g)  The proposal shall  also include a list of the Properties (with the MR numbers if 

the property has been seized by the CBI), together with the corresponding circle 

rate for that particular property and the value as arrived at upon computing it on 

the basis of the circle rate should be stated against each of the Properties.    

h)  The proposal shall be accompanied by necessary proof of the circle rate used for 

computing the value of the Properties.  

i)  Any default in the payment of the Consideration value or any part thereof shall 

result  in  the  forfeiture  of  any  amount  already  paid  to/  deposited  with  SEBI 

including EMD. 

6.  The Committee, upon receipt of a proposal from PACL Ltd., shall put up the same on the 

SEBI  website  for  the  viewing  of  any  person(s)/entity/entities  desirous  of  submitting  a 

proposal for purchase of the Properties in their entirety, at a consideration higher than 

the Consideration value of the proposal submitted by PACL Ltd.  

7.  Any  person(s)/entity/entities  desirous  of  offering  a  price  higher  than  the  value  of  the 

proposal  submitted  by  PACL  for  the  Properties  in  their  entirety,  would  be  required  to 

submit their proposal to the Committee specifying the total value of the proposal within 

a  period  not  exceeding  one  (1)  month  from  the  date  of  intimation  of  the  proposal  of 

PACL  Ltd.  on  the  SEBI  website,  together  with  a  demand  draft  of  Rupees  Five  Hundred 

(500) Crores, drawn in favour of SEBI, in order for such proposal to be considered by the 

Committee. 

8.  Further,  any  person(s)/entity/entities  desirous  of  offering  a  higher  price  would  be 

required  to  do  so  by  submitting  a  proposal  for  purchase  of  the  properties  in  their 

entirety, with consideration thereof being higher by at least 2 (two) per cent of the total 

Consideration  value  of  the  proposal  submitted  by  PACL  Ltd. 

  Further,  such 

person(s)/entity(ies) would also be required to provide an undertaking stating that they 

are not related to and/or associated with PACL Ltd. The proposal would also undertake 

to abide (mutatis mutandis) by the same terms and conditions, as fixed for PACL Ltd. 

9.  In  the  event  of  acceptance  by the  Committee  of the  proposal  of  any  persons  /entities, 

the EMD deposited by PACL Ltd. shall be refunded without any interest. 

10. In  the  event,  the  proposal  of  any  such  persons/  entities  is  not  accepted  by  the 

Committee,  the  EMD  amount  of  Rupees  Five  hundred  (500)  Crores  deposited  by  such 

persons /entities shall be refunded without any interest by the Committee. 

11.  

In the event no proposal from any person(s)/entity(ies) offering a consideration 

higher than the Consideration value of the proposal submitted by PACL Ltd. is received, 

the Committee shall proceed with the processing of the proposal of PACL Ltd. only upon 

being  satisfied  that  the  said  proposal  conforms  to  the  terms  and  conditions,  as 

mandated by the Committee. 

12. The commencement of the sale of Properties upon acceptance of the proposal of PACL 

Ltd.  or  the  proposal  of  any  other  person(s)/  entity(ies),  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  be 

carried out on the basis of the terms provided hereunder: 

a)  The  Properties  shall  be  sold  on  “as  is,  where  is,  whatever  is”  basis  and  the 

Committee shall make no representation /warranty with respect to the title etc. 

of the Properties.  

b)  The  entire  proceeds  of  the  sale  of  properties  shall  be  credited  directly  to  the 

designated SEBI account under intimation to the Committee.  

c)  Any  default  in  the  payment  of  the  Consideration/Purchase  Price  or  any  part 

thereof  shall  result  in  the  forfeiture  of  any  amount  already  paid  to/  deposited 

with SEBI including EMD. 

d)  Sale  Certificate(s)  shall  be  issued  only  upon  receipt  of  entire  Consideration 

/Purchase  Price  within  the  time  frame  provided  in  the  Undertaking  along  with 

the  property  documents,  whether  in  original  or  as  copies  of  the  original,  as 

available with the Committee. 

13. The decision of the Committee on all matters shall be final and is subject to the decision 

of the Hon'ble Supreme Court alone. “ 

 
Accordingly, any person /entity/ corporate including PACL Ltd. desirous of submitting a counter 

proposal/ revised proposal may do so by addressing such counter proposal/ revised proposal to 

the Nodal Officer-cum-Secretary, Justice (Retd.) R.M. Lodha Committee (in the matter of PACL 

Ltd.), SEBI Bhavan, Plot No. C4-A, G- Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Mumbai- 400051, so as to 

reach the Committee on or before  July 17, 2018 by 17:00 hrs., superscribing on the envelope 

“Final Proposal-PACL Properties”.  

Please note that all offers received subsequently will not be considered.  

Any clarification in this regard may be sought by e-mail to committeepacl@sebi.gov.in. 

