PUBLIC NOTICE FOR SALE OF PROPERTIES OF PACL LTD. 

 

1) 

2) 

The  Justice  (Retd.)  R.M.  Lodha  Committee  (in  the  matter  of  PACL  Ltd.)  – 
(“Committee”)  has  been  directed  by  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  of  India  vide 
order dated 23.01.2020 (“Order”) passed in C.A. No. 13301/2015 in the matter of 
Subrata  Bhattacharya  Vs.  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  inter  alia,  to 
“…formulate terms and conditions…” incorporating features which have been set 
out in the aforesaid order as well as “…other requirements which the Committee 
may consider necessary to spell out.” 
 
This Public Notice is being issued by the Committee for the Sale of properties of 
PACL Ltd., in pursuance of the aforementioned order dated 23.01.2020, inviting 
Expression of Interest (EOI) from Interested parties including 12 bidders referred 
to in the said Order, or other ARCs, or NBFCs or prospective purchasers, on the 
terms and conditions specified herein below. 
 

 

A.  Properties:  

(i) Property/Properties shall mean the 27,138 properties of PACL Ltd., its group 

entities and related parties specified Zone – wise herein below. 

 

(ii) List of properties referred to in (i) hereinabove specified as being available 
for sale, together with scanned documents thereof, are currently accessible 
on the  website  –  www.sebipaclauction.com  and details  in  excel   format at 
link- “Sale of properties of PACL Ltd. pursuant to Order dated 23.01.2020  of 
the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in C.A.13301/2015”.  

Zone-wise details of the properties 

Zone  

No. of Properties  

 
 

East 

 
 
 
 

North 

 
 
 

South 

1 
33 
98 
1 
546 
905 
1,584 
5 
362 
682 
11 
1,765 
371 
3 
3,199 
612 
873 
2 
10,110 

Name of the State 
Assam 
Bihar 
Chhatisgarh  
Jharkhand 
Odisha 
West Bengal 

Zone Sub-Total 

Chandigarh  
Delhi 
Haryana  
Himachal Pradesh 
Punjab 
Uttar Pradesh 
Uttarakhand 

Zone Sub-Total 

Andhra Pradesh 
Karnataka 
Kerala  
Tamil Nadu 

 

Page 1 of 8 

Telangana  

Zone Sub-Total 

Goa  
Gujarat 
Madhya Pradesh 
Maharashtra 
Rajasthan  

 
 
 

West 

Zone Sub-Total 

Grand Total 

 
 

 

 

B.   Eligibility for submitting EOI/EOIs 

 

972 
12,569 
20 
186 
4,390 
1,324 
3,861 
9,781 
27,133 

(i)  EOI/EOIs may be submitted by  interested parties  legally competent and 

authorized to enter into contract;  
 

(ii)  Offerer(s)  shall  have  minimum  net  worth  of  Rs.50  crores  in  each  of  the 

immediately preceding 3 years; 
Explanation:  “Networth”  shall  mean  the  aggregate  value  of  the  capital 
(paid-up  capital  in  case  of  Companies),  accumulated  profits  and  all 
reserves created out  of  the  profits,  after  deducting  the  aggregate  value  
of    the    accumulated    losses,    deferred  expenditure  and    miscellaneous 
expenditure not written off, as per the audited balance sheet, but does 
not  include  reserves  created  out  of  revaluation  of  assets,  write-back  of 
depreciation and amalgamation. 
 

(iii)  Intending  offerors  shall,  together  with  the  EOI/EOIs,  furnish      audited 

Balance Sheets for the immediately preceding 3 years. 

 

(iv)  Intending  offerors  should  not  be  barred  by  the  Securitisation  and 
Reconstruction  of  Financial  Assets  and  Enforcement  of  Security  Interest 
Act, 2002, The Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 or any other law 
currently in force, from participating in the sale process. 

 

C.   Earnest Money Deposit: 

  
(i)  Each EOI shall be accompanied by, a non interest bearing, Earnest Money 
Deposit  (“EMD”)  in  the  form  of  a  demand  draft  of  Rs.150  crores  of  a 
nationalised bank, drawn in favour of “Securities and Exchange Board of 
India”,  payable  at  Mumbai,  to  be  furnished  to  the  Nodal  Officer  cum 
Secretary to the Committee along with the EOI.  

 

(ii)  The amount of EMD submitted by offerors shall carry no interest. 

 

(iii)  EOIs once submitted shall not be cancelled or withdrawn. 
(iv)  In the event an intending offeror resiles from the offer after submission of 

EOI/EOIs, the EMD submitted shall stand forfeited. 

 

 

Page 2 of 8 

(v)  In  case  of  non-acceptance  of  EOI/EOIs,  EMD  amount  shall  be  refunded 
without  interest  within  7  (seven)  working  days  from  the  date  of  non-
acceptance. 
 

(vi)  The  EMD  of  successful  offerors  shall  be  retained  towards  part  sale 

consideration and shall be adjusted towards the last payment thereof. 

 

 D.  Offer size of EOI:  

(i)  An  offeror  may  submit  EOI/EOIs  covering  all  or  any  of  the  27,138 
properties,  in  one  or  more  zones  referred  to  in  para  2A  hereinabove, 
aggregating in value of at least Rs.1,000 crores. 
 

(ii)  The EOI/EOIs shall include: 

(a)  a  list of  the properties with  MR  numbers  and  corresponding  Circle 

rate for each property; 

(b) offer price for  each property; 

 

(iii)  Offer price in respect of each property covered in the offer shall be at or 

above the circle rate; 

 

E.   Sale on “as is where is and whatever is basis”:  

(i)  All offers shall expressly be made only on an “as is, where is, whatever is” 
basis  and  properties  are  being  sold  with  all  existing  and/or  further 
encumbrances, whether known or unknown to the Committee. 
 

(ii)  The  Committee  shall  not,  in  any  manner,  be  responsible  for  any 
claim/rights/dues    of  any  third  party  and  no  claim  whatsoever  will  be 
entertained after submission of EOI/EOIs with respect to properties put up 
for sale.  

 

(iii)  Successful offerors shall bear all statutory/non statutory dues, taxes etc. 
in relation to properties and charges/fees payable for conveyance of the 
property/properties, such as registration fee, stamp duty, etc.  

 

F.  Time period for completion of sale of properties: 

(i)    The  time  period  for  completion  of  the  sale  of  the  properties  shall  be 

4(four) months from the date of acceptance of the offer(s). 

 

(ii)    The  entire  sale  consideration  would  be  required  to  be  paid  within  this 

period. 

 

(iii)  No  request  for  any  further  extension  would  be  entertained  under  any 

circumstance(s). 

G.  Counter offers to EOIs:  

 

Page 3 of 8 

All EOIs received would be opened on February 25, 2020 at 03:00 PM and 
all offerors may remain present at the time of opening of the EOIs at SEBI 
Bhavan-II,  Plot  No.  C  7,  ‘G’  Block,  Bandra  Kurla  Complex,  Bandra  (East), 
Mumbai – 400 051.  On next working day (i.e. February 26, 2020) all the EOIs 
shall  be  uploaded  on  the  SEBI  website  (www.sebi.gov.in).  Thereafter,  the 
following process would be adopted: 

(i)  After uploading of all offers/EOIs received on the SEBI website, counter 
offers,  being    minimum  30%  higher  of  the  original  offer(s),  may  be 
submitted, not later than 3 working days (i.e. before 5:00 pm on March 
02, 2020) after uploading of the original offers/EOIs; 

 

(ii)  Counter offers shall be for the same set of properties as specified in the 

original offers. 

(iii)  Counter offers together with EMD specified in para C (i) hereinabove, 
shall  be  submitted  only  by  such  offerors  meeting  all  the  eligibility 
requirements and all the terms and conditions specified herein. 

(iv)  All counter offers received would be opened within 1 working day i.e. on 
March 03, 2020 at 03:00 PM and all offerors may remain present at the 
time  of  opening  of  the  EOIs  at  SEBI  Bhavan-II,  Plot  No.  C  7,  ‘G’  Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051. Thereafter, the 
counter  offer(s)  would  be  uploaded  on 
the  SEBI  website 
(www.sebi.gov.in) within one working day (i.e. March 04, 2020) 

(v)  The  original offeror(s)  would  be  given 3  working  days    after uploading 
counter offer(s) (i.e. till 5:00 pm of March 9, 2020) to match the counter 
offer(s)  received  (and  uploaded),  if  any.  The  matching  offer(s)  from 
original  offeror(s),  if  any,  shall  be  uploaded  on  website  on  March  11, 
2020.  

(vi)  The  above  counter  offer  process  would  be  effected  only  once  and  no 

further counter offer(s) would be entertained/considered; 

(vii)  In  the  event,  two  or  more  EOIs  are  identical  qua  properties  and  sale 
consideration, the procedure mentioned in (i) to (v) above shall also be 
followed  with  respect  to  the  common  properties  in  the  identical 
EOI/EOIs, so as to identify a single acceptable offer/ EOI. 

(viii)  In the event two or more EOIs relate to properties that are common to 
both,  the  higher  aggregate  offer  as  a  package  would  be  taken  up  for 
consideration. 

(ix)  The successful offeror(s) shall be intimated by e-mail and such offeror(s) 
shall be required to confirm acceptance by return e-mail, not later than 
24 hours after such intimation. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 8 

(x)  Unsuccessful  offerors  will  also  be  intimated  by  an  email  about  non-

acceptance of their offer(s). 

  

H.  Other Conditions: 

The EOIs submitted by the offeror must be in compliance with the following: 
The offeror shall declare that the persons/entities, whose proposals are 
(i) 
brought by it are not related to or associated with PACL Ltd. Offer(s) 
made without such declaration are liable to be rejected. 

 

(ii)  The entire proceeds of sale of properties shall be credited directly to 
the  following  designated  bank  account  of  SEBI  under  intimation  to 
Committee: 

Name  of Account holder  
Account No. 
IFSC 
Bank Name 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 
0172101101304 
CNRB0006643 
Canara  Bank,  BKC  Mid  Corporate  Branch, 
Mumbai 

 

 

(iii)  No commission shall be payable by the committee with respect to any 

offer for sale of properties. 

 

(iv)  Sale  Certificate  shall  be  issued  only  upon  receipt  of  entire  sale 

consideration/purchase price. 

(v)  All taxes and /or dues of whatsoever nature, with respect to properties 
being offered for sale and specified in 2 hereinabove, shall be paid by 
the successful offeror. All offers shall be made taking into consideration 
all such liability/liabilities pertaining to the properties in question. 

(vi)  All  EOIs,  including  counter  offers  shall  be  submitted  only  in  the 

prescribed format specified in Schedule-I hereto. 

(vii)  All offeror(s)/persons/entities submitting EOI/EOIs shall be deemed to 
have  read  and  understood  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  sale  of 
properties specified in 2 hereinabove. 

(viii)  EOI/EOIs by a Consortium shall be submitted with:  

(a)  a  declaration  of  the  name  of  the  person(s)  authorized  to 

represent the Consortium; 

 

(b) documents evidencing the Consortium; 

(c)  Members of Consortium is/are jointly and severally liable for all 
acts  of  other  members  with  respect  to  the  offer(s)  and  each 
member is required to independently satisfy eligibility criteria. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 5 of 8 

 

 

(d) PAN and address proof of  members of consortium  with a valid 
email  id,  contact  number  (Mobile/Land  Line)  shall  also  be 
submitted together with EOI/EOIs. 

(ix)  Single  EOI  in  respect  of  properties,  which  are  not  bid  for  by  other 

offeror(s), shall also be taken up for consideration. 
   

(x)  The Hon’ble Supreme Court of  India, in accordance with order dated 
02.05.2016 passed in C.A.13301 of 2015, shall alone have jurisdiction 
with respect to this sale process. 

I.  Last date for submission of EOI/EOIs:  

(i)  EOI should be  submitted both in physical and electronic form on or 

before 5:00 pm of February 24, 2020.  

 

(ii)  Any EOI received after the last date/time specified in (i) hereinabove, 

shall not be considered. 

 

J.  Submission of EOI/ EOIs:  

(i)  EOIs should be submitted/forwarded both by: 

 
(a)  Speed Post in sealed cover superscribed as “EOI for participating 
in Sale of PACL properties” addressed to “the Nodal Officer cum 
Secretary,  the  Justice  (Retd.)  R.M.  Lodha  Committee  (in  the 
matter  of  PACL  Ltd.),  SEBI  Bhavan,  Plot  No.  C  4  –  A,  ‘G’  Block, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051;   
 
and 
  

(b)  Email at committeepacl@sebi.gov.in . 

 

(ii)  The Committee shall not be responsible for non-receipt/late receipt 
of EOI/EOIs and no relaxation of the time period referred to in para I 
hereinabove, would be made for any reason whatsoever. 

 

Dated: February 06, 2020 
 
Nodal Officer cum Secretary 
Justice (Retd.) R.M. Lodha Committee 
(In the matter of PACL Ltd.),  
Mumbai. 

 

Page 6 of 8 

 

 

 

(FORMAT TO BE PRINTED OUT, COMPLETED AND SUBMITED BY OFFERER (S) 

SCHEDULE -I 

Sl.No.  Particulars 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

Name(s) of Offeror 
(In capitals) 
Name(s) of Authorised Person(s) 
(In capitals) 
If offerer is a company / partnership/ 
proprietorship/Consortium/individual  
Name of 
Director/Partner/Proprietor/Members 
of Consortium together with person 
authorized to represent Consortium 
Postal Address of offeror  
(self attested address proof to be 
enclosed) 
E-mail ID 

7.  Mobile / Land Line 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8. 

9. 

10 

11. 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

12. 

PAN 
(self attested copy to be enclosed)  
Net Worth of offeror  
(Balance Sheets audited by Chartered 
Accountants for preceding 3 years to be 
enclosed)  
Details of EMD (Rs.150 crore) submitted 

Bank details to which EMD amount is to 
be returned in case of unsuccessful 
offeror 
Name of Bank 
Branch 
Bank Account No. 

Nature of Account 
(whether Current /Savings etc.) 
IFSC Code: 

Details  of  properties  of  PACL  for  which 
EOI is being submitted. 

 

 

Page 7 of 8 

in  Excel  format  to  be 

(MR Nos., location & zone, Circle Rate/ 
Price and offer price) 
(Soft  Copy 
enclosed) 
Total No. of Properties (No. of MR Nos.) 
for which EOI is being submitted. 
Total offer price  

 

 

14. 

15. 

 

1.  I/We  declare  that  I/We  have  read  and  understood  the  terms  and  conditions 
stipulated  in  the  Public  Notice  dated  February  6,  2020  which  is  available  on  the 
website www.sebi.gov.in and hereby agree to abide by them.  

2.  I/We declare that I/We am / are not barred by the Securitisation and Reconstruction 
of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, The Prevention of 
Money Laundering Act, 2002 or any other law currently in force, from participating in 
the sale process. 

3.  I/We declare that I/We am / are not directly or indirectly a related party qua PACL 

Ltd./PACL Ltd. group/entities.  

4.  I/We hereby state that the particulars stated herein above are true and correct to the 
best of my/our information, knowledge and belief. I/We understand and agree that 
if any of the statement/ information revealed by me /us in the offer is found to be 
incorrect and/ or untrue, my/our above offer shall be rendered invalid and ignored 
and in such case, the EMD paid by me/us shall be forfeited. 

 

 

Name and Signature of Offeror/Authorized Person 

Date: 

 
 
 

 

 

Page 8 of 8 

