 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
                                                                                                               Date: July 02, 2020 
  
The Committee has received information that a video has been uploaded by one NMG 

IN THE MATTER OF PACL LTD.      
 

CAUTION NOTICE 

Rajasthan on YouTube on June 5, 2020 informing about a portal / mobile application of 

Janlok  Prathistan  and  inviting  investors  to  upload  their  claim  application(s)  using  this 

Mobile  App.  The  said  Mobile  App  (JANLOK  PACL  DATA)  is  available  at  the  Google 

Playstore and is claimed to be developed by Janlok Prathistan Sansthan. The Mobile 

App seems to be active since May 26, 2020 and further the sole purpose of the App is 

claimed to help investors of PACL to recover their claims due to them from PACL. 

 

Please take note that the Committee alone has been entrusted with the task of effecting 

of  refund  to  investors  of  PACL  by  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  vide  order  dated  2nd 

February, 2016 in C.A. No. 13301/2015 and connected matters, and no other individual 

/ entity is authorized to invite / collect claims from the investors of PACL Ltd. with a view 

to effecting refund-payment. 

 

In view of the above,  public at large is hereby  cautioned and advised not to part with 

and/or share records/ documents of their investments in the schemes of PACL Ltd. either 

through the above mentioned portal / mobile application or with any other person/entity. 

 

For any information with respect to the matter of PACL Ltd., all material uploaded and 

available on the website: www.sebi.gov.in alone may be relied upon. 

 

    
                                                                                               Nodal Officer cum Secretary 
                                                                                Justice (Retd.) R.M.Lodha Committee 
                                                                                                 (In the matter of PACL Ltd) 

