 
 

Settlement Scheme 2020 

 

1.  As a part of ongoing surveillance, SEBI came across several instances wherein a set 
of  entities  were  consistently  making  losses  by  their  trading  in  options  on  individual 
stocks which are listed on Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE). Trading of these entities 
appeared  abnormal  because  they  were  consistently  seen  to  be  making  significant 
losses by their trades, which were reversed with the same counterparties either on the 
same day or the next day.  

 

2.  Hence, an analysis of the stock options segment of Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) 
for the period April 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015 was carried out. It was observed 
that  there  were  several  entities  who  consistently  made  significant  losses,  whereas 
there were others who consistently made significant profit by executing reversal trades 
in  stock  options  on  the  BSE.It  has  been  observed  that  out  of  21,652  entities  that 
executed  trades  on  BSE  Stock  Options  Segment,  a  total  of  14,720  entities  were 
involved  in  generation  of  artificial  volume  by  executing  non-genuine/reversal  trades 
on the same day.  

 

3.  Out of the 14,720 entities involved in generation of artificial volumes by executing non-
genuine/reversal  trades,  SEBI  has  initiated  adjudication  proceedings  against  567 
entities.  

 

4.  Meanwhile, the Hon’ble SAT vide its Order dated October 14, 2019 in the matter of R 

S Ispat Ltd Vs SEBI, hasinter alia directed as follows: 

“…We  are  adjourning  this  matter  today,  so  that  SEBI  may  consider  holding  a 
LokAdalat or adopting any other alternative dispute resolution process with regard 
to the Illiquid Stock Options.“  
 

5.  Given  the  aforesaid  background,  the  Board  has  decided  to  introduce  a  Settlement 
Scheme (“the Scheme”) in terms of Regulation 26 of SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) 
Regulations 2018. The Scheme proposes to provide a onetime settlement opportunity 
to the entities that have executed trade reversals in the stock options segment of BSE 
during  the  period  from  April  1,  2014  to  September  30,  2015  against  whom  any 
proceedings are pending. 

 

6.  The Board has considered three objective parameters viz., artificial volume, number 
of non-genuine trades and number of contracts resulting in creation of artificial volume/ 
non-genuine trades to arrive at an Indicative Settlement Amount. Further, a uniform 
consolidated Settlement factor of 0.55 in all cases wherein the entities had executed 
reversal  trades,  would  be  applicable  while  arriving  at  the  Indicative  Settlement 
Amounts. 
 
 
 

 

 

7.  The details of the respective Indicative Settlement Amounts under the Scheme, along 
with  corresponding  artificial  volume,  number  of  non-genuine  trades  and  number  of 
contracts resulting in creating of artificial volumes / non-genuine trades, in respect of 
entities who have executed trade reversals on stock options segment of BSE during 
the period from April 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015, are available on SEBI website 
and also on the BSE website. 

 

Scheme details: 

 

Eligibility:  Under  the  Scheme,  the  entities  who  have  executed  trade  reversals  on  the 
stock options segment of BSE during the period from April 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015 
against whom any proceedings are pending are eligible to avail the one time settlement 
opportunity. 

 

Validity of the Scheme: Onetime settlement period shall commence on August 01, 2020 
and end on October 31, 2020 (both days inclusive). 

 

Settlement Application: 

An entity desirous of making an application for one time settlement under the Scheme is 
requested to submit a Settlement application along with an application fee of Rs. 15,000 
in case of individuals and Rs. 25,000 in case of body corporates in the specified format, 
available on the SEBI website and also on the BSE website. 

 

Mode  of  Payment:  Remittance  of  settlement  amount  shall  be  done  through  online 
platform as available on the website of SEBI (Click Here)  

 

It is clarified that after the expiry of the Scheme, entities who do not avail the one time 
settlement opportunity shall be liable for action as per section 15-I of the SEBI Act, 1992. 

 

Mumbai, 

July 27, 2020 

 

XXXXXXXXXXXXXX 

