PUBLIC NOTICE 

 

PROCESSING OF COMPLAINTS ONLY THROUGH SCORES 

 

1.  On June 8, 2011, SEBI commenced a web based centralized grievance redress 
system called as SEBI Complaints Redress System or SCORES. SCORES is a 
platform  designed  to  help  investors  to  lodge  their  complaints  online  with  SEBI, 
pertaining  to  securities  market,  against  listed  companies,  SEBI  registered 
intermediaries and SEBI recognized Market Infrastructure Institutions. 

 
2.  In its efforts to improve the ease of doing business, SEBI launched the SCORES 
Mobile  application  on  March  05,  2020 for  the  convenience  of  investors  to  lodge 
their grievances in SCORES. The App has all the features of SCORES which is 
presently available on SCORES portal. SCORES Mobile App is available on both 
Apple App Store and Google Play Store. 

 
3.  SCORES aids in tracking the status of the complaints anytime by the investor while 
also providing them notifications from time to time with respect to their complaints. 
Complaints  lodged  on  SCORES Portal or  SCORES  Mobile App  help  in  keeping 
proper audit trail of the complaint which is essential for future references. 

 
4.  SEBI  has  been  receiving  large  number  of  complaints  on  its  generic  e-mail  ID 
sebi@sebi.gov.in. Investors from time to time also send their grievances to official 
IDs of SEBI officers. All complaints sent on sebi@sebi.gov.in and SEBI officers are 
uploaded on SCORES.  

 
5.  SCORES has been in existence for 9 years. With the launch of Mobile App it has 

become much more easier for investors to lodge their complaint. 

 
6.  It is brought to notice of public that the Competent Authority has now decided that 
complaints  against  listed  companies,  registered  intermediaries  and  recognized 
Market Infrastructure Institutions sent on sebi@sebi.gov.in or on any official ID of 
SEBI officers will not be processed. All investors are urged to lodge their complaint 
directly on SCORES themselves. 

 
7.  Please  note  that  as  per  circular  No.  SEBI/HO/OIAE/IGRD/CIR/P/2018/58  dated 
March 26, 2018 investors who wish to lodge a complaint are required to register 
themselves on SCORES before lodging the complaint against a listed company, a 
SEBI  registered  intermediary  or  a  SEBI  recognized  Market  Infrastructure 
Institution.  While  registering  the  complaints,  mandatory  details  like  name  of the 
investors, PAN, contact details, email id are to be provided for registration.   

 

8.  For any help in lodging complaint on SCORES or with respect to your complaints 
you can contact the SEBI Toll Free Help Line number 1800 266 7575 or 1800 22 
7575. 

 

Date: August 11, 2020 

Mumbai 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

        Medha Sonparote 

         General Manager 

