Other policies and programmes having a bearing on the working of the securities markets
An  effective regulatory framework is predicated  on  strong  enforcement.  Such  enforcement  action  helps  sustain  and  foster  confidence  of  investors  and  helps  preserve  the  integrity  and  transparency of markets.  With  at  view  to  achieving  these objectives, SEBI continued with initiatives  begun   in  previous  years  and  further  focused  on   its  activities in the area of market surveillance, investigation  and   prosecutions.  SEBI  maintains  a  strong  enforcement  presence  in the areas within its jurisdiction and exercised  the   powers  available  to  it  under  the  SEBI  Act,  the  regulations thereunder, and powers delegated by or exercised  concurrently with the central government under the Companies  Act  and  the  Securities Contracts  (Regulation)  Act.  The  market  surveillance systems have been strengthened in  SEBI  and  the  stock  exchanges  under  the  oversight  of  SEBI.  Besides, the investigation machinery has been reinforced for  effectively  dealing  with securities  law  violations,  the  details of which are given in Part II.
Changes in the regulatory framework of securities market

Depositories and the clearing and settlement system The settlement of transactions in the securities markets  on  the basis of physical movement of paper results in delays in  the  issue of share certificates in primary issues,  in  the  transfer  of  shares, creates bottlenecks  in  the  clearing  houses  or corporations of the stock exchanges. The movement  of   physical   paper   also  creates   risks   for   market  participants.  These risks arise from the  delays  mentioned  above  and  problems of "bad delivery"  on  account  of  the  inability  of  the  exchange infrastructure  to  verify  the  quality  of certificates in the time between securities  pay  in  and pay out. Market participants and investors also have  to  contend  with the problem of "objections"  arising  from  differences  in  signatures; fraud, theft,  and  forgery  of  certificates. The need to transact in physical certificates in the face of  expanding volumes (which nation-wide electronic trading  has  facilitated)  has  increased  the  pressures  faced  by  the  clearing  infrastructure  in the stock  exchanges,  and  has  required  them  to commit resources for dealing  with  paper  that  could  have  been  more usefully  deployed  elsewhere.  Further,   the  exchanges  have  been  unable   to   shorten  settlement cycles or to move to rolling settlement, both  of  which are essential for reducing settlement risk, and are  a  feature of all modern markets. The  dematerialisation of securities  in  a  depository  and  their  transfer through electronic book entry will eliminate  some  of  the  risks  described above,  while  significantly  reducing  others.  It is expected that  as  the  network  of  depository  participants  expands,  and  the  proportion  of  securities  dematerialised in the depository increases,  the  benefits  of reduced risk and lower transaction  costs  will  extend to the vast majority of market participants and  lead  to improved investor protection and service. 
The Depositories Act, 1996 The  Depositories  Act, 1996 has laid down  the  legislative  framework  for facilitating the dematerialisation  and  book  entry transfer of securities in a depository. The Act, inter  alia, provides for the following: 
registration  with  SEBI of  a  depository,  which  is    required to be a company under the Companies Act, 1956, and    of depository participants, who are agents of the depository 
the  dematerialisation of securities in  a  depository    with the records of beneficial ownership being recorded by    the  depository, and the transfer of beneficial  ownership    which  takes  place through electronic book entry  by  the    depository 
indemnification,  in  the  first  instance   by   the    depository, of beneficial owners for the negligence of the    participant 
interfaces   between  the  depository,  participants,    issuers and beneficial owners, several of which are required    to  be in the bye-laws which a depository has to make with    the approval of SEBI 
option to investors to hold securities in physical  or    dematerialised   form,  or  to  rematerialise   securities    previously held in dematerialised form 
enquiries, inspection and penalties in case of default 
the  Act also amends other statutes to facilitate  the    setting  up and functioning of depositories and introduces    the free transferability of securities. 

The Depositories Related Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 1997 In  January  1997, the Depositories Related Laws (Amendment)  Ordinance, 1997 was promulgated, which amended certain other  statutes  to  further  facilitate the dematerialisation  and  book   entry  transfer  of  securities  in  the  depository,  especially  securities of large financial  institutions  and  public sector banks. The State Bank of India Act, 1955,  the  State  Bank  of  India  (Subsidiary Banks)  Act,  1959,  the  Industrial  Development Bank of India, 1964 and the  Banking  Companies  (Acquisition and Transfer of  Undertakings)  Act,  1980  were amended through this Ordinance to facilitate  the  dematerialisation and transfer by electronic book  entry  of  the  shares of the SBI, its subsidiaries and the  IDBI.  The  Ordinance  also amends the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 to  exempt  transfer  of  units of mutual funds through electronic  book  entry in a depository. 
The SEBI (Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 1996 SEBI had circulated a consultative paper on the framework of  the  draft regulations for depositories and participants  in  October  1995. Extensive discussion were then held with  the  stock  exchanges, market participants and investors on  this  issue. In addition to the views expressed at these meetings,  SEBI  also  had  the  benefit of  written  comments  on  the  Consultative  Paper submitted by chambers  of  commerce  and  industry,  market participants and investors. Based  on  the  above, the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) Regulations,  1996  were  notified in May 1996. These regulations  provide  for the following: 
registration of depositories and participants under the    SEBI Act 
grant of certificate of commencement of business  upon    satisfaction that adequate safeguards and systems to prevent    manipulation of records and transactions have been put  in    place, as required by the Depositories Act 
the eligibility criteria for admission of securities to    a depository 
the  specific  rights and obligations of depositories,    participants and issuers in addition to those specified in    the Depositories Act 
periodic  reports to and inspections and enquiries  by    SEBI 
penal action and procedure in case of default 
  In   addition,   the  regulations  contain   the   following  provisions: 
the  minimum  capital of the company  that  is  to  be    registered as depository, has been set at Rs. 100 crore 
the  eligibility  criteria  for  the  sponsors  of  a    depository,   who  have  been  restricted   to   financial    institutions, custodians, non-banking finance companies and    stock brokers with a minimum net worth of Rs. 50 lakh  and    subject  to a ceiling of 25 times their net worth  on  the    value of the portfolios for which they act as participant 
provisions for the indemnification of beneficial owners    including   insurance  cover  for   the   depository   and    participants 
the adequacy of safeguards and procedures that are  to    be put in place before commencement of business is allowed    to the depository 
the internal and external controls and audit mechanisms    that  are  to be instituted by the depository in order  to    ensure  the integrity of data processing systems  and  the    adequacy  of  systems and procedures to  prevent  systemic    failure, manipulation or loss of records 

The SEBI(Depositories and Participants)(Amendment) Regulations, 1997 In  February  1997, the SEBI (Depositories and Participants)  Regulations, 1997 were amended to restrict foreign ownership  of  a depository, whether as sponsors or participants to 20%  of  its  equity. The regulations were also amended to permit  non-banking  finance companies with a minimum net  worth  of  Rs.  50 crore in addition to the net worth specified by  any  other  authority to act as participants in a  depository  on  behalf of other beneficial owners. 
The National Securities Depository Limited Following  the  notification of the SEBI  (Depositories  and  Participants)  Regulations, 1996, NSDL, a company  sponsored  by  the  IDBI, the UTI and the NSE was granted a certificate  of  registration as a depository on June 7, 1996.  NSDL  was  granted  a  certificate  of  commencement  of  business   on  October    31,   1996.   NSDL   began   the    process    of  dematerialisation of securities with three participants  and  three securities eligible for dematerialisation. As of March 31, 1997, 28 participants had been registered by  SEBI  as  participants in NSDL. Of these  10 were  banks,  2  were  financial institutions, 3 non bank custodians, 11 were  stock  brokers  and 2 other non bank finance companies.  All  the  major  custodians of securities who act  on  behalf  of  FIIs,  mutual  funds and financial institutions  had  become  participants in NSDL. For a security to be declared eligible  for dematerialisation in NSDL, the issuer (and his registrar  and  transfer  agent in case there is one) has  to  sign  an  agreement   with  NSDL.  This  agreement   lays   down   the  obligations and responsibilities of the issuer and NSDL with  respect  to  each other, in addition to those prescribed  in  the  Depositories  Act  and  the SEBI  regulations.  As  the  Depositories Act permits investors to hold securities  which  are  eligible  for  dematerialisation  in  a  depository  in  physical  form outside the depository, it is important  that  the issuer or the issuer's registrar and transfer agent have  been  required  to reconcile the holdings of a  security  in  physical  form with those held in dematerialised form  on  a  daily basis. As  of  March  31, 1997, issuers had signed agreements  with  NSDL  in respect of 43 securities. The market capitalisation  of  securities for which issuers had established  electronic  connectivity  with NSDL at the end of 1996-97 stood  at  Rs.  44,973  crore.  As of March 31, 1997, the  market  value  of  dematerialised securities stood at Rs. 502 crore. These were  held on behalf of 1,957 beneficial owners. At  present, only the capital market segment of the NSE  and  the   National   Securities  Clearing  Corporation   Limited  (NSCCL),   which  acts  as  the  clearing  corporation   for  securities traded on the capital market segment of  the  NSE  are  integrated with the depository. Only trades  which  are  executed on the dematerialised securities trading segment on  the NSE can be cleared by NSCCL for settlement by electronic  book  entry within NSDL. The Depositories Act, 1996  amended  the  Indian Stamp Act, 1899, to exempt transfers  of  equity  shares  through electronic book entry from payment of  stamp  duty. 
Custodians of securities The  SEBI (Custodians of Securities) Regulations, 1996  were  notified  in May 1996. The regulations prescribe eligibility  criteria  and  a  code  of conduct to  be  followed  by  the  custodians  for  the  first  time.  Custodians,  as  service  providers to institutional investors are an integral part of  the  securities  markets,  and it is  important  that  their  interactions  and interfaces with stock exchanges,  clearing  corporations, clearing houses, stock brokers, registrars and  investing institutions be streamlined and uniform. With this  in  view,  SEBI  prescribed uniform norms and practices  for  custodians  of securities in October 1996 after  discussions  with   custodians,   stock  exchanges   and   other   market  participants.    The   SEBI   (Custodian   of    Securities)  Regulations, 1996 were amended giving power to SEBI to  give  existing  custodians  time  upto  5  years  to  raise  their  networth to Rs.50 crore. 
The SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 India has a vast pool of entrepreneurial talent, which needs to be channelled and nurtured. Venture capital funds have an important role to play in providing entrepreneurs with risk capital, and in many cases, management expertise and mentoring from venture capitalists. SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996, have been crafted with the objective of helping venture capital funds to foster entrepreneurship in India. The regulations were notified in December 1996. At the end of March 1997, 13 venture capital funds had applied for registration with SEBI. In terms of these regulations, venture capital funds may be set up as companies or trusts. A considerable deterrent to the use of the trust structure for venture capital funds was the inability of trusts to vote. This has been removed with the amendment to the Companies Act, 1956, which permits venture capital funds set up as trusts to vote their shares. The regulations permits venture capital funds to raise funds only from institutional and high networth individuals, and to ensure this, the minimum amount that may be raised from any one investor has been kept at Rs. 5 lakh. The regulations aim to provide a lot of flexibility to venture capital funds to facilitate the growth of this segment of the market. The only investment restrictions that have been prescribed is that at least 80% of the funds raised by a venture capital fund. 
must be invested in unlisted companies 
may be used to invest in financially weak companies which may be listed or unlisted 
may be used to provide loan assistance to investee ventures 
 In terms of the rules announced by the Central Board of Direct Taxation on July 18, 1995, venture capital funds are exempt from taxation provided that they invest in accordance with the rules in certain sectors of the economy, and such investment, among other requirements, is for a minimum period of three years. The SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996 impose no such “lock in” of investment or restrictions on industrial sectors in which investment has to be made. However, to avail of the tax benefits under the Income Tax Act, 1961, venture capital funds registered with SEBI are required to meet with the requirements of the rules and obtain an exemption from the income tax authorities. Foreign investors may invest fully in domestic venture capital funds, whether set up as trusts or companies. This investment is governed by the Guidelines for Overseas Venture Capital Investment issued by the government on September 20, 1995. The initial investment in the domestic venture capital fund by an overseas investor may be made with the approval of the FIPB and the RBI. Subsequent investment by the venture capital fund after it obtains SEBI registration into investee ventures does not require any further approval. The guidelines impose a three year “lock in” on investment by venture capital funds with foreign investment. Such funds may invest in only upto 40% of the equity capital of an investee venture, and not more than 5% of the corpus of such funds may be invested in one single investee venture. This limit is to be raised to 10% following the announcement by the Finance Minister in the Budget Speech for 1997-98.  
Substantial acquisitions of shares and take-overs The SEBI (Substantial Acquisitions of Shares and Take-overs) Regulations, 1994 were notified in November 1994. The regulations were aimed at making the take-over process more transparent, and to protect the interests of minority shareholders. A committee was set up under the chairmanship of Justice P N Bhagwati, former Chief Justice of India to examine the deficiencies in the 1994 regulations and to make them more fair, transparent and unambiguous, and to protect the interests of investors and all parties concerned in the acquisition process. The committee had a wide representation from chambers of commerce and industry, investor associations, stock exchanges, market participants, legal experts and professional bodies. The report of the committee was widely circulated, and was one of the most debated reports on the securities markets in the country. After discussions on the comments on the report and the draft regulations framed by the committee, the SEBI (Substantial Acquisitions of Shares and Take-overs) Regulations, 1997 were notified in February 1997. The 1997 regulations aim at:  
Investor protection in the take-over process 
Greater transparency 
Fairness and equity of treatment to all investors 
Timeliness and accuracy of disclosure of information to investors 
Prevention of frivolous offers 
Enforcement against violations 
 The salient features of the new regulations are: 
definition of “control” and “parties acting in concert”, and requirement of a mandatory public offer by an acquirer once he acquires more than 10% of the voting rights of a listed company or if there is a change in control of the company 
consolidation of holdings in a company at the rate of 2% in every 12 month period by any person who holds between 10% and 51% of the shares or voting rights of a company without triggering a mandatory public offer 
person holding more than 51% of the shares or voting rights cannot consolidate unless he makes a public offer to acquire the required number of shares 
elaborate and stringent disclosure requirements 
the introduction of the requirement of establishing an escrow account by an acquirer in which the acquirer is required to deposit some percentage of the consideration payable. For consideration payable by the offeror upto and including Rs. 100 crore, 25% of the consideration payable required to be placed in escrow, and for the consideration payable exceeding Rs. 100 crore 10% of the consideration payable required to be placed in escrow. This amount would be forfeited in case of default or non compliance by the acquirer 
cash as well as exchange offers, conditional offers, competitive bidding and revision of offers 
indirect take-over of companies through the acquisition of control of holding investment companies brought under the purview of the regulations, and such a change in control requires a mandatory public offer to be made. 
 
Amendment to the Companies Act, 1956 relating to the securities markets 
At the request of SEBI, to deal with the problem of supervision of end use of funds, Schedule VI of the Companies Act, 1956 was amended in September 1996 by the central government under Section 641(1) of the Companies Act, 1956 to provide that all unutilised monies out of an issue must be separately disclosed in the balance sheet of the issuing company indicating the form in which such unutilised monies have been invested. 
The Companies Act, 1956 was further amended through the Companies Amendment Act, 1996 which inter alia provides for: 
 Grant of voting rights to mutual funds, venture capital funds in respect of their shares in the companies 
 Permitting companies to issue redeemable preference shares upto a maximum period of 20 years 

Working group for re-codification of the Companies Act, 1956 A Working Group to re-write the Companies Act, 1956 was constituted in August, 1996 by the government. The views of SEBI were considered by the Working Group in its report submitted to the government in March 1997. The main recommendations of the group having bearing on the capital market are described in brief below. 
The regulation and the disciplinary control over public listed companies for the purpose of issue of securities and the related matters should be unified and SEBI should be the sole authority for the monitoring, regulating and policing functions of such companies. 
Schedule II of the Companies Act in respect of prospectus should be under the domain of SEBI 
In the event of any person, group or body corporate acquiring 95% shares of a public listed company either through a take-over or otherwise and the company getting delisted, the residual shareholders should sell their shares to 95% owner at a price based upon SEBI guidelines 
The Employees Stock Option (ESOP) should be explicitly incorporated in the new Act. The capital market rules for ESOP should be framed by SEBI for public listed companies. Such rules should allow buy-back of options 
Buyback of shares by a company should be allowed subject to certain conditions 

Amendment of Listing Agreement of Stock Exchanges In 1996-97, the stock exchanges were required by SEBI to amend the Listing Agreement to provide for the following: 
The issuer shall pay interest at the rate of 15% if the allotment has not been made or if the refund order has not been dispatched to the investors within 30 days from the closure of the issue 
It was made mandatory for the body corporate making a public issue to have at least 5 public shareholders for every Rs.1,00,000 of net capital offer made to the public. In the case of offer for sale, there should be atleast 10 shareholders for every Rs.1 lakh of equity offered to the public. 
The cash flow statement is required to be issued by listed companies as a process of continuous disclosure shall be in the manner provided for authentication of balance sheet and profit and loss account under Section 215 of the Companies Act, 1956. 
Issuers allowed to list debt securities on stock exchanges without equity shares being first listed, and the listing agreements were modified to reflect this. 

Amendment to the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 The central government in exercise of powers conferred on it under Section 30(1) of SC(R) Act, 1956 amended the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, inter alia, to empower SEBI to hear appeals in the matter of suspension, withdrawal or delisting of securities, to exempt the requirement of experience in respect of brokers, to empower SEBI to require brokers to get their accounts audited by a Chartered Accountant, to require stock exchanges to furnish an annual report to SEBI and to relax the requirement of 25% offer to the public 
Delegation under the Companies Act, 1956 The central government in exercise of its power under Section 621 of the Companies Act authorised 14 officers of SEBI to file complaints for prosecutions in the Criminal Courts, inter alia, for the violation of following sections 56(3), 59(1), 63, 68, 73(2), 73(2B), 113(2) and 207 of the Companies Act, 1956. 
Constitution of committee for amendment of the securities laws In February 1997, SEBI constituted a committee under the chairmanship of Justice D R Dhanuka, retired Judge of the High Court of Mumbai for review of the undermentioned laws relating to securities in India in terms of the following: 
To examine the areas of deficiencies in the SEBI Act, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the Depositories Act, 1996 
To suggest amendments to the provisions of the SEBI Act, SC(R) Act and Depositories Act with a view to enable SEBI to regulate and develop the securities market and protect the interests of investors 
To examine the provisions of the Companies Act and to make recommendations for amendments to the Companies Act in order to enable SEBI to better regulate issue of capital, listing of securities, transfer of securities and protect the interests of investors 
  SEBI would consider the recommendations of the committee and convey them to the government. 
