PART FOUR: REGULATORY CHANGES

Annual Report 2004-05

1. REGULATORY AMENDMENTS

I.

Amendment(s) to SEBI (Substantial
Acquisition  of  Shares  and
Takeovers) Regulations, 1997

(a) SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of
Shares  and  Takeovers)  (Second
Amendment)  Regulations,  2004
dated December 30, 2004.

The  amendments  were  made 

to
harmonise  the  provisions  on  level  of  public
shareholding  contained  in  the  Takeover
Regulations  with  the  Listing  Agreement,  to
bring  greater  clarity  in  the  operation  of
Takeover Regulations, eliminate the scope of
regulatory  arbitrage  between  Takeover
Regulations  and  Delisting  Guidelines  and  to
eliminate  the  possibility  of  delisting  through
Takeover Regulations. These include:

(i) Change in the definition of ‘Promoter’

and ‘Public Shareholding’

The  existing  definitions  of  terms
“promoter”  and  “public  shareholding”  in  the
Regulations were revised. The said definitions
would also be adopted in Delisting Guidelines
and continuous listing requirement of Listing
Agreement in order to achieve harmony with
Takeover Regulations.

(ii) Restriction on Creeping Limit only

between 15 per cent and 55 per cent

Creeping  acquisition  of  5  per  cent  is
permitted for persons holding 15 per cent or
more but less than 55 per cent of the shares
or voting rights in a company. Any acquisition
beyond this 5 per cent limit shall mandate a
public  offer  in  terms  of  the  Takeover
Regulations.

(iii) For acquisitions beyond 55 per cent



An  acquirer,  who  together  with  persons

acting in concert with him has acquired,
in accordance with the provisions of law,
fifty  five  per  cent  (55  per  cent)  or  more
but  less  than  seventy  five  per  cent  (75
per  cent)  of  the  shares  or  voting  rights
in a target company, may acquire either
by  himself  or  through  persons  acting  in
concert with him any additional share or
voting  right,  only  if  he  makes  a  public
announcement  to  acquire  shares  or
voting  rights  in  accordance  with  these
regulations.



Acquisitions  of  shares  through  market
purchases  and  preferential  allotments
would  be  restricted  to  55  per  cent.  Any
acquisition through market purchases in
excess of 55 per cent would be liable to
be  disinvested  forthwith  and  may  also
attract penal provisions.

 Where the acquirer is likely to cross 55
per cent pursuant to a MoU/agreement,
he shall make an open offer for at least
20  per  cent.  He  shall  ensure  that
minimum  public  shareholding  required
under 
is
maintained  after  the  public  offer,  by
reduction  in  the  size  of  the  proposed
acquisition under the MoU/agreement, if
necessary.

the  Listing  Agreement 



Persons holding more than 55 per cent
but less than 75 per cent can consolidate
their  holding  only  by  making  an  open
offer  of  a  suitable  size  that  does  not
result  in  the  public  shareholding  being
reduced  below  minimum  level  of  public
shareholding for continuous listing.

(iv) For indirect acquisitions/global

arrangements

If consequent to the public offer made in
pursuance of global arrangement, the public
shareholding  falls  to  a  level  below  the  limit



Part Four: Regulatory Changes

specified  in  the  Listing  Agreement  with  the
stock exchange for the purpose of listing on
continuous basis, the acquirer shall undertake
to raise the level of public shareholding to the
levels specified for continuous listing specified
in  the  Listing  Agreement  with  the  stock
exchange,  within  a  period  of  twelve  months
from the date of closure of the public offer.

(b) SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of
Shares  and  Takeovers)  (Amend-
ment)  Regulations,  2004  dated
August 30, 2004.
In  order  to  safeguard  the  interest  of
investors and to better regulate the takeovers,
following amendments were made:

(i) Reduction in the time period of open

offers

The current time cycle of the open offer
has been reduced from 120 days to 90 days.

(ii) Expansion in the scope of Regulation

3(1)(f)

The  scope  of  Regulation  3(1)  (f)  is
expanded to include the change in control by
takeover  of  management  of  the  borrower
company by the secured creditor in terms of
the  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of
Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
Interest Act, 2002.

(iii) Restriction in the participation of

Merchant Banker in the open offer and
its disclosure requirement

 Merchant Bankers are restricted to deal
in the scrip of target company during the
period  commencing  from  date  of  their
appointment  in  terms  of  Regulation  13
till 15 days from the closure of the offer.

 Merchant Bankers have to disclose their
shareholding  in  the  target  company,  if
any, in the public announcement as well
as in the letter of offer.

II. Amendment(s) to SEBI (Procedure
for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry
Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)
Regulations, 2002

(a) SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding
Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and
Imposing  Penalty)  (Third  Amend-
ment)  Regulations,  2004  dated
December 31, 2004.
A  penalty  of  ‘warning’  can  be  imposed
by  SEBI  only  by  following  the  enquiry
procedure  under  the  existing  regulations.  It
was felt that issuance of a warning as distinct
from censure can be removed from the scope
of regulations so as to enable SEBI to issue
“warning”  as  an  administrative  action  for
technical  &  venial  violations  without
necessarily following the procedure laid down
in  the  regulations.  By  this  amendment,  the
word  ‘warning’  as  a  minor  penalty  has  been
deleted  from  Regulation  13(1)  (a)  of  the
Enquiry Regulations.

(b) SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding
Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and
Imposing  Penalty) 
(Second
Amendment)  Regulations,  2004
dated September 2, 2004.
Even in cases where intermediaries have
surrendered  their  certificates,  or  when  the
intermediary  has  been  declared  insolvent  or
is  wound  up  or  fails  to  pay  the  registration,
renewal or annual fees to the Board or being
a stock broker, ceases to be a member of a
recognised  stock  exchange  or  has  been
declared a defaulter by such stock exchange,
a  detailed  summary  procedure  under
Regulation  16  of  the  said  regulations  is
required  to  be  followed  as  per  the  existing
regulations. In case of surrender of certificate
etc., the intermediary may seek waiver of the
opportunity  of  hearing.  Therefore,  the
regulations were amended to have a simpler
procedure to be followed in the above cases



Annual Report 2004-05

in consonance with Section 12(3) of the SEBI
Act, 1992.

(c) SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding
Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and
Imposing  Penalty)  (Amendment)
Regulations,  2004  dated  July  13,
2004.
The  amendment  enables  the  Board  to
appoint Grade ‘C’ officers as enquiry officers
under  Regulation  2(1)  (e)  of  the  said
Regulations.

III. Notifications  under  SEBI  (Central
Database  of  Market  Participants)
Regulations, 2003

(a) Notification  under  sub-regulation
(1)  of  Regulation  6  of  Securities
and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Central  Database  of  Market
Participants)  Regulations,  2003
dated March 31, 2005.
In  terms  of  the  Notification  issued  by
SEBI  under  sub-regulations  (1)  and  (3)  of
Regulation 6 of the Securities and Exchange
Board  of  India  (Central  Database  of  Market
Participants) Regulations 2003 on September
28,  2004,  SEBI  had 
inter  alia  notified  “all
resident investors not being bodies corporate
who  enter  into  any  securities  market
transaction  (including  any  transactions  in
primary  or  secondary  market  in  any  listed
securities  and  any  transaction  in  units  of
mutual  funds  or  collective  investment
schemes)  of  a  value  of  rupees  one  lakh  or
more”  as  “specified  investors”  under  the
relevant  regulations  and,  as  such  they  were
required to obtain the UIN by March 31, 2005.
However,  in  view  of  the  representations
received  by  SEBI  from  the  above  “specified
investors” on the difficulties faced by them in
adhering to the time line of March 31, 2005,
it  was  decided  to  give  some  more  time  to
them  to  obtain  the  UIN.  Accordingly  the
“notified date” has been extended from March
31, 2005 to December 31, 2005.

(b) Notification  under  sub-regulation
(2)  of  Regulation  6  of  Securities
and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Central  Database  of  Market
Participants)  Regulations,  2003
dated December 30, 2004
In  order  to  mitigate  the  undue  hardship
which may be caused by insistence on strict
compliance  with  the  time  limit  specified  vide
notification dated July 30, 2004 in respect of
certain  specified  investors  where  such
promoters  or  directors  are  persons  resident
outside India, it was considered necessary to
extend  the  time  within  which  they  shall  be
required  to  obtain  Unique  Identification
Numbers.  The  notified  date  was  extended
from  December  31,  2004  to  December  31,
2005.

(c) Notification  under  sub-regulation
(1)  and  (3)  of  Regulation  6  of  the
Securities and Exchange Board of
India  (Central  Database  of  Market
Participants)  Regulations,  2003
dated September 28, 2004.
All  resident  investors  not  being  bodies
corporate who enter into any securities market
transactions  (including  any  transactions  in
primary  or  secondary  market  in  any  listed
securities and in any transactions in units of
mutual  funds  or  collective  investments
schemes)  of  a  value  of  rupees  one  lakh  or
more and foreign institutional investors, sub-
accounts and foreign venture capital investors
were  defined  as  ‘specified  investors’  for  the
purposes  of  clause  (v)  of  sub-regulation  (1)
of Regulation 2 of the said regulations.

(d) Notification  under  sub-regulation
(1)  of  Regulation  5A  of  SEBI
(Central  Database  of  Market
Participants)  Regulations,  2003
dated August 17, 2004.
In order to prevent genuine hardship to
promoters  or  directors  of  specified

 

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

intermediaries, who are resident outside India
the notified date of December 31, 2004 within
which  they  were  required  to  obtain  Unique
Identification Numbers was extended to June
30, 2005.

(e) Notification  under  sub-regulation
(1)  of  Regulation  4  and  sub
regulation (1) and (2) of Regulation
6  of  Securities  and  Exchange
Board of India (Central Database of
Market  Participants)  Regulations,
2003 dated July 30, 2004.
Two  new  classes  of  entities  have  been
specified, viz, (1) the sub broker as ‘specified
intermediaries’;  and  (2)  investors  who  are
bodies  corporate  as  ‘specified  investors’,  in
order to bring these entities within the ambit
of the MAPIN database, within December 31,
2004.

(f) Notification  under  sub-regulation
(1)  of  Regulation  4  of  Securities
and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(Central  Database  of  Market
Participants)  Regulations,  2003
dated April 5, 2004.
The  database  of  MAPIN  Registrants  is
being  gradually  built  up  by  notifying  the
applicability  of  the  regulations  to  specified
persons  in  phases.  In  the  first  phase  of
implementation which was scheduled to end
by  March  31,  2004,  only  intermediaries
registered  with  SEBI  were  required  to  be
covered.  However,  considering  the  extent  of
work and logistics involved in obtaining a UIN
and also to ensure adequate coverage of all
intermediaries  registered  with  SEBI,  the
notified date was extended to June 30, 2004.

IV. SEBI  (Depositories  and  Parti-
cipants) (Amendment) Regulations,
2004 dated June 10, 2004.

SEBI  has  been  enabled  to  notify
any  other  security  to  be  eligible  for

dematerialisation  by  way  of  a  notification  in
the Official Gazette from time to time.

V. SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds)
(Amendment)  Regulations,  2004
dated April 5, 2004.











It  expanded  the  scope  of  equity  linked
instruments.

Venture  Capital  Funds  can  distribute
assets of schemes at any time including
winding  up  of  the  schemes  after
obtaining  approval  from  75  per  cent  of
the investors of the schemes.

The  restriction  on  not  investing  in
companies engaged in real estate sector
has also been removed.

Venture  Capital  Funds  are  permitted  to
invest  in  NBFCs  which  are  registered
with RBI and have been categorised as
equipment  leasing  or  hire  purchase
companies.

Venture  Capital  Funds  are  permitted  to
invest  in  gold  financing  companies
engaged in financing for jewellery.

VI. SEBI  (Foreign  Venture  Capital
Investors)  (Amendment)  Regula-
tions, 2004 dated April 5, 2004.









It  expanded  the  scope  of  equity  linked
instruments.

The  restriction  of  investments  of  not
more  than  25  per  cent  of  the  funds  in
one  venture  capital  undertaking  is
removed.

The  restriction  that  the  foreign  venture
capital  investor  invests  only  in  venture
capital undertaking is also removed.

The  restriction  of  75  per  cent  of  the
investible funds to be invested in unlisted
equity shares has been relaxed to 66.67
per cent.

!

Annual Report 2004-05



The  restriction  of  not  investing  in  real
estate sector has also been removed.

VII. SEBI (Portfolio Managers) (Amend-
ment) Regulations, 2004 dated May
27, 2004.
Amendments  were  made  providing
payment  of  registration  fee  by  the  portfolio
managers.  By  this  amendment,  the  portfolio
managers  have  to  pay  a  sum  of  Rs.  25,000
as  application  fee  and  Rs.  5  lakh  as
registration  fee  at  the  time  of  grant  of
certificate.

VIII. SEBI  (Buy-back  of  Securities)
(Amendment)  Regulations,  2004
dated June 18, 2004.
In  addition  to  shares,  other  specified
securities  were  also  permitted  for  buy-back.
The  existing  regulations,  when  originally
notified  in  1998,  were  applicable  to  the  buy
back of equity shares of a company listed on
a  stock  exchange.  Subsequently,  vide
amendment  dated  September  21,  1999,  the
words  ‘share’,  ‘shareholder’  and  ‘share
certificate’  were  replaced  with  ‘specified
securities’,  ‘security  holders’  and  ‘security
certificates’.  However,  in  view  of  the
mandatory  provision  of  Section  77  A(2)(f)  of
the Companies Act, 1956, the language used
is ‘shares or other specified securities’ listed
on  any  recognised  stock  exchange  by  the
company provided  inter alia that buy-back is
in accordance with the said regulations. The
present amendment is aimed at harmonising
the  regulations  with  the  aforementioned
provisions of the Companies Act.

It has been stipulated that the specified
date  for  public  announcement  for  buy-back
shall not be later than 30 days from the date
of announcement.

Since  there  was  a  stipulation  under
Schedule 
that  public
announcement should be signed by the Board

II,  Clause  24 

of Directors of the company, doubts have been
expressed  whether  the  entire  Board  has  to
sign or any number of Directors authorised by
the Board shall be sufficient. There was also
stipulation  in  Clause  23  that  declarations
mentioned in the schedule were to be signed
by two Whole Time Directors.

Companies  Act  does  not  require  a
company  to  have  a  minimum  number  of
Whole Time Directors. It is also highly unlikely
that  in  a  particular  company  there  is  no
managing director or Whole Time Director at
all.  Further  as  per  Section  215(1)(ii)  of  the
Companies  Act,  every  balance  sheet  and
profit  and  loss  account  of  a  company  shall
be signed on behalf of the Board of Directors,
by  its  manager  or  secretary,  if  any,  and  by
not  less  than  two  directors  of  the  company,
one  of  whom  shall  be  managing  director,  if
there is one. The amendment was therefore
aimed at harmonising these provisions.

It  was  also  proposed  to  incorporate
similar provisions in the said regulations that
transfer  shall  not  exceed  90  per  cent  of  the
amount in the escrow account to the special
account for the payment of the consideration
under  Regulation  11(1)  of 
the  said
Regulations. Remaining 10 per cent shall be
released  only  on  completion  of  all  the
formalities laid down in the said regulations.

IX. SEBI  (Central  Database  of  Market
Participants)  (Amendment),  2004
dated July 21, 2004.

During  the  first  phase  of  MAPIN
database,  several  representations  were
received  from  intermediaries  and  market
participants,  investors,  companies  etc.
expressing  apprehensions  and  difficulties
about 
the  MAPIN  database.  These
representations centered around three issues
viz.  inclusion  of  relatives  of  natural  persons
who  are  to  be  registered  under  the  MAPIN
database e.g., dependent parents, dependent

"

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

major  children  and  spouse,  inclusion  of
associates  of  intermediaries  and  the  wide
coverage  of  the  definition  of  the  term
‘promoter’. In order to address these issues,
the regulations were amended.

2. SIGNIFICANT COURT

PRONOUNCEMENTS: 2004-05

I.

Civil Writ Petition No.188 of 2003-
PGFL  Ltd.  Vs.  SEBI  –  in  the  High
Court  of  Punjab  &  Haryana  at
Chandigarh

c)

The  Hon’ble  Court 

inter  alia,  held  as

under:

a)

“Tracing the evolution of law leading up
to  the  addition  of  Section  11AA  to  the
SEBI  Act,  we  are  satisfied  that  the
subject of legislation under the SEBI Act
relates  to  the  promotion,  development
and  regulation  of  the  securities  market
as  also  to  protect  the  interest  of  the
investors  in  securities,  whereas  the
object  of  adding  Section  11AA  to  the
SEBI  Act  was  pointedly  aimed  at
“investor protection”.

“Since no Entry under the State List and
the  Concurrent  List  in  the  Seventh
Schedule  of  the  Constitution  of  India,
relates  to  the  subject  of  “investor
protection”,  Parliament  had  the  right  to
legislate  on  the  subject  in  hand,  under
Article  248  of  the  Constitution  of  India,
read  with  Entry  97  of  the  Union  List  in
the  Seventh  Schedule  of 
the
Constitution, because Entries 1 to 96 of
the  Union  List  also  do  riot  over  the
instant subject of legislation.”

b)

“It  is  difficult  to  comprehend  the  nature
of the ownership/possession rights, of a
customer/investor,  who  has  no  control
over  the  basic  facilities  essential  for
effective use of agricultural land. Without
control  over  irrigation  and  drainage

systems,  which  constitutes  the  blood
stream of agriculture, and without control
over  motors,  pump  sets,  sheds  and
structures,  a  customer/investor  is,  in
reality  and  for  all  practical  purposes,
never in absolute ownership/possession/
control, of the agricultural land purchased
by him”.

“The alleged business activity of sale and
purchase  of  agricultural  land  by  the
PGFL  is  an  effective  camouflage  over
its  real  activities.  In  view  of  the  above,
we  have  no  doubt  in  our  mind  that  the
projection  by  the  PGFL,  that  it  is
engaged  in  sale  and  purchase  of
agricultural  land  and/or  sale  and
development  of  agricultural  land,  is  not
a truthful expression of its activities”.

Viewed  in  any  manner,  it  is  clear,  that
in  its  activities  allegedly  limited  to,  sale
and purchase of agricultural land and/or
sale  and  development  of  agricultural
land,  the  PGFL  accepts  “contributions”
from  customers/investors,  for  collective
utilisation,  and  further,  that  the  PGFL
pools 
investments  made  by
customers/investors  with  the  aim/
objective of carrying out the purpose of
the overall scheme/arrangement”.

the 

“It  is,  therefore  apparent  that  each
customer/investor  of  the  PGFL  is
admittedly  a  recipient  of  one  of  the
benefits  contemplated  under  Clause  (ii)
(supra), namely, “property”. In view of the
above, we are satisfied, that the PGFL,
satisfies 
the  second  mandatory
ingredient/characteristic,  of  a  “collective
investment  scheme”  as  has  been
specified  under  Section  11AA  (2)(ii)  of
the SEBI Act.”

d)

e)

“In  view  of  the  totality  of  circumstances
noticed  above,  it  is  not  possible  for  us
to  accept  the  contention  of  the  learned
counsel  for  the  petitioner,  that  the

#

Annual Report 2004-05

customer/investor, has day-to-day control
over  the  agricultural  land  purchased  by
him  or  that  he  himself  manages  the
agricultural land purchased by him. The
aforesaid fact situation, therefore, leads
to  the  only  other  conclusion  possible,
namely,  the  agricultural  land  purchased
by  a  customer/investor  is  managed  on
his behalf”.

“The  business  activity  of  the  PGFL
incorporates  all 
the  mandatory
ingredients/characteristics of a “collective
investment scheme”, in terms of Section
11AA  (2)  of  the  SEBI  Act.  It  is  natural
for  us,  therefore,  to  conclude  that  the
activities  of  the  PGFL  constitute  a
“collective investment scheme” within the
meaning of the SEBI Act.”

The  Parliament  is  vested  with  the
authority  and  jurisdiction  to  legislate  on
the subject of legislation covered by the
SEBI Act, including Section 11AA of the
SEBI Act and that, Section 11AA of the
SEBI  Act  does  not  impinge  upon  Entry
18  of  the  State  List  in  the  Seventh
Schedule of the Constitution.

Finally,  there  is  no  legal  infirmity  in  the
impugned  order  of  the  Board  dated
December 6, 2002. In view of the above,
the  instant  petition  is  liable  to  be
dismissed.  The  same  is  accordingly
dismissed.

f)

g)

h)

II. Clariant  International  Ltd.  &  Anr.

Vs. SEBI – Supreme Court

Brief Facts

SEBI  has  received  complaints  alleging
that Clariant International Ltd. (acquirer) has
acquired  50.1  per  cent  shares/voting  rights
and  control  of  the  Colour-Chem  Ltd.  (target
company)  from  Hoechst  AG  (Hoechst)  and
triggered the provisions of Regulations 10 &
12 of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares

and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 (hereinafter
referred  to  as  said  regulations).  The
complaints were examined and subsequently,
SEBI  vide  order  dated  August  16,  2002,
directed  the  acquirer  to  make  a  public
announcement in terms of Regulations 10 &
12  of  the  said  regulations  taking  November
21, 1997 as the reference date for calculation
of offer price. The acquirer was also directed
to  pay  interest  @  15  per  cent  p.a.  to  all  the
shareholders  of  the  target  company  from
March 22, 1998 till the date of actual payment
of consideration for the shares to be tendered
and  accepted  in  the  offer  made  by  acquirer.
The acquirer had preferred an appeal against
the said order in Securities Appellate Tribunal
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  SAT), 
inter  alia
contending that:

(i) the rate of interest is on a higher side;

(ii) the  dividends,  having  been  paid  in  the
meantime,  should  be  set  off  from  the
amount of interest payable;

(iii) the  interest  is  payable  only  to  those
shareholders  who  held  shares  on  the
triggering date, i.e., February 24, 1998.

SAT’s Decision

The  SAT  vide  its  order  dated  February

21, 2003 held that

(a) The interest payable by the acquirer shall
be at the rate of 15 per cent per annum.

(b) The dividend paid by target company to
its  shareholders  is  not  required  to  be
deducted from the interest payable to the
shareholders by the acquirer.

(c) Those persons who were holding shares
of target company on February 24, 1998
and continue to be shareholders on the
closure  day  of  public  offer  to  be  made
in  terms  of  the  directions  given  in  the
SEBI’s  order  alone  shall  be  eligible  to
receive interest in case the shares which
they were holding on February 24, 1998

$

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

are tendered in response to public offer
made  in  terms  of  the  said  order,  and
acquired by the acquirer.

Appeal to Supreme Court

The acquirer preferred an appeal to the
Supreme  Court  of  India  (“Supreme  Court”)
against the said SAT order seeking reduction
in the rate of interest payable and deduction
of dividend paid by target company from the
interest payable to the shareholders. Hon’ble
Supreme Court  vide  order  dated  August  25,
2004 held that:

(i) The interest payable by the acquirer shall
be at the rate of 10 per cent per annum.

(ii) If any dividend was paid during the said
period, the same shall be adjusted with
the amount of interest.

(iii) Those  persons  who  were 

the
shareholders till February 24, 1998 and
continued  to  be  shareholders  on  the
closure  day  of  public  offer  alone  would
be entitled to interest.

III. Swedish Match AB & Anr. Vs. SEBI

– Supreme Court
The acquirers (Swedish Match AB) had
acquired 21.89 per cent shares in the target
company  (Wimco  Ltd.)  from  Jatia  Group  @
Rs.35  /-  per  share  in  pursuance  to  a
resolution passed by the shareholders of the
target  company  on  September  27,  2000.  As
the acquirers acquired 21.89 per cent shares
without  making  a  public  announcement  in
terms of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of
Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997
(hereinafter  referred 
the  said
regulations),  SEBI  vide  order  dated  June  4,
2002 inter alia, directed the acquirers to make
a  public  announcement  to  the  shareholders
of the target company taking September 27,
2000 as the reference date for calculation of
the  offer  price.  Further,  the  acquirer  was
directed  to  pay  an  interest  @  15  per  cent

to  as 

per  annum  on  the  offer  price  to  the
shareholders  for  delay  in  payment  of
consideration  beyond  January  27,  2001,  i.e.
the date by which payment would have been
made  had  the  open  offer  been  made  taking
September  27,  2000.  The  acquirers  went  in
appeal  against  SEBI  order  and  Securities
Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as
SAT)  vide  order  dated  February  18,  2003
upheld SEBI’s order. Thereafter, the acquirers
preferred  an  appeal  before  the  Supreme
Court against the SAT order and the Supreme
Court  vide  order  dated  August  25,  2004
upheld SAT’s order. As regards the payment
of interest for delayed payment, the investors
would also be entitled to interest at such rate
as SEBI may determine.

IV. Raj  Kumar  Kishorepuria  Vs.  GM,

SEBI – High Court, Calcutta
In the captioned case, the petitioner filed
a  writ  petition  being  aggrieved  by  the  show
cause  notice  dated  August  26,  2004  issued
by  the  General  Manager,  SEBI.  By  the  said
notice,  the  petitioner  was  asked  to  show
cause  as  to  why  proceedings  should  not  be
initiated  against  the  petitioner  under  Section
11B of SEBI Act, 1992, read with Regulation
12  of  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and
Unfair  Trade  Practices)  Regulations,  1995
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  repealed
regulations) and also read with Regulation 11
of SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair
Trade  Practices)  Regulations,  2003
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  new  regulations)
for  the  role  allegedly  played  by  him  in  the
process  of  irregular  allotment  of  preferential
shares  of  Padmini  Technologies  Ltd.,  in  the
year 1999.

The petitioner’s case was that provisions
of Regulation 12 of the repealed regulations
and  Regulation  11  of  the  new  regulations,
both  being  substantive  provisions  of  law  as
opposed to procedural ones, while in view of
provisions  of  Regulation  13  of  the  new

%

Annual Report 2004-05

regulations, the Board is empowered to follow
the  procedural  provisions  of  the  new
regulations  for  concluding  the  pending
investigations. It does not possess the power
to  take  any  action  against  or  punish  the
petitioner  under  Regulation  11  of  the  new
regulations, though, if occasion arises, it can
do  so  under  Regulation  12  of  the  repealed
regulations.

The Hon’ble High Court vide its judgment
dated  March  23,  2005,  held  that  the  actions
taken and directions issued under Regulation
11 of the new regulations are only to advance
the  purposes  of  SEBI  Act,  1992,  which
conferred very extensive and wide powers on
the  Board  by  its  Section  11B.  Further,  the
Hon’ble Court did not accept the interpretation
given  by  the  counsel  for  the  petitioner  to
Regulation  11  of  the  new  regulations  that  it
being  a  piece  of  substantive  law  shall  not
apply to the investigations started against the
petitioner under the repealed regulations. The
Court also held that nothing in Regulation 11
of  the  new  regulations  falls  in  the  field  of
substantive law.

The  Hon’ble  Court  also  observed  that
Regulation  11  of  the  new  regulations
prescribes  the  manner  in  which  the  Board
shall take the interim measures till the time it
takes the final decision under Sections 11 (1),
(2),  (2A),  (3)  and  11B  of  the  SEBI  Act.  The
several  different  preventive  measures
mentioned  therein  are  intended  mainly  to
ensure  a  purposeful  investigation,  which  is
nothing but a process to reach a conclusion.

that 

Further, the Hon’ble Court held that it is
apparent from the impugned post investigation
show  cause  notice 
the  Board
contemplated  actions  against  the  petitioner
under Section 11B which empowers it to issue
all  or  any  of  the  directions  as  prescribed  in
the  Regulation  11  of  the  new  regulations.
Section  11B  confers  power  on  the  Board  to

issue such directions as may be appropriate
in  the  interest  of  investors  in  securities
market. Hence, the petitioner cannot say that
the  measures  mentioned  in  Regulation  11
cannot be taken against him, if there are good
and sufficient reasons for taking any of them.
Accordingly, the Hon’ble Court found no merit
in the petitioner’s argument and dismissed the
writ petition.

V. Alkan Projects Pvt.Ltd Vs. SEBI –

Appeal No.88/2004

The Hon’ble Securities Appellate Tribunal
vide order dated August 9, 2004 has held that
while  imposing  penalty,  the  Adjudicating
Officer  should  also  take  into  account  the
capacity to pay by the delinquent in addition
to  the  factors  mentioned  in  Section  15J  of
the SEBI Act.

However,  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court
admitted  the  appeal  filed  by  SEBI  and  vide
its order dated February 18, 2005 stayed the
order of the Hon’ble SAT.

VI. WP  (C  )  No.  2094/1996  –  Mrs.
Geeta  Kapoor,  WP  (C  )  No.  4679/
1996  –  Lt.  Col.  M  G  Kapoor,
WP (C) No. 4662/1996 – Consumer
Education  &  Research  Society
Suraksha  Sankool  Vs.  Union  of
India & Ors. – High Court of Delhi

The above petitions had been filed in the
nature of public interest litigations challenging
inter alia the preferential allotments made by
various multinational companies (MNCs) such
as Castrol India Ltd., Alfa Laval Ltd. etc. The
petitioners had alleged that these companies
had issued shares to their foreign promoters
or  select  group  of  persons  at  a  price  lower
than  the  market  price.  The  petitioners  had
also challenged SEBI’s Preferential Allotment
Guidelines dated June 11, 1992 and June 17,
1992  on  the  ground  that  they  are  illegal,

&

Part Four: Regulatory Changes

arbitrary  and  violative  of  Article  14  of  the
Constitution of India.

The  Hon’ble  Delhi  High  Court  vide  its
order dated January 11, 2005 has dismissed
these  writ  petitions  with 
following
observations:
a.

In  such  petitions  what  is  to  be
considered  is  whether  the  respondents
(SEBI  /  RBI  /  GOI)  have  acted  in
accordance with law or not. If the action
of  the  authorities  is  in  accordance  with
law, then merely because the petitioners
are  of  the  opinion  that  the  same  has
caused  loss  of  foreign  exchange  which
has  resulted  in  subsequent  change  of
policy cannot be the reason to interfere
and affect the third party right which were
created on the basis of the policy which
existed on the relevant date.
The RBI/SEBI/Central Government have
taken a decision in accordance with the
policy applicable on that date and have
examined the case within the parameters
of  that  policy.  It  would  not  be  wise  for
the  court  to  sit  as  an  appellate  court  in
a public interest litigation.

b.

c. Considering  the  specific  cases,  the
Hon’ble Court observed that there cannot
be  second  view  on  the  decision  taken
by the authority, as majority shareholders
have  taken  a  decision  under  the
provision  of  the  Companies  Act  and
which is duly approved by the competent
authority.  In  the  first  two  cases  where
the  grievances  are  made  by  a
shareholder  the  remedy  is  available  in
other  laws  i.e.  a  petition  in  the
Companies Act or a Civil Suit. In the third
case  although  various  grievances  were
set  out  in  the  petition,  yet  at  the  stage
of  submissions  the  grievances  were
confined to only pricing of the shares in
preferential issues.

d.

The  petitions  are  not  maintainable  by
way  of  PIL,  particularly  when  the
remedies are available in the Companies
Act.

In  view  of  the  above  observations,  the
Hon’ble  High  Court  dismissed  the  petition.
The court also refused to issue the certificate
for appeal to the Supreme Court.

'

