Assessment of Long Term Performance of Credit

Rating Agencies in India

A Study by

National Institute of Securities Markets,

Navi Mumbai 400 705

March 2009

1

Contents

1
2

3
4

5

Terms of Reference
Executive Summary
Acknowledgements
CRAs: Relevance and Perspective
Raters and Ratings: Evolution and the
Current State of the Art
Critical Evaluation of Ratings
Emerging Trends and Alternate Ap-
proaches
Conclusions and Recommendations
References
Annexure
Sample Questionnaire

3
4
8
9
15

31
37

39
50
53

2

Terms of Reference

This Study has been commissioned by NISM as desired by the Committee set
up at the behest of HLCCFM, to look into the legal and policy framework for
regulating the activities of Credit Rating Agencies (CRAs), vide letter bearing
Reference No. F.No.12/11/07-PM, dated 16.1.2009.
The Terms of Reference are listed as under:

1. Assessment of the performance of CRAs in India in terms of parameters

like default and transition data

2. How much information asymmetry is bridged by CRAs

3. How far CRAs assessment helps ﬁnancial regulation

4. Accountability, corporate governance issues of CRAs

5. Disclosures of methodologies of rating

6. Rating of complex products like structured obligation

7. Uniformity or otherwise in deﬁnition and rating nomenclature of CRAs in

India

8. Consistency of rating data with accounting data

9. Overall evaluation of what CRAs have done in terms of value addition or

the Indian economy

CRAs have agreed to nominate oﬃcials and provide data and inputs for facili-
tating this Study.
A time frame of two months, commencing has been granted for submission of
the report.
NISM constituted a two-man Project Team to carry out the Study.
The Team used an array of approaches, including a Literature Survey, accessing
Actual Data with CRAs, Structured Questionnaires with CRAs, Unstructured
Interviews with various CRAs, Issuers, Institutional Investors, and Subject Ex-
perts. The outcome of these interactions were gauged against the results of this
independent study to identify strong and weak areas and suggest improvements
in the processes and provide inputs for policy formulation and regulation.

3

Executive Summary

CRAs have been in operation since the late 1890s, signifying an existence of over
100 years. Rating standards by Moody’s and S&P were known to be stringent.
From 1970 onwards, ﬁnancial literature has been commenting on the superior
information eﬃciency of the markets, in comparison to information disseminated
by the CRAs. With the advent of securitization and its oﬀshoots, a complex
web of contracts are stitched together to service structured obligations. CRAs
overestimated the enforceability of the structured obligations and ﬁssures in
the structures resulted in the post-Enron, post-Worldcom debacle. Lack of
corporate governance standards and vigilance by accountants were identiﬁed as
the root cause, while the CRAs were accused of abetting the intricate structures
with high credit ratings. CRAs (together with accountants) have once again
come under sharp criticism after the sub-prime debacle, with the root cause
being poor originations standards of banks and excessive, opaque structures
designed by aggressive merchant banks. Structured ﬁnance, which commenced
with class markets, moved into mass markets with the impetus from investment
bankers. It is said that CRAs once again overestimated the credibility of the
contracting parties to honour the structured obligations and were led to base
their ratings on complex quantitative ‘black-box’ models, with data from benign
periods. This has led to investors being saddled with poor quality, illiquid paper
with systemic implications.

The situation in India is diﬀerent on account of conservative origination stan-
dards and lower complexity levels in securitized transactions (mostly Pass-
Through-Certiﬁcates or PTCs) with very little systemic implications. There
is, however, the possibility of asymmetric information between the issuers and
all others due to reasons mentioned in this study.

CRAs have been operating in India since 1988. CRISIL, ICRA and Fitch India
have collaborative arrangements with S&P, Moody’s and Fitch respectively.
CARE is promoted by IDBI & Canara Bank. This demonstrates the pedigree
and parentage of Indian CRAs. The quality of their staﬀ is also observed to
be competent. Brickworks, the latest entrant, was established in 2008. Thus,
a total of 5 major CRAs operate in India at present. Most of the ratings by
CRAs relate to Bank Loans, on account of ascertaining the Credit-related capital
adequacy.

The two known incidents of CRAs under public scrutiny were the CRB (the
NBFC) collapse in the mid 1990s and the default by BPL on its loans from LIC.
Barring these two incidents, there has been no widespread criticism of the CRAs.
The objective of this study is to gauge the robustness of the operations of the
CRAs with a view to suggest measures for improvements in their performance.

PhD level studies in India have shown that (i) Ratings in India are more lenient
than their counterparts in USA (ii) CRAs in India are more subjective in their

4

assessment and (iii) the deterioration in ratings is not captured in time by CRAs,
if compared with ﬁnancial information in the public domain. These studies were
completed in 2001.

The present study is another attempt to assess the performance of CRAs, par-
ticularly in the light of the signiﬁcant events in the global ﬁnancial system and
the criticism being faced by CRAs in USA. It covered 5 CRAs, 40 Ratings, 34
Analysts and 10 Institutional Investors.

Under study, a simple model, built around Net Worth, Leverage and Interest
Cover, was used to detect deteriorations in creditworthiness. When compared
with the actual ratings, it was found that the actual ratings did not always reﬂect
the falling creditworthiness in a timely manner. The team has also suggested
use of Artiﬁcial Neural Networks (ANN) which can be deployed by CRAs and
Investors, to cross-verify the rating process and do a quality audit.

Over the years, CRAs have been disseminating information on ratings and ratio-
nales, free of cost to the investing public, Many ﬁrms are coming into the public
domain through the rating exercise, especially SMEs that approach banks for
loans. Hitherto, it was diﬃcult to obtain information unlisted ﬁrms. The credit
rating exercise is likely to instill discipline into SMEs early enough at their stage
of growth. For the investing community, any additional information at a zero-
or low-cost, presents an opportunity to bridge the information gap on ﬁrms and
industries. As regards structured obligations, CRAs have already introduced
‘complexity grading’ to forewarn investors about the intricacy of structures.

While the CRAs have been staﬀed with very competent personnel, it is also
felt that there is room for improvement in the work systems, to address the
problem of asymmetric information. Ab initio, there is asymmetric information
between the management of rated companies and their auditors. In turn, the
CRAs depend on auditors. Further information is obtained from the bankers.
The CRAs also rely on projections made by the company managements. Due
to this over-reliance on information from the company and the auditors, other
formal and informal sources of information are not utilized. Many good banks go
beyond Financial Statement Analysis before taking credit decisions. Hence, the
asymmetric information problem will continue to exist. It is strongly suggested
that the Due Diligence Review Process (DDR) goes beyond Financial Statement
Analysis. More broadly, development of DDR skills is important to improve the
eﬃciency of CRAs, Merchant Banks, Lending Banks, Accountants and Auditors.
The existing approach of relying on company managements may be insuﬃcient
in detecting falling creditworthiness in weaker or not-so-well governed ﬁrms.

There is no standard process of analysis across various Analyst teams. There
is also a variation between the rating judgments of the individual Analysts and
the ﬁnal ratings arrived at by consensus. Notes of dissent are not recorded,
resulting in loss of valuable check-points for further monitoring. There seems

5

to be a high level of subjectivity in the ﬁnal ratings process.

Operational Audits, covering matters of record-keeping, minutes, surveillance,
periodicity of reviews etc need to be made mandatory. This will result in the
reviews being conducted at shorter levels, as also a proper monitoring trail.

For the beneﬁt of the public, it is necessary to display the various rating symbols
of various CRAs on a common website (say of regulators), on a comparable scale.

While rating structured obligations, CRAs need to constantly update their rat-
ing models current with realistic cash ﬂow estimates, and communicate the same
to investors, so as to mitigate the eﬀects of model risk and counterparty risk.

Some investment institutions blindly rely on the ratings given by CRAs. Most
of the investment institutions, however, use the credit ratings as a ﬁlter and
perform their own DDR before making the ﬁnal investment decision. This
system of additional cross checks is a healthy practice on the part of users of
ratings.

During the year 2008-09, a turbulent period for ﬁnancial systems all over the
world, a number of Indian companies opted for Corporate Debt Restructuring
(CDR). A risk-averse market also saw the reluctance of many investors in opting
for the conversion of their FCCB into stocks, while opting for the redemption of
the instrument itself. This placed additional strain on the ﬁnancial resources of
issuers, coupled with the fact that it became extremely diﬃcult to raise equity
from the markets after January 2008. The tumultuous year showed the strain
on the ﬁnances of many companies.
It also threw up questions on the lax
attitude of corporations towards governance and accounting – where form was
given precedence over substance. In light of the above, Accountants, Auditors,
CRAs, Banks, Merchant Banks and Investors need to exercise extra vigil in
gauging the creditworthiness of issuer companies.

A survey of CRAs and their Analysts revealed that there was a very low level
of awareness among Indian accountants of International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) which Indian corporations need to comply with eﬀective from
ﬁnancial year 2011. Awareness levels and competence needs to be raised on a war
footing across the entire ﬁnancial community, with an emphasis on substance,
not merely formats. This would be a major step in strengthening the Indian
ﬁnancial system.

It is often said that Balance Sheets seldom repay loans – but people do. This
brings back the issues of good governance and accounting to the fore. The ex-
isting ‘form-over-substance’ style of governance goes against the grain of true
corporate governance. To address this deeper issue, the subject of corporate
governance – or lack of it, merits further research for a timely detection of
falling corporate governance standards. Some suggested parameters to detect

6

‘form-over-substance’ governance styles are: aggressive expansion, diversiﬁca-
tion, mergers & acquisitions, frequent fund-raising sprees, leverage and related
party transactions, to name a few. The outcome of such research could result
in inputs to strengthen the ﬁnancial markets and CRAs in particular.

The paragraphs above represent the gist of our ﬁndings, based on the Terms
of Reference. Details of this study, carried out from January through March,
2009, are contained in this report.

7

Acknowledgements

Thanks are due to several persons who have contributed to this study.

Dr KP Krishnan and CKG Nair of the Ministry of Finance, Government of
India, provided the critical preliminary inputs. MS Ray and Suresh Menon of
SEBI also provided vital inputs. Pratip Kar, former ED-SEBI, also provided
tremendous insight into the various aspects of Credit Rating. The Board of
Governors, NISM also provided guidance from time to time in shaping this
Report.

From the rating community, Raman Uberoi and Ajay Dwivedi of CRISIL, Amit
Tandon and Dipesh Patel of Fitch, Naresh Takkar and Anjan Ghosh of ICRA,
DR Dogra, Rajesh Mokashi, Sathees Kumar and Naveen Jain of CARE and
Ramaswamy Annam and Rajender Walia of Brickworks provided the bulk of
the data and information based on which the ﬁndings of this report are based.
Thanks also to the various Analysts from all the rating agencies that helped in
providing data through the Questionnaire. Some of the issuers and investors
also participated in the deliberations and thanks are due to them too.

Each of the persons mentioned above have spared their valuable time despite
their busy schedules.

Thanks are due to the students of NMIMS University, School of Business Man-
agement, who participated in the various excercises on credit ratings during the
course of their studies in Fixed Income Securities and Computational Finance.

Thanks are due to various libraries, such as NMIMS, IICM, and the British
Council Library for the researching facilities.

For NISM

Dr Sunder Ram Korivi
Mr Suneel Sarswat
Dr T Geetha

Vashi - Navi Mumbai, March 31, 2009

8

Chapter 1

CRAs: Relevance and Perspective

The study is a proactive initiative, with a view to assess the preparedness of
the CRAs to communicate signals and reduce the informational asymmetries
that generally exist between issuers and investors. CRAs have been rating
instruments and subjecting them to periodic review, sometimes necessitating
a transition to a lower or higher grade. The timeliness of the transition is
also a matter of informational asymmetry. Thus far, CRAs have obtained the
approval of SEBI, giving them the status of approved rating agencies. The RBI
also has put regulations in place with reference to credit rating agencies and
credit information companies. There are ﬁve Credit Rating Agencies registered
with SEBI, viz. CRISIL, ICRA, CARE, Fitch and Brickworks. Of this, CRISIL
has been the oldest, having been in operation since 1988 followed by ICRA
(1991), CARE (1994), Duﬀ & Phelps, subsequently taken over by Fitch (1999)
and Brickworks (2008). This makes it an opportune time to assess the quality
of services that the CRAs have been rendering to the investing community in
risk mitigation. SEBI put in place the Regulations for CRAs in 1999 this has
been followed by a Code of Conduct for CRAs. The desire for this study is
truly proactive since its pre-dates the outbreak of the ‘sub-prime’ type of crisis
of a scale and magnitude witnessed in USA and Western Europe.
In those
countries, CRAs are facing the heat for the high ratings for complex structures,
laced with enhancements, through guarantees, by entities that ultimately did
not have suﬃcient risk capital. This left several investors, including institutional
investors saddled with substantial investment losses and illiquid paper. It is not
the objective of this exercise to pass any moral judgement on the performance
of the CRAs in India. The CRAs, on their part, have consented to cooperate in
such a study. The study presents a timely opportunity for introspection by all
concerned entities – policy makers, regulators, investors, rating agencies, issuers
and intermediaries.

CRAs have enjoyed operating in an unfettered manner, and are free to inde-
pendently report their ﬁndings. This is true of sovereign ratings as well as
other instruments including those issued by state governments, local govern-
ments, corporate entities, ﬁnancial institutions and special investment vehicles.
A rating exercise, by itself, is a complex process and is a mix of objective and
subjective judgment. On their part, the regulators have also appreciated the
CRAs’ need to operate in an independent manner and kept up with the spirit
of independence. The rating exercise would also involve many methodological
aspects, some of which are intellectual proprietary in nature. It is to be under-
stood and appreciated that CRAs may not be in a position to reveal the intimate
Intellectual Property (IPR) part of the rating process. Further, the intended
study itself is of a broad macro nature of the CRAs in totality, without going
too much into the mechanical, micro details. To gain a further perspective, it
may be useful to gauge the feedback from some users of the ratings, viz.
life

9

insurance companies, provident funds, pension and superannuation funds etc.
It would be useful to conduct an ethnographic study to understand and experi-
ence the manner in which the ratings are used and match up to the expectation
of this crucial investing community. On the whole, the exercise will be useful
in broadly evaluating the useful role by CRAs in de-risking or mitigating risk
related to the investment climate in India, and hence made a contribution to
economic development.

The study could begin with a brief historical perspective, mainly revolving
around the lessons to be drawn. Rating involves higher-level judgement, and
a mechanical, check-list approach to gauge the eﬃciency of CRAs transaction-
by-transaction is not desirable. A wide range of instruments are rated, ranging
from simple to complex. In case it is found that the simpler products are not
analyzed appropriately, it could raise doubts on the ability to raise more com-
plex products. This applies to initial ratings as well as migrations/transitions
on renewal of ratings. Even the migration speeds become relevant in order to
gauge reaction times.
It would be pertinent to look for correlations between
ratings of simple products and the actual performance of the rated instruments,
vis--vis the corresponding variables for the complex products.

This is a classic case wherein CRAs operate in domains regulated by diﬀerent
entities. SEBI recognizes CRAs, who rate instruments that are purchased in
the capital markets (regulated by SEBI), and a diverse community of investors
including banks (regulated by RBI), insurance companies (regulated by IRDA),
pension funds (regulated by PFRDA). This necessitates inter-regulatory coor-
dination. It is also necessary to identify areas wherein the policy-makers could
facilitate an optimal environment for removal of asymmetric information. It re-
lates to the design, structure and extent of the regulatory structure pertaining
to the operations of CRAs, and an enquiry as to whether the prevailing policy
regulatory regime has helped or harmed the functioning of CRAs. There also
exists the conﬂict-of-interests issue, wherein the CRAs garner fees from the is-
suer (not the user), thereby creating an obligation which could impinge upon the
independence. Further, CRAs also engage in consulting and advisory services,
resulting in personal relationships which further impair independent thinking.

Today, the need for ratings permeates boundaries beyond credit rating; for
instance, Brickworks rates the services of hospitals, something of immediate use
to the regulators of health insurance (IRDA) as health policy makers and the
general public. It is also learnt that the relationship that prevails between the
CRAs is one of mutual respect and healthy competition.

This study aims at reporting various facts to be conﬁrmed on the role of CRAs
in India, with a view to also make recommendations to enhance the operating
environment for CRAs so that they can collate and disseminate value-added
information to the investing community in the times to come.

The High-Level Coordination Committee on Financial Markets (HLCCFM) met

10

on December 23, 2008 and obtained the consent of the CRAs for the conduct
of this study. The Committee has, vide its letter dated January 16, 2009,
mandated NISM to carry out this study over a 2-month time frame, with the
following terms of reference:

1. How far CRAs assessment helps ﬁnancial regulation

2. Accountability, corporate governance issues of CRAs

3. Consistency of rating data with accounting data

4. Disclosures of methodologies of rating

5. Assessment of the performance of CRAs in India in terms of parameters

like default and transition data

6. Uniformity or otherwise in deﬁnition and rating nomenclature of CRAs

in India

7. How much information asymmetry is bridged by CRAs

8. Rating of complex products like structured obligation

9. Overall evaluation of what CRAs have done in terms of value addition

or the Indian economy

10. Approaches followed for credit enhancements

11. Experiences with structured obligations and desirability of such prac-

tices

12. Matters related to conﬂicts of interest faced by rating agencies

13. Cases of instruments being rated higher than the issuer

Each of the CRAs volunteered a nodal oﬃcer for interacting with the NISM
study team.

Based on the internal discussions at the Board of Governors level at NISM, the
scope was extended to cover the last 4 points mentioned above.

‘Rating the raters’ has been a hotly debated issue in the press after every crisis
of conﬁdence in ﬁnancial markets. There is also a widespread view that the ﬁ-
nancial markets are more aware of the weakness in issuing companies and factor
this information into asset prices before the ﬁnancial markets react. This places
the role and functioning of CRAs under critical public review. To address this
question, it needs to be considered as to whether there is any person or entity
that is superior to the CRAs in skill and knowledge to pass judgement. It would
be more practical, therefore, to ascertain whether reasonable standards of due
diligence have been exercised in order to mitigate credit risk. This logically

11

results in the need for CRAs to put in place approaches and methodologies that
are disclosed to the public and that such methods could result in providing con-
sistent results that can be fairly relied upon to base a credit judgement. It is not
clearly as to how much importance is given to probability of default and subjec-
tive judgement factors. As regards Government Securities, there is certainty as
to the dates and amounts that can be received on each due date; this is not true
in the case of other instruments.

Notably, regulators in India have not speciﬁed methodologies but have left it
to the choice of the CRAs. Practices tend to vary around a broad theme of
approaches and methodologies.

SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations were issued in 1999. This was
amended in 2003 and followed up with a Code of Conduct, also in 2003. Each
of these eﬀorts by SEBI preceded the sub-prime crisis in USA and Europe, and
can be construed as pro-active measures. Some of SEBI’s observations are as
under:

1. CRAs need to undergo thorough Operational Audits in order to tone up
their systems. This is in addition to the ﬁnancial audits they undergo for
balance sheet purposes.

2. Dissent notes are not captured

3. CRAs also need to cross-verify their analysis with the Registrar of Com-
panies (ROC), Debenture Trustees, Stock Exchanges, and Institutional
Investors etc.

4. The Appeals Committee needs to be constituted with members who are
completely diﬀerent from the original committee that recommended the
rating being disputed

5. There are issues related to conﬂict of interest, in relation to composition

of review committees.

6. Compensation paid to analysts is not revealed

7. Rating Symbols are diﬀerent across CRAs

8. CRAs adhere to the SEBI Code of Conduct but all of them do not adhere

to the IOSCO Code of Conduct for CRAs

9. As regards the ‘issuer pays’ model, it continues to be the best option, until

a better method arises.

10. There is also a need for the general public to know the Ownership Struc-

ture of the CRAs to reduce the possibility of conﬂict of interest.

11. The usage of the word Credit Rating needs to be restricted only to CRAs

registered with SEBI.

12

12. The general public also needs to be educated on the usage of ratings.
Disclaimers need to be made upfront by CRAs on the use of the ratings.

The SEBI (CRA) Regulations provide for a continuous, periodic review and
monitoring. The exact periodicity and rating methodologies are best left to the
judgement of the CRAs.

There was a case wherein an issuer defaulted on a debt obligation and a lead-
ing Domestic Financial Institution (DFI) brought the fact to the notice of the
concerned. This brought a probable lacuna in the rating process to the notice
of the regulators.

The activities of CRAs cover multiple jurisdictions – banks and insurance com-
panies who lend/invest in to rated instruments. It is desired that SEBI be the
nodal agency for the registration and inspection of CRAs. Members from other
regulatory bodies such as RBI, IRDA, PRFDA could be a part of the joint
inspection team.

This SEBI inspection was an intensive, detailed and exhaustive by a strong
inspection team which spent considerable amount of time with each CRA. The
study served as a valuable eye-opener on the operational and procedural aspects.

The current study by NISM is on the rating processes, methodological aspects,
and the eﬀectiveness of the CRAs’ rating exercises. This is based on a three-
way interaction with the CRAs, the investors and the issuers. The study is also
aimed at making suggestions for the better functioning of the CRAs so as to
serve the ﬁnancial markets with quality information on a consistent basis. It is
based on a detailed Questionnaire as well as unstructured interviews and was
conducted over a period of 2 months.

In recent times, 3 PhD level theses were carried out in areas related to CRAs in
India. The authors are Mamta Arora of University of Delhi (South Campus),
Sen Choudhury of IGIDR and T Geetha of IIT Bombay.

Mamta Arora concluded that the CRAs use more of judgement and subjectivity
in their rating exercises. Sen Choudhury concluded that the rating process of
Indian CRAs is less robust and they showed a greater degree of leniency in
comparison to their western counterparts such as Moody’s and S&P.

On the subject of ﬁnancial markets beating the CRAs in reacting to adverse
news, it has been observed that the CRAs have exhibited slower response. The
major study in this genre was by T Geetha (PhD thesis, IIT Bombay) concluded
in 2001, whose preliminary ﬁndings were presented at the UTI Capital Markets
Conference in 2000. The researcher has concluded that the markets react faster
in incorporating fresh news into asset price movements. A combination of ac-
counting and econometric tools was used in that study. It was also found that,
in actual practice, the CRAs use a lot of subjectivity in their ﬁnal judgement.

13

This current study also uses a similar methodology to validate that conclusion
and suggests viable alternatives. The objective is to place a simple tool in the
hands of the public that will enable a cross-veriﬁcation of the reports by CRAs
in a cost-eﬀective manner and raise the quality standards bar of the CRAs. The
study also suggests practical ways in which the CRAs can improve their rating
processes and help reduce the information gap.

14

Chapter 2

Raters and Ratings: Evolution and the Current

State of the Art

The Raters

A credit rating agency (CRA) is a commercial concern engaged in the business
of credit rating of any debt obligation or of any project or program requiring
ﬁnance in the form of debt or otherwise. CRA is diﬀerent from a mercantile
credit agency, which usually supplies general information on corporates. It is
also diﬀerent from a credit bureau, which collates information on credit record
of corporates or even individuals. Nor is it a credit-assessing agency like the
credit department of a commercial bank. The most signiﬁcant aspect of credit
rating is that it is an opinion made available for public, inﬂuencing decisions by
participants in ﬁnancial markets.

The following information on the origin and growth of credit rating has been
collected from two sources, viz., Cantor and Packer, 1995 and ICRA, 1994. The
precursors of bond rating agencies were the mercantile credit agencies, which
rated merchants’ ability to pay their ﬁnancial obligations. After the ﬁnancial
crisis of 1837 in the US, Louis Tappan established the ﬁrst mercantile credit
agency in New York in 1841. Robert Dun subsequently acquired the agency,
which ﬁrst published its ﬁrst ratings guide in 1859. In 1849, John Bradstreet
formed another mercantile rating agency, which published a ratings book in
1857. In 1933, the two agencies were merged into Dun and Bradstreet, which
became the owner of Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) in 1962. Credit goes
to John Moody for introducing formally the credit rating symbols in 1909 using
‘Aaa through C’ notations when Moody’s started rating US railroad bonds.

Meanwhile, Henry Varnum Poor published, ‘The History of Railroads and Canals
of the United States’ in 1860. The railroads were the principal engine propelling
the Industrial Revolution. In 1906, Standard Statistics began publishing ﬁnan-
cial information on US industrial companies. Rating for various other corporate
bonds followed in 1923.
In 1941, Poor’s Publishing Company and Standard
Statistics Company merged to form Standard & Poor’s Corporation (S&P).
S&P was a publicly owned corporation till 1966 when its controlling interest
was acquired by McGraw Hill Incorporated which acts as the holding company.

While the rating of corporate bonds started in the early twentieth century,
sovereign ratings represent a relatively new line of business for the agencies.
The ﬁrst industrial country to be rated was France, by S&P in 1959. Both
Moody’s and S&P rated Venezuela, a non-industrial country, in October 1977.
Fitch IBCA entered the business of sovereign rating only in 1975. In cases where
a sovereign does not seek a rating, but a corporate entity of such a country seeks
a rating, CRAs do assign an implicit sovereign rating. The scope of rating in

15

international arena broadened in 1960s to include sovereign states and public
agencies raising funds in international ﬁnancial markets.

With the increasing number of companies and sovereigns entering into the in-
ternational capital market for raising funds, the credit rating operations of both
Moody’s and S&P have expanded and, hence, they maintain oﬃces in major
countries of the world. Besides these two world famous credit rating agencies in
USA, there are a few more famous agencies that oﬀer sovereign ratings. These
are Canadian Bond Rating Service, Dominion Bond Rating Service Ltd., Duﬀ &
Phelps Credit Rating Co., The Fitch IBCA Group, Japan Credit Rating Agency
Ltd. and Thomson Bank Watch Incorporated. While normally CRAs assign a
rating on the request of an issuer, there are occasions when unsolicited ratings
are assigned, and in many such cases, the fact that they are unsolicited is made
explicit with an asterisk.

There is also the criticism against the structure of CRAs in USA, with an
oligopolistic market largely carved out between Moody’s. S&P and Fitch. This
quest for market shares is viewed as a reason for a lack of commonality in the
rating symbols. Also, the argument put forward for maintaining the oligopoly
is that size begets experience and expertise, hence a larger number of smaller
ﬁrms is undesirable in the interests of quality standards.

All of these agencies are represented in India through their collaborations:

: CRISIL

S&P
Moody’s : ICRA
Fitch
Fitch

: CARE (for 1 year only)
: Fitch India (formerly Duﬀ & Phelps India)

These collaborations bring in ﬁnancial capital, and more importantly, know-
how, experience, depth of expertise, research capabilities and manpower syner-
gies. The global orientation received by CRAs in India is further enhanced by
two factors

Aﬃliation to the Association of Credit Rating Agencies in Asia (ACRAA), an
ADB sponsored body. Indian CRAs are founder members.

Alignment with the IOSCO Code of Conduct, to the extent they coincide with
the SEBI Code of Conduct for CRAs.

These collaborations, aﬃliations and alignments enable the Indian CRAs to
beneﬁt from an exposure to an international environment.

It is also a notable feature that Indian CRAs, in turn, provide technical ex-
pertise and knowhow to CRAs in Mexico and other countries in the SAARC
and ASEAN regions. This provides an emerging markets perspective. Indian
CRAs have a leadership position in Asia, behind only Japan, whose CRAs show
a greater aﬃnity in interacting with CRAs from the developed (G7) countries.

16

As on date, there are 5 CRAs in India:

CRISIL (est. 1988), ICRA (est. 1991), CARE (est.1993), Fitch India (formerly
Duﬀ & Phelps India, est. 1996, taken over by Fitch in 1999), Brickworks (est.
2008).

Notably, India has 5 CRAs in comparison to 3 of USA. Thus, competition is
stiﬀer since there are more CRAs for a ﬁnancial market that is smaller than USA
in value, and hence dilutes oligopolistic power. However, in terms of number
of ﬁrms and issues, India could be a market of considerable size. During the
current downturn from 2008, the number of rating assignments has increased,
and to some extent, issuers have got away with discounts in rating fees (which
range from Rs.1 lakh to 2 lakhs per rating assignment). This is evidence of a
dilution of the oligopolistic power.

At a smaller level, there is SMERA (Small & Medium Rating Agency) which
rates loans availed by Small & Medium Enterprises. The rating fees are around
Rs.40,000 per assignment, which the large CRAs ﬁnd to be unviable; hence such
assignments are either rejected or outsourced to smaller Chartered Accountant
ﬁrms, supplemented by a cursory telephonic veriﬁcation. The quality of person-
nel at SMERA or smaller agencies may not be the same as those at the SEBI
registered CRAs. Outsourcing is a matter of policy and should generally be
discouraged for reasons of quality as well as privacy.

Another phenomenon is the presence of Credit Information Companies (CIC)
which are recognized by the RBI through the Credit Information Companies
Regulation Act. Their services are availed by credit granting institutions for
the sanctioning and monitoring of facilities to individuals who borrow loans,
housing loans and avail of credit card facilities. The Credit Information Bureau
of India Limited (CIBIL) is one such example.

The Rating Process
In 1934, Benjamin Graham, David Dodd and Sydney Cottle wrote their book
‘Securities Analysis’ a classic work that marked the beginning of the ﬁeld. Until
then, ﬁnancial analysis was sketchy and bereft or analytical principles or rigour.
They also pioneered the ﬁrst steps in the Quantitative School of ﬁnancial infor-
mation for decisions on Securities investment. Securities Analysis is the classic
textbook used in Columbia University till this day. This 1934 classic has come
to the forefront once again in recent times, indicating how the tenets of conser-
vative value investing protect the investor from overpaying when investing in
securities, tenets which are overlooked as unfashionable during the periods of
economic boom. The Graham approach involves an analysis over the past 10
years to ascertain the track record of an issuer.

Also in parallel, during the 1930s, a notable development was the emergence
of Philip Fisher, who wrote his book ‘Conservative Investors Sleep Well’. This
is a recommended textbook at Stanford Business School. He stressed on the
Qualitative aspects such as Management Vision and Integrity, Marketing &

17

Sales Capabilities, Employee Morale Levels, Product Development etc. The
hallmark of this approach is the use of informal information in addition to formal
sources so as to obtain a more complete evaluation of a company’s prospects.
This technique, currently known as the process of Due Diligence Review (DDR)
is critical in any ﬁnancial appraisal. With the onset of outsourcing, ﬁnancial
appraisal skill seems to be a dying art, viewed as a poor cousin to investment
banking and ﬁnancial engineering. Thus, Philip Fisher’s Qualitative School
neatly complemented the Quantitative School of Graham et al.

The 1930s are known for the disillusionment of the investing public with the
quality of information disseminated by the ﬁnancial community. It was also a
period in which the dissatisfaction with the accounting community was made
public. Thus, the 1930s are a period which witnessed the formation of the SEC,
the imposition of the Glass-Steagall Act that separated Commercial Banking
from Investment Banking. The repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act recently has
exposed the systemic risks, seen from the downfall of Citigroup and other banks
in the USA. European banks are further weakened by a total absence of an act
similar to the Glass-Steagall Act.

Academic interest in ﬁnancial analysis reemerged with studies by Edward Alt-
man who used the statistical technique of Multiple Discriminant Analysis (MDA),
which has the ability to ﬁlter data into two baskets: Safe and Default categories.
It is a scoring model (revolving around a Z-score), with diﬀerent weights to dif-
ferent ratios and variables. Based on the relevance of the various weights and
variables, subsequent researchers have been able to tweak the Altman Z-Score
Model to devise their own scoring models.

Supplementary to such studies, the Linear Probability Models (LPM) became
popular in predicting bond defaults. These models were further improved upon
by the LOGIT and PROBIT models, which are comparable.

In later developments, Credit Risk Measuring approaches such as Credit-metrics,
Loss-Given-Default (LGD) and the KMV Models have extensively been used to
measure credit default probabilities and assign ratings and rating transitions. In
particular, Moody’s, and Standard and Poor (S&P) have equipped themselves
with these techniques.

A study of the sub-prime crisis in USA is illustrative of the functioning, through
a paper by Vikrant Vig et al, presented at the Conference on Securities Markets
organized by NISM in December 2008. The US CIC compiles a score and
discriminates loan applicants into two baskets – credit-worthy or otherwise.
The cut-oﬀ score was 620 for obtaining a mortgage loan.
It was found that
most of the defaults that occurred were by applicants who had obtained a score
marginally above 620 (say, 621 to 630). This led to the massive sub-prime
crisis and its global consequences. The lesson here is that the CIC and the
applicants got around the system and weakened the mortgage loan systemically.
Abetted by lax standards of loan origination in a quest to boost balance sheet

18

size and adventurous investment bankers, elaborate structured obligations were
created. Whereas the CICs failed in the loan-ﬁltering process, the CRAs failed
in detecting risks in the design of the pretty securitization structures.

By analogous reasoning, it is assumed that the maximum potential for default is
by borrowers who artiﬁcially manage to get a rating barely above the acceptable
credit rating or credit score. For example, the highest defaults would be in the
BBB category and need a stronger level of sanctioning procedures and scrutiny
of collateral security.

At the 2003 Conference by ISMA held in Madrid, one of the Hedge Fund man-
agers mentioned that the International Rating Agencies lagged behind the mar-
ket information. This was stated in the light of the collapse of WorldCom and
Xerox, in the aftermath of the Enron fallout.

The RBI has rightly been very critical of the role of Direct Selling Agents (DSAs)
which are ill-equipped to ﬁlter bad loan proposals due to the commission struc-
tures that are based on commissions. This perverse incentive structure results
directly into a moral hazard and could pose a systemic risk. Likewise, in Mu-
tual Funds (regulated by SEBI) and Insurance (regulated by IRDA), cases of
mis-selling are more widespread than on evidence, due to the possibility of un-
reported complaints. This could be the genesis of premature redemptions and
adverse claims. Along the same lines, tough norms need to be placed for recog-
nition and renewal of registration of CRAs, SMERA and CICs. Although they
operate in diﬀerent segments, the basic Due Diligence Process (DDR) remains
the same. This argument is extendable to auditors also, who are the ﬁrst level
in the ﬁltering process. While there will always be asymmetric information be-
tween the issuer/borrower vis--vis the CRA and lender, steps need to be taken
to minimize the asymmetry. Here, the DDR skills of the personnel will be the
most important risk mitigating device.

CRAs and regulators need to be doubly careful in the ‘blind spots’ or grey
regulatory zones. AIG for instance, was an insurance company whose unreg-
ulated aﬃliate strayed into Credit Default Swaps (CDS) that were traded in
the unregulated OTC markets. Investment losses directly hit the capital and
the vulnerability showed up after it was too late. In this regard, complexity
grading is a good step and must be factored in to expose the heightened risks
(counterparty risk) that is in addition to the basic credit risk, since one of the
counterparties in the structured obligation who may be unregulated and hence
possess inadequate risk capital.

The Rating Process was gauged ﬁrsthand through site visits to the various
CRAs. A very detailed Questionnaire was administered and the generalised
ﬁndings are compiled in the following page.

19

Activity
Business Development (BD)
Common Member – BD and
Analysis
Fee structure and payment
Knowledge of Fee structure to
Analysts
Disclosure of Interest by Analysts
Separate Criteria Team
Common Member – Criteria and
Analysis
Training and Training Manuals
Research Support

Outsourcing
Nature of Assignments
Advisory Services

Rating Inputs

Site Inspection Team
Internal Meeting
Internal Rating Committee Mem-
bers
Rating Methodology

Consistency of Result

Surveillance Schedule

Outlooks

External Committee Members
Disclosure of Interest by Commit-
tee Members
Appeals
Public Dissemination

Turnaround time to complete rat-
ing

20

Procedure
Separate from Analysis
No

Upto Rs.2 lakh. 100% in Advance
No

Self Declaratory
Not in all cases
Yes, it is possible

Yes
Some research output is
Yes.
sold outside. But CRAs do not
buy/rely on research from outside
For SME ratings in some cases
Mainly debt instruments rating.
Either shut down or hived oﬀ to
separate company
Financial Statements, Site Visits,
Management Meeting. Some third
party visits such as Auditors and
Bankers
Minimum 2 members
All analysts or a group of 4 to 6
4 to 6

Mix of ﬁnancial analysis and sub-
jective factors. No ﬁxed weights
No. Rating could change if Team
Composition is diﬀerent, due to
subjective factors prevalent
Continuous by tracking team or
event driven
Some CRAs put an outlook (pos-
itive or negative) but updates are
not always prompt
Not in all cases
Yes

Yes. Maximum 2 appeals
Accepted ratings, via press release
and website, together with name of
contact person
3 to 8 weeks. Average time is 4
weeks

Rating Methodology

The Rating Methodology is generalised in the table below. It explains what is
done and what is not done, with a view to provide a comparison between the
current state of the art and the scope for improvement.

What is Done
Financial Statements Analysis
Site Visit
Management Meeting

Nature of queries is general and
clariﬁcatory
Financial Projections
from issuers
Meeting third parties: Auditors
and Bankers
Formal sources of information

sought

Rumours cannot be factored in
unless conﬁrmed
Building a consensus on ratings
at rating committee meetings

such

tools

The basis of rating is a blend of
objective and subjective factors
Sophisticated
as
Credit-metrics, LGD and KMV
models are used by S&P and
Moody’s in USA
Rating is an outcome of judge-
ment
Rating could be based on inputs
of Analyst, followed by discussion
and review

What is Not Done
Audited Statements not questioned
Usually not more than 1 Site visit
Usually not more than 1 Manage-
ment meeting. Subsequent interac-
tions by email
Nature of queries is not too probing

Projected ﬁgures are not probed too
much
Besides Auditors and Bankers, not
much of corroboration is sought
Informal sources of information not
tapped
Rumour veriﬁcation mechanism is
reactive, not proactive
Dissenting view is subsumed by the
consensus view. Dissent note or rea-
sons for dissent are not recorded
No ﬁxed weight between objective
and subjective factors
No sophisticated models are used.
Final ratings could be based more on
judgement

Neither a precise model nor a black
box
Depending on the composition of the
teams and the pattern of the discus-
sions, ratings could change, based on
perception of inputs

A careful look at the right hand side (What is Not Done) reveals that there
is scope for improvement. It is no surprise, therefore, that ﬁnancial markets,
which, in totality have a greatest number of surveyors and is equipped and
empowered to price even unconﬁrmed news into asset prices, react faster to
new information than the CRAs. By contrast, CRAs are required to be more
guarded and restrained in either upgrading or downgrading issues on account
of protocols – namely, to wait for a conﬁrmation. Until then, the CRAs can, at
best, place an issue under Rating Watch.

21

During the same period as this study, SEBI conducted site inspection visits to
the CRAs. It was a through, detailed inspection of the records and procedures.
It was found that the record-keeping was not suﬃcient, particularly proofs of
CRA’s visits to rated entities, minutes of meetings with clients, minutes of
meetings of rating committees etc. It was also observed that a more in-depth
probing by the CRAs need to be conducted.

Interactions with some rated entities conﬁrmed these ﬁndings. Some entities
were pleasantly surprised to get an AAA within a month, after one site visit
and management interaction. Queries to the Projections were raised and settled
through email. In this regard, it was felt that CRISIL was a more probing than
the other CRAs. Further enquiry with other rated entities revealed that the
oﬃcers of CRISIL are far superior to the other agencies; hence it would be
unfair to paint all CRAs with the same brush. However, CRISIL also have
lesser rating mandates to other CRAs since some large entities that are rated
have signiﬁcant shareholding in CRISIL and ICRA. As per the SEBI inspection
reports, it is found that CRISIL has further strengthened its systems especially
after 2007.

There is a view that the ratings by S&P and Moody’s are more stringent than
those of their Indian counterparts. More speciﬁcally, it is said that an AAA by
an Indian CRA could be equivalent to an AA by their US counterpart. The table
above reﬂects areas for improvement. Apart from this, there is another dynamic
– that of the treatment of Non-Performing Loans (NPL) as they are called
in USA, corresponding to the terminology of Non-Performing Assets (NPA)
in India.
In USA, a ﬁrm that has declared itself insolvent under ‘Chapter
11’ can get fresh loans for fresh assets; the NPL tag does not cut its funding
lifeline. Going by such an environment, the rating agencies can be as tough as
possible without harming the future prospects of the rated entity. However, in
India, there are no such supporting devices the NPA tag will result in an en-
masse withdrawal of credit lifelines and permanently destroy the future of the
rated entity. Hence, Indian CRAs may be more cautious in conﬁrming adverse
indications before a downgrade.
It comes as no surprise, therefore, that the
markets react faster than the CRAs. However, this cannot be veriﬁed in case of
unlisted entities/instruments. Generally, investors in such debt instruments are
large Domestic Financial Institutions (DFIs) who adopt a buy-and-hold strategy
and are not aﬀected by short term swings in the fortunes of companies, so long
as the payment obligations are not seriously threatened. At this stage, it is
more pertinent to remedy the existing lacunae in the rating processes than to
focus on the market-eﬃciency-versus-CRA-eﬃciency.

22

On the balance, the arguments that the ﬁnancial markets respond faster to
incorporate new information into asset prices is tabulated as under:

Markets
Markets are answerable to no one
and are free to over-react

Mispricing and volatility are in-
herent. Rumours are incorpo-
rated instantly
Markets consider all risks

Markets factor in price correc-
tions and market microstructure
issues
Markets have more traders and
more noise. Markets are also
known to overreact, especially to
short term noise.
Everyone brings news into the
market, hence
is
more comprehensive. .

surveillance

Details of transactions factored
instantly

CRAs
CRAS are responsible to the invest-
ing public and for being fair to is-
suers
Knee jerk reactions could result in
repeated re-ratings, hence rumours
need veriﬁcation
CRA are responsible only for credit
risk
CRAs factors in signiﬁcant credit
risks

teams

Long term bond investors gener-
ally buy and hold longer. Need
not react immediately if long term
prospects not endangered
CRA surveillance
are
smaller, with limited information
resources and cannot act on un-
conﬁrmed news.
Too much of
re-rating also damages credibility
of both issuer and CRA
CRAs get to know of bulk deals,
block deals and insider trades si-
multaneously or after the market
trades are completed

The table above shows that Markets, collectively, are information-superior.
However, this does not render CRAs redundant nor can the motives of CRAs
be questionable a priori. The main function of CRAs is to factor credit risk so
that the bond investors can base their judgement on factual data. The major
point is, CRAs will always trail the market, but need to take all possible steps
to improve their functioning by a comprehensive and contemporary DDR pro-
cess. Investors will be doing themselves a favour by keeping CRAs informed
of all delays/defaults as and when they occur. Investors, in turn, could also
access the ﬁles maintained by CRAs on an ongoing basis. CRAs also need to
maintain databases for further processing through advanced applications such
as Data Warehousing and Data Mining. It is also a part of the overall Knowl-
edge Management (KM) initiatives within their organizations and serves as an
aid to Research and Training.

23

Without any attempt to defend the CRAs, it must be stated that large insti-
tutions in Bonds, Debentures and Loans do not react instantaneously to ad-
verse quarterly changes since they have suﬃcient collateral security and enjoy
a direct rapport with the investee/companies (issuers) so as to enforce perfor-
mance. Moreover, in most cases, corporate debt instruments are illiquid and
the investing institutions adopt a buy-and-hold strategy. Hence, instantaneous
downgrades are not expected.

The role and performance of CRAs has resulted into a raging debate in the
recent times, which have been highly turbulent, especially after October 2008.
Some of the observations and issues raised by experts are encapsulated below
for consideration during this study.

Some myths in Credit Rating need to be demystiﬁed and placed in a right,
healthy perspective.

First, the myth that rating is an opinion and therefore, the CRAs are not
accountable to any failure to detect weakness. This is a loose interpretation. A
correct interpretation would be that CRAs remain accountable to the investing
public, regardless of the freedom provided to them on matters of methodology.

Second, the myth that the rating of an instrument is unconnected with the
standing of the issuer needs to be revisited carefully. While it is true in the
case of Structured Obligations (SO) with a maze of credit enhancements, in
the case of plain vanilla debt, the credibility and cash ﬂow projections of the
entity are closely intertwined with the ability to honour obligations on its debt
instruments.

In general, CRAs are believed to have a good model for ﬁrst time ratings.
However, the important and diﬃcult part is to maintain the currency of the
rating throughout its tenor. This will establish whether ratings are proactive or
reactive. A reactive approach needs to be eschewed, since it implies a hurriedly
convened meeting ex-post-facto. The track record of an issuer is important and
adds to the credibility of the issue. The past repayment track record needs to
be considered favourably, except in cases where the new debt instruments of a
very high magnitude are on oﬀer. Timeliness and currency of the ratings are of
utmost importance especially since the investors would like to buy or sell debt
investments based on reliable information. CRAs have an important gap-ﬁlling
role between the investors and the debenture trustees. The real test of a CRA
is quick response time.

As regards projections, it is believed that very long term projections are not
useful (viz., beyond 5 years).

Rating symbols need to be placed at one central point for reference by the
general public. The meanings of the symbols need to be clariﬁed and placed in
a comparable table.

24

From the investors’ perspective, Ratings are a fortiﬁcation to their own due
diligence process, and not to be considered as a crutch or substitute to appraisal.
It is necessary for the investing community to place facts before the CRAs and
elicit responses. This will tone up the systems and operations of the CRAs.

The primary role of CRAs is rating of credit instruments. IPO Grading was
introduced on an experimental basis, mainly at the behest of the Investors
Associations. Most of the issues received poor grading ratings and also failed
to raise funds (say 1 to 2 marks on a total of 5). It is a diﬀerent matter that
the turn of events and the high valuations prescribed by Merchant Bankers led
to the total drying up of the IPO market post January 2008.

In view of the events in the ﬁnancial markets it needs to be concluded that the
US systems are no longer the standard of reference. With all the chronicled
experience available on hand, India should now seek to create its own standards
and mechanisms in addressing the issues related to CRAs.

In the next chapter, the actual performance of CRAs is gauged by an analysis
of select data.

25

Appendix to Chapter 2
Apart from the detailed elicited through the structured Questionnaire, interac-
tions with the top managements of CRAs revealed the following information.

CRISIL

The basic concept of ‘Default’ is not deﬁned and remains a subjective term. Con-
sistency demands that it needs to be deﬁned, so as to be reliably measured and
understood in the same sense by all the concerned stakeholders.
Also, it is observed that some sudden downgrades are taking place to the extent of
greater than 1 notch, within a short time span. This is a matter of concern and
needs to be addressed.
It is learnt that the choice of the rating agency is, to an extent, guided by the
investors, especially institutional investors and lenders. This tends to reduce the
instances of conﬂict of interest in the appointment of rating agencies, who also oﬀer
advisory services to the rated entity.
Sometimes, a ‘tendering’ process is followed for choice of a rating agency. This may
not be the best method for selecting an agency, as comparison of capabilities is lost.
The number of management declarations being relied upon by the auditors could
be a metric for ascertaining the robustness of the audit process.
There is a need to come up with a comprehensive set of metrics, open to all stake-
holders.
Rating symbols need to be standardized.
The way the rating committee is formed also needs to be understood, in order to
determine the robustness of the rating process.
Brickworks awards an AAA+, a symbol not hitherto not used or awarded. Such
practices, like AAA+ or AAAA need to be standardized.
A study of the business model for rating agencies is required.
All ratings are not public.
There is no common website for CRA information and comparison.
Competence reduces asymmetric information when adverse information is not
shared by the issuer.
Regulation will facilitate a commonly accepted matrix.
A rating exercise generally raises the competence of the issuer company in de-risking
the business.
Advisory services shifted to a separate company

26

ICRA

Assignments can be completed in 3 weeks if all information is received
Rating criteria are published
After sales services are important. In constant touch with investors
Dissemination of information is free of cost
Analysts disclose their interests as per the SEBI Code
Rating transitions published
Surveillance is on an annual basis or earlier, if situation demands
A reasonable due diligence is carried out. Third party conﬁrmation is more an
exception
Constantly adding manpower resources
Cannot assign ratings based on unconﬁrmed
Can reduce information asymmetry if both issuer and investors keep ICRA in the
loop
No ﬁxed weights for rating criteria
Ratings could change since they are based on the judgement of the team. Due to
subjectivity, judgement could vary.
Bankers of borrowers are more concerned if ratings are downgraded, since they have
to set aside more capital to cover additional credit risk
CRAs depend on the audit report and their job is not to police. The primary
responsibility for ﬁnancial statements is on the managements of issuer companies
Issuers shop for informal ratings and get the ﬁnal rating done by the most favourable
CRA. The solution to this is to get all ratings published
Advisory services shifted to a separate company

27

CARE

The business is manned by Finders, Minders and Grinders

Press releases contain the names of analysts and contact persons
A Quarterly review is carried out on all ratings
A detailed review is carried out if there is a speciﬁc reason. Event driven also
Ratings are completed in 3 to 4 weeks provided the clients cooperate. Clients
usually cooperate, since it is relevant to their working capital enhancements and
banks insist on them for the Basel II compliance norms
Rating committee meeting every week
Due to competition and economic slowdown, there are instances of fee undercutting
A 150-strong analyst team provides comprehensive inputs and serve as a cross check.
(However, this may bring in the view of analysts who do not have an arm’s length
relationship with the issuer).
There is an external committee consisting of 6 members
DFIs take ratings as one of the inputs. They do their own DDR
Rating scale uniformity required across CRAs
An operational audit, in addition to a ﬁnancial audit, will enable better housekeep-
ing and sprucing up of systems.
CRAs have provided early warnings to the ﬁnancial markets by giving non-
investment grade ratings to Collective Investment Schemes (CIS) and IPOs.
SEBI and other regulators could take the initiative to prevail upon issuers to display
better governance and disclosure standards.

28

Fitch India

No external committee members. Everything is internal
Minimum quorum for a meeting is 4.
Not overawed by the reputation of the issuer
Have international experts and expertise intertwined with operational personnel
International best practices ingrained in day-to-day operations.
Look at origination standards critically
Provide draft Press Release to issuers only to rectify factually incorrect details
Juniors vote ﬁrst so as to avoid inﬂuence of seniors (this is a special procedure for
Asia)
All dissents and rationale to be recorded in writing to remove emotional bias
Rationale for Appeals to be structured, logical and in writing
The issuer decides which CRA is to be appointed. Investors sometimes have a say
Decline assignments upfront if it is found that client’s information is inadequate
As a matter of policy, no advisory services are rendered
Surveillance is on a rolling basis. It is a part of the tracking analyst’s job to keep
ratings fresh and current. There is also a provision for event-driven review of ratings
Review meetings schedule to be adhered to strictly to keep ratings current
Internal teams share information with each other
The rating agency is the bridge between the issuer and investors
Generally, the audited results are trusted
Both qualitative and quantitative factors are taken into consideration. Ratings are
based on a simple EXCEL spreadsheet, to prevent model risk. It is not meant to
be a black box
Training is through a mentoring process plus training and manuals
As regards Structured Finance, levels of complexity are low. Emphasis is on quality
standards of the originators. This is the ﬁrst ﬁlter for credit quality
Some originators are too aggressive in their pursuit for attaining balance sheet size.
However, there are also good quality originators and all of them cannot be painted
with the same brush
Loan against shares is a grey area. Pledging of shares by promoters has revealed
the quality of governance and raised questions on the end-use of funds
Investors constantly seek improvement
Criteria determined in the US and displayed in public domain
A ‘Satyam’ cannot be prevented since the audit report is generally relied upon
Turnaround time for completing rating assignments is a maximum of 8 weeks

29

Brickworks

New CRA, having expertise from former employees of CRISIL and ICRA
Basic Research teams as well as sector specialist teams
All surveys are done by a minimum team size of 2 members
Reduced dependence on external experts
Consensus developed at each stage of rating
Investors can seek clariﬁcations on ratings
Evidence is collected from sources other than Financial Statements also
Attempts made to build direct lines of information with issuers to reduce asymmetry
Identiﬁes who is responsible in an issuer organization, for taking the onus of repay-
ment
Ratings are subjective despite the availability of suﬃcient numerical information
Delays are counted as defaults.
The shorter the instrument tenor, the more severe is the impact of delay/default.
Hence, short term instruments are subjected to greater scrutiny
Client-CRA relationship could help in reducing information gap
Credibility is the key to success in the long term

30

Chapter 3

Critical Evaluation of Ratings in India

Choice of Variables

A good scoring model for rating companies should be based on debt-service,
tangible net worth, adequacy of reserves and proﬁtability. These ratios indicate
whether a company will be in a position to repay the debt as per the terms
of the contract. Hence, the ratios with high correlation with the credit ratings
are used in computation of the Financial Credit Score (FCS) (Gupta, 1993;
Bathory, 1984).

I

I

I

I

T L , P BI T

I

, RS

T A , P BT

LT D , C+ST D

and P BI T
T L , T D

However, it is possible that some ratios that are highly correlated with ratings
are also highly correlated with each other. In order to avoid the problem of
multi-co linearity, therefore, only a few of these have been chosen for the com-
putation of FCSs. T. Geeta has found out that the ratios C
LT D , D
E ,
T A and T D
P BDI T , N W
T A are signiﬁcantly correlated. Similarly,
P BDI T , P BDI T
are highly correlated with each other. This study
has considered N W
T A has not
been taken into account, since NW is inclusive of share capital, reserves and
surplus and proﬁts after taxes. The inverse of interest-cover ratio P BDI T
(i.e.,
P BDI T ) has also been used, though this ratio did not emerge as signiﬁcant in
the case of the sample we considered. If this ratio assumes magnitudes below
zero or above unity, the ﬁrm can be deemed as unworthy of obtaining credit.
Thus, the ratios for the computation of the FCS are chosen in a manner such
that the ratios are signiﬁcantly correlated with the ratings and their magnitudes
can facilitate convenience in obtaining the credit ratings.

P BDI T for computing the score. P BT

T A and

I

I

I

Details of the Sample and the Data

The sample comprises group of the 40 companies from various sectors that
have been included in the empirical investigation. The empirical analysis for
this group of companies is based on the data for 2006 to 2008 depending on
the availability of data. The ﬁnancial ratios used in the computation of FCS
for all the companies have been collected from various public domain websites
like rediﬀ.com, yahoo.com, moneycontrol.com etc. The ratings for 40 companies
have been taken from CRA’s websites.

31

Computation and Ranking of FCS

The steps involved in calculating the FCS are as follows.

1. The ﬁrst step is obtaining the ratio N W

T L . This ratio usually ranges between
0 and 1. If all the assets of the company are ﬁnanced only by debt, then net
worth of a company will be zero. In this extreme case, N W
T L will be equal
to zero. This ratio can take a ceiling limit of unity, when all assets of the
company are covered by the net worth of the company (i.e., total debt is
equal to zero). In abnormal conditions, this ratio can also assume negative
values. This will hold true if the company has accumulated losses (i.e.,
negative Reserves and Surplus, RS) or losses in the running ﬁnancial year
(i.e., negative PAT). However, under such circumstances, the company is
not creditworthy. Higher (lower) is the N W
T L ratio, better (worse) will be
the FCS of the company.

2. In the next step, T D

T A is calculated. A negative relationship is postulated
between T D
T A ratio and the FCS. This is because higher is the debt in
relation to the assets, greater is the risk in lending to such a company,
other things remaining the same. The lowest value which T D
T A ratio can
take is zero. In general, it lies between 0 and 1. When total assets are
ﬁnanced only by debt (net worth is equal to zero), T D
T A ratio assumes a
value equal to unity. (It is pertinent to note here that TD does not include
current liabilities. Current liabilities is subtracted from current assets and
shown as net current assets or working capital in the asset side of the
Balance Sheet.) If net worth is negative, T D
T A can exceed unity. A company
with T D

T A ratio greater than unity is deemed to be credit unworthy.

I

3. The third step in calculating FCS is obtaining inverse of interest coverage
ratio, i.e.,
P BDI T . This ratio ought to range between zero and one for
a credit-worthy company. However, this ratio can also take a negative
value if the denominator of this ratio (proﬁts) are negative. Due to the
fact that this ratio can take values which are both positive or negative,
an asymmetric treatment to this ratio is given. This is explained in step
4. Higher (lower) is the interest to be paid in relation to proﬁts, lower
(higher) will be the ﬁnancial credit score.

4. The Financial Credit Score has been deﬁned in this study as stated in

below equations for FCS.

F CS = N W

F CS = N W

T L − T D
T L − T D

T A −
T A + 2 ∗

I

P BDI T , (if

I

P BDI T , (if

I

P BDI T ≥ 0)
P BDI T < 0)

I

We have multiplied the
companies which may have this ratio as ‘+1’ and ‘-1’.

P BDI T ratio by 2, in order to diﬀerentiate the

I

32

It was found that, there were cases wherein the ratings given by the CRAs
for these 40 companies remained static and did not capture the deterioration
signals by a downgrade. By implication, the investing public who did not cross-
verify the ratings, was at a risk of overestimating the creditworthiness, due to
dependence on the CRA.

In the USA, GE is losing its AAA status for the ﬁrst time, and is reconciled to
settle for an AA. The ﬁnancial arm of GE has made losses due to the ﬁnancial
sector meltdown, demonstrating the vulnerability from conglomeracy.

During the period from 2002 to 2007, easy liquidity conditions prevailed and
many ﬁrms raised capital both equity as well as debt. After January 2008,
ﬁrms began to struggle in their fund-raising eﬀorts. This was true of large play-
ers such as Hindalco and Tata Motors, and it is even more true in the case of
smaller ﬁrms. During the ﬁrst half of calendar year 2008, rising input costs
placed a strain on the proﬁtability of ﬁrms and in the second half, after the
Lehman Brothers collapse and the panic in the global ﬁnancial markets, credit
lines dried up as lenders and investors became more risk averse. As a result
of this, many ﬁrms opted for Corporate Debt Restructuring (CDR). Many cor-
porations that had issued FCCBs with an option for redemption, needed to
raise cash for redemptions. There were a large number of downgrades especially
in the January-March 2009 period. Cracks in corporate governance and their
impact on accounting also began to show up. It was found that the auditing
and CRA community were basing their ﬁnancial statement analysis on account-
ing information that was guided by managements whose governance standards
are found wanting.
In other cases, ﬁrms like Wockhardt that had leveraged
for diversiﬁcation found themselves unable to tap sources of ﬁnance that were
hitherto easily available.

Of the 40 rated instruments studied in this survey, downgrades were delayed in
5 cases, and very timely in 2 cases; no further rating was action required in the
balance 33 cases. Hence, there is scope for improvement in the performance of
CRAs.

The lessons from the paper by Vikrant Vig are instructive. The paper observes
that the maximum defaults in the sub-prime crisis were loans applications that
obtained a credit score from 621 to 629, just above the cutoﬀ score of 620.
This safe zone exhibited the maximum asymmetric information, or, perhaps,
the applicants managed to beat the system due to the leniency of the CRAs.
By a similar reasoning, if institutional investors in India are permitted to invest
in securities rated AA and above, there is a possibility that many securities
meriting only an A or A- could obtain an AA due to lax CRA standards. Under
such a situation, extra layers of DDR are required both on the part of the CRA
as well as the investors. Particular care needs to be taken by investors when
investing in bonds rated AA.

33

Survey of Analysts

A detailed Questionnaire was used to cover the Analysts. The observations are
summarized in the paragraphs below.

Most of the Analysts state that the level of cooperation from the issuers was
good at the time of the ﬁrst rating, and also at the time of renewal. Thus, there
is room for CRAs to probe further. This also implies that the CRAs need to
improve their approach to be more vigilant, especially in the light of a large
number of cases of Corporate Debt Restructuring (CDR). This dependence on
the issuers for information, without a system of cross-checks, contributes to
asymmetric information.

The Quality of Accounting Information is stated as Good for listed compa-
nies and Poor to Fair for unlisted ﬁrms. The levels of preparedness of Indian
accountants to meet IFRS a couple of hours from now, is very low.

The general ﬁt between the ratings proposed by the Analyst and the Final
Rating ranges from 60% to 90%. This shows the need to arrive at a better
mechanism for the ﬁnal rating process, to reduce the variation.

In some CRAs there is a voting system, whereas at others, a consensus is devel-
oped. There is no consistent system for recording dissent, leading to information
loss at the time of subsequent reviews.

Institutional Investors – an Ethnographic Survey

The major institutional investors in bonds are insurance companies (which also
oﬀer annuity products), pension funds, superannuation funds, trusts and debt-
oriented mutual funds.
Investments by insurance companies are directed by
the LIC Act for LIC, the GIC Act for GIC, and the Insurance Act, 1938 for
other insurance companies. In this regard, the private insurance had a greater
leeway in investing in the corporate sector (i.e., instruments other than G Sec).
Subsequently, LIC and GIC had made requests to IRDA for untying their hands
and permitting them to also have greater exposure in the corporate sector. The
Insurance Act provides for investments in corporate debt instruments rated AA
and above.

It is found that LIC considers the ratings given by CRAs at face value and does
not perform a re-check.

Tata AIG also does not question the ratings given by CRAs. They go by the
ratings rationale given by the CRAs and then come to a decision.

In the case of Metlife, however, a simple credit matrix is has been devised
and the ratings given by the CRA serve as an initial criterion for developing a
short list (debt rated AA and above). Thereafter, those issues that meet the
stipulations in the credit matrix of the respective insurance companies come into
play. This seems to be a sound approach. Liquidity is also a major consideration;

34

it is found that although issues by Tata Sons and Tata Investment Corporation
are rated AAA, liquidity is not readily presumed, hence not preferred as a ﬁrst
choice.

Future Generali and SBI Life also perform an independent check before
investing in bonds, despite ratings by CRAs.

As regards GIC, it earlier used to perform the investment function on behalf of
its 4 subsidiaries. With liberalization, its subsidiaries, particularly New India
Assurance and National Insurance have portfolios that are larger than GIC.
Both New India as well as National Insurance do not question the ratings given
by CRAs.

Among the Mutual Funds, UTI Mutual Fund, one of the oldest and largest,
the ratings are treated as one of the inputs and a supplementary check is done,
based on ﬁnancial ratio analysis. This is true of the debt fund. Other funds
like Morgan Stanley also perform additional checks. They perceive that, unlike
S&P and Moody’s in the USA, Indian CRAs may not be independent minded.

As regards pension and superannuation funds, it is revealed that the investments
are directed by the Income Tax Act, for such funds to retain their tax-exempt
status. Almost the entire investment is directed towards G Sec or Infrastructure
Bonds issued by quasi-government bodies or PSUs, hence there is no signiﬁcant
investment activity in corporate securities. This information came from Actu-
aries advising such funds.

Issuer Survey

It is observed that the Issuers often approach more than one CRA. This is
evidence of an informal ’rate shopping’.

There is a drastic increase in ratings of Bank Loans, a fair increase in Structured
Obligations and a decline in Commercial Paper.

Structured Finance and CRAs
Special attention was given to structured ﬁnance or structured obligations, in
view of the turmoil caused by such products in the global economy, and the
resultant criticism on the CRA community there.

Our close interaction with the Analyst community resulted in some important
ﬁndings and suggestions from them.

1. Structured Finance or Structured Obligations in India are mainly of the
plain-vanilla Pass-Through-Certiﬁcate PTC genre. Apart from conserva-
tive origination standards, the credit enhancements are also mainly from
quasi-government or government organizations.
Institutional investors
hold these securities and they do not percolate widely through the bank-
ing system. Two Indian banks suﬀered market losses on instruments pur-
chased by their London branches, and had nothing to do with Indian

35

paper. CRAs have already evolved a ‘Complexity Grading’ to forewarn
investors on complex structured obligations.

2. However, as a pro-active step, it is necessary to consider the following
suggestions for safeguarding the Indian ﬁnancial system from the dan-
gers of structured obligations. The suggestions, endorsed by the Analyst
community, are as under:

3. A transparent process of the various stress tests that the credit rating

involves, including fat tail risk.

4. A clear deﬁnition of the complexity level of the ﬁnancial instruments.

5. The strict norm of making the name of the client public, if he chooses not

to be rated, in case of lower ratings.

6. The analysis of future cash ﬂows, to be generated by the complex ﬁnancial
instruments, under various scenarios. Involving the highest of stress levels.

7. Stress testing of the credit enhancement levels of the complex ﬁnancial

instruments.

8. Identiﬁcation of the percentage of the junk assets pooled in to form the

pool of loans.

9. Usage of white box testing models, which reveal all the data, it has used

to stress test these instruments.

10. As a business, CRAs need to focus on the quality of the instrument rated,

rather than the quantity.

11. A thorough review of actual risk exposures of institutions and robustness

of counterparty risk assessment.

12. Guard against over-valuation of assets, particularly real-estate and other

collateral assets.

13. Extra care to guard against opacity in ﬁnancial accounting and auditing

practices.

14. Understanding the implications of moving class products to mass markets,

thereby increasing systemic risk.

15. Guard against hidden credit risk: weak loan pools, when repackaged, do
not reﬂect true vulnerability to cyclical downturn, hence credit risk gets
underpriced.

16. Critically evaluate legal risk and counterparty risk to get a realistic estima-
tion of cash ﬂows, especially in guarantees and other credit enhancements.

17. Review risk disclosures more stringently in respect of structured obliga-

tions

36

Chapter 4

Emerging Trends and Alternate Approaches

Since precise methodologies by CRA are not in public domain, analysts and
investors can use Artiﬁcial Neural Network (ANN) as a model for ratings. This
could serve as an independent check on the creditworthiness of a rated instru-
ment.

A smaller version of neural network model was developed as part of the compu-
tational ﬁnance exercises conducted during this study period, based on available
data.

We considered following six variables, as deﬁned by Moody’s, as inputs to devise
a model, as follows:

1. Interest Coverage

2. Leverage

3. Return on Assets

4. Volatility Adjusted Leverage

5. Revenue Stability

6. Total Assets

How the Model Works

Data is to be collected for a large sample size of rated instruments, over a
long time series. This mass of data is to be fed into the computer memory to
’train the computer’. The trained computer then generates a rating for any new
instrument, based on the variables it possesses.

The results given by the model are free of bias (assuming there is no sample
bias) and can be used as a valuable input in the ﬁnal rating process.

Experiment

Given the time frame, data covering 5 years (FY 2004 to 2008), the following 5
companies were used to ’train’ and generate ratings using this neural network
model:

1. Tata Motors
2. Tata Steel
3. TCS
4. Unitech
5. Reliance Industries
Based on the trained computer model, ratings were generated. The ratings

37

generated by this model were compared with the actual rating awarded by
CRAs. This was based on a smaller sample data gathered within the limited
time frame. However, the test results are encouraging. The output from the
model could be more reliable if the model is based on as large a mass of data
as possible. Further research in this direction could be carried out in the near
future.

In fact, the period post-October 2008 is of particular interest, since it repre-
sents some of the most turbulent months in global ﬁnance, with a signiﬁcant
impact on the Indian business sector. This could result in adverse swings on
the proﬁtability of Indian companies, and inability to raise fresh capital due to
the market conditions. As and when this new data is also fed into the computer
to ’train’ the system, the results generated by the model will reﬂect reality in a
better manner.

Moody’s Rating Predictor (MRP), announced in 2006, is a process of constantly
adjusting the weights for various parameters at regular intervals. This has
dramatically improved the ratings results. However, the process itself should
not result in the creation of a black box, so as to prevent model risk.

The search for a better rating model is a journey of constant improvement.

38

Chapter 5

Observations and Recommendations

CRAs are supposed to bridge the information gap between the issuers and in-
vestors. When this does not happen, the CRA is the last in the loop, when
a default occurs. It is important to understand the nature of this problem, in
order to surmount the same.

Mechanics of Asymmetric Information

1. Lower/Middle managers in issuing companies suppress bad news

2. Senior Managers and Directors have pressure to show quarterly informa-

tion. This is the second stage of news suppression

3. Auditors get to know less adverse information than the managements of

companies

4. CRAs depend on Auditors

5. CRAs are last in the loop when bankers and investors in debt instruments

report defaults, or when insiders sell

It is important to note that the CRAs are not able to unearth a ’Satyam’.

The Mechanics of Asymmetric Information described above explains the phe-
nomenon of Asymmetric Information. The problem is of a wider magnitude in
smaller ﬁrms.

The ﬁndings of the study are ﬁtted in line with the Terms of Reference. This
is followed by Recommendations which list out concrete action points for the
betterment of the CRAs and the ﬁnancial markets in which they operate.

Observations on the Points Raised in the Terms of Refer-
ence

1. How far CRAs assessment helps ﬁnancial regulation

At present, bulk of the work is with respect to the ratings of loans, for
banks to assign Credit-risk based capital for Basel II requirements. This
has brought several smaller entities within the fold of rating for the ﬁrst
time.

Firms that are subjected to a credit rating exercise beneﬁt from the ratings
rationale and tone up their operations. This is especially true of ﬁrms that
face a rating exercise for the ﬁrst time. Even in the case of unaccepted
ratings, the rated ﬁrms do tacitly admit that they deserved a lower rating.

39

While a lower standard of probing does not impact the ﬁnal rating of a
good issuer, it does enable weaker borrowers to get away despite ﬁnan-
cial/business/management quality weaknesses. In this regard, the stan-
dards of scrutiny need to be raised. If the scrutiny levels are raised, the
CRAs will be able to contribute more information to minimize asymmetric
information.

Investors are free to contact the CRAs and seek more information on the
rated entities, free of cost.

CRAs disseminate plenty of information on their web sites as well as in
print. It is easy for a member of the public to know more about a rated
company from the web sites.

Some lending banks and insurance companies use the ratings as a ﬁlter and
sometimes perform an additional check through an independent Due Dili-
gence Review or credit matrix. However, this is not true of all investors.

By increasing the depth in probing and timely changes in ratings, CRAs
can serve the ﬁnancial markets with better information.

CRAs have assigned very poor ratings to Collective Investment Schemes
and some IPOs, hence driving poor quality issuers out of the market.

2. Accountability, corporate governance issues of CRAs

All agencies have separated business development from analysis.

Code of Conduct. All of them do not follow the IOSCO Code in toto.

CRA disseminate ratings rationale through press releases and website up-
dates, with the names of the contact persons of analysts.

The lack of quality in accounting and auditing cannot absolve the CRAs
from their responsibility.

Some CRAs have discontinued advisory services. Others continue advisory
services and non-rating activities in sister companies.

The external committee members may be able to bring in a bias in ratings,
due to a conﬂict of interest. This is especially true if their views have a
high weight in the ﬁnal consideration.

Interested persons who are excluded from the rating teams could come
back to air their views in larger review meetings where entry is unre-
stricted.

40

Junior analysts must be given an equal weight in their views. Dissent
must be permitted and be recorded in writing.

CRAs practice disclosure norms as per the SEBI ownership must be made
public in respect of all CRAs, not just the public, listed ones.

3. Consistency of rating data with accounting data

The high dependence on ﬁnancial statements is a cause for concern. This
is especially true in the light of the falling audit eﬃciency. This increases
the chances of asymmetric information vis--vis the market information.

The basic accounting ﬁgures: Total Income and PBDIT are contaminated
due to the inﬂux of ‘other income’ being merged into the Total Income.

There are several instances where the Interest Coverage ratio has deteri-
orated but the ratings have remained the same, without any downgrade,
despite adverse business prospects, mergers & acquisitions and forays into
diversiﬁed areas.

The true leverage of ﬁrms may be hidden on account of the promoters
raising funds for unknown reasons, by pledging their shares.

4. Disclosures of methodologies of rating

All CRAs reveal the processes ﬂows. But they do not disclose the actual
methodologies.

Ultimately, there is no ﬁxed methodology, as qualitative factors could
outweigh the quantitative factors at a meeting.

The consensus approach buries dissent, especially if dissent notes are not
recorded. This could result in information loss, especially at the time of
subsequent reviews.

Bias could also come in from seniors in the internal or external rating
committees.

5. Assessment of the performance of CRAs in India in terms of

parameters like default and transition data

CRAs do publish studies on Default and Transition Data

Our analysis, based on Quarterly Data, shows that there are many cases
where a downgrade was in order, but the ratings were maintained.

41

6. Uniformity or otherwise in deﬁnition and rating nomenclature

of CRAs in India

The rating symbols given by CRAs are compatible with each other barring
Brickworks

There is no common website where the various ratings are placed in a
comparable table.

It is necessary to organize the various symbols in a comparable format to
help the retail investors

7. How much information asymmetry is bridged by CRAs

Unaccepted ratings are not published; hence information is asymmetric to
that extent

CRAs generally give information based on Credit risk. Markets factor in
other risks also.

With better probing and improved standards of Due Diligence Reviews,
the asymmetric information could be further bridged.

It is found in many cases where the Quarterly Proﬁt Statements showed
adverse trends, the ratings have been maintained at higher levels. In other
words, there were many cases where downgrades were justiﬁable, but not
carried out.

‘Rating-watch’ could be eﬀectively used as an interim measure during the
process of veriﬁcation of unconﬁrmed rumours

The quality of the rating depends on the quality of ﬁnancial statements.
This, in turn, depends on the quality of the audits and the governance
standards of the managements of issuing companies.

There is a way of getting around the asymmetric information problem.
Until the Due Diligence Review standards of the CRAs and auditors im-
prove, it would be safe to assume a slightly lower rating than the one
actually assigned. This is especially true owing to the fact that Corporate
Governance standards are low, barring a few companies. According to
some experts, if international agencies were to actually rate Indian do-
mestic paper, the ratings assigned by them would actually be a notch
lower.

Many banks and insurance companies provide loans that are in the genre
of social banking, or within the overall framework of development ﬁnance,

42

e.g.
loans to State Electricity Boards (SEBs). Considering the weak ﬁ-
nancials of the SEBs, the Credit risk on the balance sheet of the lending
banks and institutions could be far higher than what is declared. This
issue needs to be addressed by the policy makers. CRAs could play a
vital role in assessing these risks.

8. Rating of complex products like structured obligation

Most Indian loan originators have been conservative. This is the ﬁrst ﬁl-
ter in structured ﬁnance transactions. Merchant bankers are also not too
aggressive. Structured obligations have also taken oﬀ recently in India,
during the last 5 years. In view of these factors and the relatively fewer
transactions that have taken place, a sub-prime loan crisis of the mag-
nitude witnessed in USA and Europe has not occurred. The securitized
transactions are simple structures and there are no complex derivatives
which are ﬂoating around to contaminate the ﬁnancial markets.

9. Overall evaluation of what CRAs have done in terms of value

addition or the Indian economy

CRAs have a cadre of analysts whose skills can be further honed to dis-
seminate quality information to the ﬁnancial markets. They provide some
basic information which could be used as a ﬁlter, with additional cross
checks wherever necessary (say, in case of companies with poor governance
records).

CRAs have driven out poor issuers, especially CIS and IPOs by awarding
poor ratings and discouraging promoters with a poor record from accessing
the markets.

Most of the recent ratings are for loans by banks. The borrowers were rated
for the purpose of determining Credit-risk based capital as per Basel II
norms. This brought many smaller ﬁrms within the fold of credit rating.
The rating exercise could stand the rated entities in good stead so that
they could tone up their management systems and business models.

10. Approaches followed for credit enhancements

As of now, most of the credit enhancements are from State Governments.
There are no instances of enhancements by a private party with thin cap-
ital. This precludes the cascading of defaults (Credit Default Swaps =
CDS) and the consequence of systemic risks. Besides, origination stan-
dards, particularly for housing loans, are quite high and experienced orig-
inators like HDFC and LIC Housing Finance are conservative lenders. Be-
sides, as mentioned in the paragraphs above, the securitization structures
in India are simple.

43

11. Experiences with structured obligations and desirability of such

practices

As mentioned above, the structures are simple, and based on conservative
origination practices. In India, Merchant Bankers as well as Originating
Banks have both been conservative. Unlike what was seen in USA and
Europe, Originating Banks do not lower their appraisal standards with
the attendant moral hazard of ‘originate-to-distribute’.

12. Matters related to conﬂicts of interest faced by rating agencies

Business development teams are separate from the analyst teams

No analyst knows the fees structure

Rating Fees are taken from the client 100% in advance

It is quite possible that a particular analyst who has an investment inter-
est/relative(s) in the rated entity is kept out of the rating team, but his
inputs could bias the proceedings of subsequent open meetings.

The role and nature of external experts needs to be watched carefully,
since it is quite possible that they may be able to substantially inﬂuence
ratings, especially if the junior analysts have lesser inﬂuence in the ratings
processes.

Ownership structure of all CRAs, including unlisted entities, need to be
made public.

CRAs need to be encouraged to adhere to the SEBI Code of Conduct as
well as the IOSCO Code.

13. Cases of instruments being rated higher than the issuer

At present, ratings are for instruments. The concept of issuer-rating ap-
plies in case of IPOs, where the ratings have been poor, for low-quality
oﬀerings.

In structured obligations, there is a theoretical possibility of instruments
being rated higher, wherein either the obligor or the credit enhancer (guar-
antor) has a higher credit standing than the issuer. In India, the obliga-
tions of SEBs are guaranteed by the State Governments, and hence, a
higher rating for such instruments is justiﬁed.

Such a situation is qualitatively diﬀerent from the one prevalent in USA
where sub-prime loans from weak originators were upgraded on the strength
of guarantees by ﬁnancial entities, in an unregulated market. It turned

44

out that one of the aﬃliates of AIG, which oﬀered credit enhancements
(CDS) was exposed to risks beyond its capital. Thus, high ratings to in-
struments were based on enhancements that turned out to be higher than
the actual strength of the enhancer.
In this manner, an aﬃliate of an
Insurance company strayed far away from insurance and got exposed to
market risk and credit risk. Capital adequacy for unregulated entities go
undeﬁned and in the light of over-trading, such entities implode.

This brings to the fore an important lesson for regulators: aﬃliates of
regulated entities also need to be monitored closely by one or more reg-
ulators, since ﬁnancial engineers and lawyers tend to exploit regulatory
arbitrage opportunities in precisely such grey areas.

Other observations made during the course of study:

Undercutting of Fees

It is observed Undercutting of Fees between CRAs is taking place. Issuers may
take advantage of such situations.

Outsourcing of Rating Operations

To prevent instances like the damage caused by unscrupulous salesmen of In-
surance, Mutual Funds and Personal Loan Products, it is necessary to place
safeguards or prescribe standards on outsourcing of Credit Rating or Credit
Information to any third party. This is in the interests of quality and conﬁden-
tiality. Every person engaged in Credit Rating or Credit Information must be
an employee of a registered CRA or CIC. The registered CRA or CIC needs to

bear the ﬁnal onus of responsibility on quality of work as well as conﬁdentiality.

Manner of Decision Making in Ratings

Practices vary in the weights given to the view of Junior Analysts.
In some
CRAs, the views of Junior Analysts are given the same weight as Seniors. In
others, the ﬁnal decision rests with the Senior-most members in the ﬁnal rating
committee members. Again, some CRAs go for voting whereas others consider
each input with diﬀerent weights. Dissent notes are not available for future
reference.

45

Recommendations

1. Standard Deﬁnitions of Default

There is no standard deﬁnition of default. Practices vary from CRA to
CRA. Some consider even a single day’s delay as a default. Others consider
the grace period in case the debt covenants provide for it. Furthermore,
the severity of the delay or default is inversely related to the tenor of
the instrument. Delays in coupon payments in case of long-term debt
instruments could be condoned or considered more sympathetically. There
is a need for a framework to be agreed upon by all CRAs and regulators
to have a standardized and operational deﬁnition of default.

2. Comparability of Ratings and Display on Common Site

It is felt that the oligopolistic situation in USA has been maintained on
account of the diﬀering symbols used by various CRAs there. For a market
in India, where ﬁnancial literacy is at a nascent stage, multiple rating
symbols could confuse the investing community.
It could also result in
‘rating inﬂation’ and foster unhealthy competition. Rating scales, brought
under comparable bands, need to be hosted on the websites of SEBI, RBI,
IRDA and PFRDA and also on the sites of investors’ associations.

3. Timeliness of Ratings

‘Rating Outlooks’ (both positive and negative) and ‘Rating Watch’ have
a limited life and must be replaced by a ﬁrm rating within a reasonable
span of time, say a month.

4. Compulsory Separation of Advisory Services to Separate Com-

panies

Some CRAs have a clear-cut policy of staying away completely from ser-
vices other than credit rating. This is a healthy sign. Yet, some other
agencies continue to oﬀer services other than ratings. It is to be ensured
that the registered CRA, as a corporate entity, must not engage in any
services other than ratings.

5. Policy on Appeals

In the interest of unbiased judgement, it is necessary to constitute an
Appeals Committee that is diﬀerent from the one that was involved in the
initial rating exercises.

46

6. Policy on External Committees

The presence of External Committee Members brings with it a whole
baggage of conﬂict of interest. Some CRAs have demonstrated that it is
possible to develop the expertise either with full time employees from the
domestic CRAs or in collaboration with the overseas CRAs.

Alternately, External Committee members could be deployed for providing
inputs, leaving the ﬁnal ratings to an Internal Committee.

7. Measures to Prevent Shopping for Ratings

Issuers attempt to seek informal ratings from various CRAs and pass the
ﬁnal rating mandate to the agency that could potentially oﬀer the highest
rating. To curb this unhealthy practice, it is necessary to come to a stage
where all ratings, including unaccepted ratings, are published.

8. Training in Due Diligence Review (DDR), Accounting, and Au-

diting Standards

There is excessive dependence on the auditors and bankers, to corroborate
the information provided in the Financial Statements. There is a need to
develop DDR skills to assess the overall credit worthiness of an entity. This
calls for a national level eﬀort to upgrade the skills of personnel in audit,
accounting and credit appraisal. It combines the use of information from
formal as well as informal sources. Young potential employees tend to
gravitate towards merchant banking and investment management, leaving
a paucity of talent in accounting, audit and credit appraisal, which are
actually the backbone of ﬁnancial systems.
India is only 2 years away
from the implementation of IFRS and the preparedness is woefully lacking,
amongst professionals as well as academics. Skills in DDR are a crucial
step in reducing asymmetric information.

9. Operational Audit for CRAs

Along the lines of the compulsory Internal Audit for Stock Brokers, it is
found necessary to stipulate an Operational Audit to ascertain that the
rating processes leave a documentary trail. This could cover details of
site inspections, management meetings, rating committee meetings, dis-
sent notes, surveillance and monitoring schedules, minutes of the appeal
process. It addresses the basic issue of good housekeeping and could be
performed twice in a year. Some CRAs have taken the initiative to ap-
point a person with the task of Quality Control, and he is involved in all
rating exercises.

47

10. Public Education on Usage of Ratings

There is a danger that ratings may be accepted blindly without a self-
check or giving due importance to the time gap between two review dates.
Ratings are not to be construed as a guarantee. This is true of all inter-
mediaries: Merchant Bankers, Bankers, and Mutual Funds etc – no one
can provide a guarantee. Ratings must be one of the inputs in the decision
making process. Of course, this does not absolve the responsibility of the
CRAs for negligence.

There is also the practice of issuers using ratings for marketing purposes
– exhibited on all their business literature and oﬃce stationery.

11. Policy on Disclaimer on Ratings

There could be information gaps that arise due to factors beyond any-
body’s control. In line with the Risk Factors highlighted on various prod-
ucts, CRAs also need to mention a disclaimer on all rating announcements
as well as on the website. This is to the minds of the reader (user) of Rat-
ings to the fact that credit related information is dynamic and subject to
changes. Rating disclosures could also mention the latest review date.

12. Public Disclosure on Ownership Pattern of CRAs

It is important for the members of the public to know that the relationship
of the CRA is at arm’s length with that of the rated entity, in letter and
spirit. Hence, shareholding ownership patterns of all CRAs need to be
made public.

13. Policy on Unsolicited Ratings

There have been instances in USA where S&P and Moody’s have deliber-
ately given low ratings to various issues on an unsolicited basis. This was
used as a means of arm-twisting the issuers. This is a classic instance of
abuse of independence provided to CRAs. Unsolicited ratings must not
be permitted, in case the CRA community makes a representation to this
eﬀect in the future.

14. Code of Conduct for CRAs

Some CRAs follow the IOSCO Code in addition to the SEBI Code of
Conduct. One needs to look at the desirability and uniformity for the
IOSCO code adherence in full, in addition to the SEBI Code.

48

15. Enforcing Corporate Governance in Spirit

Bad governance can contaminate ﬁnancial statements, and hence annul
the entire credit rating exercise.
It is sad to know that CRAs heavily
depend on the audited ﬁnancial statements and do very little to gain the
maximum from cross-veriﬁcation from formal and informal sources. While
this is a lacuna on the part of auditors and CRAs, much needs to be done
on Corporate Governance, since a governance code works only on paper.
It is much easier and practical for the Regulators rather than CRAs to
enforce governance.

At the beginning of this chapter, the Mechanics of Information Asymmetry
was described. Good governance is the starting point in order to remedy
the situation.

It is necessary for CRAs, Merchant Bankers and Regulators to initiate
studies on patterns of deviant behaviour. Some important variables being
conglomeracy, forays into real estate & construction, aggressive chase for
growth through mergers & acquisitions, leveraged balance sheet size, dicta-
torial management, ‘inner circle of management’, cartelization, inﬂuence-
peddling, unfair trade practices and so on. Put simply, corporate gover-
nance addresses the issue of abuse of the corporate structure for personal
gain. The links between these traits of bad governance and defaults need
to be studied as part of more detailed research. Today, the entire ediﬁce
of corporate ﬁnance – shareholder wealth maximization is under ques-
tion. The focus is shifting towards stakeholder satisfaction and societal
well being. Auditors and CRAs are the watchdogs of society as also the
conscience keepers of the nation, hence corporate governance is even more
relevant as the ﬁrst ﬁlter. It is often said, in credit wisdom, that balance
sheets do not repay loans – it is the people behind the organization.

49

References

Altman E.I., (1968), Financial Ratios, Discriminant Analysis and the Predic-
tion of Corporate Bankruptcy, Journal of Finance, Sept., pp. 589-609.

Altman E.I., (1995), Credit Scoring Models and the Valuation of Fixed Income
Securities and Commercial Loans, in Sondhi A.C. (ed.), Credit Analysis of Non
Traditional Debt Securities, Association of Investment Management and Re-
search, USA.

Arora, Mamta (2001) Credit Rating in India – An Evaluation, PhD Thesis,
Department of Financial Studies, University of Delhi (South Campus)

Bathory A., (1984), Predicting Corporate Collapse - Credit Analysis in the De-
termination and Forecasting of Insolvent Companies, Financial Times Business
Information Ltd., London.

Blanco, Roberto, Simon Brennan and Ian W. Marsh (2005), An Empirical Anal-
ysis of the Dynamic Relationship Between Investment-Grade Bonds and Credit
Default Swaps, Journal of Finance.

Boyadjian H.J., Warren J.F., (1991), Risks - Reading Corporate Signals, John
Wiley & Sons, Singapore.

Cantor R. and Packer F., (1995), The Credit Rating Industry, The Journal of
Fixed Income, Vol.5, No.3, Institutional Investor Inc., New York.

Dahiya S. K. John, M. Puri, and G. Ramirez. (2003) Debtor in Possession
Financing and
Ederington, Louis H., and Jeremy C Goh (1998), Bond Rating Analysts and
Stock Analysts Who Knows What When, Journal of Quatitative Financial Anal-
ysis, December.
Bankruptcy Resolution: Empirical Evidence, Journal of Financial Economics

Financial Times, (1996), Emerging Markets - Credit Ratings, Financial Times
Publishing, Pearson Professional Ltd.

Fish M., (1999), Should Credit Rating Agencies be Regulated, Chartered Finan-
cial Analyst, May, ICFAI, Hyderabad.

Gupta L.C., (1983), Financial Ratios for Monitoring Corporate Sickness, Ox-
ford University Press.

Gupta L.C., (1993), Corporate Financial Health - Building Reliable Ratio Indi-
cators, Manas Publications, Delhi.

50

John Kose, Anthony W Lynch and Manju Puri (2003), Journal of Business,
University of Chicago Press

Mays E.(ed.), (1998), Credit Risk Modeling - Design and Application, Glenlake
Publishing Company, Ltd., Chicago.

Miller, Merton H. (1990), Leverage, Nobel Prize Memorial Lecture, c(cid:13)The Nobel
Foundation, Stockholm, reproduced from Jagdeep Bhandari and Lawrence Weiss
(Eds.), Corporate Bankruptcy – Economic and Legal Perspectives, Cambridge
University Press, 1996

Moody’s Credit Rating Predictor Model (2006 November)

Moody’s KMV (2004, April)Moody’s KMV RiskcalcT M v3.1 Model, Next-Generation
Technology for Predicting Private Firm Credit Risk

Partnoy, Frank (2005), How and Why Credit Rating Agencies are Not Like
Other Gatekeepers, Brookings-Nomura
Pinches G. and Singleton J., (1977), The adjustment of stock prices to bond
rating changes”, Journal of Finance, pp.29-44.

Pinches G.E. and Mingo K.A., (1973), A Multivariate Analysis of Industrial
Bond Ratings, The Journal of Finance, March, Vol.XXVIII, No.1, pp.18.

Raghunathan V. and Varma J.R., (1992), CRISIL Rating: When does AAA
mean B?, Vikalpa, Vol. 17, No.2, Apr. - Jun., pp. 35-43.

Raman, K.K. (1981), Financial Reporting and Municipal Bond Rating Changes,
The Accounting Review, American Accounting Association

Rangarajan C., (1997), Transformation of the Indian Financial System and
Signiﬁcance of Credit Rating, in Kapila R. and Kapila U. (ed.), Banking and
Financial Sector Reforms in India, Academic Foundation Publication, Vol.2,
1997, pp. 89-96.

Ravi Mohan, (2000), ”Credit Rating - A Paradigm Shift”, Chartered Financial
Analyst, ICFAI, Hyderabad.

Reddy Y.V., (2000), Credit Rating: Changing Perspectives, Fourth Prof. Na-
garaj Memorial Lecture delivered at Osmania University Arts College Seminar
Hall, Hyderabad, April 8.

Salmon, Felix, Recipe for Disaster: The Formula that Killed Wall Street,
http://www.wired.com/print/techbiz/it/magazine/17-03/wp quant , accessed on
18.3.2009

51

Sarkar A.K. (1994), Credit Rating in India: A New Feather in the Capital
Market’s Cap, Management Accountant, July.

Satija, Kalpana C, Credit Rating Agencies – An Overview and Analysis in the
Light of Various Acts and Guidelines (Unpublished Paper), Gujarat National
Law School, Gadhinagar.

Sen Choudhury (1999), Comparative Analysis Between International and Indian
CRAs, PhD Thesis, IGIDR, Mumbai.

Sikdar S., Hazarika P.L., (1992), Reporting and Evaluation of Corporate Fi-
nancial Health: A Quantitative Analysis, The Management Accountant, Sept.,
pp. 718-723.

The Economic Times, (1999), Want a AAA from CRISIL? Have an Interest
Cover of Six, 3rd Nov.

T Geetha (2001), Performance of CRAs in India, PhD Thesis, IIT Bombay.

Varma J.C., (1993), Credit Rating, Bharat Law House, New Delhi.

Varma J.C., (2000) Credit Rating, Bharat Law House, New Delhi.

Venkatesh S. and Gupta S., (1997), Investment Rating: On the Border, The
Economic Times, Oct. 6.

Weinstein M.I., (1978), The Eﬀect of a Rating Change Announcement on Bond
Price, Journal of Financial Economics, pp.329-350.

52

Annexure

Questionnaire for CRA

1 General Information

Respondent Name:

Aﬃliation:

1. Please provide following informations:

No of Instruments Rated each year
Municipal Bonds
PSU Bonds
Corporate Bonds
Commercial Paper
Structured Obligations
IPO
Corporate Governance
Bank Loans
Others (specify)

2006-07

2007-08

2008-09 (YTD)

2. Provide an illustrative listing of issuers and instruments rated/graded by

you”

Issuers
Sovereign (Governments)
Urban Local Bodies
PSU
Private Sector Corporations
Listed Companies
Unlisted entities
Banks
Mutual Funds
Special Investment Vehicles / SPV

Instruments
G Sec / T Bills / Bonds
Bonds
Bonds
Debt
Debt / CP / Loans / IPO / CG
Loans
Bonds / CD
Liabilities
Structured Obligations

Note: Please attach a copy of your latest Annual Report

3. List some of the challenges faced during the rating exercises

53

4. Brief comment on how the challenges were overcome

5. General level of Cooperation extended by assessed ﬁrms: Excellent / Very

Good / Good / Fair / Poor

• At ﬁrst assessment:
• On renewals

6. Which are the more complex instruments that have come up for rating,

over the years?

7. Have you received queries or feedback on your ratings?

• From sophisticated, institutional investors or regulators or govern-

ment bodies?

• From the general public
• From banks, whose loan applicants are rated

8. How do you deal with queries or feedback in improving your processes?

9. What steps are taken for improving?

• Dissemination of rating information, clarifying/simplifying rating sym-

bols

• Investor education on general rating methodology, usage and caveats

• Any other steps for strengthening the ﬁnancial system

10. In your opinion, what is the robustness of your rating processes? Excellent

/ Very Good / Good / Fair / Poor

54

11. In the light of the current economic turmoil, what improvements or ad-
ditional factors would you like to consider when rating instruments in fu-
ture? What are your lessons from the sub-prime crisis in US and Western
Europe?

12. What are the general procedures for recruitment, selection, training, re-

training and skill development initiatives?

13. What is the level of usage of the following techniques (please mark √ on

frequently medium sometimes never

apropriate cell)

Technique
Discriminant Analysis
Multiple Discriminant Analysis
Logit/Probit
Credit Metrics
Loss Given Default (LGD)
KMV

14. How does the CRA create a speedy mechanism to incorporate new infor-

mation?

15. Does the CRA have an alarm system to provide alerts on signiﬁcant,

relevant events?

16. What is the frequency of a rating exercise and a rating transition? What

triggers a review?

17. How does the CRA deal with the conﬂict in interest between rating and

advisory services for the same entity?

18. Have you come across attempts of malpractices by the ﬁrms being rated?

(a) Inﬂuencing the ratings or exertion of pressure

55

(b) Rate shopping

(c) Incentives in the form of assignments that are conﬂicting in nature?

19. In general, what is the quality of Accounting Information?

20. How is the Accounting Information corroborated or veriﬁed from alternate

sources?

21. In the light of the Satyam episode, what changes have you made in eval-

uation processes?

22. What support would CRAs require from policy makers or regulators?

Please Suggest.

23. Are there any rules or regulations which are constraining or no longer

serve a purpose?

24. Have rating agencies come to a consensus on rating symbols? How feasible

is it?

56

2 Analytical Information

Respondent Name:

Aﬃliation:

1. How many analysts are assigned to a company in each rating exercise?

2. How many assignments does an analyst handle in a year, on average?

3. What is the average completion time for each rating assignment?

4. List some of the challenges faced during the rating exercises

5. General level of Cooperation extended by assessed ﬁrms: Excellent / Very

Good / Good / Fair / Poor

• At ﬁrst assessment:
• On renewals:

6. What data does the CRA measure and how do they measure these?

7. What are the general methodologies followed and how does one decide on

the choice of methodology?

8. Are CRAs updating skills and knowledge? How eﬀectively have these

skills been used?

9. What is the general ﬁt between your individual opinion and the ﬁnal

rating?

57

10. Quality of Accounting Information over the years: Excellent / Very Good

/ Good / Fair / Poor

11. In the light of the current economic turmoil, what additional factors would

you like to consider when rating instruments in future?

12. What support would you require from policy makers or regulators? Please

Suggest.

13. Illustrate a case of rating transitions over a period of time, for each type

of instrument, for the following industries:

(a) Realty

(b) Construction

(c) Retail

(d) Cement

(e) Steel

58

