 MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

CAPITAL MARKETS DIVISION   

Report of the Committee  

on Comprehensive 

Regulation for Credit Rating 

Agencies  

 

 

December 2009 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 2 

 

Preface 

This Report is in response to the direction given by the  High Level Coordination Committee on 

Financial Markets  to reflect on the inter regulatory issues emanating from the activities of Credit Rating 

Agencies.    Accordingly,  the  Committee  was  set  up    with    representation  from  all  the  financial  sector 

regulators.  Since the mandate of the Committee included a long term assessment of the performance of 

the credit rating agencies in India,  a separate research report was prepared by the National Institute of 

Securities Market (NISM).  The Committee is grateful to Prof. Sethu, OSD In-charge of NISM and Prof. 

Sunder  Ram  Korivi    and  other  Team  Members  for    producing  a  quality    report  on  the  long  term  

performance of the CRAs in a short time.  

2. 

The  Committee  had  four  meetings.    In  addition  the  Committee  interacted  extensively  with  the 

CEOs  of  all  the  five  SEBI  registered  Credit  Rating  Agencies  in  a  meeting  besides  obtaining    written 

inputs.  We acknowledge  their valuable contributions. 

3. 

Every  Member  of  the  Committee,  including  those  who  left  before  completing  the  Report  on 

account  of  their  demitting the  office,  contributed  significantly  in  the  preparation  of  this Report.   Apart 

from extensive discussions, all of them have given inputs in writing on the various issues analysed in the 

Report.  I would also like to commend  the contribution of Shri Anupam Mitra, Deputy Director in the 

Capital Markets Division in the preparation of the Report. 

                                                          

New Delhi. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

21 December, 2009.                                                 

 

 

 

                    (Dr. K.P. Krishnan) 

 Joint Secretary ( Capital Markets & 

Chairman of the Committee) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 3 

 

 

Composition of the Committee  

Chairman 

 

 

Dr. K.P. Krishnan 

Joint Secretary (Capital markets), Ministry of Finance  

Members 

 

Mr. M.S Ray1 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Mr. P. R. Ravimohan2  Reserve Bank of India  

Mr. S.N. Jayasimhan 

Insurance and Regulatory Development Authority 

Ms. Meena Chaturvedi3  Pension Fund Regulatory Development Authority  

Member Secretary  

 

Mr. C.K.G Nair 

Director (Primary Markets), Capital Markets Division  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                      
1 Subsequently substituted by Mr. P. K. Nagpal 

2 Subsequently substituted by Ms. Ranjana Sahajwala 

3 Subsequently substituted by Mr.Praveen Tiwari 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 4 

 

 

 

 

Contents  

                      Preface  

 

Members  

Contents  

List of Tables & Figures 

List of Annexures  

Terms of Reference 

Executive Summary 

 

 

 

1 

2 

3 

 

 

4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Systemic Importance of Rating and Rating Agencies 

3.1  

3.2 

Introduction 

Role and Rationale 

Functions and Approaches of CRAs  

4.1 

4.2  

4.3 

4.4 

4.5 

4.6 

4.7 

What does credit rating convey? 

Rating related products and activities. 

Non-rating related activities 

The rating process 

Analytical framework used by CRAs 

Limitations of credit ratings. 

Whither credit rating agencies? 

5 

Regulatory Framework for CRAs 

 

 

 

 

5.1 

5.2 

5.3 

5.4 

SEBI Regulations 

SEBI Code of Conduct 

Provisions relating to conflict of interest 

Multiplicity of regulators 

Page 

3 

4 

5 

7 

8 

9 

10 

12 

12 

13 

17 

17 

17 

18 

18 

19 

21 

22 

24 

24 

25 

26 

27 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 5 

 

 

6 

 

 

 

 

5.5 

International Regulations 

Regulatory concerns about CRA business model  

6.1 

6.2 

6.3 

6.4 

Regulatory concern 

How  do  CRAs  address  regulatory 
concern ? 

Pros & cons of „issuer pays and model‟ 

Pros  &  cons  of  alternatives  to  „issuer 
pays and model‟ 

7 

Recommendations 

 

 

 

7.1 

7.2 

Annexures 

Deliberations of the Committee 

Recommendations 

28 

30 

30 

32 

33 

35 

40 

40 

40 

47 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 6 

 

 

List of Tables & Figures 

Sl.No. 

Table 

Page No. 

CRAs registered with SEBI 

Illustration of capital-saving 
potential by banks on a loan of 
Rs.1000 million  
Analytics behind credit rating 

Products / instruments 
needing mandatory rating 
before issuance 

Regulatory prescription of use 
of ratings for investment 
purposes 

Products that are not 
mandated or covered 

13 

15 

20 

27 

28 

28 

3.1 

3.2 

4.1 

5.1 

5.2 

5.3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

Page 7 

 

List of Annexures 

S.No. 

Annexure 

Page No. 

Ratings symbols for various instruments used by 
CRAs in India. 

SEBI Regulation for CRAs 

SEBI Code of Conduct for CRAs 

IOSCO Code of Conduct fundamentals for CRA 

47 

49 

75 

77 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 8 

 

 

Chapter 1  

Terms of Reference 

1.  Examining scope of activities of Credit Rating Agencies and their systemic importance. Is Credit 

rating just an opinion or the opinion ? 

2.  Addressing ‗conflict of interest‘ inherent in Credit Rating Agencies‘ business model. 

3.  A lead regulator model for Credit Rating Agencies. 

4.  How greater transparency can address some of the concerns of CRAs? 

 

5.  A voluntary norm of good governance of Credit Rating Agencies. 

6.  Pros and cons of ‗Issuer pays model‘ with analysis of alternative models.  

7.  Ways and means to avoid regulatory overlaps. 

8. 

 Self Regulatory Organisation (SRO) for CRAs. 

9.  The Committee has entrusted National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM)  to do a long term 

study on the soundness and robustness of CRA predictions since they started operations in India.  The 

terms of reference of the NISM study are as follows: 

I.  Assessment  of  the  performance  of  CRAs    in  India  in  terms  of  parameters  like    default  and 

transition data 

II.  How much information asymmetry is bridged by CRAs  

III.  How far CRAs assessment helps financial regulation 

IV.  Accountability , corporate governance issues of CRAs  

V.  Disclosures of methodologies of rating 

VI. 

Rating of complex products like structured obligation 

VII.  Uniformity or otherwise in definition and rating nomenclature of CRAs in India 

******** 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 9 

 

 

Chapter 2 

Executive Summary    

The High level Coordination Committee on Financial Matters (HLCCFM)  in its meeting held on 

11th January 2008,  inter alia, decided that ―the legal and policy framework for regulating the activities  of 

CRAs   should be revisited  in order to take a larger view  of the  entire policy with  respect to banking , 

insurance and securities market.‖  

Credit rating agencies play an important role in assessing risk and its location and distribution in 

the financial system. By facilitating investment decisions  they can help investors in achieving a balance in 

the risk return profile and at the same time assist firms in accessing capital at low cost. CRAs  can thus 

potentially  help  to  allocate  capital  efficiently  across  all  sectors  of  the  economy  by  pricing  risk 

appropriately. However, in view of the fact that CRAs  that rate capital market instruments are regulated 

by SEBI4 and that entities regulated by other regulators (IRDA, PFRDA and RBI) predominantly use the 

ratings,  it  was  felt  necessary  to  institute  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  registration,  regulatory  and 

supervisory  regime  for  CRAs.    The  major  motivation  for  the  exercise  was  to  look  at  inter  regulatory 

coordination  so  that  all  interested  stake  holders    have  an  institutional  mechanism  for  providing  inputs-

feed  back  to  ensure  realisation  of  the  objective  behind  the  regulation  of  CRAs.  Adding  a  further 

dimension to this enquiry, the sub prime crisis has attracted considerable adverse attention worldwide on 

the role of CRAs enhancing the need for this review.  

Given  that  rating  is  only  an  opinion,  albeit  a  very  influential  one,  and  regulation  of  gatekeeper 

business models is a border line ethical – regulatory issue, the committee has examined wide ranging steps 

to improve the functioning and accountability of CRAs including the suggestion that in the medium run 

regulators may move away from the mandatory rating practice at least in the capital market5. Based on the 

examination of the CRA business models, current regulatory activities, global experiments and the Indian 

context,  this  report  aims  to  lay  out  a  broad  framework  for  strengthening  the  existing  regulatory 

                                                      
4  Some  other  rating  agencies  that  do  not  operate  in  the  capital  market  (example  Infomerics,  MCRIL,  ONICRA, 
SMERA) are simply registered companies under the Companies Act.  There is a need for some registration and over 
sight mechanism for them as well. 

5  As  recommended  by  Basel  II  external  ratings  are  required  for    calibrating  regulatory  capital  requirement.  In  the 
standardised approach for credit risk and market risk, the risk weight   of bank exposures are aligned to   the external  
ratings  of  the  exposures.  Even  in  the  advanced  approach  external  ratings  will  be  used  by  banks  for  comparing  their  
own internal assessments with those of external CRAs. 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 10 

 

architecture  for  CRAs  in  India  and  incorporates  the  Committees‘  vision  for  new  arrangements  and 

practical steps required in this direction. 

The  Committee  have  examined  the  issues  desired  by  HLCCFM    in  detail.    The  report  is 

structured as follows:  

Chapter one lists out the broad Terms of Reference of this report.   

Chapter two provides a brief summary of the report. 

Chapter three looks at the evolution of credit rating agencies as well as the conceptual  role and 

rationale of rating and rating agencies.  

 

Chapter  four  discusses  the  activities  performed  by  credit  rating  agencies  including  non  rating 

related activities. This chapter also examines the analytical framework used by CRAs and the limitations 

of credit ratings.  

 

The current regulatory framework of CRAs in India is outlined in chapter five. In particular, this 

chapter discusses the extant SEBI regulations and Code of Conduct for CRAs. This chapter also brings 

out the inter regulatory (rating related) issues. 

In the wake of the recent financial crisis the business models of CRAs have come under scanner. 

Chapter six deals with these and the regulatory concerns arising from the ‗issuer pays‘ business model. It 

also explores the pros and cons of alternative models.  

 

The  recommendations  of  the  Committee  are  contained  in  Chapter  seven.  The  committee  feels 

that prima facie there is no immediate concern about the operations and activities of CRAs in India even 

in the context of the recent financial crisis. However there is a need to strengthen the existing regulations 

by learning the appropriate lessons from the current crisis.  The committee has taken note of international 

action in this regard and inter alia recommend that there may be greater disclosures regarding materially 

significant revenues received from a particular issuer/ non rating business like advisory services. A lead 

regulator  model  for  CRAs  may  also  be  explored.    The  committee  has  also  strongly  recommended 

voluntary compliance with existing and emerging regulations like IOSCO Code.  

The committee had commissioned a study on historical analysis of soundness and robustness of 

CRA  predictions  in  India.  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  rated  universe  is  small  in  India    the  study 

brings out the relative fragility of the rating methodology as reflected in the transition data which shows 

high degree of ratings migration. 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 11 

 

 

Chapter 3 

Systemic Importance of Rating and Rating Agencies 

3.1  

Introduction  

The  institution  of  credit  rating  as  a  mechanism  for  addressing  the  considerable  degree  of  

information  asymmetry  in  the  financial  markets  has  travelled  a  long  way  from  the  times  of  the  US  rail 

road companies in the mid-19th century.  The need for an independent rating agency capable of assessing 

creditworthiness of borrowers was felt when corporates started mobilizing resources directly from savers 

instead of accessing it through banks which hitherto assumed the credit risk in such cases.  The history of 

systematic  credit  rating,  however,  is  a  century  old  beginning  with  rating  of  US  railroad  bonds  by  John 

Moody in 1909.  During this one century of growth and adaptation, CRAs progressed from rating simple 

debt products to rating complex derivatives to national economies and  altered their business models to 

cover a range of activities/products. There are three major credit rating agencies operating internationally- 

Fitch,  Standard  and  Poor‘s,  Moody‘s  Investor  Services:  between  them  they  share  the    bulk  of  the  $5 

billion rating business globally relegating other 60 plus local/regional players into just competitive fringes.

 

 

In India, credit ratings started with the setting up of The Credit Rating Information Services of 

India (now CRISIL Limited) in 1987. CRISIL was promoted by premier financial institutions like ICICI, 

HDFC, UTI, SBI, LIC and Asian Development Bank.  Now CRISIL is an S&P company with a majority 

shareholding.    Apart  from  CRISIL  four  more  rating  agencies  have  been  registered  by  SEBI  in  India. 

These are ICRA, promoted by IFCI and now controlled by Moody‘s, CARE promoted by IDBI, Fitch 

India  a 100% subsidiary of Fitch, and a new born Brickworks. In India, CRAs that rate capital market 

instruments    are  governed  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Credit  Rating  Agencies) 

Regulations, 1999. The regulation provides detailed requirements that a rating agency needs to fulfil to be 

registered with SEBI.  

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 12 

 

 

 

Table  3.1 : CRAs registered with SEBI. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name  of  the 
CRA 

Year 
commencement 
Operations 

of 
of 

CRISIL 

ICRA  

CARE 

1988 

1991 

1993 

Fitch India 

1996 

Brickworks 

2008 

In  India,  revenues  of  the  three  big  rating  agencies,  CRISIL,  ICRA  and  CARE  have  shown  an 

upward trend given the increase in the usage of ratings over time.  

 

3.2  

Role and Rationale  

A  credit  rating  is  technically  an  ‗opinion‘  on  the  relative  degree  of  risk  associated  with  timely 

payment of interest and principal on a debt instrument.  It is an ‗informed‘ indication of the likelihood of 

default of an issuer on a debt instrument, relative to the respective likelihoods of default of other issuers 

in  the  market.  It  is  therefore  an  independent,  easy-to-use  measure  of  relative  credit  risk.    Given  the 

universal  reliance  on  rating,  and  hence  the  power  of  the  opinion,  credit  rating  is  expected  to  increase  the 

efficiency of the market by reducing information asymmetry and lowering costs for both borrowers and 

lenders.  

A  simple  alphanumeric  symbol  is  normally  used  to  convey  a  credit  rating.  Ordinarily  the 

company which issues the debt instrument is not rated. It is the instrument which is rated by the  rating 

agency. But the issuer company which has issued the debt instrument gets strength and credibility with 

the  grade  of  rating  awarded  to  the  credit  instrument  it  intends  to  issue  to  the  public  for  raising  funds. 

Though  the  purpose  of  rating  is  to  rate  instruments,  a  general  perception  may  be  gathered  that  the 

organisation issue a highly rated instrument is also sound and a highly rated entity. Thus, credit rating is a 

mechanism  whereby  an  independent  third  party  makes  an  assessment,  based  on  different  sources  of 

information on the credit quality of the assessed.  

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 13 

 

Given  the systemic  superstructure  position  that  the  CRAs  have  come  to occupy  as  information  and 

insight  gate  keepers,  they  play  an  important  role  in  the  of  modern  capital  markets.  Their  importance  to 

various stakeholders is as follows. 

Investors  

  

CRAs  typically  opine  on  the  credit  risk  of  issuers  of  securities  and  their  financial  obligations. 

Given the vast amount of information available to investors today- some of it valuable, some of it not – 

CRAs can play a useful role in helping investors and others sift through this information, and analyze the 

credit risks they face when lending to a particular borrower or when purchasing an issuer‘s debt and debt 

like securities. CRAs also provide investors with rating reports, giving detailed information and analytical 

judgements  on  the  issuer‘s  business  and  financial  risk  profile.  This  assists  investors  in  taking  more 

informed investment decisions, calibrated to their own risk-return preferences.  

Securitised instruments are among the most complex instruments in the debt market. Securitised 

instruments  backed  by  retail  assets  are  classified  as  ‗Highly  Complex‘  by  some  Indian  rating  agencies. 

Given the inherent complexity in these instruments, an independent assessment of the risks involved in 

the  instruments  by  a  credit  rating  agency  acts  as  an  important  input  to  an  investor‘s  decision-making. 

Unlike most corporate bonds, where an investor can independently assess a borrower‘s creditworthiness, 

in a securitisation transaction there will normally be little or no information in the public domain for an 

investor  to  carry out such  an  assessment.  Understanding  the  nuances  of  different pools  and  analysis  of 

the  past  behaviour  of  asset  classes  are  areas  where  CRAs  can  play  an  important  role.  Tracking    the 

performance  of  the  transaction  and  the  corresponding  impact  on  the  riskiness  of  the  instruments  is  a 

feature where CRAs play an important monitoring role.  These aspects have also been recognised by Indian 

regulators.  As  required  by  Basel  capital  accord  risk  weights  are  assigned  to  all  rated  rated  and  unrated  

bank exposures. 

Issuers  

Issuers rely on credit ratings as an important tool to access investors and also to reach a wider 

investor  base  than  they  otherwise  could.    In  most  cases,  successful  placement  of  a  significant  bond 

issuance  needs  at  least  one  rating  from  a  recognised  CRA;  without  a  rating,  the  issue  may  be 

undersubscribed or the price offered by investors may not be appropriate. Further, they enable issuers to 

price  their  issues  competitively.  In  financial  markets,  the  price  of  debt  is  determined  primarily  by  the 

rating of the debt issue. 

Banks/ Bank loan rating 

Although credit rating is not mandatory under Basel II, banks are likely to save capital if they get 

their loan rated. If a bank chooses to keep some of its loans unrated, it may have to provide, as per extant 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 14 

 

RBI instructions, a risk weight of 100 per cent for credit risk on such loans. As provided under Basel II, 

supervisors  may  increase  the  standard  risk  weight  for  unrated  claims  where  a  higher  risk  weight  is 

warranted by the overall default experience in their jurisdiction. Further, as part of the supervisory review 

process, the supervisor may also consider whether the credit quality of corporate claims held by individual 

banks should warrant a standard risk weight higher than 100%. 

In terms of RBI instructions on the 'New Capital Adequacy Framework (Basel II)' issued in April 

2007, banks were required to initially assign a risk weight of 100 per cent in respect of unrated claims on 

corporates with the caveat that such claims would be assigned higher risk weights over time.  

To begin with, for the financial year 2008-09, all fresh sanctions or renewals in respect of unrated 

claims on corporates in excess of Rs.50 crore were to attract a risk weight of 150 per cent, and with effect 

from April 1, 2009, all fresh sanctions or renewals in respect of unrated claims on corporates in excess of 

Rs.  10  crore  were  to  attract  a  risk  weight  of  150  per  cent.  This  higher  risk  weight  of  150  per  cent  for 

unrated  corporate  claims  was  equivalent  to  the  risk  weight  to  be  assigned  to  exposures  rated  ‗BB  and 

below‘.   

However,  in  November  2008,  as  a  counter  cyclical  measure,  RBI  relaxed  the  regulatory 

prescription of 150 percent risk weight for unrated claims. Accordingly, all unrated claims on corporates, 

irrespective  of  the  amount  currently  attract  a  uniform  risk  weight  of  100  percent.  This  relaxation  is 

temporary and will be reviewed at an appropriate time. 

On  the  other  hand,  by  getting  loans  rated,  a  bank  can save  capital  on  loans  in  the  better  rated 

categories, as shown in the illustration below.  

Table  3.2: Illustration of capital-saving potential by banks on a loan of Rs.1000 Million 

Rating 

Basel I 

Basel II (Standardised Approach for credit risk) 

Risk 
weight 

100% 

100% 

100% 

100% 

and 

100% 

  

AAA 

AA 

A 

BBB 

BB 
below 

Capital 
required1 
(Rs. mn) 

90 

90 

90 

90 

90 

Risk 
weight 

20% 

30% 

50% 

100% 

Capital 
required  
(Rs. mn) 

Capital 
saved 
(Rs. mn) 

18 

27 

45 

90 

72 

63 

45 

0 

150% 

135 

(45) 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 15 

 

Unrated 

100% 

90 

100% 

90 

0 

1 Capital required is computed as Loan Amount x Risk Weight x 9% 

A  large  number  of  Indian  companies,  hitherto  unrated  by  rating  agencies,  have  now  come 

forward  to  get  their  bank  facilities  rated.  Basel-II  norms  hold  significant  potential  for  further 

development of the domestic debt markets, by introducing into the public domain easily accessible credit 

information  about  a  large  pool  of  mid-sized  companies.  This  will  not  only  allow  these  companies  to 

explore  alternative  sources  of  funds,  but,  through  greater  visibility,  also  facilitate  healthy  competition 

among fund providers. For banks and other investors, it creates an information base that can be used for 

efficient  portfolio  selection.  The  acceptance  of  credit  ratings  by  the  investor  community  has  led  to 

investors  showing  increasing  interest  in  the  bank  loan  rating  portfolio.  Investors  have  also  begun  to 

consider  offering  a  suite  of  market-linked  borrowing  products  (including  non-convertible  debentures, 

commercial paper, and MIBOR-linked short-term debt instruments) to rated mid-sized companies.  

 

Regulators  

Regulators—typically  banking  regulators  and  capital  market  regulators—use  credit  ratings,  or 

permit ratings to be used, for regulatory purposes. For example, under the Basel II capital framework of 

the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, banking regulators can accredit credit rating agencies based 

on specified criteria. The ratings assigned by these accredited External Credit Assessment Institutions or 

ECAIs are used to  assign risk  weights  to various bank exposures in calculating capital charge for credit 

risk.  Further, some regulators (such as IRDA and PFRDA) have incorporated ratings into the investment 

guidelines  for  the  entities  they  regulate.    Rating  thus  provides  an  additional  layer  of  comfort  to  the 

regulators in their assessment of product risks and overall systemic risks. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 16 

 

 

Chapter 4 

Functions and Approaches of Credit Rating Agencies 

4.1 

What does credit rating convey? 

A  credit  rating  is  an  ‗opinion‘  on  the    creditworthiness  or  the  relative  degree  of  risk  of  timely 

payment of interest and principal on a debt instrument. Most rating agencies adopt some variation of this 

definition  for  their  credit  ratings.  The  ratings  are  a  comment  on  the  relative  likelihood  of  default  in 

comparison to other rated instruments. In other words, a rating indicates the probability of default of the 

rated  instrument  and    therefore  provides  a  benchmark  for  measuring  and  pricing  credit  risk.  .A  credit 

rating  compresses  an  enormous  amount  of  diverse  information  into  a  single  rating  symbol.  A  simple 

alphanumeric symbol, such as ‗AAA‘ or ‗P2+‘, is normally used to convey a credit rating.  Currently rating 

agencies have standardised rating nomenclatures for long term ratings, short term instruments, medium 

term ratings, fixed deposits, corporate/issuer credit rating, long and short term debt fund portfolios, IPO 

grading etc.  The rating symbols for the various instruments used by the five rating agencies in India are 

given at Annexure 1. 

4.2 

Rating related products and activities 

 CRAs in India rate a large number of financial products:  

1.  Bonds/ debentures- [the main product]  

2.  Commercial paper  

3.  Structured finance products 

4.  Bank loans 

5.  Fixed deposits and bank certificate of deposits 

6.  Mutual fund debt schemes 

7.  Initial Public Offers (IPOs) 

CRAs also undertake customised credit research of a number of borrowers in a credit portfolio, for 

the  use  of  the  lender.  CRAs  use  their  understanding  of  companies‘  business  and  operations  and  their 

expertise in building frameworks for relative evaluation, which are then applied to arrive at performance 

grading. For example developer gradings are carried out to assess the ability of the developers to execute 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 17 

 

projects on a timely basis and promised quality while maritime institute gradings are carried out to assess 

quality of education imparted to the students vis a vis DGS (Directorate General of Shipping) objectives. 

4.3   Non-rating related activities 

CRAs often undertake a variety of non rating related activities. These include the following: 

1.  Economy and Company Research:  Some  Indian  CRAs  have  set  up  research  arms  to 

complement their rating activities. These arms carry out research on the economy, industries and 

specific  companies,  and  make  the  same  available  to  external  subscribers  for  a  fee.  In  addition, 

they  disseminate  opinions  on  the  performance  of  the  economy  or  specific  industries,  available 

through releases to the media. The research would also be used internally by the rating agencies 

for  arriving  at  their  rating  opinions.  SEBI  permits  CRAs  to  carry  out  this  activity  subject  to 

relevant firewalls. 

2.  Risk consulting:  With  the  application  of  Basel  II  regulations  for  banks,  there  is  considerable 

demand  for  tools  and  products  that  will  allow  banks  to  compute  their  capital  adequacy  ratios 

under the revised guidelines. The risk consulting groups of credit rating agencies would leverage 

the agencies‘ understanding of credit risk to develop and provide the tools and data that banks 

would  require.  The  products  in  this  area  include  tools  for  internal  ratings,  operational  risk 

evaluation, and overall capital calculation.  

3.  Funds research:  Some  CRAs  have  diversified  from  mutual  fund  ratings  into  mutual  fund 

research.  The  services  that  are  available  under  this  head  include  fund  rankings,  performance 

attribution  tools  (to  help  users  understand  the  reasons  for  funds‘  performance),  desktop  tools, 

and fixed income research. 

4.  Advisory services:  CRAs  offer  various  kinds  of  advisory  services,  usually  through  dedicated 

advisory  arms.  Most  of  this  is  in  the  nature  of  developing  policy  frameworks,  bid  process 

management,  public  private  partnership  consulting,  and  creating  an  enabling  environment  for 

business in India and globally. 

5.  Knowledge Process Outsourcing:  Some  Indian  CRAs  (CRISIL  and  ICRA)  have  KPO  arms 

that  leverage  their  analytical  skills  and  other  process  and  manpower  capabilities.  These  arms 

provide  services  to  the  CRAs‘  affiliates  in  developed  markets,  and  also  to  other  clients  outside 

India. 

4.4 

The rating process  

Rating  is  a  multilayered  decision  making  process.  The  process  of  rating  starts  with  a  rating 

request from the issuer, and the signing of a rating agreement. The rating agreement has important clauses 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 18 

 

like  confidentiality,  agreement  by  the  issuer  to  share  information  with  the  CRA  for  the  purpose  of 

assigning the rating and thereafter on an ongoing basis when the rating is under surveillance. The rating 

agency  undertakes  discussion  with  the  management  of  the  issuing  entity.  Discussions  during  a 

management meeting are wide-ranging, covering competitive position, strategy, financial policy, historical 

performance,  and  near-  and  long-term  financial  and  business  outlook.  Discussions  with  company 

managements help rating analysts evaluate management capability and risk appetite, which is an important 

aspect of the evaluation. After discussion with the issuer's management, a report is prepared detailing the 

analyst  team‘s  assessment  of  the  business  risk,  financial  risk,  and  management  risk  associated  with  the 

issuer.  The  report  is  then  presented  to  the  rating  committee.  This  is  the  only  aspect  of  the  process  in 

which  the  issuer  does  not  directly  participate.  Drawing  on  the  knowledge  and  expertise  of  the 

participants, the rating committee determines the rating. The process is an attempt to ensure objectivity 

of the rating,  since  the  decision  results  from  the collective thinking of a group of experts analysing the  

risks    pertaining    to    the    issuer    vis-a-vis  its  competitors  in  the  industry  and  markets  in  which  they  

operate. On finalisation of a rating at the rating committee meeting, the rating decision is communicated 

to the issuer. As the decision to get an initial rating is at the issuer's discretion (except, in India, for public 

issues of debt), the global best practice is to allow the issuer to decide whether to accept the rating. If the 

issuer  disagrees  with  the  rating,  it  can  also  appeal  for  a  fresh  look  at  the  rating  assigned.  The  rating 

committee  then  discusses  the  information  submitted;  it  may  or  may  not  decide  to  modify  the  rating, 

depending on the facts of the case. If the rating is not changed and the issuer continues to disagree with 

the rating, it can choose not to accept the rating, which then does not get published. 

4.5 

Analytical framework used by CRAs  

A  credit  rating  is  an  opinion  on  the  relative  credit  risk  (or  default  risk)  associated  with  the 

instrument being rated, where a failure to pay even one rupee of the committed debt service payments on 

the due dates would constitute a default. For most instruments, the process involves estimating the cash 

generation capacity of the issuer through operations (primary cash flows) in relation to its requirements 

for  servicing  debt  obligations  over  the  tenure  of  the  instrument.  The  analysis  is  based  on  information 

obtained  from  the  issuer,  and  on  an  understanding  of  the  business  environment  in  which  the  issuer 

operates; it is carried out within the framework of the rating agency‘s criteria. 

The analytical framework involves the analysis of business risk, technology risk, operational risk, 

industry  risk,  market  risk,  financial  risk  and  management  risk.  Business  risk  analysis  covers  industry 

analysis,  operating  efficiency,  market  position  of  the  company  whereas  financial  risk  covers  accounting 

quality, existing financial position, cash flows and financial flexibility. Under management risk analysis an 

assessment is made of the competence and risk appetite of the management. 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 19 

 

 

A sample ratings analytical framework is shown in the chart below: 

 

Chart 4.1: Analytics behind credit rating  

 

Source: CRISIL Ratings  

In addition to the basic framework, rating agencies also have detailed criteria/methodologies for 

various industries which take into account the specific features of that industry.  

The CRA might also look at the sufficiency of other means of servicing debt in case the primary  

cash flows are insufficient: for instance, in a securitised instrument, the credit enhancement and structure 

will be examined, while in case of a guaranteed bond the credit strength of the guarantor could drive the 

rating. 

The quality of ratings is also affected by the timeliness of adjustment of the ratings.  The issue is 

whether  there  should  be  aggressive  rating  changes  –  such  as  downgrading  a  rating  by  several  notches 

immediately  in  reaction  to  adverse  news  rather  than  responding  to  a  fundamental    change  in 

creditworthiness.    CRAs  need  to  balance  between  the  dual  objectives  of  accuracy  of  ratings  and  their 

stability.  In other words, the point is whether ratings should reflect changes in default risk even if they 

are likely to be reversed within  a very short period of time – whether ratings should focus on the long 

term or should they fluctuate with near term performance?   

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 20 

 

Financial RiskStand-alone creditriskManagementRiskBusiness RiskIndustry RiskMarket PositionOperatingEfficiencyProject RiskParent supportFinal credit qualityCRAs are known to be using Through The Cycle (TTC) methodology and Point In Time (PIT) 

approach  for  assigning  credit  ratings.    TTC  methodology  has  two  aspects:  a  focus  on  the  permanent 

component of default risk and rating change policy.  This methodology disregards short term fluctuations 

in  default  risk.    It  filters  out  the  temporary  component  of  default  risk  and  retains  only  the  permanent, 

long term and structural component.  Only substantial changes in the permanent component of default 

risk lead to rating migrations.  In contrast, PIT approach ensures change in credit rating immediately as 

the  fortunes  change  irrespective  of  the  cause.    The  basic  difference  between  these  two  approaches 

perhaps lies on the relative weight that is assigned to the temporary and permanent components of credit 

quality. The relative weights are influenced by the time horizons for which the rating is valid.  For a one 

year horizon, the temporary component may get more weightage  than for longer time horizon.   

4.6 

Limitations of credit ratings  

Specifically, a credit rating, in the words of the CRAs, is: 

  Not a recommendation to buy, hold or sell any shares, bonds, debentures or other instruments 

issued by the rated entity, or derivatives thereof. A rating is one of the many inputs that is used 

by investors to make an investment decision.  

  Not Intended to measure many other factors that debt investors must consider in relation to risk 

- such as yield offered, liquidity risk, pre-payment risk, interest rate risk, taxation aspects, risk of 

secondary market loss, exchange loss risk, etc.   

  Not  a  general-purpose  credit  or  performance  evaluation  of  the  rated  entity,  unless  otherwise 

specified. The rating is usually specific to the instrument and is not the rating of the issuer.  

  Not an opinion on associate, affiliate or group companies of the rated entity, or on promoters, 

directors or officers of the rated entity. 

  Not a statutory or non-statutory audit of the rated entity 

  Not an indication of compliance or otherwise with legal or statutory requirements 

  Not a guarantee against default of the rated instrument. Even the highest-rated instrument faces 

some  risk  of  default,  although  the  risks  associated  with  this  are  lower  than  lower-rated 

instruments. 

Credit Ratings are typically ordinal in nature – for example we know that a rating of BB has a higher 

likelihood  of  default  than  BBB,  but  we  do  not  know  how  much  higher.    It  is  not  until  each  rating  is 

assigned  a  probability  of  default  that  we  can  say  how  much  more  risky  a  BB  rated  instrument  is  thus 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 21 

 

making  the  system  cardinal.    Cardinality  is  more  useful  for  pricing  an  instrument.  Translation  of  credit 

ratings to default probabilities is, however, not a straight forward task.   

Some of the serious limitations of credit rating are its backward looking nature (depends on past data) 

which in a dynamic market framework can have serious consequences including accentuating a systemic 

crisis  like  the  current  global  crisis,  and  its  failure  and  unwillingness  to  capture/cover  market  risks. 

Estimating  market  risk  can  potentially  make  the  rating  exercise  forward  looking,  could  avoid  sudden, 

multiple  downgrades  and reduce  the  pro-cyclicality  of  rating.    A  really  informed forward  looking  rating 

could  potentially  also  capture  tail  risks  and  forewarn  the  system  to  help  take  systemic  steps  well  in 

advance to avoid panic and knee-jerk reactions. If rating is to straddle the high ground it aspires to hold 

rating exercise has to achieve this dynamism to really help measure all the risks of the market, rather than 

sticking to a partial methodology of expressing an opinion on a few aspects of the product they rate.  No 

product can be usefully rated in a vacuum, isolated from the caprices of the market as a whole. 

4.7 

Whither Credit Rating Agencies ? 

The informational value of credit rating and informational effect of credit ratings are matters of 

continuing  debate.  The  central  issue  is  whether  institutions  of  credit  rating  are  in  a  better  position  to 

decipher the default risk present in  financial instruments than the financial markets. Empirical evidence 

from some countries have suggested that  markets do this information processing better than credit rating 

institutions.  Academic  studies  argue  that    by  looking  at  the  market  price  it  would  be  easy  to  infer  an 

effective    credit  rating  of  each  instrument.    Since  market  prices  are  available  at    near  zero  cost  ,  there 

would appear to be no role for credit rating. 

The rationale for credit rating  may be expressed on the following counts: 

1. 

If markets do not trade a particular instrument actively , then there is an informational challenge. 

In general impact cost  on the market is lowered when more is publicly known about the securities being 

traded. In such cases a ―good‖ credit rating (for eg.  one which forecasts the interest rate at which bonds 

are traded  on the secondary market. If issue A   is rated above B then markets should demand a lower 

interest from A than B) helps reduce informational asymmetry and enhance liquidity in the market. 

2. 

Suppose a company wants to do a primary market issue of bonds/ equity.  At the time of issue, 

in the absence of trading , the default risk may not be clearly known to the market. This could generate  a 

phenomenon like IPO underpricing. Hence it is optimal  for the issuer to obtain  a credit rating so as to  

place the bonds / equity at a superior price. 

3. 

International obligations like Basel 2 require prudential provisioning of capital on the basis of risk 

weights  attached  to  assets.  Computation  of  capital  required  to  be  maintained  by  banks  then  requires 

rating of its assets. 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 22 

 

In  practice,  by  nudging  more  trades  to  the  exchange  platform  the  problem  of  informational 

challenge can be addressed. Till such time greater disclosure of reliable information can help the market in 

pricing the issue. Recent financial crisis has shown that ratings provided by credit rating agencies despite 

access to non public information have been faulty.  

 However where market asymmetries are strong and financial literacy low, sound credit rating can 

continue to bridge the information gap considerably.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 23 

 

Chapter 5 

The regulatory framework for CRAs  

5.1 

SEBI Regulations  

The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  Regulations,  1999 

empower  SEBI  to  regulate CRAs  operating  in  India.  In  fact,  SEBI  was  one  of  the  first  few  regulators, 

globally, to put in place an effective and comprehensive regulation for CRAs. In contrast, the US market 

saw CRA regulations only recently (in 2007), and the European Union is still in the process of framing its 

regulations.  SEBI‘s  CRA  regulations  have  been  used  as  model  by  other  regulators  in  the  emerging 

economies.  In  terms  of  the  SEBI  Regulations,  a  CRA  has  been  defined  as  a  body  corporate  which  is 

engaged in or proposes to be engaged in, the business of rating of securities offered by way of public or 

rights issue. The term ―securities‖ has been defined under the Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956. 

SEBI  has  also  prescribed  a  Code  of  Conduct  to  be  followed  by  the  rating  agencies  in  the  CRA 

Regulations.    However,  SEBI  administers  the  activities  of  CRAs  with  respect  to  their  role  in  securities 

market only. 

SEBI regulation for CRAs has been designed to ensure the following: 

-  Credible players enter this business (through stringent entry norms and eligibility criteria ) 

-  CRAs operate in a manner that enables them to issue objective and fair opinions (through well-

defined general obligations for CRAs) 

-  There is widespread investor access to ratings (through a clearly articulated rating dissemination 

process). 

-  The applicant should be registered as a company under the Companies Act, 1956 and possess a 

minimum network of Rs.5 crore.   

The  following  are  some  of  the  General  Obligations  specified  in  the  CRA  regulations.  CRAs  are 

amongst  the  very  few  market  intermediaries  for  which  such  detailed  operating  guidelines  have  been 

prescribed under the regulations. The detailed SEBI regulations for CRAs are given in Annexure 2. 

  Code of Conduct stipulated by SEBI 

  Agreement with the client  

  Monitoring of ratings  

  Procedure for review of rating  

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 24 

 

 

Internal procedures to be framed by the CRA 

  Disclosure of Rating Definitions and Rationale by the CRA 

  Submission of information to the Board  

  Compliance with circulars etc., issued by the Board 

  Appointment of Compliance Officer  

  Maintenance of Books of Accounts records, etc.  

  Confidentiality  

  Rating process  

These regulations cover issues with respect to confidentiality of information and disclosure with 

respect  to  the  rationale  of  the  rating  being  assigned.  Several  other  provisions  exist,  like  the  regulator‘s 

right to inspect a CRA. An important feature of the regulation is that CRAs are prohibited from rating 

their promoters and associates.  

5.2 

SEBI Code of conduct  

SEBI‘s  code  of  conduct  for  CRAs  addresses  some  of  the  basic  issues  relating  to  conflicts  of 

interest. The Code of Conduct is designed to ensure transparent and independent functioning of CRAs.  

Some of the salient provisions of the Code of Conduct are: 

 

 

A CRA shall make all efforts to protect the interests of investors. 

A  CRA  shall  at  all  times  exercise  due  diligence,  ensure  proper  care  and  exercise 

independent professional judgment in order to achieve and maintain objectivity and independence in the 

rating process. 

 

A  CRA  shall  have  in  place  a  rating  process  that  reflects  consistent  and  international 

rating standards. 

 

A  CRA  shall  keep  track  of  all  important  changes  relating  to  the  client  companies  and 

shall  develop  efficient  and  responsive  systems  to  yield  timely  and  accurate  ratings. Further  a  CRA  shall 

also monitor closely all relevant factors that might affect the creditworthiness of the issuers. 

 

 

A CRA shall disclose its rating methodology to clients, users and the public. 

A CRA shall not make any exaggerated statement, whether oral or written, to the client 

either about its qualification or its capability to render certain services or its achievements with regard to 

the services rendered to other clients. 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 25 

 

The complete SEBI Code of Conduct may be seen at Annexure 3. 

5.3 

Provisions relating to conflict of interest 

Credibility is the cornerstone of acceptability of credit rating services in the market. SEBI has 

prescribed certain provisions in the Code of Conduct  to ensure credible rating  devoid of conflict of 

interest. The important ones are as follows.  

  A CRA shall, wherever necessary, disclose to the clients, possible sources of conflict of 

duties  and  interests,  which could  impair  its  ability  to  make  fair,  objective  and  unbiased 

ratings. Further it shall ensure that no conflict of interest exists among any member of its 

rating committee participating in the rating analysis, and that of its client. 

  A  CRA  or  any  of  its  employees  shall  not  render,  directly  or  indirectly,  any  investment 

advice about any security in the publicly accessible media. 

  A CRA shall not offer fee-based services to the rated entities, beyond credit ratings and 

research. 

  A CRA shall maintain an arm‘s length relationship between its credit rating activity and 

any other activity. 

  A  CRA  shall  develop  its  own  internal  code  of  conduct  for  governing  its  internal 

operations and laying down its standards of appropriate conduct for its employees and 

officers in the carrying out of their duties within the CRA and as a part of the industry. 

Such  a  code  may  extend  to  the  maintenance  of  professional  excellence  and  standards, 

integrity,  confidentiality,  objectivity,  avoidance  of  conflict  of  interests,  disclosure  of 

shareholdings  and  interests,  etc.  Such  a  code  shall  also  provide  for  procedures  and 

guidelines in relation to the establishment and conduct of rating committees and duties 

of the officers and employees serving on such committees. 

Despite  maintaining  a  Chinese  Wall  between  advisory  services  and  rating  services  criticism 

persists as rating and non-rating entities have common ownership and top management. Recognising the 

merit  in  such  criticism,  CARE‘s  Board  decided  to  discontinue  its  advisory  service  business  and  their 

activities are confined to only credit rating and research activities. 

CRAs in general maintain that while non rating services do pose conflict of interest challenges on 

one hand, revenues from other services reduce dependence on rating service revenues  thereby enabling 

them to maintain objectivity and independence.  

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 26 

 

5.4   Multiplicity of regulators 

A  significant  portion  of  CRAs‘  revenues  are  from  products  that  come  under  the  purview  of 

SEBI.  However,  there  are  rating  agency  products  that  are  regulated  by  RBI  (such  as  bank  loans,  fixed 

deposits,  and  commercial  paper).  RBI  carried  out  a  detailed  and  rigorous  evaluation  of  Indian  CRAs 

before granting them External Credit Assessment Institution status for rating of bank loans under Basel 

II.  Further, some regulators (such as IRDA and PFRDA) have incorporated ratings into the investment 

guidelines  for  the  entities they  regulate.  The  list  of  various  products,  and  the relevant  regulators,  are  as 

noted below:     

Table  5.1 Products / Instruments requiring mandatory rating before issuance 

Instrument 

Sl. 
No 

Public / Rights/ Listed issue of bonds  

IPO Grading 

Capital protection oriented funds 

Collective Investment Schemes of plantation 
companies 

Commercial Paper 

Bank loans 

Security Receipts 

Regulator 

SEBI 

SEBI 

SEBI 

SEBI 

RBI 

RBI (Basel II capital computation for banks) 

RBI (For NAV declaration) 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

Securitised instruments (Pass Through Certificates) 

RBI ((Basel II capital computation for banks) 

Fixed Deposits by NBFCs & HFCs 

RBI 

10 

LPG/SKO Rating 

Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas 

12  Maritime Grading 

Directorate General of Shipping (for some 
courses) 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 27 

 

Table  5.2 Regulatory prescription of use of ratings for investment purposes  

S. No 

Product 

Regulator 

Banks‘ investments in unrated non-SLR portfolio  RBI 

Investments by Insurance companies 

IRDA 

Provident Fund investments  

Government of India   

1 

2 

3 

 

Table 5.3  Products that are not mandated or covered  

Performance gradings (non financial instruments 

Ratings (Financial instruments) 

Real Estate Developer/Project rating 

Privately-placed bonds and debentures 

Broker grading 

Governance and Value Creation ratings 

MFI Grading (encouraged by SIDBI, Nabard) 

Short term debt/Fixed deposits invested by 
non-banks and bank CD‘s 

Bond Fund ratings (except Capital protection-
oriented funds) 

Financial strength ratings for insurance 
companies 

NSIC rating for SSI/SME ratings (encouraged by NSIC) 

Contractor gradings 

 

5.5 

International Regulations  

 

 

IOSCO  has  formulated  a  Code  of  Conduct  Fundamentals  for  the  working  of  CRAs.  The  revised 

IOSCO Code of Conduct Fundamentals for CRAs is given at Annexure 4. The Code Fundamentals are 

designed  to  apply  to  any  CRA  and  any  person  employed  by  a  CRA  in  either  in  full  time  or  part  time 

capacity. The Code of Conduct focuses on transparency and disclosure in relation to CRA methodologies, 

conflicts  of  interest,  use  of  information,  performance  and  duties  to  the  issuers  and  public,  the  role  of 

CRA in structured finance transactions etc.  It does not dictate business models or governance but rather 

seeks  to  provide  the  market  with  information  to  judge  and  assess  CRA  activities,  performance  and 

reliability.  The IOSCO Code of Conduct broadly covers the following areas; 

  Quality and integrity of the rating process – This includes the measures to ensure quality of the rating 

process and monitoring and updating by the CRAs. 

  CRA‘s independence and avoidance of conflicts of interest – The procedures and policies to ensure 

the same. 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 28 

 

  CRA‘s responsibilities to the investing public and issuers – These address issues such as  transparency 

and timeliness of ratings disclosure  and  the treatment of confidential information.  

  Disclosure  of  the  code  of  conduct  and  communication  with  market  participants  –  This  requires 

CRAs  to  disclose  to  the  public,  inter  alia,  its  code  of  conduct,  how  the  code  of  conduct  is  in 

accordance  with  the  IOSCO  Principles  regarding  the  activities  of  Credit  Rating  Agencies  and  the 

IOSCO Code of Conduct Fundamentals for Credit Rating Agencies and in case of deviation, reasons 

for the same. 

 

It is observed that all SEBI regulated CRAs in India have framed their internal code of conduct, 

which have provisions, inter alia, of conflict of interest management, avoidance and disclosures of conflict 

of interest situations etc. and such provisions prescribed are by and large in accordance with the IOSCO 

Code of Conduct Fundamentals for CRAs. The internal code of conduct formulated by the CRAs is in 

addition to the Code of Conduct prescribed under the SEBI(CRA) Regulations – 1999.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 29 

 

Chapter 6 

Regulatory concerns about CRA business models 

6.1  

 Regulatory concern 

International 

Internationally in view of the inadequacies observed in the functioning of CRAs, particularly in 

the  wake  of  the  sub-prime  financial  crisis,  there  is  a  growing  concern  among  the  regulators  about  the 

potential gap between expectation and realisation- between reliance on credit ratings and the reliability of 

such ratings. The concern emanates from the fact that inaccurate credit ratings could disturb the market 

allocation incentives, cost structures and competition. In view of the multiple activities performed by the 

rating agencies and the  complexity of certain instruments for which the CRAs render their service, there 

are  apprehensions  about  regulatory  arbitrage,  non-maintenance  of  arm‘s  length  distance,  porosity  of 

Chinese Walls, inappropriate conflict management etc  arising out of the activities of the rating agencies.  

In  short  there  is  real  regulatory  (and  market)  apprehension  that  the  self-regulation  model  of  conflict 

regulation has failed substantively in the CRA realm and that the model of multiple businesses of CRAs is 

riddled  with  inherent  conflict  that  cannot  be  solved  with  internal  Chinese  walls  and  codes  of  conduct 

alone.  The  ‗gate-keepers‘  commercial  aspirations  appear  to  be  too  high  so  that  they  have  become  just 

enterprises driven by the profit / revenue only agenda  like other market intermediaries, rather than the 

ethos of institutions. 

CRAs  have  been  highly  criticized  for  understating  the  risk  involved  with  instruments  like 

Mortgage  Backed  Securities  (MBS).  CRAs  have  given  investment  grade  ratings  to  securitization 

transactions viz. Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDOs) and MBS based on sub prime mortgage loans. 

Higher ratings were justified by the rating agencies by citing various credit enhancements, including over 

collateralization (i.e pledging collateral in excess of the debt issues). In the USA, CRAs had failed to warn 

the public of imminent bankruptcies in case of  Enron and WorldCom, as well as the recent sub-prime 

loan  crisis.  It  is  alleged  that  the  lenient  standards  adopted  by  rating  agencies  for    MBS  segment  could 

possibly be because the rating fees were twice as high for the mortgage-backed bonds as for the corporate 

bonds. It is also possible that the dealers regularly sought the inputs from the CRAs when creating new 

issues,  which  effectively  put  the  rating  agencies  in  a  position  to  influence  the  size  of  the  market  from 

which  they  drew  lucrative  revenues.  At  the  same  time,  the  dealers  were  shopping  around  for  ratings, 

inviting  a  ―race  to  the  bottom‖,  leading  to  inflated  ratings.  Mortgage-backed  bonds  being  a  relatively 

recent  innovation,  assessments  of  creditworthiness  by the  rating  agencies  ended  up  relying  on  data  and 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 30 

 

techniques provided by the dealers.  But these were all reflections of the underlying conflicts arising from 

their business models-the opportunity to help structure and rate millions of complex derivative products 

just magnified it, exposing both the conflicts and capabilities of the CRAs. 

India  

In India CRAs rate money market instruments and also play an important role in the pension and 

insurance  sector.    For  example,  in  the  context  of  implementation  of  the  Basel  II  Framework  in  India, 

from March 2008, for the capital adequacy regime of the banks, it has been decided to adopt, initially, the 

Standardized Approach for determining the capital charge for the credit risk inherent in the operations of 

banks. The Standardized Approach relies almost entirely on the ratings assigned by the CRAs, accredited 

for  the  purpose  by  the  RBI.  These  ratings  are  mapped  into  the  corresponding  regulatory  risk  weights 

applicable to the credit risk exposures on the counterparties, which form the basis of computation of the 

capital  adequacy  ratio  of  the  banks.  Besides,  the  capital  charge  for  specific  risk  under  the  Market  Risk 

Framework for interest rate-related instruments is also governed by the ratings assigned by the CRAs to 

the instrument concerned. Similarly IRDA and PFRDA recognize the ratings approved by rating agencies  

for prescribing their investment guidelines. SEBI regulates the CRA activities from the securities market 

point of view. Thus activities performed by CRAs which fall under the jurisdiction of   other regulators 

should also be governed by appropriate guidelines and principles relevant to them.  

Following are potentially the major regulatory concerns of the Indian regulators. It must be noted 

that some of these are generic to the industry. 

1.  Regulatory arbitrage resulting from activities of CRAs being governed/ used by various 

regulators. 

2.  Inadequacy of existing methodologies  adopted by CRAs  for structured products given 

their  complexity,  multiple  tranches  and  their  susceptibility  to  rapid,  multiple-notch 

downgrades which are pro-cyclical. 

3. 

 A  basic  conflict  of  interest  which  is  partly  inherent,  since  the  sponsor/issuer  of  new 

instruments pays the CRA for being rated.  

4.  A  general  lack  of  accountability  as  CRAs  do not  have  a  legal  duty  of  accuracy  and  are 

often protected from liability in case of inaccurate ratings.  

5.  CRAs sometimes provide ancillary services in addition to credit ratings. The issuer may 

use the incentive of providing the CRA with more ancillary business in order to obtain 

higher  ratings.  There  is  a  clear  conflict  of  interest  in  offering  advisory  services  or 

consulting services to entities rated by the CRA. 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 31 

 

6.  Oligopolistic  nature  of  the  rating  industry  because  of  natural  barriers  or  propriety 

barriers of entry leading to lack of competition. 

6.2 

How do CRAs address regulatory concerns? 

The following are the major areas of concern: 

1.  Issuer pay model 

2.  Inter agency coordination and regulatory arbitrage 

3.  Conflict of interests 

4.  Regulatory issues 

a.  Accountability 

b.  Methodology 

c.  Other services 

d. 

Industry structure 

Investor  over-  reliance  on  credit  ratings  has  been  long  recognised  as  undesirable,  although  by 

embedding  ratings  in  various  regulations  some  authorities  have  inadvertently  encouraged  their  overuse.  

For  example  the  longstanding  use  of  credit  ratings  to  screen  eligible  collateral  for  various  central  bank 

liquidity backstop facilities is viewed as encouraging ―rating shopping‖6.  Regulations relating to pension 

fund  holdings,  for  example,  typically  restrict  fixed-income  investment  to  those  with  investment-grade 

ratings  (i.e.  BBB  and  higher).    Furthermore,  although  the  differentiation  of  structured  credit  ratings  is 

welcome, the ratings remain based on one-dimensional metrics (default probabilities or expected losses) 

that fail to capture all of the risk dimensions peculiar to tranched products7.  Currently rating for complex 

products like structured obligations are indicated by using special symbols.  It also highlights the need for 

greater awareness generation.   

CRAs  follow  a  reputational  model.    Users  will  approach  CRAs    for ratings  only  if  its  opinions 

carry creditability with investors whom the issuers are trying to signal.  Ratings which undergo frequent 

downgrades may not inspire confidence of the market.  This incentivizes CRAs to maintain high quality 

of ratings.Rules, regulations, statutes as well as compliance with international covenants ensure that CRAs 

behave  in  a  transparent  manner.    Misdemeanour  can  be  punished  through  tight  regulations. Regulatory 

arbitrage can be resolved by following lead regulatory model or greater inter agency coordination. 

                                                      
6 Rating shopping involves selection of the rating agencies that will assign the highest rating to their particular issues while this has been 
identified as a potential problem, it has been difficult to prove that it was actual happening.  Evidences accumulating that rating shopping 
was rampant during the period leading up to the crisis.  (Global Financial Stability Report, October 2009,  IMF, Washington DC) 

7 Global Financial Stability Report, October 2009,  IMF, Washington DC, pages 82-83, 96-97. 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 32 

 

 

CRAs argue that advisory or consulting services are offered by different legal entities with whom 

physical,  organizational  and  functional  separation  is  maintained.  CRISIL  and  ICRA  have  separated  the 

advisory  business  into  separate  companies,  managed  by  separate  teams  with  separate  organisation 

structures.  

CARE  though  until  recently  carried  out  this  business  as  part  of  its  rating  business,  has  now 

decided to exit advisory business. With respect to individuals, CRAs ensure that common directors do not 

attend rating committee meeting and disclosures to that effect are made. Further analyst compensation is 

not linked to rating fees. Each rating by the CRA passes though a multi-layer process and there is a team 

approach  to  avoid  individual  bias.  Rating  fees  are  not  linked  to  issue  success  or  rating  level  and  are 

decided  upfront  and  there  is  separation  of  business  development  and  analytical  teams.  Another  leading 

CRA  stated  that  in  order  to  avoid  conflicts  of  interest,  their  advisory  and  consulting  services  division  

have  been  spun off  into  a separate  company  and  has  its  own  independent management, staff  rules  and 

personnel policies.  

The  SEBI  CRA  Regulations  state  that  a  CRA  cannot  rate  an  entity  with  common  chairman, 

directors, or employee of credit rating agency or its  rating committee. A CRA can rate a company with 

which it shares an independent director, but the existence of the common independent director and the 

fact that he or she did not participate in the rating process needs to be disclosed. 

The entry requirements into the Credit Rating industry is stringent  but does not act as a barrier 

to entry of new funds. 

6.3 

Pros and Cons of 'issuer pays model' 

Under ‗issuer-pays-model‘ the entity that issues the security also pays the rating agency for the rating. 

Quality/ accuracy of ratings: 

Conceptually,  the  issuer-pays  model  may  appear  to  imply  an  inherent  bias  which    may  lead  to 

CRAs  assigning  higher-than-warranted  ratings  to  issues  they  rate.  CRAs  have  argued  that  they  have 

several checks and balances and robust operating guidelines and procedures to ensure that the quality of 

ratings  is  high  and  objective.  One  example  of  this  is  separation  of  business  development,  analytical, 

criteria,  and  quality  teams.  CRAs    point  to  a  long-term  track  record  of  default  and  transition  statistics 

which demonstrate that higher ratings are consistently more stable and have a lower probability of default 

than lower ones. Specifically it is argued that 

i) Ratings are ordinal; that is the higher the rating, the lower are the observed default levels. 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 33 

 

ii)  Ratings  have  been  assigned  across  the  entire  rating  scale,  with  no  bias  in  their  distribution  towards 

higher  ratings,  which  would  be  the  pattern  expected  had  the  CRAs  been  influenced  by  the  issuer-pays 

model. 

iii) Rating actions are distributed across both upgrades and downgrades, which is also a different pattern 

from the one expected where the issuer-pays model might influence the decision to upgrade rather than 

downgrade and also work to prevent downgrades. 

CRAs have a strong incentive to maintain the highest quality of rating, since issuers will approach a CRA 

for  ratings  only  if  its  opinions  carry  credibility  with  investors  whom  they  are  trying  to  access. 

Nevertheless, there are questions about whether all CRAs adopt uniformly high governance and process 

standards.  

Widespread availability of ratings: 

This  is  the  strength  of  the  issuer-pays  model.  The  goal  of  ratings  is  to  reduce  information 

asymmetry. Because issuers/borrowers pay for ratings, the market and lenders significantly benefit from 

the  wide  availability  of  credit  ratings.  Today,  all  ratings  and  rating  changes  are  available  to  the  entire 

market  --  including  retail  investors  --  free  of  charge,  as  they  are  widely  disseminated  by  rating  agency 

websites  and  the  media.  An  investor  can  compare  the  ratings  of  a  wide  array  of  instruments  before 

making  an  investment  decision,  and  can  continuously  evaluate  the  relative  creditworthiness  of  a  wide 

range of issuers and borrowers. 

• 

Other features of the issuer-pays model: 

Access to information enhances quality of analysis 

The issuer-pays model provides CRAs access to company managements on a regular basis. CRAs 

submit that this allows them to provide superior quality and depth of analysis to the market, which would 

be difficult under public information-based and model-driven approaches. The CRA‘s contract with the 

issuer/borrower  places  an  obligation  on  the  issuer‘s  management  to  cooperate  in  sharing  information, 

which  is  critical  for  maintaining  continuous  surveillance  on  rated  credits.  Because  the  issuer‘s 

management  has  commissioned  the rating  exercise,  its  level  of  engagement  in  providing  information to 

the CRA is high. Issuer managements often provide CRAs insights into future strategy that might not be 

in the public domain. Moreover, interactions also help rating agencies evaluate management capabilities 

better.  For  rating  structured  finance  issuances,  the  question  assumes  even  greater  criticality,  since  it  is 

virtually  impossible  to  rate  these  instruments  without  access  to  information  from  the  originator  of  the 

underlying assets.  

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 34 

 

Cost of ratings is kept low 

Currently,  rating  fees  are  the  smallest  element  in  the  cost  of  raising  money.  With  large  and 

frequent issuers of debt, rating agencies typically work on the basis of fee caps (negotiated lump-sum fees 

as  opposed  to  issue-by-issue  or  loan-by-loan  pricing).  Not  only  does  this  keep  rating  fees  low,  it  also 

results in smaller issuers being, in effect, subsidised by larger ones.  

6.4 

Pros and Cons of alternatives to 'issuer pays model' 

Besides ‗Issuer Pays Model‘, the three other potential commercial models for rating agencies are: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Investor pays  

Government/regulator pays 

Exchange pays model 

6.4.1  The investor-pays model 

Under ‗investor-pays-model‘ the user of the ratings pays for the ratings. 

• 

  

Quality/accuracy of ratings: 

According to CRAs this model does not eliminate the conflict of interest- it only shifts the source 

of conflict from issuer to investors. Under the investor-pays model, CRAs could give lower ratings than 

indicated  by  the  actual  credit  quality  of  the  rated  debt,  so  that  investors  would  get  a  higher  yield  than 

warranted.  Pressures from investors to avoid rating downgrades would increase considerably under the 

investor-pays model, since downgrades result in mark-to-market losses on rated securities. In fact, even 

under the current issuer-pays model, CRAs face a high level of pressure from investors to not downgrade 

ratings. In particular, it is possible that a large investor who has  a large exposure  on an issuer  would like 

to  have a more favourable rating  for that issuer. On the other hand, a short seller would prefer if the 

rating is lowered. Internationally, the experience with the investor-pays models has not been successful. 

Nevertheless, the potential conflicts seem substantially less severe than for the ―issuer pays‖ model. One 

example  of  a  rating  agency  that  operates  today  on  the  basis  of  subscription  by  investors  is  Egan-Jones 

Ratings; it is now recognised by the US SEC, but its coverage and impact have been low. 

 

Widespread availability of ratings: 

The investor-pays model is weak on this count.  If investors pay for ratings, only investors who 

pay  will  get  access  to  ratings.  The  goal  of  reduced  information  asymmetry  is  therefore  compromised 

under this model. Investors would also not be able to benchmark the quality of their investments against 

other  companies,  since  they  may  not  be  willing  to  pay  for  ratings  of  companies  in  which  they  do  not 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 35 

 

invest. This model also favours large investors who can afford to pay for ratings. The biggest losers are 

the smaller institutional investors and the retail investors, who would have had free access to all ratings 

under the issuer-pays model or the Government/regulator pays model (discussed later).  

 

Other advantages and limitations of the investor-pays model: 

Greater responsiveness to investor concerns 

Under the investor-pays model CRAs could be more responsive to investor concerns and further 

the  investor  protection  agenda  as  they  would  be  positioned  as  quasi-investor  representatives.  Also,  an 

investor  paying  for  a  specific  rating  could  demand  customised  analysis  from  the  rating  agency  which  is 

attuned to their goals or organisational requirements.  

Investor is not known at the time of assigning ratings  

Issuers/borrowers  intending  to  raise  money  approach  CRAs  for  an  independent  evaluation, 

based  on  which  they  approach  prospective  investors.  This  means  that  typically,  when  the  rating  is 

assigned, the investor is not known. If the investor were to commission and pay for ratings, it would lead 

to huge inefficiencies and practical problems in the fund-raising programmes of issuers/borrowers.   

Bias against smaller issuers/borrowers 

The problem of investors not being known can be addressed by rating agencies assigning ratings 

suo-moto to large/frequent issuers and borrowers; investors can later pay for this on a subscription basis. 

However,  this system  creates  a strong  bias  against  smaller  issuers  which  would  not get  rating  coverage, 

and their funding programmes could be severely impaired. Suo-moto ratings also suffer the disadvantage of 

not getting a meaningful interaction with the management to make an assessment about them and their 

strategy. In fact, this is the main reason why rating agencies that operate on the investor-pays model have 

limited coverage and impact. 

Costs of ratings would increase 

Investors  would  choose  to  pay  for  ratings  of  those  companies  that  they  are  interested  in,  and 

even here, only for rating specific issuances by a particular company. The benefits of fee caps as described 

above would be lost and the overall rating costs could go up. From the point of view of investors, it will 

increase    information  asymmetry    as  ratings  opinion  will  be  available    only  with  a  few  large  investors 

which is detrimental to the liquidity and  development of  the market. 

Limited access to information could affect quality of analysis 

If investors were to pay for ratings, issuers would not be  contractually bound to provide rating 

agencies  access  to  information  and  regular  management  interactions.  This  is  important  if  the  rating 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 36 

 

agency has to carry out surveillance on an ongoing basis. Moreover, regular meetings with management 

and insights on company strategy enable rating agencies to make a thorough evaluation of management 

capabilities and risk appetite.  It is hard to envisage the same level of access, information and sharing of 

insights as exists under the issuer-pays model. Further this may also involve  rating of the same issue by 

multiple agencies  resulting in the issuer  being required to meet and share information  with all agencies. 

The Reserve Bank of India, under Basel II guidelines, has stipulated that even though ratings are 

used  by  the  banks  for  determining  their  capital  requirements,  the  ratings  should  be  solicited  by  the 

companies themselves, and not by the banks.  

6.4.2  

 The Government/regulator-pays model 

In this model the Government funds the rating costs. 

• 

Quality/accuracy of ratings: 

Conceptually, this model would carry less inherent bias, since in most cases there is no incentive 

to  provide  either  higher-than-warranted  or  lower-than-warranted  ratings.  The  one  exception  that  could 

arise  would  be  in  case  of  public  sector  enterprises;  the  perception  could  be  that  the  government  could 

influence rating outcomes in this case. 

• 

Widespread availability of ratings: 

This  can  also  be  easily  ensured  under  the  government/regulator  pays  model  as  they  could 

stipulate  that  rating  agencies  make  all  ratings  and  rating  changes  freely  available  on  their  websites  and 

disseminate them through the media as happens currently. 

• 

Other positive and negative aspects of the Government/regulator pays model: 

Control over/guidance of rating agencies becomes simpler 

If Government/regulators pay for ratings, it becomes easier to monitor and control the activities 

of rating agencies 

Moral hazard: Rating opinions being seen as being endorsed by the Government 

This is a major limitation of the Government/regulator pays model. Investors and markets could 

see the opinions provided by rating agencies as having government endorsement. This carries the serious 

risk  of  expectation  of  Government  support  in  the  event  of  default  by  a  rated  entity.  This  risk  is  larger 

than it may seem as evident in recent actions across the globe. 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 37 

 

Use of public money for companies and institutional investors who can afford to pay for ratings 

It is questionable whether paying for ratings is the best use of public funds as compared to other 

objectives  like  improving  financial  literacy  and  small  investor  protection.  Both  issuers  and  institutional 

investors can well afford to pay for ratings. As explained above, under the issuer-pays model, the small 

retail investor too benefits as ratings are freely available in the public domain. India has emerged as the 

second-largest rating market, with the widespread acceptance of rating by the regulators and the markets. 

The budget for supporting this industry could be quite substantial.  

Limited access to companies could affect quality of analysis 

If Government/regulators pay the rating agencies, issuers would not be contractually bound to 

provide  rating  agencies  access  to  information,  and  regular  management  interactions,  which  could  affect 

the quality of analysis.  

Several practical problems in implementation 

The challenge under the Government/regulator pays model is: how would the choice of rating 

agency  for  a  rating  a  specific  issuer/company  be  made,  and  by  whom?  How  would  the  rating  fees  be 

decided?  If  a  company  desiring  to  raise  money  approaches  the  regulator  to  request  that  a  rating  be 

commissioned, would they also specify which rating agency they would prefer? This in effect, would make 

it an issuer-driven choice. Would companies or issues be allocated on a random basis amongst all rating 

agencies?  This  would  lead  to  huge  inefficiencies  and  the  costs  of  ratings  would  increase  from  a  system 

perspective.  Adequate  safeguards  also  need  to  be  put  in  to  ensure  that  the  oversight  of  the  work 

allocation to the rating agencies remains objective, lest any subversion of rating outcomes take place as a 

result of undue influence. 

These  measures  could  also  breed  complacency  amongst  CRAs,  who  will  begin  to  see  it  as  a 

steady assured business, rather than the current situation of fending for themselves. For example, if the 

selection  of  rating  agencies  is  done  on  a  random  basis,  then  rating  agencies  will  have  no  incentive  to 

produce the most analytical rigorous, independent, objective rating on a timely basis which will provide 

best insights for investors. 

6.4.3  

 The Exchange-pays model 

Under this model the exchanges pay for the ratings and recover the cost through an additional 

trading fee. 

The major advantage of this model is that the investors would be paying for the rating thereby 

eliminating the conflict of interest inherent in 'issuer pays model'  and at the same time the rating agencies 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 38 

 

would  not  be  influenced  either  by  the  rated  company  or  the  investors.  The  major  disadvantage  of  this 

model is that this model can work only for securities that are listed. 

The  above  discussion  indicates  why  the  issuer-pays  model  has  prevailed  over  other  possible 

alternative models. Recent regulatory initiatives in the United States and Europe aim to address the issue 

of conflict of interest presented by this model, but do not recommend a move to any other model. What 

they recognise is that rating agencies should be subject to scrutiny to ensure that conflicts of interest do 

not  influence  rating  decisions.  Their  recommendations  to  manage  this  conflict  include  greater 

transparency and disclosures, and better governance practices to ensure independence. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 39 

 

Chapter 7 

Recommendations  

7.1 

Deliberations of the Committee 

The  Committee had four  meetings  in  which  extensive deliberations  on  the  various  issues  on  CRAs 

were made.  It also held an exclusive meeting with the senior management of all the five CRAs operating 

in India.  The Committee is also privy to and benefited from the substantial and substantive documents 

provided by the CRAs, SEBI, RBI, IRDA and PFRDA, apart from the regulations and recent efforts by 

other  jurisdictions such  as the  US,  EU  and  IOSCO.  In  the  light  of these  deliberations,  documents  and 

emerging themes in global academic and policy circles the Committee raises the following questions: 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

If the CRAs are agencies providing just a view/opinion on the likely default of some financial 

instruments, should that opinion be made mandatory? 

Is  such  an  opinion  the  result  of  methodologically  robust  research  capable  of  making  near-

certain judgement on the direction of the market? 

Is the CRA business model, with overwhelming commercial aspirations, capable of  providing 

unbiased  opinion  for  larger  public  interest,  even  under  self  imposed  code  and  regulatory 

oversight ? Or are CRAs performing their gate-keeper role with the expected fiduciary zeal? 

 Should regulators use opinions of CRAs for regulatory purposes? 

 

7.2 

Recommendations 

The  recommendations  are  based  on  India‘s  own  experience  with  the  CRAs  till  now.  India  has 

been  proactive  in  introducing  effective  and  comprehensive  regulations  for  CRAs  as  early  as  1999.    In 

contrast, the US market saw substantial regulations only recently in 2007, and the European Union is still 

in  the  process  of  framing  its  regulations.  SEBI‘s  CRA  regulations  have  been  used  as  a  model  by  other 

regulators in emerging economies. SEBI‘s code of conduct for CRAs addresses some of the basic issues 

relating to conflicts of interest. The Code of Conduct is designed to ensure transparent and independent 

functioning of CRAs. These regulations have been  reasonably effective in ensuring that credible players 

operate in the industry and there is widespread investor access to ratings. Nevertheless, given the recent 

global experiences and emerging trends in regulation there is undoubtedly a case for a re-look at the CRA 

business models and strengthening of regulations.  

Since  answers  to  the  questions  raised  in  Para  7.1    are  ‗no‘  or  ‗uncertain‘  as  well  as  the  CRA 

assertion  that  rating    is  only  an  opinion  mandatory  rating  may  need  to be  relooked  at.    Regulators  also 

need to enhance their due diligence and investors need to strengthen their own information processing 

systems.  Moreover,  market  participants  need  some  time    for  such  a  migration  to  the  world  of  no 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 40 

 

mandatory  rating,  particularly  because  of  the  low  levels  of  financial  literacy.  Accordingly    all  regulators  

felt  that  rating  is  an  essential  tool  in  the  current  context.    The  Committee  therefore  recommends  a 

number  of  steps  for  enhancing  the  transparency  of  the  functioning  of  the  CRAs  through  greater 

disclosure requirements, reducing the conflict of interest in their business models and in improving their 

rating  methodology  and  process.  These  recommendations  will  also  provide  another  window  of 

opportunity, both to the CRAs to show their capability to assimilate and absorb their fiduciary role as well 

as for the policy makers to see how these work which will help charting the future policy trajectory itself. 

The  recommendations  below  are  designed  to  strengthen  provisions  related  to  conflicts  of  interest,  and 

improve transparency, disclosures and accountability.    

 

1. 

A lead regulator model for Credit Rating Agencies 

As discussed before, SEBI‘s jurisdiction over the CRAs is with respect to their activities in Securities 

market  and  dealings  of  CRAs  specifically  in  instruments  categorized  as  ―securities‖  as  defined  under 

Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 and does not cover the activities governed by other Regulators. 

Credit  rating  is  regulated  by  SEBI  as  the  primary  users  of  credit  rating  are  the  investors  in  securities 

markets.    SEBI  is  also  entrusted  with the  mandate  of protecting  the  interests  of  investors.    In  practice, 

credit  rating  is  much  more  used  by  other  regulators  where  rating  advisory  is  often  a  part  of  the 

regulations.    SEBI  needs  to  factor  in  those  users  and  regulators  whose  use  impacts  a  larger  group  of 

investors.    Therefore,  prior  to  formulating  any  regulation  SEBI    needs  to  consult  other  regulators.  

Inspection  should  be  conducted  jointly  with  other  regulators.  SEBI  should  also  have  a  mechanism  of 

getting periodic feed back from other regulators. A question arises whether the existing SEBI Regulations 

are adequate to cover the issues and concerns put forth by other Regulators. Given that CRA Regulations 

already exist, it may be better to recast the existing  Regulations by adding / modifying specific provisions 

to encompass the concerns of other Regulators, rather than building a new framework from scratch. It is 

proposed  that  a  lead  regulator  model  for  credit  rating  agencies  be  followed.  Under  this  model,  SEBI 

would  be  the  lead  regulator  and  all  entities  carrying  out  the  activity  of  credit  rating  would  need  to  be 

registered  with  SEBI.  The  CRAs  so  registered  with  SEBI  would  be  required  to  acquire  further 

accreditation  with  other  regulators  (RBI,  IRDA,  PFRDA  etc.)  if  felt  necessary  by  them,  for  rating 

products  that  come  in  the  regulatory  domain  of  the  other  regulators.  The  respective  regulators  may 

independently frame guidelines in respect of the activities coming under their purview  to help  decide on 

the  skill  set  requirements  of  the  CRAs.    Inspections  of  CRAs  should  be  carried  out  by  only  one  team, 

which  should  have  representations  from  all  concerned  Regulators  to  oversee  the  area  of  activities 

governed by such Regulators. 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 41 

 

2. 

Restricting the scope of usage of the term” credit rating”  

Currently,  there  are  five  CRAs  registered  with  SEBI.  However,  it  is  understood  that  there  are 

other agencies such as ONICRA, SMERA etc.  which also claim to provide rating services (mainly in SSI 

assessment,  Small  and  Medium  enterprise  rating,  individual  credit  assessment  etc.)  though  not  in 

securities. In view of the lead regulator model that is proposed and the need for increased inter-regulatory 

coordination as described above, it is proposed to restrict the scope of usage of the term‖ credit rating‖ 

through appropriate legislation. It is proposed that  

  No  entity   shall bear  a  name    having  the  words  ―credit  rating‖  unless  it  is  registered  as  a  CRA 

with SEBI 
 

  All existing CRAs shall incorporate the word ―credit rating‖ in their names  

 

  For other entities, an appropriate  legislative/ regulatory framework will be thought of. 

 
3.  

 

Greater  due  diligence by  the Regulators 

Given the concerns with the  rating based approach regulators and stakeholders need to exercise  

greater  due  diligence  in  accepting  ‗  rating‘  mechanically.  Accordingly,  they  should  upgrade    the  skills/ 

capabilities for greater due diligence. 

 

4. 

Disclosure of other activities carried out by CRAs or their subsidiaries 

Currently,  the  Regulations  mandate  that  a  CRA  shall  not  offer  fee-based  services  to  the  rated 

entities, beyond credit ratings and research. The Regulations also mandate that a credit rating agency shall 

maintain  an  arm‘s  length  relationship  between  its  credit  rating  activity  and  /  or  any  other  activity.  In 

practice,  CRAs  float  subsidiary  companies  for  undertaking  other  activities  such  as  consulting,  software 

development,  knowledge  process  outsourcing,  research  etc.  Accordingly,  it  is  proposed  that  while 

disclosing the rating / rating rationale to the general public through stock exchange/press release/web-

site, a  CRA shall disclose sources of conflicts of interest including  

a.  Details  of  fees  collected  by  the  CRA  from  the  issuer/its  subsidiary    due  to  the  current  rating 

assignment/previous rating assignment during the last 3 years 

b.  Details  of  fees  collected  by the  CRA/its subsidiary  from  the same  issuer/its subsidiary    due  to 

activities  other than rating during the last 3 years. 

c.  Disclosure of  the amount of money received by the promoters of the CRA due to any financial 

transaction  with  the  issuer  in  the  last  3  years  including  a  brief  description  of  the  said  financial 

transaction. 

CRAs  should  not  be  allowed  to  enter  into  any  business  that  may  directly  or  indirectly  have 

conflict of interest with the job of rating.  Internal Chinese Walls are porus mechanisms to prevent such 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 42 

 

conflict  of  interest  as  such  other  businesses  such  as  consultancy  and  advisory  services  should  not  be 

undertaken by CRAs.   

5. 

Resolving the conflict of interest inherent in the “issuer pays model'‟ 

It  has  been  alleged  that  this  model  in  which  the  entity  issuing  debt  pays  the  rating  agency 

compromises  the  quality  of  analysis  and  ratings  assigned  by  the  agencies.    The  other  alternatives  are 

‗investor  pays  model‘  and  ‗regulator  pays  model‘.      The  pros  and  cons  of  these  models  have  been 

discussed  in  the  last  chapter.    Globally  the  'issuer  pays  model'  is  followed  by  CRAs.    Considering  that 

other models are not desirable/ feasible, as they lead to greater problems it is recommended to continue 

with the ―issuer pays‖ model. However, greater transparency to the public regarding disclosure of conflict 

of interest, disclosure of fees received as described above would go some way to address these concerns.  

6. 

 Norms for governance of CRAs 

Currently, the Code of Conduct prescribed in the SEBI (CRA) Regulations stipulates, inter –alia, 

that a credit rating agency shall ensure that good corporate policies and corporate governance practices  

are  in  place.  CRAs  are  also  required  to  develop  their  own  internal  code  of  conduct  for  governing  its 

internal operations and laying down its standards of appropriate conduct for its employees and officers in 

carrying out of their duties within the credit rating agency and as a part of the industry. Such a code may 

extend to the maintenance of professional excellence and standards, integrity, confidentiality, objectivity, 

avoidance  of  conflict  of  interests,  disclosure  of  shareholdings  and  interests,  etc.  Such  a  code  shall  also 

provide for procedures and guidelines in relation to the establishment and conduct of rating committees 

and duties of the officers and employees serving on such committees.  

Currently,  some  of  the  registered  CRAs  are  listed  on  Indian  stock  exchanges  and are  therefore 

subject  to  compliance  requirements  of  Clause  49  of  the  Listing  Agreement,  which  stipulates  norms  for 

corporate governance. However, some other CRAs are not listed and therefore are not subject to those 

norms.    

7. 

Requirement of process and compliance audit 

The Regulations currently do not mandate any process and compliance audit of CRA operations. 

It  is  proposed  that  a  half  yearly  internal  audit  of  CRAs  be  made  mandatory  for  all  CRAs.  The  internal 

audit shall examine and certify whether all the requirements stipulated in the CRA Regulations and other 

regulations/guidelines  stipulated  by  other  regulators  (RBI/IRDA  etc)  are  being  followed  by  the  rating 

agencies. A committee comprised of members of Board of Directors will oversee action taken. 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 43 

 

8. 

Constitution of a Standing Committee 

A  Standing  Committee  comprising  representatives  from  various  regulators  be  constituted  for 

matters relating to CRAs.  The Standing Committee by SEBI  will take up and examine issues relating to 

CRAs and thereafter bring inter regulatory matter to the HLCCFM.  

9.  

Diversified ownership 

While SEBI‘s extant regulatory framework for the credit rating agencies tries to address the issues 

relating  to  conflict  of  interests  in  their  operations,  it  does  not  stipulate  any  restrictions  regarding  the 

ownership pattern of the rating agencies with a view to achieving a diversified ownership. Earnings driven 

pressures,  makes  a  case  for  diversified  ownership.    Diversified  ownership  will  also  take  care  of  likely 

abuse  of  dominant  ownership.  On  the  other  hand  too  diffused  an  ownership  pattern  could  lead    to 

inadequate  management  leadership.  Regulations  should  ideally  try  to  bring  people  who  have  long  term 

stake in the well-being and efficient function of the financial market as promoters.  However there is no 

evidence to show that  ownership  issues  have led to problems with rating. 

For the present it is proposed that the SEBI (CRA) Regulations may be suitably amended so that 

any  change  in  status  or  constitution  in  CRAs  resulting  in  change  of  control,  change  in  managing 

director/whole time directors etc.  would require the prior approval of SEBI. If evidence of concentrated 

ownership leads to abuse, the issue of diversified ownership needs to be revisited.   

 
Disclosure of compliance with IOSCO Code  

10. 
 

The  IOSCO  Code  requires  that  a  CRA  should  disclose  to  the  public  its  code  of  conduct  and 

describe  how  the  provisions  of  its  code  of  conduct  fully  implement  the  provisions  of  the  IOSCO 

Principles  regarding  the  activities  of  Credit  Rating  Agencies  and  the  IOSCO  Code  of  Conduct 

Fundamentals  for  Credit  Rating  Agencies.  If  a  CRA‘s  code  of  conduct  deviates  from  the  IOSCO 

provisions,  the  CRA  should  explain  where  and  why  these  deviations  exist,  and  how  any  deviations 

nonetheless achieve the objectives contained in the IOSCO provisions. IOSCO has submitted a report on 

the role of Credit Rating Agencies in Structured Finance markets in May 2008 and have suggested various 

measures  for  implementation  by  the  CRAs.  It  is  proposed  to  insert  an  appropriate  clause  in  the  SEBI 

(CRA) Regulations to make it mandatory for CRAs to disclose on their web-sites their code of conduct 

and how it complies with the IOSCO Code and in case of any deviation, the CRAs may furnish reasons 

for the same. 

 
 
 
 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 44 

 

11.   Disclosure of default and transition studies 
 

In order for the public to judge the general efficiency of the CRA, they be mandated to disclose the 

default  and  transition  statistics.  This  disclosure  should  also  include  the  methodology  used  for  this 

computation.  The  report  shall  point  out  all  instances  wherein  the  issuer  had  defaulted  even  when  the 

latest rating of the instrument issued by the issuer indicated investment grade rating.  

12. 

Unsolicited ratings 

CRAs  in  some  countries  have  come  under  criticism  for  issuing  unsolicited  ratings.    Anecdotal 

evidence  from  newspaper  reports  reveal  that  some  CRAs  have  indulged  in  ‗notching‘  –  lowering  their 

ratings or refusing to rate securities issued by certain asset pools unless a substantial part of the assets was 

also rated by them. It appears that there is no consensus on this point among CRAs in India.   Currently 

CRAs  in  India  do  not  provide  unsolicited  ratings.    According  to  some  CRAs  any  unsolicited  rating 

exercise  will  not  have  the  benefit  of  inputs  obtained  with  the  cooperation  of  Management  and  to  that 

extent it will be incomplete.  The output of such an incomplete exercise cannot be compared with that 

obtained from solicited ratings.  In contrast others consider unsolicited ratings to be an important tool by 

which new rating agencies can develop their business model.  According to them unsolicited ratings  can 

combat ‗rating shopping‘.  On balance it is recommended that if unsolicited rating is to be allowed such 

ratings may be issued with appropriate disclosure indicating whether issuer has participated in the rating 

process  or  only  public  information  disclosed  by  the  issuer,  including  its  audited  financial  statements, 

strategic objective and investor presentation have been used in the assessment.   

 
Greater caution in use of ratings  

13. 
 

Market participants on their part need to reassess the extent to which their  procedures  rely on 

ratings and consider whether this is appropriate. Over reliance on ratings by market participants have to 

be  avoided.  Firms  using  the  ratings  should  use  stress  testing  to  assess    the  impact  of  a  significant 

reduction of  credit rating in their portfolio rapidly. 

 

14.  
 

Other suggested areas where SEBI(CRA ) Regulations can be strengthened 

(i)   

All  registered  rating  agencies  may  be  required  to  disclose  publicly  on  their  websites  their 

shareholding pattern and the names of the owners 

(ii)  

A CRA or its subsidiary should not be allowed to carry out consultancy or advisory services, such 

as making proposals or recommendations, either formal or informal, regarding the design of a structured 

finance instrument and also rate the product. In general, a CRA should desist from directly or indirectly 

being involved with anything that compromises with  the integrity of the rating.  

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 45 

 

(iii) 

The  CRAs  should  clearly  differentiate  the  ratings  for  structured  products,  improve  their 

disclosure  of  rating  methodologies,  and  assess  the  quality  of  information  provided  by  the  originators, 

arrangers and the issuers of such structured products. It may be made mandatory that the CRAs make a 

clear distinction between credit ratings of structured finance instruments and other credit ratings.  

(iv)  

For the purpose of integrity, it is proposed that the CRA may disclose the general nature of its 

compensation arrangements with the rated entities. 

(v) 

 The CRAs should publish sufficient information about the assumptions underlying their rating 

methodologies.  

(vi)  

The extant provisions of the CRA Regulations do not obligate the CRA to announce publicly if it 

had  discontinued  to  rate  an  issuer  or  obligation.  Similarly,  there  is  no  provision  requiring  the  CRA  to 

indicate the date when the rating was last updated and the fact that the rating is no longer being updated. 

This  provision  may  be  of  importance  considering  the  fact  that  the  issuer  may  at  any  time  like  to 

unsubscribe to the services of the Rating agency owing to any business decision or otherwise. Where the 

issuer no more procures the services of CRA, the CRA should be required to disseminate the information 

as to stoppage of its services, also assigning the reasons for the same.  

(vii)  

Rating  agencies  need  to  retain  their  internal  records  including  non  public  information  and 

working papers which were used to form the basis of the credit rating issued.  The rationale for deviation 

from models or out of model adjustments need to be properly documented in the records.  The actions 

and  the  decisions  of  the  rating  committee,  including  vote  tallies  if  any,  also  needs  to  be  properly 

documented.  Proper documentation of committee attendees is also required.  If a quantitative model is a 

substantial  component  of  the  credit  rating  process  the  rationale  for  any  material  difference  between  the 

credit rating implied by the model and the final credit rating issued needs to be recorded.  There  should be 

proper  internal  written  procedure  documenting  the  steps  required  for  surveillance.    CRAs  should  have 

comprehensive written surveillance procedure.  All appropriate surveillance record should be maintained.  

CRAs should disclose how frequently credit ratings are  reviewed,  whether different criteria or  models are 

used for rating surveillance than for determining initial rating. 

(viii) 

There should be established policies to restrict analysts from participating in  fee discussions with 

issuer.  These policies are  designed to separate  those individuals who sit and negotiate fees from those  

employees who rate the issue, in order to mitigate the possibility or  perception that a rating agency would 

link its ratings with the fees.   

(ix) 

Employee involvement in the rating  process should not come into  conflict with  ownership of 

equity etc. Employee code of conduct should take care of it. 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 46 

********* 

 

COMPARATIVE RATING SYMBOLS FOR LONG TERM RATINGS 

ANNEXURE 1  

 

RATINGS 

 

CRISIL 

CARE  

ICRA  

FITCH  

BRICKWORKS  

 

 

 

 

 

Highest degree of safety with regard to timely payment of financial obligations  

AAA 

High degree of safety with regard to timely payment of financial obligations. 

AA 

CARE 
AAA 

CARE 
AA 

LAAA 

AAA(Ind)  BWR AAA 

LAA 

AA(Ind) 

BWR AA 

Adequate  degree  of  safety  with  regard  to  timely  payment  of  financial  obligations.  . 
However, changes in circumstances can adversely affect such issues more than those 
in the higher rating categories.  

A 

CARE A 

LA 

A(Ind) 

BWR A 

Moderate  safety  with  regard  to  timely  payment  of  financial  obligations  for  the 
present; changing circumstances are more likely to lead to a weakened capacity to pay 
interest and repay principal. 

BBB 

CARE 
BBB 

LBBB 

BBB(Ind)  BWR BBB 

 Inadequate safety with regard to timely payment of financial obligations; less likely 
to default in the immediate future.  

BB 

CARE BB  LBB 

BB(Ind) 

BWR BB 

Greater  likelihood  of  default;  while  currently  financial  obligations  are  met,  adverse 
business or  economic  conditions  would  lead  to  lack  of ability  or  willingness to  pay 
interest or principal. 

B 

CARE B 

LB 

B(Ind) 

BWR B 

Vulnerable  to  default;  timely  payment  of  financial  obligations  is  possible  only  if 
favourable circumstances continue.  

C 

CARE C 

LC 

CCC(Ind), 
CC(Ind), 

BWR C 

In default or are expected to default on scheduled payment dates. Such instruments 
are extremely speculative and returns from these instruments may be realised only on 
reorganisation or liquidation. 

D 

CARE D 

LD 

C(Ind) 

DDD(Ind
), 
DD(Ind), 
D(Ind) 

BWR D 

Instruments rated 'N.M' have factors present in them, which render the rating outstanding 
meaningless. These include reorganisation or liquidation of the issuer, the obligation is under 
dispute in a court of law or before a statutory authority etc. 
 

NM 

 

 

 

 

CRAs  may apply '+' (plus) or '-' (minus) signs for ratings from 'AA' to 'C' to reflect comparative standing within the category. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 48 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

Page 50 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 51 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 52 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 
Page 53 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 

Page 54 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 55 
 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 56 
 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 

Page 57 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 
Page 58 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 59 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 
Page 60 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 61 
 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 

Page 62 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 63 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 

Page 64 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 65 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 66 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 

Page 67 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 68 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 69 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 

Page 70 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 71 
 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 
Page 72 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

Page 73 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 74 
 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 75 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 

Page 76 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 77 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 

 

Page 78 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 79 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 80 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 
Page 81 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 82 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 83 
 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 84 
 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 85 
 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 86 
 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 87 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 88 
 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 89 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

 

 
Page 90 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 91 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ministry of Finance, Capital Markets Division   

Page 92 

 

