 

 
 

Report of 

 The  

Committee 

On  

reallocation of shares  

in the matter of  

IPO irregularities 

 
 
 
 
 
` 

Page 1 of 43 

 

 

Sr. 
No. 
01 

Contents 

Particulars  

Executive Summary  
 

Page 
Nos. 
3-7 

02  Deliberations & Recommendations 
i.    Constitution of the Committee                         8-9 
 
ii.   Background                                                   9-11 
 
iii.  Modus Operandi                                            11-12 
 
iv.  21 IPOs                                                        12-13 
 
v.   Action initiated by SEBI/CBI/RBI.                   14-18 
 
 
vi.  Holdings in frozen demat accounts                  18-19 
           vii. Gains made by key operators /financiers         19-20 
 
 
 
  
 

8-43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
viii. Percentage of afferent allotment                    20-21      
ix.  Three principles                                            21-36 
 
x.   Implementation of recommendations              36-40      
xi.  Limitations                                                   41-42 
 
 
xii.  Acknowledgement                                        42-43 
 

03  Annexures 1-28 
 

 

Page 2 of 43 

Executive Summary 

 
This  is  an  executive  summary  of  the  Report  of  the  Committee  on  re-

allocation of shares in the matter of IPO irregularities 

 

A.   Background: 

 

1.    SEBI  unearthed  and  investigated  certain  irregularities  in  Initial  Public 

Offerings (IPO) from 2005. The irregularities involved the following steps: 
•  Opening  of  a  large  number  of  DP  (and  bank)  accounts  in  fictitious  / 

benami names by certain individuals (“afferent accounts”) 

•  These accounts were controlled by and for the benefit of certain “key 

operators” and “financiers”. 

•  The funds used for subscription came from certain “financiers”. 
•  Applications  were  made  using  these  afferent  demat  accounts  and 
funds, in the retail quota of IPOs, so as to corner shares by using the 

favourable allotment chances for retail investors. 

 

2.  A Committee was set up under the Chairmanship of Justice D. P. Wadhwa, 
former  Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  India,  to  advise  /  recommend  on 

the procedure of identification of persons who might have been deprived 

on account of such IPO irregularities and the manner in which reallocation 

of shares to such persons should take place. 

 

B.   Principles 

 

     The  Committee  after  going  through  the  terms  of  reference,  background 

and  analysis  of  the  relevant  data  and  facts  came  to  a  decision  that  the 

Committee needs to establish 3 principles as under:  

a.  To quantify the amount of unjust enrichment that has taken place, 

and which is the subject of reallocation. 

Page 3 of 43 

b.  To  identify  the  genuine  applicants  who  may  be  considered 

“deprived”. 

c. To decide a basis on which the unjust enrichment is to be reallocated 

amongst the “deprived” applicants.  

 

C.  Unjust gains and holdings in frozen demat accounts. 

•  The  Committee  has  observed  that  the  reallocation  amount  to  the 
deprived  applicants  must  be  paid  out  of  moneys  that  must  first  be 

recovered  from  those  who  unjustly  benefited  such  as  the  key 

operators  and  financers.  The  Committee  has  observed  that  the  total 

unjust gains works out to about Rs. 95.69 Crores across the 21 IPOs 

under  consideration.  The  Committee  also  observed  that  the  quantum 

of  unjust  gains  based  on  allotment  to  afferent  accounts 

is 

approximately  Rs.  95.69  Crores,  of  which  Rs.  91.42  Crores  were 

identified  as  belonging  to  shares  that  were  transferred  to  key 

operators/financiers. 

 
•  The  Committee  observed  that  the  value  of  the  holdings  in  the  frozen 
demat  accounts  in  both  NSDL  and  CDSL  of  the  key  operators  and 

financiers  as  on  31.10.07  works  out  to  about  Rs.  1,478,536,264.06 

(Rs.147.85  Crores).  The  balance  in  the  bank  accounts  of  operators  / 

financiers  frozen  by  CBI  is  Rs.12,069,085.90  (Rs.  1.2  Crores).  The 

total  amount  outstanding  in  these  demat  and  bank  accounts  is 

Rs.1,490,605,349.96 (Rs. 149.06 Crores). 

•  SEBI  may  like  to  decide  based  upon  the  status  of  legal  proceedings 
whether  this  amount  is  immediately  recoverable  and  if  so  whether  it 

can be distributed among the deprived applicants. 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4 of 43 

 

D.   Deliberations and Recommendations 

 

 

The  Committee  deliberated  over  several  sittings  over  a  period  of  six 

months. The Committee invited relevant parties and experts from various 

organizations  to  update  itself  about  facts  and  to  take  inputs  on  the 

various options available to fulfill the task. Based upon these deliberations 

and inputs received, the Committee makes these recommendations: 

 
•  All  these  afferent  applications  were  made  in  the  retail  category  of 
IPOs.  To the extent these fictitious “afferent applicants” were allotted 

shares,  genuine  investors  were  deprived  of  their  chance  to  secure 

allotment. The Committee, therefore, quantifies the unjust enrichment 

in the case of each IPO to be the gain associated with the number of 

shares allotted to “afferent” applicants. The key operators / financiers 

who  cornered  the  shares  in  retail  category  through  afferent  demat 

accounts  realized  the  gain  amounting  to  the  difference  between  the 

IPO issue price and the listing price.  

 
• 

It may not be possible to get the requisite number of shares from the 

market  or  available  funds  may  not  be  sufficient  to  purchase  the 

requisite number of shares at the current market price. 

•  The reallocation should therefore be quantified in monetary terms and 
the reallocation value for each “deprived applicant” should  be initially 

computed  based  upon  shares  but  subsequently  converted  into  the 

amount of gains associated with such shares.  

 
•  The  Committee  recommends  that  for  the  purpose  of  reallocation  or 
payment  to  these  deprived  applicants,  the  amount  which  is  the 

difference of closing price of shares on the first day of listing / trading 

at NSE and the IPO issue price will be considered. These applicants will 

Page 5 of 43 

not  be  entitled  for  the  market  price  movements  subsequent  to  the 

listing.   

•  All  genuine  applicants,  whether  successful  or  not,  were  deprived  to 
some  extent.  The  Committee  concluded  that  the  following  are  the 

categories of deprived applicants, listed in the order of the “degree of 

deprivation”: 
-  The  most  deprived  applicants  are  those  who  were  entirely 

unsuccessful in receiving any allotment at all. 

-  The next were partial allottees in the firm categories. 
-  The  last  in  this  sequence  were  partial  allottees  in  drawal  of  lots 

categories. 

•  On the question of reallocation of shares, the Committee recommends 
a  “spillover”  method  of  reallocation.  Under  this  method,  totally 

unsuccessful  applicants  shall  be  reallocated  shares  equally  from  the 

afferent pool, till they each receive the minimum shares allotted to the 

lowest category in the IPO. Once that number is reached, any afferent 

shares  left  over  shall  “spill  over”  and  be  reallocated  to  the  partly 

successful applicants in the firm category and thereafter to the partly 

successful applicants in drawal of lots categories.   

•  The Committee has also made certain operational suggestions in the 

body of the report to facilitate an efficient implementation. 

 

 

 

 

E.    Limitations: 

•  The Committee has made a set of recommendations being aware that 
the  facts  as  currently  prevailing  are  disputed,  and  that  the  ultimate 

facts could be different. The Committee presently believes and hopes, 

on the basis of documents perused, that the final facts will not be so 

different as to negate these recommendations.  

 

Page 6 of 43 

•  Legal  proceedings  relating  to  these  key  operators,  financiers  and 
intermediaries  are  pending  before  various  fora;  and  until  their 

conclusion it may not be possible to determine the quantum of unjust 

enrichment and the number of deprived applicants accurately. It may 

not  also  be  possible  to  recover  any  assets  from  any  of  these  entities 

until  then.  Therefore,  the  recommendations  of  this  Committee  are 

stated as principles, and illustrated with examples based upon facts as 

currently  stand.  The  actual 

they 
recommendations will be based upon the facts as they finally prevail. 

implementation  of 

these 

******

Page 7 of 43 

 

 

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE FOR RE-ALLOCATION OF SHARES IN THE 

MATTER OF IPO IRREGULARITIES. 

 
 
1.0  Constitution of the Committee 
 
1.1  Chairman,  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  vide 

notification  dated  05.07.2007  constituted  a  Committee  under  the 

Chairmanship of Justice D. P. Wadhwa, former judge of the Supreme 

Court of India to advise / recommend on the procedure for identification 

of persons who might have been deprived on account of the Initial Public 

Offering  (IPO)  irregularities  and  the  manner  in  which  reallocation  of 

shares to such persons should take place. 

 

The other members of the Committee are as follows: 

 

Shri  R.  Sridharan,  Managing  Director  &  Chief  Executive  Officer,  SBI 

Capital Markets Ltd. 

 

Shri V. Shankar, Managing Director, Computer Age Management Services 

Pvt. Ltd.  

 

Shri Virendra Jain, Director, Midas Touch Investors Association. 

 

Shri Ananta Barua, Legal Advisor, SEBI, Member Secretary.  
 

   A copy of the notification dated 05.07.2007 is attached as Annexure ‘1’.  

 

1.2  The  Committee  was  given  time  upto  03.10.2007  to  submit  its  report  / 

recommendation.    The  tenure  of  the  Committee  was  extended  upto 

05.12.2007  vide  notification  dated  05.10.2007.  A  Copy  of  the 

notification dated 08.10.2007 is attached as Annexure ‘2A’. The tenure 

of  the  Committee  was 

further  extended  upto  20.12.2007  vide 

Page 8 of 43 

notification  dated  30.11.2007.    A  Copy  of  the  notification  dated 

30.11.2007 is attached as Annexure ‘2B’. 

 

1.3  At the outset, the Committee decided upon the process to be followed in 

its deliberations: 
•    To take note of the background of the IPO irregularities.  
•    To take note of various proceedings initiated / pending in the matter   

        of IPO irregularities.   

•    A representative single IPO will be taken up for detailed analysis. 
•    Deliberations will be conducted upon the facts of that IPO and with   

inputs received from experts. 

•  The emerging recommendations will be validated against the facts of 

all the 21 IPOs to ensure that they produce in each case, a fair, 

consistent and transparent result. 

 

1.4  The  Committee  perused  the  background  of  the  IPO  irregularities,  IPO 

allotment processes, various orders passed by SEBI, Securities Appellate 

Tribunal  (SAT),  proceedings  initiated  by  other  authorities  relating  to 

these  IPO  irregularities  etc.  The  Committee  also  called  for  discussion, 

the  SEBI  officer  dealing  with  these  IPO  irregularities,  officers  of  the 

enforcement  dept.,  officials  from  Central  Bureau  of  Investigation  (CBI) 

and  stock  exchanges  and  public  representatives.  The  Committee  also 

perused and analyzed various  data relating to the  allotment  process in 

respect  of  21  IPOs.  The  Committee  conducted  its  deliberations  in 

meetings held over a period of six months. 

 

2.0  Background 

 

2.1    As  a  part  of  ongoing  surveillance  activity  by  SEBI  into  the  various 

aspects  of  functioning  of  the  securities  market,  SEBI  had  initiated  a 

probe and advised the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and the National 

Stock Exchange (NSE) to look into dealings in the shares issued through 

Page 9 of 43 

IPOs before these shares are listed on the stock exchanges. In October 

2005, the stock exchanges submitted their preliminary observations on 

the IPO of Yes Bank Ltd. (YBL) to SEBI, which hinted at the possibility of 

large-scale  off-market  transactions  immediately  following  the  date  of 

allotment  and  prior  to  the  listing  of  shares  on  the  stock  exchanges. 

SEBI,  therefore,  carried  out  a  preliminary  scrutiny  by  calling  for  data 

from  the  Depositories  and  the  Registrars  to  the  Issues  (RTIs).  It  was 

observed  by  SEBI  that  a  large  number  of  multiple  dematerialized 

accounts  with  common  addresses  were  opened  by  a  few  entities.  On 

noticing  the  irregularities,  SEBI,  vide  ex-parte  interim  order  dated 

December  15,  2005  in  the  matter  of  Yes  Bank  IPO,  acted  against  the 

entities  responsible  for  the  irregularities  by  passing  an  interim  order 

restraining them from participating in all future IPOs and also directing 

the depositories to freeze their dematerialized accounts effectively.  

 

2.2   Thereafter, SEBI examined the irregularities in the IPO of Infrastructure 

Development  Finance  Co.  Ltd.  (IDFC)  wherein  the  very  same  players 

were  suspected  to  have  played  a  major  role  in  cornering  the  shares  in 

retail category. Pursuant to the preliminary scrutiny, SEBI issued an ad 

interim order dated January 12, 2006 in the case of IDFC IPO. 

 
2.3  In the course of investigations pursuant to interim orders in the cases of 
Yes Bank and IDFC, SEBI had noticed that some of these multiple demat 

accounts  were  opened  in  June  2003.  The  misuse  of  these  multiple 

demat  accounts  in  Initial  Public  Offerings  (IPOs)  prior  to  that  of  Yes 

Bank and IDFC were accordingly looked into by SEBI. 

 
2.4  Accordingly,  SEBI  broadened  its  investigations  to  all  IPOs  between 
2003-2005.  The names of the 21 IPOs during the above period where 

similar  irregularities  were  noticed,  are  given  in  para  4.0  of  this  report. 

Based  on  the  findings  of  these  investigations,  SEBI,  vide  interim  order 

dated  April  27,  2006,  inter  alia,  directed  24  key  operators  and  82 

Page 10 of 43 

financiers  not  to  buy,  sell  or  deal  in  the  securities  market  including  in 

IPOs, directly or indirectly, till further directions.  

 
3.0  The Modus Operandi 
 

3.1      Investigations  by  SEBI  into  the  irregularities  relating  to  IPOs  during 

2003-2005  (including  Yes  Bank  and  IDFC  IPOs)  have  since  been 

completed.    After  completion  of  investigations,  SEBI  has  initiated 

appropriate  proceedings  against  the  key  operators,  financiers  and 

other entities. 

 
3.2 

From SEBI interim order’s / proceedings, the mode of operation by the 

key  operators  and  financers  could  be  ascertained  which  in  brief  is 

given in para 3.3. 

 
3.3  SEBI  (Disclosure  &  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000  (DIP 
Guidelines)  prescribe  a  quota  for  small  investors  wishing  to  invest  in 

the  IPO  market.  A  small  investor  is  defined  as  one  who  applies  for 

allotment  of  shares  worth  Rs.100,000  or  less  (Rs.50,000  previously). 

Typically,  the  over-subscription  in  the  retail  segment  of  an  IPO  is 

substantially less than the over-subscription in the non-retail segment 

for  sought  after  IPOs.  Therefore,  chances  of  securing  an  allotment 

under  the  retail  segment  are  normally  better  than  in  the  non-retail 

segments.    Consequent  to  the  preliminary  scrutiny,  SEBI  found  that 

certain  entities  (termed  as  key  operators  by  SEBI)  had  cornered  IPO 

shares  reserved  for  retail  applicants  by  making  applications  in  the 

retail category through the medium of thousands of fictitious / benami 

applicants,  with  each  application  being  for  small  value  so  as  to  be 

eligible for allotment under the retail category. Such demat accounts in 

fictitious / benami names could be opened by the key operators due to 

negligence or connivance of certain intermediaries. Subsequent to the 

receipt  of  IPO  allotments,  these  fictitious  /  benami  allottees  had 

Page 11 of 43 

transferred  shares  to  their  principals  who  in  turn  transferred  the 

shares  to  the  financiers,  (directly  or  through  a  web  of  transactions) 

who  had  originally  made  available  the  funds  for  executing  the  game-

plan. The financiers in turn sold most of these shares on the first day 

of  listing  thereby  realizing  the  gain  amounting  to  the  difference 

between the IPO issue price and the listing price.   

 
3.4  SEBI,  therefore,  decided  that  the  possibility  of  reallocating  these 
shares  (allotted  to  the  afferent  applicants)  to  the  persons  who  had 

been  unjustly  deprived  of  allotment,  on  account  of  the  irregularities 

mentioned above, should be examined and constituted the Committee 

for the purpose.  

 

4.0   The 21 IPOs 

 

4.1      SEBI  found  that  IPO  irregularities  where  such  off-market  transfers  of 

shares  soon  after  allotment  and  before  listing  pertained  to  21  IPOs 

during  2003-2005.    The  list  of  IPOs  where  such  irregularities  or  off 

market transfers were detected by SEBI, are as under: 

 

1.  Amar Remedies Ltd. 
2.  Datamatics Technologies Ltd. 
3.  Dishman Pharma. &  Chemicals Ltd. 
4.  FCS Software Solutions Ltd. 
5.  Gateway Distriparks Ltd. 
6.  Gokaldas Exports Ltd. 
7.  ILFS Investmart Ltd. 
8.  Indraprastha Gas Ltd. 
9.  Infrastructure Development Finance Co. Ltd. (IDFC) 
10.Jet Airways (India) Ltd. 
11.Nandan Exim Ltd. 
12.National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd. 
13.Nectar Lifesciences Ltd. 
14.Patni Computer Systems Ltd. 
15.Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd. 
16.Shoppers Stop Ltd. 
17.SPL Industries Ltd. 
18.Suzlon Energy Ltd. 

Page 12 of 43 

19.T.V.Today Network Ltd. 
20.Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. 
21.Yes Bank Ltd. 
 

The  deliberations  and  analyses  of  the  Committee  were  confined  to 

these  21  IPOs  for  the  purpose  of  recommending  the  principles  for 

reallocation. The Committee called for certain information / data such 

as  the  issue  size,  issue  price,  listing  date,  closing  price  on  the  listing 

date,  etc.,  in  respect  of  these  21  IPOs.    A  table  containing  these 

details is annexed as Annexure ‘3’ to this report. 

The  Committee  was 

informed 

that  all 

the  21 

IPOs  were 

oversubscribed.  From  the  table  in  Annexure  3,  the  Committee 

observed  that  the  closing  price  on  the  date  of  listing  in  respect  of 

these  21  IPOs  were  higher  than  the  respective  issue  price  in  each 

case.    The  Committee  was  informed  that  the  closing  price  on  listing 

date as given in the table in Annexure 3 in respect of the 21 IPOs has 

been taken from the closing price as on the day of listing at NSE.  The 

Committee  observed  that  the  closing  price  in  respect  of  some  IPOs 

such  as  in  the  case  of  Dishman  Pharma  &  Chemical  Ltd.  was  much 

higher, where the issue price was Rs.175 and closing price on the day 

of listing was Rs.541.25.  In other IPOs the closing price on the day of 

listing  was  higher  than  the  issue  price  in  varying  degrees.    Thus  the 

key  operators  /  financiers  who  cornered  the  shares  in  retail  category 

through  afferent  demat  accounts,  realized  the  gain  on  account  of  the 

difference between the IPO issue price and the listing price through the 

modus operandi as given in para 3.3 of this report.  

 
4.2 

  

 
4.3 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Page 13 of 43 

5.0  Action initiated by SEBI / CBI / RBI. 

 

5.1      The  Committee  was  informed  that  various  proceedings  have  been 

initiated  by different authorities such as  SEBI, CBI  and Reserve  Bank 

of India (RBI) against key operators, financiers, intermediaries, banks 

etc.  in  respect  of  IPO  irregularities.  The  Committee  perused  the 

following information / documents / orders. 

a.  RBI  order  to  banks  in  respect  of  IPO  irregularities  in  connection  with 
non-compliance  of  Know  Your  Client  (KYC)  norms,  opening  of  bank 

accounts in fictitious names, etc. 

b.  Complaints lodged with CBI by SEBI in respect of IDFC and YES Bank 

IPO issues, frauds by key operators / financiers etc.   

c.  Copy of charge sheet filed by CBI in the case of IDFC IPO against key 

operators / financiers.  

d.  Status  and  copy  of  the  complaint  filed  in  IPO  irregularities  by  the 

prosecution division of SEBI. 

e.  Status  of  all  quasi-judicial  proceedings  initiated  by  SEBI  in  IPO 
irregularities and copies of orders of Adjudicating Officers (AOs), SEBI, 

SAT, High Courts (HC) etc.  

 
5.2 

 

 The  officials  of  SEBI  and  CBI  apprised  the  Committee  about  these 

proceedings.    Shri  Suryavanshi,  Inspector  of  Police,  CBI  appeared 

before the Committee on 15.09.2007. He stated that CBI has arrested 

some  operators  and  financiers  located  in  Ahmedabad  and  Mumbai  in 

respect of the irregularities in Yes Bank and IDFC IPOs. He stated that 

the bank accounts of the operators / financiers, containing funds to the 

extent of about Rs. 2 crores have been frozen by CBI and CBI has got 

the necessary court orders for retaining the funds.   

Shri  Sanjay  K.  Sareen,  DSP,  of  CBI  on  06.11.2007  briefed  the 

Committee  about  the  charge  sheet  filed  by  CBI  against  22  entities  in 

the  case  of  IDFC  IPO  irregularities  before  the  Special  Judge  for  CBI 

Page 14 of 43 

cases, Greater Mumbai. The entities have been charged under Section 

68A of the Companies Act and Section 420, 467, 468 & 471 of Indian 

Penal Code (IPC).  Shri Sareen informed that CBI has also frozen bank 

accounts of five persons of whom three are accused under Section 102 

of  the  Code  of  Criminal  Procedure.  It  was  stated  that  CBI  has  filed  a 

similar charge sheet in the case of Yes Bank IPO irregularities as well. 

Shri. Sareen also stated that CBI investigated IPO irregularities in the 

cases of YES Bank and IDFC as SEBI filed complaint only in these two 

cases. He said that CBI, therefore, did not investigate irregularities in 

other IPOs.   

 
5.3  Shri  Pradeep  Kumar,  Legal  Officer  (LO),  from  the  Enforcement 
Department  (EFD),  SEBI  on  15.09.07  submitted  the  status  of  quasi 

judicial  proceedings  in  IPO  irregularity  matters  passed  or  pending 

before SEBI, Adjudication Officer and SAT as under: 

 

 

 

   

a.  Directions  under  Sections  11  and  11B  of  the  SEBI  Act  such  as 
restrictions  in  accessing  the  securities  market,  restrictions  in 

opening  fresh  demat  accounts,  etc.,  against  persons  associated 

with the securities market including intermediaries. 

 
b.  Enquiry proceedings have been initiated by SEBI against registered 

intermediaries. 

c.  Adjudication  proceedings  have  been  initiated  against  operators,  
financiers and intermediaries. The Adjudicating Officer has passed 

certain adjudication orders imposing monetary penalty.  

d.  Prosecution has been proposed against entities such as operators, 

financiers, intermediaries, etc.  

Page 15 of 43 

e.  SEBI  passed  disgorgement  order  dated  21.11.2006  against 
depositories and depository participants (DP) who were jointly and 

severally  directed  to  disgorge  the  amount  of  Rs.115.82  crores.  

The Committee was later on informed that the said order has since 

been set aside by SAT on 22.11.2007 and remanded back to SEBI.  

 

f.  Appeals filed before SAT challenging SEBI’s interim /final orders / 

adjudication orders, etc. and stay granted by SAT.  

 
5.4  Shri. Jai Prakash - L.O., Prosecution Division, SEBI on 15.09.07 stated 
that  the  complaints  filed  /  to  be  filed  against  the  key  operators  / 

financiers,  etc.,  under  Section  26  of  the  SEBI  Act  relate  to  the  

irregularities  in  the  21  IPOs  alleging  violation  of  Section  68A  of  the 

Companies  Act,  Regulations  3  of  the  SEBI  (PFUTP)  Regulations, 

Section  12A  read  with  Section  24(1)  of  the  SEBI  Act  and  Section13 

and  Section  16  read  with  Section  23(1)(b)  of  Securities  Contract 

Regulation Act, 1956 (SCRA). 

 
5.5  Shri  D  V  Sekhar,  Deputy  Legal  Advisor,  SEBI  also  attended  the 
meeting of the Committee on 28th and 29th Nov. 2007 and he apprised 
the members on the status of complaints filed by SEBI under Sec. 24 

and  26  of  SEBI  Act  against  various  entities,  involved  in  IPO 

irregularities. 

 

5.6    The  Committee  was  informed  that  some  consent  applications  were 

received  from  the  key  operators,  financiers  and  intermediaries 

allegedly  involved  in  the  IPO  irregularities  for  consideration  of  the 

Consent  Committee  under  the  SEBI  Consent  Order  Scheme  dated 

20.04.2007.  Shri V R Prasad – Deputy Legal Adviser (DLA) attended 

the meeting of the committee on 28.11.07. He apprised the members 

about  the  status  of  various  consent  applications  made  by  entities  in 

Page 16 of 43 

respect  of  IPO  irregularities  that  are  under  consideration  of  SEBI 

Consent Committee. 

    

5.7   The Committee was also apprised of some orders passed by RBI against 

some  banks  under  Section  47(1)  (b)  of  the  Banking  Regulation  Act 

imposing  monetary  penalties  over  various  banks.    These  penalties 

have been imposed by RBI on these banks for failure to adhere to KYC 

/  Anti  Money  Laundering  Law  (AML)  norms  prescribed  by  RBI,  while 

opening of bank accounts in fictitious names by key operators. 

 

5.8      The  Committee  also  had  deliberations  with  officials  of  BSE,  NSE  and 

public  representatives  on  05.11.07.  Mr.  Ashok  Raut-COO,  BSE,  Mr. 

Gopal  Krishnan  Iyer  –  DGM,  Listing  and  Mr.  S.  Jambunathan  –  BSE’s 

Ex-Chairman  and  public  representative  for  the  Yes  Bank  IPO 

participated in the deliberations.  The officials of NSE Mr. K. Hari, A.V.P 

and Mr. Ravi Varanasi- AVP also participated in these deliberations.  

 

5.9    Shri S. Jambunathan, Public Representative stated as under: 

 

a.  Any Scheme that is formulated to help the unlucky investors should 
be prepared in such a manner that it is transparent, fair and easy to 

communicate to the general public and also to implement. 

b.  We  should  not  try  to  please  everybody  but  prepare  the  Scheme 
keeping in mind the practical difficulties and the limitations and our 

past experience. 

c.  We  should  consider  only  the  non-allottees,  rather  than  the  partial 
allottees  for  the  simple  reason  that  the  partial  allottees  have  had 

the  “benefit  of  the  market”  from  the  shares  already  allotted  to 

them.   

d.  The  benefit  being  passed  on  to  the  non-allottees  need  not  and 
should  not  be  based  on  drawal  of  lots.  Instead,  it  should  be 

Page 17 of 43 

distributed  among  all  the  non-allottees  keeping  in  mind  the 

resources available. 

 

5.10 Shri  Madhusudhanan,  Asst.  General  Manager  (AGM)  –  Integrated 

Surveillance Department (ISD), SEBI informed the Committee about the 

back ground, modus operandi, finding of investigation, interim and final 

orders passed by SEBI in IPO irregularities matter etc. He attended all 

the meetings / proceedings of Committee. He assisted the Committee in 

obtaining  information  and  data  and  in  preparation  of  various  tables  / 

statements annexed to the report. 

    
6.0  Holdings in frozen demat accounts. 
 
6.1 

The  Committee  was  informed  that  as  per  SEBI  interim  order  dated 

27.04.2006, depositories have frozen demat accounts of key operators 

and financiers.  

 
6.2 

 
6.3 

The  Committee  called  for  data  in  respect  of  the  holdings  of  key 

operators (numbering 21) and financiers (numbering 82) in the frozen 

demat  accounts.    The  Committee  also  called  for  valuation  of  these 

holdings  in  the  frozen  demat  accounts  of  operators  and  financiers  as 

on 31.10.2007 and also the amount frozen by CBI in bank accounts of 

operators  /  financiers.  A  table  containing  the  valuation  of  holdings  in 

the demat accounts and bank accounts of operators / financiers frozen 

by CBI, as on 31.10.07 was presented to the Committee which is given 

in Annexure 4. 

The Committee, from the table in Annexure 4, observed that the value 

of the holdings in the frozen demat accounts of the key operators and 

financiers in both NSDL and CDSL as on 31.10.07 works out to about 

Rs.  1,478,536,264.06  (Rs.  147.85  Crores).    The  balance  lying  in  the 

frozen  bank  accounts  of  operators  /  financiers  is  Rs.12,069,085.90 

Page 18 of 43 

(Rs.  1.21  Crores).  Thus,  the  total  amount  outstanding  in  demat  and 

bank  accounts  is  Rs.1,490,605,349.96  (Rs.  149.06  Crores).  The 

summary  of    holdings  of  holdings  of  operators  and  financiers  are  as 

under:  
Summary of Operators'  and Financiers' frozen holdings. 

CLIENT NAME 

TOTAL VALUE IN 

DEMAT 

ACCOUNTS AS 
ON 31.10.07 

BALANCE IN 
FROZEN BANK 
ACCOUNTS* 

Key Operators' Holdings 

    475,993,684.59  

      439,962.87  

Financiers' Holdings 

Total Holdings 
*- Refer para -14.8 post. 

 1,002,542,579.47  
 
1,478,536,264.06  

  11,629,123.03  
  
12,069,085.90  

The details of entity-wise holdings are given in Annexure 4. 

 

7.0     Gains made by key operators and financiers 

 

TOTAL 

OUTSTANDING 
IN DEMAT AND 
BANK ACCOUNTS 
      
476,433,647.46  
   
1,014,171,702.50  
   
1,490,605,349.96  

7.1      The  Committee  sought  to  ascertain  the  gains  made  by  the  key 

operators and financiers.  

 
7.2  A  table  showing  the  gains  made  by  the  key  operators  /  financiers  as 
made  available  to  the  Committee,  is  given  in  Annexure  5  of  this 

report. 

 
7.3 

The  Committee  was  informed  that  the  gains  have  been  calculated  on 

the  basis  of  number  of  shares  cornered  by  each  Key  Operator  / 

financier (as per SEBI interim order dated 27.04.06) multiplied by the 

difference between the closing price on the day of listing and the issue 

price.  

 

In the case of Roopal Panchal, the IDFC shares cornered through CDSL 

demat account have been ignored as these shares were transferred to 

her NSDL demat account and have been reckoned thereat. In the case 

Page 19 of 43 

of  Jhaveri  Securities  P  Ltd.  and  Indiabulls  Securities  Ltd.,  SEBI  has 

concluded  that  they  are  not  key  operators.  In  the  case  of  Sugandh 

Estates  and  Investments  Pvt.  Ltd.,  Parag  Jhaveri  &  Kamal  Jhaveri, 

Himani Patel and Dharmesh Bhupendra M. (also known as D B Mehta), 

confirmatory  orders  have  been  passed.  Further,  it  is  understood  that 

the  names  Dharmesh  Bhupendra  M  and  DB  Mehta  are  of  the  same 

person.  

The  Committee  observed  that  the  IPO  shares  were  pooled  from  the 

afferent accounts into the demat accounts of the key operators.  It is 

these  very  same  shares  that  have  in  many  cases  been  further 

transferred to financiers. Therefore, for the purpose of computation of 

gains,  the  gains  made  by  the  key  operators  only  may  be  considered. 

The  names  of  the  financiers  who  are  stated  to  have  acted  in  concert 

with the respective key operators have been indicated in the table at 

‘Annexure  5’  showing  the  gains  made.  For  the  purpose  of  possible 

recovery  for  re-allocation,  the  value  of  holdings  in  the  frozen  demat 

accounts of the key operators and the financiers have to be taken into 

account.    The  gains  made  by  key  operators  and  financiers  as  per 

Annexure 5 is Rs.914,234,761.25 (Rs. 91.42 Crores). 

The Committee also observed that the quantum of unjust gains based 

on allotment to afferent accounts is approximately Rs. 95.69 Crores, of 

which  the  above  mentioned  Rs.  91.42  Crores  were  identified  as 

belonging to shares that were transferred to key operators/financiers.   

 
7.4 

 
7.5 

 
 
8.0   Percentage of afferent allotment in the retail category. 

 
8.1 

The  Committee  also  sought  information  on  the  number  of  shares 

allotted  to  retail  category  in  the  21  IPOs  and  the  number  of  shares 

allotted to the afferent applicants in order to ascertain the percentage 

of afferent applicants in retail quota in these 21 IPOs.  

Page 20 of 43 

 
8.2  A  table  containing  the  percentage  of  afferent  allotment  vis-à-vis  the 
allotment  to  retail  category  in  these  21  IPOs  was  presented  to  the 

Committee.    The  table  containing  such  information  is  annexed  as 

Annexure 6.  From the table, it was observed that the percentage of 

afferent applications is the highest  – at  28.85% -  in the IPO issue of 

FCS Software Ltd. and is the lowest in the case of Jet Airways IPO at 

0.63%.  It was observed that in case of Yes Bank Ltd. and IDFC Ltd. 

issues  where  the  irregularity  was  first  detected  by  SEBI,  the 

percentage of afferent applications is 9.12% and 10.18% respectively.  

 

8.3   The Committee was informed that the data of number of shares allotted 

to retail category has been taken from the basis of  allotment. All the 

data have been collated from the respective RTIs of these 21 IPOs. 

 

9.0   Three Principles 

 

9.1   The Committee after going through the terms of reference of appointing 

the  Committee,  background  and  analysis  of  the  above  tables  /  data 

and facts, came to a decision that the Committee needs to establish 3 

principles as under:  

a.  To quantify the amount of unjust enrichment that has taken place, and 

which is the subject of reallocation. 

b.   To  identify  the  genuine  applicants  who  may  be  considered  as 

“deprived”. 

c.   To  decide  a  basis  on  which  the  unjust  enrichment  is  to  be  reallocated 

amongst the “deprived” applicants.  

 

 

These  principles  can  then  be  applied  to  the  facts  of  each  IPO  and  a 

consistent and fair method of reallocation arrived at across all deprived 

applicants in all the 21 IPOs. 

Page 21 of 43 

9.2 

The  Committee  also  noted  that  quasi  judicial  /  legal  proceedings 

relating  to  the  key  operators  and  financiers  are  under  way;  and  until 

their  conclusion, it  may not be possible  to determine the  quantum of 

unjust  enrichment  and  the  number  of  deprived  applicants  accurately. 

Therefore, the recommendations of this Committee are to be stated as 

principles,  based  upon  the  current  status.  The  actual  implementation 

of these recommendations will be based upon the facts as they finally 

prevail. 

 

10.0  Analysis of 1st Principle – Quantification of unjust enrichment. 
 

10.1 The Committee observed that SEBI unearthed and investigated the IPO 

irregularities  in  2005.  The  irregularities  involved  were  basically  the 

following: 
•  Opening of a large number of DP (and bank) accounts in fictitious / 

benami names by certain individuals (“afferent accounts”) 

•  These  afferent  accounts  were  controlled  by  and  for  the  benefit  of 

certain “key operators” and “financiers”. 

•  The  funds  used  for  subscription  in  these  IPOs  came  from  certain 

“financiers”. 

•  Applications  were  made  using  these  afferent  demat  accounts  and 
funds, in the retail quota of IPOs, so as to corner shares by using 

the favourable allotment chances for retail investors. 

•  On receipt of allotment in afferent accounts these afferent allottees 
had  transferred  the  allotted  shares  to  their  principals  /  operators 

who in turn transferred the shares off market to financiers.  

•  The financiers sold most of the shares on first day of listing thereby 
realizing  the  difference  between  the  issue  price  and  the  listing 

price.  

•  The  modus  operandi  adopted  by  these  operators  /  financiers  has 

been given briefly in para 3.3. of this report.  

 

Page 22 of 43 

10.2  The Committee called for the basis of allotment in all the 21 IPOs.  21 
tables  furnishing  the  basis  of  allotment  in  the  IPOs  in  question  were 

presented  to  the  Committee.  These  tables  have  been  annexed  as 

Annexures  7  to  27  to  the  report.      A  table  of  IDFC  IPO  (enclosed 

herewith  as  Annexure  7)  was  taken  as  a  sample  case  by  the 

Committee.  The Committee analyzed the approved Basis of Allotment 

in the retail category of the IDFC IPO.  

 
10.3  In  accordance  with  the  basis  of  allotment  in  IDFC  IPO,  141,260,000 
shares  were  offered  (and  allotted  in  the  retail  quota)  to  491,043 

successful  allottees  out  of  613,680  applicants.  The  minimum  number 

of shares allotted to the lowest category in the IDFC IPO was 200. Of 

these  shares,  14,380,560  shares  were  allotted  to  53,700  “afferent” 

allottees. 

 
10.4  The Committee sought to know the basis on which afferent applicants 
were  identified.  The  Committee  was  informed  that  the  rationale  for 

categorization of these accounts as “afferent” was that they were one 

of the 500 or more accounts that transferred the IPO allotments into a 

common  demat  account  (belonging  to  the  “key  operator”)  via  off-

market  deals  prior  to  listing.  While  these  afferent  accounts  were  not 

frozen  by  any  SEBI  order,  it  is  understood  that  98%  of  the  afferent 

accounts have been closed pursuant to KYC verifications. Some of the 

afferent  accounts  have  been  frozen  by  the  depositories  /  depository 

participants  (DPs)  for  deficiencies  in  KYC  compliances  /  non-

submission of PAN details. 

 
10.5  The Committee observed that as per directions contained in the SEBI 
interim  order  dated  27.04.2006,  depositories  have  frozen  demat 

accounts of key operators and financiers.  Further the Committee also 

noted that as per data furnished by the depositories, out of the 57,914 

afferent  accounts  (36,216  in  NSDL  and  21,698  in  CDSL,  as  informed 

Page 23 of 43 

by  the  depositories,  after  excluding  those  relating  to  the  alleged 

operators  namely  Indiabulls  Securities  Ltd.  and  Jhaveri  Securities  P 

Ltd.)  as  many  as  56,909  accounts  (35,297  in  NSDL  and  21,612  in 

CDSL)  were  closed.    Thus  more  than  98%  of  the  afferent  accounts 

have  been  closed.    Therefore,  the  Committee  concluded  that  the 

securities,  if  any,  held  in  the  afferent  demat  accounts  may  not  be 

relevant  and  the  securities  which  are  available  in  the  frozen  demat 

accounts of operators and financiers will be relevant for the exercise. 

 
10.6  The  Committee  observed  that  Section  68A  of  the  Companies  Act 
provided that an applicant shall not apply for shares in fictitious names 

or  shall  not  impersonate  another  person  to  apply  for  shares.    The 

Committee  observed  that  the  charge  sheet  filed  by  CBI  and  the 

complaint  filed  by  SEBI  under  Section  26  of  the  SEBI  Act  includes 

Section  68A  of  the  Companies  Act  as  substantive  offence  for  which 

accused have been charged.  The Committee observed that if genuine 

applicants applied multiple times in small lots in the retail quota, they 

were  effectively  exploiting  the  system  by  pretending  to  be  retail  (i.e. 

small)  applicants  whereas  in  reality  they  were  large  applicants.  They 

were trying to take advantage of the better success ratio available in 

the  retail  quota.    The  Committee,  therefore,  observed  that  it  prima 

facie  appeared  that  each  of  these  53,700  allottees  in  the  IDFC  IPO 

seemed  to  be  either  fictitious  applicants  or  had  exploited  the  system 
designed to benefit small investors.  

 
10.7  The Committee observed that all these afferent applications in 21 IPOs 
were  made  in  the  retail  category  of  IPOs.  The  Committee  felt  that  to 

the extent these fictitious “afferent accounts” were allotted shares, the 

genuine applicants were deprived of their chance to secure allotment. 

The Committee, therefore, quantifies the unjust enrichment in the case 

of  each  IPO  to  be  the  gain  associated  with  the  number  of  shares 

allotted to “afferent” applicants. 

Page 24 of 43 

 
10.8   Accordingly,  the  Committee  concluded  that  these  53,700  afferent 

applicants in the IDFC issue ought not to have been allotted shares at 

all,  and  to  the  extent  they  have  been  allotted  shares  on  good  faith 

basis  by  the  Issuer  Company,  these  were  undeserving  and  unjust 

allotments.  Therefore,  14,380,560  shares  allotted  to  53,700 

“afferent”  applicants  were  unjustly  allotted  and  actually  should  have 

been allotted to other genuine applicants.  Prima Facie it would appear 

that gains associated with these is the quantum of “unjust enrichment” 

and these shares are to be the subject of reallocation.  

 
10.9  Extending this chain of reasoning, the Committee recommends that in 
each  of  the  21  IPOs,  the  number  of  shares  allotted  to  afferent 

applicants be treated as unjust allotments / enrichment. 

 
10.10  It  was  felt  that  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the  retail  reallocation 
or  entitlement  of  the  genuine  applicants,  the  applications  made  by 

afferent applicants have to be excluded from the re-allocation.  

 
11.0   Analysis of IInd Principle – Identification of deprived applicants 
 

11.1   The second principle is to determine the genuine applicants who may 

be considered as deprived.  The Committee observed that there are 

broadly four categories of applicants, as under: 

 

a.  The applicants who were totally unsuccessful i.e. the applicants 
who were not allotted any shares at all in the IPO. 
b.  All non afferent applicants who were partly successful under the 
firm allotment category. 
c.  All  non-afferent  applicants  who  were  partly  successful  under 
drawals of lots category 

Page 25 of 43 

d.  The  applicants  who  applied  in  same  category  in  which  the 
afferent applications were made. 

 

11.2    The Committee noted that each of these 21 IPOs was oversubscribed, 

and therefore went into the process  of  allotment for oversubscribed 

IPOs.    The  Committee  also  perused  details  of  applications  and 

allotment  to  afferent  accounts  and  basis  of  allotment  as  given  in 

Annexures 7 to 27 in respect of 21 IPOs.  

 

11.3  The  Committee  observed 

that 

the  process  of  allotment 

for 

oversubscribed  IPOs  is  laid  down  to  be  a  transparent,  fair  process, 

and it has the following objectives: 

 

•  Applicants are only entitled to be considered for allotment, they do 

not have a right to be allotted shares. 

•  There is a principle of proportionality; i.e. an applicant for a larger 
number  of  shares  will  either  have  a  better  chance  for  securing  an 

allocation, or a higher allocation, or both. 

• 

• 

In this process, applicants may receive no shares at all; they may 

receive lesser shares than they applied for, or they may receive the 

shares  they  applied  for.  It  is  entirely  a  function  of  the  extent  of 

oversubscription and the basis approved by the Stock Exchange. 

It is also an endeavor to allot at least a basic minimum number of 

shares to successful applicants and have a manageable number of 

shareholders  to  be  administered  by  the  Issuer  Company.  This 

means  that the  basis of allotment would  not allot  1 share each to 

lakhs of applicants; instead it would allot say 100 shares to some of 

the applicants based on drawal of lots. 

 
11.4  The  Committee  analyzed  the  IDFC  IPO  allotment  process.  A  table 
listing the  categories and the numbers of applicants in each category 

in the IDFC issue is given in Annexure 28 of the report. 

Page 26 of 43 

 
11.5  The Committee observed that there is no precedent for reallocation of 
shares,  and  there  was  neither  a  legal  basis  on  which  such  a 

reallocation should be done, nor a legal entitlement for any section of 

the applicants to be reallocated. It was observed that the unsuccessful 

applicants  have  been  given  refund  of  their  application  money.  This 

process  has  been  initiated  by  SEBI  in  exercise  of  their  powers  to 

enforce market discipline and integrity and to demonstrate that unfair 

practices will not be tolerated and that victims of unfair practices will 

find justice.  

 
11.6  The  Committee  observed  that  in  deciding  which  applicants  are  to  be 
treated  as  “deprived  and  deserving”  of  the  reallocation,  one  cannot 

lose sight of the fact that: 

 

−  In  every  oversubscribed  IPO,  there  are  likely  to  be  totally 

unsuccessful applicants. 

−  In every oversubscribed IPO there are likely to be partly successful 

applicants. 

 

The  Committee  embarked  on  deliberations  as  to  which  category  of 

applicants has to be categorized as deprived.  

 

11.7  A  section  of  applicants  could  argue  that  the  entire  original  allotment 
must be cancelled and an entirely fresh allotment carried out. However 

this  would  be  extremely  disruptive  to  the  market  and  create 

uncertainty amongst current holders of these shares (who may not be 

the original allottees). In addition, this would tantamount to affecting 

genuine  allottees  for  no  fault  of  their  own.  For  these  reasons,  the 

Committee  believed  that  it  was  required  to  ensure  that  the  genuine 

allotments in the IPOs are protected. 

 

Page 27 of 43 

11.8  A section of applicants will no doubt argue that only the applicants who 
applied in the same category as the “afferent applicants” are deprived. 

This  will  not  hold  water  since  if  the  afferent  applications  had  been 

weeded out ab initio, those shares would have been allotted to all the 

other  eligible  applicants.      It  was  felt  that  applications  by  afferent 

applicants  affected  the  chances  of  allotment  in  all  the  categories  and 

therefore deprived applicants cannot be confined to the same category 

as those of afferent applicants.  

 
11.9  A section of applicants could argue that even the successful applicants 
were “deprived“ since they would perhaps have received a marginally 

larger allotment had the 14,380,560 shares in the IDFC IPO allotted to 

afferent applicants been ab initio allotted to genuine applicants alone. 

This argument was also taken into consideration by the Committee. 

 

11.10 The Committee observed that the purpose of creating a retail category 

in  an  IPO  process  is  to  ensure  wide  distribution  of  equity  shares 

amongst  small  investors.      The  Committee  deliberated  whether  the 

applicants  who  were  totally  unsuccessful  only  have  to  be  categorized 

as deprived or even partly successful applicant can also be considered 

as deprived.  

 

11.11 The Committee held a deliberation with experts such as officials of BSE 

and  NSE  and  public  representatives.  These  experts  felt  that  the 

Committee  may  consider  the  non-allottees,  rather  than  the  partial 

allottees for the simple reason that the partial allottees have had the 

“benefit of the market” from the shares already allotted to them.    

 

11.12    The  Committee  discussed  the  possible  basis  of  allotment  that  might 

have  prevailed  in  these  IPOs  had  these  afferent  applications  been 

detected  at  the  beginning.  The  Committee  has  perused  the  principles 

by which the basis of allotment is usually drawn in an oversubscribed 

Page 28 of 43 

 

IPO.  The Committee also perused tables in respect of application and 

allotment to afferent accounts and basis of allotment in the 21 IPOs as 

given in annexure 7 to 27 of this report.  The Committee has taken the 

views  of  the  expert  invitees  on  this  subject.  The  Committee  has 

understood  that  had  these  afferent  applications  been  removed  at  the 

beginning and allotment carried out, the resultant basis would: 

•  Have still most probably allotted the same number of shares in the 
drawal-of-lots  categories,  but  the  success  ratio  would  have  been 

better.  In  the  IDFC  case,  as  can  be  observed  from  Annexure  28, 

the  success  ratio  in  the  category  of  applicants  of  200  shares  was 

4:21, resulting in approximately 19% of applicants being successful 

and allotted 200 shares each. Had all the afferent applicants been 

weeded out in the beginning, perhaps the success ratio would have 

been 23% or 24% but the same number of 200 shares would have 

been allotted to each successful applicant.  

•  Have  probably  allotted  a  slightly  higher  number  of  shares  to 
allottees in the FIRM categories. In the IDFC case, all applicants in 

the category of applicants of 2000 shares were allotted 380 shares 

on a firm basis without a drawal of lots. In this category, possibly 

the firm allotment amount would have been a little more than 380 

shares. 

•  Any  impact  on  successful  applicants  in  drawal  of  lots  categories 

would have been minimal, if at all. 

 

11.13  Thus  the  major  impact  of  these  afferent  shares  would  have  been 
amongst  the  unsuccessful  applicants  in  the  drawal-of-lots  categories, 

while applicants in the firm categories would have been impacted, but 

perhaps to a far lesser extent. The question before the Committee was 

thus  to  determine  a  fair  way  in  which  these  three  categories  of 

applicants  (i.e.  totally  unsuccessful  applicants,  partly  successful 

Page 29 of 43 

applicants  in  firm  and  drawals  of  last  category)  would  be  treated  in 

this exercise. 

 
11.14 The Committee has observed that the markets have been very kind to 
investors  in  the  period  since  listing  of  these  IPOs.  All  allottees  would 

have  seen  the  value  of  their  investment  increase  substantially  in  this 

period.  Unsuccessful  allottees,  on  the  other  hand,  simply  had  their 

application  money  refunded  to  them.  The  Committee  therefore  felt 

that  the  totally  unsuccessful  applicant  had  a  first  call  on  the 

reallocation, but only up to a  point i.e.  upto the  minimum  number of 

shares allotted per applicant, after which partly successful investors in 

the firm category and thereafter partly successful applicants in drawal 

of lots category may also be considered for reallocation. 

 
11.15  Thus on the question of deprived applicants, the Committee proposes 
that all unsuccessful applicants, then partly successful applicants in the 

firm category and thereafter partly successful applicants in the drawal 

of  lots  category  shall  be  entitled  to  be  considered  as  deprived 

applicants  depending  on  shares  available  for  spillover  to  partly 

successful applicants category after reallocation to totally unsuccessful 

applicants.  

 

12.0  Mode of re-allocation.  

 
12.1  The  Committee  deliberated  on  the  form  of  reallocation  amongst  the 

deprived applicants, whether it should be in the form of IPO shares or 

money. 

 
12.2  On the question of availability of shares to carry out the reallocation, 
the  Committee  has  noted  that  the  shares  per  se  have  largely  been 

disposed  off.  While  small  quantities  of  these  shares  may  be  available 

in  demat  accounts  frozen  by  SEBI,  these  are  too  small  in  quantity  to 

be of substantive material value.  The Committee has deliberated and 

Page 30 of 43 

obtained expert inputs that it would be very de-stabilizing to markets 

and  practically  impossible  to  trace  the  originally  allotted  “afferent” 

shares to the current owners and recover them.  

 
12.3  In  case  of  reallocation  of  shares  the  procedure  such  as  purchasing 
same  shares  from  the  market  at  the  existing  market  price  for 

reallocation  and  fresh  application  with  application  money  from  the 

deprived  applicants  who  are  considered  for  reallocation,  will  be 

required.  It may not be possible to get the requisite number of shares 

from the market or available funds may not be sufficient to purchase 

the requisite number of shares at the current market price. 

 
12.4  The Committee, therefore, recommends that reallocation be quantified 
in monetary terms and the entitlement of each “deprived applicant” be 

initially computed based upon shares but subsequently converted into 

monetary terms. 

 
12.5 

 The Committee deliberated on the sum of money that is to be deemed 

to be the fair value of these shares. Shares have prices that vary on a 

daily  basis.  In  addition,  there  may  have  been  corporate  actions  such 

as dividends, splits and rights, each of which would have benefited the 

then current owner. It is not practical to determine the sum of money 

by reference to such a moving target. The modus operandi at para 3.3 

of  this  report  shows  that  the  operators  /  financiers  sold  most  of  the 

IPO shares on the first day of listing thereby realizing the gain of price 

difference  between  IPO  issue  price  and  the  listing  price.  The 

Committee  felt  that  the  difference  between  the  closing  price  of  the 

shares  on  the  first  day  of  listing  and  IPO  issue  price  as  fair  for 

determining the sum of money that be considered for reallocation. 

 
12.6  The Committee observed that the quantum of unjust enrichment may 
be computed in value terms by valuing the shares on the closing price 

Page 31 of 43 

of  the  first  day  of  listing  /  trading  at  NSE.  The  committee  noted  that 

any  ‘deprived  person’  (i.e.  unsuccessful  IPO  applicant),  if  he  so 

desired, could have purchased the shares from the secondary market 

upon listing and could have participated in the subsequent movements 

of  the  stock  prices.  Therefore  it  may  not  be  necessary  to  reckon  the 

subsequent  movements  in  the  stock  prices  for  the  computation  of 

unjust enrichment and its reallocation.  

 
12.7  The Committee observed that in the original allotment process all the 
valid  applicants  had  only  the  right  to  be  considered  for  allotment  by 

drawal  of  lots.  Therefore,  any  amount  to  be  given  on  reallocation 

should not be treated as compensation as the unsuccessful applicants 

have  already  been  refunded  their  application  money.    They  had  the 

option  to  purchase  the  IPO  shares  utilizing  their  refund  amount  after 

the listing of these securities if so desired by them. They are also not 

entitled  for  any  interest  or  to  claim  the  money  equivalent  to  the 

minimum number of shares that are allotted in each category in case 

of oversubscription.    

 The  Committee,  therefore,  recommends  that  for  the  purpose  of 

reallocation  or  payment  to  these  deprived  applicants  only  the  closing 

price at which these shares were listed on the first day of listing will be 

considered.  In  other  words,  these  deprived  applicants,  will  be 

considered  for  the  amount  which  is  the  difference  of  closing  price  of 

shares  on  the  first  day  of  listing  /  trading  at  NSE  and  the  IPO  issue 

price.  These  applicants  will  not  be  entitled  for  the  market  price 

subsequent to the listing.   

 
12.8 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 32 of 43 

13.0  Analysis  of  IIIrd  Principle  –  Basis  for  re-allocation  amongst 

deprived applicants.  

 

13.1  The question now is in what manner the reallocation should be done 
to individual deprived applicants. Here again the Committee obtained 

the  opinion  of  the  Expert 

invitees  and  carried  out  detailed 

deliberations. 

 
13.2  It  was  observed  that  allocation  of  shares  is  always  carried  out  by 
lots.  This  means  that  some  applicants  would  be 

drawal  of 

unsuccessful.  It  is  possible  to  apply  the  same  principle  to  reallocate 

the unjust enrichment to deprived applicants. 

 

On  the  other  hand,  drawal  of  lots  is  carried  out  principally  to  ensure 

that the number of allottees is kept to a manageable number from the 

perspective  of  the  issuer  Company,  and  that  each  allottee  receives  a 

reasonable  number  of  shares.  These  constraints  do  not  apply  to  the 

current  exercise  when  money  alone  is  being  recommended  for 

reallocation  among  the  deprived  applicants,  since  it  is  possible  to 

distribute  even  small  sums  of  money  efficiently  using  electronic 

credits.  Drawal  of  lots  again  would  possibly  imply  a  quasi-allotment 

process, which is certainly not intended to be. Also, there would be a 

fair  number  of  totally  unsuccessful  applicants  who  might  be 

unsuccessful a second time or in second round as well. 

 
13.3  The Committee after deliberating all the above options felt that for the 
purpose  of  reallocation,  the  original  basis  of  allotment  in  IPO  on 

proportionality  or  drawal  of  lots  need  not  be  adopted,  inter  alia,  for 

the following reasons: 

 

a. 

The applicants who were totally successful may again stake 

their claim on the plea that as they were successful in the 

Page 33 of 43 

lots  drawn  in  the  original  allotment,  only  they  are  entitled 

for reallocation and not the unsuccessful applicants.  

b. 

The  reallocation  is  recommended  to  be  in  terms  of  money  

to  deprived  applicants  only,  and,  therefore,  the  same 

original  allotment  formula  adopted  for  allotment  of  shares 

in  an  oversubscribed  IPO  need  not  be  adopted  for 

reallocation.  

c. 

The  recommendation  to  carry  out  reallocation  in  money 

terms  to  all  deprived  valid  applicants  would  obviate  the 

need  to  ask 

for 

fresh  application  money 

from  the 

applicants.  

d. 

No unsuccessful valid deprived applicant need be left out of 

the reallocation.  

e.     The above procedure will be simple and economical. 

f.      The  Committee,  however,  made  it  clear  that  the  above 

formula  for  re-allocation  to  valid  deprived  applicants  only 

as recommended by the Committee, cannot be taken as a 

precedent for IPO allotments in case of oversubscription in 

future.  

 

13.4      The  experts  also  suggested  that  the  gains  being  passed  to  the  non-

allottees need not and should not be based on drawal of lots. Instead 

the  gains  should  be  distributed  among  the  non-allottees  keeping  in 

mind the resources available.  

 

 

After  much  deliberation,  the  Committee  arrived  at  the  following 

“Spillover” method of reallocation: 

•  Provided  the  quantity  of  afferent  shares  permits,  reallocation  to 
unsuccessful investors can take place UNTIL each of them has been 

allotted  the  same  number  of  minimum  shares  as  was  initially 

allotted to applicants in the lowest category. In the IDFC case, this 

Page 34 of 43 

would mean that each unsuccessful applicant would be reallocated 

a maximum of 200 shares.  

• 

If  shares  were  left  over  after  the  above  reallocation  to  totally 

unsuccessful  applicants,  then  these  would  be  allocated  to  partly 

successful  applicant  in  the  firm  category  and  thereafter  to  partly 

successful applicant in the drawal of lots category. 

 

13.5      The  Committee  felt  that  the  first  tranche  of  the  reallocation  –  to 

unsuccessful  applicants  –  should  be  carried  out  by  equal  division  of 

the  unjust  enrichment,  but  limited  per  applicant  to  the  value  of 

unjust  enrichment  associated  with  the  original  allotment  to  the 

lowest category of successful applicants. In the case of IDFC Ltd., the 

issue  price  was  Rs.34.00  and  the  closing  price  on  the  first  day  of 

trading  was  Rs.69.50.    Thus,  the  gain  per  share  works  out  to 

Rs.35.50 (69.50-34.00).  Since the minimum allotment in the lowest 

category in IDFC IPO was 200 shares, the application of this principle 

would  mean  that  the  amount  of  reallocation  to  every  unsuccessful 

applicant would be a maximum of Rs. 7100.00 (200 x 35.50).  

 

13.6      Therefore,  on  the  question  of  reallocation  of  shares,  the  Committee 

recommends  a  “spillover”  method  of  reallocation.    Under  this 

method,  totally  unsuccessful  applicants  shall  be  reallocated  money 

value as  computed above  from recovered unjust gains, if necessary 

and possible from the frozen shares in demat accounts of operators 

and  financiers,  till  they  each  receive  the  gains  associated  with 

minimum shares allotted to the lowest category in the IPO. Once that 

number  is  reached,  any  gains  left  over  shall  “spill  over”  and  be 

reallocated  to  the  partly  successful  applicants  in  the  firm  category 

and thereafter in the drawal of lots category, to the extent of gains 

associated  with  minimum  shares  allotted  to  the  lowest  category  in 

the IPO. 

 

Page 35 of 43 

13.7   Annexures 7 to 27 to the Report give the table /  list of the status of 

basis  of  allotment  in  each  of  the  21  IPOs.  The  reallocation  to 

deprived applicants to be carried out in respect of these IPOs should 

be  in  accordance  with  recommendations  as  given  in  paras  13.4  to 

13.5 above. It may be reiterated that the calculations are based on 

status  of  various  issues  as  on  date  and  the  final  position  may  vary 

depending  on  the  facts  emerging  upon  conclusion  of  the  quasi-

judicial / legal proceedings. 

 

14.0  Implementation of Recommendations 

 

14.1    In  the  background  of  the  decisions  in  respect  of  the  3  principles,  the 

Committee  considered  and  deliberated  various 

implementation 

scenarios.  In  Principle  1,  the  Committee  suggested  that  the  quantum 

of  unjust  enrichment  is  “gains  associated  with  the  number  of  shares 

allotted to afferent applicants”. In Principle 2, the Committee has laid 

down the basis for identifying the “deprived” applicants. In Principle 3, 

the  Committee  has  identified  the  manner  (i.e.  spillover  method  of 

reallocation) in which the unjust enrichment will be reallocated to the 

deprived applicants. 

 
14.2  The  Committee  has  observed  that  the  reallocation  amount  to  the 
deprived  applicants  must  be  paid  out  of  moneys  that  must  first  be 

recovered  from  those  who  unjustly  benefited  such  as  the  key 

operators and financers. The Committee recognizes that this may be 

a  lengthy  legal  process,  and  it  is  quite  possible  that  recoveries  will 

take place in installments. The Committee has observed that the total 

unjust  gains  works  out  to  about  Rs.  95.69  Crores,  based  on  shares 

allotted to afferent accounts, across the 21 IPOs under consideration. 

As noted earlier in para 6.3 and from the Annexure 4, the value of the 

holdings  in  the  frozen  NSDL  and  CDSL  demat  accounts  of  the  key 

operators  and  financiers  as  on  31.10.07  works  out  to  about  Rs. 

Page 36 of 43 

1,478,536,264.06  (Rs.  147.85  Crores).    The  balance  in  the  bank 

accounts of operators / financiers frozen by CBI is Rs.12,069,085.90 

(Rs.  1.21  Crores).  The  total  amount  outstanding  in  demat  and  bank 

accounts is Rs.1,490,605,349.96 (Rs. 149.06 Crores). SEBI may like 

to  decide  based  upon  the  status  of  legal  proceedings  whether  this 

amount  is  immediately  recoverable  and  if  so  whether  it  can  be 

distributed among the deprived applicants.  

 
14.3  The  Committee  deliberated  whether  it  is  within  its  scope  to  suggest 
ways  of  recovering  the  cash  allocation  amount;  and  specifically 

whether  these  amounts  can  be  recovered  from  other  shares  (i.e. 

shares other than the IPO shares) held in frozen Demat accounts. The 

Committee  noted  that  the  demat  accounts  of  several  key  operators 

and financiers were frozen and had substantial balances of shares in 

them.  The  table  in  Annexure  5  indicates  the  gains  made  by  key 

operators  and  financiers  resulting  from  transfer  of  shares  from  the 

afferent  accounts  to  key  operators’  accounts.    The  Committee 

observed  that  the  SEBI  finding  shows  that  the  key  operators  and 

financiers  acted  in  concert  to  circumvent  the  IPO  allotment  process 

for  their  personal  gain.  Therefore,  SEBI  may  make  endeavor  to 

recover  and  realize  such  amounts  to  the  extent  of  deprivation,  from 

the frozen demat shares, amount frozen by CBI and such other sums 

which may possibly be available under the consent scheme, etc.  

 

14.4   As noted from para 7.3 the gains as shown in Annexure 5 have been 

calculated  on  the  basis  of  number  of  shares  cornered  by  each  Key 

Operator (as per the SEBI interim order dated 27.04.06) multiplied by 

the difference between the closing price on the first day of listing and 

the issue price.  

 
14.5   As regards shares other than the IPO shares which are available in the 

frozen demat accounts of the operators and the financiers, it was felt 

Page 37 of 43 

that  these  operators  /  financiers  who  have  gained  through  the 

cornering  of  IPO  shares  in  retail  category  through  applications  in 

fictitious  /  benami  names,  can  be  asked  to  disgorge  the  gain  and, 

failing  which  shares  available  in  the  frozen  demat  accounts  of 

operators  /  financiers  other  than  the  IPO  shares  can  be  sold  and 

proceeds  also  be  utilized  for  re-allocation  to  the  deprived  applicants. 

The Committee, therefore, recommends that subject to due process all 

the  shares  available  in  the  frozen  demat  accounts  of  operators  and 

financiers  be  utilized  for  reallocation.  The  Committee  also  noted  that 

SAT in its Order dated 22.11.2007 in Appeal No. 147 of 2006 in NSDL 

vs.  SEBI  has  said  that  a  person  who  has  made  illegal  or  unethical 

gains can be asked to disgorge its ill gotten profits.  

 

14.6  If the recoveries proceed in stages, then the Committee recommends 

disbursing  partial  reallocation  in  stages  based  on  recovered  cash  in 

hand.  In  the  recent  past,  there  has  been  a  precedent  where  Fixed 

Deposit amounts have been returned to depositors in failed NBFCs, in 

stages,  for  which  the  Courts  have  appointed  “Administrators”. 

Following  this  precedent,  the  Committee  recommends  a  similar 

staggered  payment, via SEBI  appointed Administrators, who  will take 

stage payment decisions based on the cost-efficiency of the process. 

 

14.7 The Committee felt that the amount to be recovered from the operators 

/ financiers should be to the extent of gains made by them.  Any other 

money  which  may  be  available  such  as  money  seized  by  CBI  or  any 

other  money  which  may  be  available  /  recoverable  in  due  course  on 

implementation  of  Consent  orders  in  the  matter  of  IPO  irregularities 

may  also  be  considered  for  reallocation  on  the  same  basis  as 

recommended by the Committee.  

 

14.8  The Committee observed that CBI in exercise of powers under Section 

102  of  the  Code  of  Criminal  Procedure  have  seized  certain  bank 

Page 38 of 43 

accounts of certain operators.   It is stated that the bank accounts of 

Dipak  Jashvantlal  Panchal,  Purshottam  Ghansayamdas  Budhwani, 

Manojdev  Gokulchand  Seksaria,  Bhanuprasad  Trivedi  and  Dushyant 

Dalal have been seized.  Out of these, the first three have been named 

as  accused  and  the  other  two  have  been  showed  as  accused  not 

charged.  It appears that the charge sheet filed by CBI does not refer 

to  action  under  Section  102  of  the  Code  of  Criminal  Procedure.      It 

could  be  that  the  persons  whose  bank  accounts  have  been  seized 

would apply to the court to get those accounts released.  In a meeting 

of  the  Committee  reference  has  been  made  to  the  money  frozen  by 

the CBI in the bank accounts of certain operators.  As per Annexure 4, 

the  total  balance  lying  in  frozen  bank  accounts  is  Rs.120,69,085.90 

(Rs. 1.21 Crores).  If the money lying in the bank accounts is released 

by  the  court  or  even  by  CBI,  it  will  be  too  late  in  the  day  to  take 

charge of the money lying in those accounts.  An application may have 

to  be  filed  in  the  court  concerned  and  also  to  the  CBI  not  to  release 

bank  accounts  so  frozen  and  that  money  in  the  bank  accounts  be 

handed over to SEBI.  But then it has to be made out that it’s the SEBI 

that has the right to take charge of the money for the purpose of re-

allocation to the deprived applicants.  It is understood that till now, the 

amount lying in the seized bank accounts has not yet been released. 

 

14.9    The  Committee  recognizes  that  reallocation  to  deprived  applicants  is 

operationally intensive and there will be expenses associated with the 

process.  The  Committee  recommends  that  an  Administrator  or 

Recordkeeper  be  appointed  to  carry  out  the  process.  The  Committee 

recommends  that  SEBI  examine  the  possibility  of  these  expenses 

being funded from the Investor Protection Fund of Stock Exchange or 

Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  (IPEF)  of  SEBI  failing  which 

they must necessarily be funded from the recovered amounts and only 

the  net  amount  reallocated.  In  order  to  ensure  that  there  is  cost 

Page 39 of 43 

efficiency,  it  is  recommended  that  payouts  happen  only  when 

reasonable amounts are collected.  

 

14.10  The  Committee  recognizes  that  the  quantum  and  timetable  of 

reallocations  are  dependent  on  the  various  judicial  and  quasi-judicial 

proceedings under way. The Committee recommends that should this 

report be placed in the public domain, due care should be taken not to 

unduly  raise  expectations  among  the  public  of  an  imminent  payout. 

The  Committee  also  recommends  that  as  and  when  a  payout  takes 

place  every  such  payout  should  be  covered  with  a  brief  explanatory 

note for the benefit of the recipient applicants. 

 

14.11 The Committee considered the following Implementation Steps for 

cash allocation: 

 

 

a.  The  Committee  recommends  that  all  identified  “Deprived  Applicants  “ 
will  be  automatically  considered  depending  upon  resources  available 

under  the  spillover  method,  and  each  of  these  applicants  will  not  be 

asked to apply again, seeking participation in the reallocation process; 

the  Committee  recommends  that  the  process  of  reallocation  must  be 

adequately  publicized  to  make  all  entitled  applicants  aware  of  their 

allocation.   

b.  There  will  be  expenses  incurred  in  this  process.  One  option  is  to 
recover  these  expenses  from  the  gross  cash  allocation  amount. 

Alternately  the  expenses  could  be  met  from  the  Investor  Protection 

Fund of stock exchanges or SEBI IPEF.  

c.  An  “Administrator”  may  be  appointed  by  SEBI  for  this  purpose  to 

handle the process. 

d.  The reallocation or payment, to the valid deprived applicants, may be 
made  as  far  as  possible  as  per  the  bank  records  in  their  demat 

accounts.  

Page 40 of 43 

15.0  Limitations 
 

15.1    The  Committee  wishes  to  confirm  that  it  is  the  principles  that  have 

been  recommended,  and  the  actual  numbers,  tables  etc.  will  vary 

depending on the facts of each IPO. 

 
15.2  The  Committee  has  worked  on  facts  provided  by  SEBI,  who  have  in 
turn  sourced  them  from  various  regulated  entities.    The  mandate  of 

the Committee was to recommend principles for reallocation for the 21 

IPOs  specified  by  SEBI;  and  this  reallocation  exercise  was  limited  to 

the retail quotas of the respective IPOs.   The Committee has made a 

set  of  recommendations  being  aware  that  the  facts  as  currently 

prevailing  are  disputed  before  different  fora,  and  that  the  ultimate 

facts could be different. The Committee presently believes and hopes, 

on the basis of documents perused, that the final facts will not be so 

different as to negate these recommendations. 

 
15.3  Legal  proceedings  relating  to  these  key  operators,  financiers  and 
intermediaries are under way; and until their conclusion it may not be 

possible  to  accurately  determine  the  quantum  of  unjust  enrichment 

and the number of deprived applicants. It may or may not be possible 

to  recover  any  assets  from  any  of  these  parties  until  then.  Therefore 

the  recommendations  of  this  Committee  are  stated  as  principles  and 

based  upon  facts  as  they  currently  stand.  The  actual  implementation 

of these recommendations will be based upon the facts as they finally 
prevail. 

 
15.4  Nothing  in  this  report  of  the  Committee  should  be  construed  as 
circumscribing  the  power  of  any  authority  in  respect  of  IPO 

irregularities or reallocation thereof etc. to act in the manner as may 

be deemed appropriate by it or to act as per the law. 

 

Page 41 of 43 

15.5  The Committee members noted that some tables included in the report 
consist  of  data,  such  as  holdings  in  the  demat  accounts  of  key 

operators / financiers, and money frozen by CBI in bank accounts etc. 

which are not in public domain and may relate to private information 

of  the  individuals.    Therefore,  the  Committee  decided  to  include  the 

data  as  separate  annexures  to  its  report.  The  Committee  felt  that  if 

SEBI decides to put the report of the Committee in the public domain, 

SEBI  may  take  appropriate  decision  on  whether  or  not  to  put  the 

annexures 

to 

the  Committee  report  (containing  such  private 

information particularly annexures 4 and 5) also in the public domain. 

 

 

 

16.0   Acknowledgements 

 

16.1    The  Committee  met  for  the  first  time  on  August  31,  2007  and 

deliberated  on  the  matter  during  period  of  six  months.  The  members 

were apprised of the IPO process and the modus operandi in the IPO 

irregularities  in  cornering  shares  by  key  operators,  financiers  etc.  by 

SEBI  officials  particularly  Shri  S.  Madhusudhanan,  AGM,  ISD  who 

assisted the Committee in securing data and in preparation of various 

tables for perusal and consideration of the Committee.  The members 

were  also  apprised  of  findings  of  investigations  in  respect  of  IPO 

irregularities,  action  recommended  by  SEBI  in  respect  of  various 

entities including prosecution, tables on the 21 IPOs, their issue size, 

listing date, etc., and tables on the number of shares allotted to retail 

investors, the number of applicants who received no allotment or part 

allotment, refund in retail category, etc.  The Committee acknowledges 

with  thanks  the  overall  support  and  co-operation  provided  by  SEBI 

officials and officials from CBI, BSE, NSE and public representatives.  

 

Page 42 of 43 

16.2  During  the  course  of  the  detailed  examinations,  the  Committee  had 
occasion  frequently  to  rely  on  the  various  orders  passed  by  Shri  G. 

Anantharaman,  Whole  Time  Member  of  SEBI  which  are  well 

documented,  comprehensive,  lucid  and  analytical.    The  Committee 

found these orders to be very useful. 

 

16.3  Committee  also  places  on  record  its  appreciation  of  the  support 

provided  by  Mr.  S.  Madhusudhanan-AGM,  Integrated  Surveillance 

Department, Ms. Anju Mahendra – Legal Officer, Mr. Rakesh Kumar – 

Legal Officer, Mr. Kirtikumar Jadhav – Legal Officer for their assistance 

to  the  Committee.    The  Committee  could  not  have  accomplished  this 

task without secretarial support extended by Ms. Khurshid Fatakia and 

Ms. Sophie M.  

 

The Committee acknowledges with deep appreciation the contribution of each 

and everyone associated with this project particularly those who shouldered 

the responsibility of compiling this document in a relatively short time. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Justice D P Wadhwa 
Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
R. Sridharan  
Member  
 
 
 
 
 
Virendra Jain 
Member  

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

V. Shankar 
Member 

Ananta Barua 
Member Secretary 

Page 43 of 43 

