ANNUAL AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE REPORT

1.  As  per  the  SEBI  Circular  no.  SMD/SED/0072/92  dated  December  31,  1992
members of stock exchanges are required to get their annual accounts audited by
Chartered Accountants within 6 months from the closing of books of accounts and
submit a copy of the same to stock exchanges within 30 days of the receipt of the
audit  report.  This  requirement  of  conduct  of  annual  audit  of  stock  brokers
emanates from GOI directive No. F.1/5/SE/83 dated May 31, 1984 which enjoins
stock  brokers  to  get  their  books  of  accounts  audited  by  qualified  Chartered
Accountants.

2.  As all the active members of stock exchanges are covered under the annual audit,
standards of compliance of these members may be enhanced considerably if apart
from financial aspects, the annual audits also cover certain key regulatory aspects
relating 
financials  and  member’s  dealing  with  clients  and  major
deficiencies/non  conformance  with  regulatory  requirements  are  reported  in  the
form of Annexure to the report.

to 

3.  The  concept  paper  contained  herein  broadly  outlines  the  areas  which  are  to  be
covered by auditors during annual audit of stock brokers. Public comments on the
concept  paper  are  invited  and  may  be  sent  to  SEBI,  Division  of  Policy  and
Supervision-1,  Market 
Intermediaries  Regulation  and  Supervision
Department,  Exchange  Plaza,  G  Block,  4th  Floor,  Bandra  Kurla  Complex,
Bandra (E), Mumbai 400 051 or emailed to ashishk@sebi.gov.in or faxed to 91-
22-26598514/18 within 14 days

4.  Apart  from  financial  aspects,  the  annual  audit  report  may  contain  the

following points:

4.1  MAINTENANCE OF BOOKS OF ACCOUNTS:

Auditors may examine if the broker has been maintaining the required books of accounts
as per Rule 15 of SC(R) Rules 1957 and Regulation 17 of SEBI (Stock Broker and Sub
Brokers)  Regulations,  1992.  Any  non  maintenance  of  books  of  accounts  by  the  broker
may be specifically commented by the auditor.

Page 1 of 7

4.2 

LIST OT TRADING TERMINALS:

Auditors may give a city-wise list of all trading terminals granted by the member. It may
also be examined by the auditors whether such trading terminals have been given by the
member only at its registered office, branch office and the registered sub broker’s office.
Grant  of  any  unauthorized  trading  terminal  by  the  broker  to  its  clients  etc.  may  be
reported by auditors in their report.

4.3 

TURNOVER DETAILS:

The  turnover  of  the  member  may  be  given  across  different  exchanges  in  the  following
format:

CASH SEGMENT:

Exch. Pro A/c As  %  of

Total
Turnover

DERIVATIVES SEGMENT:

Exch. Pro A/c As  %  of

Total
Turnover

WDM/DEBT SEGMENT:

Exch. Pro A/c As  %  of

Total
Turnover

As  %  of
Total
Turnover

Total
Turnover

As  %  of
Total
Turnover

Total
Turnover

As  %  of
Total
Turnover

Total
Turnover

Retail
clients

(Figures in Rs. crore)

As  %  of
Total
Turnover

Inst.
Clients

Retail
clients

(Figures in Rs. crore)

As  %  of
Total
Turnover

Inst.
Clients

Retail
clients

(Figures in Rs. crore)

As  %  of
Total
Turnover

Inst.
clients

Page 2 of 7

4.4 

SEGMENT WISE INCOME STATEMENT

A segment wise break up of income earned by the member may be given to throw light
on various activities being undertaken by the broker and their contribution to the overall
revenue model of the broker. As a typical example, the audit report may contain income
of  the  broker  in  the  form  of  exchange-wise  brokerage  earned,  interest  income,  income
from investment consultancy, income from portfolio management services, income from
DP operations etc.

4.5 

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDING PATTERN:

The  statement  should  give  shareholding  pattern  of  the  entity.  All  those  holding  5%  or
above as on the close of year ending for which audit is conducted should be given in the
audit  report.  The  report  should  also  indicate  all  the  major  changes  in  the  shareholding
pattern of the entity during the period under review.

The information to be given may be in the following format:

S No. Name of persons/entities
(To be given for all those
holding more than 5% of
the total shareholding)

As on March 31, 2003

As on March 31, 2002

No. of shares
held

% of
sharehold
ing

No. of
shares
held

% of
sharehold
ing

4.6 

STATEMENT OF NET WORTH:

A statement of net worth as per the formulae prescribed by SEBI/stock exchange may be
given under the para. Further the entity’s financial position may be judged in terms of its
net worth and overall exposure in the market/obligations due to various entities. Financial
soundness of the entity would be an important parameter to have an overall view about
the operations of the member.

4.7 

EXAMINATION OF THE ROLE OF COMPLIANCE OFFICER:

The auditors may examine the role of the compliance Officer, whom all stock brokers are
required to appoint as per the SEBI (Investment advice by Intermediaries) (Amendment)
Regulations, 2001. The role may be examined in light of the competence, qualifications,
experience  and  seniority  of  the  compliance  officer,  nature  of  reporting  pattern,

Page 3 of 7

information  flow  in  the  organization,  especially  that  related  to  non  conformance  as
provided  by  stock  exchanges  etc.,  detailed  scrutiny  if  any,  carried  out  by  compliance
officer during the year and follow up action on the report of the compliance officer etc.

4.8  MARGIN COLLECTION AND PAYMENT:

The system of collection of margins from clients may be examined by the auditors and
any deviation from regulatory requirement concerning the same may be reported in the
audit report. Vide SEBI circular no. SMD/Policy/Cir-12/2002 dated May 17, 2002, it has
been  decided  that  brokers  should  collect  upfront  margin  from  clients.  However  for  the
collection  of  10%  upfront  margin  from  clients,  only  trades  which  would  result  in  a
margin  of  Rs  50,000  or  more  should  be  considered.  In  other  words,  if  clients  position
exceeds Rs. 5 lacs the broker would be necessarily required to collect 10% margin from
the clients.
The implementation of gross margining system at the broker level may also be checked in
line  with  SEBI  Circular  no.  SMDRP/policy/Cir-34/01  dated  June  21,  2001.  Vide  this
circular no netting across different clients is permitted and the broker is required to pay
margins on the basis of gross position across all clients.

Any deficiencies observed in this respect may be reported by the auditors in the form of a
para on non compliance.

4.9 

SEGREGATION OF CLIENTS FUNDS AND OWN FUNDS

Auditors may carry out a detailed analysis of various bank accounts being operated by the
member. The analysis may throw light on the following regulatory concerns:

1.  Non- segregation of clients funds and own funds.
2.  Misutilisation of clients funds.

the 

laid  down 

important  requirements  as 

in  SEBI  Circular  no.
A  few  of 
SMD/SED/Cir/93/23321 dated November 18, 1993 issued in respect of maintaining a line
of segregation between own funds and clients funds are as under:

Every member broker shall keep such books of accounts, as will be necessary, to show
and distinguish in connection with his business as a member -

?  Moneys received from or on account of each of his clients and,

?  the moneys received and the moneys paid on Member’s own account.

Page 4 of 7

WHAT  MONEYS  TO  BE  PAID  INTO  AND  DRAWN  FROM  “CLIENTS
ACCOUNT”

A. No money shall be paid into clients account other than -

1.  Money held or received on account of  clients;

2.  Such  money  belonging  to  the  Member  as  may  be  necessary  for  the  purpose  of

opening or maintaining the account;

3.  Money  for  replacement  of  any  sum  which  may  by  mistake  or  accident  have  been

drawn from the account in contravention of para B given below;

4.  A cheque or draft received by the Member representing in part money belonging to

the client and in part money due to the Member

B. No money shall be drawn from clients account other than

1.  Money  properly  required  for  payment  to  or  on  behalf  of  clients  or  for  or  towards
payment  of  a  debt  due  to  the  Member  from  clients  or  money  drawn  on  client’s
authority, or money in respect of which there is a liability of clients to the Member,
provided that money so drawn shall not in any case exceed the total of the money so
held for the time being for such each client;

2.  such money belonging to the Member as may have been paid into the client account

under para A [2] or A [4] given above;

3.  money  which  may  by  mistake  or  accident  have  been  paid  into  such  account  in

contravention of para A above.

It is generally observed that the balances lying in clients account also contain a portion
representing brokerage which members don't withdraw every settlement.  However as an
when  need  arises,  payments  or  withdrawals  are  made  from  clients  account  itself  for
different purposes and it is submitted that such withdrawal is always less than the amount
of brokerage attributable to the broker. In such a case auditors may make an analysis of
total brokerage due to the broker and total withdrawals made to form a view about the
misutilsation of clients funds.

Page 5 of 7

If any non compliance with regulatory requirement in this regard is observed by auditors
specific instances may be brought out in the form of Annexure to the auditors report.

4.10  PAYMENT OF STAMP DUTY:

Auditors  may  verify  whether  appropriate  stamp  duty  has  been  paid  by  brokers  in  line
with provisions of the Stamp Act. An analysis of broker’s transactions and accounts may
be carried out to arrive at the quantum of stamp duty payable and actually paid by the
brokers. Any shortfall in payment may be brought out in the report by auditors.

4.11  BORROWINGS/EXTENT OF LEVERAGE:

Auditors  may  verify  whether  the  borrowings/lending  being  done  by  the  broker  is  in
connection  with  or  incidental  to/consequent  upon  securities  business.  The  quantum  of
borrowings/lending  made by the member, terms and conditions and tenor of borrowings
may  also  be  analysed  by  auditors  to  form  a  view  about  the  extent  of  leverage  being
exercised  by  the  member  in  relation  to  his  operations.  In  case  the  borrowings  are
excessive, which in the opinion of auditors are likely to impact the safety of operations of
the member, auditors may comment on the same. Similarly in case of lending done by the
member, quantum and soundness of such lending in terms of quality of assets, age-wise
analysis and collectibility may be commented upon by the auditors.

4.12  EXPOSURE LIMIT:

Auditors may on a random and test check basis analyse the total gross exposure of the
broker based on its base minimum capital and additional base minimum capital deposited
with the exchange. Such an exposure would take into account the position of the member
across all the exchanges as well outside the exchange for any spot transactions etc either
through his own outfit or through other members as a client.

4.13  RECEIVABLES/PAYMENT AND DELIVERIES TO CLIENTS:

Auditors  may  examine  the  practices  and  procedures  of  the  members  in  so  far  as  they
relate  to  payment  of  money  and  giving  deliveries  to  clients  within  the  prescribed  time
limit.  Such  examination  would  include  general  observations  regarding  practices  of  the
member  on  these  aspects.  However  if  delay  is  on  account  of  default  of  the  client  or
request by the clients to withhold securities/money, it may be ignored. Auditors may also
examine and verify the credit/debit balances lying in books for a considerable period and

Page 6 of 7

should form an opinion if adequate provisioning have been made in the books for those
debit balances, which have remained unrecovered for a considerable period of time.

4.14  MODE OF PAYMENT:

As per regulatory requirements, brokers should not accept cash from the client whether
against obligations or as margin for purchase of securities and / or give cash against sale
of securities to the clients. All payments should be received / made by the brokers from /
to  the  clients  strictly  by  account  payee  crossed  cheques  /  demand  drafts  or  by  way  of
direct credit into the bank account through EFT. The brokers shall accept cheques drawn
only  by  the  clients  and  also  issue  cheques  in  favour  of  the  clients  only,  for  their
transactions.  However,  in  exceptional  circumstances  the  broker  or  sub-broker  may
receive the amount in cash, to the extent not in violation of the Income Tax requirement
as may be in force from time to time.

4.15  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS:

Auditors may make specific comments about the transactions of the member with related
parties/associates of the member. Such comments should include the following areas:

?  Details of outstanding borrowings/lending made to such entities.
?  Details of transactions done with such entities
?  Brokerage/other  income  earned  on  account  of  dealing  with  such  entities  or  any

commission/brokerage/interest paid to such entities.

****

Page 7 of 7

