 

Report of the SEBI Committee 

on Corporate Governance 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

February 8, 2003 

 
 
 
Preamble  
 
Corporations pool capital from a large investor base both in the domestic and in the 
international capital markets. In this context, investment is ultimately an act of faith 
in the ability of a corporation’s management. When an investor invests money in a 
corporation, he expects the board and the management to act as trustees and ensure 
the safety of the capital and also earn a rate of return that is higher than the cost of 
capital. In this regard, investors expect management to act in their best interests at all 
times and adopt good corporate governance practices. 
 
Corporate governance is the acceptance by management of the inalienable rights of 
shareholders as the true owners of the corporation and of their own role as trustees 
on  behalf  of  the  shareholders.  It  is  about  commitment  to  values,  about  ethical 
business  conduct  and  about  making  a  distinction  between  personal  and  corporate 
funds in the management of a company. 
 
It was the belief of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) that efforts to 
improve  corporate  governance  standards  in  India  must  continue.  This  is  because 
these  standards  themselves  were  evolving  in  keeping  with  market  dynamics. 
Accordingly,  the  Committee  on  Corporate  Governance  (the  “Committee”)  was 
constituted  by  SEBI,  to  evaluate  the  adequacy  of  existing  corporate  governance 
practices and further improve these practices. The Committee comprised members 
from various walks of public and professional life. This includes captains of industry, 
academicians, public accountants and people from financial press and from industry 
forums. 
 
The issues discussed by the Committee primarily related to audit committees, audit 
reports, independent directors, related parties, risk management, directorships and 
director compensation, codes of conduct and financial disclosures. The Committee’s 

This report contains 30 pages and two enclosures 

Enclosures consist of 10 pages 

 

 

relative 

importance, 

fairness,  accountability, 

recommendations  in  the  final  report  were  selected  based  on  parameters  including 
their 
transparency,  ease  of 
implementation, verifiability and enforceability. 
 
The key mandatory recommendations focus on strengthening the responsibilities of 
audit  committees;  improving  the  quality  of  financial  disclosures,  including  those 
related  to  related  party  transactions  and  proceeds  from  initial  public  offerings; 
requiring  corporate  executive  boards  to  assess  and  disclose  business  risks  in  the 
annual reports of companies; introducing  responsibilities on boards to adopt formal 
codes of conduct; the position of nominee directors; and stock holder approval and 
improved disclosures relating to compensation paid to non-executive directors. 
 
Non-mandatory  recommendations  include  moving  to  a  regime  where  corporate 
financial  statements  are  not  qualified;  instituting  a  system  of  training  of  board 
members; and the evaluation of performance of board members. 
 
The  Committee  believes  that  these  recommendations  codify  certain  standards  of 
“good’  governance into specific requirements, since certain corporate responsibilities 
are  too  important  to  be  left  to  loose  concepts  of  fiduciary  responsibility.  When 
implemented  through  SEBI’s  regulatory  framework,  they  will  strengthen  existing 
governance practices and also provide a strong incentive to avoid corporate failures. 
 
Some people have legitimately asked whether the costs of governance reforms are 
too  high.  In  this  context,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  failure  to  implement  good 
governance procedures has a cost beyond mere regulatory problems. Companies that 
do not employ meaningful governance procedures will have to pay a significant risk 
premium when competing for scarce capital in today’s public markets. 
 
The  Committee  would  like  to  thanks  Mr.  G.N.  Bajpai,  Chairman  of  SEBI  and  Mr. 
Pratip  Kar,  Executive  Director,  SEBI  for  their  support.  In  addition,  the  Committee 
would  like  to  thank  Mr.  P.  K.  Bindlish,  General  Manager,  Mr.  Manoj  Kumar, 
Assistant General Manager and other staff at SEBI along with Mr. Sumanth Cidambi 
of Progeon Limited, who assisted in the preparation of this report. 
 
 
 
 
N. R Narayana Murthy 
Chairman 
Committee on Corporate Governance, SEBI 
 
 
Mumbai 
February 8, 2003 
 
 

This report contains 30 pages and two enclosures 

Enclosures consist of 10 pages 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
February 8, 2003 

Introduction 
The Committee, Terms of Reference and Approach 
Key Issues Discussed and Recommendations 
Recommendations of the Naresh Chandra Committee 
Other Suggestions and the Committee’s Response 
Implementation and Way Forward 

1 
8 
11 
25 
27 
29 

 
 
Table of Contents 
 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
 
 
Enclosure 1 

 
Enclosure 2 

 

SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-10/2000 dated February 21, 2000 containing 
the recommendations of the Kumar Mangalam Birla Committee 
on Corporate Governance 

Members  of  the  Committee  to  Review  the  Performance  of  Corporate 
Governance 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 1 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Introduction 
The need for corporate governance 
A  corporation  is  a  congregation  of  various  stakeholders,  namely,  customers, 
employees,  investors,  vendor  partners,  government  and  society.  A  corporation 
should  be  fair  and  transparent  to  its  stakeholders  in  all  its  transactions.  This  has 
become imperative in today’s globalized business world where corporations need to 
access global pools of capital, need to attract and retain the best human capital from 
various parts of the world, need to partner with vendors on mega collaborations and 
need to live in harmony with the community. Unless a corporation embraces and 
demonstrates ethical conduct, it will not be able to succeed. 
Corporate governance is about ethical conduct in business. Ethics is concerned with 
the code of values and principles that enables a person to choose between right and 
wrong,  and  therefore,  select  from  alternative  courses  of  action.  Further,  ethical 
dilemmas  arise  from  conflicting  interests  of  the  parties  involved.  In  this  regard, 
managers  make  decisions  based  on  a  set  of  principles  influenced  by  the  values, 
context and culture of the organization. Ethical leadership is good for business as the 
organization  is  seen  to  conduct  its  business  in  line  with  the  expectations  of  all 
stakeholders. 
Corporate  governance  is  beyond  the  realm  of  law.  It  stems  from  the  culture  and 
mindset  of  management,  and  cannot  be  regulated  by  legislation  alone.  Corporate 
governance deals with conducting the affairs of a company such that there is fairness 
to all stakeholders and that its actions benefit the greatest number of stakeholders. It 
is about openness, integrity and accountability. What legislation can and should do, 
is  to  lay  down  a  common  framework  –  the  “form”  to  ensure  standards.  The 
“substance”  will  ultimately  determine  the  credibility  and  integrity  of  the  process. 
Substance is inexorably linked to the mindset and ethical standards of management. 
Corporations need to recognize that their growth requires the cooperation of all the 
stakeholders; and such cooperation is enhanced by the corporation adhering to the 
best corporate governance practices. In this regard, the management needs to act as 
trustees  of  the  shareholders  at  large  and  prevent  asymmetry  of  benefits  between 
various  sections  of  shareholders,  especially  between  the  owner-managers  and  the 
rest of the shareholders. 
Corporate  governance  is  a  key  element  in improving  the  economic  efficiency  of  a 
firm.  Good  corporate  governance  also  helps  ensure  that  corporations  take  into 
account the interests of a wide range of constituencies, as well as of the communities 
within which they operate. Further, it ensures that their Boards are accountable to 
the shareholders. This, in turn, helps assure that corporations operate for the benefit 
of  society  as  a  whole.  While  large  profits  can  be  made  taking  advantage  of  the 
asymmetry  between  stakeholders  in  the  short  run,  balancing  the  interests  of  all 
stakeholders alone will ensure survival and growth in the long run. This includes, 
for instance, taking into account societal concerns about labor and the environment. 

 
1. 
1.1 
1.1.1 

1.1.2 

1.1.3 

1.1.4 

1.1.5 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 2 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

The failure to implement good governance can have a heavy cost beyond regulatory 
problems.  Evidence  suggests  that  companies  that  do  not  employ  meaningful 
governance  procedures  can  pay  a  significant  risk  premium  when  competing  for 
scarce  capital  in  the  public  markets.  In  fact,  recently,  stock  market  analysts  have 
acquired  an  increased  appreciation  for  the  correlation  between  governance  and 
returns. In this regard, an increasing number of reports not only discuss governance 
in general terms, but also have explicitly altered investment recommendations based 
on the strength or weakness of a company's corporate governance infrastructure. 
The  credibility  offered  by  good  corporate  governance  procedures  also  helps 
maintain the confidence of investors – both foreign and domestic – to attract more 
“patient”, long-term capital, and will reduce the cost of capital. This will ultimately 
induce more stable sources of financing. 
Often, increased attention on corporate governance is a result of financial crisis. For 
instance, the Asian financial crisis brought the subject of corporate governance to the 
surface  in  Asia.  Further,  recent  scandals  disturbed  the  otherwise  placid  and 
complacent corporate landscape in the US. These scandals, in a sense, proved to be 
serendipitous. They spawned a new set of initiatives in corporate governance in the 
US and triggered fresh debate in the European Union as well as in Asia. The many 
instances of corporate misdemeanours have also shifted the emphasis on compliance 
with  substance,  rather  than  form,  and  brought  to  sharper  focus  the  need  for 
intellectual  honesty  and  integrity.  This  is  because  financial  and  non-financial 
disclosures  made  by  any  firm  are  only  as  good  and  honest  as  the  people  behind 
them.  By  this  very  principle,  only  those  industrialists  whose  corporations  are 
governed properly should be allowed to be a part of committees. This includes the 
Prime Minister and Finance Minister’s advisory councils, committees set up by the 
Confederation of Indian Industry (“CII”), the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(“SEBI”),  the  Department  of  Company  Affairs,  ministries,  and  the  boards  of  large 
banks and financial institutions. 
Corporate governance initiatives in India began in 1998 with the Desirable Code of 
Corporate Governance – a voluntary code published by the CII, and the first formal 
regulatory  framework  for  listed  companies  specifically  for  corporate  governance, 
established  by  the  SEBI.  The  latter  was  made  in  February  2000,  following  the 
recommendations of the Kumarmangalam Birla Committee Report. 
The  term  “corporate  governance”  is  susceptible  to  both  broad  and  narrow 
definitions.  In  fact,  many  of  the  codes  do  not  even  attempt  to  articulate  what  is 
encompassed  by  the  term.  The  motives  for  the  several  corporate  governance 
postulates  engaged  in  these  definitions  vary,  depending  on  the  participant 
concerned.  The  focal  subjects  also  vary  accordingly.  The  important  point  is  that 
corporate governance is a concept, rather than an individual instrument. It includes 
debate on the appropriate management and control structures of a company. Further 
it includes the rules relating to the power relations between owners, the Board of 
Directors, management and, last but not least, the stakeholders such as employees, 
suppliers, customers and the public at large. 

 
 
1.1.6 

1.1.7 

1.1.8 

1.1.9 

1.1.10 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 3 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

The majority of the definitions articulated in the codes relate corporate governance 
to “control” – of the company, of corporate management, or of company conduct or 
managerial conduct. Perhaps the simplest and most common definition of this sort is 
that  provided  by  the  Cadbury  Report  (U.K.),  which  is  frequently  quoted  or 
paraphrased: “Corporate governance is the system by which businesses are directed 
and controlled.” 
The definition in the preamble of the OECD Principles is also all encompassing  ? 
“[C]orporate  governance  .  .  .  involves  a  set  of  relationships  between  a  company’s 
management,  its  board,  its  shareholders  and  other  stakeholders.  Corporate 
governance also provides the structure through which the objectives of the company 
are set, and the means of attaining those objectives and monitoring performance are 
determined.” 
The most common school of thought would have us believe that if management is 
about running businesses, governance is about ensuring that it is run properly. All 
companies  need  governing  as  well  as  managing.  The  aim  of  “Good  Corporate 
Governance” is to enhance the long-term value of the company for its shareholders 
and all other partners. The enormous significance of corporate governance is clearly 
evident 
this  definition,  which  encompasses  all  stakeholders.  Corporate 
governance integrates all the participants involved in a process, which is economic, 
and  at  the  same  time  social.  This  definition  is  deliberately  broader  than  the 
frequently  heard  narrower  interpretation  that  only  takes  account  of  the  corporate 
governance postulates aimed at shareholder interests. 
Studies of corporate governance practices across several countries conducted by the 
Asian Development Bank (2000), International Monetary Fund (1999), Organization 
for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) (1999) and the World Bank 
(1999)  reveal  that  there  is  no  single  model  of  good  corporate  governance.  This  is 
recognized by the OECD Code. The OECD Code also recognizes that different legal 
systems,  institutional  frameworks  and  traditions  across  countries  have  led  to  the 
development of a range of different approaches to corporate governance. Common 
to  all  good  corporate  governance  regimes,  however,  is  a  high  degree  of  priority 
placed on the interests of shareholders, who place their trust in corporations to use 
their 
In  addition,  best-managed 
corporations  also  recognize  that  business  ethics  and  corporate  awareness  of  the 
environmental and societal interest of the communities within which they operate, 
can have an impact on the reputation and long-term performance of corporations. 

funds  wisely  and  effectively. 

in 

investment 

The Kumarmangalam Birla Committee on Corporate Governance 
SEBI had constituted a Committee on May 7, 1999 under the chairmanship of Shri 
Kumarmangalam Birla, then Member of the SEBI Board “to promote and raise the 
standards  of  corporate  governance”.  Based  on  the  recommendations  of  this 
Committee,  a  new  clause  49  was  incorporated  in  the  Stock  Exchange  Listing 
Agreements (“Listing Agreements”). 
The  recommendations  of  the  Kumarmangalam  Birla  Committee  on  Corporate 
Governance (the “Recommendations”) are set out in Enclosure I to this report. 

 
 
1.1.11 

1.1.12 

1.1.13 

1.1.14 

1.2 
1.2.1 

1.2.2 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 4 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Financial reporting and disclosures 
Financial disclosure is a critical component of effective corporate governance. SEBI 
set  up  an  Accounting  Standards  Committee,  as  a  Standing  Committee,  under  the 
chairmanship of Shri Y. H. Malegam with the following objectives: 
? 

To  review  the  continuous  disclosure  requirements  under  the  listing 
agreement for listed companies; 
To provide input to the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) 
for introducing new accounting standards in India; and 
To  review  existing  Indian  accounting  standards,  where  required  and  to 
harmonise these accounting standards and financial disclosures on par with 
international practices. 

? 

? 

SEBI  has  interacted  with  the  ICAI  on  a  continuous  basis  in  the  issuance  of  recent 
Indian  accounting  standards  on  areas  including  segment  reporting,  related  party 
disclosures,  consolidated  financial  statements,  earnings  per  share,  accounting  for 
taxes on income, accounting for investments in associates in consolidated financial 
statements, discontinuing operations, interim financial reporting, intangible assets, 
financial reporting of interests in joint ventures and impairment of assets. 
With  the  introduction  of  these  recent  Indian  accounting  standards,  financial 
reporting  practices  in  India  are  almost  on  par  with  International  Accounting 
Standards. 

Implementation of corporate governance requirements 
The  Recommendations  were  implemented  through  Clause 49  of  the  Listing 
Agreements, in a phased manner by SEBI. 
They  were  made  applicable  to  all  companies  in  the  BSE  200  and  S&P  C&X  Nifty 
indices, and all newly listed companies, as of March 31, 2001. 
The applicability of the Recommendations was extended to companies with a paid 
up capital of Rs. 100 million or with a net worth of Rs. 250 million at any time in the 
past five years, as of March 31, 2002. 
In respect of other listed companies with a paid up capital of over Rs. 30 million, the 
requirements were made applicable as of March 31, 2003. 
The accounting standards issued by the ICAI, which are applicable to all companies 
under  sub-section 3A  of  Section 211  of  the  Companies  Act, 1956,  were  specifically 
made applicable to all listed companies for the financial year ended March 31, 2002, 
under the Listing Agreements. 

 
 

1.3 
1.3.1 

1.3.2 

1.3.3 

1.4 
1.4.1 

1.4.2 

1.4.3 

1.4.4 

1.4.5 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 5 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Compliance with the Code and SEBI’s experience 
In terms of SEBI’s Circular No. SMD/Policy/CIR-03/2001 dated January 22, 2001: 
? 

Board of Directors; 

Shareholders / Investors Grievance Committee; 

All  companies  are  required  to  submit  a  quarterly  compliance  report  to  the 
stock exchanges within 15 days from the end of a financial reporting quarter. 
The report has to be submitted either by the Compliance Officer or by the 
Chief Executive Officer of the company after obtaining due approvals. SEBI 
has  prescribed  a  format  in  which  the  information  shall  be  obtained  by  the 
Stock  Exchanges  from  the  companies.  The  companies  have  to  submit 
compliance status on eight sub-clauses namely: 
? 
? 
? 
? 
? 
?  Management; 
? 
? 
Stock  exchanges  are  required  to  set  up  a  separate  monitoring  cell  with 
identified  personnel,  to  monitor  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Recommendations. Stock exchanges are also required to submit a quarterly 
compliance 
the  Schedule  of 
Implementation. The stock exchanges are required to submit a consolidated 
compliance report within 30 days of the end of the quarter to SEBI. 

Report on Corporate Governance. 

Remuneration of directors; 

report 

from 

the  companies  as  per 

Audit Committee; 

Board procedures; 

Shareholders; and 

? 

Both  the  Mumbai  and  National  Stock  Exchanges  have  submitted  a  consolidated 
quarterly  compliance  report  for  the  quarter  ended  September 30, 2002.  It  was 
observed  that  1,848  and  741  companies  were  required  to  comply  with  the 
requirements  of  the  Code,  for  the  Mumbai  and  National  Stock  Exchanges, 
respectively.  Of these, compliance reports were submitted in respect of 1,026 and 
595 companies, for the Mumbai and National Stock Exchanges, respectively. 
The  status  of  compliance  with  respect  to  provisions  of  corporate  governance 
analysed from data submitted by the Mumbai Stock Exchange for the quarter ended 
September 30, 2002 is set out below. 

Board of 
Directors 

Audit 

Committee 

Shareholders’ 

Grievance 
Committee 

Remuneration 
Committee 

Board 

procedures 

Management  Shareholders 

Total 

Report on 
Corporate 
Governance 

999 

1,005 
*Applicable to 1,848 companies 

981 

677 

575 

774 

998 

786 

1,026 

 
 

1.5 
1.5.1 

1.5.2 

1.5.3 

 

 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 6 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

The key observations contained in the consolidated compliance report sent by the 
Mumbai and National Stock Exchanges are set out below. 
? 

The  compliance  level  in  respect  of  requirements  relating  to  Board  of 
Directors,  Audit  Committee,  Shareholders  Grievance  Committee  and 
Shareholders is very high; 
Many  companies  are  yet  to  comply  with  the  requirements  relating  to 
Remuneration  Committee  (which  is  not  mandatory),  Board  Procedures, 
Management and Report on Corporate Governance; and 
Few companies have submitted that the provisions relating to Management 
and Board Procedures are not applicable. 

? 

? 

SEBI observed that the compliance with the requirements in clause 49 of the Listing 
Agreement  is,  by  and  large,  satisfactory;  however,  an  analysis  of  the  financial 
statements of companies and the report on corporate governance discloses that their 
quality  is  not  uniform.  This  is  observed  on  parameters  such  as  the  nature  of 
qualifications in audit reports, the quality of the corporate governance report itself 
(which is often perfunctory in nature), and the business transacted and the duration 
of audit committee meetings. Variations in the quality of annual reports, including 
disclosures, raises the question whether compliance is in form or in substance; and 
emphasise  the  need  to  ensure  that  the  laws,  rules  and  regulations  do  not  reduce 
corporate governance to a mere ritual. This question has come under close scrutiny 
in recent times. 
SEBI has analysed a few recently published annual reports of companies to assess 
the quality of corporate governance. The directors’  reports could be classified into 
the following categories: 
? 

Reports  where  there  is  no  mention  about  the  compliance  with  corporate 
governance requirements; 
Reports that state that the company is fully compliant with clause 49 of the 
Listing  Agreement,  but  where 
independent  auditors  have  made 
qualifications in their audit reports; 
Reports that mention areas of non-compliance with clause 49 of the Listing 
Agreement and provide explanation for non-compliance; and 
Reports that mention areas of non-compliance with clause 49 of the Listing 
Agreement  but  provide  no  explanation  for  auditor’s  qualification  or  for 
reasons for non-compliance. 

? 

? 

? 

SEBI also observed that there is a considerable variance in the extent and quality of 
disclosures made by companies in their annual reports. 

Rationale for a review of the Code 
SEBI believes that efforts to improve corporate governance standards in India must 
continue. This is because these standards are themselves evolving, in keeping with 
market  dynamics.  Recent  events  worldwide,  primarily  in  the  United  States,  have 
renewed the emphasis on corporate governance. These events have highlighted the 
need for ethical governance and management, and for the need to look beyond mere 
systems  and  procedures.  This  will  ensure  compliance  with  corporate  governance 
codes, in substance and not merely in form. 

 
 
1.5.4 

1.5.5 

1.5.6 

1.5.7 

1.6 
1.6.1 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 7 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Again,  one  of  the  goals  of  good  corporate  governance  is  investor  protection.  The 
individual investor is at the end of a chain of financial information, stretching from 
corporate  accountants  and  management,  through  Boards  of  Directors  and  audit 
committees,  to  independent  auditors  and  stock  market  analysts,  to  the  investing 
public.  Many  of  the  links  in  this  chain  need  to  be  strengthened  or  replaced  to 
preserve its integrity. 
SEBI,  therefore,  believed  that  a  need  to  review  the  existing  code  on  corporate 
governance arose from two perspectives, (a) to evaluate the adequacy of the existing 
practices, and (b) to further improve the existing practices. 

____________________________________ 

 
 
1.6.2 

1.6.3 

 

 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 8 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

The Committee, Terms of Reference and Approach 
Constitution of the Committee 
In the context of the rationale set out in Section 1.6 of this Report, SEBI believed it 
necessary to form a committee on corporate governance, comprising representatives 
from  the  stock  exchanges,  chambers  of  commerce,  investor  associations  and 
professional bodies. 
The SEBI Committee on Corporate Governance (the “Committee”) was constituted 
under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  N.  R.  Narayana  Murthy,  Chairman  and  Chief 
Mentor of Infosys Technologies Limited. 
A list of names of the members of the Committee is set out in Enclosure II to this 
report. 
The  Committee  met 
and 
February 8, 2003, to deliberate the issues related to corporate governance and finalize 
its recommendations to SEBI. 

on  December 7, 2002, 

thrice 

January 7, 2003 

Terms of Reference 
The terms of reference of the Committee are set out below. 
? 
? 

To review the performance of corporate governance; and 
To determine the role of companies in responding to rumour and other price 
sensitive  information  circulating  in  the  market,  in  order  to  enhance  the 
transparency and integrity of the market. 

The recommendations of the Committee are presented in this Report. 

Approach 
Members  of  the  Committee  met  to  deliberate  the  issues  related  to  corporate 
governance,  primarily  relating  to  audit  committees,  audit  reports,  independent 
directors, related parties, risk management, directorships and director compensation, 
codes of conduct and financial disclosures. 
The Committee felt that that the regulator should clearly define regulations and be 
able to effectively enforce the recommendations. The regulations should be as few as 
possible  and  the  role  of  the  regulator  should  primarily  be  that  of  a  catalyst  in 
enforcement. 

 
 
2. 
2.1 
2.1.1 

2.1.2 

2.1.3 

2.1.4 

2.2 
2.2.1 

2.2.2 

2.3 
2.3.1 

2.3.2 

 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 9 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

? 

The  issues  relating  to  corporate  governance  were  discussed  by  the  Committee.  
Based  on  the  responses  /  suggestions  to  the  issues,  draft  recommendations  were 
prepared. These recommendations were circulated to the members. Members were 
asked to rate the recommendations on a scale of 1 (Least) through 10 (Most) across 
the seven following parameters: 
? 
? 

Importance – How important is the recommendation to the member? 
Fairness  –  Does  the  recommendation  enhance  fairness  to  all  stakeholders,  by 
minimizing asymmetry of benefits? 
Accountability  –  Does  the  recommendation  make  corporate  management  more 
accountable? 
Transparency – Does the recommendation enhance transparency? 
Ease of implementation – Is the recommendation easy to implement? 
Verification – Is the recommendation objectively verifiable? 
Enforcement – Can the recommendation be effectively enforced? 

? 
? 
? 
? 
The ratings received from members were first aggregated across recommendations 
and  tabulated.  Recommendations  whose  ratings  were  7  and  above  were  then 
aggregated, on each of the seven parameters set out above. The rating score for each 
such recommendation was aggregated. 
The recommendations were then sorted in descending order of importance. The top 
20  recommendations  were  presented  to  the  Committee  for  their  views.  These 
recommendations were discussed in detail by the members and will form the basis 
of the final recommendations of the Committee. 
Certain recommendations that were not part of the top 20 recommendations were 
also presented to the Committee. This was because of their important nature. 
Certain recommendations that were already contained in the Report of the Naresh 
Chandra  Committee  on  Corporate  Audit  and  Governance  (the  “Naresh  Chandra 
Committee”) were also discussed briefly. The members of the Committee agreed in 
principle with the recommendations set out by the Naresh Chandra Committee that 
are directly related to corporate governance.  
It  was 
final 
recommendations  to  SEBI,  the  Committee  would  also  recommend  that  the 
mandatory  recommendations  in  the  report  of  the  Naresh  Chandra  Committee, 
insofar  as  they  related  to  corporate  governance,  be  mandatorily  implemented  by 
SEBI  through  an  amendment  to  clause 49  of  the  Listing  Agreement.  These 
recommendations are contained in Section 4 of this Report. 
The Committee accepted that ratings were not received from all members. It was of 
the  view  that  members  who  have  not  submitted  their  ratings  should  not  raise 
objections to the Committee’s recommendations at a later stage. 

therefore  decided  by 

the  Committee, 

that 

in  making 

the 

 
 
2.3.3 

2.3.4 

2.3.5 

2.3.6 

2.3.7 

2.3.8 

2.3.9 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 10 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

The Committee also acknowledged that the ratings methodology did not capture the 
qualitative  comments  of  the  members.  Further,  it  was  also  accepted  that  a  few 
recommendations could not be rated since they were more of a qualitative nature for 
which it was difficult to assign a numerical weight. 

____________________________________ 

 
 
2.3.10 

 

 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 11 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Key Issues Discussed and Recommendations 

Background 
The  key  issues  debated  by  the  Committee  and  the  related  recommendations  are 
discussed below. 

Audit Committees 
Review of information by audit committees 
Suggestions  were  received  from  members  that  audit  committees  of  publicly  listed 
companies should be required to review the following information mandatorily: 
? 
? 

Financial statements; 
Management  discussion  and  analysis  of  financial  condition  and  results  of 
operations; 
Reports relating to compliance with laws and to risk management; 
Management  letters  /  letters  of  internal  control  weaknesses  issued  by 
statutory / internal auditors; and 
Records of related party transactions. 

? 
? 

? 
The Committee noted that most of this information was already reviewed by audit 
committees during the audit committee meeting. Further, it was already contained 
as  a  recommendation  in  the  Kumarmangalam  Birla  Committee  on  Corporate 
Governance. 
The Committee also noted that the recommendation in the Birla Committee Report 
cast a responsibility on the audit committee vis-à-vis their duties and role. Further, 
the  compliance  report  of  the  Mumbai  Stock  Exchange  showed  that  approximately 
only 53% of the companies complied with this requirement contained in the Birla 
Committee Report. 

 
 
3. 

3.1 
3.1.1 

3.2 
3.2.1 
3.2.1.1 

3.2.1.2 

3.2.1.3 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 12 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

In view of the above deliberations, the Committee makes the following mandatory 
recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
Audit  committees  of  publicly  listed  companies  should  be  required  to  review  the 
following information mandatorily: 
? 

Financial  statements  and  draft  audit  report,  including  quarterly  /  half-yearly 
financial information; 
Management  discussion  and  analysis  of  financial  condition  and  results  of 
operations; 
Reports relating to compliance with laws and to risk management; 
Management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses issued by statutory 
/ internal auditors; and 
Records of related party transactions. 

? 

? 
? 

? 

Financial literacy of members of the audit committee 
Suggestions were received that all audit committee members should be “financially 
literate”  and  at  least  one  member  should  have  accounting  or  related  financial 
management  expertise.  It  was  also  suggested  that  all  audit  committee  members 
should  be  able  to  read  and  understand  financial  statements  at  the  time  of  their 
appointment rather than within a reasonable period. 
The Committee was of the view that the first recommendation was acceptable.  It 
was also of the view that the definition of the phrase “financially literate” should be 
explained further. 
Based  on  the  above  discussions,  the  Committee  accordingly  makes  the  following 
mandatory recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
All audit committee members should be “financially literate” and at least one member 
should have accounting or related financial management expertise. 
Explanation 1  –  The  term  “financially  literate”  means  the  ability  to  read  and 
understand  basic  financial  statements  i.e.  balance  sheet,  profit  and  loss  account,  and 
statement of cash flows. 
Explanation 2 – A member will be considered to have accounting or related financial 
management  expertise  if  he  or  she  possesses  experience  in  finance  or  accounting,  or 
requisite professional certification in accounting, or any other comparable experience 
or  background  which  results  in  the  individual’s  financial  sophistication,  including 
being or having been a chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or other senior 
officer with financial oversight responsibilities. 

 
 
3.2.1.4 

 
3.2.2 
3.2.2.1 

3.2.2.2 

3.2.2.3 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 13 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Audit Reports and Audit Qualifications 
Disclosure of accounting treatment 
It was suggested that in case a company has followed a treatment different from that 
prescribed  in  an  accounting  standard,  independent  /  statutory  auditors  should 
justify  why  they  believe  such  alternative  treatment  is  more  representative  of  the 
underlying  business  transaction.  This  should  also  be  explained  clearly  in  the 
footnotes to the financial statements. 
The  Committee  noted  that  accounting  policies  and  principles  are  selected  by  a 
company’s  management.    Consequently,  the  onus  should  be  on  management  to 
explain  why  they  believe  such  alternative  treatment  is  more  representative  of  the 
underlying  business  transaction.  The  auditor’s  responsibility  is  to  express  a 
qualification  in  case  he  disagrees  with  the  explanation  given  by  the  company’s 
management.  The  responsibility  should  not  be  cast  on  the  auditor  to  justify  such 
departures  from  an  accounting  standard.  The  members  were  of  the  view  that  the 
auditor may either concur or disagree with management’s viewpoint. The auditor 
may draw reference to this footnote without necessarily making it the subject matter 
of an audit qualification, unless he disagrees with the departure from the accounting 
standard, in which case he would be required to issue a qualification. 
In  light  of  the  above  deliberations,  the  Committee  was  of  the  view  that  the 
suggestion should be modified to reflect this. The Committee therefore makes the 
following mandatory recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
In  case  a  company  has  followed  a  treatment  different  from  that  prescribed  in  an 
accounting  standard,  management  should  justify  why  they  believe  such  alternative 
treatment is more representative of the underlying business transaction.  Management 
should also clearly explain the alternative accounting treatment in the footnotes to the 
financial statements. 

Audit qualifications 
Suggestions  were  received  that  where  financial  statements  contain  qualifications, 
companies  should  be  given  a  reasonable  period  of  time  within  which  to  cure  the 
qualifications, by SEBI / Stock Exchanges.Mere explanations from companies may 
not be sufficient. 
The Committee noted that the above recommendation be dropped since adequate 
safeguards already exist. It was also of the opinion that it may not be possible to cure 
a taint in some cases and this would lead to undue hardship on companies. 
Based  on  this  discussion,  the  Committee  accordingly  makes  the  following 
recommendation: 

Non-mandatory recommendation 
Companies should be encouraged to move towards a regime of unqualified financial 
statements.  This  recommendation  should  be  reviewed  at  an  appropriate  juncture  to 
determine  whether  the  financial  reporting  climate  is  conducive  towards  a  system  of 
filing only unqualified financial statements. 

 
 

3.3 
3.3.1 
3.3.1.1 

3.3.1.2 

3.3.1.3 

 
3.3.2 
3.3.2.1 

3.3.2.2 

3.3.2.3 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 14 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Related Party Transactions 
Basis for related party transactions 
Suggestions were received that for each related party, a statement shall be recorded 
disclosing the basis / methodology for various types of transactions. 
It  was  also  suggested  that  the  records  of  all  transactions  with  related  parties 
including their bases / methodology should be placed before the independent audit 
committee  at  each  Board  meeting  for  formal  approval/ratification.  This  should 
include  any  exceptional  transactions  that  are  not  on  an  arm’s  length  principle 
together with reasons for such deviation. 
The  Committee  noted  that  a  statement  disclosing  the  basis  /  methodology  for 
various types of transactions entered into with related parties should be prepared 
and submitted for the information of the audit committee. It also opined that this 
statement should include transactions which are not on an arm’s length principle. 
The company’s management should explain to the audit committee the reasons for 
the non-arm’s length nature of the transaction.   
The Committee also noted that the definition of “arm’s length” should be clarified in 
the  recommendation.    It  noted  that  a  reference  may  be  made  to  the  report  of  the 
Department of Company Affairs’  Expert Group on Transfer Pricing Guidelines for a 
suitable definition. 
Based  on  the  above  discussions,  the  Committee  accordingly  makes  the  following 
mandatory recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
A  statement  of  all  transactions  with  related  parties  including  their  bases  should  be 
placed before the independent audit committee for formal approval / ratification.  
If  any  transaction  is  not  on  an  arm’s  length  basis,  management  should  provide  an 
explanation to the audit committee justifying the same. 

Definition of “related party” 
It was suggested that SEBI should clarify the definition of the term “related party”. 
The  Committee  noted  that  Accounting  Standard 18,  Related  Party  Transactions 
(“AS 18”) issued by the ICAI contained the definition of this term. 
Based on this discussion, the Committee adopted the definition of “related party” as 
set out in AS 18 and makes the following mandatory recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
The  term  “related  party”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  contained  in  Accounting 
Standard 18,  Related  Party  Transactions,  issued  by  the  Institute  of  Chartered 
Accountants of India. 

 
 

3.4 
3.4.1 
3.4.1.1 

3.4.1.2 

3.4.1.3 

3.4.1.4 

3.4.1.5 

 
3.4.2 
3.4.2.1 
3.4.2.2 

3.4.2.3 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 15 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Risk Management 
Board disclosures 
The Committee believes that it is important for corporate Boards to be fully aware of 
the risks facing the business and that it is important for shareholders to know about 
the process by which companies manage their business risks. 
In light of this, it was suggested that procedures should be in place to inform Board 
members about the risk assessment and minimization procedures. These procedures 
should be periodically reviewed to ensure that executive management controls risk 
through  means  of  a  properly  defined  framework.  These  risks  will  include  global 
risks;  general,  economic  and  political  risks;  industry  risks;  and  company  specific 
risks. 
It was also suggested that management should place a report before the Board every 
quarter documenting any limitations to the risk taking capacity of the corporation. 
This document should be formally approved by the Board. 
The Committee believes that this recommendation is important. This is because the 
Management  Discussion,  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results  of 
Operations,  are  the  responsibility  of  a  company’s  management.  It  is,  therefore 
important, that the audit committee be made aware of the risks faced by a company. 
It  is  management’s  responsibility  to  demonstrate  to  the  audit  committee  the 
measures taken to address business risks. Further, it was added that the Compliance 
Officer of the company should certify the Risk Management report placed before the 
audit committee. 
The  Committee  also  noted  that  it  was  not  practicable  to  put  the  responsibility  of 
review of risk management only on the audit committee. It agreed that there must be 
a process by which key risks are reviewed by the entire Board of Directors and not 
just  the  audit  committee.  Further,  there  must  be  evidence  demonstrating  that  this 
review  process  has  actually  taken  place.  Investors  in  a  company  would  therefore 
know how the company has identified and addressed its business risks. 
It was also mentioned that verifiability and enforceability of this recommendation 
was difficult. This was because companies could obtain a sign-off from the Board 
members that such procedures were complied with. 
Based  on  the  above  deliberations,  the  Committee  makes  the  following  mandatory 
recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
Procedures should be in place to inform Board members about the risk assessment and 
minimization procedures. These procedures should be periodically reviewed to ensure 
that  executive  management  controls  risk  through  means  of  a  properly  defined 
framework. 
Management should place a report before the entire Board of Directors every quarter 
documenting  the  business  risks  faced  by  the  company,  measures  to  address  and 
minimize such risks, and any limitations to the risk taking capacity of the corporation. 
This document should be formally approved by the Board. 

 
 

3.5 
3.5.1 
3.5.1.1 

3.5.1.2 

3.5.1.3 

3.5.1.4 

3.5.1.5 

3.5.1.6 

3.5.1.7 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 16 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Training of Board members 
It was also suggested that Board members be trained in the business model of the 
company as well as the risk profile of the business parameters of the company. 
The Committee noted that there is a real necessity for Board members to understand 
the  components  of  the  business  model  and  the  accompanying  risk  parameters. 
However,  the  Committee  also  noted  that  Board  members  can  always  ask  for 
information relating to the business model of the company.   
It  also  observed  that  the  process  of  Board  review  of  business  risks  will  be  a 
mandatory  recommendation  of  the  Committee.  Therefore,  training  of  Board 
members could be made recommendatory. 
Based  on  the  above  deliberations,  the  Committee  makes  the  following  non-
mandatory recommendation: 

Non-mandatory recommendation 
Companies should be encouraged to train their Board members in the business model 
of the company as well as the risk profile of the business parameters of the company, 
their responsibilities as directors, and the best ways to discharge them. 

Proceeds from Initial Public Offerings (“IPO”) 
Use of proceeds 
It was suggested that companies raising money through an Initial Public Offering 
should  disclose  the  uses  /  application  of  funds  by  major  category  (capital 
expenditure, sales and marketing, working capital, etc) on a quarterly basis as part of 
their quarterly declaration of (unaudited) financial results. 
The Committee noted that that disclosure of unspecified uses of IPO proceeds would 
be  a  more  transparent  measure.  A  statement  of  funds  utilised  for  purposes  other 
than  those  stated  in  the  offer  document  /  prospectus  should  be  prepared  by 
management. This statement should be certified by the independent auditors of the 
company and approved by the audit committee. 
Based  on  the  above  discussion,  the  Committee  makes  the  following  mandatory 
recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
Companies raising money through an Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) should disclose 
to  the  Audit  Committee,  the  uses  /  applications  of  funds  by  major  category  (capital 
expenditure, sales and marketing, working capital, etc), on a quarterly basis. 
On  an  annual  basis,  the  company  shall  prepare  a  statement  of  funds  utilised  for 
purposes  other  than  those  stated  in  the  offer  document/prospectus.  This  statement 
should be certified by the independent auditors of the company. The audit committee 
should make appropriate recommendations to the Board to take up steps in this matter. 

 
 
3.5.2 
3.5.2.1 

3.5.2.2 

3.5.2.3 

3.5.2.4 

3.6 
3.6.1 
3.6.1.1 

3.6.1.2 

3.6.1.3 

 

 
 

3.7 
3.7.1 
3.7.1.1 

3.7.1.2 

3.7.1.3 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 17 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Code of Conduct 
Written code for executive management 
It was suggested that there should be a written code of conduct of Board members 
(by  category  of  directors  –  executive  directors,  independent  directors,  nominee 
directors and promoter directors). Further, there should be a written code of conduct 
for  senior  financial  personnel  including  the  Chief  Financial  officer,  Treasurer  and 
Financial Controller (or the officer who discharges these functions). 
The Committee noted that the Birla Committee Report had defined the broad roles 
and responsibilities of management. It was obligatory on the part of the Board of 
Directors  of  a  company  to  define  a  code  of  conduct  for  itself  and  the  senior 
management  of  the  company,  not  just  senior  financial  personnel.  Concerns  were 
expressed  on  two  main  areas,  (a)  enforceability,  and  (b)  definition  of  senior 
management.  The  Committee  also  noted  that  sample  codes  were  available  at 
www.choan.edu. 
Based on the deliberations and views expressed by several members, the Committee 
makes the following mandatory recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
It should be obligatory for the Board of a company to lay down the code of conduct for 
all Board members and senior management of a company. This code of conduct shall 
be posted on the website of the company. 
All  Board  members  and  senior  management  personnel  shall  affirm  compliance  with 
the  code  on  an  annual  basis.  The  annual  report  of  the  company  shall  contain  a 
declaration to this effect signed off by the CEO and COO. 
Explanation – For this purpose, the term “senior management” shall mean personnel of 
the  company  who  are  members  of  its  management  /  operating  council  (i.e.  core 
management  team  excluding  Board  of  Directors).  Normally,  this  would  comprise  all 
members of management one level below the executive directors 

3.8 
3.8.1 
3.8.1.1 

3.8.1.2 

Nominee directors 
Exclusion of nominee directors from the definition of independent directors 
It was suggested that nominee directors should be excluded from the definition of 
independent directors. 
The  Committee  felt  that  the  institution  of  nominee  directors  creates  a  conflict  of 
interest that should be avoided. Such directors often claim that they are answerable 
only to the institutions they represent and take no responsibility for the company’s 
management or fiduciary responsibility to other shareholders. It is necessary that all 
directors,  whether  representing  institutions  or  otherwise,  should  have  the  same 
responsibilities and liabilities. 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 18 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

If the institution, whether as a lending institution or as investing institution, wishes 
to appoint its nominee on the Board, such appointment should be made through the 
normal process of election by the shareholders. 
The Committee noted a dissenting view that FI nominees should not be granted any 
Board  representation  rights.  Management  should  treat  them  on  par  with  other 
investors  and  disseminate  the  same  information  that  other  shareholders  would 
obtain. By virtue of their Board seat, FIs are placed in an advantageous position over 
the other shareholders, in terms of company price-sensitive information. 
Based  on  the  above  distinction,  the  Committee  makes  the  following  mandatory 
recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
There shall be no nominee directors. 
Where  an  institution  wishes  to  appoint  a  director  on  the  Board,  such  appointment 
should be made by the shareholders. 
An institutional director, so appointed, shall have the same responsibilities and shall 
be subject to the same liabilities as any other director. 
Nominee of the Government on public sector companies shall be similarly elected and 
shall be subject to the same responsibilities and liabilities as other directors. 

 

 
 
3.8.1.3 

3.8.1.4 

3.8.1.5 

 

 
 

3.9 
3.9.1 
3.9.1.1 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 19 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Non-Executive Director Compensation 
Limits on compensation paid to independent directors 
The  Committee  discussed  the  following  issues  relating  to  compensation  of 
independent directors: 
? 

Whether limits should be set for compensation paid to independent directors 
and how should these limits be determined; 
What are the disclosures to be made to ensure transparency; and 
In  case  of  stock-based  compensation,  the  vesting  timeframe  of  the  options 
and  the  parameters  that  trigger  vesting  such  as  average  return  on  capital 
employed, turnover criteria, etc. 

? 
? 

3.9.1.2 

Based on its deliberations, the Committee makes the following recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
All  compensation  paid  to  non-executive  directors  may  be  fixed  by  the  Board  of 
Directors and should be approved by shareholders in general meeting. Limits should 
be set for the maximum number of stock options that can be  granted to non-executive 
directors in any financial year and in aggregate. The stock options granted to the non-
executive directors shall vest after a period of at least one year from the date such non-
executive directors have retired from the Board of the Company. 
Companies  should  publish  their  compensation  philosophy  and  statement  of  entitled 
compensation 
their  annual  report. 
Alternatively,  this  may  be  put  up  on  the  company’s  website  and  reference  drawn 
thereto in the annual report. 
Companies should disclose on an annual basis, details of shares held by non-executive 
directors, including on an “if-converted”  basis. 
Non-executive directors should be required to disclose their stock holding (both own or 
held by / for other persons on a beneficial basis) in the listed company in which they 
are  proposed  to  be  appointed  as  directors,  prior  to  their  appointment.  These  details 
should accompany their notice of appointment. 

in  respect  of  non-executive  directors 

in 

 

 
 

3.10 
3.10.1 
3.10.1.1 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 20 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Independent Directors 
Definition of independent directors 
The Committee noted that the definition of independent directors should be clarified 
in the recommendations. It observed that the definition of independent directors as 
set  out  in  the  code  of  the  International  Corporate  Governance  Network  may  be 
referred to. The Committee also noted that the Naresh Chandra Committee report 
has attempted to define the term “independent director”. The Committee was of the 
view that the same definition may be used to define independent directors. 

3.10.1.2  An  issue  often  raised  in  the  context  of  independence  is  whether  independent 
directors are entitled to any material benefits from the company other than sitting 
fees,  remuneration,  and  travel  and  stay  arrangements.  Such  benefits  include  stock 
options and performance bonuses that executive directors may be entitled to. The 
central  issue  is  whether  such  benefits  serve  as  incentives  or  hindrances  to  the 
objectivity of decision-making and hence, compromise its quality. It also needs to be 
considered that restrictions such as these could disenchant a person from accepting 
the  position  of  independent  director  that  carries  onerous  responsibilities  without 
appropriate reward. 
The Committee decided that the term “Independent director” shall have the same 
meaning as contained in paragraph 4.1 of the Naresh Chandra Committee report. 
Based on its deliberations, the Committee makes the following recommendation: 
The term “independent director” is defined as a non-executive director of the company 
who: 
? 

3.10.1.4 

3.10.1.3 

apart  from  receiving  director  remuneration,  does  not  have  any  material  pecuniary 
relationships or transactions with the company, its promoters, its senior management or 
its holding company, its subsidiaries and associated companies; 
is not related to promoters or management at the board level or at one level below the 
board;  
has not been an executive of the company in the immediately preceding three financial 
years;  
is not a partner or an executive of the statutory audit firm or the internal audit firm that 
is associated with the company, and has not been a partner or an executive of any such 
firm for the last three years. This will also apply to legal firm(s) and consulting firm(s) 
that have a material association with the entity. 
is  not  a  supplier,  service  provider  or  customer  of  the  company.    This  should  include 
lessor-lessee type relationships also;  and 
is not a substantial shareholder of the company, i.e. owning two percent or more of the 
block of voting shares. 

? 

? 

? 

? 

? 

The considerations as regards remuneration paid to an independent director shall be the same as 
those applied to a non-executive director. 

Whistle Blower Policy 
Internal policy on access to audit committees 
It  was  suggested  that  personnel  who  observe  an  unethical  or  improper  practice 
should  be  able  to  approach  the  independent  audit  committee  without  necessarily 
informing the Board. There should also be a mechanism for employees to be aware 
of this privilege. 

3.11 
3.11.1 
3.11.1.1 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 21 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

The Committee agreed with this suggestion. It also noted that the suggestion may be 
accepted,  with  one  modification 
i.e.  the  word  “board”  be  replaced  with 
“supervisor”. 
Based on the above, the Committee makes the following recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
Personnel who observe an unethical or improper practice (not necessarily a violation of 
law)  should  be  able  to  approach  the  audit  committee  without  necessarily  informing 
their supervisors. 
Companies shall take measures to ensure that this right of access is communicated to 
all  employees  through  means  of  internal  circulars,  etc.  The  employment  and  other 
personnel  policies  of  the  company  shall  contain  provisions  protecting  “whistle 
blowers”  from unfair termination and other unfair prejudicial employment practices. 

that  SEBI  should  monitor  compliance  with 

Whistle blower policy 
It  was  also  suggested 
recommendation set out in Section 3.11.1 above. 
The  Committee  noted  that  companies  should  affirm  periodically  (at  least  on  an 
annual basis) that they have complied with this requirement. 
The Committee also noted that it was necessary to provide protection to the internal 
auditor  by  enhancing  his  independence.  This  can  be  done  by  mandating  that  the 
appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor must 
be subject to review by the Audit Committee. 
Based  on  this  discussion,  the  Committee  makes  the  following  mandatory 
recommendation: 

the 

 
 
3.11.1.2 

3.11.1.3 

 
3.11.2 
3.11.2.1 

3.11.2.2 

3.11.2.3 

3.11.2.4 

Mandatory recommendation 
Companies shall annually affirm that they have not denied any personnel access to the 
audit committee of the company (in respect of matters involving alleged misconduct) 
and that they have provided protection to “whistle blowers” from unfair termination 
and other unfair or prejudicial employment practices. 
The  appointment,  removal  and  terms  of  remuneration  of  the  chief  internal  auditor 
must be subject to review by the Audit Committee. 
Such affirmation shall form a part of the Board report on Corporate Governance that is 
required to be prepared and submitted together with the annual report. 

3.12 
3.12.1 
3.12.1.1 

Subsidiary Companies 
Audit committee requirements 
It was suggested to the Committee that the requirements relating to non-executive / 
independent directors and audit committees should be extended to subsidiaries of 
listed companies. Further, the scope of the Audit Committee should be enlarged to 
include  review  of  investments  made  by  subsidiaries  and  associates  to  ensure  that 
Section 77 of Companies Act, 1956 is not violated. 

 

 
 
3.12.1.2 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 22 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

The Committee noted the following additional suggestions: 
? 

It may be difficult to monitor compliance with the suggestion, in the case of 
associate  companies,  insofar  as  it  related  to  a  review  of  investments.  This 
requirement  may,  therefore,  be  made  applicable  to  subsidiary  companies 
only; 
It should be recommended to the Central Government that the Companies 
Act, 1956  should  be  amended  to  exclude  common  directorships  in  holding 
and subsidiary companies, in computing the limits on directorships that an 
individual may hold; 
The provisions relating to the composition of the Board of Directors of the 
holding  company  shall  also  be  made  applicable  to  the  composition  of  the 
Board of Directors of subsidiary companies; 
At least one-third of the Board of Directors of the subsidiary company shall 
be non-executive directors of the parent company; 
The Audit Committee of the parent company shall also review the financial 
statements of the subsidiary company; 
The minutes of the Board meeting of the subsidiary company shall be placed 
for review at the Board meeting of the parent company; and 
The  Board  report  of  the  parent  company  should  state  that  they  have 
reviewed the affairs of the subsidiary company also. 

? 

? 

? 

? 

? 

? 

3.12.1.3 

Based  on  the  deliberations,  the  Committee  makes  the  following  mandatory 
recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
The  provisions  relating  to  the  composition  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  holding 
company should be made applicable to the composition of the Board of Directors of 
subsidiary companies. 
At  least  one  independent  director  on  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  parent  company 
shall be a director on the Board of Directors of the subsidiary company. 
The Audit Committee of the parent company shall also review the financial statements, 
in particular the investments made by the subsidiary company. 
The  minutes  of  the  Board  meetings  of  the  subsidiary  company  shall  be  placed  for 
review at the Board meeting of the parent company. 
The  Board  report  of  the  parent  company  should  state  that  they  have  reviewed  the 
affairs of the subsidiary company also. 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 23 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Real Time Disclosures 
Disclosure of critical business events 
It  was  suggested  that  SEBI  should  issue  rules  relating  to  real-time  disclosures  of 
certain  events  or  transactions  that  may  be  of  importance  to  investors,  within  3-5 
business days. These would include events such as (a) a change in the control of the 
company, (b) a company’s acquisition / disposal of a significant amount of assets, (c) 
bankruptcy  or  receivership,  (d)  a  change  in  the  company’s  independent  auditors, 
and (e) the resignation of a director. 
The  Committee  noted  that  there  are  certain  practical  problems  in  ensuring  timely 
disclosures. For example, a business transaction that is under negotiations may have 
an impact on the market price. However, its disclosure may prejudice the underlying 
business negotiations. 
The  Committee  also  noted  the  issue  of  rumor  verification  by  stock  exchanges.  It 
noted a view that Board decisions that were price sensitive should be disclosed to 
the markets within 15 minutes. Stock exchanges are currently responsible for rumor 
verification.  The  Committee  however  believed  that  this  issue  needs  to  be  studied 
with  much  greater  depth  by  SEBI  and  the  stock  exchanges,  and  should  not  be 
restricted to a corporate governance perspective alone. 
The Committee was of the view that no recommendation would be made to SEBI in 
respect of this suggestion. 

Evaluation of Board Performance 
Mechanism for evaluating non-executive board members 
The Committee received the following suggestions: 
? 

The performance evaluation of non-executive directors should be done by a 
peer group comprising the entire Board of Directors, excluding the director 
being evaluated; and 
Peer  group  evaluation  should  be  the  mechanism  to  determine  whether  to 
extend / continue the terms of appointment of non-executive directors. 

? 

The  Committee  noted  that  evaluation  of  Board  members  is  in  a  germane  stage  in 
India. It is necessary to have a robust process in place for such evaluation. It is also 
necessary  to  ensure  continuity  of  top  leadership,  including  CEO  succession 
planning.  However, 
this  should  be  of  a 
recommendatory  nature  at  first,  before  becoming  a  mandatory  requirement.  This 
will  help  companies  develop  robust  processes  for  Board  evaluation.  This  may  be 
made mandatory after a period of 4 – 5 years. 
Based  on  the  above  deliberations,  the  Committee  makes  the  following  non-
mandatory recommendation: 

the  Committee  believes 

that 

Non-mandatory recommendation 
The  performance  evaluation  of  non-executive  directors  should  be  by  a  peer  group 
comprising the entire Board of Directors, excluding the director being evaluated; and 
Peer  group  evaluation  should  be  the  mechanism  to  determine  whether  to  extend  / 
continue the terms of appointment of non-executive directors. 

 
 

3.13 
3.13.1 
3.13.1.1 

3.13.1.2 

3.13.1.3 

3.13.1.4 

3.14 
3.14.1 
3.14.1.1 

3.14.1.2 

3.14.1.3 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 24 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Analyst Reports 
Disclosures in reports issued by security analysts 
It was suggested that rules should be put in place by SEBI regarding reports issued 
by security analysts. 
The Committee noted that the integrity and credibility of reports issued by security 
analysts  could  be  compromised  owing  to  pressures  to  which  the  security  analyst 
may be subject. This is because of the conflict of interest that arises between the stock 
analysts  and  their  employing  brokerage  /  investment-  banking  firms,  on  the  one 
hand  and  the  listed  companies  that  the  stock  analysts  write  reports  about,  on  the 
other hand. 
Based  on  the  discussions,  the  Committee  makes  the  following  mandatory 
recommendation: 

Mandatory recommendation 
SEBI should make rules for the following: 
? 

? 

Disclosure in the report issued by a security analyst whether the company that 
is being written about is a client of the analyst’s employer or an associate of the 
analyst’s  employer,  and  the  nature  of  services  rendered  to  such  company,  if 
any; and 
Disclosure in the report issued by a security analyst whether the analyst or the 
analyst’s employer or an associate of the analyst’s employer hold or held (in the 
12 months immediately preceding the date of the report) or intend to hold any 
debt or equity instrument in the issuer company that is the subject matter of 
the report of the analyst. 

____________________________________ 

 
 

3.15 
3.15.1 
3.15.1.1 

3.15.1.2 

3.15.1.3 

 

 

 

 
 
4. 

4.1 
4.1.1 

4.1.2 

4.2 

4.2.1 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 25 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Recommendations of the Naresh Chandra Committee  

Background 
Section 2.3.8 of this Report states that the Committee would also recommend that the 
following  mandatory  recommendations  in  the  report  of  the  Naresh  Chandra 
Committee, relating to corporate governance, be implemented by SEBI. 
This section sets out such recommendations of the Naresh Chandra Committee that 
were considered by this Committee. 

Disclosure  of  Contingent  Liabilities  (Section 2.5  of  Naresh  Chandra 
Committee Report) 
The Committee makes the following mandatory recommendation: 

Management  should  provide  a  clear  description  in  plain  English  of  each  material 
contingent liability and its risks, which should be accompanied by the auditor’s clearly 
worded comments on the management’s view. This section should be highlighted in 
the significant accounting policies and notes on accounts, as well as, in the auditor’s 
report, where necessary. 
This is important because investors and shareholders should obtain a clear view of a 
company’s  contingent  liabilities  as  these  may  be  significant  risk  factors  that  could 
adversely affect the company’s future financial condition and results of operations. 

4.3 

4.3.1 

CEO / CFO Certification (Section 2.10 of Naresh Chandra Committee 
Report) 
The Committee makes the following mandatory recommendation: 

For  all  listed  companies,  there  should  be  a  certification  by  the  CEO  (either  the  Executive 
Chairman or the Managing Director) and the CFO (whole-time Finance Director or other person 
discharging this function) which should state that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: 
? 

They have reviewed the balance sheet and profit and loss account and all its schedules 
and notes on accounts, as well as the cash flow statements and the Directors’  Report; 
These statements do not contain any material untrue statement or omit any material fact 
nor do they contain statements that might be misleading; 
These  statements  together  present  a  true  and  fair  view  of  the  company,  and  are  in 
compliance with the existing accounting standards and / or applicable laws / regulations; 
They  are  responsible  for  establishing  and  maintaining  internal  controls  and  have 
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the company; and they have also 
disclosed to the auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation 
of internal controls, if any, and what they have done or propose to do to rectify these; 
They  have  also  disclosed  to  the  auditors  as  well  as  the  Audit  Committee,  instances  of 
significant fraud, if any, that involves management or employees having a significant role 
in the company’s internal control systems; and 
They have indicated to the auditors, the Audit Committee and in the notes on accounts, 
whether or not there were significant changes in internal control and / or of accounting 
policies during the year. 

? 

? 

? 

? 

? 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 26 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Definition  of  Independent  Director  (Section 4.1  of  Naresh  Chandra 
Committee Report) 
This has been incorporated in clause 3.10.1.4 of this Report. 

Independence  of  Audit  Committee  (Section 4.7  of  Naresh  Chandra 
Committee Report) 
The Committee makes the following mandatory recommendation: 
All audit committee members shall be non-executive directors 

Independent  Director  Exemptions  (Section 4.10  of  Naresh  Chandra 
Committee Report) 
The Committee makes the following recommendation: 
Legal  provisions  must  specifically  exempt  non-executive  and  independent  directors 
from  criminal  and  civil  liabilities  under  certain  circumstances.  SEBI  should 
recommend that such exemptions need to be specifically spelt out for the relevant laws 
by the relevant departments of the Government and independent regulators, as the case 
may be. 
However,  independent  directors  should  periodically  review  legal  compliance  reports 
prepared by the company as well as steps taken by the company to cure any taint. In 
the event of any proceedings against an independent director in connection with the 
affairs  of  the  company,  defense  should  not  be  permitted  on  the  ground  that  the 
independent director was unaware of this responsibility. 

____________________________________ 

 
 

4.4 

4.4.1 

4.5 

4.5.1 

4.6 

4.6.1 

 

 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 27 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Other Suggestions and the Committee’s Response 
Background 
The  Committee  also  received  certain  other  suggestions  relating  to  corporate 
governance. These suggestions and the Committee’s response / recommendation are 
set out in the following paragraphs. 
Harmonization 
It  was  suggested  that  SEBI  should  work  towards  harmonizing  the  provisions  of 
clause 49 of the Listing Agreement and those of the Companies Act, 1956. 
The  Committee  noted  that  major  differences  between  the  requirements  under 
clause 49 and the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 should be identified. SEBI 
should then recommend to the Government that the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 1956  be  changed  to  bring  it  in  line  with  the  requirements  of  the  Listing 
Agreement. 
Removal of Independent Directors 
It was suggested that companies should inform SEBI / stock exchanges within five 
business days of the removal / resignation of an independent director, along with a 
statement certified by the managing director / director / company secretary about 
the circumstances of such removal / resignation (specifically whether there was any 
disagreement  with  the 
independent  director  that  caused  such  removal  / 
resignation). Any independent director sought to be removed or who has resigned 
because  of  a  disagreement  with  management  should  have  the  opportunity  to  be 
heard in general meeting. 
The Committee noted that under the existing provisions, companies are required to 
inform the stock exchanges of any changes in directors. The existing safeguards are 
adequate and hence no further action is required. 
Disgorgement of Profits 
It was suggested that CEOs / COOs / CFOs should disgorge equity or incentive-
based  compensation,  or  profits  arising  from  trading  in  company  stock,  if  a 
restatement  of  financial  statements  is  required  or  if  there  is  any  corporate 
misconduct leading to a financial liability. 
The  Committee  noted  that  this  was  one  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Naresh 
Chandra  Committee.  Therefore,  the  Committee  resolved  that  no  further  action  is 
required at this stage. 
Term of Office of Non-Executive Directors 
It was suggested that there must be a cap on the term of office of a non-executive 
director. 
The Committee noted that persons should be eligible for the office of non-executive 
director so long as the term of office did not exceed nine years (in three terms of 
three  years  each,  running  continuously).  [Also  refer  to  recommendation  under 
Section 3.9 of this Report] 

 
 
5 
5.1 
5.1.1 

5.2 
5.2.1 

5.2.2 

5.3 
5.3.1 

5.3.2 

5.4 
5.4.1 

5.4.2 

5.5 
5.5.1 

5.5.2 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 28 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

The Committee also noted that it would be a good practice for directors to retire after 
a particular age. Companies may fix the retirement age at either 65 or 70 years. 
The  Committee  recommends  that  the  age  limit  for  directors  to  retire  should  be 
decided  by  companies  themselves.  Corporate  Boards  should  have  an  adequate 
mechanism of self-renewal, as part of corporate governance best practices. 
Corporate Governance Ratings 
It was suggested that corporate governance practices followed by companies should 
be rated using rating models. It was also suggested that companies should be rated 
based on parameters of wealth generation, maintenance and sharing, as well as on 
corporate governance. 
The  Committee  deliberated  and  noted  that  corporate  governance  ratings  are 
desirable,  as  this  will  provide  a  process  of  independent  appraisal.  Certain  rating 
agencies have begun work in this area; however, the process is still in a development 
phase and may need to be evolved based on future experience. 
The  Committee  is  therefore  of  the  view  that  for  the  time  being,  it  should  not  be 
mandatory  for  companies  to  be  rated  on  corporate  governance  parameters. 
However, it should be left to the management of companies to decide whether they 
want to be rated or not, on corporate governance. 
Media Scrutiny 
The  Committee  considered  the  views  expressed  by  members  on  scrutiny  of  the 
media, especially the financial press. A code of conduct for the financial media is 
already prescribed by the Press Council of India. However, verifying adherence to 
this  code  of  conduct  is  difficult  in  the  current  circumstances.  The  Committee 
suggests that it is desirable for SEBI to review this issue in greater detail, keeping in 
mind  issues  like  transparency  and  disclosures,  conflicts  of  interest,  etc,  before 
making any final rule. 
The  Committee  noted  that  SEBI  should  consider  discussing  this  issue  with 
representatives of the media, especially the financial press. 

____________________________________ 

 
 
5.5.3 

5.5.4 

5.6 
5.6.1 

5.6.2 

5.6.3 

5.7 
5.7.1 

5.7.2 

 

 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 29 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Implementation and Way Forward 
The  Committee  noted  that  the  recommendations  contained  in  this  Report  can  be 
implemented by means of an amendment to the Listing Agreement, with changes 
made to the existing clause 49. 
A primary issue that arises with implementation is whether the recommendations 
should  be  made  applicable  to  all  companies  immediately  or  in  a  phased  manner 
since the costs of compliance may be large for certain companies. Another issue is 
whether to extend the applicability of these recommendations to companies that are 
registered with BIFR. In the case of such companies, there is likely to be almost little 
or no trading in their shares on the stock exchanges. 
The  Committee  believes  that  the  recommendations  should  be  implemented  for  all 
companies to which clause 49 apply. This would also continue to apply to companies 
that have been registered with BIFR, subject to any directions that BIFR may provide 
in this regard. 
 
End Note 
There are several corporate governance structures available in the developed world, 
but  there  is  no  one  structure,  which  can  be  singled  out  as  being  better  than  the 
others.  There  is  no  “one  size  fits  all”  structure  for  corporate  governance.  The 
Committee’s recommendations are not, therefore, based on any one model, but, are 
designed  for  the  Indian  environment.  Corporate  governance  extends  beyond 
corporate law. Its fundamental objective is not mere fulfillment of the requirements 
of law, but, in ensuring commitment of the Board in managing the company in a 
transparent manner for maximizing long-term shareholder value.  
Corporate  governance  has  as  many  votaries  as  claimants.  Among  the  latter,  the 
Committee  has  primarily 
investors  and 
shareholders, as they are the prime constituencies of SEBI. Effectiveness of a system 
of corporate governance cannot be legislated by law nor can any system of corporate 
governance be static. In a dynamic environment, systems of corporate governance 
need to continually evolve. The Committee believes that its recommendations raise 
the standards of corporate governance in Indian firms and make them attractive for 
domestic  and  global  capital.  These  recommendations  will  also  form  the  base  for 
further evolution of the structure of corporate governance in consonance with the 
rapidly  changing  economic  and  industrial  environment  of  the  country  in  the  new 
millennium. 

its  recommendations  on 

focused 

____________________________________ 

 
 
6 
6.1 

6.2 

6.3 

6.4 

6.5 

 

 

 

Signatures Page: 
Shri N R Narayana Murthy, Chairman & Chief Mentor, Infosys 
Technologies Limited - Chairman of the Committee  

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 30 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

Shri Y H Malegam, Managing Partner, S B Billimoria & Co. 

Shri Ravi Narain, Managing Director, NSE 

Shri A C Muthiah, President, FICCI 

Shri R K Somany, President, ASSOCHAM 

Shri Ashok Soota, President, CII 

Shri M K Doogar, Representative, PHDCCI  

Shri Sumit Mazumder, President, BCCI 

Shri Kamlesh S. Vikamsey, Member – Central Council, ICAI 

Shri S Gangopadhyay, President, ICSI 

Shri T. R. Ramaswami, CEO, AMBI 

Dr. Manoj Vaish, Executive Director, BSE 

Shri A K Narayan, President, Tamil Nadu Investors Association 

Shri Nitin Shingala, Investors Grievances Forum 

Prof. Manubhai Shah, Managing Trustee, CERC 

Shri Omkar Goswami, Chief Economist, CII 

Ms Sucheta Dalal, Consulting Editor, Financial Express 

Shri R Gopalakrishnan, Executive Director, Tata Sons Ltd. 

Shri D M Satwalekar, M D & CEO, HDFC Standard Life Insurance 

Shri M K Chouhan, Chairman, Mahendra & Young Knowledge 
Foundation 

Ms. D N Raval, Executive Director, SEBI 

Shri Pratip Kar,  Executive Director , SEBI 

Shri P K Bindlish, General Manager, SEBI, Member Secretary 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-10/2000 
February 21, 2000 

 
 
The Presidents/Executive Directors 
Managing Directors of all Stock Exchanges 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
SEBI had constituted a Committee on Corporate Governance under the Chairmanship of Shri Kumar 
Mangalam Birla, Member, SEBI Board to promote and raise the standard of Corporate Governance in 
respect  of listed companies.  The SEBI Board in its meeting held on January 25, 2000 considered the 
recommendation of the Committee and decided to make the amendments to the listing agreement in 
pursuance of the decision of the Board, it is advised that a new clause, namely clause 49, be incorporate 
in the listing agreement as under: 
 
49.  Corporate Governance  
 
I. 
 
A)  The company agrees that the board of directors of the company shall have an optimum 

Board of Directors 

combination of executive and non-executive directors with not less than fifty percent of the board 
of directors comprising of non-executive directors. The number of independent directors would 
depend whether the Chairman is executive or non-executive. In case of a non-executive chairman, 
at least one-third of board should comprise of independent directors and in case of an executive 
chairman, at least half of board should comprise of independent directors. 

Explanation: For the purpose of this clause the expression ‘independent directors’  means directors 
who  apart  from  receiving  director’s  remuneration,  do  not  have  any  other  material  pecuniary 
relationship or transactions with the company, its promoters, its management or its subsidiaries, 
which in judgement of the board may affect independence of judgement of the director. 
 

B)  The company agrees that all pecuniary relationship or transactions of the non-executive directors 

viz-a-viz. the company should be disclosed in the Annual Report. 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 31 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  
SECONDARY MARKET, DEPOSITORY, 
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT 
E-mail: pkar@sebi.gov.in 
 
 

 

 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 32 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

 
 
II 
 
A)  The company agrees that a qualified and independent audit committee shall be set up and that :  
 

Audit Committee 

a)  The audit committee shall have minimum three members, all being non-executive directors, 
with the majority of them being independent, and with at least one director having financial 
and accounting knowledge; 

b)  The chairman of the committee shall be an independent director; 
c)  The chairman shall be present at Annual General Meeting  to answer shareholder queries; 
d)  The audit committee should invite such of the executives, as it considers appropriate (and 

particularly the head of the finance function) to be present at the meetings of the committee, but 
on occasions it may also meet without the presence of any executives of the company.  The 
finance director, head of internal audit and when required, a representative of the external 
auditor shall be present as invitees for the meetings of the audit committee; 

e)  The Company Secretary shall act as the secretary to the committee. 

 
B)  The audit committee shall meet at least thrice a year. One meeting shall be held before finalisation 

of annual accounts and one every six months. The quorum shall be either two members or one 
third of the members of the audit committee, whichever is higher and minimum of two 
independent directors.  

 
C)  The audit committee shall have powers which should include the following :  
 

a)  to investigate any activity within its terms of reference. 
b)  to seek information from any employee. 
c)  to obtain outside legal or other professional advice. 
d)  to secure attendance of outsiders with relevant expertise, if it considers necessary. 

 
D)  The company agrees that the role of the audit committee shall include the following. 
 

a)  Oversight of the company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial 

information to ensure that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible. 

b)  Recommending the appointment and removal of external auditor, fixation of audit fee and also 

approval for payment for any other services. 

c)  Reviewing with management the annual financial statements before submission to the board, 

focusing primarily on; 
?  Any changes in accounting policies and practices. 
?  Major accounting entries based on exercise of judgement by management. 
?  Qualifications in draft audit report. 
?  Significant adjustments arising out of audit. 
?  The going concern assumption. 
?  Compliance with accounting standards. 
?  Compliance with stock exchange and legal requirements concerning financial statements  
?  Any related party transactions i.e. transactions of the company of material nature, with 

promoters or the management, their subsidiaries or relatives etc. that may have potential 
conflict with the interests of company at large. 

 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 33 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

d)  Reviewing with the management, external and internal auditors, the adequacy of internal 

control systems. 

e)  Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, including the structure of the internal audit 

department, staffing and seniority of the official heading the department, reporting structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit. 

 
f)  Discussion with internal auditors any significant findings and follow up there on. 
g)  Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters 
where there is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a 
material nature and reporting the matter to the board. 

h)  Discussion with external auditors before the audit commences nature and scope of audit as well 

as have post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern. 

i)  Reviewing the company’s financial and risk management policies. 
j)  To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture 

holders, shareholders (in case of non payment of declared dividends) and creditors. 

 
E)  If the company has set up an audit committee pursuant to provision of the Companies Act, the 

company agrees that the said audit committee shall have such additional functions / features as is 
contained in the Listing Agreement. 

 
III. 
 
A)  The company agrees that the remuneration of non-executive directors shall be decided by the 

Remuneration of Directors 

board of directors. 

 
B)  The company further agrees that the following disclosures on the remuneration of directors shall 

be made in the section on the corporate governance of the annual report. 

?  All elements of remuneration package of all the directors i.e. salary, benefits, bonuses, stock 

 
 

 

 

options, pension etc. 

criteria. 

?  Details of fixed component and performance linked incentives, along with the performance 

?  Service contracts, notice period, severance fees. 
?  Stock option details, if any – and whether issued at a discount as well as the period over 

which accrued and over which exercisable. 

 
Board Procedure  

IV. 
 
A)  The company agrees that the board meeting shall be held at least four times a year, with a 

maximum time gap of four months between any two meetings. The minimum information to be 
made available to the board is given in Annexure–I. 

 
B)  The company further agrees that a director shall not be a member in more than 10 committees or 

act as Chairman of more than five committees across all companies in which he is a director. 
Furthermore it should be a mandatory annual requirement for every director to inform the 
company about the committee positions he occupies in other companies and notify changes as and 
when they take place. 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 34 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

 
 
V.  Management 
  
A)  The company agrees that as part of the directors’  report or as an addition there to, a Management 

Discussion and Analysis report should form part of the annual report to the shareholders. This 
Management Discussion & Analysis should include discussion on the following matters within the 
limits set by the company’s competitive position: 

a)  Industry structure and developments. 
b)  Opportunities and Threats. 
c)  Segment–wise or product-wise performance. 
d)  Outlook  
e)  Risks and concerns. 
f) 
g)  Discussion on financial performance with respect to operational performance. 
h)  Material developments in Human Resources / Industrial Relations front, including number of 

Internal control systems and their adequacy. 

people employed. 

 

 

 

 
 

 

B)  Disclosures must be made by the management to the board relating to all material financial and 

commercial transactions, where they have personal interest, that may have a potential conflict with 
the interest of the company at large (for e.g. dealing in company shares, commercial dealings with 
bodies, which have shareholding of management and their relatives etc.) 

 
 
VI. 
 
A)  The company agrees that in case of the appointment of a new director or re-appointment of a 

Shareholders 

director the shareholders must be provided with the following information: 

a)  A brief resume of the director; 
b)  Nature of his expertise in specific functional areas ; and  
c)  Names of companies in which the person also holds the directorship and the membership of 

Committees of the board. 

 
B)  The company further agrees that information like quarterly results, presentation made by 

companies to analysts shall be put on company’s web-site, or shall be sent in such a form so as to 
enable the stock exchange on which the company is listed to put it on its own web-site. 

 
C)  The company further agrees that a board committee under the chairmanship of a non-executive 

director shall be formed to specifically look into the redressing of shareholder and investors 
complaints like transfer of shares, non-receipt of balance sheet, non-receipt of declared dividends 
etc.  This Committee shall be designated as ‘Shareholders/Investors Grievance Committee’.   

 
D)  The company further agrees that to expedite the process of share transfers the board of the 

company shall delegate the power of share transfer to an officer or a committee or to the registrar 
and share transfer agents. The delegated authority shall attend to share transfer formalities at least 
once in a fortnight. 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 35 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

 
 
VII.  Report on Corporate Governance 
 

The company agrees that there shall be a separate section on Corporate Governance in the annual 
reports of company, with a detailed compliance report on Corporate Governance. Non compliance 
of any mandatory requirement i.e. which is part of the listing agreement with reasons there of and 
the  extent  to  which  the  non-mandatory  requirements  have  been  adopted  should  be  specifically 
highlighted. The suggested list of items to be included in this report is given in Annexure-2 and list 
of non-mandatory requirements is given in  Annexure – 3. 

 
VIII.  Compliance 

 
The company agrees that it shall obtain a certificate from the auditors of the company regarding 
compliance  of  conditions  of  corporate  governance  as  stipulated  in  this  clause  and  annexe    the 
certificate with the directors’  report, which is sent annually to all the shareholders of the company. 
The same certificate shall also be sent to the Stock Exchanges along with the annual returns filed by 
the company. 

 
Schedule of Implementation: 
 
The  above  amendments  to  the  listing  agreement  have  to  be  implemented  as  per  schedule  of 
implementation given below: 
 

?  By all entities seeking listing for the first time, at the time of listing.  
?  Within financial year 2000-2001,but not later than March 31, 2001 by all entities, which are 
included either in Group ‘A’of the BSE or in S&P CNX Nifty index as on January 1, 2000. 
However to comply with the recommendations, these companies may have to begin the process 
of implementation as early as possible.  

?  Within financial year 2001-2002,but not later than March 31, 2002 by all the entities which are 

presently listed, with paid up share capital of Rs. 10 crore and above, or networth of Rs 25 crore 
or more any time in the history of the company. 

?  Within financial year 2002-2003,but not later than March 31, 2003 by all the entities which are 

presently listed, with paid up share capital of Rs.3 crore and above 

?  As regards the non-mandatory requirement given in Annexure - 3, they shall be implemented 
as per the discretion of the company.  However, the disclosures of the adoption/non-adoption 
of the non-mandatory requirements shall be made in the section on corporate governance of the 
Annual Report. 

 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
 
PRATIP KAR 
 
Encl. : Annexures. 
 

 

Information to be placed before board of directors 
 
1.  Annual operating plans and budgets and any updates. 
2.  Capital budgets and any updates. 
3.  Quarterly results for the company and its operating divisions or business segments. 
4.  Minutes of meetings of audit committee and other committees of the board. 
5.  The information on recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below the board level, 

including appointment or removal of Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary. 

6.  Show cause, demand, prosecution notices and penalty notices which are materially important  
7.  Fatal or serious accidents, dangerous occurrences, any material effluent or pollution problems. 
8.  Any material default in financial obligations to and by the company, or substantial non-payment 

for goods sold by the company. 

9.  Any issue, which involves possible public or product liability claims of substantial nature, 
including any judgement or order which, may have passed strictures on the conduct of the 
company or taken an adverse view regarding another enterprise that can have negative 
implications on the company. 

10. Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement. 
11. Transactions that involve substantial payment towards goodwill, brand equity, or intellectual 

property. 

business. 

12. Significant labour problems and their proposed solutions. Any significant development in Human 
Resources/ Industrial Relations front like signing of wage agreement, implementation of Voluntary 
Retirement Scheme etc. 

13. Sale of material nature, of investments, subsidiaries, assets, which is not in normal course of 

14. Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by management to limit the 

risks of adverse exchange rate movement, if material. 

15. Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory nature or listing requirements and shareholders 

service such as non-payment of dividend, delay in share transfer etc. 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 36 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

 
 
Annexure 1 
 

 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 37 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

 
 
Annexure 2 
 
Suggested List Of Items To Be Included In The Report On Corporate Governance In The Annual 
Report Of Companies 
 
1.  A brief statement on company’s philosophy on code of governance. 
 
2. 

 Board of Directors: 
?  Composition and category of directors for example promoter, executive, non-executive, 

independent non-executive, nominee director, which institution represented as Lender or as 
equity investor. 

?  Attendance of each director at the BoD meetings and the last AGM. 
?  Number of other BoDs or Board Committees he/she is a member or Chairperson of. 
?  Number of BoD meetings held, dates on which held. 

?  Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions i.e. transactions of the company 

of material nature, with its promoters, the directors or the management, their subsidiaries or 
relatives etc. that may have potential conflict with the interests of company at large.  

?  Details of non-compliance by the company, penalties, strictures imposed on the company by 
Stock Exchange or SEBI or any statutory authority, on any matter related to capital markets, 
during the last three years. 

 

 
3.  Audit Committee. 

?  Brief description of terms of reference 
?  Composition, name of members and Chairperson 
?  Meetings and attendance during the year 

 
4.  Remuneration Committee. 

?  Brief description of terms of reference 
?  Composition, name of members and Chairperson 
?  Attendance during the year 
?  Remuneration policy 
?  Details of remuneration to all the directors, as per format in main report. 

 
5.  Shareholders Committee. 

?  Name of non-executive director heading the committee 
?  Name and designation of compliance officer 
?  Number of shareholders complaints received so far 
?  Number not solved to the satisfaction of shareholders 
?  Number of pending share transfers 

 
6.  General Body meetings. 

?  Location and time, where last three AGMs held. 
?  Whether special resolutions  
?  Were put through postal ballot last year, details of voting pattern. 
?  Person who conducted the postal ballot exercise 
?  Are proposed to be conducted through postal ballot  
?  Procedure for postal ballot 

 
7.  Disclosures.  

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 38 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

 
 
8.  Means of communication. 

?  Half-yearly report sent to each household of shareholders. 
?  Quarterly results 
?  Which newspapers normally published in. 
?  Any website, where displayed 
?  Whether it also displays official news releases; and  
?  The presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts. 
?  Whether MD&A is a part of annual report or not. 

 
9.  General Shareholder information 
?  AGM : Date, time and venue 
?  Financial Calendar  
?  Date of Book closure 
?  Dividend Payment Date 
?  Listing on Stock Exchanges 
?  Stock Code 
?  Market Price Data : High., Low during each month in last financial year 
?  Performance in comparison to broad-based indices such as BSE Sensex, CRISIL index etc. 
?  Registrar and Transfer Agents 
?  Share Transfer System 
?  Distribution of shareholding 
?  Dematerialization of shares and liquidity 
?  Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any Convertible instruments, conversion date and 

likely impact on equity 

?  Plant Locations 
?  Address for correspondence 

 

 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 39 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

 
 
Annexure – 3 

 
1.  Non-Mandatory Requirements  
2. 
a) 

 

Chairman of the Board 
A non-executive Chairman should be entitled to maintain a Chairman’s office at the company’s 
expense and also allowed reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of his duties.  

 
b) 

 

 

 

 
c) 

 

Remuneration Committee 
i.  The board should set up a remuneration committee to determine on their behalf and on 

behalf of the shareholders with agreed terms of reference, the company’s policy on specific 
remuneration packages for executive directors including pension rights and any 
compensation payment.  

ii.  To avoid conflicts of interest, the remuneration committee, which would determine the 

remuneration packages of the executive directors should comprise of at least three directors, 
all of whom should be non-executive directors, the chairman of committee being an 
independent director.  

iii.  All the members of the remuneration committee should be present at the meeting.  

iv.  The Chairman of the remuneration committee should be present at the Annual General 

Meeting, to answer the shareholder queries. However, it would be up to the Chairman to 
decide who should answer the queries.  

Shareholder Rights 
3.  The half-yearly declaration of financial performance including summary of the significant 
events in last six-months, should be sent to each household of shareholders. 

6.  Currently, although the formality of holding the general meeting is gone through, in actual 
practice only a small fraction of the shareholders of that company do or can really participate 
therein.  This virtually makes the concept of corporate democracy illusory.  It is imperative that 
this situation which has lasted too long needs an early correction. In this context, for 
shareholders who are unable to attend the meetings, there should be a requirement which will 
enable them to vote by postal ballot for key decisions. Some of the critical matters which should 
be decided by postal ballot are given below :   
7. 
a)  Maters relating to alteration in the memorandum of association of the company like 

 

changes in name, objects, address of registered office etc; 

b)  Sale of whole or substantially the whole of the undertaking; 
c)  Sale of investments in the companies, where the shareholding or the voting rights of the 

company exceeds 25%; 

d)  Making a further issue of shares through preferential allotment or private placement basis; 
e)  Corporate restructuring; 
f)  Entering a new business area not germane to the existing business of the company; 
g)  Variation in rights attached to class of securities; 
h)  Matters relating to change in management 

 

4. 
5.  d)  Postal Ballot 

Report of the Committee on Corporate Governance 
Page 40 of 40 
February 8, 2003 

 

 

