 

PREFACE 

The  Malegam  Committee  on  Disclosure  Requirements  in  Offer  Document,  under  the 
chairmanship  of  Shri  Y.H.  Malegam,  has  submitted  a  report  to  SEBI.    This  report  has 
been prepared based on the deliberations  of the Committee,  which took place over 25 
meetings.  The  report  contains  various  recommendations  pertaining  to  extant  disclosure 
requirements  in  Offer  Document.    The  recommendations  have  been  made  on  various 
areas  of  disclosures  including  standardization  of  disclosure  requirements  in  offer 
document, format of abridged prospectus, format of issue advertisements etc. 

The Report of the Committee is placed below for public comments. 

Comments on the same may be sent to the Corporation Finance Department, Division of 
Issues  &  Listing,  SEBI,  or  emailed 
to  Ms.  Neelam  Bhardwaj,  DGM  at 
neelamb@sebi.gov.in  or  to  Mr.  M.K.  Srikanth  at  srikanth@sebi.gov.in  or  fax  to  91-22-
22045633 or by post to the Deputy General Manager, Corporation Finance Department, 
Division of Issues and Listing, Securities and Exchange Board of India, Mittal Court, ‘A’ 
Wing,  Ground  Floor,  224  Nariman  Point,  Mumbai  400  021  on  or  before  August 06, 
2004.  

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

REPORT OF THE MALEGAM COMMITTEE  

ON 

 DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS IN OFFER DOCUMENTS  

 

 

Page 2 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

  
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page No. 

 
Chapters 
 
Introduction............................................................................................................. 4 
1. 
Approach................................................................................................................. 5 
2. 
Recommendations which have been implemented ................................................. 9 
3. 
4. 
Recommendations other than recommendations which have been implemented 18 
5           Order of items in chapter vi and form of offer document .................................... 70 
6. 
Confirmations by the issuers/lead merchant bankers............................................ 73 
Abridged prospectus ............................................................................................. 74 
7. 
8. 
Other issues........................................................................................................... 77 
Rights issues and issues of Debt Instruments ....................................................... 82 
9. 
Guidelines as recommended ................................................................................. 82 
10. 
11. 
Acknowledgements............................................................................................... 82 
 
Annexures       
 
 
A-I. 
A-II.  Observations which cover matters that should be incorporated in the SEBI (DIP)         

Standard Observations .......................................................................................... 84 

Page No. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Guidelines, 2000 ................................................................................................. 118 
A-III.   List of confirmations required from the Lead Manager...................................... 134 
A-IV.  Standard Observations - Portions to be Deleted ................................................. 137 
A-V.     Chart of Disclosure items in offer documents ................................................... 149 
A-VI.   Reworked Offer Document ................................................................................ 160 
A-VII.  Confirmations/undertakings/documents to be submitted to SEBI ..................... 268 
A-VIII. Recommendations regarding disclosures in Abridged Prospectus .................... 306 
A-IX. Advertisements Format ........................................................................................ 306 
 
 

Page 3 of 326 

 

1. 

 
1.1 

 
1.2 

 
1.3 
 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

INTRODUCTION 

its 

On  July  21,  1995  a  Committee  was  set  up  by  SEBI  under  the  Chairmanship  of 
Shri  Y.  H.  Malegam  to  review  the  extant  disclosure  requirements  in  Offer 
Documents  for  public/rights  issues  (the  Original  Committee).  The  Committee 
submitted 
the  Committee’s 
recommendations, guidelines were issued by SEBI. These guidelines were revised 
from  time  to  time  and  the  guidelines  presently  in  force  are  the  “Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines,  2000 
(the Guidelines). 

report  on  June  29,  1995.  Based  on 

As  it  was  felt  that  there  was  a  need  to  review  the  Guidelines  in  the  light  of  the 
experience gained, a fresh Committee was appointed on September 8, 1999 under 
the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  Y.  H.  Malegam  with  representation  of  the  major 
stakeholders,  namely,  industry,  investors,  merchant  bankers,  analysts,  stock 
exchanges and the regulator. 

The Committee presently has  the following members:  

•  Shri Y. H. Malegam (Chairman  Emeritus, S.B.Billimoria & Co.), 

Chairman 

•  Shri Prithvi Haldea (Managing Director, PRIME Database) 
•  Shri Chinubhai R. Shah (President, Gujarat Investors’ and Shareholders’ 

Association) 

•  Shri T. R. Ramaswami (CEO, Association of Merchant Bankers of India) 
•  Sushri Dipti Neelakantan (Chief Operating Officer,  JM Morgan Stanley 

Pvt.Ltd.) - nominee of Association of Merchant Bankers of India 

•  Shri S. R. Mehta (Chartered Accountant, S.R. Mehta & Co.) - nominee of 

FICCI 

Page 4 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

•  Nominee of ASSOCHAM (not presently appointed). 
•  Nominee of CII (not presently appointed) 
•  Nominee of Department of Company Affairs (DCA), Government of India 

(not presently appointed) 

•  Sushri T. S. Jagadharini (Asst. Vice President, National Stock Exchange 

of India Ltd.) - nominee of NSE 

•  Shri P. S. Reddy (Chief General Manager, The Stock Exchange, Mumbai) 

- nominee of BSE 

•  Shri  S.C. Das (Executive Director, Corporation Finance Department and 

Investment Management Department, SEBI) 

The Committee held in all 25 meetings. While the nominees of ASSOCHAM, CII 
and DCA attended a few of the initial meetings, they have not been able to attend 
bulk  of  the  meetings  where  substantial  discussions  took  place  on  the  matters 
contained  in  this  report.  Consequently,  they  are  not  a  party  to  this  report.  They 
have therefore not been requested to sign this report. 

APPROACH 

The  Original  Committee’s  approach  was  based  on  the  conviction  that  investor 
protection  is  fundamental  to  a  healthy  growth  of  the  capital  market.  Investor 
protection demands that the potential investor is provided with all the information 
which is necessary for him to take a decision after proper assessment of the risks 
and benefits of the proposed investment. Adequacy of disclosure is therefore the 
cornerstone  of  a  healthy  capital  market.  Such  disclosure  must  be  accurate, 
complete, timely and not misleading. 

In  its  approach  to  its  review  of  the  level  of  disclosure  to  be  made  in  an  Offer 
Document and the manner in which such disclosure shall be made, the Committee 
has been guided by the following general considerations : 

 
1.4 

 

2. 

 
2.1 

 
2.2 

Page 5 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

There has to be a balance between the benefits which disclosure provides 
and the cost to be incurred in providing that disclosure. 
Excessive  disclosure  can  be  counter-productive  as  too  much  information 
may make the document unreadable and in fact relevant information may 
get submerged in a mass of relatively unimportant information. 
The  concept  of  materiality  must  pervade  throughout  the  disclosure 
provisions. 
The manner in which disclosure is made is as relevant as the contents of 
the disclosure. Therefore, there is a need for the disclosure to be made in a 
logical sequence, and in a readable format. 
Finally, the Guidelines themselves must be clear and unambiguous and the 
requirements of the Guidelines must be presented in a logical manner. 

The Committee has noted that apart from the Guidelines, SEBI has in response to 
the draft Offer Documents filed with it, issued “Standard Observations” which list 
out  certain  requirements  which  are  common  across  all  issues.  These  are  in 
addition  to  issue–specific  observations  made  by  SEBI.  These  “Current  Standard 
Observations”  (listed  in  Annexure  I)  which  presently  number  as  many  as  302 
requirements  (including  sub-requirements)  have  over  a  period  of  time  virtually 
become a part of the Guidelines. 

The  Committee  believes  that  the  practice  of    issuing  “Standard  Observations” 
without  observing  the  discipline  to  be  followed  when  issuing  guidelines  or 
making amendments thereto  needs to be discontinued and if any amendments or 
additions  to  the  Guidelines  are  considered  necessary  they  should  be  made  as 
amendments to the Guidelines themselves. 

The  Committee  has  therefore  reviewed  these  Standard  Observations  and  has 
classified them into three broad groups namely : 

 

 
2.3 

 
2.4 

 
2.5 

 

Page 6 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Observations  which  cover  matters  that  should  be  incorporated  in  the 
Guidelines;(Annexure II) 
Observations  which  prescribe  confirmations  that  Issuers/lead  merchant 
bankers  should  submit  to  SEBI  and  which  should  not  be  part  of  the 
disclosure  requirements  but  should  constitute  a  separate  part  of  the 
Guidelines in Chapter V (Annexure III) and  
Observations 
disclosures(Annexure IV) 

that  are  considered 

the  purpose  of 

redundant 

for 

 
2.6 

  Accordingly, 

in  making 

its  recommendations, 

the  Committee  has  made 
recommendations  for  incorporation  in  the  Guidelines  of  the  observations 
contained in 2.5(a) above.  While at first sight appear it may appear that the scope 
of  Guidelines  is  being  expanded,  in  effect,  with  elimination  of  the  observations 
contained  in  2.5(b)  and  2.5(c)  above,  the  total  disclosure  requirements  in  the 
Guidelines has been rationalized and thereby substantially reduced.  
 

2.7      The Guidelines presently consist of seventeen chapters as under: 
 

Chapter  Title 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
V 
VI 
VII 
VIII 
VIII-A 
IX 
X 

Preliminary 
Eligibility Norms for Companies Issuing Securities 
Pricing by Companies Issuing Securities 
Promoters Contribution and Lock-in Requirements 
Pre-Issue Obligations 
Contents of Offer Document 
Post-Issue Obligations 
Other Issue Requirements 
Green Shoe Option 
Guidelines on Advertisement 
Guidelines for Issue of Debt Instruments 

Page 7 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

XI 
XI-A 

XII 
XII-A 
XIII 
XIV 
XV 
XVI 
XVII 

Book Building 
Guidelines on Initial Public Offer through the Stock Exchange on-line 
System (e-IPO) 
Guidelines for Issue of Capital by Designated Financial Institutions 
Shelf Prospectus 
Guidelines for Preferential Issues 
Guidelines for OTCEI Issues 
Guidelines for Bonus Issues 
Operational Guidelines 
Miscellaneous 

 
2.8      The  Committee  has  generally  confined  its  deliberations  to  the  matters  contained 
in  Chapter  VI  “Contents  of  Offer  Documents”  and  the  “Standard  Observations” 
and offers its recommendations in respect of these matters. However, it has also 
discussed  certain  specific  matters,  not  confined  to  this  Chapter  which  were 
specifically  referred  to  the  Committee  or  where  greater  clarity  was  necessary  or 
better compliance could be achieved. Its recommendations therefore cover these 
matters also. 

 
2.9      In the course of its review, the Committee came across a few requirements, which 
appeared to be misplaced, or where the language of the requirement needed some 
amendment  in  the  interest  of  clarity.  The  Committee’s  recommendations  cover 
these aspects also. 

 
2.10     Some of the recommendations of  the Committee have already been approved by 
the  Board  and  since  implemented.  Several  other  recommendations,  as  presented 
here, need to be submitted to the Board for their approval. 

 

Page 8 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

3. 

RECOMMENDATIONS WHICH HAVE BEEN IMPLEMENTED 

 
3.1.     Materiality of Risk Factors 
 
  

The  Committee  observed  that  often  many  minor  risk  factors  get  included  in  an 
Offer Document resulting in a long list of risk factors thereby resulting in loss of 
focus on the important ones. The Committee felt that the concept of “materiality” 
is desirable for determining the risk factors. 

 
      

The Committee accordingly recommended the following: 
a) 

Risk  factors  should  be  determined  on  the  basis  of  their  materiality. 
Materiality  should  be  decided  by  taking  the  following  aspects  into 
account: 
• 

Some  events  may  not  be  material  individually  but  may  be  material 
collectively. 
Some  events  may  have  material  impact  qualitatively  instead  of 
quantitatively. 
Some events may not be material at present but may have a material 
impact in future. 

• 

• 

 

 

b)  Risk  factors  should  appear  in  the  Offer  Document  in  the  following 

manner: 
• 
• 

Risks envisaged by the Management 
How these risks are proposed to be addressed 

 
          This  recommendation  of  the  Committee  was  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly  the  Guidelines  were  amended  vide  CFD/DIL/DIP/Circular  No.  11 
dated August 14, 2003. 

 

Page 9 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

3.2.  Undertaking by the Directors in the Draft Offer Document 
 
  

Section  56  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  read  with  Clause  No.  6.3.4  and  Clause 
No. 6.53 of the Guidelines places responsibility on the directors of a company for 
the statements/disclosures made in the final Offer Document signed by them. 

 

 
  

The Committee felt that a draft Offer Document, once filed with the Board, is also 
a  public  document.    As  such,  the  Committee  was  of  the  view  that the directors 
should  also  be  made  accountable  for  the  disclosures  made  in  the  draft  Offer 
Document.  In  view  of  this,  the  Committee  recommended  that  the  draft  Offer 
Document submitted to the Board should be approved and signed by the Board of 
Directors of the company. 

This  recommendation  of  the  Committee  was  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly the Guidelines were amended vide RMB (Compendium) series 2003-
04 circular no. May 2, 2003. 

 
3.3.    Means of Finance 
 
  

As per the Guidelines, the 'Means of Finance' of the project for which the issue is 
made are required to be disclosed in the Offer Document. 

 
  

 

The Committee was of the view that a company should tie up all external sources 
of  funds  prior  to  raising  money  from  the  public  because  achieving  a  financial 
closure  makes  a  project  implementation  more  certain,  and  is,  therefore,  in  the 
interest of the investors.  

The Committee therefore recommended the following: 
• 

A  company  shall  not  be  allowed  to  come  out  with  a  public/rights  issue 
unless at least 75% of  the stated means of finance, excluding the amount to 

Page 10 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

be  raised  through  proposed  public/rights  issue,  have  been  tied  up.  A 
disclosure shall be made in the Offer Document in this regard.  
The non-tied up portion, if any, of the means of finance shall be disclosed as 
such.  

• 

 
  

This  recommendation  of  the  Committee  was  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly  the  Guidelines  were  amended  vide  CFD/DIL/DIP/Circular  No.  11 
dated August 14, 2003 by inserting a new Clause 2.8. 

 
3.4.   Capital Expenditure and Working Capital Requirement 
 

The Committee felt that there was a need to differentiate between funds raised for 
capital expenditure and for working capital to ensure better disclosures and bring 
about  greater  clarity  on  the  proposed  deployment  of  funds.  In  specific,  the 
requirement of funds for capital expenditure should be stated very specifically. 

This  recommendation  of  the  Committee  was  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly  the  Guidelines  were  amended  vide  CFD/DIL/DIP/Circular  No.  11 
dated August 14, 2003. 

 
  

 
3.5.   Provisions relating to Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) in Book-Building 

Issues 

 
  

 
  

Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) play a major role in discovering price in the 
book-building issues (Clause 11.3.5 read with Clause 2.2.2 and Clause 2.3.2 of 
the  Guidelines).  However,  the  Guidelines  do  not  prescribe  any  financial 
commitment from the QIBs participating in book-building issues. 

In order to facilitate a genuine price discovery, the Committee recommended the 
following:  

Page 11 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

• 

There should be a provision for some minimum financial commitment from 
the QIBs. 

•  Withdrawal  of  bids  made  by  the  QIBs  should  not  be  allowed  after  the 

closure of issue. 

Only  the  second  suggestion  of  the  Committee  i.e.,  suggestion  on  disallowing 
withdrawals  of  bids  by  QIBs  after  the  closure of the issue was accepted by the  
Board, 
vide 
CFD/DIL/DIP/Circular No. 11 dated August 14, 2003. 

the  Guidelines  were 

amended 

and 

accordingly 

 
  

 
3.6.   Reference Date for Reckoning 'Net Worth' 
 

 

As per Clause 2.2.2 and 2.3.2 of the extant Guidelines, a company was required to 
make an issue through book building route if the issue size of the company shall 
be more than five times the pre issue net worth or if the company did not have a 
track record of distributable profits and net worth of Rs. 1 crore for at least three 
out of the immediately preceding five years.  

The  Committee  felt  that  the  aforesaid  requirement  could  be  circumvented  by  an 
Issuer by issuing equity in two stages.  As an example, if a company having a net 
worth of Rs. 1 crore at the beginning of the year, plans to raise Rs 6 crore through 
a public issue within the same financial year and if it raises the entire amount in 
one go, it shall have to follow the book building route as the proposed issue size 
shall  be  more  than  five  times  the  pre-issue  net  worth.    Instead  of  raising  Rs  6 
crore in one go, the company may circumvent this provision by raising the money 
in two tranches of say Rs. 2 crore and Rs. 4 crore. It would thereby avoid the book 
building route, as at the time of the first tranche, the issue size of Rs.2 crore will 
be not more than five times the pre-issue net worth of Rs. 1 crore and at the time 
of  the  second  tranche,  the  issue  size  of  Rs.  4  crore  will  be  not  more  than  five 
times  the  pre-issue  net  worth  of  Rs.  3  crore  (Rs.  1  crore at the beginning of the 
year plus Rs. 2 crore raised through the earlier tranche.)   

Page 12 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
 

 

 
  

The  Committee  therefore  made  the  following  recommendations  to  address  this 
issue: 

1. 

The definition of "net worth" as provided in Clause No. 1.2.1(xix)(a) of the 
Guidelines  may  be  modified  to  reckon  net  worth  as  at  the  end  of  the 
previous financial year. 

2.  Aggregate of the issued amount raised in a financial year shall be used as a 

reference for calculating the post issue net worth.  

These  recommendations  of  the  Committee  were  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly  the  Guidelines  were  amended  vide  CFD/DIL/DIP/Circular  No.  11 
dated August 14, 2003. 

 
3.7.  Transfer of Locked-in Shares  
 
  

Clauses  4.11  &  4.12  of  the  extant  Guidelines  covered  lock-in of shares, which 
included pre-IPO shares. 

 
  

 
  

As  per  clause  4.16  of  the  Guidelines,  interse  transfer  of  locked-in shares among 
promoters was permissible, subject to the continuity of the lock-in in the hands of 
transferee. This clause was applicable only in the case of public issues. Further, as 
per  Clause  13.3  of  the  Guidelines,  shares  issued  to  promoters  through  a 
preferential  allotment  were  subject  to  a  lock-in  for  a  period  of  three  years. 
However, the Guidelines were silent about transferability of these shares and the 
pre-IPO shares allotted to shareholders other than the promoters. 

In this regard, the Committee recommended that all pre-IPO shares in the hands 
of persons other than promoters, which are subject to lock-in of one year, should 
be allowed to be transferred to other  holders of pre-IPO  locked-in shares subject 
to continuation of the lock-in. 

Page 13 of 326 

  

 
  

 

 
  

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

The  Committee  further  recommended  that  the  locked-in  shares  issued  under  a 
preferential allotment should also be allowed to be transferred among promoters 
subject to the continuation of lock-in. 

The Committee was also of the view that the locked-in shares (irrespective of the 
mode  of  issue  i.e.  whether  public  issue  or  preferential  allotment)  should  be 
permitted  to  be  transferred  either  among  promoters  or  to  such  outsiders,  who 
become the new promoters or persons in control of the company subject to their 
complying  with  the  provisions  of  SEBI(  Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and 
Takeovers)  Regulations,  1997  and  with  the  requirement  of  continuation  of  the 
lock-in for the remaining period. 

   Accordingly, the Committee made the following recommendations: 

 
a)  Any  locked-in pre-IPO shares held by persons other than the promoters can 
be transferred to any other holder of pre-IPO locked-in shares subject to the 
continuation of lock-in. 

b)  Any  locked-in  shares  held  by  the  promoters  can  be  transferred  to  co-
promoters or any new promoters/persons in control of the company subject 
to 
• 

Continuation  of  lock-in  in  the  hands  of  transferees  for  the 
remaining period  
Due  compliance  with 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997. 

the  provisions  of  SEBI  (Substantial 

• 

These  recommendations  of  the  Committee  were  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly the Guidelines were amended vide RMB (Compendium) series 2003-
2004 circular no 9 dated May 2, 2003. 

Page 14 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

3.8.    Units of Financial Values used in the Offer Document 
 
  

It  was  noted  by  the  Committee  that  many  companies  resort  to  using  different 
financial values within the same Offer Document, leading to confusion and even 
misguiding  the  investors.  The  Committee  felt  that  a  standard  unit  of  financial 
values  is  essential  to  bring  consistency  in  the  financial  statements  that  are 
disclosed. 

 
  

 
  

Accordingly,  the  Committee  recommended  that  only  one  standard  financial  unit 
should be used in the Offer Document. 

This  recommendation  of  the  Committee  was  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly  the  Guidelines  were  amended  vide  CFD/DOIL/DIP/Circular  No.  11 
dated August 14, 2003. 

 
3.9.   Disclosure of Financial Statements based on Different Accounting Standards  
 
  

It  was  brought  to  the  notice  of  the  Committee  that  some  issuers  ,  to  cater  to  a 
cross  section  of  investors,  disclose  in  their  Offer  Document  financial  statements 
based on more than one accounting standard e.g. Accounting Standards specified 
by ICAI and US GAAP. 

 

 
  

After examining this issue, the Committee recommended the following:  
 
• 

The Issuer, if it so desires can include in the Offer Document the financial 
statements  prepared  on  the  basis  of  more  than  one  accounting  standard, 
subject to disclosing the material differences arising because of differences 
in the accounting policies of the different accounting standards. 

 
• 

However,  the  ‘Management  Discussion  and  Analysis  (MDA)  Statement’ 
and the statement of ‘Accounting and other Ratios’ required to be computed 

Page 15 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

under the Guidelines shall be based on the financial statements prepared as 
per  Indian  Accounting  Standards.  The  Issuer  may,  however,  present  as 
additional  information  MDA  Statement  and  statement  of  “Accounting  and 
other ratios” prepared in accordance with other accounting standards.  

 
  

This  recommendation  of  the  Committee  was  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly  the  Guidelines  were  amended  vide  CFD/DIL/DIP/Circular  No.  11 
dated August 14, 2003. 

 
3.10.   Due Diligence by Merchant Bankers  
 
  

As per the earlier clause 5.4.1.1 of the Guidelines, any merchant banker associated 
with an Issuer as a promoter or as a director was prohibited from lead managing 
such an issue. This was to ensure an arm's length relationship between the Issuer 
and the merchant banker.  The Committee was asked to recommend a definition 
of the term “associate”. 

 
  
 
  

 

  

Accordingly, the Committee recommended that: 

A body corporate or a merchant banker shall be deemed to be an associate of the 
other where:   

• 

• 

Either of them controls directly or indirectly, through itself, its subsidiary or 
holding company,  not less than 15 percent of the voting power of the other; 
or 

There  is  a  common  director,  excluding  nominee  director,  among  the  body 
corporate/ its subsidiary or holding company and the merchant banker. 

The  Committee  also  recommended  that  if  more  than  one  merchant  banker  is 
associated  with  the  issue,  the  responsibility  of  each  merchant  banker  should  be 

Page 16 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

clearly demarcated in the inter-se allocation of responsibility that is submitted  to 
the  Board  and  is  disclosed  in  the  Offer  Document.  The  lead  merchant  bankers 
who  are  responsible  for  conducting  the  due  diligence  with  respect  to  the  Offer 
Document,  as  per  inter-se  allocation  of  responsibilities,  should  sign  the  due 
diligence certificate. 

This  recommendation  of  the  Committee  was  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly  Clause  5.4.1.1  of 
amended  vide 
CFD/DIL/DIP/Circular No. 11 dated August 14, 2003. (See, however, paragraph 
4 of part II of Recommendations in this report) 

the  Guidelines  was 

 
  

 
3.11.   Branding of Securities 
 
  

SEBI  came  across  several  public  issues  where  debt  instruments  were  being 
branded and advertised by the issuers such as 'safety bonds'. The Committee was 
of  the  view  that  this  might  misguide  the  investors  about  the  quality  of  the 
instruments.  Accordingly,  the  Committee  recommended  that  an  issue  may  be 
branded  only  if  such  branding  describes  the  nature  of  the  instrument  and  that  it 
should not connote the quality of the instrument. 

 
  

This  recommendation  of  the  Committee  was  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly  the  Guidelines  were  amended  vide  CFD/DIL/DIP/Circular  No.  11 
dated August 14, 2003. 

 
3.12.   Validity Period of SEBI’s ‘Observation Letter’ 
 
  

Earlier,  the  ‘Observation  Letter’  issued  by  SEBI  in  response  to  the  draft  Offer 
Document filed with it had a validity of one year from the date of its issue. In this 
regard, the Committee recommended that, considering the fast changing business 
scenario  and  other 
the  validity  of  SEBI’s 
‘Observation Letter’ should be reduced to 3 months. 

implications  of  disclosures, 

Page 17 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
  

This  recommendation  of  the  Committee  was  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly  the  Guidelines  were  amended  vide  CFD/DIL/DIP/Circular  No.  11 
dated August 14, 2003. 

 
3.13.  Additional Disclosure Requirement in case of Dot Co m Companies 
  

The report of Accounting Standard Sub-Committee on 'Additional Disclosures in 
respect  of  Dot-Com/Biotech  Companies'  was  placed  before  the  Committee  for 
discussion. The Committee accepted this report and recommended the same to the 
Board. 

 
  

This  recommendation  of  the  Committee  has  been  accepted  by  the  Board. 
However, the Guidelines are yet to be amended in this regard. 

 
3.14.   Definition of Profit in Eligibility Criteria 
 
  

As per the extant Guidelines, an unlisted company could come out with  a  fixed 
price  issue  only  if  it  had  a  track  record  of  profits  in  three  of  the  immediately 
preceding  five  years.  To  make  this  criterion  more  effective,  the  Committee 
recommended  that  all  extraordinary  items  should  be  excluded  when  calculating 
the profits for the said purpose. 

 
  

 

4. 

 
4.1 
 

This  recommendation  of  the  Committee  was  accepted  by  the  Board  and 
accordingly  the  Guidelines  were  amended  vide  CFD/DIL/DIP/Circular  No.  11 
dated August 14, 2003. 

RECOMMENDATIONS OTHER THAN RECOMMENDATIONS WHICH 
HAVE BEEN IMPLEMENTED 

Clause 1.2 – Definitions 

Page 18 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.1.1  Sub-clause (xv) defines an ‘Infrastructure Company’ as :   

 

“Infrastructure  Company”  means  a  company  wholly  engaged  in  the  business  of 
developing, maintaining and operating infrastructure facility. 
 

4.1.2  An “Infrastructure Company” is also defined in section 80IA of the Income Tax   

Act 1961. 

 
4.1.3 

In the opinion of the Committee it would be appropriate if a common definition is 
used. 

 
4.1.4  Accordingly,  the  Committee  recommends  that  sub-clause  (xv)  be  reworded  as 

 

under :  
“Infrastructure Company” means any enterprise wholly engaged in the business of 
(i) developing or (ii) operating and maintaining or (iii) developing, operating and 
maintaining any infrastructure facility”. 
 

4.1.5  Sub-clause (xix)(a) defines “net worth” as “net worth” means aggregate value of 
the  paid  up  equity  capital  and  free  reserves  (excluding  reserves  created  out  of 
revaluation)  reduced  by  the  aggregate  value  of  accumulated  losses  and  deferred 
expenditure not written off (including miscellaneous expenses not written off). 

In the opinion of the Committee this definition needs revision. 

 
4.1.6 
 
4.1.7  The Committee accordingly recommends that the sub-clause (xix)(a) be reworded 

as under :             
“net  worth”  means  the  aggregate  of  the  paid  up  share  capital,  share  premium 
account,  and  reserves and surplus (excluding revaluation reserve) as reduced by 
the aggregate of  Miscellaneous Expenditure (to the extent not adjusted or written 
off) and the debit balance of the Profit and Loss Account.” 
 

Page 19 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.1.8  Presently  the  Explanations  in  Clause  6.4.2  define  a  ‘Promoter’  and  a  ‘Promoter 
Group’.    Since  these  definitions  have  been  applied  to  all  the  clauses  of  the 
Guidelines  by  practice,  it  is  appropriate  that  these  definitions  be  included  in 
Clause 1.2. 

 
4.1.9  The Committee accordingly recommends that  new clauses “xxii a” and “xxii b” 

 

 

be introduced in Clause 1.2 as under: 

xxii a) “Promoter” shall include:- 

a) 
b)  

c)  

the person or persons who are in over-all control of the company.  
the person or persons who are instrumental in the formulation of a 
plan or programme pursuant to which the securities are offered to 
the public;  
the persons or persons named in the prospectus as promoters(s):  
Provided  that   a  director / officer   of   the   issuer  company  or  
person,  if they  are acting  as  such  merely  in  their  professional  
capacity  shall  not be included in the explanation. 

xxii b) “Promoter Group” shall include 

a) 
b) 

c) 
 

d) 

the promoter,  
an immediate relative of the promoter (i.e. any spouse of that 
person, or any parent, brother, sister or child of the person or of the 
spouse); and  
in case promoter is a company- 

 (i)       a subsidiary or holding company of that company; 
 (ii)      any company in which the promoter holds 10% or more 
of the equity capital or which holds 10% or more of the 
equity capital of the Promoter; 

(iii)      any company in which a group of individuals or 

companies or combinations thereof who holds 20% or 
more of the equity capital in that company also holds 
20% or more of the equity capital of the issuer 
company; and 

 in case the promoter is an individual,-  

(i) 

any company in which 10% or more of the share capital 
is held by the promoter or an immediate relative of the 
promoter' or a firm or HUF in which the 'Promoter' or 
any one or more of his immediate relative is a member;  

Page 20 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

(ii) 

(iii) 

any  company  in  which  a  company  specified  in  (i) 
above, holds 10% or more, of the share capital;  
any  HUF  or  firm  in  which  the  aggregate  share  of  the 
promoter  and  his  immediate  relatives  is  equal  to  or 
more than 10% of the total, and  

all  persons  whose  shareholding  is  aggregated  for  the  purpose  of 
disclosing in the prospectus "shareholding of the promoter group".  
 

e)  

Explanation:-  For  the  purposes  of  sub  clauses  (xxiia)  and  (xxiib)  above, 
the Financial Institution, Scheduled Banks, Foreign Institutional Investors 
(FIIs) and Mutual Funds shall not be deemed to be a promoter or promoter 
group  merely  by  virtue  of  the  fact  that  10%  or  more  of  the  equity  of  the 
issuer company is held by such institution.  
Provided  that  the  Financial  Institutions,  Scheduled  banks,  Foreign 
Institutional Investors, shall be treated as promoters or promoter group for 
the  subsidiaries  or  companies  promoted  by  them  or  for  the  mutual  fund 
sponsored by them 

 
4.2 

Clause 2.1.3  – “Companies barred not to issue securities” (to be retitled as 
“Companies Barred from Issuing Securities”)  

 
4.2.1  The existing clause provides that no company shall make an issue of securities if 
the  company  has  been  prohibited  from  accessing  the  capital  market  under  any 
order or direction passed by the Board. 

 
4.2.2  “Standard  Observations”  (item  19,  Annexure  II)  extends  this  restriction  also  to 
persons  who  are  connected  with  the  issue  whether  as  promoters,  directors  or 
persons acting in control. 

 
4.2.3 

In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  this  observation  should  be  incorporated  in  the 
guidelines. 

 
4.2.4  Accordingly the Committee recommends that this clause be reworded as under : 

Page 21 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

“No Company shall make an issue if – 

 

a) 

b) 

c) 

the  company  has  been  debarred  from  accessing  the  capital  market  under 
any order or direction made by the Board; or   
any of its promoter(s), director(s) or persons  in control has been debarred 
from  accessing  the  capital  market  under  any  order  or  directions  made  by 
the Board; or  
any  of  its  promoter(s),  director(s)  or  person(s)  in  control  was  a 
promoter(s), director(s) or person(s) in control of any other company when 
such other company was debarred from accessing the capital market under 
any order or directions made by the Board. 

Clause 2.1.5.1 – Issue of Securities in Dematerialized Form 

 
4.3 
 
4.3.1  The explanation to this clause defines a depository. 
 
4.3.2  Clause 1.2.1(xii) already defines a “Depository”  
 
4.3.3  The Committee accordingly recommends that this explanation be deleted. 
 
4.4 
 
4.4.1  Sub Clause v of Clause 2.2.2B defines “Qualified Institutional Buyer” 
 
4.4.2  The Committee recommends  that  this  definition  be  deleted  from  this  clause  and 

Clause 2.2 “Public Issue by Unlisted Companies 

included in Clause 1.2.1. 

Clause 3.6 – Payments of Discounts/Commissions etc. 

 
4.5 
 

Page 22 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.5.1  This clause which prohibits the payment of discounts, commission etc. appears to 
be  misplaced  as  this  Chapter  III  is  titled  “Pricing  by  Companies  Issuing 
Securities”. 

 
4.5.2  The  Committee  recommends  that  this  clause  be  deleted  and  the  requirement 
contained  in  this  clause  be  introduced  in  Chapter  VIII  under  Clause  8.14  
“Incentives to Prospective Shareholders” 

 
4.6 

Clause  4.6  –  Securities  Ineligible 
Contribution 

for  Computation  of  Promoters’ 

 
4.6.1  This  clause  provides  inter  alia  that  where  the  promoters  of  any  company  have 
acquired equity during the period of three years preceding the filing of the draft 
Offer  Document  with  the  Board,  such  equity  shall  not  be  considered  for 
computation of promoters contribution if : 
(i) 

  it is acquired for consideration other than cash and revaluation of assets 
or capitalization of intangible assets is involved in such transaction or 

 
(ii) 

  it results from a bonus issue by capitalisation of revaluation reserves or 
reserves without accrual of cash resources. 

 
4.6.2  SEBI has received representations that in some cases where shares are allotted to 
promoters and/or related parties for consideration other than cash, particularly  in 
respect of preferential issues, the valuation of the assets acquired in consideration 
whereof  the  shares  are  issued  does  not  appear  to  be  fair.  The  Committee  was 
asked to consider this matter and make its recommendations. 

 
4.6.3 

In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  the  Guidelines  already  provide  that  for  the 
purposes  of  computation  of  promoters’  contribution,  shares 
issued  for 
consideration other than cash should be excluded. Moreover, the question of issue 

Page 23 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

of shares to promoters and related parties generally for  consideration other than 
cash is not strictly a matter related to the Guidelines. 

 
4.6.4  However, the Committee recommends that the guidelines for issue of shares on a 

preferential basis should be amended to provide that : 

 

(a)  When shares are issued on a preferential basis to promoters, their relatives, 
associates  and  related  entities  for  consideration  other  than  cash,  the 
valuation  of  the  assets  in  consideration  for  which  the  shares  are  issued 
shall be done by an independent qualified valuer. 
in  case  a  stock  exchange,  where  the  shares  are  listed,  has  any  concerns 
about the appropriateness of the valuation, it may get a valuation done by 
any  other  valuer  and  for  this  purpose  it  can  obtain  the  necessary 
information  from  the  Company  by  using  its  powers  under  the  general 
clause in the listing agreement. 

(b) 

 
4.6.5  The  Committee  also  reviewed  the  sub-clause  relating  to  bonus  shares  issued  out 

of revaluation reserves or reserves without accrual of cash resources. 

 
4.6.6 

In the opinion of the Committee, there should be no restrictions on bonus shares 
issued  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  law.  In  its  opinion,  issue  of  bonus 
shares out of revaluation reserves or out of unrealized profits would be contrary to 
law.  However,  as  a  measure  of  abundant  caution  it  may  be  provided  that  bonus 
shares issued in that manner shall not be considered for calculation of promoters’ 
contribution. 

 
4.6.7  The Committee therefore recommends that sub-clause (ii) of clause 4.6.1 may be 

reworded as under 

 

“resulting from a bonus issue by utilization of revaluation reserves or unrealized 
profits of the Company”. 

Page 24 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
4.6.8  Clause  4.6.4  provides  that  the  restrictions  imposed  by  clauses  4.6.1,  4.6.2  and 
4.6.3  will  not  apply  when  such  ineligible  shares  are  acquired  in  pursuance  of  a 
scheme of merger or amalgamation approved by a High Court. 

 
4.6.9 

In the opinion of the Committee there is a risk that the concession given by clause 
4.6.4  may  be  misused  by  a  contrived  merger  or  amalgamation  merely  to 
circumvent the restrictions imposed in clauses 4.6.1, 4.6.2 and 4.6.3. 

 
4.6.10  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  clause  4.6.4  may  be  reworded  as 

under : 

 

“In  respect  of  Clauses  4.6.1,  4.6.2  and  4.6.3,  such  ineligible  shares  acquired 
pursuant  to  a  scheme  of  merger  or  amalgamation  approved  by  a  High  Court 
shall  be  eligible  for  computation  of  promoters’  contribution  provided  the 
scheme  of  merger  or  amalgamation  has  been  approved  by  the  High  Court  at 
least one year prior to the date of filing of the draft Offer Document”. 

Clause 4.15 – Pledge of Securities Forming Part of Promoters’ Contribution 

 
4.7 
 
4.7.1  Clause  4.15.1  provides  that  “Locked  in  Securities  held  by  promoters  may  be 
pledged  only  with  banks  or  financial  institutions  as  collateral  security  for  loans 
granted  by  such  banks  or  financial  institutions,  provided  the  pledge  of  shares  is 
one of the terms of sanction of loan”. 

 
4.7.2  The  Committee  is  unable  to  appreciate  the  need  for  this  requirement.    In  the 

opinion of the Committee:  

 

a) 

a pledge of shares will always be pursuant to a term of the sanction of the 
loan and therefore the provision may not be necessary. 

Page 25 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

b) 

c) 

it is not clear why a distinction is made between a loan given by banks and 
financial institutions and loans given by other parties. 
even  when  shares  are  pledged  the  lock-in  will  continue  as  the  pledgee 
cannot get a better title than the borrower. 

 
4.7.3  The Committee therefore recommends that this clause be deleted. 
 
4.8  Other Requirements in Respect of Lock-in 
 
4.8.1  Standard Observations (item 1, Annexure II) provide that “if locked-in shares are 
partly  paid  up  shares,  the  lock-in  shall  start  from  the  date  of  allotment  in  the 
proposed Public Issue and the last date of lock-in shall be reckoned as three years 
from the date on which shares are made fully paid-up”. 

 
4.8.2  This  ‘observation’  is  intended  to  cover  a  situation  where  the  shares  subject  to 
“lock-in” have an amount called up on the shares which is lower than the amount 
called up on the shares issued to the public. 

 
4.8.3 

In the opinion of the Committee this is a situation which would arise in very rare 
circumstances since the Guidelines provide (in Clause 2.7.1) that before a  public 
issue is made, the partly-paid shares shall be made fully paid up. 

 
4.8.4  However, to provide for these rare situations, the Committee recommends that a 

new clause 4.18 be added which shall read as under : 

  

 
Reckoning of the period for Lock-in 
“Where in  respect of shares which are subject to lock-in, the shares are partly 
paid and the amount called up on the shares is less than the amount called up 
on the shares issued to the public, the “lock-in” shall end only on the expiry of 
three years after the shares have become pari-passu with the shares issued to 
the public”. 

Page 26 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Clause 5.4.1 – Appointment of Merchant Bankers 

4.9 
 
4.9.1  Clause  5.4.1.1  was  incorporated  in  the  Guidelines  based  on  the  Committee’s 
recommendations  (see  paragraph  3.10  above)  to  define  an  ‘associate’  of  a 
merchant banker. 

 
4.9.2  On  reconsideration,  the  Committee  recommends  that  this  clause  be  reworded  to 

read 

 

“A merchant banker shall be deemed to be an associate of the Issuer if: 

 

(a) 

(b) 

Either  party  controls  directly  or  indirectly,  through  its  subsidiary  or 
holding company, 15 percent or more of the voting power in the other 
or 
There is a common director (excluding nominee directors of financial 
institutions)  on  the  board  of  directors  of  the  Issuer  and  the  merchant 
banker  or  on  the  boards  of  directors  of  the  subsidiary  company  or 
holding company of such Issuer and/or the merchant banker. 

 
4.10  Clause 5.4.3 – Appointment of other Intermediaries 
 
4.10.1  “Standard Observations” (item 23, Annexure II) provide that “if the Registrar to 
the issue appointed for the issue, does not have direct connectivity with both the 
depositories, then, the concerned intermediary cannot act as registrar to the issue”. 

 
4.10.2  In the opinion of the Committee this is a necessary safeguard to be ensured by the 

lead merchant banker. 

 
4.10.3  The Committee accordingly  recommends that in clause 5.4.3.4 which deals with 
matters  the  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  about,  a  sub-clause  (c)  shall  be 
added which shall read as under : 

Page 27 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

“The  Registrar  to  the  Issue,  appointed  for  the  issue  has  direct  connectivity 
with all the Depositories” 

 
4.11  Chapter VI – Section I – Contents of the Prospectus 
 
4.11.1  Clause 6.1.1 states that the Offer Document shall also contain the information and 

statements specified in Chapter VI. 

 
4.11.2  The  Committee  believes  that  ‘Standard  Observations’  (items  7,  12,  13  and 14, 

Annexure II) are relevant for this purpose. 

 
4.11.3  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  the  following  sub-clauses  may  be 

inserted in clause 6.1.1. 

 
  

 
  

 
  

“Only relevant and updated information and statistics shall be disclosed in the 
Offer  Document.  Further  the  source  and  basis  of  all  statements/claims  made 
shall be disclosed. All blank spaces in the draft Offer Document shall be filled 
up with appropriate data before filing the Offer Document with the Registrar 
of Companies/stock exchanges.  

Simple  English for easy understanding of the contents of the Offer Document 
shall  be  used.  Terms  like  “market  leader”  “leading  player”  etc.  shall  not  be 
used unless they can be substantiated by proper sources of information which 
are disclosed. 

Wherever  it  is  mentioned  in  the  Offer  Document  that  details  are  given 
elsewhere in the document, the same shall be adequately cross-referenced by 
indication of page and paragraph numbers.” 

 
4.12  Clause 6.2.1 – Outer Front Cover Page 

Page 28 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
4.12.1  “Standard  Observations”  (Items  20  and  56,  Annexure  II)  require  that  date  and 
place of original incorporation of the company and any changes thereafter in the 
name  and  registered  office  and  contact  details  of  Issuer,  Lead  Manager  and 
Registrar to the issue shall appear on the cover page. 

 
4.12.2  In the opinion of the Committee this is relevant information which is useful to the 

potential investor to identify the company.  

 
4.12.3  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  sub-clause  (ii)  of  clause  6.2.1.2  be 

redrafted to read as under :  

 

“The name of the Issuer  and address of the registered office of the Issuer along 
with  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers,  e-mail address and website address ,and 
where there has been a change in the address of the registered office or name of 
the Issuer, details thereof”. 

 
4.12.4   In the opinion of the Committee, the names of promoters of the Issuer is relevant 

information for the potential investors.  

 
4.12.5  The Committee accordingly recommends that a new sub-clause (iii)(b) be inserted 

 

under clause 6.2.1.2 as under: 

 “names of promoters”.           

 Clause 6.2.4 Back Cover Page 

 
4.13 
 
4.13.1  Clause  6.2.4.2  states  “any  ‘notes’  required  to  be  given  prominence  shall  appear 

immediately after the Risk Factors wherever they appear”. 

 

Page 29 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.13.2  If the Committee’s recommendations regarding the “Order of Items in Chapter VI 
and Form of Offer Document (contained in paragraph 5 later) are accepted, these 
notes will form part of the “Summary” proposed and therefore this clause needs to 
be deleted. 

 
4.13.3  The Committee therefore recommends that this clause be deleted. 
 
4.14  Clause 6.3.14 – Compliance Officer 
 
4.14.1  Sub-clause  (a)  requires  disclosure  of  “The  name,  address  telephone  number,  fax 

and E-mail number and address of Compliance Officer.” 

 
4.14.2  The Committee recommends that this sub-clause be reworded as under 
 

 

“The  name,  address,  telephone  number,  fax  number  and  E-mail  address  of  the 
Compliance Officer”. 

 
4.15  Clause 6.4 Capital Structure of the Company 
 
4.15.1  The  clause  begins  with  the  words  “The  lead  manager  shall  present  the  capital 

structure in the following manner”. 

 
4.15.2  These words are inappropriate since the lead manager does not present the Offer 

Document. 

 
4.15.3  The Committee therefore recommends that the sentence be reworded as under : 
 

“The capital structure shall be presented in the following manner”. 

 
4.15.4  Sub-clause (a) requires disclosure of details of share capital. 
 

Page 30 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.15.5  Since the Companies Act, 1956 allows companies to issue shares of a class with 
differential  rights,  in  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  this  sub-clause  needs  to  be 
reworded. 

 
4.15.6  The Committee therefore recommends that this sub-clause be reworded as under : 
 

“Authorised,  issued,  subscribed  and  paid-up  capital  (number,  description,  face 
value  of  each  share  and  aggregate  nominal  value)  and  distinguishing  between 
shares of a class having differential rights”. 

 Clause 6.4.2 – Notes to Capital Structure 

 
4.16 
 
4.16.1  “Standard Observations” (items 25, 26(a), 26(b) and 49, Annexure II) are relevant 

in the context of the Capital Structure of the Issuer. 

 
4.16.2  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  the  opening  paragraph  of  this  clause 

and sub-clause (a) be redrafted as under : 

 

“The  existing  share  capital  of  the  company  shall  be  detailed  in  a  tabular  form 
indicating  with  regard  to  each  allotment,  date  of  allotment,  number  of  shares 
allotted,  face  value  of  the  shares  allotted  and  form  of  consideration.  In  case  the 
shares have been issued for consideration other than cash or have been issued by 
way  of  capitalization  of  reserves,  the  fact  shall  be  distinctly  stated  including  in 
respect  of  all  allotments  made  on  that  basis  during  the  one  year  immediately 
preceding the date of filing of the draft Offer Document. Where shares are allotted 
in terms of a scheme of merger, amalgamation or reconstruction, details of such 
allotment shall be given.   
 
The following notes shall be incorporated as a part of the Capital Structure:- 
a) 

Note relating to promoters’ contribution and lock-in period, stating date of 
allotment,  date  when  shares  became  fully  paid  up,  nature  of  allotment 

 

Page 31 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

(rights,  bonus,  preferential  etc.),  number  of  securities,  face  value  of 
securities, issue price of securities, percentage of promoters’ contribution 
to total issued capital and the date upto which the securities are subject to 
lock-in. The promoters’ holding shall be indicated in a tabular form clearly 
stating the above details separately in respect of each promoter.      In 
the 
case  of  an  Initial  Public  Offering,  details  regarding  individual  allotments 
shall  be  given  from  the  inception  of  the  company.  In  other  cases,  it  is 
sufficient if the details are given for five years immediately preceding the 
date of filing the draft Offer Document.  
 
Shares  acquired  by  promoters  through  primary  issues  shall  be  shown 
separately  from  shares  acquired  in  the  secondary  market.  The  aggregate 
cost  of  shares  acquired  in  the  secondary  market  shall  be  disclosed,  if 
available”. 
 
The proposal, intention, negotiations, consideration  of the company to alter 
the capital structure by way of split /consolidation of the denomination of the 
shares, or issue of shares on a preferential basis or issue of bonus or rights or 
further  public  issue  of  shares or any other securities, within a period of 6 
months from the date of opening the present issue ." 
 

  
  

4.16.3  Sub-Clause (e) requires disclosures of details of all ‘buy back’ and ‘standby’ and 
similar  arrangements  for  purchase  of  securities  by  promoters,  directors  and  lead 
merchant bankers. 

 
4.16.4  ‘Standard  Observations’ 

II) 

require 

(item 

24,  Annexure 

the 
company/directors/lead merchant bankers to “give an undertaking that they have 
not entered into any buy-back and/or standby arrangements for purchase of Equity 
Shares of the Company with any person. The same shall be disclosed in the offer 
document”. 

 

Page 32 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.16.5  There is clearly a conflict between the provisions of sub-clause (e) and item 35 of 
the  Standard  Observations.  In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  whereas  buy-back 
arrangements should not be permitted, there should not be any objection to ‘stand-
by’  arrangements  which  are  akin  to  underwriting  to  ensure  that  subscription 
atleast equal to the minimum subscription is obtained. 

 
4.16.6  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  sub-clause  (e)  be  revised  to  read  as 

under : 

 

“A statement that the company/directors/lead merchant bankers have not entered 
into any buy back arrangements for purchase of the Company’s shares and details 
of all “standby” and similar arrangements for purchase of unsubscribed securities 
by promoters, directors and lead merchant bankers shall be disclosed. 

 
4.16.7  Sub-clause  (k)  (ii)  requires  disclosure  of  the  aggregate  number  of  securities 
purchased  or  sold  by  the  Promoter  Group  and  the  directors  of  the  promoter 
companies  during  a  period  of  six  months  preceding  the  date  on  which  the  draft 
prospectus  is  filed  with  the  Board  and  to  be  updated  by  incorporating  the 
information in this regard till the time of filing the prospectus with the Registrar 
of Companies. 

 
4.16.8  "Standard Observations” (item 26(c) and 42(b), Annexure II) require disclosure as 
to  “whether,  the  promoters,  relatives  and  directors  have  directly  or  indirectly 
undertaken  transactions  in  the  securities  of  the  company  during  the  last  six 
months from date of filing of Offer Document with ROC/stock exchange.” It also 
requires  disclosure  as  to  “whether  promoters/directors,  their  relations  and  their 
associates  have  not  either  directly  or  indirectly  financed  any  transaction  in  the 
securities  of  the  company  during  the  six  months  including  details  of  all  such 
transactions”. This information is required to be disclosed with relevant details by 
way of a note after risk factors. 

 

Page 33 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.16.9   The Committee appreciates that disclosure of transactions in the securities of the 
company,  by  promoters  and  directors  and  their  relatives,  whether  directly  or 
indirectly through financing of such transactions is relevant disclosure. 

 
4.16.10 The Committee therefore recommends that sub-clause k(ii) may be reworded as 

under :  

 

“Aggregate number of securities purchased or sold by the Promoter Group and/or 
by the directors of the promoter company and/or by the directors of the Issuer and 
their immediate relatives (as defined in item (b) of Explanation (II)) within the six 
months immediately preceding the date of filing of the draft Offer Document and 
details  of  all  financing  arrangements  whereby  the  Promoter  Group,  the  directors 
of  the  promoter  company,  the  directors  of  the  Issuer  and  their  relatives  have 
financed the purchase by any other person of securities of the company other than 
in  the  normal  course  of  business  of  the  financing  entity  during  the  period  of  six 
months immediately preceding the date of filing of the draft Offer Document”. 

 
4.16.11 The  Committee  is  of  the  opinion  that  in  addition  to  disclosure  of  the 
shareholdings  of  promoters  and  directors  in  the  issuing  company,  it  is  also 
necessary for similar disclosure to be made of the shareholding of lead merchant 
bankers and their associates. 

 
4.16.12  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  the  insertion  of  a  new  sub-clause  (m) 

reading as under :   

 

 

“Details of shareholdings of the lead merchant bankers and their associates”. 

 
4.16.13 Sub-clause  (l)  provides  that  in  the  event  of  it  not  being  possible  to  obtain 
information  regarding  sales  and  purchases  of  securities  by  any  relative  of  the 
promoters, a statement to the effect shall be made in the prospectus on the basis of 

Page 34 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

transfers recorded in the books of the company. Considering that shares may also 
be held in demat form, the sub-clause needs suitable amendment. 

 
4.16.14 The Committee therefore recommends that the sub-clause shall read as under:  
 

“In  the  event  of  it  not  being  possible  to  obtain  information  regarding  sales  and 
purchases of securities by any relative of the promoters, the information shall be 
disclosed  on  the  basis  of  the  transfers  as  recorded  in  the  books  of  the  company 
and/or the depository as applicable, and a statement to that effect shall be made in 
the Offer Document.” 

 
4.17  Clause 6.5.4 – How to Apply –Availability of Forms, Prospectus and Mode of 

Payment 

 
4.17.1  ‘Standard Observations’ (items 2, 16, 50, 53, 54 and 55, Annexure II) deal with 
issues which are relevant to the manner in which application shall be made and in 
the opinion of the Committee should form part of the Guidelines. 

 
4.17.2  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  the  following  be  included  under  this 

clause : 

 

 

“The Offer Document/Application Form shall contain the following:     
a) 

The correct procedure for applications by Hindu Undivided Families and 
the fact that applications by Hindu Undivided Families would be treated as 
on par with applications by individuals.    
Provision of bank account details in the space provided in the application 
form  is  mandatory  and  applications  that  do  not  contain  such  details  are 
liable to be rejected.  
Provision  for  signature  in  all  languages  prescribed  in  the  8th Schedule of 
the Constitution of India 

b) 

c) 

Page 35 of 326 

d) 

e) 

f) 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

In respect of applications for an aggregate value of Rs.50000 or more, the 
applicant  or  in  the  case  of  applications  in  joint  names,  each  of  the 
applicant  shall  mention  his/her  permanent  account  number  allotted  under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961 or where such number has not been allotted, the 
GIR number and the Income Tax Circle/Ward/District where the applicant 
is assessed. In cases where neither the permanent account number nor the 
GIR number has been allotted to the applicant, the fact of non-availability 
of  such  numbers  or  the  fact  that  the  applicant  is  not  required  to  file  an 
income tax return shall be mentioned in the application form. Application 
forms  which  do  not  give  the  above  information  will  be  considered 
incomplete and are liable to be rejected.  
The  Offer  Document  and  the  “General  Instructions”  in  Form  2A  shall 
specify the instances when an application would be rejected on technical 
grounds (e.g. absence of signature, age etc.)  
The  “General  Instructions”  in  Form  2A  shall  state  that  “applicants  are 
advised to read the Offer Document and the general instructions contained 
in  this  Abridged  Prospectus  carefully  and  to  satisfy  themselves  of  the 
disclosures  before  making  an  application  for  subscription. For a copy of 
the  Offer  Document,  the  applicant  may  request  the  Issuer  and/or  lead 
managers/brokers to the issue. Further, investors are advised to retain the 
copy  of  the  Offer  Document/Form  2A  (Abridged  Prospectus)  for  their 
future reference”. 

 
4.18  Clause 6.5.4.3 – Disclosure about Stock Invests 
 
4.18.1  The  Committee  noted  that  the  Stock  Invest  Scheme  has  been  withdrawn  by  the 

Reserve Bank of India. 

 
4.18.2  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  this  clause  and  other  clauses  in 

relation to Stock Invests be deleted. 

 

Page 36 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.19  Clause 6.5.5 – Dispatch of Refund Orders 
 
4.19.1  “Standard  Observations”  (item  18,  Annexure  II)  provide  that  dispatch  of  refund 
orders of value over Rs.1,500/- and of share/debenture certificates shall be made 
by Registered Post only. 

 
4.19.2  The  Committee  is  of  the  opinion  that  this  observation  is  too  restrictive  and  any 
other  means  of  dispatch  which  ensures  the  availability  of  an  acknowledgement 
should be permitted. 

 
4.19.3  The Committee therefore recommends that this clause be reworded as under : 
 

“The Offer Document shall include the following:  
The  dispatch  of  refund  orders  of  a  value  exceeding  Rs.1500  shall  be  made  by 
Registered  Post  or  in  any  other  manner  determined  by  the  Issuer  which  shall 
ensure the availability of an acknowledgement by the recipient to the Issuer. The 
company will provide adequate funds to the registrars for the purposes of refunds 
and for dispatch of refund orders.”  

 
4.20  Clause 6.5.7 Utilization of Issue Proceeds  
 
4.20.1  Clauses  6.5.7.1  and  6.5.7.2  require  Board  of  Directors  of  Issuer  to  make  a 
statement  in  the  Offer  Document  and  in  the  subsequent  balance  sheets  of  the 
company regarding utilization of issue proceeds. These clauses read as follows: 

 

6.5.7.1 A statement by the Board of Directors of Issuer to the effect that– 
a. 

all monies received out of issue of shares or debentures to public shall be 
transferred to separate bank account other than the bank account referred 
to in sub-section (3) of section 73;  
details of all monies utilised out of the issue referred to in sub-item(i) shall 
be disclosed under an appropriate separate head in the balance-sheet of the 

b. 

Page 37 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

c. 

company indicating the purpose for which such monies had been utilised; 
and  
details of all unutilised monies out of the issue of shares or debentures, if 
any,  referred  to  in  sub-item(i)  shall  be  disclosed  under  an  appropriate 
separate head in the balance-sheet of the company indicating the form in 
which such unutilised monies have been invested.  

 

6.5.7.2 The Offer Document shall contain a statement of the Board of Directors of 
the Issuer to the effect that –  
i. 

the utilisation of monies received under promoters’ contribution and from 
firm  allotments  and  reservations  shall  be  disclosed  under  an  appropriate 
head in the balance sheet of the company indicating the purpose for which 
such monies have been utilised.  
the  details  of  all  unutilised  monies  out  of  the  funds  received  under 
promoters’  contribution  and  from  firm  allotments  and  reservations  shall 
be  disclosed  under  a  separate  head  in  the  balance  sheet  of  the  company 
indicating the form in which such unutilised monies have been invested  

ii. 

 
4.20.2  The Committee was of the view that such statement by Board of Directors in the 
balance sheet should be required to be made only till such time that any part of the 
issue proceeds remains unutilized. 

 
4.20.3  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  Clauses  6.5.7.1(b)  and  6.5.7.2(i) 

should be modified as follows:   

 

 

6.5.7.1 A statement by the Board of Directors of the Issuer to the effect that– 
b. 

details of all monies utilised out of the issue referred to in sub-item(i) shall 
be disclosed and continue to be disclosed till the time any part of the issue 
proceeds  remains  unutilised  under  an  appropriate  separate  head  in  the 
balance-sheet  of  the  company  indicating  the  purpose  for  which  such 
monies had been utilised; and   

Page 38 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

6.5.7.2 - The Offer Document shall contain a statement of the Board of Directors 
of the Issuer to the effect that – 
i. 

the utilisation of monies received under promoters’ contribution and from 
firm  allotments  and  reservations  shall  be  disclosed  and  continue  to  be 
disclosed  till  the  time  any  part  of  the  issue  proceeds  remains  unutilised 
under an appropriate head in the balance sheet of the company indicating 
the purpose for which such monies have been utilised. 

 

4.20.4  Clause  6.11.1  related  to  disclosure  of  promises  versus  performance  requires 
disclosure about whether all the objects mentioned in the past Offer Document(s) 
and any projections made therein were met. 

 
4.20.5  The Committee is of the view that such disclosure should be made in respect of 
only the Offer Document(s) issued in a period of ten years immediately preceding 
the date of filing the draft Offer Document. 

 
4.20.6  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  Clause  6.11.1(a)  be  modified  as 

follows:  

 

 

“A separate para entitled “Promise Vs Performance  – Last three issues” shall be 
given  indicating  whether  all  the  objects  mentioned  in  the  respective  Offer 
Document(s)  issued  by  the  company  during  the  period  of  ten  years  immediately 
preceding  the  date  of  filing  of  draft  Offer  Document,  were  met  and  whether  all 
projections made in the said Offer Document(s) were achieved. 

 
4.21  New clause after clause 6.5.8 
 
4.21.1  ‘Standard Observations’ (items 29, 51 and 52, Annexure II) require that certain 
details  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  Offer  Document  under  the  title  “Terms  of  the 

Page 39 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Present  Issue”.  Standard  Observations  (item  31,  Annexure  II)  also  require 
disclosure regarding Safety Net Arrangements. 

 
4.21.2  In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee  these  disclosure  should  be  made  under  a  new 

clause. 

 
4.21.3  The Committee therefore recommends that a new clause 6.5.9 may be inserted in 

the Guidelines which shall read as under :  

 

“Specific disclosure shall be made in the Offer Document and where applicable 
in the Application Form of the following: 
a) 

Reservation  for  Retail  Individual  Investors  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  clause  7.6.1.2  of  the  Guidelines  (which  provisions  shall  be 
reproduced). 
Firm  Allotments  and  Reservations  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
clause 8.5 of the Guidelines (which provisions shall be reproduced). 
Provisions of clause 8.6 of the Guidelines regarding minimum number of 
shares  for  which  application  can  be  made  and  calls  to  be  made  on  the 
shares (which provisions shall be reproduced). 
Provision for nomination facility to the investor in terms of Section 109A 
of the Companies Act, 1956(which provisions shall be reproduced). 
Details of the Safety Net Arrangement as per provisions of clause 8.18 of 
the Guidelines (which provisions shall be reproduced).” 
 Procedure for Book building 

b) 

c) 

d) 

e) 

f) 

 
4.22  New Clause after new clause 6.5.9 (as recommended) 
 
4.22.1  “Standard  Observations”  (items  27  and  28,  Annexure  II)  require  disclosure  of 

certain particulars regarding the promoters’ participation in the proposed issue. 

 

Page 40 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.22.2  In the opinion of the Committee these observations need to be incorporated in the 

Guidelines. 

 
4.22.3  The  Committee 

therefore  recommends 

that  after  new  clause  6.5.9  (as 

recommended) a new clause 6.5.10 shall be inserted which shall read as under:   

      

 

“Disclosure shall be made:  
a) 

in the case of Right Issues, whether the promoters intend to participate in 
the proposed issue and the extent of their proposed participation and also 
whether in the event of any shortfall in subscription, the promoters intend 
to subscribe for shares in excess of their rights entitlement and the extent 
of such proposed additional subscription. 
in case any shares forming part of the promoters’ contribution are pledged, 
the names of the pledgees, the terms and conditions of the pledge and the 
facilities availed of against the pledge.” 

b) 

 
4.23  Clause 6.6.1 – Objects 
 
4.23.1  “Standard  Observations”  (items  32  and  33,  Annexure  II)  require  certain 
disclosures  in  the  event  one  of  the  objects  of  the  issue  is  investment  in  joint 
venture or in a subsidiary or acquisition or grant of loans to entities. 

 
4.23.2  In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  these  observations  should  be  incorporated  in 

clause 6.6.1 of the Guidelines. 

 
4.23.3  The Committee therefore recommends that clause 6.6.1 of the Guidelines may be 

reworded as under :  

 

 

“The objects of the issue shall be disclosed.  If one of the objects is investment in 
a  joint  venture  or  in  an  acquisition  or  in  a  subsidiary,  the  following  additional 
disclosure shall be made:  

Page 41 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

a) 

b) 
c) 

d) 

e) 

f) 

The  form  of  investment  i.e.  equity,  debt  or  any  other  instrument  (giving 
details). 
If the form of investment has not been decided, a statement to that effect. 
If the investment is in debt instruments, complete details regarding rate of 
interest, nature of security, terms of repayment, subordination etc.  
If the investment is in equity, it must be specified whether any dividends 
are assured. 
The  nature  of  benefit  expected  to  accrue  to  the  Issuer  as  a  result  of  the 
investment.  
If  one  of  the  objects  of  the  issue  is  the  grant  of  a  loan  to  any  entity 
disclosure shall be made of the rate of interest, nature of security, terms of 
repayment, subordination etc. and the nature of benefit expected to accrue 
to the Issuer as a result of the investment. 

 
4.24  Clause 6.6.2 – Project Cost 
 
4.24.1  “Standard Observations” (item 34, Annexure II) require disclosure of all affiliate 

and related party transactions in respect of utilization of the issue proceeds. 

 
4.24.2  “Standard Observations” (item 41, Annexure II) require disclosures in relation to 
transactions  with  promoters,  directors,  group  concerns  in  relation  to  the  project 
cost 

 
4.24.3  In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee  this  observation  should  be  incorporated  in  the 

Guidelines. 

 
4.24.4  The Committee therefore recommends that a sub-clause (d) be introduced to read 

as under : 

 

“Details  of  all  material  existing  or  anticipated  transactions  in  relation  to  project 
cost  with  promoters,  directors,  key  management  personnel,  associates  and  group 

Page 42 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

companies.  Relevant  documents  shall  be  available  for  inspection  as  ‘Material 
Documents.” 

 
4.25  Clause 6.6.5 – Deployment of Funds in the Project 
 
4.25.1  “Standard Observations” (item 6, Annexure II) require disclosure of the fact that a 
certificate has been obtained from a Chartered Accountant certifying the source of 
funds and deployment of the same as of a current date. 

 
4.25.2  In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  this  observation  should  be  incorporated  in  the 

Guidelines. 

 
4.25.3  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  a  new  sub-clause (e)  be  inserted  to 

read as follows :  

 

“The  fact  that  a  certificate  has  been  obtained  from  a  Chartered  Accountant 
certifying  as  at  a  specified  current  date  the  sources  of  funds  obtained  by  the 
Company  and  their  deployment  and  giving  details  of  such  sources  and 
deployment.” 

 
4.26  Clause  6.7.1  –  History  and  Main  Objects  and  Present  Business  of  the 

Company 

 
4.26.1  “Standard  Observations”  (item  35,  Annexure  II)  have  specified  details  of  items 

which must be disclosed under this clause. 

 
4.26.2  In the opinion of the Committee, some of  these details should be included in the 

Guidelines. 

 
4.26.3  The Committee therefore recommends that this clause be reworded as under : 
 

Page 43 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

“History and main objects and present business of the company including a brief 
discussion of 
a) 

Profile of the Company including  its  history,  description  of  its  activities, 
services,  products,  market  share  in  each  segment,  the  growth  of  the 
company, standing of the company and/or its products, its management, its 
major suppliers and customers and environmental issues; 
Technology and capacity build-up; 
Performance  of  the  company  during  the  period  of  five  accounting  years 
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  filing  of  the  draft  Offer  Document, 
identifying  non-recurring  items  of  income  and  expenditure  and  details  of 
restructuring, if any, and revaluation of assets, if any; 
Acquisitions, mergers or amalgamations, if any, during the period of five 
years  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  filing  of  the  draft  Offer 
Document.  

b) 
c) 

d) 

 
4.27  Clause 6.7.2 – Subsidiary(ies) of the Company  
 
4.27.1  This clause requires disclosures regarding the subsidiary (ies) of the Issuer. 
 
4.27.2  In the opinion of the Committee it is necessary to specify the details which need 

to be disclosed. 

 
4.27.3  The Committee therefore recommends that this clause be reworded as under :  
 

“Details regarding subsidiary (ies) of the company including:  
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 

name    
nature of business 
capital structure  
shareholding of the issuer company    amount  of  accumulated  profits  or 
losses of the subsidiary(ies) not accounted for by the Issuer  

 

Page 44 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

e) 

amount  of  accumulated  profits  or  losses  of  the  subsidiary(ies)  not 
accounted for by the Issuer 

 
4.28  Clause 6.7.3 – Promoters and their Background 
 
4.28.1  “Standard  Observations”  (items  36,  37  and  39,  Annexure  II)  contain  various 

additional disclosure requirements regarding the promoters. 

 
4.28.2  In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  some  of  these  observations  need  to  be 

incorporated in the Guidelines. 

 
4.28.3  The Committee therefore recommends that the following sub-clauses be inserted 

in clause 6.7.3. 

 

(d)  

In case the present promoters are not the original promoters and control of 
the  company  was  acquired  within  five  years  immediately  preceding  the 
date of filing of the draft Offer Document, disclosure shall be made of the 
details  regarding  the  acquisition  of  control,  date  of  acquisition,  terms  of 
acquisition and consideration paid for acquisition. 
If  there  is  no  identifiable  promoter,  that  fact  shall  be  disclosed.  In  that 
event,  disclosure  shall  be  made  of  the  shareholders  who  control 
individually  or  as  a  group,  10%  or  more  of  the  voting  rights  and  of 
persons, if any, who have the right to appoint director(s) on the Board of 
Directors of the Issuer.  
If the promoters do not have experience in the proposed line of business, 
that fact shall be disclosed. 
If  the  promoters  have  any  interest  in  the  company,  other  than  as 
promoters, brief details of the interest shall be given with cross-reference 
to more detailed disclosure as required elsewhere in the Offer Document. 
 (h)   Disclosure  shall  be  made  in  a  tabular  form  of  the  following  entities  in 

 (g)  

(e)  

(f)  

which the promoters have an interest: 

Page 45 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

sole proprietorships 
partnerships 
private limited companies in which the promoter is interested as a 
shareholder or director 
public  limited  companies  in  which  the  promoter  is  interested  as  a 
director or as a shareholder holding shares carrying more than 2% 
of the voting rights  
The following information shall be given in respect of the entities 
listed above: 
i.  
ii. 
iii. 

name and type of the organization 
brief description of business of the concerned entity 
nature and extent of interest of the promoters 

 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 

(iv) 

 

4.28.4  “Standard Observations” (items 9, 11, 38, 44 and 45, Annexure II) requires : 
 

a) 

b) 

c) 

All litigations /defaults /suits etc. pertaining to issuer company, promoters, 
promoters  formerly  associated  during  the  last  5  years  are  brought  out 
under the heading 'Outstanding Litigations or Defaults' 
Disclosure  about  the  adverse  findings,  if  any,  in  respect  of  the  persons  / 
entities  connected  with  issuer  /  promoter  as  regards  compliance  with  the 
securities laws. 
Disclosure of “all the pending litigations/disputes (in which the promoters 
are  involved)  overdues/defaults  to  the  financial  institutions/banks  and 
instances  of  non-payment  of  statutory  dues  by  the  promoters  and  the 
companies/firms promoted by the promoters”. These matters are required 
to be listed out in the Offer Document together with the amounts involved 
and  the  present  status.  The  disclosure  has  to  be  made  irrespective  of  the 
fact  as  to  whether  these  disputes  and  litigations  have  a  bearing  on  the 
financial  performance  of  the  Issuer  or  not.  However,  the  likely  adverse 
effect of these disputes and litigations on the financial performance of the 
Issuer has to be mentioned, where applicable. 

Page 46 of 326 

d) 

e) 

f) 

g) 

h) 

i) 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Disclosure  in  the  cases  of  pending  litigations,  disputes,  defaults  etc.  in 
respect  of  companies  in  which  promoters  were  associated  in  the  past  but 
are no longer associated, in the event of their name being continued to be 
associated with the particular litigations. 
Disclosure  of  all  litigations  against  the  promoter  or  directors  involving 
violation of statutory regulations or a criminal offence. 
Disclosure  of  economic  offences  against 
the  directors,  promoters, 
companies and firms promoted by the promoters separately, indicating the 
status. 
Disclosure of details of past cases initiated for economic offences against 
the  directors,  the  promoters,  companies  and  firms  promoted  by  the 
promoters where penalties were imposed by the prescribed authorities. 
Disclosure regarding pending litigation, disputes, defaults, non payment of 
statutory  dues,  proceedings  initiated  for  offences  (including  the  past 
offences  and  irrespective  of  whether  "specified  in  paragraph  (i)  of  part  1 
of  Schedule  XIII  of  the  Act")  etc.  against  the  promoters  and  their  other 
business ventures 
If  any  of  the  Directors  have  any  litigation  towards  tax liabilities or any 
criminal/civil  prosecution  against  them  for  any  offences  irrespective  of 
whether "specified in paragraph (i) of part 1 of Schedule XIII of the Act") 
etc. the same shall also be disclosed. 

 
4.28.5  Members of the Committee were unable to agree as to the manner in which this 

observation should be incorporated in the Guidelines. 

 
4.28.6.1 Some members of the Committee (the Chairman, Shri Chinubhai R Shah, Sushri 
T. S. Jagadharini, Shri T. R. Ramaswami, Sushri Dipti Neelakantan and Shri. S. 
R. Mehta) were of the view that disclosure should be confined to  

 

Page 47 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

a) 

b) 

pending  matters  which,  if  they  result  in  an  adverse  outcome,  would 
materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial position of 
the Issuer  
matters  which  are  pending  or  which  have  arisen  in  the  immediately 
preceding ten years involving: 
i 

issues  of  moral  turpitude  or  criminal  culpability  on  the  part  of 
promoters and/or directors and/or companies or firms promoted by 
them and/or other persons connected with the issue. 
material violations of statutory regulations by any of those persons. 
economic  offences  where  proceedings  have  been  initiated  against 
such  persons  and  the  proceedings  are  pending  or  penalties  have 
been imposed. 

ii  
iii 

 
4.28.6.2 In holding that view, the members were guided by the following considerations 

(a) 

(b) 

the objective of the disclosure should be to determine whether  
(i) 
(ii) 

the promoters and directors were “fit and proper” persons. 
there  would  be  adverse  financial  implications  on  the  Issuer  in  the 
event of an adverse outcome of the dispute.  

where there was litigation which was not relevant to the above objective, 
disclosure  of  such  information  would  not  be  of  any  assistance  to  the 
potential  investor  while  creating  avoidable  hardship  to  the  Issuer  and  to 
the associated concerns of the promoters. It may also involve an invasion 
of privacy. 

 
4.28.7.1 Two members of the Committee (Shri Prithvi Haldea and Shri P.S.Reddy) were 
however, of a different opinion. They held that the disclosures about ‘negative 
information’ should not be limited only to material cases. 

 
4.28.7.2  In support of this, these Members expressed concern that this would bring about 
a huge subjectivity and discretion in deciding what is material.  Moreover, since 
there  is  almost  no  way  to  later  unearth  information  on  any  of  such  defaults, 

Page 48 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

there may be a tendency to hide more than disclose a lot of such information in 
the  garb  of  immateriality.  Even  if  some  of  the  negative  information  not 
disclosed was subsequently unearthed, the issuer/ lead manager could defend his 
case by stating that in his judgement, it was not material. This would also leave 
a  lot  of  scope  of  interpretation  at  the  hands  of  the  regulator.  These  Members 
also  observed  that  the  regulator  could  not  be  expected  to  be  proactive  in 
unearthing negative information post-issue. 

 
4.28.7.3  Moreover, these Members highlighted that there are only a handful of merchant 
bankers who would be more diligent in applying the materiality criteria, and the 
scores  of  others  would  take  undue  advantage  of  this  liberty.    Moreover,  there 
exists a limited deterrent for many merchant bankers to become more ‘honest’ 
and diligent in disclosing material negative information. 

 
4.28.7.4  While  on  this  subject,  these  Members  also  expressed  that  there  is  a  need  to 
clearly  list out the litigations/ defaults about which disclosures should be made, 
the entities to whom these disclosures should apply, the items of disclosures that 
should be made and the period for which such cases be disclosed. 

 
4.28.7.5  In  terms  of  the  type  of  litigations/defaults  that  should  be  disclosed,  these 
Members suggested that the following should be included, and that these should 
cover  not  only  defaults/litigations  etc  in  India  but  also  outside  India  (foreign 
courts/regulators/stock exchanges etc.):  

 

a) 
b) 

c) 
d) 

litigations/disputes  
non-payment  of  statutory  dues,  overdues  to  banks/  financial  institutions/ 
lenders,  defaults  against  banks/  financial  institutions/  lenders,  defaults  in 
dues  payable  to  holders  of  debentures/  bonds/  fixed  deposits/  preference 
shares(including willful default) 
defaults in compliance with statutory regulations  
non-payment of statutory dues  

Page 49 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

e) 
f) 

economic offences  
cases  of  suspension/delisting  or  other  disciplinary  action  taken  by  stock 
exchanges  
cases of actions by SEBI , DCA and other capital market bodies 
cases of actions taken by other government organisations/bodies like RBI 
cases relating to income tax and indirect taxes  
other civil prosecutions (e.g. by suppliers, customers, employees etc) 
issues of moral turpitude or criminal culpability  

g) 
h) 
i) 
j) 
k) 
l)  winding up/ under liquidation/ sick company/ names strike off from ROC 
m)  cases of investor grievances 
n) 

other cases where penalties were imposed 

 
4.28.7.6  Regarding  the  period  of  coverage,  these  Members  felt  that  if  the  objective  of 
disclosure of negative information is kept clearly in mind, it would emerge that 
the  intent  is  not  only  to  allow  the  investors  to  assess  the  likely  impact  of  the 
litigations/defaults  but  also  to  apprise  and  alert  them  of  the  past  track 
record/mindset  of  the  promoters  in  terms  of various compliances/diligence. If 
that  is  true,  then  it  is  difficult  to  support  that  only  the  presently  pending  cases 
should be disclosed. In view of the above, these Members were of the view that 
the disclosure should cover the following:  
a) 

all such cases of the past where conviction has taken place/adverse order 
has been issued  
all cases which are presently outstanding 

b) 

 
4.28.7.7  With  regard  to  the  entities  for  which  these  disclosures  should  be  made,  these 

Members suggested the following:  
a) 
b) 
c) 
d) 
e) 

issuer company  
directors  
promoters 
persons acting in concert 
companies and firms promoted by the promoters  

Page 50 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

companies  in  which  promoters  were  associated  in  the  past  as  a  promoter 
but are no longer associated 
subsidiaries and associates of the issuer company 
any other entity where outcome of a case could have a materially adverse 
effect on the issuer company 
key managerial personnel of the issuer company 

f) 

g) 
h) 

i) 
 

4.28.7.8 In support of the above, the Members felt that in the case of companies coming 
out  with  their  very  first  offers,  not  only  very  little  information  about  such 
companies  is  in  the  public  domain,  but  almost  negligible  information  is 
available in the case of their associated entities. There could be several/severe 
negative  information  relating  to  the  associated  entities  which  may  not  only 
provide  important  clues  to  the  investors  about  the  mindset/practices  of  the 
promoters  but  also  may  have  a  material  bearing  on  the  issuer  company.  As 
such, disclosure of negative information should be extended to the issuer, the 
promoters and directors and all associated entities and not be confined to only 
the issuer company or to some selected associated entities.  

 
4.28.7.9  These  Members  were  also  of  the  view  that  the  continuing  disclosure 
requirements do not mandate in the filings made by the companies to the stock 
exchanges the disclosures of or the impact of any outstanding litigations. As 
such, there is no way that the investing public shall ever come to know of any 
of such litigations / defaults. Thus, even for a listed company coming out with 
another  public  offer,  very  little  negative  information  is  in  the  public  domain 
about the issuer company and almost nothing about its associated entities, and 
hence  complete  disclosures  about  the  issuer  company  and  its  associated 
entities are considered essential. 

 
4.28.7.10  With  regard  to  the  items  of  disclosure,  these  Members  suggested  that  the 

disclosure, wherever applicable, should cover: 
a)  brief description of the case 

Page 51 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

b)  amounts involved  
c)  present status  
d)  likely adverse effect on the issuer company  

 
4.28.7.11   In  holding  the  view  expressed  in  paras  4.28.7.2  to  4.28.7.10,  the  Members 

highlighted that  
a)  An Offer Document is the only disclosure available to the investors. 
b)  Significantly,  an  Offer  Document  is  essentially  a  ‘Sellers’  Document’; 
almost all the disclosures are positive in nature. The negative information 
is  critical  for  the  investors  to  assess  the  compliance  track  record  of  the 
promoters as well as risks associated with the cases of default/ litigations. 

c)   In order to ascertain materiality, an exhaustive list of all cases in any case 
shall need be compiled by the issuer company/ lead managers. As such, no 
extra  effort  would  be  required  to  compile  this  information.  Having  done 
this major job, the disclosure would, therefore, be the easier part. 

d)   The  argument  that  detailed  disclosures  of  negative  information  will 
occupy a lot of space in the Offer Document is invalid as in proportion to 
the  total  information,  negative  information  would  occupy  but  a  very  few 
pages,  and  moreover  every  company/promoter  is  not  involved  in  a  large 
number of litigations/defaults. 

 
4.28.7.12   However, for brevity purposes, the Members suggested that grouping may be 
done for some types of negative information, which are large by number but 
small by amount, even in  the aggregate (like litigations by employees). 

 
4.28.7.13   These  Members  also  suggested  a  new  disclosure  with  regard  to  status  of 
income  tax  of  the  issuer  company,  its  promoters  and  directors.  Income  Tax 
status of up to preceding five years (and of such past years where assessment 
has not been completed) should be required to be disclosed. The format could 
be as follows: 

 

Page 52 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Assessment Year 

Income 

Tax 

Status of Assessment 

 
 

Amount 

 
 

 
 

 
4.28.8  

In  view  of  the  different  views  held  by  the  members  of  the  Committee,  the 
Committee  is  unable  to  make  any  recommendation  in  regard  to  this 
observation. 

 
4.29  Clause 6.7.3 Promoters and their Background – Other Information 

Sub-clause  (a)  as  amended  by  SEBI  circular  CFD/DIL/DIP  No11  dated  August 
14,  2003  requires  disclosure  of    “a  complete  profile  of  the  promoters  including 
their  age,  educational  qualifications,  experience  in  the  business  or  employment 
and  in  the  line  of  business  proposed  in  the  Offer  Document,  their  business  and 
financial activities, photograph, Voter ID  Number,  Driving  Licence  Number”.  It 
also  requires  disclosure  “confirming  that  the  Permanent  Account  Number,  Bank 
Account Number and Passport Number of the promoters have been submitted to 
the stock exchanges on which securities are proposed to be listed, at the time of 
filing the draft Offer Document to them.” 
 
a. 

In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  while  these  provisions  were  perhaps 
introduced to enable SEBI and the stock exchanges to keep a track of the 
promoters  and  directors,  this  could  result  in  unnecessary  hardship  to 
honest promoters. The Committee feels that it is sufficient if in addition to 
the  disclosures  originally  prescribed  in  the  Guidelines,  the  business 
addresses  of  the  promoters  and  directors  are  disclosed  in  the  Offer 
Document.  Similarly  the  documents  and  information  to  be  filed  with  the 
Board  and  the  stock  exchanges  should  be  confined  to  their  photographs, 
personal  addresses  and  some  means  of  identification  such  as  Voter  ID 
Number, Driving Licence Number and Passport Number etc. 

 

Page 53 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  sub-clause  (a)  should  be 
reworded as follows : 

“A complete profile of the promoters including their names, date of birth, 
nationality,  educational  qualifications,  directorships  held,  experience  in 
the business or employment and  in  the  line  of  business  proposed  in  the 
Offer Document, their business and financial activities and their business 
addresses shall be disclosed. This disclosure shall be in tabular form.” 

The Committee also recommends that a new clause 5.3.6.2 may be added 
in Chapter V which shall read as under : 

“The Issuer shall file with the Board and with each of the stock exchanges 
where  the  securities  are  proposed  to  be  listed,  photographs  of  the 
promoters  and  directors,  their  personal  addresses  and  certified  copy of 
some  document  evidencing  their  identity  e.g.  Voter  Identity  Card, 
Permanent Account Number Card, Driving Licence or Passport.” 

Sub-clause (c) requires disclosure of “Details in change of management of 
the companies if any, including details of the persons who are holding the 
controlling  interest  together  with  the  applicability  and  compliance  of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
and Takeover) Regulations 1997. 

In the opinion of the Committee this disclosure cannot be for an unlimited 
period of time. 

The Committee  therefore recommends that this sub-clause be reworded as 
under : 

b. 

 
  

 
c. 

 
  

 
d. 

 
e. 

 
f. 

 

Page 54 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

“Details  of  change  in  control/management  of  the  promoter  companies,  if 
any,  including  details  of  the  persons  who  held  the  controlling  interest in 
the  three  years  immediately  preceding  the  filing  of  the  draft  Offer 
Document”. 

  

 

4.30  Clause 6.7.4 – Key Managerial Personnel 
 
4.30.1  This clause requires disclosures regarding both key managerial personnel and also 

the directors. 

 
4.30.2  The Committee recommends that this clause should be titled “Board of Directors 

and Key Managerial Personnel”. 

 
4.30.3  “Standard  Observations”  (item  40,  Annexure  II)  require  disclosure  of  details 

regarding directors. 

 
4.30.4  In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  some  of  these  observations  should  be 

incorporated in the Guidelines. 

 
4.30.5  The Committee therefore recommends that a sub-clause (d) should be introduced 

in this clause, reading as under :  

 

“With regard to the directors and key managerial personnel, the following shall be 
disclosed: 
 
(i) 
(ii) 

details of changes in the last three years. 
the nature of any family relationship between the persons constituting the 
board of directors and/or key managerial personnel. 
any arrangement or understanding among major shareholders, customers, 
suppliers or other entities, pursuant to which any person has been selected 
as  a  member  of  the  board  of  directors  and/or  the  key  management 

(iii) 

Page 55 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

personnel team  or pursuant to which such parties have a right to appoint a 
director and/or a member of the key management personnel team. 
the  individual  shareholding  of  each  member  of  the  board  of  directors  or 
the key management personnel team. 
composition  of  the  company’s  audit  and  remuneration  committees  and  a 
summary of the terms of reference of these committees. 
term  of  office  with  date  of  expiration  of  term  and  details  of  service 
contracts including termination/retirement benefits, if any, of directors and 
key managerial personnel.” 

 
4.30.6  The Committee also recommends that in clause 1.2.1 a new sub-clause containing 

the following definition of “key management personnel” be inserted: 

 

“key management personnel” means any person who is an executive director 
of the company or an employee of the company of a level immediately below 
the Board of Directors of the company”. 

 
4.31  Clause 6.7.10 – Progress of Implementation of Project  
 
4.31.1   Clause  6.7.10  requires  disclosure  of  the  progress  of  implementation  of  the 

 

project. 

 
4.31.2   “Standard Observations” (item 5, Annexure II) require disclosure in case of delay 

in project implementation. 

 
4.31.3  In the opinion of the Committee, where implementation of the project is delayed, 

it is necessary to disclose the reasons for the delay. 

 
4.31.4    The Committee therefore recommends that clause 6.7.10 may be reworded as 

under : 

 

Page 56 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

  

“Schedule of implementation of the project and progress made, giving details of 
land  acquisition,  civil  works,  installation  of  plant  and  machinery,  trial 
production, date of commercial production and reasons for delay, if any.” 

   Clause 6.7.13 Stock Market Data 

 
4.32 
 
4.32.1   Clause  6.7.13.1  requires  disclosure  of  high  and  low  market  prices  of  listed 

shares. 

 
4.32.2 

In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  to  make  this  disclosure  meaningful,  it  is 
necessary to disclose the number of days the shares were traded and the average 
volume. 

 
4.32.3    “Standard  Observations” (items 8 and 42(a), Annexure II) require disclosure of 

the volume of trading and the fact where shares are not actively traded. 

 
4.32.4    In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  this  observation  needs  to  be  incorporated  in 

the Guidelines. 

 
4.32.5    The Committee therefore recommends that sub-clause (c) of this clause 6.7.13.1 

be reworded as under: 

 
  

 

“number of shares traded on the days when high and low prices were recorded 
in the relevant stock exchange during the said period of (a) and (b) above and 
indicating the total number of days of trading during the six months preceding 
the  date  of  filing  the  draft  Offer  document  and  the  average  volume  of  shares 
traded during that period. If the shares were not actively traded, that fact shall 
be disclosed.” 

Page 57 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.32.6    Sub-clause  (g)  of  this  clause  6.7.13.1  requires  disclosure  of  “the  volume  of 
business transacted” in each month during the six months preceding the filing of 
the draft Offer Document. 

 
4.32.7  

In the opinion of the Committee, the disclosure should relate to the number of 
shares traded and not to the business transacted. 

 
4.32.8   The  Committee  accordingly  recommends  that  in  sub-clause  (g)  the  words 

“business transacted” be replaced by the words “shares traded”. 

 
4.33  Clause 6.9 – “Financial of Group Companies” (recommended to be reworded 

as “Financial Information relating to Group Companies”) 

 
4.33.1  “Standard  Observations”  (item  43,  Annexure  II)  require  disclosure  regarding 

defunct group companies. 

 
4.33.2  In the opinion of the Committee, this observation needs to be incorporated in the 

Guidelines. 

 
4.33.3  The Committee accordingly recommends that a new sub-clause (c) be inserted in 

clause 6.9.2 reading as under : 

 
 

“Disclosure shall be made about group companies which had remained defunct 
and for which application was made to the Registrar of Companies for striking 
off the name of the company, during the five years preceding the date of filing 
of  the  draft  Offer  Document.  The  disclosure  shall  include  reasons  for  the 
company  having  become  defunct  as  also  all  pending  litigations,  if  any,  in 
respect of such companies”. 

 
4.33.4  Clause  6.9.1  requires  in  sub-clauses  (e)  (f)  (g)  (k)  (ii)  disclosure  in  respect  of 

group companies of sales, profit after tax, earnings per share and loss (if any). 

Page 58 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
4.33.5  In respect of private limited companies, the profit and loss account filed with the 
Registrar of Companies is not available for public inspection.  Therefore, except 
for  private  limited  companies  which  are  subsidiaries  of  public  limited 
companies,  this  information  is  not  in  the  public  domain  and,  in  the  opinion of 
the  Committee,  such  companies  should  not  be  asked  to  disclose  this 
information. 

 
4.33.6  The Committee therefore recommends that in Clause 6.9.1 a note may be added 

 

reading as under: 
“Note: The information under items (e) (f) (g) and (k)(ii) need not be given in 
respect of company which is a private limited company not being a subsidiary 
of a public limited company.”  

 
4.33.7  Item  (k)  in  Clause  6.9.1  requires  disclosures  of  adverse  factors  related  to  the 

group companies. 

 
4.33.8  The  Committee  recommends  that  the  term  “adverse  factors”  in  this  item  be 

replaced by the term “significant adverse factors”. 

 
4.33.9  Sub-Clause  (a)  of  Clause  6.9.2  specifies  that  the  financial  information  regarding 
group  companies  may  “be  restricted  to  five  largest  listed  companies  to  be 
determined  on  the  basis  of  market  capitalization  one  month  before  the  date  of 
filing draft prospectus with the Board”. 

 
4.33.10  There  may  be  cases  where  the  issuer  group  has  less  than  five  listed  companies 

but has a number of unlisted companies. 

 
4.33.11 The Committee therefore recommends that this sub-clause be reworded as under: 

 

Page 59 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

              “(a) (i) In case the Issuer has more than five listed companies, the financial 
information  may  be  restricted  to  the  five  largest  listed  companies  to  be 
determined on the basis of the market capitalization one month before the date 
of filing the draft Offer Document. 
(ii)  In  case  the  Issuer  has  less  than  five  listed  companies,  the  financial 
information  shall  be  given  for  all  the  listed  companies  and  in  addition  for  the 
largest unlisted companies (based on turnover) so that the total number of listed 
and unlisted companies for which the information is required to be given does 
not exceed five). 

 
4.33.12  Item (g) of Clause 6.4.2 reads as under: 
 

 

“A disclosure to the effect that the securities offered  through this public/rights 
issue shall be made fully paid-up or may be forfeited within 12 months from the 
date of allotment of securities in the manner specified in Clause 8.6.2”. 

 
4.33.13  The Committee is of the opinion that this item needs to be reworded for  greater 

clarity. 

 
4.33.14  The Committee therefore recommends that this item be reworded as under: 

 

              “A disclosure to the effect that all securities offered through the issue shall be 
made  fully  paid-up  or  may  be  forfeited  for  non-payment  of  calls  within  12 
months from the date of allotment of securities in the manner specified in clause 
8.6.2”. 

 

4.34  Clause 6.13 Basis for Issue Price 
 
4.34.1  The  first  proviso  to  Clause  6.13.1  states  that  the  projected  earnings  shall  not  be 

used as a justification for the issue price in the Offer Document 

 

Page 60 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.34.2  The  Committee  recommends  deletion  of  this  proviso  as  companies  are  now 

allowed to freely price their issues without the need of any justification. 

 
4.34.3  The  second  proviso  to  Clause  6.13.1  states  inter  alia  that  the  accounting  ratios 
disclosed in the Offer Document “in support of the basis of the issue price” shall 
be calculated after consideration of possible future conversions or exercise of 
options on shares. 

 
4.34.4  In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee  since  there  is  no  obligation  to  use  accounting 
ratios  to  support  an  issue  price,  this  proviso  should  be  deleted  and  item  (a)  in 
this  clause  should  be  expanded  to  include  disclosure  of  “diluted”  earnings  per 
share. 

 
4.34.5  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  the  second  proviso  in  this  clause  be 
deleted and the words “Earnings per share” in item (a) be replaced by the words 
“Earnings and Diluted Earnings per Share”.  

 
4.35   Clause 6.14 – Outstanding Litigation or Defaults 
 
4.35.1  This clause requires that : 
 

(a) 

 “All pending litigations in which the promoters are involved, defaults to 
the  financial  institutions/banks,  non-payment  of  statutory  dues  and  dues 
towards  instrument  holders  like  debenture  holders,  fixed  deposits  and 
arrears  on  cumulative  preference  shares  by  the  promoters  and  the 
companies/firms  promoted  by  the  promoters,  shall  be  listed  in  the 
prospectus  together  with  the  amounts  involved  and  the  present  status  of 
these 
these 
litigations/defaults etc. on the financial performance of the company shall 
also be mentioned : 

litigations/defaults.  The 

effect  of 

likely 

adverse 

Page 61 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

(b)  Further  the  cases  of  pending  litigations,  defaults  etc.  in  respect  of 
companies/firms/ventures  with  which  the  promoters  are  associated  in  the 
past  but  are  no  longer  associated  shall  also  be  disclosed  in  case  their 
name(s) continues to be associated with particulars litigation(s). 
(i)  The  above  information  is  required  to  be  furnished  in  addition  to  the 
litigations  against  the  company  or  against  any  other  company  whose 
outcome  could  have  a  materially  adverse  effect  on  the  position  of  the 
company.  

(c) 

(d) 

(ii)    Further,  all  litigations  against  the  promoters  or  directors  involving 
violation of statutory regulations or criminal offence shall be furnished in 
the offer document. 
(i)  The  pending  proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offences  against  the 
directors, the promoters, companies and firms promoted by the promoters 
shall be disclosed separately indicating their present status.  
(ii)  The  details  of  the  past  cases  in  which  penalties  were  imposed  by  the 
concerned authorities. 

  

(e)  Outstanding  litigations, defaults etc., pertaining to matters likely to affect 
operations and finances of the Company including disputed tax liabilities, 
prosecution  under  any  enactment  in  respect  of  Schedule  XIII  to  the 
Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956)  shall  be  furnished  in  the  prospectus in 
the prescribed format. 

(f)  The lead merchant banker shall ensure to appropriately incorporate in the 
prospectus and as risk factor(s), information regarding pending litigations, 
defaults,  non-payment  of  statutory  dues,  proceedings 
initiated  for 
economic offences/civil offences (including the past cases, if found guilty) 
any  disciplinary  action  taken  by  the  Board/stock  exchanges  against  the 
company/promoters  and  their  other  business  ventures  (irrespective  of  the 
fact whether they fall under the preview of Sec.370(1B) of the Company’s 
Act, 1956) 

Page 62 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

(h) 

(g)  The name(s) of small scale undertaking(s) or any other creditors to whom 
the company owes a sum of Rs.1 lakh which is outstanding for more than 
30 days; and 
(i)  If  any  of  the  above  mentioned  litigations,  etc.  arise  after  the  filing  of 
the  Offer  Document,  the  facts  shall  be  incorporated  appropriately  in  the 
prospectus (and as risk factors).  
(ii)  In  case  there  are  no  such  cases,  a  distinct  negative  statement  is 
required to be made in this regard in the prospectus”. 

  

 
4.35.2  In the opinion of the Committee : 
 

(a)  The contents of this clause are in many respects similar to the provisions 
of  item  38  of  the  Standard  Observations  which  has  been  discussed  in 
paragraph  4.28.4  above  and  in  so  far  as  this  clause  relates  to  promoters 
and related entity such details should be deleted. 

(b)  Section 370 of the Companies Act, 1956 has been deleted and reference to 

(c) 

(d) 

that section in sub-clause (f) needs to be deleted. 
It is impractical to give details of dues to small scale undertakings or any 
other creditors where dues in excess of Rs.1 lakh are outstanding for more 
than 30 days and no useful purpose is served by such disclosure. 
In so far as disclosure of the items as “risk factors” is concerned, reference 
is invited to the discussion in paragraph 4.36.1 to 4.36.4 below. 

(e)  As  regards  disclosure  of  outstanding 

the 
Committee is unable to reach agreement and the discussion in paragraphs 
4.28.5 to 4.28.8 is equally applicable to this clause. 

litigations  and  defaults, 

 
4.36  Clause 6.15 Risk Factors and Management Perception of the same  
 
4.36.1  “Standard Observations” (items 21 and 22, Annexure II) give a long list of items 

which shall be disclosed under this head. 

 

Page 63 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.36.2  The  Committee’s  recommendation  that  only  ‘material’  risk  factors  should  be 
disclosed  and  the  manner  in  which  they  should  be  disclosed  has  already  been 
accepted by SEBI. (See paragraph 3.1 above). 

 
4.36.3  In the opinion of the Committee, some of these items need to be incorporated in 

the Guidelines. 

 
4.36.4  The Committee therefore recommends that this clause may be reworded as under : 
 

“6.15 Risk Factors  
 
6.15.1  Risk  factors  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  Offer  Document  under  the 

following heads : 

Risks envisaged by the Management. 

(a) 
(b)  Manner in which the risks are proposed to be addressed. 

 

 

 

6.15.2  Only risk factors which are material shall be disclosed.  In determining 

the materiality of risk factors, the following shall be considered : 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

some  risks  may  not  be  material  individually  but  may  be 
material when considered collectively; 
some  risks  may  have  an  impact  which  is  qualitative  though 
not quantitative. 
some  risks  may  not  be  material  at  present  but  may  have  a 
material impact in the future. 

6.15.3  Risk  factors  which  need  disclosure  shall  not  be  limited  to  but  would 

include, wherever applicable, the following : 

(a) 

dependence  of  the  Issuer  or  any  of  its  business  segments 
upon a single customer or a few customers, the loss of one or 

Page 64 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

more  of  whom  would  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the 
Issuer. 
Potential  conflicts  of  interest  when  the  promoters/directors 
are involved with one or more ventures which are in the same 
line of business as the Issuer. 
Trading  of  shares  of  the  Issuer  on  the  stock  exchanges  is 
limited or sporadic. 
The fact that listing has been refused by any stock exchange 
in India or abroad for any security of the Issuer, or any of its 
subsidiaries  or  associates.  In  such  cases,  the  reasons  for 
refusal shall be disclosed. 
Penalties  imposed  on  the  Issuer  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries  or 
associates by SEBI or any other regulatory authority during 
the  period  of  ten  years  immediately  preceding  the  filing of 
the draft Offer Document with the Board. The details of such 
penalties shall be disclosed. 
Failure  on  the  part  of  the  Issuer,  subsidiary  or  associate  in 
complying  with  the  listing  requirements  of  any  stock 
exchange  in  India  or  abroad,  resulting  in  penalties  imposed 
including  suspension  of  trading.  Details  of  such  penalties 
shall be disclosed. 
Default in complying with material covenants of outstanding 
debentures or bonds (whether issued through public issue or 
private  placement)  including  defaults  in  payment  of  interest 
or repayment of principal on such debentures and bonds or 
fixed deposits accepted by the Issuer. 
The fact that promoters do not have adequate background and 
experience  in  the  activities  for  which  the  issue  is  being 
made.” 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

(g) 

(h) 

 
4.37  Clause 6.16 Disclosure on Investor Grievances and Redressal System 

Page 65 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
4.37.1  This  clause  requires  disclosure  of  the  arrangements  and  mechanism  evolved  by 

the Issuer for the redressal of investor grievances. 

 
4.37.2  The clause requires disclosure of the time normally taken for the various types of 
investor grievances but does not indicate how this time is to be calculated and 
disclosed.  It  also  requires  separate  disclosure  for  companies  under  the  same 
management  within  the  meaning  of  Section  370(1B)  of  the  Companies  Act, 
1956 but this section has been deleted. 

 
4.37.3  “Standard  Observations”  (items  15,  17  and  48,  Annexure  II)  also  require 

disclosures in this regard. 

 
4.37.4  The  Committee  recommends  inclusion  of  some  of  the  requirements  of  the 

Standard Observations and  this clause is as under: 

 
 

“The  Offer  Document  shall  disclose  the  arrangements  made  or  mechanism 
created by the Issuer for redressal of investor grievances and shall disclose: 

 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

the  number  of  investor  complaints  received  during  the  three  years 
preceding  the  filing  of  the  draft  Offer  Document  and  the  number  of 
complaints disposed off during that period. 
the  number  of  investor  complaints  pending  on  the  date  of  filing  of  the 
draft Offer Document. 
the  number  of  investor  complaints  pending  on  the  date  of  filing  of  the 
draft  Offer  Document  in  respect  of  the  five  largest  (in  terms  of  market 
capitalization) listed companies forming part of the Promoter Group. 

 
4.38  Clause 6.18 – Financial Information 
 

Page 66 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.38.1  Clauses 6.18.1 to 6.18.6 reproduce the requirements of Part II of Schedule II of 
the  Companies  Act,  1956  in  so  far  as  that  part  is  applicable  to  “Financial 
Information”. 

 
4.38.2        Clause  6.18.7  prescribes  “Other  provisions  relating  to  accounts  of  the  Issuer 

Company.” 

 
4.38.3    “Standard Observations” (items 10, 46 and 47, Annexure II) prescribe various 
items  relating  to  financial  performance.    Some  of  these  items  are  already 
required to be disclosed by virtue of the provisions of clauses 6.18.1 to 6.18.7. 

 
4.38.4    The Committee has taken note of the fact that apart from the over-lap of items as 
stated above, there have in recent times been considerable developments in the 
formulation of accounting standards, which have become mandatory under sub-
section 3A of Section 211 of the Companies Act, 1956 and disclosures in terms 
of clauses 41 and 49 of the listing agreements of the stock exchanges. 

 
4.38.5     The Committee therefore recommends that in clause 6.18.7, the following sub-

clauses may be redrafted as under: 

(a) Sub-clause (f)(ii): 
  

“Return  on  net  worth.    This  ratio  shall  be  calculated  after  excluding 
revaluation reserves and after excluding extra-ordinary items”. 

 
(b)    Sub-clause h(i) and (ii): 
  

“h(i)  In  respect  of  outstanding  loans,  loans  received  from  promoters, 
group companies and associates shall be separately disclosed”. 

 
(c)    Sub-clause h(iii) 
  

“h(ii)  Loans  borrowed  and  repayable  on  call  shall  be  separately 
disclosed.” 

 

Page 67 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Sub-clause h(iv) to (viii) 
“h(iii)  In  respect  of  provision  for  taxation,  adjustment  shall  be  made 
for  deferred  tax  assets  and  deferred  tax  liabilities  in  accordance  with 
the  requirements  of  Accounting  Standard  (AS  22)  “Accounting  for 
Taxes on Income” issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India and a reconciliation of taxable income and book profits shall be 
disclosed in accordance with the illustrative format given in Schedule 
XII.” 

(d)  
  

 

4.38.6    The Committee also  recommends  that  the  following  additional  sub-clauses be 

added in clause 6.18.7: 
 (a)  In respect of the periods, within the period of five years, when the relevant 

accounting standard was mandatory in respect of such issuers: 
 (i)  When, in respect of listed issuers, the auditors report in accordance 
with  clause  6.18.3  does  not  deal  with  the  profits  and  losses  and 
assets  and  liabilities  of  the  Issuer  and  its  subsidiaries  as  a  whole, 
consolidated  balance  sheets  and  profit  and  loss  accounts  shall  be 
presented  in  respect  of  the  periods,  within  the  period  of  five  years, 
when  preparation  of  such  statements  was  mandatory  in  respect  of 
such Issuers under the listing agreement with the stock exchanges. 

 (ii)   In respect of business segments, disclosure shall be made of segment 
revenue,  segment  result  and  net  capital  employed  and  where  the 
primary  segment  is  a  geographic  segment,  similar  details  by 
geographic segments shall be given. 

 (iii)  Related party transactions shall be disclosed in accordance with the 
requirements of clauses 23 and 26 of Accounting Standard (AS 18) – 
Related  Party  Disclosures  issued  by  the  Institute  of  Chartered 
Accountants of India. 

(b)  The  latest  statement  of  audited/unaudited  quarterly  financial  results 
published  by  the  Issuer  in  accordance  with  Clause  41  of  the  listing 
agreement with the stock exchanges shall be reproduced.” 

Page 68 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 Clause 6.19 – Statutory and other information. 

 
4.39 
 
4.39.1  Sub-clause  (b)  of  clause  6.19.15  requires  disclosure  of  documents  for  which 

inspection is available. 

 
4.39.2  “Standard Observations” (Item 57, Annexure II) requires specific  mention under 

this sub-clause of “application to the stock exchanges”. 

 
4.39.3  The Committee is in agreement with this requirement. 
 
4.39.4  Accordingly,  the  Committee  recommends  that  this  sub-clause  shall  have  a  note 

reading as under : 

 

“Note:  documents  will  include  copy  of  application  for  listing  to  the  stock 
exchanges.” 

 
4.40  Clause  6.19.9  “Option  to  Subscribe”(to  be  retitled  “Option  to  Receive 

Securities in Dematerialised or Physical Form) 

 
4.40.1   Clauses a) and b) refer to the same matter and need to be amalgamated. 
 
4.40.2  “Standard Observations” (items 3 and 30, Annexure II) also require disclosures in 

this regard. 

 
4.40.3   The Committee therefore recommends that clause (a) be reworded as under:  
 
 

“Details  of  option,  if  any,  to  receive  securities  subscribed  for,  either  in 
demateralised or physical form and a statement that trading in securities on the 
stock  exchanges  in  physical  form  will  be  available  only  subject  to  limits 
prescribed by the Board for time to time.” 

 

Page 69 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.40.4  Clause (b) should be deleted. 
 
4.41 
 
4.41.1  The Guidelines use different expressions viz. “company” or “issuer company” or 

Issuer 

“issuer” or “body corporate” etc. when referring to the issuer. 

 
4.41.2  The  Guidelines  apply  not  merely  to  companies  but  also  to  other  entities  which 
issue Offer Documents and whose securities will be listed on the stock exchanges. 

 
4.41.3  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  in  the  Guidelines,  consistently  only 
the expression “Issuer” shall be used and that the definitions of “Issuer Company” 
and Listed Company” in clause 1.2.1 be revised accordingly.  

 
4.42  Board 
 
4.42.1  The Guidelines use the terms “SEBI” and “Board” as interchangeable terms. 
 
4.42.2  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  in  the  Guidelines,  consistently  only 

the expression “Board” shall be used. 

 

5 

 

 
5.1 

 
5.2 

  ORDER  OF  ITEMS  IN  CHAPTER  VI  AND  FORM  OF  OFFER       

DOCUMENT 

The  Committee  reviewed  the  manner  in  which  disclosures  are  made  in  Offer 
Documents and found that there is no uniform, or even in many cases, any logical 
order in which disclosures are made. 

In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  having  regard  to  the  voluminous  disclosures 
which  are  required  to  be  made,  there  is  a  risk  that  unless  the  information  is 
presented in a logical sequence, the reader may be discouraged from reading the 

Page 70 of 326 

 
5.3 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Offer  Document  or  may  fail  to  note  the  more  relevant  information  which  could 
get lost in the details. 

The  Committee  therefore  appointed  a  Sub-Committee  to  chart  out  all  the 
disclosure  items  included  in  the  present  guidelines  and  “Standard  Observations” 
and  to  rearrange  them  in  a  logical  flow.    The  Sub-Committee  also  reviewed  a 
representative  sample  of  Offer  Documents  and  identified  some  additional 
information provided by Issuers on a voluntary basis which in the opinion of the 
Sub-Committee adds value to the Offer Document. 

 
5.4      The  recommendations  of  the  Sub-Committee  as  reviewed  and  revised  by  the 

Committee are given in Annexure V.  

 
5.5        For  a  better  understanding  of  their  proposals,  the  Sub-Committee  redrafted  an 
actual Offer Document (viz. the offering by Union Bank of India on August 20, 
2002).  This redrafted Offer Document is given in Annexure VI. It needs to be 
clarified  that  this  redrafted  document  does  not  incorporate  the  Committee’s 
present  recommendations  regarding  disclosures,  except  to  the  extent  they  are 
already  covered  by  the  Standard  Observations  and  this  document  has  to  be 
viewed  only  as  illustrating  the  manner  and  order  of  disclosure  and  not 
necessarily the contents of the disclosure. 

 
5.6.1    The Committee believes that in order to encourage Issuers to make disclosures in 
Offer Documents on the lines suggested in Annexure V, it is necessary that the 
disclosure requirements as stated in the Guidelines be also relocated under the 
heads mentioned in Annexure V and in the order specified. 

 
5.6.2      The  Committee  further  recommends  that  after  the  requirements  of  Chapter  VI 
have been re-arranged as recommended above, a further clause should be added 
reading as under: 

Page 71 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

“The order in which disclosures are made in the Offer Document shall as far as 
possible, follow the order in which the disclosure requirements are listed in this 
Chapter.” 

The  Committee  also  recommends  that  while  the  disclosures  identified  as 
“voluntary” need not be made a part of Guidelines, the Association of Merchant 
Bankers  of  India  may  issue  guidelines  to  its  members  encouraging  them  to 
make these voluntary disclosures. 

in 

the  present  Guidelines,  Standard  Observations  or 

It will be noticed that Annexure V includes the following items of disclosure not 
included 
the 
recommendations  made  by  the  Committee  in  earlier  paragraphs. 
  The 
Committee  recommends  that  these  items  be  included  in  the  Guidelines  at  the 
places indicated as under: 

 

 
5.7    

 
5.8    

 

 

Heading 

Contents 

1. 

Summary 

2. 
3. 

4, 

Industry Overview 
Industry-Regulation               
(if applicable) 
Terms of the Issue 

 
 

(a)  Summary of the 

Industry and 
Business of the 
Issuer Company. 

(b)  Offering Details in 

Brief 

(c)  Summary 

Consolidated 
Financial, Operating 
and Other Data 

Clause to 
be inserted 
6.3.1 
 
 
 
6.3.2 
 
6.3.3 

6.7.1(a) 
6.7.1(b) 

(a) Ranking of Equity 

6.5.1(a).i 

Page 72 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Shares 

(b) Mode of Payment of 

Dividend 

(c) Face Value and Issue 

Price 

5.  Definitions and Abbreviations 

      (a) Convention/General   

Terms 

      (b) Offering-related 

Terms 

      (c)  Company/Industry-

related Terms  
       (d) Abbreviations 
 
 

 
6.5.1(a).ii 
 
6.5.1(a).iii 
 
6.2.A.i 
 
6.2.A.ii 
 
6.2.A.iii 
 
6.2.A.iv 

CONFIRMATIONS BY THE ISSUERS/LEAD MERCHANT BANKERS 

There are a number of confirmations which the Issuer/lead merchant bankers are 
required to give to the Board.   Some of these are included at various places in 
the Guidelines and some of these are included in the Standard Observations. 

In  the  opinion  of  the  Committee,  these  requirements  can  be  better  enforced  if 
they are collected and stipulated in one place. 

The Committee therefore recommends that there should be a separate chapter in 
the  Guidelines  titled  “Confirmations  to  be  provided  by  Issuer/lead  merchant 
bankers” which shall contain all the requirements in this behalf. 

 
 

6. 

 
6.1 

 
6.2 

 
6.3 

 

Page 73 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

6.4 

Annexure  VII  includes  details  of  the  confirmations  which  the  Issuer/lead 

merchant bankers should provide. 

 

7. 

 
7.1 

 
7.2 

ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS 

Section II  – of Chapter VI of the Guidelines prescribe the requirements of the 
contents of the Abridged Prospectus. 

On  a  review  of  some  of  the  Abridged  Prospectuses  issued,  the  Committee 
noticed that the type and format in which such prospectuses were issued made 
the  document  very  difficult  to  read.    Moreover  as  this  was,  in  most  cases,  the 
only disclosure document which a prospective retail investor was likely to read, 
the  Committee  was  of  the  view  that  such  investor  shall  be encouraged to read 
the document by making it more readable and by restricting its contents to the 
more relevant pieces of information. 

The Committee accordingly makes the following recommendations: 

 
7.3 
 
7.3.1  New  clauses shall be added reading as under: 
 

The Abridged Prospectus shall be printed in a font size which shall not be 
visually smaller than TIMES NEW ROMAN Size 10. 
The order in which items appear in the Abridged Prospectus shall 
correspond, wherever applicable, to the order in which items appear in the 
Offer Document. 
The application form shall be so positioned that on the tearing-off of the 
application form, no part of the information given in the Abridged 
Prospectus is mutilated.” 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

 

7.3.2  Clauses 6.20 and 6.21 of the Guidelines read as under: 

Page 74 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

“6.20  The abridged prospectus shall contain the disclosures as specified under 

Section I of Chapter VI. 
 

 

6.20.1  The disclosure requirement as specified shall also be applicable in case of 

abridged prospectus.” 

 

 

This would require that all the information required to be disclosed as per Section 
I of Chapter VI would need to be reproduced in the Abridged Prospectus.  In the 
opinion  of  the  Committee  this  defeats  the  very  purpose  for  which  an  Abridged 
Prospectus is issued. 
 

7.3.3  The  Committee  would  invite  attention  in  this  connection  to  the  report  of  the 
Original  Committee  and  the  recommendations  contained  therein.    As  that  report 
had pointed out, Section 56(3) of the Companies Act, 1956 requires that “no one 
shall issue any form of application for shares or debentures of a company, unless 
the form is accompanied by a memorandum containing such salient features of a 
prospectus  as  may  be  prescribed  which  complies  with  the  requirements  of  this 
section.” 
 

7.3.4  The salient features to be contained in the prospectus are prescribed in Form 2A 
annexed  to  the  Companies  (Central  Governments’)  General  Rules  and  Forms, 
1956 (Form 2A). 
 

7.3.5  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  the  contents  of  the  Abridged 
Prospectus be confined to the requirements of Form 2A as supplemented by only 
such information as is considered most relevant to the prospective retail investor. 

 
7.3.6    The Committee accordingly recommends that Clause 6.20 and 6.21 be replaced   

by an amended clause 6.20 reading as under:           

         

Page 75 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

          “The information to be provided under each of the heads specified below shall be 

as per the requirements of Section I of Chapter VI except when specified 
otherwise” 

 

7.3.7  The  Committee  also  undertook  an  extensive  review  of  the  entire  disclosure 
requirements  for  the  abridged  prospectus.  This  review  covered  mapping  of  DIP 
Guidelines  with  the  requirements  of  the  Companies  Act,  bringing  clarity  in  the 
language,  identifying  disclosure  items  that  are  not  relevant  to  the  retail  investor 
and  identifying  such  disclosure  items  that  are  relevant  to  the  retail  investors  but 
are presently missing in the Guidelines for abridged prospectus. 

 
7.3.8 

In  Annexure  VIII,  column  (2)  lists  out  the  extant  guidelines.  For  reference 
purposes,  column  (3)  lists  out  the  requirements  as  per  the  Companies  Act. 
Column 4 lists  out the additional disclosure requirements being recommended by 
the  Committee  (with  relevant  clause  of  the  DIP  Guidelines  for  the  main  Offer 
Document given in the parenthesis). Column (5) sets out the proposed guidelines 
which incorporates changes proposed by the Committee in the existing guidelines 
(retention / deletion / additions of some clauses).  Retention/ Deletion/ Additions 
of  the  clauses,  have  been  proposed  considering  their  relevance  for  the  retail 
investors. 

 
7.3.9  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  the  requirements  of  Section  II: 
Contents of Abridged Prospectus may be replaced by the provisions as specified 
in Annexure VIII. 

 
7.3.10  The  Committee  also  suggests  that  all  recommendations  covered  in  this  Report 
relating to the disclosure requirements in the  main Offer Document should, after 
approval of the SEBI Board, also be appropriately incorporated in the Guideline 
for Abridged Prospectus. 

 
 

Page 76 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

8. 

 
8.1 

OTHER ISSUES 

A  number  of  other  issues  have  been  referred  to  the  Committee  for  its 
consideration.  These are discussed in the following paragraphs: 

 
8.2      Tie-up of Means of Finance 
 
8.2.1  Reference is invited to paragraph 3.3.3 above regarding the amount of means of 

finance which must be tied-up before the proposed public/rights issue. 

 
8.2.2  The question for consideration  was how the 75% of the stated means of finance 

which must be tied up should be computed. 

 
8.2.3  The Committee recommends that in calculating the 75%, the means of finance on 
which 75% test is applied, should be reduced by the amount proposed to be raised 
(a)  through  the  proposed  public/rights  issue,  and  (b)  through  internal  generation 
and the amount which shall be tied up shall be 75% of such reduced amount. 
 
The Committee therefore recommends that clause 2.8 be reworded as under: 
“No  Issuer  shall  be  allowed  to  make  a  public/rights  issue  unless  75%  of  the 
balance  means  of  finance  (i.e.  the  stated  means  of  finance  as  reduced  by  the 
amount proposed to be raised through (a) the proposed public/rights issue, and (b) 
the estimated internal accruals) is tied up.” 

 
8.3 

Promoters etc. with Questionable and Dubious Track Record 
 

8.3.1  The Committee was asked to consider whether an issue should be permitted when 
the  promoters  or  directors  or  other  persons  connected  with  the  issue  have  a 
questionable or dubious track record. 
 

Page 77 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

8.3.2  One view of the matter is that the duty of the regulator (in this case, SEBI) should 
be confined to ensuring that adequate disclosure is made of the track record of the 
persons connected with the issue and not make value judgements, leaving it to the 
prospective  investor  to  make  his  own  decision.    The  argument  in  favour  of  this 
view is that if the regulator makes a value judgement and permits an issue it may 
be seen to be holding out that the promoters and other persons connected with the 
issue are ‘fit and proper persons’. 

 
8.3.3  The  other  view  of  the  matter  is  that  the  regulator  has  a  responsibility  to  ensure 
that  all  intermediaries  in  the  capital  market  fulfill  the  test  of  a  “fit  and  proper 
person” and the regulator would be failing to discharge its responsibilities if it did 
not  ensure  that  the  persons  connected  with  the  issue  were  “fit  and  proper 
persons”.  The Committee is inclined to accept this view. 

 
8.3.4  The  Committee,  however,  is  also  of  the  opinion  that  the  process  by  which  the 

regulator arrives at its decision should be fair and transparent. 

 
8.3.5  The Committee therefore makes the following recommendations: 
 

 The Board shall, on the basis of the information available to it, make an 
internal decision whether the persons connected with the issue satisfy the 
test of “fit and proper” persons and whether the proposed issue should be 
permitted. 

If  the  Board  comes  to  the  conclusion  that  the  issue  should  not  be 
permitted,  it  shall  refer  the  matter  to  an  Independent  Advisory  Panel 
consisting of eminent persons from relevant fields. 

The  Board  may  reconsider  its  decision  after  receiving  the  advice  of  the 
Independent Advisory Panel but it is not bound to follow such advice. 

(a) 

 
(b) 

 
(c) 

 

Page 78 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

If  the  Board  decides  after  considering  the  advice  of  the  Independent 
Advisory Panel not to permit the issue, it shall so advise the Issuer, who 
shall  have  a  right  to  appeal  to  an  independent  appellate  authority 
constituted of eminent persons under the SEBI Act. 

The decision of the independent appellate authority shall be binding on the 
Board. 

(d) 

 
(e) 

 
8.4  Material Changes in Draft Offer Document 
 
8.4.1  The  Committee  was  asked  to  examine  the  Board’s  current  practice  whereby  the 
Issuer  is  required  to  re-file  a  fresh  draft  Offer  Document  if  any  material  change 
has taken place after the filing of the initial draft Offer Document but before the 
issue of the Observation Letter by the Board. 

 
8.4.2  The Committee has examined the matter and recommends as under: 
 

(a)  Where  any  material  change  has  occurred  prior  to  the  issue  of  the 
Observation Letter by the Board, there should be no requirement to re-file 
a  fresh  draft  Offer  Document.    It  would  be  sufficient  if  the  changes  are 
intimated  to  the  Board  and  the  Board’s  instructions/observations  in  the 
matter are acted upon by the Issuer. 

 
(b)  Where any material change has occurred after the issue of the Observation 
Letter by the Board, a revised draft Offer Document shall be submitted to 
the Board at least 21 days prior to the expiry of the validity period of the 
Observation Letter.   If the revised draft Offer Document is submitted to 
the  Board  when  less  than  21  days  are  available  before  the  expiry  of  the 
validity  period  of  the  Observation  Letter,  at  least  21  days  shall  be 
available to the Board for consideration of the revisions. 

 

Page 79 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Record Date for Bonus Issues 

8.5 
 
8.5.1  The Committee was asked to consider the  minimum period which should elapse 
between the date of approval by the Board of Directors of a bonus issue and the 
record date for such an issue. 

 
8.5.2  The Committee after consideration makes the following recommendations: 
 

a) 

b) 

 where the shares are under compulsory demat mode, the minimum period 
may be fixed at 7 working days; and 
  where  the  shares  are  not  under  compulsory  demat  mode,  the  minimum 
period may be fixed as working 15 days. 

8.6 

 
Responsibility of Merchant Banker for Compliance 
 

8.6.1  The Committee was asked to consider whether the responsibility of the merchant 
bankers  for  compliance  with  all  matters  in  the  Guidelines  should  continue  until 
full allotment money has been received by the Issuer. 

 
8.6.2 

In the Committees’ opinion, the merchant bankers are not in a position to control 
the  receipt  of  allotment  money  and  it  would,  therefore,  be  unfair  to  extend  their 
responsibility to requirements pertaining to matters beyond the listing stage. 

 
8.6.3  The  Committee  therefore  recommends  that  the  merchant  bankers’  responsibility 
should  be  confined  to  all  requirements  of  the  Guidelines  pertaining  to  matters 
upto the stage of the listing of the securities. 

Issue Advertisements 

 
8.7 
 
8.7.1  The  Committee  was  asked  to  review  the  contents  of  the  issue  advertisements 

generally being issued by the Issuers. 

Page 80 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

8.7.2  The  Committee  noted  that  the  disclosure  requirements  for  advertisements  are 
prescribed by the Department of Company Affairs as an annexure to its circular 
no. 5(13)CL VI/62 dated 21st May, 1962 and the initial question for consideration 
was  whether the Board had the authority to stipulate disclosure requirements for 
issue advertisements.  The matter was examined by the Legal Affairs Department 
of the Board who has advised that the Board has such powers. 
 
In 
advertisements, the following considerations have to be kept in mind: 

the  contents  of 

in  stipulating 

issue 

8.7.3 

the  opinion  of 

the  Committee, 

 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

 

it  must  provide  basic  information  about  the  issue  including  the  schedule 
and the names and addresses of contact persons; 
it  must  contain  an  advice  to  the  prospective bidders/investors to obtain a 
copy of the Offer Document before investing; 
it  must  ensure  that  the  investors  do  not  assume  that  the  advertisement  is 
the only disclosure document; 
it  should  not  be  so  brief  that  it  does  not  generate  any  interest  nor  so 
detailed that the prospective investor does not feel the necessity to refer to 
the Offer Document. 

8.7.4  Having  regard  to  the  above  considerations,  the  Committee  has  prepared  a  draft 

format of the advertisement which is enclosed in Annexure IX. 
 

8.7.5  The  Committee  further  recommends  that  billboard  advertisements  should  not 

include  any  information,  other  than  as  presented  in  the  format  given  in     
Annexure IX. 

 
8.7.6  The Committee also recommends that the Offer Document should be available on 

the website of the stock exchange where the securities are proposed to be listed. 

 

Page 81 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

RIGHTS ISSUES AND ISSUES OF DEBT INSTRUMENTS 

Section  III  of  Chapter  VI  of  the  Guidelines  prescribes  disclosure  requirements 
regarding  Letters  of  Offer  in  respect  of  Rights  Issues,  and  Chapter  X  of  the 
Guidelines deals with the issue of Debt Instruments. 
The Committee proposes to review the above requirements and will be submitting 
a separate report in that connection. 

9. 

 
9.1 

9.2 

 

10.  GUIDELINES AS RECOMMENDED 

10.1  The  Committee  will  be  submitting  separately  a  draft  of  the  Guidelines  after 

incorporating therein the Committee’s recommendations.  

 

11. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

 
11.1  The  Committee  would  like  to  place  on  record  its  deep  appreciation  of  the 
significant  contribution  made  to  the  work  of  the  Committee  by  Shri  Prithvi 
Haldea  and  Sushri  Dipti  Neelakantan  and  by  Sushri  Neelam  Bhardwaj,  Deputy 
General  Manager  and  Shri  Santanu  Bhaumik,  Former  Manager,  Corporation 
Finance Department, Division of Issues and Listing, SEBI. 

 
Date: 
 
Place: 
 
Y. H. Malegam 
(Chairman) 
 
S. C. Das 
 

Prithvi Haldea 
 

T.S. Jagadharini 
 

Page 82 of 326 

 
S. R. Mehta 
 
 
P. S. Reddy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
Dipti Neelakantan 
 
 
Chinubhai R. Shah 

 
T. R. Ramaswami 
 
 
 

Page 83 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

ANNEXURE – I 

 

(Referred to in paragraph 2.3 of the Report) 
 

A-I.  Standard Observations 

 

 
Note:  Lead  Manager  shall  submit  an  exception  report,  in  addition  to  in-seriatim 
reply as a separate annexure wherein the points that are not in compliance with our 
observations,  exemption  sought  and  the  reasons  therefor  shall  be  given.  The  Lead 
Manager may note that they shall not go ahead with the issue without prior written 
approval of SEBI in respect of the deviations/ exemptions. In the in-seriatim reply, 
the  LM  shall  mention  the  page  numbers  of  the  document  where  amendments  are 
carried  out  in  compliance  with  the  observations.  The  amendments  shall  also  be 
highlighted in the offer document 
 
2.0  OTHER OBSERVATIONS 

2.1 

ELIGIBILITY OF THE COMPANY TO COME OUT WITH THE ISSUE 

2.1.1  Confirm  and  disclose  in  the  offer  document  specifically  that  the  company,  its 
directors,  any  of  the  company’s  associates  of  group  companies,  and  companies 
with which the directors of issuer are associated as directors or promoters, has not 
been  prohibited  from  accessing  the  capital  market  under  any  order  or  directions 
passed by SEBI.  If the promoter is a body corporate, then confirm and disclose 
that  none  of  the  directors  or  the  person(s)  in  control  of  the  body  corporate  has 
been  prohibited  from  accessing  the  capital  market  under  any  order  or  direction 
passed by SEBI. 

2.1.2  Lead  Manager  shall  verify,  confirm  and  disclose  in  the  offer  document  that  the 
issuer  is  eligible  to  bring  the  issue.  LM  should  specifically  state  the  relevant 
clauses as per Chapter II of the Guidelines for Disclosure and Investor Protection 
- 2000 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Guidelines’ or ‘Guidelines 2000’) and show 
the eligibility by citing the relevant workings and figures. In case the issuer is a 
listed company, lead manager shall certify, confirm and disclose the eligibility in 
terms of clauses 2.3 of the Guidelines 2000 showing the workings and figures. 
If  the  issuer  is  exempt  from  eligibility  norms,  lead  manager  shall  certify  the 
exemption stating the relevant sub-clauses under clause 2.4 of the Guidelines.  
In  the  case  of  an  issuer,  which  was  formerly  a  partnership  firm or which was a 
division  spun  off  of  an  existing  company,  the  lead  manager  shall  certify 
compliance  with  point  (ii)  to  the  Explanation-1  to  clause  2.2.2  of  Guidelines 
2000.  

2.1.5  The  lead  manager  shall  not  proceed  with  the  issue  if  the  accounting  ratios 

2.1.3 

2.1.4 

disclosed in the offer document do not justify the issue price. 

2.1.6  LM  shall  disclose  in  the  offer  document  the  details  of  in-principle  approval 
received from the stock exchanges where the shares are proposed to be listed. The 
in-principle  approval  shall  be  furnished  to  SEBI  within  15  days  of  filing  the 
document with SEBI. 

Page 84 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
2.2 

AUTHORITY FOR THE ISSUE 
 Lead manager should ensure that the company has the proper authority to come out with the issue. 

 

COVER PAGE OF THE OFFER DOCUMENT 

2.3 
2.3.1  Lead Manager shall ensure that the Cover Page of the offer document is strictly in 

conformity with Clause 6.2 of Guidelines 2000.   

2.3.2  "General Disclaimer of Issuer" should not appear on the cover page. 
2.3.3  Date and place of original incorporation of the company and any changes thereafter 

in the name and registered office shall appear on the cover page. 

 
2.4 
2.4.1  Criminal charges under IPC and violations of securities law shall be highlighted in 

RISK FACTORS AND MANAGEMENT PERCEPTION 

bold as risk factor no. 1  

2.4.2  Following  shall  be  included  as  a  risk  factor  -There  are  no  standard  valuation 
methodology  or  accounting  practices  in  the  emerging  internet/  media  and  related 
industries.  The  financial  of  the  issuer  are  not  comparable  with  the  players  in  the 
industry. 

2.4.3  LM  may  note  that  the  Risk  Factor  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  descending  order  of 

materiality and implications on the financial of the issuer. 

2.4.4  All statutory clearances and approval that are yet to be received by the issuer to be 

2.4.5 

2.4.6 

2.4.7 

2.4.8 

indicated by way of separate Risk Factors.  
If the issuer company’s business is seasonal, then same should be highlighted as a 
risk factor in the offer document.   
If the promoters or any other person have been issued shares at a price lower than 
issue  price  within  the  last  12  months,  the  same  should  be  disclosed  as  risk  factor 
giving details.   No management perceptions should be given for this risk factor. 
If the issue is to part finance acquisitions but the targets have not been identified, the 
same  should  be  disclosed  as  risk  factor  stating  how  the  funds  would  be  deployed 
until it is used for the purpose which it is raised and probable duration.  
If  the  industry  segment  for  which  the  issue  is  proposed  by  the  issuer  has 
contributed to less than 25% of the revenues of the issuer in the last three fiscal 
years, the same should be disclosed as risk factors. 

2.4.9  The dependence of the issuer or any its business segment, upon a single customer 
or a few customers, the loss of any one or more of which would have a material 
adverse effect on the issuer.   

2.4.10  If the listing of any securities  of the issuer or any of its subsidiaries or associates 
has been refused at any time by any of the stock exchanges in India or abroad, the 
same shall be disclosed  as Risk Factor with reasons for refusal 

2.4.11  Penalties, if any imposed by SEBI or any other regula tory body in India or abroad 

shall be disclosed.   

2.4.12  If the issuer or any of its subsidiary/group /associate has failed to meet the listing 
requirements  of  any  stock  exchanges  in  India  or  abroad,  the  details  of  the  same 
and the details of penalty, if any including suspension of trading, imposed by the 
exchanges to be disclosed as Risk Factor. 

2.4.13  In  the  case  of  a  listed  company,  if  the  trading  on  stock  exchanges  is  limited  or 
sporadic the same is to be disclosed as risk factor.  Where any of securities of the 

Page 85 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

issuer is listed on stock exchanges/traded on OTC market abroad and the trading 
is limited or sporadic it should be disclosed as risk factor. 

2.4.14  Where  there  are  outstanding  debenture/bonds  (public  or  private  placement), 
details of the default compliance with the material covenants such as in creation 
of full security as per terms of issue, the default in payment of interest, the default 
in  redemption,  non-creation  of  debenture  redemption  reserve,  the  default  in 
payment of penal interest wherever applicable, non-availability/non-maintenance 
of asset cover, interest cover, debt-service cover, shall be disclosed as risk factors.   
2.4.15  Default  in  repayment  of  deposits  or  any  liability,  default  in  interest,  redemption 
on  due  dates  to  be  given  as  risk  factors.      Even  if  any  liability  has  been  rolled 
over, the fact of roll over should be given as risk factor. 

2.4.16  If the promoters/directors are involved with one or more ventures which are in the 
same line of activity as the issuer, potential conflict of interest to be disclosed as 
risk factor. 

2.4.17  Shortfall  in  performance  vis  a  vis  promise  made  in  the  last  three  issues  of  the 
issuer or last one issue of the group/associate companies to be given as risk factor 
quantifying the shortfall /delays. 

2.4.18  Risk  factor  that  the  valuations  in  the  Software/IT /media/entertainment industry 
(as applicable) are presently high and may not be sustained in future and may also 
not be reflective of future valuations for the industry shall be disclosed. 

2.4.19  If any part of the issue funds is to be paid as consideration to promoters, directors, 
key  management  personnel,  associate  or  group  companies,  the  same  should  be 
disclosed as risk factor stating the total project cost, issue size and the amount of 
consideration. 

2.4.20  If  the    promoters  do  not  have  adequate  background  and  experience  in  the 
activities  for  which  the  issue  is  proposed,  incorporate  a  risk  factor  stating  the 
same  and  also  stating  that  the  entire  project  has  to  depend  on  key  management 
personnel  and  may  suffer  on  account  of  lack  of  availability  or  turnover  of  key 
personnel  

2.4.21  Loss making ventures of the promoters may be disclosed by way of a risk factor. 
2.4.22  The  lead  manager  may  verify  and  confirm  that  each  of  the  outstanding  litigations, 
disputes,  overdues  to  banks/financial  institutions,  defaults  against  banks/FIs, 
contingent  liabilities  not  provided  for,  etc.,  pertaining  to  the  company,  the 
ventures/companies  promoted  by 
the 
company,  and  the  promoters/  directors  themselves  along  with  the  nature  of  the 
litigation,  quantum  of  funds involved have been distinctly brought out as separate 
risk  factors.  In  this  connection,  it  may  be  noted  that  the  proceedings  initiated  for 
economic offenses against promoter/promoter's companies/firms, etc., will have to 
be detailed under this paragraph, including the past cases where penalties have been 
awarded. 

the  promoters/wholetime  directors  of 

2.4.23  The  lead  manager  may  verify  and  confirm  whether  the  company  itself/    group 
company  has  performed  as  per 
the  promises  regarding  Financials  and/or 
commencement of commercial production  made in the offer document pertaining to 
the issue made by the company/ group company during the last 3 years.  If no, then 
the  lead  manager  may  ensure  that  each  such  deviation  wherein  the  actual 
performance  of  the  company/  group  company  with  regard  to  financials  or 

Page 86 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

commencement  of  commercial  production  has  been  significantly  below  the 
performance  projected  in  the  company's/  group  company's  offer  document  is 
indicated by way of a separate risk factor. 

2.4.24  The lead manager may verify and confirm that interests of promoters/ directors other 
than  reimbursement  of  expenses  incurred  or  normal  remuneration  or  benefits  have 
been distinctly brought out as separate risk factors. 

2.4.25  The  lead  manager  may  verify  and  confirm  that  all  the  contingent  liabilities  not 

provided for have been disclosed by way of a risk factor. 

2.4.26  Management Perception to risk factor should not contain any speculative statement 

on the positive outcome to any litigation etc. 

2.4.27  Management  Perception  should  not  contain  any  adjectives  and  should  be 
substantiated with the  source of data.  Details elsewhere in the document should be 
referred by giving page numbers. 

2.4.28  Management perception should not be given for any matter that is sub-judice before 

a competent Court. 

2.4.29  NOTES TO APPEAR IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE RISK FACTORS 

v  Networth  before  issue  (as  per  latest  audited  statement  contained  in  the  offer 

document) and issue size. 

v  Cost per share to the promoters and book value per share. 
v  Distinct  disclosure  on  interests  of  promoters/  directors/key  management 
incurred  or  normal 

personnel  other 
remuneration or benefits. 
 If  any  of  the  other  ventures  of  promoters  have  business  interests/other 
interests in the issuer company then the same should also be indicated. 

than  reimbursement  of  expenses 

v 

v  If  the  issuer  company  has  transacted  with  group/subsidiary companies 
during the last year, the nature of transactions and the cumulative value 
of transactions involved should be indicated.  

v  Lead  manager  should  ensure  to  disclose  all  loans  and  advances  made  to  any 

person(s)/ companies in which directors are interested.  

 

2.5 

2.6.2 

 

DISCLOSURE WITH REGARD TO CHANGE OF NAME 
Disclose as a Note under the risk factors, if there is a change in the name of the 
company at any time during the last 3 years, stating the reasons for the change and 
whether  and  when  the  Objects  clause  of  Memorandum  of  Association  was 
amended to carry on activities as reflected by the new name.  
 

2.6  GOVERNMENT APPROVALS 
 
2.6.1  Specify separately the government approval applied for but not yet received and the 

government approval not yet applied. Highlight each of them as a risk factor. 
Incorporate an affirmative statement in the offer document stating that the company 
can undertake the activities proposed by it in view of the present approvals and no 
further  approvals  from  any  Government  Authorities  /RBI  are  required  by  the 
company to undertake the proposed activities.  If such approvals are required state 
details and give as note wherever they are yet to be obtained. 

Page 87 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.7 
2.7.1 

2.7.2 

LISTING 
If the offer is by an unlisted company (with a commercial operation of less than 2 
years)  with  post  issue  capital  of  Rs.  3  crores  and  not  exceeding  Rs.  5  crores, 
ensure compliance and disclosure as per clause 8.1.1 of the Guidelines regarding 
listing on stock exchange where trading of securities is screen based and also of 
clause 8.1.2 and 8.1.3   regarding appointment of market maker. 
If  the  offer  is  by  an  unlisted  company  whose  capital  after  the  proposed  issue  is 
less  than  Rs.  3  crores,  the  securities  shall  be  eligible  to  be  listed  only  on  the 
OTCEI. 

2.7.3  As  regards  listing  of  pure  debt/convertible  instruments  issued  by  unlisted 
infrastructure  companies  and  Municipal  corporations,  lead  manager  shall  note, 
ensure compliance and disclosure as per clause 8.2 of the Guidelines 2000. 

2.7.4  Lead  Manager  shall  ensure  that  if  the  permissions  to  deal  in  and  for  an  official 
quotation  of  the  Equity  Shares  are  not  granted  by  any  of  the  Stock  Exchanges 
mentioned  in  the  Offer  Document,  the  Company  shall  forthwith  repay,  without 
interest, all moneys received from the applicants.   In case of delay interest shall 
be  paid  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  73  of  the  Companies  Act, 
1956.  Disclosure to this effect shall be made in the offer document.  

2.7.5  Ensure to include the application made for listing at stock exchanges as a material 

document. 
In principle approval of Stock Exchanges to be disclosed on Cover Page under the 
heading ‘Listing’. 

2.7.6 

  

2.8  MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION 

 

 Lead  Manager  shall  ensure  that  the  following  disclosure  is  made  for  all 
publicissues: 
Underwritten  Issues:      If  the  company  does  not  receive  the  minimum 
subscription  of  90%  of  the  net  offer  to  public  including  devolvement  of 
underwriters  within  60  days  from  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue,  the  company 
shall  forthwith  refund  the  entire  subscription  amount  received.    If  there  is  delay 
beyond 8 days after the company becomes liable to pay the amount, the company 
shall pay interest as per Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956." 

Non-underwritten  Issues:    If  the  company  does  not  receive  the  minimum 
subscription of 90% of the issued amount on the date of closure of the issue, or if the 
subscription level falls below 90% after the closure of issue on account of cheques 
having  been  returned  unpaid  or  withdrawal  of  applications,  the  company  shall 
forthwith refund the entire subscription amount received.  If there is delay beyond 8 
days after the company becomes liable to pay the amount, the company shall pay 
interest as per Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956." 
 
For composite issues: 
The lead manager shall ensure that the requirement of ‘Minimum  subscription’ is 
satisfied  both  jointly  and  severally  i.e.  independently  for  both  rights  and  public 

Page 88 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

issues.  If the company does not receive the minimum subscription in either of the 
issues, the company shall refund the entire subscription received. 
 
The  requirement  of  minimum  subscription  shall  not  be  applicable  to  offer for 
sale.  Hence appropriate disclosure shall be made under this head.  
 
In  the  case  of  public  issues  by  an  Infrastructure company  state  whether  the 
minimum subscription would be complied  with or provide disclosures regarding 
the alternate source of funding.   
 
In  the  case  of  Rights  issue,  the  Minimum  Subscription  shall  be  disclosed  as 
follows: 
 
Underwritten Issues: If the company does not receive the minimum subscription 
of 90% of the net offer to public including devolvement of underwriters, the entire 
subscription  shall  be  refunded  to  the  applicants  within  forty  two  days  from  the 
date of closure of the issue. 
If  there  is  a  delay  in  the  refund  of  subscription  by  more  than  8  days  after  the 
company  becomes  liable  to  repay  the  subscription  amount,(i.e.  forty  two  days 
after closure of the issue), the company will pay interest for the delayed period, at 
prescribed rates in sub-sections (2) and (2A) of  Section 73 of the Companies Act, 
1956. 

Non-underwritten  Issues:  If  the  company  does  not  receive  the  minimum 
subscription  of  90%  of  the  issue  the  entire  subscription  shall  be  refunded  to  the 
applicants within forty two days from the date of closure of the issue.  If there is a 
delay  in  the  refund  of  subscription  by  more  than  8  days  after  the  company 
becomes liable to repay the subscription amount,(i.e. forty two days after closure 
of the issue), the company will pay interest for the delayed period, at prescribed 
rates in sub-sections (2) and (2A) of  Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956. 

The  issue  will  become  undersubscribed  after  considering  the  number  of  shares 
applied as per entitlement plus additional shares. The undersubscribed portion can 
be applied for only after the close of the issue. The promoters or any other person 
can subscribe to such undersubscribed portion as per the relevant provisions of the 
law. If any person presently in control of the company desires to subscribe to such 
undersubscribed  portion  and  if  disclosure  is  made  pursuant  to SEBI (Substantial 
Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeover)  Regulations,  1997,  such  allotment  of  the 
undersubscribed  portion  will  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  the  SEBI 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 1997" 
 
You  are  also  advised  to  ensure  that  allotment  to  promoters  of  any  unsubscribed 
portion, over and above their entitlement is to be done in compliance with Clause 
40A of the Listing Agreement. There should be a specific disclosure in this regard 
under the heading ‘Basis of Allotment’.” 

 

 

Page 89 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.9 

UNDERWRITING AGREEMENT / STANDBY ARRANGEMENT BY THE 
ISSUER 

2.9.1  Full terms of the underwriting/ standby arrangement, if any, in the issue should be 
disclosed  in  the  offer  document.  If  the  same  is  not  applicable,  a  negative 
statement to this effect should be made under this head in the offer document. 

2.9.2  Ensure compliance and disclosure as per clause 5.5 and 6.3.13 of the Guidelines.  
2.9.3 
In case of partial underwriting of the issues, Lead Manager shall ensure to disclose 
the extent of issue being underwritten. 

2.9.4  Ensure that the underwriters associated with the issue have obtained the Certificate 
of  Registration  from  SEBI  under  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub  Broker) 
Regulations, 1992; or the SEBI (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993;  

2.9.5  Further,  specifically  ensure that the underwriters associated with the issue comply 
with  the  guidelines  /  instructions  contained  in  SEBI  Circular  RUW  Circular 
No.1(93-94) dated November 19, 1993 especially those pertaining to execution of 
the underwriting agreement and total underwriting obligations. 

 
2.10  CREDIT RATING FOR DEBT INSTRUMENTS  

Ensure compliance with clause 2.5 and 6.3.12 of the Guidelines 2000.  

 

 

ISSUE MANAGEMENT TEAM  

2.11 
2.11.1  Lead  Manager  shall  certify  and  confirm  that  he  and  other  lead  managers  are  not 
associated with the issuer by virtue of shareholding, common directorship/promoter 
and  that  the  provisions  of  Regulation  20(2)  of  the  SEBI  (Merchant  Bankers) 
Regulations, 1992 is not attracted.     

2.11.2  Lead  manger  is  required  to  ensure  and  confirm  that  all  intermediaries associated 
with  the  issue  are  registered  with  SEBI  as  on  the  issue  opening  date  and  have 
complied with the requirements of SEBI regulations and are eligible to be associated 
with the issue.  

2.11.3  Lead Manager shall ensure that a merchant banker who is associated with the issuer 
company  as  a  promoter  or  a  director  shall  not  lead  manage  the  issue  except  as 
provided in clause 5.4.1 of the Guidelines 2000.    

2.11.4  Lead manager shall not act as Registrar to the issue if he is also handling post issue 

responsibilities.   

2.11.5  Lead manager shall ensure and confirm that the number of co-managers to an issue 
does not exceed the number of lead managers and that there is only one advisor to 
the issue. 

2.11.6  Lead manager shall ensure and confirm that the Registrar to the issue appointed for 
the  issue  has  direct  connectivity  with  both  the  depositories.    If  not,  the  concerned 
intermediary cannot act as registrar to the issue. 

2.11.7  Lead  manager  shall  ensure  and  confirm  that  the  registrar  to  an  issue  which  is 
associated with the issuer as a promoter or director shall not act as registrar to the 
issue. 

2.11.8  Lead manager shall ensure and confirm the appointment of bankers to issue in all the 

mandatory collection centres. 

 
2.12  BANKERS TO THE ISSUE 

Page 90 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

    Ensure that the Bankers to the Issue and correspondent banks hold valid Certificate 
of  Registration  from  SEBI  under  the  SEBI  (Bankers  to  an  Issue)  Rules  and 
Regulations, 1994. 

 

2.13  PAID UP CAPITAL 

Lead  manager  shall  certify  that  the  paid  up  capital  as  on  date  of  filing  of  offer 
document with SEBI was fully paid up.    

 

2.14  OUTSTANDING WARRANTS ETC. 

In case the issuer is an unlisted company, the Lead manager shall confirm that on 
the date of filing the draft offer document with SEBI, there were no outstanding 
financial  instruments  or  any  other  right  which  would  entitle  the  existing 
promoters or shareholders or any other person any option to receive equity shares 
after the IPO.  

 
2.15  CAPITAL STRUCTURE 
2.15.1  Ensure the capital structure is presented as per Clause 6.4. of Guidelines – 2000.  In 
this  regard  lead  manager  may  be  guided  by  the  provisions  of  clause  8.4  of  the 
Guidelines also. 

2.15.2  Disclose Notes to capital structure as per clause 6.4.2 of the Guidelines 2000. 
2.15.3  Disclose  the  details  of  the  major  shareholders  as  per  Clause  6.4.2(j)  of  Guidelines 

2.15.4  Disclose the aggregate shareholding of the promoter group as per Clause 6.4.2(k) of 

2000. 

Guidelines 2000. 

2.15.6  The  persons  who  constitute 

2.15.5  Disclose  the  names  of  the  core  promoters  their  pre  and  post  issue  holdings, 
contribution towards promoters contribution and details of lock in of their shares. 
individual 
shareholdings shall be tabulated and disclosed under the Capital structure.  Details 
shall  include  date  of  allotment/date  of  making  fully  paid,  date  of  acquisition, 
price/consideration,  nature  of  issue  (bonus,  consideration  other  than  cash)  and 
percentage to pre and post issue capital. 

the  ‘Promoters  group  and 

2.15.7  Names  of  the  natural  persons  who  are  in  control  (holding  10%  or  more  voting 
rights) or who are on the Board of the Board of directors of any body corporate 
forming part of promoters group shall be specifically disclosed.   

2.15.8  If the public issue is by an unlisted company, ensure that the net offer to public 

their 

shall be at least 10% or 25%, whatever is applicable, of the post-issue capital. 

2.15.9  If the public issue is by a listed company ensure that the net offer to public is at 

least 10% or 25%, whatever is applicable, of the issue size.   

2.15.10If the issuer is exempt from the above provisions, state so specifically, citing the 

relevant provisions.   

2.15.11If any reservations/firm allotments are being made, the same shall strictly confirm 
to the provisions of clause 8.3.45 of the Guidelines.   Reservation/firm allotment 
shall not be made to any other category of persons other than those stated in the 
said clause. 

Page 91 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.15.12If  the  lead  manager  is  taking  firm  allotment  subject  to  ceiling  of  5%  of  the 
proposed  issue  of  securities,  the  same  shall  be  distinctly  disclosed  in  the  offer 
document. 

2.15.13Ensure that the aggregate of reservations and firm allotments for employees in the 

issue does not exceed 10% of the total proposed issue amount. 

2.15.14Where  the  issue  comprises  reservations/firm  allotments,  ensure  compliance  and 

disclosure point-wise as per the provisions of clause 8.5 of the Guidelines. 

2.15.15Lead  manager  shall  ensure  that  where  the  issuer  is  a  listed  company  and  the 
promoters  already  hold  the  minimum  contribution,  participation  in  the  proposed 
public  issue  shall  attract  the  pricing  provisions  of  guidelines  on  preferential 
allotment  if  the  issue  price  is  lower  than  the  preferential  issue  price.  Where  the 
issuer being a listed company is exempt from the requirement to offer promoters 
contribution under the guidelines, any contribution by promoters in the proposed 
issue shall attract the pricing provisions of preferential allotment guidelines if the 
issue price is lower than such price.  Firm allotment to any person in the proposed 
issue  of  listed  company  shall  attract  the  pricing  provisions  of  preferential 
allotment guidelines if the issue price is lower than such preferential issue price.    
2.15.16Lead  Manager  shall  certify  to  SEBI  as  also  make  a  disclosure  in  the  offer 
document  that  no  payment,  direct  or  indirect  in  the  nature  of  discount, 
commission allowance or otherwise shall be made either by the issuer company or 
the  promoters  in  any  public  issue  to  the  persons  who  receive  firm  allotment  in 
such public issue. 

2.15.17Ensure compliance and disclosure that the retention of over subscription shall not 
exceed  10%  of  the  net  offer  to  public  for  the  purpose  of  rounding  off  to  nearer 
multiple of market lot. 

2.15.18 If  the  issuer  is  a  listed  company  and  has  earlier  made  (after  being  a  listed 
company) any allotment of shares on a preferential basis to any person, confirm 
and  disclose  that  the  Guidelines  regarding  preferential  allotment  including 
certification  by  a  chartered  accountant  as  per  Chapter  XIII  have  been  complied 
with.    The  lead  manager  may  ensure  that  the  contents  of  such  certificate  are 
disclosed by way of a note under capital structure.  Similarly, in the case of Bonus 
issues,  ensure  that  Guidelines  for  Bonus  issues  as  per  Chapter  XV  of  the 
Guidelines have been complied with.  

2.15.19 Lead  Manager  shall  ensure  that  the  shares  offered/included  under  minimum 
promoter’s contribution (20%) for lock-in should be on the LIFO basis i.e. the shares 
allotted  recently  should  be  given  priority  over  the  shares  allotted  earlier  while 
offering under promoter’s contribution for lock-in.   This would not be applicable if 
the entire shareholding of the promoters is in Demat. 

2.15.20The  lead  manager  may  note  that  the  RBI  approval  for  allotment  of  shares  to 
NRIs/OCBs/FIIs  with  repatriation  basis  should  be  obtained  before  opening  of  the 
bidding  in  the  case  of  book  built  issues  and  in  other  cases  before  filing  with 
ROC/Stock exchanges.   

2.15.21The Company/Directors/ Lead Managers shall give an undertaking that they have 
not entered into any buy-back and/or standby arrangements for purchase of Equity 
Shares of the Company with any person.  The same shall also be disclosed in the 
offer document. 

Page 92 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.15.22Disclose whether the Company has raised any Bridge Loan against the proceeds 

of this Issue. 

2.15.23If the issuer has made any issue of shares at a price lower than issue price during 
the preceding one year, specific disclosure of the names of the persons, whether 
they are part of promoters group, reasons for such issue and issue price shall be 
made. 

2.15.24 If shares have been issued for consideration other than cash or out of revaluation 
reserves  at  any  point  of  time,  the  details  shall  be  furnished  in  a  separate  table, 
stating the date of issue, persons to whom issued, price, reasons for the issue and 
whether any benefits have accrued to the company out of the issue.  If the above 
is not applicable, then a specific negative statement should be made.   

2.15.25 ALLOTMENT TO EMPLOYEES 

Ensure that the reservation and firm allotments for employees in the issue does 
not exceed 10% of the total proposed issue amount.  Ensure  that  the  allotment 
under  employees  quota  is  made  only  to  regular  /  permanent  employees  of  the 
company / promoter company (as applicable).   The list of permanent employees of 
the company / promoter company eligible to subscribe under the reserved category 
should be certified by the Company Secretary before submitting to the Registrars to 
the Issue. Lead manager should also test check the allotment made to ensure that no 
allotment is made to persons other than the permanent employees of the company / 
promoter company. 

2.15.26 The Lead manager is also advised to note and disclose the following with respect to 

‘Capital Structure’: 
a.  The  capital  structure  should  be  presented  strictly  in  accordance  with  the 
prescribed  form  indicating  authorized  capital,  issue  subscribed  and  paid  up 
capital and the present issue of capital.  Out of the present issue, the instruments 
reserved for allotment to the promoters, their friends, relatives and associates etc.  
should be shown separately.  Similarly out of the remaining part the reservations 
made  on  competitive  basis/firm  allotment  basis  to  various  categories  to  be 
indicated  separately.    The  net  offer  to  the  Indian  public  should  be  shown 
separately.  The  post  issue  paid  up  capital  should  be  indicated.    The  share 
premium  account  wherever  applicable  should  be  given  indicating  the  amount 
before  issue  and  after  issue.    In  case  the  issue  is  at  premium  it  could  also  be 
necessary  to  give  the  nominal  value  and  the  aggregate  value  under  various 
columns.   

b.  The  various  notes  below  the  capital  structure  should  indicate  the  following 

details: 
i.  The  existing  share  capital  of  the  company  should  be  detailed  in  a  tabular 
form  indicating  the  date  of  allotment,  number  of  shares,  face  value,  issue 
price  and  form  of  consideration.      In  case  the  shares  have  been  issued  for 
consideration  other  than  cash  or  have  been  issued  by  capitalising  the 
reserves, the facts should be distinctly stated.  In case of bonus shares  made 
out  of  revaluation  reserves,  a  separate  mention  is  required  to  be  made 
indicating the date of issue and the date of revaluation of assets .   The fact of 
shares being allotted on account of any amalgamation/ merger scheme is also 

Page 93 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

required  to  be  mentioned  distinctly.  Details  of  amalgamation/merger/share 
swap/revaluation  shall be given elsewhere in the offer document 

ii.  The  promoters  total  share  holding  should  be  indicated  in  a  tabular  form 
clearly stating the name of the promoter date of allotment, number of shares, 
face value, issue price, percentage to the total post issue capital and the lock 
in  period.    The  lead  manager  should  ensure  that  the  promoters  minimum 
contribution  norms  have  been  complied  with  and  the  shares  locked  in  are 
eligible to be considered as promoters contribution.  

iii.  All  other  notes  regarding  the  promoter's  total  post  issue  holding,  the 
promoters  contribution  being  brought  in  before  the  issue,  promoters 
undertaking regarding taking up the shares in the event of withdrawal of firm 
allottees,  legally  enforceable  agreement  in  respect  of  firm  allottees,  RBI 
approval for reservation to NRIs/OCBs/ collaborators, company's intention 
of  retaining  additional  10%  in  the  event  of  oversubscription,  cap  on  the 
maximum  number  of  shares  to  be  applied  under  public  category  [if 
applicable], reference to proportionate basis of allotment etc. should  form 
part of the capital structure.  

c.  The  information  regarding  securities  transactions  during  the  past  six  months 
undertaken/ financed directly or indirectly by the promoters, their relatives and 
associates and the directors of the company should also be incorporated under 
this paragraph.  The period of six months should be reckoned with reference to 
the  date  on  which  the  offer  document  is  filed  with  SEBI  and  this  should  be 
updated at the time of filing the prospectus with the ROC/ Stock Exchange/bid 
opening. 

2.15.27 Disclose  the  number  of  members  of  the  company  as  in  the  date  of  filing  of  offer 

document with the ROC/SE. 

 
2.16  PROMOTERS CONTRIBUTION 
2.16.1  Ensure  that  the  promoters  contribution  is  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 

Chapter IV of the Guidelines 2000. 

2.16.2  Lead  manager  to  specifically  certify,  ensure  compliance  with  clauses  4.6  of  the 
Guidelines.    Appropriate  disclosure  as  to  compliance  of  each  of  these  clauses 
shall be made in the offer document.    

2.16.3  Tabulate  and  disclose  the  names  of  the  core  promoters  and  each  of  their  total 

holdings and contribution towards promoters’ contribution.   

2.16.4  Ensure compliance with clause 4.9.1, 4.9.2 4.9.3 and 4.9.4 of the Guidelines 2000.  
Lead Manager should verify, certify and disclose that the promoters contribution 
is  kept  in  an  escrow  account  with  a  Scheduled  Commercial  Bank  and  shall  be 
released to the company along with the public issue.  

2.16.5  Give the cash flow statement in the offer document of the funds deployed, which 
has been brought in as a promoter’ contribution prior to the public issue and has 
already been deployed. 

2.16.6  Where  the  promoters  contribution  exceeds  Rs.100  crores,  the  excess  of  Rs.100 
crores may be brought in by the promoters in advance on pro rata basis before the 
calls  are  made  on  public  and  specific  disclosure  and  undertaking  in  this  regard 
shall be contained in the offer document. 

Page 94 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.16.7  If  the  issuer  is  exempt  from  the  requirement  of  promoters’  contribution,  LM 
should  certify  the  same  citing  the  relevant  provisions  and  ensure  appropriate 
disclosure in the offer document. 

2.16.8  In  the  case  of  Rights  issue,  disclose  the  extent  to  which  the  promoters  shall 
participate  in  the  proposed  issue.      Also  disclose  if  in  case  of  any  shortfall  in 
subscription  in  the  rights  issue,  whether  the  promoters  intend  to  subscribe  in 
excess of their rights entitlement.   

2.16.9  If any shares forming part of promoters contribution is pledged as stated in clause 
4.15.1  of  the  Guidelines,    specific  disclosure  shall  be  made  stating  the  name  of 
pledgee, facilities availed,  terms and conditions of the  pledge. 

 

2.17  LOCK IN OF FIRM ALLOTMENT AND PROMOTERS PARTICIPATION 

IN EXCESS OF MINIMUM CONTRIBUTION 
Where  the  issuer  is  an  unlisted  company,  the  lead  manager  may  note  that  Firm 
allotment  to  any  person  and  Participation  in  the  present  issue  by  promoters, 
friends, relatives, associates etc. in the public issue shall be locked in for a period 
of  1  years  from  the  date  of  allotment  in  the  present  issue  or  the  date  of 
commencement of commercial production, whichever is later.  

 
2.18  LOCK IN PROVISIONS 
2.18.1  Ensure  and  confirm  that  the  minimum  promoters  contribution  where  required  to 
be offered, is locked in for a period of 3 years as given under clauses 4.11.1 and 
4.11.2 of Guidelines 2000. 

2.18.2  Ensure and confirm that excess promoters’ contribution is locked in as per clause 

4.12.1 or 4.12.2 of the Guidelines as applicable. 

2.18.3  Ensure and confirm compliance with clause 4.12.3 if applicable. 
2.18.4  Ensure  and  confirm  that  securities  issued  last  is  locked  –  in  first  as  provided  in 

clause 4.13 in respect to mandatory promoters contribution. 

2.18.5  Ensure and confirm lock-in in accordance with Clause 4.14 of the guidelines.  
2.18.6  Lead Manager shall also note that the date from which shares are made fully paid-

up shall be the date for reckoning the lock-in provisions. 

2.18.7  Where  issuer  is  a  listed  company  having  converted  /merged  into  company 
/business  in  software/IT  sector,  shares  acquired  by  the  promoters  within  the  12 
months preceding the issue shall be locked in for a period of 1 year from the date 
of allotment in the issue. 

2.18.8  Lead manager shall undertake to ensure before listing that the share certificates in 
respect  of  locked  in  shares  are  inscribed  with  the  ‘non-transferability’  stamp 
stating  details  of  duration.    In  case  the  relevant  shares  are  in  demat  form,  lead 
manager  shall  inform  the  non-transferability  details  to  both  the  depositories.   
Details of lock in shall be provided to all the stock exchanges where the securities 
are to be listed, before the listing of the securities.   

 
2.19  DENOMINATION OF SHARES 

Page 95 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.19.1  In  case  of  change  in  standard  denomination  of  shares,  ensure  compliance  and 
disclosure as per clause 8.2.2 of the Guidelines 2000 with regard to financial data, 
comparison of financial ratios, stock market data and capital structure. 

2.19.2  Ensure a disclosure and undertaking that at any given time there shall be only one 
denomination for the shares of the company and that the issuer shall comply with 
such disclosure and accounting norms specified by SEBI from time to time. 

 
2.20  PRICE BAND 
2.20.1  Ensure  that  the  actual  price  is  determined  and  disclosed  along  with  relevant 

financials before filing the offer document with ROC/Stock exchange.  

2.20.2  Lead  Manager  should  certify  to  SEBI  that  the  price  has  been  determined  by  a 

Resolution passed by the Board of Directors of the issuer.  

2.20.3  Where  the  issuer  is  a  listed  company,  lead  manager  shall  ensure  and  certify  to 
SEBI that notice prior to 48 hours of the meeting of Board of directors convened 
for  passing  resolution  for  determining  price  is  given  to  the  regional  stock 
exchange.   

 
2.21  TERMS OF THE PRESENT ISSUE 
2.21.1  Reservation for small individual applicants - Disclose the complete provisions 

of clause 7.6.12 of the Guidelines.   

2.21.2  State  what  is  the  market  lot  for  categorisation  of  applications  for  allotment 

2.21.3  The  caption  ‘Interest  in  case  of  Delay  in  Despatch  of  allotment  letters/refund 
orders in case of public issues’ shall appear and shall contain the disclosure as per 
clause 6.5.1.1. of the Guidelines 2000. 

2.21.4  Ensure disclosure as per clause 6.5.4.2 of the Guidelines as regards Applications 

purposes.   

by NRIs. 

Guidelines.   

the Guidelines.   

the Guidelines.   

2.21.5  Ensure disclosure about stock invests as per clause 6.5.4.3 of the Guidelines.    
2.21.6  Ensure disclosure regarding Despatch of Refund orders as per clause 6.5.5 of the 

2.21.7  Ensure disclosure of Undertaking by the Issuer  Company as per clause 6.5.6 of 

2.21.8  Ensure disclosure regarding Utilisation of Issue proceeds as per Clause 6.5.7 of 

2.21.9  Ensure disclosure of the provisions of clauses 8.5 (a), (b), (c) and (d).   
2.21.10Disclose the minimum of number of shares to be applied, application money etc. 
as per clause 8.6 of the Guidelines.  Ensure that there is no discrepancy between 
the offer document and the application cum abridged prospectus (Form 2A).  

2.21.11Ensure that the minimum application money to be paid by an applicant along with 
the  application  shall  not  be  less  than  25%  of  the  issue  price.    In  the  case  of  an 
offer for sale, the entire amount payable on each instrument shall be brought in at 
the  time  of  application.  The  minimum  number  of  instruments  for  which  an 
application may be made shall not be less than a market lot.   

2.21.12Disclose that the shares issued in the issue (whether public or rights) shall be pari-
passu with the existing shares in all respects including dividends.  In the case of 
offer for sale, the dividend for the entire year shall be payable to the transferees.   

Page 96 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

In  the  case  of  offer  for  sale,  also  disclose  as  to  who  would  bear  the  cost  of 
transfer. 

2.21.13Ensure that if the subscription money is proposed to be received in calls, the calls 
shall be made to the make the shares fully paid up within 12 months from the date 
of allotment and if the monies are not paid within the said 12 months shares may 
be  forfeited.        Appropriate  disclosure  shall  be  made  in  this  regard  in  the 
document.   This condition would not be applicable for issue size above Rs. 500 
crores and subject to monitoring requirements.  

2.21.14Provision  for  nomination  facility  to  the  investors  in  terms  of  Sec.  109A  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 to be incorporated in the offer document and the application 
form.   

2.21.15Make provision for signature in application form in all languages prescribed in the 

8th Schedule of the Constitution of India.  

 
2.22 

  TRADING IN DEMAT SEGMENT AND DEPOSITORY OPTION TO THE 
INVESTORS 

2.22.1  If  the  issue  size,  in  case  of  an  initial  public  issue  (IPO),  is  equal  to  rupees  ten 
crores  or  more,  LM  shall  ensure  that  the  securities  issued  in  IPO  shall  only  in 
dematerialized form in compliance with Section 68B of the Companies Act, 1956. 
This may be brought out distinctly in the offer document and application form.  It 
should  be  stated  in  bold  on  the  application  form  that  details  of  Depositories 
account  is  mandatory  and  applications  without  Depositories  account  would  be 
treated as incomplete and rejected.  Investors will not have the option of getting 
the allotment of physical shares.  However, they may get the shares rematerialised 
subsequent to allotment.  The relevant portion of the application giving option to 
investors to apply in physical shares to be deleted. 

2.22.2  It shall be specifically disclosed that the securities, on allotment shall be traded on 
stock  exchanges  in  demat  segment  only  for  all  investors.  (In  case  of  IPOs  and 
rights/public  issues  by  companies  whose  shares  are  in  compulsory  demat  on  the 
date of opening of the issue.) 

2.22.3  Lead  Manager  shall  ensure  that  agreement  is  entered  into  with  both  the 
depositories  for  dematerialisation  of  the  issuer’s  securities    It  shall  be 
disclosed that the investors shall be given an option to get the shares in demat 
or physical mode.   

2.22.4  The  following  observations  are  to  be  included  in  the  offer  document  and 

Form 2A : 
a.  The application form shall contain space for indicating number of shares 

subscribed for in demat and physical shares or both. 

b.  No separate applications for demat and physical is to be made.  If such 
applications are made, the applications for physical shares will be treated 
as multiple applications and rejected accordingly. 
In  case  of  partial  allotment,  allotment  will  be  done  in  demat  option  for 
the  shares  sought  in  demat  and  balance,  if  any,  will  be  allotted  in 
physical shares. 

c. 

 
2.23  PERIOD OF SUBSCRIPTION:    

Page 97 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Ensure compliance and disclosure of the period of subscription as per clause 8.8 
of the Guidelines. 

2.24  AUTHORISED COLLECTION CENTRES 

Lead manager shall ensure compliance and disclosure  in terms of clause 5.10 of the 
Guidelines 2000. 

 
2.25  APPROVAL OF BASIS OF ALLOTMENT  
2.25.1  Ensure to incorporate the disclosures as per RMB (Compendium) Circular dated 

February 16, 2000 for all public issues.   

2.25.2  In  the  case  of  rights  issues,  state  the  allotment  procedure  in  detail  and  the 
requirement of approval of the basis by the regional stock exchange as provided 
in the aforesaid circular. 

 
2.26  SAFETY NET ARRANGEMENTS 
2.26.1  Ensure compliance and disclosure as per clause 8.18 of the Guidelines.    
2.26.2  In case any ‘safety net ‘ is provided in the issue, the lead manager shall  certify 
that  he  or  the  person  offering  the  safety  net  has  the    ability  to  honour  the 
commitments  and  disclose  the  same  in  the  offer  document.    Further,  complete 
details  of  ‘safety-net’  arrangements  like  number  of  securities  covered,  duration, 
price  as  also  complete  terms  of  guarantee  if  any  given  by  any  person  including 
conditions  subject  to  which  the  guarantee  may  be  invoked,  shall  be  disclosed  in 
the offer document and in all issue  advertisements and in Abridged prospectus.   

 
2.27  OBJECTS CLAUSE OF THE COMPANY 

The lead manager should confirm by way of an affirmative statement in the offer 
document that the Main Object Clause of the Memorandum of Association of the 
company enables the company to undertake the activities for which the funds are 
being raised in the present issue. Furthermore, the  Lead Manager should confirm 
that the activities the company has been carrying out until now is in accordance 
with  the  object  of  Memorandum  of  Association  of the company. Lead Manager 
should ensure that main objects of the company adequately cover its existing and 
proposed activities. 

 
2.28  PARTICULARS OF THE ISSUE 
2.28.1  Ensure  detailed  disclosure  as  per  clause  6.6  of  the  Guidelines  and  confirm 

compliance in-seriatim.  

Guidelines.  

2.28.2  Give details of Project and means of financing as per clause 6.6.2 and 6.6.3 of the 

2.28.3  Where the project is appraised, the details shall be disclosed giving cost of project 
and  means  of  financing  as  per  the  appraisal  report  and  also  the  weakness  and 
threats if any given as given in the appraisal report.  Reference number and date 
of  the  final  term  loan  sanction  letter  shall  be  stated  and  also  made  available  for 
inspection as material document.  

2.28.4  Details  of  deployments  of  funds  in  the  project  as  per  clause  6.6.5  of  the 
Guidelines  to  be  disclosed.  Ensure  to  give  actual  expenditure  incurred  on  the 

Page 98 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

project  upto  a  date  not  earlier  than  2  months  from  the  date  of  filing  the  offer 
document with the registrar of companies/stock exchanges.   

2.28.5  Disclose the year wise break up of the expenditure proposed to be incurred on the 

project. 

2.28.6  Disclose  the  investment  avenues  in  which  the  issue  proceeds  may  be  deployed 

pending utilisation in the proposed project. 

2.28.7  Give the name of the monitoring agency if applicable. 
2.28.8  Disclose  the  source  of  funds  to  meet  the  project  expenses  in  case  of  shortfall  in 
issue  proceeds  and  avenues  of  deployment  of  excess  funds.      The  lead  manager 
should ensure that the means of finance (other than issue proceeds) is tied up for 
not  less  than  75%  of  the  project  cost  before  filing  of  the  offer  document  with 
ROC/stock exchange.  

2.28.9  In case one of the objects of the issue is investment in JV/ acquisition/ investment 

in subsidiary, then disclose the following.  
•  The form of investment i.e. equity, debt or any other instrument 
• 

If the form of investment is not yet decided, the same should be specifically 
disclosed.  
If the investment is proposed to be in form of debt, complete details including 
security, repayment etc .should be disclosed. If the debt is unsecured or carries 
interest  lower  than  the  market  rate  the  same  should  be  disclosed  as  a  risk 
factor.  
If  the  investment  is  proposed  to  be  in  form  of  equity,  it  must  be  specified 
whether any dividends to the issuer are assured.  

• 

• 

2.28.10The precise benefit accruing to the issuer company from the investment should be 

brought out. 

document 

2.28.11No  financial  estimates  or  projections  should  be  given  in  any  form  in  the  offer 

2.28.12If one the objects of the issue is to deploy funds as loan, complete details of the 
loan  agreements  shall  be  disclosed  citing  the  rate  of  interest,  secured  or 
unsecured, duration , collateral security, sub-ordination clauses.  If such loan is to 
be granted to a subsidiary, group or associate company, details the same shall be 
stated specifically.    

2.28.13Disclose the following with respect to working capital including where the funds 

are raised for long term working capital purposes.  
i.  Basis  of  estimation  of  working  capital  requirement  along  with  the  relevant 

assumptions. 

ii.  Reasons  for  Raising  Additional  Working  Ca pital:  The  lead  manager 
should  disclose  the  exact  reasons  for  raising  additional  working  capital  and 
substantiate the same with relevant facts and figures. 

iii.  Projected Working Capital Requirement:  Assessment for working capital 
figures  after  implementation  of the project or achievement of objects of the 
issue as the case may be should be given in detail. The details should include 
the capacity utilisation assumptions, expected current assets figures (broken 
up  into  each  component  raw  materials,  finished  goods,  work  in  progress, 
sundry debtors etc.) with holding norms assumptions, total current liabilities, 

Page 99 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

net  current  assets  and  envisaged  sources  of  finance  for  net  current  assets 
(bank/institutional finance, own funds etc.). 

iv.  The  lead  manager  should  verify  and  incorporate  in  tabular  form  the  total 
envisaged working capital requirement, the margin money thereof and portion 
to be financed by banks or otherwise.  

v.  Lead  manager  to  ensure  tie  up  of  borrowings/bank  finance/institutional 
finance  in  respect  of  working  capital  requirements.  Otherwise  the  same  be 
shown as an internal risk factor. 

vi.  The  lead  manager  should  ensure  that  the  investors  are  given  a  complete 
perspective on the present working capital position vis-à-vis the projected one 
based on which the money is proposed to be raised. 

vii.  Existing Working Capital Facilities:  The  lead  manager  should  ensure  the 
disclosure of the existing working capital available to the company. Audited 
figures should be given as of a latest date for total current assets (broken up 
into  each  applicable  component-  raw  materials,  finished  goods,  work  in 
progress,  sundry  debtors  etc.),  total  current  liabilities,  net  current  assets  and 
sources  of  finance  for  net  current  assets  (bank/institutional  finance,  own 
funds etc.).  

2.28.14 If  no  working  capital  is  shown  a  part  of  project  state  reasons  and  explain  the 

business as to how there is no need for working capital. 

2.28.15 Disclose  details  of  all  affiliate  and  related  party  transactions  in  respect  of 
utilisation  of  the  issue  proceeds.    State  clearly  whether  any  part  of  the  issue 
proceeds  is  to  be  paid  as  consideration  to  promoter,  directors,  key  management 
personnel,  associate  or  group  companies,  if  so  complete  details  should  be 
furnished  and  the  relevant  agreements  etc.  should  be  incorporated  as  material 
document.  

 
2.29  COMPANY, MANAGEMENT AND PROJECT 
2.29.1  Lead  Manager  shall  confirm  point  wise  compliance  of  Chapter  VI  of  the 

Guidelines 2000.   

2.29.2  In the case of a rights issue, ensure that the contents of letter of offer comply with 

the provisions contained in Section III of Chapter VI of the Guidelines 2000. 

 
2.29.3  History of the Company: 
2.29.3.1 Under  History  of  the  issuer  disclose  the  date  of  incorporation,  date  of 
commencement  of  business,  date  of  conversion  of  partnership  into  limited 
company/  private  limited  company  to  public  limited  company,  as  applicable, 
dates  on  which  names  have  been  changed,  if  applicable,  reasons  for  change  of 
name, changes in registered offices of the company and reasons therefor; dates 
on which the Memorandum of Association of the company have been amended 
citing the details of amendment.   

2.29.3.2 Trace the major events in the history of the company which should include 

the details of: 
•  Capacity/  facility  creation,  location  of  plant,  products,  marketing, 

competition etc.  

Page 100 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

•  Raising of capital in form of equity or debt,  
•  Time/  cost  overrun  in  setting  up  projects  including  the  proposed 

project,  

•  Defaults / reschedulement with financial institutions/ banks, conversion 
of  loans  into  equity  along  with  reasons  thereof,  lock  out,  strikes  and 
reasons for the same etc.  

Ensure  to  incorporate  relevant  risk  factors  about  negative  features  like  time  / 

cost overrun, defaults and lock out / strikes etc. 

•  Revaluation of assets, issue of shares to promoters and others for consideration 

other than cash. 

2.29.3.3  Disclose  the  changes  in  the  activities  of  the  issuer  which  may  have  had  a 
material  effect  on  the  profits/loss  during  the  last  5  years.    Disclosure  should 
include  discontinuance  of  lines  of  business,  loss  of  agencies  or  markets  and 
similar factors. 

2.29.3.4  Disclose  complete  details  of  the  subsidiaries  and  holding  company,  if 

applicable. 

2.29.3.5  Lead Manager is also advised to note and disclose the following in respect of 
HISTORY,PRESENT  BUSINESS  AND  MAIN  OBJECTS  OF  THE 
COMPANY : 

a.  The  paragraph  should  contain  corporate  profile  of  the  company  regarding  its 
history and same should be disclosed in the offer document. The description of 
the  activities,  services,  products,  market  of  each  segment  should  be  briefly 
stated.  The growth of the company should also be discussed.  The standing  of 
the  company  and/or  its  products,  its  management  may  also  be  discussed  along 
with  the  major  suppliers  and  customers  of  the  company.    The  environmental 
issues  if  any  should  be  highlighted.    Exports  and  profits  due  to  foreign 
operations may also find a place under this paragraph together with the country 
wise  analysis.  The  company's  performance,  standing  may  also  be  elaborated 
with  reference  to  the  prominent  competitors  with  reference  to  segment 
[geographical, type of customers, etc.] 
If the company is operating under any injunction or restraining order the same 
should be distinctly stated with possible implications.   The technology, market, 
managerial competence and capacity built-up would continue to form a part of 
this paragraph.   

b. 

c.  The past five years performance of the company should also be stated under this 
para.    Non-recurring  items  of  income  should  be  distinctly  brought  out.    The 
significant accounting policies and qualifications from the auditors report should 
also  be  reproduced.    The  notes  to  the  account  in  respect  of  the  last  audited 
financial  statement  may  also  be  incorporated.    The  additions  in  the  installed 
capacity should also be detailed.  Similarly, if restructuring has taken place the 
same should be spelt out.   

d.  The main objects of the company as set out in the Memorandum of Association 
of the company should be reproduced.  It should be ensured that the proposed 
activities for which the issue of capital is being made is covered under the object 
clause of the Memorandum of Association.   

Page 101 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

e. 

there  has  been  any  acquisition  of  business/undertakings,  mergers, 

If 
amalgamation, revaluation of assets etc. complete details should be disclosed. 

 
2.29.4  Promoters 

2.29.4.1  Disclose promoters and their background as per clause 6.7.3 of the Guidelines.   

In  case  the  present  promoters  have  acquired  the  controlling  interest,  state 
details  such  as  date  of  acquisition,    terms  of  acquisition,  consideration  and 
compliance with the provisions of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 as applicable. 

2.29.4.2  Career graph of the promoter i.e. names, ages, personal addresses, qualifications, 
experience  in  the  industry,  positions/posts  held  in  the  past,  Directorship  held, 
other ventures of each promoter, special achievements etc. be incorporated under 
this head.  This information shall be given in tabular form. 

2.29.4.3  If  there  is  no  identifiable  promoter,  state  so  specifically  giving  reasons.    In 
such  cases,  give  details  of  shareholders  who  control  10%  or  more  voting 
rights of the issuer,  or those persons who  have right to appoint directors on 
the Board of Directors of the issuer. 

2.29.4.4  If the promoters are bodies corporate, history of such bodies corporate and the 

promoters of the bodies corporate shall be disclosed.  

2.29.4.5  If  the  promoters  do  not  have  experience  in  the  proposed  line  of  business, 
specify the same and explain as how the proposed activities would be carried 
out/managed.   

2.29.4.6  If  the  Promoters/Directors  have  any  other  interest  in  the  Issuer  Company,  the 
same  should  be  brought  out  briefly  under  this  head  also  in  addition to details 
appearing elsewhere in the prospectus.  

2.29.4.7  Lead  manager  should  verify  and  ensure  that  the  list  of  ALL  VENTURES  OF 
THE  PROMOTERS  (sole  proprietorship,  Firm,  private  company,  limited 
company,  listed  company)  are  incorporated  in  a  tabular  form giving activities 
undertaken, in brief. If any of these entities had faced/is facing any litigations/ 
defaults/  Overdues  OR  labour  problems/  closure  etc.,  these  may  be  mentioned 
under this para.   

2.29.4.8  The  above  list  should  include  all  private/listed  companies  of  the  issuer 
irrespective  of  whether  they  are  under  the  same  management  as  per  Section 
370(1B) of the Companies Act.   

2.29.4.9  Lead manager shall ensure that past 3 years key audited financial highlights of 
all  major  ventures  are  incorporated  along  with  important/significant  notes  of 
auditor. 

2.29.4.10 

2.29.4.11 

If  any  of  the  other  ventures  have  business  interests  in  the  company  then 
quantify the amount of commercial business that the said company has/proposes 
to  have  with  the  company.  If  no  business  is  being  done/will  be  done  through 
these companies, a distinct negative statement may be incorporated to this effect. 
In this regard Clause 6.9.5of the SEBI (DIP) guidelines may be referred.  

Lead  manager  shall  also  note  to  disclose  the  following  regarding 

Promoters and group companies; 
a.  A complete profile of the promoters, their business and financial activities is 
required  to  be  furnished  under  this  paragraph.  Accordingly,  the  complete 

Page 102 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

details of the promoters including their age, educational qualifications, their 
total experience in the business and in the proposed line of business should 
be furnished.  In case, the promoters are body corporate, complete details of 
the history of the body corporate as also the promoters of the body corporate 
should be detailed.  If the original promoters were different from the existing 
management  who  is  holding  the  controlling  interest  the  fact  of  change  of 
management  should  be  mentioned  together  with  the  applicability  and 
compliance  of  Clause  40A/40B  of  the  listing  agreement/SEBI  Take  over 
code. 

b.  All  the pending litigations/disputes (in which the promoters are involved)  
overdues/defaults  to  the  financial  institutions/banks  and  instances  of  non-
payment  of  statutory  dues  by  the  promoters  and  the  companies/  firms 
promoted  by  the  promoters  should  be  listed  out  in  the  offer  document 
together with the amounts involved and the present status.  It should be noted 
that such listing is necessary irrespective of the fact whether these disputes, 
litigations have a bearing on the financial performance of the issuer company 
or not.  However, the likely adverse effect of these disputes and litigations on 
the  financial  performance  of  the  company  should  be  mentioned  wherever 
applicable.   
In this context it may be noted that the cases of pending  litigations, disputes, 
defaults, etc. in respect of companies to which the promoters were associated 
in the past but are no longer associated should also be disclosed in the event 
of their name being continued to be associated with the particular litigations.   
The  above  information  is  required  to  be  furnished  in  addition  to  the 
litigations  against  the  company  or  against  any  other  company  whose 
outcome  could  have  a  materially  adverse  effect  of  the  position  of  the 
company.    Further  all  the  litigations  against  the  promoter  or  directors 
involving  violation  of  statutory  regulations  or  a  criminal  offence  shall  be 
continue to be furnished in the offer document.   
The  pending  proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offences  against  the 
directors,  the  promoters,  companies  and  firms  promoted  by  the promoters 
should  be  disclosed  separately  indicating  the  status.    The  lead  manager 
should note to furnish the details of the past cases in this regard in which the 
penalties were imposed by the prescribed authorities. 
The  outstanding  litigations,  disputes  pertaining  to  matters  likely  to  effect 
operations  and  finances  of  the  company  including  disputed  tax  liabilities, 
prosecution  under  any  enactment  in  respect  of  Schedule  XIII  of  the 
Companies  Act,  1956  would  also  continue  to  be  furnished  in  the  offer 
document in the prescribed format.   

 
2.29.5  INTEREST OF PROMOTERS/ DIRECTORS 
 

The lead manager may confirm that the interest of promoters and payment or benefit 
to promoters or officers of the company as well as the directors in the company has 
been disclosed under this section along with the relevant details. 

  
2.29.6  Board of Directors and Key Management Personnel 

Page 103 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.29.6.1  Ensure disclosures as per clause 6.7.4 of the Guidelines.  
2.29.6.2  Details of the Board of Directors of the company, age, qualifications, 

experience, other directorships, nominee capacity of each of the directors shall 
be given.  Changes in the Board of directors during the last three years before 
filing of offer document with ROC/stock exchange shall be disclosed with 
reasons for changes.  

2.29.6.3  Lead Manager should essentially verify and ensure that the persons whose name 

appears as key management personnel are in the rolls of the company as a 
permanent employee. Lead Manager should incorporate the above in form of an 
affirmative statement in the offer document. 

2.29.6.4  Disclose the qualifications, aggregate number of years of experience of each 

key managerial personnel in the company and also in the industry the company 
is operating in. 

2.29.6.5  Lead Manager should ensure that the employees of the Group Company/ 
Subsidiary/ Holding Company should not be included in key managerial 
personnel. 

2.29.6.6  Changes in the key management personnel during the last 3 years should be 

given.  If the employee turnover is high compared to the industry, reasons 
should be discussed. 

2.29.6.7  The following information shall be disclosed with respect to the company's 

directors and key managerial personnel: 

i)  Name, business experience, functions and areas of experience in the company. 
ii)  The nature of any family relationship between any of the persons named under 

this head. 

iii)  Any  arrangement  or  understanding  with  major  shareholders,  customers, 
suppliers or others, pursuant to which any person referred to in this head, was 
selected as a director or member of senior management. 

iv)  During  the  last  FY,  the  amount  of  compensation  paid,  and  benefits  in  kind 
granted, to persons mentioned under this head, by the company for services in 
all capacities to the company. Disclosure of compensation should be given on 
an individual basis. The disclosure should also covers contingent or deferred 
compensation  accrued  for  the  year,  even  if  the  compensation  is  payable  at  a 
later date.  

v)  If  any  portion  of  the  compensation  was  paid  pursuant  to  a  bonus  or  profit-
sharing plan, provide a brief description of the plan and the basis upon which 
such persons participate in the plan. 

vi)  With  respect  to  the  persons  listed  under  this  head,  disclose  as  to  their  share 

ownership in the company  

vii)  The  following  information  shall  be  disclosed  with  respect  to,  the  company's 

directors. 
(cid:216)  Date of expiration of the current term of office. 
(cid:216)  Details  of  directors'  service  contracts  with  the  company  providing  for 
benefits  upon  termination  of  employment,  or  an  appropriate  negative 
statement. 

Page 104 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

viii)  Details  relating 

the  company's  audit  committee  and  remuneration 
committee, including  the names of committee members and a summary of the 
terms of reference under which the committee operates. 

to 

 
2.29.7  Project 

2.29.7.1  Give complete details of location of the project, Plant, machinery, technology, 
process,  infrastructure  facilities,  Schedule  of  implementation  of  the  project 
and  progress  made  so  far  citing  each  activity  as  per  clauses  6.7.7,  6.7.9  and 
6.7.10 of the Guidelines. 

2.29.7.2  Promoters/ Directors/ group concerns interest in any transaction in acquisition of 
land,  construction  of  building  and  supply  of  machinery  should  be  indicated 
specifically with full details of the transaction and the amount involved. 

2.29.7.3  The lead manager may confirm whether any architect / contractor is assigned for 
the expansion of Offshore Development Centre, the details of the fees payable to 
the architect / contractor shall be disclosed. 

2.29.7.4  The  lead  manager  may  explicitly  indicate  whether  the  company  has  applied  / 
received  all  the  Government  Approvals  pertaining  to  the  construction.    If  no 
such approvals are required to be taken over by the company, this fact may be 
indicated  by  way  of  an  affirmative  statement  in  the  offer  document  and  if  the 
company  is  yet  to  receive  any  of  the  necessary  approvals,  this  fact  shall  be 
highlighted as a risk factor. 

 
2.29.8  LAND 

2.29.8.1  The  lead  manager  may  confirm  that  the  names  of  the  entities  from  whom  the 
land  referred  to  under  this  head  has  been  acquired/  proposed  to  be  acquired 
along  with  the  cost  of  acquisition  have  been  disclosed  under  this  section.  
Further the lead manager may confirm that the entities from whom the company 
has acquired the land/ proposes to acquire the land are not related to any of the 
promoters/  directors  of  the  company.  If  the  entities  are  related  then  the  lead 
manager  may  confirm  that  this  fact  along  with  the  relevant  details  has  been 
indicated by way of a risk factor also.  

2.29.8.2  The lead manager may confirm by way of an affirmative statement in the offer 
document that the land acquired by the company is free from all encumbrances 
and has a clear title. 

2.29.8.3  The lead manager may confirm whether the land referred to under this head is 
registered in the name of the company. If no, then the lead manager may confirm 
that this fact has been indicated by way of a risk factor also. 

2.29.8.4  The  lead  manager  may  explicitly  indicate  under  this  head  as  to  whether  the 
company has applied/ received all the Government Approvals pertaining to land.  
If no such approvals are required to be taken by the company, then this fact may 
be indicated by way of an affirmative statement in the offer document. 

2.29.8.5  The  lead  manager  may confirm that the figures appearing under this section are 

consistent with the figures appearing under the section "Cost of the Project". 

 
2.29.9  MANPOWER 

Page 105 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

The  steps  taken  by  the  company  towards  the  recruitment  of  personnel  may  be 
specifically disclosed in the offer document.   

 
2.29.10 SCHEDULE OF IMPLEMENTATION  
2.29.10.1 The lead manager may confirm whether the schedule of project implementation 
has progressed as indicated under this head.  If no, then the table may be modified 
as per the actual progress and the fact that there has already been a delay in the 
schedule  of  the  implementation  of  the  project  that  the  company  proposes  to 
undertake may be indicated by way of a risk factor. 

2.29.10.2  Further, a certificate from a Chartered Accountant indicating the funds deployed 
and their respective sources as of a current date may be submitted to SEBI, the 
contents of which may also be incorporated in the offer document.  Detailed cash 
flow  statement  of  the  fund  deployed  and  the  sources  of  funds  as  of  the  current 
date shall be disclosed in the offer document. 

 
2.29.11 MARKETING STRATEGY 
 

The  lead  manager  may  confirm  that  the  company  has  entered  into  a  legally 
enforceable agreement to use the brand name before the offer document is filed with 
the ROC/stock exchange. In case the brand name is not registered in the name of the 
company, the name in which it is registered should be disclosed.  In case the brand 
name  is  registered  in  the  name  of  firm/company  in  which  the  promoters  are 
interested  the  same  shall  be  disclosed  together  with  the  salient  features  of  the 
agreement entered into for the use of brand by the company.  If the issuer is entitled 
to  certain  trade  marks,  IPRs,  brand  names  etc.  state  whether  the  same  are  legally 
held by the company and whether all formalities in this regard have been complied 
with.  

 
2.29.12 MARKET 
 

The lead manager may confirm that only relevant and updated information/statistics 
have been disclosed under this head.  Further, the lead manager may confirm that the 
basis  of  all  the  statements/claims  made  under  this  head  has  been  indicated  in  the 
offer document.   The lead manager may also confirm that the source of information/ 
statistics disclosed under this head has been explicitly indicated. 

 
2.29.13Collaboration etc. 
2.29.13.1  Disclose  details  of  collaboration,  performance  guarantee  or  assistance  in 
marketing by collaborators.  Give complete details regarding persons/entities 
with  who  technical  and  financial  agreements  have  been  entered  into  as  per 
clause 6.7.8.1 of the guidelines. 

2.29.13.2  Ensure disclosure regarding capacity, products, marketing, competition etc. as 

per clauses 6.7.12.1 and 6.7.11 of the Guidelines.  

 
2.30  STOCK MARKET DATA (if applicable) 
2.30.1  The lead manager may note to incorporate the stock market data of the company in 
the format prescribed by clause 6.7.13 of SEBI (DIP) guidelines, 2000 along with a 
statement indicating as to whether the shares of the company are actively traded on 

Page 106 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

the stock exchanges where the same are listed. If the shares are not actively traded, 
then the lead manager may confirm that this fact has also been indicated by way of a 
suitable risk factor.  

2.30.2  The lead manager may confirm that the para on Stock market data for last 3 years 
and last 6 months has been incorporated along with the data on TOTAL VOLUME 
TRADED on the days on which high and low prices were recorded during the last 6 
months.   

2.30.3  The  lead  manager  may  confirm  that  in  case,  the  promoters,  relatives  and  directors 
have directly or indirectly undertaken transactions in the securities of the company 
during  the  last  6  months,  from  date  of  filing  of  offer  document  with  ROC/stock 
exchange  then  such  details  have  been  incorporated  under  this  head.  These  should 
also appear as a note under risk factor. If no, then the lead manager may confirm that 
a  distinct  negative  statement  to  that  effect  has  been  incorporated.  Further,  the  lead 
manager is advised to submit a certificate (before the offer document is filed with 
the ROC/ stock exchange) to the effect that the promoters/directors, their relations 
and their associates have not either directly or indirectly financed any transaction in 
the  securities  of  the  company  during  the  preceding  six  months.    If  however,  they 
have done so, the lead manager may confirm that the details of all such transactions 
have been fully disclosed in the offer document and the same along with the relevant 
details has also been disclosed by way of a note after risk factor.  

 
2.31  Management Discussion on Financials  

Ensure disclosure as per clause 6.8 of the Guidelines and confirm compliance in-
seriatim. 

 
2.32  Financial of Group Companies 

Ensure  disclosure  of  financials  for  all  the  companies,  firms,  ventures  etc. 
promoted by the promoters of the issuer irrespective of whether these are covered 
under  Sec.  370(1)(B)  of  the  Companies Act, 1956, for the last 3 years based on 
the audited statements,  as per clause 6.9 of the Guidelines. 

 

 
2.33  PARTICULARS  PERTAINING  TO  THE  ISSUE  OF  CAPITAL  BY  THE 
COMPANY AND OTHER LISTED COMPANIES WITHIN THE MEANING 
OF  SECTION  370  (1B)  WHICH  MADE  ANY  CAPITAL  ISSUES  IN  THE 
LAST 3 YEARS ( if applicable ) 
The lead manager may confirm that all the relevant details as prescribed by extant 
SEBI guidelines have been disclosed under this section. 

 
2.34  GROUP  COMPANIES  –  For  which  application  to  ROC  have  been  made  for 
striking  off  their  names,  specific  reasons  for  their  being  remaining  defunct  be 
incorporated. Also, all pending litigation, defaults, etc in respect of these companies 
be clearly incorporated and in case of nil status a negative statement in this regard be 
given under this head. 

 

2.35  PROMISE VS PERFORMANCE 

Page 107 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.35.1  Ensure to disclose in details as per clauses 6.11.1 and 6.11.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.35.2  Listed Ventures of Promoters 

•  A  separate  para  on  issues  of  group/associate  companies  entitled  "Promise  Vs 
Performance - ALL earlier Issues of group/associate companies" may be given. 
Disclose Cost and progress of implementation in comparison to what was stated 
in  the  respective  prospectus.  Indicate  whether  all  the  objects  mentioned  in  the 
respective offer  Documents  were  met  and  whether  all  projections  made  in  the 
offer documents were achieved. 
If  not,  non-achievement of objects/ projections shall be brought out distinctly 
(shortfall/delay  to  be  quantified).  Details  of  investor  complaints  received, 
resolved  and  pending  as  on  date  may  be  incorporated  in  respect  of  the  above 
capital issues.  Any shortfall should be brought out as 'Risk Factors'.                                 

• 

 
2.36  Particulars of issue of capital: 

Disclose details as required under clause 6.10 of the guidelines regarding issue of 
capital  during  the  last  three  years  by  the  issuer  of  companies  under  the  same 
management. 
 

2.37  Basis for Issue price 
2.37.1  Ensure that basis for the price at which the securities are offered, is disclosed in 

the offer document as provided in clause 6.13 of the Guidelines.   

2.37.2  Lead Manager shall not proceed with the issue in case the accounting ratios do not 

justify the issue price. 

2.37.3  Ensure 

that 

the  observations  given  elsewhere  herein 

risk 
factors/highlights  are  incorporated  in  the  relevant  portions  while  discussing  
qualitative factors  for issue price 

regarding 

 
2.38   OUTSTANDING LITIGATION’S OR DEFAULTS  
2.38.1  Defaults of all litigation should include amount, date instituted, principal parties, 
charges/  allegations,  courts  before  which  the  Litigation  are  pending,  present 
status, implications on the issuer, provisions made in the financial statements shall 
be disclosed. 

2.38.2  Lead Manager to classify the litigation in various heads in the following order  

1.  Criminal 
2.  Securities 
3.  Statutory 
4.  Civil 
5.  Others (please specify)  

compliance. 

2.38.3  Ensure  point  wise  disclosure  of  clause  6.14  of  the  Guidelines  and  confirm 

2.38.4  The  para  on  litigation  should  be  updated  and  unconditional  so  as  to  include 
matters which are not likely to affect the operations and finances of the company. 
2.38.5  Ensure  to  incorporate  under  this  para,  the  information  regarding  pending 
litigation, disputes, defaults, non payment of statutory dues, proceedings initiated 
for offences (including the past cases and  irrespective of whether "specified in 

Page 108 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

paragraph (i) of part 1 of Schedule XIII of the Act") against the promoters and 
their other business ventures. In case there are no such cases a distinct negative 
statement is required to be made in this regard under this head. 

2.38.6  If any of the Directors have any litigation towards tax liabilities, or any criminal/ 
civil  prosecution  against  them  for  any  offences  (irrespective  of  whether 
"specified  in  paragraph  (i)  of  part  1  of  Schedule  XIII  of  the  Act") etc., the 
same should also be mentioned under this head separately.  In case there are no 
such cases a distinct negative statement is required to be made to this effect 
covering all Directors.  

2.38.7  LEAD  MANAGER  SHOULD  ENSURE  THAT  ALL  LITIGATIONS 

/ 
DEFAULTS 
ISSUER  COMPANY, 
PROMOTERS,  DIRECTORS,  ALL  OTHER  VENTURES  OF  PROMOTERS 
including ventures with which the promoters formerly associated during the last 5 
years ARE BROUGHT OUT UNDER THIS PARA.  

/  SUITS  ETC.  PERTAINING  TO 

2.38.8  All outstanding litigation should be reflected by way of separate risk factors.  
2.38.9  Ensure  to  incorporate  appropriately  in  the  offer  document  (and  as  risk  factors) 
information  regarding  pending  litigations,  disputes,  defaults,  non  payment  of 
statutory  dues,  proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offences/Civil  offences 
(including the past cases) against the Company/Promoters and their other business 
ventures (irrespective of the fact whether they fall under the purview of Sec 370 
(1B) of the Company's Act, 1956) / Directors.  If any of the above mentioned 
litigations etc. arise after the issue of SEBI's observation letter; the facts shall 
be incorporated appropriately in the offer document (and as risk factors). IN 
CASE  THERE  ARE  NO  SUCH  CASES  A  DISTINCT  NEGATIVE 
STATEMENT  IS  REQUIRED  TO  BE  MADE  IN  THIS  REGARD  IN  THE 
OFFER DOCUMENT APPROPRIATELY. 

 
2.39 

Investor Grievance Redressal System 
Ensure disclosure as per clause 6.16 of the Guidelines.   

 
2.40  PART II of offer document applicable for public issues including IPOs 

Ensure disclosure as per clauses 6.17, 6.18 and 6.19 of the Guidelines. 

 
2.41 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
2.41.1  Brief terms and conditions of the term loans including re-schedulement, prepayment, 
penalty,  default,  etc.  be  incorporated  along  with  suitable  risk  factor(s)  for  the 
negative developments. 

2.41.2  All the notes to the accounts, significant accounting policies as well as the auditors’ 
qualifications  to  be  incorporated.  An  affirmative  statement  certifying  such 
incorporation to be given by the lead manager in the offer document. 

2.41.3  Break-up  of  total  outstanding  unsecured  loans  taken  by  the  company  should  be 
given  in  the  offer  document  into  the  amount  borrowed  from  promoters/group 
companies/associate  companies  and  amount  borrowed  from  others.  Further,  in 
respect  of  each  such  loan  of  the  former  category,  terms  and  conditions  should  be 

Page 109 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

disclosed  including  the  interest  rates and repayment schedule. If the loans can be 
recalled by the lenders at any time, the fact to be stated. 

2.41.4  Age-wise  analysis  of  sundry  debtors  to  be  given.  It  is  to  be  disclosed  in  the  Offer 
Document whether any of the Sundry Debtors is related to the directors or promoters 
or the issuer company in any way. Similar disclosures to be made in case of loans 
and advances.  

2.41.5  The Lead Manager should ensure that the Audited accounts contained in the 
Offer  Document  is  updated  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  Audited  statements 
appearing ARE NOT MORE THAN 6 MONTHS OLD with reference to the 
date of opening of the issue/ bidding.  In case the issuer is a govt. company the 
auditors report shall not be more than 6 months old as on the date of filing the 
offer  document  with  the  ROC/stock exchange. Audited accounts of the issuer 
company and its subsidiaries prepared as per AS-21 issued by ICAI have to be 
given both on consolidated basis and stand-alone basis. 

2.41.6  Aggregate  book  value  of  quoted  investments  as  well  as  aggregate  market  value of 
quoted  investments  to  be  disclosed.  The  non  provision  for  decline  in  the  value  of 
such investments, if any, should be disclosed as a risk factor. 

2.41.7  Regarding non-adjustments brought out by the auditors, necessary adjustments to be 
made. However, if the impact of non-provisions is not considered ascertainable, then 
the auditors should state so and the statement to this effect should appear in the offer 
document. 

2.41.8  Confirm  that  there  are  no  other  material  notes  to  the  auditors  report  which  has 
bearing  on  the  financial  status  of  the  company.  If  the  financial  information, 
wherever required to be certified/verified by chartered accountant, is not done by the 
statutory auditor of the issuer company, the same shall be disclosed giving reasons. 

2.41.9  The Lead Manager should incorporate, where applicable,  last audited accounts and 
working results in terms of MOF, GOI Circular No. F2/SE/76 dated February 5, 
1977 as amended vide the circular of even no. dated March 8, 1977. It may be noted 
that the management discussion should cover post -audit period also. 

2.41.10The details regarding the beneficiaries of the loans and advances and sundry debtors 
of the company may be disclosed in the offer document.  Further, the lead manager 
may confirm by way of an affirmative statement in the offer document that the said 
beneficiaries are not in anyway related to the promoters/directors of the company. If 
yes, this fact may be disclosed by way of a risk factor also. 

2.41.11 The  lead  manger  may  confirm  that  the  relevant  details  of  all  the  contingent 

liabilities have been disclosed by way of a note under this section. 

2.41.12 The document should contain past financial performance in the prescribed format 
[sales  and  other  income,  PBIDT,  depreciation,  interest,  PBT,  tax,  PAT,  share 
capital,  reserves  and  surplus,  cash  EPS,  EPS,  dividend,  book  value  and  the 
capacity  utilisation].    The  significant  accounting  policies  and  the  qualifications 
from  the  auditors  report  should  also  be  disclosed.    In  case  other  income 
constitutes  more  than  10%  of  the  total  income,  the  break  up of the same along 
with the nature of the income i.e. recurring or non-recurring should be stated.  In 
addition  to  the  above  compilation  of  the  financial  information,  a  summary  of 
earnings for the last five years and for the most current accounting period should 
be  prepared  and  any  negative  or  flat  trends  should  be  investigated.    A  similar 

Page 110 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

analysis  should  be  attempted  in  respect  of  sales  also.    While  analysing  the 
earnings  and  sales,  the  income  and  sales  on  account  of  major  product/  main 
activities and the unusual activities should be  examined separately and the trends 
be brought out distinctly.  

2.41.13If a material part of the income is dependant upon a single customer or a few major 
customers  the  fact  should  be  brought  out  in  the  offer  document.    Similarly  if any 
foreign  customer  constitutes  a  significant  portion  of  the  company's  business  the 
same  should  be  disclosed  together  with  its  impact  on  the  business  on  account  of 
exchange  rate  fluctuations.    In  case  the  company  has  followed  any  unorthodox 
procedure for recording sales and revenues the same should be analysed in the offer 
document.  The nature of miscellaneous income and miscellaneous expenditure for 
the interim period and the preceding years should also be investigated.  In brief a 
summary of major items of income and expenditure for the last three years and most 
recent entering period should be prepared and discussed in the offer document.  The 
unusual  trends  may  also  be  discussed.    The  unusual  trends  on  account  of  business 
activity,  unusual  items  of  income, change of accounting policies and discretionary 
reduction of expenses should be highlighted for the benefit of investors.   

2.41.14In the event of capital structure undergoing a change on account of capitalisation of 
reserves, its impact on the key financial ratios should be distinctly brought out in the 
offer  document.    Similarly  while  discussing  the  key  financial  ratios,  the  fact  of 
outstanding instruments which may affect the financial ratios adequately should also 
be informed.  Further, the paragraph on  justification of premium should also bring 
out the fact of dilution of financial ratios consequent upon issue of bonus shares and 
the premium should be justified after taking into account the discounted ratios with 
reference to expanded capital. 

2.41.15Ensure disclosure of statutory and other information as per clause 6.18 and 6.19 

of the Guidelines. 

2.41.16Ensure that the accounting ratios are given as per clause 6.18.7 (f) for each of the 

accounting periods for which financial information is given.   

2.41.17Capitalisation statement as required under clause 6.18.7 (g) shall be disclosed. 
2.41.18Ensure that all the financial and other information required in terms of clause 6.18 

of the Guidelines is duly covered by the auditors report. 

2.41.19Related Party Transactions.  

i) 

For  the  period  since  last  3  FY  disclose  the  information  with  respect  to 
transactions or loans between the company and  

(a) enterprises  that  directly  or  indirectly  through  one  or  more  intermediaries, 
control  or  are  controlled  by,  or  are  under  common  control  with,  the 
company;  
(b) associates;  
(c) individuals owning, directly or indirectly, an interest in the voting power of 
the  company  that  gives  them  significant  influence  over  the  company,  and 
close members of any such individual’s family;  

(d) key  management  personnel,  that  is,  those  persons  having  authority  and 
responsibility  for  planning,  directing  and  controlling  the  activities  of  the 
company,  including  directors  and  senior  management  of  companies  and 
close members of such individuals’ families;  

Page 111 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

(e) enterprises  in  which  a  substantial  interest  in  the  voting  power  is  owned, 
directly  or  indirectly,  by  any  person  described  in  (c)  or  (d)  or  over  which 
such  a  person  is  able  to  exercise  significant  influence.  This  includes 
enterprises owned by directors or major shareholders of the company. 

ii)  The  nature and extent of any transactions or presently proposed transactions 
which are material to the company or the related party, or any transactions that 
are unusual in their nature or conditions, involving goods, services, or tangible 
or intangible assets, to which the company or any of its parent was a party shall 
be disclosed. 

iii)  The amount of outstanding loans (including guarantees of any kind) made by 
the  company  or  any  of  its  parents  to  or  for  the  benefit  of  any  of  the  persons 
listed  as  directors  or  key  managerial  personnel  shall  be  disclosed.  The 
information given should include the amount outstanding as of the latest date, 
the  nature  of  the  loan  and  the  transaction  in  which  it  was  incurred,  and  the 
interest rate on the loan. 

INVESTOR GRIEVANCES 

 
2.42 
2.42.1  The  lead  manager  may  verify  and  confirm  that  all  the  complaints  received 
subsequent  to  making  document  public  have  been  dealt  with  suitably.    If  no 
complaint  has  been  received,  a  distinct  undertaking  to  the  effect  should  be 
submitted confirming that no amendment to the draft letter of offer is proposed.   
2.42.2  If  there  are  pending  Investor  Grievances  then  the  lead  manager  may  ensure  to 
make  adequate  disclosures  in  this  regard  in  the  offer  document  before  filing  the 
letter of offer with the stock exchange.  In case the  percentage of such pending 
Investor Grievances shall be indicated by way of a risk factor. 
 

2.43  ADVERTISEMENT FOR RIGHTS ISSUE 

  Ensure compliance of clause 5.11 of the Guidelines 2000. 

ISSUE ADVERTISEMENTS 

 
2.44 
2.44.1  As  regards  issue  advertisements,  as  lead  manager,  you  shall  take  an  undertaking 
from the issuer company that no publicity material or advertisement will be released 
without the consent of the lead manager and you shall ensure that the advertisement 
does  not  violate  extant  guidelines  on  the  subject, particularly chapter IX of SEBI 
(DIP) guidelines, 2000.  Further, no slogans or catchword shall be used if the same 
was not part of the document vetted by SEBI.   

2.44.2  In this connection, care should be taken to ensure that RISK FACTORS appear in all 
places along with the HIGHLIGHTS.  Further all Issue advertisements will mention 
risk factors invariably even when the HIGHLIGHTS are not mentioned.  

 
 2.45  RELEASE OF ISSUE FUNDS 
2.44.3  Lead Manager shall ensure that the issue proceeds is kept in a separate bank account 
with the bankers to the issue and the issuer company shall have access to the funds 
only after the dealing approval is received from all the Stock Exchanges mentioned 
in the offer document.  Undertaking and disclosure to this effect shall be made in the 
offer document.   

Page 112 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
2.46  RESTRICTION ON FURTHER CAPITAL ISSUES 
2.46.1  Lead manager shall ensure that the issuer shall not make any further issue of capital 
whether  by  way  of  issue  of  bonus  shares,  preferential  allotment,  rights  issue  or 
public  issue  or  in  any  other  manner,  during  the  period  commencing  from  the 
submission  of  offer  document  to  SEBI  for  public  or  rights  issue  till  the  securities 
referred in the offer document have been listed or application moneys refunded on 
account of failure of issue.  The same shall be disclosed by way of an undertaking by 
the issuer in the offer document as a note to Capital Structure.   

2.46.2  Additionally,  the  offer  document  shall  contain  a  specific  disclosure,  as  a  note  to 
capital  structure,  as  to  the  proposal,  intention,  negotiations,  consideration  of  the 
company  to  alter  the  capital  structure  by  way  of  split  /consolidation  of  the 
denomination  of  the  shares,  or  issue  of  shares  on  a  preferential  basis  or  issue  of 
bonus  or  rights  or  further  public  issue  of  shares  or  any  other  securities,  within  a 
period of 6 months from the date of opening the present issue. 

  
2.47  Memorandum in Form 2A (Abridged Prospectus) and Application 
2.47.1  Ensure that the abridged prospectus contains the disclosures as per Section II of 

Chapter 6 of the Guidelines 2000.  

2.47.2  Each application shall be accompanied by an abridged prospectus. 
2.47.3  2.47.3Memorandum  2A  shall  be  printed  AT  LEAST  in  point  7  size  with  proper 
spacing.  You  shall  ensure  that  the  application  form  contains  sufficient  space  for 
writing the name and address of the applicant as also other important details such as 
the  name  of  the  Bank  branch,  specimen  signature  etc.,.  The  para  on  Risk  Factors 
should appear verbatim, as a box item, in Form 2A. 

2.47.4  Ensure  that  ALL  MATERIAL  DISCLOSURES  made  in  FORM  2A,  particularly 
THOSE  DETAILS  ARISING  OUT  OF  THE  OBSERVATIONS  MADE  BY  US 
ON THE DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT. 

2.47.5  The Notes to risk factors shall also be contained in the abridged prospectus after 

the risk factors. 

2.47.6  The  General  Instructions  shall  also  state  that  ‘applicants  are  advised to read the 
Prospectus and the general instructions contained this Memorandum carefully and 
to  satisfy  themselves  of  the  disclosures  before  making  an  application  for 
subscription.    For  a  copy  of  the  prospectus  the  applicant  may  request  the  issuer 
company and/or lead manager/brokers to the issue.  Further, investors are advised 
to  retain  the  copy  of  the  prospectus/Form  2A  (abridged  prospectus)  for  their 
future reference’. 

2.47.7  The General instructions shall also specifically state that a ceiling of Rs. 50000 
per individual per stock invest has been imposed by banks and that the ceiling is 
not applicable to mutual funds. 

2.47.8  Ensure  disclosure  of  provisions  of  clause  7.6.12  of  the  Guidelines  regarding 
reservation for small individual applicants in the case of public  issues (other than 
book built issues). 

2.47.9  Ensure  disclosure  of  the  provisions  of  clause  8.5  of  the  Guidelines  where  the 

issue comprises any reservations/firm allotments.  

Page 113 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.47.10 Ensure disclosure of Safety net arrangements as per clause 8.18 of the Guidelines 

and as per observations given herein. 

2.47.11 State the correct procedure for application by HUF and clarify HUF applications 

would be treated as applications by individuals. 

 
2.48  BANK ACCOUNT DETAILS IN APPLICATION FORM 

Please note that provision of Bank account details in the space provided for in the 
application  form  has  now  been  made  mandatory  and  applications  not  containing 
such  details  are  liable  to  be  rejected.  Suitable  instruction  in  the  offer  document/ 
application form bringing out this clearly should be incorporated. 

 
2.49   QUOTING OF PAN/GIR NO. IN THE APPLICATION FORMS  
2.49.1  Where  an  application  is  for  allotment  of  securities,  in  response  to  (i)a  public  issue 
through a prospectus or an offer for sale or (ii) a rights issue, for a total value of Rs. 
50,000/-  or  more,  i.e.  the  total  number  of  securities  applied  for  multiplied  by  the 
issue price, is Rs.50,000/- or more the applicant or in the case of applications in joint 
names,  each  of  the  applicants,  should  mention  his/her  permanent  account  number 
allotted  under  the  Income-Tax Act, 1961 or where the same has not been allotted, 
the GIR number and the Income-Tax Circle/Ward/District.  In case where neither the 
permanent account number nor the GIR number has been allotted, the fact of non-
allotment should be mentioned in the application forms.  Application forms without 
this information will be considered incomplete and will be liable to be rejected.    

2.49.2 Similar disclosures should also be incorporated in the prospectus under the column 

"Procedure for Application". 

 
2.50      DISCLAIMER CLAUSE  

 
2.51      STOCKINVEST SCHEME 

Disclaimer  clause  as  given  at  item  3  of  this  letter  should  appear  in  the  Offer 
Document and the Memorandum in Form 2A. 

The  modified  features  of  the  scheme  as  per  RBI  Circular  dated  2/9/94  should  be 
incorporated  in  all  relevant  places  in  the  Offer  Document  and  Memorandum  2A 
(abridged prospectus). Particularly the fact that only individual investors and mutual 
funds can apply through stockinvest shall be distinctly indicated. 
Further, the fact that the stockinvest should be used within 10 days from the date of 
issue should also be mentioned. The applicant should also be reminded to indicate 
the application number on the reverse of the instrument through which the payment 
is made. The stockinvest is to be made payable in favour of the issuer company and 
not the bank. 

 
2.52      TELEGRAPHIC OFFICE ADDRESS 

Ensure  that  the  offer  document  and  Form  2A  and  issue  advertisements  contain 
telephone, fax, telegraphic address of the issuer company , lead managers, syndicate 
members and registrar to the issue after their names. 

 

Page 114 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.53  Material-documents 

 Applications made to stock exchanges for listing shall be available as material       
document. 

 
2.54     OTHER CONDITIONS 
2.54.1    In  fulfillment  of  the  obligations  to  ensure  true  and  adequate  disclosures  in  the 
offer document, the LM shall ensure that all material matters, informed or reports 
circulated  etc.  prior  to  the  issue  or  thereafter,  by  the  issuer  or  any  person  on  his 
behalf or attributed or attributable to the issuer having a material bearing in taking 
an  informed  decision  shall  also  be  adequately  covered  in  the  offer  document 
except to the extent specifically disallowed under the guidelines.  

2.54.2  In the clause relating to  ‘jurisdiction’ state that the draft offer document has been 
filed with SEBI for its observations and SEBI has given its observations and that 
the final offer document has been filed with the ROC as per the provisions of the 
companies Act/ (filed with Stock exchanges, in the case of rights issues). It should 
not be stated that the document has been submitted to SEBI for approval.  

2.54.3  Lead manager should confirm that there are no adverse findings in respect of the 
persons/entities  connected  with  the  issuer/promoter  as  regards  compliance  with 
the securities laws.  

2.54.4  Ensure  that  all  blank  spaces  are  filled  with  appropriate  data  before  filing  of  the 

offer document with the ROC/stock exchange /bid opening. 

2.54.5  Highlight the changes in the draft offer document. Enclose an UNDERTAKING 
that  besides  highlighted  changes  no  other  changes  have  been  made  in  the 
prospectus. 

2.54.6  Lead  Manager  shall  submit  an  exception  report  beside  in-seriatim  reply  as  a 
separate  annexure  wherein  the  points  that  are  not  in  compliance  with  our 
observations, exemption sought and the reasons therefor shall be given. The Lead 
Manager  may  note  that  they  shall  not  go  ahead  with  the  issue  without  prior 
written approval of SEBI in respect of the deviations/ exemptions.  

2.54.7  The  Lead  Manager  is  required  to  ensure  that  all  undertakings  as  per  the  extant 
guidelines are submitted to SEBI in original on company's letterhead before filing 
the offer document with the stock exchange/ROC.   If there are any deviations from 
the  observations,  the  lead  manager  shall  obtain  prior  written  approval  of  SEBI 
before  finalising  and  proceeding  to  file  the  offer  document  with  the  ROC/stock 
exchanges. 

2.54.8  Lead  Manager  is  advised  to  use  simple  English  for  easy  understanding  of  the 
contents of the offer document.  Lead manager to ensure that Adjectives like market 
leader,  leading  player  etc.  should  not  be  used  in  the  offer  document  until 
substantiated by the proper source of information. All the relevant data given in the 
Offer Document shall be duly supported by indicating the source.  

2.54.9  Wherever it is mentioned that the details are given elsewhere in the offer document, 
Lead  manager  is  advised  to  mention  the  relevant  page  numbers  and  the 
paragraphs. 

2.54.10 Status  report  of  investor  complaints  received  and  pending  for  redressal  over  more 

than one month, in respect of all listed companies be incorporated. 

Page 115 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.54.11All data with regard to shareholdings be updated and any changes in this regard be 

clearly incorporated in the offer document. 

2.54.12Lead manager shall  intimate SEBI as to how the process of due diligence has been 
exercised  by  him  in  view  of  the  nature  of  current  business  background  or  the 
company,  state  at  which  the  proposed  business  stands,  the  risk  factors,  promoters 
experience etc. before filing the document with ROC/stock exchanges. 

2.54.13The  offer  document  and  the  General  Instructions  in  Form  2A  should  specify  the 
instances  when  an  application  would  be  rejected  on  technical  grounds  (for.  E.g. 
absence of signature, age etc.)  Also specify in the offer document and in General 
Instructions in Form 2A, the manner in which applications by HUF should be made.   
A specific disclosure shall be made stating that all information shall be made 
available by the lead managers and the issuer to the public and investors at large and 
no  selective  or  additional  information  would  be  available  for  a  section  of  the 
investors  in  any  manner  whatsoever  including  at  road  shows,  presentations,  in 
research or sales reports, at bidding centres etc.  

2.54.13.1 

2.54.14 Lead  manager  to  submit  certificate  within  two  weeks  from  the  date  of  allotment, 
certificate to SEBI certifying that the stock invests on the basis of which allotment 
was finalised have been realised to the credit of the issue account with the banker to 
the issue. The lead manager shall, along with the certificate, furnish the name of the 
refund banker, if any, and the details of the refund account. 

2.54.15 Lead manager shall ensure that the moneys received pursuant to the issue (including 
stock invest realisations) and kept in a separate bank (i.e. bankers to an issue) as per 
the provisions of Sec. 73(3) of the Companies Act, 1956 is released by the said bank 
only  after  the  trading  permission  has  been  has  been  obtained  from  all  the  stock 
exchanges as mentioned in the offer document.   The lead manager to the issue shall 
ensure that the bankers to the issue are informed of this condition in advance and the 
agreement  between  the  bankers  to  the  issue  and  the  issuer  company  specifically 
contains this condition. 

2.54.16 Lead manager or the issuer or any other person marketing the issue shall not offer 
any  incentives  to  the  prospective  investors  by  way  of  commission,  insurance 
schemes, banking/Depository   facilities, credit card facilities, lucky draw, and prizes 
or  in  any  other  manner  whereby  consideration  or  inducement  in  cash  or  kind  is 
made. 

2.54.17 Lead manager may ensure that the term loan requirements of the company are firmly 

tied up before the prospectus is filed with ROC/ stock exchange. 

2.54.18 The  lead  manager  may  note  to  submit  a  certificate  from  a  Chartered  Accountant 
indicating the funds deployed and their respective sources as of a current date, the 
contents of which may also be incorporated in the offer document. 

2.54.19 The lead manager may note to ensure that the due diligence certificate is strictly in 
conformity with extant SEBI Guidelines.  Further, the lead manager may ensure that 
the  Annexure  to  the  due  diligence  certificate  is  complete as per the provisions of 
extant SEBI Guidelines. 

2.54.20 The  lead  manager  may  ensure  to  make  adequate  disclosures  regarding  pending 
Investor  Grievances  in  the  offer  document  before  the  prospectus  is  filed  with  the 
Stock Exchange. 

2.54.21 LM shall ensure to comply with clause 6.5.7 of the Guidelines. 

Page 116 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
2.55  CLAIMS MADE IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT  
2.55.1  We refer to various claims being made in the offer document. We presume that as 
lead manager you have taken necessary care to ensure that claims are factual.  In the 
event of any claim being disputed at a later date, as Lead Managers, you would be 
entirely responsible for the same. 

2.55.2  Ensure 

that  consents  are  obtained 

from  all  Collaborators/  Bankers/ 
Experts/Financiers/Marketing agents etc., (as applicable), who are associated with 
this project/Issue for mentioning their association with this project as indicated in the 
Document/highlight and shall also verify all related Documents. 

2.55.3  Ensure strict compliance of provisions of SEBI (DIP) guidelines, 2000 and various 

clarifications /Circulars issued from time to time. 

2.55.4  You  shall  be  responsible  for  ensuring  despatch  of  refund  orders  of  value  over 
Rs.1500/- and share/debenture certificates by Registered Post only. Adequate funds 
for the purpose will be made available to the Registrars. 

2.55.5  The  fact  that  an  applicant  in  the  public/reserved  category  can  make  an  application 
only  for  that  number  of  securities  only  which  is  offered  to  the  public/under 
reservations, should be brought out distinctly in the document.  

2.55.6  As regards applications in case of reservations to NRI's/OCB's, lead manager should 
ensure to incorporate the fact that payment for such allotments shall come through 
external source only and that the  payments through NR(O) a/c will not be permitted.  
2.55.7  Lead  Manager  to  note  that  in  case  of    oversubscription of the issue, provisions of 
Chapter 7 will be applicable, as amended vide RMB (Compendium) Series Circular 
No. 2 (1999-2000). 

2.55.8  The  promoters  contribution  and  subscriptions  from  all  firm  allottees  should  be 
received one day before the opening of the issue.  Auditors certificate to this effect 
should be duly submitted to SEBI. 

2.55.9  The Lead Manager should ensure to indicate in the offer document and in General 
Instructions in Form 2A that the persons (excepting shareholders and employees of 
the companies) to whom firm allotments have been made in the present issue should 
not make applications in the public offer category. 

2.55.10 The lead manager should ensure that the issue in respect of reserved categories such 

as NRIs etc. should be closed on the same date as to the Indian public. 

2.55.11 Attention of lead manager is hereby drawn to particular instructions regarding terms 
of  applications  by  Mutual  Funds,  format  of  Application  Form,  Underwriting 
arrangements, 
of Co-managers/Advisers permitted and Disclaimer clause which are covered under 
SEBI (DIP) guidelines, 2000. 

2.56  Corporate  Governance  –  A  separate  paragraph  shall  be  added  in  the  Offer 
Document stating the following. “The company has complied with SEBI guidelines 
in respect of Corporate Governance specially with respect to broad basing of Board, 
Constituting the Committees such as shareholding/ investor Grievance Committee, 
etc."  The  details  of  these  committees  shall  be  disclosing  under  the  head 
"Management".  If  the  committees  are  not  constituted  for  any  legal  reason  before 
listing,  the  stock  exchanges  may  require  that  the  application  monies  be  kept  in 
escrow account till compliance. 

Page 117 of 326 

Number                                                               

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

ANNEXURE II 

(Referred to in  paragraph 2.5 (a) of the Report) 
 

A-II.  Observations  which  cover  matters  that  should  be  incorporated  in  the  SEBI 
(DIP) Guidelines, 2000 

 

 
1.  If  locked-in  shares  are  partly  paid  up  shares,  the  lock-in  shall  start  from  the 
date of allotment in the proposed Public Issue and the last date of lock-in shall 
be reckoned as three years from the date on which shares are made fully paid-
up. 

 
2.  Provision  is  to  be  made  for  signature  in  application  form  in  all  languages 

prescribed in the 8th Schedule of the Constitution of India. 

 
3.  Offer document and Form A should contain the following disclosures: 

d.  The  application  form  shall  contain  space  for  indicating  number  of  shares 

subscribed for in demat and physical shares or both. 

e.  No  separate  applications  for  demat  and  physical  is  to  be  made.    If  such 
applications are made, the applications for physical shares will be treated 
as multiple applications and rejected accordingly. 

f.  In case of partial allotment, allotment will be done in demat option for the 
shares  sought  in  demat  and  balance,  if  any,  will  be  allotted  in  physical 
shares 

 

4.  Lead  manager  should  verify  and  ensure  that  the  list  of  all  ventures  of  the 
promoters (sole proprietorship, Firm, private company, limited company, listed 
company)  are  incorporated  in  a  tabular  form  giving  activities  undertaken,  in 
brief.  If  any  of  these  entities  had  faced/is  facing  any  litigations/defaults/ 
overdues or labour problems/closure etc., the same is to be disclosed also.   

 
5.  The  lead  manager  is  required  to  confirm  whether  the  schedule  of  project 
implementation has progressed as indicated under this head.  If no, then the table 
may be modified as per the actual progress and the fact that there has already 
been  a  delay  in  the  schedule  of  the  implementation  of  the  project  that  the 
company proposes to undertake may be indicated by way of a risk factor. 

 
6.  The  lead  manager  is  required  to  submit  a  certificate  from  a  Chartered 
Accountant indicating the funds deployed and their respective sources as of a 
current  date  and  the  contents  of  which  the  same  are  required  to  be 
incorporated in the offer document.  Detailed cash flow statement of the fund 
deployed and the sources of funds as of the current date shall be disclosed in 
the offer document. 

 

Page 118 of 326 

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

7.  The 

lead  manager  should  ensure 

relevant  and  updated 
information/statistics  have  been  disclosed  in  the  offer  document.    Further,  the 
basis and source of all the statements/claims made in the offer document are to 
be disclosed in the offer document. 

that  only 

 
8.  Information about total volume traded on the days on which  high and low prices 
were recorded during the last 6 months are to be included in the offer document.   

9.  All  litigations/defaults/suits  etc.  Pertaining  to  issuer  company,  promoters, 
directors,  all  other  ventures  of  promoters  including  ventures  with  which  the 
promoters  formerly  associated  during  the  last  5  years  are  brought  out  under 
the heading 'Outstanding Litigation’s or Defaults'.   

 
10. Relevant details of all the contingent liabilities are required to be disclosed by 

way of a note under the heading 'Financial Performance'. 

 
11. Disclosure is to be made in the offer document about the adverse findings, if 
any,  in  respect  of  the  persons/entities  connected  with  the  issuer/promoter  as 
regards compliance with the securities laws.  

 
12. All  blank  spaces  in  the  draft  offer  document  are  to  be  filled  up  with 

appropriate data before filing of the offer document with the ROC/SE. 

 
13. Lead Manager is advised to use simple English for easy understanding of the 
contents of the offer document.  Lead manager to ensure that Adjectives like 
market  leader,  leading  player  etc.  should  not  be  used  in  the  offer  document 
until  substantiated  by  the  proper  source  of  information.  All  the  relevant  data 
given in the Offer Document shall be duly supported by indicating the source 

 
14. Wherever  it  is  mentioned  that  the  details  are  given  elsewhere  in  the  offer 
document, Lead manager is advised to mention the relevant page numbers and 
the paragraphs. 

 
15. The lead manager may ensure to make adequate disclosures regarding pending 
Investor Grievances in the offer document before the prospectus is filed with 
the  Stock  Exchange.  In  addition  to  that  Status  report  of  investor  complaints 
received and pending for redressal over more than one month, in respect of all 
listed  companies  by  the  promoter  group  are  to  be  incorporated  in  the  offer 
document 

 
16. The offer document and the General Instructions in Form 2A should specify 
the instances when an application would be rejected on technical grounds (e.g. 
absence  of  signature,  age  etc.)    Also  in  the  offer  document  and  in  General 

Page 119 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Instructions in Form 2A, the manner in which applications by HUF should be 
made, are to be specified. 

 
17. The lead manager may ensure to make adequate disclosure regarding pending 
Investor Grievances in the offer document before the prospectus is filed with 
the Stock Exchange. 

 
18. The  lead  manager  is  to  ensure  despatch  of  refund  orders  of  value  over 
Rs.1500/- and share/debenture certificates by Registered Post only. Adequate 
funds for the purpose will be made available to the Registrars 

 
19. If the company, person(s) in control of the company, its directors, any of the 
company’s  associates  of  group  companies,  and  companies  with  which  the 
directors  of  the  company  are  associated  as  directors  or  promoters,  are 
prohibited  from  accessing  the  capital  market  under  any  order  or  directions 
passed by SEBI, then the company is not eligible to make any Public/Rights 
Issue or Offer for Sale. 

 
20. Date  and  place  of  original  incorporation  of  the  company  and  any  changes 

thereafter in the name and registered office shall appear on the cover page.   

21. Risk Factors and Management Perception 

a.  Criminal  charges  under  IPC  and  violations  of  securities  law  shall  be 

highlighted in bold as risk factor no. 1  

b.  Risk  Factor  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  descending  order  of  materiality  and 

implications on the financial of the issuer. 

c.  All statutory clearances and approval that are yet to be received by the issuer 

to be indicated by way of separate Risk Factors.  

d.  If  the  issuer  company’s  business  is  seasonal,  then  same  should  be 

highlighted as a risk factor in the offer document.   

e.  If the promoters or any other person have been issued shares at a price lower 
than issue price within the last 12 months, the same should be disclosed as 
risk factor giving details.   No management perceptions should be given for 
this risk factor. 

f.  If  the  issue  is  to  part  finance  acquisitions  but  the  targets  have  not  been 
identified, the same should be disclosed as risk factor stating how the funds 
would  be  deployed  until  it  is  used  for  the  purpose  which  it  is  raised  and 
probable duration.  

g.  If the industry segment for which the issue is proposed by the issuer has 
contributed to less than 25% of the revenues of the issuer in the last three 
fiscal years, the same should be disclosed as risk factors. 

h.  The  dependence  of  the  issuer  or  any  its  business segment, upon a single 
customer or a few customers, the loss of any one or more of which would 
have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  issuer  shall  be  disclosed  as  a  risk 
factor.   

Page 120 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

i. 

If  the  listing  of  any  securities  of  the  issuer  or  any  of  its  subsidiarie s or 
associates has been refused at any time by any of the stock exchanges in 
India or abroad, the same shall be disclosed  as Risk Factor with reasons 
for refusal 

j.  Penalties, if any imposed by SEBI or any other regulatory body in India or 

abroad shall be disclosed as a Risk Factor.   

l. 

k.  If the issuer or any of its subsidiary/group /associate has failed to meet the 
listing requirements of any stock exchanges in India or abroad, the details 
of  the  same  and  the  details  of  penalty,  if  any  including  suspension  of 
trading, imposed by the exchanges shall be disclosed as Risk Factor. 
In  the  case  of  a  listed  company,  if  the  trading  on  stock  exchanges  is 
limited  or  sporadic  the  same  shall  be  disclosed  as  risk  factor.    if  any  of 
securities of the issuer is listed on stock exchanges/traded on OTC market 
abroad and the trading is limited or sporadic, the same shall be disclosed 
as a risk factor. 

m.  In  case  of  outstanding  debenture/bonds  (public  or  private  placement)  by 
the  issuer  company,  details  of    the  default  compliance  with  the  material 
covenants  such  as  in  creation  of  full  security  as  per  terms  of  issue,  the 
default  in  payment  of  interest,  the  default  in  redemption,  non-creation of 
debenture  redemption  reserve,  the  default  in  payment  of  penal  interest 
wherever  applicable,  non-availability/non-maintenance  of  asset  cover, 
interest cover, debt-service cover, shall be disclosed as risk factors.   

n.  Default  in  repayment  of  deposits  or  any  liability,  default  in  interest, 
redemption  on  due  dates  shall  be  given  as  risk  factors.      Even  if  any 
liability  has  been  rolled  over,  the  fact  of  roll  over  shall  be  given  as  risk 
factor. 

o.  If  the  promoters/directors  are  involved  with  one  or  more  ventures  which 
are in the same line of activity as the issuer, potential conflict of interest 
shall be disclosed as risk factor. 

p.  Shortfall in performance vis a vis promise made in the last three issues of 
the issuer or last one issue of the group/associate companies shall be given 
as risk factor quantifying the shortfall /delays. 

q.  If any part of the issue funds is to be paid as consideration to promoters, 
directors,  key  management  personnel,  associate  or  group  companies,  the 
same  shall  be  disclosed  as  risk  factor  stating  the  total  project  cost,  issue 
size and the amount of consideration. 

r.  If the  promoters do not have adequate background and experience in the 
activities  for  which  the  issue  is  proposed,  a  risk  factor  shall  be 
incorporated stating the same and also stating that the entire project has to 
depend on key management personnel and may suffer on account of lack 
of availability or turnover of key personnel  

s.  Loss making ventures of the promoters shall be disclosed by way of a risk 

factor. 

t.  Each  of  the  outstanding  litigations,  disputes,  overdues  to  banks/financial 
institutions, defaults against banks/FIs, contingent liabilities not provided for, 
etc.,  pertaining  to  the  company,  the  ventures/companies  promoted  by  the 

Page 121 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

promoters/wholetime directors of the company, and the promoters/ directors 
themselves along with the nature of the litigation, quantum of funds involved 
shall be distinctly brought out as separate risk factors. In this connection, it 
may  be  noted  that  the  proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offenses  against 
promoter/promoter's  companies/firms,  etc.,  will  have  to  be  detailed, 
including the past cases where penalties have been awarded. 

u.  Disclosure  is  to  be  made  whether  the  company  itself/    group  company  has 
performed as per the promises regarding Financials and/or commencement 
of  commercial  production    made  in  the  offer  document  pertaining  to  the 
issue  made by the company/ group company during the last 3 years.  If no, 
then each such deviation wherein the actual performance of the company/ 
group company with regard to financials or commencement of commercial 
production  has  been  significantly  below  the  performance  projected  in  the 
company's/ group company's offer document shall be indicated by way of a 
separate risk factor. 

v.  Interests  of  promoters/directors/key  management  personnel  other  than 
reimbursement of expenses incurred or normal remuneration or benefits shall 
be distinctly brought out as separate risk factors. 

w.  All the contingent liabilities not provided for, shall be disclosed by way of a 

risk factor. 

x.  Management  Perception  to  risk  factor  shall  not  contain  any  speculative 

statement on the positive outcome to any litigation etc. 

y.  Management  Perception  shall  not  contain  any  adjectives  and  should  be 
substantiated  with  the  source  of  data.    Details  given  elsewhere  in  the 
document shall be referred by giving page numbers. 

z.  Management perception shall not be given for any matter that is sub-judice 

before a competent Court. 

 

22. Following notes shall appear immediately after The Risk Factors in the offer 

document 
v  Networth  before  issue  (as  per  latest  audited  statement  contained  in  the 

offer document) and issue size. 

v  Cost per share to the promoters and book value per share. 
v  Details  of  the  other  ventures  of  same  promoters  having  business 

interests/other interests in the issuer company.  

v  Details  of  transaction  by  the  issuer  company  with  group/subsidiary 
companies  during  the  last  year,  the  nature  of  transactions  and  the 
cumulative value of transactions.  

v  All  loans  and  advances  made  to  any  person(s)/  companies  in  which 

23. If  the  Registrar  to  the  issue  appointed  for  the  issue,  does  not  have  direct 
connectivity with both the depositories, then, the concerned intermediary cannot 
act as registrar to the issue 

  

Page 122 of 326 

directors are interested.  

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

24. The  Company/Directors/  Lead  Managers  shall  give  an  undertaking  that  they 
have not entered into any buy-back and/or standby arrangements for purchase 
of  Equity  Shares  of  the  Company  with  any  person.    The  same  shall  also  be 
disclosed in the offer document.  

 
25. If  shares  have  been  issued  for  consideration  other  than  cash  or  out  of 
revaluation  reserves  at  any  point  of  time,  the  details  shall  be  furnished  in  a 
separate table, stating the date of issue, persons to whom issued, price, reasons 
for the issue and whether any benefits have accrued to the company out of the 
issue  

 
26. Notes to capital structure 

a.  The existing share capital of the company shall be detailed in a tabular form 
indicating the date of allotment, number of shares, face value, issue price and 
form of consideration.   In case the shares have been issued for consideration 
other  than  cash  or  have  been  issued  by  capitalising  the  reserves,  the  facts 
should be distinctly stated.  In case of bonus shares made out of revaluation 
reserves,  a  separate  mention  is  required  to  be  made  indicating  the  date  of 
issue and the date of revaluation of assets.   The fact of shares being allotted 
on  account  of  any  amalgamation/  merger  scheme  is  also  required  to  be 
mentioned 
amalgamation/merger/share 
swap/revaluation  shall be given elsewhere in the offer document 

distinctly. 

Details 

of 

b.  The promoters total share holding shall be indicated in a tabular form clearly 
stating  the name of the promoter date of allotment, number of shares, face 
value, issue price, percentage to the total post issue capital and the lock in 
period.  

c.  The information regarding securities transactions during the past six months 
undertaken/  financed  directly or indirectly by the promoters, their relatives 
and associates and the directors of the company should also be incorporated 
under  this  paragraph.    The  period  of  six  months  should  be  reckoned  with 
reference to the date on which the offer document is filed with SEBI and this 
should be updated at the time of filing the prospectus with the ROC/ Stock 
Exchange/bid opening. 

 

27. In the case of Rights issue, the extent to which the promoters shall participate 
in  the  proposed  issue  shall  be  disclosed.  In  case  of  any  shortfall  in 
subscription in the rights issue, whether the promoters intend to subscribe in 
excess of their rights entitlement, shall be disclosed.   

 
28. If  any  shares  forming  part  of  promoters  contribution  is  pledged,  specific 
disclosure shall be made stating the name of pledgee, facilities availed, terms 
and conditions of the pledge. 

 

Page 123 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

29. Terms of the Present Issue 

(a) The  complete  provisions  of  clause  7.6.12  of  the  Guidelines  regarding 

reservation for small individual applicants shall be disclosed.   

(b) Provisions of clauses 8.5 shall be disclosed   
(c) Provisions of 8.6 of the Guidelines shall be disclosed.  There should not be 
any  discrepancy  between  the  offer  document  and  the  application  cum 
abridged prospectus (Form 2A).  

(d) Provision for nomination facility to the investors in terms of Sec. 109A of 
the Companies Act, 1956 to be incorporated in the offer document and the 
application form.   

 

30. Trading in Demat Segment and Depository Option to The Investors 

a.  If the issue size, in case of an initial public issue (IPO),  is equal to rupees 
ten  crores  or  more,  the  securities  issued  in  IPO  shall  be  only  in 
dematerialized  form  in  compliance  with  Section  68B  of  the  Companies 
Act, 1956. This shall be brought out distinctly in the offer document and 
application  form.    It  shall  be  stated  in  bold  on  the  application  form  that 
details  of  Depositories  account  is  mandatory  and  applications  without 
Depositories  account  would  be  treated  as  incomplete  and  rejected.  
Investors  will  not  have  the  option  of  getting  the  allotment  of  physical 
shares.    However,  they  may  get  the  shares  rematerialised  subsequent  to 
allotment.   

b.  It shall be specifically disclosed that the securities, on allotment shall be 
traded  on  stock  exchanges  in  demat  segment  only  for  all  investors.  (In 
case  of  IPOs  and  rights/public  issues  by  companies  whose  shares  are  in 
compulsory demat on the date of opening of the issue.)   

c.  In the case of rights issues, the allotment procedure is to be stated in detail 
and  the  requirement  of  approval  of  the  basis  by  the  regional  stock 
exchange as provided in the RMB (Compendium) Circular dated February 
16, 2000. 

31. Disclosure is to be done regarding Safety Net Arrangement as per Clause 8.18 

of the Guidelines. 

 
32. In  case  one  of  the  objects  of  the  issue  is  investment  in  JV/  acquisition/ 

investment in subsidiary, then followings are to be disclosed. 
•  The form of investment i.e. equity, debt or any other instrument 
• 

If the form of investment is not yet decided, the same shall be specifically 
disclosed.  
If  the  investment  is  proposed  to  be  in  form  of  debt,  complete  details 
including  security,  repayment  etc  .shall  be  disclosed.  If  the  debt  is 
unsecured or carries interest lower than the market rate the same shall be 
disclosed as a risk factor.  
If the investment is proposed to be in form of equity, it must be specified 
whether any dividends to the issuer are assured.  

•  The precise benefit accruing to the issuer company from the investment  

• 

• 

Page 124 of 326 

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

33. If one of the objects of the issue is to deploy funds as loan, complete details of 
the  loan  agreements  shall  be  disclosed  citing  the  rate  of  interest,  secured  or 
unsecured, duration, collateral security, sub-ordination clauses.  If such loan is 
to be granted to a subsidiary, group or associate company, details of the same 
shall be stated specifically.    

 
34. Details of all affiliate and related party transactions in respect of utilisation of 
the  issue  proceeds  shall  be  disclosed.    It  is  to  be  stated  clearly  whether  any 
part of the issue proceeds is to be paid as consideration to promoter, directors, 
key  management  personnel,  associate  or  group  companies  ,  if  so,  complete 
details  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  and  the  relevant  agreements 
etc. should be incorporated as material document.  

 
35  History of the Company: 
 

a.  Details of the issuer company regarding the date of incorporation, date of 
commencement of business, date of conversion of partnership into limited 
company/private 
limited  company,  as 
applicable,  dates  on  which  names  have  been  changed,  if  applicable, 
reasons for change of name, changes in registered offices of the company 
and reasons therefore; dates on which the Memorandum of Association of 
the company have been amended citing the details of amendment.   

limited  company 

to  public 

b.  Disclosure about the major events in the history of the company including 

the details of: 
•  Capacity/facility  creation,  location  of  plant,  products,  marketing, 

competition etc.  

•  Raising of capital in form of equity or debt,  
•  Time/cost  overrun  in  setting  up  projects  including  the  proposed 

project,  

•  Defaults/reschedulement with financial institutions/ banks, conversion 
of  loans  into  equity  along  with  reasons  thereof,  lock  out,  strikes  and 
reasons for the same etc.  

•  Negative  features  like  time  /  cost  overrun,  defaults  and  lock  out  / 

strikes etc should be incorporated as risk factors. 

c.  Details regarding the changes in the activities of the issuer during the last 
5 years which may have had a material effect on the profits/loss, including 
discontinuance of lines of business, loss of agencies or markets and similar 
factors. 

d.  Complete details of the subsidiaries and holding company , if applicable, 

is to be disclosed 

e.  Following details in respect of History, Present Business And Main Objects 

Of The Company : 
•  Corporate profile of the company regarding its history, the description of 
the activities, services, products, market of each segment,  the growth of 
the  company,    the  standing  of  the  company  and/or  its  products,  its 

Page 125 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

management,  the  major  suppliers  and  customers  of  the  company,  the 
environmental  issues,  Exports  and  profits  due  to  foreign  operations 
together  with  the  country  wise  analysis,  the  company's  performance, 
standing with reference to the prominent competitors with reference to 
segment [geographical, type of customers, etc.] 
• 
Injunction or restraining order, if any with, with possible implications.    
•  The  technology,  market,  managerial  competence  and  capacity  built-up 

are to be disclosed 

•  The past five years performance of the company, non-recurring items of 
income  the  significant  accounting  policies  and  qualifications  from  the 
auditors  report  ,The  notes  to  the  account  in  respect  of  the  last  audited 
financial  statement,  the  additions  in  the  installed  capacity,  details  of 
restructuring if any.   

•  The  main  objects  of  the  company  as  set  out  in  the  Memorandum  of 

Association of the company  

•  Details 

regarding  acquisition  of  business/undertakings,  mergers, 

amalgamation, revaluation of assets etc, if any. 

 

36  Promoters 

a)  In  case  the  present  promoters  have  acquired  the  controlling  interest, 
disclosure  shall  be  made  about  date  of  acquisition, 
terms  of 
acquisition,  consideration  and  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the 
SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations, 
1997 and Listing Agreement as applicable. 

b)  Career  graph  of  the  promoter  i.e.  names,  ages,  personal  addresses, 
qualifications, experience in the industry, positions/posts held in the past, 
Directorship held, other ventures of each promoter, special achievements 
etc. shall be disclosed in tabular form in tabular form. 

c)  If there is no identifiable promoter, the same shall be disclosed giving 
reasons.    In  such  cases,  details  of  shareholders  who  control  10%  or 
more  voting  rights  of  the  issuer,    or  those  persons  who  have  right  to 
appoint  directors  on  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  issuer,  shall  be 
disclosed 

d)  If the promoters are bodies corporate, history of such bodies corporate 

and the promoters of the bodies corporate shall be disclosed.  

e)  If  the  promoters  do  not  have  experience  in  the  proposed  line  of 
business, the same shall be disclosed explaining as how the proposed 
activities would be carried out/managed.   

f)  If  the  Promoters/Directors  have  any  other  interest  in  the  Issuer 
Company,  the  same  shall  be  disclosed  briefly  in  addition  to  details 
appearing elsewhere in the prospectus.  

 

37  List  of  all  ventures  of  the  promoters  (sole  proprietorship,  Firm,  private 
company, limited company, listed company) irrespective of whether they are 
under the same management as per Section 370(1B) of the Companies Act, 
shall be disclosed in a tabular form giving activities undertaken, in brief. If 

Page 126 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

any  of  these  entities  had  faced/is  facing  any  litigations/  defaults/  Overdues 
OR labour problems/ closure etc., the same shall be disclosed.  

 
38  All the pending litigations/disputes (in which the promoters are involved)  
overdues/defaults  to  the  financial  institutions/banks  and  instances  of  non-
payment  of  statutory  dues  by  the  promoters  and  the  companies/  firms 
promoted by the promoters shall be listed out in the offer document together 
with the amounts involved and the present status.  It shall be noted that such 
listing is necessary irrespective of the fact whether these disputes, litigations 
have a bearing on the financial performance of the issuer company or not.  
However,  the  likely  adverse  effect  of  these  disputes  and  litigations  on  the 
financial  performance  of  the  company  shall  be  mentioned  wherever 
applicable.   

 
 

 

 

 

In this context it may be noted that the cases of pending  litigations, disputes, 
defaults, etc. in respect of companies to which the promoters were associated 
in the past but are no longer associated shall also be disclosed in the event of 
their name being continued to be associated with the particular litigations.   
 
The above information shall be disclosed in addition to the litigations against 
the  company  or  against  any  other  company  whose  outcome  could  have  a 
materially  adverse  effect  of  the  position  of  the  company.    Further  all  the 
litigations against the promoter or directors involving violation of statutory 
regulations or a criminal offence shall be disclosed in the offer document.   
 
The  pending  proceedings  initiated  for  economic  offences  against  the 
directors,  the  promoters,  companies  and  firms  promoted  by  the  promoters 
shall  be  disclosed  separately  indicating  the  status.    The  details  of  the  past 
cases  in  this  regard  in  which the penalties were imposed by the prescribed 
authorities shall be disclosed in the offer document. 
 
The  outstanding  litigations  ,  disputes  pertaining  to  matters  likely  to  effect 
operations  and  finances  of  the  company  including  disputed  tax  liabilities, 
prosecution  under  any  enactment  in  respect  of  Schedule  XIII  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956 shall be disclosed in the offer document. 

 
39  Interest of promoters and payment or benefit to promoters or officers of the 
company as well as the directors in the company shall be disclosed under the 
heading "Promoters". 

 
40  Following details shall be made about the Board of Directors 

•  Details of the Board of Directors of the company, age, qualifications, 
experience,  other  directorships,  nominee  capacity  of  each  of  the 
directors. 

Page 127 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

•  Changes  in  the  Board  of  directors  during  the  last  three  years  before 
filing  of  offer  document  with  ROC/stock  exchange  with  reasons  for 
changes.  

•  Employees  of  the  Group  Company/  Subsidiary/  Holding  Company 

shall not be included in key managerial personnel. 

•  Changes in the key management personnel during the last 3 years shall 
be given.  If the employee turnover is high compared to the industry, 
reasons shall be discussed. 

 
The  following  information  shall  be  disclosed  with  respect  to  the 
company's directors and key managerial personnel:  
 
ix)  Name,  business  experience,  functions  and  areas  of  experience  in  the 

x)  The  nature  of  any  family  relationship  between  any  of  the  persons 

company. 

named under this head. 

xi)  Any  arrangement  or  understanding  with  major 

shareholders, 
customers,  suppliers  or  others,  pursuant  to  which  any  person  referred 
to  in  this  head,  was  selected  as  a  director  or  member  of  senior 
management. 

xii)  During the last Financial Year, the amount of compensation paid, and 
benefits in kind granted, to persons mentioned under this head, by the 
company  for  services  in  all  capacities  to  the  company.  Disclosure  of 
compensation  should  be  given  on  an  individual  basis.  The  disclosure 
should  also  covers  contingent  or  deferred  compensation  accrued  for 
the year, even  if the compensation is payable at a later date.  

xiii) If  any  portion  of  the  compensation  was  paid  pursuant  to  a  bonus  or 
profit-sharing plan, provide a brief description of the plan and the basis 
upon which such persons participate in the plan. 

xiv) With respect to  the persons listed under this head, disclose as to their 

share ownership in the company  

xv)  The  following  information  shall  be  disclosed  with  respect  to,  the 

company's directors. 
(cid:216)  Date of expiration of the current term of office. 
(cid:216)  Details of directors' service contracts with the company providing 
for  benefits  upon  termination  of  employment,  or  an  appropriate 
negative statement. 

xvi) Details  relating  to  the  company's  audit  committee  and  remuneration 
committee,  including  the  names  of  committee  members  and  a 
summary  of  the  terms  of  reference  under  which  the  committee 
operates. 

 

41  Promoters/  Directors/  group  concerns  interest  in  any  transaction  in 
acquisition of land, construction of building and supply of machinery shall 
be indicated specifically with full details of the transaction and the amount 
involved. 

Page 128 of 326 

 

 

 

  

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

42  Stock Market Data 
 

a suitable risk factor.  

a.  If the shares are not actively traded, the fact shall be indicated by way of 

b.  It shall be disclosed whether, the promoters, relatives and directors have 
directly  or  indirectly  undertaken  transactions  in  the  securities  of  the 
company during the last 6 months, from date of filing of offer document 
with  ROC/stock 
shall  be  disclosed  whether 
promoters/directors,  their  relations  and  their  associates  have  not  either 
directly  or  indirectly  financed  any  transaction  in  the  securities  of  the 
company  during  the  preceding  six  months  including  details  of  all  such 
transactions.  The  same  along  with  the  relevant  details  shall  also  be 
disclosed by way of a note after risk factor.  

exchange. 

It 

 

43  Disclosure shall be done about the Group Companies for which application 
to  ROC  have  been  made  for  striking  off  their  names,  specific  reasons  for 
their  being  remaining  defunct  be  incorporated.  Also,  all  pending  litigation, 
defaults, etc in respect of these companies shall be clearly incorporated in the 
offer document. 
  

44.  Disclosure  shall  be  made  regarding  pending  litigation,  disputes,  defaults, 
non  payment  of  statutory  dues,  proceedings  initiated  for  offences 
(including  the  past  cases  and  irrespective  of  whether  "specified  in 
paragraph (i) of part 1 of Schedule XIII of the Act") against the promoters 
and their other business ventures  

45  If  any  of  the  Directors  have  any  litigation  towards  tax  liabilities,  or  any 
criminal/  civil  prosecution  against them for any offences (irrespective of 
whether "specified in paragraph (i) of part 1 of Schedule XIII of the Act") 
etc., the same shall also be disclosed.  

46  Financial Performance  

a.  Brief terms and conditions of the term loans including re-schedulement, 
prepayment,  penalty,  default,  etc.  be  incorporated  along  with  suitable 
risk factor(s) for the negative developments shall be disclosed. 

b.  All  the  notes  to  the  accounts,  significant  accounting  policies  as  well  as 

the auditors’ qualifications shall be incorporated.  

c.  Break-up  of  total  outstanding  unsecured  loans  taken  by  the  company 
shall  be  given  in  the  offer  document  into  the  amount  borrowed  from 
promoters/group companies/associate companies and amount borrowed 
from others. Further, in respect of each such  loan of the former category, 
terms  and  conditions  shall  be  disclosed  including  the  interest  rates  and 

Page 129 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

repayment  schedule.  If  the  loans  can  be  recalled  by  the  lenders  at  any 
time, the same shall be disclosed. 

d.  Age-wise analysis of sundry debtors shall be given. It shall be disclosed 
in the Offer Document whether any of the Sundry Debtors is related to 
the  directors  or  promoters  or  the  issuer  company  in  any  way.  Similar 
disclosures shall be made in case of loans and advances.  

e.  Aggregate book value of quoted investments as well as aggregate market 
value  of  quoted  investments  shall  be  disclosed.  The  non  provision  for 
decline in the value of such investments, if any, shall be disclosed as a 
risk factor. 

f.  Regarding  non-adjustments  brought  out  by  the  auditors,  necessary 
adjustments shall be made. However, if the impact of non-provisions is 
not  considered  ascertainable,  then  the  auditors  should  state  so  and  the 
statement to this effect shall appear in the offer document. 

g.  If the financial information, wherever required to be certified/verified by 
chartered  accountant,  is  not  done  by  the  statutory  auditor  of  the  issuer 
company, the same shall be disclosed giving reasons. 

h.  Last  audited  accounts  and  working  results  in  terms  of  MOF,  GOI 
Circular  No.  F2/SE/76  dated  February  5,  1977  as  amended  vide  the 
circular of even no. dated March 8, 1977, shall be incorporated, wherever 
applicable. It may be noted that the management discussion should cover 
post -audit period also. 

i.  The  details  regarding  the  beneficiaries  of  the  loans  and  advances  and 
sundry debtors of the company shall be disclosed in the offer document.  
It  shall  also  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  whether  the  said 
beneficiaries  are  in  anyway  related  to  the  promoters/directors  of  the 
company. If yes, this fact shall be disclosed by way of a risk factor also. 

j.  The  document  shall  contain  past  financial  performance  in  the 
prescribed  format  [sales  and  other  income,  PBIDT,  depreciation, 
interest, PBT, tax, PAT, share capital, reserves and surplus, cash EPS, 
EPS,  dividend,  book  value  and  the  capacity  utilisation]. 
  The 
significant accounting policies and the qualifications from the auditors 
report  shall  also  be  disclosed.    In  case  other  income  constitutes  more 
than 10% of the total income, the break up of the same along with the 
nature of the income i.e. recurring or non-recurring shall be stated.  In 
addition  to  the  above  compilation  of  the  financial  information,  a 
summary  of  earnings  for  the  last  five  years  and  for  the  most  current 
accounting  period  shall  be  prepared.    A  similar  analysis  shall  be 
attempted  in  respect  of  sales  also.    While  analysing  the  earnings  and 
sales,  the  income  and  sales  on  account  of  major  product/  main 
activities and the unusual activities shall be  examined separately and 
the trends be brought out distinctly.  

k.  If a material part of the income is dependant upon a single customer or a 
few major customers the fact shall be brought out in the offer document.  
Similarly if any foreign customer constitutes a significant portion of the 
company's business the same shall be disclosed together with its impact 

Page 130 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

on  the  business  on  account  of  exchange  rate  fluctuations.    In  case  the 
company has followed any unorthodox procedure for recording sales and 
revenues the same shall be analysed in the offer document.  The nature 
of miscellaneous income and miscellaneous expenditure for the interim 
period  and  the  preceding  years  shall  also  be  investigated.    In  brief  a 
summary  of  major  items  of  income  and  expenditure  for  the  last  three 
years and most recent entering period shall be prepared and discussed in 
the  offer  document.    The  unusual  trends  may  also  be  discussed.    The 
unusual trends on account of business activity, unusual items of income, 
change of accounting policies and discretionary reduction of expenses 
shall be highlighted for the benefit of investors.   
In  the  event  of  capital  structure  undergoing  a  change  on  account  of 
capitalisation of reserves, its impact on the key financial ratios should be 
distinctly brought out in the offer document.  Similarly while discussing 
the  key  financial  ratios,  the  fact  of  outstanding  instruments  which  may 
affect the financial ratios adequately should also be informed.  Further, 
the paragraph on justification of premium should also bring out the fact 
of dilution of financial ratios consequent upon issue of bonus shares and 
the premium should be justified after taking into account the discounted 
ratios with reference to expanded capital. 

m.  From  the  financial  year  2001-2002  onwards  consolidated  financial 
statement  prepared  on  the  basis  of  Accounting  Standard  21  shall  be 
incorporated in the offer document. 

l. 

 

 

47. Following disclosures shall be made about Related Party Transactions.  
 

iv)  For  the  period  since  last  3  Financial  Years  disclose  the  information 

with respect to transactions or loans between  the company and  

(f)  enterprises  that  directly  or  indirectly  through  one  or  more 
intermediaries, control or are controlled by, or are under common 
control with, the company;  

(g) associates;  
(h) individuals owning, directly or indirectly, an interest in the voting 
power  of  the  company  that  gives  them  significant  influence  over 
the company, and close members of any such individual’s family;  
(i)  key management personnel, that is, those persons having authority 
and  responsibility  for  planning,  directing  and  controlling  the  
activities  of 
including  directors  and  senior 
management of companies and close members of such individuals’ 
families;  

the  company, 

(j)  enterprises  in  which  a  substantial  interest  in  the  voting  power  is 
owned, directly or indirectly, by any person described in (c) or (d) 
or  over  which  such  a  person  is  able  to  exercise  significant 
influence.  This  includes  enterprises  owned  by  directors  or  major 
shareholders of the company. 

Page 131 of 326 

 

 

 

.  

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

v)  The  nature  and  extent  of  any  transactions  or  presently  proposed 
transactions which are material to the company or the related party, or 
any  transactions  that  are  unusual  in  their  nature  or  conditions, 
involving goods, services, or tangible or intangible assets, to which the 
company or any of its parent was a party shall be disclosed. 

 
vi)  The  amount  of  outstanding  loans  (including  guarantees  of  any  kind) 
made by the company or any of its parents to or for the benefit of any 
of the persons listed as directors or key managerial personnel shall be 
disclosed.  The 
the  amount 
outstanding  as  of  the  latest  date,  the  nature  of  the  loan  and  the 
transaction in which it was incurred, and the interest rate on the loan. 

information  given  should 

include 

48.  If  there  are  pending  Investor  Grievances  then  make  adequate  disclosures 
in this regard in the offer document before filing the letter of offer with the 
stock  exchange.    In  case  the  percentage  of  such  pending  Investor 
Grievances shall be indicated by way of a risk factor. 

49. The offer document shall contain a specific disclosure, as a note to capital 
structure,  as  to  the  proposal,  intention,  negotiations,  consideration  of  the 
company to alter the capital structure by way of split /consolidation of the 
denomination of the shares, or issue of shares on a preferential basis or issue 
of  bonus  or  rights  or  further  public  issue  of  shares  or  any  other  securities, 
within a period of 6 months from the date of opening the present issue. 

50. The General Instructions shall also state that ‘applicants are advised to read 
the  Prospectus  and  the  general  instructions  contained  this  Memorandum 
carefully  and  to  satisfy  themselves  of  the  disclosures  before  making  an 
application for subscription.  For a copy of the prospectus the applicant may 
request  the  issuer  company  and/or  lead  manager/brokers  to  the  issue.  
Further,  investors are advised to retain the copy of the prospectus/Form 2A 
(abridged prospectus) for their future reference’. 

 
51. Disclosure shall be made about provisions of clause 7.6.12 of the Guidelines 
regarding  reservation  for  small  individual  applicants  in  the  case of public 
issues (other than book built issues). 

 
52. Disclosure  shall  be  made  about  provisions  of  clause  8.5  of  the  Guidelines 

where the issue comprises any reservations/firm allotments.  

 
53. The correct procedure for application by Hindu Undivided Family and also 
the  fact  that  Hindu  Undivided  Family  applications  would  be  treated  as 
applications by individuals shall be disclosed in the offer document. 

 

Page 132 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

54. Suitable instruction shall be incorporated in the offer document/ application 
about  the  fact  that provision of Bank account details in the space provided 
for in the application form has now been made mandatory and applications 
not containing such details are liable to be rejected.  
  

 
55. Where an application is for allotment of securities, in response to (i)a public 
issue through a prospectus or an offer for sale or (ii) a rights issue, for a total 
value of Rs.50,000/- or more, i.e. the total number of securities applied for 
multiplied by the issue price, is Rs.50,000/- or more the applicant or in the 
case of applications in joint names, each of the applicants, should mention 
his/her permanent account number allotted under the Income-Tax Act, 1961 
or where the same has not been allotted, the GIR number and the Income-
Tax  Circle/Ward/District.    In  case  where  neither  the  permanent  account 
number  nor  the  GIR  number  has  been  allotted,  the  fact  of  non-allotment 
should  be  mentioned  in  the  application  forms.    Application  forms  without 
this  information  will  be  considered  incomplete  and  will  be  liable  to  be 
rejected.  This  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  prospectus  under  the  column 
"Procedure for Application". 

 

 

Page 133 of 326 

            
56.  The  offer  document  and  Form  2A  and  issue  advertisements  shall  contain 
telephone,  fax  telegraphic  address  of  the  issuer  company,  lead  managers, 
syndicate members and registrar to the issue after their names.  

 
57.  Applications  made  to  stock  exchanges  for  listing  shall  be  available  as 

material       document. 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

ANNEXURE III 

 

 
(Referred to in Paragraph 2.5(b) of the Report) 
 

A-III.  LIST OF CONFIRMATIONS REQUIRED FROM THE LEAD MANAGER 

 
(a) The Lead Manager shall provide the following confirmations/information in 

writing to SEBI at the time of filing of the draft Offer Document: 

 
1.  Compliance  with  Clause  4.6  of  SEBI(DIP)  Guidelines,  2000  (Guidelines)  and 

appropriate disclosure in this regard in the draft Offer Document 

2.  Compliance with clause 4.9.1, 4.9.2, 4.9.3 and 4.9.4 of the Guidelines. 
3.    Where  the  issuer  company  is  exempted  from  the  requirement  of  promoters’ 
contribution appropriate disclosures have been made in the draft Offer Document 
citing the relevant provisions of the Guidelines. 

4.  Figures appearing under the section "Land" are consistent with the figures appearing 

under the section "Cost of the Project". 

5.  The schedule of project implementation  as  indicated  under  the  head  "Schedule  of 
Implementation" has been updated with the status as at the time of filing of the draft 
Offer Document.  

6.  A certificate from a Chartered Accountant including a detailed cash flow statement 
of  the  funds  deployed  and  the  sources  of  funds  as  of  a  current  date  has  been 
submitted to SEBI, and that such a statement has also been incorporated in the draft 
Offer Document.   

7.  Due  diligence  has  been  exercised  with  respect  to  disclosures  on  the  nature  of  the 
current business, background of the company, state at which the proposed business 
stands, risk factors, promoters’ experience etc.  

8.  The  issuer  company,  its  promoters  and  directors  and  the  lead  managers  have  not 
entered into any buyback and/or standby agreements with any person  for purchase of 
equity shares of the issuer company. 

9.  At  any  given  time,  there  shall  be  only  one  denomination  for  the  shares  of  the 

10. The issuer shall comply with such disclosures and accounting norms as are specified 

company.  

by SEBI. 

grievances.  

11. No  amendment  to  the  draft  Offer  Document  is  required  as  there  are  no  investor 

12. Monies collected through the issue   shall be kept in a separate bank (bankers to the 
issue) as per the provisions of Section 73(3) of the Companies Act, 1956 and such 
monies shall be released by the said bank only after receipt of the trading permission 
from  all  the  stock  exchanges  where  the  issuer  company  is  proposing  to  list  its 
securities and that the above provision has been communicated to the bankers to the 
issue well in advance and that  the agreement between the bankers to the issue and 
the issuer company specifically contains this condition. 

Page 134 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

13. Main  Object  Clause  of  the  Memorandum  of  Association  of  the  issuer  company 
enables  the  company  to  undertake  the  activities  for  which  the  issue  funds  are 
being raised.  

 
(b)  The  Lead  Manager  shall  provide  the  following  confirmations  as  a  part  of  the 
Due  Diligence  Certificate  to  be  submitted  one  day  prior  to  the  opening  of  the 
Issue (Schedule V):  

1.  Agreements  have  been  entered  into  by  the  issuer  company  with  all  the 

depositories for dematerialization of the issuer’s securities.   

2.  Promoters’ contribution and subscriptions from all firm allottees have been received 
at least one day prior to the opening of the issue and that an auditors certificate to 
this effect has been duly submitted to SEBI. 

3.  All  public  comments  as  well  as  SEBI’s  observations  subsequent  to  making  the 
draft Offer Document public have been dealt with by the issuer company suitably 
in the final Offer Document and in case no public comments/ observations have 
been received, a distinct confirmation to that effect. 

c) The Lead Manager shall provide the following confirmations as a part of the  
Post-Issue Monitoring Report to be submitted within ____ days after the closure 
of the issue  and before listing of the securities: 

 

 

 

1.  In  case  the  share  certificates  are  being  issued  in  physical  form,  all  locked-in 
securities have been inscribed with the ‘non-transferability’ stamp with details of 
the  duration  of  the  lock-in    and  in  case  the  securities  are  being  issued  in  demat 
form, the non-transferability details have been informed to all the depositories and 
confirmations  received  to  this  effect  from  all  of  them  and  that  the  details  of  all 
lock-ins have also been intimated to all the stock exchanges  where the securities 
are being listed.   

2.  Minimum  promoters’  contribution,  wherever  required,  has  been  locked  in  for  a 

period of 3 years as per Clauses 4.11.1 and 4.11.2 of the Guidelines.  

3.  Lock-in  of  shares  ,  whenever  applicable,  has  been  done  in  accordance  with 

Clauses 4.11.1, 4.11.2 and 4.14 of the Guidelines  

 
SEBI shall include the following points in its Observation Letter: 

1.  The Lead Manager shall ensure all material disclosures have been made in Form 2A, 
particularly those arising out of the observations made by SEBI on the draft Offer 
Document. 

2.  In  the  in-seriatim  reply  to  this  SEBI’s  Observation  Letter,  the  Lead  Manager 
should  mention  the  page  number/s  of  the  draft  Offer  Document  where  the 
amendments have been carried out, highlight such amendments in  the draft Offer 
Document  and  provide  an  undertaking  to  SEBI  that  besides  such  changes,  no 
other change had been made in the draft Offer Document. 

Page 135 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

3.  Submit an the exception report for exemptions/deviations, if any, sought and the 
reasons  thereof    for  such  matters  that  are  not  in  compliance  with  SEBI’s 
observations.  (The  Lead  Manager  shall  not  go  ahead  with  the  floatation  of  the 
issue without a prior written approval from SEBI for such exemptions/deviations.) 

Page 136 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

ANNEXURE IV 

 

(Referred to in Paragraph 2.5(c) of the Report) 
 

A-IV.  STANDARD OBSERVATIONS - PORTIONS TO BE DELETED 

 

ELIGIBILITY OF THE COMPANY TO COME OUT WITH THE ISSUE 

2.1 
2.1.2      Lead  Manager  shall  verify,  confirm  and  disclose  in  the  offer  document  that  the 
issuer  is  eligible  to  bring  the  issue.  LM  should  specifically  state  the  relevant 
clauses as per Chapter II of the Guidelines for Disclosure and Investor Protection 
- 2000 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Guidelines’ or ‘Guidelines 2000’) and show 
the eligibility by citing the relevant workings and figures. In case the issuer is a 
listed company, lead manager shall certify, confirm and disclose the eligibility in 
terms of clauses 2.3 of the Guidelines 2000 showing the workings and figures 

 

2.2 

AUTHORITY FOR THE ISSUE 
 Lead  manager  should  ensure  that  the  company  has  the  proper  authority  to  come 
out with the issue. 

 
2.3.1  Lead Manager shall ensure that the Cover Page of the offer document is strictly in 

conformity with Clause 6.2 of Guidelines 2000.   

DISCLOSURE WITH REGARD TO CHANGE OF NAME 
Disclose  as a Note under the risk factors, if there is a change in the name of the 
company at any time during the last 3 years, stating the reasons for the change and 
whether  and  when  the  Objects  clause  of  Memorandum  of  Association  was 
amended to carry on activities as reflected by the new name.  

2.5 

 

 

2.6  GOVERNMENT APPROVALS 
2.6.1  Specify separately the government approval applied for but not yet received and the 

government approval not yet applied. Highlight each of them as a risk factor. 
Incorporate an affirmative statement in the offer document stating that the company 
can undertake the activities proposed by it in view of the present approvals and no 
further  approvals  from  any  Government  Authorities/RBI  are  required  by  the 
company to undertake the proposed activities.  If such approvals are required state 
details and give as note wherever they are yet to be obtained. 

2.6.2 

 
2.7 
2.7.1 

LISTING 
If the offer is by an unlisted company (with a commercial operation of less than 2 
years) with post issue capital of Rs.3 crores and not exceeding Rs.5 crores, ensure 
compliance and disclosure as per clause 8.1.1 of the Guidelines regarding listing 

Page 137 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.7.2 

on stock exchange where trading of securities is screen based and also of clause 
8.1.2 and 8.1.3   regarding appointment of market maker. 
If  the  offer  is  by  an  unlisted  company  whose  capital  after  the  proposed  issue  is 
less  than  Rs.3  crores,  the  securities  shall  be  eligible  to  be  listed  only  on  the 
OTCEI. 

2.7.3  As  regards  listing  of  pure  debt/convertible  instruments  issued  by  unlisted 
infrastructure  companies  and  Municipal  corporations,  lead  manager  shall  note, 
ensure compliance and disclosure as per clause 8.2 of the Guidelines 2000. 

2.7.4  Lead  Manager  shall  ensure  that  if  the  permissions  to  deal  in  and  for  an  official 
quotation  of  the  Equity  Shares  are  not  granted  by  any  of  the  Stock  Exchanges 
mentioned  in  the  Offer  Document,  the  Company  shall  forthwith  repay,  without 
interest, all moneys received from the applicants.   In case of delay interest shall 
be  paid  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  73  of  the  Companies  Act, 
1956.  Disclosure to this effect shall be made in the offer document.  

2.7.5  Ensure to include the application made for listing at stock exchanges as a material 

document. 
In principle approval of Stock Exchanges to be disclosed on Cover Page under the 
heading ‘Listing’. 

2.8  MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION 

2.7.6 

  

 

Lead Manager shall ensure that the following disclosure is made for all public 
issues: 
Underwritten  Issues:      If  the  company  does  not  receive  the  minimum 
subscription  of  90%  of  the  net  offer  to  public  including  devolvement  of 
underwriters  within  60  days  from  the  date  of  closure  of  the  issue,  the  company 
shall  forthwith  refund  the  entire  subscription  amount  received.    If  there  is  delay 
beyond 8 days after the company becomes liable to pay the amount, the company 
shall pay interest as per Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956." 

Non-underwritten  Issues:    If  the  company  does  not  receive  the  minimum 
subscription of 90% of the issued amount on the date of closure of the issue, or if the 
subscription level falls below 90% after the closure of issue on account of cheques 
having  been  returned  unpaid  or  withdrawal  of  applications,  the  company  shall 
forthwith refund the entire subscription amount received.  If there is delay beyond 8 
days  after  the  company  becomes  liable to pay the amount, the company shall pay 
interest as per Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956." 
 
For composite issues: 
The lead manager shall ensure that the requirement of ‘Minimum subscription’ is 
satisfied  both  jointly  and  severally  i.e.  independently  for  both  rights  and  public 
issues.  If the company does not receive the minimum subscription in either of the 
issues, the company shall refund the entire subscription received. 
 
The  requirement  of  minimum  subscription  shall  not  be  applicable  to  offer  for 
sale.  Hence appropriate disclosure shall be made under this head.  
 

Page 138 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

In  the  case  of  public  issues  by  an  Infrastructure company  state  whether  the 
minimum subscription would be complied with or provide disclosures regarding 
the alternate source of funding.   
 
In  the  case  of  Rights  issue,  the  Minimum  Subscription  shall  be  disclosed  as 
follows: 
Underwritten Issues: If the company does not receive the minimum subscription 
of 90% of the net offer to public including devolvement of underwriters, the entire 
subscription  shall  be  refunded  to  the  applicants  within  forty  two  days  from  the 
date of closure of the issue. 
If  there  is  a  delay  in  the  refund  of  subscription  by  more  than  8  days  after  the 
company  becomes  liable  to  repay  the  subscription  amount,(i.e.  forty  two  days 
after closure of the issue), the company will pay interest for the delayed period, at 
prescribed rates in sub-sections (2) and (2A) of  Section 73 of the Companies Act, 
1956. 
Non-underwritten  Issues:  If  the  company  does  not  receive  the  minimum 
subscription  of  90%  of  the  issue  the  entire  subscription  shall  be  refunded  to  the 
applicants within forty two days from the date of closure of the issue.  If there is a 
delay  in  the  refund  of  subscription  by  more  than  8  days  after  the  company 
becomes liable to repay the subscription amount,(i.e. forty two days after closure 
of the issue), the company will pay interest for the delayed period, at prescribed 
rates in sub-sections (2) and (2A) of  Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956. 

2.9 

UNDERWRITING  AGREEMENT  /  STANDBY ARRANGEMENT BY THE 
ISSUER 

2.9.1  Full terms of the underwriting/ standby arrangement, if any, in the issue should be 
disclosed  in  the  offer  document.  If  the  same  is  not  applicable,  a  negative 
statement to this effect should be made under this head in the offer document. 

2.9.2  Ensure compliance and disclosure as per clause 5.5 and 6.3.13 of the Guidelines.  
2.9.3 
In case of partial underwriting of the issues, Lead Manager shall ensure to disclose 
the extent of issue being underwritten. 

2.9.4  Ensure that the underwriters associated with the issue have obtained the Certificate 
of  Registration  from  SEBI  under  the  SEBI  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub  Broker) 
Regulations, 1992; or the SEBI (Underwriters) Regulations, 1993;  

2.9.5  Further,  specifically  ensure  that  the  underwriters  associated  with  the issue comply 
with the guidelines / instructions contained in SEBI Circular RUW Circular No.1 
(93-94)  dated  November  19,  1993  especially  those  pertaining  to  execution  of  the 
underwriting agreement and total underwriting obligations. 

 

 

 
2.10  CREDIT RATING FOR DEBT INSTRUMENTS  

Ensure compliance with clause 2.5 and 6.3.12 of the Guidelines 2000.  

ISSUE MANAGEMENT TEAM  

2.11 
2.11.1  Lead  Manager  shall  certify  and  confirm  that  he  and  other  lead  managers  are  not 
associated with the issuer by virtue of shareholding, common directorship/promoter 
and  that  the  provisions  of  Regulation  20(2)  of  the  SEBI  (Merchant  Bankers) 
Regulations, 1992 is not attracted.     

Page 139 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.11.2  Lead  manger  is  required  to  ensure  and  confirm  that  all  intermediaries  associated 
with  the  issue  are  registered  with  SEBI  as  on  the  issue  opening  date  and  have 
complied with the requirements of SEBI regulations and are eligible to be associated 
with the issue.  

2.11.3  Lead Manager shall ensure that a merchant banker who is associated with the issuer 
company  as  a  promoter  or  a  director  shall  not  lead  manage  the  issue  except  as 
provided in clause 5.4.1 of the Guidelines 2000.    

2.11.4  Lead manager shall not act as Registrar to the issue if he is also handling post issue 

responsibilities.   

2.11.5  Lead manager shall ensure and confirm that the number of co-managers to an issue 
does not exceed the number of lead managers and that there is only one advisor to 
the issue. 

2.11.8  Lead manager shall ensure and confirm the appointment of bankers to issue in all the 

mandatory collection centres. 

 
 
2.12  BANKERS TO THE ISSUE 
 

    Ensure that the Bankers to the Issue and correspondent banks hold valid Certificate 
of  Registration  from  SEBI  under  the  SEBI  (Bankers  to  an  Issue)  Rules  and 
Regulations, 1994. 

 
2.15  CAPITAL STRUCTURE 
2.15.1  Ensure the capital structure is presented as per Clause 6.4. of Guidelines – 2000.  In 
this  regard  lead  manager  may  be  guided  by  the  provisions  of  clause  8.4  of  the 
Guidelines also. 

2.15.2  Disclose Notes to capital structure as per clause 6.4.2 of the Guidelines 2000. 
2.15.3  Disclose  the  details  of  the  major  shareholders  as  per  Clause  6.4.2(j)  of  Guidelines 

2000. 

Guidelines 2000. 

2.15.4  Disclose the aggregate shareholding of the promoter group as per Clause 6.4.2(k) of 

2.15.5  Disclose  the  names  of  the  core  promoters  their  pre  and  post  issue  holdings, 
contribution towards promoters contribution and details of lock in of their shares. 
2.15.8  If the public issue is by an unlisted company, ensure that the net offer to public 

shall be at least 10% or 25%, whatever is applicable, of the post-issue capital. 

2.15.9  If the public issue is by a listed company ensure that the net offer to public is at 

least 10% or 25%, whatever is applicable, of the issue size.   

2.15.10If the issuer is exempt from the above provisions, state so specifically, citing the 

relevant provisions.   

2.15.11If any reservations/firm allotments are being made, the same shall strictly confirm 
to the provisions of clause 8.3.45 of the Guidelines.   Reservation/firm allotment 
shall not be made to any other category of persons other than those stated in the 
said clause. 

2.15.12If  the  lead  manager  is  taking  firm  allotment  subject  to  ceiling  of  5%  of  the 
proposed  issue  of  securities,  the  same  shall  be  distinctly  disclosed  in  the  offer 
document. 

Page 140 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.15.13Ensure that the aggregate of reservations and firm allotments for employees in the 

issue does not exceed 10% of the total proposed issue amount. 

2.15.14Where  the  issue  comprises  reservations/firm  allotments,  ensure  compliance  and 

disclosure point-wise as per the provisions of clause 8.5 of the Guidelines. 

2.15.15Lead  manager  shall  ensure  that  where  the  issuer  is  a  listed  company  and  the 
promoters  already  hold  the  minimum  contribution,  participation  in  the  proposed 
public  issue  shall  attract  the  pricing  provisions  of  guidelines  on  preferential 
allotment  if  the  issue  price  is  lower  than  the  preferential  issue  price.  Where  the 
issuer being a listed company is exempt from the requirement to offer promoters 
contribution under the guidelines, any contribution by promoters in the proposed 
issue shall attract the pricing provisions of preferential allotment guidelines if the 
issue price is lower than such price.  Firm allotment to any person in the proposed 
issue  of  listed  company  shall  attract  the  pricing  provisions  of  preferential 
allotment guidelines if the issue price is lower than such preferential issue price.    
2.15.16Lead  Manager  shall  certify  to  SEBI  as  also  make  a  disclosure  in  the  offer 
document  that  no  payment,  direct  or  indirect  in  the  nature  of  discount, 
commission allowance or otherwise shall be made either by the issuer company or 
the  promoters  in  any  public  issue  to  the  persons  who  receive  firm  allotment  in 
such public issue.  

2.15.19Lead  Manager  shall  ensure  that  the  shares  offered/included  under  minimum 
promoter’s contribution (20%) for lock-in should be on the LIFO basis i.e. the shares 
allotted  recently  should  be  given  priority  over  the  shares  allotted  earlier  while 
offering under promoter’s contribution for lock-in.   This would not be applicable if 
the entire shareholding of the promoters is in Demat. 

2.15.20The  lead  manager  may  note  that  the  RBI  approval  for  allotment  of  shares  to 
NRIs/OCBs/FIIs  with  repatriation  basis  should  be  obtained  before  opening  of  the 
bidding  in  the  case  of  book  built  issues  and  in  other  cases  before  filing  with 
ROC/Stock exchanges.  

2.15.26.b.iii All other notes regarding the promoter's total post issue holding, the promoters 
contribution  being  brought  in  before  the  issue,  promoters  undertaking  regarding 
taking up the shares in the event of withdrawal of firm allottees, legally enforceable 
agreement in respect of firm allottees, RBI approval for reservation to NRIs/OCBs/ 
collaborators,  company's  intention  of  retaining  additional  10%  in  the  event  of 
oversubscription, cap on the maximum number of shares to be applied under public 
category  [if  applicable],  reference  to  proportionate  basis  of  allotment  etc.  should   
form part of the capital structure.  

2.15.27 Disclose  the  number  of  members  of  the  company  as  in  the  date  of  filing  of  offer 

document with the ROC/SE. 

 
2.16  PROMOTERS CONTRIBUTION 
2.16.3  Tabulate  and  disclose  the  names  of  the  core  promoters  and  each  of  their  total 

holdings and contribution towards promoters’ contribution.   

 

Page 141 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

2.17    LOCK IN OF FIRM ALLOTMENT AND PROMOTERS PARTICIPATION 

IN EXCESS OF MINIMUM CONTRIBUTION 
Where  the  issuer  is  an  unlisted  company,  the  lead  manager  may  note  that  Firm 
allotment  to  any  person  and  Participation  in  the  present  issue  by  promoters, 
friends, relatives, associates etc. in the public issue shall be locked in for a period 
of  1  years  from  the  date  of  allotment  in  the  present  issue  or  the  date  of 
commencement of commercial production, whichever is later.  

   
2.21  TERMS OF THE PRESENT ISSUE 
2.21.3  The  caption  ‘Interest  in  case  of  Delay  in  Despatch  of  allotment  letters/refund 
orders  in  case  of  public  issues’  shall  appear  and  shall    contain  the  disclosure  as 
per clause 6.5.1.1. of the Guidelines 2000. 

2.21.4  Ensure disclosure as per clause 6.5.4.2 of the Guidelines as regards Applications 

2.21.5  Ensure disclosure about stock invests as per clause 6.5.4.3 of the Guidelines.    
2.21.6  Ensure disclosure regarding Despatch of Refund orders as per clause 6.5.5 of the 

2.21.7  Ensure disclosure of Undertaking by the Issuer company as per clause 6.5.6 of the 

2.21.8  Ensure disclosure regarding Utilisation of Issue proceeds as per Clause 6.5.7 of 

 
2.28  PARTICULARS OF THE ISSUE 
2.28.1  Ensure  detailed  disclosure  as  per  clause  6.6  of  the  Guidelines  and  confirm 

by NRIs. 

Guidelines.   

Guidelines.   

the Guidelines.   

compliance in-seriatim.  

Guidelines.  

2.28.2  Give details of Project and means of financing as per clause 6.6.2 and 6.6.3 of the 

2.28.3  Where the project is appraised, the details shall be disclosed giving cost of project 
and  means  of  financing  as  per  the  appraisal  report  and  also  the  weakness  and 
threats if any given as  given in the appraisal report.  Reference number and date 
of  the  final  term  loan  sanction  letter  shall  be  stated  and  also  made  available  for 
inspection as material document.  

2.28.4  Details  of  deployments  of  funds  in  the  project  as  per  clause  6.6.5  of  the 
Guidelines  to  be  disclosed.  Ensure  to  give  actual  expenditure  incurred  on  the 
project  upto  a  date  not  earlier  than  2  months  from  the  date  of  filing  the  offer 
document with the registrar of companies/stock exchanges.   

2.28.5  Disclose the year wise break up of the expenditure proposed to be incurred on the 

project. 

2.28.6  Disclose  the  investment  avenues  in  which  the  issue  proceeds  may  be  deployed 

pending utilisation in the proposed project. 

2.28.7  Give the name of the monitoring agency if applicable. 
2.28.8  Disclose  the  source  of  funds  to  meet  the  project  expenses  in  case  of  shortfall  in 
issue  proceeds  and  avenues  of  deployment  of  excess  funds.      The  lead  manager 
should ensure that the means of finance (other than issue proceeds) is tied up for 
not  less  than  75%  of  the  project  cost  before  filing  of  the  offer  document  with 
ROC/stock exchange.  

Page 142 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.28.11No  financial  estimates  or  projections  should  be  given  in  any  form  in  the  offer 

document 

2.28.13 Disclose the following with respect to working capital including where the funds 

are raised for long term working capital purposes.  
i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

Basis of estimation of working capital requirement along with the relevant 
assumptions. 
Reasons  for  Raising  Additional  Working  Capital:  The  lead  manager 
should  disclose  the  exact  reasons  for  raising  additional  working  capital 
and substantiate the same with relevant facts and figures. 
Projected  Working  Capital  Requirement:  Assessment  for  working 
capital  figures  after  implementation  of  the  project  or  achievement  of 
objects  of  the  issue  as  the  case  may  be  should  be  given  in  detail.  The 
details  should  include  the  capacity  utilisation  assumptions,  expected 
current  assets  figures  (broken  up  into  each  component  raw  materials, 
finished goods, work in progress, sundry debtors etc.) with holding norms 
assumptions,  total  current  liabilities,  net  current  assets  and  envisaged 
sources  of  finance  for  net  current  assets  (bank/institutional  finance,  own 
funds etc.). 
The lead manager should verify and incorporate in tabular form the total 
envisaged  working  capital  requirement,  the  margin  money  thereof  and 
portion to be financed by banks or otherwise.  
Lead  manager  to  ensure  tie  up  of  borrowings/bank  finance/institutional 
finance in respect of working capital requirements. Otherwise the same be 
shown as an internal risk factor. 
The  lead  manager  should  ensure  that  the  investors  are  given  a  complete 
perspective on the present working capital position vis-à-vis the projected 
one based on which the money is proposed to be raised. 
Existing  Working  Capital  Facilities:  The  lead  manager  should  ensure 
the  disclosure  of  the  existing  working  capital  available  to  the  company. 
Audited figures should be given as of a latest date for total current assets 
(broken  up  into  each  applicable  component-  raw  materials,  finished 
goods, work in progress, sundry debtors etc.), total current liabilities, net 
current  assets  and  sources  of 
for  net  current  assets 
(bank/institutional finance, own funds etc.).  

finance 

2.28.14  If  no  working  capital  is  shown  a  part  of  project  state  reasons  and  explain  the 

business as to how there is no need for working capital. 

 
2.29.6  Board of Directors and Key Management Personnel 
2.29.6.1 Ensure disclosures as per clause 6.7.4 of the Guidelines.  
 
2.29.7  Project 
2.29.7.1Give  complete  details  of  location  of  the  project,  Plant,  machinery,  technology,  
process,  infrastructure  facilities,  Schedule  of  implementation  of  the  project  and 
progress made so far citing each activity as per clauses 6.7.7, 6.7.9 and 6.7.10 of 
the Guidelines. 

Page 143 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.29.7.4The  lead  manager  may  explicitly  indicate  whether  the  company  has  applied  / 
received all the Government Approvals pertaining to the construction.  If no such 
approvals are required to be taken over by the company, this fact may be indicated 
by way of an affirmative statement in the offer document and if the company is yet 
to  receive  any  of  the  necessary  approvals,  this  fact  shall  be  highlighted  as  a  risk 
factor. 

 
2.29.8  LAND 
2.29.8.1The lead manager may confirm that the names of the entities from whom the land 
referred to under this head has been acquired/ proposed to be acquired alongwith the 
cost of acquisition have been disclosed under this section.  Further the lead manager 
may  confirm  that  the  entities  from  whom  the  company  has  acquired  the  land/ 
proposes to acquire the land are not related to any of the promoters/ directors of the 
company. If the entities are related then the lead manager may confirm that this fact 
alongwith the relevant details has been indicated by way of a risk factor also.  

2.29.8.2The  lead  manager  may  confirm  by  way  of  an  affirmative  statement  in  the  offer 
document that the land acquired by the company is free from all encumbrances and 
has a clear title. 

2.29.8.3The  lead  manager  may  confirm  whether  the  land  referred  to  under  this  head  is 
registered  in  the  name  of  the  company.  If  no,  then  the  lead manager may confirm 
that this fact has been indicated by way of a risk factor also. 

2.29.8.4The  lead  manager  may  explicitly  indicate  under  this  head  as  to  whether  the 
company has applied/ received all the Government Approvals pertaining to land.  If 
no  such approvals are required to be taken by the company, then this fact may be 
indicated by way of an affirmative statement in the offer document. 

 

2.29.9  MANPOWER 
 

 
2.29.11 MARKETING STRATEGY 
 

The  steps  taken  by  the  company  towards  the  recruitment  of  personnel  may  be 
specifically disclosed in the offer document.   

The  lead  manager  may  confirm  that  the  company  has  entered  into  a  legally 
enforceable agreement to use the brand name before the offer document is filed with 
the ROC/stock exchange. In case the brand name is not registered in the name of the 
company, the name in which it is registered should be disclosed.  In case the brand 
name  is  registered  in  the  name  of  firm/company  in  which  the  promoters  are 
interested  the  same  shall  be  disclosed  together  with  the  salient  features  of  the 
agreement entered into for the use of brand by the company.  If the issuer is entitled 
to  certain  trade  marks,  IPRs,  brand  names  etc.  state  whether  the  same  are  legally 
held by the company and whether all formalities in this regard have been complied 
with.  

 
2.29.13Collaboration etc. 
2.29.13.1Disclose  details  of  collaboration,  performance  guarantee  or  assistance  in 
marketing by collaborators.  Give complete details regarding persons/entities with 

Page 144 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

who  technical  and  financial  agreements  have  been  entered  into  as  per  clause 
6.7.8.1 of the guidelines. 

2.29.13.2Ensure  disclosure  regarding  capacity,  products,  marketing,  competition  etc.  as 

per clauses 6.7.12.1 and 6.7.11 of the Guidelines.  

 
2.31  Management Discussion on Financials  

Ensure disclosure as per clause 6.8 of the Guidelines and confirm compliance in-
seriatim. 

 
2.32  Financial of Group Companies 

Ensure  disclosure  of  financials  for  all  the  companies,  firms,  ventures  etc. 
promoted by the promoters of the issuer irrespective of whether these are covered 
under Sec. 370(1)(B) of the Companies Act, 1956, for the last 3 years based on 
the audited  statements,  as per clause 6.9 of the Guidelines. 

 
2.35  PROMISE VS PERFORMANCE 
2.35.1  Ensure to disclose in details as per clauses 6.11.1 and 6.11.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.35.2  Listed Ventures of Promoters 

• 

• 

A separate para on issues of group/associate companies entitled "Promise Vs 
Performance  -  ALL  earlier  Issues  of  group/associate  companies"  may  be 
given. Disclose Cost and progress of implementation in comparison to what 
was  stated  in  the  respective  prospectus.  Indicate  whether  all  the  objects 
mentioned  in  the  respective  offer  Documents  were  met  and  whether  all 
projections made in the offer documents were achieved. 
If not, non-achievement of objects/ projections shall be brought out distinctly 
(shortfall/delay  to  be  quantified).  Details  of  investor  complaints  received, 
resolved and pending as on date may be incorporated in respect of the above 
capital issues.  Any shortfall should be brought out as 'Risk Factors'.                                 

 
2.36  Particulars of issue of capital: 

Disclose details as required under clause 6.10 of the guidelines regarding issue of 
capital  during  the  last  three  years  by  the  issuer  of  companies  under  the  same 
management. 

 
2.37  Basis for Issue price 
2.37.1  Ensure that basis for the price at which the securities are offered, is disclosed in 

the offer document as provided in clause 6.13 of the Guidelines.   

2.37.2  Lead Manager shall not proceed with the issue in case the accounting ratios do not 

justify the issue price.  

 
2.38   OUTSTANDING LITIGATION’S OR DEFAULTS  

Page 145 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.38.1  Defaults of all litigation should include amount, date instituted, principal parties, 
charges/  allegations,  courts  before  which  the  Litigation  are  pending,  present 
status, implications on the issuer, provisions made in the financial statements shall 
be disclosed.  

2.38.2   Lead Manager to classify the litigation in various heads in the following order  

6.  Criminal 
7.  Securities 
8.  Statutory 
9.  Civil 
10. Others (please specify)  

compliance. 

2.38.3  Ensure  pointwise  disclosure  of  clause  6.14  of  the  Guidelines  and  confirm 

2.38.8  All outstanding litigation should be reflected by way of separate risk factors.    
 
2.39 

Investor Grievance Redressal System 
Ensure disclosure as per clause 6.16 of the Guidelines.   

 
2.40  PART II of offer document applicable for public issues including IPOs 

Ensure disclosure as per clauses 6.17, 6.18 and 6.19 of the Guidelines. 

 
2.41  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
2.41.15Ensure disclosure of statutory and other information as per clause 6.18 and 6.19 

of the Guidelines. 

2.41.16Ensure that the accounting ratios are given as per clause 6.18.7 (f) for each of the 

accounting periods for which financial information is given.   

2.41.17Capitalisation statement as required under clause 6.18.7 (g) shall be disclosed. 
2.41.18Ensure that all the financial and other information required in terms of clause 6.18 

of the Guidelines is duly covered by the auditors report. 

ISSUE ADVERTISEMENTS 

Ensure compliance of clause 5.11 of the Guidelines 2000. 

 
2.43  ADVERTISEMENT FOR RIGHTS ISSUE 
 
 
2.44 
2.44.1  As  regards  issue  advertisements,  as  lead  manager,  you  shall  take  an  undertaking 
from the issuer company that no publicity material or advertisement will be released 
without the consent of the lead manager and you shall ensure that the advertisement 
does  not  violate  extant  guidelines  on  the  subject,  particularly  chapter  IX  of  SEBI 
(DIP) guidelines, 2000.  Further, no slogans or catchword shall be used if the same 
was not part of the document vetted by SEBI.   

2.44.2  In this connection, care should be taken to ensure that RISK FACTORS appear in all 
places alongwith the HIGHLIGHTS.  Further all Issue advertisements will mention 
risk factors invariably even when the HIGHLIGHTS are not mentioned.  

 
2.47  Memorandum in Form 2A (Abridged Prospectus) and Application 
2.47.1  Ensure that the abridged prospectus contains the disclosures as per Section II of 

Chapter 6 of the Guidelines 2000.  

Page 146 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.47.2  Each application shall be accompanied by an abridged prospectus.   
2.47.5   The Notes to risk factors shall also be contained in the abridged prospectus after 

the risk factors. 

2.47.7  The General instructions shall also specifically state that a ceiling of Rs.50000 per 
individual per stock invest has been imposed by banks and that the ceiling is not 
applicable to mutual funds. 

 
2.51     STOCKINVEST SCHEME 

The  modified  features  of  the  scheme  as  per  RBI  Circular  dated  2/9/94  should  be 
incorporated  in  all  relevant  places  in  the  Offer  Document  and  Memorandum  2A 
(abridged prospectus). Particularly the fact that only individual investors and mutual 
funds can apply through stock invest shall be distinctly indicated. 
Further, the fact that the stockinvest should be used within 10 days from the date of 
issue should also be mentioned. The applicant should also be reminded to indicate 
the application number on the reverse of the instrument through which the payment 
is made. The stockinvest is to be made payable in favour of the issuer company and 
not the bank. 

 
 
2.54     OTHER CONDITIONS 
2.54.11 All data with regard to shareholdings be updated and any changes in this regard be 

clearly incorporated in the offer document. 

2.54.13.1A  specific  disclosure  shall  be  made  stating  that  all  information  shall  be  made 
available by the lead managers and the issuer to the public and investors at large and 
no  selective  or  additional  information  would  be  available  for  a  section  of  the 
investors  in  any  manner  whatsoever  including  at  road  shows,  presentations,  in 
research or sales reports, at bidding centres etc.  

2.54.16  Lead manager or the issuer  or any other person marketing the issue shall not offer 
any  incentives  to  the  prospective  investors  by  way  of  commission,    insurance 
schemes, banking/Depository   facilities, credit card facilities, lucky draw, prizes 
or  in  any  other  manner  whereby  consideration  or  inducement  in  cash  or  kind  is 
made. 

 
2.55  CLAIMS MADE IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT  
2.55.5  The  fact  that  an  applicant  in  the  public/reserved  category  can  make  an  application 
only  for  that  number  of  securities  only  which  is  offered  to  the  public/under 
reservations, should be brought out distinctly in the document.  

2.55.6  As regards applications in case of reservations to NRI's/OCB's, lead manager should 
ensure to incorporate the fact that payment for such allotments shall come through 
external source only and that the  payments through NR(O) a/c will not be permitted.  
2.55.9  The Lead Manager should ensure to indicate in the offer document and in General 
Instructions in Form 2A that the persons (excepting shareholders and employees of 
the companies) to whom firm allotments have been made in the present issue should 
not make applications in the public offer category. 

2.55.10 The lead manager should ensure that the issue in respect of reserved categories such 

as NRIs etc. should be closed on the same date as to the Indian public. 

Page 147 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
2.56     Corporate Governance  
 

A  separate  paragraph  shall  be  added  in  the  Offer  Document  stating  the  following. 
“The  company  has  complied  with  SEBI  guidelines  in  respect  of  Corporate 
Governance  specially  with  respect  to  broad  basing  of  Board,  Constituting  the 
Committees such as shareholding/ investor Grievance Committee, etc." The details 
of  these  committees  shall  be  disclosing  under  the  head  "Management".  If  the 
committees  are  not  constituted  for  any  legal  reason  before  listing,  the  stock 
exchanges  may  require  that  the  application  monies  be  kept  in  escrow  account  till 
compliance. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 148 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

ANNEXURE -V 

(Referred to at paragraph 5.4 of  the Report) 
 

A-V. Chart of disclosure items in offer documents 

 

 CONTENTS 

 

COMPANI
ES 
ACT 
PROVISIO
NS 

SEBI DIP 
 
GUIDELINE
S 

SEBI 
OBSERVATIO
NS 

VOLUNTAR
Y 

 
 
 
Part I - 
I(a) 

 
6.2 
 
6.2.1.2 (ii) 

 
2.3 
 
 

 

 
 Cover Page 
* Issue Details  
 -Logo Name, Previous Name, Address, 
Tel. no, Fax No. Contact Person and e-
mail Address of the 
Issuer Company 
 -Nature, No., Price and Amount of 
Instruments offered and issue Size 

 -Risk in relation to First Issue 

 -General Risk regarding Investments 
in Equity 

 -issuer's Absolute Responsibility 
clause 
 -Logo and Names, of the Lead  
Managers with their titles, and Logo 
and Names of the Registrars 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  6.2.1.2(i) 
& 
(iii) 
 6.2.1.2(iv)
a 
  6.2.1.2(v) 

  6.2.1.2(vi) 

  6.2.1.2(vii
) 
& (viii) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 149 of 326 

 -Issue Schedule 

Part I - 
I(g) 

6.3.10 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 -Credit Rating, if applicable 
 -Names of the Stock Exchanges where 
Listing is proposed along with details 
of 
in-principle approval 

Part I - I(j)  6.2.1.2(x) 
 6.2.1.2(xi) 
& (xii) 

 Table of Contents 
* To include all the main heads 

  
 SECTION I – RISK FACTORS  
 
 Forward - looking Statements and 
Market Data 

 
 Risk Factors 

* Management Perception of Internal 

Risks - Risks  relating to  the 
Company 
 

* Management Perception of External 
Risks - Risks  relating to the Industry 

* Investors Please Note: 

 SECTION II – INTRODUCTION 
 
 Summary 
* Summary of the Industry and 

Business of the Issuer Company 

* Offering Details in Brief 
* Summary Consolidated Financial,  

Operating and Other Data 

 
 General Information 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
Part I - 
VIII 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

6.2.2.1 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

6.2.3.2 

6.2.3.2 

6.2.4.2 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  Voluntary 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
  Mandatory 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Page 150 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

* Board of Directors of the Company 
* Brief details of the Chairman/MD etc.  
* Names, Address, Tel No., Fax No, 

Contact Person and email Address of 
Merchant Bankers and the Issue 
Management Team 

 
 
Part I - 
I(h) / Part 
II - A.6 

 
 
6.3.11 

  11.3.1(v)(
b)1 

* Statement of Interse Allocation of 

Responsibilities among Lead 
Managers 

* Brokers/ Syndicate Members to the 

Issue 

* Credit Rating (in case of debt issue) 

* Debenture Trustees (in case of debt 

issue) 

* Monitoring Agency 
* Book Building Process in brief 

* Underwriting Agreements 

 
 Capital Structure 
 
 Objects of the Offering 

* Funds Requirement 

* Funding Plan 

 

 

* Schedule of Implementation 

* Funds Deployed 
* Sources of Financing of Funds already 

Deployed 

* Sources of Financing for the 
Balance Fund Requirement 

* Interim Use of Funds 
* Basic Terms of Issue  
* Basis for issue price 
* Tax Benefits 

 

Part II - 
A.6 
Part I - I( 
j) 

Part I - I( i 
) 
 
  

Part I - 
I(k) 
 
Part I - II 
 
Part I - 
IV(a) 
Part I - 
IV(b) 
Part I - 
IV(c ) 
Part I - 
V(i) 
 
 

 

 
 
 
Part I – III 
(d) 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

SEBI 
Comments 
(read with 6.5)  
2.9.1 

 
2.15 
 
2.28 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

Page 151 of 326 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

6.3.11 

6.3.12 

6.3.11 

6.6.6 

 

 
6.4 
 
6.6.1 

6.6.2 

6.6.3 

6.7.10 

6.6.5 
6.6.5 

6.6.5 

6.6.5 
 
6.13 
6.5.8 

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 SECTION III - ABOUT US 
 
 Industry Overview 
 
 Business 
* Overview 
 Details of the Business of the Company 

 

 

 -Location of the Project 
 -Plant, Machinery, Technology, 
Process etc 
 -Collaborations, any Performance 
Guarantee or Assistance in Marketing 
by the Collaborators 
 -Infrastructure Facilities for Raw 
Materials and Utilities like Water, 
Electricity etc.  
 - Products / Services of the Company 

 
* Business Strategy 
 -Future Prospects 

 
* Competitive Strengths 
 
* Insurance 
* Property 

 

 

 

 
 Industry-Regulation (if applicable) 
 
 
 Our History and Corporate Structure    
* History and Major Events 

 

* Corporate Structure 
* Main Objects 

* Subsidiaries and their Businesses 

* Shareholders Agreements 
* Strategic Partners 
* Financial Partners 
 
 Management 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Part I - 
V(a) 
 
Part I - 
V(f) 
Part I _ 
V(g) 

Part I - 
V(h) 

Part I - 
V(j) 
 
 
Part I - 
V(k) 
 
 
 
 
Part I - 
V(e) 
 
 
 

Part I - 
V(a) 
 
Part I - 
V(a) 
Part I - 
V(b) 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
6.7.1 
6.7.1 

6.7.6 
6.7.7 

6.7.8 

6.7.8.9 

6.7.11 

 
 
6.7.12 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
6.7.1 

 
6.7.1 

6.7.2 

6.7.8.1 
6.7.8.1 
6.7.8.1 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Voluntary 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
  Voluntary 
 
 

 
 
  Voluntary 
 
 
  Voluntary 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

  Voluntary 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

Page 152 of 326 

 

 
 
 
 
 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

* Board of Directors 

* Compensation of Managing Directors/ 

Wholetime Directors 

* Corporate Governance 
* Shareholding of Directors 
* Interest of the Directors 

* Change in the Board of Directors in 

last three years 

* Management Organisation Structure 

* Key Management Personnel 
* Employees Stock Option Plan 
* Shareholding of the Key Managerial 

Personnel 

* Bonus or Profit Sharing Plan for the 

Key Managerial Personnel 

* Changes in the Key Managerial 
Personnel in the last three years 

* Employees  
* Payment or Benefit to Officers of the 

Company (non-salary related) 

 Promoters/Principal Shareholders 
* Details about the Promoter 

* Other Details of the Promoters, as 

required by SEBI Guidelines 

* Details of Companies Promoted by 

the Promoters, as required by  
SEBI Guidelines 

* Common Pursuits 
* Interest of Promoters in the Company 

* Payment or Benefit to Promoters of 

the Company 

* Related Party Transactions as per 

the Financial Statements 

 Exchange Rates 
 
 Currency of Presentation 

 

 

 

 

 

2.57 
2.29.6.7 
2.29.5 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

  Voluntary 

 

 

 
 
6.19.11 

6.17.3 

 

6.7.4 
 
 

Part II - 
6.C.11(i) 
Part II - 
6.C.11(ii) 
 
 
Part II - 
6.C.11(i) 
Part II - 
A.3 
 

 
 
 

 

 
2.29.6.7(v) 
2.29.6.7(vi) 

 

2.29.6.7(v) 

  6.7.4 (c ) 
(one 
year) 
 
6.19.11 

 
Part II - 
6.C.11.(i) 

 
Part I - 
V(c ) 
 

 
6.7.3 

6.7.3 

6.9/6.11.2
/ 
6.14 
6.9.4(a) 
6.19.11 

6.19.11 

6.9.4 

 
Part II - 
6.C.11(iii) 
Part II - 
6.C.11(ii) 

2.29.6.6 

2.15.27 
2.29.5 

 
 

 

 

 
2.29.5 

2.29.5 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

  Voluntary 
 
 
  Voluntary 

Page 153 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 

 
 Selected Consolidated Financial and 
Operating Data 

 
 Management's Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations 

* Overview of the Business 
* Significant Developments subsequent 

to the last Financial Year 

* Factors that may affect Results of the 

* Other Points as required by SEBI 

Operations 

Guidelines 

* Discussion on Results of Operations 

* Comparison of recent Financial Year 

with the Previous Financial Years (last 
three years) on the major heads 
Of the P&L statement 

* Liquidity and Capital Resources 
* Capital Expenditure 
* Foreign Exchange Risk 
* Interest Rate Risk 
* Recent Accounting 

Pronouncements 

 Capitalisation 

 
 Dividend Policy 
 

 

 

SECTION IV – FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 
 

* Financial Statements 
* Changes in Accounting Policies in the 

last three years 

* Any Differences between the 

Accounting Policies and the Indian 
Accounting Policies (if the Company 
has presented its Financial Statements 
also as per Either US GAAP/IAS 

 
Part II - B 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
6.18 

 
6.8 

 
6.8.3 

6.8.3 

6.8.2 

 

6.8.1 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

  6.18.7(g)(
i) 
 
6.18.b 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
Part II - B 
 

 

 
6.18 
6.36 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

  Mandatory 
 
 

 

 

Already 
Mandatory 
 

 

 

 

  Voluntary 
  Voluntary 
  Voluntary 
  Voluntary 
  Voluntary 

2.41.17 

 
2.21.12 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

  Voluntary 
(Mandatory 
if additional 
set of a/cs. 
Used) 

Page 154 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
 
 SECTION V – LEGAL AND OTHER 
INFORMATION 

 
 Outstanding Litigations and Material 
Developments 

 
 

 

* Outstanding Litigations involving the 

Company 

* Outstanding Litigations against the 

Company's Subsidiaries (if applicable) 

 
 
 

 
 

Part I - 
VII (a) 
 

* Outstanding Litigation involving the 

Promoter and Group Companies 

 

* Material Developments since the last 

Balance Sheet Date 

Part I - 
VII (c) 

 Government Approvals/ Licensing 
 Arrangements 
* Investment Approvals (FIPB/RBI etc.) 

 
 
 

* All Government and other Approvals 

* Technical Approvals 

 Indebtness 
 
 SECTION VI – OTHER 
 REGULATORY AND STATUTORY 
DISCLOSURES 

* Authority for the Issue  

Part I - 
I(b)(i) 
Part I - 
I(b)(ii) 
Part II - 6 
 
 
 

 

* Prohibition by SEBI 
* Eligibility of the Company to enter the 

Capital Market 

* Disclaimer Clause 
* Caution 
* Disclaimer in respect of Jurisdiction 
* Distribution of Information to 

* Disclaimer Clause of the Stock 

Investors 

Exchanges 

6.17.4 

Part II - 
A.4 
 
2.1.3 
  Chapter 
II 
6.3.3 
6.3.4.1 
2.55.2 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
6.14 

 

 

 

6.30 

 
 
6.3.2 

6.3.2 

6.3.2 

6.18.6 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
2.38 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

2.6 

 

 
 
 
 

2.2 

2.1.1 
2.1.2 

 
 
 
2.45.2 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Stock 
 Exch. Req 

Page 155 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

* Impersonation 

* Filing 
* Listing 

 
Part I - I(c 
) 
Part I - 
I(d) 
Part I - 
I(e) 
* Letters of Allotment or Refund Orders  Part I - I(f) 

* Minimum Subscription 

* Consents 

* Expert Opinion 

* Changes in the Auditors in the last 3 

Years 

* Expenses of the Issue  

* Fees Payable to the BRLM/ Lead 

Managers 

* Fees Payable to the Issue Management 

Team 

* Fees Payable to the Registrars 

* Underwriting Commission, Brokerage 

and Selling Commission 

* Previous Rights and Public Issues 

* Previous Issues for Cash 

* Issues otherwise than for Cash 

* Outstanding Debentures or Bonds 

* Outstanding Preference Shares 

* Commission and Brokerage on 

Previous Issues 

* Capitalisation of Reserves or Profits 
* Option to Subscribe in the Issue 

 

* Purchase of Property 

* Revaluation of Assets 

* Classes of Shares, if applicable 

Part II - 
6.C.3 

Part II - 
A.1 
Part II - 
A.2 
Part II - 
A.3 
Part II - 
6.C.2 
Part II - 
6.C.2(c ) 
Part II - 
6.C.2 
Part II - 
6.C.2.(b) 

Part II - 
6.C.5 
Part III - 
6.C.4 
Part II - 
6.C.7 
Part II - 
6.C.8 
Part II - 
6.C.8 
Part II - 
6.C.6 

Part II - 
6.C.9 
Part II - 
6.C.10 
Part II - 
6.C.14 
 

6.3.5 
6.3.6 

6.3.7 

6.3.8 

6.17.4 

6.17.1 

6.17.2 

6.17.3 

6.19.2 

6.19.2 

6.19.2 

6.19.2 

6.19.2 

6.19.5 

 

6.19.7 

6.19.8 

6.19.8 

6.19.6 

 
6.19.9 

6.19.10 

6.19.14 

 

 
2.1.6 

 

2.8 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.15.24 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

  Mandatory 

Page 156 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

* Stock Market Data for Equity 

Shares of the Company 

Part I - V 

6.7.13 

2.30 

 

* Particulars regarding previous 

Public Issues during the last  5 years by 
Issuer Company and  
 3 (?)issues by other Listed Companies 
under the same management 
 
* Promise vis-à-vis Performance 
* Mechanism evolved for Redressal 

of Investor Grievances 

* Redressal of Investor Grievances 
 
 SECTION VII - OFFERING 
 INFORMATION 
 
 Terms of the Issue  
* Ranking of Equity Shares 
* Mode of Payment of Dividend 
* Face value and Issue Price 
* Rights of the Equity Shareholder 

* Market Lot 
* Nomination Facility to Investor 
 
 Issue Procedure 

* Book Building Procedure 
* Bid Form 
* Who can Bid 
* Maximum and Minimum Bid Size 
* Bidding Process 
* Bidding  
* Bids at Different Price Levels 
* Escrow Mechanism 
       - Escrow A/c. of the Company 
       - Escrow A/c. of the Syndicate 
* Terms of Payment and Payment 

into the Escrow Collection 
Account 

* Electronic Registration of Bids 
* Build Up of the Book and Revision 

of Bids 

* Price Discovery and Allocation 

Part I - VI 

6.10 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part I - 
III(b) 
 
 
 
Part I - 
III(a)&(c ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

6.11 
6.16 

6.16 
 
 
 
 
6.5 
 
 
 
6.5.3 

 
 
 
6.5 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
2.42 

2.42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

Page 157 of 326 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

* Signing of Underwriting Agreement 

and Filing of Prospectus with RoC 

* Announcement of Statutory 

Advertisement 

* Issuance of Confirmation of Allocation 

Note("CAN") and Allotment in the 
Issue 

* Designated Date 
* General Instructions 
  -Do's 
  -Don'ts 
 - Instructions for Completing the 
 Bid Form 
  - Bidders Bank Details 
  - Bids by NRIS, OCBs or FIIs on a 
repatriation basis 

* Payment Instructions 
 -Payment into Escrow Account of the 
Company 
 -Payment into Escrow Account of the 
Syndicate Member 
  -Payment by Stockinvest 
* Submission of Bid Form 
* Other Instructions 
 -Joint Bids in the case of Individuals 
 -Multiple Bids 
 -PAN or GIR number 
 -Company's Right to Reject Bids 
 -Equity Shares in Demat Form with 
NSDL or CDSL 

* Disposal of Application and 

Application Moneys 

* Disposal of Applications made by 

* Basis of Allotment or Allocation 
* Method of Proportionate Allotment 
* Despatch of Refund Orders 
* Communications 
* Undertaking by the Company 
* Utilisation of Issue Proceeds 

* Interest on Refund of Excess Bid 

Stockinvest 

Amount 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

  6.5.4.3 

 

 

Part II - A.5  6.17.4 
Part II - A.5  6.17.4 
  6.5.5 
 
 
  6.5.6 
Part I - I(l)  6.5.7 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
Voluntary 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
6.23.2.1.(d)(iii) 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 158 of 326 

* Restrictions on Foreign Ownership of 

Indian Securities 
 -Investment by Non-resident Indians 
and Overseas Corporate Bodies 

 -Investment by Foreign Institutional 
Investors 
 -Ownership restrictions of FIIs 
 
 SECTION VIII - DESCRIPTION 
OF EQUITY SHARES AND 
TERMS OF THE ARTICLES OF 
ASSOCIATION 

 Main Provisions of the Articles of 
Association 

 
 SECTION IX - OTHER 
INFORMATION 

 
 
 Material Contracts and Documents 
for Inspection 

 

 

 
 Declaration 
 
 DEFINITIONS AND 
ABBREVIATIONS 

* Conventional/General Terms 
* Offering - related Terms 
* Company/Industry Related Terms 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

Part II - 
6.C.12 
 
 

6.19.1
2 
 
 

 
Part II - 
6.C.15 
 
Part III - 22 
 
 

 

6.19.1
5 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

Voluntary 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  Mandatory 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

Page 159 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

ANNEXURE VI 

(Referred to in Paragraph 5.5 of the Report) 
 

A-VI. REWORKED OFFER DOCUMENT 

 

 

 (Wholly owned by Government of India) 

Constituted under the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 

Head Office: 239, Vidhan Bhavan Marg, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 

Telephone: (022) 202 4647 / 202 6049; Fax: (022) 288 1979 

Email: union- ipo@unionbankofindia.com; Website: www.unionbankofindia.com 

Public Issue of 18,00,00,000 equity shares of Rs10 each for cash at a premium of  

 

Rs.6 per share (at an issue price of Rs16 per share)  

aggregating Rs 288 crore 

 

RISKS IN RELATION TO FIRST ISSUE 

This being the first issue of equity shares of Union Bank of India, there has been no formal market for the 
equity shares of the Bank. The Issue Price (as has been determined and justified by the Lead Managers and 
the Issuer as stated under “Basis of Issue Price” paragraph on page 45) should not be taken to be indicative 
of  the  market  price  of  the  equity  shares  after  the  equity  shares  are  listed.  No  assurance  can be given 
regarding an active or sustained trading in the equity shares of the Bank or regarding the price at which the 
equity shares will be traded after listing. 

GENERAL RISKS 

Investments in equity and equity related securities involve a degree of risk  and investors should not invest 
any  funds  in  this  Issue  unless  they  can  afford  to  take  the  risk  of  losing  their  investment.  Investors  are 
advised  to  read  the  risk  factors  carefully  before  taking  an  investment  decision  in  this  Issue.  For  taking  an 
investment decision, investors must rely on their own examination of the Issuer and the Issue including the 
risks involved. The securities have not been recommended or approved by Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (SEBI) nor does SEBI guarantee the accuracy or adequacy of this Document. 

The  attention  of  investors  is  drawn  to  the  statement  of  Risk  Factors  appearing  on  page  i  of  the  Offer 
Document. 

PROMOTERS  

Not Available  

ISSUER’S ABSOLUTE RESPONSIBILITY 

The  Issuer,  having  made  all  reasonable  inquiries,  accepts  responsibility  for,  and  confirms  that  this  Offer 
Document contains all information with regard to the Issuer and the Issue, which is material in the context of 
the  Issue,  that  the  information  contained  in  this  Offer  Document  is  true  and  correct  in  all  material aspects 
and is not misleading in any material respect, that the opinions and intentions expressed herein are honestly 
held and that there are no other facts, the omission of which makes this Document as a whole or any of 
such information or the expression of any such opinions or intentions misleading in any material respect. 

LISTING 

The equity shares are proposed to be listed on the Stock Exchange, Mumbai (“BSE” or the “Regional Stock 
Exchange”) and the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (“NSE”). The “in-principle” approvals for listing 
from the BSE and NSE have been received on July 10, 2002 and July 12, 2002 respectively. 
 
LEAD MANAGER TO THE ISSUE 

REGISTRAR TO THE ISSUE 

Page 160 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 

ICICI  Securities  and  Finance  Company 
Limited 
41/44, Minoo Desai Marg 
Colaba, Mumbai 400 005 
Tel: 022 – 288 2460 
Fax: 022 – 283 7045 
E-mail: unionbankipo@isecltd.com 
 

MCS Limited 
Sri Padmavati Bhavan, Plot No. 93 
Road No. 16, MIDC, Andheri (East) 
Mumbai 400 093 
Tel: 022 – 820 5741 
Fax: 022 – 820 1783 
E-mail: mcsmum@vsnl.com 

ISSUE OPENS ON 

:  August 20, 2002 

ISSUE CLOSES ON 

:  August 28, 2002 

V. 
VI. 

General Information 
Capital Structure of the Bank  
Terms of the Present Issue 

  Risk Factors and Management Perception Thereof 
  Highlights 

 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
Part I 
I. 
 
I. 
 
 
III. 
  IV.  Particulars of the Issue 
 
 
  VII.  Previous Issue of the Bank During the Last Three Years 
 VIII.  Basis of Issue Price 
  IX.  Outstanding Litigation, Defaults and Material Developments 
 
X. 
  XI. 
Part II 
  A.  General Information 
  B. 
Financial Information 
  C.  Statutory and Other Information 
  D.  Main Provisions of the Bank Nationalisation Act 
 
Part III 
Declaration 
 

Risk Factors and Management Perception Thereof 
Investor Grievances and Redressal System 

Bank and Management 
Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Performance 

E. 

Material Contracts and Documents for Inspection 

 

1 
7 
10 
17 
18 
43 
45 
45 
46 
51 
55 

56 
60 
75 
76 
80 

81 

Page 161 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
 
SECTION I  

 

RISK FACTORS AND MANAGEMENT PERCEPTION THEREOF 

The investors should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other details and 
information  contained  in  this  Offer  Document  in  evaluating  the  Bank  and  its  business  before 
investing in the shares offered by this Offer Document. 

Internal to the Bank 

1.  Moody’s Investor Services has assigned a Ba3 long-term foreign currency deposit rating to 
the Bank due to a high likelihood of Government support in the event of a crisis. The rating 
agency  has  commented  that  on  an  unsupported  stand-alone  basis,  the  Bank’s  inherent 
financial position would have warranted a foreign deposit rating of B1, one notch lower than 
the current rating. The rating as given by the rating agency is subject to review and change. 
According  to  Moody’s  Investor  Services  Banks  rated  Ba  for  deposits  offer  questionable 
credit quality. Often the ability of these banks to meet punctually deposit obligations may be 
uncertain and therefore not well safeguarded in the future. Banks rated B for deposits offer 
generally poor credit quality. Assurance of punctual payment of deposit obligations over any 
long  period  of  time  is  small.  Further  the  modifier  1  indicates  that  the  bank  is  in  the  higher 
end of its letter-rating category and the modifier 3 indicates that the bank is in the lower end 
of its letter-rating category. 

 

 

2. 

 

 

Management Perception 

The  Bank  has  been  assigned  rating  equal  to  the  sovereign  rating  owing  to  its  ownership. 
Moody’s Investor Services has mentioned that the Bank’s large branch network with good 
geographical spread, provides the Bank with a measure of franchise protection. The rating 
as given by the rating agency is subject to review and change. 

The net profit for the year ended March 31, 2002 has grown by approximately 67% mainly 
due to growth in treasury profits, which may not be sustainable in the future years. Further 
the  Bank  faces  pressure  on  income  earned  as  the  annual  growth  in  interest  income  is 
7.57%  in  FY  2002  as  compared  to  the  annual  increase  in  interest  income  of  12.6%  in  FY 
2001. 

Management Perception 

The  Bank  has  in  addition  to  sustaining  the  normal  growth  in  advances  embarked  on  a 
strategy to diversify its income streams through a number of new products and services to 
maintain  growth.  Retail  banking  is  an  area,  which  has  been  given  added  thrust  with  the 
introduction  of  new  schemes.  Additionally,  the  Bank  is  expanding  its  service  range  by 
offering  cash  management  services,  credit  card,  insurance  distribution  (when  permitted 
under  the  applicable  laws),  gold  trading,  demat  services,  etc.  The  activities  mentioned  do 
not significantly contribute to the current profit of the Bank and many of them are proposed 
to be launched. 

Page 162 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

3. 

 

 

4. 

 

 

5. 

 

 

6. 

 

 

7. 

 

 

There are 520 cases of civil suits, criminal cases, cases in the consumer courts, complaints 
to the Banking Ombudsman outstanding against the Bank with total amounts aggregating to 
Rs597.04 crore. For more details, please refer to the para on Outstanding litigation, default 
and material developments on page 46. 

Management Perception 

The Bank is contesting the above-mentioned claims. 

The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  has  taken  action  against  the  Bank  in 
two  cases  for  lapses  while  acting  as  Bankers  to  public  issues.  In  first  case,  SEBI  has 
prohibited  four  branches  of  the  Bank  from  acting  as  Bankers  to  the  Issue.  In  the  second 
case, SEBI has asked the Bank to refund application money aggregating to Rs3.53 crore 
with  interest  @  15%  with  effect  from  April  1996  to  applicants  in  a  public  issue  for  violating 
Section 73 of the Companies Act. For more details, please refer to the para on Outstanding 
litigation, default and material developments on page 46. 

Management Perception 

In  the  first  case,  the  prohibition  from  acting  as  Bankers  to  public  issues  for  four  branches 
has expired. In the second case, the Bank has filed an appeal to the High Court against the 
order of SEBI. The Bank has however, made provisions of Rs6.08 crore which is inclusive of 
interest  @  15%  for  the  period  from  April  1996  and  up  to  March  2002,  but  net  of  funds 
available with the Bank as part of public issue proceeds. 

As on March 31, 2002, the contingent liabilities of the Bank aggregated to Rs8,471.03 crore. 
Of  this,  Rs150.31  crore  related  to  claims  against  the  Bank  not  acknowledged  as  debt, 
Rs4,894.75 crore related to outstanding forward exchange contracts and Rs1,570.92 crore 
related to guarantees given by the Bank on behalf of its constituents. 

Management Perception 

The contingent liabilities are in ordinary course of business of the Bank. 

The contingent liabilities include disputed income tax and interest tax demands against the 
Bank  under  appeals,  references,  etc.  amounting  to  Rs426.94  crore,  which  have  not  been 
provided for. For more details, please refer to the para on Outstanding litigation, default and 
material developments on page 46. 

Management Perception 

The  Bank  has  contested  the  above-mentioned  claims  though  the  amount  demanded  has 
been paid to the Income Tax department. 

As  on  March  31,  2002,  there  were  482  cases  involving  litigation  filed  by  employees/  ex-
employees  before  various  courts/tribunals/authorities.  The  Bank  has  not  made  any 
provisions in this regard. For more details, please refer to the para on Outstanding litigation, 
default and material developments on page 46. 

Management Perception 

The Bank has contested the above-mentioned litigations. 

Page 163 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

8. 

 

 

As on March 31, 2002, the net NPAs of the Bank stood at 6.26% of its net advances. The 
absolute  amount  of  the  net  NPAs  as  on  March  31,  2002  stood  at  Rs1,338.36  crore.  For 
more details, please refer to para on Recovery Management on page 28. 

Management Perception 

The  Bank  is  taking  various  steps  to  control  the  level  of  NPAs  and  ensure  recovery  of  the 
existing bad loans. The Bank has a recovery policy containing mechanism of settling NPAs 
by compromise. The Bank has set-up a Credit Monitoring and Recovery Department at each 
of the Field General Manager’s Offices, Zonal Offices and Regional Offices through which 
follow-up for recoveries is maintained. The Bank has put in place procedures for credit risk 
management  to  minimise  the  occurrence  of  fresh  NPAs.  The  ratio  of  net  NPAs  to  net 
advances  has  continued  to  reduce  from  7.97%  on  March  31,  2000  to  6.87%  as  on  March 
31, 2001 and to 6.26% as on March 31, 2002. 

9. 

The  utilisation  of  funds  proposed  to  be  raised  through  the  Public  Issue  has  not  been 
independently appraised or assessed and hence is at the discretion of the Bank. 

 

 

 

 

 

Management Perception 

The Bank is governed by the Bank Nationalisation Act and follows prudential guidelines and 
norms issued by Reserve Bank of India for its activities. The funds will be deployed in the 
regular business activivities of the Bank. 

10.   The  Annual  Financial  Inspection  (AFI)  Report  of  RBI  on  the  position  of  the  Bank  as  on 
March 31, 2001 has pointed out divergence in income recognition, asset classification and 
provisioning as well as certain deficiencies in systems and other operational matters. 

 

 

Management Perception 

The  Bank  has  advised  the  RBI  of  the  remedial  measures  already  taken  and  those  under 
implementation. 

11.   One  of  the  Regional  Rural  Banks  (RRB),  Kashi  Gramin  Bank  (KGB),  Varanasi  has 

accumulated losses aggregating Rs13.13 crore as on March 31, 2002. 

 

 

Management Perception 

Union Bank of India has sponsored the RRBs in association with the Central Government 
and  the  respective  State  Governments.  The  Central  Government,  the  State  Government 
and  Union  Bank  of  India  have  contributed  50%,  15%  and  35%  of  the  equity  capital  of  the 
RRBs respectively. Moreover, KGB has been reducing the accumulated losses through the 
profits earned during the last few years. 

12.   The Bank could not achieve the stipulation of the export target of 12% of net bank credit as 
per  RBI  directives  for  the  years  1999-00,  2000-01  and  2001-02.  RBI  has  not  taken  any 
action,  levied  any  penalty  or  given  any  adverse  remark  against  the  Bank  for  non-
achievement of the targets 

 

Management Perception 

Page 164 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

The  non-achievement  of  the  target  has  no  negative  impact  on  the  working  results  of  the 
Bank. 

13.   The  funding  of  the  Bank  is  primarily  short-term  and  medium  term  in  the  form  of  term 
deposits and if depositors do not roll over deposited funds upon maturity the business of the 
Bank  could  be  affected.  For  more  details,  kindly  refer  to  the  para  on  Asset-Liability 
Management on page 31 

 

 

Management Perception 

As on March 31, 2002, 66% of the Bank’s deposit liabilities consisted of term deposits. The 
maturity of 56% of these term deposits was for a period exceeding one year but up to three 
years and 13% of the term deposits were for period exceeding 6 months but up to one year. 
Moreover,  the  Bank  has  implemented  an  Asset-Liability Management (ALM) System. The 
Bank  also  has  an  Asset-Liability  Management  Committee  (ALCO)  to  regularly  review  any 
mismatch and takes appropriate steps to reduce the same. 

14.   The  Bank  faces  credit  risk  which  involves  inability  or  unwillingness  of  a  customer  or 
counterparty  to  meet  the  commitments  in  relation  to  lending,  trading,  hedging,  settlement 
and other financial transactions. 

 

 

Management Perception 

The  Bank  has  constituted  a  high  level  Credit  Policy  Committee  and  Credit  Risk 
Management  Department  to  deal  with  issues  relating  to  Credit  Policy  and  procedures  to 
analyse,  manage  and  control  credit  risk  on  a  bank  wide  basis.  For  details,  please  refer  to 
para on Loan Policy and Lending Activities on page 24. 

15.   The  Verma  Committee,  which  carried  out a study of the banking sector in 1998 and 1999, 
had suggested seven parameters for assessing a bank’s strength/weakness covering three 
major areas namely solvency, earning capacity and profitability. Based on the above, the 
Bank  was  classified  in  the  third  category  of  banks,  which  complied  with  the  Capital 
Adequacy requirement but did not comply one or two of the remaining parameters for the 
years  1998  and  1999.  The  two  parameters  on  which  the  Bank  didn’t  comply  were  Net 
Interest  Margin  and  Ratio  of  Operating  Profit  to  Average  Working  Funds.  The  Bank  has 
complied  with  the  parameters  in  the  subsequent  years.  For  more  details,  please  refer  to 
para on Verma Committee recommendations page 42. 

 

 

Management Perception 

The  report  pertained  to  the  years  1998  and  1999.  The  Verma  Committee  has  actually 
commented that the banks classified in the category under which the Bank falls are fairly 
well  placed  to  tackle  the  visible  pointers  to  weaknesses  through  internal  strategies.  The 
Bank has complied with all the parameters in the subsequent years. 

External to the Bank 

The present Issue of equity shares carries the following normal business risks associated with the 
activities of public sector commercial banks. 

1. 

There  are  a  number  of  restrictions  as  per  the  Bank  Nationalisation  Act  and  Banking 
Regulations  Act,  which  impede  the  flexibility  of  the  Bank’s  operations  and  affect/restrict 
investor’s right. They are as follows: 

Page 165 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i. 

The  Banks  can  carry  on  business  /  activities  as  specified  in  the  Act.  There  is  no 
flexibility to pursue  profitable  avenues  if  they  arise,  in  contrast  with  companies  under 
the Companies Act, where shareholders can amend the Object Clause by a Special 
Resolution. 

ii. 

There are restrictions in the Banking Regulation Act regarding 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a)  Setting up of subsidiaries by a bank 

b)  Management of the bank including appointment of directors 

c) 

Borrowings and creation of floating charge thereby hampering leverage. Banks 
may have to resort to unsecured debt instruments for borrowings 

d)  Expansion of business as branches need to be licensed 

e)  Disclosures in the Profit & Loss account and Balance Sheet 

f) 

Production  of  documents  and  availability  of 
shareholders 

records 

for 

inspection  by 

g)  Reconstruction of banks through amalgamation etc. 

h) 

Further issues of capital including issue of bonus shares/ rights share for which 
prior MoF approval is needed 

iii.  The financial disclosures in the Offer Document may not be available to investors after 

listing, on a continuous basis. 

iv.  Various  rights/powers  of  shareholders  available  under  the  Companies  Act  in  this 
behalf  are  not  available  to  the  shareholders  of  Banks  as  the  provisions  of  the 
Companies Act are not applicable to the Banks. These rights include rights like calling 
for general meetings, inspection of minutes and other material records, application by 
members  for  investigation  of  affairs  of  a  company,  application  for  relief  in  cases  of 
oppression  and  mismanagement,  voluntary  winding  up,  are  not  available 
to 
shareholders of the Bank. 

v.  No  person  holding  shares  in  the  Bank  in  respect  of  any  shares  held  by  him,  can 
exercise  voting  rights  on  poll  in  excess  of  1%  of  the  total  voting  rights  of  all  the 
shareholders of the Bank. 

vi.  No banking company shall pay dividend on its shares until all its capitalised  expenses 
(including preliminary, organisational expenses, share selling commission, brokerage, 
amounts  of  losses  incurred  and  any  other  item  of  expenditure  not  represented  by 
tangible  assets)  have  been  completely  written  off.  The  Bank  has  received  an 
exemption from GoI, vide letter ref. F.No.11/1/2002-BOA dated June 7, 2002 from this 
provision relating to the payment of dividend, for a period of 5 years. 

2. 

Increase  in  regional  hostilities,  terrorist  attacks  and  other  acts  of  violence  and  war  could 
adversely affect the country’s economic growth and development and thereby the financial 
markets including the Bank’s business and its future financial performance. 

Page 166 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

3. 

 

 

The  performance  and  quality  and  growth  of  the  assets  of  the  Bank  are  dependent  on  the 
health of the overall Indian economy. Slowdown in economic growth in India could affect the 
business of the Bank. 

Management Perception 

The Bank is expanding its product and service offerings to diversify its income stream. The 
Bank  has  put  in  place  risk  management  systems  and  is  also  monitoring  sector  wise 
exposure. Even during the global downturn and slowdown in the Indian economy the Bank 
has continued to make profits. 

4.  Major  changes  in  Government/RBI  policies  relating  to  the  Banking  Sector  may  have  an 

 

 

impact on the operations of the Bank. 

Management Perception 

The  changes  occurring  in  the  policy  environment  as  a  result  of  various  reform  measures 
have brought in various opportunities for growth as well as challenges. The Bank is backed 
by about 83 years of operations and a professional management team. 

5.  Competition in the financial sector  – The Bank faces strong competition in all areas of its 
business from other larger banks, regional, old and new private sector banks and foreign 
banks. Also mutual funds, with various innovative product offerings are depriving banks of 
low cost deposits. 

 

 

6. 

 

 

Management Perception 

The Bank is backed by about 83 years of banking experience. 

Interest  rate  risks- Banking operations are greatly dependent upon its net interest income, 
which  is  the  difference  between  interest  income  from  interest-earning  assets  and  interest 
expense on interest-bearing liabilities. 

Management Perception 

These risks are inherent in the banking business. The interest rates are sensitive to many 
factors beyond the Bank’s control including the deregulation of the financial sector in India, 
the RBI’s monetary policy, international and domestic economic and political conditions and 
other factors. The Bank has put in place risk control measures to manage interest rate risks. 

7. 

Exchange Rate fluctuations may have an impact on the Bank’s financial performance. 

 

 

Management Perception 

As  per  RBI  guidelines,  banks  are  not  allowed  to  keep  open  position  on  their  foreign 
exchange  transactions  beyond  prescribed  limits  on  a  daily  basis.  Foreign  exchange 
transactions beyond such limits, if any, must be squared off at the end of each day. Hence, 
the risk from exchange rate fluctuations is minimised. 

8.  Disintermediation risk  -  With  the  increasing  trend  towards  disintermediation in the financial 
markets,  many  companies  may  access  the  markets  directly,  thereby  reducing  their 
dependence on the Banking system. 

 

Management Perception 

Page 167 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

9. 

 

 

With  gradual  integration  of  the  various  segments  of  the  financial  markets  and  financial 
innovations, disintermediation is bound to increase. The Bank recognises this aspect and is 
focussing  on  retail  banking  products  and  also  increasing  non-fund  based  business  and 
income therefrom. 

The  Bank  is  in  the  process  of  adapting  itself  to  the  rapid  technological  changes  but 
computer-break-ins and power disruptions as well as fraud and systems failure could affect 
the Bank’s functioning and its performance. 

Management Perception 

The  Bank  has  appointed  reputed  consultants  to  take  care  of  effective  and uninterrupted 
functioning in case of unexpected contingencies. 

NOTE 

1.  Networth (excluding revaluation reserves) of the Bank as on March 31, 2002 is Rs1,588.74 

crore. 

The Issue size is Rs288 crore. 

The Net Asset Value of the Bank as on March 31, 2002 is Rs47 per share. 

The cost of shares to Government of India is Rs10 per share. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5.  Union Bank would like to clarify that inspection by RBI is a regular exercise and is carried 
out periodically by RBI for all banks and financial institutions. The reports of RBI are strictly 
confidential.  The  Bank  has  informed  the  RBI  the  actions  already  taken  and  measures  that 
are under implementation in respect of observations made by RBI. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

Section  3  (2E)  of  the  Bank  Nationalisation  Act  provides  that  no  shareholder  other  than 
Central  Government  shall  be  entitled  to  exercise  voting  rights  in  respect  of  any  equity 
shares  held  by  him/her  in  excess  of  one  per  cent  of  the  total  voting  rights  of  all  the 
shareholders of the Bank. 

Section 3(2B)(c) of the Bank Nationalisation Act provides that the paid-up capital may, from 
time to time, be increased by such amounts as the Board of Directors of the Bank may, after 
consultation  with  the  RBI  and  with  the  previous  sanction  of  the  Central  Government,  raise 
by  Public  Issue  of  equity  shares  as  may  be  prescribed,  so  however,  that  the  Central 
Government, at all times, hold not less than fifty-one per cent of the paid-up capital of each 
of  the  Corresponding  New  Bank.  The  Banking  Companies  (Acquisition  and  Transfer  of 
Undertakings) and Financial Institutions Laws (Amendment (Bill)), 2000 proposes to reduce 
the minimum stake of the Government from 51% to 33%. 

The shareholders of the Bank do not have a right to receive dividend within 42 days as is 
available to companies under the Companies Act. 

Section 15(1) of the Banking Regulation Act provides that no banking company shall pay 
dividend on its shares until all its capitalised expenses (including preliminary, organisational 
expenses, share selling commission, brokerage, amounts of  losses incurred and any other 
item  of  expenditure  not  represented  by  tangible  assets)  have  been  completely  written  off. 
The  Bank  has  received  an  exemption  from  GoI,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Department  of 
Economic Affairs (Banking Division) vide letter ref. F.No.11/1/2002-BOA dated June 7, 2002 

Page 168 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

from the provisions of the said Section 15(1) relating to the payment of dividend, for a period 
of 5 years. 

10.   No person holding shares in the Bank in respect of any shares held by him, can exercise 
voting rights on poll in excess of 1% of the total voting rights of all the shareholders of the 
Bank. 

 

 

HIGHLIGHTS 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

The Bank has a continuous track record of profitability since inception. 

The Bank is a professionally managed organisation with a well-established track record. 

The  Bank  has  a  large  network  of  branches  spread  throughout  the  country  enabling  it  to 
raise  cheaper  funds.  The  domestic  network  of  the  Bank  stood  at  2,023  branches  as  on 
March 31, 2002. The Bank has also opened specialised branches to cater to the  needs of 
Industries, Overseas Business, Non Resident Indians, Trading and Small-Scale Industries. 

The Bank is among the largest banks in India with total business (advances plus deposits) 
exceeding Rs61,000 crore. 

The  Bank  has  installed  its  own  Wide  Area  Network  (WAN)  linking  select  branches  and 
controlling offices. 

The  Bank  has  commenced  the  process  of  networking  500  branches  by  engaging  leading 
consultants for implementing a centralised core banking solution. 

The  Bank  has  established  a  state-of-the-art  integrated  treasury  capable  of  handling  all 
transactions in forex, debt and money markets. 

The Bank has its own full-fledged training college at Bangalore which has received an ISO 
9001 certification in addition to seven other training centres across the country. 

9.  Capital  adequacy  ratio  is  11.07%  as  on  March  31,  2002  against  the  RBI  prescribed 

minimum of 9%. 

10.   The net asset value of the Bank as on March 31, 2002 is Rs47 per share. 
 
 

Page 169 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

SECTION II 
 
SUMMARY 
 
Not Available 

 

Page 170 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

GENERAL INFORMATION 
Union  Bank  of  India  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “Union  Bank”  or  “the  Bank”)  has  been  constituted  as  a 
Corresponding  New  Bank  in  relation  to  the  then  Union  Bank  of  India  Ltd.  under  the  Banking  Companies 
(Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (hereinafter referred to as the Bank Nationalisation Act). The 
Bank is offering to the Public for subscription equity shares for cash as under: 

18,00,00,000  equity  shares  of  Rs10  each  for  cash  at  a  premium  of  Rs6  per  share  aggregating  Rs288  crore 
(including reservation for the working directors and employees of 1,80,00,000 equity shares of Rs10 each for cash 
at a premium of Rs6 per share aggregating Rs28.8 crore). 
Oversubscription 

In the event of the present Issue of equity shares being oversubscribed, the allotment  will  be  on  a  proportionate 
basis  and  the  basis  of  allotment  will  be  finalised  in  consultation  with  the  BSE  (Regional  Stock  Exchange)  in 
accordance with the SEBI Guidelines. 
Issue Programme 

THE  SUBSCRIPTION  LIST  FOR  THE  ISSUE  WILL  OPEN  AT  THE  COMMENCEMENT  OF  BANKING  HOURS 
ON AND WILL CLOSE AT THE CLOSE OF BANKING HOURS ON THE DATES MENTIONED BELOW: 

 

 

ISSUE OPENS ON 

:  AUGUST 20, 2002 

ISSUE CLOSES ON 

:  AUGUST 28, 2002 

LEAD MANAGERS TO THE ISSUE 
ICICI Securities and Finance Company Limited 
41/ 44, Minoo Desai Marg 
Colaba, Mumbai – 400 005 
Tel.: 022  – 288 2460 
Fax: 022 – 283 7045 
Email: unionbankipo@isecltd.com 

DSP Merrill Lynch Limited 
Mafatlal Centre, 10th floor 
Nariman Point, Mumbai – 400 021 
Tel: 022 – 232 8000 
Fax: 022 – 204 8518 
Email: unionbankipo@in.ml.com 

Enam Financial Consultants Private Limited 
801/ 802, Dalamal Towers 
Nariman Point, Mumbai – 400 021 
Tel: 022 – 238 1800 
Fax: 022 – 284 6824 
Email: unionbankipo@enam.com 
JM Morgan Stanley Private Limited 
141, Maker Chambers III 
Nariman Point, Mumbai – 400 021 
Tel: 022 – 230 3030 
Fax: 022 – 202 8224 
Email: unionbankipo@jmmorganstanley.com 
Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited 
Bakhtawar, 1st Floor 
229, Nariman Point 
Mumbai – 400 021 
Tel: 022 – 234 1100 
Fax: 022 – 282 6632 
Email: unionbank.ipo@kotak.com 

SBI Capital Markets Limited 

Page 171 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

202, Maker Tower ‘E’ 
Cuffe Parade, Mumbai – 400 005 
Tel: 022 – 218 9166 
Fax: 022 – 218 8332 
Email: cmg@sbicaps.com 

 

CO-MANAGERS TO THE ISSUE 

UTI Securities Exchange Limited 
4th Floor, Merchant Chamber 
41, Sir Vithaldas Thackersay Marg 
New Marine Lines, Mumbai – 400 020 
Tel. : 022  – 203 0124 
Fax : 022 – 203 0125 
AK Capital Services Limited 
403 Tulsiani Chambers, East Wing, 
4th Floor, 212, Nariman Point 
Mumbai – 400 021 
Tel: 022 – 234 9300 
Fax: 022 – 236 0978 
Centrum Finance Limited 
Eucharistic Congress Building III 
10th Floor, Convent Street 
Colaba, Mumbai – 400 039 
Tel: 022 – 202 3838 
Fax: 022 – 204 6096 

REGISTRAR TO THE ISSUE 
MCS Limited 
Sri Padmavati Bhavan, Plot No. 93 
Road No. 16, MIDC, Andheri (East) 
Mumbai – 400 093 
Tel: 022 – 820 5741 
Fax: 022 – 820 1783 
E-mail: mcsmum@vsnl.com 

LEGAL ADVISOR TO THE ISSUE 

Little & Company 
Central Bank Building 
Mahatma Gandhi Road, Mumbai – 400 023 
Tel: 022 – 265 2739 
Fax: 022 – 265 9918 

BANKER TO THE ISSUE 
Union Bank of India 
66/80, Mumbai Samachar Marg 
Fort, Mumbai – 400 001 
Tel: 022 – 267 4938 
Fax: 022 – 267 4135 

AUDITORS TO THE ISSUE 

B. Gupta & Co. 
Chartered Accountants 
Jamal Road, Patna 

Page 172 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Tel: 0612 – 220 423 
Fax: 0612 – 222 395 

D. P. Sen & Co. 
Chartered Accountants 
22, Ashutosh Chowdhury Avenue 
2nd Floor, Flat No. 22, Kolkata – 700 019 
Tel: 033 – 474 8853 
Fax: 033 – 248 7785 
Gala & Gala 
Chartered Accountants 
409-412, Navaratan, 4th Floor 
120-122 P. D’Mello Road, Mumbai – 400 009 
Tel: 022 – 342 6511 
Fax: 022 – 344 9086 

S. N. Dhawan & Co. 
Chartered Accountants 
C-37, Connaught Place 
New Delhi – 110 001 
Tel: 011 – 332 9564 
Fax: 011 – 332 5001 

Sundaram & Srinivasan 
Chartered Accountants 
23, C.P. Ramaswamy Road 
Alwarpet, Chennai – 600 018 
Tel: 044 – 497 0762 
Fax: 044 – 497 0763 
V. K. Verma & Co. 
Chartered Accountants 
C-37, Connaught Place 
Atma Ram House 
New Delhi – 110 001 
Tel: 011 – 332 5811 
Fax: 011 – 332 0925 

HEAD OFFICE 
239, Vidhan Bhavan Marg, Nariman Point, 
Mumbai 400 021 
Telephone: (022) 202 4647 / 202 6049 
Fax: (022) 288 1979 
Email: union- ipo@unionbankofindia.com 
Website: www.unionbankofindia.com 

FIELD GENERAL MANAGERS’ OFFICES 
MUMBAI 
Union Bank Building 
66/80, Mumbai Samachar Marg 
Fort, Mumbai – 400 001 
Tel: 022 – 263 2825 
Fax: 022 – 263 2824 
NEW DELHI 
3rd Floor, Saheed Bhagat Singh Place 
Bangla Sahib Marg 
Gole Market, New Delhi – 110 001 
Tel: 011 – 334 7998 
Fax: 011 – 334 7795 

Page 173 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

KOLKATA 
Aelpe Court, 1st Floor 
225-C, Acharya J.C. Bose Road 
Kolkata – 700 020 
Tel: 033 – 247 6587 
Fax: 033 – 240 8518 

CHENNAI 
Riaz Garden 
12/13, Kodambakkam High Road 
Nungambakkam, Chennai – 600 034 
Tel: 044 – 820 2621 
Fax: 044 – 820 2628 

LUCKNOW 
Sharda Tower 
Aliganj, Kapurthala Complex 
Lucknow – 226 020 
Tel: 0522 – 33 5153 
Fax: 0522 – 33 5152 
ZONAL OFFICES 

 

AHMEDABAD 
172/1, Premchand House 
Old High Court Way, Ashram Rd 
Ahmedabad – 380 009 
Tel: 079 – 658 9041 
Fax: 079 – 658 1049 

BHOPAL 
1st Flr., Gangotri Complex 
Bhadbadha Road, T.T.Nagar 
Bhopal – 462 003 
Tel: 0755 – 77 4280 
Fax: 0755 – 77 4284 

PUNE 
Jeevan Prakash 
6/7 LIC Bldg.,University Rd 
Shivaji Nagar, Pune – 411 005 
Tel: 020 – 553 6259 
Fax: 020 – 553 6842 
COMPLIANCE OFFICER 

Shri  R.B.  Menon,  Assistant  General  Manager,  Union  Bank  of  India,  has  been  designated  by  the  Bank  as  the 
Compliance  Officer  for  the  Issue.  In  case  of  any  pre-issue/post-issue  related  problems  such  as  non-receipt  of 
letters  of  allotment/share  certificates/refund  orders/cancelled  stockinvests,  etc.  the  investors  are  requested  to 
contact the Compliance Officer at: 

Shri R.B. Menon 
Assistant General Manager 
Union Bank of India 
239, Vidhan Bhavan Marg 
Nariman Point, Mumbai – 400 021 
Tel: 022 – 202 4647 
Fax: 022 – 288 1979 
E-mail: union-ipo@unionbankofindia.com 
Credit Rating / Debenture Trustees 

Since the present issue is of equity shares, no credit rating or appointment of trustees is required. 

Page 174 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Underwriting 

The present Issue of equity shares is not underwritten. 
 

Page 175 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

CAPITAL STRUCTURE OF THE BANK (AS ON JUNE 24, 2002) 
 

No. of Shares 

Face Value (Rs) 

 

Issue Value(Rs) 

(A)  Authorised Capital 

150,00,00,000  Equity shares of Rs10 each 

 
(B)  Issued, Subscribed and Paid-Up Capital 

33,80,00,000 # 

 
Equity shares of Rs10 each 
(C)  Present Issue through this Offer Document 

1500,00,00,000 

338,00,00,000# 

 
 

 

18,00,00,000 
 
 
Out of which 

Equity shares of Rs10 each for cash at a 
premium of Rs6 per share 

180,00,00,000 
 

288,00,00,000 
 

 1,80,00,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
(D)  Net Offer to Indian Public 

Equity shares of Rs10 each for cash at a  
premium of Rs6 per share are reserved for 
allotment to the permanent/confirmed employees  
(including Wholetime Directors) on a  
proportionate basis 

16,20,00,000 
 
 

 
 
(E)  Paid Up Capital After the Issue 

Equity shares of Rs10 each for cash at a 
premium of Rs6 per equity share 

46,00,00,000 # 

 
(F)  Share Premium Account 

Equity shares of Rs10 each 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Before the Offer 

After the Offer 

 

18,00,00,000 
 

28,80,00,000  
 

162,00,00,000 
 

259,20,00,000  
 

460,00,00,000# 

 

 

 

400,000 

108,04,00,000 

 

#The  Bank  has  received  an  “in-principle”  approval  for  return  of  capital  amounting  to  Rs58  crore  from  the 
Government  of  India,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Department  of  Economic  Affairs  (Banking  Division)  by  their  letter  no. 
F.No.11/1/2002- BOA dated May 3, 2002. The post- issue paid-up capital has been calculated after giving effect to 
the proposed return of equity capital to the Government of India. The Bank will complete the formalities related to 
the return of capital before the Opening of the Issue. The pre-issue capital after completing the return of capital but 
before Opening of the Issue is Rs 280 crore. 

The  entire  equity  capital  of  the  Bank  is  presently  held  by  the  Government  of  India  (GoI).  The  GoI,  Ministry  of 
Finance,  Department  of  Economic  Affairs  (Banking  Division)  by  its  letter  dated  April  8,  2002  have  given  its 
approval for the present Issue. After the Issue, the shareholding of the GoI will be 60.8%. 

The  GoI,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Department  of  Economic  Affairs  (Banking  Division)  has  by  its  letter  dated  May  16, 
2002  given  its  approval  for  lock-in  of  20%  of  the  post- issue  capital  for  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of 
allotment in the Issue and the remaining capital held by it for a period of one year from the date of allotment in this 
Issue. 

NOTES 

1.  Share Capital history (since nationalisation on July 19,1969) is given below- 
Mode 

 
 

Period ended 
 

Increase/(Decrease) 
in Capital 

 

(Rs. crore) 

Paid up capital at the time of Nationalisation  

 

 

31.12.1982 
31.12.1983 
9.12.1985 
30.12.1985 
30.12.1986 

2.75 
2.00 
9.00 
15.00 
14.00 

From Reserves 
From Reserves 
GoI 
GoI 
GoI 

— 
— 
Recapitalisation Bonds 
— do — 
— do — 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Paid Up 
capital 

(Rs crore) 

1.25 

4.00 
6.00 
15.00 
30.00 
44.00 

Page 176 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

30.3.1988 
31.3.1989 
31.3.1992 
31.3.1993 
01.01.1994 
Before the Opening   
of the Issue 
 

11.00 
3.00 
50.00 
30.00 
200.00 
(58.00) 
 
 

GoI 
GoI 
GoI 
GoI 
GoI 
Return of capital  
to GoI 
 

— do — 
— do — 
— do — 
— do — 
— do — 
Simultaneous redemption 
of equal amount of Recapita- 
lisation Bonds 

55.00 
58.00 
108.00 
138.00 
338.00 
280.00 

2.  The authorised share capital of the Bank is Rs1,500 crore as per sub-section 2A of section 3 of the Banking 

Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, as amended from time to time. 

3.  Under  Section  3A  of  the  Bank  Nationalisation  Act,  no  notice  of  any  trust,  express,  implied  or  constructive, 
shall be entered on the register or be receivable by the Bank. In terms of this Section, while trusts could make 
investments in equity shares of the Bank, this could be only in the name of the trustees and no details of the 
trust would be taken cognisance of by the Bank on its Register of Shareholders. 

4. 

i) 

Section  3(2E)  of  the  Bank  Nationalisation  Act  provides  that  no  shareholder  other  than  Central 
Government  shall  be  entitled  to  exercise  voting  rights  in  respect  of  any  equity  shares  held  by  him  in 
excess of one percent of the total voting rights of all the shareholders of the Bank. 

 

 

5. 

6. 

ii)   Section 3(2B)(b) of Bank Nationalisation Act provides that the paid up capital of every corresponding new 
bank from time to time be increased by such amounts as the Central Government may, after consultation 
with the Reserve Bank of India, contribute to such paid-up capital. 

iii)  Section  3(2B)(c)  of  Bank  Nationalisation  Act  provides  that  the  paid  up  capital  of  every  Corresponding 
New Bank may from time to time be increased by such amounts as the Board of Directors of the Bank 
may,  after  consultation  with  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  and  with  the  previous  sanction  of  the  Central 
Government,  raise  by  Public  Issue  of  shares  as  may  be  prescribed,  so  however,  that  the  Central 
Government  shall  at  all  times  hold  not  less  than  fifty-one  percent  of  the  paid-up  capital  of  each 
corresponding  new  bank.  The  Banking  Companies  (Acquisition  and  Transfer  of  Undertakings)  and 
Financial  Institutions  Laws  (Amendment)  Bill,  2000  proposes  to  reduce  the  minimum  stake  of  the 
Government from 51% to 33%. 

In  the  event  of  over  subscription,  in  the  process  of  rounding  off  to  ensure  allotment  in  marketable  lots,  the 
Bank  may  make  such  adjustments  in  the  basis  of  allotment,  as  may  be  necessary,  in  consultation  with 
SEBI/BSE, so that the Issue does not exceed 110% of 18,00,00,000 equity shares. 

In the event of oversubscription, the allotment shall be made on a proportionate basis as is outlined elsewhere 
in this Offer Document. For more details, please refer to the para on Basis of Allotment on page 57. 

7.  Only  permanent/  regular  employees  including  Wholetime  Directors  of  the  Bank  as  on  the  cut-off  date  i.e. 
March 31, 2002 would be eligible to apply in this Issue under reservation for employees on competitive basis. 
The number of employees as on March 31, 2002 was 27,307. The maximum number of shares that a single 
applicant in the category reserved for employees can apply for is 5,000 shares. 

8.  The unsubscribed portion, if any, out of the equity shares reserved for the employees of the Bank as above, 

will be added back to the Net Offer to the Public under above. 

9. 

In  case  of  under-subscription  in  the  Net  Offer  to  the  Public  portion,  the  excess  subscription,  if  any,  in  the 
reserved category would spill over to the public portion. 

10.  No single applicant in the Net Offer to the Public category can make an application for a number of equity 

shares, which exceeds the net offer to the public. 

11.  A minimum 50% of the Net Offer to the Public will be made available for allotment in favour of those individual 
applicants who have applied for 1000 equity shares or less. This percentage may be increased in consultation 
with  the  BSE  depending  on  the  extent  of  the  response  to  the  Issue  from  investors  in  this  category.  The 
balance  of  the  Net  Offer  to  the  Public  shall  be  made  available  for  the  allotment  to  the  investors,  including 
Corporate  Bodies,  Institutions  and  individual  applicants  who  apply  for  more  than  1000  shares.  The 
unsubscribed  portion  of  the  net  Issue  to  any  one  of  the  above  two  categories  shall  be  made  available  to  the 
applicants  in  the  other  category,  if  so  required  and  allotment  made  on  a  proportionate  basis  as  per  the 
relevant SEBI guidelines. 

12.  The  GoI/Directors/Lead  Managers  have  not  entered  into  any  buy-back and/or standby arrangements for the 

purchase of the equity shares of the Bank with any person. 

13.  The Bank has not availed of and shall not avail of any Bridge Loan against the proceeds of this Issue. 

14.  The  Bank  undertakes  that  it  shall  not  make  any  further  issue  of  capital  whether  by  way  of  issue  of  bonus 
shares,  preferential  allotment,  rights  issue  or  public  issue  or  in  any  other  manner,  during  the  period 

Page 177 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

commencing from the submission of Offer Document to SEBI for the public issue till the securities referred to 
in the Offer Document have been listed or application monies refunded on account of failure of the Issue. As 
of  date,  the  Bank  does  not  propose  to  alter  the  capital  structure  by  way  of  split/consolidation  of  the 
denomination  of  shares  or  issue  of  shares  on  preferential  basis,  or  issue  of  bonus  or  rights  or  further  public 
issue  of  shares  or  any  other  securities  within  a  period  of  six  months  from  the  date  of  the  opening  of  the 
present Issue. 

1.  GoI has not undertaken any transaction in the equity shares of the Bank in the last six months. 
 

Page 178 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

PARTICULARS OF THE ISSUE 
Objects of the Offer 

The present Issue of equity shares is being made to - 

l 

l 

l 

Augment the long-term resources of the Bank 

To meet its future capital adequacy requirements 

List the shares of the Bank on Stock Exchanges 

l  Meet the expenses of the Issue 
Capital adequacy position of the Bank 

The Capital Adequacy Ratio (“CAR”) of the Bank as on March 31, 2002 was 11.07%, as against the RBI stipulation 
of 9.00%. Details of capital vis-à-vis risk weighted assets are as under- 

 

For the year ended March 31, 

Eligible Tier I Capital 
Eligible Tier II Capital 
Total Capital 
Total Risk-Adjusted Assets 
Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 

 

1998 

935 
326 
1,261 
11,617 
10.86% 

 

1999 

1,047 
295 
1,342 
13,307 
10.09% 

2000 

2001 

1,109 
791 
1,900 
16,642 
11.42% 

1,222 
923 
2,145 
19,753 
10.86% 

(Rs crore) 

2002 

1,452 
1,155 
2,607 
23,539 
11.07% 

The  CAR  after  excluding  extraordinary  profits  is  11.02%.  The  CAR  is  above  the  stipulated  level  even  after 
considering the Other Income. 
Requirement of capital enhancement 

In the years to come, the Bank expects growth in  its business activities and operations. Accordingly, risk weighted 
assets of the Bank are also expected to increase over the years. The key areas of focus for the Bank in this regard 
are retail advances, housing loans, loans to professionals, agricultural  advances and retail trades. Increase in Tier 
I  capital  through  retained  earnings  alone  may  not  be  enough  to  enable  the  Bank  to  maintain  sufficient  capital 
adequacy ratio. In view of the likely expansion of risk weighted assets, the Bank proposes to augment its net worth 
in order to sustain a healthy CAR. 
Use of Issue Proceeds 

To  meet  the  above-stated  Objects  of  the  Issue,  the  total  fund  requirement  as  estimated  by  the  Bank  is  Rs288 
crore.  The  entire  fund  requirement  will  be  met  by  the  proposed  public  issue.  The  proceeds  of  this  Issue  will  be 
utilised for its regular business activities, after meeting all expenses of the Issue. 

Moreover,  listing  will  provide  the  Bank  an  opportunity  to  establish  its  presence  in  the  capital  market  and  an 
opportunity to raise funds in the future subject to fulfilling the statutory requirements. 

The Bank has not made any Issue of Equity Shares / Debentures / Preference shares by way of Public / Rights 
Issue through an Offer Document. However, the Bank has after obtaining the requisite GoI approval raised Tier II 
Capital by way of Private Placement of unsecured, redeemable bonds in the nature of Promissory Notes to meet 
its capital adequacy requirements as under: 

Issue 
 
 

Year of  
Place ment  
 

Size 
(Rs crore) 
 

Tenor  
(months) 

Credit 
Rating 

Coupon 
(%) 

Redemption 
date 

1 
2 
3 
 
4 
 

Total 

1999 
2001 
2001 
 
2002 
 

 

500 
100 
100 
 
170 
 
870 

84 
63 
69 
 
65 
 

— 
— 
LAA + 
by ICRA 
AA+ 
by CRISIL 

12.50 
11.25 
9.80 

9.30 
 

10.09.2006 
08.05.2006 
01.06.2007 

05.07.2007 
 

 

 

Page 179 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

TERMS OF THE PRESENT ISSUE 
The Bank is offering for public subscription through this Offer Document 18,00,00,000 equity shares of Rs10 each 
at a premium of Rs6 per share aggregating Rs288 crore. The equity shares are being offered subject, inter alia, to 
the  terms  of  this  Offer  Document,  the  Application  Forms,  the  provisions  for  listing  as  specified  in  the  guidelines 
issued by the BSE and NSE and the GoI from time to time, the terms and conditions stated in the allotment letters/ 
share certificates to be issued, the provisions of the Bank Nationalisation Act, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, to 
the extent applicable, the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 to the extent applicable, the letter dated April 8, 
2002  of  GoI,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Department  of  Economic  Affairs  (Banking  Division)  approving  the  Issue,  the 
guidelines for Disclosure and Investor Protection issued by SEBI and the provisions of the Depository Act, 1996 to 
the extent applicable. 
Rights of the Equity Shareholders 

(a)  Right to receive dividend, if declared. 

(b)  Right to attend general meetings and exercise voting powers, subject to the provisions of the law. 

(c)  Right to vote either personally or by proxy, subject to Section 3 (2E) of the Bank Nationalisation Act. 
Face Value of equity shares 

Each equity share being offered will have a face value of Rs10. 
Share Premium 

Each equity share is being offered at a premium of Rs6 per share. 
Ranking of equity shares 

The  equity  shares,  now  being  offered  shall  rank  pari  passu  with  the  existing  equity  shares  of  the  Bank  in  all 
respects save and except the following: 

l 

as provided in Section 3(2E) of the Bank Nationalisation Act, “no shareholder other than Central Government 
shall be entitled to exercise voting rights in respect of any equity shares held by him in excess of one percent 
of the total voting rights of all the shareholders of the Bank.” 

The equity shares to be issued shall rank pari passu with the existing equity shares of the Bank including dividend. 

The  investors  are  requested  to  refer  to  Section  15(1)  of  the  Banking  Regulation  Act,  1949.  As  per  the  above 
Section,  “No  Banking  company  shall  pay  any  dividend  on  its  shares  until  all  its  capitalised  expenses  (including 
preliminary expenses, organisational expenses, share selling commission, brokerage, amounts of losses incurred 
and any other item of expenditure not represented by tangible assets) have been completely written off.” 

The Bank has got an exemption vide letter ref. F. No. 11/1/2002- BOA  dated  June  7,  2002  from  GoI,  Ministry  of 
Finance, Department of Economic Affairs (Banking Division) from the provisions of the said Section 15(1) relating 
to the payment of dividend, for a period of 5 years. 
Terms of Payment 

Applications should be for a minimum of 200 equity shares and in multiples of 100 equity shares thereafter. The full 
Issue price of Rs16 per share is payable on application. 
 

Allotment/refunds 

(a)  As  far  as  possible,  the  allotment  of  the  equity  shares  offered  to  the  public  shall  be  made  within  30  days  of 

closure of the public Issue. 

(b)  The Bank shall pay interest @15% per annum on the entire amount if the allotment letters/refund orders have 
not been dispatched to the applicants within 30 days from the date of the closure of the Issue for the delayed 
period beyond 30 days. However no interest will be paid to those applying through Stockinvests for the delay 
in the dispatch of refund orders. 

The  Bank  will  provide  adequate  funds  to  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue,  for  the  purpose  of  despatch  of  Share 
Certificates/cancelled  stockinvests/Refund  Orders.  Despatch  of  share  certificates/refund  orders/cancelled 
stockinvests and demat credit would be completed and the allotment and listing documents would be submitted to 
the  stock  exchanges  within  two  days  of  finalisation  of  the  basis  of  allotment.  All  steps  for  completion  of  the 
necessary  formalities  for  listing  and  commencement  of  trading  at  all  stock  exchanges  where  the  securities  are 
proposed to be listed shall be taken within seven working days of the date of finalisation of the basis of allotment. 
Transfer of shares 

Page 180 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

As per Section 3(2D) of the Bank Nationalisation Act, the shares of every corresponding new Bank not held by the 
Central Government shall be freely transferable. 
PROCEDURE FOR APPLICATION AND MODE OF PAYMENT 
Availability of Offer Document and Application Form 

The Memorandum Form 2A containing the salient features of the Offer Document together with application forms 
and copies of this Offer Document may be obtained from the Lead Managers to the Issue, Brokers, Banker to the 
Issue named herein, the collection centres of the Banker to the Issue mentioned in the Application Form, the Head 
Office,  Zonal  Offices,  Regional  Offices  and  all  designated  branches  of  the  Bank.  The  investors  are  advised  to 
retain the copy of the Offer Document/Memorandum in Form 2A (abridged prospectus) for their future reference. 
Application may be made by: 

(a) 

Indian  Nationals  resident  of  India  who  are  Adult  Individuals  in  single  name  or  joint  names  (not  more  than 
three) 

(b)  Hindu Undivided Families through the Karta of the Hindu Undivided Family 

(c)  Companies, Bodies Corporate and Societies registered under the applicable laws in India and authorised to 

invest in shares 

(d)  Scientific and/or Industrial Research Organisations, which are authorised to invest in shares 

(e) 

Indian Mutual Funds registered with SEBI 

(f) 

Indian Financial Institutions and Banks 

(g)  Trusts who are registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 or any other applicable trust law and are 
authorised under their constitution to hold and invest in shares subject to the provisions of Section 3A of the 
Bank Nationalisation Act 

(h)  Commercial Banks and Regional Rural Banks. Co-operative Banks may also apply subject to the permission 

from the Reserve Bank of India 

(i)  Permanent and Regular employees of the Bank 

(j)  Non - Resident Indians (NRIs), Overseas Corporate Bodies (OCBs) on a non-repatriation basis (in the public 

portion) 

Applications not to be made by: 

1.  Minors 
2.  Foreign Nationals 
3.  Partnership firms or their nominees 
4.  Trusts (except as stated above) 
5.  HUFs (except as stated above) 
6.  NRIs and OCBs (except as stated above) 
7.  Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) 

A single application can be made only for the number of equity shares that are being offered to each respective 
category. 
Joint Applications in case of Individuals 

Applications may be made in single or joint names (not more than three). In case of Joint Applications, refund, pay 
orders, dividend warrants etc. if any, will be drawn in favour of the first applicant and all communications will be 
addressed to the first applicant at his address as stated in the application form. 
Multiple Applications 

The application form shall contain space for indicating number of shares subscribed for in the demat and physical 
shares or both. No separate applications for demat and physical  can be made. If such an application is made, the 
application  for  physical  shares  will  be  treated  as  multiple  applications  and  rejected  accordingly.  An  applicant 
should submit only one application form (and not more than one) for the total number of equity shares applied for. 
Two or more applications in single or joint names will be deemed to be multiple applications if the sole and/ or the 
first applicant is one and the same. 

In case of applications by Mutual Funds, a separate application must be made in respect of each scheme of an 
Indian  Mutual  Fund  registered  with  SEBI  and  such  applications  will  not  be  treated  as  multiple  applications, 
provided that the application made by Asset Management Companies/ Trustees/ Custodian clearly indicate their 
intention as to the scheme for which the related application has been made. 

Page 181 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

The Bank reserves the right to accept or reject, in its absolute discretion, any or all multiple applications. 

Applications made by permanent/ regular employees of the Bank both under the reserved category for employees 
as  well  as  in  the  net  public  offer  shall  not  be  treated  as  multiple  applications.  A  separate  single  cheque/  draft/ 
stockinvest must accompany each application form. 
Applications under Power of Attorney or by Limited Companies 

In case of applications under Powers of Attorney, or by Companies, Bodies Corporate, Societies registered under 
the applicable laws, trustees of trusts, Provident Funds, Superannuation Funds, Gratuity Funds and Scientific and/ 
or  Industrial  Research  Organisations,  a  certified  copy  of  the  Power  of  Attorney  or  the  relevant  authority,  as  the 
case  may  be,  must  be  lodged  separately  at  the  office  of  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue  simultaneously  with  the 
submission of the application form, indicating the serial number of the application form and the name of the Bank 
and the branch office where the application is submitted. 

PAN/GIR Number 

Where an application is for a total value of Rs50,000 or more, i.e., 3,200 shares or more, the applicant, or, in case 
of  applications  in joint names, each of the applicants should mention his/ her/ their Permanent Account number 
(PAN) allotted under Income Tax Act, 1961 or where the same has not been allotted, the GIR Number and the IT 
Circle/ Ward/ District. In case where neither the PAN nor the GIR Number has been allotted, or the applicant is not 
assessed  to  Income  Tax,  the  appropriate  box  provided  for  the  purpose  in  the  application  form  must  be  ticked. 
Applications without this requirement will be considered incomplete and are liable to be rejected. 
Signatures 

Thumb impressions and signatures other than in English/Hindi or any other language specified in the Schedule VIII 
to the Constitution of India, must be attested by a Magistrate or a Notary Public or a Special Executive Magistrate 
under his/ her official seal. 
Other Application Details 

1.  Applications  must  be  made  only  on  the  prescribed  Application  Form  and  should  be  completed  in  BLOCK 
LETTERS in ENGLISH in accordance with the instructions contained herein and in the application form,  and 
are liable to be rejected if not so made. The prescribed application forms will have the following colours - 
  Category 
 
  Employees  

Colour of form 
White 
Pink 

 
 
 

Indian Public  

2.  Payments should be made by cash, stockinvest, cheque, or demand draft drawn on any bank (including a co-
operative bank) which is situated at and is a member of or sub-member of the bankers’ clearing house located 
at  the  centre  where  the  Application  Form  is  submitted.  Outstation  cheques/bank  drafts  will  not  be 
accepted  and  applications  accompanied  by  such  cheques  or  bank  drafts  are  liable  to  be  rejected. 
Money orders/Postal orders will not be accepted. 

3.  All application forms duly completed together with cash/cheque/demand draft/stockinvest for the application 
money payable must be delivered before the close of the Subscription List to the Banker to the Issue named 
herein  or  to  any  of  the  branches  mentioned  in  the  Application  Form  and  not  to  the  Lead  Managers  or  the 
Registrar to the Issue (except in the circumstances described in clause 6 herein below). 

4.  A separate cheque/bank draft/stockinvest must accompany each Application Form. No receipt will be issued 
for the application money. However, the Bankers to the Issue will issue an acknowledgement by stamping and 
returning  to  the applicant the acknowledgement slip attached to the application form. The acknowledgement 
slip given by the Bankers shall be valid and binding on the Bank and others connected with the Issue. 

5.  All  cheques/bank  drafts  accompanying  the  application  should  be  crossed  “A/c  Payee  Only”  and  made 

payable to the Bankers to the Issue and marked: 
Category of Application  Cheques/Bank drafts 
 

favouring 

Resident Indian Public/ 
NRI without repatriation 

“Union Bank of India - A/c 
Union Bank - Public Issue” 

Employees  
 

“Union Bank of India - A/c 
Union Bank - Employees” 

 
 

 
 

 
 

6.  Applicants  residing  at  places  where  no  collection  centres  have  been  opened  may  submit/mail  their 
applications  at  their  sole  risk  along  with  the  application  money  due  thereunto  by  Demand  Draft  to  the 
Registrar to the Issue at their Mumbai address, superscribing the envelope “Union Bank - Public Issue”, so as 
to  reach  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue  on  or  before  the  closure  of  the  Subscription  List.  Such  demand  drafts 

Page 182 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

should be payable at Mumbai only. The charges, if any, for purchase of demand drafts will have to be borne 
by the applicant. 

7.  Section 269SS of the Income Tax Act, 1961 

 

Having  regard  to  the  provisions  of  Section  269SS  of  the  Income  Tax  Act,  1961,  the  payment  against  an 
application should not  be effected in cash if the amount payable together with any earlier outstanding loan or 
deposit placed with Union Bank of India by the applicant is Rs20,000 or more. In case payment is effected in 
contravention of this, the applications are liable to be rejected without interest. 

8. 

In  case  of  partial  allotment,  allotment  will  be  done  in  demat  option  for  the  shares  sought  in  demat  and 
balance, if any, will be allotted in physical shares. 

Payment by Stockinvest 

Applicants,  being  Individuals  and  Mutual  Funds  only,  have  the  option  of  using  the  “Stockinvest”  instrument  for 
payment  of  application  money  in  lieu  of  cash/cheque/demand  draft.  Applicants  using  Stockinvests  should  submit 
them  along  with  the  application  form  to  any  of  the  collecting  centres/  Banker  to  the  Issue  mentioned  in  the 
application  form.  Stockinvests  should  be  payable  at  par  at  all  the  branches  of  the  issuing  bank  and  as  such 
outstation Stockinvests can be attached to the application forms. Applicants can approach the banks concerned for 
obtaining Stockinvest and detailed instructions for the same. 

The applicant has to fill in the following particulars: 

1.  Title of the Account as mentioned in the Application Form. 

2.  Number of equity shares applied for. 

3.  The amount paid on the equity shares applied for. 

The  applicant  should  thereafter  sign  the  instrument.  It  should  also  bear  the  stamp  of  the  bank  issuing  the 
instrument and should be crossed  “A/C Payee Only” and made payable only to “Union Bank of India”. Service 
charges,  if  any,  for  issuing  the  Stockinvest  must  be  borne  by  the  applicant.  The  applicant  should  not  fill  in  the 
portion to be filled up by the Registrar to the Issue (right-hand portion of the instrument). The Registrar to the Issue 
will fill up the right-hand side of the Stockinvest indicating the equity shares allotted to the applicants, calculated as 
follows: 

i. 

ii. 

In case of full allotment, the number of equity shares on the right-hand side will be the same as that on the 
left-hand side of the instrument; 

In case of partial allotment, the number filled up by the Registrar to the Issue on the right-hand side of the 
instrument will be less than the number filled up by the applicant on the left-hand side; 

iii. 

In case the allotment is nil, the number filled up by the Registrar to the Issue on the right-hand side of the 
instrument will be nil. 

The Stockinvest should be used by the Purchaser and the name of the Purchaser/one of the Purchasers should be 
indicated  as  the  first  applicant  in  the  Application  Form.  Thus,  if  the  signature  of  the  Purchaser/one  of  the 
Purchasers  on  the  Stockinvest  and  the  signature  of  the  first  applicant  in  the  application  form  do  not  tally,  the 
application and the Stockinvest is liable to be rejected. 

The  Stockinvest  instrument  should  be  used  by  the  Purchaser  within  10  days  from  the  date  of  the  issue  of  the 
instrument, failing which such applications are liable to be rejected. For the purpose of calculating the 10 days, the 
last date for use of the Stockinvest for submitting the Application Form to the Bank is indicated on the face of the 
Stockinvest with a notation “to be used before__________”. 

No refund order will be issued to the applicants using Stockinvest for payment of application money. In case of 
non-allotment of equity shares, the cancelled Stockinvest instruments  will  be  returned  to  the  applicant,  within  10 
weeks  of  closure  of  subscription  list  by  Registered  Post/Speed  Post.  The  applicant  will  have  to  approach  the 
issuing  bank  branch  for  lifting  the  lien.  The  Registrar  to  the  Issue  have  been  authorised  by  the  Bank  (through 
Resolution of the Board of Directors dated July 11, 2002) to sign the Stockinvests on behalf of the Bank, to realise 
the  proceeds  of  the  Stockinvest  from  the  issuing  bank,  or  to  affix  non-allotment  advice  on  the  instrument,  or  to 
cancel  the  Stockinvest(s)  of  the  non-allottee.  Such  cancelled  Stockinvest(s)  shall  be  sent  back  by  the  Registrar 
directly to the investors. The currency of the Stockinvest is four months. 

Reserve  Bank  of  India,  by  its  circular  DBOD  No.  FSC.BC.100/  24.47.001/94  dated  September  2,  1994,  has 
restricted  the  use  of  Stockinvest(s)  to  individual  investors  and  Mutual  Funds  only.  Brokers,  Corporate  Bodies, 
Banks  and  Financial  Institutions  are  not  allowed  to  invest  through  Stockinvest(s).  A  ceiling  of  Rs50,000/-  per 
individual per Stockinvest by banks has been imposed. The above ceiling is not applicable to Mutual Funds. 

In  the  interest  of  the  investors,  to  avoid  rejection  of  applications  on  technical  grounds,  it  is  suggested  that  the 
applicant should ensure that 

Page 183 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

l 

l 

l 

l 

l 

l 

The date of issue of the Stockinvest by the issuing bank is clearly mentioned on the instrument 

The instrument is duly signed by the authorised officer of the bank giving his code number 

The instrument bears the code number and the address of the issuing bank branch 

Any correction/ alteration in the date of issue, amount, the name of the issuer, etc. should be attested by an 
authorised officer of the issuing bank 

The applicant has clearly written the name of the issuer, the amount and signed the instrument 

Amount written in the application form to be deposited and the amount of the instrument accompanying the 
application form should be the same 

Note : The above information is given for the benefit of investors and the Bank is not liable for any modification in 
the terms of the Stockinvest or procedure thereof by the issuing bank. 
Particulars of Bank Account 

All  the  applicants,  including  applicants  with  Stockinvest,  should  mention  particulars  relating  to  Savings 
Bank/Current  Account  number  and  the  name  of  the  bank  and  branch  with  whom  such  account  is  held  in  the 
appropriate place in the application form to enable Registrar to print the said details in the refund orders after the 
name  of  the  payee.  Please  note  that  it  is  mandatory  to  provide  the  aforementioned  details.  Applications 
without these details would be treated as incomplete and applications are liable to be rejected. 

Note 

Applicants are requested to write their names and application serial number on the reverse of the instruments by 
which  the  payments  are  being  made  to  avoid  misuse  of  instruments  submitted  along  with  the  applications  for 
equity shares. 

Applications by NRIs/OCBs on non-repatriation basis can be made using the Form meant for the public out of the 
funds held in Non Resident (Ordinary) Account (NRO). The relevant bank certificate must accompany such forms. 
Such applications will be treated at par with the applications made by the public. For further instructions, please 
read the Application Form carefully. 
Procedure and Time Schedule for Allotment/Refund 

In the event of the present Issue of equity shares being over-subscribed, the basis of allotment will be finalised in 
consultation with the BSE. 

The Bank shall as far as possible complete allotment of shares offered to the public within 30 days of the closure of 
the Issue. If the allotment has not been made within 30 days, the Bank shall pay interest @15% per annum on the 
entire amount for any delay beyond 30 days till the date of allotment. In case of any delay in the dispatch of refund 
orders  beyond  30  days  from  the  closure  of  the  Issue,  interest  @15%  per  annum,  except  to  applicants  applying 
through Stockinvests, will be paid on the refund amount from the 31st day from the closure of the Issue until the 
date of dispatch of the refund orders. 
Disposal of Applications and Application Money 

The Bank reserves, in its own, absolute and uncontrolled discretion and without assigning any reason, the right to 
accept in whole or in part or reject any application. If an application is rejected in full, the entire application money 
received  will  be  refunded  to  the  applicant.  If  the  application  is  rejected  in  part,  excess  of  the  application  money 
received will be refunded to the applicant as far as possible within 30 (thirty) days from the date of closure of the 
Issue.  Any  delay  beyond  30  days  shall  entail  payment  of  interest  at  15%  per  annum.  Refund  will  be  made  by 
cheques or demand drafts drawn in favour of the sole / first applicant (including the details of his savings/ current 
account number  and the name of the bank with whom the account is held) on the refund banker to the Issue and 
will be dispatched by Registered Post for amounts above Rs.1,500 and by Certificate of Posting otherwise. Such 
Cheques or Demand Drafts will be payable at par at specified centres where the applications have been received. 

The Bank has undertaken to make adequate funds available to the Registrar to the Issue for complying with the 
requirements of dispatch of Allotment Letters/ Share Certificates/ Refund Orders by Registered Post. 

The subscription received in respect of Public Issue will be kept in a separate bank account and the Bank shall not 
have access to such funds unless approvals from all the Stock Exchanges, where listing has been proposed and 
approval of the BSE for allotment has been obtained. 

No separate receipt will be issued for the application money. However, the nominated branches of the Bankers to 
the  Issue  or  the  collection  centres  receiving  the  application  form  will  acknowledge  receipt  of  application  by 
stamping and returning the acknowledgement slip given at the foot of each application form. 

Basis of Allotment 

Page 184 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

In the event of the public Issue being oversubscribed, the allotment will be on a proportionate basis and the basis 
of allotment will be finalised in consultation with the BSE (Regional Stock Exchange). The drawal of lots to finalise 
the  basis  of  allotment  shall  be  done  in  the  presence  of  a  Public  Representative  on  the  governing  board  of  the 
Regional  Stock  Exchange.  The  Executive  Director/Managing Director of the Regional Stock Exchange along with 
the  post  issue  Lead  Managers  and  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue  shall  be  responsible  to  ensure  that  the  basis  of 
allotment is finalised in a fair and proper manner in accordance with the SEBI guidelines: 

(a)  A minimum 50% of the net Issue to the Indian public will be made available for allotment in favour of those 
individual  applicants  who  have  applied  for  1000  equity  shares  or  less.  This  percentage  may  be  increased  in 
consultation with the BSE depending on the extent of response to the Issue from investors in this category. In 
case allotments are made to a lesser extent than 50% because of lower subscription in the above category, 
the  balance  equity  shares  would  be  added  to  the  higher  category  and  allotment  made  on  a  proportionate 
basis as per relevant SEBI Guidelines. 

(b)  The  balance  of  Net  Issue  to  Indian  Public  shall  be  made  available  to  investors  including  corporate 

bodies/institutions and individual applicants who have applied for allotment of more than 1000 equity shares. 

(c)  The  unsubscribed  portion  of  the  net  Issue  to  any  of  the  categories  specified  in  (a)  or  (b)  shall  be  made 

available for allotment to applicants in the other category, if so required. 

(d)  The allotment shall be on a proportionate basis under the reservation for employees category as well as under 

the net offer to the public category. 

(e)  Applicants will be categorised according to the number of equity shares applied for. 

(f)  The  total  number  of  equity  shares  to  be  allotted  to  each  category  as  a  whole  shall  be  arrived  at  on  a 
proportionate basis i.e. the total number of shares applied for in that category (number of applications in the 
category  multiplied  by  the  number  of  equity  shares  applied  for)  multiplied  by  the  inverse  of  the 
oversubscription ratio. 

(g)  Number of equity shares to be allotted to the successful allottees will be arrived on a proportionate basis i.e. 
total number of equity shares applied for by each applicant in that category multiplied by the inverse of the 
oversubscription ratio. 

(h) 

In  all  the  applications  where  the  proportionate  allotment  works  out  to  less  than  100  equity  shares  per 
applicant, the allotment shall be made as follows: 

 

 

 

 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Each successful applicant shall be allotted a minimum of 100 equity shares, and 

The successful applicants out of the total applicants of that category shall be determined by drawal of lots 
in such a manner that the total number of equity shares allotted in that category is equal to the number of 
equity shares worked out as per (f) above. 

If the proportionate allotment to an applicant works out to a number that is more than 100 but is not a 
multiple  of  100  (which  is  the  marketable  lot)  the  number  in  excess  of  the  multiple  of  100  would  be 
rounded off to the higher multiple of 100 if that number is 50 or higher. If that number is lower than 50, it 
would  be  rounded  off  to  the  lower  multiple  of  100.  All  applicants  in  such  categories  would  be  allotted 
equity shares arrived at after such rounding off. 

If  the  equity  shares  allocated  on  a  proportionate  basis  to  any  category  is  more  than  the  equity  shares 
allotted to the applicants in that category, the balance available equity shares for allotment shall be first 
adjusted against any other category where the allotted equity shares are not  sufficient for proportionate 
allotment to the successful applicants in that category. The balance equity shares if any, remaining after 
such adjustment will be added to the category comprising of applicant applying for minimum number of 
equity shares. 

(i)  The unsubscribed portion, if any, out of the equity shares reserved for Employees will be added back to the 
Net Issue to Indian Public and vice-versa. The oversubscription under reserved categories for Employees will 
be added to Net Issue to Indian public, if Net Issue to Indian Public is undersubscribed and to the extent of 
such undersubscription and vice-versa. 

(j) 

In  the  event  of  oversubscription,  in  the  process  of  rounding  off  to  ensure  allotment  in  marketable  lots,  the 
Bank  may  make  such  adjustments  in  the  basis  of  allotment,  as  may  be  necessary,  in  consultation  with 
SEBI/BSE, so that the Issue does not exceed 110% of 18,00,00,000 equity shares. 

The  drawal  of  lots  (where  required)  to  finalise  the  basis  of  allotment,  shall  be  done  in  the  presence  of  a  public 
representative on the Governing Board of the Regional Stock Exchange. 
THE BASIS OF ALLOTMENT SHALL BE SIGNED AS CORRECT BY THE EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR/MANAGING DIRECTOR OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE AND THE PUBLIC 
REPRESENTATIVE (WHERE APPLICABLE) IN ADDITION TO THE LEAD MERCHANT BANKER 

Page 185 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

RESPONSIBLE FOR POST ISSUE ACTIVITIES AND THE REGISTRAR TO THE ISSUE. THE STOCK 
EXCHANGE SHALL INVITE THE PUBLIC REPRESENTATIVE ON A ROTATION BASIS FROM OUT OF 
THE VARIOUS PUBLIC REPRESENTATIVES ON ITS GOVERNING BOARD. 
 
INTEREST ON EXCESS APPLICATION MONEY 

Payment of interest at the rate of 15% per annum on excess application money will be made to the applicants for 
the delayed period, if any, where allotment of equity shares and issuance of Refund Orders take place beyond 30 
days from the date of closure of the Issue. 
DISPUTES 

Any disputes arising out of this Issue will be subject to the jurisdiction of appropriate court(s). 
DEMATERIALISATION 

The equity shares of the Bank have been admitted for dematerialisation by National Securities Depository Limited 
(NSDL), under a tripartite agreement dated July 27, 2002 signed between the Bank, NSDL and MCS Limited, the 
Registrar  to  the  Issue,  to  enable  all  shareholders  of  the  Bank  to  have  their  shareholding  in  electronic  form.  The 
Bank has also entered into a tripartite agreement with Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL) and MCS 
Limited for dematerialisation of its shares vide a tripartite agreement dated July 27, 2002. 

l 

l 

l 

l 

l 

l 

l 

l 

l 

l 

An applicant has the option of seeking allotment of Equity Shares in electronic or in physical mode. 

Separate applications for electronic and physical shares by the same applicant shall be considered as multiple 
applications. 

The  applicant  seeking  allotment of shares in the electronic form must necessarily fill in the details (including 
the  beneficiary  account  no.  and  Depository  Participant’s  ID  no.)  appearing  under  the  heading  ‘request  for 
shares in electronic form’. 

An applicant who wishes to apply for shares in the electronic form must have at least one beneficiary account 
with any of the Depository Participants (DPs) i.e. of NSDL or of CDSL, registered with SEBI, prior to making 
the application. 

Shares allotted to an applicant in the electronic account will be credited directly to the respective beneficiary 
accounts (with the DP). 

For subscription in electronic form, names in the share application form should be identical to those appearing 
in the account details in the depository. In case of joint holders, the names should necessarily be in the same 
sequence as they appear in the account details in the depository. 

Non-transferable allotment letters/ refund orders will be directly sent to the applicant by the Registrar to this 
Issue. 

Incomplete/ incorrect details given under the heading ‘Request for shares in electronic form’ in the application 
form will be assumed as an application for shareholding in physical form. 

The applicant is responsible for the correctness of the applicant’s demographic details given in the application 
form vis-à-vis those with his/ her DP. 

It  may  be  noted  that  the  electronic  shares  can  be  traded  only  on  the  Stock  Exchanges  having  electronic 
connectivity with NSDL and CDSL. 

l  One  time  cost  of  dematerialisation  of  shares  shall  be  borne  by  the  Bank.  The  one  time  cost  refers  to  the 
demat charges for the shares opted for in this Issue by an investor in electronic form. Subsequent charges for 
dematerialisation of physical shares held by the investors shall be borne by the investor. 

l 

In case of partial allotment, allotment will be done in demat option for the shares sought in demat form and 
balance, if any, will be allotted in physical form. 

INVESTORS MAY NOTE THAT, AS PER EXTANT SEBI GUIDELINES, TRADING IN THE SECURITIES SHALL 
BE IN DEMATERIALISED FORM ONLY. 

UNDERTAKING BY THE BANK 

The Bank undertakes 

a) 

b) 

to attend to the complaints received in respect of the Issue expeditiously and satisfactorily; 

to take all steps for completion of necessary formalities for listing and commencement of trading at all stock 
exchanges where the securities are to be listed within 7 working days of finalisation of basis of allotment; 

Page 186 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

c) 

d) 

to apply in advance for the listing of equities; 

that the funds required for despatch of refund orders/ allotment  letters/ certificates by registered post shall be 
made available to the Registrar to the Issue by the Bank; 

e) 

that the certificates of the securities/refund orders to the applicants shall be despatched within specified time; 

f) 

that  no  further  issue  of  securities  shall  be  made  till  the  securities  offered  through  this  Offer  Document  are 
listed or till the application monies are refunded on account of non- listing, undersubscription, etc. 

UTILISATION OF ISSUE PROCEEDS 

The Board of Directors undertakes that 

a)  all monies received out of Issue of shares to public shall be transferred to separate bank accounts other than 

the bank account referred to in sub-section (3) of section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956; 

b)  details of all monies utilised out of the Issue referred to in sub- item (a) shall be disclosed under an appropriate 
separate  head  in  the  Balance  Sheet  of  the  Bank  indicating  the  purpose  for  which  such  monies  had  been 
utilised; 

c)  details of all unutilised monies out of the Issue of shares, if any, referred to in sub- item (a) shall be disclosed 
under  an  appropriate  separate  head  in  the  Balance  Sheet  of  the  Bank  indicating  the  form  in  which  such 
unutilised monies have been invested; 

d) 

the  utilisation  of  monies  received  under  reservations  shall  be  disclosed  under  an  appropriate  head  in  the 
Balance Sheet of the Bank indicating the purpose for which such monies have been utilised; 

e)  details  of  all  unutilised  monies  out  of  funds  received  under  reservations  shall  be  disclosed  under  an 
appropriate  separate  head  in  the  Balance  Sheet  of  the  Bank  indicating  the  form  in  which  such  unutilised 
monies have been invested. 

Page 187 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

BASIS OF ISSUE PRICE 
Justification of Premium 

The following factors have been considered while arriving at the Issue Price of Rs16 (share premium of Rs6 per 
share) per equity share. 
Quantitative Factors 

1)  Year-end earnings per share (EPS) 

 
 
 
 

Year 
1999-2000 
2000-2001 
2001-2002 

EPS 
3.76 
5.33 
8.92 

Weights Used 

1 
2 
3 

Weighted average EPS for the last three years is Rs6.86 

 
2)  Price Earning (P/E) Ratio (in relation to Issue price of Rs16 per share): 2.33 
 
3) 
 
 
 
 

The P/E ratio based on FY2002 earnings per share is 1.79 
Industry P/E(Banks – Public Sector) 
Highest 
Lowest 
Average 
(Source: Capital Market Vol. XVII/10 dated August 4, 2002) 

5.4 
1.4 
3.6 

4)  Return on Average Net Worth (RONW) 
 
 
 
 

Year 
1999-2000 
2000-2001 
2001-2002 

10.20% 
13.28% 
18.97% 

RONW (%) 

Weights Used 

1 
2 
3 

 

Weighted average RONW for the last three years is 15.61% 

5)  The minimum return on increased post offer networth required to maintain pre-offer EPS of Rs8.92 is (on the 

basis of an Issue price of Rs16 per share): 22.56% 

Rs47 
Rs39.54 

March 31, 2002 
Net Asset Value after public offer 
(on the basis of an Issue price of Rs16 share) 
Public Issue price per share 
Industry Price/Book Value (Banks - Public Sector) 
Highest 
Lowest 
Average 
(Information from Capital Market Vol. XVII/10  
dated August 4, 2002) 
Price/Book Value   
(based on BV as on March 31, 2002) 
Price/Book Value   
(after return of capital and Public Offer) 

6)  Net Asset Value as on  
 
 
 
 
7) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qualitative factors 
1.  The Bank has a continuous track record of profitability since inception. 
2.  The Bank is a professionally managed organisation with a well-established track record. 
3.  The Bank has a large network of branches spread throughout the country enabling it to raise cheaper funds. 
The domestic network of the Bank stood at 2,023 branches as on March 31, 2002. The Bank has also opened 
specialised branches to cater to the needs of Industries, Overseas Business, Non Resident Indians, Trading 
and Small- Scale Industries. 

0.81 
0.30 
0.56 

Rs16 

0.34 

0.40 

4.  The  Bank  is  among  the  largest  banks  in  India  with  total  business  (advances  plus  deposits)  exceeding 

Rs61,000 crore. 

Page 188 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

5.  The Bank has installed its own Wide Area Network (WAN) linking select branches and controlling offices. 
6.  The  Bank  has  commenced  the  process  of  networking  500  branches  by  engaging  leading  consultants  for 

implementing a centralised core banking solution. 

7.  The Bank has established a state- of-the-art  integrated  treasury  capable  of  handling  all  transactions  in  forex, 

debt and money markets. 

8.  The Bank has its own full-fledged training college at Bangalore which has received an ISO 9001 certification 

in addition to seven other training centres across the country. 

9.  Capital adequacy ratio is 11.07% as on March 31, 2002 against the RBI prescribed minimum of 9%. 
10.  The net asset value of the Bank as on March 31, 2002 is Rs47 per share. 
The weighted average RONW for the last three years is 15.61%. The minimum return on increased post-offer net 
worth  required  to  maintain  pre-offer  EPS  is  22.56%.  Further,  profits  from  investment/treasury  profits  have 
contributed  significantly  to  the  profit  for  2001-02.  However,  the  discount  to  book-value,  the  lower  than  average 
industry P/E and the qualitiative factors mentioned above justify a premium of Rs6. 
The  Bank  and  all  the  Lead  Managers  to  the  Issue,  in  consultation  with  whom  the  premium  has  been 
decided, are of the opinion that the premium is reasonable and justified. 

 

Page 189 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

TAX BENEFITS 

M/s.  B.  Gupta  &  Co.,  M/s.  D.  P.  Sen  &  Co.,  M/s.  Gala  &  Gala,  M/s.  S.  N.  Dhawan  &  Co.,  M/s.  Sundaram  & 
Srinivasan 
and  
M/s.  V.  K.  Verma  &  Co.  have  advised  vide  their  letter  dated  June  4,  2002  that  under  the  current  tax  laws,  the 
following tax benefits will be available to the Bank and prospective shareholders under direct tax laws. 
Statement of Tax Benefits Available Under The Current Tax Laws 

I. 

TO THE BANK 

1.  Under  Section  80M  of  the  Income  Tax  Act  where  the  gross  total  income  of  the  Bank  in  any  previous  year 
includes any income by way of dividends from a domestic company, there shall be allowed, in computing the 
total  income  of  the  Bank,  a  deduction  of  an  amount  equal  to  so  much  of  the  amount  of  income  by  way  of 
dividends from another domestic company as does not exceed the amount of dividend distributed by the Bank 
on or before the due date of furnishing the return of income. 

2.  Under  Section  36(1)  (vii  a)  of  the  Income  Tax  Act,  in  respect  of  any  provision  for  bad  and  doubtful  debts 

made, the Bank is entitled to a deduction of: 

 

 

 

i) 

an  amount  not  exceeding  seven  and  half  percent  of  the  total  income  computed  before  making  any 
deduction under this clause and chapter VI A; and 

ii)   an amount not exceeding ten per cent of the aggregate average advances made by the rural branches of 

the Bank computed in the prescribed manner: 

However, the Bank at its option instead of deductions referred to in para 2(i) and 2(ii) can claim in any of the 
relevant assessment years, deduction in respect of any provision made by it for any assets classified by the 
Reserve Bank of India as doubtful assets or loss assets in accordance with the guidelines issued by it in this 
behalf, of an amount not exceeding ten per cent of the amount of such assets shown in the books of account 
of  the  Bank  on  the  last  day  of  the  previous  year.  This  option  is  available  upto  the  year  ending  31/3/2005 
relevant to the assessment year 2005-2006. 

3.  Under  Section  36(1)(vii)  of  Income  Tax  Act,  any  bad  debt  or  part  thereof  of  the  Bank  which  is  written  off  as 
irrecoverable in  the accounts of the Bank is allowable as deduction subject to the condition, when the Bank 
claims deduction under Clause (vii)(a) of Section 36(1), the amount of the deduction relating to any such bad 
debt  or  part  thereof  shall  be  limited  to  the  amount  by  which  such  debt  or  part  thereof  exceeds  the  credit 
balance in the provision for bad and doubtful debts account under this Clause. The Bank also has to comply 
with the provisions contained in Section 36(2)(v) in order to get the above deduction. 

4.  Under  Section  43D  of  the  Income  Tax  Act,  the  income  of  the  Bank  by  way  of  interest  in  relation  to  such 
categories of bad or doubtful debts as prescribed in Rule 6EA of the Income Tax Rules shall be chargeable to 
tax in the previous year in which it is credited by the Bank to its Profit & Loss account for that year or as the 
case may be in which it is actually received by the Bank whichever is earlier. 

5.  Under second proviso to Section 48 of the Income Tax Act, the long term capital gains of the Bank arising on 
transfer of capital asset other than bonds and debentures (not being capital indexed bonds) will be computed 
after indexing the cost of acquisition, improvement and would be charged to at a concessional rate of 20% 
plus  applicable  surcharge  as  per  Section  112  of  the  Income  Tax  Act.  In  respect  of  long  term  capital  gains 
arising from the transfer of listed securities or unit, tax shall be chargeable at 10% of the amount of capital 
gains  plus  applicable  surcharge  before  giving  effect  to  the  provisions  of  second  proviso  to  Section  48  i.e. 
without indexing the cost of acquisition, if the Bank, opts for. 

6.  As  per  Section  54EC  of  Income  Tax  Act  and  subject  to  conditions  specified  therein,  the  Bank  is  eligible  to 
claim  exemption  from  the  tax  arising  on  long  term  capital  gains,  on  investment  of  capital  gains  in  certain 
notified bonds, within six months from the date of transfer of capital asset. If only a portion of the capital gains 
is invested, then the exemption is proportionately available. 

7.  Under Section 54ED of Income Tax Act, capital gain arising from the transfer of investments held as long term 
capital asset, being listed securities or unit is exempt from tax if the Bank invests within a period of six months 
after  the  date  of  such  transfer,  the  whole  of  the  capital  gain  in  acquiring  equity  shares  forming  part  of  an 
eligible  issue  of  capital-as defined in clause (i) to explanation in the above Section, the whole of the capital 
gain. Where only a part of the capital gains is so invested then the exemption is proportionately available. The 
exemption is available subject to other conditions specified in that Section. 

8.  Under  Section  10(23G)  of  Income  Tax  Act,  any  income  by  way  of  dividends,  interest  on  long  term  capital 
gains  of  the  Bank  arising  from  investment  made on or after the 1st day of June, 1998 by way of shares on 
Long  Term  Finance  in  any  enterprise  or  fund  or  a  co-operative  Bank  wholly  engaged  in  business  of  (i) 
developing  or  (ii)  operating  and  maintaining  or  (iii)  developing,  operating  and  maintaining  any  infrastructure 

Page 190 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

facility  and  which  has  been  approved  by  the  Central  Government  and  which  satisfies  the  prescribed 
conditions as per Rule 2E of the Income Tax Rules, 1962, is exempt from tax. 

II.  BENEFITS AVAILABLE TO THE RESIDENT SHAREHOLDERS OF THE BANK 

1.  Under Section 80L of the Income Tax Act where the gross total income of an individual or Hindu Undivided 

Family includes income by way of dividends paid by the Bank, a deduction: 

 

 

a) 

in a case where the amount of such income does not exceed in the aggregate nine thousand rupees, the 
whole of such amount; 

b) 

in any other case, nine thousand rupees would be allowed in computing the Total Income. 

2.  Under  Section  54EC  of  the  Income  Tax  Act  and  subject  to  the  conditions  specified  therein  any  long-term 
capital gains arising from the transfer of shares of the Bank is exempt from Tax if the assessee has invested 
at any time within a period of six months from the date of such transfer, the whole of capital gains in notified 
bonds. If only a portion of the capital gains is invested, then the exemption is proportionately available. 

3.  Under Section 54F of the Income Tax Act, long term capital gains arising on transfer of shares of the Bank in 
the case of individuals or Hindu Undivided Family will be exempt (full or proportionate) if the net consideration 
(i.e. full value of consideration received or accrued as a result of the transfer of the capital asset as reduced 
by  an  expenditure  wholly  and  exclusively  in  connection  with  such  transfer)  is  invested  in  purchase  of 
residential  house  within  a  period  of  one  year  before  or  two  years  after  the  date  of  transfer  or  the  net 
consideration is invested in the construction of a residential house within a period of three years from the date 
of transfer. The exemption is available proportionately if only a portion of the net consideration is invested as 
above. The exemption is subject to other conditions specified in that Section. 

4.  As per Section 54ED of Income Tax Act, long term capital gains arising from transfer of shares of the Bank on 
its shares being listed, is exempt from tax if the assessee invests within a period of six months after the date 
of transfer, the whole of the capital gains in acquiring equity shares forming part of an eligible issue of capital 
as defined in clause (i) to explanation in the above Section, the whole of the capital gains. Where only a part 
of the capital gains is so invested, then the exemption is proportionately available. The exemption is available 
subject to conditions specified in that Section. 

5.  Under Section 112 of Income Tax Act where the Total Income of any assessee includes any long term capital 
gains on transfer of shares of the Bank, same is subject to concessional rate of tax at 20% plus applicable 
surcharge after indexing the cost as per the second proviso to Section 48 of the Income Tax Act. Alternatively, 
at the option of the assessee, where the tax payable in respect of any such long term capital gains exceeds 
10%  of  the  amount  of  capital  gains  arrived  at  without  indexing  the  cost, the capital gains is charged at 10% 
only plus applicable surcharge. 

6.  No Wealth Tax is payable in respect of investment in shares of the Bank. 
III.  BENEFITS AVAILABLE TO NON-RESIDENT INDIAN SHAREHOLDERS OF THE BANK 

1.  Under Section 48 of the Income Tax Act capital gains arising on transfer of shares of the Bank is computed by 
converting the Cost of Acquisition etc. and the full value of the consideration of the transfer to share into the 
same foreign currency as was initially utilised in the purchase of the shares and the capital gains so computed 
in  such  foreign  currency  shall  be  reconverted  into  Indian  currency.  Further,  the  aforesaid  manner  of 
computation  of  Capital  Gains  shall  be  applicable  in  respect  of  Capital  Gains  accruing  or  arising  from  every 
reinvestment thereafter in and sale of, shares in, or debentures of, an Indian Company. 

2.  As  per  the  provisions  of  Section  115-I  of  the  Income  Tax  Act,  non-resident  Indians  have  an  option  to  be 

governed by the Chapter XII-A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, according to which :- 

 

 

 

 

a)  Under Section 115E of the Income Tax Act, the long term capital gain on transfer of shares of the Bank 
acquired  by  him  out  of  convertible  foreign  exchange  (without  aggregating  any  other  income  carried  in 
India which will be taxed separately) shall be taxed @ 10% plus applicable surcharge. 

b)  Under Section 115F of the Income Tax Act, the long term capital gain on sale of shares acquired by the 
non-resident  out  of  the  convertible  foreign  exchange  shall  be  exempt  from  income-tax  entirely  / 
proportionately, if the entire or part of the net consideration is invested for a period of three years in any 
savings certificates specified under Section 10 (4B) or specified assets as defined in Section 115C within 
6 months from the date of transfer. 

c)  Under  Section  115G  of  the  Income  Tax  Act,  a  non-resident  Indian  is  not  required  to  file  a  return  of 
income under Section 139(1) of the Act if his total income consisted only of investment income and/or 
long term capital gains and tax deductible at source has been deducted therefrom. 

d)  Under  Section  115H  of  the  Income  Tax  Act,  where  the  non-resident  Indian  becomes  assessable  as  a 
resident in India, along with his return of income for that year, he may furnish a declaration in writing to 
the  Assessing  Officer under Section 139 of the Income Tax Act to the effect that the provisions of the 

Page 191 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Chapter XII-A shall continue to apply to him in relation to income derived from shares of the Bank for that 
year and subsequent years until such assets are converted into money. 

 

e)  As  per  the  provision  of  Section  115I  of  Income  Tax  Act,  a  non-resident  Indian  may  elect  not  to  be 
governed by the provisions of Chapter XII A for any assessment year by furnishing his return of income 
for that assessment year under Section 139 of the Act, declaring therein that the provisions of Chapter 
XII-A  shall  not  apply  to  him  for  that  assessment  year  and  accordingly  his  total  income  for  that 
assessment year will be computed in accordance with the provisions of the Act. 

IV.  BENEFITS AVAILABLE TO FOREIGN COMPANIES AND INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS (FII) 

1.  Under Section 115A of the Income Tax Act, where the total income of a Foreign Company includes dividend 

from the Bank, the rate of Income Tax shall be chargeable at 20% plus applicable surcharge. 

2.  Under Section 115AD of the Income Tax Act, where the total income of Foreign Institutional Investors include 
income by way of dividend from the Bank or income by way of short term or long term capital gains arising 
from transfer of such shares, the Income-Tax will be payable at 20% on dividend income, 30% on short term 
gains and 10% on long term capital gains referred above plus applicable surcharge. 

3.  Under Section 54EC of the Income Tax Act, only long term capital gains arising from transfer of shares of the 
Bank is exempt as set out in para 2 of Part II of Statement of Tax benefits subject to the extent and conditions 
mentioned therein. 

4.  Under Section 48 of the Income Tax Act, capital gains arising on transfer of shares of the Bank will be exempt 

in such a manner as set out in para 1 of Part III of Statement of Tax Benefits above. 

V.  BENEFITS AVAILABLE TO MUTUAL FUNDS 

As per the provisions of Section 10(23D) of the Act, any income of Mutual Funds registered under the Securities 
and Exchange Board  of India Act, 1992 or Regulations made thereunder, mutual funds set up by the public sector 
banks or public financial institutions and Mutual Funds authorised by the Reserve Bank of India would be exempt 
from income tax subject to the conditions as the Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette 
specify in this behalf. 

Page 192 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

SECTION III 

BANK AND MANAGEMENT 
History and Development 

Union Bank of India was founded and registered on November 11, 1919 as a limited company with its registered 
office at 7, Marzban Road, Fort, Mumbai. Union Bank shifted its registered office in 1921 to its own premises at 
Mumbai Samachar Marg, Fort, Mumbai. The inauguration of the new premises at the hands of Mahatma Gandhi 
(the father of the nation) is a memorable moment in the history of the Bank, inspiring and guiding the institution and 
its people to uphold the values of good banking and customer care. 
At  the  time  of  independence  in  1947,  the  Bank  had  only  4  branches;  3  in  Mumbai  and  1  in  Saurashtra,  all 
concentrated  in  key  trade  centres  because  the  then  Board  of  the  Bank  was  closely  associated  with  trade  and 
commerce. 
It was only from 1960 onwards that the Bank’s growth phase began and the Bank aligned its activities in line with 
the national priorities. In the context of foreign exchange crisis faced by the country in the late 50s and early 60s, 
the Bank geared itself to assist the export sector and push its foreign exchange business with an added emphasis. 
By 1965, its advances to foreign trade was about 25% of its total advances. The Bank has no foreign branches. 
Similarly,  realising  the  need  for  qualitative  change  in  banking  coverage,  it  was  one  of  the  early  banks  to  open 
branches in the rural areas and in 1965, it had 16 branches in rural pockets with a population of less than 10,000. 
The Bank has since come a long way crossing the Rs10,000 crore business mark in 1991 and Rs 50,000 crore 
mark by 2000. After nationalisation in 1975, Belgaum Bank Ltd., a private sector bank was merged with the Bank. 
In 1985, Miraj State Bank Ltd., a private sector bank was merged with the Bank and in 1999, Sikkim Bank Ltd. was 
merged  with  the  Bank.  The  merger  was  effected  through  merger  schemes  framed  by  the  Government  of  India. 
Now, the Bank has crossed another milestone, having garnered a business mix of Rs 60,000 crore as evidenced 
by the table below: 

Year 
 
1920 
1930 
1940 
1950 
1960 
1969 
1979 
1989 
1995-1996 
1996-1997 
1997-1998 
1998-1999 
1999-2000 
2000-2001 
2001-2002 

Deposits 
(Rs crore) 
0.53 
0.27 
1.97 
5.36 
28.50 
133.10 
1,208.32 
5,143.60 
17,891.73 
20,004.99 
23,055.63 
28,135.65 
31,105.36 
34,888.06 
39,793.86 

Advances 
(Rs crore) 
0.73 
0.46 
0.67 
1.71 
17.32 
86.50 
713.80 
2,492.18 
8,681.08 
9,168.36 
10,276.19 
11,308.77 
14,613.62 
17,505.35 
21,383.31 

No. of Branches 
 (Excl. Extension counters) 
1 
1 
4 
7 
53 
273 
1,117 
1,740 
2,004 
2,030 
2,087 
2,119 
2,136 
2,053 
2,023 

The Bank has reduced the number of branches as part of a branch rationalisation process. The Bank has been 
actively studying branch profitability and customer convenience at the branches over a period of time. As a result, 
it  was  seen  that  reduction  in  certain  branches  would  result  in  complete  and  better  service  to  the  customer. 
Moreover certain branches acting as Specialised Savings Branches (created by carving out savings department of 
branches) did not achieve the purpose of mobilising low cost deposit and hence were merged with their original 
branches. 
The chart below explains the growth in resource mobilisation and advances in the last 
five years: 
 

Page 193 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

e
r
o
r
c
 
s
R

60000

50000

40000

30000

20000

10000

0

 

1997-98

1998-99

1999-00

2000-01

2001-2002

Deposits  Advances 

 

The Bank has thus seen a steady and consistent growth in both its deposits and advances. In the last five years, 
the deposits and advances of the Bank have grown at a compounded annual growth rate of 14.53% per annum 
and 17.34% per annum respectively. 

As  against  the  total  deposits  figure  of  Rs23,056  crore  as  on  March  31,  1998,  the  Bank’s  deposits  stood  at 
Rs39,794 crore as on March 31, 2002 showing an annual increase of more than 11.5% over the last five years. 
OVERVIEW OF THE BANKING ENVIRONMENT 
(The information  presented in this section has been extracted from publicly available documents, which 
have not been prepared or independently verified by the Bank, the Lead Managers or any other respective 
affiliates or advisors) 

Indian Banking Industry 

Banking in India has an early origin where the indigenous bankers played a very important role in lending money 
and  financing  foreign  trade  and  commerce.  During  the  days  of  the  East  India  Company,  it  was  the  turn  of  the 
agency houses to carry on the banking business. The General Bank of India was the first Joint Stock Bank to be 
established in the year 1786. The others, which followed, were the Bank of Hindustan and the Bengal Bank. In the 
first half of the 19th century, the East India Company established three banks; the Bank of Bengal in 1809, the Bank 
of Bombay in 1840 and the Bank of Madras in 1843. These three banks were also known as Presidency Banks. 
These  three  banks  were  amalgamated  in  1920  and  a  new  bank,  the  Imperial  Bank  of  India  was  established  in 
1921. With the  passing of the State Bank of India Act in 1955, the undertaking of the Imperial Bank of India was 
taken over by the newly constituted State Bank of India. The Reserve Bank of India which is the Central Bank was 
created in 1935 by passing of Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. 
Industry Structure 
The following chart briefly explains the banking system as it is functioning today in 
India: 
 

Page 194 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

The Banking System  

Organised Banking System 

Unorganised Banking System 

Unscheduled Banks 

Scheduled Banks * 

Scheduled Commercial Banks 

Scheduled Co-operative Banks 

Public Sector 
Banks (27) 

Private Sector 
Banks (31) 

Foreign Banks 

**(42) 

Regional Rural 
Banks (196) 

Urban Co-operative 

Banks (51) 

State Co-operative 

Banks (16) 

Nationalised Banks 

(19) 

State Bank of India & 

subsidiaries (8) 

Old Private Sector 

Banks (23) 

New Private Sector 

Banks (8) 

As included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (As on March 31, 2001) 

* 
**  Sakura Bank Limited merged with Sumitomo Bank Limited in April 2001 

Note: Figures in brackets indicate number of banks in each group 
(Source: Report on Trend and Progress of Banking in India, 2000-2001, RBI) 
 
Unorganised Banking System 

The  Unorganised  Banking  System  comprises  of  moneylenders,  indigenous  bankers,  lending  pawnbrokers, 
landlords, traders, etc. There are also a host of financial companies, investment companies, chit funds, etc. 
Organised Banking System 

The  Organised  Banking  System  comprises  of  Scheduled  Banks  and  Non-scheduled  Banks  that  are  permitted  by 
RBI to undertake banking business. 
 

Scheduled Banks 

Scheduled Banks are those banks which are included in the Second Schedule of the Reserve Bank Act, 1934. In 
terms of Section 42(6)(a) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, a bank should fulfil the following conditions before it is 
granted a scheduled bank status: 

a) 

b) 

c) 

It must have a specified paid-up capital and reserves; 

It must satisfy RBI that its affairs are not conducted in a manner detrimental to the depositors; 

It must be a state co-operative bank or a company under Companies Act, 1956 or an institution notified by the 
Central Government in this behalf or a corporation or a company incorporated by or under any law in force in 
any place outside India. 

The  Scheduled  Banks  comprising  of  Scheduled  Commercial  Banks  and  Scheduled  Co-operative  Banks  enjoy 
certain privileges like approaching the RBI for financial assistance, refinance etc. and correspondingly, they have 
certain obligations like maintaining certain cash reserves, submission of returns as prescribed by the RBI, etc. 
Unscheduled Banks 

Unscheduled Banks are those joint stock banks which are not included in the Second Schedule of the RBI Act on 
account of the failure to comply with the minimum requirements for being scheduled. 
Scheduled Commercial Banks 

Page 195 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Scheduled Commercial Banks comprises Public Sector Banks, Private Sector Banks, Foreign Banks and Regional 
Rural Banks. Public Sector Banks are sub-classified into the State Bank of India (erstwhile Imperial Bank of India 
nationalised by central enactment in 1955) and its 7 associates nationalised in 1959 and other Nationalised Banks 
which  were  nationalised  in  two  phases;  14  banks  were  nationalised  on  July  19,  1969  and  6  others  on  April  15, 
1980. 

Evolution of the Industry 

The Indian Banking System has over the years evolved to become a more market oriented one. The various five-
year plans provided the impetus towards financial development, commercial banking and industrialisation in India. 
Banking was a critical  source of funding in all the emerging trade and industrial activities during the early part of 
the post-independence era. 
Importance of the Sector 

One of the basic indicators of financial development of an economy is the contribution of finance-related activities 
in real GDP, i.e., the contribution of banking and insurance in GDP. The share of real GDP originating from finance 
related activities experienced a steady increase from 2.2 percent during the first half of the seventies to 4.7 percent 
in the period 1993-99. Within the services sector, the share of banking and insurance sector worked out to around 
12.0 percent during the nineties. 

S h a r e  o f  B a n k i n g  a n d  I n s u r a n c e
1 4

)

%

(

1 2

1 0

8
6

4

2

0

5.7

2.2

6.8

7.5

2.7

3.1

I n   G D P  

I n  S e r v i c e s  S e c t o r

11.2

11.8

4.9

4.7

1 9 7 0 - 7 1  t o  1 9 7 4 - 7 5

1 9 7 5 - 7 6  t o  1 9 7 9 - 8 0

1 9 8 0 - 8 1  t o  1 9 8 4 - 8 5

1 9 8 5 - 8 6  t o  1 9 9 2 - 9 3

1 9 9 3 - 9 4  t o  1 9 9 8 - 9 9

 
 
(Source : National Accounts Statistics, Central Statistics Organisation, www.rbi.org.net.in) 

The increasing role played by the banking sector in the economy can be gauged by the steady increase in the ratio 
of  monetary  indicators  like  aggregate  deposits,  M3,  bank  credit  to  the  Government  and  bank  credit  to  the 
commercial sector to the GDP over the last two decades. These  ratios,  which  were  as  low  as  16.4  percent,  25.9 
percent,  13.3  percent  and  15.6  percent  respectively  during  the  period  1970-75,  increased  to  43.8  percent,  53.8 
percent, 21.9 percent and 28.6 percent respectively during the period 1995-00. However, the ratio of credit to the 
commercial sector to GDP, which touched in the late eighties to 30.3 percent, has since witnessed a decline to 
28.6 percent during 1995-00. This is perhaps an indication of the increased move of the banks to invest more in 
Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) investments (Government securities) during the late nineties in a falling interest rate 
scenario and an economic slowdown leading to rising NPAs. 
PERFORMANCE OF THE BANKING SYSTEM 
Increased Competition 

The advent of liberalisation and the resulting financial sector reforms in the early 90s resulted in the Public Sector 
Banks witnessing new threats in the form of new private sector players and globally available financial products. 
Also, in accordance with India’s WTO agreement in the financial services sector, foreign banks were permitted to 
increase their number of branches from the earlier level of 8 branches to 12 branches effective from the year 1998-
1999. Subsequent to the guidelines issued in the year 1993, the industry witnessed the  advent of private sector 
banks. Currently, around 8 new private sector banks are in operation. 

The  Public  Sector  Banks  that  are  the  dominant  force  in  the  Indian  banking  scenario  (over  78.0  percent  of  total 
banking  assets)  are  faced  with  issues  relating  to  non-performing  assets  levels,  falling  revenues  from  traditional 
sources,  upgradation  to  modern  technology  and  large  workforce.  Accordingly,  many  Public  Sector  Banks  are 
facing  the  challenges  by  implementing  Voluntary  Retirement  Schemes  (VRS)  to  reduce  workforce and becoming 
tech  savvy.  While  competition  between  the  various  banking  entities  in  the  industry  has  increased,  competition 
amongst the various public sector banks has also increased. This is because of the relaxation of many guidelines, 
allowing for  portfolio shifts. With the amendment to the Banking Companies Acts 1970/1980, public sector banks 
are now allowed to access the capital market to raise funds. This has diluted the shareholding of the Government, 
although it continues to be the major shareholder. 

Page 196 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Public Sector Banks – Still the Mainstay 

Despite  increasing  competition,  public  sector  banks  continue  to  dominate.  This  category  currently  accounts  for 
more  than  81  percent  of  all  deposits  and  over  79  percent  of  all  advances  in  the  domestic  banking  industry. This 
scale of operations bestows upon them a higher bargaining power enabling them to play a dominant role in the 
liquidity and interest rate levels in the system. However, the scenario in the future may undergo a change with the 
growth  of  the  new  private  sector  banks.  These  banks  are  in  a  more  advantageous  position  because  of  their 
superior technology-based operations, lower manpower and a lower non-performing assets (NPA) level. 

The table below gives the category-wise break-up of important banking sector indicators as on March 31, 2001: 
Category 
(no. of Banks) 
Public Sector  Banks (27) 
Old Private Sector Banks (23) 
New Private Sector Banks (8) 
Foreign Banks (42) 
Total 
(Source : Report on Trend and Progress of Banking in India, 2000-2001, RBI) 

Advances 
 
79% 
7% 
6% 
8% 
100% 

Deposits 
 
81% 
7% 
6% 
6% 
100%s 

Total 
Assets 
80% 
7% 
6% 
8% 
100% 

Total 
Income 
78% 
7% 
6% 
9% 
100% 

Net 
Profit 
67% 
8% 
10% 
15% 
100% 

RECENT TRENDS 

The banking sector is being subjected to constant change with far reaching consequences. Increasing customer 
focus, branding and technology focus are some of the broad changes that are occurring. Some of the other major 
trends include: 

Universal Banking 

In order to enhance the scale of operations in the financial intermediary industry, the banks were permitted to foray 
into  the  term  lending  market.  Similarly,  Financial  Institutions  (FIs)  were  given  the  go  ahead  to  provide  loans  for 
working capital requirements. On account of this move, banks are likely to become targets for take-over by FIs, 
who  are  anxious  to  increase  their  market  share  in  the  short-term  deposit  and  working  capital  business.  By 
incorporating universal banking and also simultaneously implementing best risk management practices, banks and 
FIs can still increase their scope of operations and growth in profits. 
Increased Technological Advancements 

Technology savvy banks are tapping multiple channels to cut costs and improve customer satisfaction. The trend 
of adopting new technology has caught on the attention of a number of banks, including public sector banks. The 
major forces driving change in the financial services industry are new delivery systems such as direct sales, PC 
home banking, private banking, telephone and franchise. 

Mergers and Acquisitions 

The  domestic  banking  sector  has  started  witnessing  mergers  and  acquisitions  (M&A)  activities.  While  private 
players have access to the latest technology, they lack the reach and low cost funds of public sector banks. M&A 
thus offer these banks an effective route to face competition and increase their reach and presence. 
Bancassurance 

Banks  with  their  wide  reach  and  a  regular  interface  with  the  retail  investor  are  the  best  placed  to  enter  into  the 
insurance sector. The IRDA has so far received quite a few applications in both the life and non-life sectors put 
together. The nature of applicants indicates that there is a strong synergy between other institutions in the financial 
sector and insurance. The inherent brand equity is the biggest advantage of banks. 
Potential in Retail Assets 

The  retail  asset  market  has  been  growing  at  a  healthy  pace  over  the  past  few  years.  A  growing  population  of 
bankable households, very low penetration and the increased propensity of the urban populace to take credit are 
likely to propel growth in this area. 
MAIN OBJECT AND BUSINESS OF THE BANK 
Main object 

The main object of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 under which the 
Bank was constituted by the Central Government as a Corresponding New Bank is as under: 

“An act to provide for the acquisition and transfer of the undertakings of certain banking companies, having regard 
to their size, resources, coverage and organisation, in order further to control the heights of the economy, to meet 
progressively, and serve better, the needs of the development of the economy and to promote the welfare of the 

Page 197 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

people, in conformity with the policy of the State towards securing the principles laid down in clause (b) and (c) of 
Article 39 of the Constitution of India and for matters connected therewith or incidental therein.” 
 

Business of the Bank 

The  Banking  Regulation  Act,  1949  which  is  the  governing  act  for  the  Bank  enables  the  Bank  to  carry  on  and 
transact the business of banking as defined in clause (b) of section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949(10 of 
1949), and also engage in one or more of the other forms of business specified in sub-section (1) of section 6 of 
that Act. 

According  to  clause  (b)  of  Section  5  of  the  Banking  Regulation  Act,  1949,  “Banking  means  the  accepting  for  the 
purpose  of  lending  or  investment,  of  deposits  of  money  from  the  public,  repayable  on  demand  or  otherwise,  and 
withdrawal by cheque, draft, order or otherwise.” 

The Other Business that the Bank can undertake: 

Section 3 (7) permits the Bank to act as an agent of Reserve Bank. It states as under - 

“(i)  The bank shall, if so required by the Reserve Bank, act as agent of the Reserve Bank at all places in India 

where it has a branch for: - 

 

 

(a)  paying, receiving, collecting and remitting money, bullion and securities on behalf of Government of India; 

and 

(b)  undertaking and transacting any other business which the Reserve Bank may from time to time entrust to 

it. 

(ii)   The terms and conditions on which any such agency business shall be carried on by the corresponding new 

bank on behalf of the Reserve Bank shall be such as may be agreed upon. 

(iii)   If  no  agreement  can  be  reached  on  any  matter  referred  to  in  clause  (ii),  or  if  a  dispute  arises  between  the 
corresponding new bank and the Reserve Bank as to the interpretation of any agreement between them, the 
matter shall be referred to the Central Government and the decisions of the Central Government thereon shall 
be final. 

(iv)  The corresponding new bank may transact any business or perform any functions entrusted to it under Clause 

(i) by itself or through any agent approved by the Reserve Bank.” 

OVERVIEW OF THE BANK’S BUSINESSES AND ACTIVITIES 
Corporate Vision 

“To  become  the  Bank  of  first  choice  in  our  chosen  areas  by  building  beneficial  and  lasting  relationships  with 
customers through a process of continuous improvement.” 

Corporate Mission 

l 

l 

l 

l 

l 

To gain market recognition and to be a market mover in its chosen areas 

To maintain its identity as a leading innovative commercial bank alive to the changing needs of the society 

To consolidate its role function as a commercial bank by upgrading its operation efficiencies and productivity 
through technology and new delivery channels, by rationalising and restructuring its all India branch network 
in furthering the socio-economic objectives of the Government of India 

To  enhance  its  reputation  as  a  ‘Good  People  to  Bank  With’  being  pro-active  to  customer’s  needs, 
expectations and the challenges at the industry level. 

To promote confidence and commitment amongst its officials and executives to quickly and efficiently address 
the expectation of the customers and handle technology banking with ease. 

Corporate Strategy 

The  Bank’s  business  strategy  revolves  around  its  endeavour  to  not  only  consolidate  its  existing  position  in  its 
current business but to pro-actively grow in its chosen areas and become a market leader through a process of 
realigning its strengths and focusing on the growth objectives in these areas. 
Competitive Strengths 

l 

l 

l 

Professionally managed organisation with a committed workforce 

Vast domestic branch network spread throughout the country 

Total business (advances plus deposits) exceeding Rs61,000 crore 

Page 198 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

l 

l 

Technologically savvy with networking plans and high computerisation 

State- of-the-art integrated treasury 

Full-fledged training college with an ISO 9001 certification 

l 
Quality Upgradation 

At present, the Bank’s Staff Training College at Bangalore and SSI branch at Guindy are the two centres under 
ISO certification. The Bank expects to have at least 100 branches certified under ISO 9001 by end of March 2003. 
PRESENT BANKING ACTIVITIES 
Branch and Office Network 

The Bank has 5 Field General Managers’ Offices, 3 Zonal Offices, and 40 Regional Offices. The branch network 
consists  of  2,023  domestic  branches  and  146  extension  counters  as  on  March  31,  2002.  The  break  up  is  as 
follows: 

2,023 

Rural
40%

Domestic Branches 

Rural branches  
Semi-urban branches 
Urban branches  
Metropolitan branches 

No. 

814 
450 
420 
339 

Total 

17%

Metropolitan

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Geographical status (statewise distribution) of branches 

Urban
21%

Semi-urban

22%

The table below shows the top 14 states covering 90% of the branch network of the Bank: 

States 
Uttar Pradesh 
Maharashtra 
Gujarat 
Madhya Pradesh 
Andhra Pradesh 
Tamil Nadu 
Kerala 
Karnataka 
West Bengal 
Punjab 
Delhi 
Rajasthan 

No. 
412 
296 
163 
145 
125 
124 
121 
86 
80 
66 
52 
50 

Page 199 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Bihar 
Orissa 

Specialised Branches 

46 
46 

In  order  to  cater  to  various  niche  markets  in  domestic  business  and  in  order  to  impart  required  focus  to  the 
specialised  activities  of  the  Bank,  a  thrust  has  been  given  to  open  specialised  branches.  The  Bank  has  61 
specialised branches as on March 31, 2002 that are engaged in financing large and medium scale industry, small-
scale industry, specialised trading, etc. The break up of the specialised branches as on March 31, 2002 are given 
below - 

Specialised Branches 

Small Scale Industries 
Non-Resident Indian 
Industrial Finance 
Overseas 
Personal Banking Service 
Specialised Trading 
Total 

Rural and Semi-Urban Branches 

No. 

26 
04 
08 
08 
09 
06 
61 

The major markets both for deposits and lending operations are shifting to rural and semi-urban centres, which are 
emerging as new growth centres.  The urban centres are witnessing cut-throat competition due to competition from 
private sector and foreign banks.  The Bank shall be focusing on rural and semi-urban centres where it can target 
mid-size and small entrepreneurs and the household sector for retail finance. As a part of its goal, the Bank has set 
growth targets in each of the areas of deposits and credit in rural/ semi-urban areas. 
Deposits 

The  Bank  achieved  its  highest  growth  in  absolute  terms  by  adding  about  Rs  5,000  crore  in  FY2002  to  take  the 
deposit figure close to Rs 40,000 crore at the end of March 2002. 

The Bank’s business strategy to maximise its deposits is as follows: 

l 

l 

l 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To focus on low-cost current and saving bank deposits 

To review and rationalise the Bank’s deposit schemes so as to make it more customer friendly 

To expand / open new delivery channels and services in the following areas 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

ATM 

Demat  services 

Utility payments 

Distribution of mutual funds and insurance products 

NRI deposits through additional tie-ups with exchange houses 

-  Marketing of Government Securities 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Cash Management Services 

Electronic Funds Transfer 

Anywhere/Anytime Banking 

Flexible Deposits – mix of savings and term deposits 

Floating Rate Deposit 

As on March 31, 2002, the total deposits of the Bank touched a level of Rs 39,793.86 crore. The same was Rs 
34,888.06  crore  on  March  31,  2001,  representing  a  growth  of  14%. The Bank had a base of around 1.32 crore 
depositors as on March 31, 2002 resulting in an average deposit size of Rs 30,164 per depositor. The deposits per 
branch  as  on  March  31,  2002  stood  at  Rs  19.67  crore.  The  region-wise (as per RBI’s region wise classification) 
distribution of deposits as a percentage to aggregate deposits of the Bank is given below: 
 
2001 

 
As on March 31, 

(in %) 
2002 

 
1998 

 
1999 

 
2000 

Page 200 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Northern region 
North east region 
Eastern region 
Central region 
Western region 
Southern region 
Total 

20.32 
1.07 
7.86 
23.79 
33.08 
13.86 
100.00 

20.82 
0.93 
7.95 
24.73 
31.54 
14.03 
100.00 

18.52 
1.08 
8.58 
25.14 
31.46 
15.21 
100.00 

The population-wise break-up of the deposits during the last 5 years is as follows: 

 
As on March 31, 
Rural 
Semi urban 
Urban 
Metro 
Total 

 

 
1998 
15.57 
15.22 
24.66 
44.56 
100.00 

 

 

1999 
15.05 
15.40 
24.81 
44.74 
100.00 

2000 
15.75 
15.95 
24.81 
43.48 
100.00 

17.33 
1.16 
8.51 
25.79 
31.32 
15.88 
100.00 

2001 
16.37 
16.56 
25.39 
41.68 
100.00 

 

 

 

( 

The category-wise break-up of total deposits during the last 5 years is as follows: 
 
 
As on March 31, 
Demand Deposits  
Savings Deposits  
Term Deposits  
Total Deposits 

1998 
3,258 
5,467 
14,331 
23,056 

1999 
3,463 
6,312 
18,361 
28,136 

2000 
4,829 
7,430 
18,846 
31,105 

2001 
6,066 
8,424 
20,398 
34,888 

17.50 
1.24 
8.68 
25.73 
30.62 
16.23 
100.00 

(in %) 
2002 
16.86 
16.45 
28.22 
38.47 
100.00 

Rs crore) 

2002 
6,655 
9,701 
23,438 
39,794 

Non-Resident Deposits 

The total NRI deposits of the Bank as of March 31, 2002 were Rs3,640 crore. This represents about 9.30% of the 
Bank’s aggregate deposits. Details of NRI deposits during the last 3 years are as under: 

 
As on March 31, 

NRE 
FCNR(B)  
NRNR 

Total 

 
2000 

715.63 
1,233.59 
876.93 

2,826.15 

 
2001 

795.99 
1,466.59 
1,009.91 

3,272.49 

(Rs crore) 
2002 

989.48 
1,581.86 
1,068.36 

3,639.70 

Maturity Profile of deposits as on March 31, 2002 

 
Residual Maturity 
1 to 14 Days 
15 to 28 Days 
29 Days and upto 3 months  
Over 3 Months and upto 6 months 
Over 6 months and upto 12 months  
Over 1 year and upto 3 years 
Over 3 years and upto 5 years 
Over 5 years 
Total 

Floating Rate Liabilities 

(Rs crore) 
Amount 
2,851.74 
985.10 
2,570.40 
3,088.74 
5,036.70 
22,354.24 
1,928.42 
978.52 
39,793.86 

There were no floating rate liabilities for the Bank as on March 31, 2002. 
Borrowings 

Details of all unsecured borrowings outstanding as on March 31, 2002 

Page 201 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Outstanding 

Affiliate/  Date of 

Balance  Associate  borrowing 

(Rs. crore) 

Borrowings 
 
 

SIDBI – Refinance 
 

NABARD – Refinance 
 
 

National Housing  
Bank – NHB 

Various Banks 
Total 

3.77 
 

10.75 
 
 

35.10 
 

3.69 
53.31 

No  Ongoing 

No  Ongoing 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

Due Date 
 

Ongoing 
 

Ongoing 
 
 

 

Int.Rate  Repayment terms 

(%) 

9-17 
 

To be repaid over a 
period of five years 

7-10.5 
 
 

To be repaid over the 
period ending Jan 31, 
2013 

7-9 
 

20 Fixed Quarterly 
Instalments 

No  05.01.2001  01.01.2006 

No  Ongoing 

Ongoing 

NA  Ongoing 

Important covenants relating to the above-mentioned borrowings 

SIDBI  –  Small  Industries  Development  Bank  of  India  (SIDBI)  provides  refinance  to  Banks  against  the  Term 
Lending to agriculture, etc. Eligibility for claiming refinance at different rates and repayment schedule is prescribed 
by SIDBI. No security is to be provided to SIDBI. 

NABARD – National  Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) extends the refinance for financing 
agro-based units in rural areas on projects basis. Eligibility for claiming refinance at different rates is prescribed by 
NABARD. No security is given. 

NHB  -  National  Housing  Bank  (NHB)  provides  refinance  in  respect  of  housing  loans.  Eligibility  for  claiming 
refinance at different rates is prescribed by NHB. No security is given. 

With the call money rates being less than the refinance rates and refinance on the export credit from RBI, the Bank 
has discontinued availing of the refinance facilities from the above mentioned agencies. 
 

Servicing Behaviour 

The Bank has been servicing all its principal and interest liabilities on time and there have been no defaults at any 
time. 
Loan Policy and Lending Activities 

The  Bank  has  set  in  place  a  well-documented  Loan  Policy  framework  within  the  broad  parameters  fixed  by 
Reserve  Bank  of  India  designed  with  a  focus  on  sustained  growth  and  optimum  usage  of  resources  without 
compromising on asset quality. The loan policy exhaustively covers strategies for deployment of credit and system 
of assessment, financial parameters, pricing, prudential norms and risk management. 

The  Loan  Policy  Document  is  reviewed  every  year  in  line  with  the  economic  scenario  and  requirements  of  the 
marketplace, RBI instructions or observations during its Annual Financial Inspection and also to avoid any adverse 
effects and implications in the future. The Loan Policy Document for the year 2002-03 has been duly approved by 
the Board of Directors. 

The main objectives of the Loan Policy are: 

l 

l 

l 

l 

l 

l 

Ensuring the loan assets remain safe and secure 

Ensuring the loan assets remain performing 

Ensuring profitable deployment of resources along with asset liability matching and recycling of funds 

Ensuring  due  compliance  of  various  regulatory  norms,  particularly,  CRAR,  Income  Recognition,  Asset 
Classification, etc. 

Ensuring balanced deployment of credit to various sectors and geographical regions and 

Introduction and implementation of Risk Management Concept for credit portfolio 

The Loan Policy has clearly spelt out the methods of assessment in respect of individuals, corporates, specialised 
categories like sugar mills, NBFCs, software development, etc. 

To meet the challenges posed by increased market volatility particularly in the globalisation of Indian economy, the 
Bank has put in place a comprehensive and effective Credit Risk Management System covering various aspects, 
viz.,  Delegation  of  Loaning  Powers,  Prudential  Limits  and  Norms,  Risk  Rating  System,  Risk  Pricing,  Portfolio 
Management,  Review  Mechanism,  Documentation  and  Legal  Compliance  as  per  the  RBI  guidelines  based  on 
Basel Committee consultative documents. 

Page 202 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Credit Approval Authority - Lending Powers 

Within the limits permissible by RBI and in line with the Loan Policy framework, the Bank has set in place a well-
defined  Scheme  of  Delegation  of  Loaning  Powers  duly  approved  by  the  Board of Directors. The credit approval 
authority rests with different levels of Officers depending on the quantum of credit. The lending powers are fixed to 
allow adequate freedom to the field staff considering the current competitive industry conditions. At the same time, 
care is taken that there is no compromise on borrowers standard and financial discipline so that only quality assets 
are added to the Bank’s portfolio. The Management Committee of Directors has the highest power for approving 
credit proposals. The said committee currently comprises of: 

1.  Mr. V. Leeladhar, Chairman and Managing Director 
2.  Mr. M. Venugopalan, Executive Director 
3.  Dr. K. B. L. Mathur, Government of India nominee 
4.  Mr. A. V. Sardesai, Reserve Bank of India nominee 
5.  Mr. Anish Kumar 
6.  Smt. Chalasani Vijaya Lakshmi 
7.  Mr. Ashutosh Tandon 

The  Bank  has  laid  down  detailed  procedure  for  sanction  of  various  types  of  credit  facilities  including  non-fund 
based  facilities.  The  proposals  for  project  finance  from  prospective  as  well  as  existing  clients  are  subjected  to 
technical feasibility and economic viability studies, which also include sensitivity analysis. 

In order to streamline the credit delivery system, the Bank has set up Specialised Branches like Industrial Finance 
Branch, Overseas Branch, SSI Branch, etc., which are manned by trained personnel. 
Key Areas 

The Bank has identified certain key areas for focus given below and has developed focussed strategy for these 
areas: 

1.  Housing 
2.  Professionals 
3.  Retail Traders 
4.  Agriculture 

Retail Lending 

In Retail Finance, the Bank has introduced innovative schemes under the Union Brand umbrella: 

  1  Union Home 
   
   

 
 

For purchase / construction of flat / house, repairs / extension to existing house,  
repayment of loans from other agency/bank/NBFC availed of at higher rate by  
individuals 

  2  Union Miles 

For purchase of 2/4 Wheelers for personal / professional use by individuals 

  3  Union Comfort 

To meet personal expenses and/or purchase of consumer durables 

  4  Union Rent 
   

 

Property owners/ Premises can avail the loan facility against future rent  
receivables for any productive purpose or to meet contingencies 

  5  Union Health 

   

 

To provide financial assistance to medical professionals for purchase/ 
construction/acquisition/setting up of land/plot/building/flats/hospitals/ clinics  
and purchase of equipments and other accessories 

  6  Union Education  To provide financial assistance for pursuing higher/professional studies in India  
   

and abroad 

 

  7  Union Smile 

To finance pensioners/salary class through overdraft to meet unforeseen expenses 

  8  Union Trade 

To provide financial assistance to traders for their trading activities 

  9  Union Cash 

To provide loans to pensioners/salaried persons 

  10  Union Gold 

To provide loans against gold ornaments upto Rs5 lac 

  11  Union Share 

Advance against approved securities 

The Bank has fixed eligibility criteria, maximum amount loans, margin, repayment schedule, need and nature of 
security,  documentation,  gurantors  and  service  charges  for  the  retail  lending  products.  The  retail  lending 
procedures  involve  assessing  the  loan  application  based  on  the  eligibility  criteria,  sanctioning  and  disbursing  the 

Page 203 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

quantum  of  funds  net  of  margin  money  held,  collecting  service  charges  if  applicable,  executing  guarantees, 
obtaining security and carrying out the requisite documentation. 
Credit Portfolio 

Summary of the Advances for the last 5 years are as follows: 

 
Year ended  
March 31, 

1998 

1999 

2000 

2001 

2002 

 
Total 
Advances 

10,276.19 

11,308.77 

14,613.22 

17,505.35 

21,383.31 

(Rs crore) 
Annual  
Increase % 

12% 

10% 

29% 

20% 

22% 

The following table provides a summary of the total sanctions and disbursements for the last five years 
 
As on March 31, 

(Rs crore) 
2002 

 
2000 

 
1998 

 
1999 

 
2001 

Sanctions 

1,502.56 

1,380.08 

4,652.40 

Disbursements 

1,437.32 

1,247.62 

4,551.30 

2,855.70 

2,626.58 

4,804.19 

4,786.32 

Credit Exposures 

The Bank has wide network of branches in the western region which has resulted in the largest proportion of its 
advances being in the western zone (42%) followed by the southern region (24%) and the northern region (22%). 

Region-wise credit exposure as on March 31, 2002 

 
Region 

West 
South 
North 
East 
Central 
Gross Advances 

 

Amount 

9,421.87 
5,361.23 
4,997.34 
1,977.89 
707.67 
22,466.00 

(Rs crore) 
% of Gross Advances 

42 
24 
22 
9 
3 
100 

The sector wise credit portfolio of the Bank as on last reporting Friday, March 2002 is given below: 

 
Item 

 

Gross Advances 
Food Credit 
Non Food Credit of which 
Priority Sector 
(of which: SSI) 
Industry (Large & Medium) 
Whole sale Trade 
Other Sectors 

Amount 

22,857 
2,253 
20,604 
8,649 
2,495 
6,550 
1,974 
3,431 

(Rs crore) 
% of total 

100.00 
9.86 
90.14 
37.84 
10.92 
28.66 
8.63 
15.01 

The Bank has a well-diversified industry-wise credit portfolio since exposure limits are kept in view while providing 
advances to the various industries. This is illustrated below as at the last reporting Friday of March 2002: 
Industry 
 

As % of the total 
Industrial Advances 

Chemicals, dyes, paints, drugs 
Iron & steel 
Other textiles  

13.31 
11.03 
10.14 

Page 204 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

All engineering 
Petroleum 
Other metals & metals products  
Electricity (gen. & trans.) 
Cotton textiles  
Food processing 
Sugar 
Gems & jewellery 
Paper & paper products  
Construction 
Vegetable oils (including vanaspati) 
Computer software 
Rubber & rubber products 
Automobiles including trucks 
Leather & leather products  
Tobacco & tobacco products  
Cement 
Mining 
Tea 
Jute textiles  
Infrastructure 
Coal 
Other industries  

Total 

9.08 
5.57 
4.83 
4.59 
4.56 
3.89 
2.62 
2.50 
2.34 
1.99 
1.68 
1.39 
1.38 
1.37 
1.24 
1.12 
1.01 
0.92 
0.77 
0.34 
0.28 
0.17 
11.88 

100.00 

Industry-wise Credit Exposure to Top 10 Industries by the Bank as on March 31, 2002 

Industry 
 
 
 
 
 

Exposure 
(Rs. crore) 
 
 
 
 

% of Exposure 
to Total 
Advances 
 
 
 

Outstanding to the 
top 10 borrowers 
in the industry as 
a % of the total 
outstanding to the 
industry 

Chemicals, dyes, paints, drugs 
Iron & steel 
Other textiles 
All engineering 
Petroleum 
Other metals & metals products 
Electricity (generation & transmission) 
Cotton textiles 
Food processing 
Sugar 
Credit Exposure of Top 10 Companies by the Bank as On March 31, 2002 

1,204 
998 
917 
821 
504 
437 
415 
412 
352 
237 

5.36 
4.44 
4.08 
3.65 
2.24 
1.95 
1.85 
1.83 
1.57 
1.05 

Name of 
the Borrower 
 
Borrower A 
Borrower B 
Borrower C 
Borrower D 
Borrower E 
 
Borrower F 
Borrower G 
Borrower H 
Borrower I 
Borrower J 
Total 

Industry 
 
 
Financial Institution 
Investment/ Financial Corporation 
Housing Intermediary 
Generation of Electricity 
Financial Institution 
 
Mfg. of Iron & Steel 
Mfg. of Petroleum products 
Mfg. of Petroleum products 
Housing Intermediary 
Mfg. of Petroleum products 
 

Outstanding 
 
(Rs. crore) 
326.67 
253.79 
246.07 
214.20 
209.84 
 
188.53 
168.61 
156.42 
125.06 
116.99 
2,006.18 

% to 
Average 
rate of 
Total 
interest  Advances 
1.45 
1.13 
1.10 
0.95 
0.93 

9.51 
10.00 
10.25 
12.00 
LIBOR+ 
100 bps 
11.75 
13.20 
8.83 
12.00 
11.50 
 

0.84 
0.75 
0.70 
0.56 
0.52 
8.93 

31.38 
36.17 
12.23 
44.74 
78.34 
6.36 
96.14 
23.49 
14.87 
64.27 

Asset 
Quality 

Standard 
Standard 
Standard 
Standard 
Standard 

Standard 
Standard 
Standard 
Standard 
Standard 

Page 205 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Exposure to the top 25 operative borrowers constitute only 15% of total advances as on March 31, 2002, indicating 
the Bank’s cautious approach and risk avoidance by concentration on certain few borrowers. Moreover, none of 
the borrowers are, in any way, related to the promoters/directors of the Bank. 

There has been no defaults/ compromise write off in any of the above top 10 borrowers in the Year 2001-02. 
 

Credit Exposure to Top five business groups as on March 31, 2002 

Name of the 
Borrower 
Group A 
Group B 
Group C 
Group D 
Group E 

Total 

Outstanding 
Amount (Rs crore) 
335.00 
276.00 
228.18 
136.62 
78.07 

1,053.87 

Corporate and Project Finance Procedure 

% of Total  
Advances 
1.49 
1.23 
1.02 
0.64 
0.35 

4.73 

The  Bank  has  established  procedures  for  sanctioning  term  loans  and  working  capital  to  corporates  and  for 
financing projects. The procedure involves appraising the corporate/project  based  on  a  pre-designed application 
form along with the following documents: 

1.   Audited financial statements for the last three years 

2.  Project report, if any 

3.  Copy of licence/permissions/approvals taken for the operations 

4.  Memorandum and Articles of Association, certificate of registration and certificate of commencement 

5.  Nature and value of security to be provided 

6.  Credit information on borrowers/directors/partners/proprietors/gurantors 

The application is submitted at the branch level and is scrutinised and processed as per the rules of the Bank. 

In  case  the  loan  is  requested  under  a  consortium  arrangement  with  other  Banks/FIs  the  view  of  the  concerned 
Banks/FIs on the proposal and copy of the assessment notes are obtained and taken into consideration. 

In considering a project finance proposal: 

1) 

2) 

It is ensured that the project falls within the overall credit policy of the Bank. 

It conforms to the Govt. policies/guidelines and RBI guidelines issued from time to time. 

3)  The project report shows separately the break-up of financing proceeds and sources of finance. 

4)  Adequacy of margin. 

5)  Viability of the project. 

In case of corporate finance, the following are also taken into consideration before a credit limit is sanctioned in 
favour of corporate borrowers:- 

1)  The study of Corporate Group to which it belongs and the position of the other companies in the Group. For 
this purpose, the Bank has subscribed to ICRA-Moody package comprising of database on more than 5000 
companies. 

2)  Overall exposure of the Bank in the type of industry. 

3)  Past experience of the Bank with the Group. 

4)  Other banks dealings with the Group. 
Priority Sector and Lead Bank Division 

Government of India/Reserve Bank of India has prescribed benchmark i.e. minimum lending of 40% of net bank 
credit to the priority sector by the public sector banks and the Bank has achieved the same. The share of priority 
sector in net bank credit and distribution sub-sector wise for 5 years (as on last reporting Friday of the respective 
years) are given as under - 
 

(Rs crore) 

 

 

 

 

Page 206 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
Year ended March 31, 
Agriculture 
Small Scale Industries 
Other Priority Sectors 
Total Priority Sector 
Net Bank Credit (NBC) 
Priority Sector as % to NBC 

1998 
1,415 
1,963 
854 
4,232 
9,182 
46.08 

1999 
1,570 
2,073 
1,041 
4,684 
9,940 
47.13 

2000 
1,698 
2,214 
1,498 
5,410 
13,396 
40.39 

2001 
2,051 
2,343 
2,365 
6,759 
14,951 
45.21 

2002 
2,887 
2,440 
3,048 
8,375 
18,979 
44.13 

During  the  year  ending  March  2002,  credit  to  the  priority  sector  lending  has  increased  by  Rs  1,615  crore 
representing a growth of 24% over the previous year. 

Major  initiatives  taken  by  the  Bank  in  the  agriculture  sector  have  resulted  in  a  growth  in  lending  from  Rs  2,051 
crore in 2000-01 to Rs 2,887 crore in 2001-02. 

The  Bank  has  also  been  implementing  poverty  alleviation  and  employment  generation  schemes  both  of  Central 
and  State  Governments  for  economic  empowerment  of  socially  disadvantaged  people  in  the  society.  Similar  to 
Union Green Card in the field of agriculture to farmers, the Bank has started issuing Union Laghu Udhyami Credit 
Cards in the field of small trade and small business to 1,129 borrowers with outstanding limit of Rs 14.80 crore. 
Specialised SSI Branches 

The Bank has continued to meet requirements of SSI Sector in accordance with the Nayak Committee norms and 
Kapur  Committee’s  recommendations.  The  Bank  has  26  Specialised  SSI  Branches  catering  exclusively  to  SSIs 
and special cells in 4 branches dealing with SSIs spread across different states in India which together have an 
outstanding credit of Rs436.05 crore which is 17.87% of the Bank’s total credit to SSI Sector. 
Lead Districts 

As required by Government of India/RBI, the Bank has been assigned the role of the Lead Bank in 11 districts in 3 
States  i.e.  U.P.,  M.P.  and  Kerala  to  undertake  and  supervise  inter-institutional  co-ordination,  preparation  and 
implementation  of  annual  action  plan,  branch  expansion,  resource  mobilisation  and  development  of  area  and 
implementation  of  development  programmes  involving  all  other  banks  in  the  Lead  Districts.  The  details  are  as 
under: 
 
State 
 
U.P. 
M.P. 
Kerala 
Total 

(Rs crore) 
Total 
Advances 
781 
124 
548 
1,453 

 
No. of 
Districts 
7 
2 
2 
11 

 

 

No. of 
Branches 
249 
38 
70 
357 

Total 
Deposits 
4,262 
454 
822 
5,538 

Export Credit 

In tune with national priorities of boosting Indian exports, the Bank has played a significant role in extending export 
credit both in rupee terms as well as in foreign currency. The Bank’s outstanding export credit as on March 31, 
2002 stands at Rs2,049 crore, which was 8.97% of net bank credit. The Bank is  making  efforts  to  increase  the 
advances to this sector by providing various fund based and non-fund based facilities to exporters. 
Foreign Currency Loans 

Details of the Foreign Currency Loans portfolio for the last five years out of forex resources is as under: 

 
As on March 31, 

Foreign Currency Loans 

 
As on March 31, 

Foreign Currency Loans 

 
1998 

5.86 

 
1998 

28.66 

 
1999 

4.33 

 
1999 

21.18 

 
2000 

60.90 

 
2000 

297.83 

 
2001 

181.83 

 
2001 

889.24 

(USD mn) 
2002 

198.59 

(Rs crore) 
2002 

971.20 

Based on the exchange rate as on Friday, June 21, 2002 (Source: The Economic Times dated June 22, 2002) 
Recovery Management 

Asset Classification 

From  the  financial  year  1992-93,  the  RBI  has  introduced  prudential  norms  for  income  recognition,  asset 
classification  and  provisioning.  Under the prudential norms, loan assets are broadly classified into two categories 

Page 207 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

viz.  “performing”  and  “non- performing”.  A  loan  asset  is  treated  as  a  non-performing  asset  when  it  ceases  to 
generate income for the Bank in the normal course. A borrowal account is classified as a non-performing asset 
(NPA) when the interest and /or principal dues remain overdue or out of order for a period of more than 180 days. 

NPAs are further categorised into three groups i.e. Substandard, Doubtful and Loss depending upon  the period of 
delinquency  and  availability  of  tangible  security.  The  table  below  gives  the  criteria  for  asset  classification  viz. 
standard, sub-standard, doubtful and loss asset - 
Category 

Classification 

1.  Performing 

 

Standard assets  

2.  Non-Performing 

An asset which does not disclose any problem and which does not carry more than the 
normal business risks 

 
 
 
 

assets 

An asset which has been non- 
performing for a period less than or equal to eighteen months 

a)  Sub-standard 
 
b)  Doubtful assets  An asset which has been non-performing for a period exceeding eighteen months 
c)  Loss assets 

Assets where loss has been identified by the Bank or auditors/RBI but the amount has 
not been written off completely 

Once  an  account  is  classified  as  an  NPA,  interest  already  debited  to  the  account  is  derecognised  and  further 
interest is recognised on cash basis and not on accrual basis. 

The classification of the Bank’s advances into various categories is as under - 
 
As on March 31, 

 
1998 

 
1999 

 
2000 

Gross NPAs 
Sub-Standard 
Doubtful 
Loss 
Standard 
Gross Advances 
Gross NPAs /  Gross Advances 
Provisioning 

1,195 
547 
561 
87 
9,489 
10,684 
11.18% 

1,534 
789 
657 
88 
10,253 
11,787 
13.01% 

1,881 
879 
869 
133 
13,499 
15,330 
12.27% 

 
2001 

(Rs crore) 
2002 

2,056 
589 
1,320 
147 
16,304 
18,360 
11.19% 

2,420 
784 
1,403 
233 
20,046 
22,466 
10.77% 

Banks  are  required  to  make  provisions  in  respect  of  NPAs  as  per  RBI  Guidelines  depending  upon  their 
classification which are indicated as under: 
  Standard 
  Sub-standard  -  10% of the outstanding amount 
  Doubtful 

-  a)  100%  of  the  unsecured  portion  of  advances  which  are  not  covered  by  realisable  value  of 

-  0.25% on the aggregate outstanding amount 

   
   

  Loss 

Security; 

  and 

 

b)  20%/  30%/  50%  of  the  secured  portion  of  the  debt  taking  into  consideration  the  number  of 
years  for  which  the  account  has  been  classified  as  doubtful  upto  one,  one  to  three  or  more 
than three years respectively 
-  100% of the loan outstanding 

Reduction in the level of Non Performing Assets (NPAs) has been one of the major thrust areas of the Bank. This 
is evident from the fact that gross and net NPAs in terms of percentage to advances are showing a declining trend 
with the Net NPAs as on March 31, 2002 at 6.26%.  

 

The table gives below the percentage of gross and net NPAs to gross and net advances for the last five years. 
(Rs crore) 
 
2002 
As on March 31, 
Gross NPAs 
2,420 
22,466 
Gross Advances 
10.77% 
Gross NPAs / Gross Advances 
1,338 
Net NPAs 
21,383 
Net Advances 
Net NPAs / Net Advances  
6.26% 

1998 
1,195 
10,684 
11.18% 
787 
10,276 
7.66% 

1999 
1,534 
11,787 
13.01% 
984 
10,918 
9.01% 

2000 
1,881 
15,330 
12.27% 
1,164 
15,007 
7.76% 

2001 
2,056 
18,360 
11.19% 
1,201 
17,505 
6.86% 

 

 

 

 

Page 208 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

15.00%

12.50%

10.00%

7.50%

5.00%

1998

1999

2000

2001

2002

Gross NPA/ Gross Advances

Net NPA/ Net Advances

 
Sector Wise NPAs during the Last Three Years 
1999-2000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

NPAs as 
Gross  Gross 
% to 
 NPAs 
 
gross   
  advances 
to the   
 
 
Sector  

Advances 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

A  Agriculture  1,698 
B  SSI 
C  Other Priority Sector 
I 
Total Priority Sector 
II  Non-Priority Sector 
III  Total (I+II)   

285 
2,214 
1,498 
5,410 
9,920 
15,330  

17% 
466 
266 
1,017 
864 
1,881 

2,051 
21% 
18% 
19% 
9% 
12.27%  

2000-2001 

2001-2002 

Gross  Gross 
NPAs 
 
 
 
 

Advances 
 
 
 
 

281 
2,343 
2,366 
6,760 
11,600  
18,360  

14% 
514 
293 
1,088 
968 
2,056 

NPAs as 

% to  Advances 
 
gross 
advances 
 
 
to the   
Sector  
 

Gross  Gross 
NPAs 
 
 
 
 

2,254 
22% 
12% 
16% 
8% 
11.20%  

306 
2,542 
2,766 
7,562 
14,904  
22,466  

14% 
555 
335 
1,196 
1,224 
2,420 

(Rs crore) 

NPAs as 
% to 
gross 
advances 
to the  
Sector 

22% 
12% 
16% 
8% 
10.77% 

Top 10 NPA accounts as on March 31, 2002 

Name of 
Borrower 
 
 
 
Borrower A 
Borrower B 
Borrower C 
Borrower D 
Borrower E 
Borrower F 
Borrower G  
Borrower H 
Borrower I 
Borrower J  
Total 

Industry 
 
 
 
 
Textile 
Chemicals  
Textile 
Readymade garments  
Readymade garments  
Steel 
Steel 
Plastics 
Finance 
Coal 
 

Outstanding 
as on  
March 31,  
2002 
(Rs crore) 
41.67 
36.46 
26.32 
23.14 
22.39 
19.09 
17.51 
17.48 
17.34 
15.92 
237.32 

Asset Quality  
as on 
March 31,  
2002 
  
Sub Standard 
Doubtful 
Sub Standard 
Doubtful 
Sub Standard 
Doubtful 
Loss 
Doubtful 
Doubtful 
Sub Standard 

Industry wise top 10 NPAs on March 31, 2002 

Industry 
 
 
Iron & Steel 
Vegetable O il 
Chemicals, Dye, etc. 
Paper & Rubber 
All Engineering 
Cotton Textiles  
Other Textile including   
Jute Textiles 

NPA Amount 
(Rs crore) 
 
47.83 
8.71 
30.57 
20.24 
35.70 
103.00 
78.24 

% to advances 
 given to the 
 industry 
5% 
7% 
20% 
20% 
12% 
20% 
40% 

Page 209 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Food Processing 
Metal 
Sugar 
Total 

7.85 
66.00 
7.32 
357.63 

14% 
26% 
3% 

Position regarding the number and details of the NPA accounts as on March 31, 2002 is indicated below: 
Particulars 
 
 
Below Rs 25,000 
Above Rs 25,000 
Total 

Interest  
de-recognised 
(Rs crore) 
 
20.43 
20.43 

No. of  
accounts 
 
2,91,392 
61,541 
3,52,933 

NPA amount 
 
(Rs crore) 
227 
2,193 
2,420 

The classification of the above NPA position is categorised as under - 
 
Substandard 
Doubtful 
Loss 
Total 

(Rs crore) 
784 
1,403 
233 
2,420 

The coverage of NPAs through provisions has been stepped up from 41% to 44%. The Bank has been making 
provisions on the NPAs as per the RBI requirements. 
NPA Management Strategy 

The  Bank  has  a  well  codified  Recovery  Policy  containing  a  transparent  mechanism  of  settling  NPAs  by 
compromise. Emphasis is laid on settling NPAs by compromise in accordance with the specified guidelines rather 
than  facing  uncertainty  by  long  drawn  and  expensive  legal  proceedings  to  conclude.  In  the  case  of  non-co-
operative borrowers, stringent action is initiated including filing of criminal cases where warranted. The Bank has 
an exclusive Credit Monitoring & Recovery Department at each of the 40 Regional Office and 8 Zonal Offices/Field 
General Managers Offices through which effective follow-up for recoveries are maintained. 

The  Bank  has  recognised  that  the  issue  of  NPAs  can  be  adequately  addressed  only  by  employing  the  twin 
approach  of  an  effective  monitoring  mechanism  and  persuasive  recovery  methods.  The  Bank  has  in  place  a 
detailed  Credit  Monitoring  Policy  for  effective  monitoring  of  loan  assets  and  arresting  slippages.  Accounts  with 
exposure  of  Rs5.00  crore  and  above  are  monitored  on  monthly  basis.  Early  warning  signals  are  picked  up  for 
remedial action in discussion with borrowers. The Credit Monitoring System has demarcated monitoring functions 
at  different  controlling  offices  to  avoid  duplication  of  functions  and  ensure  a  focused  approach  in  controlling 
slippage. 

The Bank has taken the following steps to minimise the occurrence of fresh NPAs: 

• 

Setting up of an Internal Loan Review Department (ILR), which functions independent of the credit/advances 
department  to  bring  about  a  qualitative  improvement  in  credit  administration.  The  responsibilities  of  ILR 
include evaluating the effectiveness of loan administration and assessing portfolio quality 

•  Maintenance of a diverse portfolio in credit without major concentration in any one industry 

•  Controlling exposure to sensitive sectors 

• 

The  Bank  is  using  a  model  developed  by  ICRA-Moody’s  for  tracing 
individual  credit  default  risk  and 
information products like CRISINFAC industry information system and Capital 200 information Database for 
credit appraisal 

Investments 

The investment portfolio of the Bank is monitored keeping in view the following objectives: 

• 

Effective  management  of  funds  to  ensure  adequate  liquidity  at  all  times  and  at  the  same  time  maximising 
returns on the surplus funds deployed 

•  Maintaining the portfolio yield at a high level and to minimise interest rate risk 

• 

• 

• 

Increase in profits on short-term yield differential by stepping up the turnover in trading operations in securities 

Improve yields by taking advantage of arbitrage opportunities existing in different markets 

Accessing the derivatives market for hedging the interest rate risk on various items of assets and liabilities in 
the balance sheet 

Page 210 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

•  Making derivative products available to the Bank’s customers as per their specific needs 

• 

Endeavour to adjust the investment portfolio to the maturity pattern of deposits and other liabilities 

•  Compliance with the regulatory requirements of CRR and SLR 
Details of Investments as on March 31, 2002 

 

Government Securities 
Other approved securities  
Shares  
Debentures and Bonds  
Subsidiaries & joint ventures  
Others 
- Initial Capital/units of UTI 
- Commercial Paper 
- Certificates of Deposits  
- Mutual Funds  
 
Total 

(Rs crore) 
10,736.47 
849.52 
143.31 
3,277.11 
19.16 

188.52 
146.89 
46.03 
2.58 
384.02 
15,409.58 

The  Investments  shown  above  are  net  of  provisions  of  Rs8.14  crore  for  non-performing  investments  relating  to 
investments  in  debentures  and  preference  shares.  The  non-performing  investments  are  identified  as  per  RBI 
Guidelines and the entire sum outstanding is provided for. 

 

The  break-up  of  the  Bank’s  investments  as  per  RBI  prescribed  format  is  given  below.  Investments  were  earlier 
classified  as  Permanent  and  Current  Investments.  September  20,  2000  onwards  in  terms  of  RBI  guidelines, 
Investments are now classified into 3 categories viz. Held Till Maturity, Available For Sale & Held For Trading. As 
per  RBI  guidelines,  recapitalisation  bonds  issued  by  the  GoI  amounting  to  Rs200  crore  are  not  considered  for 
arriving at the effective percentage of Held Till Maturity Securities to Total Investments: 
 
As on March 31, 
Gross Investments 
SLR investments 
Held Till Maturity 
Available For Sale 
Held For Trading 
% of Held Till Maturity to Entire Portfolio 

(Rs crore) 
2002 
15,454 
11,273 
2,524 
12,631 
299 
15.02% 

2001 
13,712 
9,789 
3,326 
9,990 
396 
22.80% 

1999 
12,171 
9,229 
- 
- 
- 
- 

2000 
11,502 
8,793 
- 
- 
- 
- 

1998 
9,223 
6,905 
- 
- 
- 
- 

 

 

 

The Bank is active in trading in Investments and takes advantage of market conditions. The Bank made net profits 
of Rs38.70 crore and Rs159.83 crore in trading activity in securities during the years ended March 31, 2001 and 
March 31, 2002 respectively. 

The yield on investments (%) for the last five years is given below: 
As on March 31, 
Yield on  
Investments (%) 

11.56 

11.81 

1998 

1999 

2000 

11.82 

2001 

2002 

11.75 

10.95 

 

 

Floating Rate Assets 

The Bank does not have any floating rate assets outstanding as on March 31, 2002, except for the working capital 
loans which are normally based on the PLR. 
Asset – Liability Management 

With liberalisation in Indian financial markets over the last few years, growing integration of domestic markets with 
external  markets and the pressure on margins on account of competition among banks, the risks associated with 
the banking operations have become large and complex requiring strategic and proactive management. The Bank 
has  put  in  place  an  exhaustive  and  structured  Asset  Liability  Management  (ALM)  Policy.  The  data  coverage  is 
100%  and  ALM  reports  are  prepared  on  monthly  basis  and  reviewed  by  Asset  Liability  Committee  (ALCO). 

Page 211 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

PricewaterhouseCoopers  Pvt.  Ltd.  were  appointed  as  consultants  for  ALM  and  Market  Risk  Management.  The 
Consultants completed their assignment in June 2001 and the Bank has revised the ALM Policy in February 2002 
based on the Consultants' report and it is now in the process of implementing its revised ALM Policy. The Bank is 
also  in  the  process  of  implementing  a  software  system  for  ALM,  which  will  enable  advance  ALM  analysis  like 
duration, value at risk, simulation, etc. 

The ALM strategy is as follows: 

1.  On deposit front, the Bank focuses on growth of core deposits especially retail deposits consisting of savings 

bank and current deposit to reduce cost of deposit. 

2.  The  Bank  strives  to  achieve  a  healthy  Net  Interest  Margin  (NIM)  by  minimising  the  cost  of  deposits  and 
optimising on Advances/Investments. The pricing strategy of the Bank emanates from impact analysis on its 
NIM. 

3. 

In order to reduce interest rate risk in its banking book, the Bank increases its lending under retail portfolio. 

4.  The Bank maintains optimum liquidity level. The day to day liquidity is monitored by Investment Committee of 
the Bank under overall Liquidity Management Strategy of ALCO. Scenario analysis and contingency liquidity 
plan is kept in place to meet liquidity exigencies under market specific and Bank specific crisis. 

5.  The  Bank  monitors  its  liquidity  and  interest  rate  sensitivity  gaps  on  an  ongoing  basis  and  hedging 

opportunities are explored wherever necessary. 

6.  The Bank as a continuous process identifies its risks portfolio exposures and adopts appropriate methodology 

in light of the revised policy. 

7.  The ALM desk is trained at periodical intervals to keep them abreast of the latest tools and techniques in the 

Asset-Liability Management and Risk Management areas. 

Maturity Profile of the Assets and Liabilities as on the last Friday of March 2000 

1-14  
days 

15-28 
days 

29 days  
to 3 mths 

>3 to 6 
mths 

>6 to 12 
mths 

>1 to 3 
years 

>3 to 5 
years 

Over 5 
years 

(Rs crore) 

Total 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1,595 

659 

1,621 

2,928 

3,243 

17,841  

1,422 

338 

1,345 

621 

500 

 

338 

1,345 

29,929 

814 

2,129 

35 

388 

18 

 

18,265  

1,440 

2,803 

34,555 

12,047  

30,313  

31,752  

34,555 

72 

664 

2,331 

2,331 

191 

547 

862 

73 

842 

 

 

451 

2,966 

635 

16 

66 

741 

3,071 

 

72 

90 

25 

63 

400 

2,084 

5,155 

 

178 

502 

129 

103 

438 

3,468 

8,623 

 

322 

403 

593 

9 

172 

3,424 

 

357 

482 

506 

622 

1,182 

1,660 

2,677 

 

 

77 

886 

146 

 

 

185 

2,176 

93 

 

 

106 

3,085 

-384 

 

 

27 

4,049 

625 

 

985 

45 

2,130 

6,661 

 

 

10 

9,831 

-8,435 

 

156 

8 

 

68 

 

2,291 

5,908 

5 

1,238 

 

385 

4,085 

2,645 

0 

 

730 

 

6,707 

3,904 

191 

2,686 

2,392 

11,656 

13,650 

1,238 

730 

1,241 

33,785 

-771 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Outflows 

Capital 

Reserves & Surplus  

Deposits 

Borrowings  

Other Liabilities & Provisions  

A: Total Outflows 

B: Cumulative Outflows  
Inflows 
Cash 

Balances with RBI  

Balances with other Banks 

Investments 

Advances performing  

NPAs  

Fixed Assets 

Other Assets 
C: Total Inflows 

D: Mismatch (C-A) 

E: % Mismatch   
(D as a % of A) 

F: Cum. Mismatch 

G: % Cum. Mismatch 
(F as % of B) 

27.26%  

19.65%  

4.46% 

-11.06%  

18.25% 

-46.18%   183.72%   139.27%  

-2.23% 

635 

781 

874 

490 

1,115 

-7,320 

-4,675 

-771 

27.26%  

25.42%  

16.95%  

5.68% 

9.25% 

-24.15%  

-14.72%  

-2.23% 

Maturity Profile of the Assets and Liabilities as on as on the last Friday of March 2001 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  (Rs crore) 

 
 
Outflows 

1-14  
days 

15-28 
days 

29 days  
to 3 mths 

>3 to 6 
mths 

>6 to 12 
mths 

>1 to 3 
years 

>3 to 5 
years 

Over 5 
years 

Total 

Page 212 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 

2,247 

293 

786 

3,326 

3,326 

166 

386 

940 

233 

1,229 

 

 

82 

3,035 

-290 

 

 

617 

0 

208 

825 

4,150 

 

56 

16 

375 

273 

 

 

99 

819 

-6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2,448 

2,826 

4,761 

17,583  

1,667 

5 

317 

3,147 

7 

489 

5,257 

27 

454 

23 

0 

338 

1,506 

731 

601 

302 

338 

1,506 

32,878 

956 

3,223 

18,064  

1,690 

3,478 

38,901 

10,412  

15,669  

33,733  

35,423  

38,901 

 

256 

206 

633 

857 

 

 

113 

2,066 

-1,081 

 

431 

189 

457 

3,373 

 

 

581 

5,032 

-225 

 

702 

199 

2,694 

7,088 

 

 

196 

10,879  

-7,185 

 

151 

0 

2,202 

1,083 

529 

 

761 

4,727 

3,037 

 

66 

132 

6,439 

693 

674 

733 

154 

8,892 

5,413 

166 

2,269 

1,862 

14,063 

15,482 

1,203 

733 

2,068 

37,846 

-1,055 

-8.73%  

-0.71%  

-23.03%  

-34.36%  

-4.29%  

-39.78%   179.71%   155.64%  

-2.71% 

-290 

-296 

-1,014 

-2,095 

-2,320 

-9,506 

-6,469 

-1,055 

-8.73%  

-7.14%  

-13.95%  

-20.12%  

-14.81%  

-28.18%  

-18.26%  

-2.71% 

 

 

2,469 

31 

955 

3,454 

3,454 

135 

0 

775 

431 

 

 

724 

3,378 

-76 

 

 

994 

0 

178 

1,172 

4,626 

 

0 

21 

538 

316 

 

 

144 

1,019 

-153 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

338 

338 

1,511 

1,511 

2,472 

3,063 

5,078 

21,708  

1,832 

931 

38,546 

5 

369 

3,436 

8 

376 

5,462 

75 

441 

22,224  

8 

500 

2,340 

0 

1,077 

3,857 

130 

4,378 

44,902 

11,019  

16,481  

38,706  

41,046  

44,902 

 

166 

179 

981 

 

276 

139 

544 

1,671 

1,139 

4,128 

 

 

213 

2,630 

-326 

 

 

122 

2,587 

-849 

 

 

27 

5,114 

-348 

 

1,180 

167 

2,669 

8,002 

 

 

2 

12,020  

-10,205  

 

100 

0 

2,423 

2,158 

681 

 

538 

5,899 

3,559 

 

51 

0 

8,297 

2,071 

679 

729 

527 

135 

1,893 

1,660 

16,130 

20,798 

1,360 

729 

2,295 

12,352  

44,999 

8,496 

97 

Maturity Profile of the Assets and Liabilities as on the last Friday of March, 2002 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Rs crore) 

1-14  
days 

15-28 
days 

29 days  
to 3 mths 

>3 to 6 
mths 

>6 to 12 
mths 

>1 to 3 
years 

>3 to 5 
years 

Over 5 
years 

Total 

0 

666 

3,115 

7,265 

 

222 

179 

1,029 

886 

 

 

81 

2,397 

-717 

3 

481 

2,956 

7,582 

 

120 

380 

246 

Capital 

Reserves & Surplus  

Deposits 

Borrowings  

Other Liabilities & Provisions  

A: Total Outflows 

B: Cumulative Outflows  

Inflows 
Cash 

Balances with RBI  

Balances with other Banks 

Investments 

Advances performing 

NPAs  

Fixed Assets 

Other Assets 
C: Total Inflows 
D: Mismatch (C-A) 

E: % Mismatch   
(D as a % of A) 

F: Cum. Mismatch 

G: % Cum. Mismatch   
(F as % of B) 

 
 

Outflows 
Capital 

Reserves & Surplus  

Deposits 

Borrowings  

Other Liabilities & Provisions  

A: Total Outflows 

B: Cumulative Outflows  
Inflows 

Cash 

Balances with RBI  

Balances with other Banks 

Investments 

NPAs  

Fixed Assets 

Other Assets 
C: Total Inflows 
D: Mismatch (C-A) 

E: % Mismatch   
(D as a % of A) 

F: Cum. Mismatch 

G: % Cum. Mismatch   
(F as % of B)  

Advances performing  

1,314 

-2.19%  

-13.08%  

-11.04%  

-24.71%  

-6.37%  

-45.92%   152.08%   220.29%  

0.22% 

-76 

-229 

-556 

-1,405 

-1,753 

-11,958  

-8,399 

97 

-2.20%  
 

-4.96%  

-7.33%  

-12.75%  

-10.64%  

-30.89%  

-20.46%  

0.22% 

Foreign Exchange and NRI Business 

Authorised Dealer (A.D.) Branch Network: 

Page 213 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

The  Bank  through  network  of  branches  which  includes  2  “A”  category  position  maintaining  branches,  50  “B” 
category branches, 1 Vostro Branch and 4 NRI branches is well positioned to handle foreign exchange. The “A” 
and “B” category branches all over the country offer a wide spectrum of services. The said  branches take care of 
all the requirements of international trade of customers of the Bank. 
Integrated Treasury: 

The Bank has a state-of-art integrated Treasury at Mumbai which carries out forex/money/securities transactions 
under  one  roof.  Treasury  also  offers  a  wide  range  of  derivative  products  to  hedge  the  various  risks  involved  in 
domestic  and  international  trade.  Interest  Rate  Swaps  (IRS),  Currency  Swaps  and  Forward  Rate  Agreements 
(FRAs) are among the new generation hedging tools made available to the constituents. 
The total non-interest income earned out of the forex operations (representing fees, commissions, etc.) is: 

 
As on March 31, 

Non-interest Forex  
Income 

 

 

 

1998 

23.95 

 
1999 

28.29 

2000 

31.38 

2001 

35.06 

(Rs crore) 
2002 

38.76 

In addition the trading income earned out of the forex operations over the last five years is as under: 

 
As on March 31, 

Exchange Income 

 
1998 

43.81 

 
1999 

40.60 

 
2000 

46.95 

 
2001 

52.24 

(Rs crore) 
2002 

79.81 

The total turnover in the various forex operations for the last five years is as under: 

 

As on March 31, 
Exports 
Imports  
Remittance 
NRI Services 

 

1998 
6,280 
2,780 
1,423 

 

1999 
6,858 
2,956 
2,030 

 

2000 
7,734 
3,519 
2,546 

 

(Rs crore) 

2001 
8,357 
3,822 
2,934 

2002 
9,639 
4,205 
3,600 

The  bank  has  4  specialised  NRI  Branches  in  Mumbai,  Ernakulam,  Pallakad  and  Thiruvanthapuram  catering 
exclusively to NRI customers and 10 NRI cells attached to certain strategic branches having NRI business. 
• 

Apart from offering attractive deposit schemes, Bank’s NRI Branch at Mumbai provides portfolio investment 
scheme to NRIs. 
International  Exchange  Vostro  Branch  handles  Rupee  Drawing  Arrangements  entered  into  with  9  Exchange 
Houses to channelise home remittances of NRIs. 
Bank  has  recently  launched  Union  Express  Remittance  Scheme  to  facilitate  speedy  remittances  from  the 
Middle East. 

• 

• 

Correspondent Relations 

The Bank has 380 correspondent relationships in 86 countries facilitating a wide range of transactions related to 
international business. The Bank handles all types of foreign exchange transactions relating to international trade 
worldwide.  The  correspondent  banks  are  selected  to  ensure  that  the  Bank’s  customers  get  reliable  service  at 
competitive rates. The Bank maintains 35 Nostro accounts in 15 major currencies. 

Merchant Banking 

The Bank is registered with Securities and Exchange Board of India for acting as Merchant Banker, Underwriter, 
Bankers to Issue and Debentures Trustee. 

During the financial year ended March 31, 2002, the Bank has acted as Co-arranger for the term loan facility of 
Rs400 crore with a green shoe option of Rs400 crore, for Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOC). The Bank has also 
accepted sub-underwriting commitment for the IOC’s above term loan syndication to the extent of Rs50 crore. The 
Bank has also acted as Bankers to the Issue for 4 assignments and mobilised subscription of Rs77.08 crore. The 
Bank  has  acted  as  Payment  Banker  in  41  assignments  involving  payment  of  dividend  and  interest  warrants 
aggregating to Rs220.97 crore. 

The  Bank  has  put  in  place  systems  to  ensure  that  SEBI  Guidelines  are  strictly  adhered  to  while  undertaking 
merchant banking related activities and there are no lapses. The systems include issuance of instructions to all the 
branches  for  following  SEBI  Guidelines  and  instructions.  In  addition,  any  branches  where  lapses  are  found  are 
barred from any merchant banking activities. 

Page 214 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Credit Cards 

The Bank launched the credit card business under the brand “India Card”  on  August  1,  1997  under  a  tie-up with 
Bank of India. Total card base as on March 31, 2002 stood at 18,699. 
NEW BUSINESS INITIATIVES 
Cash Management Services 

The  Bank  has  launched  Cash  Management  Services  (CMS)  to  optimise  liquidity  of  the  corporates  through  an 
improved flow of funds. The service will cover 35 centres spread across major cities of the country. CMS has both 
collection and payment products. 
Depository Services 

The Bank launched Depository Services in Mumbai under a tie up arrangement with Central Depository Services 
(India)  Ltd.  (CDSL).  The  Bank  plans  to  extend  the  Depository  Services  to  all  major  cities  in  the  near  future  by 
utilising the Bank’s existing Wide Area Network (WAN) facility which interconnects 54 centres all over the country. 

Insurance Product Distribution 

The  Bank  has  plans  to  take  up  Corporate  Agency  for  Distribution  of  Insurance  Policies  as  and  when  suitable 
amendments  are  effected  to  the  IRDA  guidelines.  In  this  direction,  the  Bank  has  already  signed  an  MOU  with 
HDFC Standard Life Insurance Company Ltd. for selling their life policies. The Bank has also signed an MOU with 
New India Assurance for distribution of non-life products when allowed by law. 
Gold Import 

The Bank plans to enter into the business of importing and selling gold in the Indian market. Initially, there will be 
only one outlet at Zaveri Bazar, Mumbai. This will enable Bank’s customers to directly source gold from the Bank 
itself. 
OTHER INCOME AND FINANCIAL RATIOS 

Other Income 

Other Income of the Bank exceeds 10%  of the total income. The other income is recurring in nature subject to the 
variations in the amount of income. The details of the other income are given in Part II of the Offer Document as 
part of the audited profit and loss statement. The Bank plans to increase non- interest income through the adoption 
of the following strategies: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

The treasury-trading portfolio is being utilised for gains in trading profits 

The forex-trading portfolio is being strengthened 

Focus on retailing in Government Securities 

Issuance  of  letters  of  guarantee  and  letters  of  credit  is  being  emphasised  as  part  of  the  non-fund  based 
business activity 

Launch of Cash Management Services 

Expansion of Demat Services to all branches in the metros to be followed by branches in the state capitals 

•  Distribution of insurance products, when allowed by the relevant laws 
Financial Ratios and Other Financial Information of the Bank for last 5 years 

 

As on March 31,  

 

 

 

(Rs crore) 

1998 

1999 

2000 

2001 

2002 

Average balances of interest earning assets 

18,236.26  

20,662.07  

24,408.09  

27,506.20  

32,723.57 

Average interest rate (%) 

Interest income 

13.73 

13.89 

13.58 

13.57 

12.27 

2,504.03 

2,869.04 

3,315.11 

3,732.95 

4,015.68 

Avg. balances of interest bearing liabilities  

18,524.89  

21,896.47  

25,622.28  

28,734.61  

32,971.83 

Interest rate for the above (%)/Average cost of funds 

9.11 

9.31 

9.20 

8.75 

8.13 

Interest expenses 

1,687.49 

2,037.50 

2,358.03 

2,513.95 

2,679.04 

Average balance of interest bearing rupee   
liability of Bank  

Interest expense apportioned to interest earning   
assets (%) 

17,864.00  

21,060.96  

24,506.19  

27,280.08  

31,306.71 

9.25 

9.86 

9.66 

9.14 

8.19 

Page 215 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Ratio of average earning assets to average interest  
bearing liabilities  

0.98 

0.94 

0.95 

0.96 

0.99 

Net Interest Income 

Net Interest Margin (%)  

Gross Yield (%) (Gross Income/AWF)  

Yield Spread (%) (Spread/AWF)  

Return on average assets (%) 

Average share capital & reserves To average   
total asset (%) 

816.53  

4.05 

11.33 

3.41 

0.95 

3.84 

831.54  

957.08  

1,219.00 

1,336.64 

3.39 

11.47 

3.04 

0.53 

3.81 

3.42 

11.41 

3.02 

0.39 

3.64 

3.78 

11.39 

3.43 

0.49 

3.57 

3.51 

11.17 

3.32 

0.73 

3.58 

26.64 

Cash EPS (Rs per share) 

11.10 

10.01 

13.54 

16.67 

All  the  financial  ratios/capital  adequacy  ratios  as  specified  in  the  Offer  Document  and  the  disclosures  regarding 
NPA’s confirm to the norms as specified by RBI. 
RISK MANAGEMENT 
Banks  in  the  process  of  financial  intermediation  are  confronted  with  various  kinds  of  financial  and  non-financial 
risks.  The  Bank  recognises  that  management  of  risk  is  fundamental  to  the  business  of  banking.  The  Bank’s 
approach to risk management is proactive and the basic objective is to strike balance  between risk and rewards. 
The Risk Management guidelines of RBI, inter-alia, covers the following: 

•  Credit Risk 
•  Market Risk 
•  Operational Risk 
 

Credit Risk 

Credit Risk involves inability or unwillingness of a customer or counter party to meet its obligations in accordance 
with the agreed terms. The management of credit risk receives continuous attention of the top Management and 
the  entire  process  is  clearly  articulated  in  the  Bank’s  Loan  Policy  and  Credit  Risk  Management  Policy  duly 
approved  by  the  Board.  The  Bank  has  also  constituted  a  high  level  Credit  Policy  Committee  and  Credit  Risk 
Management  Department  to  deal  with  issues  relating  to  loan  policy  and  procedures  to  analyse,  manage  and 
control credit risk. 
Credit  appraisal  skills  at  various  levels  are  constantly  upgraded,  through  specialised  training  programmes.  The 
primary goal is to maximise bank’s risk adjusted rate of returns, while maintaining the credit risk within acceptable 
parameters. 
Credit risk is assessed based on the policy and rating assigned to the borrower. Moreover, the Bank has in place 
software to track large borrowal accounts to continuously manage credit risk. 
Market Risk 

With progressive de-regulation, market risk arising due to adverse changes in market variables such as interest 
rate, foreign exchange rate, equity price and commodity price has become relatively more important. Management 
of market risk is the major concern for the Bank. The Bank has already formulated and implemented in place an 
Asset Liability Management (ALM) System to address the market risk. An Asset Liability Management Committee 
(ALCO) functions as the principal operational unit for managing the balance sheet in consultation with the treasury 
department and within the risk parameters laid down by the Board. ALCO also formulates pricing of products - both 
assets & liabilities and determines and advises appropriate hedging instruments to the Treasury department. 
The Bank has put in place procedure for management of market risk. This involves calculation of risk assessment 
measures such as duration and convexity. The trading book of the Bank is marked to market on a weekly basis 
whereas the entire investment portfolio is marked to market on a quarterly basis. Market risk on forex postions and 
AFS securities is regularly tracked. Scenario analysis and stress testing is conducted on a regular basis to analyse 
the impact of interest rate movement on valuation of investment portfolio of the Bank. 
Operational Risk 

Operational  Risk  is  a  potential  risk  of  financial  loss  arising  through  error,  fraud  or  failure  to  perform  in  a  timely 
manner.  The  Bank  manages  operational  risk  through  its  overall  established  internal  audit  and  internal  control 
system,  which  includes  separation  of  duties,  clear  management  reporting  lines  and  adequate  operating 
procedures. In addition, risk education and training of staff at all levels and concurrent audit of critical branches are 
undertaken on an ongoing basis. 
The  Bank  endeavours  for  detection  of  operational  problem  spots  rather  than  their  being  pointed  out  by 
supervisors/internal/external auditors. 

Page 216 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

The Bank has recently set a road map for moving towards an Integrated Risk Management System in line with the 
fast changing environment. 
REGULATORY SUPERVISION BY RBI 

The Reserve Bank of India is the regulatory body for the Bank and the Bank strictly follows the norms laid down, 
guidelines and instructions issued by the Reserve Bank of India. 
RBI conducts an annual inspection of the Bank based on the audited accounts. Simultaneously, RBI carries out 
branch inspection on a selective basis. RBI also conducts offsite and periodic onsite surveillance of the branches 
of the Bank. Discussions with the management and the replies given by the Bank to the issues raised by RBI also 
form a part of the inspection and surveillance process. 
The last inspection of the Bank under Section 35 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 was conducted by Reserve 
Bank of India with reference to its position as on March 31, 2001. The Annual Financial Inspection (AFI) Report of 
the RBI for the position of the Bank as on March 31, 2001 pointed deficiencies in certain areas such as incorrect 
classification and provisioning as well as certain deficiencies in systems and other operational matters. The Bank 
has appropriately replied to RBI and is attending to the deficiencies, etc. pointed out by RBI. 

The  inspection  by  RBI  is  a  regular  exercise  and  is  carried  out  periodically  by  RBI  for  all  banks  and  financial 
institutions. The reports of RBI are strictly confidential. 
 

Page 217 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

OVERVIEW OF ORGANISATION STRUCTURE AND SUPPORT FUNCTIONS 
Hierarchy and Responsibilities 

The  Bank  functions  under  the  supervision  of  the  Board  of  Directors  consisting  of  the  Chairman  and  Managing 
Director, the Executive Director and other Directors as nominated by the Government of India. The Bank has a 
management  structure  comprising  Central  Office,  the  Regional  Office  and  the  branches,  covering  major 
geographical  areas.  Within  the  structure,  there  are  also  Field  General  Managers  at  Mumbai,  Delhi,  Kolkata, 
Chennai and Lucknow supporting Regional Offices in development and delegation and functioning as an extension 
of Central Office. In three centres viz., Ahmedabad, Pune and Bhopal, the Bank has Zonal Office in addition to 
Regional  Office  covering  the  branch  /  business  in  the  states  of  Gujarat,  Maharashtra  and  Madhya  Pradesh 
respectively. 

The  Bank  has  taken  initiatives  in  furthering corporate governance practices leading to greater transparency and 
better  co-ordination  between  the  Board  and  Management  and  the  members  of  the  organisation.  The  Bank  has 
constituted  various  Committees  of  the  Directors  in  keeping  with  the  existing  guidelines  of  the  RBI,  notably  the 
following: 
Management Committee of Directors 

The  Committee  exercises  delegated  authority  for  sanction  of  credit  proposals,  loan  compromise  /  write-off 
proposals,  major  capital  and  revenue  expenses  and  reviews  exercise  of delegated authority by the CMD and the 
Executive  Director.  The  Committee  also  reviews  the  performance  of  key  areas  like  investments  portfolio,  non-
performing assets and other important management decisions referred to the Committee by the Board. 
ALM Committee of Directors 

The Committee examines the assets and liability composition, maturity mismatches across time buckets vis-à-vis 
the prudential limits set by the Regulators for the industry and those of the Bank, interest rate sensitivity of assets 
and  liabilities  and  its  impact  on  the  Net  Interest  Margin.  The  Committee  also  takes  an  overview  of  the  ALCO 
functioning of the Bank in terms of pricing, product structuring, monitoring of Earnings at Risk (EaR), etc. 
Audit Committee of Directors 

The Audit Committee comprises of 5 members: 
a)  Shri M. Venugopalan, Executive Director of the Bank 
b)  Dr. K.B.L. Mathur, Director, Government Nominee 
c)  Shri A. V. Sardesai, Director, RBI Nominee 
d)  Shri Arjun Singh, Director 
e)  Shri Ujjwal Nikam, Director 

Meetings  of  the  Audit  Committee  is  chaired  by  any  one  of  the  non-executive  directors.  The  Audit  Committee 
provides directions and also oversees the operations of total audit function of the Bank. This covers organisation, 
operation  and  quality  control  of  internal  audit  and  inspection  within  the  Bank  and  follow-up  on  statutory  and 
external  audit  of  the  Bank  and  inspection  of  RBI.  The  Committee  reviews  inspection  reports  of  extra  large 
branches,  specialised  branches  and  branches  rated  unsatisfactory  in  the  rating  system  of 
the  Bank.  On 
Housekeeping,  the  Committee  reviews  the  position  and  steps  taken  on  inter-branch  adjustments,  major 
outstanding entries in impersonal accounts and control on frauds. 
Management of the Bank 

The overall supervision and control of the Bank’s functions rests with the Board of Directors which consists of the 
Chairman and Managing Director and Executive Director, both appointed by the GoI, other directors representing 
the Government, Reserve Bank of India, Employees and Officers of the Bank. The day-to-day affairs of the Bank 
are  managed  by  the  Chairman  and  Managing  Director,  the  Executive  Director,  the  Bank’s  General  Managers, 
Deputy General Managers who are assisted by a team of competent professionals. 
Key Managerial Personnel 
Name and Qualification 
 
Shri V. Leeladhar 
B.Sc (Engg.) 
Shri M. Venugopalan 
B. Com, CAIIB - I 
Shri S. P. Roy 
M. Com., LLB 
Shri K. V. S. Shyam Sunder 
B. Com., ACA 

Functional  
Responsibility 
Chairman and  

Managing Director 
Executive Director 

Managing Director 
Executive Director 

the Bank 
24.04.2000 

Date of Joining  

Experience 

in the industry 

33 years 

General Manager 

Social Banking 

27 years 

General Manager 

Central Accounts  

33 years 

Chairman and  

25.09.2000 

35 years 

Designation 

 

 

 

 

 

 

25.04.1969 

04.06.1975 

Page 218 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Shri S. P. S. Walia 
Inter Arts 
 
Kum. H. A. Daruwalla 
B. Com., ACA, CAIIB, 
Shri K. L. Gopalakrishna 
B. Com., LLB, CAIIB 
Shri R. Venakataramani 
B. Com., ACA, CAIIB - I 
Shri A. A. Taj 
B. Com., ACA, ACS (Int.) 
Shri M. Ganoorkar 
M. Com. 
Shri R. Vishwanathan 
BA, LLB 
Shri V. K. Khanna 
B.Sc, ACA, CAIIB – I 
Shri K. S. M. Rao 
B.Com., LLB, CAIIB, CAIB (Lon) 
Shri P. L. Gairola 
MA (Eco.), CAIIB 
Shri A. V. Kohli 
B.E., CAIIB, DIF 

26.08.1963 

 
 

39 years 

 
 

General Manager 

 
 

Field General Manager  

Mumbai, 

Metropolitan Zone 

13.06.1975 

27 years 

General Manager  Planning and Development 

 

29.12.1971 

30 years 

General Manager 

Personnel 

 

03.03.1975 

27 years 

General Manager 

Credit Monitoring and  

 

 

 

Recovery 

20.06.1977 

25 years 

General Manager 

Field General Manager, 

 

 

 

Central Zone 

12.08.1967 

34 years 

General Manager 

Field General Manager,  

 

 

 

South Zone 

11.05.1966 

36 years 

General Manager 

Field General Manager,  

 

 

 

North Zone 

07.02.1976 

26 years 

General Manager 

Information Technology 

 

22.11.1972 

29 years 

General Manager  Central Audit and Inspection 

 

29.12.1972 

29 years 

General Manager 

Field General Manager,  

 

 

 

East Zone 

11.7.2002 

26 years 

General Manager 

Chief Vigilance Officer 

 

Note:  Except  for  Shri  V.  Leeladhar,  Chairman  and  Managing  Director,  Shri  M.  Venugopalan,  Executive  Director, 
and Shri A. V. Kohli, General Manager all key managerial personnel are working in the Bank since start of their 
career and hence Experience in the Bank is equivalent to the Experience in the industry. Shri V. Leeladhar and 
Shri M. Venugopalan have been in the Bank for approximately two  years  whereas  Shri  A.  V.  Kohli  has  recently 
joined the Bank. 

The key managerial personnel are in the rolls of the Bank as permanent employees. The area of experience for the 
key managerial personnel is banking. 
Changes in key managerial personnel from  the level of General Manager and above during the last three 
years (from April 1, 1999) are as under - 
Name 

Reason for Change 

Position held 

Shri V. Leeladhar 
 
Shri M. Venugopalan 
Shri A. T. Pannir Selvam 
 
Shri D. T. Pai 
 
Shri K. L. Gopalakrishna 
Shri R. Venkataramani 
Shri A. A. Taj 
Shri M. Ganoorkar 
Shri R. Vishwanathan 
Shri V. K. Khanna 
Shri K. S. M. Rao 
Shri P. L. Gairola 
Shri A.  V. Kohli 
 
Shri Michael Bastian 
Shri M. S. Mohan 
Shri V. Sridar 
Shri T. S. Narayanasami 
 

Appointed by the Govt. of India w.e.f. 25.09.2000 

Chairman & Managing    Appointed by the Govt. of India w.e.f. 24.04.2000 
Director 
Executive Director 
Chairman & Managing    Completed tenure on 31.03.2000 
Director 
Executive Director 
 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
 

Elevated to the post of CMD of Syndicate Bank  
w.e.f. 25.05.2000 
Promoted w.e.f. 30.12.1999 
Promoted w.e.f. 01.05.2000 
Promoted w.e.f. 30.12.2000 
Promoted w.e.f. 30.12.2000 
Promoted w.e.f. 30.12.2000 
Promoted w.e.f. 21.07.2001 
Promoted w.e.f. 21.07.2001 
Promoted w.e.f. 21.07.2001 
On deputation from Punjab & Sind Bank  
w.e.f. 11.7.2002 
Elevated as ED of Vijaya Bank w.e.f 31.03.2000 
Retired w.e.f. 30.04.2000 
Elevated as ED of Uco Bank w.e.f. 15.12.2000 
Elevated as ED of Punjab National Bank  
w.e.f. 15.12.2000 

Page 219 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Shri K. Suresh Rao 
Shri S. N. Iyer 
Shri K. M. S. Babugupta 
Shri S.H.H. Zaidi 
Shri K. P. Lazar 
Shri G R Anand 
Shri P. C. Shrivastava 

General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager 
General Manager (CVO)  Opted for repatriation to parent bank w.e.f. 10.07.2002 

Retired w.e.f. 31.01.2001 
Voluntarily Retired w.e.f. 31.01.2001 
Voluntarily Retired w.e.f. 31.03.2001 
Retired w.e.f. 30.06.2001 
Retired w.e.f. 30.04.2002 
Retired w.e.f. 31.05.2002 

Transaction between the Bank and Key Managerial Personnel 

The key managerial personnel of the Bank are the employees of the Bank. The transactions of Union Bank of India 
with the key managerial personnel pertains to the compensation and benefits as applicable to all the permanent 
employees  of  the  Bank.  All  the  key  managerial  personnel  are  of  the  General  Manager  grade  and  hence  their 
compensation falls in the scale of Rs19,340 – Rs21,300 p.m. The other benefits include the festival loans, housing 
loans, reimbursement of certain expenses, etc. as per employees’ service rules. 

The compensation of the CMD and the ED are provided under the para “Terms  of  appointment  of  Chairman  and 
Managing Director” and “Terms of Appointment of Executive Director” on page 76. 
Board of Directors 

No.   Name, Age and Experience 
 

 

Date of Appointment and    Residential address 
Expiry of current term 

Other Directorships 

1.  Shri V. Leeladhar, CMD 
 
 
 
 

Age : 55 years 
Experience : 32 years in banking 
 
 

Appointment: 
24.4.2000  
Expiry: 24.04.2005 
 
 

A-32, Meherina Apartments, 
Block A, 3rd Floor, 
Behind Hyderabad Estate,  
Napeansea Road,  
Mumbai –36 

Agricultural Finance Corpn.  
Ltd. 
Discount & Finance House   
of India Ltd.  
New India Assurance Co. Ltd.  

2.  Shri M.Venugopalan, ED  
 
 

Age : 56 years 
Experience : 36 years in banking 

Appointment: 
05.09.2000  
Expiry: 30.4.2005 

154/A, Sealord Apts., 
117 Cuffe Parade, Colaba,  
Mumbai-400 005 

NIL 

3.  Dr.K.B.L. Mathur, Director  
 
 
 
 

representing GoI  
Age : 55 years 
Experience : 31 years in the   
field of economics 

Appointment: 
21.03.2001 Expiry: 
until further orders 

1220/Sector 12.  
R.K. Puram,  
New Delhi –110 001 

Tourism Finance Corporation 
of India 

4.  Shri A.V. Sardesai, 
 
 
 

Director representing RBI 
Age : 56 years 
Experience : 33 years in banking 

Appointment: 
01.06.2001 Expiry: 
until further orders 
 

5.  Shri P.K. Sarkar 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Age : 48 years 
Experience: 23 years in banking 
 
 
 
 

Appointment: 
10.11.1998  
Expiry: 
09.11.2001. Period   
extended till his  
successor has been   
nominated 

6.  Shri Ashutosh Tandon  
 
 

Age : 41 years 
Experience: 18 years in business 

Appointment: 
28.08.2001  
Expiry: 27.08.2004 

7.  Shri Arun Singh 
Age : 36 years 
 
Experience : 13 years as  
 
 
Chartered Accountant  

Appointment  
12.09.2001  
Expiry: 11.09.2004 

8.  Shri Ujjwal Nikam 
 
 
 

Age : 49 years 
Experience : 20 years as Advocate  Expiry: 11.09.2004 
 

Appointment: 
12.09.2001  

 

9.  Smt. Chalasani Vijaya Lakshmi  
 
 
 

Age : 44 years 
Experience : 20 years as a 
social worker 

10  Shri Matta Pasupathi  
 
 
 

Age : 47 years 
Experience : 
21 years in business 

Appointment  
12.11.2001  
Expiry: 
11.11.2004 

Appointment: 
12.12.2001  
Expiry: 
11.12.2004 

11  Shri Madan Lal Sabharwal 
 
 

Age : 64 years 
Experience : 30 years as a banker,   Expiry: 

Appointment: 
12.6.2002  

A/21,”Jalada”, 
RBI Officers Quarters, 
Prabhadevi,  
Mumbai-400 025 

52/46, SBD, 
Neogi Garden Lane,  
P.O. Bara Nagar,  
Kolkata-700 036 

64, Sondhi Tola Chowk, 
Lucknow –226 003 

F-7, Lajpat Nagar III, 
New Delhi –110 024. 

48, Barister Nikam  
Chowk, Zilla Peth, 
Jalgaon, Dist. Jalgaon,  
Maharashtra – 425 001 

NIL 

NIL 

NIL 

NIL 

NIL 

Flat No.202, Khatriya Towers,   NIL 
Nallakunta, 
Hyderabad-500 044 

8/77, Ramesh Nagar,  
New Delhi –110 096 

NIL 

42-B, Vandananagar (NX),  
Indore 

NIL 

Page 220 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

presently a pensioner 

12  Shri Anish Kumar Sharma  
 
 
 

Age : 53 years 
Experience : 20 years as  
Chartered Accountant  

11.6.2005 

Appointment: 
12.6.2002  
Expiry: 
11.6.2005  

R-756, New Rajinder Nagar,   NIL 
New Delhi - 110 060 

 

 

Changes in the Directors in the last three years (from April 1, 1999) and reasons thereof 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Name 

Position held 

Reasons 

Shri A.T. Pannir Selvam 
Shri D. T. Pai 
Dr. K.B.L Mathur  
Shri A.V. Sardesai 
Shri Alok Kumar 
Shrimathi Shyamala Gopinath 

CMD 
ED 
Govt. Nominee Director  
RBI Nominee Director  
Govt. Nominee Director  
RBI Nominee Director  

Retired w.e.f. 31.3.2000 
Appointed as CMD at Syndicate Bank w.e.f. 25.5.2000 
Appointed by GoI w.e.f. 21. 03.2001 
Appointed by GoI w.e.f. 01.06.2001 
Retired w.e.f. 20.03.2001 
Retired with effect from 31.05.2001 

The cumulative expenditure on Travelling Allowance (T.A.), Hotel/Halting Expenses (H.A.) and fees for directors in the last one year is as 
follows 

 
Year ended March 31, 2002 
T.A. 
H.A. 
Fees 

(Rs lac) 
Amount 
7.967 
5.594 
0.515 

Except to the benefits as provided under the relevant rules framed by the Government of India from time to time, 
the directors of the Bank are not eligible to any additional benefits upon termination of employment. 
Corporate Governance 

The SEBI guidelines in respect of corporate governance, to the extent permissible within the regulatory framework, 
shall  be  applicable  to  the  Bank  immediately  on  the  listing  of  the  shares  on  the  aforesaid  stock  exchanges.  The 
Bank  undertakes  that  it  shall  take  necessary  steps  to  comply  with  all  the  requirements  of  the  guidelines  on 
corporate governance as would be applicable to it upon the listing of its shares as well as any requirements of the 
stock exchanges concerned with regard to corporate governance before the grant of the listing permission by the 
stock exchanges. 
Terms of Appointment of Chairman and Managing Director 

In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  clause  (a)  of  sub-section  (3)  of  section  9  of  the  Banking  Companies 
(Acquisition  and  Transfer  of  Undertakings)  Act,  1970,  read  with  sub-clause  (1)  of  clause3,  clause5,  clause  6, 
clause 7 and sub-clause (1) of clause 8 of the Nationalised Banks (Management and Miscellaneous Provisions) 
Scheme,  1970,  the  Central  Government  after  consultation  with  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  appointed  Shri  V. 
Leeladhar,  Chairman  and  Managing  Director,  Vijaya  Bank  as  Chairman  and  Managing  Director,  Union  Bank  of 
India vide letter F. No. 9/10/2000-B.O.I. dated 19th April, 2000 from date of his taking charge i.e. 24th April, 2000. 

The compensation details are as follows: 

Salary 

Other benefits 

Rs26,000 per month in the scale of pay of Rs24,050-650-26,000 

Perquisites  as  per  Government  of  India  guidelines  such  as  housing,  Leave  Travel 
Allowance, Contribution to Provident Fund, Gratuity, Superannuation, Reimbursement of 
medical expenses, entertainment expenses. 

Terms of Appointment of Executive Director 

In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  clause  (a)  of  sub-section  (3)  of  section  9  of  the  Banking  Companies 
(Acquisition  and  Transfer  of  Undertakings)  Act,  1970,  read  with  sub-clause  (1)  of  clause3,  clause5,  clause  6, 
clause 7 and sub-clause (1) of clause 8 of the Nationalised Banks (Management and Miscellaneous Provisions) 
Scheme,  1970,  the  Central  Government  after  consultation  with  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  appointed  Shri  M. 
Venugopalan, as Executive Director, Union Bank of India from September 25, 2000 upto April 30, 2005. vide letter 
no.F.No.9/31/2000-B.O.I dated 25th September 2000. 

The compensation details are as follows: 

Salary 

Rs22,050 per month in the scale of Rs22,050-500-24,050 

Other benefits 

Perquisites as per Government of India guidelines such as housing, Leave Travel 
Allowance, Contribution to Provident Fund, Gratuity, Superannuation, Reimbursement of 
medical expenses, entertainment expenses. 

Page 221 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Payment or Benefit to the Directors and Officers of the Bank 

No amount or benefit has been paid or given or is intended to be paid or given to any Director or Officer of the 
Bank except their normal remuneration and/or reimbursement for the services rendered to the Bank to which they 
are  entitled  to  or  may  become  entitled  to  under  the  provisions  of  the  Bank  Nationalisation  Act  or  otherwise  in 
accordance with the Law 
Nature and Interest of Directors 

NO DIRECTOR OF THE BANK IS INTERESTED IN THE APPOINTMENT OF ANY OF THE MANAGERS, 
REGISTRAR AND BANKER TO THE ISSUE. NO DIRECTOR OF THE BANK IS INTERESTED IN ANY 
PROPERTY ACQUIRED BY THE BANK WITHIN TWO YEARS OF THE DATE OF THE OFFER 
DOCUMENT OR PROPOSED TO BE ACQUIRED BY IT. THE BANK HAS NOT PURCHASED ANY 
PROPERTY IN WHICH ANY OF ITS DIRECTORS HAD OR HAVE ANY DIRECT OR INDIRECT 
INTEREST OR IN RESPECT OF ANY PAYMENT THEREOF. THE BANK HAS NO PLANS, AT 
PRESENT, TO ACQUIRE ANY RUNNING BUSINESS OUT OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE ISSUE. THE 
DIRECTORS HAVE NO INTEREST IN ANY LOAN OR ADVANCE GIVEN BY THE BANK TO ANY 
PERSON(S)/ COMPANY (IES) NOR IS ANY BENEFICIARY OF SUCH LOAN OR ADVANCE RELATED 
TO ANY OF THE DIRECTORS. 
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 

The  Bank  is  constantly  upgrading  its  employees’  skills  by  deputing  them  to  attend  various  programmes  at  the 
Bank’s  training  college  at  Bangalore  and  its  own  seven  training  centres  and  encouraging  them  to  appear  for 
different professional examinations and attend computer training courses. 

The  Bank  has  established  systems  of  performance  appraisal,  man-power  identification  and  appropriate 
depolyment of staff across the country. 

The  Bank  had  adopted  a  “Super  Achiever  Scheme”  whereby  outstanding  performances  were  identified  and 
suitably  recognised  by  way  of  promotion,  etc.  The  Bank  has  since  March  2001  introduced  the  concept  of 
Chairman’s  Club  to enable star performers to be recognised by granting membership to this club of performers. 
Chairman’s Club Members are selected from those who excel in the respective field of resource mobilisation, credit 
administration,  recovery  management,  profits  and  operational  efficiency  and  whose  performance  is  assessed 
under set criteria. 

The Bank has over the years developed effective training systems in the industry, with many of its faculty members 
trained  overseas  in  reputed  management  schools.  The  entire  training  system  has  been  revamped  with  the 
assistance of Vinstar of New Zealand, international management and academic consultants. The training system 
consists of one staff college at Bangalore and 7 training centres spread across the country. The training system of 
the Bank has won the prestigious Golden Peacock National Training Award for the year 1998 from the Institute of 
Directors, New Delhi, under “Training Providers” category. 

The training system has also been granted on February 14, 2001, the ISO 9001  certification by the Det Norske 
Veritas  of  the  Netherlands  for  “Design,  Development  and  Delivery  of  Customised  Training  Programs”  for  the 
Banking Sector. The training infrastructure is also being used by other commercial and public sector banks. 

Though there have been industry-wise agitations, there has been no industrial unrest situation within the Bank. 

The appraisal system of the Bank is being revised to promote greater transparency and more accurate unbiased 
assessments. 

Direct recruitment of officers,  both in normal and special cadre, has taken place and the training imparted to these 
officers is consolidated through a process of formalised mentoring. 
Voluntary Retirement Scheme 

The  Voluntary  Retirement  Scheme  was  adopted  by  the  Board  at  its  meeting  held on October 31, 2000 and titled 
“Union  Bank  of  India  Voluntary  Retirement  Scheme  2000  –  2001”  (UBI  VRS  2000-2001).  The  VRS  scheme 
received 4,310 applications out of which 4,037 were accepted. The post VRS scenario has not materially affected 
the Bank’s operations and performance. 
Manpower deployment and productivity 

Employee productivity of the Bank has been improving over the years. Business per full-time employee and net 
profit per full-time employee have improved in the last five years as shown below: 
As on March 31, 

1998 

1999 

2000 

2001 

2002 

Business per  
full-time employee (Rs lac) 

96.98 

112.94 

135.44 

168.78 

214.75 

Page 222 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Net Profit per  
full-time employee (Rs lac) 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 

0.73 

0.48 

0.42 

0.64 

1.17 

The Bank’s technology initiative began in 1988 with the introduction of computerisation in key functional areas like 
Salary,  Provident  Fund,  Inter  Office  Reconciliation,  etc.  Later  on,  it  extended  to  the  branches  where  the  branch 
working was also taken up for computerisation. The software for this work was developed by the Bank’s in-house 
software  development  team.  To  address  the  challenges  of  rapidly  changing  customer  expectations  against  a 
backdrop of liberalisation and frequent changes in the IT sector, the Bank in 2000 adopted a long term IT strategy 
by appointing KPMG, an international consulting firm, to identify the Bank’s IT requirements. With the recent tie-up 
by the Bank with two leading IT companies, Wipro having expertise in hardware and Infosys Technologies whose 
strength is in software the Bank will be in a position to provide core banking solution. The use of technology in the 
Bank is aimed at achieving efficiency in operations and thereby reducing the cost of transactions, offering the right 
products  to  the  customers  through  the  right  channels,  promoting  the  usage  of  alternative  channels  without 
compromising on the need of the customer for personalised attention and to identify and manage risks. 
Branch computerisation 

Out of 2,023 branches, 1,304 branches have been computerised covering for  nearly 83% of the Bank’s business. 
The  Bank  proposes  to  computerise  220  branches  during  the  current  financial  year.  The  integrity  of  the  MIS  data 
has  improved  considerably  due  to  the  use  of  technology.  Since  2000,  the  Bank  is  also  participating  in  the 
Electronic  Fund  Transfer  (EFT)  scheme  of  Reserve  Bank  of  India  facilitating  fast  transmission  of  funds  from 
customer account to customer account located at different places. 
Core Banking Solution 

The Bank has engaged the services of leading international consultant to assist in identifying and implementing a 
centralised core banking solution. The core banking solution so identified is proposed to be implemented in 500 of 
the  top  branches  in  terms  of  business  and  infrastructure,  which  essentially  will  cover  about  60%  of  the  Bank’s 
business.  These  branches  will  provide  anywhere,  anytime  banking  as  also  services  through  other  delivery 
channels like ATM, Internet Banking, Mobile Banking, and Telebanking. 
Connectivity of Branches/Offices 

The  Bank  has  a  Wide  Area  Network  in  place,  which  is  and  which  will  continue  to  be  the  backbone  of  the 
centralised  core  banking  solution.  As  at  present,  199  leased  lines  including  inter-city  and  intra-city  have  been 
commissioned. The network has been especially useful to the Cash Management System. The Corporate Mailing 
System is also using this network. 

25 VSATs have been commissioned under the RBI’s network, the INFINET. The treasury operations have been 
brought under Negotiated Dealing System (NDS) operations. The mail messaging system  at  Corporate  Office  is 
now being routed through the Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology (IDRBT) promoted 
by the Reserve Bank making it possible for instant delivery of messages. 

SWIFT  (Society  for  Worldwide  Interbank  Financial  Telecommunication)  facility  for  International  Financial 
Messaging is available in 42 branches having international business, facilitating worldwide fast remittance of funds 
and information. 
HOUSE KEEPING 

The  Bank  has  laid  down  clear  guidelines  for  proper  House  Keeping  with  established  procedures  and  systems  in 
place. House Keeping primarily entails balancing of books of accounts and, as on March 31, 2002, all the books of 
the Bank have been balanced. Further, all entries outstanding in inter-bank account have also been reconciled and 
follow-up action has been initiated in respect of outstanding entries. 
INTER-BRANCH RECONCILIATION 

Inter-Branch  Reconciliation  is  centralised  at  Mumbai.  Processing  of  the  data,  matching  of  the  entries  and 
reconciliation are computerised through an efficient Inter-Branch Reconciliation package developed for the Bank’s 
requirement.  The  Bank  has  completed  reconciliation  of  all  the  branches  with  regard  to  Inter-Branch  entries  upto 
December  31,  2001.  The  Bank  draws  reconciliation  on  a  quarterly  basis  and  the  outstanding  entries  are 
systematically followed-up thereafter. Adequate provision has been made in respect of old outstanding entries as 
per RBI directives. 
AUDIT AND INSPECTION 

The Bank has a comprehensive inspection and audit system covering the entire operation of the branches as well 
as all the administrative offices. Besides, the Bank has a system of Revenue Audit to detect income leakages. All 
the  2,023  branches  were  inspected  for  the  financial  year  ending  March  31,  2002  along  with  all  Administrative 
Offices  and  also  all  the  departments  in  Central  Office.  The  Bank  has  also  established  a  system  of  rating  the 

Page 223 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

branches based on their performance in relation to compliance with the policies and procedures of the Bank on the 
basis of audit reports. 

Keeping with the RBI Guidelines, the Bank has established the system of Concurrent Audit by appointing firms of 
Chartered Accountants as concurrent auditors. At present, 446 branches are under Concurrent Audit, which cover 
53% of deposits, 80% of advances and 63% of total business of the Bank. 

VIGILANCE MECHANISM 

The  guidelines  provided  by  the  Central  Vigilance  Commission  are  being  adhered  to  and  emphasis  is  placed  on 
expeditious completion of the disciplinary cases. Also, special emphasis is  being  placed  on  preventive  vigilance 
and  all  out  efforts  have  been  made  to  enhance  awareness  about  preventive  measures  to  be  adopted  by  the 
functionaries at various levels. A number of training programmes have also been conducted at the Staff Training 
College and other training centres. A number of preventive vigilance visits are being made on an ongoing basis. 

SUBSIDIARIES 

The Bank does not have any subsidiary. 
REGIONAL RURAL BANKS 

The contribution towards the capital of each of the RRBs is 50%, 35% and 15%  by  the  Central  Government,  the 
Sponsoring  Bank  and  the  State  Government  respectively.  The  Bank  has  sponsored  4  Regional  Rural  Banks 
(RRBs), all in backward areas i.e. 3 in eastern Uttar Pradesh and 1 in eastern Madhya Pradesh (M.P.) as under: 

1.  Samyut Kshetriya Gramin Bank (SKGB), Azamgarh, covering 3 districts Azamgarh, Ghazipur and Mau. 
2.  Gomti Gramin Bank (GGB), Jaunpur, covering Jaunpur district and a part of newly carved Dist. Bhadohi. 

3.  Kashi Gramin Bank (KGB), Varanasi, covering 3 districts Varanasi, Chadauli and Bhadohi. 

4.  Rewa Sidhi Gramin Bank (RSGB) covering 2 districts Rewa and Siddhi of M.P. 

Salient features of the Bank’s sponsored RRBs are: 

l 

l 

All the RRBs have earned profit for the year ended March 2002 

The Bank has not received any dividend from the RRBs as the profits are retained by the banks for plough 
back in business 

The  capital,  business,  balance  in  profit  &  loss  account  and  net  profit for the year ended March 31, 2002 is given 
below: 

 

 

 

 

 

Deposits  Advances 
  

 

Total 
Business 

P & L 
Balance 

(Rs crore) 
Net 
Profit 

 
Name of  
the RRB 
 

SKGB 

GGB 

KGB 

RSGB 

Total 

Equity  
Share 
Capital 

1.87 

1.00 

26.28 

9.01 

38.15 

873.90 

416.96 

378.04 

310.91 

1,979.80 

102.42 

94.01 

102.64 

70.33 

369.41 

976.32 

510.97 

480.68 

381.24 

2,349.21 

0.00 

10.43 

(13.13) 

8.44 

5.74 

20.11 

6.41 

9.09 

4.08 

39.70 

In  addition  to  above,  the  Bank’s  RRBs  have  issued  18,555  Kisan  Credit  Cards  and  have  also  linked  2,228  Self-
Help Groups. 
VERMA COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATIONS 

The  Verma  Committee  was  set  up  to  identify  weak  and  potentially  weak  banks  in  the  country  and  for  making 
recommendations for strengthening these Banks and reducing systematic risks. 

The  panel  selected  the  following  seven  parameters  for  the  financial  year  1998  and  1999  to  judge  weakness  / 
strength: 

i.  Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) 

ii.  Coverage 

iii.  Return on Assets (ROA) 

iv.  Net Interest Margin (NIM) 

Page 224 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

v.  Ratio of Operating Profit to Average Working Funds 

vi.  Ratio of Cost to Income 

vii.  Ratio of Staff Cost to Net Interest Income plus all other income. 

The working group observed that based on the above analysis, Public Sector Banks could be classified in terms of 
their strengths or weakness under three broad categories 

i. 

Banks where none of the seven parameters are met 

ii.  Banks where all the parameters are met 

iii.  Banks where some of the seven parameters are not met 

The Bank has been placed amongst nine banks in the third category for compliance with Capital Adequacy Ratio 
(CAR) but did not comply with one or two of the remaining efficiency parameters for the financial year 1998 and 
1999. The Working Group commented that the banks classified in this category are fairly well placed to tackle the 
visible  pointers  to  weaknesses  through  internal  strategies.  The  Bank  has  complied  with  the  parameters  in  the 
subsequent years. The two parameters on which the Bank didn’t comply were Net Interest Margin (2.66% in 1999 
as compared to the median value of 3.02%) and Ratio of Operating Profit to Average  Working  Funds  (1.13%  in 
1999 as compared to 1.61%). The respective figures under these two parameters stood at 3.01% and 2.16% in 
2002. 

Page 225 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

PROMOTERS / PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS 

Not Available 

 

 

EXCHANGE RATES 

Not Available 

 

CURRENCY OF PRESENTATION 

Not Available 

 

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

Not Available 

 

Page 226 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
Union Bank of India with its large network of branches spread throughout the country is well equipped to handle 
the  management  of change. Its professional management has been taking pro-active steps in this direction. The 
Bank has recently appointed management consulting firm KPMG for developing the IT Strategy of the Bank. The 
Bank  has  also  appointed  the  two  leading  Indian  IT  companies,  Infosys  Technologies  and  Wipro  Infotech  for 
development of IT infrastructure. While Infosys would provide the core banking solution, Wipro Infotech has been 
appointed  as  the  prime  systems  vendor  and  would  be  responsible  for  programme  and  systems  integration.  The 
implementation of the core-banking solution and networking of branches will help Union Bank to provide anytime-
anywhere banking. 

The introduction of prudential accounting norms and capital adequacy were major regulatory changes. Union Bank 
with  its  inherent  strengths  and  long  tradition  of  sound  banking  was  able  to  adjust  to  these  changes  without  any 
disruptions  in  its  performance.  The  Bank  has  taken  proactive  measures  to  meet  the  challenges  of  competition. 
Besides mobilising low cost deposits to bring down funding costs, the Bank has been focussing on retail lending. 
Further, the Bank has put in place risk management systems to address credit risks. 
Financial Highlights of the Bank Year ended as on March 31 
 
Particulars 
 
 

(Rs crore) 
2002  % change  % change from 
2001 to 2002 

 
2001 
 
 

from 2000  
to 2001  

2000 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Total income 
Interest earned 
Commission, exchange & brokerage 
Profit on sale of investments 
Profit on sale of land/bldg and other assets 
Profit on exch transaction (net) 
Misc income 
Total other income 
Expenditure 
Interest expended 
Employee related expenses 
Other operating expenses 
Total operating expenses 
Profit before provisions and contingencies 
Less: Provisions and contingencies 
Net Profit 

3,616.90 
3,315.11 
113.86 
43.21 
0.34 
78.32 
66.06 
301.79 
3,203.39 
2,358.03 
592.65 
252.71 
845.36 
413.51 
286.55 
126.96 

4,052.23 
3,732.95 
121.29 
34.35 
-0.12 
89.54 
74.22 
319.28 
3,533.29 
2,513.95 
756.19 
263.15 
1,019.34 
518.94 
338.65 
180.29 

4,502.02 
4,015.68 
129.18 
159.83 
-0.36 
114.37 
83.32 
486.34 
3,645.58 
2,679.04 
686.65 
279.89 
966.54 
856.44 
555.11 
301.33 

12.04% 
12.60% 
7% 
-21% 
-135% 
14% 
12% 
5.80% 
10.30% 
6.61% 
27.59% 
4.13% 
20.58% 
25.50% 
18.18% 
42.01% 

11.10% 
7.57% 
7% 
365% 
200% 
28% 
12% 
52.32% 
3.18% 
6.57% 
-9.20% 
6.36% 
-5.18% 
65.04% 
63.92% 
67.14% 

Significant items of income and expenditure during 2001-02 (Comparison of financials for the year ended 
March 2002 with March 2001) 

Net Profit - The Bank registered a net profit of Rs301.33 crore in 2001-02, compared to a net profit of Rs180.29 
crore in 2000-01, a rise of 67.14%. 
Interest  Income  -  Income  from  advances  improved  from  Rs1,955.06  crore  in  2000-01  to  Rs2,168.64  crore  in 
2001-02. The advances rose from Rs17,505.35 crore as on March 31, 2001 to Rs21,383.31 crore as on March 31, 
2002.  The  average  yield  on  advances  worked  out  to  12.10%  in  2000-01  as  compared  to  10.95%  in  2001-02. 
Investments increased from Rs13,671.60 crore as on March 31, 2001 to Rs15,409.69 crore as on March 31, 2002. 
The income on investments increased from Rs1,524.44 crore to Rs1,674.51 crore in the same period. The yield on 
average  investments  decreased  from  11.75%  to  10.95%in  the  same  period.  The  Asset  Liability  Management 
Committee of the Bank keeps a close watch on interest rate movements and takes corrective measures. The net 
interest income of the Bank has increased from Rs1,219.00 crore in 2000- 01 to Rs1,336.64 crore in 2001-02. 
Other  Income  -  The  Bank  has  laid  thrust  on  improvement  of  non- interest  income  as  a  means  of  improving 
profitability.  The  other  income  of  the  Bank  comprises  of  fee-based income, treasury income and forex earnings. 
These earnings are in the normal course of business of the Bank. The non-interest income of the Bank grew by 

Page 227 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

52.32% from Rs319.28 crore in 2000-01 to Rs486.34 crore in 2001-02. The main reason for the large increase  is 
due to a 365% jump in profit on sale of investments from Rs 34.35 crore in 2000-01 to Rs159.83 crore in 2001-02. 
These profits may not be sustainable in the future. However, the Bank has launched new products such as cash 
management services, demat account services and also proposes to launch other products to increase fee based 
income. These products do not contribute to the current profits of the Bank. The increase in other income is not a 
result of any material change in holding policy or change in accounting policy. The profits have been realised and 
are not notional entries. 

The  entire  banking  industry  has  shown  a  strong  increase  in  non-interest  income  mainly  due  to  profits  on 
investments in a declining interest rate scenario. The banking industry faces a challenge in sustaining this growth. 
Interest Expenses - As a result of growth of deposits from Rs34,888.06 crore in 2000-01 to Rs39,793.87 crore in 
2001-02,  interest  on  deposits  also  rose  from  Rs2,427.07  crore  to  Rs2,573.04  crore  during  the  same  period. 
However, inspite of increasing rates, the bank succeeded in keeping the cost of deposits down at 7.03% as on 
March 31, 2002 as compared to 7.57% as on March 31, 2001. 
Operating Expenses - The non-interest  expenses  of  the  Bank  decreased  from  Rs 1,019.34 crore in 2000-01 to 
Rs966.54 crore in 2001-02. The Bank implemented a Voluntary Retirement Scheme in 2000- 01 which resulted in a 
reduction of staff strength by 4,037. The decline in employee related expenses of 9.2% is mainly due to the VRS. 
The business per employee has increased from Rs168.78 lacs in 2000-01 to Rs214.75 lacs in 2001-02. The total 
number  of  permanent  employees  as  on  March  31,  2002  is  27,307.  The  other  operating  expenses  consisting 
primarily of establishment expenses have increased by 6.36%. 
Significant items of income and Expenditure during the year 2000-2001 (comparison of financials for the 
year ended March 31, 2001 with the financials for the year ended March 31, 2000). 

Net profits - The Bank registered a net profit of Rs180.29 crore in 2000-01, compared to a net profit of Rs126.96 
crore in 1999-2000, a rise of 42.01% 
Interest Income - Income from advances improved from Rs 1,625.49 crore in 1999-2000 to Rs1,955.06 crore in 
2000-01. The advances rose from Rs14,613.22 crore as on March 31, 2000 to Rs17,505.35 crore as on March 31, 
2001. The average yield on advances worked out to 12.35% in 1999-2000  as  compared  to  12.10%  in  2000-01. 
Investments  increased  from  Rs11,479.23  crore  as  on  March  31,  2000  to  Rs13,671.60  crore  in  March  31,  2001. 
The interest on investments increased from Rs1,460.70 crore in March 2000 to Rs1,524.44 crore in March 2001. 
The  yield  on  average  investments  decreased  from  11.82%  to  11.75%  in  the  same  period.  The  Asset  Liability 
Management  Committee  of  the  Bank  keeps  a  close  watch  on  interest  rate  movements  and  takes  corrective 
measures. The net interest income of the Bank has increased from Rs957.08 crore in 1999-2000 to Rs 1,219.00 
crore in 2000-01. 
Other  Income  -  The  Bank  has  laid  thrust  on  improvement  of  non- interest  income  as  a  means  of  improving 
profitability.  The  non-interest  income  of  the  Bank  grew  from  Rs301.79  crore  in  1999-2000  to  Rs319.28  crore  in 
2000-01. The other income of the Bank comprises of fee-based income, treasury income and forex earnings. 
Interest Expenses - As a result of growth of deposits from Rs31,105.36 crore in 1999-2000 to Rs34,888.06 crore 
in  2000-01,  interest  on  deposits  also  rose  from  Rs2,297.45  crore  to  Rs2,427.07  crore  during  the  same  period. 
However,  inspite  of  increasing  rates,  the  Bank  succeeded  in  keeping  the  cost  of  deposits  down  at  7.57%  as  on 
March 31, 2001 as compared to 8.00% as on March 31, 2000. 
Operating Expenses - The non- interest expenses of the Bank increased from Rs845.36 crore in 1999-2000 to Rs 
1,019.34 crore in 2000- 01. 
Human Resource Development 

The Bank understands that human capital is an important asset for achieving success in the service industry such 
as banking which is in a forever changing business environment. Hence the Bank focuses on development and 
recognition  of  its  employees.  The  Bank  has  established  training  systems  for  its  employees  at  various  training 
centres.  The  training  system  has  been  designed  by  independent  consultants  and  experts.  The  Bank  has  full-
fledged training college at Bangalore with faculty members trained overseas in reputed management schools. The 
Bank has established schemes to recognise performers and reward them through citations and recognition. 
Future changes in relationship between costs and revenues 

Following  the  gradual  reduction  in  interest  rates,  particularly,  in  the  recent  period,  the  Bank’s  margin  is  coming 
under pressure. Moreover, the Bank has a large portion of term deposits in the maturity bracket of 1 – 3 years and 
the interest rate for the same has been locked in. The Bank may face pressures on interest rate margin in a falling 
interest rate scenario. To tackle this, the Bank is focussing on providing retail/consumer loans where interest rate 
is fixed for the full tenure of the loan. The Bank has also evolved a multi-pronged strategy of mobilising more low 
cost deposits, achieve better recovery in NPAs, focus on retail lending, boosting non- interest income and reduction 
in operational expenses. 
Non-Dependence on a few customers 

Page 228 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

The Bank has well diversified credit portfolio to prevent any concentration of exposures. The maximum exposure of 
credit to any one company or any one-business group is less than 2% of total advances. 
Competitive conditions 

Deregulation of interest rates on deposits and on advances 
Emergence of new private sector banks 
Technological advances 

The Bank recognises the fact that competition has increased in the market due to the following reasons: 
l  
l  
l  
The  Bank  has  developed  a  strategy  to  meet  the  competition  by  diversifying  its  product  range  and  appropriate 
pricing of the same. The Bank enjoys a large franchise value through its branch network and will further leverage 
on the same through better use of technology. 
Liquidity and Capital Resources  
Not Available  
 
Captial Expenditure 
Not Available 
Foreign Exchange Risk  
Not Available 
 
Interest Rate Risk  
Not Available 
 
 
Material Developments 

In  the  opinion  of  the  Board  of  directors,  no  circumstances  have  arisen  since  the  date  of  the  last  financial 
statements, as disclosed in the Offer Document, which would materially affect or are likely to affect the profitability 
of the Bank or the value of its assets or its ability to pay its liabilities within the next twelve months. 
 
CAPITALISATION 

Forms a part of Financial Information  
 
 
DIVIDEND POLICY 
 

Not Available 
 
 

Page 229 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

SECTION IV 
 
AUDITORS’ REPORT 

The Board of Directors 
Union Bank of India 
Head Office 
239, Vidhan Bhavan Marg 
Nariman Point 
Mumbai – 400 021 

Dear Sirs, 

In terms of our appointment for the purpose of certification of the statement of accounts to be incorporated in the 
Offer Document proposed to be issued by the Bank in connection with the Initial Public Offer of Equity Shares, we 
state as follows: 

1.  We have examined the Audited accounts of the Bank for the five consecutive financial years ended March 31, 
2002 being the last date upto which the accounts of the Bank have been made up and audited by the Auditors 
of the Bank of those respective years. 

2.  We further report as follows:- 

 

 

 

 

a)  The Profit & Loss account of Union Bank of India for each of the five consecutive financial years ended 
March  31,  2002  are  as  set  out  in  Part  I  enclosed  and  the  statement  of  Assets  &  Liabilities  as  at  the 
respective year ends are as set out in Part II enclosed. 

b)  The aforesaid Statements of Profit & Loss and Assets & Liabilities; 

 

 

i) 

read together with Significant Accounting Policies and Significant Changes in Accounting Policies as 
set out in Part III, Material Notes on Accounts and Notes on Adjustments as set out in Part IV and 
subject to Auditors’ qualifications for which no adjustment could be carried out, as set out in Part V, 
have  been  drawn  up  after  giving  effect  to  adjustments  and  regroupings,  as  and  where,  in  our 
opinion, considered appropriate and 

ii)   have been prepared by the Bank in accordance with the guidelines issued by Reserve Bank of India 
from time to time and subject to the limitations of disclosures required under the Banking Companies 
(Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970. 

3.  We further report that in respect of the five consecutive financial years ended March 31, 2002, the amount of 
dividend transferred/yet to be transferred to the Government of India by Union Bank of India are as given in 
Part VI. 

4.  We have also examined the accompanying statement of Key Accounting Ratios set out in Part VII for the five 
consecutive financial years ended March 31, 2002 and the Statement of Capitalisation, Tax Shelter and Net 
Worth set out in Part VIII which are subject to qualifications as detailed above and report that in our opinion 
they have been correctly computed. 

(S.P.Sinha) 
B. GUPTA & CO. 
Chartered Accountants  

(Vasant Bheda) 
GALA & GALA 
Chartered Accountants  

(K.Srinivasan) 
SUNDARAM & SRINIVASAN 
Chartered Accountants  

Mumbai 

(D.Bhattacharyya) 
D.P.SEN & CO 
Chartered Accountants 

(Suresh Seth) 
S.N.DHAWAN & CO. 
Chartered Accountants 

(Pradeep Verma) 
V.K.VERMA & CO 
Chartered Accountants 

Page 230 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

04.06.2002 
 
 
 
 
 
PART I 
Statement of Profit and Loss 

 

 
Financial year ended March 31, 
A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

INCOME 
Interest Earned 
Int. & Disc. on advance/bills 
Income on Investments 
Interest on Balance with RBI and other 
inter-bank lending 
Interest on Income tax 
Others 
Sub-Total 
OTHER INCOME 
Commission, Exchange & Brokerage 
Profit on Sale of Investments 
Profit on sale of Land/Bldg. & other assets 
Profit on Exch. Transaction [net] 
Income earned by way of dividends from  
subsidiaries/companies/JVs in India 
Miscellaneous Income 
Sub-Total 
TOTAL INCOME 
EXPENDITURE 
Interest Expended 
Interest on deposits 
Interest on RBI/Inter-Bank Borrowings 
Others 
Sub-Total 
Operating Expenses 
Payment & prov. for employees & wages 
Rent, Taxes & Lighting 
Insurance 
Printing & Stationery 
Advertisement 
Postage, Telegram, Telephones, etc. 
Repairs & Maintenance 
Law Charges 
Director’s fees, Allowance & Expenses 
Auditor’s fees & expenses 
Other expenditure 

 
1998 

 
1999 

 
2000 

 
2001 

(Rs crore) 
2002 

1,259.17 
1,077.58 

1,353.73 
1,271.28 

1,625.49 
1,460.70 

1,955.06 
1,524.44 

2,168.64 
1,674.51 

136.49 
27.32 
3.46 
2,504.02 

98.59 
1.55 
0.15 
67.75 

0.00 
40.29 
208.33 
2,712.35 

212.30 
30.84 
0.89 
2,869.04 

100.73 
34.31 
0.18 
68.88 

0.00 
60.23 
264.33 
3,133.37 

214.44 
11.99 
2.49 
3,315.11 

113.86 
43.21 
0.34 
78.32 

0.00 
66.06 
301.79 
3,616.90 

202.22 
1.12 
50.11 
3,732.95 

121.29 
34.35 
-0.12 
89.54 

0.00 
74.22 
319.28 
4,052.23 

153.71 
10.15 
8.67 
4,015.68 

129.18 
159.83 
-0.36 
114.37 

0.00 
83.32 
486.34 
4,502.02 

1,674.31 
11.63 
1.55 
1,687.49 

2,024.94 
11.91 
0.65 
2,037.50 

2,297.45 
23.90 
36.68 
2,358.03 

2,427.07 
21.93 
64.95 
2,513.95 

2,573.04 
19.04 
86.96 
2,679.04 

443.48 
39.74 
50.52 
14.25 
6.30 
9.73 
8.45 
5.07 
0.29 
3.48 
68.43 

525.38 
43.37 
60.93 
13.36 
6.10 
10.80 
9.51 
3.97 
0.35 
3.93 
79.85 

592.65 
50.02 
17.18 
12.47 
6.50 
10.34 
9.65 
6.81 
0.34 
5.35 
89.81 

756.19 
55.31 
19.24 
13.05 
6.05 
9.50 
10.38 
4.59 
0.14 
6.39 
93.85 

686.65 
57.57 
22.48 
14.13 
8.92 
9.50 
11.43 
3.87 
0.24 
7.23 
100.36 

Page 231 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Depreciation on Bank’s properties 
Sub-Total 
TOTAL EXPENDITURE 
Gross Profit before provisions for income 
tax and extraordinary items 
Less: Extra ordinary items 
Provisions & Contingencies 
Net Profit/(Loss) for the year 
Add: Div. Recd. Back from Govt. 
Amt. Recd. From Inv. Fluct. Res. 
Profit & Loss brought forward 
Profit available for appropriation 
APPROPRIATIONS 

Transfer to Statutory Reserve 
Transfer to Revenue & other Reserve 
Trf. to Cap. Res.-excess Dep. On Inv.W.B. 
Transfer to Inv. Fluct. Reserves 
Dividends To Central Govt. 
Dividend Tax 
Balance Carried over to Balance Sheet 
TOTAL 
Break-up of Provisions & Contingencies 

Prov. For Inc. Tax, Int. Tax & Wealth Tax 
Depreciation on Investment 
Bad Debts W/off (Net) 
Interest waiver/concession granted 
Prov. For Bad & Doubtful Debts  
Prov. For DICGC Claims lodged accounts  
Provision for Std. Adv  
Others 
Sub-total 
Less: Excess Provision Withdrawn 
Income Tax Refund 
Depreciation on Investment 
Others 
Sub-total 
Total 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part II 
Statement of Assets and Liabilities 
 
 
A)  ASSETS 
 
 
 
 
 

 
As on March 31, 

1  Cash in Hand 
2  Balance with RBI 
3  Balance with Banks 
 
  Outside India 

In India 

32.86 
682.60 
2,370.09 

37.88 
795.43 
2,832.93 

44.24 
845.36 
3,203.39 

44.65 
1,019.34 
3,533.29 

44.16 
966.54 
3,645.58 

342.26 

300.44 

413.51 

518.94 

856.44 

117.26 
225.00 
- 
- 
- 
225.00 

114.00 
28.29 
27.69 
0.00 
55.02 
0.00 
0.00 
225.00 

95.12 
-78.28 
- 
- 
76.47 
0.00 
- 
23.95 
117.26 

- 
- 
- 
0 
117.26 

152.89 
147.55 
- 
- 
- 
147.55 

72.10 
39.88 
0.00 
0.00 
35.57 
0.00 
0.00 
147.55 

11.63 
- 
- 
- 
113.56 
0.00 
- 
27.70 
152.89 

- 
- 
- 
0 
152.89 

286.55 
126.96 
- 
- 
- 
126.96 

45.00 
55.78 
0.00 
1.48 
24.70 
0.00 
0.00 
126.96 

17.57 
-8.67 
- 
- 
201.00 
0.00 
33.75 
42.90 
286.55 

- 
- 
- 
0 
286.55 

338.65 
180.29 
- 
- 
- 
180.29 

46.64 
86.86 
8.67 
0.00 
31.09 
7.03 
0.00 
180.29 

60.87 
17.55 
- 
- 
230.80 
0.00 
7.25 
22.18 
338.65 

- 
- 
- 
0 
338.65 

555.11 
301.33 
- 
- 
- 
301.33 

95.00 
61.33 
0.00 
100.00 
45.00 
0.00 
0.00 
301.33 

142.00 
16.46 
- 
- 
321.60 
0.00 
11.25 
63.80 
555.11 

- 
- 
- 
0 
555.11 

 
1998 

 
1999 

 
2000 

 
2001 

(Rs crore) 
2002 

138.64 
2,640.09 

145.19 
3,463.61 

188.50 
2,923.82 

148.74 
2,594.76 

163.31 
2,229.37 

130.09 
1,292.20 

274.37 
1,791.18 

610.59 
2,202.10 

717.24 
1,581.34 

1,038.90 
1,374.22 

Page 232 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

512.00 

110.00 

620.00 

275.00 

100.00 

9,192.69 
12.35 

12,140.11 
0.02 

11,479.21 
0.02 

13,671.49 
0.11 

15,409.58 
0.11 

10,276.19 

11,308.77 

14,613.22 

17,505.35 

21,383.31 

184.55 
803.73 
25,182.53 

211.62 
1,242.68 
30,687.55 

243.19 
1,580.82 
34,461.47 

246.79 
1,737.62 
38,478.44 

249.28 
1,921.41 
43,869.49 

91.01 
3,167.00 
5,466.53 
491.03 
13,840.06 

110.36 
3,352.45 
6,311.99 
617.72 
17,743.13 

148.81 
4,680.22 
7,429.90 
657.68 
18,188.75 

143.45 
5,922.72 
8,424.15 
779.92 
19,617.82 

152.53 
6,501.97 
9,701.02 
782.87 
22,655.48 

83.32 

74.13 

350.74 

313.34 

53.30 

1,044.36 
24,183.31 
999.22 

1,348.06 
29,557.84 
1,129.71 

1,760.74 
33,216.84 
1,244.63 

1,919.80 
37,121.20 
1,357.24 

2,433.58 
42,280.75 
1,588.74 

338.00 

338.00 

338.00 

338.00 

338.00 

I  Statutory reserve 
II  Capital Reserves(others) * 
III 
Investment Fluctuation Reserve 
IV  Redemption Reserve for bonds 
V  Revenue & other reserves 
VI  Balance of Profit & Loss account 
TOTAL (E) 
* Rs4.00 lac of share premium is included in Capital Reserve (Others) 

400.00 
58.98 
- 
- 
202.24 
- 
661.22 

472.10 
0.04 
52.36 
- 
267.21 
- 
791.71 

517.10 
0.04 
53.83 
- 
335.66 
- 
906.63 

563.74 
8.71 
49.98 
- 
396.81 
- 
1,019.24 

658.74 
8.71 
149.98 
- 
433.31 
- 
1,250.74 

999.22 

1,129.71 

1,244.63 

1,357.24 

1,588.74 

In India 

In India 

Investments 
In India 

1  Demand deposits from banks 
 
Demand deposits from others 
2  Saving Deposits 
3  Term deposit from banks 
 
Term deposit from others 
4  Borrowings  
 
  Outside India 
5  Other liabilities & provisions 
TOTAL (B) 

4  Money at call & short notice 
5 
 
  Outside India 
6  Advances 
 
  Outside India 
7  Fixed Assets # 
8  Other Assets 
TOTAL (A) 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B  LIABILITIES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C  Net Assets (C=A-B) 
Represented by: 
 
D  SHARE CAPITAL 
E  RESERVES & SURPLUS # 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F  TOTAL 
G  CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

141.01 
i)  Claims against the Bank not ack. as debt 
141.61 
ii)  Disputed IT demand under appeal/refer, etc. 
iii)   Liability for partly paid investments 
0.99 
iv)  Liability on account of o/s. for. exch. Contract  2,503.97 
934.90 
v)  G/tees. Given on behalf of constituents 
386.06 
vi)  Acceptances, endorsements & other oblig. 
- 
vii)  1) Other items for which bank is cont.liable 
 
2) Liability on a/c. of rounding of interest tax 
- 
viii) Others 
90.16 
TOTAL (G) 
4,198.70 
Bills for Collection. 
1,725.06 
552.85 
# Excluding Revaluation Reserve 

133.68 
273.56 
0.59 
3,366.87 
1,172.49 
418.70 
- 
- 
79.24 
5,445.13 
2,081.28 
540.24 

133.70 
354.87 
0.59 
3,951.96 
1,096.22 
494.64 
- 
- 
54.52 
6,086.50 
2,583.27 
527.90 

135.26 
388.58 
3.60 
4,092.88 
1,290.64 
927.81 
- 
- 
35.21 
6,873.98 
1,647.66 
516.43 

150.31 
426.94 
1.14 
4,894.75 
1,570.92 
1,404.03 
- 
- 
22.94 
8,471.03 
2,672.61 
505.47 

Page 233 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
1998 

 
1999 

 
2000 

 
2001 

(Rs crore) 
2002 

0.67 
0.67 

1.74 
1.74 

2.68 
2.68 

7.70 
7.70 

-12.80 
-12.80 

7.93 
7.93 

11.28 
11.28 

-19.21 
-19.21 

0.00 
0.00 

0.00 
0.00 

-7.26 

-9.54 

21.89 

7.70 

-12.80 

17.83 
-25.09 
-25.09 

-25.09 

3.13 
-12.67 
-12.67 

-3.83 
25.72 
25.72 

-17.13 
24.83 
24.83 

0.00 
-12.80 
-12.80 

-12.67 

25.72 

24.83 

-12.80 

 
1998 

 
1999 

 
2000 

 
2001 

(Rs crore) 
2002 

Details of Adjustments 
Year ended March 31 
INCOME 
OTHER INCOME 
Miscellaneous Income (Processing charges for  
compensation claims of Gulf war victims) 
TOTAL INCOME 
EXPENDITURE 
OPERATING EXPENSES 
Payment to & Provision for employees  
(Provision for arrears of wage revision) 
TOTAL EXPENDITURE 
Gross Profit before provision for income tax &  
extra ordinary items 
LESS 
PROVISION & CONTINGENCIES 
Provision for Income Tax  
(Interest on Zero Coupon Bonds) 
NET PROFTI/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 
Profit Available For Appropriation 
APPROPRIATION 
Transfer to revenue & other reserves 
Increase/Decrease in Assets & Liabilities (Cumulative) 
 
Nature of Adjustments 
ASSETS 
Fixed Assets 
Other Assets 
Increase/decrease in assets 
LIABILITIES 
Other Liabilities & Provision 
RESERVE & SURPLUS 
Revaluation Reserve 
Revenue & Other Reserves 
Sub-total 
Increase/decrease in Liabilities 
PART III 
A.  SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
1.  General 

 

-552.85 
-17.83 
-570.68 

-540.24 
-3.13 
-543.37 

-527.90 
3.83 
-524.07 

-516.43 
17.13 
-499.3 

-505.47 
0.00 
-505.47 

7.26 

9.54 

-21.89 

-7.70 

12.80 

-552.85 
-25.09 
-577.94 
-570.68 

-540.24 
-12.67 
-552.91 
-543.37 

-527.90 
25.72 
-502.18 
-524.07 

-516.43 
24.83 
-491.6 
-499.3 

-505.47 
-12.80 
-518.27 
-505.47 

 

The financial statements are prepared by following the going concern concept and on the historical cost basis 
unless otherwise stated, and conform to the statutory provisions and practices prevailing in the country. 

2.  Recognition of Income and Expenditure 

 

 

 

 

i) 

ii)  

Items of income and expenditure are generally accounted for on accrual basis unless otherwise stated. 

Income  on  Non  Performing  Assets  (NPAs)  is  recognised  to  the  extent  realised  as  per  the  prudential 
norms  prescribed  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India.  Income  accounted  for  in  the  preceding  year  and 
remaining unrealised is derecognised in respect of assets classified as NPA during the year. 

iii)  Commission, exchange earned and rent on safe deposit lockers are accounted for on realisation. 

iv)  Leave encashment benefits are accounted for on cash basis. 

Page 234 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
3. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Interest on overdue term deposits is not considered as liability and hence not provided for. 

v) 
Investments 

i) 

The Investment portfolio of the Bank is classified in accordance with the Reserve Bank of India guidelines 
into three categories viz. a. Held to Maturity b. Available for sale c. Held for Trading. 

ii)   For the purpose of valuation, in terms of RBI guidelines the following principles have been adopted:- 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

a)  Securities held in “Held to Maturity” category - at acquisition cost 

 

The  excess  of  acquisition  cost  over  the  face  value  is  amortised  over  the  remaining  period  of 
maturity. 

b)  Securities held in “Held for Trading” category. 

 

At market price based on market quotation of Govt. Securities put out by FIMMDA/PDAI 

c)  Securities held in “Available for sale” category. 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

(i)  Govt. of India Securities 
 

At market price as per quotation put out by FIMMDA/PDAI 

(ii)   State  Development  Loans  Securities  guaranteed  by  Central/State  Govt.  PSU  Bonds  On 

appropriate yield to maturity basis 

(iii)   Treasury Bills 
 

At carrying cost 

(iv)  Equity shares 
 

As per market rates, if quoted, otherwise at Book Value if latest Balance Sheet is available (not 
more than 1 year old) or Re.1/ per company. 

(v)  Preference Shares 
 

At market price, if quoted or on appropriate yield to maturity basis not exceeding redemption 
value. 

(vi)  Debentures 
 

At market price, if quoted or on appropriate yield to maturity basis not exceeding redemption 
value. 

(vii)  Mutual funds 
 

At market price, if quoted, otherwise at repurchase price/Net Asset Value 

(viii)  Certificates of Deposits/Commercial Paper/Term Money Bonds At carrying cost 

Investments  in  “Available  for  Sale/Held  for  Trading”  category  are  valued  category-wise  and  scrip-wise 
and net depreciation, if any, in each category is charged to Profit & Loss Account while net appreciation, 
if any, is ignored. 

iii)  The non-performing investments are identified and depreciation/provision is made as per RBI guidelines. 

iv)  Profit/Loss on sale of investments in any category is taken to the Profit & Loss Account. However, in case 
of profit on sale of investments in “Held to Maturity” category, an equivalent amount is appropriated to the 
Capital Reserve Account. 

v)  Commission,  brokerage,  broken  period  interest  etc.  on  securities  is  debited/credited  to  Profit  &  Loss 

account. 

vi)  a)  The  Interest  Rate  Swap  transactions  for  hedging  are  accounted  for  on  accrual  basis  and 

transactions for trading are marked to market at fortnightly intervals, in line with RBI guidelines. 

 

b)  For  the  purpose  of  valuation,  the  fair  value  of  the  total  swaps  is  computed  on  the  basis  of  the 
amount that would be receivable or payable on termination of the swap agreements as on Balance 
Sheet  date  and  losses  arising  therefrom,  if  any,  are  fully  provided  while  the  profits,  if  any,  are 
ignored. 

4.  Advances 

 

 

 

Advances are classified as standard, sub-standard, doubtful or loss assets  and  provisions  required  on  such 
advances are made as per the extant prudential norms issued by the Reserve Bank of India: 

a)  Standard Assets 

-  0.25% 

b)  Sub-standard assets 

-  10% 

Page 235 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

c)  Doubtful assets 

-  100% of unsecured   portion 

 

 

 

plus 20% /30% /50% of secured portion depending on the period for which the 
advance has remained doubtful. 

d)  Loss Assets 

-  100% 

e)  In respect of non-  
 

Performaing advances  -  provision 

   100% of the required 

 

 

 

 
 

guaranteed by State Govt. where guarantees have been invoked, but not paid 

 
5.  Fixed Assets 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i) 

Land and buildings of the Bank are stated at historical cost except those recorded upto 31/3/1995 which 
are  stated  at  values  as  determined  as  at  30/9/1995  by  an  approved  valuer.  The  appreciation  on 
revaluation  is  credited  to  Revaluation  Reserve  and  depreciation  attributable  thereto  is  stated  as  a 
deduction therefrom. Other fixed assets including those given on lease are stated at their historical cost. 

ii)   Depreciation  on  fixed  assets  is  provided  for  on  the  diminishing  balance method at the rates considered 

appropriate by the management as under:- 

a)  On historical cost 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

Type of Asset 

Rate of Depreciation 

I. 

Premises 

II.  Other Fixed assets 

 

 
 
 
 

 

-Furniture &Fittings 

-Electric Fittings & 
 Equipment, Office  
 appliances SDV Lockers/ 
 Strong rooms, etc  

-Transport vehicles 

5 % 

10% 

15% 

20% 

b)  On  the  amount  consequent  upon  revaluation  of  the  assets,  over  the  estimated  residual  life  of  the 

respective assets. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

iii)  Depreciation on computers acquired on or  before 31/3/2000 is provided at 33.33% of book value as on 

that date and on computers acquired thereafter at 33.33% on Straight-Line method. 

iv)  Depreciation on additions to assets made upto 30th September of the year is provided at full rate and on 

additions made thereafter at half the rate. 

v)  Depreciation on premises is provided on composite cost, wherever the value of land and building is not 

separately identifiable. 

vi)  No depreciation is provided on assets sold/disposed off during the year. 

vii)  Leasehold land is amortised over the period of lease. 

 
6.  Leased Assets 

 

 

 

i)  Depreciation on Leased Assets is provided over the primary period of lease. 

ii)   Provision  in  respect  of  non-performing  assets  is  done  by  applying  the  asset  classification  norms 

prescribed by Reserve Bank of India for advances. 

iii)  Transactions  in  respect  of  Leased  Assets  financed  prior  to  1/4/2001  have  been  accounted  for  in 
accordance  with  the  Guidance  Note  issued  by  The  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of  India.  There 
being no transaction on this account after 1/4/2001, provisions of AS-19 are not applicable. 

7.  Transactions involving Foreign Exchange 

 

 

i) 

Assets  and  liabilities  including  outstanding  forward  exchange  contracts  are  revalued  at  the  year-end 
exchange rates notified by FEDAI and resultant gain/loss is taken to revenue. 

ii)   Guarantees, Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations are revalued at year-end exchange rates. 

Income and expenditure items are converted at the exchange rates ruling on the date of transaction. 

iii) 

 
8.  Retirement Benefit of Employees 

Page 236 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

Annual  contribution  to  Gratuity  Fund  and  Pension  Fund  is  on  the  basis  of  actuarial  valuation  as  at  the  year-
end. 

9.  Treatment of VRS Expenditure 

 

In  accordance  with  the  guidelines  issued  by  RBI,  the  expenditure 
incurred  under  Voluntary  Retirement 
Scheme (VRS) has been treated as Deferred Revenue Expenditure to be written-off over a period of 5 years. 

B.  SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

1.  During the five consecutive financial years ended March 31, 2002, various guidelines were issued by Reserve 
Bank of India on Income Recognition, Asset Classification, Provisioning in respect of Standard Assets / Non-
Performing  Advances/Other  Assets,  Classification  of 
thereof,  Treatment  of 
Depreciation  on  Investments  and  amortisation  of  Voluntary  Retirement  Scheme  expenditure.  Necessary 
amendments  in  the  accounting  policies  have  been  carried  out  by  the  Bank  in  the  relevant  years,  to  be  in 
conformity with the Reserve Bank of India guidelines. 

Investments,  Valuation 

2.  Provision  for  initial  liability  on  Pension  account  arrived  at  as  on  31.03.1996  as  per  actuarial  valuation  was 
spread  over  a  period  of  five  years.  The  incremental  liability  for  Pension  for  1996-97  onwards  has  been 
provided for, on a year to year basis. 

3.  The system of providing for interest on overdue Term Deposits has been 

discontinued with effect from the year 2001-02. 

 
PART IV 
A.  MATERIAL NOTES ON ACCOUNTS 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

1.  a)  At a few branches, balancing of books and/or reconciliation with balances in general ledger were in 
progress;  and  confirmation/reconciliation  of  balances  with  foreign  and  other  banks  were  generally 
obtained/carried out except in few cases. However, the balancing of books has since been updated. 

 

 

b)  Adjustment  of  outstanding  entries  in  Suspense  Accounts,  Sundry  Deposits,  Clearing  Adjustments, 
Bank  Reconciliation  statements  and  various  Inter-branch/office  accounts  are  in  progress.  Initial 
matching  of  entries  outstanding  as  on  31/12/2001  in  inter-branch/office  accounts  has  since  been 
done for the purpose of reconciliation. 

The consequential effect on the accounts due to the above is not quantifiable. 

2.  The Investments were classified as “Permanent” and “Current” till 30- 9-2000 and valued in terms of the 
RBI  guidelines  applicable  thereto.  Subsequent  to  the above date, Investments have been classified as 
“Held  to  Maturity”,  “Available  for  Sale”  and  “Held  for  Trading”  category  and  valued  in  terms  of  the 
prevalent RBI guidelines. 

 

a)  The  category-wise  position  of  the  investment  portfolio  as  on  31/3/2001  and  31/3/2002  are  as 

follows:- 

 
 
Held to Maturity 
Available for Sale 
Held for Trading 
Gross Investments  
Less: Provision for  
depreciation 
Net Investments  

31.3.2001 

Book Value 
(Rs crore) 
3325.94 
9989.79 
396.01 
13711.74 

40.13 
13671.61 

Percentage 
 
24.26 
72.86 
2.88 
100.00 

 
 

31.3.2002 

Book Value  Percen tage 

(Rs crore) 
2524.47 
12631.20 
298.68 
15454.35 

44.66 
15409.69 

16.34 
81.73 
1.93 
100.00 

 

 

b)  Total Investments made in shares, convertible debentures and units of equity mutual funds and also 

advances against shares aggregate to Rs339.10 crore, as of 31-03-2002 

c)  The  Bank  has  entered  into  Interest  Rate  Swap  transactions  for  hedging  and  the  notional  principal 

outstanding as on 31/3/2002 is Rs611.20 crore. 

3.  a)  Land  and  buildings  of  the  Bank  acquired  upto  31.3.1995  had  been  revalued  as  on  30.9.1995  by  an 
approved  valuer.  The  appreciation  of  Rs589.64  crore  on  revaluation  was  credited  to  Revaluation 
Reserve. 

Page 237 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

b)  Documentation formalities are yet to be completed in respect of certain immovable properties held by the 
Bank at written down value of Rs18.43 crore as of 31-03-2002 in respect of which steps have already 
been initiated. 

4.  The  Bank  has  opted  out  of  Credit  Guarantee  Scheme  of  Deposits  Insurance  and  Credit  Guarantee 
Corporation  of 
the  purposes  of  classification  of 
advances/provisioning, benefit of DICGC cover had been considered upto 31/3/1999. The pending claims to 
the extent unrealised, have been written off in full during the year ended 31/3/2001. 

(DICGC)  with  effect 

from  1/4/1999.  For 

India 

5.  Provision  for  initial  liability  on  Pension  account  arrived  at  as  on  31/3/1996  as  per  actuarial  valuation  was 
spread  over  a  period  of  5  years.  The  incremental  liability  for  pension  from  1996-97  onwards  has  been 
provided for on a year-to year basis. 

6.  The Bank considers that provision for income tax held in its account is adequate on the following basis:- 

 

 

(i)  Provision for income tax for respective years was arrived at after due consideration of the various judicial 

decisions on certain disputed issues. 

(ii)   The amount of Rs426.94 crore paid in respect of disputed income tax liability, as on 31.03-2002, which 
has  been  contested  in  appeals,  has  been  included  in  “Other  Assets”.  The  provision  for  taxation  is  not 
considered necessary in respect of the above disputed demand on the basis of various judicial decisions. 
The Management does not envisage any liability in this respect. 

7.  Sikkim Bank Ltd.(SBL) was amalgamated with the Bank in terms of notification of Government of India with 
effect  from  22/12/1999.  The  assets  readily  realisable  of  Rs7.81  crore  and  the  outside  liabilities  (excluding 
deposits) of Rs2.75 crore as at the close of business on 21.12.1999 have been taken over and incorporated in 
the respective heads of accounts by the Bank. As per the Scheme, the liability of the Bank is restricted to the 
above difference of Rs5.06 crore to be paid to the depositors proportionate to their deposits of Rs63.67 crore 
of the erstwhile SBL. 

 

The Other assets treated as ‘not readily realisable’ have been taken over on collection basis for the period 
upto 21/12/2011 and the recoveries made therefrom will be dealt with in terms of Scheme of Amalgamation 
referred herein above. 

8.  The Bank has raised Subordinated Debts by issue of Unsecured Redeemable Bonds under Tier II Capital and 

the amount is reflected under ‘Other Liabilities and Provisions’ details of which are given below:- 
S.NO. 

Amount 
(Rs crore) 

Tenor 
 

Coupon 
Rate 

When raised 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

Series I 
Series II 
Series III 
Series IV 

September 1999 
February 2001 
August 2001 
January 2002 

500.00 
100.00 
100.00 
170.00 

84 months  
63 months  
69 months  
65 months  

12.50% 
11.25% 
9.80% 
9.30% 

9.  The  classification  of  Assets  &  Liabilities  relating  to  Deposits,  Loans  and  Advances,  Investments,  Foreign 
Currency  assets  and  liabilities  and  borrowings,  into  various  time  buckets  has  been  done  on  the  basis  of 
Reserve  Bank  of  India  guidelines.  For  the  purpose  of  classification,  100%  coverage  of  such  assets  and 
liabilities  has  been  done  as  on  31/3/2002.  The  methodology  adopted  in  determining  the  maturity  pattern  as 
compiled by the Bank on the above basis has been relied upon by the auditors. 

10.  a) The liability of the Bank in respect of Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) comprising of Ex-gratia, Gratuity 
and  Pension  has  been  amortised  over  a  period  of  five  years  after  taking  into  consideration  the  tax 
benefits  in  line  with  RBI  guidelines.  In  respect  of  the  liability  upto  31/3/2001,  amounting  to  Rs317.94 
crore, a sum of Rs157.77 crore has been written off upto 31/3/2002. 

 

 

 

b) 

The  balance  of  Rs160.17  crore  is  included  under  “Other  assets”.  The  liability  for  the  year  ended 
31/3/2002 has been determined at Rs167.39 crore. The amount written off during the year amounts to 
Rs45.28 crore. The balance of Rs122.11 crore is included under “Other Assets”. 

In  accordance  with cash basis of accounting followed for the accounting of Leave Encashment Benefit, 
as  per  past  practice,  a  sum  of  Rs12.64  crore  and  Rs29.04  crore  have  been  fully  written  off  during  the 
year ended 31/3/2001 and 31/3/2002 respectively. 

11.  Miscellaneous  income under Other Income for the year ended 31/3/2002 includes Rs13.63 crore relating to 
processing charges in respect of compensation claims for victims of Gulf War which is inclusive of Rs12.80 
crore pertaining to prior years as detailed below:- 

 
 

 
Year 

(Rs crore) 
Amount 

Page 238 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
 
 
 
 
 

1996-1997 
1997-1998 
1998-1999 
1999-2000 
2000-2001 
Total 

0.01 
0.67 
1.74 
2.68 
7.70 
12.80 

12.  The system of providing for interest on overdue term deposits has been discontinued during the year ended 
31.3.2002 as against the practice of providing the same upto the previous year. The consequential impact of 
the said change on profits is not quantified. 

13.  The Bank has reclassified during the year ended 31/3/2002 the term loans repayable within a period upto 36 

months, as Demand Loans which were hitherto classified under Term Loans. 

14.  Bank has made an ad hoc provision of Rs10.31 crore during the year ended 31/3/2002 in compliance with RBI 
guidelines with a view to building up additional provision for switching over to 90 days norm by 31/3/2004 for 
identification of Non Performing Advances. 

15.  INVESTMENT FLUCTUATION RESERVE (IFR) 

 

The Reserve Bank of India vide their Circular dated 10.01.2002 and 03.05.2002 advised the Banks to build up 
Investment  Fluctuation  Reserve  (IFR)  of  a  minimum  of  5%  of  the  Investment  Portfolio  excluding  ‘Held  to 
Maturity’  category,  within  a  period  of  five  years.  Against  this,  the  Bank  has  transferred  a  sum  of  Rs105.61 
crore  during  the  year  ended  March  31,  2002.  This,  together  with  the  existing  balance  in  the  IFR  account 
represents 1.2% of the aggregate investments held excluding ‘Held to Maturity’ category. 

16.  i)  Movement of provision towards Non Performing Advances 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Opening Balance as on  
1st April 2001 
Add: Provision made during the year 
Less: Write off, Write back of  
excess provisions during the year 
Closing balance as on 31/03/2002 

ii)   Movement of Non Performing Advances (NPAs) 

 

 

Opening Balance as on  
1/4/2001 

Additions during the year 

Reductions during the year 

Closing Balance as on  

Gross NPAs 

2056.33 

703.63 

339.48 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

(Rs crore) 

848.30 
321.60 

108.68 
1061.22 

(Rs crore) 

Net NPAs 

1201.22 

485.92 

348.78 

31/3/2002 

2420.48 

1338.36 

iii)  Movement of provision for depreciation on investments. 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Opening Balance as on 1.4. 2001 
Add: Provision made during the year 
Less : Write off, Write back of  
excess Provisions during the year 
Closing balance as on 31/3/2002 

iv)  Lending to Sensitive Sectors 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

(Rs crore) 

40.13 
16.46 

11.93 
44.66 

O/s as of 
31-3-2002 
(Rs crore) 

Page 239 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
 
 

 
 
 

a)  Advances to Capital  
  Market Sector 
b)  Advance to Real Estate Sector 

9.34 
541.58 

17.  The  Bank  has  written  to  Authorities  seeking  clarification  on  applicability  and  modalities  of  the  Accounting 
Standard 17 on Segment Reporting and Accounting Standard 22  on “Accounting for Taxes on Income” issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Pending such clarification, the Accounting Standard 17 and 
Accounting Standard 22 have not been complied with during the year ended 31/3/2002. The impact on profit 
due  to  non-compliance  with  Accounting  Standard  22  has  not  been  ascertained.  However  subsequent  to 
adoption  of  annual  accounts,  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India,  by  its  circular  dated  29.05.2002  has  made  the 
compliance of these Standards optional for the Banks for the financial year ended 31.03.2002. 

18.  The  following  standard  and  sub-standard  loan  assets  have  been  subjected  to  restructuring  (including 

provision for Interest sacrifice) during the year ended 31- 03-2002 as per RBI guidelines. 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
S.No.  Particulars 
 

 

1. 
 
2. 
 
3. 
 

Total amount of Loan assets 
Subjected to restructuring 
The amount of Standard 
Assets subjected to Restructuring 
The amount of Sub-standard 
Assets subjected to Restructuring 

 

Limit 
 

411.19 

380.58 

30.61 

(Rs crore) 
Outstanding  
as of 31/3/2002 

359.13 

328.97 

30.16 

B.  NOTES ON ADJUSTMENTS 

1.  Appropriate adjustments resulting from Auditors’ qualifications wherever quantifiable and material adjustments 
for previous years wherever practicable have been carried out while preparing the Statements of Profit & Loss 
and Assets & Liabilities (Part I & II). 

2.  During the five consecutive financial years ended 31.3.2002, various guidelines were issued by Reserve Bank 
of  India  on  Income  Recognition,  Asset  Classification,  provisioning  in  respect  of  Standard  Assets/Non 
Performing  Advances/Other  Assets,  classification  of 
thereof,  Treatment  of 
Depreciation  on  Investments  and  Amortisation  of  Voluntary  Retirement  Scheme  expenditure.  Necessary 
amendments  in  the  Accounting  Policies  have  been  carried  out  by  the  Bank  in  the  relevant  years,  to  be  in 
conformity with the Reserve Bank of India guidelines. Accordingly, the amounts for the respective years are 
based on RBI guidelines prevailing in the said years. 

Investments,  Valuation 

3.  The  liability  in  respect  of  wage  revision  to  employees  pending  finalisation  of  the  terms  of  revision  was 

provided on an ad hoc basis as under:- 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
Year 

1998-99 

1999-00 

 

 

(Rs crore) 
Amount Provided 

20.00 

60.00 

As  against  the  above  provision,  the  actual  liability  got  determined  at  Rs80.06  crore  in  the  year  ended 
31/3/2001.The difference of Rs0.06 crore was adjusted against the credit balance in Sundry Deposit Account 
The year-wise break-up as furnished in ‘Details of Adjustments’ are given below: 

 
Year 
 
 
 

1997-98 
1998-99 
1999-00 
TOTAL 

 

 

Amount of  
provision 
 
 

(Op. Bal.) 0.06 
20.00 
60.00 
80.06 

Amount of  
Expenditure 
 
 

7.99 
31.28 
40.79 
80.06 

(Rs crore) 
Required  
adjustment in  
Profit & 
Loss Account 

7.93 
11.28 
(-)19.21 
NIL 

Page 240 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.  The  income  earned  by  way  of  processing  charges  in  respect  of  compensation  claims  of  Gulf  war  victims 
aggregating to Rs12.80 crore was accounted in Sundry Deposit Account during the period from 1996-‘97 to 
2000- ’01, and appropriated to Income Account only during 2001-02. 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

The year wise break up of the amount as considered in the “Details of Adjustments” is as follows:- 

 

 
 

1996-97 
1997-98 
1998-99 
1999-2000 
2000-2001 
2001-2002 

Total 

 

 

Amount to 
be accounted 

Amount 
 accounted 

(Rs crore) 

Difference 

0.01 
0.67 
1.74 
2.68 
7.70 
0.00 

12.80 

— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
12.80 

12.80 

0.01 
0.67 
1.74 
2.68 
7.70 
(12.80) 

NIL 

5.  The income on Zero Coupon Bonds though credited to Profit & Loss Account on accrual basis was offered to 
tax  on  maturity/disposal.  During  the  year  1997-98,  a  sum  of  Rs9.29  crore  provided  towards  tax  on  said 
interest  in  earlier  year  was  written  back.  A  sum  of  Rs17.83  crore  was  provided  during  1999-2000  towards 
income  tax  on  such  interest.  The  year-wise  break  up  of  the  amount  to  be  considered  in  ‘Details  of 
Adjustments’  on  the  basis  that  the  said  interest  is  taxable  on  accrual  basis  in  the  respective  years  is  as 
follows:- 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
Year 
 

1997-98 
1998-99 
1999-00 
2000-01 
Total 

 

 

Amount of provision 
to be made of Adjustments 

Amount 
provided 

(Rs crore) 
Amount considered 
in the Details 

8.54 
3.13 
14.00 
2.71 
28.38 

(-)9.29 
— 
17.83 
19.84 
28.38 

17.83 
3.13 
(-)3.83 
(-)17.13 
NIL 

PART V 
AUDITORS’ QUALIFICATIONS FOR WHICH ADJUSTMENTS COULD NOT BE CARRIED OUT 

1.  a)  At a few branches, balancing of books and/or reconciliation with balances in general ledger is in progress 
and  confirmation/reconciliation  of  balances  with  foreign  and  other  banks  has  generally  been 
obtained/carried out except in few cases. However, the balancing of books has since been updated. 

 

 

b)  Adjustment of outstanding entries in Suspense accounts, Sundry Deposits, Clearing  Adjustments, Bank 
Reconciliation  statements  and  various  Inter-branch/office  accounts  is  in  progress.  Initial  matching  of 
entries outstanding as on 31.12.2001 in inter-branch/office accounts has since been done for the purpose 
of reconciliation. 

 

The consequential effect on the accounts due to the above remained unadjusted. 

2.  The Forward Exchange Contracts / balances outstanding as at 31.3.1998 had been valued in line with FEDAI 
guidelines approved by RBI, which is not in accordance with AS- 11 on “Accounting for the Effects of Changes 
in Foreign Exchange Rates” issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, the impact whereof is 
not quantified. 

3.  Leave Encashment benefit has been accounted for on cash basis instead of accrual basis, as laid down  in 

AS-15 on Retirement Benefits issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 

4. 

Income from commission, exchange and rent on Safe Deposit Lockers are accounted for on cash basis which 
is  not  in  accordance  with  AS-9 on Revenue Recognition issued  by  the  Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of 
India. 

5.  The  Bank  has  not  complied  with  AS-22  -  “Accounting  for  Taxes  on  Income”  issued  by  the  Institute  of 
Chartered Accountants of India for the reasons stated in the Material Notes on Accounts. The consequential 

Page 241 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

impact  on  the  profit  has  not  been  ascertained.  However  subsequent  to  adoption  of  annual  accounts,  the 
Reserve Bank of India, vide its circular dated 29.05.2002 has made the compliance of this Standard optional 
for the Banks for the financial year ended 31.03.2002. 

6. 

In respect of the years up to 31.3.2000, the ultimate realisability of claims under revised scheme of DICGC 
was  not  ascertainable  and  hence,  provision,  if  any,  required  in  respect  of  claims  lodged  and  pending 
settlement  was  not  made.  However,  during  the  year  ended  31.3.2001,  since  the  Bank  had  opted  out  of 
DICGC and all claims pending were finally disposed of, the claims to the extent unrealised have been written 
off in full. 

7.  The adjustments pertaining to initial contribution (Rs40.40 crore) towards pension fund as determined during 
1995-96  and  accounted  for  over  a  period  of  5  years  was  not  carried  out  as  the  base  year  for  adjustment 
related to the period prior to 31.3.1998. 

8.  The system of providing for interest on overdue term deposits has been discontinued during the year ended 
31-03-2002 as against the practice of providing the same up to previous year. The effect of the said change is 
not quantified including those of the previous years. 

9.  The year-end business ratios, as applicable under the RBI guidelines, are subject to the qualifications listed 

above. 

 
PART VI 
STATEMENT OF DIVIDEND 

 

 

 

 

 
Year ended 
March 31, 
 

1998 

1999 

2000 

2001 

Share 
 Capital 
 

338.00 

338.00 

338.00 

338.00 

338.00 

2002 
PART VII 
KEY ACCOUNTING RATIOS 
  Key Accounting Ratios 

  Year Ended March 31 

  Earning Per Share (Rs) 
  Book Value per Share (Rs) (Excl RR) 
  Return on Net Worth (%) 
  OTHER RATIOS 

  Net NPA to Net Advances Ratio (%) 
  Interest Income/working Fund (%) 
  Non Interest Income/Working Fund (%) 
  Return on Assets (%) 
  Operating Profit/working funds (%) 
  Business per employee (Rs lac) 
  Net Profit per employee (Rs lac) 
  Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 
  Tier I 

  Tier II 
  Credit/Deposit Ratio (%) (net) 

Net 
 Profit 
 

250.10 

160.22 

101.24 

155.46 

314.13 

Rate of  
Dividend  
(of net profit) 

Amount of 
Dividend 

20.00% 

20.00% 

20.00% 

20.00% 

14.33% 

50.02 

32.04 

20.25 

31.09 

45.00 

(Rs crore) 
Dividend 
Tax 

5.00 

3.53 

4.45 

7.03 

Nil 

1998 

6.66 
29.56 
22.52 

7.66 
10.46 
0.87 
0.89 
1.43 
96.98 
0.73 
10.86 

8.05 

2.81 
44.57 

1999 

4.37 
33.42 
13.06 

9.01 
10.50 
0.97 
0.48 
1.10 
112.94 
0.48 
10.09 

7.87 

2.22 
40.19 

2000 

3.76 
36.82 
10.20 

7.76 
10.46 
0.95 
0.37 
1.30 
135.44 
0.42 
11.42 

6.66 

4.76 
46.98 

2001 

5.33 
40.16 
13.28 

6.86 
10.49 
0.90 
0.47 
1.46 
168.78 
0.64 
10.86 

6.19 

4.67 
50.18 

2002 

8.92 
47.00 
18.97 

6.26 
9.96 
1.21 
0.69 
2.12 
214.75 
1.17 
11.07 

6.16 

4.91 
53.74 

Page 242 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

  Interest Spread/Average working fund (%) 
  Gross Profit /Average working fund (%) 
  Operating exp./Avg. working funds (%) 
  Return on Average net worth (%) 
  Yield on Advances (%) 
  Yield on Investments (%) 
  Cost of Deposits (%) 
  Gross Profit per employee (Rs lac) 
  Business per Branch (Rs lac) 
  Gross profit per Branch (Rs lac) 
Definitions of key ratios 

Credit/Deposit Ratio 
Average Working Funds (AWF) 
Interest Spread/AWF (%) 
Gross profit/AWF (%) 
Net profit/AWF (%) 
Operating expenses/AWF (%) 
Cost of deposits (%) 
Yield on investments  
Form X 
Yield on advances  
Return on average net worth (%) 
Business per employee (Rs lac) 
strength 
Gross profit per employee (Rs lac) 
Business per branch (Rs lac) 
branches 
Gross profit per branch (Rs lac) 

3.41 
1.43 
2.85 
24.61 
13.43 
11.56 
7.94 
1.11 
1436.02 
16.40 

3.04 
1.10 
2.91 
13.86 
12.74 
11.81 
8.17 
0.97 
1643.47 
14.18 

3.02 
1.30 
2.67 
10.69 
12.35 
11.82 
8.00 
1.36 
1926.12 
19.36 

3.43 
1.46 
2.86 
13.86 
12.10 
11.75 
7.57 
1.85 
2305.60 
25.28 

3.32 
2.12 
2.40 
20.46 
10.95 
10.95 
7.03 
3.32 
2741.06 
42.34 

Total advances/Total deposits 
Total average of monthly total assets as per Form X 
Net Interest earned /AWF 
Profit prior to provisions and contingencies/AWF 
Net Profit/AWF 
Non-interest expenditure/AWF 
Interest expended/Average deposits as per Form X 
Interest  earned  on  investments/Average  investments  as  per 

Interest earned on Advances/Average advances as per Form X 
Net profit/Average of opening and closing net worth 
Total  deposits  excl.  bank  deposits  +  Total  Advances/Employees 

Profit prior to provisions & contingencies/Employees Strength 
Total  deposits  excluding  bank  deposits  &  Advances/No.  of 

Profit prior to provisions & contingencies/ No. of branches 

 
CAPITALISATION STATEMENT AS ON MARCH 31, 2002 

 
Particulars 
 
Loan Funds 
Long Term 
Short Term 
Total Debt 
Shareholders’ Funds 
Share Capital 
Reserves And Surplus  
Total Equity  
Long Term Debt/ Equity Ratio 

*Including proposed return of capital of Rs58 crore 

Pre Issue 
 

870 
53.3 
923.3 

338 
1,250.74 
1,588.74 
0.55 

 

 

(Rs crore) 
Issue of 18,00,00,000 
equity shares at Rs16 per share 

870 
53.3 
923.3 

460* 
1,358.74 
1,818.74 
0.51 

TAX SHELTER 
 

 

 

Financial Year Ended March 31, 
Tax Rate 
Tax at actual rate on profit 

1998 
35% 
111.45 

 

1999 
35% 
56.37 

 

 

  (Rs crore) 

2000 
38.50% 
47.57 

2001 
39.55% 
92.66 

2002 
35.70% 
162.95 

Page 243 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

ADJUSTMENTS 

Permanent Differences 

Interest on Tax Free Bonds 

i) 
ii)   Dividends (exempt from Tax) 
iii)  Interest income from Infrastructure Project 
v)  Others 
Total   

Timing Difference 

i)  Difference between Income-Tax Depreciation and  
 
Book Depreciation on fixed assets 
ii)   Provision for Bad & Doubtful Debts 
iii)  VRS Expenditure 
iv)  Interest on securities  
v)  Zero Coupon Bonds 
vi)  Others 
vii)  Carry forward of losses  
Total   

Net Adjustments 

Tax Savings Thereon 

Total Taxation thereon 

-40.62 
-2.80 
0 
3.6 
-39.82 

2.75 
0 
- 
-49.65 
0 
-13.42 
0 
-60.32 

-100.14 

(35.05) 

76.40 

-68.03 
-4.78 
0 
6.04 
-66.77 

0.81 
0 
- 
-87.91 
0.80 
-45.07 
59.77 
-71.6 

-79.83 
-28.82 
-10.21 
3.22 
-115.64 

-99.37 
-54.62 
-14.48 
-8.63 
-177.1 

-145.33 
0 
-30.00 
8.77 
-166.56 

-3.62 
67.66 
- 
-29.29 
17.74 
8.21 
-59.77 
0.93 

-0.37 
65.14 
-53.85 
-60.35 
100.28 
5.47 
0 
56.32 

0 
104.78 
-6.20 
-116.00 
0 
8.83 
0 
-8.59 

-138.37 

-114.71 

-120.78 

-175.15 

(48.43) 

(44.16) 

(47.77) 

(62.53) 

7.94 

3.41 

44.89 

100.42 

The  figures  for  the  four  financial  years  ended  31/3/2001  has  been  computed  as  per  the  relevant  Income  Tax 
returns filed with the Department. For the year ended 31/3/2002, pending finalisation of filing of return of income 
figures are calculated on an estimated basis. 
 

STATEMENT OF NET WORTH (EXCLUDING REVALUATION RESERVES ON FIXED ASSETS) 

 
Year Ended 31st March 

Share Capital 

RESERVES & SURPLUS # 

I   Statutory reserve 

II  Capital Reserves(others) 

III 

Investment Fluctuation Reserve 

IV  Revenue & other reserves  
TOTAL 

 

1998 

1999 

 
2000 

 

  (Rs crore) 
2002 

2001 

338.00 

338.00 

338.00 

338.00 

338.00 

400.00 

472.10 

517.10 

563.74 

658.74 

58.98 

0.00 

202.24 

661.22 

0.04 

52.36 

267.21 

791.71 

0.04 

8.71 

8.71 

53.83 

49.98 

149.98 

335.66 

396.81 

433.31 

906.63  1,019.24  1,250.74 

 

 

Net Worth (Excluding Revaluation Reserve) 

999.22 

1,129.71 

1,244.63  1,357.24  1,588.74 

# Excluding Rev. Reserve 

552.85 

540.24 

527.90 

516.43 

505.47 

Note:  The  Net  Worth  as  mentioned  above  for  the  Year  Ended  31-03-2001  &  31-03-2002  includes  unamortised 
expenditure on Voluntary Retirement Scheme as permitted by Reserve Bank of India. 
2.  NOTE 

1.  All the notes to the accounts, significant accounting policies as well as the auditors’ qualifications have been 

disclosed above. 

2.  The Bank has discontinued the practice of providing for interest on overdue 

term deposits from year ended March 31, 2002, as per the clarification 
received from RBI. The interest provided in earlier years has not been 
reversed in the accounts shown above, as the amount is not ascertainable. 

Page 244 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

Page 245 of 326 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

SECTION V 
 
OUTSTANDING LITIGATION, DEFAULT AND MATERIAL DEVELOPMENTS 
The following are the details of all criminal suits filed against the Bank: 
Criminal 

Sr. 
No.  Date 

Branch 

Party 

Forum 

Remarks and Present Status 

1. 

Appeal no.   Null Bazar 

Enforcement  

FERA appellate  

 

 

194 of 1998 

 

 

 

Directorate,  

Board, New Delhi 

Mumbai 

 

2. 

589 of 1989 

Ludhiana 

Surinder Mohan  Magistrate  

 

 

 

 

Court, Ludhiana 

3. 

565 of 1996   Sardar Bazar  Auto Centre 

Chief Judicial  

 

A-Z 

 

 

Magistrate 

under 

The    Special    Director    of   
Enforcement  
Directorate  imposed  a penalty 
of Rs0.03 
crore  on  the  Bank  for  the 
alleged  contraventions  by  the 
Bank 
the  Foreign 
Exchange  Regulation  Act  in 
relation to certain transactions. 
The  Bank  has  preferred  an 
appeal against the order. 
The    Bank    had    filed  against 
the party for 
misutilisation  of 
funds.  The 
party was taken in custody and 
subsequently released on bail. 
The  defamation  case  filed  by 
the  party  against  the  Bank  is 
pending. 
The    party    has    filed    a 
complaint against 
the  Bank  and 
its  officers 
alleging  offence  of  forgery  and 
cheating 
for  unauthorisedly 
withdrawing  Rs0.40 crore from 
the party’s account. The matter 
is  pending.  The  party  had 
earlier 
several 
proceedings  before  different 
forums  viz.  the  High  Court, 
Allahabad  and 
the  National 
Commission, 
Delhi 
New 
alleging unauthorised debits to 
its account made by the  Bank, 
which  proceedings  have  been 
dismissed. 

filed 

Action by SEBI  

No disciplinary action/investigation has been taken by SEBI /stock exchanges against the Bank and its Directors 
other than mentioned below: 

• 

• 

Four branches of the Bank in Gujarat have been prohibited by SEBI from acting as bankers to any issue for a 
period  of  one  year  i.e.  from  September  20,  1999  to  September  20,  2000  due  to  some  discrepancies  in 
reporting the provisional subscription figures. 

SEBI has by its order dated January 19, 2000 directed the Bank to refund the application money aggregating 
Rs3.53 crore along with interest @ 15% with effect from April 1996 to the original applicants in the case of the 
Bank acting as Bankers to the Jalatarang Motels Ltd. (JML) public issue. SEBI has ruled  that the Bank has 
violated  the  provisions  of  Section  73  of  the  Companies  Act.  On  an  appeal  by  the  Bank,  the  Securities 
Appellate  Tribunal  (SAT)  by  its  order  dated  June  7,  2000  confirmed  the  order  of  SEBI.  The  Bank’s  appeal 
against  the  above  two  orders  in  the  High  Court,  Mumbai  is  pending  and  the  operation  of  the  SEBI  and  SAT 
order has been stayed. 

Amalgamation of the Sikkim Bank Ltd. (SBL) with the Bank 

Page 246 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

By its notification dated 21.12.1999, on an application made by RBI u/s 45(1) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, 
the Central Government has framed a scheme called The Sikkim Bank (Amalgamation with Union Bank of India) 
Scheme, 1999 which came into force on 22.12.1999. 

Under the Scheme, all assets of SBL have stood transferred to the Bank and all liabilities of the Bank but to the 
extent  provided  under  the  Scheme.  According  to  the  Scheme,  the  Bank  has  to  realise/recover  all  proceeds 
realisable/recoverable  by  SBL  and  to  pay  over  the  same  to  SBL’s  depositors  and  the  balance,  if  any  is  to  be 
distributed  among  SBL’s shareholders. The total liability of SBL as on 22.12.1999 was Rs66.42 crore. The Bank 
has made payment to the depositors to the extent of Rs22.27 crore, leaving the balance of Rs41.40 crore. The 
Bank has to continue to recover the assets over a period  of 12 years and clear the liabilities of the depositors, if 
possible. At the end of 12 years, the RBI shall value the assets then remaining available and it shall require the 
Bank to discharge the liabilities to the depositors to the extent of such value only. 

Twenty-two depositors whose deposits aggregate to Rs13.45 crore have filed three petitions in the Supreme Court 
against  the  Central  Government,  Reserve  Bank  of  India  and  other  parties  including  the  Bank  and  these  petitions 
are pending. In case of one depositor claiming an amount of Rs55,234, the District Consumer Court at Hyderabad 
passed an order directing the Bank to make the payment. The Bank’s appeal before the Andhra Pradesh State 
Consumer Commission is pending. 

Since  SBL  had  defaulted  in  maintenance  of  SLR  as  per  RBI  requirement,  the  RBI  had  imposed  a  penalty  of 
Rs9,01,152 on SBL. Subsequent to the scheme of merger, the Bank was asked by RBI to pay this amount. The 
Bank’s request to waive this penalty, since there was no default on its part is pending before RBI. 
Income Tax and Interest Tax matters 

The  details  of  appeals  pending  before  CIT(A)/Tribunal  where  the  Bank  is  in  dispute  and  treated  the  demand  as 
contingent as on March 31, 2002 
Income Tax Appeals 
 

(Rs crore) 

 

 

 

 

Interest   Appreciation  
accrued 
 in the   
but not 
due on 
investments 

investments 

Major Grounds of Appeal 
    Interest 
 paid on 
value of   purchase of  
securities 

Expenses  
on tax 
  free 
 income 

Bad  
debts 
written  
 off 

Others 
 
 

Total  
disputed 
amount 
 

Tax  
amount 
including 
 interest 

Income Tax Appeals pending before CIT (A) 

64.80 

138.59  

- 

36.82 

41.32 

54.61 

- 

- 

19.12 

10.14 

289.08  

162.06  

146.81 

35.80 

Income Tax Appeals pending before Tribunal  

Date of  Assessment  
Year 
Appeal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Feb 2001 

1998-1999 

Mar 2002 

1999-2000 

 

 

Nov 2000 

1988-1989 

Oct 1992 

1989-1990 

Jun 1995 

1990-1991 

Jun 1995 

1991-1992 

Nov 1996 
 

1993-1994 
 

Apr 1999 
 

1994-1995 
 

Apr 1999 

1995-1996 

Apr 2001 

1996-1997 

Apr 2001 

1997-1998 

 

 

25.25 

60.49 

- 

31.96 

12.54 

17.00 

16.53 
 

37.50 
 

14.16 

22.42 

33.32 

 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 
 

- 
 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 
 

- 
 

- 

- 

38.96 

119.69  

 

 

- 

- 

- 

- 

- 
 

- 
 

- 

- 

- 

 

- 

- 

- 

11.00 

0.07 

5.90 

23.05 

30.11 

- 
 

14.94 
 

- 

- 

- 

 

0.06 
 

0.14 
 

0.20 

21.23 

20.05 

TOTAL 

11.00 

32.03 

18.44 

70.16 

16.59 
 

52.58 
 

14.36 

43.65 

212.02  

921.97  

5.77 

16.82 

3.20 

32.27 

Nil (Being  
Loss) 

Nil (Being  
Loss) 

6.60 

20.08 

150.79 

418.14 

(Rs crore) 

Tax amount  
including  
interest 
 

Interest Tax Appeals 
 

 

Date of Appeal 
 
 
 
Interest Tax Appeals pending before CIT (A) 

Assessment Year 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Major Grounds of Appeal  

Interest on 
leasing  
transactions 

Interest on 
debentures  
 

Others 
 
 

Total disputed  
amount 
 
 

Apr 2002 

1999-2000 

5.78 

267.15  

10.69 

283.62  

8.39 

Interest Tax Appeals pending before Tribunal 

Page 247 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

May 2001 

May 2001 

Aug 2001 

 

1996-1997 

1997-1998 

1998-1999 

 

0.69 

8.23 

7.07 

 

- 

- 

- 

 

- 

- 

- 

0.69 

8.23 

7.07 

TOTAL 

299.61 

0.02 

0.25 

0.14 

8.80 

Details of civil suits/writs including those before the Consumers’ Forum, where the claim amount exceeds Rs0.50 
crore are given below. 
  S.  Date and  

Branch 

Forum 

Party 

  No.  Number 

 

 

 

  1. 

22/1/1998 

Navsari 

Hindustan Static &  

2nd Court of Jt.  Suit  for  damages  for  Rs4.44  crore 

Dynamic Products 

Civil Judge (SD) 

   

   

   

44 of 1998 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  2. 

 
27/4/2002 

 
SSI,  

 
Delux Chem.  

   

   

106 of 2001 

Ahmedabad  Pvt. Ltd. 

 

 

 

   
   
  3. 

 
 
28/10/1996 

 
 
C G Road,   Ronak Prints  

 
 

at Navsari  

 

 
Court of Civil  

Judge (SD),  

Ahmedabad  

   

   

   

C.S. 5283  

Ahmedabad 

(P) Ltd. 

Ahmedabad. 

of 96 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

C.S. 127 of  

Ahmedabad 

(P) Ltd. 

Ahmedabad 

   
  5. 

1997 
29/4/1997 

Vapi 

Padma  

Court of Civil 

   

   

   

C.S.No.99 of 

1997  

 

 

 

 

Pharmaceuticals 

Judge (SD)  

Pvt. Ltd. 

at Valsad 

 

 

   
  4. 

 
3/1/1997 

 
C G Road, 

 
Ronak Prints  

 
City Civil Court,  Suit  for  damages  for  Rs0.81  crore 

(Rural) at  
Mirzapur 
City Civil Court,   Suit for damages amounting to Rs5 

Principal  Amount,  Basis  and 
Present 
Status 

as the Bank 
locked  and  took  possession  of  the 
premises. 
Reply was filed on 29.9.1998 stating 
that the 
premises  were  locked  since  the 
borrower has 
failed to repay dues. 
Suit  for  damages  for  Rs1.62  crore 
for not 
considering  the  loan  as  per  the 
proposal and  
not  disbursing  entire  sanctioned 
loan. Bank 
has filed its reply. 

crore  
alleging  defamation  and  claiming 
loss of  
reputation  as  the  Bank  locked  and 
took 
possession  of  the  factory  premises 
and issued public notice for sale of 
properties. Bank has 
filed its reply 

as the bank  
locked the factory. Bank has filed its 
reply 

Suit  for  damages  for  Rs2.01  crore 
on account  
of  the  Bank  not  sanctioning  credit 
facilities.  
The  court 
Restoration 
application  filed  by  the  party  is 
pending for 
disposal. 

the  claim. 

rejected 

on account  
of  the  loss  occasioned  due  to  not 
transferring/ 
crediting 
recovered for the 
goods exported. 

foreign 

exchange 

   
  6. 

 
Jan 1997 

 
Textile  

 
Divya Prints  

 
City Civil Court,   Suit  for  damages  for  Rs5.47  crore 

   

   

286 of 1997 

Market  

(P) Ltd. 

Ahmedabad 

 

Surat 

 

 

   
  7. 

 
3/6/1991 

 
Textile  

 
Mazda Textile 

 
Court of Second   Counter  claim  of  Rs3.07  crore  by 

Sp C.S. 316  

Market, 

Industries, Surat. 

Civl Judge (S D) 

   

   

of 1991 

Surat 

  

   
  8. 

 
2/8/1996 

 
Mahalaxmi 

 
Dastur  

   

   

O.P. no. 165  

of 1996 

 

 

Associates 

 

Surat 

 
National  

Consumer 

Disputes  

the party in  
the  suit  for  recovery  filed  by  the 
Bank. The 
suit  is  stayed  as  the  party  has 
registered itself 
with the BIFR. 
Claim of Rs10 crore for damages for 
loss of 
business  on  account  of  withdrawal 
of 
sanctioned  credit 
Bank has  

facilities.  The 

Page 248 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

   

 

 

 

   
   
  9. 

 
 
9/5/2001 

 
 
M S Marg 

 
 
M/s. Bombay 

Redressal  

Commission,  
New Delhi 
High Court,  

   

1712 of 2001 

 

Dyeing & 

Mumbai 

 

   
  10.  26/9/95 

 
Tejpal  

Mfg. Co. Ltd. 
Haria Exports Ltd. 

 
High Court, 

   

   

4367 of 1995 

Scheme,  

 

Vile Parle 

 

 

Mumbai 

 

  11.  O.A. 2614  

M S Marg 

Khader International 

DRT Mumbai 

   

   

of 1999 

(18/6/91 

 

 

Construction Ltd. 

 

 

 

2187 of 1991) 

   
  12.  26/2/2002 

 
Darukana 

 
Fair Shipbrokers &  

 
DRT, Mumbai 

   

   

O.A. 257  

of 1999 

 

 

Fabricators Pvt. Ltd. 

 

 

 

  13.  O.A. 1489  

M. S. Marg  Nandkishore Lalbhai  DRT, Mumbai 

   

   

of 2000 

(18/3/98 

 

 

Mehta & ors. 

(Previously  

1979 of 1998) 

   
  14.  5/11/2001  

 
Ganganagar   Anil Jindal  

  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

  15.  5/11/2001  

Ganganagar   Sunil Jindal  

Banking   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Ombudsman,  
Jaipur 

  16.  2/3/2000 

Jodhpur Main  Harish Lalwani &   

National   

 

 

 

 

O.P.No.120/  

2000 

 

 

Renu Lalwani  

Consumer  

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
  17.  2/3/2000 

 
 
 
Jodhpur Main  Renu Lalwani and   

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

O.P.No.125/  

2000 

 

 

Harish 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
  18.  BOS 60/ 

 
 
 
Bangalore 

 
 
 
Mrs. Jaya T. Dalamal   

Redressal   
Commission,  
New Delhi 
Banking  

 

 

 

 

2000-201 

 

 

 

and three others 

Ombudsman,   

 

Karnataka 

.  19.  23/5/97 

Mallasa- 

Kathiravan Pipes  

National   

 

 

O.A. 133 of  

mudram 

(P) Ltd. 

Consumer  

 

 

High Court, 

Mumbai)  
Banking   

Ombudsman,  
Jaipur 

Disputes  

Redressal   
Commission,   
New Delhi 
National   

Consumer  

Disputes  

also  filed  a  suit  for recovery before 
DRT. 

Suit claiming Rs3.60 crore as refund 
of Lead 
Bank charges debited in the party’s 
account 
and for damages. 
Suit  claiming  Rs100  crore  as 
damages for 
alleged  defamation  for  circulating 
instructions 
to  branches  not  to  deal  with  the 
party. The Bank has filed its reply. 
Counter claim of Rs393 crore by the 
party in 
the  suit  for  recovery  filed  by  the 
Bank in the 
High  Court  which  has  been 
subsequently 
transferred to the DRT 
Counter claim of Rs6.93 crore made 
in the 
suit  for  recovery  filed  by  the  Bank 
for not 
granting  the  promised  credit  limit. 
The Bank has filed reply. 
Counter claim of Rs0.99 crore in the 
suit filed  
by the Bank for recovery of amounts 
due  
under  overdraft  facility. The case is 
pending  

Claim  of  Rs1.04  crore  made  against 
the Bank 
alleging fraud on the part of the branch 
manager  and  another  in  releasing  the 
party’s fixed deposit. 
Claim  of  Rs1.16  crore  made  against 
the Bank 
alleging fraud on the part of the branch 
manager  and  another  in  releasing  the 
party’s fixed deposit. 
Claim  of  Rs0.55  crore  on  account  of 
alleged 
deficiency  in  service  due  to  wrong 
adjust- 
ments/  misappropriation  of  FCNR 
deposit. 
 

   
Claim  of  Rs0.55  crore  on  account  of 
alleged 
deficiency  in  service  due  to  wrong 
adjust- 
ments/  misappropriation  of  FCNR 
deposit. 
 

   
Complaint challenging appropriation of 
FCNR 
deposit  by  the  Bank  towards  the  loan 
of 
another arty. An award for payment of 
Rs1.47  crore  has  been  passed 
in 
favour  of  the  party.  The  Bank  has 
taken  up  the  matter  with  the  RBI  for 
keeping the award in abeyance 
Complaint  claiming  damages  of  Rs1 
crore 
alleging  deficiency  in  service  due  to 
delay in  

Page 249 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 

1997 

 

  

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
  20.  30/9/96 

O.P. 208 of  

1996 

 
 
 
4/4/1979 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
21. 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
Vedureswaram N. Gopala Raju 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
Jumerati, 

 
 
 
Tower Engineering  

Disputes  

Redressal   
Commission,  
New Delhi 
National   

Consumer  

Disputes  

Redressal   
Commission,  
New Delhi 
District Judge 

R.C.S No 29B   

Bhopal 

Bhopal and others  

Bhopal 

of 1979 

  

  

  

  22.  9/8/2000 

Overseas  

Vao Techmach 

High  Court, 

 
 

 
 

WP No 19820   
of 2000 

Branch,  
Calcutta 

Export 
 

Calcutta 
  

  23.  4/5/2001 

Nayapalli 

P.N.Panjabi and   

Banking  

 

 

 

 

452 of 2001 

 

 

 

others 

 

 

 
  24.  4/5/2001 
 

454 of 2001 

 

 

 
Nayapalli 
 

 
K.H. Lakhani  
and others 

 

 

 

 

 

Ombudsman   

(B.O.),  

Bhubaneshwar  
Banking  
Ombudsman,   

Bhubaneshwar  

  25.  14/10/00 

Nayapalli 

Dayaldas Aswani 

Banking  

 

 

 

 

398 of  

2000-01 

 

 

 

 

Ombudsman,   

Bhubaneshwar  

  26.  16.07.2002  

Khurju, R.O.  M/s. Gulraj  

National   

sanctioning  working  capital  loan.  The 
Bank 
has filed its reply to the complaint. 

Complaint  claiming  compensation  of 
Rs1.81 
crore alleging deficiency in service due 
to 
non-issuance  of  bank  guarantee.  The 
Bank 
has filed its reply to the complaint. 

Counter claim of Rs0.63 crore in a suit 
filed 
by  the  Bank  before  the  District  Judge 
on 
grounds  of  alleged  loss  of  business, 
damage 
to  property  and  goodwill, 
illegal  retention  of  immovable  property 
and  withdrawal  of  loan  facility.  The 
matter is pending. 
Writ  petition  claiming  difference 
exchange 
variation amounting to Rs3.02 crore on   
account  of  two  guarantees  issued  by 
the  bank  on  behalf  of  constituent.  The 
Bank has filed its reply and the case is 
pending. 
Complaint challenging appropriation of 
FCNR  
deposits by the Bank towards the loan 
and  
claiming  Rs2.40  crore.  The  matter  is 
pending 
award of the B.O. 

in 

Complaint challenging appropriation of 
FCNR 
deposits by the bank towards the loan 
and claiming Rs4.40 crore. The matter 
is pending award of the B. O.  
Complaint challenging appropriation of 
FCNR 
deposits by the Bank towards the loan 
and 
claiming  Rs0.96  crore.  The  B.O.  has 
passed  an  award  and  the  Bank  has 
filed  a  writ  petition  before  H.C. 
challenging  the  award  after  obtaining 
permission from RBI. 
Claim  amount  Rs1.69crore.  Complaint 
on the  

 

 

Meerut  

Industries 

Commission 

ground  of  non-granting  of  additional  working  capital  and 

  27.  O.S.No. 

Merchant   

Bhavenesh D. Shah   

City Civil Court,  

 
 

 

 
 

 

1922/97  
April 1997 

Banking  
Division,  

and others 
 

 

Mumbai 

 

Ahmedabad  
 

 

  28.  20.11.2001  

Asset  

Chinmaya Techno  

DRT 

 

 

 

 

O.A.No.231/  

Recovery 

Engg. Pvt. Ltd.  

Mumbai 

99 

Branch 

 

 

  29.  O.A.No.256/  

Asset 

Chinmaya Ship  

DRT, Mumbai  

 

 

 

 

00 

 

Recovery 

Brakers Pvt. Ltd. 

Branch  

  

 

 

term loan facilities  by the bank. 
Claim  amount  Rs1.07  crore.  Suit 
against the 
bank, SBI Capital Market Ltd, and Nav  
Bharath  Enterprises  Ltd 
claiming 
damages 
for the alleged loss suffered due to the 
purchase  of  the  shares  relying  on  the 
prospectus. 
Claim amount Rs7.34 crore. The Bank 
has 
filed  case  for  recovery  of  dues.  Party 
has filed 
a counter claim on 20.11.2001 alleging 
that the bank has taken possession of 
the  assets  of  the  company  unlawfully 
when  the  directors  of  the  company 
were in abroad. 
Claim  amount  Rs4.76  crore.  Counter 
Claim  
filed  in  the  recovery  suit  filed  by  the 
bank. 
Claim on the ground of non-sanction of 
the  loan  and  for  not  restoring  the 
possession  of  the  business  premises 

Page 250 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

  30.  O.A.No.1306/  

Assets  

Gosalaia Emultech  

DRT  Mumbai 

 

 

 

 

00 

Recovery 

Pvt. Ltd. 

9.10.2000  

Branch 

 

 

 

and  for  the  loss  of  goodwill  of  the 
company. 
Claim  amount  Rs4.08  crore.  Counter 
claim 
filed  in  the  recovery  suit  filed  by  the 
bank. 
Claim  on 
loss 
occasssioned due to the non sanction 
of  OD  facility  in  time,  non  granting 
NOC 
for 
finance etc. 

to  approach  other  banks 

the  ground  of 

O.S.No.8/2002  

31.  28.2.202 
 
for 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

Khairatabad    T.D.CC.Bank Ltd.  

District Court,  

Claim  amount  Rs1.3  crore.  Suit  filed 

Branch 
R.O.,  
Hyderabad 

Vishakhapatnam 
 
 

Visakhapatnam  
 
 

recovery of FDR amount together with 
interest in respect of deposit made with 
erstwhile  Sikkim  Bank  ltd.  which  is 
merged with the bank. 

   
Litigation by employees 

There are 482 cases filed by employees/ex-employees against the Bank before various tribunals/courts claiming 
benefits  such  as  re-employment,  promotions,  reservations  in  promotions,  postings  and  transfers,  dropping 
imposition of punishments, payment of permanent benefits, etc. None of the claims exceed Rs1 crore. 
Litigation against the Bank-sponsored Regional Rural Banks 

There are no litigations against the four Regional Rural Banks except Gomti Gramim Bank against whom 9 cases 
haven  been  filed  by  its  customers  whose  total  claim  does  not  exceed  Rs0.03  crore.  However,  the  Bank  is  not 
concerned with respect of this litigation. 
There are no claims against the Bank pertaining to Credit Card Business. 
Contingent Liabilities 
Guarantees 

The outstanding guarantees issued on behalf of its constituents as on March 31, 2002 amounted to Rs1,570.92 
crore.  During  the  year  ending  March  31,  2002,  the  Bank  had  issued  financial  guarantees  and  performance 
guarantees  aggregating  to  Rs2,027.85  crore  thus  earning  an  income  of  Rs31.83  crore  from  the  guarantee 
business as against Rs23.30 crore during the year 2000-01. During the year 2001-02, the Bank had not paid 99 
guarantees amounting to Rs7.61 crore due to various reasons. After adjusting margin money of Rs2.92 crore, the 
Bank  has  made  provision  for  balance  amount  i.e.  Rs4.69  crore. All cases were subjudice and some claims were 
time barred. There were 1,284 guarantees amounting to Rs45.90 crore, which had expired but not reversed in the 
books of the Bank. 
Letters of Credit (LC) 

As on March 31, 2002, the Bank had LCs aggregating to Rs 792.83 crore, earning an income of Rs16.83 crore as 
compared to Rs 15.04 crore during the previous year. 
Forward Exchange Contracts 

The contingent liability on account of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts as on March 31, 2002 was 
Rs 4,894.75 crore. Out of this, the total outstanding contracts amounting to Rs1,798.65 crore pertain to inter bank 
purchase  and  contracts  amounting  to  Rs  2,076.17  crore  to  inter  bank  sales.  Further,  contracts  representing 
merchant purchase and merchant sales aggregates to an amount of Rs1,019.93 crore. 
Defaults 

The  Bank  has  not  defaulted  in  the  payment  of  interest  and  repayment  of  principal  to  other  banks,  financial 
institutions, deposit holders, etc. The Bank has not defaulted in the payment of any statutory payments/dues nor 
has it defaulted on dues to holders of other debt instruments. 
Other than the above, there are no disputes/litigations towards tax liabilities or criminal prosecutions against the 
Bank and its Directors for any offence, economic or otherwise. As regards civil litigations against the Bank and its 
Directors, there are no material disputes/legal actions other than those disclosed above. 

No penalties have been imposed on the Bank by RBI other than that disclosed above relating to Sikkim Bank. No 
proceedings is being undertaken by governmental authorities except those relating to the income tax disputes as 
given above. 

The Bank as on date does not owe any sum exceeding Rs1.00 lac, which is outstanding for more than 30 days, to 
small-scale undertakings. 

Page 251 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
GOVERNMENT APPROVALS 
 
Not Available 

Page 252 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

SECTION VI 
 

Authority for the Present Issue 

The  Issue  of  equity  shares  is  being  made  after  obtaining  the  approval  of  the  Government  of  India  (GoI)  under 
Section 3(2B)(c) of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 as amended from 
time to time, vide its letter dated April 8, 2002, and the resolution of the Board of Directors of the Bank, passed at 
its meeting held on January 5, 2002. 
It is to be distinctly understood that the sanction/approval of the GoI and the RBI should not, in any way, 
be deemed or construed that the Offer Document has been cleared or approved by them nor do they take 
any responsibility either for the financial soundness of the Bank or for the correctness of the statements 
made or opinions expressed in the Offer Document. 

The Bank can carry on its existing activities and future activities planned by it in view of the existing approvals, and 
no further approvals from any Government authority are required by the Bank to carry on its said activities. 
Disclaimer Clause 

AS REQUIRED, A COPY  OF THIS OFFER DOCUMENT  HAS  BEEN  SUBMITTED TO THE SECURITIES AND 
EXCHANGE  BOARD  OF  INDIA  (HEREINAFTER  REF ERRED  TO  AS  SEBI).  IT  IS  TO  BE  DISTINCTLY 
UNDERSTOOD THAT THE SUBMISSION OF THE OFFER DOCUMENT TO SEBI  SHOULD NOT, IN ANY WAY, 
BE  DEEMED  OR  CONSTRUED  THAT  THE  SAME  HAS  BEEN  CLEARED  OR  APPROVED  BY  SEBI.  SEBI 
DOES  NOT  TAKE  ANY  RESPONSIBILITY  EITHER  FOR  THE  FINANCIAL  SOUNDNESS  OF  THE  BANK  OR 
THE OBJECTS FOR WHICH THE ISSUE IS PROPOSED TO BE MADE OR FOR THE CORRECTNESS OF THE 
STATEMENTS MADE OR OPINIONS EXPRESSED IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT. THE LEAD MANAGER, ICICI 
SECURITIES  AND  FINANCE  COMPANY  LIMITED,  (HEREINAFTER  REFERRED  TO  AS  THE  LEAD 
MANAGER),  HAS  CERTIFIED  THAT  THE  DISCLOSURES  MADE  IN  THE  OFFER  DOCUMENT  ARE 
GENERALLY  ADEQUATE  AND  ARE  IN  CONFORMITY  WITH  SEBI  (DISCLOSURE  AND  INVESTOR 
PROTECTION)  GUIDELINES  IN  FORCE  FOR  THE  TIME  BEING.  THIS  REQUIREMENT  IS  TO  FACILITATE 
INVESTORS TO TAKE AN INFORMED DECISION FOR MAKING INVESTMENT IN THE PROPOSED ISSUE. IT 
SHOULD  ALSO  BE  CLEARLY  UNDERSTOOD  THAT  WHILE  THE 
IS  PRIMARILY 
RESPONSIBLE  FOR  THE  CORRECTNESS,  ADEQUACY  AND  DISCLOSURE  OF  ALL  RELEVANT 
INFORMATION  IN  THE  OFFER  DOCUMENT,  THE  LEAD  MANAGER  IS  EXPECTED  TO  EXERCISE  DUE 
DILIGENCE  TO  ENSURE  THAT  THE  BANK  DISCHARGES  ITS  RESPONSIBILITY  ADEQUATELY  IN  THIS 
BEHALF  AND  TOWARDS  THIS  PURPOSE,  THE  LEAD  MANAGER,  ICICI  SECURITIES  AND  FINANCE 
COMPANY LIMITED, HAS FURNISHED TO SEBI A DUE DILIGENCE CERTIFICATE DATED JUNE 24, 2002 IN 
ACCORDANCE WITH SEBI (MERCHANT BANKERS) REGULATIONS, 1992, WHICH READS AS FOLLOWS : 
“(1) WE  HAVE  EXAMINED  VARIOUS  DOCUMENTS  INCLUDING  THOSE  RELATING  TO  LITIGATION  LIKE 
COMMERCIAL  DISPUTES,  DISPUTES  WITH  EMPLOYEES/  EX-EMPLOYEES  ETC.,  AND  OTHER 
MATERIALS  IN  CONNECTION  WITH  THE  FINALISATION  OF  THE  DRAFT  OFFER  DOCUMENT 
PERTAINING TO THE SAID ISSUE; 

ISSUER  BANK 

(2)  ON THE BASIS OF SUCH EXAMINATION AND THE DISCUSSIONS WITH THE BANK, ITS DIRECTORS 
AND OTHER OFFICERS,  OTHER  AGENCIES,  INDEPENDENT  VERIFICATION  OF  THE  STATEMENTS 
CONCERNING  THE  OBJECTS  OF  THE  ISSUE,  PRICE JUSTIFICATION AND  THE  CONTENTS  OF  THE 
DOCUMENTS MENTIONED  IN THE ANNEXURE AND OTHER PAPERS FURNISHED BY THE BANK, 
WE CONFIRM THAT: 
(a)  THE  DRAFT  OFFER  DOCUMENT  FORWARDED  TO  SEBI  IS  IN  CONFORMITY  WITH  THE 

 
 

DOCUMENTS, MATERIALS AND PAPERS RELEVANT TO THE ISSUE; 

 

 

(b)  ALL  LEGAL  REQUIREMENTS CONNECTED WITH THE  SAID  ISSUE  AS  ALSO  THE GUIDELINES, 
INSTRUCTIONS,  ETC.  ISSUED  BY  SEBI,  THE  GOVERNMENT  AND  ANY  OTHER  COMPETENT 
AUTHORITY IN THIS BEHALF HAVE BEEN DULY COMPLIED WITH; AND 

(c)  THE  DISCLOSURES  MADE  IN  THE  OFFER  DOCUMENT  ARE  TRUE,  FAIR  AND  ADEQUATE  TO 
ENABLE THE INVESTORS TO MAKE A  WELL-INFORMED DECISION AS TO THE INVESTMENT IN 
THE PROPOSED ISSUE. 

(3)  WE  CONFIRM  THAT  BESIDES  OURSELVES,  ALL  THE  INTERMEDIARIES  NAMED  IN  THE  OFFER 

DOCUMENT ARE REGISTERED WITH SEBI AND THAT TILL DATE SUCH REGISTRATION IS VALID. 

FILING OF THE OFFER DOCUMENT WITH SEBI DOES NOT, HOWEVER ABSOLVE THE BANK FROM ANY 
LIABILITIES  UNDER  SECTION  63  OR  68  OF  THE  COMPANIES  ACT  OR  FROM  THE  REQUIREMENT  OF 
OBTAINING  SUCH  STATUTORY OR OTHER CLEARANCES AS MAY BE REQUIRED FOR THE PURPOSES 

Page 253 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

OF THE PROPOSED ISSUE. SEBI FURTHER RESERVES THE RIGHT TO TAKE UP, AT ANY POINT OF TIME, 
WITH THE LEAD MANAGER(S) ANY IRREGULARITIES OR LAPSES IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT. 

The Lead Manager has issued a  fresh due diligence certificate dated August 1, 2002 which reiterates the 
statements  made  in  the  above  referred  certificate  and  states  that  all  observations  made  by  SEBI  vide 
letters No. PMD/SU/13115/2002 dated July 16, 2002 and PMD/SU/14367/2002 dated July 30, 2002 have been 
incorporated in the Offer Document. 

Disclaimer Clause of the Stock Exchange, Mumbai 

The Stock Exchange, Mumbai (hereinafter referred to as “the Exchange”) has given vide letter dated July 10, 2002 
permission to this Bank to use the Exchange’s name in this Offer Document as one of the stock exchanges on 
which the Bank’s securities are proposed to be listed. The Exchange has scrutinised this Offer Document for its 
limited internal purpose of deciding on the matter of granting the aforesaid permission to the Bank. 
The Exchange does not in any manner: 

1.  warrant, certify or endorse the correctness or completeness of any of the contents of this Offer Document; or 

2.  warrant that the Bank’s securities will be listed or will continue to be listed on this Exchange; or 

3. 

 

take any responsibility for the financial or other soundness of this Bank, its promoters, its management or any 
scheme or project of this Bank; 

and  it  should  not  for  any  reason  be  deemed  or  construed  that  this  Offer  Document  has  been  cleared  or 
approved by the Exchange. Every person who desires to apply for or otherwise acquire any securities of this 
Bank  may  do  so  pursuant  to  independent  inquiry,  investigation  and  analysis  and  shall  not  have  any  claim 
against the Exchange whatsoever by reason of any loss which may be suffered by such person consequent to 
or  in  connection  with  such  subscription/  acquisition  whether  by  reason  of  anything  stated  or  omitted  to  be 
stated herein or for any other reason whatsoever. 

Disclaimer Clause of the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. 

As  required,  a  copy  of  this  Offer  Document  has  been  submitted  to  National  Stock  Exchange  of  India  Ltd. 
(hereinafter referred to as NSE). NSE has given vide its letter dated July 12, 2002 permission to the Bank to use 
the Exchange’s name in this Offer Document as one of the stock exchanges on which this Bank’s securities are 
proposed to be listed. NSE has scrutinised this Offer Document for its limited internal purpose of deciding on the 
matter of granting the aforesaid permission to the Bank. It is to be distinctly understood that aforesaid permission 
given  by  NSE  should  not  in  any  way  be  deemed  or  construed  that  the  Offer  Document  has  been  cleared  or 
approved by NSE; nor does it in any manner warrant, certify or endorse the correctness or completeness of any of 
the contents of this Offer Document; nor does it warrant that the Bank’s securities will be listed or will continue to 
be listed on the Exchange; nor does it take any responsibility for the financial or other  soundness of the Bank, its 
promoters, its management or any scheme or project of the Bank; 

Every  person  who  desires  to  apply  for  or  otherwise  acquire  any  securities  of  the  Bank  may  do  so  pursuant  to 
independent inquiry, investigation and analysis and shall not have any claim against NSE whatsoever by reason of 
any loss which may be suffered by such person consequent to or in connection with such subscription/ acquisition 
whether by reason of anything stated or omitted to be stated herein or for any other reason whatsoever. 
Disclaimer in Respect of Jurisdiction 

This offer is made in India to persons resident in India and to NRIs/OCBs on a non-repatriation basis. This Offer 
Document does not, however, constitute an offer to sell or an invitation to subscribe to shares offered hereby in 
any other jurisdiction to any person to whom it is unlawful to make an offer or invitation in such jurisdiction. Any 
person into whose possession this Offer Document comes is required to inform himself about and to observe any 
such restrictions. Disputes arising out of this Issue shall be subject to the jurisdiction of appropriate Court(s). 
General Disclaimer 

The  Bank  accepts  no  responsibility  for  statements  made  otherwise  than  in  the  Offer  Document  or  in  the 
advertisements or any other material issued by or at the instance of the Bank and that anyone placing reliance on 
any other source of information would be doing so at his own risk. 
Filing 

The draft Offer Document was filed with SEBI, Mittal Court, Nariman Point, Mumbai for its observations and SEBI 
has  given  its  observations.  A  copy  of  this  Offer  Document  along  with  the  documents  referred  under  the  head 
“Material Contracts and Documents” in the Offer Document, shall be delivered for registration to BSE. A complete 
set of the documents shall be kept open at the Head Office of the Bank for public and investors at large. 

Page 254 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

All information shall be made available by the Lead Managers and the Bank to the public and investors at large 
and  no  selective  or  additional  information  would  be  available  for  a  section  of  the  investors  in  any  manner 
whatsoever including at road shows, presentations, in research or sales reports, at collection centres, etc. 
Listing 

Applications  shall  be  made  to  The  Stock  Exchange,  Mumbai  (“BSE”)  the  Regional  Stock  Exchange,  and  the 
National  Stock  Exchange  of  India  Ltd.  (“NSE”)  to  list  the  existing  shares  of  the  Bank  and  also  the  new  equity 
shares now being offered through this Offer Document and for permission to deal in such shares. 

The Bank shall comply with the requirements of the listing agreement to the extent applicable to it, on a continuous 
basis. 

If  the  permissions  to  deal  in  and  for  an  official  quotation  of  the  equity  shares  are  not  granted  by  either  of  the 
aforesaid two Stock Exchanges, the Bank shall forthwith repay, without interest all such moneys received from the 
applicants  in  pursuance  of  this  Offer  Document.  If  such  monies  are  not  repaid  within  eight  days  after  the  Bank 
becomes liable to repay them (i.e. from the date of refusal or within 70 days from the date of the closing of the 
subscription list, whichever is earlier), then the Bank will be liable to repay the monies, with interest, as prescribed 
under Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956. 
Eligibility of the Bank to Come Out With the Issue 

The SEBI (Disclosure and Investor Protection) Guidelines, 2000 prescribe eligibility norms for a company to list its 
equity shares. Clause 2.2.1 of the Guidelines specifies the eligibility requirements for Public Issue by an unlisted 
company. Clause 2.4.1, however, exempts a banking company from these requirements. Hence in terms of Clause 
2.4.1, the Bank is eligible to come out with the present Public Issue. 
Filing of the Offer Document 

The Bank has filed the draft Offer Document with SEBI atleast 21 days prior to the filing of the Offer Document with 
the  aforesaid  two  stock  exchanges  where  the  shares  are  proposed  to  be  listed.  The  Bank  has  also  incorporated 
the comments given by SEBI before filing the Offer Document with the said stock exchanges. 
Prohibition by SEBI 

The  Bank,  its  associates  and  companies  with  which  the  directors  of  the  Bank  are  associated  as  directors  or 
promoters are not prohibited from accessing the capital market under any order or directions passed by SEBI. 
Issue of Shares in Dematerialised Format 

The Bank has entered into agreements with NSDL and CDSL for dematerialisation of shares for the existing and 
the  proposed  shareholders.  The  Bank  has  also  given  an  option  to  the  subscribers  /  shareholders  /  investors  to 
receive the share certificates in physical form or in the demat form. 
Impersonation 

As  a  matter  of  abundant  caution,  the  attention  of  the  investor  is  drawn  to  the  provision  of  Section  68A  of  the 
Companies Act, 1956, which is reproduced below: 
“(1) Any person who - 
 

(a)  makes  in  a  fictitious  name  an  application  to  a  company  for  acquiring,  or  subscribing  for,  any 

shares therein, or 

 

 

(b)  otherwise induces a company to allot, or register any transfer of, shares therein to him, or any 

other person in a fictitious name, 

shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years”. 

Minimum Subscription 

If the Bank does not receive the minimum subscription of 90% of the issued amount, on the date of closure of the 
Issue, or if the subscription level falls below 90% after the closure of the Issue on account of cheques having been 
returned  unpaid  or  withdrawal  of  applications,  the  Bank  shall  forthwith  refund  the  entire  subscription  amount.  If 
there is delay beyond 8 days after the Bank becomes liable to pay the amount, the Bank shall pay interest as per 
Section 73 of the Companies Act, 1956. 
Letters of Allotment / Share Certificates / Refund Orders 

Letters of Allotment / Share Certificates or Refund Orders, as the case may be, will be despatched by Registered 
Post or as per extant postal rules at the sole risk of the applicants to the sole / first applicant within ten weeks from 
the date of the closing of the subscription list. In accordance with the extant postal rules the Bank will ensure the 
despatch of the refund orders of the value up to Rs1,500/- under Certificate of Posting and refund orders of value 
above Rs1,500/- by Registered Post only. Further, 

Page 255 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

a.  as far as possible, the allotment of the equity shares shall be made within 30 days of the closure of the Issue; 

and 

b. 

the  Bank  shall  pay  interest  at  the  rate  of  15%  per  annum  (except  to  the  applicants  applying  through 
Stockinvest) if the allotment has not been made and / or the Letters of Allotment / Refund Orders have not 
been  despatched  to  the  Investors  within  30  days  from  the  day  of  the  closure  of  the  Issue,  for  the  delayed 
period beyond 30 days. 

The Bank will provide adequate funds to the Registrars to the Issue, for the purpose of despatch of Letter(s) of 
Allotment  /  Share  Certificate(s)  /  Letter(s)  of  Regret  /  Cancelled  Stockinvest(s)  /  Refund  Order(s).  Despatch  of 
share certificates/refund orders/cancelled stockinvests and demat credit would be completed and the allotment and 
listing documents would be submitted to the Stock Exchanges within 2 working days of the finalisation of the basis 
of the allotment. The listing and trading of the securities offered through this Offer Document shall commence at 
the aforesaid two stock exchanges where they are proposed to be listed within 7 working days of the date of the 
finalisation of the basis of the allotment. 
Denomination of Shares 

The Bank undertakes that at any given time, there shall be only one denomination for the shares of the Bank and 
that the Bank shall comply with such disclosures and accounting norms specified by SEBI from time to time. 
Consents 

Consents in writing of the Auditors, Lead Managers, Co-Managers, Legal Advisors, Compliance Officer, Directors, 
Registrar and Banker to the Issue to act in their respective capacities, have been obtained and filed along with a 
copy of the Offer Document with BSE and such consents have not been withdrawn upto the time of delivery of the 
Offer Document to the said Stock Exchange. 

The Auditors have given their written consent to the inclusion of their Report in the form and context  in which it 
appears in the Offer Document and such consent and Report has not been withdrawn upto the time of delivery of 
the Offer Document to BSE. 
Expert Opinion 

The Bank has not obtained any opinion from any expert other than those mentioned in the Offer Document. 
 

Change in Directors during the last three years 

The changes that took place in the Board of Directors during the last three years (since 01.04.1999) are as follows: 
Name 
 

Position  
held 

Reasons 

Shri A.T. Pannir Selvam 

CMD 

Retired w.e.f. 31.3.2000 

Shri D. T. Pai 

ED 

Appointed as CMD at Syndicate Bank w.e.f 25.5.2000 

Dr. K.B.L Mathur 
 

Shri A.V. Sardesai 
 

Shri Alok Kumar 
 

Govt. Nominee 
Director 

RBI Nominee 
Director 

Govt. Nominee  
Director 

Appointed by GoI w.e.f.  21.03.2001 

Appointed by GoI w.e.f. 01.06.2001 

Retired w.e.f. 20.03.2001 

RBI Nominee 
Director 
 

Shrimathi Shyamala  
Gopinath 
 
Changes in Statutory Central Auditors over Last Three Years and Reasons Thereof 
(Financial Year ending 31.03.1999 to Financial Year ending 31.03.2002) 
Year 
 

Retired with effect from 31.05.2001 
 

Added/  
Retired 

Name of the Auditor 

Reason 

31-03-99  Retired 
31-03-99  Retired 
31-03-99  Retired 
31-03-99  Added 
31-03-99  Added 

Completed the term 
M/s Manian & Rao 
M/s K.C.Khanna & Co. 
Completed the term 
M/s C.B.Bharghava & Co.  Completed the term 
M/s Ved & Co. 
M/s L.S.Nalwaya & Co. 

Added by RBI 
Added by RBI 

Page 256 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

31-03-99  Added 
31-03-00  Retired 
31-03-00  Added 
31-03-01  Retired 
31-03-01  Retired 
31-03-01  Retired 
31-03-01  Retired 
31-03-01  Added 
31-03-01  Added 
31-03-01  Added 
31-03-01  Added 
 
31-03-02  Retired 
31-03-02  Retired 
31-03-02  Added 
31-03-02  Added 

 

Expenses of the Issue 

M/s V.P.Aditya & Co. 
M/s L.B.Jha & Co. 
M/s D.P.Sen & Co. 
M/s B.M.Chatrath & Co. 
M/s L.S.Nalwaya & Co. 
M/s S.N.Nanda & Co. 
M/s Ved & Co. 
M/s B. Gupta & Co. 
M/s C.S.Hariharan & Co. 
M/s Gala & Gala 
M/s Sundaram &  
Srinivasan 
M/s V.P.Aditya & Co. 
M/s C.S.Hariharan & Co. 
M/s S.N.Dhawan & Co. 
M/s V.K.Verma & Co. 

Added by RBI 
Completed the term 
Added by RBI 
Completed the term 
Completed the term 
Completed the term 
Completed the term 
Added by RBI 
Added by RBI 
Added by RBI 
Added by RBI 

Completed the term  
Completed the term 
Added by RBI 
Added by RBI 

The  expenses  of  the  Issue  payable  by  the  Bank  including  brokerage,  fees  and  reimbursement  to  the  Lead 
Managers,  Registrars,  printing  and  distribution  expenses,  publicity,  listing  fees,  stamp  duty  and  others  are 
estimated to be around 5% of the total Issue size and will be met out of the proceeds of the Issue. 
Fees Payable to the Lead Managers to the Issue 

The fee payable to the Lead Managers to the Issue are as set out in the Memorandum of Understanding, copies of 
which are kept open for inspection at the Head Office of the Bank. 
Fees Payable to the Co-Managers to the Issue 

There are no fees payable to the Co-Managers 
Fees Payable to Registrar to the Issue 

The  fee  payable  to  the  Registrars  to  the  Issue  are  as  set  out  in  the  Memorandum  of  Understanding,  copies  of 
which are open for inspection at the Head Office of the Bank. 
Brokerage 

As per Section 13 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, no banking company can directly or indirectly pay out by 
way of commission, brokerage, discount in any form in respect of any shares issued by it, any amount exceeding 
in the aggregate 2.5% of the face value of the said shares. 

The Bank has got an exemption from  GoI, Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs (Banking Division) 
vide letter ref. F. No. 11/1/2002-BOA dated June 7, 2002 from the provisions of the said Section 13 relating to the 
payment of brokerage, commission, discount for a period of 5 years. 

Accordingly, brokerage would be paid to the Brokers to the Issue as per Bank’s communication to the BSE and 
NSE. 

In  case  of  tampering  or  overstamping  of  broker  codes  on  the  Application  Form,  the  Bank’s  decision  to  pay 
brokerage in this respect will be final and no further correspondence will be entertained in this matter. 

Since the Issue is not being underwritten, no underwriting commission is payable. 
Offer Otherwise than for Cash 

There have not been any issues for consideration other than cash. 
Previous Commission and Brokerage 

No previous commission or brokerage has been paid by the Bank for any Issue of equity shares. 

Previous Issues by the Bank 

The Bank has not made any issue of equity shares/debentures/preference shares by way of Public/Rights Issue 
through  an  offer  document  since  the  date  of  nationalisation  in  July  1969.  However,  the  Bank  has  raised  Tier  II 
capital by way of private placement to augment capital adequacy as under: 
Issue 

Tenor  Credit 

Year of 

Size 

Coupon 

Redemption 

Page 257 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

1 

2 

3 
 

4 
 

Placement 

 (Rs cro re) 

 (months) 

 Rating 

1999 

2001 

2001 
 

2002 
 

500 

100 

100 
 

170 
 

84  — 

63  — 

69 
 

LAA+  
by ICRA 

65 

AA+ by  
  CRISIL 

 (%) 

12.50 

11.25 

9.80 

date 

10.09.2006 

08.05.2006 

01.06.2007 

9.30 

05.07.2007 

For the purposes of raising equity through this Issue, there is no requirement as per the covenant in any of the 
documents relating to the borrowings to take prior approval/consent of the lenders /trustees. 
Option to Subscribe 

Save as otherwise stated in the Offer Document, the Bank has not given any person nor does it propose to give 
any person any option to subscribe for any shares of the Bank. 
Undertaking Regarding Purchase of Property 

There is no property which the Bank has purchased or acquired or proposes to purchase or acquire, which is to be 
paid for wholly or partly out of the proceeds of the present issue or the purchase or acquisition of which has not 
been completed on the date of this Offer Document, other than property as given hereunder: 

a)  The  contracts  for  the  purchase  or  acquisition  whereof  were  entered  into,  or  may  be  entered  into,  in  the 
ordinary course of the Bank’s business, such contracts not being made in contemplation of the offer nor the 
offer in consequence of the contract or 

b) 

In respect of which the amount of the purchase money is not material. 

The Bank has not purchased any property in which any of its directors had or have any direct or indirect interest or 

in 

respect of any payment thereof. 

 

Capitalisation of Reserves or Profits 

There was no capitalisation of profits or reserves in the last five years ended March 31, 2002 
Revaluation of Assets 

There has been no revaluation of assets in the last five years. 
 
INVESTOR GRIEVANCE AND REDRESSAL SYSTEMS 
Since the Bank is entering the capital market for the first time, there are no outstanding grievances from investors. 
To ensure that grievances of investors are expeditiously attended to, the Bank is in the process of setting up a 
Share Department to effectively deal with investor complaints. Investors may note that Shri R.B. Menon, Assistant 
General Manager, Union Bank of India, has been designated as the Compliance Officer for the Issue. In case of 
any  pre-issue/  post-issue  related  problems  such  as  non-receipt  of  letters  of  allotment/  share  certificates/  refund 
orders/ cancelled stockinvests, etc. the investors are requested to contact the Compliance Officer at: 

Shri R.B. Menon 
Assistant General Manager 
Union Bank of India 
239, Vidhan Bhavan Marg 
Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 
Tel: 022 - 202 4647 
Fax: 022 - 288 1979 
E-mail: union-ipo@unionbankofindia.com 

The Registrar to the Issue, MCS Limited, will also be available to handle any investor queries/ complaints. 
 
 

Page 258 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

Page 259 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
 
 
SECTION VII 
 
DESCRIPTION  OF  EQUITY  SHARES  AND  MAIN  PROVISIONS  OF  THE  BANK 
NATIONALISATION ACT 
 

Relevant provisions of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970,  as 
amended by the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Amendment Act, 1994 & Banking 
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Amendment Act, 1995 hereinafter collectively referred to as 
the Bank Nationalisation Act are: 
Authorised Capital 

As per the provisions of Section 3 (2A) of the Bank Nationalisation Act the authorised capital of the Bank shall be 
Rupees one thousand and five hundred crore to be divided into one hundred and fifty crore of fully paid-up equity 
shares of Rs10 each. Provided that the Central Government may, after consultation with the Reserve Bank of India 
and by notification in the Official Gazette, increase or reduce the authorised capital as it thinks fit, so however that 
after such increase or reduction, the authorised capital shall not exceed Rupees three thousand crore, or be less 
than Rupees one thousand and five hundred crore. 

Issued Capital 

Section  3(2B)  of  the  Bank  Nationalisation  Act  provides  that  the  paid-up  capital,  may,  from  time  to  time,  be 
increased by 

(a)  Such  amounts  as  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  corresponding  new  bank  may,  after  consultation  with  the 
Reserve Bank of India and with the previous sanction of the Central Government transfer from the reserve 
fund established by such bank to such paid-up capital; 

(b)  Such amounts as the Central Government may, after consultation with the Reserve Bank, contribute to such 

paid- up capital; 

(c)  Such  amounts  as  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  corresponding  new  bank  may,  after  consultation  with  the 
Reserve Bank and with the previous sanction of the Central Government, raise by Public Issue of shares as 
may be prescribed, so however, that the Central Government shall at all times hold not less than 51% of the 
paid- up capital of each corresponding new bank. 

The entire paid-up capital of the corresponding new Bank, except the paid- up capital raised by public Issue under 
clause (c) of sub-section 2B shall stand vested in, and allotted to, the Central Government. 

Sec 3 (2BB) of Bank Nationalisation Act provides that “notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2), the 
paid capital of a corresponding new bank constituted under subsection (1) may from time to time and before any 
paid up capital is raised by Public Issue under clause (c) of sub section (2B) be reduced by: 

(a) 

(b) 

the Central Government after consultation with the Reserve Bank by cancelling any paid up capital which is 
lost, or is unrepresented by available assets; 

the  Board  of  directors,  after  consultation  with  Reserve  Bank  and  with  the  previous  sanction  of  the  Central 
Government, by paying off any paid up capital which is in excess of the wants of the corresponding new bank” 

Sec 3 (2BBB): “Notwithstanding anything contained in sub section (2BB) or sub-sub section (2BBA), the paid up 
capital of a corresponding new Bank shall not be reduced at any time so as to render it below twenty five percent 
of  the  paid  up  capital  of  that  bank  as  on  date  of  commencement  of  the  Banking  Companies  (Acquisition  and 
Transfer of Undertakings) Amendment Act, 1995.” 

Rights of Equity Shareholders 

As to Dividend 

Section 10(7): After making provision for bad and doubtful debts, depreciation in assets, contributions to staff and 
Superannuation funds and all  other  matters  for  which  provision  is  necessary  under  any  law,  or  which  are  usually 

Page 260 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

provided for by Banking companies, a corresponding new bank may, out of its net profits, declare a dividend and 
retain the surplus, if any. 
Voting Rights 

Section  3(2E):  No  shareholder  of  the  corresponding  new  bank,  other  than  the  Central  Government,  shall  be 
entitled to exercise voting rights in respect of any shares held by him in excess of one per cent of the total voting 
rights of all the shareholders of the corresponding new bank. 
 

 

Meeting of Shareholders 

Section 10A: A General Meeting (in this Act referred to as an annual general meeting) of every corresponding new 
bank which has issued capital under clause (c) of sub-section (2B) of Section 3 shall be held at the place of the 
head office of the bank in each year at such time as shall from time to time be specified by the Board of Directors: 

- 

- 

Provided  that  such  annual  general  meeting  shall  be  held  before  the  expiry  of  six  weeks  from  the  date  on 
which  the  balance-sheet  together  with  the  profit  and  loss  account  and  auditors’  report  is  under  sub-section 
(7A) of section 10, forwarded to the Central Government or to the Reserve Bank, whichever date is earlier. 

The shareholders present at an annual general meeting shall be entitled to discuss the balance sheet and the 
profit and loss account of the corresponding new bank made up to the previous 31st day of March, the report 
of the Board of Directors on the working and activities of the corresponding new bank for the period covered 
by the accounts and the auditor’s report on the balance sheet and account. 

Transfer of Shares and Share Registers 

Section 3 (2D): The shares of every corresponding new bank not held by the Central Government shall be freely 
transferable 

Provided that  no  individual  or  company  resident  outside  India  or  any  company  incorporated  under  any  law  not  in 
force  in  India  on  any  branch  of  such  company  whether  resident  outside  India  or  not,  shall  at  any  time  hold  or 
acquire  by  transfer  or  otherwise  shares  of  the  corresponding  new  bank  so  that  such  investment  in  aggregate 
exceed  the  percentage,  not  being  more  than  twenty  per  cent  of  the  paid-up  capital  as  may  be  specified  by  the 
Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette. 

Explanation – For the purposes of this clause “company” means any body corporate an includes a firm or other 
association of individuals 

Section 3 (2F): Every corresponding new bank shall keep at its head office a register, in one or more books, of the 
shareholders (in this Act referred to as the Register) and shall enter therein the following particulars: 

(i) 

the  names,  addresses  and  occupations,  if  any,  of  the  shareholders  and  a  statement  of  the  shares  held  by 
each shareholder, distinguishing each share by its denoting number; 

(ii)  

the date on which each person is so entered as a shareholder; 

(iii)   the date on which any person ceases to be a shareholder and 

(iv)  such other particulars as may be prescribed 

Section 3(2G): Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2F), it shall  be lawful for every, corresponding 
new bank to keep the register in computer floppies or diskettes subject to such safeguards as may be prescribed. 

Section 3 (3): Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, a copy of, or extract from, the 
Register, certified to be a true copy under the hand of an officer of the corresponding new bank authorised in this 
behalf by it, shall in all legal proceedings, be admissible in evidence. 

Section 3A: Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2F) of Section 3, no notice of any trust, express, 
implied or constructive, shall be entered on the register, or be receivable, by the corresponding new bank. 
Board of Directors and their Powers 

Constitutions of the Board of Directors: 

Section 9 (3): Every Board of Directors of a corresponding new bank, constituted under any scheme made under 
Section (1), shall include: 

(i)  not more than two whole-time directors to be appointed by the Central Government after consultation with the 

Reserve Bank; 

Page 261 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

(ii)   one  director  who  is  an  official  of  the  Central  Government  to  be  nominated  by  the  Central  Government 
provided that no such Director will be a Director of any other corresponding new bank as in terms of the Bank 
Nationalisation Act; 

(iii)   one  director  who  is  an  officer  of  the  Reserve  Bank  to  be  nominated  by  the  Central  Government  on  the 

recommendation of the Reserve Bank. 

 

Explanation: For the purpose of this clause “an officer of the Reserve Bank” includes an officer of the Reserve 
Bank  who  is  deputed  by  the  Bank  under  Section  54AA  of  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  Act,  1934  to  any 
institution referred to therein. 

(iv)  Not more than 2 directors to be nominated by the Central Government from amongst SEBI established under 
Section (3) of SEBI Act 1992 (15 of 1992), the National Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development established 
under section (3) NABARD Act 1981 (61 of 1981), Public financial institutions as specified in subsection (1) or 
notified from time to time under Sub- Section (2) of Section (4A) of Companies Act 1956 (1 of 1956) and other 
institutions  established  or  constituted  by  or  under  any  Central  Act  or  incorporated  under  the  Companies  Act 
1956 and having not less than 51% of the paid-up share capital held or controlled by the Central Government. 

(v)  One  director,  from  among  such  of  the  employees  of  the  corresponding  new  Bank  who  are  workmen  under 
clause(s) of Section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 to be nominated by the Central Government in such 
manner as may be specified in a scheme made under this section; 

(vi)  One director, from among the employees of the corresponding new Bank, who are not workmen under clause 
(S)  of  Section  2  of  the  Industrial  Disputes  Act,  1947,  to  be  nominated  by  the  Central  Government  after 
consultation with Reserve Bank; 

(vii)  One director who has been a Chartered Accountant for not less than 15 years to be nominated by the Central 

Government after consultation with the Reserve Bank; 

(viii)  subject  to  the  provisions  of  clause  (i),  not  more  than  six  directors,  to  be  nominated  by  the  Central 

Government; 

(ix)  where the capital issued under clause (c) of sub-section (2B) of Section 3 is - 

 

 

 

l  

not more than twenty per cent, of the total paid up capital, not more than two directors. 

l   more than twenty per cent but not more than forty per cent, of the total paid-up capital, not more than four 

directors. 

l   more  than  forty  per  cent,  of  the  total  paid-up  capital,  not  more  than  six  directors  to  be  elected  by  the 
shareholders  other  than  the  Central  Government,  from  amongst  themselves.  Provided  that  on  the 
assumption  of  charge  after  election  of  any  such  directors  under  this  clause,  equal  number  of  directors 
nominated under clause (h) shall retire in such manner as may be specified in the scheme. 

(3A): The directors to be nominated under clause (h) or to be elected under clause (i) of Sub-Section 3 shall - 

(A)  have special knowledge or practical experience in respect of one or more of the following matters, namely: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(i)  agricultural and rural economy 

(ii)   Banking 

(iii)   co-operation 

(iv)  economics 

(v) 

finance 

(vi)  law 

(vii)  small scale industry 

(viii)  any other matter the special knowledge of, and practical experience in which would in the opinion of the 

Reserve Bank, be useful to the corresponding new Bank; 

(B)  represent the interest of depositors; or 

(C)  represent the interests of farmers, workers and artisans. 
Removal of Directors 

Section 9 (3B): Where the Reserve Bank is of the opinion that any director of a corresponding new bank elected 
under clause (i) of Sub-section (3) does not fulfil  the  requirements  of  the  Sub- Section (3A), it may, after giving to 
such director and the bank a reasonable opportunity of being heard, by an order remove such director and on such 
removal, the Board of Directors shall co-opt any other person fulfilling the requirements of sub-section 3(A) in place 

Page 262 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

of the person so removed till a Director is duly elected by the shareholders of the corresponding new bank in the 
next  Annual  General  Meeting  and  the  person  so  co-opted  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  duly  elected  by  the 
shareholders of the corresponding new bank as a director. 
Powers of Board of Directors 

Section 19: (1) The Board of Directors of a corresponding new bank may, after consultation with the Reserve Bank 
and  with  the  previous  sanction  of  the  Central  Government  by  notification  in  the  Official  Gazette  make  the 
regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any scheme made thereunder, to provide for all 
matters for which provision is expedient for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act. 

(2) 

(a) 

In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the regulations may provide for all 
or any of the following matters, namely: 

the powers, functions and duties of local boards and restrictions, conditions or limitations, if any, subject to 
which they may be exercised or performed, the formation and constitution of local committees and committees 
of local boards (including the number of members of any such committee) the powers, functions and duties of 
such  committees,  the  holding  of  meetings  of  local  committees  and  committees  of  local  boards  and  the 
conduct of business there at; 

(b) 

the  manner  in  which  the  business  of  the  local  boards  shall  be  transacted  and  the  procedure  in  connection 
therewith.; 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(c) 

(d) 

b (a) the nature of shares of the corresponding new bank, the manner in which and the conditions subject to 
which shares may be held and transferred and generally all matters relating to the rights and duties of 
shareholders. 

b (b) the maintenance of register, and the particulars to be entered in the register in addition to those specified 
in  sub-section  (2F)  of  Section  3,  the  safeguards  to  be  observed  in  the  maintenance  of  register  on 
computer, floppies or diskettes, inspection and closure of the register and all other matters connected 
therewith. 

b(c) 

the manner in which general meetings shall be convened, the procedure to be followed thereat and the 
manner in which voting rights may be exercised. 

b(d) 

the holding of meetings of shareholders and the business to be transacted thereat. 

b(e) 

the  manner  in  which  notices  may  be  served  on  behalf  of  the  corresponding  new  bank  upon 
shareholders or other persons. 

b(f) the manner in which the directors nominated under clause (g) of sub-section (3) of Section 9 shall retire. 

the delegation of powers and functions of the Board of Directors of a corresponding new Bank to the general 
manager, director, or other employee of that Bank. 

the conditions or limitations subject to which the corresponding new bank may appoint advisors, officers or 
other employees and fix their remuneration and other terms and conditions of service. 

(e) 

the duties and conduct of advisors, officers or other employees of the corresponding new bank. 

(f) 

the  establishment  and  maintenance  of  Superannuation,  pension,  provident  or  other  funds  for  the  benefit  of 
officers  or  other  employees  of  the  corresponding  new  bank  or  of  the  dependants  of  such  officers  or  other 
employees  and  the  granting  of  Superannuation  allowances,  annuities  and  pensions  payable  out  of  such 
funds. 

(g) 

the conduct and defence of legal proceedings by or against the corresponding new bank and the manner of 
signing and pleadings. 

(h) 

the provision of a seal for the corresponding new bank and the manner and effect of its use. 

the form and manner in which contracts binding on the corresponding new bank may be executed. 

the  conditions  and  the  requirements  subject  to  which  loans  or  advances  may  be  made  or  bills  may  be 
discounted or purchased by the corresponding new bank. 

the persons or authorities who shall administer any pension, provident or other fund constituted for the benefit 
of officers or other employees of the corresponding new bank or their dependants. 

the  preparation  and  submission  of  statements  of  programs  of  activities  and  financial  statements  of  the 
corresponding new bank and the period for which and the time within which such statements and estimates 
are to be prepared and submitted 

(i) 

(j) 

(k) 

(l) 

 

Page 263 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

SECTION IX 
 
MATERIAL CONTRACTS AND DOCUMENTS FOR INSPECTION 

The contracts referred to below (not being contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business carried on by 
Union Bank of India or entered into more than two years before the date of the Offer Document) which are or may 
be  deemed  material  have  been  entered  by  the  Bank.  Copies  of  these  contracts  together  with  the  copies  of  the 
documents referred to below, all of which have been attached to a copy of this Offer Document has been delivered 
to the BSE and may be inspected at the Head Office of the Bank between 10  A.M. and 12 Noon on any working 
day of the Bank from the date of Offer Document until the date of closing of the subscription list. 
A.  MATERIAL CONTRACTS 

1.  Memorandum of Understanding with the Lead Managers to the Issue, ICICI Securities and Finance Company 
Limited, DSP Merrill Lynch Limited, ENAM Financial Consultants Private Limited, J M Morgan Stanley Private 
Limited, Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Limited and SBI Capital Markets Limited, agreeing to act as Lead 
Managers to the Issue on the terms stated therein 

2.  Memorandum of Understanding between the Bank and MCS Limited, agreeing to act as the Registrar to the 

Issue on the terms stated therein 

3.  Letters  from  Union  Bank  of  India  to  the  Lead  Managers  to  the  Issue  appointing  them  as  such  and  their 

acceptances thereof 

4.  Letter  from  Union  Bank  of  India  to  the  Registrar  i.e.  MCS  Limited  appointing  them  as  such  and  their 

acceptance thereof 

5.  Letter from Union Bank of India to the Legal Advisors to the Issue i.e. Little & Co., appointing them as such 

and their acceptance thereof 

6.  Letter  from  Union  Bank  of  India  to  the  Co-Managers  to  the  Issue.,  appointing  them  as  such  and  their 

acceptance thereof 

B.  DOCUMENTS 

1.  Copy of resolution of Board of Directors dated January 5, 2002 approving the Issue. 

2.  Copy of letter dated April 8, 2002 from Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs (Banking Division) 

to the Bank approving the Issue. 

3.  Government of India, Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs) Notification in Part I, Section I of 

the Gazette of India Extraordinary regarding return of capital. 

4.  Copy of the initial listing applications made to BSE and the NSE for listing of the shares of the Bank dated 

June 25, 2002 and June 27, 2002. 

5.  Copy  of  the  Banking  Companies  (Acquisition  &  Transfer  of  Undertakings  Act,  1970,  of  the  Banking 
Companies  (Acquisition  and  Transfer  of  Undertakings)  Amendment  Act,  1994  and  the  Banking  Companies 
(Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Amendment Act, 1995. 

6.  Consents in writing of Auditors, M/s. D. P. Sen & Co., M/s. V. K. Verma & Co., M/s. B. Gupta & Co., M/s. Gala 
& Gala, M/s. S. N. Dhawan & Co., M/s. Sundaram & Srinivasan to act in their respective capacities, all dated 
June 3, 2002. 

7.  Consent in writing from the Banker to the Issue. 

8.  Copy  of  letter  dated  June  4,  2002  from  Auditors,  confirming  the  Tax  benefits  as  mentioned  in  the  Offer 

Document. 

9.  Copy  of  letter  dated  June  4,  2002  from  Auditors  including  the  Auditor’s  Report  and  other  financial  data 

incorporated in the Offer Document. 

10.  Copy  of  resolution  of  Board  of  Directors  dated  July  11,  2002  authorising  the  Registrars  to  dispose  of  the 

applications received with Stockinvest. 

11.  Copy  of  resolution  of  Board  of  Directors  authorising  the  Chairman  and  Managing  Director  (CMD)  to  take 
decisions and execute all agreements / documents and sign declaration/papers as may be required for the 
initial public on behalf of the Board of Directors. 

12.  Government  of  India  notification  F.No.9/16/2000  -  F.  No.  9/10/2000-B.O.I.  dated  April  19,  2000  regarding 

appointment of Shri V. Leeladhar as the Chairman and Managing Director of the Bank. 

Page 264 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

13.  Government of India notification F.No.9/31/2000-B.O.I dated September 25, 2000 regarding appointment of 

Shri M. Venugopalan as the Executive Director of the Bank. 

14.  Annual Reports/Balance Sheets of Union Bank of India for the last 5 years. 

15.  Tripartite  agreement  between  Union  Bank  of  India,  MCS  Limited  and  the  National  Securities  Depository 

Limited (“NSDL”) dated July 27, 2002. 

16.  Tripartite agreement between Union Bank of India, MCS Limited and the Central Depository Services (India) 

Limited (“CDSL”) dated July 27, 2002. 

17.  Observations letters No. PMD/SU/13115/2002 dated July 16, 2002 and PMD/SU/14367/2002 dated July 30, 

2002 from SEBI. 

18.  Letter dated July 10, 2002 from BSE and letter dated July 12 2002 from NSE. 
 
DECLARATION 

All  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Banking  Companies  (Acquisition  and  Transfer  of  Undertakings)  Act,  1970  as 
amended  from  time  to  time  and  the  guidelines  issued  by  the  Government  have  been  complied  with  and  no 
statement made in this Offer Document is contrary to the provisions of the said Acts/Regulations/Guidelines and 
rules thereunder. 
Signed  by  the  Chairman  and  Managing  Director  pursuant  to  the  authority  granted  by  the  Board  of 
Directors of the Bank at their meeting held on January 5, 2002. 

Shri V. Leeladhar 
Chairman and Managing Director 

Place  :  Mumbai 
Date :  July 31, 2002 

Page 265 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

DEFINITIONS/ABBREVIATIONS 

Asset-Liability Management Committee 
Accounting Standard 
Bank for International Settlements 
The Stock Exchange, Mumbai 
Compounded Annual Growth Rate 
Capital Adequacy Ratio 
Central Board of Direct Taxes 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited 
Capital to Risk Assets Ratio 
The Credit Rating Information Services of India Limited 
Cash Reserve Ratio 
Depository Participant 
Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Limited 
Foreign Currency Non Resident (Banks) 
Foreign Exchange Dealers Association of India 
Fixed Income, Money Markets and Derivatives Association 
Financial Year 
Government of India/ Central Government 
ICRA Limited 
Public Issue of 18,00,00,000 equity shares of Rs10 each for cash at a premium 
of  
Rs6 per share aggregating Rs288 crore 
Inter Branch Reconciliation 
London Inter Bank Offered Rate 
Lease Equalisation Charge 
Ministry of Finance 
Net Demand and Time Liabilities 
Non-Performing Assets 
Non Resident Indians 
National Securities Depository Limited 
The National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Overseas Corporate Bodies 
Primary Dealers Association of India 
Reserve Bank of India 
Regional Rural Banks 
Scheduled Commercial Banks 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Statutory Liquidity Ratio 
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications 
Union Bank of India 
The Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 
as amended from time to time 
The Board of Directors of the Bank 
The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as amended from time to time 
The Companies Act, 1956 
The Income Tax Act, 1961 
United States Dollar - currency of the USA 
With effect from 
Year-on-year 

 

ALCO 
AS 
BIS 
BSE/ Regional Stock Exchange 
CAGR 
CAR 
CBDT 
CDSL 
CRAR 
CRISIL 
CRR 
DP 
ECGC 
FCNR (B)  
FEDAI 
FIMMDA 
FY 
GoI 
ICRA 
Issue/Offer 

 
IBR 
LIBOR 
LEC 
MoF 
NDTL 
NPA 
NRI 
NSDL 
NSE 
OCBs 
PDAI 
RBI 
RRBs  
SCBs  
SEBI 
SLR 
SWIFT 
The Bank or Union Bank  
The Bank Nationalisation Act 

The Board 
The BR Act 
The Companies Act 
The IT Act 
USD/$ 
w.e.f 
YOY 
YTM Yield-to-maturity 
 

Page 266 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 THERE IS NO INFORMATION AVAILABLE IN THE FOLLOWING SECTIONS 
 

 

 
COVER PAGE  

 
1)  Promoter details not available. 
 
SECTION II-INTRODUCTION  

 
2)  Summary  of  the  industry  and  business  of  the  Issuer  Company,  offering  details  in  breif  and  summary  of  the 

Consolidated Financial, Operating and Other Data not available.  

 
SECTION III-ABOUT US 
 
3)  Details on Promoters/Principal Shareholders not available  
4)  Excahnge Rates not available  
5)  Currency Presentation not available  
6)  Selected Consolidated Financials and Operating Data not available  
7)  Capitalisation Statement forms a part of the Financial Information  
8)  Dividend Poilcy not available  

SECTION IV –LEGAL AND OTHER INFORMATION  

 
9)  Government Approv als/Licensing arrangements not available  

SECTION VI- OTHER REGULATORY AND STATURORY DISCLOSURES  
 
10)  Information on classes of shares , if applicable not available  
11)  Stock Market Data for Equity Shares of the company not available  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 267 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

ANNEXURE-VII 

(Referred to in paragraph 6.4 of the Report) 
 

A-VII. 

CONFIRMATIONS/UNDERTAKINGS/DOCUMENTS 
SUBMITTED TO SEBI  

TO 

BE 

 
 
A.  AT THE TIME OF SUBMITTING DRAFT OFFER DOCUMENT  
 
I   By Lead Manager 
 
    Documents to be submitted along with the draft Offer Document by the Lead Manager 
 

1.  Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) [DIP Guideline 5.3.1] 

 

 

 

 

2.  Inter-se Allocation of Responsibilities [DIP Guideline 5.3.2] 

Circular No. 2 (97-98) dated 26-6-97. 

3.  Due Diligence Certificate [DIP Guideline 5.3.3] 
 
4.  Statement  showing  details  of  BRLMs  as  per  the  requirement  of  RMB  (GI  Series) 
 
 
5.  Draft offer document on a computer floppy. [DIP Guideline 16.1.3(a)].  
 
6.  Following  details  certified  as  correct,  along  with  forwarding  letters  while  filing  offer 

documents for public/ rights issue/ buyback/ takeovers. [DIP Guideline 16.1.5(a)] 

i.  Registration No. 
ii.  Date of Registration / Renewal of registration. 
iii.  Date of expiry of registration. 
iv.  If applied for renewal, date of application. 
v.  Any communication from the Board prohibiting from acting as a merchant banker. 
vi.  Any inquiry / investigation being conducted by the Board 

7.  Information as above for other intermediaries. [DIP Guideline 16.1.7(a)] 
 
8.  Following  details  certified  as  correct  along  with  forwarding  letter  while  filing  offer 

documents for public/ rights issue/ buyback/ takeovers. [DIP Guideline 16.1.5.(b)] 

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 

Whether  any  promoter/  director/  group  /associate  company/entity  of  the  issuer 
company and/or any company/entity with which any of the above is associated as 
promoter/ director/ partner/ proprietor, is/was engaged in securities related business 
and registered with SEBI. 
If  any  one  or  more  of  these  persons/entities  are/  were  registered  with  SEBI,  their 
respective registration numbers. 
If registration has expired, reasons for non renewal. 
Details of any enquiry / investigation conducted by SEBI at any time. 
Penalty  imposed  by  SEBI  (Penalty  includes  deficiency/warning  letter,  adjudication 

Page 268 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

proceedings, suspension / cancellation / prohibitory orders) 
Outstanding fees payable to SEBI by these entities, if any. 

(vi) 

9.  Certificate  to  SEBI  -  Appointment  of  Compliance  officer  by  the  Company.  [DIP 

Guideline 5.12.2] 

 

 
10.  Checklist for processing issue management cases with respect to Chapters II, III, IV, V & 

VI of SEBI DIP Guidelines. (As per Annexure A) 

 
 
II  By Issuer 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

1.  Confirmation signed by the Company Secretary or Chartered Accountant, in case of 

Listed Companies Making Further Issue of Capital [DIP Guideline 5.3.4] 

a.  all refund orders of the previous issues were despatched within the prescribed time and in 

the prescribed manner; 

b.  all security certificates were despatched to the allottees within the prescribed  time and in 

the prescribed manner;  
the securities were listed on the Stock Exchanges as specified in the offer documents.  

c. 

2.  Undertaking [DIP Guideline 5.3.5] 

Transactions  in  securities  by  the  `promoter'  the  'promoter  group'  and  the  immediate 
relatives  of  the  `promoters  during  the  period  between  the  date  of  filing  the  offer 
documents with the Registrar of Companies or Stock Exchange as the case may be and 
the date of closure of the issue shall be reported to the Stock exchanges concerned within 
24 hours of the transaction(s).  

3.  List of Promoters’ Group and other Details Confirmation [DIP Guideline 5.3.6] 

            

§ 

§ 

The list of the persons who constitute the Promoters’ Group and their individual 
shareholding. 
Submission to the Stock Exchanges on which securities are proposed to be listed,  
the   Permanent   Account Number, Bank Account Number and Passport Number 
of the promoters  at the time of filing the draft offer document to them 

 
4.  SEBI Filing fees 
 
5.  Compliance with Corporate Governance requirements 

Confirmation  if  the  company  has  complied  with  SEBI  guidelines  in  respect  of 
Corporate Governance specially with respect to broad basing of Board, Constituting 
the  Committees  such  as  shareholding/  investor  Grievance  Committee,  etc.  The 
details of these committees have been disclosed under the head "Management". We 
note that if the committees are not constituted for any legal reason before listing, the 
stock exchanges may require that the application monies be kept in escrow account 
till compliance. 

Page 269 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
B.  AT THE TIME OF FILING RED HERRING PROSPECTUS TO ROC 
 

1.  Lead  Manager  to  file  Due  Diligence  Certificate  as  per  Schedule  IV  of  the  DIP 

Guidelines. [DIP Guideline 5.3.3.2(ii)] 

 
2.  Issuer,  in  case  of  Debentures,  to  file  a  due  diligence  certificate  to  be  given  by  the 
debenture trustee before opening of the issue as per Schedule III-A of the DIP Guidelines. 

 
3.  All  undertakings  mentioned  under  part  A  (II)  (points  1 to 3) above to be submitted to 

SEBI in original by Issuer at the time of filing of the offer document with RoC. 

 
 
 
C.  AT THE TIME OF OPENING OF THE ISSUE 
 

1.  Lead  Manager  to  file  Due  Diligence  Certificate  as  per  Schedule  V  of  the  DIP 

Guidelines. [DIP Guideline 5.3.3.2(ii)] 

 
2.  Copy of the Syndicate Agreement before the opening of the Bid 
 
3.  All undertakings mentioned under part A (II) (points 1 to 3) above to be submitted to 

SEBI in original by Issuer before opening of the Bidding. 

 

 
 

D.  AT THE TIME, AFTER ISSUE OPENS B UT BEFORE IT CLOSES 
 

Lead Manager to file Due Diligence Certificate as per Schedule VI of the DIP Guidelines. 
[DIP Guideline 5.3.3.2(ii)] 

 
 
 
E.  AFTER ISSUE CLOSES 
 
Lead Manager to file Post-Issue Monitoring Report with SEBI as follows: [DIP Guideline 7.2] 

 
7.2.1 

Irrespective of the level of subscription, the post-issue Lead Merchant Banker has 
to ensure the submission of the post-issue monitoring reports within 3 working 
days from the due dates.  

 
7.2.2.2 In case of Rights Issue, a 3-day and 50- day (in both cases,  days counted from 

date of closure of subscription) Post Issue Monitoring Report needs to be filed. 

 
 
F.  OTHERS 
 
1. 

In case of Book Building, due diligence certificates to be furnished as provided in clause 
5.3.3 of the Guidelines before opening of the bidding, closure of bidding, filing of document 
with ROC, opening of issue for book built as well as fixed price portion, and after the issue 

Page 270 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

opening  but  before  closing  of  subscription  for  book  built  and  fixed  price  portion.  [SEBI 
Comments Annexure II] 

All  undertakings  mentioned  under  part  A  (II)  (points  1  to  3)  to  be  submitted  to  SEBI  in 
original by Issuer before opening of the Bidding and filing of the offer document with RoC. 

In case of book built issues, a printed and soft copy on a computer floppy, of the draft 
offer  document  incorporating  the  Board’s  observations  and  a  printed  copy  of  bid  cum 
application form at least five days before opening of bidding. [DIP Guideline 16.1.3(b)] 

In-principle  approval  of  the  stock  exchanges  for  listing  of  the  securities,  which is to be 
obtained within 15 days of filing of the draft offer document with the stock exchanges, to be 
filed with SEBI. [DIP Guideline 5.6.2(iii)] 

Clause 5.8  of  the  DIP  Guideline  also  requires  the  Merchant  Banker  to  file  a  ‘No 
Complaints Certificate’ with the Board after a period of 21 days from the date the draft 
offer document was made public:  
i)      
ii)     

giving a list of complaints received by it,  
a statement by it whether it is proposed to amend the draft offer document or not, 
and;  
highlight those amendments. 

iii) 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
 
6. 

In case of Green Shoe Option, the Stabilising Agent (“SA”) has to submit a final report to 
SEBI in the format specified in Schedule XXIX, accompanied with a depository statement 
for the “GSO Demat Account” for the stabilization period, indicating the flow of the shares 
into and from the account. The report shall also be accompanied by an undertaking given by 
the SA and countersigned by the depository(ies) regarding confirmation of lock-in on the 
shares returned to the promoters in lieu of the shares borrowed from them for the purpose of 
the stabilization, as per the requirement specified in clause 8A.16 of the DIP Guideline. [DIP 
Guideline 8A.18] 

 
 
7.       Two copies of final printed copy of the final offer document to within three (3) days of 
filing offer document with Registrar of Companies / concerned Stock Exchange(s) as the 
case may be. [DIP Guideline 16.1.4(a)] 

 
8.         One final printed copy of the final offer document within three (3) days of filing the offer 
document with Registrar of Companies / concerned Stock Exchange(s) as the case may 
be. [DIP Guideline 16.1.4(b)] 

 
9.         A computer floppy containing the final prospectus/ letter of offer within three (3) days of 
filing  the  final  prospectus/  letter  of  offer  with  the  Registrar of Companies/ concerned 
Stock Exchange(s).   

 

 

Along with the floppy, an undertaking to SEBI certifying that the contents of the floppy 
are  is  in  HTML  format  and  are  identical  to  the  printed  version  of  prospectus/  letter  of 
offer filed with Registrar of Companies/ concerned Stock Exchange as the case may be. 
[DIP Guideline 16.1.4(c)] 
 

Page 271 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Annexure A 
 
CHECKLIST FOR PROCESSING ISSUE MANAGEMENT CASES WITH RESPECT TO 
CHAPTERS II, III, IV , V & VI OF SEBI  DIP GUIDELINES  
 
CHAPTER –II 

CONTENTS 

ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR COMPANIES ISSUING THE SECURITIES 
CL.  SUB 
IF 
COMPLI
ED  WITH 
YES/ 
NO/Not 
applicable 
 

- 
CLA
USE 

2.0 

 

2.1 

 

CONDITIONS FOR ISSUE OF SECURITIES 
The  companies  issuing  securities  through  an  offer 
document, to satisfy the following in this Chapter 
Filing of offer document  
Draft prospectus to be filed with the Board, through an 
eligible Merchant Banker, at least 21 days prior to the 
filing of Prospectus. 

2.1.3  Companies barred not to issue security 

No  company  to  make  an  issue  if  the  company  has 
been  prohibited  from  accessing  the  capital  market 
under any order or direction passed by the Board.  

2.1.4  Application for listing 

Company to make public issue making an application 
for listing of those securities in the stock exchange (s). 

Comm
ents 

Page no. in 
prospectus 
where 
complied 
with 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 272 of 326 

 

 

 

 

 

2.1.5 

2.1.5 
(a) 
(b) 

2.2 

 

Issue of securities in dematerialized form 
Company  to  enter  into  agreement  with  a  depository 
for dematerialization 
The 
to 
subscribers/shareholders/investors to hold securities in 
dematerialized form 
INITIAL  PUBLIC  OFFERINGS  BY  UNLISTED 
COMPANIES 

company 

option 

give 

an 

to 

 

 

 

 

2.2.1 
(a) 

The company has net tangible assets of at least Rs. 3 
crore in each of the preceding 3 full years 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

The  company  has  a  track  record  of  distributable 
profits in terms of section 205 of the Companies Act, 
1956,  for  at  least  three  (3)  out  of  immediately 
preceding five (5) years 
The company has a net worth of at least Rs. 1 crore in 
each  of  the  preceding  3  full  years  (of  12  months 
each); 
In case the company has changed its name within the 
last  one  year,  atleast  50%  of  the  revenue  for  the 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

(e) 

preceding 1 full year is earned by the company from 
the activity suggested by the new name 
The aggregate of the proposed issue and   all previous 
issues made in the same financial year in terms of size 
not to exceed five (5) times its pre-issue networth 

2.2.2  An  unlisted  company  not  complying  with  any  of 
the conditions specified in Clause 2.2.1: may make 
an initial public offering (IPO) only if it meets both 
the conditions (a) and (b) given below: 

OR 
(a)(ii
) 
AND 
(b) 
(i) 
OR 
(b) 
(ii) 

(a)(i)  Book-building  issue,  with  at  least  50%  of  the  issue 
size  being  allotted  to  the  Qualified  Institutional 
Buyers (QIBs), 
 
The  “project”  has  at  least  15%  participation  by 
Financial Institutions/ Scheduled Commercial Banks, 
 
The  minimum  post-issue  face  value  capital  of  the 
company shall be Rs. 10 crore  
 
There  shall  be  a  compulsory  market-making  for  at 
least  2  years  from  the  date  of  listing  of  the  shares 
subject to conditions(refer DIP Guidelines) 
For  an  unlisted  company  making  an  issue  the 
prospective  allottees  are  not  less  than  one  thousand 
(1000) in number). 
Checklist  for  Definitions  contained  in  Clause  2.2.1 
and 2.2.2 as above like Net Tangible Assets, Project, 
Accounting  Statement  and  Qualified  Institutional 
Buyer etc. 

2.2.2
A 

2.2.2
B 

2.2.3  Offer for sale 
2.2.3.
1 

An offer for sale to comply with conditions laid down 
in  clause  2.2.1  or  2.2.2,  as  the  case  may  be  and  in 
clause 2.2.2A  
Offer for sale can also be made if provisions of Clause 
2.2.2  are  complied  at  the  time  of  submission  of  offer 
document with Board. 
PUBLIC ISSUE BY LISTED COMPANIES 

 
2.3.1  Aggregate  of  the  proposed  issue  and      all  previous 
issues  made    in  the  same  financial  year  in  terms  of 
size not to exceed 5 times its pre-issue net worth 

2.3.2  A listed company which does not fulfill the conditions 
given in the provisos to Clause 2.3.1 above, shall be 
eligible to make a public issue subject to  complying 
with the conditions specified in Clause 2.2.2 
EXEMPTION FROM ELIGIBILITY NORMS   

 
2.4.1  The  provisions  of  clauses  2.2  (Public  Issue  by 
Unlisted  Company  )and  2.3(Public  Issue  by  Listed 
Company) shall not be applicable for : 
a banking company including a Local Area Bank etc 
a  corresponding  new  bank  set  up  under  the  Banking 

(i) 
(ii) 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

2.2.4 

 

2.3 
 

 

2.4 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

Page 273 of 326 

Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertaking) 
Act,  1970  Banking  Companies  (Acquisition  and 
Transfer of Undertaking) Act, 1980 etc 
an infrastructure company  
whose  project  has  been  appraised  by  a  Public 
Financial Institution etc. 
not less than 5% of the project cost is financed  by any 
of the institutions referred to in sub-clause (a), 
rights issue by a listed company 
CREDIT RATING FOR DEBT INSTRUMENTS 
Credit  rating,  company  name  not  in  the  list  of  willful 
defaulters or default in payments etc. 
An  issuer  company  shall  not  make  an  allotment  of 
non-convertible  debt  instrument  pursuant  to  a  public 
issue if the proposed allottees are less than fifty (50) 
in number. 

(iii) 
(a) 

(b) 

(iv) 
 
2.5.1
A 
2.5.1
B 

 
 

 

 
2.5 
 

 

 
 

2.6 

2.7 
2.8 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

2.5.2  Disclosure of credit ratings 
2.5.4  All the credit ratings obtained during the three (3) years 

preceding the pubic or rights issue of debt instrument 
OUTSTANDING  WARRANTS  OR  FINANCIAL 
INSTRUMENTS 
PARTLY PAID-UP SHARES 
MEANS OF FINANCE  
 Firm  arrangements  of  finance  through  verifiable 
means towards 75%  of the stated means of finance , 
to be made 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

Page 274 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

CHAPTER III 
PRICING BY COMPANIES ISSUING SECURITIES 
Clau
se  

Contents 

Sub - 
Clau
se 

3.0 

3.1 

 

3.2 

 

 

3.3 
 

3.4 
 

 

 

 

 

The  companies  eligible  to  make  public  issue 
can  freely  price  their  equity  shares  or  any 
security  convertible  at  later  date  into  equity 
shares in the following cases: 
 
 
PUBLIC  /  RIGHTS  ISSUE  BY  LISTED 
COMPANIES 

3.1.1  A listed company whose equity shares are listed 
on a stock exchange, may freely price its equity 
shares and any security convertible into equity 
at a later date, offered through a public or rights 
issue.  
 
PUBLIC 
COMPANIES 

UNLISTED 

ISSUE 

BY 

 

3.2.1  An unlisted company eligible to make a public 
issue and desirous of getting its securities listed 
on a recognised stock exchange pursuant to a 
public issue, may freely price its equity shares 
or any securities convertible at a later date into 
equity shares.  
 
Infrastructure company 
An  eligible  infrastructure  company  shall  be 
free  to  price  its  equity  shares  subject  to  the 
compliance  with  the  disclosure  norms  as 
specified by SEBI from time to time. 
 
INITIAL PUBLIC ISSUE BY BANKS 

 
3.3.1  Banks can freely price their equity shares with 

3.2.3 

approval from the Reserve Bank of India 
DIFFERENTIAL PRICING 

 
3.4.1  Price at which the security is being offered to 
the  applicants  in  firm  allotment  category  is 
higher  than  the  price  at  which  securities  are 
offered to public. 
 

3.4.2  A listed company making a composite issue of 
capital may issue securities at differential prices 
in its public and rights issue.   
 
In  the  public  issue  which  is  a  part  of  a 

3.4.3 

IF 
COMPLIED 
WITH  YES/ 
NO/Not 
applicable 
 

Page  no.  in 
prospectus 
where 
complied 
with 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

Page 275 of 326 

Comments 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

3.4.4 

3.5 
 

 
3.5.1 

3.5.2 

3.6 

 

composite issue differential pricing as per sub-
clause 3.4.1 above is also permissible.  
 
Justification  for  the  price  difference  shall  be 
given  in  the  offer  document  for  sub-clauses 
3.4.1 and 3.4.2. 
 
PRICE BAND  
Issuer  company  can  mention  a  price  band  of 
20%  (cap in the price band should not be more 
than  20%  of  the  floor  price)  in  the  offer 
documents 
If the Board of Directors has been authorized to 
determine  the  offer  price  within  a  specified 
price band such price shall be determined by a 
Resolution  to  be  passed  by  the  Board  of 
Directors.  

3.5.3  The  lead  merchant  banker  to  submit  with  the 
Stock  Exchange  a  48  hours  notice  of  the 
meeting of the Board of Directors 

3.5.4  Final offer document to have only one price and 

one set of financial projections, if applicable 
PAYMENT 
COMMISSIONS, ETC; 

DISCOUNTS 

OF 

/ 

 

3.6.1  No direct or indirect payment, in the nature of a 
discount,  commission,  allowance  etc.  to  be 
made  to  the  persons  who  have  received  firm 
allotment. 
FREEDOM  TO  DETERMINE  THE 
DENOMINATION  OF  SHARES  FOR 
PUBLIC  /  RIGHTS  ISSUES  AND  TO 
CHANGE 
STANDARD 
DENOMINATION 

3.7.1  An  eligible  company  shall  be  free  to  make 
public  or  rights  issue  of  equity  shares  in  any 
denomination  determined  by  it  in  accordance 
with Companies Act etc. 

THE 

3.7.2  The  companies  which  have  already  issued 
shares  in  the  denomination  of  Rs.10/-  or 
Rs.100/-  may 
standard 
denomination 

change 

the 

the 

3.7.3  The companies proposing to issue shares in any 
denomination  or  changing 
standard 
denomination in terms of clause 3.7.1 or 3.7.2 
with following: 
The  shares  shall  not  be 
denomination of decimal of a rupee; 
 
The  denomination  of  the  existing  shares  shall 
not be altered to a denomination of decimal of  

issued 

the 

(a) 

(b) 

in 

 

 

 

 

3.7 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 276 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 

 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

a rupee; 
 
At  any  given  time  there  shall  be  only  one 
denomination for the shares of the company; 
 
The companies seeking to change the standard 
denomination  may  do  so  after  amending  the 
Memorandum  and  Articles  of  Association,  if 
required; 
 
The company shall adhere to the disclosure and 
accounting norms specified by SEBI from time 
to time. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 277 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
CHAPTER IV 
LOCK – IN REQUIREMENTS & PROMOTERS’ CONTRIBUTION 
CLA
USE  

CONTENTS 

SUB 
- 
CLA
USE 

IF 
COMPLI
ED  WITH 
YES/ 
NO/Not 
applicable 
 

4.0 

4.1 

 

 

 

4.1.1 

4.2 

 

BY 

ISSUE 

Promoters contribution in  any public issue shall 
be in accordance with the following provisions : 
IN  A 
PROMOTERS  CONTRIBUTION 
PUBLIC 
UNLISTED 
COMPANIES  
In  a  public  issue  by  an  unlisted  company,  the 
promoters shall contribute not less than 20% of 
the post issue capital.  
 
PROMOTERS SHAREHOLDING IN CASE 
OF OFFERS FOR SALE  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.3 

 

4.4 

 

 

4.6 

 

 

 

4.2.1  The promoters shareholding after offer for sale 
shall  not  be  less  than  20%  of  the  post  issue 
capital.  
 
PROMOTERS CONTRIBUTION IN CASE 
OF  PUBLIC 
ISSUES  BY  LISTED 
COMPANIES  
 
In case of public issues by listed companies, the 
promoters shall participate either to the extent of 
20% of the proposed issue or ensure post-issue 
share holding to the extent of 20% of the post-
issue capital.  
 
PROMOTERS CONTRIBUTION IN CASE 
OF COMPOSITE ISSUES  

4.3.1 

4.4.1  Option of the promoter(s) be either 20% of the 
proposed public issue or 20% of the post-issue 
capital.  
 

 

4.4.2  Rights  issue  component  of  the  composite  issue 
shall  be  excluded  while  calculating  the  post-
issue capital.  
 
SECURITIES 
COMPUTATION 
CONTRIBUTION  

FOR 
PROMOTERS 

INELIGIBLE 

4.6.1  Where  the  promoters  of  any  company  making 
an  issue  of  securities  have  acquired  equity 
during  the  preceding  three  years,  such  equity 

OF 

Comments 

Page no. in 
prospectus 
where 
complied 
with 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 278 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.7 

 

 

(i) 

(ii) 

4.6.2 

4.6.3 

4.6.4 

is 

in 

assets 

involved 

shall not be considered, if it is: 
Acquired for consideration other than cash and 
revaluation  of  assets  or  capitalisation  of 
intangible 
such 
transaction(s); or 
Resulting from a bonus issue, out of revaluation 
reserves  or  reserves  without  accrual  of  cash  
resources;  
In  case  of  public  issue  by  unlisted  companies, 
securities  issued  in  preceding  one  year,  at  a 
price  lower  than  the  price  at  which  equity  is 
being offered to public shall not be eligible for 
computation of promoters contribution.  
In respect of companies formed by conversion 
of  partnership  firms,  shares  allotted  to  the 
promoters  during  previous  one  year  out  of  the 
funds brought in during that period shall not be 
considered 
of 
eligible 
promoters contribution 
Ineligible  shares  acquired  in  pursuance  to  a 
scheme of merger or amalgamation approved by 
a  High  Court  shall  be  eligible  for  computation 
of promoters contribution.  

computation 

for 

 

in 

OF 

4.6.7  The  securities  for  which  a  specific  written 
consent  has  not  been  obtained  from 
the 
respective  shareholders  for  inclusion  of  their 
subscription 
the  minimum  promoters 
contribution  subject  to  lock-in  shall  not  be 
eligible for promoters contribution.  
COMPUTATION 
PROMOTERS 
CONTRIBUTION  IN  CASE  OF  ISSUE  OF 
CONVERTIBLE SECURITY 
In case of any issue of convertible security by a 
company, the promoters shall have an option to 
bring  in  their  subscription  by  way  of  equity  or 
by  way  of  subscription  to  the  convertible 
security 
In  case  of  any  issue  of  security  convertible  in 
stages  the  promoters  contribution  in  terms  of 
equity share capital shall not be at a price lower 
than  the  weighted  average  price  of  the  share 

4.7.1 

4.7.2 

4.6.5  For  the  purposes  of  computing  the  promoters 
contribution  referred  to  in  Clauses  4.1.1,  4.1.2, 
4.2.1,  4.3.1,  4.4.1  &  4.5.1  above,  minimum 
contribution of Rs.25000 

4.6.6  No  securities 

forming  part  of  promoters 
contribution  shall  consist  of  any  private 
placement  made  by  solicitation  of  subscription 
from unrelated persons either directly or through 
any intermediary.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 279 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

capital 

 

4.7.3  The  promoters  contribution  shall  be  computed 

4.8 

 

 

4.8.1 

4.9 

 

THE 

REQUIRED 

on the basis of post-issue capital 
PROMOTERS PARTICIPATION IN EXCESS 
OF 
MINIMUM 
CONTRIBUTION  TO  BE  TREATED  AS 
PREFERENTIAL ALLOTMENT  
In  case  of  a  listed  company,  participation  by 
promoters in the proposed public issue in excess 
of  the  required  minimum  percentage,  pricing 
provisions  of  Guidelines  on  preferential 
allotment will apply 
PROMOTERS  CONTRIBUTION  TO  BE 
BROUGHT  IN  BEFORE  PUBLIC  ISSUE 
OPENS 

 

 

 

 

 

4.10 

 

 

 

 
 

 
4.11 

 

 

 

4.9.1  Promoters shall bring in the full amount of the 
promoters  contribution  including  premium  at 
least one day prior to the issue opening date 

4.9.2  The  company’s  board  shall  pass  a  resolution 
allotting the shares or convertible instruments to 
promoters against the moneys received.  

4.9.3  A copy of the resolution alongwith a Chartered 
Accountants’  Certificate  to  be  filed  with  the 
board 

4.10.
1 
(a) 

4.9.4  The  certificate  of  the  Chartered  Accountants 
shall also be accompanied by a list of names and 
addresses of friends, relatives and associates 
EXEMPTION  FROM  REQUIREMENT  OF 
PROMOTERS CONTRIBUTION 
The requirement of promoters contribution shall 
not be applicable 
In  case  of  public  issue  of  securities  by  a 
company  which  has  been  listed  on  a  stock 
exchange for at least 3 years 
In  case  of  companies  where  no  identifiable 
promoter or promoter group exists 
in case of rights issues. 
The  promoters  shall  disclose  their  existing 
shareholding I (a) and (c) above 

( c ) 
 

(b) 

4.11.1 

Lock  in  of  Minimum  Specified  Promoters 
Contribution in Public Issues  
In case of any issue of capital to the public the 
minimum promoters contribution (as per clause 
4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 & 4.5) shall be locked in for a 
period of 3 years.  

4.11.2  The  lock-in  shall  start  from  the  date  of 
allotment in the proposed public issue and the 
last  date  of  the  lock-in  shall  be  reckoned  as 
three years 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Page 280 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

4.12 

 

LOCK-IN  OF  EXCESS  PROMOTERS’ 
CONTRIBUTION  

4.12.1  This shall also be locked in for a period of one 

year  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 281 of 326 

 

 

 

4.13 

 

4.14 

 

 
 

 

 

(ii) 

(iii) 

 

4.14 
A 

4.15 

 

 

4.12.1
3 

4.12.2  Participation by promoters in the public issue if 
it  is  in  excess  of  minimum  percentage  ,this 
shall also be locked-in for a period of one year 
In case shortfall in the firm allotment category 
is  met  by  the  promoter  as  specified  in  clause 
8.5(e), such subscription shall be locked in for 
a period of  one year 
SECURITIES  ISSUED  LAST  TO  BE 
LOCKED-IN FIRST  

4.13.1  The  securities  forming  part  of  promoters 
contribution  as  specified  in  Clauses  4.1.1, 
4.1.2, 4.2.1, 4.3.1, 4.4.1 & 4.5.1 of Part I of this 
Chapter  and  issued  last  to  the  promoters  shall 
be locked in first for the specified period.  
 
LOCK-IN  OF 
SHARE 
CAPITAL OF AN UNLISTED COMPANY 
4.14.1  The  entire  pre-issue  share  capital,  other  than 
that locked-in as promoters’ contribution, shall 
be locked-in for a period of one year from the 
date  of  commencement  of  commercial 
production 

PRE-ISSUE 

 

4.14.2  Clause 4.14.1 shall not be applicable to : 
(i) 

pre-issue share capital held by Venture Capital 
Funds  and  Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investors 
registered with the Board. 
pre-issue  share  capital  held  for  a  period  of  at 
least  one  year  at  the  time  of  filing  draft  offer 
document with the Board 
pre-IPO  shares  held  by  employees  other  than 
promoters, which were issued under employee 
stock  Option  or  employee  stock  purchase 
scheme 
Lock-in  of 
allotment basis 
Securities  issued  on  firm allotment basis shall 
be locked-in for a period of one year from the 
date  of  commencement  of  commercial 
production 
PLEDGE  OF  SECURITIES  FORMING 
PART 
OF 
PROMOTERS 
CONTRIBUTION 

issued  on 

securities 

firm 

 

4.15.1  Locked-in Securities held by promoters may be 
financial 

pledged  only  with  banks  or 
institutions as collateral security 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

INTER-SE  TRANSFER  OF  SECURITIES 
AMONGST PROMOTERS  
Inter-se Transfer of Locked- in Securities 
Shares  held  by  the  person  other  than  the 
promoters  which  are  locked  in  as  per  Clause 
4.14 of these Guidelines,  may be transferred to 
any other person holding shares 
Shares held by promoter(s) which are locked in 
as  per  the  relevant  provisions  of  this  chapter, 
may 
amongst 
transferred 
promoter/promoter group 
Inscription of Non-Transferability 

and 

be 

to 

 
4.17.1  The securities which are subject to lock-in shall 

carry inscription `non transferable’ 

4.16 

 

4.16.1 
(a) 

(b) 

 
 

 

4.17 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

Page 282 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
CHAPTER V 
PRE-ISSUE OBLIGATIONS 
CLA
USE  

CONTENTS 

SUB 
- 
CLA
USE 

 

 

 

5.2 

5.3 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

5.1 

The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  exercise  due 
diligence.  
 

 

 

5.1.1  Merchant banker to satisfy himself about all the 
aspects  of  offering,  veracity  and  adequacy  of 
disclosure in the offer documents.  
 

5.1.2  The liability of the merchant banker as referred 
to  clause  5.1.1  shall  continue  even  after  the 
completion of issue process.  
 
The  lead  merchant  banker,  shall  pay  requisite 
fee 
Documents  to  be  submitted  along  with  the 
Offer Document by the Lead Manager  

5.3.1  MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING  
Memorandum  of  Understanding  has  to  be 
5.3.1
entered  into  between  a  lead  merchant  banker 
.1 
and the issuer company 
MOU shall contain such clauses as are specified 
at Schedule I 
The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  responsible  to 
submit  copy  of  the  MOU  and  a  draft  offer 
document to the Board  

5.3.1
.2 
5.1.3
.3 

5. 
3.2 
5.3.2
.1 

5.3.2
.2  

OF 

ALLOCATION 

 
INTER-SE 
RESPONSIBILITIES  
In  case  a  public  or  rights  issue is managed by 
more  than  one  merchant  bankers,  merchant 
banker  shall  be  demarcated  as  specified  in 
Schedule II.  
In  case  of  under  subscription  at  an  issue,  the   
lead  Merchant  Banker  invoke  underwriting 
obligations and to accompany the due diligence 
certificate  submitted  by  the  Lead  Merchant 
Banker to the Board 

5.3.3  Due Diligence Certificate 
5.3.3
.1 

a  due  diligence  certificate  as  specified 
in 
Schedule III along with the draft prospectus to 
be submitted by the Merchant Banker 
In  case  of  a  debenture  issue    a  diligence 

5.3.3

IF 
COMPLI
ED  WITH 
YES/ 
NO/Not 
applicable 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Comments 

Page no. in 
prospectus 
where 
complied 
with 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Page 283 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

.1 A 

5.3.3
.2 

certificate given by the debenture trustee in the 
format specified in Schedule IIIA along with the 
draft offer document to be submitted 
 
In  addition  to  the  due  diligence  certificate,  a 
merchant banker needs to submit the following: 
 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(i) certify  that  all  amendments  suggestion  or  observations 
made  by  Board  have  been  incorporated  in  the 
offer document;  
 
furnish a fresh "due diligence" certificate at the 
time of filing the prospectus with the Registrar 
of Companies as per Schedule IV 
furnish  a  fresh  certificate  immediately  before 
the opening of the issue that no corrective action 
on its part is needed as per the Schedule V.  
 
furnish  a  fresh  certificate  after  the  issue  has 
opened  but  before  it  closes  for  subscription  as 
per Schedule VI 
The  lead  managers  who  are  responsible  for 
conducting due diligence exercise as per inter-
se  allocation  of  responsibilities  shall  sign  due 
diligence certificate 

(iv) 

(v) 

 

5.3.4  CERTIFICATES 

signed 

certificates 

SIGNED  BY  THE 
SECRETARY 
OR 
COMPANY 
CHARTERED  ACCOUNTANT,  IN  CASE 
OF  LISTED  COMPANIES  MAKING 
FURTHER ISSUE OF CAPITAL  
The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  furnish  the 
following 
by 
duly 
1(Company 
Chartered 
Secretary) 
or 
Accountants  along  with 
the  draft  offer 
documents:  
all  refund  orders  of  the  previous  issues  were 
despatched prescribed time and in the prescribed 
manner; 
all  security  certificates  were  despatched  to  the 
allottees 
the  securities  were 
the  Stock 
Exchanges as specified in the offer documents.  
 

listed  on 

5.3.4
.1 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

5.3.5  UNDERTAKING  
 

Issuer shall submit an undertaking to the Board 
to the effect that transactions in securities by the 
`promoter' the 'promoter group' etc. be reported 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

                                                 
 

Page 284 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

to  the  Stock  exchanges  concerned  within  24 
hours of the transaction(s).  
 

5.3.6  LIST  OF  PROMOTERS’  GROUP  AND 

OTHER DETAILS             
The issuer company shall submit to the 
Board the list of the persons who constitute 
the Promoters’ Group and their individual 
shareholding. 
 
The  issuer  company  shall  submit  to  the  Stock 
Exchanges on which securities are proposed to 
be listed,  the   Permanent   Account Number, 
Bank Account Number and Passport Number of 
the promoters 
APPOINTMENT OF INTERMEDIARIES 

OF 

MERCHANT 

BANKERS  
A  Merchant  Banker  shall  not  lead  manage 
the issue if he is a promoter or a director or 
associate of the issuer company. (refer DIP)  
 

 
5.4.1  APPOINTMENT 

5.4.2  APPOINTMENT OF CO-MANAGERS  
5.4.2
.1 

the number of co-managers to an issue does not 
exceed the number of Lead Merchant Bankers 
to the said issue and there is only one advisor to 
the issue.  

5.4.3  APPOINTMENT 

OF 

OTHER 

INTERMEDIARIES 
Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  ensure  that  the 
other intermediaries to be duly registered by the 
Board 
Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall 
independently 
assess  the  capability  and  the  capacity  of  the 
various intermediaries to carry out assignment.  
 
The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  ensure  that 
issuer companies enters into a Memorandum of 
Understanding with the intermediary(ies) 
The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  ensure  that 
Bankers  to  the  Issue  are  appointed  in  all  the 
mandatory  collection  centres  as  specified  in 
clause 5.9.  
The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  not  act  as  a 
Registrar  to  an  issue  in  which  it  is  also 
handling the post issue responsibilities.  

 

5.4.3 The Lead Merchant Bankers shall ensure that;  

5.3.6
.1 

5.3.6
.2 

5.4.1
.1 

5.4.3
.1 

5.4.3
.1.1 

5.4.3
.1.2 

5.4.3
.2 

5.4.3
.3 

 

 

 

5.4 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 285 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

.4 
(a) 

(b) 

 

 

 
the Registrars to Issue registered with the Board 
are appointed in all                    public  issues 
and rights issues;  
in case where the issuer company is a registered 
Registrar to an Issue, the issuer shall appoint an 
independent  outside  Registrar  to  process  its 
issue.  
Registrar  to  an  issue  which  is  associated  with 
the      issuer  company  as  a  promoter  or  a 
director shall not act as Registrar for the issuer 
company.  
UNDERWRITING 

 
5.5.1  underwriters  should  be  able  to  discharge  their 

underwriting obligations.  
 

5.5.2  The lead merchant banker shall;  
(a) 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 286 of 326 

5.5 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

5.6 

 

 

 

 

(b) 

5.5.3 

incorporate a statement in the offer document to 
the  effect  that  in  the  opinion  of  the  lead 
merchant  banker,  the  underwriters'  assets  are 
adequate to meet their underwriting obligations;  
obtain  Underwriters’  written  consent  before 
including their names as underwriters 
In respect of every underwritten issue, the lead 
merchant banker(s) shall undertake a minimum 
underwriting  obligation  of  5%  of  the  total 
underwriting  commitment  or  Rs.25 
lakhs 
whichever is less.  

5.5.5 

5.5.4  The outstanding underwriting commitments of a 
merchant  banker  shall  not  exceed  20  times  its 
net worth 
In  respect  of  an  underwritten  issue,  the  lead 
merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  relevant 
details of underwriters are included in the offer 
document.  
OFFER  DOCUMENT  TO  BE  MADE 
PUBLIC 

 

5.6.1  The  draft  offer  document  filed  with  the  Board 
shall  be  made  public  for  a  period  of  21  days 
from the date of filing the offer document 

5.6.2  The lead merchant banker shall, 

(i) 

(ii) 

 
while  filing  the  draft  offer  document  with  the 
Board in terms of Clause 2.1, also file the draft 
offer document with the stock exchanges where 
the securities are proposed to be listed  
make  copies  of  the  draft  offer  document 
available  to  the  public,  host  the  draft  and  final 
offer  documents  on  the  websites  of  the  all  the 
lead managers / syndicate members associated 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 

5.7 
 

 

5.8 
 

 
 

 
5.9    
 

 

 

 

 

5.10 
 

 

(iii) 

with the issue 
obtain and furnish to the Board, an in-principle 
approval  of  the  stock  exchanges  for  listing  of 
the  securities  within  15  days  of  filing  of  the 
draft offer document with the stock exchanges 

5.6.3  Lead merchant banker or stock exchanges may 
charge  an  appropriate  sum  to  the  person 
requesting for the copy of offer document.  
DESPATCH OF ISSUE MATERIAL  

 
5.7.1  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  for 
public  issues  offer  documents  and  other  issue 
materials  are  dispatched  to  the  various  stock 
exchanges, brokers, underwriters, bankers to the 
issue, investors associations, etc. in advance 
In  the  case  of  rights  issues,  lead  merchant 
banker  shall  ensure  that  the  letters  of  offer  are 
dispatched to all shareholders at least one week 
before the date of opening of the issue. 
 
NO COMPLAINTS CERTIFICATE  

5.7.2 

 
5.8.1  After a period of 21 days from the date the draft 
offer  document  was  made  public,  the  Lead 
Merchant Banker shall file a statement with the 
Board as : 
giving a list of complaints received by it,  
a  statement  by  it  whether  it  is  proposed  to 
amend the draft offer document  or not,                                       
highlight those amendments. 
MANDATORY COLLECTION CENTRES 

(iii) 
 
5.9.1  The minimum number of collection centres for 

(i) 
(ii) 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

(a) 

(b) 

(c ) 

four  metropolitan  centres  situated  at 

an issue of capital shall be-  
the 
Mumbai, Delhi, Calcutta and Chennai  
all  such  centres  where  the  stock  exchanges  are 
located  in  the  region  in  which  the  registered 
office of the company is situated.  
 
The issuer company shall be free to appoint as 
many  collection  centers  as  it  may  deem  fit  in 
addition to the above minimum requirement.  

 
5.10.
1 

5.9.2  The issuer company shall be free to appoint as 
many  collection  centres  as  it  may  deem  fit  in 
addition to the above minimum requirement.  
AUTHORISED COLLECTION AGENTS 
The issuer company can also appoint authorised 
collection agents in consultation with the Lead 
Merchant  Banker  provided  all  disclosures  are 
made 
The modalities of selection and  appointment of 
collection agents can be made at the discretion 

5.10.
2 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Page 287 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.10.
3 

5.10.
4 

5.10.
5 
5.10.
6 

5.10.
7 

5.10.
8 

5.10.
9 

5.10.
10 

5.10.
11 

5.11 

 

 

 

5.11.
1 

5.11.
2 

of the Lead Merchant Banker.  
The lead merchant banker shall ensure that the 
collection  agents  so  selected  are  properly 
equipped  for  the  purpose,  both  in  terms  of 
infrastructure and manpower requirements. 
The  collection  agents  may  collect  such 
applications as are accompanied by payment of 
application moneys paid by cheques, drafts and 
stock invests.  
The authorised collection agent shall not collect 
application moneys in cash.  
The  applications  collected  by  the  collection 
agents  shall  be  deposited  in  the  special  share 
application  account  with  designated  scheduled 
bank  either  on  the  same  date  or  latest  by  the 
next working day.  
The  application 
forms  along  with  duly 
reconciled schedules shall be forwarded by the 
collection  agent  to  the  Registrars  to  the  Issue 
after realization of cheques within a period of 2 
weeks  from  the  date  of  closure  of  the  public 
issue.  
The  applications  accompanied by stock invests 
shall be sent directly by the collection agent to 
the  Registrars  to  the  Issue  along  with  the 
schedules  within  one  week  from  the  date  of 
closure of the issue.  
The offer documents and application forms shall 
specifically  indicate  that  the  acknowledgement 
of  receipt  of  application  moneys  given  by  the 
collection  agents  shall  be  valid  and  binding  on 
the issuer company 
The  investors  from  the  places  other  than  from 
the  places  where  the  mandatory  collection 
centres  and  authorised  collection  agents  are 
located,  can  forward  their  applications  along 
with  stockinvests  to  the  Registrars  to  the  Issue 
through Registered Post 
The applications received through the registered 
post shall be dealt with by the Registrars to the 
Issue in the normal course.  
ADVERTISEMENT  FOR  RIGHTS  POST 
ISSUES  
The Lead Merchant Banker shall ensure that in 
case  of  a  rights  issue,  an  advertisement  giving 
the date of completion of despatch of letters of 
offer, shall be released in  
The  advertisement  referred  to  in  clause  5.11.1 
shall  indicate  the  centres  other  than  registered 
office  of  the  company  where  the  shareholders 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 288 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

or  the  persons  entitled  to  rights  may  obtain 
duplicate copies application forms  
Where  the  shareholders  have  neither  received 
the  original  composite  application  forms  may 
make applications to subscribe to the rights on 
a plain paper. 
The advertisement shall also contain a format to 
enable the shareholders to make the application 
on a plain paper 
The  advertisement  shall  further  mention  that 
applications  can  be  directly  sent  by 
the 
shareholder through Registered Post etc  
The  advertisement  may  also  invite  attention  of 
the shareholders to the fact that the shareholders 
making  the  applications  otherwise  than  on  the 
standard form shall not be entitled to renounce 
their rights 
If the shareholder makes an application on plain 
paper  and  also  in  standard  form,  he  may  face 
the risk of rejection of both the applications.  
APPOINTMENT  OF 
OFFICER 
An  issuer  company  shall  appoint  a  compliance 
officer who shall directly liaise with the Board 
with  regard  to  compliance  with  various  laws, 
rules, regulations 
The  name  of 
appointed shall be intimated to the Board.  

the  compliance  officer  so 

COMPLIANCE 

 
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS 
The  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall  ensure  the 
following:  
Every application form distributed by the issuer 
Company  or  anyone  else  is  accompanied  by  a 
copy of the Abridged Prospectus.  
The  application  form  may  be  stapled  to  form 
part of the Abridged Prospectus. Alternatively, 
it  may  be  a  perforated  part  of  the  Abridged 
Prospectus.  
The  Abridged  Prospectus  shall  not  contain 
matters which are extraneous to the contents of 
the prospectus.  
The  Abridged  Prospectus  shall  be  printed  at 
least in point 7 size with proper spacing 
Enough  space  shall  be  provided 
the 
application form to enable the investors to file in 
various details like name, address, etc. 
AGREEMENTS WITH DEPOSITORIES  
The  lead  manager  shall  ensure  that  the  issuer 
company  has  entered  into  agreements  with  all 

in 

 

 

 

 

 

5.11.
13 

5.11.
4 

5.11.
5 

5.11.
6 

5.11.
7 

5.12 

 

 

 

5.13 
 

 

 

 

 

 

5.14 
 

5.12.
1 

5.12.
2 

 
5.13.
1 
(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

(iv) 

(v) 

 
5.14.
1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 289 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

for  dematerialization  of 

the  depositories 
securities. 
BRANDING OF SECURITIES  
Securities  may  be  branded  describing  their 
nature  but not the  quality 
 

 
 

5.15 
 

 
5.15.
1 

 

 
 

 
 

Page 290 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
CHAPTER VI 
DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS 
 
SR. 
NO. 

CLAU
SE 

STEPS 

 

 

6.1.2 

A 

Sect
ion 
I 
a  

 

b 
(cid:242) 
i. 
ii. 

iii. 

   

iv. 
v. 
vi. 
vii. 
viii. 
ix. 

x. 

xi. 
xii. 
xiii. 
xiv. 

   
   
   
   
   
   

   

   
   
   
   

CONTENTS  OF  THE  OFFER 

DOCUMENT 

Contents of the Prospectus 

Approval  &  certification  draft  by  Board  of 
Directors ,signed by MD, CEO, CFO of Issuer 
Company: 
Cover Page 

6.2 
6.2.1 
  6.2.1.1  White and without patterns/pictures 
   

Front Cover  Page 

Inclusion of the name, address ,Telephone Fax 
& E-mail Address of the regd. office of Issuer 
Nature,  Number,  Price  and  amount  of  the 
instruments offered 
Risks in relation to first Issue  
Concluding sentence, If issue is listed OCTCEI 
General risk to be incorporated 
Issuer’s Absolute Responsibility 
Details of the Lead Merchant Banker 
On Back Cover Page , Names of the other lead 
merchant banker & co-Managers 
Disclosure of inter-se allocation, in the case of 
more than one merchant bankers 
Names & address of the RTIs 
Opening date of the Issue 
If applicable , then Credit Rating 
Names of the Stock Exchanges & details of In-
principle approval 

 
i. 
 
 

 
 
  

FRONT INSIDE COVER PAGE 

6.2.2 
  6.2.2.1 
6.2.3 
6.2.3.1  Other  Risk  Factors  in  clear  readable  font, 

INNER COVER PAGES 

Index shall appear 

minimum point 10 size 
BACK COVER PAGES 
To be in White 

6.2.4 
 
6.2.4.2  Any ‘notes’  required  to  be  given  prominence 
shall appear immediately after the Risk Factors 

IF 
COMPLI
ED  WITH 
YES/ 
NO/Not 
applicable 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Comments 

Page no. in 
prospectus 
where 
complied 
with 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Page 291 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

wherever 
 

they 

appear.  

 

6.3 

i. 

  6.3.1 

ii  6.3.2 

6.3.5 

i. 

   

ii. 

   

6.3.6 

6.3.7 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

GENERAL INFORMATION 
Name  and  address  of  registered  office  of  the 
issuer company.  
 

Letter of intent / industrial license and 
declaration  of  the  Central  Govt  / 
RBI  about  non-responsibility  for 
financial  soundness  or  correctness 
of statements 

 
Disclaimer Clause 

6.3.3 
6.3.3.1  Disclaimer  clause  along  with  Merchant 

Bankers’ due diligence ensurance 
Disclaime r statement from the issuer 

6.3.4 
6.3.4.1  A statement to the effect of relying on any other 

the  offer 
shall  be 

the  Board  where 
filed 

party apart from the issuer 
Filing of offer document with the Board and 
ROC 
Office  of 
document  has  been 
mentioned.  
 
The  RoC  where  copy  of 
the  offer 
document,  has  been  filed  shall  also  be 
mentioned. 
 
Names  of  the  Designated  stock  exchange  and 
other  exchanges  where  application  has  been 
made  for  listing  of  the  present  issue  shall  be 
mentioned 
Provisions of sub-section (1) of section 68A 
of 
to 
punishment for fictitious applications, shall 
be mentioned.  
 

the  Companies  Act, 

relating 

6.3.8  Minimum  Subscription  Clause 

for 

the 

following: 

6.3.8.1  For Non-underwritten Public Issue 
6.3.8.2  For Underwritten Public Issues 
6.3.8.3  For Composite Issues 
6.3.8.4  Offer For Sale  
6.3.8.4.
1 
6.3.8.5  Public Issues by Infrastructure Companies 
 

Requirement  for  minimum  subscription  shall 
not be applicable to offer for sale 

Requirement of minimum subscription shall not 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Page 292 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

6.3.9 

6.3.10 
   
   
   
6.3.11 
   
   
   

 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 
 
i. 
ii. 
iii. 

 
i. 

ii. 

   

iii. 

   

6.3.12  Credit Rating 
   

to  an  eligible 

infrastructure 
be  applicable 
company,  provided  disclosures  regarding  the 
alternate source of funding is made in the offer 
documents. 
 
Declaration about the issue of allotment letters 
or refunds to be mentioned 
Issue of Schedule  
Date of Opening of the issue 
Date of Closing of the issue 
Date of earliest closing of the issue 
Intermediaries & Auditors  
Name & address of Lead Managers & auditors 
Name & Address of Registrars to the Issue 
Name and address of Trustee under debenture 
trust deed(if it is a debenture issue) 

Credit  rating  to  be  obtained  from  the  credit 
rating  agency  for  the  proposed  issue  of  debt 
security including convertible instruments 
If the rating has been done from more than one 
credit rating agency, all those ratings, including 
unaccepted ones to be included  
All  the  credit  ratings  obtained  during  the 
previous three years  before  filing  of  the  offer 
document for any of its listed debt-securities at 
the time of accessing the market through a rated 
debt-security shall be disclosed. 
 

Names  and  addresses  of  the  underwriters  and 
the amount underwritten by them 
 
Declaration  by  board  of  directors  of  the  issuer 
company  that  the  underwriters  have  sufficient 
resources 
respective 
obligations. 
 

to  discharge 

their 

The name, address, telephone number, fax and 
E-mail address of Compliance Officer. 
 
The investor’s attention shall also be invited to 
contact  the  compliance  officer  in  case  of  any 
pre-issue  /  post-issue related problems such as 
non-receipt  of  letters  of  allotment  /  share 
certificates 
/  cancelled 
stockinvests, etc. 
 

refund  orders 

/ 

 
i. 

6.3.13  Underwriting of the issue  
   

ii. 

   

ii. 

   

 
i. 

6.3.14  Compliance Officer  
   

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

Page 293 of 326 

 

6.4 

i. 

   

ii. 

   

iii. 

   

 
i. 

6.4.2 
   

ii. 

   

 

 

a) 

b) 

iii. 

   

iv. 

   

v. 

   

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

OF 

STRUCTURE 

firm  allotment 

THE 
CAPITAL 
COMPANY(TO  BE  PRESENTED  BY  THE 
LEAD MERCHANT BANKER) 
Authorised  issued  subscribed  and  paid  up 
capital  (Number  of  instruments,  description, 
aggregate nominal value) 
 
Size  of  present 
issue  giving  separately 
promoters  contribution, 
/ 
reservation  for  specified  categories  and  net 
offer to public. 
Paid-up Capital after the issue, after conversion 
of securities (if-applicable) and Share Premium 
Account (before and after the issue)  
 
Notes to Capital structure 
Note  relating  to  promoters'  contribution  and 
lock-in  period  stating  date  of  allotment,  date 
when  made  fully  paid  up,  Nature  of  allotment 
(rights, bonus, etc.), number of securities,  face 
value  of  securities,  issue  price  of  securities, 
percentage  of  promoters  contribution  to  total 
issued  capital  and  the  date  up  to  which  the 
securities are locked-in. 
 
An illustrative format of promoters contribution 
and lock-in is specified in Schedule VIII.  
 
percentage  of  contribution  by  the  promoters 
whose  name  figured  in  the  prospectus  and  the 
date upto which securities are locked in 
An illustrative format of promoters contribution 
whose  name  figures  in  prospectus  is  specified 
in Schedule IX.  
 
statement that promoters contribution has been 
brought in not less than the specified minimum 
lot  and  from  persons  defined  as  promoters 
under the Guidelines.  

if 

 
Statement  that  the  promoters  undertake  to 
accept  full  conversion, 
the  promoters 
contribution is in terms of the same optionally 
convertible  security  as  is  being  offered  to  the 
public.  

 
Details of all "buy-back" and `stand by’ and 
similar  arrangements 
for  purchase  of 
securities  by  promoters,  directors  and  lead 
merchant bankers shall be disclosed.  

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 294 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

vi. 

   

vii. 

   

viii. 

  a) 

 

b) 

ix. 

   

x. 

   

 

 

 

 

 

a)   

b)   

c) 

 

d)   

e) 

 

 
An  over-subscription  to  the  extent  of  10%  of 
the  net  offer  to  public  can  be  retained  for  the 
purpose  of  rounding  off  to  the  nearer  multiple 
of 100 while finalizing the allotment 
 
A  disclosure  to  the  effect  that  the  securities 
offered through this public/ rights issue shall be 
made  fully  paid  up  or  may  be  forfeited  within 
12  months  from  the  date  of  allotment  of 
securities  in  the  manner  specified  in  clause 
8.6.2. 
 
A  note  about  unsubscribed  portion  to  be 
added to any other category 
The unsubscribed portion, if any, after such 
inter  se  adjustments  amongst  the  reserved 
categories  shall  be  added  back  to  the  net 
offer to the public. 
In  case  of  under-subscription  in  the  net 
offer  to  the  public  portion  spillover  to  the 
extent  of  under  subscription  shall  be 
permitted from the reserved category to the 
net public offer portion. 
Following  Details  Regarding  Major 
Shareholders: 
names of the ten largest shareholders as on the 
date  of  filing  of  the  prospectus  with  the 
registrar of Companies; 
 
number  of  shares  held  by  shareholders  at  (i) 
above  including  number  of  shares  which  they 
would be entitled to upon exercise of warrant, 
option,  rights  to  convert  a  debenture,  loan  or 
other instrument; 
 
particulars as in (i) and (ii) above as on a date 
two  years  prior  to  the  date  of  filing  the 
prospectus with the Registrar of Company, - 
 
Particulars as in (i) and (ii) above as on a date 
10  days  prior  to  the  date  of  filing  of  the 
prospectus with the Registrar of the Company; 
 
if the issuer company has made an initial public 
offering within the immediately preceding two 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 295 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

xi. 
 

   
a)   

 

b)   

 

c) 

 

xii. 

   

 

 

 

a)   

b)   

c) 

 

Explanation I  For (ix) a, b & c above, the term promoter shall 

include: 

years,  the  above  information  shall  be  given 
separately indicating the names of persons who 
acquired  shares  by  subscriptions to the public 
issue  and  those  who  acquired  the  shares  by 
allotment  on  a  firm  basis  or  by  private 
placement. 
 
The Details of: 
the  aggregate  shareholding  of  the  Promoters 
group  and  of  the  directors  of  the  Promoters, 
where the promoter is a company; 
 
aggregate  number  of  securities  purchased  or 
sold by the Promoters Group and the directors 
of  the  promoter  during  a  period  of  six  months 
preceding 
the  draft 
prospectus  is  filed  with  Board  and  to  be 
updated by incorporating the information in this 
regard till the time of filing the prospectus with 
the Registrar of the Company; 
 
the  maximum  and  minimum  price  at  which 
purchases  and  sales  referred  to  in  (ii)  above 
were made along with the relevant dates. 
 
In the event of it not being possible to obtain 
information regarding sales and purchase of 
securities by any relative of the promoters, a 
statement to that effect shall be made in the 
prospectus  on  the  basis  of  the  transfers 
recorded in the books of the company.  
 

the  date  on  which 

The  person  or  persons  who  are  in  over-all 
control of the company. 
The  person  or  persons  who 
are 
instrumental  in  the  formulation  of  a  plan 
or  programme  pursuant  to  which  the 
securities are offered to the public;  
 
the  persons  or  persons  named 
prospectus as promoters(s) :  
Provided that a  director / officer  of   the   
issuer    company    or    person,    if  they    are 
acting  as  such  merely  in  their  professional  
capacity    shall    not  be  included  in  the 
Explanation.  
 

the 

in 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 296 of 326 

Explanation 
II 

 
 

a)   
b)   

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

c) 
i. 

ii. 

 

 

iii. 

 

d)   
i. 

 

ii. 

 

e) 

 

Explanatio
n III 

“Promoter” shall include 

The Promoter 
an  immediate  relative  of  the  promoter  (i.e. 
any  spouse  of  that  person,  or  any  parent, 
brother, sister or child of the person or of the 
spouse);and 
In case the promoter is a company 
A  subsidiary  or  holding  company  of  that 
company 
any  company  in  which  the  promoter  holds 
10%  or  more  of  the  equity  capital  or  which 
holds 10% or more of the equity capital of the 
Promoter; 
 
any company in which a group of individuals 
or  companies  or  combinations  thereof  who 
holds  20%  or  more  of  the  equity  capital  in 
that company also holds 20% or more of the 
equity capital of the issuer company; and 
 
In case the promoter is an individual 
any  company  in  which  10%  or  more  of  the 
share  capital  is  held  by  the  promoter  or  an 
immediate relative of the promoter' or a firm 
or HUF in which the 'Promoter' or any one or 
more of his immediate relative is a member;  
 
any company in  which a company specified 
in (i) above, holds 10% or more, of the share 
capital; 
all persons whose shareholding is aggregated 
for the purpose of disclosing in the prospectus 
"shareholding of the promoter group". 

Investors 

Institutional 

The  Financial  Institution,  Scheduled  Banks, 
Foreign 
(FIIs)  and 
Mutual  Funds  shall  not  be  deemed  to  be  a 
promoter or promoter group merely by virtue of 
the  fact  that  10%  or  more  of  the  equity  of  the 
issuer company is held by such institution. 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 297 of 326 

 

 

 
i. 

6.5.1.1 

the  present 

issue-Terms  of 

6.5/6.5.1  Terms  of 
Payment  
The  caption  "Interest  in  Case  of  Delay  in 
Despatch  of  Allotment  Letters/  Refund 
Orders in Case of Public Issues" shall appear 
and shall contain a statement 
Arrangements for disposal of Odd lots 
Any  arrangements  made  by 
the 
issuer 
company  for  providing  liquidity  for            and 
consolidation of the shares held in odd lots 

6.5.2 
  6.5.2.1 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

ii. 

 

 

 

6.5.2.2 

The  company  is  free  to  make  arrangements 
for  providing  liquidity  in  respect  of  odd  lot 
shares  through  any  investment  or  finance 
company, broking firms or through any other 
agency  and 
such 
arrangement, if any, may be disclosed in the 
offer  documents  related  to  the  concerned 
issue of capital.  

the  particulars  of 

 
Lead  Merchant  Banker 
shall  ascertain 
whether  the  companies  coming  for  fresh 
issue  of  capital  propose  to  set  up  trusts  in 
order  to  provide  service  to  the  investors  in 
the matter of disposal of odd lot shares of the 
company held by them and if so, disclosures 
relating  to  setting  up  and  operation  of  the 
trust  shall  be  contained 
the  offer 
document.  

in 

 

6.5.2.3  Whenever any issue results in issue of shares 
in odd lots, the issuer company, shall as far 
as  possible 
the 
in 
denomination of 1-2-5-10-20-50 shares.  

certificates 

issue 

 

 

6.5.4 

 
   

6.5.4.1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6.5.4.2 

a)   

 

 

 

 
i. 

6.5.4.3 
   

shall 

 
How  to  apply  -  availability  of  forms, 
prospectus and mode of payment  
 
Application by Mutual Funds 
Lead  Merchant  Bankers 
clearly 
incorporate  necessary  disclosures  under  the 
heads  "Procedure  for  applications  by  mutual 
funds" and "Multiple Applications" 
The  applications  made  by  the  AMCs  or 
custodians  of  a  Mutual  Fund  shall  clearly 
indicate  the  name  of  the  concerned  scheme 
for which application is being made 
Applications by NRIs ( to be provided by 
Lead Merchant Bankers) 
"NRI  applicants  may  please  note  that  only 
such  applications  as  are  accompanied  by 
payment  in  free  foreign  exchange  shall  be 
considered  for  allotment  under  the  reserved 
category. 
"NRI  applicants  may  please  note  that  only 
such  applications  as  are  accompanied  by 
payment  in  free  foreign  exchange  shall  be 
considered  for  allotment  under  the  reserved 
category. 
Disclosures about stock invests  
Disclosures  regarding  manner  of  obtaining 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Page 298 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

ii.    

iii.    

 
 
i. 

6.5.5 
 
  6.5.51 

  6.5.6 

  6.5.6.2 

  6.5.7 
i.    

6.5.7.2 

i
i 

and  mode  of  drawing  stockinvests,  specified 
by RBI to be incorporated 
Name of the bank through which stockinvests 
shall be realized, to be given in Prospectus 
A  paragraph  to  be  included  relating  to  the 
proceeds of the stock invests 
Despatch of Refund Orders 
 
Clause to be incorporated in the prospectus to 
ensure  the  despatch  of  refunds  of  over 
Rs.1500 Value 
Undertaking by the issuer Company (points a 
to h) 
Undertaking in case of a debenture issue, by 
the issuer Company 
Utilization of Issue Proceeds 
A  statement  by  the  Board  of  Directors  of 
issuer  company  relating  to  monies  received, 
purpose,  bank  account  and  any  unutilized 
monies 
A statement by the Board of Directors of the 
issuer  company  relating  to  funds  received 
from  promoter’s  contribution,  and 
firm 
allotments etc. 
Particulars of the Issue 
Objects 

  6.6 
  6.6.1.1 
i.   6.6.1.2  Whether the company proposes to raise funds 
for a purpose like fixed asset creation and/or 
for rotation such as working capital etc shall 
be disclosed clearly in the offer document 

 

  
  c) 

cost 

(for 

–wise 

Project 

  6.6.2 
  
 

ii.   6.6.1.3  Where  the  company  proposes  to  raise  funds 
for  a  purpose  like  fixed  asset  creation,  the 
requirement of funds shall also be disclosed 
clearly. 
Project Cost 
Activity 
diversification, modernization etc.) 
Phase-wise implementation cost of the project 
The  total  project  cost  shall  reflect  the  cost 
involved  in  each  of  the  projects  mentioned 
under the section on “Objects of the issue". 
 
Means of Financing 
Undertaking  by  the  company  regarding  firm 
arrangements of finance towards 75% of  the 
stated means of finance 
The  balance    portion  of  the  ‘Means  of 
Finance’  for which no firm arrangement has 

  6.6.3 
  
 

  

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

Page 299 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

  6.6.4 
i.   6.6.4.1 

ii.    

iii.    

  6.6.5 

  6.6.6 

  6.7 
i.   6.7.1 

ii.   6.7.2 
  6.7.3 
i.   
 

  

 

ii.    

iii.    

  6.7.4 
i.    

ii.    

iii.    

  6.7.5 

been  made  shall  be  mentioned  without 
specification) 
Appraisal 
Cope, appraisal & date of the appraisal to be 
included 
Cost of the project & means of finance as per 
appraisal report 
Weaknesses  &  threats  given  in  appraisal 
report to be disclosed by way of risk factors 
Deployment  of  funds  in  the  project(points 
a to d) 
Name  of  Monitoring  agency,  if  any,  to  be 
disclosed 
Company, Management, and Project 
History and main objects, present business of 
the company 
Subsidiaries of the company, if any 
Promoters and their Background 
Profile  of  the  promoters,  line  of  business, 
financial activities, photo, Voter I.d. etc 
Submission  of  PAN,  Bank  account  No, 
Passport No, to the Stock Exchange 
If  promoter 
promoters of the company to be disclosed 
Details  in  change  of  management  of  the 
companies  if  any,  including  details  of  the 
persons  who  are  holding  the  controlling 
interest  together  with  the  applicability and 
compliance  of  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board  of  India  (Substantial  Acquisition  of 
Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997. 

is  a  company,  history  and 

they  are 

 
Key Managerial Personnel 
Full  details  of  the  personnel  recruited  as  on 
the date of filing etc. 
The  above  point  to  be  ensured  by  the  lead 
merchant  banker 
the 
employment of the company. 
Any  change  otherwise  than  by  way  of 
retirement  in  the  normal  course  in  the  key 
senior  managerial  personnel  particularly  in 
charge  of  production,  planning,  finance  and 
marketing within one year prior to the date of 
filing the offer document with the Board shall 
be disclosed. 
Name,  addresses,  and  occupations  of 
manager,  managing  director  and  other 
directors 

that 

in 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Page 300 of 326 

  6.7.11 
i.   6.7.11.1  Nature  of  the  products,  consumer,  industrial 

ii.   6.7.11.2(

a) 
(b) 

 
  6.7.11.3  Approach 

  6.711.4 

  6.7.12. 
  6.7.12.1  Capacity  &  capacity  Utilization  (points  a  & 

  6.7.6 
  6.7.7 

  6.7.8 

i. 

  6.7.8.1 

ii. 

  6.7.9 

iii. 

  6.7.10 

  6.7.13 
  6.8 

i.   6.8.1 

ii.   6.8.2 

iii.   6.8.3 

iv.   6.8.4 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

in  marketing 

Location of the project 
Plant  &  Machinery,  Technology,  Process, 
details  regarding  cost  of  machines,  name  of 
the suppliers, etc.(points a to d) 
Collaboration,  performance  guarantee  or 
assistance 
the 
collaborators  
Information like, place of registration, year of 
corporation,  paid  up  share  capital,  turnover, 
etc. 
Infrastructure facilities for raw materials and 
utilities 
Schedule  of  implementation  of  the  project 
and progress made 
The products 

by 

and end users 
Market  including  details  of  the  competition, 
past production etc. to be given  
Mention of the source of data 

to  marketing  and  proposed 

marketing set up 
Export possibilities and export obligations, if 
any  (in  case  of  a  company  providing  any 
"service"  particulars,  as  applicable,  be 
furnished) 
Future Prospects 

b) 
Stock Market Data (points a to g) 
Management Discussion and Analysis of the 
Financial  Condition  and  Results  of  the 
Operations  as  Reflected  in  the  Financial 
Statements.  
A  summary  of  past  financial  results  after 
adjustments  as  given  in  the  auditor’s  report 
for the past three years containing significant 
items  of  income  and  expenditure  shall  be 
given. 
An  analysis  of  reasons  for  the  changes  in 
significant  items  of  income  and  expenditure 
shall also be given, with points a to j. 
A statement by the directors whether in their 
opinion there have arisen any circumstances 
since the date of the last financial statements 
as disclosed in the prospectus 
One  standard  financial  unit  shall  be  used  in 
the offer document 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Page 301 of 326 

  6.9 
 

 

a) 6.9.2 

b)  
  6.9.3 

a) 6.9.4 

b)  

c)  

  6.9.5 

  6.10 

  6.11 
  6.11.1 
  6.11.2 
  6.12 
 

 

  6.13 
  6.13.1 

i.   6.13.2 

ii.    

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Financial of Group companies 
information for the last 3 years based on the 
audited  statements  in  respect  of  all  the 
companies, firms, ventures, etc. promoted by 
the  promoters  irrespective  of  whether  these 
are  covered  under  section  370  (1)(B)  of  the 
Companies  Act,  1956  shall  be  given, 
wherever applicable: (points a to k) 
In case the issuer company has more than 5 
listed  group  companies,  information  to  be 
restricted to five largest listed companies 
Information of companies under BIFR 
If 
disassociated 
themselves  from  any  of  the  companies/firms 
during  preceding  three  years,  the  reasons 
therefor and the circumstances leading to the 
disassociation  shall  be  furnished  together 
with the terms of such disassociation. 
Reasons  and 
pursuits between company if any 
Related  business  transaction  between  the 
group shall also be mentioned 
The significance of these transactions on the 
financial  performance  of  the  company shall 
be stated 
Sale or purchase between companies 

justifications  of  common 

promoters 

have 

the 

listed  companies  under 

Particulars  in  regard  to  the  company  and 
other 
the  same 
management within the meaning section 370 
(1)(B)  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  which 
made  any  capital  issue  during  the  last  three 
years shall be given (points a to h) 
Promise against Performance 
Issuer Company 
Listed Ventures of Promoters 
Projections 
to 
No 
financial performance of the issuer company 
shall be given in the offer document. 
Basis for Issue price 
Basis for Issue Price Information to be given 
for all issues irrespective of the issuer price 
Issuer  Company  and  Lead  merchant  banker 
shall provide the accounting ratios 
In  case  of  book  built  issues,  the  offer 
document  shall  state  that  the  final  price  has 
been  determined  on  the  basis  of  the  demand 

forecast  of  projections 

relating 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

Page 302 of 326 

  6.14 

  6.15 

  6.16 

i.    

ii.    

 

6.17 

i.   6.17.1 
ii.   6.17.2 
iii.   6.17.3 

iv.   6.17.4 

v.   6.17.5 

vi.   6.17.6 

 
 

 

 

 

 

6.18 
6.18.1 

6.18.3 

6.18.4 

6.18.5 

the 

issue  and  derails  of 

Consent of Directors, auditors etc. 
Expert opinion obtained, if any  
Change,  if  any,  in  directors  and  auditors 
during  the  last  three  years,  and  reasons, 
thereof 
Authority  for 
resolution passed for the issue  
Procedure and time of schedule for allotment 
and issue of certificates 
Names and address of the company secretary, 
legal  adviser,  lead  managers,  co-managers, 
auditors, bankers to the company, bankers to 
the issue and brokers to the issue. 
Financial Information 
Report by the auditors of the company (points 
a to b) 

a to b) 
If the companies have subsidiaries (point a to 
b) 
If the proceeds, or any part of the proceeds, of 
the issue of the shares or debentures are or is 
to be applied directly or indirectly -  
If the proceeds, or any part of the proceeds, of 
the issue of the shares or debentures are or is 
to  be  applied  directly  or  indirectly  in  any 

6.18.2  When the company has no subsidiaries (points 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

from the investors.) 
Outstanding Litigations or defaults (points a 
to h) 
Risk Factors and management perception, if 
any 
Disclosure  on  Investor  Grievances  and 
redressal System 
The company shall disclose the time normally 
taken  by  it  for  disposal  of  various  types  of 
investor grievances. 
Similar disclosure shall be made in regard to 
the 
the  same 
management  within  the  meaning  of  Section 
370 (1B) of the Companies Act for the period 
of  3  years  prior  to  the  date  of  filing  of  the 
offer documents with ROC / Stock Exchange. 
General Information 

listed  companies  under 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IF 
COMPLI
ED  WITH 
YES/ 
NO/Not 
applicable 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Comments 

Page no. in 
prospectus 
where 
complied 
with 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Page 303 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

6.18.7 

a)  6.18.8 

b)  

manner  resulting  in  the  acquisition  by  the 
company  of  shares 
in  any  other  body 
corporate; 
Other provisions relating to accounts of the 
issuer company (points a to h) 
The  Issuer  Company,  if  it  so  desires,  may 
include  in  the  offer  document,  the  financial 
statements prepared on the basis of more than 
one accounting standards subject to disclosure 
of the material differences arising because of 
differences  in  the  accounting  policies  of  two 
different accounting standards. 
‘Management  Discussion 
and  Analysis 
(MDA)’  and  ‘Accounting  and  other  Ratios’ 
computed  as  per  Clause  No.  6.8  and  6.13 of 
the  Guidelines      shall  be  based  on  the 
Financial Statements prepared on the basis of 
Indian Accounting Standards. In addition, the 
issuer company may present MDA based on 
other Accounting Standards. 
Statutory and other Information 

6.19 
6.19.1  Minimum   subscription 
6.19.2 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

6.19.3 
6.19.4 
6.19.5 

6.19.6 
6.19.7 
6.19.8 

Expenses  of  fees  given  to  advisers,  RTIs 
Managers  to  the  issue  and  Trustees  for  the 
debenture - holders 
Underwriting Commission & brokerage 
Previous issue for cash 
Previous  rights  issue  if  any  (during  last  5 
years) points a to c) 
Commission or brokerage on previous issue  
Issue of shares otherwise than for cash 
Debentures and redeemable preference shares 
and other instruments issued by the company 
outstanding as on the date of prospectus and 
terms of issue. 
Option to subscribe (points a to b) 
Purchase of property (points a to d) 

6.19.9 
6.19.10 
6.19.11  Details to be given in Offer document relating 

to details of directors, etc. (points a to c) 

6.19.12  Rights  of  members 

regarding  voting, 
dividend,  lien  on  shares  and  the  process  for 
modification  of  such  rights  and  forfeiture  of 
shares.  

6.19.13  Restrictions, 

if 

and 
transmission  of  shares  /  debentures  and  on 
their consolidation / splitting. 

any,  on 

transfer 

6.19.14  Revaluation of assets, if any (during last five 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Page 304 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

years 

6.19.15  Material 

and 
documents (points a to c) 

contracts 

 

 
 
 
 

inspection 

of 

 

 

 

Page 305 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

   

 

 (Referred to in paragraph 7.3.8 of the Report) 

Annexure VIII 

                             
 

A-VIII.  

RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING DISCLOSURES IN ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS 

SECTION II: CONTENTS OF ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS 

of 

the 

Present DIP Guidelines 
 
 
 
 
 
                                  
 
                          
                      (2) 

Requirements 
Companies Act 
(Form 2A) 
 
 
 

 
 
 
(3) 

in 

the 
as 

New  disclosures  that  should  be 
added 
Abridged 
Prospectus 
being 
recommended  by  the  Malegam 
Committee  (The  relevant  DIP 
Guidelines  clause  applicable  for 
the main Offer Document is given 
in parenthesis) 

 
 
(4) 

 

 

Present
Clause  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
(1) 

6.20 

6.20.1 

 

 

abridged 

The 
shall 
contain  the  disclosures  as  specified 
under Section I of Chapter VI. 

prospectus 

disclosure 

The 
as 
specified  shall  also  be  applicable  in 
case of abridged prospectus. 

requirement 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proposed DIP Guidelines 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
(5) 

6.20 General 
The  information  to  be  provided  under 
each of the heads specified below shall 
be  as  per  the  requirement  of  Section  I 
of  Chapter  VI  except  when  specified 
otherwise. 
6.20.1  The  Abridged  Prospectus  shall 
be  printed  in  a  font  size  which 
shall not be visually smaller than 
TIMES NEW ROMAN Size 10. 

6.20.2 The order in which items appear 
in the Abridged Prospectus shall 
correspond, 
wherever 
applicable, to the order in which 
the  Offer 
items  appear 

in 

Page 306 of 326 

 

 

 

6.21 
6.21.1 

General Information 
Name  and  address  of    register ed 
office of the company 

6.21.2 

6.21.3 

Name/s  of  stock  exchanges  where 
listing of the securities is proposed. 

Date  of  opening,  closing  and  earliest 
closing of the issue 

6.21.4 
 

Disclaimer Clause 
 

 

 

6.21.5 

Name and address of lead managers. 

 

 
 
 

 

 
(a)  Name  and  address  of  registered 

office of the company 

(b)  Issue  listed  at  :  [name(s)  of  the 

stock exchanges] 

 
(c)  Opening,  closing  and  earliest 

closing dates of the issue 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Document. 

6.20.3  The  application  form  shall  be  so 
positioned that on the tearing-off 
of  the  application  form,  no  part 
of  the  information  given  in  the 
Abridged 
is 
mutilated. 

Prospectus 

the 

6.21 General Information 
6.21.1  The  name  of  the  Issuer    and 
address  of  the  registered  office 
of 
Issuer  along  with 
telephone  number,  fax  number, 
e-mail  address  and  website 
address,  and  where  there  has 
been a change in the address of 
the  registered  office  or  name  of 
the Issuer, details thereof. 

 
6.21.2  Name/s  of  stock  exchanges 
where  listing  of  the  securities  is 
proposed. 

6.21.3 Dates of opening, earliest closing 

and closing of the issue . 

 

 
 

 

 

 
Consolidated  Disclaimer  Clause  of  Stock 
Exchanges  
Disclaimer  clauses  of  stock  exchanges 
shall  be  combined  into  a  single  disclaimer 
clause  with  appropriate 
to 
individual stock exchanges  

reference 

Disclaimer Statement of the Issuer (6.3.4.) 

lead 

 

Name  and  address  of  the  brokers  along 
with phone numbers  

6.21.4 Disclaimer Clause of SEBI 
6.21.5  Consolidated  Disclaimer  Clause 
of  Stock  Exchanges:  Disclaimer 
clauses  of  stock  exchanges 
shall  be  combined  into  a  single 
with 
clause 
disclaimer 
appropriate 
reference 
to 
individual stock exchanges  
6.21.6  Disclaimer  Statement  of 

the 

Issuer  

6.21.7  Name  and  address  of  the  lead 
managers  along  with  phone 
number,  fax  number,  website 
address, 
contact 
person and email address. 
6.21.8  Name  and  address  of 

the 
brokers  along  with  phone 
numbers 

name 

of 

Page 307 of 326 

 

 

 

 

(d)  Name  and  address  of 

manager  

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 

 

6.21.6 

Name and address of registrars to the 
issue.  

 

 

Name  and  address  of 
bankers  
 

the 

  collecting 

6.21.7 

Name  and  address  of  trustee  under 
debenture 
trust  deed  (in  case  of 
debenture issue)  

(e)  Name  and  address  of  trustees 
under  debenture  trust  deeds(in 
case of debenture/ issue) 

 

 

 

 

 

6.21.8 

Rating  for  the  proposed  debenture/ 
preference  shares 
if  any, 
obtained from any other Credit Rating 
Agenc y 

issue, 

 

 

6.21.9 

6.21.10 

6.21.11 

(a)  The  name,  address,  telephone 
number, fax number and address 
of Comp liance Officer. 

invited 

contact 

(b)  The  investor’s  attention  shall  also 
be 
the 
compliance officer in case of any 
pre-issue 
related 
problems  such  as  non-receipt  of 
/  share 
letters  of  allotment 
certificates 
/ 
cancelled stockinvests, etc. 

refund  orders 

/  post-issue 

to 

/ 

 
Provisions  of  sub  section  (1)  of 
section  68A  of  the  Companies  Act, 
relating  to  punishment  for  fictitious 
applications. 
Declaration  about 
allotment 

issue  of 
letters/refunds  within  a 

the 

(f)  Rating 

for 

the 

debenture/ 
preference shares, if any, obtained 
from  Crisil  or  any 
recognized 
rating agency. 

 
 

 

 

 

Name and address of the statutory auditors 
(6.3.11a) 
 

Name and address of the underwriters and 
the amount underwritten by them (6.3.13a) 

 

 

 

6.21.9  Name  and  address  of 

the  

collecting bankers 

6.21.10  Name  and  address  of 

the 
registrars to the issue along with 
phone  number, 
fax  number, 
website  address,  name  of 
contact 
email 
address.  

person 

and 

6.21.11  Name  and  address  of 

the 
trustee  under  debenture  trust 
deed  (in  case  of  a  debenture 
issue) 
phone 
number,  fax  number,  website 
address, 
contact 
person and email address. 
6.21.12  Name  and  address  of 

along  with 

name 

the 

of 

statutory auditors  

6.21.13  Rating 

for 

the  proposed 
debenture/  preference  shares 
issue,  if  any,  obtained  from  the 
credit rating ag encies. 

6.21.14  Name  and  address  of 

the 
the  amount 

underwriters  and 
underwritten by them  

6.21.15  
(a)  Name,  address,  telephone  number, 
fax number and email  address of the 
Compliance Officer. 

(b)  Investor’s  attention  shall    be  invited 
to  contact  the  Compliance  Officer  in 
case  of  any  pre-issue  /  post-issue 
related  problems  such  as  non-
receipt of letters of allotment / share 
certificates 
in 
depositories/refund orders etc. 

/  share  credits 

 
6.21.16  Provisions of sub section (1) of 
Section  68A  of  the  Companies 
Act,  relating  to  punishment  for 
impersonation. 

6.21.17  Declaration  about  the  issue  of 
allotment letters/refunds within a 

Page 308 of 326 

 
 

 
(a)  Issued,  subscribed  and  paid-up 

capital 

 
 

 
  

(b)  Size  of  present 

separately 
preferential 
promoters and others.  

reservation 
allotment 

issue  giving 
for 
to 

(c)  Paid-up capital 
     (i)  after the present issue, 
    (ii) after conversion of debentures 

(if applicable) 

6.21.12 
6.21.13 

6.22 
6.22.1 

period of 30 days and interest in case 
of  delay 
refund/ 
allotment letters @ 15% p.a.  as at the 
rate as may be specified. 

in  dispatching 

Risk Factors and Issue Highlights: 
The  Risk  Factors  and  management 
perception  on 
the  same  shall  be 
printed  along  with  Issue  Highlights 
with  equal  treatment  in  printing  in  all 
respects. 
Capital Structure of the company 
Following details shall appear  
a. Authorised, issued, subscribed and 
paid  up 
(Number  of 
instruments,  description,  aggregate 
nominal value) 

capital 

b.  Size  of  present 

issue  giving 
separately  promoters  contribution, 
firm  allotment/ 
for 
specified categories and net offer to 
public. 

reservation 

c. 

in 

of 

(Number 

aggregate 

instruments, 
description, 
nominal 
value  and  issue  amount  shall  be 
given 
that  order,  Name(s)  of 
group  companies  to  be  given,  in 
case,  reservation  has  been  made 
for  shareholders  of 
the  group 
companies ) 

d. Paid-up Capital 
i. after the issue 
ii.  after  conversion  of  securities  (if-
applicable)  
e.  Share  Premium  Account  (before 
and after the issue) 
 

 

 

6.22.2 

A  disclosure  to  the  effect  that  the 
securities  offered  through  this  public/ 

 

 

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

period of 30 days and interest in 
case  of  delay 
in  dispatching 
refund/ allotment letters @ 15% 
p.a.  or  at  the  rate  as  may  be 
specified. 

  
 6.21.18  Risk  Factors  and  proposals   to 

address the same 

6.22 Capital Structure of the Issuer 
6.22.1 Following details shall appear 
              a. 

Authorised, 

issued, 
subscribed  and  paid  up  capital 
(Number 
instruments, 
description,  aggregate  nominal 
value) 

of 

              b. Size of present issue giving 
promoters 
allotment/ 
specified 
to 

separately 
contribution, 
reservation 
categories  and  net  offer 
public. 

firm 
for 

             c. 

(Number  of 

instruments, 
description,  aggregate  nominal 
value and issue amount shall be 
given  in  that  order,  Name(s)  of 
group companies to be given, in 
case, 
reservation  has  been 
made  for  shareholders  of  the 
group companies ) 
              d.  Paid-up Capital 
                    i. after the issue 
                   ii. 

conversion 

after 

of 

securities (if applicable)  

              e.  Share  Premium  Account  

(before and after the issue)  

 
6.22.2  Complete  Notes  to  the  Capital 

Structure  

6.22.3 A disclosure to the effect that the 
this 

securities  offered 

through 

Page 309 of 326 

Complete  Notes  to  the  Capital  Structure 
(6.4.2) 
 

6.23 
6.23.1 

rights  issue  shall  be  made  fully  paid 
up  or  forfeited within 12 months from 
the date of allotment of securities in a 
manner as specified in clause 8.5.2. 

Terms of the present issue 
i.  Authority  for  the  issue,  terms  of 
payment  and  procedure  and  time 
schedule  for  allotment  and  issue  of 
certificates. 
ii.  The  caption  "Interest  in  Case  of 
Delay 
in  Despatch  of  Allotment 
Letters/  Refund  Orders  in  Case  of 
Public Issues" shall appear. 

 
(a)  Authority  for  the  issue,  terms  of 
payments  and  procedure  and 
procedure  and  time  schedule  for 
allotment 
of 
certificates. 

issue 

and 

 

6.23.2 

How  to  apply  –  availability  of 
forms,  prospectus   and  mode  of 
Payment 

(b)  How  to  apply  -  Availability  of 
forms,  Prospectus  Mode  of 
payment 

 

6.23.2.1 

 

Applications by NRIs 
a)  In  the  application  form  meant  for 
the  declaration 
Indian  Public, 
relating 
Nationality 
and 
Residentship  shall  be  shown 
prominently as under: 

to 

     "Nationality  and  Residentship 
(Tick whichever is  applicable) 
     i. I am / We are Indian National(s) 
resident  in  India  and  I    am/we 
are  not  applying  for  the  said 
equity  shares  as  nominee(s)  of 
any  person 
resident  outside 
India or Foreign National(s). 

 
 

 

 

    ii. I am / We are Indian National(s) 
resident  in  India  and  I  am  /  We 
are  applying  for  the  said  equity 
shares  as  Power  of  Attorney 
holder(s)  of  Non-  Resident 
Indian(s)  mentioned  below  on 
non-repatriation basis. 

          ii. 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

public/ rights issue shall be made 
fully  paid  up  or  forfeited  within  12 
months from the date of allotment 
of  securities 
in  a  manner  as 
specified in clause 8.5.2. 

6.23 Terms of the Present Issue 
6.23.1 
           i. Authority for the issue, terms of 
payment  and  procedure  and 
time  schedule  for  allotment  and 
issue  of  certificates/ 
refund 
orders. 

         ii. The clause "Interest in Case of 
Delay  in  Despatch  of  Allotment 
Letters/  Refund  Orders  in  Case 
of Public Issues" shall appear. 

6.23.2  How  to  Apply,  Availability  of  
Abridged 
Prospectus, 
Prospectus 
and  Application 
Forms,  Mode  of  Payment  and 
Book  building  procedure, 
if 
relevant 

/  We  are 

I  am 
Indian 
National(s)  resident  in  India 
and  I  am/we  are  not  applying 
for  the  said  equity  shares  as 
nominee(s)  of  any  person 
resident  outside 
India  or 
Foreign National(s). 
I  am 
Indian 
National(s)  resident  in  India 
and I am / We are applying for 
the  said  equity  shares  as 
Power of Attorney holder(s) of 
Indian(s) 
Non- 

/  We  are 

Resident 

Page 310 of 326 

6.23.2.1 Application by NRIs 
        a) In the application form meant for 
the  declaration 
Indian  Public, 
relating 
and 
Residentship  shall  be  shown 
prominently as under: 

to  Nationality 

            "Nationality  and  Residentship 

(Tick whichever is applicable) 

           i. 

    iii. I am / We are Indian National(s) 
resident  outside 
I 
am/we  are  applying  for  the  said 
equity  shares  on  my  /  our  own 
behalf 
non-repatriation 
basis." 

India  and 

on 

b)  The  application  form  meant  for 
NRIs  shall  not  contain  provision 
for  payment 
through  NR(O) 
accounts. 

     i.  On  the  face  of  the  form,  the 
following legend shall be printed  
in a box: 
        "Attention 

NRI 

Applicants: 
Payment  must  be  made  through 
their  Non  Resident  External 
(NRE)  /  Foreign  Currency  Non 
Resident  (FCNR)  accounts  or 
through  cheques  /  drafts  sent 
from  abroad  and  drawn  on 
convertible  rupee  accounts  in 
India.  Forms  accompanied  by 
on  NR(O) 
cheques 
accounts  are 
to  be 
rejected". 

drawn 

liable 

c) Attention of NRIs shall be invited to 
the following: 
     i. the name and address of at least 
one  place  in  India  from  where 
individual  NRI  applicants  can 
obtain the application forms. 

    ii.  Such  applications  as  are 
accompanied  by  payment 
in 
free  foreign  exchange  shall  be 
considered  for  allotment  under 
the reserved category. 

      iii.  Such  NRIs  who  wish  to  make 
payment  through  Non-Resident 
Ordinary  (NRO)  accounts  shall 
use the form meant for Resident 
Indians  and  shall  not  use  the 
form  meant 
reserved 
category. 

for 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

         iii. 

/  We  are 

mentioned  below  on  non-
repatriation basis. 
I  am 
Indian 
National(s)  resident  outside 
India  and 
I  am/we  are 
applying  for  the  said  equity 
shares on my / our own behalf 
on nonrepatriation basis." 

           b) The application form meant for 
NRIs 
contain 
provision  for  payment  through 
NR(O) accounts. 

shall 

not 

            I On the face of the form, the 
shall  be 

legend 

following 
printed in a box: 

(NRE) 
Non 

         "Attention  NRI  Applicants: 
be  made 
Payment  must 
their  Non  Resident 
through 
/  Foreign 
External 
Currency 
Resident 
(FCNR)  accounts  or  through 
cheques 
from 
abroad 
on 
convertible  rupee  accounts  in 
India.  Forms  accompanied  by 
cheques  drawn  on  NR(O) 
accounts  are 
to  be 
rejected". 

/  drafts  sent 
drawn 
and 

liable 

         c)  Attention  of  NRIs  shall  be 

invited to the following: 

                i. the name and address of at 
least one place in India from 
NRI 
where 
applicants  can  obtain 
the 
application forms. 

individual 

              ii.  Such  applications  as  are 
accompanied  by  payment  in 
free  foreign  exchange  shall 
be  considered  for  allotment 
under the reserved category. 
to 
make payment through  Non-
Resident  Ordinary 
(NRO) 

             iii.  Such  NRIs  who  wish 

Page 311 of 326 

d)  The  application 

contain  necessary 
provision for the following: 

form  should 
instructions/ 

     i. 

the 

the 

number 

to  applicants 

to 
Instructions 
mention 
of 
application  form  on  the  reverse 
of 
to  avoid 
misuse of instruments submitted 
along  with  the  applications  for 
shares/  debentures 
in  public 
issues. 

instruments 

    ii. Provision in the application form 
for  inserting  particulars  relating 
to  savings  bank 
/  current 
account  number  and  the  name 
of  the  bank  with  whom  such 
account  is  held,  to  enable  the 
Registrars 
the  said 
details in the refund orders after 
the names of the payees. 

to  print 

   iii. Disclosure  of  PAN/GIR  number 
in  respect  of  applications  for 
monetary 
the 
investment  of  Rs.50,000  and 
above. 

value 

of 

   iv.  Giving  an  option  to  investors  to 
either  receive  securities  in  the 
form  of  physical  certificates  or 
hold 
in  dematerialised 
form. 

them 

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

accounts  shall  use  the  form 
meant  for  Resident  Indians 
and  shall  not  use  the  form 
meant for reserved category.  
As  regards  applications  in 
case of reservations to NRIs, 
a  disclosure  is  to  be  made 
incorporating 
that 
payment  for  such  allotments 
shall  come  through  external 
source 
that 
through  NRO 
payments 
account 
be 
will 
permitted. 

only 

and 

fact 

not 

the 

         d)  The  application  form  should 
contain  necessary  instructions/ 
provision for the following: 

                i. Instructions  to  applicants  to 
the  number  of 
mention 
application 
the 
reverse of the instruments to 
avoid  misuse  of  instruments 
submitted  along  with 
the 
applications 
shares/ 
debentures in public issues. 

form  on 

for 

              ii. Provision in the application 
form  for  inserting  particulars 
relating 
to  bank  account 
number and the name of the 
bank  with  whom 
such 
account  is  held,  to  enable 
printing  of  the  said  details  in 
the  refund  orders  or 
for 
refunds through ECS. 

              iii.  Disclosure  of  PAN/GIR 
of 
number 
in 
for  monetary 
applications 
value  of  the  investment  of 
Rs.50,000 and above. 

respect 

              iv. Details of options, if any, to 
receive securities subscribed 
for,  either  in  demateralised 
or  physical 
form  and  a 

Page 312 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
6.23.3 

 

Any special tax benefits for company 
and its shareholders 
 

6.24 

6.24.1 

Particulars of the issue 
 
Objects 

6.24.2 

Project Cost 

6.24.3 

Means of financing 

 

 

 
 
Company, 
Project 
History and main objects and present 
business of the company 
 

Management 

and 

 
(c)  Special  tax  benefits  to  company 
the 

and  shareholders  under 
Income Tax Act. If any 

Application by Mutual Fund (6.5.4.1) 
 

(a) Objects of the issue 
 
(b) Project cost 
 
 
Means 
contribution of promoters). 
 
 
 

financing 

of 

 

 

 

 

(including 

Name of Appraising Agency (6.6.4)  
Name of Monitoring Agency (6.6.6)  
 

(a)  History,  main,  object  and  present 

business of the company. 

 

 
 
6.25 

6.25.1 

6.25.2 

6.25.3 

6.25.4 

Promoters and their Background 
 
Names,  address  and  occupation  of 
manager,  managing  director,  and 
other  Directors  (including  nominee-
directors,  whole-time directors giving 
their 
other 
companies) 
 
Location of the Project 

directorships 

in 

(b) Background of promoters 
 
(b)  managing  director/whole  -time 
director and names of nominees of 
institutions, if any, on the Board of 
Directors. 

 

(c) Location of the project. 

 

 

 

 

in 
trading 
that 
statement 
securities  on 
the  stock 
exchanges  in  physical  form 
will be available only subject 
to  limits  prescribed  by  the 
Board for time to time. 

 
6.23.2.2 Application by Mutual Fund 
6.23.3  Any  special 
tax  benefits 

for 
company  and  its  shareholders 
(Only  section  numbers  of  the 
Income  Tax  Act  should  be 
mentioned,  without  reproducing 
the text of t he sections) 

 
6.24 Particulars of the Issue 
 
6.24.1 Objects of the issue 

6.24.2 Project cost 

6.24.3 Means of financing 

6.24.4 Name of Appraising Agency  
6.24.5 Name of Monitoring Agency  
6.25  Company,  Management  and 
Project  
6.25.1  History  and  main  objects  and 
the 

business 

of 

present 
company  

 
6.25.2 Promoters and their background 
 
6.25.3  Names,  address  and  occupation 
of  manager,  managing  director, 
and  other  Directors  (including 
nominee-directors  and  whole-
time 
their 
directorships in other companies 

directors) 

giving 

 
6.25.4 Location of the project 

Page 313 of 326 

 
(e) 

 
(f) 

6.25.5 

6.25.6 

6.25.7 

6.25.8 

6.25.9 
6.25.9.1 

6.25.9.2 

 
Plant  and  machinery  ,  technology, 
process, etc 
 
Collaboration, 
performance 
guarantee or assistance in marketing 
by the collaborators 
 
Infrastructure 
facilities 
materials  and  utilities 
electricity, etc. 

raw 
like  water, 

any 

for 

Schedule  of  implementation  of  the 
project  and  progress  made  so  far, 
giving  details  of  land  acquisition, civil 
works, 
installation  of  plant  and 
machinery,  trial  production,  date  of 
commercial production etc  
 

The products 
Nature  of  the  product/s  -  consumer  / 
industrial and end users 
 

the 

regards 

trends  and 

industry,  existing 

including  details  of 

Market 
the 
competition,  past  production  figures 
installed 
for 
future 
capacity,  past 
prospects 
(if 
applicable),  demand  and  supply 
forecasts 
should  be 
essentially  with  assumptions  unless 
sourced 
from  a  market  research 
agency of repute), etc. to be given. 
 

(if  given 

exports 

6.25.9.3 

6.25.9.4 

Source  of  data  used  shall  be 
mentioned. 
Approach to marketing and proposed 
marketing set up 

6.25.9.5 

Export 

possibilities 

and 

export 

 
(d)  Plant  and  machinery,  technology, 

process, etc. 

Collaboration, 

performance 
guarantee, if any, or assistance in 
marketing by the collaborators. 

Infrastructure 
for  raw 
materials  and  utilities  like  water, 
electricity, etc. 

facilities 

 
(g) Schedule of implementation of the 
project  and  progress  made  so  far, 
giving  details  of  land  acquisition, 
execution 
works, 
installation of plant and machinery, 
trial 
of 
date 
commercial production, if any. 

production, 

civil 

of 

 
 
(h) The products-- 
(i)  Nature of products(s)  - consumer/ 

industrial and end-users. 

product-existing, 

 
(ii)  Existing,  licensed  and  installed 
capacity of the product, demand of 
the 
and 
estimated  in  the  coming  years  as 
estimates 
a  Government 
authority  or  by  any  other  reliable 
institution,  giving  source  of  the 
information. 

by 

(iv)  In  case  of  company  providing 
services,  relevant  information  in 
regard 
to  nature/  extent  of 
services, etc., to be furnished. 

(iii)  Approach 

to  marketing  and 

proposed marketing set up. 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

 
6.25.5 

Plant 

and  machinery 

, 

technology, process, etc 

 
6.25.6  Collaboration,  any  performance 
in 

guarantee  or  assistance 
marketing by the collaborators 

 
6.25.7  Infrastructure  facilities  for  raw 
materials  and  utilities  like  water, 
electricity, etc. 

6.25.8  Schedule  of  implementation  of 
the project and progress made so 
land 
far,  giving  details  of 
acquisition, 
works, 
installation 
and 
machinery,  trial  production,  date 
of commercial production etc 

plant 

civil 

of 

 
  
6.25.9 Products/Services 
6.25.9.1 Nature of the products/services 

and end users 

 
6.25.9.2 Existing, licensed and installed 
capacity  of  the  product,  demand 
of 
the  product-existing,  and 
estimated  in  the  coming  years  as 
estimates  by  a  Government 
authority  or  by  any  other  reliable 
institution,  giving  source  of  the 
information.  In  case  of  company 
providing 
relevant 
information  in  regard  to  nature/ 
extent  of  services,  etc.,  to  be 
furnished. 

services, 

 

6.25.9.3  Approach  to  marketing  and 

proposed marketing set up 

6.25.9.4  Export  possibilities  and  export 

Page 314 of 326 

6.25.10 

6.25.11 

if  any  (in  case  of  a 
“service” 
be 

obligations, 
company  providing  any 
particulars, 
furnished) 
 Future prospects 

applicable, 

as 

Stock Market Data 
i) Particulars of:- 
          a.  high,  low  and  average  market 
prices  of 
the 
company  during  the  preceding 
three years; 

the  share  of 

filing 

     b. monthly high and low prices for 
the  six  months  preceding  the 
date 
draft 
prospectus  with  Board  which 
shall  be  updated  till  the  time  of 
filing  the  prospectus  with  the 
Registrar  of  Company  /  Stock 
Exchange concer ned. 

the 

of 

in 

     c. number of shares traded on the 
days  when  the  high  and  low 
prices  were  recorded 
the 
relevant  stock  exchange  during 
said period of (i) and (ii) above; 
     d. the stock market data referred 
to  above  shall  be  shown 
separately  for  periods  marked 
by a change in capital structure, 
with  such  period  commencing 
from  the  date  the  concerned 
stock  exchange  recognises  the 
change  in  the  capital  structure 
(e.g.  when 
the  shares  have 
become ex-rights or ex-bonus); 
     e.  the  market  price  immediately 
the 
the  Board  of 

after  the  date  on  which 
resolution  of 

 

obligations, if any. 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

(i)  Future  prospects --the  expected 
year  when  the  company  would  be 
able  to  earn  net  profit,  declare 
dividend. 

 

(d)  Stock  market  quotation  of  shares/ 
Debentures of the company, if any 
(high/low  price  in  each  of  the  last 
three  years  and  monthly  high/low 
price during the last six months) 

 

 

 

in 

the 

that  SEBI  has 
In  view  of 
fact 
the  offer 
prohibited  projections 
document, 
it  may  not  be  retained. 
However  since  this  is  the  requirement 
mandated by the Companies Act, SEBI 
may take up with DCA. 
 
6.25.11 Stock Market Data 
i) Particulars of:- 
     a.  high,  low  and  average  market 
prices of the share of the company 
during the preceding three years; 

          b.  monthly  high  and  low  prices  for 
the six months preceding the date 
of filing of the  prospectus  

     c. number of shares traded on the 
days  when  high  and  low  prices 
were  recorded 
the  relevant 
stock exchange during period of (i) 
and  (ii)  above,  and  total  volume 
traded on those dates; 

in 

      d. the stock market data referred to 
above  shall  be  shown  separately 
for periods marked by a change in 
capital  structure,  with  such  period 
commencing  from  the  date  the 
exchange 
concerned 
recognises 
the 
capital  structure  (e.g.  when  the 
shares  have  become  exrights  or 
ex-bonus); 

the  change 

stock 

in 

     e. the market price immediately after 
the date on which the resolution of 
the  Board  of  Directors  approving 
the issue was approved; 

     f. the volume of securities traded in 
each month during the six   months 
preceding  the  date  on  which  the 
offer document is filed with ROC. 

Page 315 of 326 

Directors  approving  the  issue 
was approved; 

      f. the volume of securities traded 
in  each  month  during  the  six 
months  preceding  the  date  on 
which the offer document is filed 
with ROC. 

     g.  Along  with  hi gh, 

low  and 
average  prices  of  shares  of  the 
company,  details 
to 
volume  of  business  transacted 
should  also  be  stated 
for 
respective periods. 

relating 

Follow ing particulars in regard to the 
listed  companies  under 
the  same 
management  with 
the  meaning  of 
Section  370(1B)  which  made  any 
capital issue in the last three years. 
a. Name of the company 
b. Year of issue 
c.  Type  of 
composite) 

issue  (public/  rights/ 

d. Amount of issue 
e. Date of closure of issue 
f.  Date  of  despatch  of  share/ 

debenture certificate completed 

g.  Date  of  completion  of  the  project, 
where  object  of  the  issue  was 
financing of a project 
h. Rate of dividend paid 
 

VIII  Following  particulars  in  regar d to 
the  listed  companies  under  the  same 
section  370(1B)  which  made  any 
capital issue in the last three years 
(a) Names of the company 
(b) Year of issue 
(c)Type 

issue 

of 

(public/rights/composite)  

(d) Amount of issue 
(e) Date of closure of issue. 
(f)Date 

despatch 

of 

share/debenture 
completed 

of 
certificate 

(g) Date of completion of the project 
(h) Rate of dividend paid. 
 

 

shall 

Basis for Issue Price 
Following 
be 
information 
disclosed for all issues irrespective of 
the issue price. 
     a.  Earnings  per  share  i.e.  EPS 
pre-issue for the last three years 
(as  adjusted 
in 
capital); 

for  changes 

     b.  P/E pre-issue 
     c.  Average return on net worth in 

the last three years 

 

 

6.26 

6.27 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

     g. Along with high, low and average 
prices  of  shares  of  the  company, 
details 
to  volume  of 
business  transacted  should  also 
be stated for respective periods. 

relating 

     a. Name of the company 
     b. Year of issue 
     c.Type  of 

issue 

composite)  

(public/ 

rights/ 

6.26  Following  particulars  in  regard 
to  the  listed  companies  under 
the  same  management  which 
made  any  capital  issue  in  the 
last three years. 

     d. Amount of issue 
     e. Date of closure of issue 
      f.  Date  of  despatch  of  share/ 

debenture certificate completed 

     g. Date of completion of   the  project, 
where  object  of  the  issue  was 
financing of a project 
     h. Rate of dividend paid 
 
6.27 Basis for Issue Price 
     a. Earnings per share i.e. EPS pre-
issue  for  the  last  three  years  (as 
adjusted for changes in capital); 

     b. P/E pre-issue 
     c. Average return on net worth in the 

last three years 

     d. Minimum return on increased net 
to  maintain 

required 

worth 
preissue EPS; 

     e.  Net  Asset  Value  per  share  based 

Page 316 of 326 

     d.  Minimum  return  on  increased 
net  worth  required  to  maintain 
pre-issue EPS; 

     e.  Net  Asset  Value  per  share 

based on last balance sheet; 

     f. Net Asset Value per share after 
issue  and  comparison  thereof 
with the issue price. 
of 

     g.  Comparison 

all 

the 
accounting  ratios  of  the  issuer 
company  as  mentioned  above 
with  the  industry  average  and 
with the accounting ratios of the 
peer  group  (i.e  companies  of 
comparable  size  in  the  same 
industry.  (Indicate  the  source 
from  which 
industry  average 
and  accounting  ratios  of  the 
peer group has been taken)  

in 

the 

disclosed 

 
Provided that  the projected earnings 
shall not be used as a justification for 
the issue price in the offer document. 
 
Provided further that the accounting 
ratios 
offer 
documents in support of basis of the 
issue  price  shall  be  calculated  after 
giving  effect 
the  consequent 
increase  in  capital  on  account  of 
compulsory  conversions  outstanding, 
as well as on the assumption that the 
options  outstanding, 
to 
subscribe for additional capital will be 
exercised.” 
 
     h.    The  face  value  of  shares 
(including  the  statement  about 
the  issue  price  being  “X”  times 
of the face value) 

if  any, 

to 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

on last balance sheet; 

      f. Net Asset Value per share after 
issue and comparison thereof with 
the issue price. 

     g. Comparison  of  all  the  accounting 
ratios  of  the  issuer  company  as 
mentioned above with the industry 
average  and  with  the  accounting 
ratios  of 
i.e 
companies  of  comparable  size  in 
the  same  industry.(  Indicate  the 
source 
industry 
average  and  accounting  ratios  of 
the peer group has been taken)  

the  peer  group  ( 

from  which 

the 

that 

Provided 
projected 
earnings  shall  not  be  used  as  a 
justification  for  the  issue  price  in 
the offer document. 

 

 

that 

further 

Provided 
the 
accounting  ratios  disclosed  in  the 
offer  documents 
in  support  of 
basis  of  the  issue  price  shall  be 
calculated  after  giving  effect  to  the 
consequent  increase  in  capital  on 
account 
compulsory 
conversions  outstanding,  as  well 
as  on  the  assumption  that  the 
options  outstanding, 
to 
subscribe for additional capital will 
be exercised. 

if  any, 

of 

    h. The face value of shares (including 
the  statement  about 
issue 
price  being  “X”  times  of  the  face 
value) 

the 

6.28 

risk 
Management  perceptions  of 
factors  ( e.g.  Sensitivity 
foreign 
exchange  rate  fluctuations,  difficulty 

to 

IX Management perceptions of risk 
     factors (e.g., sensitivity to foreign 
fluctuations, 

exchange 

rate 

 

Remove  this  clause  as  this  is  already 
covered 
6.21.13.  SEBI 
Guidelines  now  require  disclosure  of 

para 

in 

Page 317 of 326 

in  availability  of 

difficulty 
materials  or 
products, cost / time overrun.)  

raw 
in  marketing  of 

       

 
 

VII Whether all payments/refunds, 
      Debentures, 

deposits, 
interest  date.    If  not  details  of  the 
arrears, if any, to be stated. 

fixed 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

6.29 

6.30 

6.31 

6.32 

6.33 
6.34 

6.35 

in  availability  of  raw  materials  or  in 
marketing  of  products,  cost/ 
time 
overrun). 
 

Outstanding litigations 
 

Whether  all  Payment/  Refunds, 
Debentures,  Deposits  of  banks  or 
companies, 
Interest  on  Deposits, 
Debenture  Interest,  Institutional  Dues 
have been paid up to date. 
 

If  not,  details  of  the  arrears  if  any  to 
be stated. 
 
Any  material  development  after  the 
date  of  the  latest  balance  sheet  and 
its 
impact  on  performance  and 
prospects of the company. 
 

if  any, 

Expert opinion obtained if any.  
Change, 
in  directors  and 
auditors  during  the  last  three  years 
and reasons thereof.  
Option to Subscribe. 
a.  The  details  of  option  to  subscribe 
for  securities  to  be  dealt  in  a 
depository. 

b.  The  lead  merchant  banker  shall 
incorporate a statement in the offer 
document  and  in  the  application 
form  to  the  effect  that  the  investor 
shall  have  an  option  either 
to 
receive  the  security  certificates  or 
to 
in 

securities 

hold 

the 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

risk factors in a different manner.  

6.28  Outstanding  Litigations  and 
(in  a  summarised 

Defaults 
tabular form) 

companies, 

6.28.1  Whether  all  payment/refunds, 
debentures,  Deposits  of  banks 
interest  on 
or 
deposits,  debenture 
interest, 
institutional  dues  have  been 
paid  up  to  date.  If  not,  details  of 
the arrears, if any, to be stated. 

 
 

6.29    Any  material  development  after 
the  date  of  the  latest  balance 
sheet  and 
impact  on 
performance  and  prospects  of 
the company. 

its 

 
6.30    Expert opinion obtained, if any.  
6.31    Change,  if  any,  in  directors  and 
three 

auditors  during 
last 
years and reasons thereof.  

the 

 

Page 318 of 326 

form  w ith 

a 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

dematerialised 
depository. 

the 

shall 

c. (In case of public issues by unlisted 
lead  merchant 
companies, 
banker 
incorporate 
a 
statement  in  the  offer  documents 
that  the  trading  in  the  securities 
shall be in dematerialised form only 
for all the investors.) 

 
Material contracts and time and place 
of inspection. 

Financial Performance of the 
Company for the Last Five 
Years:(Figures to be taken 
from the audited  annual 
accounts in tabular form) 
a.  Balance  Sheet  Data:  Equity 
Capital, 
(State 
Revaluation  Reserve,  the  year  of 
revaluation and its monetary effect 
on assets) and borrowings  

Reserves 

b. Profit and Loss data: Sales, Gross 
if 

profit,  Net  profit,  dividend  paid, 
any 

c.  Any  change  in  accounting  policies 
during  the  last  three  years  and 
their  effect  on  the  profits  and  the 
reserves of the company 

the 

that 

d.  Lead  Merchant  Banker  shall 
financial 
ensure 
issuer 
information 
company 
the 
abridged  prospectus,  is  as  per 
Auditors’ report of the prospectus. 

about 
appearing 

the 

in 

 

6.36 

6.37 

 

VI  Financial  performance  of 
last 

the 
company 
five 
years:(Figure to be taken from the 
audited  annual  accounts  in  tabular 
form) 

the 

for 

     (a)  Balance-sheet  data;  equity 
(state 
capital, 
revaluation 
its 
monetary  effect  on  assets)  and 
borrowings. 
     (b)  Profit  and 

reserves 
reserve  and 

loss  data:  sales, 
gross  profit,  net  profit,  dividend 
paid, if any. 

      (c)  Any  change 

in  accounting 
policies  during  the  last  three 
years  and  their  effect  on  the 
profits  and  the  reserves  of  the 
company. 

 

 

 

6.32 Time and Place of Inspection of  
material  contracts  (List  of  material 
contracts not required) 
6.33 Financial Performance of the 

Company for the Last Five 
Years:(Figures to be taken from 
the audited annual accounts in 
a tabular form) 

     a.  Balance  Sheet  Data:  Equity 
Capital, 
(State 
Revaluation  Reserve,  the  year  of 
revaluation and its monetary effect 
on assets) and borrowings  

Reserves 

     b. Profit and Loss data: Sales, Gross 
profit,  Net  profit,  dividend  paid,  if 
any 

     c. Any change in accounting policies 
during  the  last  three  years  and 
their  effect  on  the  profits  and  the 
reserves of the company 

     d. Following information as extracted 
from  the  report  of  the  auditors 
reproduced 
the  main  offer 
document  in  terms  of  clause  6.18 
of the Guidelines: 

in 

          i) net profit before extra ordinary 

         ii) extra ordinary items 
        iii)  net  profit  after  extra  ordinary 

items  

items  

 

Page 319 of 326 

 

 

 

 

6.38 

 

 

 

 

 

minimum 

Statements 
after 
subscription clause: 
a)  Minimum  subscription  clause  shall 
appear  followed  by  the  statement 
given below: 
(b)  No  statement  made  in  this  Form 
shall contravene any of the provisions 
of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  and  the 
rules made thereunder". 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 

Management  Discussions  and  Analysis  on 
Accounts(6.8)  

6.33.1  Management  Discussions  and 
Analysis on Accounts 

Listed Ventures of Promoters (6.11.2) 

6.34 Listed Ventures of Promoters  

Previous Public or Rights Issues, if any ,of 
last 5 years (6.19.5)  

6.35 Previous Public or Rights Issues, if 
any ,of last 5 years  

Disclosure  on 
Redressal System (6.16) 

Investor  Grievances  & 

6.36  Disclosure  on  Investor  Grievances 
& Redressal System  

 

6.37  Statement  regarding  minimum 
subscription clause: 
     a)  Relevant  minimum  subscription 
clause  statement  as  given  in  para 
6.3.8.1,  6.3.8.2  and  6.3.8.3  shall 
be reproduced. 

 

Signatories to the Offer Document. 

6.38 Signatories to the Offer Document. 

Page 320 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 
 
 

 

A-IX.  ADVERTISEMENTS FORMAT 

(Referred to in paragraph 8.7.4 of the Report) 
 

A. SAMPLE PRE-ISSUE AD FOR A FIXED PRICE PUBLIC ISSUE   
 
This is only an advertisement for information purposes and not a prospectus announcement. 
 

ABC LTD. 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as __________________________ and 

subsequently renamed _______________________ on ________________) 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

Corporate Office: _________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: _____________________________ 

 

Public issue of ___________ equity shares of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ for cash aggregating 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF ISSUER COMPANY 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable) 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES  (only if applicable) 

Names of Issuer and Lead Managers, Brokers and Bankers to the issue (Addresses optional) 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS  

AVAILABILITY OF PROSPECTUS  

Investors are advised to refer to the prospectus, and the risk factors contained therein, before applying in the issue. Full 
copy  of  the  prospectus  is  available  at  www.sebi.gov.in  and  websites  of  issuer  at  www……and  lead  managers  at 
www….. 
 

ISSUE OPENS ON: 
ISSUE CLOSES ON: 

THE ISSUE 

Rs._________ 

PROMOTERS  

XXXX 

 

PROPOSED LISTING 
Names of Stock Exchanges 

LEAD MANAGERS  

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

Issued by 

Directors of Issuer 

Page 321 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 
 
 

B. SAMPLE OPENING AD FOR A FIXED PRICE PUBLIC ISSUE (Optional) 
 
This is only an advertisement for information purposes and not a prospectus announcement. 
 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as __________________________ and subsequently renamed 

_______________________ on ________________) 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

Corporate Office: _________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: _____________________________ 

 

Public issue of ___________ equity shares of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ for cash aggregating 

ABC LTD. 

THE ISSUE 

Rs._________ 

PROMOTERS  

XXXX 

PROPOSED LISTING 
Names of Stock Exchanges 

LEAD MANAGERS  

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF  ISSUER COMPANY 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable) 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES (only if applicable) 

Names of Issuer and Lead Managers, Brokers and Bankers to the issue (Addresses optional) 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS  

Investors are advised to refer to the prospectus, and the risk factors contained therein, before applying in the issue. Full 

copy of the prospectus is available at www.sebi.gov.in and websites of issuer at www……and lead managers at 

AVAILABILITY OF PROSPECTUS  

www…... 

 
ISSUE OPENS TODAY 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Issued by 
Directors of Issuer 

Page 322 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 
 
 

C. SAMPLE CLOSING AD FOR A FIXED PRICE PUBLIC ISSUE  
 
This is only an advertisement for information purposes and not a prospectus announcement. 
 

ABC LTD. 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as __________________________ and 

subsequently renamed _______________________ on ________________) 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

Corporate Office: _________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: _____________________________ 

 

 

Public issue of ___________ equity shares of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ for cash aggregating 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF  ISSUER COMPANY 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable) 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES (only if applicable) 

Names of Issuer and Lead Managers, Brokers and Bankers to the issue (Addresses optional) 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS  

Investors are advised to refer to the prospectus, and the risk factors contained therein, before applying in the issue. Full 

copy of the prospectus is available at www.sebi.gov.in and websites of issuer at www……and lead managers at 

AVAILABILITY OF PROSPECTUS  

www…... 

 
ISSUE CLOSES TODAY 

THE ISSUE 

Rs._________ 

PROMOTERS  

XXXX 

PROPOSED LISTING 
Names of Stock Exchanges 

 LEAD MANAGERS  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Issued by 
Directors of Issuer 

Page 323 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 
 
 

 
 
D. SAMPLE PRE-ISSUE AD FOR A BOOKBUILDING PUBLIC ISSUE  
 
This is only an advertisement for information purposes and is not a prospectus announcement. 
 

ABC LTD. 

 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as __________________________ and 

subsequently renamed _______________________ on ________________) 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

Corporate Office: _________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: _____________________________ 

Public issue of ___________ equity shares of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ for cash aggregating 

 
The Issue is being made through the 100% Book Building Process wherein at least ___% of the Issue shall be allocated 
on a discretionary basis to Qualified Institutional Buyers. Further, not less than ___% of the Issue shall be available for 
allocation on a proportionate basis to Non-Institutional Bidders and the remaining ____% of the Issue shall be available 
for allocation on a proportionate basis to Retail Bidders, subject to valid bids being received at or above the Issue Price. 
 

THE ISSUE 

Rs._________ 

FLOOR PRICE/PRICE BAND  

 Rs. ______ per share 

PROMOTERS  

XXXX 

PROPOSED LISTING 
Names of Stock Exchanges 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS  

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

CO-BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS  

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF ISSUER COMPANY 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable) 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES (only if applicable) 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS  

optional) 

 

Names of Issuer and Bookrunners, Lead Managers, Syndicate Members, Brokers and Bankers to the issue (Addresses 

Investors are advised to refer to the prospectus, and the risk factors contained therein, before applying in the issue. Full 

copy of the prospectus is available at www.sebi.gov.in and website/s of issuer/lead managers/----- Stock Exchange. 

AVAILABILITY OF RED HERRING PROSPECTUS  

BID OPENS ON  : 
BID CLOSES ON : 

Issued by 

Directors of the Issuer 

Page 324 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 
 
 

 
E. SAMPLE OPENING AD FOR A BOOKBUILDING PUBLIC ISSUE  
 
This is only an advertisement for information purposes and is not a prospectus announcement. 
 

ABC LTD. 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as __________________________ and 

subsequently renamed _______________________ on ________________) 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

Corporate Office: _________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: _____________________________ 

 

Public issue of ___________ equity shares of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ for cash aggregating 

The Issue is being made through the 100% Book Building Process wherein at least ___% of the Issue shall be allocated 
on a discretionary basis to Qualified Institutional Buyers. Further, not less than ___% of the Issue shall be available for 
allocation on a proportionate basis to Non-Institutional Bidders and the remaining ____% of the Issue shall be available 
for allocation on a proportionate basis to Retail Bidders, subject to valid bids being received at or above the Issue Price. 
 

THE ISSUE 

Rs._________ 

FLOOR PRICE/PRICE BAND    

 Rs. ______ per share 

PROMOTERS  

XXXX 

PROPOSED LISTING 
Names of Stock Exchanges 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS  

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

CO-BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS  

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF  ISSUER COMPANY 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable) 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES (only if applicable) 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS  

optional) 

 

Names of Issuer and Bookrunners, Lead Managers, Syndicate Members, Brokers and Bankers to the issue (Addresses 

Investors are advised to refer to the prospectus, and the risk factors contained therein, before applying in the issue. Full 

copy of the prospectus is available at www.sebi.gov.in and website/s of issuer/lead managers. 

AVAILABILITY OF RED HERRING PROSPECTUS  

BIDS OPEN TODAY 

Issued by 
Directors of the Issuer 
 

Page 325 of 326 

Report of the Malegam Committee on Disclosure Requirements in Offer Documents 
 
 
 

F. SAMPLE CLOSING AD FOR A BOOKBUILDING PUBLIC ISSUE  
 
This is only an advertisement for information purposes and is not a prospectus announcement. 
 

ABC LTD. 

(Incorporated on ____________________ under the Companies Act as __________________________ and 

subsequently renamed _______________________ on ________________) 

Registered Office: __________________________________ Tel: _______________ Fax ______________ 

Corporate Office: _________________________________________________________________ 

Tel: _________ Fax: _______ e-mail: ______ Website: _____________________________ 

 

Public issue of ___________ equity shares of Rs. ____ each at a price of Rs._____ for cash aggregating 

 
The Issue is being made through the 100% Book Building Process wherein at least ___% of the Issue shall be allocated 
on a discretionary basis to Qualified Institutional Buyers. Further, not less than ___% of the Issue shall be available for 
allocation on a proportionate basis to Non-Institutional Bidders and the remaining ____% of the Issue shall be available 
for allocation on a proportionate basis to Retail Bidders, subject to valid bids being received at or above the Issue Price. 
 

THE ISSUE 

Rs._________ 

  

FLOOR PRICE  / PRICE BAND 

 Rs.. ______ per share 

PROMOTERS   

XXXX 

PROPOSED LISTING 
Names of Stock Exchanges 

 

 

 

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS  

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

CO-BOOK RUNNING LEAD MANAGERS  

Name, address, telephone and fax numbers, email ID, website address and contact person 

COMPLIANCE OFFICER OF THE ISSUER  

CREDIT RATING (only if applicable) 

DEBENTURE TRUSTEES (only if applicable) 

AVAILABILITY OF APPLICATION FORMS  

optional)  

Names of Issuer and Bookrunners, Lead Managers, Syndicate Members, Brokers and Bankers to the issue (Addresses 

Investors are advised to refer to the prospectus, and the risk factors contained therein, before applying in the issue. Full 
copy of the prospectus is available at www.sebi.gov.in and website/s of issuer/lead managers/----Stock Exchange.    

AVAILABILITY OF RED HERRING PROSPECTUS  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BID CLOSES TODAY 

Issued by 
Directors of the Issuer 

Page 326 of 326 

