Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

REVISED SCHEME

FOR

IMPLEMENTING

STRAIGHT
THROUGH

PROCESSING IN

INDIA

Page 1 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Chapter 1. Meaning of Straight through processing (STP) ......................................3
Chapter 2.
International experience .........................................................................5
Need of STP in India...............................................................................7
Chapter 3.
Chapter 4.
STP Committee .......................................................................................9
Post implementation experience............................................................ 14
Chapter 5.
Case for forming a centralized hub....................................................... 20
Chapter 6.
Chapter 7.
Designing the revised STP framework .................................................. 23
Is the proposed STP framework indeed a solution? .............................. 29
Chapter 8.
Chapter 9.
Post implementation.............................................................................. 33
Chapter 10. List of Appendices ................................................................................. 34

Page 2 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

CHAPTER 1.  MEANING OF STRAIGHT

THROUGH PROCESSING (STP)

Straight-through  Processing  (“STP”)  is  a  mechanism  that  automates  the  end-to-end
processing of transactions of the financial instruments. It involves  use of a single system
to process or control all elements of the work-flow of a financial transaction, including
what is commonly known as the Front, Middle, and Back office, and General Ledger. In
other words, STP can be defined as electronically capturing and processing transactions
in one pass, from the point of first ‘deal’  to final settlement..

Presently, each and every transaction involves costly multiple data re-entry from paper
documents and other sources which are susceptible to errors, discrepancies, delays and
possible fraud. Further, the traditional means and methods of capturing and processing of
information such as phone, fax, email etc. requires human intervention which slows the
entire cycle, introduces errors and delays settlement

The  global  securities  industry  is  undergoing  a  period  of  dramatic  change  driven  by
increasing customer expectations. Centered on technological based business models and
new  regulations  requiring  reduced  settlement  cycles,  the  system  demands  a  common
solution to address the issues related therein.  The technological advancements witnessed
in  the  securities  trading  system  coupled  with  the  dynamicity  of  the  capital  market
demands and ability to capture trade data once i.e. at the point of the investment decision
and  to  process  that  decision  electronically  and  seamlessly  through  order  creation  &
compliance, trading, confirmation, settlement and finally into reconciliation

Usage of STP enables orders to be processed, confirmed, cleared and settled in a shorter
time  period,  more  cost  effectively  and  with  fewer  errors.  Apart  from  compressing  the
clearing and settlement time, STP also provides a flexible, cost-effective infrastructure,
which enables e-business expansion through real-time processing and access to enterprise
data.  Thus  STP  may  be  defined  as  the  end-to-end  automation  of  financial  transaction
processing from pre-trade to post-settlement.

Page 3 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

STP  also  streamlines  back-office  activities,  leading  to  fewer  failures,  lower  risks  and
drastically  reduces  costs  per  transaction.  It  embraces  a  set  of  applications,  business
processes  and  standards,  which  are  set  to  revolutionize  the  settlement  and  processing
standards  within  the  capital  markets  industry.  The  working  of  STP  requires  the
automation of nearly every process along the way, as well as application-to-application
connectivity to allow integrated information flows. In addition to these, complete linkage
with industry utilities, networks, business partners and industry standards is necessary in
order to allow instantaneous communication. One may also examine the success of STP
in the international arena.

Page 4 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

CHAPTER 2. 

INTERNATIONAL

EXPERIENCE

The increasing volume of trades and the demand for more rapid settlement has made it
essential  for  the  market  participants  to  enhance  their  processing  efficiency  in  order  to
manage costs and minimize their exposure to risk. Globally, it is found that some big and
the  organized  firms  have  developed  their  own  integrated  front  middle  and  back  office
systems  which  communicate  in  a  particular  manner  so  that  the  information  fed  at  one
front automatically gets captured and processed at the other front also. This avoids the
duplication  of  work,  errors  in  data  feeding  and  facilitates  quick  usage  of  the  data  for
processing and report generation. Many big organizations have adopted STP for their in-
house  functions.  The  level  of  automation  is  found  to  be  diversified  and  is  mostly
dependent on the size of the organization, the business field, and the dynamicity of the
management.

Internationally, STP can be found in use at the organization level or at the most at the
closed  group  level.  However,  none  of  the  markets  in  the  world  have  adopted  STP  at
broader level i.e. STP across the market including participation across the majority of the
market participants. As such, no standards for messaging or for interoperability although
attempted have been implemented that could be used for adopting STP across the market.
The  organizations  using  STP  in  their  own  organizational  functions  are  using  different
messaging standards.

However, reduction of the trade-to-settlement times is now a widely agreed phenomenon.
The  markets  across  the  world  are  looking  forward  to  achieve  the  reduction  of  the
settlement  cycle  from  three  days  (T+3)  to  just  one  day  (T+1).  Coupled  with  the
developments  taking  place  to  reduce  the  settlement  cycle,  the  changing  roles  of  the
market intermediaries and the industry as a whole is compelling the securities institutions
to  focus  on  delivering  the  rapid  and  responsive  customer  service  that  will  secure  their
global competitiveness.

Further,  the  economic  justifications  alone  for  T+1  is  forcing  the  industry  including  the
regulators, particularly when you look at how trade volumes are spiraling, to adopt the

Page 5 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

means  and  methods  for  automation  of  the  processes  involved  along  the  way.  Industry
figures  reveal  that  the  daily  numbers  and  size  of  cross  border  equity  transactions  have
doubled - and value at risk has quadrupled. Adding to the complications are the recent
developments  that  have  taken  place  in  the  capital  markets  wherein  the  mergers,
acquisitions and other phenomena have changed the entire equation of the global capital
markets. No more the barriers and the competition that used to prevail in the traditional
days are applicable. These fronts further necessitate the usage of the automated systems
that would not only facilitate the short settlement cycle but will provide benefits  in many
other ways like reduction in the cost, increased efficiencies, lessening of the risk etc.

Internationally  it  has  been  accepted  that  whether  it  is  viewed  as  an  obligation  or  an
opportunity, markets will have no choice but to adopt the system; they will have to spend
money to stay in business. This presents an ideal milestone to introduce STP at the same
time.

the 

inherent  advantages 

However  despite 
in  executing  a  seamless  electronic
communication and messaging system, varying system structures, message protocols and
differing  verification  schedules  and  applications  have  made  STP  Service  Providers  as
islands of information. There is STP but only within clients who are networked with one
Service Provider. The issue of inter-operability between STP Service Providers has not
been resolved.

Page 6 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

CHAPTER 3.  NEED OF STP IN INDIA

In  order  to  remain  competitive  in  the  global  marketplace,  today’s  markets  across  the
world are striving to reduce costs and operational errors as well as speed up transaction
handling.  Straight  through  processing  (STP),  the  automated  end-to-end  processing  of
transactions from trade inception to settlement, has become a business imperative for the
markets. STP promises to streamline legacy systems and applications as well as inter and
back-office applications.

The capital markets in India have witnessed a huge change in the last decade or so. The
entire  market  structure  has  been  redefined  and  so  have  the  nature  of  market
intermediaries.  Securities’  market  have  moved  towards  technology  supported  systems
and  practices.  The  Indian  capital  markets,  have  attained  a  remarkably  high  degree  of
growth in the last decade, are poised for a further leap forward over the next ten years.
With  the  opening  of  the  economy  to  multinationals  and  the  adoption  of  more  liberal
economic policies, the economy is driven more towards the free market economy.

The trading volumes have been growing exponentially in the Indian markets and so is the
number  of  products  being  traded,  the  number  of  investors  and  the  number  of  market
participants. The traditional open outcry system of trading has been left in the past and
the  market  has  adopted  the  electronic  trading  system.  There  has  been  a  move  from
account  settlement  period  to  rolling  settlement  system.  The  settlement  cycle  has  been
gradually brought down from 15 days to just 2 days thus putting the Indian capital market
in the elite group of advanced markets of the world.

The  shortening  of  the  settlement  cycle  requires  the  market  to  streamline  the  various
processes  and  phases  involved  in  order  to  achieve  a  faster,  better,  cost-effective  and
acceptable  means  and  mode  of  system  support  and  infrastructure.  Further,  with  the
technological  advancements  taking  place  in  all  the  spheres  of  the  system,  the  market
seems to be reluctant to afford the higher cost, costly manual intervention and the most
importantly the mistakes arising out of such duplication of work on account of manual
intervention.

Page 7 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

With the availability of the means and mechanism of faster, more efficient transactions,
enterprises of all sizes aspiring to save valuable time and money, STP appears to be the
solution  to  overcome  the  difficulties  of  the  manual  processing  which  could  smoothly
transcend into shorter settlement cycles. The following benefits of STP make it attractive
to be adopted in the Indian context:

?  Facilitates shortening of the settlement cycle.
?  Increases transparency
?  Avoids costly duplication of work and manual intervention
?  Reduction in Risks and errors
?  Faster data capturing, processing and report generation
?  Increases the overall efficiencies
?  Makes the market cost effective
?  Better regulation by systematic audit trial

Page 8 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

CHAPTER 4. 

STP COMMITTEE

The  need  for  STP  or  any  other  mean  to  achieve  a  quicker,  safer,  economical  and
automated system in the Indian capital market was actually felt with the shortening of the
settlement cycle, increase in the number of products traded and number of players who
participated  it  the  market.  Coupled  with  the  technical  advancements  taking  place,  the
various  limitations  arising  out  of  the  traditional  system  of  trading  and  settlement,
compelled the industry to revisit the viability and feasibility of the systems they had been
adopting. Sensing the need of the market, SEBI set up the Committee on 19-February-
2002, to assess the feasibility and suitability of introducing STP in Indian markets. The
committee  was  formed  to  propose  a  scheme  of  STP  and  undertaking  a  cost-benefit
analysis of implementing STP in India.

The  SEBI  Committee  for  implementation  of  STP  in  Indian  markets  approached  the
matter under reference through the following steps:

?  Identification of components of the current life-cycle of a trade that involves

manual intervention

?  Identifying 

and 

establishing  messaging 

standards 

for 

information

communication

?  Identifying options for establishment of a communications backbone that will

enable data transfer across participants in a secure and efficient manner.

In its approach, a sub-group comprising of some of the members of the committee was
also formed to critically examine the available messaging standards and to recommend
the  messaging  standards  that  would  be  most  suitable.  Further,  a  pilot  project  was
convened to find out if STP would be successful was undertaken. The Committee was of
view that there was a disparity between the market participants in terms of automisation.
The committee made a comparison of the various processes involved in the trade cycle
(both domestic and international) and identified the following areas which were needed to
be automated on a priority basis:

Page 9 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

?  Post Trade activities like contract note transfer from broker-dealer to sub-

custodian and the mutual fund/FII

?  Pre-match advice to the broker-dealer

?  Domestic Mutual Funds’  trade data flow to/from the sub-custodian

Various  international  practices  were  also  deliberated  upon  by  the  committee  and
committee  found  that  there  was  no  market  in  the  world  that  had  adopted  STP  at  the
market level. In view of the practices followed in the market, the committee suggested
that  in  order  to  overcome  the  difficulties  of  the  manual  processing  and  smoothly
transcend into shorter settlement cycles, it was vital to have Straight through Processing
(STP) and Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) in place.

4.1.  STP COMMITTEE REPORT

The  committee  set  up  for  implementation  of  STP  in  Indian  markets  deliberated  on  the
issues concerning the STP as well as the ancillary issues related to the implementation of
STP  in  the  Indian  market.  The  committee  advocated  for  reduction  in  the  manual
intervention  in  the  trade  cycle,  reduction  of  the  paper  work  and  standardisation  of  the
messaging protocols. In its report, the committee have detailed out the following benefits
provided by the STP:

?  Reduced Settlement Cycle

?  Transparency / Audit ability

?  Reduces Counterparty Risk

?  Reduces Operational Risk

?  More timely exception processing

?  Performance Measurement

?  Improve attractiveness of Indian market

While pointing out the various benefits of the STP, the committee had also detailed the
various critical factors for the success of the STP. They are as under:

?  Open  standard  protocols  and  message  standards  that  are  in  compliance

with best international standards, and
Page 10 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

?  Cooperation between the different market participants and users to ensure

that common practices are established and followed.

?  A  robust  financial  infrastructure  that  links  the  main  exchanges  and
clearing  houses  together,  including  direct  computer  linkage  with  the
payment system.

?  Cooperation  with  the  regulatory  and  tax  authorities  in  ensuring  that
electronic data/documents and electronic signatures are legally acceptable.

The committee in its report had detailed the factors relating to the implementation of STP
in India. One of the major issues considered by the committee was the issue related to
implementing an electronic contract note. In its report, the committee had also presented
the details of the communication and the connectivity factors which would play a leading
role in the implementation of the STP in India. Various message standard and protocols
were  considered  by  the  committee.  International  practices  in  this  regard  were  also
debated upon.

4.2.  STP COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATIONS

In order to implement STP in Indian market, the committee set up by SEBI recommended
the following:

?  On-line Connectivity between the depositories to permit easier settlement.

?  Recognition of electronic contract notes as a legal document as an alternative to

paper based contract notes.

?  Adoption of ISO 15022 standards for financial messaging with Digital Signature

using PKI (Public Key Infrastructure).

?  Encourage multiple STP Service Providers to set-up infrastructure to provide STP

to bring in competition for higher efficiency and economy.

?  Amendment to the legal framework (laws / regulations / bye-laws etc.) to provide
for recognition of paperless form of data and records. The Committee identified
and made a list of bye-laws / regulations etc. that needed to be changed in order to
move to a paperless environment.

Page 11 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

?  There  were  certain  issues  relating  to  the  payment  system  that  needed  to  be
addressed  on  a  priority  basis.  However,  these  did  not  fall  under  the  purview  of
SEBI  and  the  matter  had  to  be  referred  to  RBI  for  action  at  their  end.  The
Committee  recommended  a  strong  need  to  implement  Real  Time  Gross
Settlement system. The RBI has already indicated that the RTGS system would
be in place by June 2003 (which has later been revised to mid 2004). This would
help in creating better synergy between settlement of funds and securities at the
same time and true Delivery v/s Payment system can be achieved. Meanwhile, in
the interim period, Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) facility of the RBI was also
proposed to be increased in terms of its coverage and the value so that payments
may be made faster.

The  STP  committee  also  set  out  the  viability  and  the  road  map  for  STP  including  the
following key dependencies / comments:

?  The carrier must be able to deliver a consistent communications platform
that meets the security criteria recommended, and offers connectivity to all
participants.

?  The carrier must be cost-efficient.

?  While there is no constraint on the number of carriers, each carrier must,
before  launch,  establish  continuous  connectivity  with  other  carriers,  so
that a participant needs only to sign up to one carrier

The  Basic  Requirements  for  the  communication  platform  was  also  set  out  by  the
committee.

4.3.  STP CIRCULAR

The recommendations of the committee on STP were accepted by SEBI. Based on the
recommendations, 
(Ref:
FITTC/FII/19320/2002)  mandated  introduction  of  STP  for  electronic  trade  processing

dated  October 

20021 

03, 

SEBI 

vide 

letter 

                                               
1 Appendix 1

Page 12 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

with a common messaging standard with effect from December 02, 2002. The STP was
mandated on the following lines:

?  Adoption of ISO 15022 messaging standards by the market participants.

?  Electronic delivery of Contract Notes

?  Connectivity among the market participants and implementation of STP.

Page 13 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

CHAPTER 5. 

POST IMPLEMENTATION

EXPERIENCE

STP was launched in India with the inauguration of STEADY-STP solution provided by
NSDL on November 30, 2002. To start with, STP was impressed upon to be adopted by
the domestic institutions, investors, fund managers, brokers and custodians. However, it
was observed that though the market participants had joined the STP services, the system
could not nourish due to various issues. The issues are highlighted as under:

5.1.1. 

Lack of Inter-operability between all the STP

Service Providers

Lack of inter-operability between the STP Service Providers has been one of the major
roadblocks in making the STP framework popular. The reasons for the same reported by
various market participants are as under:

5.1.1.1. Lack of Message Handshake Protocols:

The  existing  framework  provides  a  common  messaging  platform  to  provide  for  an
electronic  communication  between  the  market  participants  through  their  respective
STP Service Providers. However the STP Service Providers have their own systems
which  are  independent  of  each  other.  The  STP  framework  does  not  provide  for
Message  Handshake  Protocols  –  which  could  facilitate  seamless  communication
between the independent systems of various STP Service Providers and ensure a free
exchange of messages.

5.1.1.2. Lack of Common Authentication of Digital
Signatures across the STP Service Providers:

Different STP Service Providers have obtained their digital signatures from different
Certifying Authorities. There is no common interface to verify the digital signature on

Page 14 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

a message from one STP Service Provider by another STP Service Provider (who has
a digital signature from a different Certifying Authority).

5.1.1.3. Lack of end to end compliance to ISO

messaging formats from sender to the recipient
and absence of standardisation of file formats for
client’s back office development:

The back offices of some of the institutional investors are not compliant to the ISO
15022  formats.  This  non-compliance  leads  to  non-standardisation  of  the  client
platform  which  prevents  seamless  communication  across  clients.  Further  there  are
different  STP  Service  Providers  servicing  various  clients.  As  each  STP  Service
Provider has a different STP platform, the integration of the back office systems with
the system of the STP Service Provider is non-uniform and diverse across the various
strata  of  clients  leading  to  absence  of  STP  communication  between  two  clients  of
different STP Service Providers.

5.1.1.4. Other Technological Issues:

There  are  other  technological  issues  like  lack  of  a  common  file  format,  protocol
detailing, import file formats, message exchange protocol, methods of encryption, and
logical connectivity.

Due  to  the  above  issues,  inter-operability  between  STP  Service  Providers  has  not  been
resolved.  The  SEBI  mandate  of  implementing  STP  has  led  to  the  fund  managers  /
custodians forcing their broker members to resolve the problem of inter-operability. As a
solution, broker members have been following the informal practice of persuading mutual
funds and custodians to sign up with the STP Service Provider they are connected or in
case clients do not agree with that proposition, member brokers would have to sign up
more  than  one  or  even  all  the  STP  Service  Providers  where  the  clients  are  signed  up
leading to inefficiency and time lag in executing STP. Also the back office of the brokers
would have to run the different programs of each STP Service Provider leading to delay
in post trade and pre-settlement processing.

Page 15 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

5.1.2. 

Absence of a common agreement among the

STP Service Providers

The legal framework of the STP system was executed through legal agreements between
the STP Service Providers and the clients. However, the Legal Agreement between one
STP  Service  Providers  and  its  clients  was  different  from  another.  Hence  there  was  no
common platform to formulate matters of mutual interest like legality, recourse, liabilities
involved  in  exchanging  and  processing  messages  received  from  other  STP  Service
Providers. Due to the absence of a standardized legal framework, the STP system could
not witness the desired growth.

5.1.3. 

Lack of Service Legal Agreement between the

STP Service Providers to guarantee delivery of the
entire message in a secure and confidential manner

The STP Service Providers entered into a customized legal agreement with their clients.
Due to non-standardisation of the legal agreement among the STP Service Providers, the
STP Service Providers could not guarantee delivery of the entire message, especially if
the  message  had  to  be  delivered  to  a  client  registered  with  a  different  STP  Service
Provider  in  a  secure  and  confidential  manner.  Due  to  the  absence  of  this  clause,  most
clients did not use the STP environment leading to low STP traffic.

5.1.4. 

High inter-connectivity charges to interconnect

different STP Service Providers

There are high inter-connection charges for each inter-connection between STP Service
Providers.  Since  there  were  multiple  STP  Service  Providers,  there  would  have  been
multiple inter-connections required to connect all the STP Service Providers. Further an
entry of a new STP Service Provider would have resulted into an inter-connection with
all the existing STP Service Providers which would result in prohibitive inter-connection
charges.

Page 16 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

5.1.5. 

Commercial considerations – bearing of the
additional cost of developing and maintaining such
interfaces

Due to the above reasons, the STP traffic has been dismally low. On the other hand to
implement  the  STP  system,  there  is  a  need  to  incur  expenditure  on  both  hardware  and
software systems. Large capital expenditure without high volumes has led to STP Service
Providers charging heavy fees for the STP services. Due to high fees, few clients have
signed up for the STP service which in turn has led to low volumes.

After  the  implementation  of  the  STP  framework  in  December  2002,  the  above  issues
were raised by various sections of the market as the stumbling block for the widespread
use  of  STP.  SEBI  held  various  meetings  with  the  STP  Service  Providers  and  they
reiterated the problems of lack of clarity on the exclusive issue of an electronic contract
note, technological issues, inter-operability issues, high CUG connectivity charges, lack
of clarity on the legal issues and the commercial viability of the STP framework for the
STP Service Providers.

5.2.  MEETINGS WITH REGULATORY BODIES

To resolve the issue of inter-operability between the STP Service Providers (which was
considered  the  major  bottleneck),  SEBI  along  with  the  STP  Service  Providers  made  a
presentation to regulatory bodies on May 21, 2003 highlighting the importance of STP in
India,  the  need  of  a  vibrant  STP  system  to  graduate  to  a  T+1  rolling  settlement  and
efficient  connectivity  between  all  market  participants 
like
exchanges,  clearing  corporation,  depositories  etc.  SEBI  also  highlighted  the  following
recommendations of the STP committee:

institutions 

including 

?  Electronic exchange of contract notes
?  Exchange  of  trade  details  and  settlement  instructions  with  digital  signature

across various intermediaries.

?  Formation  of  an  STP  environment  through  the  medium  of  STP  Service

Providers.

Page 17 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

SEBI also outlined the issues of inter-operability between the STP Service Providers and
the prohibitive costs of CUG interconnectivity involved in resolving the issues of inter-
connectivity.  Accordingly,  SEBI  suggested  for  the  waiver  of  the  interconnectivity
charges between the STP Service Providers’  networks to enable seamless communication
between users of different STP Service Providers.

It  was  suggested  that  instead  SEBI  could  form  a  CUG  network  for  securities’  market
which would cover the various intermediaries associated with the securities’  market. This
being  a  single  network  would  not  attract  inter-connectivity  charges  for  the  various
securities’  market  intermediaries.  However  SEBI  had  indicated  that  as  per  the  present
charter, it would not be possible for SEBI to set-up such a network. As an alternative, it
was suggested that SEBI make an application for waiver of interconnectivity charges for
“STP Service Providers” specifically and SEBI should issue license / registration for STP
Service Providers. This would facilitate (in consultation with the Basic Service Provider)
in setting up procedures for the waiver of interconnectivity charges for that category only.
Accordingly,  SEBI  made  a  formal  request  for  waiver  of  interconnectivity  charges  for
STP Service Providers

5.3.  MEETINGS WITH THE STP SERVICE PROVIDERS

To  address  the  issue  of  inter-operability,  a  committee  consisting  of  the  4  existing  STP
Service Providers was formed with NSDL as the convener. The Committee had various
deliberations and raised issues of regulatory non-clarity of the issue of electronic contract
notes,  issues  relating  to  payment  of  consolidated  stamp  duty,  technological  issues,
absence of inter-operability between the STP Service Providers due to non-verification of
the  digital  signature  of  one  STP  Service  Provider  (obtained  from  one  Certifying
Authority)  by  another  STP  Service  Provider  (who  has  obtained  digital  signature  from
another Certifying Authority), legal and operational issues subsequent to finalization of
the operational issues.

NSDL on behalf of the Committee on July 4, 2003, forwarded a consolidated document
highlighting  the  communication  protocol  &  message  structure  standards  /  discussions
which  in  their  opinion  would  suit  the  inter-connectivity  between  the  STP  Service

Page 18 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

Providers through a centralized hub. However one of the STP Service Provider, Financial
Technologies had their reservations in adapting the specified customized protocol to suit
the  inter-operability  needs.  They  preferred  adopting  the  readymade  standard  messaging
platforms.

Page 19 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

CHAPTER 6.  CASE FOR FORMING A

CENTRALIZED HUB

After deliberations with the exchanges, clearing corporations, STP Service Providers and
other market participants and after taking into account the issues raised for the slow off-
take  of  the  existing  STP  framework,  it  was  decided  that  in  order  to  facilitate  inter-
operability between the various service providers, a STP centralised hub needed to be set
up.  Accordingly,  a  block  diagram  of  the  proposed  STP  network  was  forwarded  to  the
regulatory bodies and they were requested to waive the inter-connection charges between
the centralized hub and the STP service providers.

6.1.  EXISTING REGULATORY SCENARIO ON

INTERCONNECTIVITY

There were two options available for the STP centralised hub, one to set it up as a CUG
or  as  an  Internet  Service  Provider  (ISP).  It  was  informed  that  in  the  current  scenario,
registering the STP centralised hub as a CUG would necessitate a special permission to
waive  the  inter-connection  charges  between  the  STP  Service  Providers  and  the  STP
centralised  hub.  According  to  them,  the  waiver  of  interconnection  charges  would  take
more  time.    Further,  under  the  existing  scenario,  CUG  networks  do  not  have  the
flexibility  to  interconnect  to  other  networks.  Compared  to  this,  ISP  license  has  the
required flexibility & the following advantages:

6.2.  ADVANTAGES OF SETTING UP STP

CENTRALISED HUB AS AN ISP

1)  The STP centralised hub set up as an ISP can be connected by an existing CUG

network as a client.

2)  The centralized hub could also be connected through a leased line connection or
through  dial-up  connections.  However  it  had  been  opined  that  a  leased  line

Page 20 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

connection  would  be  a  more  secure  form  of  connection  and  the  dial-up
connectivity should be used as a back-up form of communication.

3)  Interconnection to other ISP or any other network including CUG network does
not attract any interconnect charges based on the directive issued by TRAI.  Only
leased line charges based on bandwidth and distance shall be applicable.  As such,
connectivity  of  STP  centralised  hub  with  any  other  CUG  networks  can  be
achieved  without  any  licensing  issues.  It  has  also  been  confirmed  that  the  STP
centralised hub as an ISP would have the flexibility of connecting with any other
CUG network like RBI’s INFINET CUG network (to facilitate STP for funds).

4)  International connectivity is permitted.

5)  IP/VPN connection is permitted.

6)  Present ISP’s license charges applicable are Rs. 1 per annum.

7)  No major roll-out obligations.  Even one customer with an ISP is regarded as the
same having gone live considering the requirement of roll-out within 18 months
as per the license requirements.

8)  The STP centralised hub as an ISP could also be used for other allied services like
a  standard  communication  platform  for  various  exchanges,  depositories,  and
market  participants  and  the  STP  centralised  hub  could  be  made  scaleable  to
include STP among retail clients also.

Accordingly, stock exchanges, depositories and STP Service Providers decided to setup a
STP centralised hub as an ISP to facilitate inter-connection and inter-operability between
the STP Service Providers.

Page 21 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

6.3.  CONSTITUTION OF STP CENTRALISED HUB:

In view of the above, it was decided to register the STP centralised hub as an Internet
Service Provider (ISP) with TRAI. The next issue was the mechanism in which the STP
centralised  hub  would  be  constituted  and  owned.  After  various  deliberations,  it  was
agreed  that  since  the  exchanges  are  the  originators  of  trade  and  the  trade  gets  finally
settled with the Clearing Corporation / house associated with the exchange, the exchange
and its Clearing Corporation is the focal point for all post trade, pre-settlement and post
settlement activities. Hence it would be desirable for the exchanges to constitute the STP
centralised  hub  to  bring  in  the  inherent  synergies  and  efficiencies  to  make  the  whole
framework economically viable.

NSE and BSE had shown interest in setting up the STP centralised hub. However setting
up  two  centralized  hubs  would  not  solve  the  issue  of  inter-operability  and  would
complicate the issue further. BSE endorsed the proposal but desired that the centralized
hub  be  set  up  as  a  joint  venture  between  BSE  and  NSE.  NSE  also  agreed  with  the
proposition  of  setting  up  the  centralized  hub  as  a  joint  venture.  However  NSE
recommended  implementing  the  proposed  plan  in  two  phases.  In  Phase  I  NSE  would
setup the centralized hub by earmarking some of its existing infrastructure to implement
STP for institutional trades where the number of trades is not very large. In Phase II BSE
and NSE could jointly develop a project to set up an independent STP centralised hub
with  an  independent  system  architecture  and  infrastructure.  This  plan  was  accepted  by
both the exchanges.

It  was  also  confirmed  that  an  ISP  license  taken  up  by  NSE  in  Phase  I  could  be  later
reconstituted to enable joint ownership by BSE and NSE in Phase II. Accordingly, NSE
made  an  application  for  the  ISP  (for  the  STP  centralised  hub)  with  Department  of
Telecommunication  (DoT)  and  has  procured  the  necessary  registration  of  the  STP
centralised hub as an ISP.

Page 22 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

CHAPTER 7.  DESIGNING THE REVISED

STP FRAMEWORK

7.1.  ELECTRONIC CONTRACT NOTE

In  order  to  operationalise  the  issue  of  an  electronic  contract  note,  SEBI  had  issued  a
circular  no.  SMDRP/POLICY/Cir-15/00  dated  December  15,  20002  and  a  clarification
vide letter dated SEBI/SMD/SE/15/2003/29/04 dated April 29, 20033 whereby SEBI had
permitted  the  issue  of  electronic  contract  notes  with  digital  signature  obtained  from  a
valid  Certifying  Authority  provided  under  the  Information  Technology  Act,  2000  (IT
Act). The exchanges were directed to make the necessary amendments to the bye-laws,
rules and regulations for the implementation of the same.

However  it  had  been  brought  to  the  notice  of  SEBI  that  the  format  of  the  electronic
contract note prescribed by the exchanges were not in conformity with the format of the
physical contract note particularly with respect to the pre-printed terms and conditions.
Hence  members  issuing  electronic  contract  notes  were  also  issuing  physical  contract
notes which amounted to duplication and unnecessary reconciliation between the physical
and electronic contract notes.

In order to streamline the issuance of electronic contract notes as a legal document like
the physical contract note, SEBI prescribed a format for the electronic contract note and
advised the exchanges to implement the following vide SEBI circular no. DNPD/Cir-9/04
dated February 3, 20044:

1) 

The exchanges would prescribe a standard format for the electronic contract
note (based on the prescribed model format prescribed in Annexure A) in its
bye-laws, rules and regulations.

                                               
2 Appendix 2
3 Appendix 3
4 Appendix 4

Page 23 of 68

2) 

3) 

4) 

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

The  exchange  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  for  issuance  of  electronic
contract note were amended to include all the standard pre-printed terms and
conditions  in  the  physical  contract  note.  The  electronic  contract  note  would
mention the relevant bye-laws / rules / regulations of the exchange subject to
which the said contract note is being issued.

The exchanges were also advised to modify / amend other relevant bye-laws,
rules  and  regulations  with  respect  to  signing  of  the  electronic  contract  note
with  a  digital  signature  so  as  to  make  the  modified  format  of  the  electronic
contract note a valid legal document like the physical contract note.

The exchanges were asked to prescribe the mechanism of record keeping of
electronic contract notes in a soft non-tamperable form in compliance with the
provisions of the IT Act, 2000.

A similar format of an electronic contract note was prescribed for the debt segment by
SEBI vide circular no. SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-11/2004 dated February 25, 20045.

7.2.  MANDATORY USE OF STP SYSTEM

In view of the aforesaid developments SEBI decided vide circular no. DNPD/Cir- 22 /04
dated April 1, 2004 that all the institutional trades executed on the stock exchanges would
be mandatorily processed through the STP System w. e. f. July 01, 20046.

7.3.  SYSTEM FLOW OF THE STP FRAMEWORK

In order bring in standardisation and objectivity, SEBI vide circular no. DNPD/Cir- 23/04
dated April 27, 20047  prescribed  the  following  system  flow  of  transactions  in  the  STP
framework:

                                               
5 Appendix 5
6 Appendix 6
7 Appendix 7

Page 24 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

a)  A STP user intending to send an instruction would send the message to his STP

service provider after digitally signing the same.

b)  The STP service provider would verify the signature of the STP user and forward

it to the

i)  recipient STP user, if the recipient STP user is availing services of the same

STP service provider; or the

ii)  STP centralised hub if the recipient STP user is not with the same STP service
provider. In such a case the STP service provider would be required to prepare
a message as per the STP centralised hub prescribed message format, enclose
the  user’s  message,  digitally  sign  the  message  and  then  send  it  to  the  STP
centralised hub

c)  On receipt of the message by the STP centralised hub, the STP centralised hub

would
i)  verify the signature of the sending STP service provider only.
ii)  send an acknowledgment to the sending STP service provider.

d)  The STP centralised hub would forward the message to the recipient STP service

provider after digitally signing on the message.

e)  The  recipient  STP  service  provider  on  receipt  of  the  message  from  the  STP
centralised hub, shall verify the signature of the STP centralised hub, verify if the
recipient  STP  user 
itself  and  send  an  appropriate
acknowledgment  with  digital  signature  to  the  STP  centralised  hub.  The  STP
centralised  hub  would  in  turn  forward  the  acknowledgment  (received  from  the
recipient STP service provider) duly signed to the sending STP service provider.

is  associated  with 

f)  The recipient STP service provider shall forward the message to the recipient STP
user.  The recipient STP user would receive the message and verify the signature
of the recipient STP service provider and sending STP user.

Page 25 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

2)  To  enable  inter-operation,  the  STP  centralised  hub  would  provide  a  utility  /  client
software to the STP service provider. The STP service provider’s  point  of  interface
with the STP centralised hub would be through this utility / client software. The PKI
(Public  key  infrastructure)  system  for  the  interface  shall  be  implemented  at  a  later
stage.

7.4.  LEGAL FRAMEWORK

As stated earlier, the STP centralised hub had been setup to provide a common platform
for a secure STP environment which would enable seamless inter-connectivity between
various  STP  users  connected  through  their  STP  Service  Providers.  SEBI  in  order  to
implement a suitable regulatory mechanism to create a platform for common minimum
service standards and imbibe a system of accountability issued the SEBI (STP centralised
hub  and  STP  service  providers)  Guidelines,  2004  (herein  referred  to  as  “STP
Guidelines”) vide SEBI circular no. DNPD/Cir-24/04 dated May 26, 20048. In order to
bring in standardisation, the STP Guidelines also prescribed a model agreement between
the STP centralised hub and the STP service providers.

The STP Guidelines prescribes the eligibility criteria and conditions of approval for the
STP centralised hub and the STP service providers, obligations and responsibilities of the
STP  centralised  hub  and  the  STP  service  providers  and  code  of  conduct  for  the  STP
service providers.

7.5.  TRANSACTION WORK FLOW OF THE STP

SYSTEM

As stated earlier, SEBI had prescribed the system flow of the STP system. To disseminate
better understanding of the STP system to the STP users, SEBI also decided to define and
prescribe the transaction work flow of the STP system vide SEBI circular no. DNPD/Cir-
25/04 dated June 10, 20049. SEBI had extensively consulted the STP centralised hub,
STP service providers and the STP users before prescribing the transaction work flow for
the STP system. The transaction work flow for the STP system is as follows:
                                               
8 Appendix 8

Page 26 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

1.  A contract note in electronic form in the prescribed format (IFN 515 messaging

format) shall be issued by the broker & sent to the custodian and / or the
institutional investor.

2.  In case the contract note is processed directly by the institutional investor, the

institutional investor shall send the trade confirmation of acceptance or rejection
of the contract note to the broker by using the IFN 598 messaging format. The
custodian shall also send the confirmation of acceptance or rejection of such
contract note to the broker using the messaging standard IFN 548.

3.  In case the contract note is processed by the custodian on behalf of the

institutional investor, the custodian shall send the confirmation of acceptance or
rejection of the contract note to the broker by using the IFN 548 messaging
format.

4.  The institutional investor shall send settlement instructions to its custodian in IFN
540 to IFN 543 messaging formats to the custodian for the following trade types:

a.  IFN 540: settlement instruction for a clearing house buy trade
b.  IFN 541: settlement instruction for a delivery-v/s-payment (DVP) buy

trade

c.  IFN 542: settlement instruction for a clearing house sell trade
d.  IFN 543: settlement instruction for a delivery-v/s-payment (DVP) sell

trade

5.  The custodian shall confirm / reject the execution of the settlement instructions to

the institutional investor in IFN 544 to IFN 547 messaging formats in the
following manner:

a.  IFN 544: confirmation / rejection of an instruction received in messaging

format IFN 540

                                                                                                                                           
9 Appendix 9

Page 27 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

b.  IFN 545: confirmation / rejection of an instruction received in messaging

format IFN 541

c.  IFN 546: confirmation / rejection of an instruction received in messaging

format IFN 542

d.  IFN 547: confirmation / rejection of an instruction received in messaging

format IFN 543

6.  It was clarified that if a message (for the activities mentioned above) is sent using

the STP centralised hub framework from one user to another user, then the
confirmation / rejection for such a message shall also be sent using the STP
centralised hub framework.

In order to bring in clarity and better understanding SEBI in consultation with the STP
centralised  hub,  STP  service  providers  and  the  STP  users  had  also  prescribed  the
messaging standards for IFN 515, IFN 540 to 547, IFN 548 and IFN 598.

In  order  to  bring  in  standardisation  in  the  input  of  the  identification  codes  in  the
prescribed  messaging  standards  SEBI  in  the  circular  had  also  prescribed  the  following
codes to be used by the various entities:

1.  Brokers:  SEBI  registration  number  (until  MAPIN  ID  is  available  for  every

broker)

2.  Mutual  Funds  and  schemes  of  Mutual  Funds:  SEBI  registration  number  for
Mutual Funds and Unique client code issued by the exchanges for schemes (until
MAPIN ID is available for each scheme of a mutual fund)

3.  FIIs and sub-accounts: SEBI registration number for FII and Unique client code
issued by the exchanges for sub-account (until MAPIN ID is available for each
FII and their sub-accounts)

4.  Custodians:  SEBI  registration  number  (until  MAPIN  ID  is  available  for  every

custodian)

5.  STP service providers and STP centralised hub: MAPIN ID
6.  Depositories and exchanges / clearing house / clearing corporation: MAPIN

ID.

Page 28 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

7.  Other  Institutional  Investors  like  financial  institutions,  banks  etc.:  Unique
client  code  issued  by  the  exchanges  (until  MAPIN  ID  is  available  for  each
Institutional Investor)

CHAPTER 8. 

IS THE PROPOSED STP
FRAMEWORK INDEED A SOLUTION?

The  proposed  STP  framework  is  perceived  to  address  all  the  causes  of  concern
highlighted above (in Chapter 5). To illustrate the following table enumerates the issues
raised and proposed solution for each issue under the proposed STP framework:

Issue

Proposed Solution

The  proposed  STP  framework  of  setting  up  a  STP
centralised hub where all the STP Service Providers would
get  connected  would  provide  the  requisite  platform  to
implement  seamless  inter-operability  between  the  STP
Service Providers.
The proposed system of setting up an STP centralised hub
where the STP centralised hub would be a router for all inter
STP Service Providers’  related transactions would provide a
link  for  the  varying  system  of  the  existing  STP  Service
Providers and any future STP Service Provider which may
join the STP framework as the STP centralised hub would
prescribe  the  minimum  eligibility  conditions  for  all  STP
Service Providers and the operating guidelines for their day
to  day  operations 
level  of
standardisation to enable seamless communication between
two STP Service Providers.
The proposed STP framework would provide the flexibility
to the STP Service Providers to have their digital signatures
from  different  Certifying  Authority  registered  under  the

to  bring 

in 

required 

Page 29 of 68

Sr.
No.
1.

2.

inter-

Lack  of 
operability
between  the  STP
Service Providers.

Lack  of  Message
Handshake
Protocol

3.

Lack  of  Common
Authentication  of
Digital  Signature

the  STP
across 
Service Providers.

4.

5.

to 

formats 

Lack  of  end  to
end compliance to
ISO  messaging
from
formats 
sender 
the
and
recipient 
absence 
of
standardisation  of
for
file 
client’s 
back
office
development
Other
technological
issues like lack of
a  common 
file
format,  protocol
import
detailing, 
file 
formats,
message
exchange

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

Information  Technology  Act,  2000.  The  STP  Service
Providers  as  part  of  their  eligibility  criteria  would  be
required  to  share  the  application  used  by  them  in  digitally
signing the messages with the centralized hub to enable the
centralized  hub  to  recognize  the  signature  of  a  particular
STP Service Provider. The STP centralised hub would also
have  a  system  logic  of  using  the  necessary  software  (for
digital signature) to enable the message to flow seamlessly
from  one  STP  Service  Provider  using  one  software  for
digital signature to another STP Service Provider having a
different software for digital signature.
Under  the  proposed  STP  framework,  the  STP  centralised
hub  would  provide  standardized  client  software  which  the
STP  Service  Providers  could  install  at  the  back  office  of
their clients.

The  STP  centralised  hub  has  prescribed  the  technical
specifications  to  resolve  the  issues  of  lack  of  common  file
format,  common  protocol  detailing,  import  file  formats,
message  exchange  protocol  and  other  technological  issues.
Further,  technological  advancements  are  dynamic  and
undergo  continuous  change.  However  the  proposed  STP
framework of a STP centralised hub which would connect to
all 
for  all  STP  related
transactions  and  a  common  client  software  applications

the  STP  Service  Providers 

Page 30 of 68

6.

7.

8.

protocol, methods
of encryption, and
logical
connectivity.
Formation  of  a
monopolistic
situation  due  to
lack 
inter-
operability  with
all 
clients
forced  to  sign  up
with  one  STP
Service Provider.
Absence 
a
common
agreement  among
the  STP  Service
Providers

the 

of 

of 

Lack  of  Service
Legal  Agreement
between  the  STP
Service  Providers
guarantee
to 
delivery  of 
the
entire  message  in
a 
secure 
and
confidential
manner

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

builds in the required flexibility for necessary up gradations
and  technological  advancements  for  higher  efficiency  and
robustness of the system.

The formation of a STP centralised hub and a standardized
platform  to  enable  seamless  inter-operability  would  enable
multiple  STP  Service  Providers  to  co-exist  on  a  level
playing  field  leading  to  healthy  competition  for  higher
efficiency and economy of service.

Under  the  revised  system  of  STP,  SEBI  has  prescribed  a
model agreement between the STP centralised hub and the
STP  Service  Providers  which  would  standardize  all  the
relevant  conditions  like  operations,  legal  framework  etc.
Further  there  is  also  a  prescribed  regulatory  framework  in
the form of STP Guidelines.
The  model  STP  framework  would  have  a  complete  audit
trail with time stamping of the flow of messages (for inter
STP Service Providers’  transactions) right from the sending
client’s system upto the recipient client’s system. A system
of acknowledgement on successful delivery of the message
would  also  be  formulated  to  ensure  a  secure  means  of
communication. As regards, confidentiality of the message,
the proposed STP framework would ensure that the original
message would not be opened by the STP centralised hub.
The time stamping by the STP centralised hub and the STP
Service Providers would be done on a wrapper which could
be  executed  without  opening 
the  message  ensuring
confidentiality of the message.

Page 31 of 68

9.

10.

to

inter-

High 
connectivity
charges 
interconnect
different 
STP
Service Providers
Commercial
considerations  –
bearing  of 
the
additional  cost  of
developing 
and
maintaining  such
interfaces

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

Under  the  proposed  STP  framework,  the  STP  centralised
hub  would  be  established  as  an  ISP.  As  per  the  existing
rules, there are no inter-connecting charges for any number
of  connections  including  connections  to  existing  CUG
networks.

The proposed STP framework should resolve all the issues
of inter-operability between the STP Service Providers and
the  legality  of  electronic  delivery  of  contract  notes.  This
could increase the STP traffic considerably thus making the
whole  project  commercially  viable.  On  the  stabilization  of
the  STP  framework,  the  same  hub  could  also  be  extended
for retail trades which could exponentially increase the STP
traffic.  Further  alternative  uses  of  the  STP  centralised  hub
like 
for  various
exchanges, depositories, and market participants could also
be conceived.

communication  platform 

standard 

From the above, it can be seen that the proposed STP framework would address all the
perceived  bottlenecks  which  had  prevented  the  STP  traffic  to  expand.  However  it  is
important that the proposed STP framework is implemented in the manner perceived and
complete in all respects to achieve the inherent benefits of the system.

Page 32 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

CHAPTER 9. 

 POST IMPLEMENTATION

The  STP  system  was  mandatory  for  all  institutional  trades  executed  on  the  exchanges
w.e.f.  July  01,  2004.  In  the  first  week  of  July  2004,  there  were  a  lot  of  rejections
witnessed in the STP system. Meetings were held with the STP centralised hub and STP
Service  Providers  to  identify  the  main  causes  of  rejections  and  find  their  possible
solutions. It was observed that the rejections were mainly due to the operational issues
relating to the identification of the entities involved in the STP system. The issues were
considered and addressed to. There has been a considerable fall in the rejections within
the first fortnight of July 2004.

There has been a lot of appreciation from various sections of the market with respect to
the proactive steps taken by SEBI in implementing STP. Initiatives are being pursued to
extend  the  use  of  the  STP  in  the  entire  settlement  process  to  complete  the  logical
extension in the gamut of the securities market.

Page 33 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

CHAPTER 10.  LIST OF APPENDICES

SEBI letter no. FITTC/FII/19320/2002 dated October 03, 2002.

SEBI circular no. SMDRP/POLICY/Cir-15/00 dated December 15, 2000

SEBI clarification vide letter dated SEBI/SMD/SE/15/2003/29/04 dated April
29, 2003.

SEBI circular no. DNPD/Cir-9/04 dated February 3, 2004

SEBI circular no. SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-11/2004 dated February 25, 2004

SEBI circular no. DNPD/Cir- 22 /04 dated April 1, 2004.

SEBI vide circular no. DNPD/Cir- 23/04 dated April 27, 2004.

SEBI circular no. DNPD/Cir-24/04 dated May 26, 2004.

SEBI circular no. DNPD/Cir-25/04 dated June 10, 2004.

1) 

2) 

3) 

4) 

5) 

6) 

7) 

8) 

9) 

Page 34 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

10.1.  APPENDIX 1

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
FITTC DEPARTMENT

FITTC/FII/19320/2002
October 03, 2002

TO

All Custodians, Stock Exchanges/Depositories

Sub : Introduction of Straight Through Processing.

Dear Sir,

The  Indian  securities  market  has  undergone  through  a  rapid  expansion  during  the  last
decade such as dematerialization, rolling settlement, shorter settlement cycles etc.

Presently  trades  are  settled  in  the  stock  exchanges  on  T+3  basis.    Further,  it  is  also
decided to gradually move from T+3 settlement period to T+2 and T+1 settlement period
by March 2004.

The  process  of  trade  settlement  starting  from  origination  of  trade  till  execution  and
settlement of the same involves manual entry and re-entry of the same trade particulars
by the different market participants.  This manual process is time taking and subject to
errors  because  of  manual  intervention  repeatedly.    For  smooth  functioning  of  T+3
settlement period or shorter period and to avoid manual intervention a single automated
process from origination of trade though to settlement is the need of the hour.  Therefore,
the  concept  Straight  Through  Processing  (STP)  which  is  basically  capturing  and
processing  through  settlements  of  a  trade  particulars  electronically  without  manual
intervention, is required to be adopted.

In  order  to  examine  the  feasibility  of  STP  in  the  Indian  markets,  SEBI  constituted  a
committee  comprising  of  representatives  from  various  market  intermediaries  and  from
the Reserve Bank of India.

The Committee in its report has observed and recommended the following :

Markets throughout the world are continually looking for new investment opportunities.
Foreign  Investment  into  India  will  be  determined,  not  only,  on  investment  opportunity
but also on the operational efficiency and risk profiles of the Indian market.  Introducing
a  process  which  increases  operational  efficiency  will  only  enhance  India’s  profile  and
therefore its attractiveness to foreign investment.

Further,  reducing  the  settlement  cycle,  the  time  between  execution  to  settlement,  will
eliminate  many  of  the  risks  associated  with  trade  processing.    Achieving  seamlessness

Page 35 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

will be an enabler for these shorter settlement cycles to assist both domestic and cross-
border trades in Indian securities.

1.  Adoption of ISO 15022 messaging standards by the market participants.
2.  Electronisation of contract Notes.
3.  Connectivity among the market participants and implementation of STP.

It has been decided to accept the committee’s recommendations and introduce STP for
electronic trade processing with a common messaging standard i.e. ISO 15022 with effect
from December 02, 2002.

You  are  advised  to  bring  this  to  the  notice  of  all  your  constituents  and  take  necessary
steps to implement STP by the aforesaid date.

Please acknowledge receipt.

Yours faithfully

R.M. JOSHI
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

Page 36 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

10.2.  APPENDIX 2

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

SECONDARY MARKET DEPARTMENT

Mittal Court, A Wing, Gr. Floor,

224, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021

SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-56/00
December 15, 2000

To:

The President/Executive Director/
Managing Director of all the Stock Exchanges

Dear Sir/Madam,

Use of Digital Signature on Contract Notes

Following passing of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act), contract notes with
digital  signatures  are  legally  valid.  This  issue  was  discussed  in  the  meeting  of  the
Secondary Market Advisory Committee (SMAC) of SEBI held on November 28, 2000.

Pursuant to the discussions in the SMAC and provisions of the IT Act, it is clarified that
the  brokers  are  allowed  to  issue  contract  notes  authenticated  by  means  of  digital
signatures  provided  that  the  broker  has  obtained  digital  signature  certificate  from
Certifying Authority under the IT Act, 2000. Mode of confirmation by the client may be
as specified in the agreement between the broker and the client.

Yours faithfully,
 

P. K. BINDLISH
DIVISION CHIEF
SECONDARY MARKET, DEPOSITORY,
RESEARCH & PUBLICATIONS DEPARTMENT
E-Mail : pkb@sebi.gov.in

Page 37 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

10.3.  APPENDIX 3

General Manager
Secondary Market Department
e-mail :  pkb@sebi.gov.in
SEBI/SMD/SE/15/2003/29/04

To
Managing Directors and Executive Directors
Of all the stock exchanges
 
Dear Sir,

April 29, 2003

Sub :- Issuance of Contract Notes in electronic form

This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  section  11  (1)  of  the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with section 10 of the Securities
Contracts(Regulation) Act 1956, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.

Please refer to our circular no. SMDRP/POLICY/CIR-56/00 dated December 15, 2000 on
the  captioned  subject  wherein  it  was  stated  that  brokers  can  issue  contract  notes
authenticated by means of digital signatures provided that the broker has obtained digital
signature certificate from Certifying Authority under the IT Act, 2000.
SEBI has been receiving representations from market participants whether, they can issue
contract notes in electronic form. In this regard, it is clarified that by virtue of our above
mentioned  circular,  the  contract  notes  can  be  issued  by  the  brokers  in  electronic  form
authenticated by means of digital signatures.
 
The  Exchanges  are  directed  to  make  necessary  amendments  to  the  bye-laws,  rules  and
regulations to give effect to the above clarification immediately.
 
The  Exchanges  are  directed  to  bring  this  clarification  to  the  notice  of  the  member
brokers/clearing  members  of  the  Exchange  and  also  to  disseminate  the  same  on  the
website for easy access to the investors.
 
The  Exchanges  are  also  directed  to  communicate  to  SEBI,  the  status  of  the
implementation of this circular in Section II, item no. 13 of the Monthly Development
Report for the month of April 2003.
 
 Yours faithfully
 
 
P K Bindlish

Page 38 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

10.4.  APPENDIX 4

CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER
DERIVATIVES AND NEW PRODUCTS DEPARTMENT

DNPD/ Cir-9/04
February 3, 2004

The Executive Director / Managing Director / Administrators
Of all Stock Exchanges.

Dear Sir,

Sub: Issuance of Electronic Contract Notes

15, 

2000 

and 

This  is  in  continuation  of  the  SEBI  circular  no.  SMDRP/POLICY/Cir-15/00  dated
December 
dated
SEBI/SMD/SE/15/2003/29/04 dated April 29, 2003 on the issue of an electronic contract
note  whereby  SEBI  had  permitted  the  issue  of  electronic  contract  notes  with  digital
signature  obtained  from  a  valid  Certifying  Authority  provided  under  the  Information
Technology  Act,  2000  (IT  Act).  The  exchanges  were  directed  to  make  the  necessary
amendments to the bye-laws, rules and regulations for the implementation of the same.

clarification 

issued 

letter 

vide 

It has been brought to the notice of SEBI that the format of the electronic contract note
prescribed  by  the  exchanges  were  not  in  conformity  with  the  format  of  the  physical
contract  note  particularly  with  respect  to  the  pre-printed  terms  and  conditions.  Hence
members  issuing  electronic  contract  notes  were  also  issuing  physical  contract  notes
which amounted to duplication and unnecessary reconciliation between the physical and
electronic contract notes.

In order to streamline the issuance of electronic contract notes as a legal document like
the physical contract note, the exchanges are advised to implement the following:

1) 

2) 

3) 

The exchanges would prescribe a standard format for the electronic contract
note 
(refer  URL:
prescribed) 
http://www.sebi.gov.in) in its bye-laws, rules and regulations.

the  model 

format 

(based 

on 

The  exchange  bye-laws,  rules  and  regulations  for  issuance  of  electronic
contract  note  shall  be  amended  to  include  all  the  standard  pre-printed  terms
and  conditions  in  the  physical  contract  note.  The  electronic  contract  note
would  mention  the  relevant  bye-laws  /  rules  /  regulations  of  the  exchange
subject to which the said contract note is being issued.

The  exchange  shall  also  modify  /  amend  other  relevant  bye-laws,  rules  and
regulations with respect to signing of the electronic contract note with a digital

Page 39 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

signature so as to make the modified format of the electronic contract note a
valid legal document like the physical contract note.

4) 

The mechanism of record keeping of electronic contract notes in a soft non-
tamperable form shall be prescribed by the exchange in compliance with the
provisions of the IT Act, 2000.

Hence you are advised to, -

?  Make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations of

the exchange for the implementation of the above decision immediately.

?  Bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of members of the Exchange

and also disseminate the same on your website, if any.

?  Communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions of
this circular in Section II, item no 13 of the Monthly Development Report for
the month of February 2004.

This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under section 11 (1) of the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act 1992, read with section 10 of the Securities
Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 to protect the interests of investors in securities and to
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.

Yours sincerely,

N. PARAKH

Page 40 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

10.5.  APPENDIX 5

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER
Market Regulation Department
E-mail: sundaresanvs@sebi.gov.in

The Executive Directors / Managing Director/Administrators
of All Stock Exchanges
Dear Sir / Madam,

SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-11/2004
February 25, 2004

Sub: Issuance of Electronic Contract Notes – Debt Market

1.  This is in continuation of SEBI Circular No.DNPD/Cir-9/04 dated February 3,

2004 specifying the model format on the captioned subject for the equity market.

2.  The model format for the issuance of electronic contract note for the debt market

is enclosed. Based on this, the exchanges are advised to prescribe a standard
format for issuance of the electronic contract note in its bye-laws, rules and
regulations. (refer URL: http://www.sebi.gov.in)

3.  The other requirements as mentioned in points 2, 3 and 4 of aforesaid circular

dated 03/02/04 are applicable for debt market as well and accordingly, required to
be complied with.

4.  The Stock Exchanges are directed to;

1.  make necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and

regulations for the implementation of the above decision immediately.

2.  bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the member

brokers/clearing members of the Exchange and also to disseminate the
same on the website.

3.  communicate to SEBI, the status of the implementation of the provisions

of this circular in Section II, item no. 13 of the Monthly Development
Report for the month of March 2004.

5.  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11 (1)
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, to protect the interests
of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the
securities market.

Yours faithfully,
 
 
V S SUNDARESAN

Page 41 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

10.6.  APPENDIX 6

PRATIP KAR
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

To

All Stock Exchanges, Depositories and Custodians.

 

Dear Sir,

DNPD/Cir- 22 /04
April 01, 2004

Mandatory use of STP system for all institutional trades executed on the stock

exchanges.

Straight  Through  Processing  (STP)  is  generally  understood  to  be  a  mechanism  that
automates the end to end processing of transactions of financial instruments. It involves
use  of  a  system  to  process  or  control  all  elements  of  the  work  flow  of  a  financial
transaction,  what  are  commonly  known  as  the  Front,  Middle,  Back  office  and  General
Ledger. In other words, STP allows electronic capturing and processing of transactions in
one pass from the point of order origination to final settlement. STP thus streamlines the
process  of  trade  execution  and  settlement  and  avoids  manual  entry  and  re-entry  of  the
details  of  the  same  trade  by  different  market  intermediaries  and  participants.  Usage  of
STP enables orders to be  processed, confirmed, settled in a shorter time period and in a
more cost effective manner with fewer errors. Apart from compressing the clearing and
settlement time, STP also provides a flexible, cost effective infrastructure, which enables
e-business expansion through online processing and access to enterprise data.

SEBI vide letter dated October 3, 2002 informed the stock exchanges, depositories and
custodians  that  it  proposed  to  introduce  STP  for  electronic  trade  processing  with  a
common messaging standard ISO 15022 w.e.f December 2, 2002. Accordingly, STP was
launched  in  India  on  November  30,  2002.  Currently,  STP  is  being  used  by  the  market
participants  on  a  voluntary  basis.  To  facilitate  STP,  SEBI  has  also  issued  circulars
SMDRP/POLICY/Cir-15/00 
circular
SEBI/SMD/SE/15/2003/29/04  dated  April  29,  2003  which  permitted  the  issue  of
electronic contract notes with digital signature obtained from a valid Certifying Authority
provided  under  the  Information  Technology  Act,  2000  (IT  Act)  and  circular  no.
DNPD/Cir-9/04 dated February 3, 2004 & circular no. SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-11/2004 dated
February 25, 2004 directing exchanges to amend their bye-laws, rules and regulations for
the equity and the debt segment to streamline the issuance of electronic contract notes as
a  legal  document  like  the  physical  contract  note.  Exchanges  are  in  the  process  of
amending their bye-laws, rules and regulations.

December 

dated 

15, 

2000 

& 

Page 42 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

While  several  STP  Service  Providers  have  been  providing  STP  service  to  the  market
participants, however, there was no inter-operability between the STP Service Providers.

 To resolve the issue of inter-operability between the STP Service Providers, it has been
decided in consultation with the stock exchanges and the STP Service Providers that a
STP Centralised Hub would be setup. Currently this STP Centralised Hub has been setup
and  made  operational  by  NSE.  NSE  has  obtained  the  necessary  approvals  from
Department  of  Telecommunications  (DoT)  as  an  Internet  Service  Provider  (ISP).
Subsequently this STP Centralised Hub would be further developed jointly with BSE.

In view of the aforesaid developments, it has been decided that all the institutional trades
executed  on  the  stock  exchanges  would  be  mandatorily  processed  through  the  STP
System w.e.f July 01, 2004. This circular is being issued to provide adequate notice to
the  market  and  market  participants  about  the  mandatory  use  of  STP  Service  for
institutional  trades.  A  circular  containing  the  detailed  process  flow,  role  and
responsibilities  of  the  STP  Service  Providers  and  the  STP  Centralised  Hub,  standard
agreement  between  the  STP  Service  Providers  and  the  STP  Centralised  Hub  would  be
issued shortly..

This  circular  is  being  issued  in  exercise  of  powers  conferred  by  section  11  (1)  of  the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with section 10 of the Securities
Contracts(regulation) Act 1956, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to
promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.

Yours faithfully,

  
PRATIP KAR

Page 43 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

10.7.  APPENDIX 5

GENERAL MANAGER

DNPD/Cir-23/04
April 27, 2004

All Exchanges, Clearing Corporation / Clearing House,
Depositories, Custodians, AMFI, STP service providers and STP Centralized Hub

Dear Sir,

1)  Further to the circular no. DNPD/Cir-22/2004 dated April 1, 2004 mandating the use
of the Straight Through Processing (STP) System for all institutional trades w. e. f.
July  1,  2004.  The  present  circular  contains  the  detailed  system  flow  which  was
referred to in the said circular.

2) 

The system flow of the STP framework would be as follows:

a)  A STP user intending to send an instruction would send the message to his STP

service provider after digitally signing the same.

b)  The STP service provider would verify the signature of the STP user and forward

it to the

i)  recipient STP user, if the recipient STP user is availing services of the same

STP service provider; or the

ii)  STP centralized hub if the recipient STP user is not with the same STP service
provider. In such a case the STP service provider would be required to prepare
a message as per the STP centralized hub prescribed message format, enclose
the  user’s  message,  digitally  sign  the  message  and  then  send  it  to  the  STP
centralized hub

c)  On receipt of the message by the STP centralized hub, the STP centralized hub

would
i)  verify the signature of the sending STP service provider only.
ii)  send an acknowledgment to the sending STP service provider.

d)  The STP centralized hub would forward the message to the recipient STP service

provider after digitally signing on the message.

e)  The  recipient  STP  service  provider  on  receipt  of  the  message  from  the  STP
centralized hub, shall verify the signature of the STP centralized hub, verify if the
recipient  STP  user 
itself  and  send  an  appropriate
acknowledgment  with  digital  signature  to  the  STP  centralized  hub.  The  STP

is  associated  with 

Page 44 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

centralized  hub  would  in  turn  forward  the  acknowledgment  (received  from  the
recipient STP service provider) duly signed to the sending STP service provider.

f)  The recipient STP service provider shall forward the message to the recipient STP
user.  The recipient STP user would receive the message and verify the signature
of the recipient STP service provider and sending STP user.

To enable inter-operation, the STP centralized hub would provide a utility / client
software to the STP service provider. The STP service provider’s  point  of  interface
with the STP centralized hub would be through this utility / client software. The PKI
(Public  key  infrastructure)  system  for  the  interface  shall  be  implemented  at  a  later
stage.

The block diagram of the entire STP System is enclosed in Annexure I.

This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred by section 11 (1) of
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  section  10  of  the
Securities  Contracts(regulation)  Act  1956,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.

3) 

4) 

5) 

Yours faithfully,

D. RAVIKUMAR

Page 45 of 68

Annexure I

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

Block Diagram of the STP System for inter STP Service Provider

Transfer of messages

Sending STP Service Provider

Sending STP User

STP CENTRALISED

HUB

Recipient STP Service Provider

Receiving STP User

Message flow

Acknowledgement

Page 46 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

10.8.  APPENDIX 6

CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER
DERIVATIVES AND NEW PRODUCTS DEPARTMENT

DNPD/Cir-24/04
May 26, 2004

All Exchanges, Clearing Corporation / Clearing House,
Depositories, Custodians, AMFI, STP service providers and STP Centralized Hub

Sub: Straight Through Processing Service in the Indian Securities Market

Dear Sir,

1) 

This is in continuation to our previous circular no. DNPD/Cir-9/04 dated February
3,  2004  &  circular  no.  SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-11/2004  dated  February  25,  2004
streamlining  the  issuance  of  electronic  contract  notes  as  a  legal  document  like  the
physical  contract  note  for  the  equity  and  debt  segments,  circular  no.  DNPD/Cir-
22/2004 dated April 1, 2004 mandating the use of the Straight Through Processing
(STP)  system  for  all  institutional  trades  w.  e.  f.  July  1,  2004  and  circular  no.
DNPD/Cir-23/04  dated  April  27,  2004  prescribing  the  detailed  system  flow  of  the
STP system.

2)  SEBI in order to regulate the STP service is hereby issuing the SEBI (STP centralised
hub  and  STP  service  providers)  Guidelines,  2004  (herein  referred  to  as  “STP
Guidelines”) which also prescribes the model agreement between the STP centralised
hub and the STP service providers.

3)  The STP guidelines prescribes the eligibility criteria and conditions of approval for
the  STP  centralised  hub  and 
the  STP  service  providers,  obligations  and
responsibilities of the STP centralised hub and the STP service providers and code of
conduct for the STP service providers. The STP centralised hub and the STP service
providers shall abide by these Guidelines.

4)  To  prescribe  contractual  obligations  between  the  STP  centralised  hub  and  the  STP
service  providers  and  to  facilitate  standardisation  of  service,  a  model  agreement
between  the  STP  centralised  hub  and  the  STP  service  providers  has  also  been
prescribed  by  SEBI  and  is  prescribed  as  Schedule  II  of  the  STP  Guidelines.  The
agreement  between  the  STP  centralised  hub  and  the  STP  service  provider  shall
include the provisions included in the model agreement.

5)  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred by section 11 (1) of the
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  section  10  of  the
Securities  Contracts(regulation)  Act  1956,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.

Page 47 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

Yours sincerely,

N. PARAKH

Encl.
1) 

SEBI (STP centralised hub and STP service providers) Guidelines, 2004

Page 48 of 68

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (STP CENTRALISED HUB

AND STP SERVICE PROVIDERS) GUIDELINES, 2004

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

1) 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

2) 

(1) 

PRELIMINARY

These Guidelines shall be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(STP Centralised Hub and STP Service Providers) Guidelines, 2004.

These  Guidelines  are  being  issued  under  section  11  of  the  Securities  and
Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  to  promote  the  development  of  the
securities market.

They shall come into force on 26th day of May, 2004

DEFINITIONS

In these Guidelines, unless the context otherwise requires:-

(a)  “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992;

(b)  “Certifying Authority” means a certifying authority who has been granted

a license under section 24 of the Information Technology Act, 2000;

(c)  "SEBI"  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  established

under Section 3 of the Act;

(d)  “STP” means straight through processing;

(e)  “STP  centralised  hub”  means  an  infrastructure  set-up  by  a  person  or
entity for the purpose of rendering STP service by providing a platform
for communication between different STP service providers;

(f)  "STP message" means and includes all the messages for electronic trade
processing  with  a  common  messaging  standard  as  may  be  defined  by
SEBI from time to time;

(g)  “STP service” means the setting up and maintaining of infrastructure to
create  an  electronic  communication  network  to  facilitate  information
exchange  with  respect  to  securities  market  transactions  between  various
market  participants  from  the  stage  of  trade  initiation  to  final  settlement
through a STP system flow as may be determined by SEBI from time to
time;

(h)  "STP service provider” means a person or entity providing STP service to
STP users to the extent of conveying messages between a STP user and
the STP centralised hub and/or between two STP users;

(i)  “STP  user” means  all  the  users  of  the  STP  service  and  includes  such

users as are stipulated by SEBI; and,
Page 49 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

(j)    “TRAI” means  the  Telecom  Regulatory  Authority  of  India  established

under the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act, 1997.

(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these Guidelines, but defined in the
Act  or  in  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  or  in  any  rules  or
regulations made thereunder, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them
in such Acts, rules or regulations.

3) 

(1) 

(2) 

4) 

(1) 

ELIGIBILITY  CRITERIA  FOR  STP  CENTRALISED  HUB  AND  STP
SERVICE PROVIDERS

No person shall act as an STP centralised hub or a STP Service provider
unless it obtains approval from SEBI to provide such service.

For the grant of a certificate of approval SEBI shall take into account the
following:

 i.  whether  the  applicant  is  a  person  or  entity  with  a  minimum

networth as may be prescribed from time to time.

 ii.  whether the applicant has adequate infrastructure facilities setup in
India  like  office  space,  equipment  and  manpower  with  adequate
experience  in  dealing  in  securities  market  and  adequate  expertise
in providing necessary services and software solutions.

OBLIGATIONS  AND  RESPONSIBILITIES  OF  STP  CENTRALISED
HUB

The STP centralised hub shall comply with the following:-

 i.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  at  all  times  comply  with  the

requirement of eligibility criteria, specified by SEBI.

 ii.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  abide  by  all  the  provisions  of  the
Act,  Rules,  Regulations,  Guidelines,  Resolutions,  Notifications,
Directions, Circular, etc. as may be issued by the Government of
India / TRAI / Department of Telecommunications and SEBI from
time to time as may be applicable to the STP centralised hub.

iii.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  obtain  such  approval/s  from  such

 

authorities as may be necessary to function as a centralised hub.

 

iv.  The STP centralised hub shall obtain a digital signature certificate
from  a  Certifying  Authority  and  shall  ensure  that  such  digital
signature certificate is valid and in force at all times. A copy of the
certificate  shall  be  submitted  to  all  the  recognized  STP  service
providers.

 v.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  deliver  a  consistent  and  secure
communication  platform 
continuous
connectivity with all the  recognized STP service providers to the
best of its ability.

establish 

shall 

and 

Page 50 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

 vi.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  verify  the  digital  signature
the  STP  Service  Provider  before

furnished  by 

certificate 
connecting it to the STP centralized hub.

 vii.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  confirm  authenticity,  integrity  and
non-reputability  of  all  messages  submitted  by  the  STP  Service
Provider.

viii.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  ensure  that  the  message  received
from  the  STP  service  provider  is  in  the  specified  messaging
standard.

ix.  The STP centralised hub shall promptly deliver the messages to the
recipient  STP  service  provider  and  shall  ensure  that  only  the
intended STP Service Provider receives the message.

 x.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  digitally  sign  all  messages  sent  to

 

 

the STP service provider.

 xi.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  maintain  a  directory  of  all  STP

service providers and STP users.

 xii.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  maintain  a  complete  record  of  the
flow  of  messages  processed.  The  records  of  the  STP  centralised
hub shall be open for inspection by SEBI or any other person duly
authorised by SEBI for this purpose.

xiii.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  not  modify 

the
communication protocol without consulting all the approved STP
service providers.

/  amend 

xiv.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  ensure  that  the  message  is  not

 

 

misused or tampered with while in its possession.

 xv.  The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  maintain  confidentiality  of
information about its users and shall not divulge the same to other
clients, the press or any other person except in accordance with law
or as per the directions of any court of law or of SEBI.

xvi.  The STP centralised hub may charge reasonable fees from the STP

 

service providers.

5) 

(1) 

OBLIGATIONS  AND  RESPONSIBILITIES  OF  STP  SERVICE
PROVIDER

The STP Service provider shall comply with the following :-

 i.  The  STP  service  provider  shall  at  all  times  comply  with  the

requirement of eligibility criteria, specified by SEBI.

 ii.  The STP service provider shall establish connectivity with the STP

centralised hub before providing STP service to its users.

 

iii.  The STP service provider shall provide the necessary details of the
STP  users  connected  with  it  and  all  its  details  to  the  STP
centralised  hub  for  the  purpose  of  creating  and  maintaining  a
directory of STP service providers and STP users.

iv.  The  STP  service  provider  shall  comply  with  the  minimum
specifications specified by the STP centralised hub and as may be
mutually agreed upon.

 

Page 51 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

 v.  The  STP  service  provider  shall  abide  by  the  service  standards  as
may  be  specified  by  SEBI  and  /  or  the  STP  centralised  hub  in
consultation with the STP service providers.

 vi.  The  STP  Service  Provider  shall  obtain  a  digital  signature
certificate  from  a  Certifying  Authority  and  submit  a  copy  of  the
Certificate to the STP centralised hub.

 vii.  The  STP  Service  Provider  shall  ensure  that  the  digital  signature

certificate is valid and in force.

 

viii.  The  STP  service  providers  shall  deliver  a  consistent  and  secure
communication  platform 
continuous
connectivity with the STP centralised hub to the best of its ability.
ix.  The STP service provider shall ensure that the message sent to the

establish 

shall 

and 

 

STP centralised hub is in the prescribed messaging standard.

 x.  The  STP  service  provider  shall  verify  the  digital  signature
certificate furnished by the STP centralised hub before connecting
itself to the STP centralised hub.

 xi.  The STP service provider shall confirm authenticity, integrity and
non-repudiability of all messages submitted to the STP centralised
hub.  The  STP  service  provider  shall  keep  complete  track  of  the
flow of messages for record and audit.

 xii.  The  STP  service  providers  may  charge  reasonable  fees  from  the

STP users.

 

in 

that 

xiii.  The STP service provider shall exchange messages between other
STP  service  providers  only  through  the  STP  centralised  hub.
Provided 
force  majuere  measures  or  any  other
circumstances due to which the connectivity of the STP centralised
hub  is  not  available,  the  STP  service  providers  after  mutual
discussion may exchange messages directly among themselves for
such period.

xiv.  The  STP  service  providers  shall  digitally  sign  all  messages  sent

 

from it to the STP centralised hub.

 xv.  The STP service provider shall enter into an agreement with all its
STP  users  which  shall  also  specify  the  fees  payable  by  the  STP
user for the services.

xvi.  The  STP  service  provider  shall  maintain  a  directory  of  the  STP

 

users connected to it.

 

xvii.  The STP service provider shall maintain a complete record of the
flow of messages handled. The records of the STP service provider
shall  be  open  for  inspection  by  SEBI  or  any  other  person  duly
authorised by SEBI for this purpose.

xviii.  The STP Service Provider shall verify the Digital signature on the

 

message of the STP user connected to the STP Service Provider

xix.  The  STP  service  provider  shall  ensure  that  the  message  from  the

 

STP user is in the specified messaging format.

 xx.  The STP service provider shall promptly deliver messages to and

from the STP user.

 

xxi.  In respect of inter STP service provider messages, the STP service
provider  shall  perform  all  actions  to  the  best  of  its  ability  in  the
same manner, diligence, speed and with all checks and balances as

Page 52 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

if  the  message  is  to  be  delivered  /  received  by  the  same  service
provider.

Nothing  in  these  guidelines  shall  exempt  the  STP  service  provider  from
discharging  any  obligations  placed  on  it  by  any  law,  regulations  and
guidelines.

CONDITIONS  OF  APPROVAL  FOR  STP  CENTRALISED  HUB  AND
STP SERVICE PROVIDERS

Terms of approval:

(2) 

6) 

(1) 

 i.  The approval by SEBI shall be for an initial period of five years for
STP centralised hub and for a period of three years for STP service
providers and must be renewed periodically.

 ii.  The  STP  centralised  hub  and  STP  service  provider  must  ensure
continuous validity of  approval by SEBI in order to function as a
STP service provider.

 

iii.  The Board shall have the right to suspend / cancel the approval of
the  STP  centralised  hub  and/or  STP  service  provider  in  case  of
violation of the terms of the guidelines.

7) 

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR STP SERVICE PROVIDERS

Every  STP  service  provider  shall  abide  by  the  Code  of  Conduct  as  specified  in
Schedule I.

8)  MODEL AGREEMENT

The  STP  centralised  hub  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  every  STP  service
provider on the lines of the Model Agreement given in Schedule II.

Page 53 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

SCHEDULE I

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR STP SERVICE PROVIDERS

(Clause 7 of the Guidelines)

a.  The  STP  service  provider  shall  render  at  all  times  high  standards  of
service,  exercise  due  diligence,  ensure  proper  care  and  exercise
independent professional judgment.

b.  The STP service provider shall disclose to the clients its possible sources
or potential areas of conflict of duties and interest and provide unbiased
services.

c.  The  STP  service  provider  herein  agrees  and  undertakes  to  perform  its
duties as a STP service provider with the highest standards of integrity and
fairness in all its dealings.

d.  The STP service provider shall abide by the obligation as specified under
these Guidelines and the terms of the agreement entered into by the STP
service provider with the STP users / STP centralised hub.

e.  The  STP  service  provider  shall  maintain  true  and  correct  record  of  the
messages processed by it under the scheme and in particular the records in
respect of:-

 i.  the STP users

 ii.  the messages exchanged within the same STP service provider

iii.  the messages exchanged with other STP service providers through

 

the STP centralised hub

f.  The STP service provider shall ensure that the message is not misused or

tampered with while in its possession.

g.  The  STP  service  provider  shall  maintain  confidentiality  of  information
about its users and shall not divulge the same to other clients, the press or
any  other  interested  party  except  in  accordance  with  law  or  as  per  the
directions of any court of law.

h.  The  STP  service  provider  shall  abide  by  all  the  provisions  of  the  Act,
Rules,  Regulations,  Guidelines,  Resolutions,  Notifications,  Directions,
Circular,  etc.  as  may  be  issued  by  the  Government  of  India  /  Telecom
Regulatory  Authority  of  India  /  Department  of  Telecommunications  and
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  from  time  to  time  as  may  be
applicable to the STP service provider.

Page 54 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

Page 55 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

SCHEDULE II

MODEL AGREEMENT BETWEEN STP CENTRALISED HUB AND STP

SERVICE PROVIDER

(Clause 8 of the Guidelines)

THIS  AGREEMENT  is  made  at  _______  on  this  the___  day  of  ______________,
200__  between  _______________________  having 
its  Registered  office  at
___________________________  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  ‘STP  Centralised  Hub’
which expression shall, unless it be repugnant to the context or the meaning thereof, be
deemed to include its successors, legal representatives and assigns) of the First Part;
And
____________________________________________________ a
Company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 and having its registered office at
____________________________________________________________
(hereinafter referred to as the ‘STP Service Provider’  which expression shall unless it be
repugnant  to  the  context  or  the  meaning  thereof,  be  deemed  to  include  its  successors,
legal heirs, legal representatives and assigns as the case may be) of the Second Part.

WHEREAS

1.  The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  has  mandated  Straight  Through
Processing  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  ‘STP’)  for  facilitating  settlement  of
institutional trades.

2.  In terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (STP Centralised Hub and
STP  Service  Providers)  Guidelines,  2004  an  agreement  has  to  be  entered  into
between the STP Centralised Hub and the STP Service Provider.

3.  The  STP  centralised  hub  has  obtained  such  approval/s  as  may  be  necessary  to

function as a centralised hub.

NOW  THIS  AGREEMENT  WITNESSETH  AND  IT  IS  HEREBY  AGREED  BY
AND BETWEEN _____________ AND ______________ AS UNDER:

A. DEFINITIONS

1.  DoT means Department of Telecommunications, India, Government of India and /or

its successors.

2.  EFFECTIVE DATE: The date on which this Agreement is entered into.
3.  EMERGENCY  means  an  emergency  of  any  kind,  including  any  circumstances

whatever resulting from major accidents and natural disasters.

4.  INTERNET: Internet is a global information system that:

? 

is  logically  linked  together  by  a  globally  unique  address,  based  on  Internet
Protocol (IP) or its subsequent enhancements / upgradations;

Page 56 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

? 

is able to support communications using the Transmission Control Protocol /
Internet  Protocol  (TCP/IP)  suite  or 
/
upgradations, and all other IP compatible protocols; and

its  subsequent  enhancements 

5.   “TELECOM AUTHORITY”  shall mean The Director General, DoT, Government of
India  and  includes  any  officer  empowered  by  him  to  perform  all  or  any  of  the
functions of the Telegraph Authority under the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 or such
other authority as may be established by law.

6.  “TRAI” –  shall mean the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India established under

the TRAI Act, 1997.

A.  FEES PAYABLE BY STP SERVICE PROVIDER –

The STP Service Provider agrees to pay Fees as listed in the Annexure in consideration
for the services provided by STP centralised hub  hereof. The said fees may be revised by
STP centralised hub  as may be mutually agreed upon with the STP Service Providers.
The STP service provider shall also be liable to pay interest @___% p.a. in case of delay
in payments on the amount due till the actual date of payment.

B. 

STP SERVICE PROVIDER OBLIGATION

1.  The  STP  Service  Provider  shall  obtain  a  digital  signature  certificate  from  a
Certifying  Authority,  which  has  been  issued  a  license  by  the  Controller  of
Certifying Authorities appointed under the Information Technology Act, 2000. A
copy of the Certificate shall be submitted to STP centralised hub.

2.  The STP Service Provider shall verify the Digital signature on the message of the
STP User connected to the STP Service Provider before sending the message to
the STP Centralized hub.

3.  The  STP  Service  Provider  agrees  to  comply  with  the  minimum  specifications

prescribed by STP centralised hub and as may be mutually agreed upon.

4.  The STP Service Provider shall adhere to the guidelines prescribed by SEBI from

time to time.

5.  The  STP  Service  Provider  acknowledges  that  the  software  for  STP  Centralized
Hub  including  the  STP  Centralized  hub  client  software  is  the  legal  property  of
STP centralised hub. The permission given by STP centralised hub to access and
use  STP  Centralized  Hub  through  the  STP  Centralized  hub  client  software  will
not convey any proprietary or ownership rights in the above software. The access
of the STP Service Provider is limited to the STP Centralized hub Client software.
6.  The  STP  Service  Provider  shall  not  attempt  to  modify,  translate,  disassemble,
decompile  or  reverse  engineer  Centralized  the  STP  Centralized  hub  client
software or create any derivative product based on that software.

7.  The  STP  Service  Provider  shall  have  a  non-exclusive  right  to  access  STP
Centralized  Hub  through  the  STP  Centralized  hub  client  software.  This  right  is
not  transferable  under  any  circumstances  and  shall  be  used  by  the  STP  Service
Provider itself or by its authorized agent as may be mutually agreed.

8.  The STP Service Provider shall not use the infrastructure or the facilities provided
by STP centralised hub for any other purpose other than those mentioned in this
Agreement.

Page 57 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

9.  The  STP  Service  Provider  shall  indemnify  STP  centralised  hub  against  any
damage, loss, expenses, costs etc incurred by it due to negligence (intentional or
unintentional) of the STP Service Provider.

10. The  STP  Service  Provider  shall  ensure  that  by  using  the  Hub  client  software

provided by STP centralised hub
a.  No  damage  will  be 

and that it  does not propagate virus infected information

b.  It will pass on only relevant information to be exchanged with the other

caused 

to 

the  STP  Centralized  hub,

c.  It  will  not  try  to  probe  any  other  information  available  on  the  STP

STP service provider.

Centralized Hub

C.  STP CENTRALISED HUB  OBLIGATIONS

1.  STP centralised hub shall obtain a digital signature certificate from a Certifying
Authority,  which  has  been  issued  a  license  by  the  Controller  of  Certifying
Authorities appointed under the Information Technology Act, 2000. A copy of the
Certificate shall be submitted to STP service provider.

2.  STP  centralised  hub  acknowledges  that  STP  infrastructure  of  the  STP  service
provider is the legal property of STP service provider. The permission given by
STP  service  provider  to  STP  centralised  hub’s  STP  hub  client  software  to  co-
locate on STP infrastructure will not convey any proprietary or ownership rights
in the STP infrastructure.

3.  STP centralised hub may subcontract and employ agents to carry out any of its

obligations under such terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed.

4.  STP  centralised  hub  shall  be  solely  responsible  for  installation,  networking  and
operation  of  applicable  systems.  STP  centralised  hub    shall  clearly  display  and
publicise specifications of STP Service Providers terminal equipment at Service
Provider premises which are necessary for interfacing to network.

5.  STP  centralised  hub  shall  abide  by  the  guidelines  issued  by  SEBI  from  time  to

time on the STP framework.

6.  STP centralised hub shall confirm authenticity, integrity and non-repudiability of

all messages submitted by the STP Service Provider.

7.  The STP Centralized Hub would keep complete track of the flow of messages for

record and audit.

receives the message.

8.  STP  centralised  hub  shall  ensure  that  only  the  intended  STP  Service  Provider

9.  STP  centralised  hub  shall  not  misuse/  alter  /  reverse  engineer  /  decompile  the

content of the messages submitted by the STP Service Providers.

10. STP centralised hub will digitally sign all messages sent from the STP Centralized

Hub to the STP Service Provider.

11. STP centralised hub  agrees to PKI enable the STP Hub client software within ----
------  months  after  the  agreement  would  come  into  force.  STP  centralised  hub
shall digitally sign all messages at STP Centralized Hub prior to sending it to STP
Service Providers. hub client software will maintain unsigned logs of such events.
12. STP  centralised  hub    shall  indemnify  the  STP  service  provider  against  any
damage, loss, expenses, costs etc incurred by it due to its negligence (intentional
or  unintentional).  STP  centralised  hub    shall  not  use  the  infrastructure  or  the

Page 58 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

facilities provided by STP service provider for any other purpose other than those
mentioned in this Agreement.

13. Hub client software provided by STP centralised hub  will ensure that :

a.  No damage will be caused to the service providers system.
b.  It  will not propagate virus infected information
c.  It will pass on only relevant information to be exchanged with the other

STP service provider.

Providers setup

d.  It will not try to probe any other information available on the STP Service

e.  It  will  not  try  to  modify,  translate,  disassemble,  de-compile  or  reverse
engineer the software to gain access to restricted information or create any
derivative product based on STP service provider’s system.

D. 

COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS

1.  Both  the  parties  represent  that  they  have  taken  all  necessary  corporate  action  to
authorise  the  execution  and  consummation  of  this  agreement  and  shall  furnish
satisfactory evidence of the same upon request to other party.

2. Both the parties hereto agree that they shall comply with all applicable Central, state
and  local  laws,  ordinances,  regulations  and  codes  in  performing  their  obligations
hereunder,  including  the  procurement  of  licenses,  permits  and  certificates  and
payment of taxes where required.

3. The  parties  shall  fully  inform  themselves  of  all  necessary  obligations  and  statutes
under Indian Law (including the security measures prevalent in India) and shall not
hold the other party responsible for any lapse in this regard. This shall include, but
not  be  limited  to,  the  knowledge  and  understanding  of  the  physical,  environmental
and  technical  standards  required  for  the  provision  and  operation  of  the  Equipment,
software  and  services  within  India.  The  monetary  obligations,  if  any,  devolving  on
either  of  the  parties  due  to  statutory  changes  subsequent  to  the  conclusion  of  the
Agreement, shall be borne by the respective party, if applicable.

SERVICE CHANGES AND DISCONTINUATION

F. 
STP centralised hub shall if directed by regulatory authorities, suspend the STP Service
Provider’s  access  to  the  STP  Centralized  Hub  at  any  time  without  notice.  The  STP
Service Provider agrees that STP centralised hub will not be liable to any third party for
any modification or discontinuance of the STP Centralized Hub. If STP centralised hub
receives prior notice of such direction it shall be communicated to the service provider
immediately.

In order to maintain the security and integrity of the service STP centralised hub may also
suspend the STP Service Provider’s access to the STP Centralized Hub. The STP Service
Provider agrees that STP centralised hub will not be liable to or any third party for any
modification or discontinuance of the STP Centralized Hub. The Parties shall make every
effort  to  resolve  amicably  by  direct  informal  negotiation  any  disagreement  or  dispute
arising  between  them  under  or  in  connection  with  the  arrangement.  In  the  case  of  any
issues arising out of the security and integrity of the messages being exchanged through

Page 59 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

the hub, the same shall be resolved by mutual discussion. In the event the parties are not
able to settle the same within the time frame agreed between the parties  either party may,
by  written  notice  of    30    days    sent  to  the  other  party,  temporarily  suspend    the
arrangements, in whole or in part, till the parties find a technical solution to the security
and technical issues. The notice of termination shall specify the termination is at whose
instance, the extent to which performance of the agreement is suspended, and the date
upon which such suspension becomes effective.

E. 

FORCE MAJEURE

force  majeure 

interfered  by  reason  of 

If  the  performance  of  any  obligations  by  any  party  as  specified  in  this  agreement  is
prevented,  restricted,  delayed  or 
then
notwithstanding  anything  hereinbefore  contained,  the  party  affected  shall  be  excused
from  its  performance  to  the  extent  such  performance  relates  to  such  prevention,
restriction, delay or interference and provided the party so affected uses its best efforts to
remove  such  cause  of  non-performance  and  when  removed  the  party  shall  continue
performance with utmost urgency. For the purpose of this clause "Force Majeure" means
&  includes  fire,  explosion,  cyclone,  floods,  war,  revolution,  blockage  or  embargo,  any
law, order, demands or requirements of any Government or statutory authority, strikes,
which  are  not  instigated  for  the  purpose  of  avoiding  obligations  herein  or  any  other
circumstances beyond the control of the party affected.

F. 

AMENDMENT TO THE AGREEMENT

The  rights  and  obligations  of  the  parties  are  governed  only  by  this  agreement.  This
agreement may be amended, altered, modified, varied or added to from time to time only
by a written instrument duly signed by both the parties to this agreement. All previous
communications, both oral and written between the parties and related to this agreement,
but inconsistent with the terms and conditions of this agreement, are hereby declared null
and void.

I. 

VALIDITY

This Agreement is valid so long as STP service provider holds valid approval from SEBI
and STP centralised hub  holds valid approval as STP Centralised Hub from SEBI. This
Agreement shall be valid for an initial period of _____ years (hereinafter referred to as
the  ‘Term’).  After  the  term,  the  arrangement  may  be  extended  on  mutually  acceptable
terms.

G. 

TERMINATION

Without prejudice to the rights, liabilities, interests and obligations that have accrued to
the parties prior to the date of terminations

1.  Either party may terminate this agreement upon material breach by the other of any
provision  of  this  agreement,  and  (if  such  breach  is  remediable)  that  other  fails  to
remedy such breach within a mutually agreed time frame in writing.

2. This agreement may, at any time during its Term, be terminated by either party by a
written  90  days  notice  to  the  other  party  without  prejudice  to  the  rights,  liabilities,

Page 60 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

interests  and  obligations  that  have  accrued  to  the  parties  prior  to  the  date  of  such
termination. The grounds upon which this agreement may be terminated pursuant to
this clause are as under:
i) 

In case a Receiver has been appointed with respect to all or substantially all
the assets of the parties. Provided that this clause shall not be applicable when
winding up proceedings have been initiated to facilitate an amalgamation with
another company proposing to carry on the same business
if  one  of  the  parties  enters  into  an  arrangement  of  composition  with  its
creditors.

ii) 

3. This  agreement  may,  at  any  time  during  its  Term,  be  terminated  by  STP  centralised
hub  by a written notice in case the ISP license of STP centralised hub  is revoked or
the services are taken over by DoT / Telecom Authority in the event of an emergency
or  otherwise.  If  STP  centralised  hub    receives  prior  notice  of  the  same  it  shall  be
provided to the service provider immediately.

4. This  agreement  may,  for  convenience,  at  any  time  during  its  term,  be  terminated  by

either party, by a written notice of 90 days to the other party.

5. The provisions contained hereinabove shall not preclude the other party from recourse

to any other remedies available to itself by statute or otherwise, at law or in equity.

6. In order to maintain the security and integrity of its infrastructure STP service provider
may  also  suspend  the  STP    hub  client  software  access  to  its  system  at  any  time
without notice.

H. 

NOTICE

Any notice to be given by one party to the other pursuant to this agreement shall be sent
by registered post A.D., speed post or facsimile transmission to the address mentioned
below:

1. _________________ (NAME OF THE STP CENTRALISED HUB)
____________________(ADDRESS)

2.              __________________________(NAME OF STP SERVICE PROVIDER)
        ________________________________(ADDRESS)

I. 

WAIVER OF RIGHTS

No forbearance, delay or indulgence by any party in enforcing any of the provisions of
this agreement shall prejudice or restrict the rights of that party nor shall any waiver of its
rights  operate  as  a  waiver  of  any  subsequent  breach  and  no  rights,  powers,  remedies
herein conferred upon or reserved for the parties is exclusive of any other right, power or
remedy available to that party and each right, power or remedy shall be cumulative.

J. 

ARBITRATION AND JURISDICTION

Page 61 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

In  the  case  of  any  dispute  or  any  difference  between  the  parties  arising  out  of  or  in
relation  to  this  agreement  including  dispute  or  difference  as  to  the  validity  of  this
agreement  or  interpretation  of  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  agreement  or  losses  or
damages arising under clause C-8 and the relevant clause under STP Centralizedized hub
of this agreement, the same shall be resolved by mutual discussion. If the parties fail to
settle the dispute or difference mutually, then the same shall be resolved in accordance
with and subject to the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or any
modifications  or  amendments  thereto,  or  any  enactment  for  the  time  being  in  force
subject to the stipulation that only courts at Mumbai shall have exclusive jurisdiction in
all  such  matters.  The  provisions  of  this  clause  shall  survive  the  termination  of  this
agreement.

K. 

GOVERNING LAW

1.  This  agreement  shall  be  governed  by  and  construed  and  interpreted  in  accordance
with the laws of India, SEBI Act, Regulations, Rules and SEBI (STP centralised hub
and STP service providers) Guidelines, 2004.

2. If  any  term  or  provision  of  this  agreement  should  be  declared  invalid  by  a  court  of
competent  jurisdiction,  the  remaining  terms  and  provisions  of  this  agreement  shall
remain unimpaired and in full force and effect.

M. 

DISCLAIMER

STP centralised hub  shall use its best endeavor only to ensure that the services provided
shall be in conformity with the terms of this agreement. STP centralised hub shall not be
liable for bad/slow connection or any technical glitches on account of reasons beyond its
control.

N. 

CONFIDENTIALITY

The Parties hereto shall at all times maintain and keep secret and confidential
any know-how, information and data which it has or may acquire from time to
time  relating  to  the  business,  activities  or  operations  of  the  other  Party  and
shall not disclose or divulge the same or any part thereof to any third party.
The terms of this clause shall survive termination of the Agreement.   

The obligations shall not apply with respect to Information which :
1)  is or becomes publicly available other than through a breach of this Agreement or is

2)  is already in the possession of the other party without any

unlawfully appropriated;

breach of this Agreement ;

.

3)  is obtained by the other party from a third party without any breach of this Agreement

4)  is required to be produced before a judicial authority and only where the other party is
compelled  to  do  so  by  such  an  authority,  provided  that  the  said  authority  (  or
individual representing such authority ) has the authority, under the laws in force, to
compel such disclosure.

Page 62 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  before  making  any  use  or  disclosure  on  any  of  the
foregoing exceptions, the Party disclosing such information shall intimate the Other Party
as soon as practicable  the applicable exceptions (s) and circumstances giving rise thereto.

Page 63 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

ANNEXURE

STP centralised hub  shall charge a fee of Rs. -----------------. The fees shall be charged to
the sending service provider. The billing shall be on a -------------------- basis.

One message shall mean and include the following –

?  One ISO message sent by a service provider to the STP centralised hub
?  Acknowledgement  message  sent  by  the  STP  centralised  hub  to  the  Sending

service provider

?  The message forwarded to the receiving service provider
?  Acknowledgement received from the receiving service provider for the message
?  Forwarding the acknowledgement received from the receiving service provider to

the sending service provider

In consideration of the fees STP centralised hub  shall endeavour to provide the following
service standards –

Infrastructure availability

99%  Uptime  for  business  hours  from  0930  hrs  till  1930  hrs  computed  on  a

-
quarterly basis.  Planned Outage excluded
-
-

Uptime on best effort basis between 1930 hrs to 0930 hrs
Resolution time: 4 hours for called logged between 0930 to 1800 hrs

Trouble Ticketing

Business Hrs
Helpdesk
Non-Business Hrs
Operations
Call closure confirmation
numbers

-  Telephonic  reporting  of  Fault  on  STP  centralised  hub

-  Telephonic  reporting  of  Fault  on  STP  centralised  hub

-  STP  service  Provider  to  give  respective  telephone

Page 64 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

10.9.  APPENDIX 7

CHIEF GENERAL MANAGER
DERIVATIVES AND NEW PRODUCTS DEPARTMENT

DNPD/Cir-25/04
June 10, 2004

All Exchanges, Clearing Corporation / Clearing House, STP Centralised Hub
Depositories, Custodians, AMFI and STP service providers

Sub: Transaction work flow for the system of Straight Through Processing in the

Indian Securities Market and standardisation of the messaging formats

Dear Sir,

1) 

This is in continuation to our previous circular no. DNPD/Cir-9/04 dated February
3, 2004 & circular no. SEBI/MRD/SE/Cir-11/2004 dated February 25, 2004 on the
issuance  of  electronic  contract  notes  as  a  legal  document  like  the  physical  contract
note for the equity and debt segments, circular no. DNPD/Cir-22/2004 dated April 1,
2004  mandating  the  use  of  the  Straight  Through  Processing  (STP)  system  for  all
institutional trades w. e. f. July 1, 2004, circular no. DNPD/Cir-23/04 dated April 27,
2004  prescribing  the  detailed  system  flow  of  the  STP  system  and  circular  no.
DNPD/Cir-24/04 dated May 26, 2004 prescribing the SEBI (STP centralised hub and
STP service providers) Guidelines, 2004.

2)  SEBI  in  consultation  with  the  STP  centralised  hub,  STP  service  providers  and  the
STP  users  has  prescribed  the  transaction  work  flow  for  the  STP  system.  All
institutional  investors  shall  follow  the  following  transaction  work  flow  on  a
mandatory basis from July 1, 2004:

a)  A contract note in electronic form in the prescribed format (IFN 515 messaging
format)  shall  be  issued  by  the  broker  &  sent  to  the  custodian  and  /  or  the
institutional investor.

b)  In  case  the  contract  note  is  processed  directly  by  the  institutional  investor,  the
institutional investor shall send the trade confirmation of acceptance or rejection
of the contract note to the broker by using the IFN 598 messaging format. The
custodian  shall  also  send  the  confirmation  of  acceptance  or  rejection  of  such
contract note to the broker using the messaging standard IFN 548.

c)  In  case  the  contract  note  is  processed  by  the  custodian  on  behalf  of  the
institutional investor, the custodian shall send the confirmation of acceptance or
rejection  of  the  contract  note  to  the  broker  by  using  the  IFN  548  messaging
format.

Page 65 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

d)  The institutional investor shall send settlement instructions to its custodian in IFN
540 to IFN 543 messaging formats to the custodian for the following trade types:
i)  IFN 540: settlement instruction for a clearing house buy trade
ii)  IFN 541: settlement instruction for a delivery-v/s-payment (DVP) buy trade
iii)  IFN 542: settlement instruction for a clearing house sell trade
iv)  IFN 543: settlement instruction for a delivery-v/s-payment (DVP) sell trade

e)  The custodian shall confirm / reject the execution of the settlement instructions to
the  institutional  investor  in  IFN  544  to  IFN  547  messaging  formats  in  the
following manner:
i)  IFN  544:  confirmation  /  rejection  of  an  instruction  received  in  messaging

ii)  IFN  545:  confirmation  /  rejection  of  an  instruction  received  in  messaging

iii)  IFN  546:  confirmation  /  rejection  of  an  instruction  received  in  messaging

iv)  IFN  547:  confirmation  /  rejection  of  an  instruction  received  in  messaging

format IFN 540

format IFN 541

format IFN 542

format IFN 543

f)  It is clarified that if a message (for the activities mentioned above) is sent using
the  STP  centralised  hub  framework  from  one  user  to  another  user,  then  the
confirmation  /  rejection  for  such  a  message  shall  also  be  sent  using  the  STP
centralised hub framework.

3) 

SEBI vide circular no. DNPD/Cir-9/04 dated February 3, 2004 had prescribed the
format of the contract note in electronic form. After deliberation with the STP service
providers and the market participants the following changes are incorporated to the
existing messaging format (IFN 515):

a)  The  mandatory  requirement  of  mentioning  the  relevant  bye-laws  /  rules  /
regulations of the exchange subject to which the said contract note is being issued
on each contract note stands modified in the following manner:
i)  The requirement is not mandatory but optional
ii)  The broker shall ensure that the relevant bye-laws / rules / regulations of the
exchange subject to which the contract note is being issued, is mentioned in
the broker-client agreement and the tripartite agreement between the broker-
sub-broker-client agreement (if applicable).

iii)  The  existing  field  for  the  above  provision  shall  not  be  deleted  and  may  be
used as a free text field for one constituent to communicate remarks (if any) to
another constituent.

b)  The clause of ‘payment of consolidated stamp duty’  for each contract note shall
be mentioned in the broker-client agreement and the tripartite agreement between
the  broker-sub-broker-client  agreement  (if  applicable).  The  said  clause  may  be
stated in the free text field (as mentioned in point 3 (a (iii))) of each contract note.

c)  In the field “market type”  (field 70E) a category of ‘TT’  i.e. trade for trade and
‘OT’  i.e.  Others  shall  be  added  to  represent  the  supplementary  categories  of
market types.

Page 66 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

d)  The order time was prescribed as a mandatory field in the contract note. The order

time shall now be included in the optional fields.

e)  There are certain securities which are not de-materalised and hence do not have
an ISIN code. For such securities (where ISIN number is not available) the STP
users would be required to input the security code given by the exchange in the
ISIN  number  field.  In  case  the  number  length  of  the  exchange  scrip  code  is
shorter than the prescribed field length of 12 characters, the code shall be prefixed
with zeros.

f)  In order to maintain a complete audit trail, it is clarified that in case an electronic
contract note is rejected, the custodian (in messaging format IFN 548) or the fund
manager  (in  messaging  format  IFN  598)  shall  be  required  to  send  a  rejection
message to the broker. Only on receipt of the rejection message, the broker shall
cancel  the  rejected  contract  note  and  issue  a  fresh  contract  note  bearing  a  new
number.

g)  In order to bring in standardisation in the input of the identification codes in the
prescribed  messaging  standards,  it  is  clarified  that  the  following  codes  shall  be
used by the various entities:

i)  Brokers:  SEBI  registration  number  (until  MAPIN  ID  is  available  for  every

broker)

ii)  Mutual Funds and schemes of Mutual Funds: SEBI registration number for
Mutual  Funds  and  Unique  client  code  issued  by  the  exchanges  for  schemes
(until MAPIN ID is available for each scheme of a mutual fund)

iii)  FIIs and sub-accounts: SEBI registration number for FII and Unique client
code issued by the exchanges for sub-account (until MAPIN ID is available
for each FII and their sub-accounts)

iv)  Custodians: SEBI registration number (until MAPIN ID is available for every

custodian)

MAPIN ID.

v)  STP service providers and STP centralised hub: MAPIN ID
vi)  Depositories  and  exchanges  /  clearing  house  /  clearing  corporation:

vii) Other Institutional Investors like financial institutions, banks etc.: Unique
client  code  issued  by  the  exchanges  (until  MAPIN  ID  is  available  for  each
Institutional Investor)

h)  All  market  participants  shall  issue  the  electronic  contract  note  for  institutional
(refer

in  Annexure 

enclosed 

format 

I. 

the  modified 
trades 
URL:http://www.sebi.gov.in)

in 

4)  The prescribed messaging formats for IFN 540, IFN 541, IFN 542, IFN 543, IFN 544,
IFN  545,  IFN  546,  IFN  547,  IFN  548  and  IFN  598  are  enclosed  in  Annexure  II.
(refer URL:http://www.sebi.gov.in). After consultation with the market participants
and  confirming  their  preparedness,  it  has  been  decided  to  make  these  messaging
formats (in addition to IFN 515) mandatory for all institutional trades w. e. f. July 1,
2004.

Page 67 of 68

Implementation of the revised scheme of STP

5)  It  is  reiterated  that  the  STP  system  shall  be  initially  mandatory  for  all  institutional

trades in the equity segment w. e. f. July 1, 2004.

6)  The standard terms of contract as are required to be mentioned in the Contract Notes
as  per  the  Bye-laws  and  Regulations  of  exchanges,  which  are  not  contained  in
electronic  contract  notes,  shall  be  incorporated  in  the  Client  Broker  Agreement  or
where applicable, the Tripartite Agreement between the stock broker, sub-broker and
the client. The stamp duty in respect of the electronic contract notes shall be paid by
the broker.

7)  This circular is being issued in exercise of powers conferred by section 11 (1) of the
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  section  10  of  the
Securities  Contracts(regulation)  Act  1956,  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in
securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.

Yours sincerely,

N. PARAKH

Page 68 of 68

