Review of  SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock

Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999.

Recommendations of the ESOP Committee

(Interested persons and entities may send their comments on this issue to the e-
mail address : amitk@sebi.gov.in or by post to the Primary Markets Department,
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Mittal Court, ‘A’  Wing, Ground Floor, 224
Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021.)

The  Board  had  set  up  a  committee  (hereinafter  referred  as  ESOP  Committee)
under the Chairmanship of Prof. J. R. Varma, the then Member, SEBI Board, to
formulate guidelines for Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOP) and Employees
Share  Purchase  Scheme  (ESPS).  These  guidelines  were  implemented  in  July
1999.  Due  to  various  changes  in  the  market  since  1999  and  various
representations/ clarifications sought by the companies, it was decided to review
the  SEBI  (Employee  Stock  Option  Scheme  and  Employees  Share  Purchase
Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 (hereinafter referred as Guidelines) . Accordingly the
ESOP  committee  was  reconstituted.  The  committee  comprised  of  the  following
members:

1.  Shri J.R.Varma, Chairman of the Committee
2.  Sh. Vinod Jain-  ICAI
3.  Sh. Kiran Karnik - NASSCOM
4.  Sh. A.K. Narayana, Tamilnadu Investors Association.
5.  Shri Nishith M Desai - Nishith Desai Associates
6.  Shri Nihal Kothari – , Head of Taxation, Hindustan Lever Limited
7.  Shri Harshu Ghate -  ESOP Direct
8.  Shri A Rammohan Rao - UTI Securities Exchange Limited
9.  Shri R..M.Joshi, Executive Director - SEBI

The meeting of the Reconstituted committee was convened on 11th September
2002 to discuss various issues pertaining to ESOP guidelines.

Before  proceeding  with  its  deliberations,  the  Committee  inter-alia  observed  the
following  main  findings  of  all  India  survey  conducted  by  M/s  ESOP  Direct,  a
consultancy Firm:

? 

? 

In  most  of  the  cases  companies  issuing  ESOPs  did  comply  with  vesting
period, disclosure requirement as specified in SEBI Guideline.
In case of IT companies, ESOPs were issued across the board whereas in
case  of  companies  from  non-IT  sectors,  ESOPs  were  issued  to  top
management only.

?  Average life of the ESOPs issued is 4 years.
? 
?  Treatment of corporate actions on the ESOPs issued, varied from company

In most of the cases ESOPs were issued at fair market value.

?  Unlisted companies willing to make an IPO faces problem with the ESOPs

to company.

issued earlier.

?  Wherever  ESOPs  are  being  issued  across  the  board,  allotment  is  fairly

proportionate across the Board.

?  Very  few  companies,  issuing  ESOPs,  are  found  to  be  enclosing  auditors

certificate with the financial statement.
In  case  of  IT  companies,  ESOP  is  being  used  as  a  tool  to  motivate
employees.  Whereas in case of non IT companies, ESOP is being issued in
lieu of remuneration.

? 

The survey provided an insight in to the usage of ESOPs in the corporate sector.

The committee thereafter deliberated on various issues and gave its
recommendations on each of the issue as under:

1. Applicability of the Guidelines

The  existing  SEBI  (ESOP  &  ESPS)  guidelines  came  into  effect  on  19th  June
1999.  The  present  guidelines  are  applicable  to  all  the  schemes  by  listed
companies  offered  on  or  after  19th  June  1999.  SEBI  has 
received
representations  from  various  companies  as  to  whether  the  guidelines  shall  be
applicable  to  the  ESOPs  granted  prior  to  19th  June  1999.  which  are  yet  to  be
exercised  and  are  outstanding.  The  committee  recommended  that  guidelines
will  not  be  applicable  to  the  Stock  Options  granted  prior  to  19th  June,  1999,
unless specified otherwise in the guidelines.

2.  Revisiting the definition of Fair value given in the guidelines

As per the existing Guidelines, the Fair value means the option discount, or, if
the  company  so  chooses,  the  value  of  the  option  using  the  Black  Scholes
formula  or  other  similar  valuation  method.    The  committee  recommended
redefining  FAIR  VALUE  by  restricting  it  to  “the  value  of  option  using  Black
Scholes  formula  or  any  other  similar  valuation  model”  and  accordingly
recommended  modifications  in  SEBI  (ESOP  &  ESPS)  Guidelines  under  the
following heads

(i)  Modification in Schedule I
(ii) Addition of New Schedule i.e Schedule II
(iii) Addition of sub clauses in clause 12

Details are as under

i)  Modification in Schedule I of the guidelines

Modify Clause (b) as below

“The  accounting  value  of  options  shall  be  equal  to  the  aggregate,  over  all
employee  stock  options  granted  during  the  accounting  period,  of  the  intrinsic
value of the option or, if the company so chooses, the fair value of the option.

For this purpose:

1. Fair value of an option means the fair value calculated in accordance with

Schedule II (New insertion as detailed (ii) below).
Intrinsic value means the excess of the market price of the share at the
date  of  grant  of  the  option  under  ESOS  over  the  exercise  price  of  the
option (including up-front payment, if any)

2.

Addition of new Schedule

Insert Schedule II which is as below

a.  The  fair  value  of  a  stock  option  is  the  price  that  would  obtain  for  that
option in an arm’s length transaction between a willing buyer and a willing
seller.

b.  The  fair  value  shall  be  estimated  using  an  option-pricing  model  (for
example, the Black-Scholes or a binomial model) that takes into account
as of the grant date the exercise price and expected life of the option, the
current  market  price  of  the  underlying  stock  and  its  expected  volatility,
expected  dividends  on  the  stock,  and  the  risk-free  interest  rate  for  the
expected term of the option.

c.  The  fair  value  of  an  option  estimated  at  the  grant  date  shall  not  be
subsequently adjusted for changes in the price of the underlying stock or
its volatility, the life of the option, dividends on the stock, or the risk-free
interest rate.

d.  Where the exercise price is fixed in Indian Rupees, the risk-free interest
rate used shall be the interest rate applicable for a maturity equal to the
expected  life  of  the  options  based  on  the  zero-coupon  yield  curve  for
Government of India securities.

e.  The expected life of an award of stock options shall take into account the

following factors:
? The expected life must at least include the vesting period.
? The average length of time similar grants have remained outstanding in
the  past.  If  the  company  does  not  have  a  sufficiently  long  history  of
stock option grants, the experience of an appropriately comparable peer
group may be taken into consideration.

? The expected life of ESOPs should not be less than half of the exercise
period of the ESOPs issued until and unless the same is supported by
historical  evidences  with  respect  to  ESOPs  issued  by  the  company
earlier.

f. 

If  the  company  does  not  have  a  sufficiently  long  history  of  traded  stock
prices  to  estimate  the  expected  volatility  of  its  stock,  it  may  use  an

estimate  based  on  the  estimated  volatility  of  stocks  of  an  appropriately
comparable peer group.

g.  The  estimated  dividends  of  the  company  over  the  estimated  life  of  the
option may be estimated taking into account the company’s past dividend
policy as well as the mean dividend yield of an appropriately comparable
peer group

h.  Justification  is  to  be  given  for  significant  assumptions.  If  at  the  time  of
further issue of ESOPs there are any changes in the assumptions, give
reasons for the same.

ii)  Addition of sub clauses in clause 12

Add  sub  clauses  (l)  to  (n)  as  below  in  clause  (12)  on  disclosure  in
director report in guidelines

(l)  Where  the  company  has  calculated  the  employee  compensation  cost
using the intrinsic value of the stock options, the difference between the
employee  compensation  cost  so  computed  and 
the  employee
compensation cost that would have been recognized if it had used the fair
value of the options, shall be disclosed. The impact of this difference on
profits and on EPS of the company shall be disclosed.

(m) Weighted-average  exercise  prices  and  weighted-average  fair  values  of
options  shall  be  disclosed  separately  for  options  whose  exercise  price
either equals or exceeds or is less than the market price of the stock on
the grant date.

(n) A description of the method and significant assumptions used during the
year  to  estimate  the  fair  values  of  options,  including  the  following
weighted-average  information:    (1)  risk-free  interest  rate,  (2)  expected
life,  (3)  expected  volatility,  (4)  expected  dividends  and  (5)  the  market
price of the underlying share at the time of option grant.

3) Mandatory disclosure of Fair value of ESOPs

As  per  the  existing  guidelines,  the  company  has  an  option  to  choose  either
intrinsic value or a fair value (as per Black Scholes or similar models) for actual
expensing of ESOPs in the financial statements.

The committee recommended mandatory disclosure of:

?  The fair value of the ESOPs (i.e using Black Scholes or similar models)
?  The  impact  on  profits  and  on  EPS  of  the  company,  had  the  company

expensed the ESOPs on fair value basis.

4) ESOPs by Trust Route:-

The ESOP committee in the earlier report had recommended that it shall not be
mandatory to create an Employee Welfare Trust to administer the stock option
scheme.  As  such  the  company  today  has  an  option  to  administer  the  ESOP
through  Trust  route.  However,  the  guidelines  do  not  carry  any  procedure  and
accounting principles to be followed in case of Grant of options through a trust.
The Committee recommended that since this is a consolidation issue rather than
an ESOP issue, the ESOP trust should be consolidated with the company under
AS 21 and the existing ESOP guidelines should be applied by the consolidated
entity.

5)  Listing and lock in of Pre IPO ESOP Shares.

Listing of pre IPO ESOP shares:-

a.  The existing guidelines state that in the case of listed companies, ESOP
shares shall be eligible for listing only if the scheme is in accordance with
the guidelines. In case of an unlisted company going in for an IPO, which
has implemented an ESOP prior to going public there is a possibility that
options granted prior to going public would vest and be exercised after the
company is listed. (referred as Pre IPO ESOP shares),  In such a case
the  shares  would  come  into  existence  after  the  company  is  listed.
Moreover, as per the current procedure a company has to comply with a
lot  of  steps  for  listing  of  ESOP  shares.  Considering  the  volatility  in  the
market and the time lag between issue of shares on exercise of options
and listing of the same on an stock exchanges, an employee could lose
the  advantage  of  any  uptrend  in  the  prices  of  the  shares  or  even  the
share  price  may  go  below  the  exercise  price.  The  time  taken  also
prohibits cashless exercise of vested options.

The  committee  recommended  that  ESOP  shares  issued  by  an  unlisted
company may be allowed to get listed after the IPO subject to fulfillment of
the following requirements:

i.  Ratification of the resolution passed for issuance of ESOP
     The  notice  for  ratification  of  earlier  resolution  shall  include  all  the

disclosures required in terms of SEBI (ESOP guidelines).

ii.   Disclosures in the offer document

?  A disclosure about the intention of the ESOP holders to sell their
ESOP shares within 3 months after the date of listing of shares in
the said IPO (aggregate number of shares intended to be sold by
all  ESOP  holders  put  together  to  be  disclosed  regardless  of
whether  the  shares  arise  out  of  options  exercised  before  or  after
the IPO), 

?  Specific  disclosures  about  the  intention  of  sale  of  ESOP  shares
within  3  months  after  the  date  of  listing,  by  directors,  Senior
Managerial  personnel  and  also  large  option  grantee  i.e  persons
having  ESOP  shares  amounting  to  more  than  1  %  of  the  issued
capital  (excluding  outstanding  warrants  and  conversions),  which

inter-alia  shall  include  name,  designation  and  quantum  of  ESOP
shares and quantum they intend to sell within 3 months..

?  A  disclosure  in  line  with  the  guideline  12  of  ESOP  guidelines,
regarding all the ESOPs issued in last 3 years (separately for each
year) and on a cumulative basis for all the ESOPs issued prior to
that in the prospectus.

b) The  committee  also  recommended  that  the  provisions  may  be  made  for
getting in principle approval for listing of ESOP shares form Stock Exchanges
so as to avoid delay in listing of ESOP shares as and when issued.  As the
issue  is  primarily  an  operational  one,  the  committee  recommended  that  the
same should be referred to the Stock Exchanges.

Lock-in of pre IPO ESOP shares:-

As  per  the  existing  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines  2000,  ,  all  the  pre  IPO  shares  in
existence  gets  locked  in  for  a  period  of  1  year  post  IPO.  This  discourages
employees  in  private  limited  companies  from  exercising  options  as  on  the
company getting listed, they will get locked in for a period of one year. In view of
the  lock  in,  even  employers  are  promoting  employees  to  exercise  the  options
post  IPO.  The  committee  recommended  that  the  existing  provisions  of  Lock-in
specified in SEBI (DIP) guidelines 2000 shall not be applicable on the pre IPO
ESOP shares held by employees other than promoters subject to the ratification
of the earlier resolution and disclosures in the prospectus as mentioned at (a) (i)
& (ii) above respectively. However, ESOP shares held by the promoters will be
subject to lock-in as per the relevant provisions of SEBI (DIP) Guidelines, 2000.

6) Adjustment in case of Corporate Actions

As per the existing guidelines, the Compensation Committee is to formulate the
procedure for taking a fair and reasonable adjustment to the number of options
and  to  the  exercise  price  in  case  of  rights  issues,  bonus  issues  and  other
corporate actions. Currently companies are not very clear of action to be taken in
event like bonus/rights issue, merger, sale of division etc. In case of merger or
acquisition, the unvested options have accelerated vesting or some companies
swap  the  old  options  with  the  options  of  the  new  company.  Thus  there  is  no
consistency  with  respect  to  the  actions  taken  in  such  events.  The  committee
recommended that in case of corporate actions like bonus/rights issue, merger,
sale  of  division  etc,  the  compensation  committee  should  adjust  the  no.  of
ESOPs and the price of ESOPs in a manner such that total value of the ESOPs
should  remain  the    same  after  that  corporate  action.  For  the  purpose  of
adjustment, the compensation committee should consider global best practices
in this area including the procedures followed by the derivative markets in India
and abroad. As far as possible, the vesting period and the life of the options shall
be left unaltered even in a merger to protect the rights of the option holders.

7) Accounting norms for graded vesting

The  existing  guidelines  (guideline  13)  has  not  provided  specifically  for
accounting for compensation cost in the case of options, which vest in a graded
manner.  Where  a  scheme  provides  for  such  graded  vesting  the  allocation  or
amortisation  of  compensation  expense  to  the  period  until  the  full  vesting  has
occurred  is  to  be  done  in  a  manner  proportional  to  the  number  of  shares  to
which  rights  to  exercise  the  option  have  vested.  The  service  period  is
determined separately for each portion of the option. For example if an option
vests 20% each year it will vest over 5 years. In this case the 20% which vests in
the  first  year  is  deemed  attributable  to  the  services  performed  in  the  first  year
only, while the 20% which vests in the second year is attributed to the services
performed in the years 1 and 2. The committee recommended that ESOP with
graded vesting period can be recognized as several separate ESOPs and can
be accounted for accordingly.

8) Accounting norms for Variable ESOPs

 The companies may like to go for different variants of ESOPs where on the date
of  grant,  the  exercise  price  or  the  vesting  period  or  number  of  options  is
contingent  on  a  future  event  viz  may  be  based  on  future  performance  i.e.
“Performance-Linked Vesting (the number of options that would be granted and/
or  the  vesting  period  of  the  options  is  linked  to  a  specific  performance
parameter).  The  Committee  recommended 
the  existing  accounting
treatment  may  continue  for  all  ESOPs.  Further  it  was  informed  that  ICAI  is  in
process of laying down the detailed accounting norms, which may take care of
all accounting norms.

that 

9) Repricing of Options

There were cases where companies wanted to reprice the options because the
market price fell to the extent that the ESOPs were rendered unattractive. The
existing  guideline  7  permit  the  changes  in  terms  &  conditions  of  the  ESOS
offered pursuant to an earlier resolution of a general body but not yet exercised
by the employee, provided it is not detrimental to the interests of the employees
and  subject  to  shareholders’  approval.  The  committee  recommended  that  the
existing  provisions  may  continue.    The  committee  noted  that  many  issues
referred  to  the  committee  are  mainly  accounting  matters  pertaining  to  ESOPs.
The  committee  was  informed  that  ICAI  is  in  process  of  laying  down  detailed
accounting norms for ESOPs, which may take care of all the accounting matters.

10) Relaxation in requirement of Shareholders Approval

The guidelines require a separate resolution in case the company wants to grant
more than 1% of the issued capital (including options granted) to an identified
employee in a year. Generally the shareholders meeting are held once in a year.
In case of urgency, it may not be possible to call shareholders meeting for grant
of more than 1% options to an identified employee.  In view of the above, post-

facto  approval  from  the  shareholders  be  permitted,  subject  to  the  same  being
obtained within a period of  1 year from the date of grant and in case the same is
not obtained or is not accorded approval by the shareholders the options would
lapse.  The  committee  recommended  that  there  is  no  need  to  relax  the
requirement regarding Shareholders approval.

11) Definition of Market Price

As per the existing guidelines the market price of a share on a given date means
the closing price of the share on that date on the stock exchange on which the
shares of the company are listed. It was felt that to have a more realistic value of
the  share  the  period  average  price  over  a  period  of  time  should  be  taken  into
consideration.  The  committee  recommended  that  we  may  stick  to  the  existing
definition of 'Market Price'.

12) Definition of Employee Stock Option as given in the Companies Act

 The following definition is given in section 2(15 A) of Companies Act: "employee
stock  option"  means  the  option  given  to  the  whole  time  directors,  officers  or
employees of a company, which gives such directors, officers or employees the
benefit or right to purchase or subscribe at a future date, the securities offered
by  the  company  at  a  pre  determined  price.  The  Committee  was  asked  to
reconsider  the  definition  given  in  the  present  ESOP  guidelines  so  as  to  have
uniformity  in  all  the  guidelines.  The  committee  recommended  that  we  may
incorporate the definition given in Section 2(15A) of Companies Act, 1956 in our
Guidelines.  The  committee  further  recommended  that  definition  of  'Pre-
determined  price'  should  be  clarified  as  a  'fixed  price  or  a  price  determined
through a pre-determined pricing formula'

13) Shareholders Approval

Since  the  spirit  of  Guideline  6  (ESOS)  of  the  existing  guidelines  which  talks
about approval of shareholders by way of separate resolution in case option is
granted  to  employees  of  subsidiary  or  holding  company  or  grant  of  option  to
identified  employees  in  excess  of  1%  in  a  year  is  same  as  Guideline  17  of
ESPS),  the  Committee  recommended  that  the  relevant  provisions  of  the
Guideline  6.2  &  the  provisions  of  Guideline  6.3  may  be  made  applicable  to
Guideline 17 also.

14) New Forms Of ESOPs

Over  a  period  of  time,  new  forms  of  equity  compensation  to  employees  have
emerged. The Committee was of the view that existing guidelines give enough
flexibility  to  the  issuer  to  introduce  new  forms  of  ESOPs.  The  Committee
recommended  that  new  forms  can  be  introduced  provided  it  fit  in  the  existing
definition of ESOPs of providing a pre determined formula.

15)  Insider Trading Guidelines

Recently SEBI amended the guidelines for prohibition of Insider Trading. One of
the  provisions  require  all  directors/officers/designated  employees  to  hold  their
investments  in  securities  for  a  minimum  period  of  30  days  in  order  to  be
considered  as  being  held  for  investment  purposes.  This  restriction  prohibits
cashless  exercise  and  same  day  sale,  which  is  expressly  permitted  by  the
guidelines. The Committee discussed the need for exemption of ESOP shares
from this condition. The committee recommended that no relaxation from insider
Trading regulations should be given to the designated employees, going by the
spirit of Insider Trading regulations.

16 Additional recommendations of the committee

?  Filing  of  ESOP  schemes  by  the  listed  companies  through  EDIFAR  filing

may be made mandatory.

?  When parent company issues ESOPs to the employee of its subsidiary,
the cost incurred by the parent company for issuing the aforesaid ESOPs
should be disclosed in the 'notes to accounts' of the financial statements
of the subsidiary company.

?  SEBI must mandate a minimum set of disclosures by the company to the
grantees so as to protect the rights of option grantee in their capacity as
investors. The minimum disclosures to be given to option grantees are as
per Annexure A

*****

Simplified Disclosure Document for Employee Stock Option Grantees

Part A: Statement of Risks

Annexure A

All investments in shares or options on shares are subject to risk as the value of
shares may go down or go up. In addition, employee stock options are subject to
the following additional risks:

1.  Concentration:  The  risk  arising  out  of  any  fall  in  value  of  shares  is
aggravated if the employee’s  holding  is  concentrated  in  the  shares  of  a
single company.

2.  Leverage: Any change in the value of the share can lead to a significantly
larger change in the value of the option as an option amounts to a levered
position in the share.

3.  Illiquidity: The options cannot be transferred to anybody, and therefore the
employees cannot mitigate their risks by selling the whole or part of their
options before they are exercised.

4.  Vesting:  The  options  will  lapse  if  the  employment  is  terminated  prior  to
vesting. Even after the options are vested, the unexercised options may
be forfeited if the employee is terminated for gross misconduct.

Part B: Information about the company1

1.  Business of the company: A description of the business of the company

on the lines of item V(a) of Part I of Schedule II of the Companies Act.

2.  Abridged financial information: Abridged financial information for the last
five years for which audited financial information is available in a format
similar  to  that  required  under  item  B(1)  of  Part  II  of  Schedule  II  of  the
Companies Act. The last audited accounts of the company should also be
provided  unless  this  has  already  been  provided  to  the  employee  in
connection with a previous option grant or otherwise.

3.  Risk Factors: Management perception of the risk factors of the company
in accordance with item VIII of Part I of Schedule II of the Companies Act.
4.  Continuing  disclosure  requirement:  The  option  grantee  should  receive
copies  of  all  documents  that  are  sent  to  the  members  of  the  company.
This would include the annual accounts of the company as well as notices
of meetings and the accompanying          explanatory statements.

Part C: Salient Features of the Employee Stock Option Scheme

The Part would contain the salient features of the employee stock option scheme
of the company including the conditions regarding vesting, exercise, adjustment
for corporate actions, and forfeiture of vested options. It shall not be necessary
to include this Part if it has already been provided to the employee in connection
with a previous option grant, and no changes have taken place in the scheme
                                        
1 It shall be sufficient for the company to update this document once a year when the
audited accounts become available.

since then. If the option administrator (whether the company itself or an outside
securities  firm  appointed  for  this  purpose)  provides  advisory  services  to  the
option  grantees  in  connection  with  the  exercise  of  options  or  sale  of  resulting
shares,  such  advice  must  be  accompanied  by  an  appropriate  disclosure  of
concentration  and  other  risks.  The  option  administrator  should  conform  to  the
code of conduct appropriate for such fiduciary relationships.

