The Advisory Committee on Venture Capital, set up under Chairmanship of Dr. 
Ashok Lahiri, has submitted its report to SEBI. This report has been placed on 
the SEBI website (www.sebi.gov.in) for public comments, which would help SEBI 
in  considering  the  amendments  to  the  regulations  that  will  facilitate  the  further 
development of vibrant venture capital industry in India    
 
The comments on this report may please be forwarded to: 
 
Mr. Suresh Gupta, 
General Manager (Investment Management Department) 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Exchange Plaza, “G”  Block, 4th Floor, 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (E) 
Mumbai – 400 051 
 
or  e-mailed  at  sureshg@sebi.gov.in  or  sumitb@sebi.gov.in  on  or  before 
November 05, 2003. The report of the committee is placed below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Executive summary of the recommendations of the Committee. 
 

I. 

Operational issues 

(A) Issues common to Venture Capital Funds (VCF) and Foreign 

Venture Capital Investors (FVCI). 

 

 

The requirement of lock-in of shares after listing may be removed. 

1.  Lock-in of shares after listing: 
 

 
2.  Investment in listed companies: 
 

The  minimum  limit  of  investment  in  unlisted  companies  may  be 
reduced from 75 per cent, as present, to 66.67 per cent. The remaining 
portion  of  33.33  per  cent  or  less  may  be  permitted  to  be  invested  in 
listed securities. The aforesaid limit of investment shall be achieved by 
the end of the life cycle of a fund. A life cycle of more than 10 years will 
have to be justified by the fund and subject to careful examination by 
SEBI.  Wherever  such  investments  trigger  the  takeover  code,  all 
requirements of the code will have to be fulfilled by the VCF/FVCI and 
no exemption from the clauses may be provided. However, where as a 
result of investments made under mandatory requirement of takeover 
code,  investment  restrictions  are  breached,  the  same  may  not  be 
considered as a violation of SEBI (VCF/FVCI) Regulations.  
 

3.   Type of instruments of investment: 
 

Some kind of hybrid instruments which are optionally convertible into 
equity  may  be  permitted  as  a  class  of  investment  instruments  under 
the 66.67 per cent (now recommended) portion of the investible funds. 
 

4.   Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV): 
 

 SPVs  which  are  mandated  for  promotion/investment  of  a  Venture 
Capital  Undertaking  (VCU)  may  be  permitted  up  to  a  maximum  of  
33.33 per cent portion of investible funds. 
 

5.  Investment in Non Banking Financial Services: 
 

VCFs/FVCIs may be permitted to invest in NBFC in equipment leasing 
and hire purchase. 
 

6.  Investment in Real Estate: 
 

VCFs/FVCIs may be permitted to invest in real estate. 
 

 1 

 
7.  Investment in Gold Financing: 
 

Gold  financing  may  be  removed  from  negative  list  for  VCF/FVCI.  
However,  such  financing  should  be  restricted  to  gold  financing  for 
jewelry alone and not pure trade and speculation in gold. 
 
 

(B) Issues relating to venture capital funds  

1.  Investment in offshore VCUs: 
 

VCF  may  be  permitted  to  invest  in  offshore  VCUs.  RBI  may  be 
requested to periodically announce the overall limit for investment by 
the VCFs and inform SEBI accordingly 

2.   Flexibility to distribute in-specie: 
 

The in-specie distribution of assets may be permitted at any time, as 
per the preference of investor(s).  

(C)  Issues relating to foreign venture capital investors: 
 
1.  Appointment of custodians: 
 

The appointment of custodian by FVCI may be continued to facilitate 
the maintenance of records and a smooth transition when the VCU’s 
shares get listed. 

2.  Investment Limits: 
 

The restriction of not investing more than 25 per cent of the investible 
funds of a FVCI in a single VCU may be removed. 

Tax related issues 

1.  Section 10(23 FB): 
 

If clause (c) of Explanation I of Section 10(23FB) is deleted, no further 
amendments to this Section will be required whenever SEBI changes 
the  definition  of  ‘Venture  Capital  Undertaking’.  After  deletion  of  this 
clause,  all  VCFs  which  are  formed  as  trust/company  duly  registered 
with  SEBI  would  be  eligible  for  exemption  under  Section  10(23FB). 
Alternatively,  the  definition  of  ‘Venture  Capital  Undertaking’  under 
clause  (c)  of  Explanation  I  of  Section  10(23FB)  may  be  aligned  with 

II. 
 

 2 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

definition  of  ‘Venture  Capital  Undertaking’  as  defined  under  SEBI 
Regulations. 

 
2.  Exits: 
   

For  the  sake  of  clarity  and  for  the  removal  of  ambiguity,  a  suitable 
clarification  may  be  issued  through  a  Central  Board  of  Direct  Taxes 
(CBDT) circular. Alternatively,  in line with Explanation 2 under section 
10(23FB),  Explanation  3  may  be  added  providing  that  VCFs  would 
continue  to  enjoy  tax  exemption  even  after  they  receive  foreign 
securities  in  lieu  of  domestic  securities  held  by  them  in  a  ‘Venture 
Capital Undertaking’. 
 

3.  Section 115U: 
   

4.  Procedural matters: 
 

For  the  sake  of  clarity  and  uniformity,  a  suitable  illustration  may  be 
issued through a CBDT circular. 
 

CBDT may clarify on the procedural matters through issue of a circular. 
As  regards  Form  64,  clause  nos.  5,  6,  8,  10  and  12  need  to  be 
changed to ‘Income of Venture Capital Funds’.  

III. 

Foreign exchange control related issues 

Wholly owned Indian subsidiaries of FVCIs registered with SEBI may 
be exempted from the minimum capitalization requirement of an Indian 
company. 

********* 

 
 

 

Background 
 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (SEBI)  has  set  up  an  Advisory 
Committee on Venture Capital under the Chairmanship of Dr. Ashok Lahiri, Chief 
Economic Advisor, Ministry of Finance, Government of India for advising SEBI in 
matters  relating  to  the  development  and  regulation  of  venture  capital  funds 
industry in the country.  
 
Terms of Reference for Advisory Committee on Venture Capital are - 
 
1.   To  advise  SEBI  on  issues  related  to  development  of  Venture  Capital  Fund   

 

industry. 

 

 

 

 

 3 

2.  To  advise  SEBI  on  matters  relating  to  regulation  of  Venture  Capital  Funds 

and Foreign Venture Capital Investors. 

 
3.  To  advise  SEBI  on  measures  required  to  be  taken  for  changes  in  legal 

framework / amendments. 

 
The list of members of the Committee is given in Annexure 1. 
 
Introduction 
 
After  the  success  achieved  in  information  technology,  the  time  has  come  for 
seizing  the  ample  opportunities  in  several  other  areas  like  bio-technology, 
pharmaceuticals  and  drugs,  agriculture,  food  processing,  telecommunications, 
call centers, business process outsourcing (BPO) and services. The vast pool of 
skilled and cost competitive manpower, technology and research institutes, and 
entrepreneurship  need  to  be  catalysed  through  proper  policy  support  and 
financing  of  risk  capital  for  achieving  this  objective.  Venture  capital  funding  is 
critical  in  this  context.  In  the  life-cycle  of  almost  every  business,  in  any  sector, 
venture capital funds can play a very useful role in solving the problem of the pre-
initial public offering (IPO) financing.  
 
Venture Capital funding is different from traditional sources of financing. Venture 
capitalists finance innovation and ideas which have potential for high growth, but 
with it, inherent uncertainties. This makes it a high-risk, high return investment. In 
addition  to  finance,  venture  capitalists  also  provide  hands-on  management 
support  and  other  skills  that  help  to  convert  the  entrepreneurial  vision  into 
marketable products. 
 
A flourishing venture capital industry in India will fill the gap between the capital 
requirements  of  technology  and  knowledge-based  startup  enterprises  and 
funding  available  from  traditional  institutional  lenders  such  as  banks.  The  gap 
exists  because  such  startups  are  necessarily  based  on  intangible  assets. 
Traditional sources of finance are more comfortable with tangibles.  
 
Venture  capital  supported  enterprises  would  convert  into  quality  initial  public 
offerings  (IPOs)  providing  over-all  benefit  and  protection  to  the  investors. 
Additionally, judging from the global experience, this will result in substantial and 
sustainable employment generation. The spin off effects of such activities would 
create other support services and further employment.  
 
While  success  stories  of  Indians  in  US  and  other  places  abroad  are  abound, 
there  are  growing  number  of  success  stories  of  young,  technically  qualified 
entrepreneurs in India as well. Furthermore, a number of senior managers have 
been  leaving  established  multinationals  and  Indian  companies  to  start  new 
ventures.  The  quality  of  enterprise  in  India  is  on  an  ascending  curve.  The 
atmosphere, thus, is ripe for creating the right regulatory and policy environment 

 

 4 

for sustaining the momentum for high-technology entrepreneurship. The Indians 
abroad have leapfrogged the value chain of technology to its highest levels. By 
bringing  venture  capital  and  other  supporting  infrastructure,  this  can  be 
encouraged to happen at home too. 
 
In this report, beginning with a consideration of the wide role of venture capital to 
encompass  not  just  information  technology,  but  all  high-growth  technology  and 
knowledge-based enterprises, the endeavor of the Committee has been to make 
recommendations  for  changes  in  the  legal  framework  and  regulations  that  will 
facilitate  the  further  development  of  a  vibrant  venture  capital  industry  in  India. 
The  Committee  is  confident  that  implementation  of  these  recommendations 
would not only facilitate faster growth of venture capital industry in the country, 
but  also  play  an  effective  role  in  garnering  economic  resources  for  the  country 
and development of securities market in India. 
 
Section I of the report deals with history of regulation of venture capital in India 
and  international  practices  in  venture  capital  industry.  Section  II  of  the  report 
discusses various operational issues pertaining to venture capital industry.   
 

 

SECTION – I 

 
 
1.1 Regulation of Venture Capital industry in India: 
 

In the absence of an organised venture capital industry, individual investors 
and development financial institutions have hitherto played the role of venture 
capitalists  in  India.  Entrepreneurs  have  largely  depended  upon  private 
placements, public offerings and lending by the financial institutions. In 1973, 
a  committee  on  Development  of  Small  and  Medium  Enterprises  highlighted 
the need to foster venture capital as a source of funding new entrepreneurs 
and  technology.  Thereafter  some  public  sector  funds  were  set-up,  but  the 
activity of venture capital did not gather momentum as the thrust was on high-
technology projects funded on a purely financial rather than a holistic basis. 
Later, a study was undertaken by the World Bank to examine the possibility of 
developing venture capital in the private sector, based on which Government 
of India took a policy initiative and announced guidelines for venture capital 
funds  (VCFs)  in  1988.  However,  these  guidelines  restricted  setting  up  of 
VCFs by the banks or the financial institutions only. Internationally, the trend 
favoured  venture  capital  being  set  up  by  professionals,  successful 
entrepreneurs  and  sophisticated  investors  willing  to  take  high  risk  in  the 
expectation of high returns, a trend that has continued to this decade. 

Thereafter,  Government  of  India  issued  guidelines  in  September  1995  for 
overseas  venture  capital  investment  in  India.  While,  for  tax  exemption 
purposes, guidelines have been issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes 

 5 

 

 

(CBDT), the investments and flow of foreign currency into and out of India are 
governed  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India  (RBI).  Further,  as  a  part  of  its 
mandate to regulate and to develop the Indian securities markets, SEBI under 
Sec 12 of SEBI Act 1992 framed SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 
1996. 

Thus,  there  were  three  sets  of  Regulations  dealing  with  venture  capital 
activity i.e. SEBI (Venture Capital Regulations) 1996, Guidelines for Overseas 
Venture Capital Investments issued by Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry  of  Finance  in  the  year  1995,  and  CBDT  Guidelines  for  Venture 
Capital  Companies  issued  in  1995,  which  were  later  modified  in  1999. 
Therefore,  there  was  a  need  to  consolidate  all  these  into  one  single  set  of 
regulations to provide for uniformity and hassle free single window clearance.  

recommendations  of 

the  K.B.  Chandrasekhar 
Thereafter,  based  on 
Committee, which was set up by SEBI during the year 1999-2000, Guidelines 
for  Overseas  Venture  Capital  Investment  in  India  were  withdrawn  by  the 
Government in September 2000, and SEBI was made the nodal regulator for 
VCFs to provide a uniform, hassle free, single window regulatory framework. 
SEBI  also  notified  regulations  for  foreign  venture  capital  investors.  On  the 
pattern  of  foreign  institutional  investors  (FIIs),  Foreign  Venture  Capital 
Investors (FVCIs) were also to be registered with SEBI.  

?  Venture Capital Funds invested $ 907.58 million (i.e. about Rs 4,500 
crore) in Indian companies in 2001, down 21.8 per cent from $ 1,160.2 
million (i.e. about Rs 5,750 crore) in 2000. However, it may be noted 
that, the world over, the Venture Capital Industry registered a decline 
of about 50 per cent during this period. 

?  The  number  of  Indian  companies  receiving  investment  declined  62.6 

per cent to 101 in 2001 from 270 in 2000. 

?  65.4 per cent of companies that raised venture capital in 2001 were in 

information technology and communications.  

?  Overall, India saw a shift to later stage investing with expansion stage 
funds,  accounting  for  60  per  cent  of  the  disbursements  in  2001, 
compared to 44.3 per cent in 2000.  

According to the available data, 43 domestic venture capital funds registered 
with  SEBI  have  about  400  investors,  who  are  largely  corporates,  qualified 
institutional  buyers  (QIBs)  and  high  net  worth  individuals.  As  such,  these 
investors in venture capital funds (as is the case in other countries) are highly 

 6 

 
1.2 Size of Venture Capital Industry in India 
 

According to Indian Venture Capital Association (IVCA) yearbook, in the year 
2001, India ranked as the third most active venture capital market in the Asia 
Pacific region (excluding Japan). 

 

 

 

 

 

sophisticated  and  well  informed.  Therefore,  SEBI  acts  more  as  a  facilitator 
with minimal regulation instead of being concerned with protecting the interest 
of investors as far as the venture capital industry is concerned.  

According  to  provisional  data  available,  SEBI  registered  VCFs  and  FVCIs 
have  made  a  total  investment  of  about  Rs.  2,000  crore  i.e.  $  430  million 
approximately, in Indian Companies as on March 2003.  

Thus, investment made by SEBI registered VCFs is much less compared to 
data compiled by IVCA. This also shows that major part of the VCF industry is 
not registered with SEBI. It may be mentioned here that any person or group 
of  persons  can  invest  in  new  entities;  private  equity  funds  can  also  finance 
such projects. Foreign investors can also invest in India through the Foreign 
Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) route. FIPB does not categorize the data 
as  private  equity  or  venture  capital.  Hence,  consolidated  data  on  venture 
capital activity is not available.  

 
 
1.3 Need to Regulate Venture Capital Industry  
 

 

 

 

 

According to section 12(1B) of SEBI Act, venture capital fund activity cannot 
be  carried  out  without  obtaining  a  certificate  of  registration  from  SEBI  in 
accordance  with  the  regulations.  Hence,  SEBI  regulates  the  venture  capital 
activity in the country. However, the regulatory requirements are minimal. 

The  Committee  debated  the  need  to  regulate  this  industry  given  that 
investment  in  venture  capital  industry  is  made  primarily  by  QIBs,  which  are 
banks  and  institutions,  and  high  net  worth  individuals.  Further,  apart  from 
investment  restrictions  laid  down  in  the  regulations,  a  VCF  invests  in 
accordance  with  the  private  placement  memorandum  submitted  to  the 
investors,  who  are  largely  institutions  and  capable  of  monitoring  the  use  of 
funds.  

Though any group of persons can invest in venture capital undertakings, and 
foreign investors can invest through the foreign direct investment (FDI) route, 
the Committee felt that most venture capitalists have the requisite know-how 
and  trained  and  experienced  personnel  to  help  entrepreneurs  in  identifying 
the right projects and in scaling up their business by providing management 
advice and marketing support. Sometimes, they assist in professionalizing the 
corporate  entities.  Hence,  the  Committee  felt  that  there  was  a  need  to 
encourage  this  industry.  It  was  also  felt  that  an  appropriate  regulatory 
framework  would  foster  the  growth  of  the  Venture  Capital  industry  in  an 
organised  manner.  Further,  investors  may  be  more  inclined  to  make 
investments in a regulated industry than in an unregulated one.  

 
1.4 International Scenario:      

 

 7 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  Committee  studied  the  international  practices  prevailing  in  the  venture 
capital  industry.  Information  was  compiled  from  the  websites  of  other 
countries  (refer  Annexure  2).  The  IVCA  also  provided  some  data.  Relevant 
available  information  about  the  regulatory  practices  in  various  countries 
pertaining to the industry is given below:  

1.4.1 Definitions of Venture Capital 

Definitions of venture capital in various countries are given below: 

1.4.1.1  India  

 

Like  other  countries,  the  concept  of  venture  capital  is  defined  in  a 
broad manner in India under the SEBI Regulations:  

‘Venture capital fund’  means a fund established in the form of a trust 
or a company including a body corporate and registered under these 
regulations which-  

i. 
ii. 
iii. 

has a dedicated pool of capital,  
raised in a manner specified in the regulations, and 
invests in venture capital undertaking in accordance with the 
regulations. 

        ‘Venture capital undertaking’  means a domestic company – 

i.  whose shares are not listed on a recognised stock exchange 

in India; and 

ii.  which  is  engaged  in  the  business  of  providing  services, 
production  or  manufacture  of  article  or  things,  or  does  not 
include such activities or sectors which are specified in the 
negative  list  by  the  Board  with  the  approval  of  the  Central 
Government  by  notification  in  the  Official  Gazette  in  this 
behalf.  

  Further, the negative list covers the following activities:  

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 

v. 

real estate, 
non –banking financial services, 
gold financing, 
activities  not  permitted  under 
Government of India, and 
any  other  activity  which  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  in 
consultation with Government of India from time to time.  

industrial  policy  of 

the 

As  mentioned  earlier,  except  a  few  investment  restrictions,  venture 
capital funds have been given flexibility in their operations under the 
SEBI Regulations.  

 8 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

1.4.1.2  China 

  
 

"Foreign-invested venture capital investment enterprise" (FIVCIE) as 
used in these Rules means a foreign-invested enterprise established 
within  the  territory  of  China  by  foreign  investors,  or  by  foreign 
investors  together  with  companies,  enterprises  or  other  economic 
organizations  registered  and  established  under  Chinese  law  (the 
Chinese  Investors),  in  accordance  with  the  Rules  to  be  engaged  in 
venture capital investment business. 

 

  "Venture  capital  investment"  as  used  in  the  Rules  means  a  type  of 
investment activity pursuant to which equity investments are injected 
mainly into high and new-tech enterprises that have not been publicly 
listed  (the  Investee  Enterprises)  and  venture  capital  management 
services are provided in order to obtain capital appreciation benefits. 

1.4.1.3  Malaysia 

“Venture Capital Company (VCC)”  and “Venture Capital Management 
Company  (VCMC)”  means  a  corporation  that  deals  or  manages 
investments in securities of venture companies, and is registered as 
a VCC or VCMC, as the case may be, under the Guidelines. 

“Venture  company”  means  a  company  which  utilises  seed-capital, 
start-up or early-stage financing and – 

i. 

ii. 

in  relation  to  VCC,  is  not  listed  on  the  stock  market  of  any 
stock exchange; and 
in relation to VCMC, is not listed on the stock market of any 
stock  exchange  at  the  point  of  first  investment  by  such 
VCMC.  

1.4.1.4  Taiwan 

The  term  "venture  capital  investment  enterprise"  as  used  in  the 
Regulations refers to a company limited by shares, which conforms 
to the following conditions:  

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

engages  in  venture  capital  investment  business  under  the 
approval of Ministry of Finance; 
specialises  in  making  investments  either  in  foreign  or 
domestic  technological  enterprises  or  in  other  foreign  or 
domestic venture capital investment enterprises; and 
not  only  makes  a  direct 
enterprises  but  also  assists 
supervision of such enterprises. 

invested 
the  management  or 

the 

investment 

in 

in 

 9 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.4.1.5  United Kingdom 

  

In UK, the definition of venture capital is very broad and includes the 
business of carrying on any of the following: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

investing  in,  advising  on  investments  which  are,  managing 
investments  which  are,  arranging 
(bringing  about) 
transactions  in,  or  making  arrangements  with  a  view  to 
transactions in, venture capital investments; 
advising on investments or managing investments in relation 
to  portfolios,  or  establishing,  operating  or  winding  up 
collective  investment  schemes,  where  the  portfolios  or 
collective  investment  schemes  (apart  from  funds  awaiting 
investment) invest only in venture capital investments; 
any  custody  activities  provided  in  connection  with  the 
activities in (i) and (ii); 
any related ancillary activities. 

Further,  venture  capital  investment  is  defined  as  a  designated 
investment which, at the time the investment is made, is:  

in a new or developing company or venture; or 
in a management buy-out or buy-in; or 

i. 
ii. 
iii.  made  as  a  means  of  financing  the  investee  company  or 
venture  and  accompanied  by  a  right  of  consultation,  or 
rights 
representation,  or 
management rights; or 
acquired with a view to, or in order to, facilitate a transaction 
falling within (i) to (iii) above. 

iv. 

to 

information,  or  board 

1.4.2  Prevalent practices 

  

1.4.2.1 Australia 

In  December  2002,  major  reforms  in  venture  capital  laws  were 
carried out by passing the Venture Capital Bill 2002 and the Taxation 
Laws Amendment (Venture Capital) Bill 2002, as a crucial part of the 
government’s program to encourage foreign investment and develop 
the  local  venture  capital  industry  by  bringing  it  into  line  with 
international  best  practices.  The  Australian  Venture  Capital 
Association felt that the reforms would lead to substantial additional 
inflow of funds into Australia.  

Highlights of the VC reforms are: 

?  A  new  type  of  investment  vehicle  has  been  created:  the 
Australian  VC  limited  partnership  (VCLP).  These  are  flow-

 10 

through  entities  for  tax  purposes,  and  also  provide  limited 
liability for investors.  

?  Most  foreign  investors  which  invest  via  a  VCLP  in  Australian 
non-listed  companies  can  obtain  tax  exemption  on  gains 
realized on their sale. 

? 

Individual  managers  at  VC  firms  taxed  at  half  rates  on  their 
participation  in  the  “carried  interest”  flowing  to  them  from  a 
VCLP. 

 

 

 

  

 

1.4.2.2 China 

In China, there is a separate set of rules governing venture capital, 
which  covers  the  establishment  and  registration  of  the  "Foreign-
invested venture capital investment enterprise" (FIVCIE). These rules 
prohibit investing, directly or indirectly, in publicly traded stocks and 
corporate bonds. 

1.4.2.3 European Countries: 

In  Europe,  the  VC  industry  is  largely  unregulated.  However,  many 
governments do provide some tax benefits to the industry. 

1.4.2.4 Hong Kong: 

 

Hong Kong does not have any special regulations related to venture 
capital, but rather has an open, deregulated financial system that is 
favourable to a wide variety of financial activities.  

1.4.2.5 Hungary: 

The  Venture  Capital  Act  regulates  the  operation  of  all  the  venture 
capital  entities  in  Hungary.  A  company  may  of  course  make 
investments in Hungary without complying with the provisions of the 
Act.  However,  in  such  a  case  the  company  loses  certain  tax  and 
accounting  benefits.  Further,  the  acquisition  of  securities  listed  in 
stock exchange is ruled out.   

1.4.2.6 Israel: 

The  Yozma  program,  which  began  operating  in  1993,  had  as  an 
explicit  objective,  the  creation  of  a  solid  base  for  a  competitive  VC 
industry  in  Israel.  It  provided  for  an  assured  attainment  of  a  critical 
mass  for  the  VC  industry;  a  successful  learning  process;  and  a 
network  of  international  contacts.  It  was  based  on  a  $100M 

 11 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

government owned VC fund oriented to two functions: a) investment 
in  10  private  VC  funds  ('Yozma  Funds')  -  $80M;  and  b)  direct 
investments  in  SU  companies-$20M.  Among  the  conditions  for 
becoming  a  ‘Yozma  Fund'  was  establishing  an  independent  Israeli 
management  company  with  a  majority  of  Israeli  managers;  and 
engaging a reputed foreign and an reputed Israeli financial institution.  

Unlike many other Government VC support programs, Yozma did not 
simply  provide  risk  sharing  incentives  to  investors.  (It  provided 
neither guarantees nor tax benefits; nor was it accompanied by new 
regulation/rules for Pension Funds). The main incentive provided was 
in  the  ‘upside’,  that  is  when  VC  investments  were  very  profitable. 
Each Yozma fund had a call option on Government shares, at cost 
plus 5-7 per cent interest, for a period of five years. 

1.4.2.7 Korea: 

The Korean government's involvement in the venture capital industry 
since the mid 1990s has been an important aspect of its policies for 
the promotion of the innovative small firms. This was regarded as an 
urgent  and  critical  problem  prior  to  the  1997  economic  crisis,  and 
even  more  so  after  it.  The  Korean  government  has  invested 
significant  sums  of  capital  in  trying  to  create  a  venture  capital 
industry. 

In Korea, there is no separate regulation for venture capital, but they 
have  a  general  Act  -Trust  Business  Act  -  by  which  venture  capital 
activity is regulated.  

As  per  the  regulations,  investment  can  be  made  in  knowledge-
intensive  or  high  technology  industries,  such  as  energy  substitute 
industry; telecommunication industry; electronics and communication 
industry;  information  technology  industry  and  computer  software 
industry. 

1.4.2.8 Malaysia: 

In Malaysia, there is a separate set of regulations governing venture 
capital, which provides for compulsory registration with the Securities 
Commission. For foreign venture capitalists, it is necessary to receive 
permission from the government to make investments. 

In addition to providing capital, the Malaysian government also offers 
tax incentives for venture capital investors, 

1.4.2.9 Singapore: 

 12 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

Venture  capital  in  Singapore  is,  almost  entirely,  a  creation  of  the 
government.  The  establishment  of  a  venture  capital  industry  was  a 
part  of  an  overall  strategy  of  the  government  aimed  at  moving  its 
economy  into  higher  value-added  segments.  In  pursuit  of  this  goal, 
the Singapore government has undertaken a number of measures to 
encourage the establishment of venture capital industry including the 
investment of over $1 billion in domestic and foreign venture capital 
firms.  Overall,  the  Singapore  government  has  been  very  active  in 
establishing  an  environment  conducive  to  the  growth  of  venture 
capital and high-technology entrepreneurship. 

The  government  has  actively  altered  laws  and  regulations  to  foster 
venture  capital.  For  example,  in  1999  the  government  announced 
changes  in  bankruptcy  laws,  employee  stock  option  plans,  and  the 
tax system to encourage venture capital investing. 

The  Economic  Development  Board  (EDB)  of  Singapore  awards  tax 
and  financial  incentives  to  attract  venture  capital  funds  and  fund 
management activities in the country. These include:  

i.  Tax  relief  for  management  fees  and  performance  bonus 

received from an approved venture fund. 

ii.  Tax  relief  for  capital  gains  arising  from  divestment  of 
approved portfolio holdings, dividend income from approved 
portfolio  companies,  and  interest  income  from  approved 
foreign convertible loan stocks. 

iii.  Deduction of any loss arising from the sale of shares in an 
approved  venture  company,  or  from  its  liquidation,  against 
the investor's other income. 

iv.  Provision  of 

financial 

capital 
professionals  undergoing  on-the-job  training  and  attending 
courses  directly  related  to  the  venture  capital  investment 
process.  

venture 

support 

for 

 

1.4.2.10 Taiwan: 

In  Taiwan,  registration  is  necessary  for  venture  capital,  and  it  is 
governed by a separate set of regulations. 

The  Taiwan  government  provided 
for 
participating in venture capital industry. The Taiwan government's tax 
incentive plan prompted many risk takers to participate in the venture 
capital  industry.  During  its  early  years,  the  government  formed  a 
NT$2.4  billion  fund  of  smaller  funds  (seed  funds)  to  provide  seed 
financing  to  a  still-nascent  venture  capital  industry.  Over  the  period 

tax  credit 

incentives 

 13 

1984-2000,  the  shareholders  of  VC  funds  have  accrued  over  NT$6 
billion in benefits from government tax incentives. The government-
led  development  of  Taiwan's  venture  capital  industry  has  been  the 
subject of much study and discussion in other Asian-Pacific countries 
seeking to implement their own incentive systems. In the aftermath of 
the  Asian  Economic  Crisis  of  1997,  Taiwanese  small-medium 
enterprises  (SMEs)  have  survived  and  built  a  strong  foundation  for 
growth, drawing the attention of other Asian nations. SMEs need the 
financial support from VC funds, resulting in a symbiotic relationship 
that is mutually beneficial to both parties.  

the 

tax  credit 

However, due to fiscal and other considerations, the government in 
year  2000-01  eliminated 
incentive  enjoyed  by 
shareholders of VC funds. The cancellation of government incentives 
reportedly has had a direct impact on the Taiwanese venture capital 
industry.  Individual  and  institutional  investors,  who  once  invested 
heavily  in  VC  funds  to  take  advantage  of  the  tax  credit,  have 
decreased  their  commitments,  resulting  in  a  substantial  drop  in 
funding for venture capital. Meanwhile, government regulations have 
limited  the  participation  of  banks,  insurance  and  securities  firms  in 
venture  capital;  postal  deposits  and  government  pension  funds  are 
still not permitted to invest in VC funds 

1.4.2.11 United Kingdom 

In  UK,  venture  capital  activity  is  regulated  by  Financial  Services 
Authority (FSA) under the Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000. 
Firms conducting "Venture Capital Business" and operating venture 
capital limited partnerships need to apply for FSA authorisation under 
the  single  authorisation  process.  Further,  a  venture  capital  trust, 
enterprise, investment scheme, reinvestment relief or venture capital 
scheme  has  to  have  70  per  cent  in  qualifying  investments  like 
unlisted  stocks.  Further  30  per  cent  of  this  70  per  cent  must  be 
ordinary shares with no preferential rights. The tax relief is restricted 
to investments in unquoted stocks. 

1.4.2.12 United States of America 

To  help  provide  capital  for  small  businesses,  in  the  year  1958, 
Congress  created  the  Small  Business  Investment  Company  (SBIC) 
program. SBICs, licensed by the Small Business Administration are 
privately  owned  and  managed 
firms.  They  are 
participants  in  a  vital  partnership  between  government  and  the 
private  sector  economy.  The  biggest  advantage  they  enjoy  is  the 
possibility of government leverage.  In addition, there are a series of 
tax advantages that they enjoy.   

investment 

 14 

 

 

 

 

  

  

Further, a bank's ownership in an SBIC subsidiary permits the bank 
to  invest  in  small  businesses  in  which  it  could  not  have  otherwise 
invested,  because  of  banking  laws  and  regulations.  A  bank  is 
encouraged to invest up to 5 per cent of its capital and surplus in a 
partially or wholly-owned SBIC.  

Further,  the  New  Markets  Venture  Capital  (NMVC)  Program  was 
started in December 2000 to address the unmet equity needs of low-
income communities.  The Government appropriated $150 million for 
debenture  guarantees  and  $30  million  for  operational  assistance 
grants  to  supplement  the  private  capital  that  is  raised  by  NMVC 
companies. The Small Business Administration runs the program. 

The US Venture Capital industry is not governed by any specific set 
of  guidelines.  However,  venture  capital  companies  like  all  other 
investment companies in the US are governed by the US Securities 
Act  of  1933  and  the  applicable  provisions  of  Investment  Company 
Act of 1940.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
1.5 Summing up:  
 

There is a wide diversity in the registration requirement and regulatory regime 
for VC industry across the countries studied. One important finding, however, 
is  that  registration  is  mandatory  for  eligibility  to  receive  certain  ‘benefits’.  In 
some  countries,  as  in  India,  if  a  firm  is  not  registered  with  the  regulator, 
though it may carry on venture capital activity, it loses certain benefits.  

Half of the dozen countries studied, provide tax benefits to the VCFs. But, in 
all  of  them,  the  tax  benefits  are  available  only  for  investments  in  unlisted 
companies,  or  there  are  restrictions  which  provide  for  a  major  part  of  the 
funds  to  be  invested  in  unlisted  securities.  Further,  in  two  countries,  tax 
incentives  are  available  for  making  investment  in  areas  like  research  and 
development, technology and science.   

Two countries focus on early stage financing and have defined venture capital 
as such. China and Taiwan have defined venture capital with a special focus 
on  technology  enterprises,  while  Malaysia  and  UK  emphasise  provision  of 
assistance  in  management  or  supervision  in  venture  capital  enterprises. 
Generally, the definitions focus on investment in unlisted securities or permit 
investment  of  a  small  portion  of  funds  in  listed  securities.  UK,  unlike  India, 
also permits investment by VCF in overseas companies.  

Australia,  Israel,  Korea,  Singapore  and  US  have  specific  programs  to 
encourage  venture  capital  investment.    All  of  them  except  Australia  have 
special funds for investment in VCF.  

 15 

 

 

 

Unlike India, the countries studied do not have a negative list of investment.  

In India, there is a need to encourage entrepreneurship. VCFs and FVCIs not 
only provide funds but also promote entrepreneurship, creating new jobs and 
stimulating  economic  growth.  Further,  it  helps  in  creating  good  corporate 
governance  standards  and  leads  to  good  quality  IPOs.  In  light  of  the 
international experience and the domestic track record of VCF in the recent 
past,  the  Committee  deliberated  on  how  to  reform  the  regulatory  regime  to 
promote a vibrant VCF industry.   

SECTION – II 

last  amended 

in  December  2000, 

The Committee felt that venture capital industry in India needs to be regulated, 
but with minimum restrictions. Regulations for Foreign Venture Capital Investors 
were  notified  for  the  first  time  in  September  2000,  and  Venture  Capital 
Regulations  were 
the 
recommendations  of  Chandrasekhar  Committee.  During  the  subsequent  two 
years no major issues have been raised by the industry. However, all regulations 
require to evolve, and particularly so when they relate to the changing economic 
landscape of the country and a dynamic area such as venture capital. Recently, 
SEBI received a representation from the VC industry giving some suggestions on 
the regulatory framework of the venture capital industry. As the issues related to 
different  regulatory  agencies  (SEBI,  RBI  and  CBDT),  SEBI  constituted  this 
Committee,  to  decide  on  the  issues  raised  by  the  industry.  The  Committee 
deliberated  on  various  issues  pertaining  to  venture  capital  and  the  details  of 
these  deliberations  are  given  below.  There  are  three  broad  sets  of  issues: 
operational, tax related and pertaining to foreign exchange matters.  

following 

 

 

2. 1 Operational Issues: 

 
2.1.1  Issues common to VCF and FVCI 

 

There are two major sets of restrictions on investments by a VCF/ FVCI 
as  per  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations,  1996  and  SEBI 
(Foreign  Venture  Capital  Investors)  Regulations,  2000.  These  relate  to 
Section 12 (d)/11(c) respectively and schedule 3 of both the regulations.  
 
As  per  sec  12  (d)  of  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations,  1996, 
venture  capital  fund  shall  make  investment  in  the  venture  capital 
undertaking as enumerated below: 

i.  At least 75 per cent of the investible funds shall be invested in 

 

unlisted equity shares or equity linked instruments.  

ii.  Not  more  than  25  per  cent  of  the  investible  funds  may  be 

invested by way of:  

 

 16 

a.  subscription  to  initial  public  offer  of  a  venture  capital 
undertaking  whose  shares  are  proposed  to  be  listed 
subject to lock-in period of one year; 

b.  debt or debt instrument of a venture capital undertaking 
in  which  the  venture  capital  fund  has  already  made  an 
investment by way of equity. 

 Further,  Sec  2(ee)  of  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulations,  1996 
defines `equity linked instruments’  to include instruments convertible into 
equity  shares  or  share  warrants,  preference  shares,  and  debentures 
compulsorily convertible into equity. 

As per schedule 3 of SEBI Regulations a VCF/FVCI cannot invest in 

i.  Real estate 
ii.  Non-banking financial services 
iii.  Gold financing 
iv.  Activities not permitted under industrial policy of Government of 

India. 

v.  Any  other  activity  which  may  be  specified  by  the  Board  in 

consultation with Government of India from time to time. 

2.1.1.1  Lock-in of shares after listing: 
 

At present, SEBI registered VCFs and FVCIs cannot invest more 
than 25 per cent of the funds in shares at the time of IPO(whose 
shares are proposed to be listed subject to lock-in period of one 
year)  or  in  debt  or  debt  instruments  of  a  company  in  which  the 
VCF  has  already  invested  by  way  of  equity.  While  banks, 
domestic financial institutional investors and mutual funds can exit 
immediately  on  the  listing  of  shares,  the  VCFs/FVCIs  are 
subjected to a ‘lock-in’  for a period of one year.  

Subscription  to  IPOs  gives  an  opportunity  to  VCFs  to  acquire 
shares in companies in the focus areas of the fund with a view to 
provide  early  liquidity  and  returns  to  investors  in  the  VCFs. 
Appropriate  opportunities,  if  not  taken  advantage  of  because  of 
the lock in period, may take a long time to recur. A VCF is likely to 
sell the listed stock only when the stock is quoting at a premium. 
A premium in turn is likely to be there only when the company is 
performing well and has enough investor interest in the secondary 
market     

The Committee recommends that requirement of lock in of shares 
after listing may be removed.  

2.1.1.2 
 

Investment in listed companies: 

 17 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Under SEBI Regulations, a VCF/FVCI is required to invest at least 
75  per  cent  of  the  investible  funds  in  unlisted  equity  shares  or 
equity  linked  instruments.  Upto  25  per  cent  of  the  funds  can  be 
invested  in  shares  at  the  time  of  IPO  or  in  debt  or  debt 
instruments of a company in which the VCF has already invested 
by way of equity. This restricts the option of the VCFs registered 
with SEBI from investing in listed companies.  

Not only unlisted, but even listed companies may require venture 
capital funding for building capacity and sometimes funding a turn 
around.  Furthermore, 
it  makes 
listed  securities  at  competing 
economic  sense 
valuations and seek a return in a relatively shorter time horizon.  

from  a  VCF’s  perspective, 

to  acquire 

It has been suggested by the industry that the existing minimum 
limit  of  investment  in  unlisted  shares  be  changed  from  75  per 
cent, as present, to 50 per cent. It is further suggested that up to 
25-30  per  cent  of  the  investible  funds  may  be  allowed  to  be 
invested  in  venture  capital  undertakings  (VCUs)  whose  shares 
are listed on a recognized stock exchange in India.  In this regard, 
another suggestion received by us was that listed companies that 
are financially weak or sick may be considered for this purpose. 
Such  listed  companies  may  not  get  funding  from  other  sources 
and can benefit from venture capital funding. 

However, it may be mentioned here that acquiring 15 per cent or 
more  of  the  issued  capital  of  a  listed  company  triggers  the 
provisions of the takeover code whereby the acquirer has to make 
an open offer of 20 per cent of the existing capital.  

lag  between 

investment  and  pay  back, 

The  Committee  recommends  minimum  limit  of  investment  in 
unlisted companies may be reduced from 75 per cent, as present, 
to 66.67 per cent. The remaining portion of 33.33 per cent or less 
may be permitted to be invested in listed securities. Because of 
the  risky  nature  of  investment  in  unlisted  companies  as  well  as 
gestation 
this 
enhancement  will  help  VC  funds  protect  their  NAV  during  the 
initial  period.  Except  for  enhancement  of  the  limit,  this  is  in 
conformity  with  earlier  regulations,  and  recommendations  of  the 
Chandrasekhar Committee. The aforesaid limit of investment shall 
be achieved by the end of the life cycle of a fund. A life cycle of 
more  than  10  years  will  have  to  be  justified  by  the  fund,  and 
subject 
to  careful  examination  by  SEBI.  The  Committee 
recommends that wherever such investments trigger the takeover 
code, all requirements of the code will have to be fulfilled by the 
VCF/FVCI and no exemption from the clauses may be provided. 

 18 

 

 

  

 

 

However,  where  as  a  result  of 
investments  made  under 
mandatory requirement of takeover code, investment restrictions 
are breached, the same may not be considered as a violation of 
SEBI  (VCF)  Regulations.  The  Committee  felt  that  investment  in 
listed  securities  may  be  capped  at  33.33  per  cent  of  investible 
funds as a VC should not lose its basic character of investment in 
unlisted companies. 

2.1.1.3  Type of instruments of investment: 
 

SEBI Regulations stipulate that the VCFs/FVCIs can invest 75 per 
cent  of  investible  funds  in  the  form  of  equity  or  equity-linked 
instruments. Some portion (25 per cent) of the investible funds is 
allowed  to  be  invested  in  debt  or  debt  related  instruments 
provided  the  VCF/FVCI  has  already  invested  in  the  Venture 
Capital  Undertaking  (VCU)  by  way  of  equity.  Thus,  there  is  no 
flexibility  of  choosing  pure  debt  instruments  for  investment  in  a 
VCU at the initial level.  

The industry had represented that the purpose of venture capital 
investment is to invest in risk capital and they want the freedom to 
invest in instruments which give them flexibility to invest in some 
kind of hybrid instruments which are optionally convertible, such 
as  optionally  convertible  debentures.  The  definition  of  ‘equity 
linked  instruments’  suggests  that  the  instrument  should  be 
compulsorily convertible into equity and thus deprive the VCFs of 
any  post  investment  flexibility.  It  may  be  pointed  out  that 
optionally  convertible 
for 
managements of the VCUs to perform, failing which there would 
be a pressure to repay the debts. As a matter of structuring the 
investment, particularly from the point of view of securing a viable 
exit  from  the  investment,  optionally  convertible  instruments  are 
preferred instruments and it should be permitted.  

instruments  work  as 

incentive 

The Committee recommends that some kind of hybrid instruments 
which are optionally convertible into equity may be permitted as a 
class  of  investment  instruments  under  the  66.67  per  cent  (now 
recommended) portion of the investible funds.  

2.1.1.4  Special Purpose Vehicles: 
 

Special  Purpose  Vehicles  (SPV)  are  independent,  stand-alone 
entities  (SPV)  specifically  set  up  for  the  purposes  of  a  single 

 19 

     
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

transaction  /  project.  Since  the  SPV  has  its  own  separate  and 
distinct  legal  personality,  it  can  raise  capital  in  its  name,  own 
assets  and  create  a  charge  over  them.  SPVs  also  ensure  that 
shareholders have a limited liability, usually limited to the extent of 
their unpaid shares, thereby insulating the shareholders from any 
unknown / unforeseen liability contracted by the business earlier. 
SPVs  also  ensure 
is  complete  alignment  of 
shareholders' interests in the project. 

there 

that 

Corporate India has evolved over the past few decades and we 
are  witnessing,  on  the  one  hand,  a  growing  trend  towards 
consolidation  to  achieve  economies  of  scale  and,  on  the  other 
hand, divestitures to maintain organizational focus and efficiency.  

This  is  resulting  in  sale  /  buy  out  of  business  divisions  of  a 
company  by  other  companies  ("acquisitions")  or  by  existing 
management ("management buy out").  As transaction sizes are 
on  the  rise,  we  are  also  witnessing  a  trend  where  above  said 
acquisitions are being financed by a combination of financial and 
strategic  investors.    A  case  in  point  is  the  privatization  process, 
wherein 
the  Government  has  embarked  on  a  mission  of 
transferring  controlling  interest  in  an  enterprise  to  a  set  of 
investor(s). 

Lastly,  project  finance,  especially  in  the  area  of  infrastructure, 
usually  carries  high  risk,  and  investors  in  the  project  prefer  to 
associate themselves only with the risks of the project undertaken 
and not any other generic, sponsor related risk.  This is achieved 
by setting up separate SPV companies for separate projects.  

Each  of  the  above  areas  would  entail  raising  finances  (by  debt 
and / or equity) in the SPV.   

As  described  above, 
instances  where 
VCFs/FVCIs  need  to  resort  to  innovative  financing  structures  by 
creating SPV in the form of Trusts or holding companies that will 
house the shares of an underlying business.   

there  are  several 

It was therefore requested that in order to make available a very 
valuable  source  of  financing  to  corporate  India,  investment 
vehicles  of 
for 
facilitating  a  transaction  be  allowed  in  the  permitted  list  of 
investments for VCFs/FVCIs. 

the  above  nature  specifically 

incorporated 

 20 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Committee recommends that SPVs which are mandated for 
promotion/investment  of  a  VCU  may  be  permitted  up  to  a 
maximum of 33.33 per cent portion of investible funds.  

2.1.1.5 
 

Investment in Non Banking Financial Services: 

Currently  VCFs  /FVCIs  are  not  permitted  to  invest  in  the  non-
banking financial services sector. It has been represented by the 
industry  that  instead  of  a  general  prohibitive  clause,  SEBI  can 
consider  permitting 
financial 
institutions (NBFIs), who are registered with RBI and have been 
categorized as Equipment Leasing / Hire Purchase companies. 

in  non  banking 

investments 

It  may  be  noted  that  Government  has  allowed  FDI  in  the  NBFI 
sector.  Further,  many  NBFIs  are  engaged  in  asset  creation  by 
financing assets as well as infrastructure projects such as roads, 
bridges, power and ports, either by granting direct loans to such 
projects  or  by  providing  lease  finance  for  equipment.  This  has 
been more evident in developed countries of the world. As against 
4-5  per  cent  in  India,  lease  penetration  for  asset  creation  in  the 
US is as high as 30 per cent. Most of the developed economies in 
the  world  have  relied  heavily  on  the  lease  finance  route  in  their 
developmental process.  

The  Committee  recommends  that  since  the  venture  capital 
business entails bearing risk, they may be permitted to invest in 
NBFC in equipment leasing and hire purchase.    

As  the  NBFCs  come  under  the  purview  of  RBI,  the  matter  was 
referred to RBI. RBI indicated that though they have no objection 
to  the  proposal,  the  matter  may  be  referred  to  DCA/SEBI.  SEBI 
does not have any objection to the proposal and perhaps there is 
no  restriction  in  the  Companies  Act  for  making  investment  by 
VCF/FVCI in the NBFCs.  

2.1.1.6 
 

Investment in Real Estate: 

Currently VCFs /FVCIs are not permitted to invest in companies 
engaged in the real estate sector. It has been represented by the 
industry that this restriction be re-looked and VCF/FVCI may be 
permitted to invest in companies engaged in real estate. Now that 
even  foreign  investors  have  been  allowed  to  invest  in  specific 
sectors  such  as  integrated  townships,  barring  SEBI  registered 
VCFs/FVCIs from such sectors is difficult to justify.  

 21 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Committee noted that there is a need for quality housing and 
commercial facilities in the country. The Committee recommends 
permitting investment in real estate by VCFs/FVCIs.  

2.1.1.7 
 

Investment in Gold Financing: 

financing 

At  present,  gold 
for 
VCFs/FVCIs  under  SEBI  Regulations.  Some  of  the  members  of 
the Committee expressed the view that VCFs/FVCIs may also be 
allowed  to  invest  in  companies  engaged  in  gold  financing 
because of the following reasons:  

is  not  a  permitted  activity 

i.  The  gold  refinery  industry  is  mainly  governed  by 
unorganized/  crude  refineries.  These  refineries  need 
funds for their growth and development. These funds 
can  be  made  available  at  the  seed  stage  by  way  of 
venture capital funding. 

license  (OGL) 

ii.  Further,  the  fresh  gold  market  is  dominated  by  the 
open  general 
is 
predominantly  controlled  by  banks  and  corporate 
sector  companies  (both  public  and  private).  Small 
scale outfits on the other hand do not have financial 
muscle of banks and financing corporations to access 
such capital. 

imports,  which 

iii.  There seems little logic in excluding gold imports form 
the  purview  of  venture  capital  funding  particularly 
when: 

a.  it  is  known  that  gold  jewelry  exports  have 
displayed  an  impressive  double  digit  growth 
even  with  adverse  constraints  or  little  policy 
support in fund availability, 

b.  the 

industry 

is 

largely  craft  and  artesian 

oriented who need to be encouraged. 

iv.  There  are  various  small 

refineries  and  other 
companies engaged in gold extraction. But they lack 
the infrastructure and funds for growth.  

The Committee recommends that there is a case for removal of 
gold  financing  from  negative  list  for  VCF/FVCI.    However,  such 
financing should be restricted to gold financing for jewelry alone 
and not pure trade and speculation in gold. 

 

 

 

 
2.1.2 Specific issues relating to venture capital funds 
 

2.1.2.1 Investment in offshore VCUs:  
 

 

 22 

It  has  been  represented  that  SEBI  registered  VCFs  should  be 
permitted  to  invest  upto  a  certain  percentage  of  their  corpus  in 
overseas  companies.  This  will  allow  Indian  VCFs  to  invest  in 
synergistic  offshore  companies  and  also  allow  global  management 
exposure. One view was that this would not benefit industrial activity 
in India. 

The  members  of  the  Committee  have  pointed  out  that  typically 
investments  would  be  made  in  a  company  which  has  a  front  office 
overseas while back office operations are in India. This permits the 
company  to  enjoy  better  valuations  and  better  chances  of  exit  for 
venture  capital  funds.  Further,  Committee  also  considered  that 
investment  limits  for  overseas  investments  have  not  been  fully 
utilized and India enjoys a comfortable foreign exchange position.  In 
view of the above, the Committee felt that the matter may be referred 
to RBI for their views before making a final recommendation. RBI has 
indicated 
the  overseas 
investment route by setting up a JV/WOS satisfying the Regulation 7 
of  FEMA  19  dated  3rd  May,  2000,  besides  certain  other  criteria. 
Alternatively, the scope of investment facilities as permitted in terms 
of AP(DIR) Circular No. 66 dated 13 January, 2003 (on the lines of 
permission given to mutual funds) could be enlarged to cover VCFs 
investing in off shore venture capital undertakings subject to certain 
limits. RBI has indicated that there could be restrictions on individual 
VCF investing in overseas companies (say 10 per cent of the corpus 
of VCF) and subject to overall limits for the entire VCF industry.  

that  domestic  VCFs  could  consider 

The Committee recommends that VCF may be permitted to invest in 
offshore VCUs. RBI may be requested to periodically announce the 
overall limit for investment by the VCFs and inform SEBI accordingly. 

2.1.2.2 Flexibility to distribute in specie: 
 

The VCF Regulations state that upon winding up of the scheme, the 
assets of the scheme shall be liquidated and the proceeds distributed 
among investors. VCF industry is of the view that it will be important 
to  provide  flexibility  in  the  VCF  Regulations  to  permit  in-specie 
distribution of assets, as it may be difficult to liquidate all the assets.    

 

 

 

 

The Committee recommends that the in-specie distribution of assets 
may be permitted at any time, as per the preference of investor(s).  

 
2.1.3 Specific issues relating to foreign venture capital investors: 
 

2.1.3.1 Appointment of custodians: 
 

 

 23 

As  per  Regulation  8  (b)  of  the  SEBI  (FVCI)  Regulations,  FVCI  is 
required to appoint a domestic custodian for purposes of custody of 
securities. 

Most  of  the  investments  of  FVCIs  are  in  unlisted  stocks.  These 
securities can be handled internally by the FVCIs. In any case, when 
the portfolio companies of the FVCIs get listed, and a need is felt by 
FVCIs, they can at their own discretion decide to appoint a custodian 
to handle these securities.  

Committee recommends that appointment of custodian by FVCI may 
be continued to facilitate the maintenance of records and a smooth 
transition when the VCU’s shares get listed. 

 
2.1.3.2 Investment Limits: 
 

As  per  Regulation  11  (b)  of  the  SEBI  (FVCI)  Regulations,  a 
registered FVCI can not invest more than 25 per cent of its ‘investible 
funds’  in a single VCU. ‘Investible funds’  has been defined to mean 
the  funds  allocated  for  investments  into  India,  net  of  operating 
expenses.  

This condition poses a practical problem for FVCIs as most of these 
funds invest in India out of total investible funds for global investment. 
Some times, they do not earmark a fixed corpus size  exclusively for 
investment  in  India.  Furthermore,  some  FVCIs  invest  through  their 
balance sheet i.e. they do not have a fixed size of investible funds. 
Therefore, these large global funds find it difficult to comply with this 
condition.  

The Committee recommends that there is a case for removal of the 
restriction  of  not  investing  more  than  25  per  cent  of  the  investible 
funds of a FVCI in a single VCU. 

 
2.2  Specific tax related issues:  

 
2.2.1 Section 10(23 FB): 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

To avail exemption under Section 10(23FB) of the Income Tax Act, the 
following criteria need to be fulfilled by a VCF: 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 

fund should be set up as a trust or a company, 
should be registered with SEBI, and 
should  invest  in  VCUs  as  defined  by  the  Explanation  1  of 
Section 10(23FB). 

 24 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

To facilitate the overall growth of VC industry and flow of venture capital 
funds  into  India,  SEBI  may  from  time  to  time  expand  the  definition  of 
‘Venture Capital Undertaking’. The Committee has also recommended in 
this  report  other  investment  avenues  for  VCFs  apart  from  primarily 
investing in unlisted companies. 

The Committee recommends that if clause (c) of Explanation I of Section 
10(23FB)  is  deleted,  no  further  amendments  to  this  Section  will  be 
required  whenever  SEBI  changes  the  definition  of  ‘Venture  Capital 
Undertaking’. After deletion of this clause, all VCFs which are formed as 
trust/company, duly registered with SEBI would be eligible for exemption 
under Section 10(23FB). Alternatively, the definition of ‘Venture Capital 
Undertaking’  under clause (c) of Explanation I of section 10(23FB) may 
be  aligned  with  definition  of  ‘Venture  Capital  Undertaking’  as  defined 
under SEBI Regulations. 

2.2.2 Exits: 
   

Investors judge the performance of VCFs on the basis of their successful 
exits from the VCUs. Thus VCFs seek to exit from the VCUs as early as 
possible to distribute returns to their investors. The forms of exits may be 
through an Initial Public Offer, Merger & Acquisition (M&A) with a larger 
company or through a management buy out. 

Predominantly,  VCFs  realize  their  exits  through  M&A  with  a  larger 
organization. Whenever, ‘Venture Capital Undertaking’  is acquired by a 
foreign  company,  the  consideration  paid  is  through  cash  or  through 
issuance of securities of a foreign company. The VCFs ultimately realize 
cash by sale of such foreign securities. In other words, a VCF which had 
invested  in  the  securities  of  a  domestic  company  receives  foreign 
securities in lieu of such domestic securities. 

The  Committee  recommends  that  for  the  sake  of  clarity  and  for  the 
removal  of  ambiguity,  a  suitable  clarification  may  be  issued  through  a 
Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) circular. Alternatively, in line with 
Explanation  2  under  section  10(23FB),  Explanation  3  may  be  added 
providing  that  VCFs  would  continue  to  enjoy  tax  exemption  even  after 
they receive foreign securities in lieu of domestic securities held by them 
in a ‘Venture Capital Undertaking’. 

2.2.3 Section 115U:   
 

Section 115 U of the Income Tax Act (read with Rule 12C) stipulates that 
VCF shall furnish a statement of income distribution (in Form no. 64) to 
the investors of the VCF as well as to the Income Tax Authorities. It is 

 25 

presumed  that  based  on  this  statement,  the  income  in  the  hands  of 
investors shall be taxed. Clarity is required in this regard with reference 
to: 

-  whether income distribution entails (notional) distribution of loss; 
-  whether  investors  would  be  eligible  to  claim  such  loss  in  their 

income tax returns; 

distribution basis;  

-  whether the return would be filed on income accrual basis or on 

-  how to show distribution in kind; and  
- 

the manner of taxation of investors of VCFs envisaged in Section 
115U of the Income Tax Act.  

 

The Committee recommends that for the sake of clarity and uniformity, a 
suitable illustration may be issued through a CBDT circular. 

2.2.4 Procedural matters: 
 

Various procedural matters need clarifications from CBDT. These are: 

Is the tax audit u/s 44AB applicable to a VCF? 

i. 
ii.  The income of a VCF is exempt from tax. Is a VCF required 

to file a return of income? 

iii.  Form 64 (clause nos. 5, 6, 8, 10 & 12) provides only for the 

income  from  a  ‘Venture  Capital  Undertaking’.  VCFs  also 
earn income from other than ‘Venture Capital Undertakings’. 

   Most of the FVCIs prefer to have a wholly owned subsidiary in India to 
act  as  an  advisor  and  for  carrying  out  various  investment  and  post-
investment  activities.  The  existing  Indian  foreign  investment  policy  and 
exchange  control  laws  require  that  any  such  subsidiaries  (which 
technically are non-banking financial services companies) should have a 
minimum capitalisation base of US$ 500,000 (approx. Rs. 2.5 crore).  

FVCIs are of the view that the activities carried out by these subsidiary 
companies do not require blocking of such funds. However, because of 
the minimum capitalisation requirement, FVCIs are being forced to lock 
in cash into their Indian advisory subsidiaries.  

 26 

The  Committee  recommends  that  CBDT  may  clarify  on  the  above 
procedural  matters  through  issue  of  a  circular.  As  regards  Form  64, 
clause nos. 5, 6, 8, 10 and 12 need to be changed to ‘Income of Venture 
Capital Funds’.  

 
2.3 Foreign exchange control related issues:  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The  Committee  recommends  that  wholly  owned  Indian  subsidiaries  of 
FVCIs  registered  with  SEBI  may  be  exempted  from  the  minimum 
capitalization requirement of an Indian company. 

The  Committee  referred  the  matter  to  RBI,  it  was  felt  that  If  the  FVCI 
wish  to  operate  through  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary,  the  capitalization 
norms  stipulated  by  Government  of  India  will  have  to  be  followed. 
Further, any change in these guidelines will have to be referred to the 
Government.  

 

 

 

Mr. A.J. Majumdar 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Acknowledgement 
 
The  Committee  records  its  appreciation  of  the  assistance  received  during  its 
deliberations  from  the  representatives  of  the  various  venture  capital  funds, 
members of the Committee and the concerned officials of SEBI. 
 
 
Dr Ashok Lahiri   
 
 
 
Mr. D.P. Sengupta   
 
 
 
Mr. Rajiv Memani   
 
 
 
Prof. Malay Bhattacharyya 
 
 
 
Mr. Rakesh Rewari  
 
 
 
Mr Muneesh Chawla  
 
 

 Mr. Saurabh Srivastava 

 Ms. Renuka Ramnath 

 Mr. Y.S.P. Thorat 

 Mr. Raja Kumar 

Mr. C. Jayaram 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 27 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Mr. Vipin Malik  
 
 
 
 
Place: 
Dated :     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 List of Members of Advisory Committee on Venture Capital 
 

Annexure 1  

Organization 

 

Ministry of Finance 

S. 
No 
1 
 

2 

CBDT 
 

3 

CBDT 

4 

Reserve Bank of India 
 

Name & address 

 

Dr Ashok Lahiri (Chairman of the 
Committee) 
Chief Economic Advisor 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of India 
North Block 
New Delhi – 110001 
Shri A.J. Majumdar 
Joint Secretary (TPL – I) 
Room No. 147B-I 
Central Board of Direct Taxes 
Deptt. Of Revenue,  
Ministry of Finance & C.A. 
Government of India 
North Block 
New Delhi – 110 001 
Shri D.P. Sengupta 
Joint Secretary (TPL) 
Deptt. Of Revenue,  
Ministry of Finance & C.A. 
Government of India 
North Block 
New Delhi – 110 001 
Mr Y.S.P. Thorat 
Executive Director 
Reserve Bank of India 

 

 28 

Central Office 
Central Office Building, 17th Floor 
Shaheed Bhagat Singh Road, Fort 
Mumbai – 400 001 
Mr. Rajiv Memani 
National Director - Corporate 
Finance 
Ernst & Young Pvt Ltd 
Ernst & Young Tower 
B-26, Qutab Institutional Area 
New Delhi 110 016 
Mr. Saurabh Srivastava, 
Chairman,  
Indian Venture Capital Association 
C-2 Sector I 
Noida – 201 301 
Prof. Malay Bhattacharyya, 
Dean (Academic Affairs), 
I.I.M. (Lucknow) 
Prabandh Nagar, Off Sitapur Road 
Lucknow – 226 013  
 
Mr. Raja Kumar 
C.E.O. 
UTI Venture Funds Management 
Co. Ltd. 
Raheja Towers, 12(m) Floor, 26/27, 
 Bangalore – 560001 
 
Mr. Rakesh Rewari 
C.E.O. 
SIDBI Venture Capital Ltd. 
105-107, 10th Floor, 
 Jolly Maker Chambers II 
Nariaman Point,  
Mumbai - 400021 
 
Ms. Renuka Ramnath 
C.E.O. 
ICICI Venture Funds Management 
Co. Ltd 
ICICI Towers 
Bandra Kurla Complex 
Mumbai 400 051 
 
Mr Muneesh Chawla 
Managing Director 

5 

Ernst & Young 
 

6 

7 

Indian Venture Capital 
Association 
 

IIM (Lucknow) 
 

8 

UTI Venture Funds  
 

9 

SIDBI Venture Capital 
Ltd 
 

10 

ICICI Venture Fund 
Management 
Company Ltd. 

11 

Il&FS Investment 
Managers 

 

 29 

 

12  Kotak Mahindra 
Venture Capital 
 

13  Chartered Accountant 

 

14  SEBI  

(Member Secretary) 

IL&FS Investment Managers Ltd 
HDFC House, 51, Kasturba Road 
Bangalore 560 001 
 
 
 Mr. C. Jayaram  
Executive Director  
Kotak Mahindra Finance Limited  
Bakhtawar, 2nd floor,  
229, Nariman Point,  
Mumbai 400 021 
 
Mr. Vipin Malik 
V. Malik & Associates 
Flat No 104/108, 
Golf Apartment, 
Sujan Singh park 
New Delhi - 110003 

Mr. Suresh Gupta   
G.M. (Investment Management 
Department) 
S.E.B.I. 
Mittal Court ‘B’  Wing, First Floor 
224, Nariman Point,  
Mumbai – 400 021 
 

 
 

Web Sites 

General 
http://www.altassets.net/default.asp 
http://vcexperts.com/vce/ 
http://www.corante.com/venture/ 
http://www.ventureeconomics.com/ 
 
Australia 
http://www.asic.gov.au/asic/asic.nsf 
http://www.deloitteap.com/pubs2003/aust_vc.pdf 
http://www.avcal.com.au/ 
http://www.v-capital.com.au/vcdirectory.htm 
 
China 
http://www.csrc.gov.cn/CSRCSite/eng/elaws.htm 
http://www.hewm.com/use/articleDetails.asp?articleID=713 

 

 30 

Annexure 2 

http://analyzed.sppc.org.cn/analyzed/english/showfile/showlist_1.htm 
http://killdevilhill.com/z/ybusinessd/VentureCapitalhall/cas/241.html 
http://www.pwcglobal.com/extweb/pwcpublications.nsf/4bd5f76b48e2827385256
62b00739e22/54b5cfe852057373ca256cfd000b232f/$FILE/Chinese%20Trade%
20Regulation%20Feb2003.pdf 
 
Europe 
http://www.evca.com/html/home.asp 
 
Hong Kong 
http://www.hksfc.org.hk/eng/html/index.html 
http://www.chamber.org.hk/ 
 
Hungary 
http://www.pszaf.hu/ 
 
India 
http://www.sebi.gov.in 
http://www.vcline.com/ 
http://indiavca.org 
 
Israel 
http://www.insead.edu/entrepreneurship/Israel.pdf 
http://www.incubators.org.il/ 
http://www.ivc-online.com/ 
 
Korea 
http://english.fss.or.kr/en/englishIndex.jsp 
http://www.kvca.or.kr/htm/index/index.htm 
 
 
Malaysia 
http://www.sc.com.my/html/resources/guide2.html 
http://www.mvca.org.my/page.cfm?name=aboutus 
 
Singapore 
http://www.mas.gov.sg/ 
http://www.svca.org.sg/ 
 
Taiwan 
http://www.sfc.gov.tw/ensfcindex.htm 
http://www.tvca.org.tw/indexe.htm 
http://www.selaw-e.com.tw/ 
 
 
UK 

 

 31 

http://www.fsa.gov.uk/ 
http://www.bvca.co.uk/home.html 
 
USA 
http://www.nvca.org/ 

 

 32 

