Section 

CONTENTS 

INDEX 

 

 
EXECUTIVE SUMMMARY 
 
HEDGE FUND 
Defining the hedge fund 
Hedge Fund and Other Pooled Investment Vehicles 
1.2.1  Mutual Fund or Registered Investment 
Companies 
1.2.2   Private Equity Fund 
1.2.3   Venture Capital Fund 
1.2.4   Commodity Pool 
Domestic and Offshore Hedge Fund 
1.3.1 Domestic Hedge Fund 
1.3.2 Offshore Hedge Fund 
Fund of Funds 
Hedge Funds by Strategy Types 
Size of the Hedge Fund Market 
Reasons for Rapid Growth of Hedge Fund Industry 
Performance of Hedge Fund Industry 
Market Benefits of Hedge Funds 
 
HEDGE FUNDS IN DIFFERENT JURSDICTIONS 

Hedge Fund Regulation in Other Markets 
2.1.1   United States of America 
2.1.2   United Kingdom 
2.1.3   Switzerland 
2.1.4   Germany 
2.1.5   Offshore Centers 
2.1.6    Ireland 
2.1.7    Singapore 
2.1.8    Hong Kong 
2.1.9    Taiwan 
2.1.10  Thailand 

 
 
1 
1.1 
1.2 

 

 
 
 

1.3 

 
 

1.4 
1.5 
1.6  
1.7 
1.8 
1.9 

 
2 

2.1 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

1 

Pg. No. 

3-4 

 

5-14 

5 
6 
6 

6 
7 
7 
8 
8 
8 
8 
10 
10 
12 
12 
13 
 

15-32 

 
15 
15 
21 
25 
25 
26 
27 
28 
28 
28 
29 

 
 
 
3 
3.1 
3.2 

 
4 

4.1 
4.2 
4.3 
4.4 
4.5 

2.1.11  IOSCO 
2.1.12   Highlights of Regulatory Review 
 
FINANCIAL CRISIS AND HEDGE FUNDS 
East Asian Crisis 
Long Term Capital Management (LTCM) 
 
REGULATORY ISSUE FOR ALLOWING 
FOREIGN HEDGE FUNDS INDIA 
 
Hedge Funds in India 
Relevant Provisions of FII Regulations 
Identifying Hedge Funds 
Investment Limits applicable to FIIs. 
Additional Regulatory Concerns 
 

30 
31 
 

33-35 

33 
33 
 

36 -41 

36 
37 
38 
39 
40 

 

2 

 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

 

There is no exact definition to the term “Hedge Fund”; it is  perhaps undefined in any securities 
laws. There is neither an industry wide definition nor a universal meaning for “Hedge Fund”.  
Hedge funds, including fund of funds, are unregistered private investment partnerships, funds or 
pools that may invest and trade in many different markets, strategies and instruments (including 
securities,  non-securities  and  derivatives)  and  are  not  subject  to  the  same  regulatory 
requirements as mutual funds.  
 
The term “hedge funds”, first came into use in the 1950s to describe any investment fund that 
used incentive fees, short selling, and leverage. Over time, hedge funds began to diversify their 
investment portfolios to include other financial instruments and engage in a wider variety of 
investment  strategies.  However,  hedge  funds  today  may  or  may  not  utilize  the  hedging  and 
arbitrage  strategies  that  hedge  funds  historically  employed,  and  many  engage  in  relatively 
traditional, long only equity strategies.  
 
Other  unregistered  investment  pools,  such  as  venture  capital  funds,  private equity funds and 
commodity pools, are sometimes referred to as hedge funds. Although all of these investment 
vehicles are similar in that they accept investors’ money and generally invest it on a collective 
basis,  they  also  have  characteristics  that  distinguish  them  from  hedge  funds.  Hedge  Fund 
Investment strategies tend to be quite different from those followed by traditional asset managers. 
Moreover, each fund usually follows its own proprietary strategies. 
 
Hedge funds have attracted significant capital over the last decade, triggered by successful track 
records. The global hedge funds volume has increased from US $ 50 billion in 1988 to US $ 750 
billion in 2003 yielding an astonishing cumulative average growth rate (CAGR) of 24 %. The 
global hedge fund volume accounts for about 1% of the combined global equity and bond market. 
Hedge funds are a growing segment of asset management industry and increasingly becoming 
popular not only with high  net worth individual investors but also with institutional investors 
including  university  funds,  pension  funds,  insurance  and  endowments.  Hedge  funds  are 
sometimes  perceived  to  be  speculative  and  volatile.  However,  not  all  funds  exhibit  such 
characteristics. 
 

 

3 

Hedge funds can provide benefits to financial markets by contributing to market efficiency and 
enhancing liquidity.  They often assume risks by serving as ready counter parties to entities that 
wish  to  hedge  risks.    Hedge  fund  can  also  serve  as  an  important  risk  management  tool  for 
investors by providing valuable portfolio diversification.  
 
Some jurisdictions are gradually moving towards allowing the marketing of hedge fund and fund 
of funds products to retail investors. Those jurisdictions have simultaneously imposed disclosure 
requirements to ensure that investors understand the complexity and associated risk of investing 
in  hedge  funds.  Realizing  the  growing  importance  of  hedge  funds,  several  emerging  market 
regulators  have  opened  their  markets  to  offshore  hedge  funds  by  providing  authorization  as 
registered foreign investors. 
 
The role played by some of the large hedge funds has often been associated with major financial 
crisis that took place in the 90’s. However, subsequent research could not produce robust evidence 
implicating the hedge funds for precipitating the crisis.  Researchers have, however, attributed the 
negative  public  perception  of  the  role  of  hedge  fund  managers  in  crisis  partly  to  the  limited 
information available about what they actually do. 
 
In view of the increasing popularity among the institutions as well as their increasing interest in 
the Indian market, it might be time to provide a limited window to this growing segment of asset 
management  industry  within  the  existing  framework  of  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Institutional 
Investors) Regulations.  The approach adopted in formulating the policy suggestions put forth in 
Section IV of this report has been that of transparent and regulated access with abundant caution. 
The suggestions are intended to widen the FII window to allow these alternatives invest pools to 
our securities markets in a transparent and orderly manner. In addition, the suggestions also 
provide for adequate safety measures to address legitimate concerns associated with these funds. 
The  alternative  invests  pools  if  allowed  to  investment  in  Indian  markets  will  be  a  source  of 
additional liquidity and will also diversify the pool of foreign investments in Indian market. 

  

 

4 

I. HEDGE FUND 

 
 
1.1  Defining the Hedge Fund: 
 

There  is  no  exact  definition  to  the  term  “Hedge  Fund”;  it  is  perhaps 
undefined  in  any  securities  laws.  There  is  neither  an  industry  wide 
definition  nor  a  universal  meaning  for  “Hedge  Fund”.    Hedge  funds, 
including fund of funds are unregistered private investment partnerships, 
funds  or  pools  that  may  invest  and  trade  in  many  different  markets, 
strategies  and 
instruments  (including  securities,  non-securities  and 
derivatives) and are NOT subject to the same regulatory requirements as 
mutual  funds,  including  mutual  fund  requirements  to  provide  certain 
periodic and standardized pricing and valuation information to investors.  

The  term  can  also  be  defined  by  considering  the  characteristics  most 
commonly associated with hedge funds. Usually, hedge funds: 

 

•  are  organized  as  private  investment  partnerships  or  offshore 

investment corporations; 

•  use a wide variety of trading strategies involving position-taking in a 

range of markets; 

•  employ as assortment of trading techniques and instruments, often 

including short-selling, derivatives and leverage; 

•  pay performance fees to their managers; a nd 
•  have  an 

investor  base  comprising  wealthy 

individuals  and 
institutions and relatively high minimum investment limit ( set at US 
$100,000 or higher for most funds).    

The term  “hedge funds”,  first came into use in the 1950s to describe any 
investment fund that used incentive fees, short selling, and leverage. Over 
time, hedge funds began to diversify their investment portfolios to include 
other  financial  instruments  and  engage  in  a  wider  variety  of  investment 
strategies. Today, in addition to trading equities, hedge funds may trade 
fixed  income  securities,  convertible  securities,  currencies,  exchange  –
traded futures, over the counter derivatives, futures contracts, commodity 
options  and  other  non-securities  investments.  Furthermore,  hedge  funds 

5 

 

 

 

today  may  or  may  not  utilize  the  hedging  and  arbitrage  strategies  that 
hedge  funds  historically  employed,  and  many  engage  in  relatively 
traditional, long only equity strategies.  

  
1.2  Hedge Fund and Other Pooled Investment Vehicles: 
 

Hedge funds are sometimes called as ‘rich man’s mutual fund’. In addition, 
other unregistered investment pools, such as venture capital funds, private 
equity  funds  and  commodity  pools,  are  sometimes  referred  to  as  hedge 
funds.  Although  all  of  these  investment  vehicles  are  similar  in  tha t they 
accept investors’ money and generally invest it on a collective basis, they 
also  have characteristics that distinguish them from hedge funds. 

 

 

 

 

 

1.2.1  Mutual Fund or Registered Investment Companies 

In  many  ways,  hedge  funds  are  similar  to  mutual  funds.  Both 
entities issue units or securities to investors, hold pools of securities 
to diversify investment, have professional asset manager and may, 
at times, have similar investment strategies. At the same time, they 
also  differ  in  a  number  of  ways.  Mutual  funds  are  registered  with 
securities markets regulator and are subject to the provisions of the 
relevant 
regulations  such  as,  offer/issue  of  units/securities, 
disclosure  and  reporting  requirement,  valuation  for  the  purpose  of 
computation  of  NAV,  conflict  of  interest  issue  and  limit  leverage. 
Hedge  funds  are  not  required  to  be  registered  and  therefore,  are 
not subject to similar regulatory provisions. 

1.2.2  Private Equity Fund 

A  private  equity  fund,  like  a  hedge  fund,  is  an  unregistered 
investment vehicle in which investors pool money to invest. Private 
equity  funds  concentrate  their  investments  in  unregistered  (and 
typically illiquid) securities. Both private equity funds and US based 
hedge funds are typically organized as limited partnerships (LLP). 
Like hedge funds, private equity funds also rely on the exemption 
from  registration  of  the  offer  and  sale  of  their  securities.  Both 
private  equity  and  hedge  funds.    The  investors  in  private  equity 

6 

funds and hedge funds typically include high net worth individuals 
and  families,  pension  funds,  endowments,  banks  and  insurance 
companies. Private equity funds, however, differ from hedge funds 
in terms of the manner in which contribution to the investment pool 
is made by the investors. Private equity investors typically commit 
to invest a certain amount of money with the fund over the life of 
the fund, and make their contributions in response to “capital calls” 
from the fund’s general partner. Private equity funds are long term 
investments, provide for liquidation at the end of the term specified 
in 
if  any, 
opportunities  for  investors  to  redeem  their  investments.  A  private 
equity  fund  may  distribute  cash  to  its  investors  when  it  sells  its 
portfolio investment, or it may distribute the securities of a portfolio 
company. 

fund’s  governing  documents  and  offer 

the 

little, 

 

   

 

 
 
 

 

 

1.2.3  Venture Capital Fund   

Venture capital pools are similar to hedge funds or private equity; 
they  attract  the  same  class  of  investors.  Venture  capital  funds, 
however,  invest  in  the  start-up  or    early  stages  of  a  company. 
Unlike  hedge  fund  advisors,  general  partners  of  venture  capital 
funds often play an active role in the companies in which the funds 
invest. In contrast to a hedge fund, which may hold an investment 
in  a  portfolio  security  for  an  indefinite  period  based  on  market 
events  and  conditions,  a  venture  capital  fund  typically  seeks  to 
liquidate its investment once the value of the company increases       
above the value of the investments.    

1.2.4  Commodity Pool 

Commodity  pools  are  investment  rusts,  syndicates  or  similar 
enterprises that are operated for the purpose of trading commodity 
futures.    The  investment  concentration  in  commodity  futures 
distinguishes commodity pools from hedge funds.  

7 

1.3  Domestic and Offshore Hedge Fund: 
 
         1.3.1     Domestic Hedge Fund 
 

Domestic  hedge  funds  are  usually  organized  (in  USA)  as  limited 
partnerships  to  accommodate  investors  that  are  subject  to  U.S. 
income taxation.  The fund’s sponsor typically is the general partner 
and  investment  adviser.  Hedge  funds  may  also  take  the  form  of 
limited liability companies (LLC) or business trusts. LLPs, LLCs and 
business trusts are generally not separately taxed and, as a result, 
income is taxed only at the level of the individual investors. Each of 
three  firms  also  limits  investors  liability;  LLCs  offer  the  additional 
benefit of limited liability for fund advisors (general partners). 

  

1.3.2  Offshore Hedge Fund 

             

Offshore  hedge  funds  are  typically  organized  as  corporations  in 
countries  such  as  the  Cayman  Islands,  British  Virgin  Islands,  the 
Bahamas, Panama, The Netherlands Antilles or Bermuda. Offshore 
funds generally attract investments of US. tax exempt entities, such 
as  pension  funds,  charitable  trusts,  foundations  and  endowments, 
as  well  as  non-U.S.  residents.    U.S.  tax-exempt  investors  favor 
investments in offshore hedge funds because they may be subject 
to  taxation  if  they  invest  in  domestic  limited  partnership  hedge 
funds.  
 

1.4 

two  or  more  sub  managers 

Fund of Funds  
 
Rather than investing in individual securities, a Fund of Funds invests in 
other hedge funds. Technically any  fund that pools capital together, while 
utilizing 
in  equity, 
commodities, or currencies, is considered a  Fund of Funds. Investors are 
allocating  assets  to  Fund  of  Funds  products  mainly  for  diversification 
amongst  the  different  managers'  styles,  while  keeping  an  eye  on  risk 
exposure.  Fund  of  Funds  are  structured  as  limited  partnerships,  which 
afford advantages to the investor. One of the advantages is due diligence. 
Due diligence is a primary advantage because the fund of funds manager 

to 

invest  money 

 

8 

may  spend  his  whole  day  evaluating  strategies  and  speaking  with 
individual  fund  managers.  This  would  be  an  extremely  hard  task  for  an 
individual. The  fund  of  fund also may combat risk by achieving manager 
diversity,  because  of  the  different  strategies  employed  by  the  underlying 
managers.  For  example,  some  fund  of  funds  may  have  exposure  to  a 
long/short fund, a distressed fund, and a private equity fund. By investing 
within the  fund  of  funds,  the  investor  is  given  the  opportunity  to  have  a 
unique  asset  allocation  product,  while  trying  to  limit  the  risk  on  the 
downside.  

Fund of funds have some drawbacks however. The first to come to mind is 
the  double  layer  of  fees.  When  dealing  with  fund  of  funds,  an  investor 
must  understand  that  the  underlying  funds  charge  a  fee,  as  well  as  the 
fund  of  funds  manager.  This  translates  to  "layers"  of  fees  before  the 
investor  receives  his  first  rupee  return.  Transparency  issues  are  also 
important.  Research  such  as  the  individual  manager's  background  and 
reputation,  not  to  mention  the  nature  of  the  investments  that  they  are 
utilizing,  are  all  issues  a  fund  of  fund  manager  must  investigate. 
Therefore,  investors  have  to  rely on the  fund  of  funds  manager's  talent 
and  expertise  in  choosing  managers,  when  investing  in  a  fund  of  funds. 
Investors  look  for  Fund of  funds  because  hopefully,  they  provide  more 
stable returns while reducing risk. 

1.5  Hedge Funds by Strategy Types:  

Hedge  Fund  Investment  strategies  tend  to  be  quite  different  from  those 
followed  by  traditional  asset  managers.  Moreover,  each  fund  usually 
follows its own  proprietary  strategies  which  do  not  always  fit  within  neat 
definitional categories.  However, the FSA, UK stated that the hedge funds 
could be distinguished by the following three broad types:  

1.5.1   Event driven - funds investing in securities to take advantage 
of  price  movements  generated  by  corporate  events.  This 
group includes  merger arbitrage funds and  distressed asset 
funds.  

1.5.2   Global macro  –  funds  that  take  long  and  short  positions  in 
major  financial  markets  based  on  views  influenced  by 
economic trends and events. 

9 

 

 

1.5.3  Market    neutral  –  funds  where  the  manager    attempts  to 
minimize (or significantly reduce) market risk.  This category 
includes 
funds,  convertible  bonds 
arbitrage funds,  and fixed income arbitrage.   

/  short  equity 

long 

 

Another approach of classifying hedge funds by strategy types is that of 
the following table which briefly summarizes the data base according to a 
classification system recently adopted by FRM1 and MSCI, Inc. Given the 
wide  range  and  idiosyncratic  nature  of  hedge  fund  specialties,  any 
classification system will not completely characterize some managers, but  
the following one is generally considered to be a reasonable description of 
the universe. 

 
       A Taxonomy of Hedge Fund Strategies 
Strategy 

 
Directional   
Trading 
 
Relative  
Value 
 
Specialist 
Credit 
Stock 
Selection 

in  multiple  asset                       

Description 
 
Based  upon  speculation  of  market  direction 
classes. Both model-based systems and subjective judgment are used 
to make trading decisions.                                                                 
Focus  on  spread  relationships  between  pricing  components  of 
financial assets. Market risk is kept to minimum and many managers 
use leverage to enhance returns. 
Based around lending to credit sensitive issuers. Funds in this strategy 
conduct  a  high  level  of  due  diligence  in  order  to  identify  relatively 
inexpensive securities. 
Combine  long  and  short  positions,  primarily  in  equities,  in  order  to 
exploit  under  and  overvalued  securities.  Market  exposure  can  vary 
substantially. 

 
1.6 
 

Size of the Hedge Fund Market: 

Since hedge funds  do  not  register  with  SEC  their  actual  data  cannot  be 
independently  followed;  therefore  hedge  fund  data  is  self  reported. 
Despite  the  ambivalent  image,  hedge  funds  have  attracted  significant 
capital  over  the  last  decade,  triggered  by  successful  track  records.  The 
global hedge funds volume has increased from US $ 50 billion in 1988 to 
US  $  750  billion  in  2003  yielding  an  astonishing  cumulative  average 
growth rate (CAGR) of 24 %. The global hedge fund volume accounts for 

                                                 
1 Financial Risk Management Limited (FRM) 
 

10 

about 1% of the combined global equity and bond market. The number of 
hedge funds increased from 1500 to about 8000 between 1998 and 2003. 
Estimates of new assets flowing into hedge funds exceed US $25 billion 
on average for the last few years.  In the next five to ten years, hedge fund 
assets have been predicted to exceed US $ 1 trillion. 

funds  become  particularly  popular 

In Europe the overall hedge fund volume is still small with about US $ 80 
billion  in  2003  which  accounts  for  about  11%  of  the  global  hedge  fund 
volume.  The  number  of  hedge  funds  in  Europe  is  about  600.  Within 
Europe,  hedge 
in  France  and 
Switzerland where already 35% and 30% of all institutional investors have 
allocated  funds  into  hedge  funds.  In  2003,  Italy’s  hedge  fund  industry 
nearly  tripled  in  size  as  assets  grew  from  Euro  2.2  billion  to  Euro  6.2 
billion.  Germany  is  at  the  lower  end  with  only  7%  of  the  institutional 
investors using hedge funds. But the Investment Modernization Act,  may 
well  trigger  rising  interest  from  German  investors.  Overall,  hedge  fund 
assets are estimated to increase ten fold in Europe over the next 10 years.   
The acceptance of hedge funds seems to be growing through out Europe, 
as  investors  have  sought      alternatives  that  are  perceived  as  less  risky 
during the last three years equity bear market.  

This trend is also evident in Asia, where hedge funds are starting to take 
off. According to AsiaHedge magazine, some 150 hedge funds operate in 
Asia,  till  year  2002  which  together  managed  assets  estimated  at  around 
US  $  15  billion.    In  Japan,  too  hedge  funds  are  becoming  the  focus  of 
more  attention.  Recently,  Japan’s  Government  Pension  Fund  one  of  the 
world’s largest pension fund with US $ 300 billion has announced plans to 
start allocating money to hedge funds.  Industry participants believe that 
Asia could be the next region of growth for the hedge fund industry. The 
potential of Asian hedge funds is well supported by fundamentals.  From 
an  investment  perspective,  the  volatility  in  the  Asian  markets  in  recent 
years  has  allowed  long-short  and  other  strategic  players  to  out  perform 
regional  indices.  The  relative  inefficiency  of  the  regional  markets  also 
presents  arbitrage  opportunities  from  a  demand  stand  point  US  and 
European investors are expected to turn to alternatives in Asia as capacity 
in their home markets diminish.  Further, the improving economic climate 
in  South  East  Asia  should  help  foreign  fund  managers  and  investors  to 

11 

 

 

 

refocus their attention on the region. Overall, hedge funds look set to play 
a larger role in Asia.   

 
1.7  Reasons for Rapid Growth of Hedge Fund Industry 
 

 
While high net worth individuals remain the main source of capital, hedge 
funds are becoming more popular among institutional and  retail investors.  
Funds  of  funds  (hedge  funds)  and  other  hedge  fund-linked  products  are 
increasingly  being  marketed  to  the  retail  investors  in  some  jurisdictions. 
There are a number of factors behind the rising demand for hedge funds.  
The unprecedented   bull run in the US equity   markets during the 1990s 
swelled investment portfolios this lead both fund managers and investors 
to  become  more  keenly  aware    of  the  need  for  diversification.    Hedge 
funds are seen as a natural “hedge” for controlling downside risk because 
they  employ  exotic  investments  strategies  believed  to  generate  returns 
that are uncorrelated to asset classes.        

 

 

Until  recently,  the  bursting  of  the  technology  and  telecommunications 
bubbles,  the  wave  of  scandals  that  hit  corporate  America  and  the 
uncertainties  in  the  US  economy  have  lead  to  a  general  decline  in  the 
stock  markets  worldwide.    This  in  turn  provided  fresh  impetus  for  hedge 
funds as investors searched for absolute returns.  

The growing demand for hedge fund products has brought changes on the 
supply side of the market.  The prospect of untold riches has spurred on 
many former fund managers and proprietary trades to strike out on their 
own  and  set  up  new  hedge  funds.    With  hedge  funds  entering  the  main 
stream  and  becoming  ‘respectable’,  an  increasing  number  of  banks, 
insurance companies, pension funds, are investing in them.                 

                          
1.8 
 

Performance of Hedge Fund Industry: 

Hedge fund performance has varied through time, with lower figures in the 
most  recent  five-and-a  half  years.  Volatility  has  also  appears  to  have 
increased  in  more  recent  periods.  In  general,  however,  the  risk-adjusted 
performance  of  the  universe  of  hedge  funds  appears  to  have  been 

 

12 

superior to traditional active managers and passive benchmarks over the 
last ten years.  

Performance from 1990 through June 2000 
Relative 
 
Value 

Directional 
Trading 

Specialist 
Credit 

Stock 
Selection 

S&P  
500 

12.3% 

14.5% 

18.9% 

17.2% 

5.7% 

9.3% 

13.4% 

13.7% 

1.3 

1.0 

1.1 

0.9 

All 
Hedge  
Funds 
12.2% 

17.8% 

13.6% 

7.7% 

Annualised 
Return 
Annualised 
Volatility 
Sharpe 
Ratio* 
 * Assume 5% hurdle rate 
 

1.6 

0.9 

It turns out that the hedge fund managers exhibit much lower correlation 
with one another than traditional active managers. The average correlation 
among Lipper large cap mutual funds managers has been on the order of 
90%,  while  hedge  funds  resemble  S&P  500  stocks  with  an  average 
correlation  on  the  order  of  10%  (its  about  20%  on  average  for  stocks). 
There could be a large idiosyncrasies component to the returns of hedge 
fund  managers,  even  within  a  particular  strategy,  whereas  Lipper 
managers  tend  to  be  more  correlated  with  their  benchmarks  and  hence 
with  each  other.  The  low  average  correlation  among  hedge  fund 
managers  suggest  that  pooling  funds  into  portfolios  or  indexes  can 
significantly reduce their total risk, providing distinct advantages relative to 
traditional active strategies. 

 
1.9  Market Benefits of Hedge Funds: 
 

Hedge  funds  can  provide  benefits  to  financial  markets  by  contributing  to 
market  efficiency  and  enhance  liquidity.  Many  hedge  fund  advisors  take 
speculative  trading  positions  on  behalf  of  their  managed  hedge  funds 
based  extensive  research  about  the  true  value  or  future  value  of  a 
security.  They  may  also  use  short  term  trading  strategies  to  exploit 
perceived  mis-pricings  of  securities.  Because  securities  markets  are 
dynamic, the result of such trading is that market prices of securities will 
move toward their true value. Trading on behalf of hedge funds can thus 
bring price information to the securities markets, which can translate into 

 

13 

market  price  efficiency.  Hedge  funds  also  provide  liquidity  to  the  capital 
markets by participating in the market. 

Hedge  funds  play  an  important  role  in  a  financial  system  where  various 
risks  are  distributed  across  a  variety  of  innovative  financial  instruments.   
They  often  assume  risks  by  serving  as  ready  counter parties to entities 
that wish to hedge risks. For example, hedge funds are buyers and sellers 
of  certain  derivatives,  such  as  securitised  financial  instruments,  that 
provide a mechanism for banks and other creditors to un-bundle the risks 
involved  in  real  economic  activity.  By  actively  participating  in  the 
secondary  market  for  these  instruments,  hedge  funds  can  help  such 
entities  to  reduce  or  manage  their  own  risks  because  a  portion  of  the 
financial  risks  are  shifted  to  investors  in  the  form  of  these  tradable 
financial  instruments.  By  reallocating  financial  risks,  this  market  activity 
provides the added benefit of lowering the financing costs shouldered by 
other  sectors  of  the  economy.  The  absence  of  hedge  funds  from  these 
markets could lead to fewer risk management choices and a higher cost of 
capital. 

Hedge  fund  can  also  serve  as  an  important  risk  management  tool  for 
investors  by  providing  valuable  portfolio  diversification.  Hedge  fund 
strategies  are  typically  designed  to  protect  investment  principal.  Hedge 
funds 
instruments  (e.g.  derivatives)  and 
techniques (e.g. short selling) to hedge against market risk and construct 
a conservative investment portfolio – one designed to preserve wealth.  

frequently  use 

investment 

In  addition,  hedge  funds  investment  performance  can  exhibit  low 
correlation to that of traditional investments in the equity and fixed income 
markets.  Institutional  investors  have  used  hedge  funds  to  diversify  their 
investments  based  on  this  historic  low  correlation  with  overall  market 
activity. 

From  time  to  time,  allegations  are  made  by  market  participants  about 
collusion among hedge funds to manipulate markets. Like all other market 
participants, hedge funds are covered by both criminal and civil regimes 
that outlaw various forms of market manipulation and abuse.      

14 

 

 

 

   

 

 

II. HEDGE FUNDS IN DIFFERENT JURISDICTIONS 

 
 
2.1  Hedge fund regulation in other markets :  
 
2.1.1  United States of America (USA): 
 

Organisation and offering by hedge fund: 
 
Hedge funds are typically organized by professional investment  advisors 
that  manage  investments  for  hedge  funds.  Hedge  funds  distribute 
securities  in  private  offerings,  traditionally  “marketing”  their  interests 
through  word  of  mouth  and  the  personal  relationships  with  the  hedge 
fund’s  advisory  personnel.  Broader  marketing,  including  use  of  the 
Internet, has become more frequent in recent years. 

Hedge fund  advisors  typically  receive,  as  compensation,  a  management 
fee based on the amount of hedge fund assets (commonly 1-2 percent), 
plus  a  share  of  the  capital  gains  and  capital  appreciation  (commonly  20 
percent)  or  some  other  allocation  based  on  the  fund’s  investment 
performance.  Hedge  funds  typically  agree  to  repurchase  their  own 
interests  from  investors  on  a  limited,  periodic  basis,  such  as  quarterly, 
often  following  an  initial  “lock-up  period”  during  which  time  investors  are 
not permitted to liquidate their investments. 

Because  hedge  funds  are  not  registered  investment  companies,  they 
generally  are  not  required  to  meet  prescribed  disclosure  requirements. 
Hedge  fund  advisors,  however,  typically  provide  potential  hedge  fund 
investors  with  a  private  placement  memorandum 
that  discloses 
information about the investment strategies the hedge fund is permitted to 
use  and  an  overview  of  how  the  hedge  fund  operates.  The  private 
placement  memorandum  also  generally  provides  the  adviser  with  the 
maximum  flexibility  in  selecting,  shifting  and  modifying  its  strategies.  In 
addition,  the  private  placement  memorandum  often  provides  the  hedge 
fund  adviser  with  broad  discretion  in  valuing  the  hedge  fund’s  assets. 
Hedge  fund  investors  generally  receive  some  ongoing  performance 

15 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information,  risk  analyses  and  portfolio  profiles  from  their  hedge  fund 
advisors.  Although  not  required,  most  hedge  funds  retain  an  auditor  to 
conduct an annual independent audit, which, if certified, is prepared using 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). 

For tax and other considerations, some hedge fund advisors create one or 
more “offshore” hedge funds that are organized in a foreign jurisdiction, in 
addition to maintaining U.S. based hedge funds. 

Hedge funds do not register the offer and sale of their interests under the 
Securities Act. As such, hedge funds may not offer their securities publicly 
or engage in a public solicitation. Instead, hedge funds generally sell their 
interests in private offerings. 

Investment Company Act 1940 and hedge fund 
 
Most  hedge  funds  have  substantial  investments  in  securities  that  would 
cause them to fall within the definition of investment company under the 
Investment Company Act, 1940. Hedge funds, however, typically rely on 
one of two statutory exclusions from the definition of investment company, 
which enables them to avoid the regulatory provisions of that Act. 

Section 3(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act, 1940 excludes from the 
definition of investment company any issuer whose outstanding securities 
(other than short-term paper) are beneficially owned by not more than 100 
investors  and  which  is  not  making  and  does  not  presently  propose  to 
make a public offering of its securities. 

Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act, 1940 excludes from the 
definition of investment company any issuer whose outstanding securities 
are owned exclusively by persons who, at the time of acquisition of such 
securities,  are  “qualified  purchasers,  and  which  is  not  making  and  does 
not  at  that  time  propose  to  make  a  public  offering  of  its  securities.      A 
hedge fund relying on Section 3(c)(7) may accept an unlimited number of 
qualified  purchasers2  for  investment  in  the  fund.  As  a  practical  matter, 

                                                 
2 Qualified purchasers : are defined by SEC to mean “accredited investors”. “Accredited investors” is 
defined to include individuals who have a net worth with their spouse, above US $ 10,00,000 or have 
 

16 

 

 

 

however,  most  funds  relying  on  Section  3(c)(7)  have  no  more  than  499 
investors in order to avoid the registration and reporting requirements of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).   

The  principals  of  hedge  funds  normally  have  no  interest  in  encouraging 
resale of interests in their funds. In the usual case, therefore, transfers of 
the  interests  are  prohibited  without  the  written  consent  of  the  general 
partner  or  other  manager,  and  there  is  limited  liquidity  of  the  interests 
through sales and redemptions by the hedge funds. 

The Exchange Act and  hedge funds: 
 
The Exchange Act contains registration and reporting provisions that may 
apply  to  hedge  funds.  Section  12  of  the  Exchange  Act  and  the  rules 
promulgated  there  under  govern  the  registration  of  classes  of  equity 
securities  traded  on  an  exchange  or  meeting  the  holder  of  record  and 
asset tests of Section 12(g) and related rules. Section 12(g) and Rule 12g-
1  there  under  require  that  an  issuer  having  500  holders  of  record  of  a 
class  of  equity  security  (other  than  an  exempted  security)  and  assets  in 
excess  of  $10  million  at  the  end  of  its  most  recently  ended  fiscal  year 
register  the  equity  security  under  the  Exchange  Act.  Registration  of  a 
class  of  equity  security  subjects  domestic  registrants  to  the  periodic 
reporting  requirements  of  Section  13,  proxy  requirements  of  Section  14 
and insider reporting and short swing profit provisions of Section 16 of the 
Exchange  Act.  Although  hedge  fund  interests  fall  within  the  definition  of 
equity security under the Exchange Act, most hedge funds seek to avoid 
Exchange  Act  registration  by  having  fewer  than  500  holders  of  record 
(which in the case of hedge funds are also generally the investors). 

Due  to  the  power  a  hedge  fund’s  adviser  may  exercise  over  the  equity 
securities held by the fund, both the hedge fund and its  advisor generally 
will  be  deemed  to  beneficially  own  any  equity  securities  owned  by  the 
hedge fund. The beneficial ownership reporting rules under sections 13(d) 
and  13(g)  of  the  Exchange  Act  generally  require  that  any  person  who 

                                                                                                                                                 
income above US $ 20,00,000 in the previous two years (or joint income with their spouse above US $ 
30,00,000).  Institutional investors with assets exceeding US  $ 5,000,000 are considered “accredited 
investors”. 
 

17 

beneficially owns greater than five percent of the class equity securities, 
file  a  beneficial  ownership  statements  (schedule  13D  or  13G). In certain 
specified circumstances, the hedge fund and its  advisors may file a short 
form beneficial ownership statement.  

In  addition,  hedge  fund  advisors  also  may  be  subject  to  the  quarterly 
reporting obligations of Section 13(f) of the Exchange Act, which apply to 
any  “institutional  investment  manager”  exercising  investment  discretion 
with respect to accounts having an aggregate fair market value of at least 
$100  million  in  equity  securities.    An  “institutional  investment  manager” 
includes  any  person  (other  than  a  natural  person)  investing  in  or  buying 
and  selling  securities  for  its  own  account,  and  any  person  exercising 
investment discretion with respect to the account of any other person. 

Section  16  applies  to  every  person  who  is  the  beneficial  owner  of  more 
than ten percent of any class of equity security registered under Section 
12 of the Exchange Act and each officer and director of the issuer of the 
security (collectively, “reporting persons” or “insiders”). Upon becoming a 
reporting  person,  a  person  is  required  by  Section  16(a)  to  file  an  initial 
report with SEC disclosing the amount of his or her beneficial ownership of 
all  equity  securities  of  the  issuer.  Section  16(a)  also  requires  reporting 
persons to keep this information current by reporting to SEC changes in 
ownership of these equity securities, or the purchase or sale of security-
based swap agreements involving these securities. Hedge funds are also 
subject  to  the  short  swing  profit  provisions  of  Section  16(b)  of  the 
Exchange Act. 

Investment Advisers Act 1940 and hedge funds 
 
Many  hedge  fund  advisors,  however,  avoid  registering  with  the  SEC  by 
relying on the  Advisors Act’s  de minimis  exemption under Section 203(b) 
of  that  Act.  That  section  excludes  from  registration  investment  advisors 
that have had fewer than 15 clients during the preceding 12 months, do 
not hold themselves out generally to the public as an investment adviser 
and are not an investment  advisors to a registered investment company.   
For  purposes  of  Section  203(b),  current  SEC    rules  provide  that 
investment  advisors  may  count  a  “legal  organization,”  such  as  a  hedge 

18 

 

 

 

 

fund,  as  a  single  client.  Thus,  an  adviser  may  manage  up  to  14  hedge 
funds before being required to register with SEC as an investment adviser, 
so long as it satisfies the “no holding out” condition. Investment  advisors 
that are exempt from registration nevertheless are subject to the antifraud 
provisions of the Advisors Act. 

A  number  of  hedge  fund  advisors,  however,  do  register  as  investment 
advisors under the  Advisors  Act.  Some  are  required  to  register  because 
they  have  15  or  more  advisory  clients,  or  they  advise  one  or  more 
registered  investment  companies,  and  therefore  are  ineligible  for  the  de 
minimis  exemption.  Others  have 
the  Commission 
voluntarily because their investors demand it or for competitive reasons. 

registered  with 

The Commodities Exchange Act and  hedge fund 
 
As  a  result  of  recent  CFTC  rule  options,  many  hedge  fund  advisors can 
now  qualify  for  exemptions  from    Commodity  Pool  Operator  (CPO)  and 
Commodity  Trading  Advisor  (CTA)  registration.  Regulations  under  the 
Commodity Exchange Act (CEA) provide an exemption from registration to 
CPOs operating pools that engage in limited commodity futures activities 
and sell interests solely to certain qualified individuals. Regulations under 
the CEA also provide an exemption from registration to CPOs that operate 
pools  that  sell  interests  to  certain  highly  sophisticated  pool  participants. 
Investment advisors to hedge funds that operate in reliance upon Section 
3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act may be able to 
rely upon one of these CFTC exemptions. In addition, the CEA provides a 
de  minimis  exemption  from  CTA  registration  that  is  similar  to  the 
Investment Advisors Act’s  de minimis  exemption from investment adviser 
registration.  Consequently,  hedge  fund  advisors  that  are  exempt  from 
registration  as  an  investment  adviser  also  are  usually  exempt  from 
registration  as  a  CTA.    Hedge  fund  advisors  that  meet  the  definition  of 
CPO or CTA, but that are exempt from registration as such, are required 
to  keep  books  and  records,  but  are  not  subject  to  disclosure,  periodic 
reporting  or  audit  requirements  that  apply  to  a  registered  CPO  or  a 
registered CTA. 

19 

 

 

 

 

ERISA3 and hedge funds 
 
An investment  advisor  to  a  hedge  fund  is  an  ERISA  plan  fiduciary  if  it 
exercises  discretionary  authority  over  the  management  of  “plan  assets.” 
The assets of a hedge fund are deemed to be “plan assets” if an ERISA 
plan’s  investment  in  that  hedge  fund  is  “significant.”    An  ERISA  plan’s 
investment  is  deemed  to  be  significant  if,  immediately  after  the  most 
recent acquisition of any equity interest in the hedge fund, more than 25 
percent of the value of any class of equity interests in the hedge fund is 
held collectively by the employee benefit plan investors. Many hedge fund 
advisors take measures to ensure that employee benefit plan investments 
in hedge funds do not exceed this 25 percent threshold in order to avoid 
being subject to regulation as an ERISA fiduciary. 

Some  hedge  fund  advisors,  however,  accept  regulation  under  ERISA 
because  they  view  ERISA  plans  as  attractive  to  investors  for  the  hedge 
funds  they  advise.  As  a  result,  they  permit  the  investment  of  significant 
amounts  of  employee  plan  assets  in  the  hedge  funds.  Before  investing 
plan assets in such a hedge fund, however, the non-adviser ERISA plan 
fiduciary typically will require assurances from the hedge fund adviser that 
it  will  not  be  liable  under  ERISA  for  any  misconduct  on  the  part  of  the 
hedge fund adviser in managing the plan assets. Generally, a hedge fund 
adviser can shield ERISA plan fiduciaries from liability for its misconduct 
by  registering  as  an  investment  adviser  under  the  Advisors Act, and by 
qualifying as an “investment manager” under ERISA. 

Other Regulations and hedge funds 
 
Pursuant  to  authority  granted  by  the  Exchange  Act,  the  Treasury 
Department has adopted rules that govern the reporting of large positions 
in U.S. Treasury securities by persons who participate in the government 
securities  market,  including  registered  investment  advisors  and  hedge 
funds.  Pursuant  to  these  rules,  the  Treasury  Department  periodically 
provides  notices  of  Treasury  security  issues  for  which  large  position 
information  must  be  reported  (“reportable  position”)  and  the  applicable 
large position threshold for that issue. Hedge funds that have a reportable 

 

 

                                                 
3 Employees Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). 
 

20 

 

 

position in a noticed government securities issue that is equal to or greater 
than  the  large  position  threshold  must  file  a  report  with  the  Federal 
Reserve  Bank  of  New  York  (“FRBNY”)  containing  certain  prescribed 
information relating to that issue of  securities.  Hedge funds may also be 
required to make and keep certain records related to their large position 
reports. 

Section 352 of the USA Patriot Act requires every “financial institution” to 
establish an anti-money  laundering  program  that  meets  certain minimum 
requirements.  In connection with Section 352, the Treasury has proposed 
a rule that would require hedge funds, among other entities, to adopt anti-
money  laundering  procedures.  In  addition  to  adopting  an  anti-money 
laundering program, these entities would be required to provide a written 
notice to the Treasury within 90 days of becoming subject to the rule. 

A  hedge  fund  advisor  that  is  subject  to  state  investment  adviser  laws  is 
likely to face regulations similar to SEC’s, as state regulation of investment 
advisers  is  generally  similar  to  the  Advisors  Act.  Broadly  speaking,  the 
investment adviser must register with authorities and must provide certain 
disclosures  to  clients.  The  adviser  is  also  subject  to  rules  designed  to 
protect  investors  and  prevent  fraud,  and  may  be  subject  to  periodic 
examination by regulators. 

 
2.1.2  United Kingdom (UK): 
 

 
Assets in the European hedge fund industry increased by around 40% last 
year  to  reach  $64bn  by  end-2001.      Last  year,  $11bn  of  the  inflows  in 
Europe  went  to  existing  funds,  while  new  start-ups  attracted  $6.6bn.  the 
number of hedge funds managed in Europe rose significantly during 2001, 
from 317 to 446. 

 

 

 

The main investors in hedge funds have been (and continue to be) high 
net  worth  individuals  (HNWIs)  and  private  endowment  funds,  pension 
funds and insurance companies are also a significant source of inflows to 
hedge funds. 

21 

Almost all hedge funds are located in offshore jurisdictions. The UK is not 
a domicile of choice for hedge funds, primarily because the tax regime is 
unfavourable. A UK-domiciled hedge fund would be liable for corporation 
tax  on  income  and  capital  gains.  This  provides  hedge  funds  with  strong 
incentives to set up in offshore jurisdictions to benefit from favourable tax 
regimes. The administration of funds is also usually based offshore.  Many 
of  these  offshore  funds  are  structured  with  onshore  managers  and 
advisors to inform investment strategy and provide other defined services 
to  the  offshore  fund.  There  are  significant  numbers  of  hedge  fund 
managers in the US (in particular) and the UK. Many of the investors in 
hedge funds, both institutional and individual, are also located in onshore 
jurisdictions. 

FSA does not have legal responsibility for, or oversight of, the operation of 
a hedge fund established and operated outside the United Kingdom, even 
if a fund employs one or more UK investment managers. However, while 
the funds themselves are outside the FSA’s jurisdiction, they oversee the 
marketing  of  hedge  fund  products  in  the  UK  and  the  regulation  of  UK-
based hedge fund managers. 

There  is  no  specific  regulatory  regime  for  the  marketing  of  hedge  fund 
products  in  the  UK.  Where  a  hedge  fund  is  structured  as  a  limited 
partnership or as an open-ended investment company, it would usually be 
classified  as  an  unregulated  collective  investment  scheme  for  regulatory 
purposes. Chapter 3 of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COB), and 
the  provisions  of  the  Unregulated  Collective  Investment  Scheme  (CIS) 
Order,  govern  the  manner  in  which  authorised  persons  may  market 
unregulated  schemes.  This  does  not  allow  the  free  marketing  of  these 
funds  to  the  general  public.  But  it  does  allow  funds  to  be  marketed  to 
intermediate  customers,  market  counterparties  or  to  private  customers 
where  a  firm  has  taken  reasonable  steps  to  ensure  that  the  fund  is 
suitable. 

Firms that are authorised and which may give advice to their clients on the 
merits of hedge fund investment will need to consider the requirements of 
COB  and  in  particular  the  restriction  on  financial  promotion.  The  vast 
majority  of  hedge  funds  have  minimum  investment  amounts,  typically  of 

22 

 

 

 

 

US$100,000 or more. This requirement, which the industry itself chooses 
to  apply,  would  be  an  insurmountable  hurdle  to  many  private  customers 
and  is  itself  a  barrier  to  retail  investment  in  hedge  funds.  Again,  FSA 
requires regulated firms to undertake thorough due diligence before taking 
such action. 

the 

threshold  conditions 

fund  manager  must  meet 

A  hedge 
for 
authorisation as set out in the Act, both at the time of authorisation and on 
an ongoing basis. Above and beyond this, the firm must also comply with 
other  regulatory  requirements  relevant  to  its  business.  FSA  regime  puts 
particular emphasis on systems and controls, which firms  are  required to 
put  in  place  and  maintain  adequate  systems  and  controls  appropriate  to 
the  business  it  conducts.  When  considering  an  application  for  a 
permission  from  a  hedge  fund  manager,  the  FSA  will  focus  on  its 
resources and competence to manage the assets of funds in line with its 
mandate from the operators of the underlying fund. 

Other features of  the authorisation process include checks on whether a 
hedge  fund  manager  has  adequate  procedures  in  place  to  show 
compliance with UK regulations.  FSA also require hedge fund managers 
to keep clear  records  of  any  marketing  material  distributed  along  with  a 
clear  audit  trail  showing  how  they  meet  the  criteria  laid  down  in  the 
relevant regulatory regime. 

Authorised hedge fund managers, as with all regulated firms, are required 
to satisfy the threshold conditions for authorisation on a continuing basis 
and  comply  with  FSA  rules,  including  requirements  on  systems  and 
controls  as  well  as  training  and  competence.  FSA    takes  appropriate 
action against any authorised firm, including hedge fund managers, which 
causes significant risks to its statutory objectives. It must be clarified, that 
authorisation  of  hedge  fund  managers  by  FSA  does  not  imply  any 
oversight of the underlying hedge fund or funds. 
 
Other  financial  institutions  have  exposures  to  hedge  funds  that  arise 
through several transmission mechanisms, including counterparty trading, 
derivatives  activity,  the  provision  of  brokerage  services,  direct  equity 
investments,  and  (very  occasionally)  direct  lending.  A  number  of  UK-

23 

 

 

 

 

authorised firms offer finance to hedge funds, most commonly as a prime 
broker, although the number of UK owned firms providing finance in this 
way is relatively small. The FSA seeks to ensure that, following Basel and 
IOSCO guidelines, credit providers to hedge funds follow appropriate  risk 
management practices. 

FSA  continues  to  monitor  trends  in  the  hedge  fund  sector,  and 
developments  in  counterparty  risk  management  arrangements.  Both 
market surveillance and periodic discussions with hedge funds and credit 
providers  help  to  inform  our  assessment  of  the  risks.  FSA  also  meets 
periodically  with  hedge  fund  trade  associations  and  industry  analysts  to 
help inform its views of the market. 

Hedge fund managers or operators based in the UK have been subject to 
the  Money  Laundering  Regulations  1993  since  1994,  even  if  the  assets 
that they manage are held overseas. The Regulations oblige them by law 
to know their customers, including indirect customers introduced to them 
by intermediaries. 

The  market  impact  of  the  few  hedge  funds  that  are  both  large  and 
leveraged  is  a  global  issue.  As  stated  above,  it  was  analysed  in 
considerable  depth 
the  collapse  of  Long  Term  Capital 
Management  at  the  end  of  1998,  by  a  number  of  bodies  including  the 
Financial  Stability  Forum  (FSF)  Working  Group  on  Highly  Leveraged 
Institutions (HLIs). 

following 

At its seventh meeting in March 2002, the FSF discussed how far previous 
concerns  about  HLIs  had  been  allayed  by  the  implementation  of  its 
previous recommendations. The FSF noted that several developments  – 
including 
risk  management,  strengthened 
regulatory  oversight  and  enhanced  information  flows  –  have  helped  to 
reduce the risks that hedge funds could pose to the international financial 
system. But the FSF urged continued improvements in public disclosures 
by hedge funds to improve market discipline and reduce systemic risk. 

improved  counterparty 

Some concerns have been raised recently about the effects on markets of 
short selling by hedge funds and others.  FSA’s position on this important 

24 

 

 

 

 

 

 

issue  can  be  summarized  in  its  own  words  :  “If  we  were  to  introduce 
regulatory provisions to deal with concerns about short selling, we would 
have to consider their costs and benefits. Indeed, there are good reasons 
why we would not wish to constrain short selling.”  FSA noted in its latest 
assessment  that  it  can  be  “an  equilibrating  and  efficiency-enhancing 
market practice”. Short selling can provide the market with two important 
benefits;  market  liquidity  and  pricing  efficiency.  FSA  therefore  sees  no 
case for any outright ban on short selling, a practice which in its judgment 
a necessary and desirable underpinning to the liquidity of the UK market. 

From  time  to  time,  allegations  are  made  by  market  participants  about 
collusion among hedge funds to manipulate markets. Like all other market 
participants,  hedge  funds  are  covered  by  both  the  criminal  and  civil 
regimes that outlaw various forms of market manipulation and abuse. The 
FSA also takes steps to investigate evidence of any such collusion. 

 

 
2.1.3  Switzerland: 
 

The  Swiss  Investment  Funds  Act  introduced  the  concept  of  ‘other  funds 
with special risks’, which enables Swiss and foreign based hedge funds to 
be  licensed  by  the  Federal  Banking  Commission  (FBC).  There  is  no 
statutory  minimum  investment  level  but,  the  minimum  investment  has 
never been below Sfr 10,000  and is normally considerably higher. Only 
funds  domiciled  in  a  recognized  jurisdiction  with  ‘equivalent  supervision’ 
can be sold in Switzerland  – the FBC has deemed that member states of 
the  European  Economic  Area,  the  USA,  Guernsey  and  Jersey  meet  the 
standard.  Although  it  is  the  hedge  fund  that  is  authorized,  much  of  the 
regime  focuses  on  the  actions  and  competence  of  the  hedge  fund 
manager. For example, the decision on whether to license a hedge fund is 
based  on  a  qualitative  assessment  of  managers,  risk  management 
systems and internal controls. 

 
2.1.4  Germany 
 

The  Investment  Modernisation  Act  was  approved  by  the  German 
Parliament  on  November  7,  2003  and  became effective  from January 1, 
2004. One key measure under the Modernisation Act is the admission  of 

 

25 

hedge funds as the alternative investment vehicle. So far only hedge fund 
certificates  (products  with  payout  linked  to  the  performance  of  hedge 
funds) were allowed to be distributed in Germany.  The act is expected to  
catalyze  the  development  of  German  hedge  fund  industry  and  is  a 
response  to  the  interest  in  hedge  funds  among  institutional  and  retail 
investors. 

Following  the  approval  of  the  new  investment  act,  the  BaFin  will  issue 
guidelines that will outline the issues related to setting up a hedge fund or 
a  fund  of  funds.  The  new  regulations  will  stipulate  that  KAGs  (Kapitalan 
Lagegessellschaften) may  now launch “investment funds with additional 
risks” (i.e. hedge funds) or “fund of funds with additional risks” (i.e. funds 
of  hedge  funds).  There  are  a  few  additional  requirements  for  existing 
KAGs    to  comply  before  establishing  such  funds,  for  example,  due 
expertise  of  an  asset  manager  and  risk  assessment  models  must  be  in 
place.  Hedge funds and fund of hedge funds may also be launched by the 
newly introduced investment stock companies with variable capital.  

 

 

The  German  market,  to  a  certain  extent  is  now  open  to  foreign  hedge 
funds  and  provides  the  opportunity  to  admit  public  distribution  of  certain 
foreign hedge funds. The Investment Act stipulates that only foreign funds 
of hedge funds may be publicly distributed in Germany.  The single hedge 
funds still remain barred from public distribution, although it is possible to 
distribute  them  by  private  placement.  As  regards  investment  policy, 
foreign funds of hedge funds must largely follow the same regulations as 
German funds of hedge funds under the Investment Act.  

 
2.1.5  Offshore  Centers  (Bahamas,  Bermuda,  The  Bristish  Virgin  Islands 

and the Cayman Island) 

 

 

Offshore administrators assist a hedge fund adviser to set  up an offshore 
hedge fund in accordance with applicable foreign laws and also assist the 
fund in complying with such laws on an ongoing basis. They also provide 
accounting,  record  keeping  and  reporting  services,  as  well  as  assist  in 
calculating  fees  and  accruals.  Certain  offshore  jurisdictions  regulate 
offshore  hedge  fund  administrators  operating  within  their  borders.  The 
regulation of offshore hedge fund administrators subject them to licensing, 

26 

auditing  and  record  keeping  requirements.  For  example,  many  offshore 
hedge funds are domiciled in the Bahamas, Bermuda, The British Virgin 
Islands  and  the  Cayman  Islands.  These  jurisdictions  generally  apply 
certain  laws  regulating  the  operations  and  conduct  of  investment  pools 
and  investment  pool  administrators  to  hedge  funds  and  hedge  fund 
administrators  :  The  Bahamas  Mutual  Fund  Act,  1995  (June  2001 
Revision);  Bermuda  Monetary  Authority  Act  1969;  Bermuda  Companies 
Act  1981,  Part  XII  A  (Mutual  Fund  Companies);  Bermuda  Monetary 
Authority (Collective Investment Scheme Classification) Regulations 1998; 
British  Virgin  Islands  Mutual  Funds  Act,  1996  (as  amended  1997)  and 
Cayman Islands Mutual Fund Law (2003 Revision). These laws generally 
require  fund  administrators  to  be  licensed  and 
three  of  the  four 
jurisdictions  (except  Bermuda)  require  licensed  fund  administrators  to 
have their accounts audited by an auditor approved by the regulator. Each 
of  these  jurisdictions  also  subjects  licensed  fund  administrators  to  anti-
money 
forth  client 
identification and record keeping requirements in addition to obligations to 
report any suspicious activity with respect to the funds they administer to 
the relevant authority in that jurisdiction. 

laundering  provisions.  These  provisions  set 

 
 
2.1.6  Ireland:        
 

Hedge  fund  managers  setting  up  an  offshore  fund  can  seek  a  listing  for 
the  fund’s  shares  on  the  Irish  Stock  Exchange.  This  does  not  generally 
extend the categories of investor with whom shares of hedge fund can be 
privately placed. But often a listing is sought  because it is believed that 
institutional investors can invest a larger proportion of their assets in listed 
(  as  distinct  from  unlisted)  shares.  Hedge  funds  seeking  a  listing  must 
impose  a  minimum  investment  amount  per  investor  of  US  $100,000, 
unless the hedge fund is set up under the law of EU member states, Hong 
Kong,  the  Isle  of  Man,  Jersey,  Guernsey  or  Bermuda.  The  investment 
manager must show that the fund has adequate and appropriate expertise 
and  experience  in  managing  investments;  in  practice  this  means  the 
manager must already be managing $100 million in third party funds on a 
discretionary  basis.  Hedge  funds  seeking  a  listing  must  also  have 

 

27 

appointed a custodian with responsibility for the safe keeping and custody 
of the fund’s assets. 

 
2.1.7  Singapore: 
 

In response to interest expressed by the financial industry, The Monetary 
Authority  of  Singapore  (MAS)  issued  in  June  2001  guidelines  allowing 
hedge  funds  to  be  sold  to  the  public.  The  rationale  is,  according  to  the 
MAS,  is :  “to  provide  more  investment  choice  for  those  who  understand 
the higher risks associated with the prospect of significantly higher returns 
from  such  funds”.  The  key  requirements  for  public  offerings  of  hedge 
funds  are  a  minimum  initial  subscription  of  $100,000  per  investor, 
adequate and prominent disclosure in the prospectus of the high risks of 
investing in hedge funds, and investment managers must have expertise 
in managing such funds.    

 
2.1.8  Hong Kong: 
 

In  October  2001  the  Hong  Kong  Securities  and  Futures  Commission 
(HKSFC)  issued  a  consultation  paper  on  the  offering  of  hedge  funds, 
which considered various different approaches. The consultation exercise 
has  concluded  and,  from  17  May  2002,  funds  seeking  authorization  as 
hedge  funds  need  to  comply  with  several  new  provisions.  Under  these 
guidelines, managers of single hedge funds and funds of hedge funds will 
be required to be managing assets of at least US $100 million, and have 
five  years’  general  experience  in  “hedge  fund  strategies”.  The  minimum 
individual  investment  in  single  hedge  funds  is  US  $50,000,  and  US 
$10,000 for funds of hedge funds. No minimum subscription level  applies 
to  schemes  providing  100%  capital  guarantees.  Hedge  fund  offering 
documents must display warning statements on the front cover, noting the 
special risks associated with these investments.     

     
 
2.1.9  Taiwan: 
 

There  was  no  guideline/regulation/rule  to  regulate  hedge  funds  existing 
within Taiwan’s regulatory framework, even though hedge fund issue was 

 

28 

 

the top priority concern  to SFC, Taiwan’s regulator. SFC used to apply a 
self declaration like form to screen hedge funds from Foreign Institutional 
Investors  but  it  did  not  seem  to  be  so  effective.  SFC  turned  around  the 
policy toward hedge funds, when it eventually approved two hedge funds’ 
application a month ago after one-month review and consideration. 

SFC has now given a guideline to the Taiwan Stock Exchange (TSE) that, 
other than those internationally recognized “unfriendly” hedge funds, those 
which  meet  the  certain  criteria  shall  be  in  principle  allowed  to  obtain  a 
foreign  institutional  investor  (FINI)  status  for  investment  in  Taiwan’s 
securities market. 
 
The  hedge  fund  provides,  in  its  application  for  FINI,  memorandum  and 
articles  of  association  or  agreement  for  establishment  of  the  fund,  and 
explanation  of  its  investment  or  trading  strategies  which  can  sufficiently 
prove that the fund is not engaged in market manipulation. The fund shall 
also declare that it will not use unjust measures to affect the fairness or 
order of the financial / securities market. 
 
The SFC feels that as long as hedge funds can provide true and accurate 
information in their applications and follow local regulations, and that the 
exchanges  can  monitor  and  track  their  activities  effectively,  hedge  funds 
shall not create adverse impacts on the local securities market. 
 

2.1.10 Thailand: 
 

There is no specific guidelines or rules to restrict overseas hedge fund to 
invest in Thai capital market. However, overseas hedge funds who wish to  
invest  in  Thai  Stock  of  Exchange  need  to  subject  to  SEC  laws,  in 
particular,  in  chapter  8,  regarding  unfair  securities  trading  practices  and 
acquisition of securities for business Takeovers. 

SEC, Thailand treats hedge fund equal to ordinary investors in Thai Stock 
Exchange Market. The regulator  does not have special checking on any 
hedge  funds  but    checks  for  unusual  transactions  of  all  categories  of 
investors equally by : 

29 

 

 

 

 

v  checking  unusual  movement  in  SET  (stock  exchange)  which  may 

caused by unfair securities trading in the market. 

v  checking through investors report submitted to SEC for the disclosure 
of  the holding of securities above the threshold (5% of total number of 
securities). 

The impact of these changes on fund location and investment profiles has, 
to date, been small when compared to the size of the global hedge fund 
market. However, the changes above are recent developments and funds 
operating  under  these  regimes  may,  over  time,  account  for  a  greater 
proportion of the industry’s funds under management.  

 
 
2.1.11 IOSCO 
 

In  February  2003,  the  IOSCO  Technical  Committee  approved  for  public 
release  the  report  entitled  Regulatory  and  Investor  Protection  Issues 
Arising  from  the  Participation  from  Retail  Investors  in  (Funds  of)  Hedge 
Funds.  While summarizing its recommendation the Technical Committee 
highlighted that the possibilities for retail investments in hedge funds have 
significantly grown over the past years. Some jurisdictions allow forms of 
direct  retail  investment  and  many  jurisdictions  allow  indirect  retail 
investment.  

Where  the  jurisdiction  does  permit  the  marketing  and  selling  of  hedge 
funds to retail investors, the key regulatory concerns that arise are :  

1.  The retail investor may not adequately understand the risk involved in 

or the complexity of the product; and  

2.  That  the  managers  may  not  have  the  competence  or  the  processes 
and controls to adequately manage the fund and explain this clearly to 
his investors. 

The  committee  recommended  that  the  hedge  funds  marketed  and  sold 
directly  to  retail  investors  should  be  subject  to  the  same  disclosure 
requirements  as  other  Collective 
Investment  Schemes  (investment 
companies  in  USA  and  Mutual  Funds  in  India).    The  management  and 

30 

 

 

 

 

internal control process of hedge funds may require additional attention of 
the regulator. The regulator should consider the adequacy of skills such as 
ability  to  manage  complexity  of  investment  strategies  and  risks,  while 
accepting that it is impossible to second-guess the commercial judgments 
being made by the manager and for which the manager is responsible.  

 
2.1.12  
 

1) 

2) 

3) 

4) 

5) 

Highlights of Regulatory Review: 

Hedge funds are a growing segment of asset management industry 
and  increasingly  becoming  popular  not  only  with  high  networth 
individual    investors  but  also  with  institutional  investors  including 
university funds, pension funds, insurance and endowments. Some 
of  the  jurisdictions,  have  even  initiated  policies  to  provide  hedge 
fund  or  fund  of  funds  as  alternative  investment  options  to  retail 
investors. 
Hedge  funds,  are  sometimes  perceived  to  be  speculative  and 
volatile.  However,  not  all  funds  exhibit  such  characteristics.  There 
are  hedge  funds    which  provide  capital  protection  feature  to  the 
investors. 
Hedge  funds  themselves  are  not  registered  in  most  of  the 
developed  markets  but  investment  managers/advisors  managing 
hedge funds could be registered as investment advisors under the 
relevant  regulations.  However,  the  registration  of  the  investment 
advisors does not necessarily involve substantive supervision over 
the funds operations.  
Some  jurisdictions  are  gradually  moving  towards  allowing  the 
marketing  of  hedge  fund  and  fund  of  funds  products  to  retail 
investors.  Those 
imposed 
disclosure  requirements  to  ensure  that  investors  understand  the 
complexity and associated risk of investing in hedge funds. 
Hedge  funds  in  search  of  high  returns  are  also  investing  in 
emerging  markets..  Realizing  the  growing  importance  of  hedge 
funds,  several  emerging  market  regulators  have  opened  their 
markets  to  offshore  hedge  funds  by  providing  authorization  as 
registered foreign investors. 

jurisdictions  have  simultaneously 

 

31 

6) 

All  hedge  funds  though  are  not  regulated  like  mutual  funds,  they 
are  nevertheless  subject  to  market  abuse  laws  and  anti-money 
laundering procedures. 

 

32 

 

III  FINANCIAL CRISIS AND HEDGE FUNDS 

 
In spite of difference of views, the role played by some of the large hedge funds 
have often been associated with major financial crisis that took place in the 90’s. 
 
3.1 
 
 

East Asian Crisis 
 
The  impact  of  the  East  Asian  crisis  which  materialized  in  the  middle  of 
1997,  and  the  subsequent  turbulence  that  swept  the  world’s  financial 
markets  over  the  next  12-18  months,  has  been  significant  not  only  in 
terms  of  the  financial,  economic  and  social  consequences  that  these 
events  wrought  on  emerging  market  economies,  but  also  in  terms  of 
drawing  the  world’s  attention  to  outstanding  issues  concerning  the 
structure, operation and regulation of the international financial system. 

 
 

 
3.2 
 

Causes  of  the  crisis  remain  among  the  most  contentious  issues  and 
continue  to  be  debated  at  the  academic  as  well  as  policy  level.  The 
Emerging Markets Committee of IOSCO identified multiple causes of the 
East Asian crisis. The Committee also made a reference to the role played 
by some hedge funds : “complex trading strategies involving futures were 
thought by some authorities to have exerted a destabilizing influence on 
market performance in their jurisdictions. Currency speculators pursued a 
so-called “double play” aimed at playing off the Hong Kong currency board 
futures  markets.”4   
system  against 
However,  subsequent  research  could  not  produce  robust  evidence 
implicating the hedge funds for precipitating the crisis.  Researchers have, 
however,  attributed  the  negative  public  perception  of  the  role  of  hedge 
fund  managers  in  crisis  partly  to  the  limited  information  available  about 
what they actually do. 

the  administrations  stock  and 

Long Term Capital Management (LTCM) 

Another major financial crisis involving a large hedge fund was that of the 
huge  loss  (US  $  4  billion)  suffered  by  LTCM  in  1998.  LTCM  built    its 

                                                 
4 Causes, Effects and Regulatory Implications of Financial and Economic Turbulence in Emerging Markets 
– Emerging Markets Committee, IOSCO, November 1999.  
 

33 

positions on sophisticated arbitrage trading strategies. In addition,  it used 
a significant degree of leverage to increase its expected return. In August, 
and September of 1998, as the global financial crisis worsened, it became 
clear  to  LTCM  that  many  of  the  assumptions  inherent  in  the  arbitrage 
positions  it  held  were  incorrect.  Due  to  LTCM’s  leverage  (which  at  one 
point  has  exceeded  50  to  1),    those  incorrect  assumptions  resulted  in 
substantial losses for the firm and eroded its capital base5.  Liquidation of 
LTCM’s positions  could have potentially disrupted the financial markets, 
resulting  in  losses  for  other  participants  in  those  markets.  Finally,  a 
consortium  of  banks  worked  out  a  rescue  plan  facilitated  by  the  Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, acknowledged that LTCM’s potential impact 
on  the  world’s  financial  markets  raises  legitimate  questions  about  the 
activities  of  hedge  funds  in  general,  as  well  as  the  proper  role  that 
regulators  should  play  with  respect  to  those  activities.  However,  he  also 
asserted that it was too soon to tell whether LTCM’s investment strategies 
represent the norm in the hedge funds industry or, whether LTCM was an 
overly  aggressive  player  among  otherwise 
responsible  market  
participants. 

In response to the near collapse of Long-Term Capital Management, LP 
(LTCM),  the  Technical  Committee  of  the  IOSCO  formed  a  special  Task 
Force  on  Hedge  Funds  and  Other  Highly  Leveraged  Institutions  to 
address  regulatory  issues  relating  to  the  activities  of  highly  leveraged 
institutions (HLIs) or hedge funds. The Committee in its report underlined 
that HLIs, like other institutional investors, can provide benefits to global 
financial  markets.  It  also  highlighted  the  combination  of  characteristics 
typically associated with HLIs such as significant leverage, and the legal 
and other uncertainties arising out of the extensive operations in offshore 
centers posing particular challenges which need to be managed carefully 
in  order  to  avoid  risks  to  the  financial  system.  The  committee,  as  a 
defense  against  systemic  risk  in  the  market  ,  recommended  strong  and 
prudent risk management processes at the regulated firms with which the 
HLIs trade. The Committee also highlighted the importance of transparent 

 

                                                 
5  Testimony of Richard L. Lindsey, Director Division of Market Regulation, before the House Committee 
on Banking and Financial Services concerning Hedge Fund Activities in the U. S. Financial Markets, 
October 1, 1998.  
 

34 

disclosure by the regulated entities dealing with HLIs and HLIs themselves 
on a voluntary basis, as a means to maintain market integrity. 
 
In spite of occasional negative perception about  the role of hedge funds, 
such  perceived  misdemeanors  by  certain  hedge  funds  have  been 
considered  more  as  occasional  aberrations  than  general  industry  wide 
behaviour. This is also corroborated by the fact that many jurisdictions are 
gradually  opening  up  their  markets  for  hedge  funds  to  establish  and 
market their products. 
 
Further,  for  the  purpose  of  this  paper  it  must  be  emphasized  here  that 
allowing access to offshore hedge funds to invest in India through FII route 
will  not  provide  any  opportunity  to  them  to  build  up  leveraged  position 
onshore  as  borrowing  by  FIIs  are  not  allowed  under  the  terms  of  RBIs 
general permission. 

 
 

 

35 

 
IV. REGULATORY ISSUE FOR ALLOWING FOREIGN HEDGE FUNDS IN 

INDIA  

 

4.1  Hedge Funds in India 

With  the notification of SEBI (Mutual Fund) Regulations 1993,   the asset 
management business  under private sector  took its root in India.   In the 
same year SEBI,  also  notified Regulations and Rules governing Portfolio 
Managers who pursuant to a contract or arrangement with clients, advise 
clients or undertake the management of portfolio of securities or funds of 
the  client.  We  have  however,  no  information  about  any  hedge  funds  
domiciled  in  India.  Further,  on  account  of  limited  convertibility,  offshore 
hedge  funds  have  yet to offer  their  products  to  Indian    investors  within 
India.    Recently,  RBI  through  liberalized  remittance  scheme,  allowed 
resident individuals to remit upto  US $ 25,000 per year for any current or 
capital  account  transaction.  The  liberalized  scheme  will  allow  Indian 
individual  investors  to  explore  the  possibility  of  investing  in  offshore 
financial products. Considering the existing limit being only US $ 25,000 
per  year,  Indian  market  may  not  be  attractive  to  hedge  fund  product 
marketing.  As  long  as  there  will  be  restriction  on  capital  account 
convertibility,  foreign hedge funds, by virtue of their minimum investment 
limit    being  $  100,000  or  higher,  do  not  seem  to  be  excited  to  access 
investment from Indian investors in India. It may be clearly understood that 
the suggestions put forth in the following paragraphs are in no way aimed 
at  allowing  foreign  hedge  funds  to  mobilise  investment  from  India  by 
offering  their  products  to  Indian  investors.  Therefore  regulatory  issues 
related to investor protection have not been considered for this Report. 

Some hedge funds have invested in offshore derivative instruments (PNs) 
issued  by  FIIs  against  underlying  Indian  securities.  Through  this  route 
hedge  funs  can  derive  economic  benefit  of  investing  in  Indian securities 
without  directly  entering  the  Indian  market  as  FIIs  or  their  sub-accounts. 
Through recent amendments to the FII Regulations (Regulation 15A and 
20 A), the regulatory  regime has been further strengthened and periodic 
disclosures  regime  has  been  introduced.  As  at  the  end  of  March, 2004, 

36 

 

 

total  investment  by  hedge  funds.  In  the  offshore  derivative  instruments 
(PNs) against Indian  equity, are Rs.  8050 crores which  represents about 
8% total net  equity investments of all FIIs. On the basis of market value, 
the  hedge  funds  account  for  about  5%  of  the  market  value  of  the total 
assets held by the FIIs in India. 

 

The current fiscal year (2003-2004) has seen a spectacular increase in FII 
activities in Indian market. Till this report is filed FIIs have already invested 
US  $  10  bn.  during  this  year  alone  which  is  a  record.  Robust  economic 
fundamentals,  strong  corporate  earnings  and  improvement  in  market 
micro structure are driving the FII interest in India. Investors all over the 
world are keen to come to Indian market. From informal discussions with 
institutional investors including some reputed and well established hedge 
funds,  one  could  gauge  the  extent  of  interest  they  have  about  Indian 
markets. During the discussions they  have  requested  whether  India, like 
other  Asian  emerging  markets,  can  provide  a  regulatory  framework  that 
will allow them to directly invest in Indian market in a transparent manner. 
In this context, the following approach may be considered for allowing the 
well-established  hedge  funds  to  invest  in  Indian  markets  as  a  registered 
entity under the SEBI (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, 1995. 

 

4.2  Relevant Provisions of FII Regulations: 

Though  hedge  funds are not  an excluded category of foreign institutional 
investors under the SEBI (FII) Regulations, 1995 they are , however, by 
virtue  of  not  being  regulated  by  securities  regulators  in  their  place  of 
incorporation  or  operations ,  cannot  come  as  FII  under  the  present 
provisions  of  SEBI  (FII)  Regulations.  Regulation  6  (i)  (b)  of  the  FII 
Regulations requires an FII applicant to be a regulated entity in its place of 
incorporation or operations.  

The  FII  Regulations  allow  sub-accounts  sponsored  by  registered  FIIs  to 
invest  in  India.  Regulation  2  (k)  defines  “sub-account”  which  “includes 
foreign corporates or foreign individuals and those institutions, established 
or  incorporated  outside  India  and  those  funds,  or  portfolios,  established 
outside India, whether  incorporated or not, on whose behalf investments 

37 

 

 

are  proposed  to  be  made  in  India  by  a  foreign  institutional  investor”. 
Further,  provisions  of  the  regulation  13  lay  down  the  conditions  and 
procedure  for  granting  registration  to  a  sub-account  of  an  FII.  Hedge 
Funds of almost all variations can meet the requirements of sub-accounts 
if  they  are  ‘fit  and  proper’  persons.  However,  based  on  (an  internal 
administrative decision) if an applicant indicates in the application that it is 
a  hedge  fund,  the  consideration  of  the  application  is  withheld.  Since 
granting  of  registration  to  FII/sub-accounts  is  based  on  the  disclosure  of 
details  and  on  the  undertaking  given  by  the    applicant  in  the  application 
form, it could be possible that a few entities who described their  activities 
in the application form in terms other than hedge funds could have already 
got registration as sub- accounts. However, it must be remembered that 
all sub-accounts have to be sponsored by registered FIIs who are required 
to be regulated entities by the relevant regulators in their home countries. 

 

4.3 

Identifying Hedge Funds 

As  mentioned  in  earlier  paragraphs,  hedge  funds  do  not  have,  any 
universally accepted definition. Therefore, identifying a hedge fund is the 
first  challenge  that  a  regulator  faces.  An  approach  for  identifying  hedge 
funds, as suggested by IOSCO is to look at the kinds of characteristics of 
fund management strategies employed by institutions. Hedge funds would 
at least exhibit some of the following characteristics: 

i) 

ii) 

iii) 

iv) 

v) 

 

 

borrowing and leverage restrictions, which are typically included in 
Mutual  Fund  Regulation  are  not  applied,  and  many  (but  not  all) 
hedge funds use high levels of leverage. 

significant  performance  fees  (often  in  the  form  or  percentage  of 
profits)  are  paid  to  the  manager  in  addition  to  an  annual 
management fees. 

investors  are 
periodically, e.g. quarterly, semi-annually or annually; 

typically  permitted 

redeem 

to 

their 

interests 

often significant ‘own’ funds are invested by manager; 

derivatives  are  used,  often  for  speculative  purposes, and there is 
an ability to short sell securities; 

38 

vi)  More diverse risks or complex underlying products are involved. 

The  distinguishing  characteristics  of  hedge  funds  are  not  limited  to  this 
and  the  list  may  need  to  adapt  depending  on  the  changing  market 
dynamics. Further, it might be appropriate to also consider the investment 
strategy  followed  by  particular  funds,  such  as  long/short  exposures, 
leverage and / or hedging and arbitrage techniques. On the basis of these 
characteristics, it will be possible to identify an applicant as a hedge fund. 

 

 

4.4 

Investment limits applicable to FIIs: 

 

Chapter  II  of  the  SEBI  (Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, 1995 
interalia  list out    the  instruments  in  which  an  FII/sub-account can invest. 
The  regulation  does  not  include  currency  or  commodities  as  eligible 
instruments  for  investment  for  the  FIIs.  Therefore,  currency  trading  or 
investment in commodity related financial products will not be an option for 
any hedge funds under the present FII Regulations. 

The  SEBI  (Foreign  Institutional  Investors)  Regulations,  1995  also  lays 
down scrip-wise and fund wise maximum limits a fund can invest. Further, 
through  circular  No.  SMD/DC/CIR-11/02  dated  February  12,  2002  and 
SEBI/DNAD/CIR-21/2004/03/09  dated  March  9,  2004 
issued  by 
Secondary Market  Department,  position  limits  for  investment  by  FIIs  in 
derivatives have been advised. These limits will  help diversify the  foreign 
hedge  fund  investments  and  will  help  in  jettisoning  concentration  in  any 
specific    scrip.  The  provisions  of  Chapter  III  (Regulation  15  (3)  (a)) 
disallows  short  selling  by  FIIs  and  stipulates  that  all  trades  by  FIIs  are 
delivery based. The provision will clearly keep the hedge funds if allowed 
to  invest  as  FIIs  out  of  short  selling  at  least  in  the  cash  segment.  It  is 
therefore,  clear  that  existing  provisions  in  the  FII  Regulations  include 
several  checks  and  balances  which  can  keep  our  market  safe  from 
potential market abuse and manipulation. 

39 

 

 

 
 

 

4.5  Additional Regulatory Concerns: 

 

In view of the increasing popularity among the institutions as well as their 
increasing  interest  in  the  Indian  market,  it  might  be  time  to  provide  a 
limited  window  to  this  growing  segment  of  asset  management  industry 
within the  existing framework of the  SEBI (Foreign  Institutional  Investors) 
Regulations.  While opening up our market one cannot be oblivious to the 
special concerns associated with the creative fund management strategies 
used  by  these  funds.  Thus,  the  approach  adopted  in  formulating  the 
following  policy  suggestions  has  been  that  of  transparent  and  regulated 
access  with  abundant  caution.    Para    4.4  of  this  section  has  already 
outlined the existing provisions in the SEBI (Foreign  Institutional Investors) 
Regulations, 1995 and the Guidelines issued by SEBI which an address 
the  concerns  related  to  currency  speculations,  short  selling,  scrip  wise 
concentration in the cash market and excessive positions in the derivative 
segment of our market.  As mentioned earlier, these types of funds raise 
special  regulatory  concerns  which  are  necessary  to  be  addressed  with 
special 
following  additional 
provisions  have  been  suggested  with  respect  to  hedge  funds  seeking 
registration as FII :  

regulatory  provisions. 

In 

this  context, 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

The investment  adviser to the hedge funds should be a regulated 
investment advisor  under the relevant Investor Advisor Act or the 
fund is registered under Collective Investment Fund Regulations or 
Investment Companies Act . 
At least  20% of the corpus of the fund should  be contributed by 
the  investors  such  as  pension funds,  university funds,  charitable 
trusts or societies, endowments, banks and insurance companies. 
The  presence of institutional investors  in  the  fund  is  expected  to 
ensure  better  governance  on  the  part  of  the  fund  manager  and 
fund  administrators.  Further, institutional investors may  help  fund 
managers to take a long term perspective of the market. 
The  fund  should  be  a  broad  based  fund  in  terms  of  the  SEBI 
(Foreign Institutional Investors) Regulations, particularly in terms of 
the explanation to Regulation 6 (1) (d).  
The fund manager or investment adviser  must have experience of 

 

40 

at least 3 years of managing funds with similar investment strategy 
that the applicant fund has adopted. This provision is expected to 
allow  well  managed funds to access our  market and at the same 
time, keep our markets insulated from the possible adverse effects 
of ‘trial and errors’ by uninitiated rookies. 

Hedge  funds    as  a    whole  are  becoming  an  important  segment  of  the 
asset  management    industry  and  gaining  popularity    from  investors 
particularly  from  the  high  net  worth  investors,    universities,  charitable 
funds,  endowments,  pension  funds,  insurance    and  other  institutional 
investors. The asset under management of the hedge funds are growing  
on  a  double    digit  rate.  All  hedge  funds  are  not  necessarily  speculative 
funds though  most of them provide an alternative investment options  for 
the investors through innovative investment strategy.  

The  issues  discussed  and  suggestions  placed  above  are  intended  to 
widen  the  FII  window  to  allow  these  alternatives  invest  pools  to  our 
securities  markets  in  a  transparent  and  orderly  manner.  In  addition,  the 
suggestions  also  provide  for  adequate  safety  measures  to  address 
legitimate  concerns  associated  with 
funds.  The  alternative 
investment  pools  if  allowed  to  investment  in  Indian  markets  will  be  a 
source  of  additional  liquidity  and  will  also  diversify  the  pool  of  foreign 
investments in Indian market. 

these 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Report on Hedge Funds  - 14.5.2004 

 

41 

