 

SEBI, vide its circular SEBI/MRD/SE/AT/36/2003/30/09 dated September 30, 2003; issued 
directions to Stock Exchanges in relation to Secondary Market for Corporate Debt Securities. 
The  said  circular  interalia  requires  companies  to  sign  a  separate  listing  agreement  for  the 
privately placed debt securities.  
 
Accordingly a draft listing agreement has been prepared which will be applicable for listing 
of  all  debt  securities  irrespective  of  mode  of  issuance  (i.e  through  public  issue  or  private 
placement).  
 
Public comments on the same are welcome. The comments may be sent to the Division of 
Issues  &  Listing,  Corporation  Finance  Department 
to 
santanunb@sebi.gov.in, neelamb@sebi.gov.in or faxed to 91-22-22045633 within 14 days.  

,  SEBI  or 

emailed 

 
 

DRAFT LISTING AGREEMENT FOR DEBT SECURITIES 

 
This 

agreement  made 

at 

___________ 

this 

______________________ 

day 

of_____________20_____by___________________________________________________

__________________________  a  Company/  any  other  body  duly  formed  and  registered 

under 

the 

relevant 

Act 

and 

having 

its 

Registered 

office 

 

at 

_______________________________________________________________________ 

(hereinafter 

called 

 

“the 

Issuer”)  with 

the  Stock  Exchange 

of 

India 

Limited__________________ (hereinafter called ‘the Exchange’). 

 
WHEREAS  the  Issuer  has  filed  with  the  Exchange  an  application  for  listing  its  debt 
securities more particularly described in detail in Schedule I annexed hereto and made a part 
thereof. 
 
AND  WHEREAS  it  is  a  requirement  of  the    Exchange  that  there  must  be  filed  with  the 
application  an  agreement  in  terms  hereinafter  appearing,  to  qualify  for  the  admission  and  
continuance of the said securities upon the list of the  Exchange.    
 
NOW  THEREFORE  in  consideration  of  the  Exchange  having  agreed  to  list  the  said 
securities, the Issuer hereby covenants and agrees with the Exchange as follows: 
 
1.    The Issuer agrees: 
 
a)  

that  letters  of  allotment  will  be  issued  simultaneously  and  that  in  the  event  of  being 
impossible  to  issue  letters  of  regret  at  the  same  time,  a  notice  to  that  effect  will  be 
inserted in the press so that it will appear on the morning after the letters of allotment 
have been posted; 
that  letters  of  allotment  or  acceptance  will  be  serially  numbered,  printed  on  good 
quality paper and examined and signed by a responsible officer of the Issuer and that 

b)  

Page 1 of 44 

 

whenever possible they will contain the distinctive numbers of the securities to which 
they relate; 
that letters of allotment will contain a provision for splitting   
that letters of allotment will state how the next payment of interest on the said securities 
will be calculated. 

c)  
d)  

 
 
2.   The  Issuer  will  issue,  when  so  required,  receipts  in  such  forms  as  prescribed  by  the  
Exchange, for all debt securities deposited with it whether for registration, sub-division, 
consolidation, renewal, exchange or for other purposes. 

to have on hand at all times a sufficient supply of certificates to meet the demands for 
transfer, sub-division, consolidation, renewal; 
to issue certificates within one month of the date of lodgment for transfer, sub-division, 
consolidation, renewal, exchange or endorsement of calls/allotment monies  

b)  

 
3.    The Issuer agrees : 
 
a)  

 
4.   The Issuer agrees: 
 
a)  

to  issue,  unless  the    exchange  otherwise  agrees  and  the  parties  concerned  desire, 
allotment letters, certificates and other relevant documents in such units of trading as 
may be specified by  the exchange; 

b)   Unless the Exchange otherwise specifies, to split certificates and letters of allotment of 
large  denomination  into  smaller  units  and  to  consolidate  certificates  of  small 
denominations into denominations corresponding to requirements of the Exchange; 
to promptly  issue  new  certificates  in  replacement  of  those  which  are  old,  decrepit or 
worn  out  or  where  the  cages  on  the  reverse  for  recording  transfers  have  been  fully 
utilized.    

d)      to  promptly  issue  new  certificates  in  replacement  of  those  which  are  lost  within  six 

weeks of notification of loss and receipt of proper indemnity; 
to issue call notices and splits and duplicates thereof in a standard form acceptable to 
Exchange, to forward a supply of the same promptly to Exchange for meeting requests 
for  blank,  split  and  duplicate  call  notices,  to  make  arrangements  for  accepting  call 
moneys at all centers where there are recognized  Stock Exchanges in India and not to 
require a discharge on call receipts. 
to accept the discharge of the member of Exchange on split, consolidation and renewal 
receipts  as  good  and  sufficient  without  insisting  on  the  discharge  of  the  registered 
holders. 

 
5.   When  documents  are  lodged  for  sub-division,  consolidation  or  renewal  through  the 

clearing house of Stock Exchange, the Issuer agrees: 

that it will accept the discharge of an official of Stock Exchange Clearing House on the 
Issuer’s  split,  consolidation  and  renewal  receipts  as  good  and  sufficient  without 
insisting on the discharge of the registered holders; 
that  when  the  Issuer  is  unable  to  issue  certificates  or  split,  consolidation  or  renewal 
receipts immediately on lodgment, it will verify whether the discharge of the registered 
holders on the documents lodged for sub-division, consolidation or renewal and their 
signature on the relative transfers are in order. 

Page 2 of 44 

c)  

e)  

f)  

 
a)  

b)  

 

 
6.   The Issuer will, if so required by Exchange, certify transfer against letters of allotment 
and    certificates  and  in  that  event  the  Issuer  will  promptly  make  on  transfers  an 
endorsement to the following effect; 

 Name  of  Issuer  ___________________  Certificate/Allotment  Letter  No.  _________ 
for  the  within  mentioned  _______________  securities  is  deposited  in  the  Issuer’s 
Office against this transfer No.________________________  
Signature(s) of Official(s) ___________________        Date _______________ 

 
7.    On production of the necessary documents by the debenture holders / bond holders or 
members  of  the    Exchange,  the  Issuer  will  make  on  transfer  an  endorsement  to  the 
effect  that  the  Power  of  Attorney  or  Probate  or  Letters  of  Administration  or  Death 
Certificate  or  Certificate  of  the  Controller  of  Estate  Duty  or  similar  other  documents  
has been duly exhibited to and registered by the Issuer. 
 

8.    Unless  the  Exchange  otherwise  agrees  the  Issuer  agrees  that  it  will  not  make  any 

charge: 

for registration of transfers of its bonds or  debentures; 
for  sub-division  and  consolidation  of    bonds  and  debenture  certificates  and  for  sub-
division  of  letters  of  allotment  and  split,  consolidation,  renewal  and  pucca  transfer 
receipts into  denominations corresponding to the market units of trading; 
for issue of new certificates in replacement of those which are old, decrepit or worn out, 
or  where the cages on the reverse of recording transfers have been fully utilised; 
for  registration  of  any  power  of  attorney,  probate,  letters  of  administration  or  similar 
other documents. 

 

 
a)  
b)  

c)  

d)  

 
9. 

 
a)  

b)  

The Issuer agrees to notify the Exchange in such manner, regarding closure of books of 
debenture  holders/bondholders  for  purpose  of  interest  payment,  redemption  of 
debenture/bonds and for such other purposes, so as to be received by the Exchange at 
least fifteen days in advance. 

 
10.  The  Issuer  agrees  to  comply  with  such  provisions  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the 

Exchange for clearing and settlement process. 

 
11.   The Issuer agrees that it will not charge any fees exceeding those, which may be agreed 

upon with Stock Exchange – 

for  issue  of  new  certificates  in  replacement  of  those  that  are  torn,  defaced,  lost  or 
destroyed; 
for  sub-division  and  consolidation  of  debenture  certificates  and  for  sub-division  of 
letters  of  allotment  and  split,  consolidation,  renewal  and  pucca  transfer  receipts  into 
denominations other than those fixed for the market units of trading. 

 
12.  The Issuer agrees to promptly verify the signatures of / debenture holders / bond holders 
on  allotment  letters,  split,  consolidation,  renewal,  transfer  and  any  other  temporary 
receipts and transfer deeds when so required by the debenture holders / bond holders or 
a  member  of  the  Exchange  or  by  the  Clearing  /  Settlement  system  prescribed  by  the 
Exchange.   

Page 3 of 44 

 
13.  The  Issuer  agrees  that  it  will  entertain  applications  for  registering  transfers  of  its  debt 

securities when: 

 

the instrument of transfer is in any usual or common form approved by Stock Exchange 
and  
the transfer deeds are properly executed and accompanied either by certificates or by 
letters of allotment, pucca transfer receipts, split, consolidation or renewal receipts duly 
discharged  either  by  the  registered  holders  or,  in  the  case  of  split,  consolidation  or 
renewal receipts, by the members of Stock Exchange. 

 
14.  The  Issuer  will  promptly  notify  the  Exchange  of  any  attachment  or  prohibitory  orders 
restraining the Issuer from transferring debt securities out of the names of the registered 
holders and furnish to the Exchange particulars of the numbers of securities so affected, 
the distinctive numbers of such securities and the names of the registered holders, their 
demat account details.. 

The Issuer will promptly notify the Exchange - 

of  any  action  which  will  result  in  the  redemption,  conversion,  cancellation  or 
retirement in whole or in part of any debt securities listed on the Exchange ; 

of the intention to make a drawing of such securities, intimating at the same time the 
date of the drawing and the period of closing of the transfer books ( or the date of the 
striking of the balance) for the drawing ; 

of the amount of security outstanding after any drawing has been made. 

 
c) 
 
16.    The  Issuer  agrees  to  close  its  transfer  books  for  purposes  of  issue  of  shares  for 
conversion of debentures or of shares arising out of right attached to debentures or 
for such other purposes as the exchange may agree to or require and further agree to 
close  its  transfer  books  at  least  once  a  year  at  the  time  of  the  Annual  General 
Meeting if they have not been otherwise closed at any time during the year and to 
give  to  exchange  the  notice  in  advance  of  at  least  forty-two  days,  or  of  as  many 
days as exchange may from time to time reasonably prescribe, stating the dates of 
closure of its transfer books (or, when the Transfer books are not to be closed, the 
date fixed for taking a record of its debentureholders) and specifying the purpose or 
purposes for which the transfer books are to be closed (or the record is to be taken) 
and to send copies of such notices to the other recognized stock exchanges in India, 
provided that such notice period be reduced from forty-two days to thirty days in  
respect  of  securities  which  are  announced  by  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India from time to time to be compulsorily delivered in dematerialised form by all 
investors. The Issuer further agrees to ensure that the time gap between two book 
closures and record dates would be atleast 30 days. 

 
a)  

b)  

 
15. 
 
a) 

 
b) 

 
 
17. 

a)  

If, in view of the volume of business in the listed securities of the Issuer, Exchange so 
requires, the Issuer will arrange to maintain: 
a transfer register in cities satisfactory to Exchange on which all securities of the Issuer 
that are listed on Exchange would be directly transferable; or 

Page 4 of 44 

b)  

a  registry  office  or  some  other  suitable  office  satisfactory  to  Exchange  within  the 
Municipal Area of the City of Bombay which will receive and re-deliver all securities 
that are tendered for the purpose of transfer, sub-division, consolidation or renewal. 

 

 
18.  The  Issuer  agrees  that  it  will  not  close  its  transfer  books  on  such  days  (or  when  the 
transfer  books  are  not  to  be  closed,  fix  such  date  for  the  taking  of  a  record  of  its 
debenture  /  bond  holders)  as  may  be  inconvenient  to  Exchange  for  the  purpose  of 
settlement of transactions, of which due notice  at least 21 days  in advance shall have 
been given by Exchange to the Issuer.   The Issuer will issue simultaneously the interest 
warrants  and  cheques  for  redemption  money,  which  shall  be  payable  at  par  at  such 
centers  as  may  be  agreed  to  between  Exchange  and  the  Issuer  and  which  shall  be 
collected at par, with collection charges, if any, being borne by the  Issuer, in any bank 
in  the  country  at  centers  other  than  the  centers  agreed  to  between  Exchange  and  the 
Issuer,  so  as  to  reach  the  debenture/bond  holders  on  or  before  the  date  fixed  for 
payment of interest on debentures or bonds or redemption money, as the case may be. 

 
19.   The Issuer will accept for registration transfers that are lodged with the Issuer upto the 
date of closure of the transfer books (or when the transfer books are not closed, up to 
the record date) and save as provided in Clause 13 will register such transfers forthwith; 
and  unless  Stock  Exchange  agrees  otherwise,  the  Issuer  will  defer,  until  the  transfer 
books  have  reopened,  registration  of  any  transfer  which  may  be  received  after  the 
closure of the transfer books. 

 
20.   The Issuer will publish in a form approved by Stock Exchange such periodical interim 
statements  of  its  working  and  earning  as  required  by  Stock  Exchange,  SEBI,  or  any 
statutory body or local authority or any body or authority acting under the authority or 
direction of the Central Government. 

 
21.   The  Issuer  will  notify  the  Exchange  at  least  7  days  in  advance  of  the  date  of  the 
meetings of its Board of Directors at which the recommendation or declaration of issue 
of debt instruments/ convertible debentures or of debentures / bonds carrying a right to 
subscribe  to  equity  shares  or  the  passing  over  of  the  dividend  or  any  other  matter 
affecting the interests of debenture-holders/bond-holders is due to be considered. 

 
22    The Issuer will fix and notify exchange at least twenty-one days in advance of the 
date  on  and  from  which  the  interest  on  debentures  and  bonds,  and  redemption 
amount of debentures and bonds will be payable and will issue simultaneously the 
interest  warrants  and  cheques  for  redemption  money  or  redeemable  shares  or 
debentures  and  bonds,  which  shall  be  payable  at  par  at  such  centers  as  may  be 
agreed to between exchange and the Issuer and which shall be collected at par, with 
collection charges, if any, being borne by the  Issuer, in any bank in the country at 
centers other than the centers agreed to between the exchange and the Issuer, so as 
to reach the holders of debentures or bonds on or before the date fixed for payment 
of interest on debentures or bonds or redemption money, as the case may be. 

 
23. The Issuer will, immediately after the meeting of its Board of Directors has been held 
to  consider  or  decide  the  same,  intimate  to  the  Stock  Exchanges    where  the 
company  is  listed,  (within  15  minutes  of  the  closure  of  the  board  meeting)  by 
phone, fax, telegram, e-mail: 

 

Page 5 of 44 

 

a)  short  particulars  of  any  increase  of  capital  whether  by  issue  of  bonus  shares 
through capitalization, or by way of right shares to be offered to the shareholders or 
debenture holders, or in any other way; 
b) short particulars of the reissues of forfeited shares or securities, or the issue of 
shares or securities held in reserve for future issue or the creation in any form or 
manner  of  new  shares  or  securities  or  any  other  rights,  privileges  or  benefits  to 
subscribe to ; 
c) short particulars of any other alterations of capital, including calls; 
d) any other information necessary to enable the holders of the listed securities of 
the Issuer to appraise its position and to avoid the establishment of a false market in 
such listed securities. 

 
24  The Issuer will, within 15 minutes of closure of the meetings of its Board of Directors 
to  consider  any  of  the  matters  mentioned  in  the  preceding  clause  intimate  to  the 
Exchange  the dividends and/ bonus recommended or declared or the decision to pass 
over  any  dividend  and  other  decisions  pertaining  to  matters  mentioned  in  the  clause 
above.   

 
25.  The Issuer agrees to forward to the Exchange an annual return immediately after each 
Annual General Meeting of atleast the top fifty holders of each class of security along 
with particulars such as the number of security held and address of each holder. 

 
26.   a) The Issuer agrees to obtain ‘in-principle’  approval for listing from the exchange 
before issuing further securities. The Issuer also agrees to make an application to 
the  exchange  for  the  listing  of  any  new  issue  of  securities  and  of  the  provisional 
documents relating thereto. 
b)  The  Issuer  agrees  to  make  true,  fair  and  adequate  disclosure  in  the  offer 
documents/draft prospectus/letter of offer in respect of any new or further issue of 
securities. 
c) The Issuer agrees that it shall not issue any prospectus/ offer document/ letter of 
offer  for  public  subscription  of  any  securities  unless  the  said  prospectus/  offer 
document/  letter  of  offer  has  been  filed  with  SEBI  and  an  observation  letter  has 
been obtained from SEBI through the lead manager. 
d)  The  Issuer  further  agrees  that  the  Issuer  shall  submit  to  the  exchange  the 
following documents to enable it to admit/ list the said securities for dealing in the 
exchange, such as -  
i) a copy of the acknowledgement card or letter indicating the observation on draft 
prospectus/ letter of offer/ offer documents by SEBI; 

and 

ii) a certificate from a merchant banker acting as lead manager to the issue reporting 
positive  compliance  by  the  issuer  of  the  guidelines  on  disclosure  and  investor 
protection issued by SEBI. 
e) in the event of non-submission of the documents as mentioned in sub-clause (d) 
above by the Issuer to the exchange or withdrawal of the acknowledgement card by 
SEBI at any time before grant of permission for listing/ admission to dealing of the 
securities, the securities shall not be eligible for listing/ dealing, as the case may be, 
and the company shall be liable to refund the subscription monies to the respective 
investors immediately. 

Page 6 of 44 

 

f) The company agrees that it shall file any scheme/petition proposed to be filed before 
any Court or Tribunal under sections 391, 394 and 101 of the Companies Act, 1956, with 
the stock exchange, for approval, at least a month before it is presented to the Court or 
Tribunal. 

(g)  The  company  agrees  to  ensure  that  any  scheme  of  arrangement/  amalgamation/ 
merger/ reconstruction/ reduction of capital, etc., to be presented to any Court or Tribunal 
does not in any way violate, override or circumscribe the provisions of securities laws or 
the stock exchange requirements. 

(h) Explanation: For the purposes of this sub-clause, ‘securities laws’  mean the SEBI Act, 
1992, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, the Depositories Act, 1996 and the 
provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  which  are  administered  by  SEBI  under  section 
55A thereof, the rules, regulations, guidelines etc. made under these Acts and the Listing 
Agreement. 

(i)  The   company  agrees  that  in  the  explanatory  statement  forwarded  by  it  to  the 
shareholders u/s 393 or accompanying a proposed resolution to be passed u/s 100 of the  
Companies  Act,  it  shall  disclose  the  pre  and  post-arrangement  or  amalgamation 
(expected) capital structure and shareholding pattern. 

27.   Unless the terms of issue otherwise provide, the Issuer will not select any of its listed 
securities for redemption otherwise than pro rata or by lot and will promptly furnish to 
Exchange any information requested in reference to such redemption. 

 
28. The Issuer will promptly notify Stock Exchange  
 

a) of any action, which will result in the redemption, cancellation or retirement in 
whole or in part of any securities listed on Stock  Exchange. 
b) of the intention to make a drawing of such securities, intimating at the same time 
the date of the drawing and the period of the closing of the transfer books (or the 
date of striking of the balance) for the drawing; 
c) of the amount of security outstanding after any drawing has been made. 

 
29.   The Issuer will not make any change in the form or nature of any of its debt securities 
that  are  listed  on  the  Exchange  or  in  the  rights  or  privileges  of  the  holders  thereof 
without prior approval of the Exchange and make an application for listing of the  said 
securities as changed, if  the Exchange shall so require. 

 
30.  The  Issuer  agrees  to  promptly  service  the  debt  securities  with  respect  to  payment  of 
interest and principal as per the terms of the issue and shall intimate the Exchange in 
case it commits default on the payment of interest and/or principal. 

 
31.   The  Issuer  will  promptly  notify  the  Exchange  of  any  proposed  change  in  the  general 

character or nature of its business. 

 
32.   The Issuer will promptly notify  the Exchange :  
 
a)  
b)   of any change of Managing Directors   

of any change in the Issuer’s directorate by death, resignation, removal or otherwise; 

Page 7 of 44 

 

of any change of Auditors appointed to audit the books and accounts of the Issuer. 

c)  
 
33.  The Issuer will forward to  the Exchange promptly and without application:- 
 
a)   

two copies of the Statutory and Directors’  Annual Reports, Balance Sheets and Profits 
& Loss Accounts and of all periodical and special reports as soon as they are issued and 
one copy each to all the recognized Stock Exchanges in India; 
two copies of all notices, resolutions and circulars relating to new issue of security prior 
to their dispatch to shareholders/debenture holders/bondholders; 

b)   

d)  

c)    copy of all the notices, call letters or any other circulars at the same time as they are 
sent to the shareholders or debenture holders or bondholders or advertised in the Press; 
copy of the proceedings of all Annual and Extraordinary General Meeting of the Issuer 
and the meetings of debenture holders/bondholders; 

e)    copy of all notices, circulars, etc., issued or advertised in the press either by the Issuer, 
or  by  any    Company  which  the  Issuer  proposes  to  absorb  or  with  which  the  Issuer 
proposes to merge or amalgamate, or under orders of the court  of any other statutory 
authority  in  connection  with  any  merger,  amalgamation,  re-construction, reduction of 
capital, scheme or arrangement, including notices, circulars, etc. issued or advertised in 
the press in regard to meetings of shareholders or debenture / bond holders or creditors 
or any class of them and  copy of the proceedings at all such meetings.  

 
34.  The  Issuer  will  supply  upon  application  a  copy  of  the  Director’s  Annual  Reports,  

  

Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account  to any member of  the Exchange.   

 

The Issuer agrees to make the following disclosure in the Annual Report: 
 
i)   in  case  the    securities  are  delisted,  it  shall  disclose  the  fact  of  delisting,  together 

with reasons thereof in its Directors Report 

ii)  in  case  the  securities  are  suspended  from  trading,  the  Directors  Report  should 

explain the reason thereof 

iii) the name and address of each  Stock Exchange at which the issuer's securities are 
listed  in  their  Annual  Report  and  also  confirm  that  Annual  Listing  Fee  has  been 
paid to each of the exchange. 

 
The issuer will also give cash flow statement along with the Balance Sheet and Profit 
and Loss Account. The Cash Flow Statement will be prepared in accordance with the 
Accounting  Standard  on  Cash  Flow  Statement  (AS-3)  issued  by  the  Institute  of 
Chartered Accountants of India, and the Cash Flow Statement shall be presented only 
under the Indirect Method as given in AS-3. The statement shall be issued under the 
authority of the Board and shall be signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in the 
manner provided for the authentication of Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account 
in Section 215 of the Companies Act, 1956.  
 

a. Consolidated Financial Statement: 
? Companies shall be mandatorily required to publish Consolidated Financial Statements in 

the annual report in addition to the individual financial statements.  

? Audit of Consolidated Financial Statements by the statutory auditors of the company and 
the filing of Consolidated Financial Statements audited by the statutory auditors of the 
company with the Stock Exchanges shall be mandatory.  
 

Page 8 of 44 

 

b.Related Party Disclosures : 

 

? Companies  shall  be  required  to  make  disclosures  in  compliance  with  the  Accounting 

Standard on "Related Party Disclosures" in the annual reports.  
 
The Issuer agrees to make the following disclosure in the Annual Report: 
i)  in  case  the  shares  are  delisted,  it  shall  disclose  the  fact  of  delisting,  together  with 
reasons thereof in its Directors Report 
ii)  in  case  the  securities  are  suspended  from  trading,  the  Directors  Report  should 
explain the reason thereof 
iii) the name and address of each  Stock Exchange at which the issuer's securities are 
listed and also confirm that Annual Listing Fee has been paid to each of the exchange. 
 
iv)   The following disclosure requirements are prescribed for the listed companies in 
the annual accounts of the company.  
S
.
N
o 

Disclosures of amounts at the year end and the 
maximum amount of loans/ advances/ 
investments outstanding during the year.  

In the 
accounts of 

Parent 

1
. 

(i) 

? Loans and advances in the nature of loans to 

subsidiaries by name and amount.  

? Loans and advances in the nature of loans to 

associates by name and amount  

? Loans and advances in the nature of loans where 

there is  

no repayment schedule or repayment    

 beyond seven years or  

    (ii)     no interest or interest below section 372A of 

Companies Act by name and amount.  

? Loans and advances in the nature of loans to 

2 

3 

Subsidiary 

Parent 

firms/companies in which directors are interested 
by name and amount 
Same disclosures as applicable to the parent 
company in the accounts of subsidiary company. 

Investments by the loanee in the shares of parent 
company and subsidiary company, when the 
company has made a loan or advance in the nature 
of loan. 

 
Note : 1) For the purpose of the above disclosures the terms "parent" and "subsidiary" 
shall have the same meaning as defined in the Accounting Standard on Consolidated 
Financial Statement (AS21) issued by ICAI. 
2) For the purpose of the above disclosures the terms ‘Associate’  and ‘Related Party’ 
shall have the same meaning as defined in the Accounting Standard on "Related Party 
Disclosures (AS 18)" issued by ICAI 

Page 9 of 44 

 

3) For the purpose of above disclosures directors interest shall have the same meaning 
as given in Sec 299 of Companies Act. 
The  above  disclosures  shall  be  applicable  to  all  listed  companies  except  for  listed 
banks.  
 
Issuers who change their name suggesting any new line of business (including software 
business) shall disclose the turnover and income etc from such new activities separately 
in the annual results. 
 
Companies, which have changed their names after January 1, 1998 or change, the name 
hereafter shall make such disclosures and shall continue to make these disclosures for a 
period of 3 years from the date of change in the name. 
 
Issuers who change their name suggesting any new line of business (including software 
business) shall disclose the turnover and income etc from such new activities separately 
in the annual results. 

 
35.  The Issuer will forward to  the Exchange copies of all notices sent to its shareholders 
with respect to amendments to its Memorandum and Articles of Association and will 
file  with    Exchange  a  copy  (which  will  be  certified)  of  such  amendments  as  soon  as 
they shall have been adopted by the Issuer in general meeting. 

 
36.    The Issuer agrees:- 
 

a) that it will not exercise a lien on its fully paid securities and that in respect of 
partly paid securities it will not exercise any lien except in respect of moneys called 
or payable at a fixed time in respect of such securities; 
b) that it will not decline to register or acknowledge any transfer of securities on the 
ground  of  the  transferor  being  either  alone  or  jointly  with  any  other  person  or 
persons indebted to the Issuer on any account whatsoever; 
c) that it will not forfeit unclaimed dividends before the claim becomes barred by 
law and that such forfeiture, when effected, will be annulled in appropriate cases; 
d) that if any amount be paid up in advance of calls on any securities it will stipulate 
that such amount may carry interest but shall not in respect thereof confer a right to 
dividend or to participate in profits; 
e) that it will not give to any person the call of any securities without the sanction of 
the security holders in general meeting; 
f) that it will send out proxy forms to security holders in all cases, such proxy forms 
being  so  worded  that  a  security  holders  may  vote  either  for  or  against  each 
resolution; 
g) that when notice is given to its security holders by advertisement, it will advertise 
such notice in at least one leading National daily newspaper. 

 
37.   Apart from complying with all specific requirements as above, the Issuer will keep the 
Exchange  informed of events such as strikes, lock outs, closure on account of power 
cuts,  etc.    both  at  the  time  of  occurrence  of  the  event  and  subsequently  after  the 
cessation  of  the  event  in  order  to  enable  the  holder  of  the  security  and  the  public  to 
appraise the position of the Issuer and to avoid the establishment of a false market in its 
securities.  In  addition,  the  Issuer  will  furnish  to    the  Exchange  on  request  such 

Page 10 of 44 

 

 

information  concerning  the  Issuer  as  the    Exchange  may  reasonably  require.  The 
material events may be event such as: 

 

?    Change in the general character or nature of business 
 

Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  Clause    24  of  the  Listing  Agreement  the 
Issuer  will  promptly  notify  the  Exchange  of  any  material  change  in  the  general 
character or nature of its business where such change is brought about by the Issuer 
entering 
technical, 
manufacturing, marketing or financial tie-up or by reason of the Issuer, selling or 
disposing of or agreeing to sell or dispose of any unit or division or by the Issuer, 
enlarging, restricting or closing the operations of any unit or division or proposing 
to enlarge, restrict or close the operations of any unit or division or otherwise. 

into  any  arrangement  for 

into  or  proposing 

to  enter 

?    Disruption of operations due to natural calamity 
 

The  issuer will soon after the occurrence of any natural calamity like earthquake, 
flood or fire disruptive of the operation of any one or more units of the Issuer keep 
the Exchange informed of the details of the damage caused to the unit thereby and 
whether the  loss/damage has been covered by insurance and without delay furnish 
to the Exchange an estimate of the loss in revenue or production arising therefrom, 
and the steps taken to restore normalcy, in order to enable the security holders and 
the public to appraise the position of the issue and to avoid the establishment of a 
false market in its securities. 

 
?   Commencement of Commercial Production/Commercial Operations 
 

issuer  will  promptly  notify 

the  commencement  of 
The 
commercial/production  or  the  commencement  of  commercial  operations  of  any 
unit/division where revenue from the unit/division for a full year of production or 
operations is estimated to be not less than ten per cent of the revenues of the Issuer 
for the year. 

the  Exchange 

 
?    Developments  with  respect to pricing/realisation arising out of change in the 

regulatory framework 
 
The Issuer will promptly inform the Exchange of the developments with respect to 
pricing of or in realisation on its goods or services  (which are subject to price or 
distribution,  control/restriction  by  the  Government  or  other  statutory  authorities, 
whether  by  way  of  quota,  fixed  rate  of  return,  or  otherwise)  arising  out  of 
modification or change in Government's or other authorities’  policies provided the 
change can reasonably be expected to have a material impact on its present or future 
operations or its profitability. 

 
?    Litigation /dispute with a material impact 
 

The issuer will promptly after the event inform the Exchange of the developments 
with  respect  to  any  dispute  in  conciliation  proceedings,  litigation,  assessment, 
adjudication  or  arbitration  to  which  it  is  a  party  or  the  outcome  of  which  can 

Page 11 of 44 

reasonably be expected to have a material impact on its present or future operations 
or its profitability or financials. 

 

 
?     Revision in Ratings 
 

The Issuer will promptly notify the Exchange, the details of any rating or revision in 
rating assigned to any debt or equity instrument of the Issuer or to any fixed deposit 
programme  or  to  any  scheme  or  proposal  of  the  Issuer  involving  mobilisation  of 
funds whether in India or abroad provided the rating so assigned has been quoted, 
referred to, reported, relied upon or otherwise used by or on behalf of the Issuer. 

 
?    Comments of Debenture Trustees 
 

The Issuer will promptly notify the Exchange, the details of any letter or comments 
made  by  Debenture  Trustees  regarding  payment/non-payment  of  interest  on  due 
dates,  payment/non-payment  of  principal  on  the  due  dates  or  any  other  matter 
covering the security, company and /or the assets.   

 
?    Delay in Payment of Interest / Principal Amount 
 

The  Issuer  will  promptly  notify  the  Exchange,  as  and  when  there  is  a  delay  in 
timely  payment  of  interest  and  /  or  the  possibility  of  delay  in  repayment  of  the 
principal amount. 

 
?    Classification as Non Performing Assets 
 

The Issuer will promptly notify the Exchange, as and when any loan of the Issuer is 
classified as a non-performing asset as per the norms of Reserve Bank of India by 
any bank or financial institution. 

?    Any  other  information  having  bearing  on  the  operation/performance  of  the 
Issuer as well as price sensitive information which includes but not restricted 
to; 

       

  

1.  Issue of any class of securities. 
2.  Acquisition,  merger,  de-merger,  amalgamation,  restructuring,  scheme  of 

arrangement, spin off of setting divisions of the Issuer, etc. 

3.  Change in market lot of the security issued by the Issuer or sub-division thereof 

4.  Voluntary delisting by the Issuer from the Stock Exchange(s). 
5.  Forfeiture of shares. 
6.  Any  action  which  will 

regarding 
redemption/cancellation/retirement in whole or in part of any securities issued 
by the Issuer. 

in  alteration 

7.  Information  regarding  opening,  closing  of  status  of  ADR,  GDR  or  any  other 

in 

the 

terms 

result 

class of securities to be issued abroad. 

8.  Cancellation of dividend/rights/bonus, etc. 

The above information should be made public immediately. 

Page 12 of 44 

 

 

 

 

38.  The Issuer agrees to permit  the Exchange to make available immediately to its members 
and to the Press any information supplied by the Issuer in compliance with any of the 
listing requirements provided that in cases where it is contended that such disclosure 
might be detrimental to the Issuer’s interest a special submission to that effect may be 
made for the consideration of Exchange when furnishing the information. 

 
39.  The Issuer, agrees to furnish such information required by the Exchange in respect of 

the securities listed on the Exchange. 

 
40.   The Issuer agrees that as soon as its Securities are listed on  the Exchange, it will pay to 
the  Exchange  fees as prescribed in Schedule II annexed herewith, and that thereafter, 
so  long  as  the  securities  continued  to  be  listed  on  the  Exchange,  it  will  pay  to  the 
Exchange on or before April 30, in each year an Annual Listing Fee computed on the 
basis  of  the  securities  of  the  Issuer  as  on  March  31  and  worked  out  as  provided  in 
Schedule II aforesaid mentioned.  The Issuer also agrees that it shall pay the additional 
fee, at the time of making application for listing of debt securities arising out of further 
issue, as is computed in terms of Schedule II annexed thereto and made a part thereof, 
for any additional securities after March 31.  

 
41.   The  Issuer  agrees  that  in    event  of  application  for  listing  being  granted    such  listing 
shall be subject to the Bye-laws, Rules  and Regulations of  the Exchange  which now 
are  or  hereafter  may  be  in  force  and    the  Issuer  further    agrees  to    comply  within  a 
reasonable time with such further regulations as may be promulgated by the Exchange 
as general requirement for listing.   

 
42  Without prejudice to the generality of Clause 41 above, the Issuer agrees and undertakes, 
as  a  pre-condition  for  continued  listing  of  securities  hereunder,  to  comply  with  any 
regulations,  requirements,  practices  and  procedures  as  may  be  laid  down  by  the  Stock 
Exchange for the purpose of immobilisation or dematerialisation of securities hereunder in 
pursuance of the then prevailing statutes and/or statutory regulations, to facilitate scripless 
trading 

 
43.    The Issuer agrees that it will furnish unaudited financial results  on a quarterly basis in 
the  following  pro-forma  within  one  month  from  the  end  of  quarter  (Quarter  means  3 
months  only)  to  the  Stock  Exchange  and  will  make  an  announcement  to  the  Stock 
Exchanges,  where  the  Issuer  is  listed,  within  15  minutes  of  the  closure  of  the  Board 
Meeting or Meeting of a Sub-Committee of Board of Directors (consisting of not less 
than one third of the Directors), in which the unaudited financial results are placed and 
also within 48 hours of the conclusion of the Board or its sub committee Meeting in at 
least one English daily newspaper circulating in the whole or substantially the whole of 
India  and  in  one  newspaper  published  in  the  language  of  the  region,  where  the 
registered office of the Issuer is situated. The Board of Directors or its Sub Committee 
should  take  on  record  the  unaudited  quarterly  results  which  shall  be  signed  by  the 
Managing Director / Director.  The  Issuer  shall  inform  the Stock Exchange where its 
securities are listed about the date of the board Meeting at least 7 days in advance and 
shall also issue immediately a press release in at least one national newspaper and one 
regional language newspaper about the date of aforesaid Board or its Sub Committee 
Meeting. 

a.  Segment Reporting 

Page 13 of 44 

Corresponding  
3  
3 months in 
Months  
ended                                
the previous  
 
year 
 
           
(1) 
     (2) 
 
 

Year to  
date figures 
For current  
Period    
  
    (3) 
 

Year to 
 date Figures 
 For the  
 Previous 
 Year   
     (4) 
 

(Rs in Lakhs) 
Previous 
Accounting 
Year               
 
 
    (5) 
 

 
 

1. Segment Revenue
(net sale/income  
from  each segment  
should be disclosed  
under this head)  
a)  Segment – A 
b)  Segment – B 
c)  Segment -  C 
d)   Others 
 
Total 
 
Less: Inter Segment    
Revenue 
 
Net sales/Income  
From Operations 

 

?  Companies  shall  be  required  to  furnish  segment  wise  revenue,  results  and  capital 
employed along with the quarterly un-audited financial results with effect from the 
quarters ending on or after September 30, 2001 as per the format given below.  

Format for Reporting of Segment wise Revenue, Results and Capital Employed 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 14 of 44 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. Segment 
 Results (Profit)(+)/ 
Loss(-) before tax 
 and interest from  
Each segment)* 
a)  Segment – A 
b)  Segment – B 
c)  Segment -  C 
d)  Others 
 
Total 
Less : i) Interest** 
ii) Other  
Un-allocable  
Expenditure net off  
Un-allocable income 
 
Total Profit Before 
 Tax 
* Profit/loss before tax and after interest in case of segments having operations which are  
primarily of financial nature. 
** Other than the interest pertaining to the segments having operations which are primarily 
 of financial nature. 
 
3. Capital Employed
(Segment assets  
 – Segment Liabilities)
a)  Segment – A 
b)  Segment – B 
c)  Segment -  C 
d)  Others 
 
Total 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Note :  
a.  Segment  Revenue,  Segment  Results,  Segment  assets  and  Segment  liabilities  shall 
have  the  same  meaning  as  defined  in  the  Accounting  Standards  on  Segment 
Reporting (AS-17) issued by ICAI. 

b.  The above information shall be furnished for each of the reportable primary segments 

as identified in accordance with AS-17, issued by ICAI. 

c.  For the quarters ending upto September 30, 2002, reporting of figures for the previous 

year under column 2, 4 and 5 is not mandatory. 

 
b.  Accounting for Taxes on Income: 
 
?  Companies shall be required to comply with the accounting standard on "Accounting 
for  Taxes  on  Income"  in  respect  of  the  quarterly  un-audited  financial  results  with 
effect from the quarters ending on or after September 30, 2001.  

 
c.  Consolidated Financial Results: 
 

Page 15 of 44 

? 

 

Issuer  shall  have  the  option  to  publish  consolidated  quarterly  financial  results  in 
addition  to  the  un-audited  quarterly  financial  results  of  the  parent  company  as 
currently required under the Clause 34 of the Listing Agreement.  

 

the 

(Name  of 

The unaudited results should not substantially differ from the audited results of the 
Issuer.  If the sum total of the First, Second, Third and Fourth quarterly unaudited 
results  in  respect  of  any  item  given  in  the  same  pro-forma  varies  by  20  per  cent 
when compared with the audited results for the full year the Issuer shall explain the 
reasons to the Stock Exchanges. 
In addition, the  Issuer, shall prepare the half yearly results in the same pro-forma 
with  effect  from  half  year  ending  on  March  31,  2000  and  the  same  shall  be 
approved  by  the  Board  of  Directors  and  subjected  to  a  “Limited  Review”  by  the 
Auditors of the Issuer and a copy of the Review Report shall be submitted to the 
Stock Exchanges within 2 months after the close of the half year.  For the purpose 
of this Review half year shall be construed as consisting of the first two quarters of 
the  Issuer’s  Financial  Year.    If  the  sum  total  of  First  and  Second  quarterly  un-
audited results in respect of any item given in the same pro-forma format varies by 
20%  or  more  from  the  respective  half  yearly  results  as  determined  after  the 
“Limited Review”  by the Auditors, the Issuer shall send a statement (approved by 
the Board of Directors) explaining the reasons to the  Stock Exchanges along with 
Review Report. The Review Report shall be in the following format: 
 
“We  have  reviewed  the  accompanying  statement  of  unaudited  financial  results  of 
Issuer) 
… … … … … … … … … … ….. 
the  period  ended 
for 
… … … … ….. This statement is the responsibility of the 
Issuer’s Management and 
has been approved by the Board of Directors. 
 
A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical 
procedures  for  financial  data  and  making  inquiries  of  persons  responsible  for 
financial  and  accounting  matters.  It  is  substantially  less  in  scope  than  an  audit 
conducted  in  accordance  with  the  generally  accepted  auditing  standards,  the 
objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements 
taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. 
 
Based  on  our  review  conducted  as  above,  nothing  has  come  to  our  notice  that 
causes us to believe that the accompanying statement of unaudited financial results 
prepared in accordance with accounting standards and other recognised accounting 
practices and policies has not disclosed the information required to be disclosed in 
terms of Clause 41 of the Listing Agreement including the manner in which it is to 
be disclosed, or that it contains any material misstatement.”  
 
The  Issuer  shall  have  an  option  to  publish  audited  half  yearly  financial  results 
within  two  months  instead  of  publishing  un-audited  results  within  one  month 
followed by a Limited Review within two months. 
  
In respect of results for the last quarter of the financial year, if the Issuer intimates 
in  advance  to  the  Stock  Exchange/s  that  it  will  publish  audited  results  within  a 
period of 3 months from the end of the last quarter of the financial year, in such a 
case unaudited results for the last quarter need not be published / given to the Stock 
Exchanges.  The  audited  results  for  the  year  shall  be  published/given  to  the  Stock 

Page 16 of 44 

 

 

Annexure A 

 

Exchanges in the same format as is applicable for publishing of quarterly financial 
results.  
 
The  companies  which  opt  to  publish  audited  results  for  the  entire  year  within  3 
months instead of publishing un-audited results for the last quarter within 30 days 
shall  be  required  to  publish  annual  audited  results  in  the  format  specified  in 
Annexure  A.        In  case  of  banks  and  companies  furnishing  results  in  alternative 
format  for  manufacturing  and  trading/service  companies  (which  follow  functional 
(secondary) classification of expenditure) the columns 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 as mentioned 
in  Annexure  I    shall  be  adopted    and  the  rows  shall  remain  as  required  in  the 
respective format. 

Format for publication of Annual audited results (Companies opting to give audited 
results instead of unaudited fourth quarter results) 

(Rs in lacs) 

Page 17 of 44 

Particulars 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

 

Figures 
for the 9 
months 

Figures 
for the 
last 
quarter 

Figures for the 
corresponding 
quarter of the 
previous year 

  

  

  

  
  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
  
  

  

  

  

  

Audited 
figures 
for the 
current 
year 

  

Audited 
figures 
for the 
previous 
year 

  

  

  

  
  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
  
  

  

  

  

  

Page 18 of 44 

1.  Net 

Sales/Income fro
m Operations  
2.  Other Income  

  

3.  Total Expenditure  

a.

b.

Increas

 
e/decrease 
in stock in 
trade  

 
Consu
mption of 
raw 
materials  
c.  Staff cost   
d.  Other 

expenditure  

(Any item 
exceeding 10% of 
the total 
expenditure to be 
shown separately).  
  

4.  Interest  
5.  Depreciation   
6.  Profit (+)/Loss(-) 
before tax (1+2-3-
4-5)  

7.  Provision for 

taxation   
8.  Net Profit 

(+)/Loss (-) (6-7)  

9.  Paid-up equity 

share capital (face 
value of the share 
shall be indicated)  

10. Reserves 
excluding 
revaluation 
reserves (as per 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

balance sheet) of 
previous 
accounting year to 
be given in 
column (5)   

11. Basic and diluted 

EPS for the 
period, for the 
year to date and 
for the previous 
year (not to be 
annualised)  

12. (Applicable for 

half yearly 
financial 
results)aggregate 
of non promoting 
shareholding  

- no. of shares   
- percentage of 
shareholding  

 Notes:  All the notes applicable to the format of un-audited quarterly  financial 
results specified under Clause 34 of the Listing Agreement shall also be applicable 
to this format. 

Companies  which  have  changed  their  name  suggesting  any  new  line  of  business 
(including software business) shall disclose the turnover and income etc from such new 
activities separately in the quarterly/annual results. 
 
Companies which have changed their names after January 1, 1998 or change the name 
hereafter shall make such disclosures and shall continue to make these disclosures for a 
period of 3 years from the date of change in the name. 
 
The quarterly results shall be prepared on the basis of accrual accounting policy and on 
uniform accounting practices for all the periods. The unaudited results should be based 
on the same set of accounting policies as those followed in the previous year. In case, 
there are changes in the accounting policies, the results of previous year will be recast 
as per the present accounting policies, to make it comparable with current year results. 
 
The quarterly results shall be prepared on the basis of accrual accounting policy and 
in  accordance  with  uniform  accounting  practices  adopted  for  all  the  periods  on 
quarterly basis. The pro-forma for submitting the results for companies other than 
Banks is given below: 

Quarterly Results For Period ______  To ______(For Companies Other Than Banks) 

 

 

 

 
(1) 

 

 
(2) 

 

 
(3) 

(Rs. In Lakhs) 
(4) 

(5) 

 

 

 

Page 19 of 44 

 

Corresponding  
3 months in the 
previous year. 

3 months 

ended 

 

1.  Net Sales/Income 
from Operations 
2.  Other Income 
3.  Total Expenditure 

a)  Increase/decrease in 

stock in 

Trade 
b)  Consumption of raw 

materials 
c)  Staff cost 
d)  Other expenditure 

(Any item exceeding 10% of 
the total expenditure to be 
shown separately). 
4.  Interest 
5.  Depreciation 
6.  Profit (+)/Loss(-) before tax 
(1+2-3-4-5) 
7.  Provision for taxation 
8.  Net Profit (+)/Loss (-) (6-7)
9.  Paid-up equity share capital 
(Face Value of the Share shall 
be indicated) 
10. Reserves excluding 

revaluation 

reserves (as per balance sheet) 
of  
previous accounting year to be  
given in column (5) 
11. Basic and diluted EPS for 

 

the  

period, for the year to date and 
for the  
previous year (not to be 
annualised) 
12. *(Applicable for half yearly 
 
financial results) : Aggregate of
 non-promoter shareholding 
- Number of shares 

Year  to 
Date 
figures  
for 
current 
period 
 

Year  
to date 
figures 
 for the 
previous 
 year 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

Previous 
accounting 
 Year 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 20 of 44 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- Percentage of shareholding 

*  The  companies  shall  be  required  to  disclose  the  aggregate  non-promoter 
shareholding along with the half yearly  financial  results  with  effect  from  the  half 
year  ending  on  or  after  March  31,  2001.  Companies  shall  also  be  required  to 
disclose  the  aggregate  non-promoter shareholding at the end of the corresponding 
half year in the previous year and at the end of the previous accounting year from 
the half year ending on or after March 31, 2002. 

Notes : 
a.  Any event or transaction that is material to an understanding of the results for the 
quarter  including  completion  of  expansion  and  diversification  programs,  strikes, 
lock-outs,  change  in  management,  change  in  capital  structure  etc,  shall  be 
disclosed.    Similar  material  event  or  transactions  subsequent  to  the  end  of  the 
quarter, the effect whereof is not reflected in the results for the quarter shall also be 
disclosed. 

 
b.  All material non-recurring/abnormal income/gain and expenditure/loss and effect 
of  all  changes  in  accounting  practices  affecting  the  profits  materially  must  be 
disclosed separately. 

 
c.  In case of companies whose revenues are subject to material seasonal variations, 
they shall disclose the seasonal nature of their activities and may also supplement 
their unaudited financial results into information for 12 month periods ended at the 
interim  date  (last  day  of  the  quarter)  for  the  current  and  preceding  years  on  a 
rolling basis. 

 
d.  Issuer  shall  give  the  following  information  in  respect  of  dividend  paid  or 

recommended for the year including interim dividends declared : 

i)  Amount  of  Dividend  distributed  or  proposed  distinguishing  between  different 
classes of shares and Dividend per share also indicating nominal value per share. 
ii)  Where Dividend is paid or proposed pro-rata for shares allotted during the year, 
the date of allotment, number of shares allotted pro-rata amount of dividend per 
share and the aggregate amount of dividend paid or proposed on pro-rata basis. 

e.  The  effect  of  changes  in  composition  of  the  Issuer during the quarter, including 
business  combinations,  acquisitions  or  disposal  of  subsidiaries  and  long  term 
investments, restructuring and discontinuing operations shall be disclosed. 

f. 

(i)      If  there  is/are  any  qualification(s)  by  the  Auditors  in  respect  of  Audited 
Accounts of any period, then the  Issuer shall disclose the same along with the 
impact of such audit qualification(s) on the profit or loss while publishing the 
accounts for the said period.  

(ii) While publishing unaudited quarterly results, the  Issuer shall disclose how the 
qualification(s), if any, by the Auditors in respect of the Audited Accounts of 
the previous accounting year has/have been addressed in the unaudited quarterly 
results and if the same is not addressed, then the impact that the qualification(s) 

Page 21 of 44 

 

 

 

 

 

would have had on the profit or loss in the unaudited quarterly results shall be 
disclosed. 

(iii)    The  Issuer,  while  furnishing  the  audited  or  unaudited  financial  results  to  the 
exchange,  shall  also  explain  to  the  exchange  about  the  reasons  for  the 
qualification(s)  referred  under  (i)  and  (ii)  above,  why  the  Issuer  had  failed  to 
publish  accounts  without  such  audit  qualification(s)  and  when  the  Issuer  will 
remove the qualification(s) and publish accounts without such qualification(s).” 

g.  If  the  Issuer  is  yet  to  commence  commercial  production,  then  instead  of  the 
quarterly results, the  Issuer should give particulars of the status of the project,  its 
implementation and the expected date of commissioning of the project. 

h.  The  un-audited  results  sent  to  Stock  Exchange/s  and  published  in  newspapers 
should be based on the same set of accounting policies as those followed in the 
previous year.  In case, there are changes in the accounting policies, the results of 
previous  year  will  be  recast  as  per  the  present  accounting  policies,  to  make  it 
comparable with current year results. 

If the period of the Financial Year is more than 12 months and not exceeding 15 
months there will be 5 Quarters and is more than 15 months but not exceeding 18 
months there will be 6 Quarters and the financial results will be intimated to the 
Exchange and published in the Newspapers accordingly.  Half yearly results which 
are  required  to  be  subjected  to  the  “Limited  Review”  by  the  Auditors  shall  be 
prepared for the first two quarters where the Financial Year does not exceed 15 
months and for the first two quarters and also separately for the third and fourth 
quarters where the Financial Year exceeds 15 months. 

 
Alternative format for un-audited financial results: 

 
The  manufacturing  and  trading/service  companies  which  have  followed  functional 
(secondary) classification of expenditure in the annual profit and loss account in their 
most recent annual report may furnish un-audited financial results on a quarterly basis 
in the alternative format.  The proforma for submitting the results for companies in 
the alternative format is given below: 

Page 22 of 44 

 

 

Quarterly Results For the Period ______  To ______   
(Alternative  format  of    financial  results  for  manufacturing  and  trading/service  companies, 
which have followed functional (secondary) classification of expenditure in the annual profit 
and loss account published in most recent annual report).             

 

 

 

S.No 

 

3 

months 
ended 
(1) 

Corresponding 
3 months in the 
previous year 

(2) 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

1 

2 

3 
4 

5 

6 

7 
8 
9 

10 
11 

12 
13 
14 

15 

from 

Net 
Income 
sales/services 
Cost of sales/services 
(a)  Increase/decrease 
in stock in trade 

(b) Consumption 
raw materials 

of 

and 

interest 

Profit 
and 

(c)  Other expenditure 
Gross Profit 
General 
Administrative 
Expense 
Selling 
Distribution Expense 
Operating 
before 
depreciation 
Interest 
Depreciation 
Operating  Profit  after 
interest 
and 
depreciation 
Other Income 
Profit 
before tax  
Provision for taxation 
Net Profit(+)/Loss(-) 
Paid-up  equity  share 
capital 
excluding 
Reserves 
revaluation 
reserves 
(as  per  balance  sheet) 
of previous accounting 
year  to  be  given  in 
column (5) 

(+)/Loss(-) 

(Rs. In Lakhs) 
Previous 
Acounting 
year 

Year to date 
figures for 
the previous 

(5) 

Year to 

date 
figures 

for 

current 
period 

(3) 

year 
(4) 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

Page 23 of 44 

16 

17 

a. 

 
b. 

 
c. 

 
d. 

 
e. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

non 

 
Basic and diluted EPS 
for  the  period,  for  the 
year  to  date  and  for 
previous  year  (not  to 
be annualised) 
Aggregate 
of 
promoters 
shareholding 
(applicable 
yearly results) 
?  Number of shares 
?  Percentage 
of 
shareholding 

for  half 

 
 
Notes :  

Indicate by way of note total expenditure incurred on  
(i)  Staff Cost  
(ii) Any item of expenditure which exceeds 10% of the total expenditure.    
This information shall be given in respect of all the periods included at the above 
statement.   

Any event or transaction that is material to an understanding of the results for the 
quarter including completion of expansion and diversification programs, strikes, 
lock-outs,  change  in  management,  change  in  capital  structure  etc,  shall  be 
disclosed.      Similar  material  event  or  transactions  subsequent  to  the  end  of  the 
quarter, the effect whereof is not reflected in the results for the quarter shall also 
be disclosed. 

All material non-recurring/abnormal income/gain and expenditure/loss and effect 
of  all  changes  in  accounting  practices  affecting  the  profits  materially  must  be 
disclosed separately. 

In case of companies whose revenues are subject to material seasonal variations, 
they shall disclose the seasonal nature of their activities and may also supplement 
their unaudited financial results with information for 12 month periods ended at 
the interim date (last day of the quarter) for the current and preceding years on a 
rolling basis. 

Issuer  shall  give  the  following  information  in  respect  of  dividend  paid  or  
recommended for the year including interim dividends declared : 

i  Amount of Dividend distributed or proposed distinguishing between different     
classes of shares and Dividend per share also indicating nominal value per share. 

Page 24 of 44 

 

 
f. 

 
g. 

 

 

 

 
h. 

 
i. 

 
j. 

ii Where Dividend is paid or proposed pro-rata for shares allotted during the year, 
the date of allotment, number of shares allotted pro-rata amount of dividend per 
share and the aggregate amount of dividend paid or proposed on pro-rata basis. 

The effect of changes in composition of the  Issuer during the quarter, including 
business  combinations,  acquisitions  or  disposal  of  subsidiaries  and  long  term 
investments, restructuring and discontinuing operations shall be disclosed. 

(i)      If  there  is/are  any  qualification(s)  by  the  Auditors  in  respect  of  Audited 
Accounts  of  any  period,  then  the  Issuer  shall  disclose  the  same  along  with  the 
impact  of  such  audit  qualification(s)  on  the  profit  or  loss  while  publishing  the 
accounts for the said period.  

(ii) While publishing unaudited quarterly results, the Issuer shall disclose how the 
qualification(s), if any, by the Auditors in respect of the Audited Accounts of the 
previous  accounting  year  has/have  been  addressed  in  the  unaudited  quarterly 
results and if the same is not addressed, then the impact that the qualification(s) 
would  have  had  on  the  profit  or  loss  in  the  unaudited  quarterly  results  shall  be 
disclosed. 

(iii)  The Issuer, while furnishing the audited or unaudited financial results to the 
exchange,  shall  also  explain  to  the  exchange  about  the  reasons  for  the 
qualification(s)  referred  under  (i)  and  (ii)  above,  why  the  Issuer  had  failed  to 
publish  accounts  without  such  audit  qualification(s)  and  when  the  Issuer  will 
remove the qualification(s) and publish accounts without such qualification(s).” 

If  the  Issuer  is  yet  to  commence  commercial  production,  then  instead  of  the 
quarterly results, the Issuer should give particulars of the status of the project, its 
implementation and the expected date of commissioning of the project. 

The  un-audited  results  sent  to  Stock  Exchange/s  and  published  in  newspapers 
should be based on the same set of accounting policies as those followed in the 
previous year.  In case, there are changes in the accounting policies, the results of 
previous  year  will  be  recast  as  per  the  present  accounting  policies,  to  make  it 
comparable with current year results. 

If the period of the Financial Year is more than 12 months and not exceeding 15 
months there will be 5 Quarters and is more than 15 months but not exceeding 18 
months there will be 6 Quarters and the financial results will be intimated to the 
Exchange  and  published  in  the  News  papers  accordingly.    Half  yearly  results 
which are required to be subjected to the “Limited Review”  by the Auditors shall 
be prepared for the first two quarters where the Financial Year does not exceed 15 
months and for the first two quarters and also separately for the third and fourth 
quarters where the Financial Year exceeds 15 months. 

Page 25 of 44 

 
The proforma for submitting results and the review report for banks whose securities are 
listed in the Stock Exchange is given below: 
  
Quarterly Results For The Period From _____ To______  (For Banks) 
                             
Particulars 
 

(1) 
3 Months  

(Rs in lakhs) 

 

 

 

 

 

(5) 
Previous 
accounting 
 Year 

 

 
(3) 
Year  
 to date 
 figures 
 for  
current 
period 

(4) 
Year  
to date 
figures 
 for the  
previous 
year 

(2) 
Corresp-
onding 
 3  
months 
in 
the 
previous 
year. 
 

ended 

 

 

 

on 
 

 
 

on 

1. Interest earned  
(a)+(b)+(c)+(d) 
(a)Interest/discount 
advances/bills  
(b) Income on investments  
(c) Interest on balances  
with Reserve Bank of India  
and other inter bank funds  
(d) Others  
2. Other Income 
A. TOTAL INCOME (1+2) 
3. Interest Expended 

 
 
 
 
 Operating Expense (e)+(f) 
 

(e)  Payments to and provisions 
 for employees  
(f) Other operating Expense 
B. TOTAL EXPENDITURE  
(3)+(4) (excluding Provisions  
and Contingencies) 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

Page 26 of 44 

 

 

 
C. OPERATING PROFIT  
 (A-B) (Profit before 
Provisions and Contingencies) 
D. Other Provisions 
 and Contingencies  
 
E. Provision for Taxes  
 
F. Net Profit (C-D-E)  
4.  Paid-up equity share capital    
5.  Reserves excluding  
 
Revaluation reserves  
(as per balance sheet of  
previous accounting year)  
7. Analytical Ratios  
(i) Percentage of shares held 
 by Government of India  
(ii) Capital Adequacy Ratio  
(iii) Earning per Share  
8.*(Applicable for half 
 yearly financial results)  
Aggregate of Non 
 Promoter Shareholding  

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

?  No. of shares  
?  Percentage of  

Shareholding  
 
 * The companies shall be required to disclose the aggregate non-promoter shareholding 
along  with  the  half  yearly  financial  results  with  effect  from  the  half  year  ending  on  or 
after  March  31,  2001.  Companies  shall  also  be  required  to  disclose  the  aggregate  non-
promoter shareholding at the end of the corresponding half year in the previous year and 
at the end of the previous accounting year from the half year ending on or after March 31, 
2002. 
 
 
 
Notes:  
a.  Any  event  or  transaction  that  is  material  to  an  understanding  of  the  results  for  the 
quarter  including  change  in  management,  change  in  capital  structure  etc.,  shall  be 
disclosed. Similar material event or transactions subsequent to the end of the quarter, 
the effect whereof is not reflected in the results for the quarter shall also be disclosed.  
b.  All material non recurring/abnormal income/gain and expenditure/loss and effect of 
all changes in accounting practices affecting the profits materially must be disclosed 
separately.  

c.  Issuer shall give the following information in respect of dividend paid or recommend 

for the year including interim dividends declared:  
i.  Amount  of  dividend  distributed  or  proposed  distinguishing  between  different 

classes of shares and dividend per share also indicating nominal value per share.  

Page 27 of 44 

 

ii. Where dividend is paid or proposed pro-rata for shares allotted during the year, the 
date of allotment, number of shares allotted pro-rata amount of dividend per share 
and the aggregate amount of dividend paid or proposed on pro-rata basis.  

d.  The  effect  of  changes  in  composition  of  the  Issuer  during  the  quarter,  including 
business  combinations  acquisitions  or  disposal  of  subsidiaries  and  long  term 
investments, restructuring and discontinuing operations shall be disclosed.  

 
e.  (i)   If there is/are any qualification(s) by the Auditors in respect of Audited Accounts 
of any period, then the  Issuer shall disclose the same along with the impact of such 
audit qualification(s) on the profit or loss while publishing the accounts for the said 
period.  

(ii)  While  publishing  unaudited  quarterly  results,  the  Issuer  shall  disclose  how  the 
qualification(s),  if  any,  by  the  Auditors  in  respect  of  the  Audited  Accounts  of  the 
previous accounting year has/have been addressed in the unaudited quarterly results 
and if the same is not addressed, then the impact that the qualification(s) would have 
had on the profit or loss in the unaudited quarterly results shall be disclosed. 

 

 
 

(iii)    The  Issuer,  while  furnishing  the  audited  or  unaudited  financial  results  to  the 
exchange, shall also explain to the exchange about the reasons for the qualification(s) 
referred  under  (i)  and  (ii)  above,  why  the  Issuer  had  failed  to  publish  accounts 
without  such  audit  qualification(s)  and  when 
the 
qualification(s) and publish accounts without such qualification(s).” 

Issuer  will  remove 

the 

 
f.  The  unaudited  results  sent  to  Stock  Exchange/s  and  published  in  newspapers  (for 
listed banks) should be based on the same set of accounting policies as those followed 
in the previous year. In case there are changes in the accounting policies, the results 
of  previous  year  will  be  recast  as  per  the  present  accounting  policies  to  make  it 
comparable with the current year results.  

g.  Half yearly results which are required to be subjected to the "Limited Review" by the 

auditors shall be prepared for the first two quarters.  

 
The Review Report for Banks shall be in the following format : 

"We  have  reviewed  the  accompanying  statement  of  unaudited  financial  results  of 
____  (Name  of  the  Issuer)  for  the  period  ended  ____.  This  statement  is  the 
responsibility of the  Issuer’s Management and has been approved by the Board of 
Directors.  
 
A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical 
procedures  for  financial  data  and  making  inquires  of  persons  responsible  for 
financial  and  accounting  matters.  It  is  substantially  less  in  scope  than  an  audit 
conducted  in  accordance  with  the  generally  accepted  auditing  standards,  the 
objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements 
taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.  
 
 
 
 

Page 28 of 44 

 

In  the  conduct  of  our  Review  we  have  relied  on  the  review  reports  in  respect  of 
non-performing  assets  received  from  concurrent  auditors  of  _________  branches, 
inspection  teams  of  the  bank  of  _______  branches  and  other  firms  of  auditors  of 
_________ branches  specifically appointed for this purpose. These review reports 
cover  ______  percent  of  the  advances  portfolio  of  the  bank.  Apart  from  these 
review  reports,  in  the  conduct  of  our  review,  we  have  also  relied  upon  various 
returns received from the branches of the bank.  
 
Based  on  our  review  conducted  as  above,  nothing  has  come  to  our  notice  that 
causes us to believe that the accompanying statement of unaudited financial results 
prepared in accordance with accounting standards and other recognised accounting 
practices and policies has not disclosed the information required to be disclosed in 
terms of Clause 41 of the Listing Agreement including the manner in which it is to 
be  disclosed  or  that  it  contains  any  material  misstatement  or  that  it  has  not  been 
prepared  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  prudential  norms  issued  by  the  Reserve 
Bank  of  India  in  respect  of  income  recognition,  asset  classification,  provisioning 
and other related matters." 
 

Qualifications in Audit Reports: 
 

Companies shall be required to disclose the audit qualifications along with the 
audited financial results published under Clause 41 of the Listing Agreement in 
addition to the explanatory statement as to how audit qualifications in respect of the 
audited accounts of the previous accounting year have been addressed in the 
financial results. 

 
Quarterly  disclosures  by  companies  which  are  yet  to  commence  commercial 
production. 
 

The issuer agrees that where it has not yet commenced its commercial production, it 
will make additional quarterly disclosures as prescribed under Schedule V1 of the 
companies Act 1956, for the balance of unutilised monies raised by issue and the 
form in which such unutilised funds have been invested by the issuer. 

 
44. The Issuer agrees that it shall be a condition precedent for issuance of new securities 
excepting Mutual Funds, that it shall deposit before the opening of subscription list 
and keep deposited with the exchange (in cases where the securities are offered for 
subscription whether through the Issue of a prospectus, letter of offer or otherwise) 
an amount calculated at 1% of the amount of securities offered for subscription to 
the public and/or to the holders of existing securities of the Issuer, as the case may 
be, for ensuring compliance by the Issuer, within the prescribed or stipulated period, 
of  all  prevailing  requirements  of  law  and  all  prevailing  listing  requirements  and 
conditions as mentioned in, and refundable or forfeitable in the manner stated in the 
Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations of the exchange for the time being in force. 

 

50%  of  the  above  mentioned  security  deposit  should  be  paid  to  the  exchange  in 
cash.  The  balance  amount  can  be  provided  for  by  way  of  a  bank  guarantee.  The 
amount to be paid in cash is limited to Rs. 3 crores. The said amount at the security 
deposit  will  be  released  by  exchange  after  the  issuer  obtains  No  Objection 
Certificate from SEBI. 

Page 29 of 44 

 

 
 
 
45  (1)  The  company  agrees  that  it  will  furnish  on  a  quarterly  basis  a  statement  to  the 
exchange  indicating  the  variations  between  projected  utilisation  of  funds  and/  or 
projected  profitability  statement  made  by  it  in  its  prospectus  or  letter  of  offer  or 
object/s stated in the explanatory statement to the notice for the general meeting for 
considering preferential issue of securities and the actual utilisation of funds and/ or 
actual profitability.  

(2) The statement referred to in clause (1) shall be given for each of the years for 
which projections are provided in its prospectus/ letter of offer/ object/s stated in the 
explanatory  statement  to  the  notice  for  considering  preferential  issue  of  securities 
and  shall  be  published  in  newspapers  simultaneously  with  the  unaudited/  audited 
financial results as required under clause 41.  
 
(3) If there are material variations between the projections and the actual utilisation/ 
profitability, 
the 
advertisement and shall also provide the same in the Directors’  Report. 

the  company  shall  furnish  an  explanation 

therefore 

in 

 
46.   The Issuer agrees that it shall be a condition precedent for issuance of new securities 
that it shall deposit before the opening of subscription list and keep deposited with the  
Exchange  (in  cases  where  the  securities  are  offered  for  subscription  whether  through 
the Issue of a prospectus, letter of offer or otherwise) an amount calculated at 1% (one 
per cent) of the amount of securities offered for the subscription to the public and/or to 
the  holders  of  existing  securities  of  the  Issue,  as  the  case  may  be,  for  ensuring 
compliance by the Issuer, within the prescribed or stipulated period, of all prevailing 
requirements of law and all prevailing listing requirements and conditions as mentioned 
in,  and  refundable  or  forfeitable  in  the  manner  stated  in  the  Bye-laws,  Rules  and 
Regulations of the  Exchange for the time being in force.   This requirement will not 
apply for private placement of securities.  

 

 

50% of the above mentioned security deposit should be paid to the  Exchange in cash. 
The balance amount to be paid in cash is limited to Rs. 3 crores.   

 
47.   In addition to the foregoing provisions and not in derogation thereof,  the Issuer shall 
comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  relevant  Acts  including  the  Securities  Contract 
Regulations  Act,  1956,  Securities  Contract  Regulation  Rules,  1957  and  guidelines 
issued  by  the  Securities  Exchange  Board  of  India  and  also  such  other  and  future 
guidelines  as  may  be  issued  from  time  to  time  by  the  Government,  Reserve  Bank  of 
India and/or the Securities Exchange Board of India   

The issuer agrees that – 

 
48 
 
(a)   as far as possible allotment of securities offered to the public shall be made within 

30 days of the closure of the public issue; 
it shall pay interest @ 15% per annum if the allotment has not been made and or 
refund  orders  have  not  been  dispatched  to  the  investors  within  30  days  from  the 
date of the closure of the issue. 

(b)  

. 

Page 30 of 44 

 

 
49.   The Issuer agrees and undertakes   
 

to  designate the Company Secretary or any other person as Compliance Officer 
who shall be responsible for monitoring the process of registering transfer of debt 
securities  and  report  the  same  at  the  meeting  of  board  of  directors  held 
subsequently.    He  shall  directly  liaise  with  the  authorities  such  as    Securities 
Exchange  Board  of  India,  Stock  Exchanges,    Registrar  of  Companies,  etc.,  and 
investors as far as implementation of various clauses, rules, regulations and other 
directives  of  authorities  aforementioned  and  redressal  of  grievances  of  the 
investors are concerned.   

to  undertake  a  due  diligence  survey  to  ascertain  whether  the  Registrar  and 
Transfer  Agent(s)  (RTA)  is  sufficiently  equipped    with  infrastructure  facilities 
such  as  adequate  manpower,  computer  hardware  and  software,  office  space, 
documents handling facility etc., to serve the interest of security holders 

to insist that the RTA to produce a certificate from a practicing company secretary 
that all registration of transfers have been completed within the time stipulated by 
any statue in this regard. 

to furnish a information relating to loss of bond/debenture certificate of the issuer 
and issue of duplicate certificates in lieu thereof by the issuer; and 

(a)  

 
(b)  

 
(c)  

 
(d)  

 
(e)  

to  produce  a  copy  of  the  Memorandum  of  Understanding  (MOU)  entered  into 
with the RTA relating to their mutual responsibilities. 

 
50.  The  Issuer  shall  co-operate  with  the  Credit  Rating  Agencies  in  giving  correct  and 
adequate information for periodical review of the securities during lifetime of the rated 
securities. 

 
51. Corporate Governance  
 
I Board of Directors  

 
  

A.  The Issuer agrees that the board of directors of the Issuer shall have an optimum 
combination  of  executive  and  non-executive  directors  with  not  less  than  fifty 
percent  of  the  board  of  directors  comprising  of  non-executive  directors.  The 
number  of  independent  directors  would  depend  whether  the  Chairman  is 
executive  or  non-executive.  In  case  of  a  non-executive  chairman,  at  least  one-
third  of  board  should  comprise  of  independent  directors  and  in  case  of  an 
executive  chairman,  at  least  half  of  board  should  comprise  of  independent 
directors.  

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  this  clause  the  expression  ‘independent 
directors’  means directors who apart from receiving director’s remuneration, do 
not have any other material pecuniary relationship or transactions with the Issuer, 
its promoters, its management or its subsidiaries, which in judgment of the board 
may affect independence of judgment of the director. Institutional directors on the 
boards of companies should be considered as independent directors whether the 
institution is an investing institution or a lending institution. 

Page 31 of 44 

B.  The  Issuer  agrees  that  all  pecuniary  relationship  or  transactions  of  the  non-
executive directors vis-a-vis. the Issuer should be disclosed in the Annual Report.  

 

 

 
 
II Audit Committee 
 

and that :  

 

 

 

 

 

 

A.  The Issuer agrees that a qualified and independent audit committee shall be set up 

1.  The  audit  committee  shall  have  minimum  three  members,  all  being  non-
executive directors, with the majority of them being independent, and with at 
least one director having financial and accounting knowledge;  

2.  The chairman of the committee shall be an independent director;  
3.  The  chairman  shall  be  present  at  Annual  General  Meeting  to  answer 

shareholder queries;  

4.  The  audit  committee  should  invite  such  of  the  executives,  as  it  considers 
appropriate (and particularly the head of the finance function) to be present at 
the meetings of the committee, but on occasions it may also meet without the 
presence of any executives of the Issuer. The finance director, head of internal 
audit  and  when  required,  a  representative  of  the  external  auditor  shall  be 
present as invitees for the meetings of the audit committee;  

5.  The Company Secretary shall act as the secretary to the committee.  

B.  The audit committee shall meet at least thrice a year. One meeting shall be held 
before  finalisation  of  annual  accounts  and  one  every  six  months.  The  quorum 
shall be either two members or one third of the members of the audit committee, 
whichever is higher and minimum of two independent directors.  

C.  The audit committee shall have powers which should include the following :  

a.  to investigate any activity within its terms of reference.  
b.  to seek information from any employee.  
c.  to obtain outside legal or other professional advice.  
d.  to  secure  attendance  of  outsiders  with  relevant  expertise,  if  it  considers 

necessary.  

D.  The Issuer agrees that the role of the audit committee shall include the following.  

a.  Oversight of the  Issuer’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its 
financial  information  to  ensure  that  the  financial  statement  is  correct, 
sufficient and credible.  

b.  Recommending the appointment and removal of external auditor, fixation of 

audit fee and also approval for payment for any other services.  

c.  Reviewing  with  management 

the  annual  financial  statements  before 

submission to the board, focusing primarily on;  
?  Any changes in accounting policies and practices.  
?  Major accounting entries based on exercise of judgment by management.  
?  Qualifications in draft audit report.  
?  Significant adjustments arising out of audit.  

Page 32 of 44 

 

?  The going concern assumption.  
?  Compliance with accounting standards.  
?  Compliance  with  Stock  Exchange  and  legal  requirements  concerning 

financial statements  

?  Any  related  party  transactions  i.e.  transactions  of  the  Issuer  of  material 
nature, with promoters or the management, their subsidiaries or relatives 
etc. that may have potential conflict with the interests of Issuer at large.  

d.  Reviewing with the management, external and internal auditors, the adequacy 

of internal control systems.  

e.  Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, including the structure of 
the internal audit department, staffing and seniority of the official heading the 
department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit.  

f.  Discussion with internal auditors any significant findings and follow up there 

on.  

g.  Reviewing the findings of any  internal investigations by the internal auditors 
into  matters  where  there  is  suspected  fraud  or  irregularity  or  a  failure  of 
internal  control  systems  of  a  material  nature  and  reporting  the  matter  to  the 
board.  

h.  Discussion  with  external  auditors  before  the  audit  commences  nature  and 
scope of audit as well as have post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of 
concern.  

i.  Reviewing the Issuer’s financial and risk management policies.  
j.  To  look  into  the  reasons  for  substantial  defaults  in  the  payment  to  the 
depositors,  debenture  holders,  shareholders  (in  case  of  non  payment  of 
declared dividends) and creditors.  

 
IV Board Procedure  
 

A.  The Issuer agrees that the board meeting shall be held at least four times a year, 
with  a  maximum  time  gap  of  four  months  between  any  two  meetings.  The 
minimum information to be made available to the board is given in Annexure–I.  

Page 33 of 44 

 

E.  If the Issuer has set up an audit committee pursuant to provision of the Companies 
Act,  the  Issuer  agrees  that  the  said  audit  committee  shall  have  such  additional 
functions / features as is contained in the Listing Agreement.  

 
III Remuneration of Directors  
 

A.  The  Issuer  agrees  that  the  remuneration  of  non-executive  directors  shall  be 

decided by the board of directors.  

B.  The  Issuer  further  agrees  that  the  following  disclosures  on  the  remuneration  of 
directors shall be made in the section on the corporate governance of the annual 
report.  
?  All elements of remuneration package of all the directors i.e. salary, benefits, 

bonuses, stock options, pension etc.  

?  Details of fixed component and performance linked incentives, along with the 

performance criteria.  

?  Service contracts, notice period, severance fees.  
?  Stock option details, if any  – and whether issued at a discount as well as the 

period over which accrued and over which exercisable.  

B.  The Issuer further agrees that a director shall not be a member in more than 10 
committees or act as Chairman of more than five committees across all companies 
in  which  he  is  a  director.  Furthermore  it  should  be  a  mandatory  annual 
requirement for every director to inform the Issuer about the committee positions 
he occupies in other companies and notify changes as and when they take place.  

 

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  considering  the  limit  of  the  committees  on 
which  a  director  can  serve,  all  public  limited  companies,  whether  listed  or  not, 
shall be included and all other companies (i e private limited companies, foreign 
companies  and  companies  of  Section  25  of  the  Companies  Act,  etc)  shall  be 
excluded.    Further  only  the  three  committees  viz.  the  Audit  Committee,  the 
Shareholders’  Grievance  Committee  and  the  Remuneration  Committee  shall  be 
considered for this purpose. 

 
V. Management  
 

A.  The Issuer agrees that as part of the directors’  report or as an addition there to, a 
Management Discussion and Analysis report should form part of the annual report 
to  the  shareholders.  This  Management  Discussion  &  Analysis  should  include 
discussion  on  the  following  matters  within  the  limits  set  by  the  Issuer’s 
competitive position:  

a.  Industry structure and developments.  
b.  Opportunities and Threats.  
c.  Segment–wise or product-wise performance.  
d.  Outlook  
e.  Risks and concerns.  
f. 
g.  Discussion on financial performance with respect to operational performance.  
h.  Material  developments  in  Human  Resources  /  Industrial  Relations  front, 

Internal control systems and their adequacy.  

including number of people employed.  

B.  Disclosures must be made by the management to the board relating to all material 
financial  and  commercial  transactions,  where  they  have  personal  interest,  that 
may  have  a  potential  conflict  with  the  interest  of  the  Issuer  at  large  (for  e.g. 
dealing 
in  Issuer  shares,  commercial  dealings  with  bodies,  which  have 
shareholding of management and their relatives etc.)  

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
VI Shareholders  
 

A.  The  Issuer  agrees  that  in  case  of  the  appointment  of  a  new  director  or  re-
appointment of a director the shareholders must be provided with the following 
information:  

a.  A brief resume of the director;  
b.  Nature of his expertise in specific functional areas ; and  
c.  Names of companies in which the person also holds the directorship and the 

membership of Committees of the board.  

Page 34 of 44 

 

 

B.  The Issuer further agrees that information like quarterly results, presentation made 
by companies to analysts shall be put on Issuer’s web-site, or shall be sent in such 
a form so as to enable the Stock Exchange on which the Issuer is listed to put it on 
its own web-site.  

C.  The Issuer further agrees that a board committee under the chairmanship of a non-
executive  director  shall  be  formed  to  specifically  look  into  the  redressing  of 
shareholder  and  investors  complaints  like  transfer  of  shares,  non-receipt  of 
balance  sheet,  non-receipt  of  declared  dividends  etc.  This  Committee  shall  be 
designated as ‘Shareholders/Investors Grievance Committee’.  

D.  The Issuer further agrees that to expedite the process of share transfers the board 
of  the  Issuer  shall  delegate  the  power  of  share  transfer  to  an  officer  or  a 
committee  or  to  the  registrar  and  share  transfer  agents.  The  delegated  authority 
shall attend to share transfer formalities at least once in a fortnight.  

 
VII Report on Corporate Governance  

 
The Issuer agrees that there shall be a separate section on Corporate Governance in 
the  annual  reports  of  Issuer,  with  a  detailed  compliance  report  on  Corporate 
Governance. Non compliance of any mandatory requirement i.e. which is part of the 
listing  agreement  with  reasons  there  of  and  the  extent  to  which  the  non-mandatory 
requirements have been adopted should be specifically highlighted. The suggested list 
of  items  to  be  included  in  this  report  is  given  in  Annexure-2  and  list  of  non-
mandatory requirements is given in Annexure – 3. 

 
VIII Compliance  

 
The  Issuer  agrees  that  it  shall  obtain  a  certificate  from  the  auditors  of  the  Issuer 
regarding  compliance  of  conditions  of  corporate  governance  as  stipulated  in  this 
clause and annex the certificate with the directors’  report, which is sent annually to all 
the  shareholders  of  the  Issuer.  The  same  certificate  shall  also  be  sent  to  the  Stock 
Exchanges along with the annual returns filed by the Issuer. 

 
 
 
Schedule of Implementation :  
The above amendments to the listing agreement have to be implemented as per schedule 
of implementation given below:  

?  By all entities seeking listing for the first time, at the time of listing.  
?  Within financial year 2002-2003,but not later than March 31, 2003 by all 
the entities which are presently listed, with paid up share capital of Rs.3 
crore and above  

?  As  regards  the  non-mandatory  requirement  given  in  Annexure  -  3,  they 
shall  be  implemented  as  per  the  discretion  of  the  Issuer.  However,  the 
disclosures  of 
the  non-mandatory 
requirements shall be made in the section on corporate governance of the 
Annual Report.  

the  adoption/non-adoption  of 

 
52. The Issuer shall mandatorily comply with all the Accounting Standards issued by ICAI or 

statutorily imposed from time to time. 

Page 35 of 44 

 

53. (1) The Issuer agrees that it shall file the following information, statements and reports on 
the  Electronic  Data  Information  Filing  and  Retrieval  (EDIFAR)  website  maintained  by 
National Informatics Centre (NIC), on-line, in such manner and format and within such 
time as may be specified by SEBI : 
1.  Full  version  of  annual  report  including  the  balance  sheet,  profit  and  loss  account, 
director’s  report  and  auditor’s  report;  cash  flow  statements;  half  yearly  financial 
statements and quarterly financial statements.  

2.  Corporate governance report.  
3.  Shareholding pattern statement.  
4.  Statement of action taken against the Issuer by any regulatory agency.  
5.  Such other statement, information or report as may be specified by SEBI from time to 

time in this regard.  

Provided that the requirement of this clause shall be in addition to and not in derogation 
from the requirements of other clauses of this listing agreement, which may require filing 
of  any  statements,  reports  and  information  in  the  physical  or  other  form  with  the 
exchange.  

(2) The Issuer agrees that it shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be responsible for 
filing  the  above  information  in  the  EDIFAR  system.  The  compliance  officer  and  the 
Issuer  shall ensure the correctness and authenticity of the information filed in the system 
and that it is in conformity with applicable laws and terms of the listing agreement.  

(3) The Issuer undertakes that while filing the information in the EDIFAR system, it shall 

make the following disclaimer clause:  

 

 

 

‘The  information  furnished  above  is  certified  by  [Issuer’s  name]  to  be  true,  fair  and 
accurate (except in respect of errors in  or omissions from documents filed electronically 
that result solely from electronic transmission errors beyond our control and in respect of 
which  we  take  corrective  action  as  soon  as  it  is  reasonably  practicable  after  becoming 
aware of the error or the omission). SEBI, the  Stock Exchanges or the NIC do not take 
any responsibility for the accuracy, validity, consistency and integrity of the data entered 
and updated by it.’ 

The  name  of  the  compliance  officer  with  his  designation  and  the  Issuer’s  name  shall  be 
displayed immediately below the disclaimer clause. 
 
54 The issuer agrees that it shall 

- have a debenture trustee for a debt issue on a continuous basis i.e the onus of appointing 
a debenture trustee on the resignation of the earlier one should lie on the company. 
-  create  and  maintain  security  ensuring  adequate  security  cover  at  all  times,  submit  a 
certificate of the same by an independent wntity on a regular basis to exchange 
- timely dispatch of debenture certificate/demat credit, interest/redemption payment 
- submit information as required by the debenture trustee and provide acess to relevant 
books  of  accounts  to  debenture  trustee-  abide  by  the  requirements  of  SEBI  (DIP) 
Guidelines, 2000; as applicable with issuance of debt securities.  

 
 55 A half-yearly communication, counter signed by debenture trustees containing inter-alia 

following information shall be sent to all debenture holders on a one to one basis: 

?  credit rating, 

Page 36 of 44 

 

?  asset cover available, 
?  status of security 
?  Debt-Equity ratio 
?  Previous due date for the payment of interest/principal and whether the same has 

been paid or not 

?  Next due date for the payment of interest/principal 
?  and whether the same has been paid or not 

 
In addition to that, the  aforesaid  information shall be made available to public through 
any one of the following ways: 

?  Hosting in the website of the company 
?  Public advertisement in the national dailies 
?  Filing in SEBI EDIFAR, as and when mandated by SEBI 

 

 
 

Annexure 1 

Information to be placed before board of directors 

1.  Annual operating plans and budgets and any updates.  
2.  Capital budgets and any updates.  
3.  Quarterly results for the Issuer and its operating divisions or business segments.  
4.  Minutes of meetings of audit committee and other committees of the board.  
5.  The information on recruitment and remuneration of senior officers just below the 
board level, including appointment or removal of Chief Financial Officer and the 
Company Secretary.  

6.  Show  cause,  demand,  prosecution  notices  and  penalty  notices  which  are 

7.  Fatal  or  serious  accidents,  dangerous  occurrences,  any  material  effluent  or 

materially important.  

pollution problems.  

8.  Any material default in financial obligations to and by the  Issuer, or substantial 

non-payment for goods sold by the Issuer.  

9.  Any  issue,  which  involves  possible  public  or  product  liability  claims  of 
substantial  nature,  including  any  judgement  or  order  which,  may  have  passed 
strictures on the conduct of the Issuer or taken an adverse view regarding another 
enterprise that can have negative implications on the Issuer.  

10. Details of any joint venture or collaboration agreement.  
11. Transactions that involve substantial payment towards goodwill, brand equity, or 

intellectual property.  

12. Significant  labour  problems  and  their  proposed  solutions.  Any  significant 
development in Human Resources/ Industrial Relations front like signing of wage 
agreement, implementation of Voluntary Retirement Scheme etc.  

13. Sale of material nature, of investments, subsidiaries, assets, which is not in normal 

course of business.  

14. Quarterly  details  of  foreign  exchange  exposures  and  the  steps  taken  by 

management to limit the risks of adverse exchange rate movement, if material.  

15. Non-compliance  of  any  regulatory,  statutory  nature  or  listing  requirements  and 
shareholders service such as non-payment of dividend, delay in share transfer etc.  

Page 37 of 44 

Annexure 2 

 

Suggested List Of Items To Be Included In The Report On Corporate Governance 

In The Annual Report Of Companies 

 
 

1.  A brief statement on Issuer’s philosophy on code of governance.  
2.  Board of Directors:  

?  Composition  and  category  of  directors  for  example  promoter,  executive, 
independent  non-executive,  nominee  director,  which 

non-executive, 
institution represented as Lender or as equity investor.  

?  Attendance of each director at the BoD meetings and the last AGM.  
?  Number  of  other  BoDs  or  Board  Committees  he/she  is  a  member  or 

Chairperson of.  

?  Number of BoD meetings held, dates on which held.  

3.  Audit Committee.  

?  Brief description of terms of reference  
?  Composition, name of members and Chairperson  
?  Meetings and attendance during the year  

4.  Remuneration Committee.  

?  Brief description of terms of reference  
?  Composition, name of members and Chairperson  
?  Attendance during the year  
?  Remuneration policy  
?  Details of remuneration to all the directors, as per format in main report.  

5.  Shareholders Committee.  

?  Name of non-executive director heading the committee  
?  Name and designation of compliance officer  
?  Number of shareholders complaints received so far  
?  Number not solved to the satisfaction of shareholders  
?  Number of pending share transfers  

6.  General Body meetings.  

?  Location and time, where last three AGMs held.  
?  Whether special resolutions  
?  Were put through postal ballot last year, details of voting pattern.  
?  Person who conducted the postal ballot exercise  
?  Are proposed to be conducted through postal ballot  
?  Procedure for postal ballot  

7.  Disclosures.  

?  Disclosures  on  materially  significant  related  party  transactions  i.e. 

transactions of the issuer of material nature, with its promoters, the  
directors or the management, their subsidiaries or relatives etc. that may 
have potential conflict with the interests of Issuer at large.  

?  Details of non-compliance by the  Issuer, penalties, strictures imposed on 
the Issuer by  Stock Exchange or SEBI or any statutory authority, on any 
matter related to capital markets, during the last three years.  

 
 
 

Page 38 of 44 

?  AGM : Date, time and venue  
?  Financial Calendar  
?  Date of Book closure  
?  Dividend Payment Date  
?  Listing on Stock Exchanges  
?  Stock Code  
?  Market Price Data : High., Low during each month in last financial year  
?  Performance in comparison to broad-based indices such as BSE SeStock 

Exchangex, CRISIL index etc.  
?  Registrar and Transfer Agents  
?  Share Transfer System  
?  Distribution of shareholding  
?  Dematerialization of shares and liquidity  
?  Outstanding  GDRs/ADRs/Warrants  or  any  Convertible 

conversion date and likely impact on equity  

?  Plant Locations  
?  Address for correspondence  

 
 
 

 

8.  Means of communication.  

?  Half-yearly report sent to each household of shareholders.  
?  Quarterly results  
?  Which newspapers normally published in.  
?  Any website, where displayed  
?  Whether it also displays official news releases; and  
?  The presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts.  
?  Whether MD&A is a part of annual report or not.  

9.  General Shareholder information  

instruments, 

Page 39 of 44 

Annexure – 3 

Non-Mandatory Requirements 

 

 
a)  Chairman of the Board  

 
b)  Remuneration Committee  

A non-executive Chairman should be entitled to maintain a Chairman’s office at the 
Issuer’s  expeStock  Exchange  and  also  allowed  reimbursement  of  expeStock 
Exchanges incurred in performance of his duties. 

i.  The board should set up a remuneration committee to determine on their behalf 
and  on  behalf  of  the  shareholders  with  agreed  terms  of  reference,  the  Issuer’s 
policy  on  specific  remuneration  packages  for  executive  directors  including 
pension rights and any compensation payment.  

ii.  To  avoid  conflicts  of  interest,  the  remuneration  committee,  which  would 
determine the remuneration packages of the executive directors should comprise 
of  at  least  three  directors,  all  of  whom  should  be  non-executive  directors,  the 
chairman of committee being an independent director.  

iii.  All the members of the remuneration committee should be present at the meeting.  
iv.  The  Chairman  of  the  remuneration  committee  should  be  present  at  the  Annual 
General Meeting, to answer the shareholder queries. However, it would be up to 
the Chairman to decide who should answer the queries.  

 
c)   Shareholder Rights  

 
d)  Postal Ballot  

The  half-yearly  declaration  of  financial  performance  including  summary  of  the 
significant  events  in  last  six-months,  should  be  sent  to  each  household  of 
shareholders. 

Currently, although the formality of holding the general meeting is gone through, in 
actual practice only a small fraction of the shareholders of that Issuer do or can really 
participate therein. This virtually makes the concept of corporate democracy illusory. 
It is imperative that this situation which has lasted too long needs an early correction. 
In this context, for shareholders who are unable to attend the meetings, there should 
be a requirement which will enable them to vote by postal ballot for key decisions. 
Some of the critical matters which should be decided by postal ballot are given below 
: 
a.  Maters relating to alteration in the memorandum of association of the  Issuer like 

changes in name, objects, address of registered office etc;  

b.  Sale of whole or substantially the whole of the undertaking;  
c.  Sale of investments in the companies, where the shareholding or the voting rights 

d.  Making  a  further  issue  of  shares  through  preferential  allotment  or  private 

of the Issuer exceeds 25%;  

placement basis;  

e.  Corporate restructuring;  
f.  Entering a new business area not germane to the existing business of the Issuer;  
g.  Variation in rights attached to class of securities;  
h.  Matters relating to change in management 

 
 
 

Page 40 of 44 

 

PROVIDED ALWAYS AND THE ISSUER HEREBY AGREES AND DECLARES THAT 
the Issuer is not required to comply with such disclosure and compliance requirements under 
this agreement, which are more fully described in schedule III, provided it has complied with 
such disclosure  and compliance  requirements pursuant to its listing agreement in respect of 
shares listed on the Exchange. 
 
PROVIDED  ALWAYS  AND  THE  ISSUER  HEREBY  IRREVOCABLY  AGREES  AND 
DECLARES  THAT  unless  the  Exchange  agrees  otherwise  the  Issuer  will  not  without  the 
previous permission in writing of the Central Government/SEBI withdraw its adherence to 
this agreement for listing its securities. 
 
AND  THE  ISSUER  HEREBY  FURTHER  AGREES  AND  DECLARES  THAT  any  of  its 
securities  listed  on  the  Exchange  shall  remain  on  the  list  entirely  at  the  pleasure  of  the 
Exchange  AND  THAT  nothing  herein  contained  shall  restrict  or  be  deemed  to  restrict  the 
right of the Exchange to suspend or remove from the list the said securities at any time and 
for any reason which the Exchange considers proper in its absolute discretion. If the Issuer 
fails  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  listing  agreement  or  relevant  Acts  or  provisions 
prescribed  by  the  Statutory  and  Regulatory  Bodies,  the  Exchange  has  the  right  to  take 
suitable  action  as  it  deems  fit  including  levy  of  fines/penalties,  suspension  of  security  for 
dealings and delistings. 
 
IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF  the  Issuer  has  caused  these  presents  to  be  executed  and  its 
Common Seal to be hereunto affixed as of the day and year first above written. 
 
The common seal of .............................................................. 
............................................................................................... 
was hereunto affixed pursuant to a resolution passed at a meeting    
the Board of Directors of the Issuer held on ...................day of 
........................, ........in the presence of  * … … … … … … … … … … …            Signature  

      Signature     of 

  

................................................................................................. 

      

Page 41 of 44 

 
 
 
SCHEDULE I ABOVE REFERED TO : 
 
SCHEDULE OF ISSUER’S SECURITIES PROPOSED TO BE LISTED 
 
Kind of Security:       
 
 
Number Issued:      
 
 
Nominal value (face value) of Security 
(Rs.):     
 
 
 
 
Total Nominal Value (face value) of 
Security (Rs.):          
 
 
Total Paid -Up Value(Rs.): 
 
 
Distinctive Numbers: 
 
 
Interest due date(s) 
 
 
Date(s) of Redemption 
 
 
 
 
 

  

 

 

Page 42 of 44 

SCHEDULE OF LISTING FEES 

 

 
 
SCHEDULE II ABOVE REFERED TO  : 
 
 
 
 
 
Particulars 
Initial Listing Fees 
Annual Listing Fees 

a)  Issue Size upto Rs. 1 Crore 
b)  Above Rs. 1 Crore and upto Rs. 5 Crores 
c)  Above Rs. 5 Crore and upto Rs. 10 Crores 
d)  Above Rs. 10 Crore and upto Rs. 20 Crores 
e)  Above Rs. 20 Crore and upto Rs. 50 Crores 
f)  Above Rs. 50 Crores 

 
Issuers which have applied for listing of issue size more than Rs. 50 crores would be charged 
an additional listing fees of Rs. 700 for every increase of Rs. 5 crores or part thereof in the 
same size (in Rs.) subject to a maximum of Rs. 50,000/- 
 
However the Issuer shall pay the listing fees that may be prescribed from time to time with 
effect from such date as may be notified by the Exchange. 

 

Amount (Rs.) 
7500 
 
 2100 
 4200 
 7000 
14000 
21000 
35000 

Page 43 of 44 

 

 

Sr. No.  Clause No. 
1. 

16 

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

7. 

8. 
9. 
10. 

17 
23 
24 
25 
27 

28 

33 
39 
41 

SCHEDULE III 
 
 

                                           Subject 
Intimation of date of Board Meetings for recommendation of 
dividend, rights, bonus, etc. 
Intimation of Board decision for dividend, rights, bonus, etc. 
Intimation of change in general character or nature of business 
Intimation of change in directors, auditors, etc. 
Furnishing copies of Annual Reports, notices, resolutions, etc. 
Intimation of notices sent to shareholders with respect to 
amendments to the Memorandum of Association and Articles of 
Association  
Intimation of material events except; comments of debenture 
trustees, delay in payment of interest / principal amount and 
classification as non-performing Assets 
Submission of financial results, etc. 
Corporate Governance Report 
EDIFAR Filing  

 

Page 44 of 44 

