REPORT OF THE RECONVENED COMMITTEE ON

SUBSTANTIAL ACQUISITIONS OF SHARES AND

TAKEOVERS UNDER THE CHAIRMANSHIP OF

JUSTICE P. N. BHAGWATI

MAY 2002

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

Page 1 of 41

PREFACE

The  previous  report  of  the  Committee  while  making  its  recommendations  had
concluded by observing that no Rule, no Regulation, indeed no Law, which deals
with  dynamically  evolving  economic  situation  and  circumstances  and  seeks  to
resolve  constantly  varying  economic  interests  and  problems  in  -a  fast  growing
economy, can possibly hope to have a permanent – not even a long ending life.
With new ideas and new experiences, the law must move forward.  It cannot be
allowed  to  stagnate,  for  stagnation  is  death.    This  observation  was  no  mere
rhetoric.  The truth of this observation became evident within a short time of the
coming into force of the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
Regulations, 1997.

The SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997
dealt primarily with issues such as consolidation of holdings, conditional offers,
change in control, formation of Takeover Panel, competitive offers, and not the
least  important  increased,  investor  protection.    Numerous  new  provisions  were
included in the Regulations with a view to dealing with these issues.  During the
course of administration of the Regulations, it was observed by SEBI that by and
large  these  provisions  served  well  in  fulfilling  the  object  and  purpose  of
harmonising interests of economic growth with those of investor protection.  The
Regulations in fact spurred takeover activity as evidenced by the large number of
public  offers,  cases  of  automatic  exemption  and  references  to  the  Takeover
Panel under the provisions of the Regulations during the years following upon the
coming into force of the Regulations.

However,  it  was  found  as  a  result  of  the  experience  of  the  working  of  the
Regulations  that  some  provisions  were  open  to  diverse  interpretations  while
some  others  were  not  sufficiently  precise  and  could  be  used  to  achieve
unintended results.  Moreover, new challenges in the light of on-going economic
reforms,  which  arose  consequent  on  liberalisation,  needed  to  be  satisfactorily
met.  The challenges were accentuated in view of the irreversible integration of
the Indian economy in general and the capital market in particular with the world
markets.        It  was,  therefore,  realised  that  in  order  to  make  the  Regulations
efficient and effective for achieving the object and purpose for which they were
made  as  also  to  meet  the  challenges  resulting  from  economic  reforms  and
liberalisation, it was necessary to take a fresh look at the Regulations and make
a dispassionate, well informed review of the provisions of the Regulations in the
light  of  the  experience  gained  as  a  result  of  working  the  Regulations,  so  as  to
better  subserve  investor  interest,  consistent  with  fostering  economic  growth.
The need for review of the Regulations arose as early as June 1998.

Page 2 of 41

SEBI,  with  a  view  to  addressing  these  concerns,  reconstituted  the  same
Committee, which was instrumental in drafting the 1997 Regulations.  The terms
of reference of the Committee are:-

1. 
2. 

To review the working of the Regulations
To consider suitable suggestions for further refinement of the Regulations
in the light of experience gained so far.

The Committee comprised of the following members:-

Justice P.N. Bhagwati – Chairman

Chambers of Commerce & Industry were represented by:-
Shri  Bipin  Jhaveri,  representing  Associated  Chambers  of  Commerce  and
Industry (Assocham).
Shri  Adi  B.  Godrej  (upto  December  2000)  and  Shri  N.  A.  Soonawala  (from
December 2000) representing Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
Shri R.S. Lodha, representing Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and
Industry (FICCI)

Institute of Chartered Accountants of India was represented by its President,
Shri Rahul Rai (upto February 1999), Shri S P Chhajed (from March 1999 to
February 2000), Shri G Sitharaman (from March 2000 to February 2001),
Shri N D Gupta (from March 2001 to February 2002) and Shri Ashok Chandak
(from March 2002).

Stock  Exchanges  were  represented  by  the  Executive  Director  of  The  Stock
Exchange,  Mumbai,  Late  Shri  M  G  Damani  (upto  January  2000),  Shri  A  Rathi
(from January 2000 to March 2001) and Shri A.N. Joshi (from April 2001).

Legal Experts were represented by:-
Shri J.R. Gagrat of Gagrat & Co.
Shri R.A. Shah of Crawford Bayley & Co.
Shri Shardul S. Shroff of Amarchand & Mangaldas & Suresh A. Shroff & Co.

Investors Associations were represented by:
Prof. Manubhai Shah, representing Consumer Education and Research Centre
Prof.  M.D.  Limaye  representing  Lokmanya  Seva  Sangh  (Shri  Limaye  however
did not attend any of the meetings citing personal reasons).

Merchant Bankers were represented by
Shri Nimesh Kampani, Chairman, JM Morgan Stanley Pvt. Ltd.
Shri Shitin Desai, Vice Chairman & Managing Director, DSP Merrill Lynch Ltd.
Shri Udayan Bose, Chairman, Lazard India Limited

Page 3 of 41

Shri Vallabh Bhansali, Enam Financial Consultants Pvt. Ltd.
(Special Invitee)

SEBI was represented by:
Shri O.P. Gahrotra, Ex Senior Executive Director (upto February 2001)
Shri Pratip Kar, Executive Director
Shri R.M. Joshi, Executive Director
Ms. D.N. Raval, Executive Director and Member Secretary

The  Committee  discussed  and  considered  several  issues  which  were  initially
raised  before  it  but  it  did  not  restrict  itself  only  to  those  issues.    Other  issues
which arose while the deliberations of the Committee were going on were also
considered by it. Further, the Committee also had an intensive and wide ranging
interaction with a variety of market participants such as parties who made hostile
bids as also those who responded to such bids, Financial Institutions, Regional
Investors Association, etc. to understand their perspective and obtain the benefit
of their opinions on the various issues considered by the Committee.

The  incredibly  large  variety  of  views  of  number  of  participants  compelled  the
Committee  to  extend  its  original  time  schedule.    This,  combined  with  an  ever
increasing  number  of  contemporary  issues  raised  in  various  fora  called  for
serious consideration and necessarily involved that more time would be required
by the Committee for completion of its deliberations and submission of its Report.
However, the Committee noted with satisfaction that while its Report was awaited
with eagerness, there was a general feeling that it would contribute greatly to the
value  of  the  Report  if  all  participants  were  heard  and  the  report  took  into
consideration  their  views  and  opinions.    This  would  go  a  long  way  in
guaranteeing  that  the  Regulations,  while  having  a  strong  base,  would  also  be
inherently flexible so as to be able to meet the challenges thrown up by vibrant
pulsating economy and ever changing scenario.  It is with this objective in mind
that  the  Committee  has  drafted  this  Report  and  the  amendments  to  the
Regulations.

Mumbai
May 7, 2002

Justice P N Bhagwati

Page 4 of 41

1.
1.1

1.2

Takeover Panel
The Committee was informed that The Panel set up by SEBI in terms of
Regulation  4(1)  for  examining  applications  for  exemption  and  to  give
recommendations has been in operation since April 11, 1997. The Panel
consists of eminent people drawn from various fields who meet regularly
and have given valuable inputs to the decision making process of SEBI on
exemption cases. The Panel had as on 31.3.2002 considered and given
recommendations  in  120  cases  and  SEBI  had  in  almost  all  cases
accepted the recommendations of the Panel. The Panel has thus helped
in setting healthy precedence.

The Committee was further informed that certain issues have been raised
with  regard  to  the  procedure  being  followed  while  granting  exemption.
These relate to, inter alia, request for hearing by the Panel, right of SEBI
to remit  the case back to the Panel either in the light of fresh facts brought
before SEBI at the time of hearing or otherwise etc. The members of the
panel have expressed an opinion that there should be some provision in
the Regulations requiring certification of the facts given in the exemption
application.  This is required so that the Panel could satisfy itself that the
statements made in the application are true. Further, during the course of
the  Committee’s  meetings,  issues  such  as  whether  the  Panel  could
consider  cases  which  may  not  fall  within  the  parameters  given  in  the
Regulation  3,  whether  the  Panel  should  include  representatives  of
investors / industry associations, whether the Regulations should provide
for reference to the Panel in matters of application / interpretation of the
Regulations etc. came up for deliberation.

1.3

The  Committee  considered  the  various  issues  raised.    The  Committee
noted that there are certain issues which are purely procedural and others
which  require  consideration  by  the  Committee.  While  opining  that  the
existing  procedure  may  continue,  the  Committee  recommended  certain
changes.    The  decisions  of  the  Committee  in  this  regard  as  well  as  the
rationale are as follows:

1.3.1 Constitution of the Panel

The  Committee  noted  that  the  Panel  comprises  of  eminent  persons
appointed from amongst persons referred to in subsection 5 of Section 4
of  SEBI  Act.    This  ensures  that  the  objectives  of  the  SEBI  Act,  more
particularly  investor  protection,  are  taken  care  of.    The  Committee  also
noted  that  currently  the  Panel  comprises  of  a  former    member  from  the
judiciary.

On behalf of Consumer Education and Research Centre, Shri Manubhai
Shah  submitted  that  the  Panel  shall  have  adequate  representation  from
investor protection groups i.e. not less than 1/3rd of the total strength of the
Panel.

Page 5 of 41

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  constitution  of  the  Panel  may
be  left  to  SEBI.    The  Committee  also  recommends  that  the  present
practice of including a former member of the judiciary in the Panel be
continued.  As  regards  the  terms  of  appointment,  the  Committee
recommends that the term of each member shall be for 3 years and
the member will be eligible for reappointment.

1.3.2 Scope of the Panel

The  Committee  discussed  the  issue  regarding  grant  of  exemption  in
circumstances not covered under clause (a) to (k) of sub-Regulation 1 of
Regulation 3 of the Regulations.

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  scope  of  the  Panel  may  be
enhanced  by  deleting  the  word  “such”  appearing  in  Regulation
3(1)(l). However, the Committee also recommends that the scope of
the  Panel  cannot  be  extended  to  relax  the  conditions  which  are
stipulated as part of regulatory provisions.

the 

the  Panel 

recommendation  of 

On  seeking 
in  matters  of
application/interpretation  of  the  Regulations,  the  Committee  is  of  the
opinion  that  it  will  be  beneficial  to  seek  the  opinion  of  an  expert  and
independent  body  before  passing  appropriate  directions.  Since  the
Regulations already have the mechanism of a panel in place, the role of
the panel may be expanded towards this end.

The Committee, therefore, recommends that the Regulations may be
amended to make a provision for enabling SEBI to make reference to
the Panel for interpretation of the Regulations.

1.3.3   Hearing by the Panel

The  Committee  held  discussions  with  the  members  of  the  Panel.  The
Panel stated that wherever information provided by the applicant is found
to  be  insufficient  or  where  additional  information  is  required,  the  Panel
seeks necessary information from the applicant through SEBI and arrives
at a recommendation only when sufficient facts are made available. The
Panel also opined that since the Panel is recommendatory in nature and
SEBI, before passing final orders, gives an opportunity for hearing to the
applicant,  and  also  remits  back  the  application  where  considered
necessary, the need for giving a hearing by the Panel may be superfluous
and could lead to delay. The Committee recommends that the Panel may
not  be  required  to  grant  hearing  to  the  applicant  but  may  seek  further
information where considered necessary.

Page 6 of 41

1.3.4 Remitting back the applications to the Panel

The  Committee  was  of  the  opinion  that  where  fresh  facts  are  made
available to SEBI at the time of hearing, it would be in order for SEBI to
remit the case back to the Panel for reconsideration in view of the fresh
facts. 

While  the  SEBI  may  not  give  their  views  on  each  proposal,  any  earlier
view taken by SEBI in the matter should be made known to the Panel, the
rationale being the Panel should have full and complete information in the
matter while considering and making its recommendations.

The Committee recommends that the Panel should have the benefit
of  all  correspondence  in  respect  of  the  matter  before  them  for
consideration.

1.3.5 Certification of facts in the application

Certification of facts is necessary as the exemption is granted based on
facts  as  set  out  in  the  application;  this  needs  to  be  certified  so  as  to
facilitate  action,  if  any,  that  may  be  necessitated  if  the  facts  given  on
application are proved to be false at a later date.

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  facts  given  in  the  application
should be certified through an affidavit and where a company makes
the  application,  the  authority  of  the  person  making  the  application
should  be  backed  by  a  board  resolution  or  a  valid  authorization  by
the board.

1.3.6 Communication of Panel’s recommendations to the applicant

Communication of reasons for rejection of application by the Panel would
give the applicant an opportunity to properly  present his case at the time of
hearing before SEBI and hence should be informed to the applicant. 

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  reasons  for  rejection  of
application  in  case  the  Panel  were  to  recommend  rejection  of
application  should  be  advised  to  the  applicant  in  advance  of  the
hearing before the SEBI.

1.3.7 Rejection of applications by SEBI

The Committee was of the opinion that rejection of application on technical
grounds should not be resorted to as it leads to delays.

The Committee recommends that where the applications are found to
be  technically  deficient,  SEBI  may  not  reject  but  would  give  the

Page 7 of 41

applicant  an  opportunity  to  remove  the  defects  within  the  specified
time period and resubmit.

2.

Publishing Of SEBI’s Order
The Committee was informed that  SEBI follows the practice of issuing a
press  release  giving  a  summary  and  the  operative  portion  of  the  SEBI’s
orders.  The  Committee  was  of  the  opinion  that  unless  the  entire  order  is
made  public,  the  market  may  not  be  aware  of  the  basis  on  which  a
particular  case  merited  exemption,  the  issues  which  arose  and  how  the
Regulations  were  interpreted  and  applied  in  a  particular  case  etc.  In  the
Committee’s  opinion,  these  are  essential  to  develop  jurisprudence.  This
would also have the effect of ensuring greater transparency.

The Committee recommends that the SEBI’s order should be posted
on SEBI’s website.

Consolidation of holdings

3. 
3.1  Creeping acquisition in professionally managed companies

The  Committee  noted  that  consolidation  of  holdings  is  one  of  the  major
issues on which there has been a lot of debate and is of major concern.
SEBI  often  receives  request  for  allowing  creeping  acquisition  to  the
promoters or persons in control beyond the specified creeping acquisition
limit,  on 
the  Regulations  should  permit  quicker
consolidation of holdings especially in view of the changes expected in the
Indian  industry  due  to  liberalisation/  globalisation.  There  were  also
that  creeping  acquisition  may  not  be  permitted 
suggestions 
in
professionally managed companies with no identifiable promoter group.

the  ground 

that 

The  Committee  took  into  account  the  points  put  forth  by  the  various
groups and also held meetings with Industry/Investor associations to elicit
their  views  in  the  matter.  After  considering  all  the  relevant  facts,  the
Committee was of the considered opinion that any differentiation among a
group  of  shareholders  militated  against  the  principle  of  “equality  of
treatment and opportunity to all shareholders”, which is the corner stone of
the Takeover Regulations. In view of the above, the Committee was not in
favor of any special treatment to professionally managed companies.

As  regards  the  fears  expressed  that  in  the  absence  of  any  protective
clause  in  the  Takeover  Regulations,  professionally  managed  companies
with  no  identifiable  promoter  group  could  be  easy  targets  for  foreign
companies  with  unlimited  resources,  the  Committee  felt  that  these  are
matters  of  Government  policy  and  cannot  be  regulated  through  the
Regulations.  The  Committee,  however,  noted  that  foreign  companies
(excluding NRI OCBs) are permitted to avail of creeping acquisition limit,
only with the specific approval of the board of the target company and the
Government.

Page 8 of 41

The Committee recommends that the requirement of approval of the
Board  of  the  Target  company  /  Government  for  any  acquisition  by
foreign  companies  (excluding  NRI  OCBs)  may  be  included  in  the
Regulations.

3.2  Creeping  acquisition  by  acquirers  holding  15%  and  above  but  less

than 75%
The  Committee  also  noted  that  the  SEBI  Regulations  have  since  been
amended to provide for consolidation of holdings upto 10% in any period
of 12 months which should take care of the interest of the promoter group.
The  Committee,  however,  noted  that  the  creeping  acquisition  of  10%
which  was  originally  allowed  upto  March  2002  has  since  been  extended
by  SEBI  only  up  to  September  2002.  In  this  connection  some  of  the
members  opined  that  in  view  of  the  changes  expected  in  the  Indian
industry  due 
the  WTO  provisions,  an  opportunity  of  quicker
consolidation be given to the industry at least upto March 2004. Others,
however, were of the opinion that the creeping acquisition of 10% should
not be permitted beyond September 2002 and should be rolled back to the
5% level.   

to 

Shri  Manubhai  Shah,  CERC  was  of  the  firm  opinion  that  creeping
acquisition should be allowed only upto 5% in a period of 12 months till the
acquirer / promoter shareholding reaches 51%.

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  creeping  acquisition  limit  of
10% should be retained upto March 2004.

3.3

The  Committee  noted  that  SEBI  has  received  queries  on  the  manner  of
computation  of  “any  period  of  12  months”  for  the  purpose  of  creeping
acquisition. For putting the matter beyond doubt and avoiding inadvertent
breaching of the Regulations, it was felt that the creeping acquisition limit
may be reckoned with respect to financial year ending March 31 (i.e. from
1st April to 31st March).

The Committee recommends that the creeping acquisition limit may
be reckoned with respect to financial year ending March 31.

3.4. Creeping acquisition by acquirers holding 75% and above

The Committee noted that the continuous listing norms require a 25% or
10%  public  shareholding  at  all 
listing
requirements. Presently, persons holding 75% and above can consolidate
further by making an open offer of any size. The Committee opined that
permitting  a  person  to  consolidate  beyond  75%  would  bestow  absolute
control over the company to the acquirer and the company for all practical
purposes  would  lose  the  characteristics  of  a  publicly  listed  company  as

times,  depending  on 

the 

Page 9 of 41

envisaged by the listing requirements. Hence, the Committee was of the
view  that  it  is  desirable  to  restrict  the  persons  in  control  from  acquiring
beyond  75%  without  making  a  public  offer  of  minimum  20%  to  the
shareholders.

Shri  Manubhai  Shah,  CERC  specifically  stated  that  beyond  51%,  no
further  consolidation  should  be  permitted  either  by  way  of  creeping
acquisition or  by the route of public offer whatsoever.

The  Committee  recommends  that  any  acquisition  by  acquirers
holding 75% and above should be in a transparent manner through
open offers for minimum 20% and accordingly proviso to Regulation
21(1) may be deleted.

Control
The Committee was informed that though the intent of the Regulations is
to  provide  the  shareholders  an  opportunity  to  exit  in  case  of  change  in
control,  the  purpose  is  not  achieved  because  the  proviso  and  the
explanation  to  Regulation  12  provide  for  certain  exceptions.  Further,
change 
transfers  and/or
preferential  allotments  are  exempt  automatically  under  Regulation  3  and
the investors have complained about lack of exit opportunity. An issue has
been raised from time to time as to what constitutes change in control. It
has been suggested that control should be more precisely defined, which
may be in terms of a specific percentage of holdings.

in  control  brought  about 

through 

interse 

4. 
4.1

The decisions of the Committee with reference to issues regarding “control”
and the rationale therefor is as follows:

4.2  Acquisition of control

The  Committee  noted  that  the  Regulation  12  was  introduced  to  include
change  in  control  even  when  there  is  no  acquisition  of  shares.  The
Committee also noted that so far hardly any offer has been made under
this  Regulation  possibly  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the  proviso  and  the
explanation  to  the  said  Regulation  has  provided  certain  exceptions.  The
Committee  also  noted  that  bringing  about  change  in  control  requires
passing of a simple resolution in terms of the Companies Act, which does
not  provide 
  The  Committee  considered
alternatives  such  as  requiring  the  passing  of  a  special  resolution,
debarring the interested parties from voting on the resolution, postal ballot
and  deletion  of  the  proviso  and  explanation  to  Regulation  12  etc.    The
Committee  was  of  the  opinion  that  having  regard  to  corporate  and
shareholders  democracy,  it  may  not  be  appropriate  to  totally  disallow
change  in  management  brought  about  after  due  process  of  law.  If  the

for  adequate  safeguard. 

Page 10 of 41

provisions relating to obtaining shareholder approval are strengthened, it
would be enough  safeguard to protect the interest of the investors.

Shri  Manubhai  Shah,  CERC  strongly  put  forth  that  any  acquisition  of
control shall be only through the route of public offer. He also stated that if
more  than  one  person  is  to  be  appointed  as  director  at  a  time  in
pursuance of any arrangement or understanding, the same shall be done
only with due compliance of the provisions of Regulation 12.

The Committee recommends that change in control can be brought
about  only  pursuant  to  a  special  resolution  passed  by  the
shareholders  in  a  General  Meeting  and  postal  ballot  should  be
allowed in respect of such meetings.

4.3

The Committee feels that the explanation as to what constitutes change in
control which is presently appearing under Regulation 12 and modified as
under may be shifted to Regulation 2 which contains the definition of the
word “Control”.

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  modified  explanation  to  the
word  “control”    which  should  appear  in  Regulation  2  shall  read  as
under:

?  Where  there  are  two  or  more  persons  in  control  over  the  target
company, the cessor of any one such person from such control shall
not  be  deemed  to  be  a  change  in  control  of  management  nor  shall
any  change  in  the  nature  and  quantum  of  control  amongst  them
constitute change in control of management.

Provided that a transfer from joint to sole control shall not constitute
change  in  control  subject  to  such  transfers  being  effected  in
accordance with Regulation 3 (1)(e) relating to interse transfer.

?  Where  any  person  or  persons  are  given  joint  control,  such  control

shall not be deemed to be a change in control -

a)  if  the  control  given  is  equal  to  or  less  than  the  control
exercised  by  person(s)  presently  having  control  over  the
company, and
b)  such  change 

in  accordance  with

in  control 

is  effected 

Regulation 3.

4.4

Acquisition of control through preferential allotment
The Committee was informed that quite often the disclosures in the notice
to  the  EGM  convened  for  obtaining  approval  of  the  shareholders  for  the
preferential  issue  are  found  lacking  in  many  respects  like  identity  of
persons (it is referred only as a class); pricing is stated to be as per SEBI

Page 11 of 41

Guidelines  (exact  or  indicative  price  not  stated);  emerging  share  holding
pattern  not  disclosed  etc.    The  Committee  was  also  informed  that  while
the Regulations provide that the Board resolution is to be sent to the stock
exchanges, it has not been specified which of the Board resolutions is to
be sent i.e. the Board Resolution before the EGM in which the decision to
call the EGM for passing the Resolution; or the Board Resolution after the
EGM  which  decides  about  issue  of  shares  on  preferential  basis.  The
Committee  was  also  apprised  that  preferential  allotment  route  is  often
used  for  bringing  about  change  in  control  by  the  existing  persons  in
control, who can get the desired resolution passed on the strength of their
shareholding, coupled with low turn out at the meetings.

The  Committee  noted  that  a  majority  of  the  automatic  exemption  cases
are  pursuant  to  acquisition  through  preferential  allotment.  While  such
allotments  can  be  made  only  with  the  shareholders’  approval,  having
regard to the low turnout of the minority shareholders in these meetings
and the fact that effectively there is no exit option to the shareholders, the
Committee  felt  that  a  re  look  is  required  at  the  automatic  exemption  in
such cases.  The Committee also took into account that any change made
in  this  regard  should  not  adversely  affect  the  induction  of  strategic
partners who often enter the company through acquisition of stake under
preferential allotment.

Some members expressed reservation about continuing the exemption for
preferential  allotment.  Shri  Manubhai  Shah  was  of  the  opinion  that
interested  parties  should  not  be  allowed  to  vote  on  a  resolution  for
preferential allotment.

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  present  exemption  for
preferential allotment be continued subject to the condition that any
resolution  for  preferential  issue  should  provide  for  postal  ballot  to
enable greater shareholder participation.

Inter-se transfers
The Committee noted that the Regulation 3 exempt acquisitions through
inter se transfers among group companies, relatives and promoters. There
may not be any cause for concern in respect of inter se transfers amongst
group and relatives as in such cases, the control continues to remain with
the  group.    However  the  issue  assumes  significance  when  it  involves
interse  transfers  amongst  promoter  groups  such  as  between  a  foreign
collaborator  and  an  Indian  promoter  or  between  two  groups  of  Indian
promoters.    In  such  cases,  there  is  bound  to  be  perceptible  change  in
control.    The  Committee  noted  that  the  arguments  raised  in  such  cases
are  that  while  the  shareholder  with  substantial  holding  gets  an  exit,
sometimes  at  very  high  prices,  the  other  shareholders  are  denied  such
benefit. It is also possible that in such cases, the investment was made by

Page 12 of 41

4.5

the shareholder on the strength of the exiting shareholder with substantial
holding. There was a strong feeling that in such cases of transfers, there
should be a requirement of compulsory open offer.

The  Committee,  however,  observed  that  this  clause  was  introduced
essentially to facilitate entry/exit of strategic partners, group restructuring
etc.    Quite  often  the  foreign  collaborators  enter  and  remain  with  the
company till such time that technology transfer is complete and may want
to exit when their presence is no longer felt necessary. A minimum holding
of 5% for 3 years period has also been prescribed under the Regulations
in  order  to  avail  exemption  in  respect  of  acquisitions  through  inter  se
transfers  amongst  two  groups  of    promoters.  The  Committee  also  noted
that  a  number  of  companies  have  taken  advantage  of  this  clause  to
restructure  the  business.  The  Committee  appreciated  the  concerns
expressed that this clause could be used for giving exit at high price to a
shareholder with substantial holding in a company without an offer.  The
Committee  was  also  apprised  that  studies  conducted  by  SEBI  indicated
that approximately 46% cases of inter se transfers were at a price higher
than market price, which benefited only the shareholders with substantial
holding.

While accepting that it is necessary to place certain restrictions on such
automatic  exemptions,  the  Committee  noted  that  in  cases  of  inter  se
transfers  leading  to  acquisition  of  sole  control  from  joint  control,  the
outgoing person in control may demand a premium over the market price
for ceding control. The Committee felt that it would be necessary to take
cognizance of such business expediency and permit a certain premium or
discount  over  the  market  price  for  such  interse  transfers.  In  this
connection,  the  Committee  noted  that  a  premium  of  upto  25%  is
considered normal.

Regarding the definition of the word “group”, the Committee noted that in
the absence of any precise definition of “group”, definition as given in the
MRTP  Act  was  adopted;  but  the  definition  has  widened  the  scope  of
exemption and has also led to interpretational problems.  The Committee
also discussed at length whether for the purpose of exemption of interse
transfers,  “group”  may  be  defined  to  include  entities  falling  under  the
scope of “related parties”  as per Accounting Standard 18 of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of India. However, on indepth examination, it was
felt that inter se transfers among related parties as per the said accounting
standard would further widen the scope of exemption.

The Committee recommends that

?  As  regards  interse  transfer  amongst  the  relatives,  the  existing

provisions may continue.

Page 13 of 41

?  Regarding group, interse transfer amongst constituents of the group
as disclosed to the stock exchange atleast a month before the date
of proposed acquisition and falling within the definition of the word
"group" as defined in the MRTP Act may be exempt.

?  While  the  minimum  3  year  holding  period  may  be  retained  for
transfers  amongst  2  different  groups  of  promoters,  the  5%  holding
as a condition for  such  transfers may be deleted.

? 

interse transfer amongst different promoters or groups of promoters
made at a price not exceeding 25% price as determined in terms of
Regulation  20(2)  or  Regulation  20(3)    alone  would  merit  automatic
exemption. Other cases may be referred to the panel.

Illustration

Assume the price as per Regulation 20  is Rs. 100/- per share (OP) and
the offer is triggered pursuant to agreement / understanding between the
acquirer and person A for acquisition by acquirer of 1,00,000 shares (S) of
the  target  company.  Suppose  the  acquirer  has  also  entered  into  a    non
compete agreement with A in terms of which  the acquirer has to pay A  a
sum  of  Rs.  5,00,000/-.(X).    Thus,  the  non  compete  payment  per  share
(NCP) works out to X divided by S.

If NCP is greater than or equal to 25% of the OP, then the excess of NCP
over 25% of the OP would be required to be added to the OP.

In the current example, when X = Rs. 5,00,000, 25% of the OP  is Rs. 25.

The NCP works out Rs. 5/- Since NCP is less than 25% of the OP,  the
acquirer would not be obliged to add NCP to the OP.

Now, if X= Rs. 1,00,00,000, then NCP = Rs. 100/-. NCP is greater than
25% of OP by Rs. 75. Therefore Rs. 75/- is to be added to the OP.  The
new offer price is now Rs. 175/-

Minimum offer size
The Committee was informed that the 20% offer size does not provide exit
opportunity to all shareholders especially in case of offers where the offer
price is at a premium to the then prevailing market price. This has led to
complaints  and  demand  for  increasing  the  offer  size.  On  offer  size,  the
Committee noted that  there were many options such as whether the offer
size should be such as to enable the potential acquirer to hold a minimum
of  40%  or  51%  after  the  offer,  provision  for  100%  exit  option  to  small
shareholders  even  when  retaining  the  20%  minimum  offer  size,  a  100%
offer etc.

5.

Page 14 of 41

The  Committee  was  apprised  that  as  on  31/12/2000,  a  majority  of  the
offers  (approximately  70%)  were  of  minimum  size  i.e  for  20%.  Further
94% of the open offer did not elicit full acceptance. The Committee also
noted that the acquirers still have to largely rely upon their own source of
funding  for  acquisitions  through  public    offers,  given  the  absence  of
institutional / organised source of funding for takeovers. The Committee,
therefore,  felt  that  any  increase  in  the  minimum  open  offer  size  may
adversely  affect  the  number  of  public  offers.  Hence,  under  the  present
conditions, the current minimum offer size of 20% seems to be adequate.
The  Committee  further  noted  that  the  extant  Regulations  permit  the
acquirer to make an offer for a higher percentage of shares, if the acquirer
so desires.

The  Committee  recommends  that  no  change  in  the  minimum  offer
size is required to be made at this juncture.

 100% exit to small shareholders
On the question of whether there should be a 100% exit option to small
shareholders  even  while  retaining  the  20%  minimum  offer  size,  the
Committee  felt  that  it  would  be  difficult  to  determine  who  can  be
considered as a small shareholder. Further, where the acceptance level
from the small shareholders alone comes close to the offer size, the other
shareholders 
the  small
shareholders) stand to lose as they  would be deprived of an equal exit
opportunity.  This  militates  against  the  cardinal  principle  of  equality  of
treatment and opportunity to all shareholders which is the basic principle
of the Regulations.

funds  (which  represent 

including  mutual 

The Committee recommends that it would not be equitable to have a
100% exit option to one class of shareholders alone.

Institutional funding for takeovers
In the context of lack of institutional funding for takeovers, the Committee
recommends that banks /financial institutions should be encouraged
to  consider  financing  takeovers.  The  Committee  desires  that  SEBI
may consider taking up the matter with the Reserve Bank of India for
facilitating such funding.

Offer Price
The Committee was informed that while administering the Regulations in
the  past  few  years  many  issues  relating  to  the  provisions  of  offer  price
came up for consideration for example whether the term “price”  referred to
in the Regulations includes mode of payment, can the mode of payment
be changed, will change in mode amount to change in terms of the offer,
whether  the  provisions  of  the  Regulations  are  intended  to  cover  only
minimum offer price or the actual offer price etc.

Page 15 of 41

6.

7.

8.
8.1

Issues  such  as  whether  the  offer  price  should  be  historical  or  it  should
have  some  relevance  to  the  market  price  prevailing  prior  to  the  public
announcement,  should  it  include  non–compete  payment  etc.  were  also
raised. It was also pointed out that the Regulations are silent on pricing for
partly paid shares.

The Committee’s views and recommendations on the various issues are:

8.2 Minimum offer price v/s offer price

The  Committee  was  informed  that  the  word  “minimum”  used  with
reference to offer price in Regulation 20 is being interpreted to mean that
the SEBI Regulations are applicable only with reference to the minimum
offer price as may be worked out in terms of the Regulation 20 and any
compensation offered over and above the minimum offer price would not
be  governed  by  the  Regulations.  The  Committee  felt  that  such  an
interpretation is unwarranted.

8.3

The Committee recommends that the word “minimum” appearing in
the  title  and  body  of  Regulation  20  be  deleted.  The  Regulations
should be amended so that
?  obligations  under  the  Regulations  with  regard  to  payment  of
consideration are applicable to the total consideration offered and

? 

the  offer  price  shall  not  be  lower  than  the  price  determined  in
accordance with Regulation 20.

Parameters for determining offer price
Various suggestions were made in this regard such as the offer price may
be calculated as an average of 13 weeks instead of 26 weeks; the price
paid  for  any  acquisition  by  the  acquirers  during  the  period  of  52  weeks
may be taken; non-compete payment upto 25% of consideration may be
excluded  etc.  The  Committee  also  noted  that  as  per  the  extant
Regulations, the period for determining the offer price has been uniformly
taken  as  26  weeks  except  for  the  price  paid  by  the  acquirer  under  a
preferential allotment which is 12 months. The Committee considered the
various issues.  The Committee noted that while it may be appropriate to
factor in market  price as close to the public announcement as possible,
extending the period beyond 26 weeks for any acquisitions by the acquirer
may result in hardship to the prospective acquirer.  The problem would be
more acute especially if the acquirer wants to make a counter bid.

Shri  Manubhai  Shah  however  was  of  the  view  that  the  acquirer  himself
has acquired shares during the past 52 weeks, the offer price shall not be
less than the price at which he has acquired the shares.

Page 16 of 41

The Committee also noted that the current provision of having 26 weeks
average for the market price covers a relatively extended period of time,
which  does  not  adequately  reflect  the  events  and  market  fluctuation  just
prior  to  the  public  announcement.  In  the  Committee’s  opinion,  a  lesser
period for the purpose of working out average market price would be more
appropriate. On non-compete payment the Committee noted that there is
a need to address the situation specially where the acquirer passes on a
significantly large portion of the consideration to the out going promoter in
the  form  of  non-compete  fee  and  only  a  token  amount  is  shown  as
negotiated  price  for  acquisition  of  shares  under  the  agreement.  The
Committee felt that in such cases the offer price does not truly reflect the
actual consideration paid and this could be used as a ploy for reducing the
cost of acquisition through public offer.

The Committee recommends that

? 

the average market price in terms of Regulation 20(2)(d) may be
calculated  on  the  basis  of  26  weeks  or  2  weeks  average,
whichever is higher,  preceding the date of public announcement.

?  price  paid  by  the  acquirer  for  any  acquisitions  during  26  weeks

period may be considered.

?  Any payment in respect of non-compete agreement in excess of
25%  of  consideration  paid  to  persons  other  than  the  target
company shall be deemed to form part of the consideration paid
for  acquisition  of  shares  and  should  be  factored  in  for  the
purpose of reckoning offer price.

?  The  offer  price  for  partly  paid  shares  may  be  calculated  as  per
difference between the offer price less the amount unpaid/ calls in
arrears  together  with  interest,  if  any,  payable  on  the  amount
called up  remaining unpaid.

8.4 Mode of payment

The Committee noted that at times an acquirer may want to change the
mode of payment, especially when there is a revision in offer price and /or
the  quantity.  Where 
the  amount  of  consideration  payable  stands
substantially  increased  following  such  revisions,  the  acquirer  may  be
required  to  resort  to  other  sources  of  funding  such  as  issue  of  fresh
securities  etc.  If  we  were  to  restrict  change  in  mode  altogether,  it  may
constrain  the  acquirer’s  ability  to  revise  the  offer  price/size  depending
upon subsequent developments, especially where there is competitive bid.
It  may,  therefore,  be  necessary  to  permit  change  in  mode  of  payment.
The  Committee  also  noted  that  the  extant  Regulations  provide  only  for

Page 17 of 41

exchange  and,  or  transfer  of  shares  and  does  not  provide  for  issue  of
securities.

The  Committee,  however,  noted  that  suitable  safeguards  should  be
provided so that the acquirer does not indulge in reckless revisions without
adequate  preparation  and  without  ensuring  the  possibility  of  carrying
through the revisions. Permitting change in mode at a later date may entail
additional  approvals  etc.  leading  to  uncertainty  and  consequent  delay  in
completion  of  offer  formalities.  Further,  to  facilitate  comparison  of
competing offers, the investors should be aware of not only the price but
also  the  manner  in  which  such  price  will  be  paid  so  that  an  informed
decision can be taken in time. In view of the above, the Committee felt that
while  it  may  not  be  appropriate  to  restrict  change  in  mode,  it  should  be
made  clear  to  the  acquirer  as  well  as  to  the  investors  that  if,  for  any
reason,  the  acquirer  was  not  in  a  position  to  fulfil  the  conditionalities
flowing out of such change in mode, the acquirer shall be required to pay
the entire amount of consideration in cash.

In  this  context,  the  Committee  noted  the  issues  which  arose  such  as
whether the mode of payment can be changed following a revision in the
offer,  whether  change  in  mode  amounts  to  change  in  terms  of  the  offer
etc.

The Committee recommends that

?  The offer price may be paid by issue of securities.

?  Change  in  mode  of  payment  may  be  permitted  only  in  case  of

upward revision in offer price/ size

?  Following  an  upward  revision,  where  the  mode  of  payment  is
changed to cash cum security, composition could be allowed to
be  changed  as  long  as  the  cash  component  is  not  reduced  by
subsequent changes.

?  Where  mode  of  payment 

to 

fulfil 

reasons, 

the  acquirer 

if,  for
whatever 
the
conditionalities flowing out of such change in mode, the acquirer
shall  be  required  to  pay  the  entire  amount  of  consideration  in
cash.

is  changed  subsequently, 

is  unable 

?  Where the mode of payment involves issuance of securities, the
approval  of  the  shareholders  should  be  obtained  within  21  days
from the date of closure of the offer, so that the merchant banker
can ensure that the special account is funded in cash in case the
shareholders approval has been refused.

Page 18 of 41

9.

Infrequently traded shares
The Committee noted that the definition of infrequently traded shares i.e.
having  trading  volume  of  less  than  2%  appears  to  be  extremely  liberal.
The Committee was informed that it has been observed that it is easy to
put  through  a    trading  volume  of    2%  thus  bringing  the  shares  into  the
classification  of  frequently  traded  shares.  Thereafter,  the  market  price
average as provided in Reg.20 (2) is used for the purpose of determining
the minimum offer price. This price is generally very low as compared to
the fundamentals of the company.  The Committee noted that the above is
possible  because  only  2%  of  the  entire  listed  stock  of  the  company  is
reckoned  for  the  purpose.  If  the  definition  is  strengthened,  it  would  be
difficult to manage to show an illiquid stock as frequently traded.

The Committee recommends that

?  The shares of the target company may be deemed to be infrequently
traded  if  on  the  stock  exchange,  the  annualized  trading  turnover  in
that  share  during  the  preceding  6  calendar  months  prior  to  the
month  in  which  the  Public  Announcement  is  made  is  less  than  5%
(the number of shares) of the shares listed on the stock exchange.

?  As 

regards  SEBI  seeking 

independent  valuation  wherever
considered necessary, while the Committee had no objection in SEBI
doing so in respect of infrequently traded shares, the opinion of the
Committee  was  divided  in  respect  of  the  shares  which  were  to  be
classified  as  frequently  traded.  Majority  of  the  members  of  the
Committee had objection to SEBI seeking independent valuation for
shares classified as frequently traded.

10.Conditional offers

The  Committee  was  informed  that  currently  the  Regulations  provide  for
making an offer conditional upon level of acceptances only.  Queries are
being  received  regarding  conditional  offers  under  other  circumstances
also  e.g.  success  of  restructuring  by  the  parent  company  certain  other
aspects of conditional offers such as implementation/ rescission of  MOU
in  case  the  desired  response  is  not  received,  whether    conditional  offer
can be for less than 20% etc. also required consideration.

The  Committee  considered  the  various  issues.  The  Committee  felt  that
pursuant to an acquisition under a MOU, the acquirer is required to make
an offer to the public and hence such a public offer cannot be conditional,
unless  of  course  the  MOU  itself  is  rescinded  and  not  acted  upon  if  the
public offer does not elicit the required acceptances.

Page 19 of 41

As  regards  requiring  a  domestic  offer  resulting  from  change  in  control/
restructuring abroad, the Committee was of the opinion that it is not logical
to  impose  open  offer  requirements  if  the  overseas  offer  /  restructuring
(which might result in indirect change in control in Indian target company)
fails.

Regarding conditional offer for less than 20%, the Committee felt that as a
general  principle,  an  offer  should  always  be  for  minimum  20%  and
therefore  there  is  no  need  for  allowing  a  conditional  offer  for  less  than
20%, though the acceptance level may be less than 20%.

About  the  need  to  differentiate  between  obligated  and  non  obligated
offers, the Committee remarked that owing to practical difficulties that may
arise  in  distinguishing  between  an  obligated  and  non  obligated  offer,  it
would be advisable not to make any distinction between the two types of
offers. Further, non obligated offers of small size could be used for price
manipulation by unscrupulous elements.

In view of the above, the Committee recommends that –

?  An offer should always be for 20% or above; but the offer may be

subject to an acceptance level of less than 20%

?  An offer can be conditional upon the success of restructuring by

parent or holding company.

?  When the offer is pursuant to a MoU, the acquirer may be allowed
to make an offer conditional as to level of acceptances, only if the
acquirer  binds  himself  to  rescind  the  MoU  in  case  the  desired
level of acceptances is not received.

?  There  is  no  need  to  distinguish  between  obligated  and  non-

obligated offers.

Obligations of target company
The Committee was informed that the Regulation 23 precludes the target
company  from  issuing  un-issued  capital  with  intent  to  discourage  the
target  company  from  surreptitiously  increasing  the  capital  base  of  the
company  so  as  to  frustrate    the  offer  of  the  acquirer.    However,  the
intended  objective  is  sometimes  frustrated  when  the  company  allots
shares  on  the  strength  of  a  resolution  which  was  passed  earlier.    The
capital  of  the  company  could  also  rise  due  to  public/rights  issue  in
process.    The  issues  which  had  arisen  in  this  regard  are  when  can  an
issue  of  capital  be  set  to  have  been  made    i.e.  the  date  of  the  AGM
resolution authorising the issue of capital or the date of Board resolution

11.

Page 20 of 41

etc. and how does one preclude the target company form issuing shares
as would foil the bid or frustrate it.

The Committee noted that in public/ rights issue, the facts of the proposed
issues are known to the market and in any case, once the issue process is
begun, it may not be possible to withhold allotment. The Committee further
noted  that  in  case  of  preferential  allotment  also,  the  validity  of  the
resolution  is  restricted  to  3  months.  Thus  in  the  above  situations,  the
acquirer  is  put  on  guard  that  the  capital  of  the  company  is  likely  to
increase  and  should  do  due  diligence  to  find  out  the  actual  issued  and
paid  up  capital  of  the  target  company.  As  regards  what  constitutes  an
issue, the Committee observed that there are well settled case laws in the
matter.  However,  it  may  be  advisable  to  amend  the  Regulations
precluding the target company from not only issue of capital but allotment
also.

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  public/rights  issue  for  which
the offer document has been filed with the Registrar of Companies/
the  Stock  Exchange(s)  should  be  allowed  to  be  proceeded  ahead
with.  The  Regulation  23(1)(b)  may  be  amended  to  include  not  only
issue but also allotment.

12.
12.1

Competitive bids
The  various  issues  which  have  been  raised  for  consideration  are:  the
minimum size of a competitive bid vis a vis the original bid, whether the
competing  offer  could  open  subject  to  various  approvals  and  should  the
competitive  bidder  be  allowed  to  withdraw  the  offer  after  the  first  bidder
had withdrawn or revised the offer following the competitive bid.

12.2 Size of competitive bid

The  Committee  noted  that  the  extant  Regulations  provide  that  the
competitive  offer  shall  be  for  such  number  of  shares  which  when  taken
together with the shares already held by him at least equals the number of
shares  for  which  the  first  public  announcement  has  been  made.  This
provision while reckoning the pre offer  holding of the competitive bidder
excludes the pre offer  holding of  the original bidder. In order to ensure
that  the  targeted  quantity  of  the  shares  at  the  time  of  making  the  first
public  announcement/competitive  bid  is  equal,  it  would  be  necessary  to
include the pre offer holding of both the original bidder and the competitive
bidder.

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  competitive  bid  shall  be  for
such number of shares which, when taken together with shares held
by competitive bidder along with persons acting in concert with him,
shall be at least equal to the post offer target of the original bidder.

Page 21 of 41

This stipulation may be complied with at least at the time of making a
first competitive bid

12.3 Approvals for competing offers

The  Committee  felt  that  requiring  the  competing  acquirers  to  get  all
approvals before the offer opens may not be desirable since the external
(statutory) approvals required to be obtained may not be within the control
of the acquirers. This may also lead to indeterminate delay in opening of
the  offer.  Hence  the  Committee  was  of  the  opinion  that  as  long  as  full
disclosures  are  made  in  the  offer  document  about  such  approvals,  the
opening of the offer may not be held up.

The Committee recommends that except for shareholders approval,
(which in any case has to be obtained within 21 days from the date of
the  closure  of  the  offer)  the  open  offer  could  be  made  which  is
subject to statutory approvals. There is no need for the acquirer to
defer the open offer till the statutory approvals are obtained.

The Committee further recommends that in case the acquirer fails to
obtain  the  shareholders  approval  within  21  days  from  the  date  of
closure of offer, the escrow amount may be forfeited.

12.4 Withdrawal of offer following competitive bid

The Committee noted that the extant Regulations provide for withdrawal of
offer by the original acquirer following a competitive bid.  When the original
bid which gave rise to the competition is withdrawn, a question arose as to
whether  the  competitive  bidder  can  also  withdraw  his  offer.    The
Committee discussed the matter and was of the opinion that rather than
allowing the competitive bidder also to withdraw which would mean that no
offer  ultimately  subsists,  one  should  not  allow  withdrawal  of  offer  by  the
original  bidder  also  because  an  acquirer  while  making  a  bid  for  any
company  should  be  fully  prepared  for  the  consequences  including  the
possibility  of  a  counter  offer.  The  shareholders  of  the  target  company
should  have  the  option  to  decide  which  of  the  offer(s)  should  succeed.
This  will  also  provide  double  exit  option  to  the  shareholders  which  is  in
their interest.

The Committee recommends that the provision relating to withdrawal
of offer following a competitive bid  contained in Regulation 27(1)(a)
be deleted.

13.

Payment of consideration through exchange of shares
The Committee was informed that a number of issues have arisen in this
regard such as what kind of securities can be offered in exchange, what
happens to the bid if the shareholders of the company do not approve of
the acquisition, or whether the offer should be only for cash, etc.

Page 22 of 41

The  Committee  was  of  the  opinion  that  permitting  the  acquirer  to  offer
shares of the third company as consideration for shares tendered would
increase the flexibility available to him in the funding of the offer. But such
permission should be with certain checks and balances to ensure that the
shareholders are not saddled with illiquid shares thereby depriving them of
an exit option.  The Committee also felt that the requirement that all offers
can  be  made  in    cash  only  would  be  a  retrograde  step  and  would  also
make public offers for large companies difficult. A suggestion was made
that in the case of an exchange offer, the shareholders should be given an
option to opt for cash payment . However, it was pointed out that in that
event the acquirers would be in no position to know, till the date of closure,
the quantum of cash that would be required to meet his obligation under
the offer. Such an offer would effectively make the offer a cash offer since
given an option invariably the shareholders would opt for cash.

Shri Manubhai Shah strongly opined that in any public offer, option must
be  available  to  the  investor  to  obtain  payment  of  consideration  only  in
cash if he so desires.

The requirement of shareholders approval for issuance of fresh securities
was discussed. Should the company which wants to issue securities and
then  offer  them  in  the  public  offer  be  required  to  obtain  shareholders
approval prior to the public offer?  The Committee was of the opinion that
uncertainty over such matters should be avoided at all costs as it may not
be in the interest of the investors and the acquirer should be reasonably
certain  of  obtaining  the  requisite  approvals  of  its  shareholders  for
successful    implementation  of  the  offer.  The  acquirer  should  also  be
obliged to make payment of consideration in cash if the approvals do not
forthcome. The Committee felt that unless stringent  provisions are made,
there might be frivolous offers, which are undesirable.

As regards applicability of SEBI Guidelines in case of offer involving fresh
issue of capital by the acquirer company, the Committee was of opinion
that the issue of any security by an acquirer company to the shareholders
of  a  target  company  can  neither  be  termed    a  public  issue  nor  a  right
issue.  Hence,  the  logical  inference  would  mean  that  the  said  issues
should be in compliance with preferential issue guidelines of SEBI.

On the issue of the type of securities that can be issued, the Committee
noted that the Regulations provide for payment of consideration through
exchange  and  or  transfer  of  shares.  Shares  have  been  defined  in  the
Regulations  as  shares  carrying  voting  rights  and  includes  any  security
which  would  entitle  the  holder  to  receive  shares  with  voting  rights.
Preference  shares  normally  do  not  carry  voting  rights.  Further  if  it  is
redeemable, it partakes the nature of a debt instrument. The Committee
also  noted  that  generally  preference  shares  are  not  rated.  The

Page 23 of 41

Committee  noted  that  the  Regulations  require  discharge  of  obligations
either  by  exchange  of  shares    or  a  `A’  rated  debt  instrument.  Since
preference  shares  do  not  fall  in  either  category,  they  may  not  be
permitted to be issued. 

Considering  the  above,  and  keeping  in  view  the  shareholders
interest the Committee recommends that

?  The  acquirer  may  be  permitted  to  offer  shares  of  a  third  listed
company,  subject  to  the  condition  that  the  shares  of  that
company are included in the list of A Group / specified shares of
the Stock Exchange, Mumbai or shares grouped under S&P CNX
Nifty of the National Stock Exchange.

?  Shareholders  approval  should  be  taken  within  21  days  from  the
date  of  closure  of  the  offer.  If,  for  whatever  reasons,  the
shareholders approval cannot be obtained, the acquirer shall pay
the entire consideration in cash.

? 

If  the  process  involves  fresh  issue  of  capital  by  the  Acquirer
Company,  such  fresh  issue  should  conform  to  the  Preferential
Issue Guidelines of SEBI.

?  Preference shares shall not be allowed to be issued.

Open offer process
The Committee was informed that the Regulations require the acquirer to
make  a  public  announcement  within  4  working  days  of  entering  into  an
agreement. The words “working days”  have not been defined. This leads
to  certain  ambiguities  and  non-compliances.  Further,  at  times  SEBI  is
required to call for a revised filing of an offer document, inter-alia, because
there  are  complaints 
inadequate
disclosure  etc.  Should  SEBI  have  the  power  to  call  for  refiling  and  as  a
consequence if the open offer process is required to be rescheduled, can
SEBI do so? Further, the Regulatory requirement cast on the acquirer to
file  a  copy  of  the  public  announcement    with  SEBI,  the  Stock  Exchange
and the target company two working days before its issuance to the public
might  lead  to  opportunities  for  insider  trading,  asymmetry  of  information
etc.

requiring  detailed 

investigations, 

The Committee recommends that
?  Working days mean working days of SEBI.

? 

there  is  no  need  for  the  copy  of  public  announcement  to  be
submitted  to  anyone  at  all. 
if  the  public

It  would  suffice 

Page 24 of 41

14.

announcement  is  given  simultaneously  in  newspapers/  stock
exchanges/ target company and SEBI.

?  SEBI should have the power to call for submission of revised letter
of  offer  etc.  but  the  Regulations  should  clearly  specify  the
circumstances under which a resubmission would be called for.

?  SEBI  should  convey  its  comments  on  the  letter  of  offer  within  7
/

receipt  of  additional 

the  date  of 

information 

days  of 
resubmission.

?  SEBI  should  also  have  the  power  to  reschedule  date  of  opening/
closure,  in  cases  where  the  offer  becomes  subjudice  or  involves
some  investigation  by  SEBI  etc.  or  as  a  consequence  of  any
revised resubmission.

15.

Disclosure requirements
The  Committee  appreciated  that  periodic  disclosures  help  in  monitoring
compliance  to  the  Regulations.    This  also  increases  transparency  in  the
dealings  of  the  acquirer  apart  from  providing  a  warning  system  to  the
existing  management  of  the  target  company.  The  Committee  also
recognises  that there should be transparent and purposeful dissemination
of information.

Following  aspects  of  the  requirements  in  the  current  Regulations  were
considered by the Committee:-

?  Lack  of  requirements  for  disclosure  in  case  of  acquisition/  sale  by  an

acquirer holding 5% or more shares / voting rights

?  Changes  in  shareholding  are  required  to  be  reported  at  the  end  of  the
financial year and the record date and not at the point of time when the
change in shareholding actually occurs.

?  Lack  of  explicit  requirement  for  the  stock  exchanges  to  disseminate  the

information received by them from the company

?  Need for revising the current requirements of disclosure by the acquirer to

the target company and by the target company to the stock exchange

?  Penalty  for  non-compliance  with  the  requirement  of  disclosures  and  its

consequences

The  Committee  also  noted  that  doubts  have  been  expressed  by  certain
people  regarding  applicability  of  the  disclosure  requirements  under  the
Regulations to the financial institutions, mutual funds, foreign institutionaI
investors  etc. The acquisitions /sales by major shareholders including the
financial  institutions,  mutual  funds,  foreign  institutionaI  investors  and
persons  in  control  is  market  sensitive  information  and  should  be
disseminated  immediately  as  and  when  such  changes  occur.  The
Committee  therefore    thought  it  fit  to  re-iterate  that  the  obligations  cast

Page 25 of 41

upon an acquirer to disclose his shareholding as and when it exceeds 5%
are  binding  on  every  person  including  the  financial  institutions,  mutual
funds,  foreign  institutionaI  investors,  etc  and  there  is  no  relaxation
whatsoever  from  the  reporting  requirements,  even  where  the  acquisition
per se may be exempted.

recognizing  operational  difficulties 

While 
reporting  of
holding/change in holding to the company /stock exchange at too frequent
an interval, the Committee agreed that the present reporting requirement
which require reporting only at 5% level and not thereafter, especially for
acquirers holding less than 15%, requires to be modified.

involved 

in 

The Committee recommends that
?  Disclosures  should  be  made  at  every  stage  when  the    acquirer

crosses the limit of 5%, 10% and 14%;

?  For acquirers holding 15% and above, purchases or sales at every

2% level should be disclosed.

?  The reporting of acquisitions/ sales should be made to the stock

exchanges and the target company within 2 days.

?  The  acquirers  are  obligated  to  ensure  that  the  necessary

disclosures reach the company and the stock exchanges.

?  The exchange shall immediately  flash the information received  on
the trading screen/ notice board and also post such information on
its  website.  Such  information  should  be  retained  on  the  website
for a period of atleast one year.

?  The percentage level referred to should be computed on  a gross
purchase  basis  at  any  point  of  time  to  decide  whether  the
Regulations are attracted.

?  Any  non-compliance  of  the  requirement  should  be  viewed

seriously and appropriate action should be initiated.

Applicability of the Regulations

16.
16.1 Acquisition by pledgees other than banks and financial institutions

The Committee observed that advance against pledge of shares is a well
accepted commercial business activity. However, at the same time, care
should  be  taken  to  ascertain  that  there  is  no  surreptitious  acquisition  or
takeover  of  a  company  in  the  guise  of  enforcement  of  pledge.  Towards
this end, disclosures should be ensured whenever shares were acquired
by way of pledge by persons (other than banks and financial institutions)

Page 26 of 41

at the point of time when the pledge was created.  In this connection, the
Committee noted that the Regulation 7 requiring disclosure of acquisition
covers acquisition under pledge also and this may be suitably clarified in
the  format  of  disclosures.  The  Committee  was,  however,  not  in  favor  of
granting automatic exemption for acquisition through pledge.

The Committee recommends that

? 

In case of acquisition through pledge, Takeover Panel may decide
if exemption should be granted based on the facts of each case.

?  At the time of creation of pledge, disclosures should be made by
the  pledgees  to  the  company  and  the  stock  exchanges  so  as  to
keep the public adequately informed.

16.2  Acquisitions pursuant to a scheme of arrangement

International acquisitions that lead to indirect acquisition of shares/ voting
rights or control over an Indian target company through various layers of
subsidiaries situated in various jurisdictions have become commonplace.
In  such  cases,  the  Indian  target  company  and  its  shareholders  are  not
directly  involved  in  the  said  proposal.  Under  Indian  law,  any  scheme  of
arrangement,  reconstruction  etc.  is  subject  to  orders  of  the  Court  and
shareholders  approval.  However,  the  Committee  noted  that  the  term
“scheme of arrangement”  is not very well defined, causing apprehensions
that  the  word  ‘arrangement’  used  in  the  Regulations  could  be  loosely
interpreted leading to dilution of the spirit of the Regulations.

The Committee also felt that adequate care should be taken to avoid grant
of exemption to cases of mergers or amalgamations abroad where there is
a clear agreement for sale and purchase of shares of the Indian company.
Such acquisition shall not be considered as a part of the merger proposal.

Shri  Manubhai  Shah  advocated  that  acquisitions  through  the  route  of
mergers and amalgamations done under the orders of the Courts in India
alone  should  be  exempted  as  these  take  place  with  the  approval  of  the
shareholders  of  the  Indian  company.  Mergers  and  amalgamations  of
companies  which  have  taken  place  outside  India  should  not  necessarily
be valid and binding in India and should not be exempted.

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  words 
appearing at Regulation 3(1)(j)(ii) may be deleted .

'of  arrangement'

16.3 Acquisition of shares by Government Companies

Due  to  the  exemption  available  under  the  current  Regulations  a
Government company is not required to make an open offer pursuant to
acquisition  of  shares  of  another  listed  Government  company  from  the

Page 27 of 41

Government,  while  a  private  sector  company  acquiring  a  Government
company may be required to make a public offer causing distortion of level
playing  field.  This  also  adversely  affects  shareholders’ 
interest  as
Government,  being  major  shareholder,  gets  an  exit  but  not  the  minority
shareholders.

The Committee was informed that based on the proposals received from
the  Ministry  of  Disinvestment,  and  approved  by  SEBI,  suitable
amendments in the Regulations have already been made.

16.4 Transfers by acquirers after open offer
I6.4.1 Interse  transfer  of  shares  amongst  acquirers  who  have  made  the

open offer
Issue  relating  to  transfer  of  shares  between  the  acquirer  who  has
completed the open offer process and persons acting in concert with him
were  raised  in  the  Committee.    The  Committee  agreed  that  these
transfers are akin to interse transfers amongst promoters and therefore,
in  principle,  merit  consideration  of  exemption.  However,  the  Committee
noted  that  even  in  case  of  interse  transfer  among  promoters,  such
transfers are automatically exempted if the transferors/ transferees were
holding  the  shares  for  a  period  of  at  least  3  years.  A  similar  period  of
holding  is  desirable  in  the  case  of  transfers  between  the  acquirer  and
persons acting in concert with him.

The  Committee  recommends  that  automatic  exemption  may  be
considered  in  respect  of  interse  transfer  amongst  the  acquirer  and
persons  acting  in  concert  with  him  only  where  the  proposed
acquisition takes place after 3 years from the date of closure of open
offer. In other cases, reference may be made to the Panel.

16.4.2 Transfer of shares from SFCs to acquirers after open offer

The  Committee  noted  that  where  the  promoter  of  a  company  exits  by
selling his substantial/controlling stake, the acquirer gains control after due
process  of  law  including  an  open  offer  and  hence  is  a  successor  to  the
promoter. Since the definition of the word "promoter" includes persons in
control,  a  person  gaining  control  of  the  company  after  an  open  offer
should, for all practical purposes, be considered as promoter from the date
of successful completion of the  open offer formalities. The acquirer has
effectively  stepped into the shoes of the  promoter and assumes all  the
rights and obligations of the promoters vis a vis the financial institutions;
for  e.g.  the  financial  institutions  insist  on  personal  guarantee  of  the
incoming management, the SEBI lock-in provisions are made applicable to
the  acquirer  etc.  Similarly,  he  may  be  required  to  fulfil  any  contractual
obligation that the erstwhile promoter may have entered into with a state
level financial corporation.

Page 28 of 41

The Committee recommends that the automatic exemption currently
available under Regulation 3(1)( i ) for transfer of shares from state
level  financial  institutions;  including  their  subsidiaries,  to  co-
promoters of the company pursuant to an agreement between such
financial institution and such co-promoter(s) should be extended to
include successors  / assignees of the co promoters of the company.

16.5 Applicability of the Regulations to Foreign Institutional Investors

The current Regulation 2(1)(e) defines persons who will be deemed to be
persons acting in concert with other persons in the same category. This
term  includes  '  Foreign  Institutional  Investors  with  sub-account(s)'.  The
issue regarding the continuance of the said provision was referred to the
Committee  as  it  was  felt  that  each  sub  account  is  an  independent
account and hence, the sub-accounts should not be deemed to be acting
in concert with the Foreign Institutional Investors.

The Committee was of the opinion that the present provision deeming the
Foreign  Institutional  Investors  to  be  acting  in  concert  with  the  sub
accounts  may  continue  as  it  is  in  line  with  international  practices.  The
Committee,  however,  noted  that  this  presumption  is  rebuttable.  The
Foreign Institutional Investors can thus give a rebuttal whenever  they are
not acting in concert and  such a rebuttal can be in the form of a specific
declaration /undertaking.  

The Committee recommends no change in the existing provisions.

16.6 Miscellaneous exemptions

? 

(ADB),  Commonwealth  Development  Corporation 

The  Committee  was  informed  that  under  the  current  Regulations  the
acquisition of shares by
?  persons in exchange of shares tendered under an open offer
? 

in excess of creeping acquisition limit pursuant to offer of safety net for
acquisition of shares by promoters/ merchant bankers
international  development  organisations  such  as  Asian  Development
Bank 
(CDC),
International  Financial  Corporation    (IFC)  and  other  international
organisations

are not exempt under the automatic route from the requirement of making
an open offer.

The Committee felt that the above referred acquisition arising as a result
of receipt of consideration for open offers in terms of the Regulations are
passive  acquisitions  and  hence  require  to  be  exempted  from  the
applicability of the Regulations.

Page 29 of 41

It was also felt that safety net i.e. acquisition by a promoter or through a
merchant  banker  is  for  the  benefit  of  investors  and  therefore  anyone
providing safety net and thereby crossing the threshold limit, should not be
burdened with open offer obligations.
also 
encourage
promoters /merchant bankers to offer safety net to investors.

This  may 

Regarding  the  acquisitions  by  International  financial  organisations  like
IFC, ADB etc., it was felt that these organisations have an important role
to play and are akin to Indian financial institutions. Since such institutions
may  not  have  an  interest  in  gaining  control,  their  acquisitions  may  be
exempt from the Regulations.

While  on  the  subject  of  exemption,  Shri  Manubhai  Shah,  on  behalf  of
CERC,  strongly  stated  that  granting  of  exemption  to  the  acquirers  from
making  public  offers  is  overwhelmingly  anti  small  investor  and  it  defeats
the very purpose of the Regulations. He, therefore, opined that as far as
possible,  there  should  be  no  room  for  exemption  or  any  contingency  or
any  possible  permutation  or  combination  where  exemption  should  be
allowed  whereby  acquirers  are  not  required  to  make  public  offer  to  the
shareholders. He stated that the obligation of the acquirers to make public
offer should be the rule and not the exception.

The Committee recommends that the scope of Regulation 3 i.e. the
exemption provisions should be expanded to cover acquisitions
?  by a person in pursuance to an open offer for exchange of shares

? 

in excess of creeping acquisition limit pursuant to offer of safety
net made by promoters/ merchant bankers

?  by international development organisations such as IBRD,  ADB,

CDC, IFC.

17.

Reporting to SEBI
Under  the  current  Regulations,  certain  acquisitions  which  are  exempted
under  the  Regulations  are  to  be  reported  to  SEBI  within  21  days  of  the
acquisition.  The  Committee  deliberated  on  whether  this  requirement
should continue.

The Committee recommends that there is no need to dispense with
the present requirement of reporting.

18.

 Date of proposed acquisition: 
The Committee deliberated on what should be the reference date in case
of securities which are convertible.

Page 30 of 41

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  date  of  conversion  of  the
securities  should  be  the  reference  date  for  determining  the
applicability of the Regulations.

Definitions

19.
19.1 The  Committee  stated  that  It  must  be  understood  that  while  definitions
should  be  clear,  precise  and  unambiguous,  there  may  not  be  definitions
which  cover  each  and  every  aspect  of  the  terms  defined  therein.    The
Committee  was  informed  that  despite  the  clarity  that  the  current
Regulations  provide,  certain  operational  difficulties  have  been  faced  by
SEBI while dealing with certain terms. For example, in a situation where X
acquires  certain  %  in  the  target  company  pursuant  to  a  MOU  which
triggers an open offer and Public announcement is made by Y, which may
be a connected party to X or a totally independent person. Y is shown as
the acquirer because under the open offer X is not going to acquire any
shares. Some doubts were expressed regarding the liability of X in such a
situation  if  Y  fails  to  fulfil  obligations.  In  other  words  questions  arose
regarding the definition and obligation of the “acquirers”, “persons acting in
concert”, “persons in control”  etc.

The  Committee  also  observed  that  many  of  these  terms  have  been
discussed thread bare in the orders passed by SEBI, Securities Appellate
Tribunal and High Court and thus, the ambiguity regarding the terms like
'acquirer', 'persons acting in concert', 'control' have been reduced to some
extent.

As  most  of  the  issues  referred  to  the  Committee  were  clarificatory  in
nature,  the  Committee  after  discussions  and  experience  shared  by
SEBI, recommends that the following may be clarified:

?  The term acquirer also includes 'persons acting in concert'.

?  The  acquirers  /persons  acting  in  concert  are  all  jointly  and
severally  responsible  for  fulfillment  of  obligations  under  the
Regulations.

?  The  term  'voting  rights'  which  is  not  defined  in  the  Regulations
would carry the meaning as per definition in the Companies Act,
1956.

19.2 Offer period : 

The  Committee  was 
that  certain  restrictions  placed  by
Regulations  like  induction  of  directors  etc.  during  offer  period  are
circumvented by inducting directors on or after the date of MOU but before
Public  Announcement.  The  Committee  felt  that  the  intention  of  the

informed 

Page 31 of 41

Regulations while placing such restrictions is to ensure that the acquirers
do not take control of the target company till all formalities are completed.

In  the  light  of  the  above,  the  Committee  recommends  that,  'Offer
period' may be reckoned to be from the date of the MOU, if any, to
the date of completion of all formalities.

19.3 Promoter 

In  the  current  Regulations  exemption  is  given  from  the  applicability  of
Regulations  to  inter-se  transfer  amongst  promoters  as  defined  in  the
Regulations.  The  Committee  was 
the  general
apprehension expressed by various quarters regarding the misuse of this
provision due to the definition of promoters being too wide.  For example,
a  company  with  only  7  qualifying  shares  of  which  two  are  held  by  a
promoter would fall within the definition but actual acquisition through such
company may be done by the remaining 5 shareholders through financing
arrangements.

informed  about 

The  Committee  agreed  that  the  Regulations  need  to  be  tightened  by
amending  the  definition  of  ‘promoter’.  The  adoption  of  the  definition  of
‘promoter’ 
in  the  Regulations  from  the  Malegam  Committee  report  has
widened  the  scope  of  exemption.  Since  the  exemption  under  the
Regulations is automatic and subject to only a reporting requirement, such
a wide definition is susceptible to misuse. The Committee, therefore, felt
that the definition may be suitably reworded and  adapted for the purposes
of the Regulations.

The Committee recommends that the definition of ‘promoter’  may be
redrafted  as under :

”Promoter” means -
(i) 

the person or persons who are (in control of the company)
directly or indirectly whether as a shareholder, director or
otherwise, over the company; or

(ii) 

(iii)

 

person or persons named in any offer document as
promoters.

where the promoter is  an individual –
(a)  a relative of the promoter within the meaning of section
       6 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956);
(b)  any firm or company, directly or indirectly, controlled by

the Promoter or a relative of the Promoter or a firm or Hindu
undivided  family  in  which  the  Promoter  or  his  relative  is  a
partner or co-parcener or a combination thereof;

Page 32 of 41

Provided  that  in  case  of  partnership  firm  the  share  of  the
promoter or relative of the promoter is not less than 50%.

(iv) where the promoter is a corporate body :-

(a)    subsidiary or holding company of that body; or
(b)    any firm or company, directly or indirectly, controlled by
   the Promoter of that body corporate or his relative or a
   firm or Hindu undivided family in which the Promoter or
   his relative is a partner or co-parcener or a combination
   thereof."

Provided  that  in  case  of  a    firm,  the  share  of  a  promoter  or
relative of a promoter is not less than 50%.

19.4 Public shareholding  

Public shareholding is an important term as it denotes the shares that can
be considered eligible for acceptance under the offer.  While the definition
covers  shareholders  other  than  acquirer  and  persons  acting  in  concert,
Regulation 22(3) excludes the participation of parties to agreement in the
open offer.  The Committee's views were sought on whether this definition
would hold good in a situation of a hostile bid or when certain persons in
the  existing  management  are  not  included  as  parties  to  MoU  either
deliberately or otherwise. The Committee was of the opinion that this may
have to considered based on the facts of each case.

The  Committee  recommends  that  in  a  particular  situation,  if  the
definition  is  not  found  to  hold  good,  SEBI  may  intervene  and  issue
suitable directions

19.5 Shares 

The current definition of shares includes any security which would entitle
the holder to receive shares with voting rights.  The issue of whether this
definition of 'shares' would include redeemable preference shares as they
would carry voting rights under certain circumstances was deliberated by
the Committee.

The  Committee  was  of  the  opinion  that  redeemable  preference  shares,
per se, do not carry voting rights and such share holders are permitted to
vote  under  certain  special  circumstances  only.    Hence  it  may  not  be
appropriate to equate them with shares. 

The  Committee  recommends  that  for  the  purpose  of  these
Regulations, the term 'shares' would not include preference shares.

Page 33 of 41

19.6 Date of Acquisition

The term 'acquisition' has not been defined in the current Regulations.  In
the current Regulations, all the reporting requirements are linked to date of
acquisition.  While  as  an  established  practice  in  case  of  preferential
allotment the date of allotment is taken as the date of acquisition, there is
a  lack  of  established  norm  in  case  of  purchases  from  the  open  market.
There is a need to clarify whether the date of acquisition in case of open
market purchase is the date of delivery of shares with blank transfer forms
or the date of transfer and registration in own name.

20.

The Committee noted that in a demat environment, the issue may not have
much relevance. The Committee also noted that the Regulations are also
applicable  in  case  of  intention  to  acquire  shares  which  would  imply  that
registration  of  shares  is  not  a  prerequisite  for  determining  acquisition  of
shares.

Asset Stripping
The  Committee  noted  that  the  Regulations  do  not  have  substantive  and
explicit  provisions  to  cover  situations  where  after  the  public  offer,  the
acquirer  proceeds  to  strip  the  assets  of  the  company.  The  extant
Regulations  have  certain  restrictions  on  sale  of  assets  during  the  offer
period  and  also  require  certain  disclosures  about  the  intentions  of  the
acquirer  in  this  regard.  The  Committee  noted  that  the  disclosures  in  the
offer  document  in  this  matter  are  generally  vaguely  worded  as  the
acquirers usually take shelter under the pretext that they can decide about
such  things  only  after  they  gain  control  and  take  stock  of  the  situation.
While  this  is  not  disputed,  there  should  be  certain  safeguards  to  ensure
that  any  asset  stripping  which  is  substantial  in  nature  is  done  with  the
approval  of  the  shareholders  to  protect  their  interests.  The  Committee
noted 
the  Companies  Act  provisions  require  an  approval  of
shareholders only in the  event of sale of undertaking and not when there is
sale  of  assets,  even  if  it  is  substantial.  The  Committee  considered  what
safeguards  should  be  imposed  to  ensure  shareholder  protection  and
sanctity of disclosures made in the offer document. The Committee felt that
disclosures  should  be  made  in  the  offer  document  regarding  asset
stripping. Such disclosures are necessary to enable the investor to take an
informed decision on the offer.

that 

The Committee recommends that:

?  The  offer  document  should  include  an  undertaking  from  the
acquirer  not  to  strip  substantial  assets  except  with  the  prior
approval of the shareholders of the target company.

Page 34 of 41

21.

?  Any non compliance thereto should be treated as a mis-statement

in the offer document inviting appropriate action by SEBI.

?  As a measure of investor protection, SEBI may consider extending
the  same  principle  to  the  listed  companies  in  general  by  making
such an undertaking as a part of listing agreement.

Indirect acquisition of a company through chain principle
The  Committee  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  public  offer  for  the  company
which  gets  acquired  as  a  consequence  of  the  takeover  of  the  target
company  is  triggered  only  upon  the  successful  completion    of  the
acquisition  of  the  target.  At  the  time  of  making  the  offer  for  the  target
company,  such  a  takeover  or  rather  its  success  is  contingent  and
prospective and in the event of its failure, the consequent offer does not
arise. Though the public announcement for the consequent offer could be
made  simultaneously,  it  would  be  conditional  upon  the  successful
completion of the first offer. Such conditional offer has its own impact on
the market and is not without practical and procedural difficulties. Hence
the  public  announcement  for  the  consequent  offer  can  be  allowed  to  be
made within a pre- specified time period of say 3 months from the date of
closure of the first offer.

However, the investors of the 2nd company should get benefit of the best
price  available  and  for  the  purpose  the  reference  dates  of  the  public
announcement for the first as well as the second offer may be taken for
determining the offer price.

The Committee recommends that

?  The  offer  for  a  company  which  gets  acquired  as  a  result  of
acquisition  of  a  target  company  can  be  subsequent  to  the
successful  completion  of  the  takeover  of  the  target  by  the
acquirer. It should be made within 3 months of consummation of
restructuring or arrangement by parent or holding company.

?  The  price  shall  be  determined  as  highest  of  the  two  prices
determined  as  per  the  provisions  of  the  Regulations,  with
reference  to  the  date  of  the  public  announcement  for  the  target
company and the date of public announcement for the company
which is consequently acquired.

22.

Acquisition  of  Indian  listed  company  by  virtue  of  acquisition  of  an
Overseas Company
In the case of acquisition of Indian listed company by virtue of acquisition
of  an  overseas  company;  the  Committee  was  of  the  firm  view  that  the
interest of Indian shareholders should be protected. Such interest should

Page 35 of 41

not be allowed to be compromised simply because the acquisition takes
place through complex /multi-tier organisation structures. The Committee
pointed out that specific amendments and explanation were incorporated
in the 1997 Takeover Regulations  to cover such  acquisitions.

As  regards  enforcement  of  the  obligations,  the  Committee  was  of  the
opinion  that  the  company  immediately  above  the  Indian  listed  company
would  be  obliged  to  comply  with  the  Regulations  since  as  part  of  the
chain, it is in immediate control/command of voting rights.

The Committee also desired that in such cases apart from the parameters
as specified in the Regulations for determination of the offer price, the 2
weeks  average  market  price  prior  to  the  public  announcement  may  also
be  taken  into  account.  This  is  in  appreciation  of  the  fact  that  in  many
cases, the date when the obligation actually crystallises is not clear.  The
Committee  noted  that  the  extant  Regulations  already  cover  cases  of
acquisition of Indian listed company by virtue of acquisition of an overseas
company.

The  Committee  recommends  that  it  may  be  clarified  that  the
obligation to make an open offer would rest on the entity one level
above the Indian listed company.

Permitting change in management pending completion of offer
formalities
The Regulations permit change in the Board of Directors which would give
the  acquirer  control  over  the  company  only  upon  fulfillment  of  all
obligations  by  the  acquirers  under  the  Regulations  and  certified  by  the
merchant banker. However, where 100% of the amount of consideration
payable is deposited  in the special account, changes in the Board were
allowed to be effected  after the closure of offer.  The Committee was of
the opinion that this clause might prove onerous at times considering the
time involved for completion of formalities.  The Committee however noted
that the said provision was introduced in order to provide for level playing
field in competitive bids and to maintain status quo till the closure of the
offer.    The  Committee  was  of  the  opinion  that  since  the  competitive  bid
can  be  made  only  within  a  particular  period  from  the  date  of  public
announcement, it may not be inappropriate if  the acquirer were allowed to
enter the management after such period for competitive bidding is over.

The Committee recommends that

?  acquirers  may  be  allowed  to  enter  the  management  after  the

period of competitive bidding is over ;

23.

Page 36 of 41

?  such changes may be allowed only when 100% of consideration
payable,  assuming  full  acceptances,  is  deposited  in  escrow  in
cash where the consideration payable is in cash; or in the form of
securities  where  the  consideration  payable  is  by  way  of  issue,
exchange and/or transfer of securities.

24. Withdrawal of acceptances tendered

One of the issues raised before the Committee was whether the investors
should  have  the  right  to  withdraw  acceptances  once  tendered.  The
Committee  was  informed  of  SEBI’s  consistent  stand  in  the  matter  that
acceptances once tendered cannot be withdrawn.  Such a stand had been
taken  in  the  light  of  practical  difficulties  in  allowing  withdrawal  and  re-
tendering  as  also  the  fact  that  the  acquirer  may  not  be  in  a  position  to
determine with a reasonable amount of certainty  the level of acceptances
that his offer has elicited which is essential for him to plan his strategy like
revision  in  offer  price  or  offer  size  etc.  Such  problems  would  become
acute if there are competitive bids.

The  Committee,  however,  noted  that  in  other  jurisdictions  the  facility  for
withdrawal is permitted and also it may not be legally tenable to disallow
withdrawal by investors when the contract is yet to be completed.  Further,
allowing  withdrawal  would  be  in  the  interest  of  investors.  This  is  more
relevant in case of competitive offers. The Committee felt that the investor
should be allowed to withdraw till such time the final price has been fixed
and made known to the investors. In this context the Committee noted that
the Regulations permit revision in offer price upto 7 working days prior to
the date of offer. Allowing 3 to 4 days thereafter for investors to exercise
their  judgment,  the  Committee  felt  that  withdrawal  by  investors  may  be
permitted upto 3 working days prior to the date of closure of offer.

The  Committee  recommends  that  the  investors  may  be  allowed  to
withdraw the form of acceptance tendered upto 3 working days prior
to the date of closure of offer.

25

Acquisition during and subsequent to public offer
The  present  Regulations  required  disclosures  in  respect  of  acquisition
during  offer  period.    The  Committee  was  informed  that  such  disclosures
are, however, made only in respect of acquisitions at a price higher than
offer price.  The Committee noted that the acquisitions during offer period,
irrespective  of  the  price  at  which  it  was  acquired,  is  a  price  sensitive
information and should be disclosed.

The  Committee  recommends  that  acquisitions  during  offer  period,
irrespective of the price at which it was acquired must be disclosed
to the stock exchanges. The Committee also recommends that the

Page 37 of 41

26.

information  received  by  the  stock  exchanges  shall  be  immediately
posted on the trading screen for information of the public.

As  regards  acquisitions  subsequent  to  closure  of  public  offer  by  the
acquirer, the Committee noted that while there may not be any objection
to  market  purchases,  it  would  be  reasonable  to  restrict  negotiated
purchases, at prices higher than offer price immediately following the offer,
so as to avoid  misuse.

The Committee recommends that the acquirers may not be permitted
to acquire shares at a price higher than offer price for a period of six
months.  This restriction however will not apply to market purchases.

Delisting pursuant to an offer under the Regulations
The  attention  of  the  Committee  was  drawn  to  the  recent  trend  of  offers
being made with intention to delist.  Such offers are made at a time when
the general market conditions are depressed, thereby taking advantage of
the  low  market  price.  Delisting  through  these  offers  has  the  effect  of
reducing good quality paper from the market. This is also perceived by the
investors as unfair as they are left with no choice but to accept the offer or
face  the  consequences  of  remaining  as  a  shareholder  of  an  unlisted
company with no exit option. Some members were of the opinion that the
formula  for  arriving  at  the  offer  price  for  such  offers  should  be  more
stringent and should take into account the book value, market price over a
period  etc.  In  this  connection,  the  Committee  was  informed  that  SEBI  is
already seized of this issue and has already set up a committee to look
into all aspects of delisting.

The Committee recognizes that delisting is an issue which is detrimental
to  the  investors  and  feels  that  the  Takeover  Regulations  should  not  be
used to achieve the objective of delisting by circumventing the provisions
laid down for delisting in the listing requirements.

The Committee recommends that a suitable clarification to this effect
may be incorporated in the Regulations.

27.  Compression of time taken for open offers.

The members of the Committee were of the opinion that there is scope to
reduce the time prescribed for various activities under the Regulations so
as to enable faster completion of offer process. This will be in the interest
of investors, acquirers and also the target company.

The Committee recommends that suitable amendments may be made
in the Regulations wherever possible.

Page 38 of 41

28.

Penalties
The Committee deliberated on the various penalties that could be levied
on  the  acquirer  in  case  of  violation  of  the  provisions  of  the  Regulations
especially  in  case  of  an  acquirer  who  has  acquired  shares  /control  in
violation of the Regulations 6,7, 8, 10, 11 & 12  - whether he should be
allowed  to  retain  the  benefit  of  such  illegal  acquisition;  or  should  the
acquirer be directed to make a public offer and separately be subject to
action for violation in terms of the Regulations.

The  Committee  was  apprised  of  the  extant  practice  followed  by  SEBI  to
deal  with  violations,  which  is  generally  directing  an  acquirer  to  make  an
open  offer  and  separately  referring  the  case  for  adjudication  and  levy  of
monetary penalties. The Committee was informed of the grounds for such
practice namely the following, -

(i) 

(ii) 

Directing  an  acquirer  to  disinvest  may  not  serve  the  intended
purpose of the Regulation i.e to provide an exit opportunity to the
shareholders.  Hence  mandating  an  open  offer  seemed  a  better
alternative.

The acquirer may not be in a position to disinvest especially in case
of  illiquid  shares.  Further  mandating  disinvestment  may  have  its
own impact on share price to the detriment of the shareholders for
no fault of theirs.

(iii) 

Penalty is visited through adjudication.

While the Committee appreciated the concern of SEBI, it was of the firm
view that the acquirer should not generally be allowed to reap the benefits
of any acquisition in breach of Regulations. Directing such an acquirer to
make  an  open  offer  in  some  cases  may  enable  the  acquirer  to    further
consolidate  his  ill  gotten  acquisitions.  The  Committee  was  of  the  firm
opinion  that  any  acquisition  in  breach  of  Regulation  10,  11  or  12,
including where an exemption under Regulations 3 is not available due to
non  compliance  with  any  of  the  conditions  on  which  the  exemption  is
granted under Regulation 3 leading to acquisition in breach of Regulations
10,11  or  12  is  bad  in  law  and  therefore  is  null  and  void  ab  initio.  The
Committee opined that the remedies for violation are made known so that
the  acquirer  is  aware  of  the  repercussions.  The  Committee  therefore
suggested  that  a  separate  provision  be  incorporated  in  the  Regulations
clearly  specifying  that  acquisition  of  shares  in  breach  of  Regulations  3,
10,11 or 12 shall be null and void. The Committee further suggested that
SEBI  should  also  be  empowered  to  make  consequential  directions  such
as cancellation of shares, freezing of transfer and voting rights etc. in such
cases.

Page 39 of 41

The  Committee,  in  the  light  of  above  discussions,  recommends  as
follows:

?  A  new  Regulation  12A  may  be  inserted  clearly  spelling  out  the

following:
i) 

ii) 

Any acquisition of shares in breach of Regulation 10, 11 or
12 of the Takeover Regulations shall be null and void.
So  also,  where  exemption  under  Regulation  3  is  not
available for any reasons whatsoever and an acquisition is
made in breach of Regulations 10,11 or 12, such acquisition
shall be null and void.

?  Where it is not possible to restore status quo ante for any reason,
SEBI  should  direct  appointment  of  a  merchant  banker  for  the
purpose of causing disinvestment of shares acquired in breach of
Regulations either through public auction or market mechanism,
in its entirety or in small lots, or through offer for sale.

?  Any  profit  made  in  the  process  should  be  put  in  the  Investor

Protection Fund.

?  Where  an  acquisition  of  shares  pursuant  to  an  allotment  is  null
and void due to breach of Regulations 3, 10, 11 or 12,  SEBI shall
report the same to the target company,  and the stock exchanges.
The  target  company  shall  cancel  the  shares  which  are  null  and
void  and  shall  report  to  SEBI  and  stock  exchanges  about  the
cancellation  of  such  shares.    The  depository  shall  freeze  further
transfer of such shares.

?  Where  SEBI  is  satisfied  that  as  a  result  of  acquisition  of  any
shares, violation of Regulations 10, 11 or 12 is likely to take place,
SEBI may direct the target company or the depository not to give
effect  to  transfer  of  any  such  shares  and  not  to  permit  the
acquirer or any nominee or any proxy of the acquirer, to exercise
any voting or other rights attaching to such shares.

?  Violators and their associates may be debarred from accessing or
dealing  in  the  capital  market  for  such  period  as  may  be
determined by the SEBI.

?  For  non  compliance  with 

in
Regulation  6,7  &  8,  the  SEBI  may  have  the  power  to  direct  dis-
investment of such shares as are in excess of the trigger point for
reporting requirement, as well as to impose monetary penalty.

the  disclosure 

requirement 

Page 40 of 41

? 

In  exceptional  cases,  such  other  remedies  as  considered
appropriate may be granted by SEBI.

?  This is without prejudice to any other penalty as may be levied by

SEBI

29.   Power to remove difficulties

It has been observed that public offers of Indian listed securities are being
made  not  only  in  India  but  also  outside  the  jurisdiction  of  India.  It  is,
therefore, important to empower SEBI to issue directions for the purpose
of resolving the conflict of laws.

The  Committee,  therefore,  recommends  that  the  Regulations  be
amended  so  that  if  any  difficulty  arises  from  certain  offers  being
subject  to  more  than  one  jurisdiction,  SEBI  is  empowered  to  issue
directions for the purpose of resolving the conflict of laws, if any.

The Committee thanks the Secretariat and the officers of SEBI who helped the
Committee  throughout  in  its  deliberations.  The  Committee  records  its  deep
appreciation of the valuable contributions made by Smt. Usha Narayanan, CGM,
Investigation  Department  of  SEBI  and  the  assistance  provided  by  her  in  the
preparation  of  the  Report.  We  would  particularly  like  to  place  on  record  the
untiring efforts, dedication and zeal with which the staff of SEBI and particularly
Shri  O  P  Gahrotra,  the  then  Sr.  Executive  Director  of  SEBI,  Kum  Dharmistha
Raval, Smt. Usha Narayanan and Shri Ananta Barua placed themselves at the
disposal of the Committee, assisting the Committee in its deliberations and in the
preparation of the Report and draft amendments to the Takeover Regulations.

thanks 

the  media, 

The  Committee  would  like  to  thank  the  large  number  of  individuals  and
institutions who readily responded to the Committee’s request for their views and
comments  and  also  for  giving  in  writing  their  views  on  specific  issues.  The
Committee 
financial  and  economic
newspapers  and  magazines,  for  widely  publicising  the  deliberations  and  for
offering  constructive  comments  by  way  of  news  reports  and  editorials  and
publication  of  articles  and  letters  from  the  readers  and  thus  generating  large
public debate and interest in the subject and thereby assisting the Committee in
arriving at its recommendations.

in  particular 

the 

The Committee also wishes to express its grateful thanks to Shri D.R. Mehta, the
then Chairman of SEBI for constituting the Committee and giving the members
full  freedom  in  drafting  the  Report  and  the  Regulations.    The  Committee  also
would like to express its grateful thanks to Shri G.N. Bajpai, present Chairman of
SEBI for facilitating the completion of the work of the Committee.

****

Page 41 of 41

