EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Indian  securities  markets  have  undergone  many  changes  during  the  last  decade.  Exponential
growth  in  trading  volumes  is  pushing  existing  trading  systems  and  processes  to  capacity  and
increasing  settlement  risk.  With  Indian  market  moving  to  a  T+3  rolling  settlement  cycle  in  line
with global markets, SEBI is continuing its efforts to increase the efficiency and transparency in
Indian  markets.  This  would  result  in  lowering  of  trade  costs  and  make  Indian  markets  a  more
attractive destination for global investors. Indeed it has been SEBI endeavor to make the Indian
markets, one of the most competitive and efficient markets of the world.

The  move  from  a  5  day  settlement  period  to  a  three  day  period  requires  firms  to  streamline
trading processes by way of a foolproof, faster, cost effective and universally acceptable mode of
communication  among  market  participants.  With  changes  happening  in  rapid  succession,
derivatives markets looking to expand, the settlement risk are increasing and this is pushing the
need for Straight Through Processing (STP) and making it a pre-requisite for success of smooth
functioning of securities market with a settlement period of T + 3 or less.

Straight-through Processing (“STP”) involves electronically capturing and processing
transactions  in  one  pass,  from  the  point  of  first  “deal”  to  final  settlement.    Current
practices involve costly multiple data re-entry from paper documents and other sources that are
susceptible to errors, discrepancies, delays and possible fraud.

STP enables orders to be processed, confirmed cleared and settled in a shorter time period, more
cost effectively and with fewer errors than under traditional methods such as phone, fax, email
etc.  that  require  human  intervention.  It  is  the  human  element  that  slows  the  trade  processes,
introduces errors and delays settlement.

Broadly the benefits of STP can be listed as:

1. Reduced Settlement Cycle
Reducing the settlement cycle, the time between execution to settlement, will eliminate many of
the risks associated with trade processing. Achieving seamlessness  will  be  an  enabler  for  these
shorter settlement cycles to assist both domestic and cross-border trades in Indian securities. You
cannot get to T+1 without seamless connectivity.

2. Transparency / Audit ability

Managing  trades  within  a  single  automated  process  will  improve  the  transparency  of  the  trade
status  for  all  parties  and  will  enable  organisations  (and  possibly  the  regulator)  to  monitor  the
process in terms of effectiveness, adherence to regulation and will enhance problem resolution.

3. Reduces Counterparty Risk
Once a trade has been executed there is an element of uncertainty between all parties on the
status of the trade and, indeed, whether the trade will settle until it is matched at the exchange.
We see in many markets that, for a great proportion of the trades, matching does not take place
until settlement date, leaving no time to repair the trade for settlement on time. Trades agreed by
all parties and set-up ready for settlement will also reduce the exposure in the event of counter
party failure.

4. Reduces Operational Risk
Automating  the  process  from  execution  through  to  settlement  will,  by  definition,  reduce  the
manual processes and provide a more timely and accurate process. In avoiding the delays and
errors  in  this  manual  process  you  and  your  trading  counterparts  will  substantially  reduce  the
exceptions. Exception processing is costly.

5. More timely exception processing
Whilst STP will not eliminate all the errors, the point that is often missed is that the earlier the
trade is processed the earlier the exception will be identified. This will enable the timely resolution
of any problems on the trade date to avoid settlement failure and the costly process of resolution,
correction and interest claims.

6. Performance Measurement
It  is  often  said  that  you  cannot  manage  what  you  cannot  measure.  This  is  true  of  the  trade
process and counterparty performance. Management of information throughout the process will
be the key to determine success, not only in your own process, but also that of your counterparts.
Measure against an industry code of practices and peer groups will help to create the discipline in
the market. We should not discount the possibility of publishing performance tables - a case of
naming and shaming - to further concentrate the mind.

7. Improve attractiveness of Indian market
Markets throughout the world are continually looking for new investment opportunities. Foreign
Investment  into  India  will  be  determined,  not  only,  on  investment  opportunity  but  also  on  the

operational efficiency and risk profiles of the Indian market. Introducing a process with regulatory
oversight will only enhance India's profile and therefore its attractiveness to foreign investment.

Critical success factors for STP:

?  Open  standard  protocols  and  message  standards  that  are  in  compliance  with  best

international standards, and

?  Cooperation between the different market participants and users to ensure that common

practices are established and followed.

?  A  robust  financial  infrastructure  that  links  the  main  exchanges  and  clearing  houses

together, including direct computer linkage with the payment system.

?  Cooperation  with  the  regulatory  and  tax  authorities  in  ensuring  that  electronic

data/documents and electronic signatures are legally acceptable.

The Committee was set out to

? 

? 

? 

Identify components of the current life-cycle of trade from origination to settlement that
involves manual intervention.

Identify and establish messaging standards for information communication

Identify  options  for  establishment  of  a  communications  backbone  that  will  enable  data
transfer  across  participants  in  a  secure  and  efficient  manner  and  matter  connected
therewith.

Subsequent to a detailed comparison of the trade cycle for both domestic as well as cross border
trades, the committee identified certain areas that needed to be automated on a priority basis.
These are as follows:

?  Broker  contract  note  information  transfer  from  broker-dealer  to  sub-custodian  and  the

mutual fund/FII

?  Pre-match advice to the broker-dealer

?  Domestic Mutual Funds’  trade data flow to/from the sub-custodian

It was agreed that in these processes, certain participants were already enjoying a fair degree of
automation especially in case of cross border/FII trades.

The Committee studied a few international experiences in achieving STP.  It was observed that
most  organizations  develop  their  own  front  and  back  office  systems  which  communicate  in  a
particular manner. Also, some firms are highly automated while others are not so automated. This
will  affect  achieving  higher  levels  of  STP.  Further  complicating  the  issue  is  the  availability  and
proliferation of message standards like FIX, ISO7775, etc. Thus, as there is no standard for the
industry as a whole, there is no interoperability between disparate systems which have made it
very difficult to get complete and satisfactory connectivity. Here the committee was unanimous
that  in  an  industry  wherein  there  are  no  solutions  already  in  place,  it  would  be  worthwhile  to
mandate  messaging  standards  so  that  interoperability  can  be  achieved  leading  to  better
connectivity between participants. An analogy that can be drawn here is that almost all people
know to speak but proper communication is possible only if they speak the same or a common
language.  A  common  messaging  standard  like  ISO15022  will  go  a  long  way  in  overcoming  this
problem.  Message  templates  based  on  ISO  15022  formats  are  appended  to  this  report  in
Annexure  IV.  The  proposed  ISO  15022  XML  standards  will  also  address  derivatives  and
enhancement of scope of STP to this product suite will follow migration to XML.

Recommendations:
1. On-line Connectivity between the depositories to permit easier settlement.
2. Recognition of electronic contract notes as a legal document as an alternative to
    paper based contract notes.
3. Adoption of ISO 15022 standards for financial messaging.
4. Amendment to the laws/regulations/bye-laws etc. to provide for recognition of paperless form
of data and records. The Committee has already identified and made a list of bye-laws/regulations
etc. that need to be changed in order to move to a paperless environment. The list is given as
Annexure III. The list may not be exhaustive and any other amendments to any other law may
be brought to the notice of the Board so that the same may be amended.

5. There are certain issues relating to the payment system that need to be addressed on a priority
basis. However, these do not fall under the purview of SEBI and the matter has to be referred to
RBI  for  action  at  their  end.  The  first  is  the  strong  need  to  have  the  Real  Time  Gross
Settlement system in place so that settlement of funds takes place fast. The RBI has already
indicated that the RTGS system would be in place by June 2003. This would help in creating better
synergy  between  settlement  of  funds  and  securities  at  the  same  time  and  true  Delivery  v/s

Payment system is achieved. Meanwhile, the Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) facility of the RBI
may be increased in terms of its coverage and the value so that payments may be made faster.

Introduction

The Indian securities market has seen a rapid expansion since the decade of the nineties in terms
of  the  amount  of  capital  raised  from  the  primary  market,  the  number  of  stock  exchanges  and
other intermediaries, market capitalisation, trading volumes and turnover on stock exchanges and
investor population.
Far-reaching developments have taken place in the secondary market also over the past decade.
The  number  of  recognized  stock  exchanges  increased  to  24.  Diverse  forms  of  organizational
structures have been chosen by these exchanges. Some of them are body corporate, association
of  persons,  companies  limited  by  shares  or  guarantees.  Considerable  corporatisation  and
professionalisation of broking industry has already taken place. Market  capitalisation of securities
of Indian companies traded was INR 6122.24 billion as on March 31, 2002. The daily turnover on
the  stock  exchanges  was  around  Rs.60  billion  in  2002.    The  stock  exchanges  are  fully
computerised  and  have  screen  based  automated  trading.  The  trading  in  the  securities  market
have been dematerialised, for a large number of securities and more than 99% of the deliveries
are  in  dematerialised  securities.  Margining  system  has  now  been  moved  to  a  Value  at  Risk
approach.

Currently,  the  markets  are  following  a  T  +  3  approach  for  settlement  of  trades.  All  trades
executed  are  settled  on  T  +  3  basis  wherein  pay-in  of  funds  and  securities  takes  place  in  the
morning and pay-out of funds and securities takes place in the evening. However, the systems
followed for settlement and other trade processing are primarily manual in nature and have the
following lacunae:

-  Manual intervention.
-  Trade mismatches.
-  Short sales and cancellation of trades

This is a very undesirable scenario and reflects poorly on the efficiency of the capital markets in
India.

Recently, the Government has announced its intention of reducing the settlement cycles from T +
3 to T + 2 and finally to T + 1 over the next few years. Shorter settlement cycles will mean more
pressure on trade processing systems so that funds/securities are ready for pay-in/pay-out on the
next  day.  In  a  manual  environment,  with  the  current  volumes,  it  is  almost  impossible  to  meet
tighter  settlement  deadlines  without  automating  trade  processing  and  removal  or  reduction  of
manual intervention.

To  overcome  the  difficulties  of  the  manual  processing  and  smoothly  transcend  into  shorter
settlement  cycles,  it  is  vital  to  have  Straight  through  Processing  (STP)  and  Real  Time  Gross
Settlement  (RTGS)  in  place.  STP,  the  move  to  automate  trade  processes  from  initiation  to
execution to settlement, promises to help market participants adapt to changes successfully and
economically. To assess the feasibility and suitability of introducing STP in Indian markets, SEBI
set up the Committee on 19-February-2002 under the Chairmanship of Shri R.M. Joshi, Executive
Director, SEBI.

The  SEBI  Committee  for  implementation  of  STP  in  Indian  markets  was  constituted  with  the
aforementioned term. The Committee in their first meeting decided to approach the matter under
reference through following steps:

? 

? 
? 

Identification  of  components  of  the  current  life-cycle  of  a  trade  that  involves  manual
intervention
Identifying and establishing messaging standards for information communication
Identifying options for establishment of a communications backbone that will enable data
transfer across participants in a secure and efficient manner.

The Committee comprised the following:
Shri R.M. Joshi, Executive Director, Securities And Exchange Board Of India
Shri S. Ganesh Kumar, DGM, Reserve Bank of India
Shri Vikram Subrahmanyam, Vice-President, Citibank
Shri Anand Natrajan, Vice-President, Standard Chartered Bank
Shri Hitendra Patil, Vice-President, Central Depository Services (India) Ltd.
Shri Jayesh Sule, Vice-President, National Securities Depository Ltd.
Shri S.T. Gerela, CEO Settlements, The Stock Exchange, Mumbai.
Shri Raghavan Putran, Director, National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
Ms. Nina Nagpal, Vice-President, JM Morgan Stanley Securities India Limited
The committee also invited other persons from various organizations or associations to provide
input on various issues.

The committee's mandate has been confined to STP only. The committee has deliberated on a
few  issues  and  its  report  is  based  on  reducing  manual  intervention  in  the  trade  process,
reduction of paper and standardization of messaging protocols. However, the report also finds
mention of issues like RTGS, stamp duty, etc. These are mentioned only as ancillary issues and
do  not  directly  impact  the  introduction  of  STP.  Report  of  the  committee  regarding  matters
under reference is produced below:

Components of Post Trade Life Cycle
In the present system, the client places an order with the broker, who in turn inputs them into
the screen based trading system of the stock exchanges. After the deal is confirmed, the stock
exchange gives the data to the broker who prints contract notes from his database for each
client.  Thus  electronic  form  of  data  is  converted  into  physical  form.  He  also  sends  an  ETC
(Electronic Trade Confirmation) message to the client, in case of FII trades, who may accept
or reject the deal based on his internal tolerances. The contract notes are also faxed to the
clients who input these into their system for valuation and accounting (in case of institutional
clients). At this time, paper form of data is again converted into electronic form at the clients'
level. A copy of the contract note is also sent to the local custodian for his record who again
enters the entire contract note into his system, again resulting in re-entry of the same data.
The lifecycle of a domestic/cross border trade deal is depicted in Annexure 1.

The  Committee  studied  the  transaction  cycle  and  identified  areas  that  would  require
automation on a priority basis.

The following were identified for addressal in the first wave:
?  Broker  contract  note  information  transfer  from  broker-dealer  to  sub-custodian  and  the

mutual fund

?  Pre-match advice to the broker-dealer
?  Domestic Mutual Funds’  trade data flow to/from the sub-custodian

The  following  elements  of  a  trade  life  cycle  are  automated  to  a  large  extent,  although
messaging standards tend to be disparate and communication is determined bilaterally:

?  Trade Confirmation between Custodian and Clearing Corporation
?  Securities  settlement  instruction  between  Custodian/Depository  Participant  and  the

Depository

Contract Notes:
The  Committee  studied  the  transaction  cycle  and  identified  areas  that  would  require
automation  on  a  priority  basis.  Contract  Notes  are  currently  generated  in  physical  form  by
brokers and manually delivered to the investors and custodians. Contract notes are then input
into transaction processing systems by the investor and the custodian. The process of manual
generation, delivery and input is operationally cumbersome, and fraught with operational risk,
especially when volumes increase.

Efficiency improvement in data transfer requires the following:
?  Delivery of contract note information electronically in a secure and standard form
?  Legal recognition to a digitally signed electronic contract on the same footing as a physical

contract note.

?  Consequent  to  the  enactment  of  the  Information  Technology  Act,  2000  (with  the
consequential amendment to the Bankers' Books Evidence Act, 1891), SEBI permitted use
of electronic contract notes (ECN) in the market as per circular dated December 15, 2000.
Further,  SEBI  is  already  recommending  to  its  Board  to  allow  maintenance  of  records  in
electronic form which would cover all the Regulations of SEBI.

Market participants may be permitted to use electronic contract notes subject to them carrying
the same details as a physical contract note. Also, the new ECN may include features/fields for
Form  A  and  Form  B  type  of  contract  notes  to  differentiate  between  client  and  proprietary
trades. The Committee is aware that under the current scenario there is a lack of adequate
Certifying Agencies (CA) to digitally certify contract notes. However, as implementation of STP
gets underway, we expect the market to come up with more CAs. An observation made here
was that there were a few international players having the expertise of generating contract
notes in electronic form. However, these ECNs were certified by CAs not registered in India. In
this regard, a reference may also be made to the government to grant legal recognition to
ECNs certified by an overseas CA as existing players related to capital market are global and
do  not  have  an  existence  in  India.  The  Committee  has  listed  in  Annexure  III  the  various
rules and regulations as well as other statutes that require amendment. The Committee is of
the  opinion  that  SEBI  should  take  steps  to  make  a  reference  to  the  respective  legislative
authorities so that amendments, if any required, may be done at the earliest.

The members of the committee were of the view that Stamp-duty payable on Contracts may
need to be waived as a result of the conversion of the Contract Notes to Electronic form. This
matter  comes  under  the  purview  of  respective  State  Governments  in  which  the  contract  is

executed / initiated. Keeping in view the fact that issuance and maintenance of contract notes
in  electronic  form  requires  a  considerable  one  time  and  recurring  investment,  imposition  of
stamp duty would push up the transaction cost which is not desirable and may defeat the very
purpose of introducing STP. SEBI may, therefore, consider writing to all State Governments for
relaxing this Stamp-duty so as to reduce the transaction cost.

Communication/connectivity:

During a typical trade, a client initiates a trade request with a broker. The broker, upon receipt
of the request, handles execution of the trade and then notifies the client as to the outcome.
During execution, a series of messages are sent back and forth between the client and the
broker to confirm the trade and provide critical details such as portfolio allocations, quantity
and pricing. Next, the fund manager / broker must submit this information to the custodian
bank and proceed through a series of communiqués to settle the trade and transfer money as
necessary. Bringing together the internal and external processes from execution to settlement
would  necessarily  involve  multiple  communications  with  multiple  counter  parties.  Thus,  the
importance of standardized communication format need not be emphasized further. Uniformity
in computer protocols and messaging standards that are in compliance with best International
Standards and accommodate both cross border and domestic trading are vital to the success
of STP. The Committee considered various messaging protocols like FIX, ISO15022, etc. It was
agreed that given the universality of ISO 15022 messaging standards as a common language
in  the  financial  services  sector,  ISO  15022  may  be  adopted  as  the  messaging  standard.
Further upgradations to better standards or more universal standards may be made as and
when they evolve in the market.

It was recognised that internationally an initiative to migrate to XML standards was under way.
A  working  group  (WG10)  constituted  by  the  ISO  Committee  in  charge  of  international
standards for the securities industry is currently working on evolving ISO 15022 to the new
ISO 15022 XML standards.  The committee recognises that the market may need to migrate at
a  later  stage  to  the  new  standards.  However  the  new  standards  should  not  hold  back  the
current migration strategy. It is the opinion of the committee that translation of ISO 15022 to
ISO 15022 XML is unlikely to be complex.

The group mapped the messaging requirements with the ISO 15022 standards. These were
found  to  generally  meet  the  Indian  market  requirement.  The  messaging  standards  were
already  made  public  through  the  approach  paper  released  on  July  19,  2002.  The  same  are

again  given  in  Annexure  IV  after  customizing  them  for  Indian  conditions.  The  ISO15022
standards  would  require  minor  modifications  to  suit  the  Indian  context.  The  same  is  being
taken  up  in  the  Securities  Market  Practices  Group  (SMPG)  meetings  to  obtain  a  local  SMPG
agreement. In India, SMPG is headed by National Securities Depository Ltd.

The Committee deliberated on the carrier of the messages (solution provider) as well as the
base line security standards that the solution provider should satisfy. The Committee realized
that  in  absence  of  any  local  solution  provider  the  market  would  have  to  look  towards  the
international  players.  The  committee  was  of  the  view  that  no  one  shall  be  prohibited  from
offering  their  services  and  the  market  participants  would  be  free  to  choose  the  solution
providers.

The Committee also considered various alternatives and their viability which are summarized
below:
1. RBI Infinet: This was one of the most preferred options of the members as RBI had a
network in place which would facilitate banking as well as securities transactions. However,
RBI was currently targeting Infinet only for the banks and would definitely not allow use of
Infinet to brokers, funds and institutional investors. In fact, Infinet was devised by RBI only for
banks  and  banking  related  transactions  with  a  window  for  the  Negotiated  Deal  Segment
(NDS). In such a scenario, it would not be feasible to recommend Infinet as a communication
solution.

2. Industry utilities:
The  stock  exchanges  and  depositories  have  invested  in  substantial  infrastructure  and  have
connectivity  with  many  market  participants.  These  institutions  could  examine  offering  a
communication  and  messaging  service  that  meets  the  market  participants’ 
requirements.
During the meetings, the Committee was informed by  NSDL that it has set-up an Internet
based  service  called  SPEED-e.  Using  this  common  infrastructure,  demat  account  holders
(including  brokers)  can  submit  delivery  instructions  to  their  Depository  Participants  (DPs)
electronically,  thus  eliminating  the  need  to  submit  instructions  in  paper  form.    The  facility
features 128 bit SSL for server authentication and data encryption. The facility also features
Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) whereby the instructions submitted by the account holders are
digitally signed. The facility allows both interactive and batch file based operation with digital
signature.

NSDL  further  informed  that  it  is  developing  a  new  module  in  SPEED-e  for  transmission  of
digitally signed electronic contract notes between brokers and custodians. The custodians will

receive the electronic contract notes in ISO 15022 format. This module could be extended to
offer further STP solutions to the market.

3. Virtual Private networks (VPNs):
There  are  various  VPN  service  providers  operating  in  the  country,  who  enable  inter-
connectivity across market participants by using a public network or a virtual private network
across participants, with the necessary security protection. Discussions on the matter indicate
a  prima  facie  feasibility,  from  a  connectivity  perspective,  of  using  these  providers  as
connectivity enablers.

While provision of a secure means of communication is extremely important and the provider
must  offer  data  security  or  protection  as  per  standards  that  will  need  to  be  agreed,  the
following requirements will also need to be incorporated into a VPN based delivery option:

a.  Have adequate disaster recovery systems in place.
b.  Provide  for  data  validation,  routing  and  audit  trailing  mechanism,  and  maintenance  of

database.

It is again reiterated that the provider would need to satisfy the requirements given in Annexure
II.

4. Virtual Matching Utilities (VMUs)

International service providers (such as OMGEO) offer trade flow automation services, and have
expressed  initial  interest  at  extending  this  service  to  the  Indian  market.  These  options  offer
possibly  the  most  ready  solution  in  the  market.  Reuters  had  also  contacted  SEBI  and  informed
that they were working on a STP solution globally and that the same could be made available in
India.

The Committee decided that it would not recommend the cause of any provider. These providers
are free to offer their services in the market and SEBI would neither encourage nor discourage
any  of  these  entities.  However,  as  detailed  before,  these  entities  would  have  to  adhere  to  the
basic communication requirements as laid down in Annexure II.

The Committee members felt that there had to be interconnectivity between various participants
so that STP could be effected completely i.e. true seamlessness could be achieved. In this regard
they brought to the notice of SEBI the BSNL (formerly DoT) guidelines that levy a very stiff charge
for interconnectivity between two Closed-user groups. For e.g. a custodian could not connect his

network directly with the Depository to seamlessly pass settlement instructions. The Committee
members apprised SEBI that such charges can be waived by BSNL for certain categories of users
and SEBI may take necessary action in this regard.

In this regard, the ANMI and BSE Brokers Association suggested to the Committee that till such
time that real time connectivity is established between the depositories, batch runs between the
depositories may be increased form the current two batches.

Interoperability:
For an industry wide success of STP, interoperability between alternative solutions/system is
imperative. The standardization of messaging standards is a step towards achieving this.

VIABILITY AND ROAD MAP FOR STP

During  discussions  of  the  Committee  with  the  other  market  participants  i.e.  fund  managers,
representatives of Brokers Associations it was pointed out that presently STP is in operation in a
limited  way.    That  means  there  is  already  some  amount  of  connectivity  between  market
participants like investors, brokers, custodians and stock exchange/depositories for e.g.  FIIs are
connected  to  custodian  via  SWIFT  and  some  sort  of  connectivity  between  custodian  and  stock
exchanges  and  broker  and  stock  exchanges  also  exists.  However,  messaging  standards  are
different and non-standardised.

Hence, it is a matter of having connectivity with all the markets participants with a common set of
messaging standard in order to implement STP in real sense. Since it has been decided by the
committee to adopt ISO 150 22 messaging standard and various alternatives available in the area
of connectivity amongst the market participants (it is however, reiterated that choosing of solution
provider  is  left  to  the  market  participants),  the  only  issue  remaining  is  interconnecting  these
entities so that seamlessness is achieved. In this regard a road map for STP implementation is
suggested below:

MILESTONES

RESPONSIBILITY COMPLETED

Agree gaps in the current process cycle and
prioritize automation
Agree messaging standards and obtain local
SMPG agreement
Establish baseline security standards for
adoption by message carrier
Publish messaging and security standards

Identify availability of message carrier with a
service that meets the criteria
Brokers, custodians and fund houses sign up to
message carrier

STP Committee

STP Committee

SEBI

SEBI

SEBI

Participants

BY
31 July 2002

30 September
2002
30 September
2002
30 September
2002
15 September
2002
30 October
2002

Completion of development of messages (and
interfaces) by brokers and custodians
Convert to live (inter se pilot fund managers and
brokers/custodians)

Participants

Participants

20 November
2002
02 December
2002

Key Dependencies/Comments

?  The  carrier  must  be  able  to  deliver  a  consistent  communications  platform  that  meets  the

security criteria recommended, and offers connectivity to all participants.

?  The carrier must be cost-efficient.
?  While  there  is  no  constraint  on  the  number  of  carriers,  each  carrier  must,  before  launch,
establish continuous connectivity with other carriers, so that a participant needs only to sign
up to one carrier.

****

Acknowledgements:
At the outset, the Committee would like to place on record the appreciation and gratitude to Shri
D.R. Mehta, former Chairman and Shri G.N. Bajpai, Chairman SEBI for his initiative and inspiration
and  continuous  encouragement  which  made  the  committee  come  to  its  conclusion  faster  than
anticipated and provided immense motivation.

The Committee would like to make special mention of Mr. S. Sriram, Manager, UTI Mr. Drupad
Mahadevia, ANMI and Mr. H. Shriram, Vice President, Prudential ICICI who gave insight into the
domestic issues that needed to be addressed to implement STP in India. Mr. Ravi Kanth Konteti,
Vice-President, JP Morgan Investor Services who gave his inputs regarding the role of cross border
trades and global custody with respect to STP.

The  committee  is  also  thankful  to  all  the  committee  members  without  whose  support,  co-
operation and comments, this report would not have been possible.

The Committee is also thankful to the staff members of the FII division of SEBI for their assistance
in organizing the meetings of the committee as well providing all other necessary assistance to
make this report possible.

Securities Transaction Cycle

Annexure I

T+3

Timeline

Pay-in

Pay-out

T

Trade

T+1

Clearing

GC

RI/FI/FII

LC

TM

RI/FI/FII

RI/FI/FII

LC

Banks

Banks

Contract
Notes

LC

DPs

DPs

TM

TM

TM

Order

Confirmation

Obligation

Depos

Depos

Depos

SE

Trade

CC

CC

CC

CC

Direct pay-out

RI: Retail Investor, GC:Global Custodian, LC:Local Custodian

InterBanks

InterDepo

Basic Requirements for the communication platform

Annexure II

Description of the service required
The  primary  requirement  of  this  solution  is  the  provision  of  a  communication  platform,  which
would have the ability to deliver standardized messages from and to multiple market participants.
Hence, the target market of the application would be –
?  Custodians
?  Brokers
? 

Investors (Local Institutional Investors –  Mutual Funds / Insurance funds, Foreign Investors
etc.)

?  Exchanges / Clearing Houses
?  Depositaries
?  Banks

The Committee has attempted to arrive at a few basic features that a solution should possess.
These are listed below:

1)  The application would be hosted by the Solution Provider (SP).
2)  The  various  entities  (Broker-dealers,  Custodians,  Funds,  Clearing  Houses,  Exchanges  and

Depositaries) would have the ability to access the system / database via various routes –
a)  Dial Up VPN access.
b)  Leased line VPN access
c)  Internet based access

3)  Any  eligible  solution  /  system  being  offered  should  automatically  be  compatible  with  other
eligible  solutions,  so  as  to  ensure  inter-operability  across  multiple  solutions  so  that  a  single
market  participant  does  not  have  to  interface  with  multiple  systems.  The  data  transfer
between the different solutions should be online or near real time.

4)  An eligible solution would facilitate a process flow similar to the following:

a)  Market Participants (MP) would generate files containing messages from their back office
systems, which would conform to the standards defined by the committee (Appended as
Annexure IV). Each file could contain multiple messages meant for multiple users, and
be of various types.

b)  MPs  would  be  able  to  access  the  system  (through  their  preferred  mode  of  access  as

explained above) and upload the said files.

c)  The system would perform basic validations, which would ensure that only valid messages
compatible with the messaging standards are accepted. Any messages not accepted would
have to be communicated to the sender with the appropriate reason codes, through the
use of error queues / error messages etc. Only the specific message would be rejected and
not the entire file.

d)  Once  the  validation  has  been  performed,  the  system  should  also  be  able  to  identify
messages  meant  for  users  with  other  providers  and  route  them  to  other  providers  /
systems (as mentioned in point 3 above).

e)  As  and  when  the  receivers  access  the  system,  they  would  be  able  to  download  the

messages meant for them, which they can then upload into their back office systems.

f)  All messages would be stamped with time and date of dispatch and delivery. Users should

be able to access delivery confirmations of all messages sent to / received by them.

5)  The application / network would have to have the highest level of security as the information

is extremely sensitive:
a)  At  the  network  levels,  the  channel  would  have  to  be  secure  during  all  transmission,
whatever  the  mode  of  access.  A  minimum  level  of  128-bit  SSL  encryption  should  be
maintained.

b)  At  the  application  level  PKI  and  digital  signatures  (using  digital  certificates  issued  by
recognized  certification  authorities)  would  have  to  be  employed  for  authentication  (non
repudiation).

c)  Audit trails would be maintained, which would be subject to external audits.

6)  Connectivity provided by the Solution Provider should be as per DoT regulations.
7)  Redundancies would have to be built in, from a database / network perspective. Contingency
access options would be made available to users. Disaster recovery solutions are to be made
available.

8)  Various reports would be made available, e.g. activity reports, error messages, history reports
etc.  Online  query  access  to  be  provided  to  users.  Audit  trails  would  include  information  of
messages sent to / received from different systems / platforms.

9)  The system / provider would be subject to audits, by external auditors including SEBI.
10) Messages and their audit trails would be saved in the database (which would be hosted along
with  the  application),  for  a  reasonable  period  and  users  should  be  able  to  access  them
whenever necessary.

11) The user database would be a live database, which continuous updations to the same.
12) The Solution Provider would have the ability to upgrade and adapt to the changing needs of
the market / new technology eg. XML standards for messaging, changes in settlement cycles,
validation routes etc.

Regulations, Rules governing Contract notes

Annexure III

1.  NSE Bye-laws

?  Chapter III  2 (e),  contract note regulations
?  Chapter VII, Dealings by trading Members  - Jurisdiction
?  Chapter IX , clause 8 on contract notes
?  Chapter X- Rights and Liabilities of members and constituents
?  Chapter XI  - Arbitration

2.  NSE Regulations –  Part A
?  3.5       Contract Note
?  5.3A  Jurisdiction of courts
?  7.1.2     Inspection

3.  BSE Bye-laws

?  219 (a), (b)       Contract notes issued by Firms
?  223                   Signing of contract notes
?  226 (a), (b), (c)  Bombay Jurisdiction
?  274                    Operation of contract notes

4.  BSE Regulations

?  14.2      Form (A) and Form (B) contract notes
?  14.3      Form (C) confirmation memo issued by Sub-broker acting for clients/ constituents
?  248 (a), (b), (c), 249 (i. ) (a), (b) –  Arbitration
?  274       Operation of contract notes

5.  Bombay Stamp Act  1958

?  Articles 43 (f) of schedule I

6.  Service Tax  - As per the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956

?  Section 83 of the Finance Act 1994 (Service Tax) provisions

7.  Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956

?  Section 13, 14 –  Contracts in notified areas

8.  Securities Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957

?  Rules 15-16 Books of Account and other documents maintenance

9.  SEBI (Stock brokers and sub-brokers ) Regulation, 1992

?  17 General obligations and responsibilities

Shri R.M. Joshi

Chairman

Shri P.K. Bindlish
Member

Shri S. Ganesh Kumar
Member

Shri Anand Natrajan
Member

Shri Hitendra Patil
Member

Shri Jayesh Sule
Member

Shri S.T. Gerela,
Member

Shri Raghavan Putran,
Member

Ms.  Nina Nagpal,
Member

Shri Vikram Subrahmanyam
Member

