“Review of SEBI (DIP) Guidelines 2000- Proposals - Series II”

1.  This discussion paper, entitled “review of SEBI (DIP) Guidelines 2000- Proposals
– Series II”  contains the recommendations made by the Primary Market Advisory
Committee (PMAC) of SEBI, which was set by SEBI to advise SEBI on matters
relating the primary market. The recommendations cover the eligibility norms for
public/rights  issues  of  securities,  both  through  IPOs  and  further  offerings  and
other incidental matters. This paper does not reflect the views of SEBI, nor has
SEBI formed an opinion on these recommendations. The paper is being hosted on
the  website  for  the  purpose  of  eliciting  public  comments.  SEBI  would  take
cognizance  of  the  public  comments  received,  before  taking  a  final  view  on  the
issues mentioned in the paper.

2.  Comments  on  the  recommendations  may  be  sent  to  the  Primary  Market
to  Ms.  Sangeeta  Uchil,  AGM,  at
at

Department,  SEBI  or 
Sangeetau@sebi.gov.in 
neelamb@sebi.gov.in or faxed to 91-22-22045633 on or before April 05, 2003.

emailed 
or  Ms.  Neelam 

Bhardwaj,  DGM, 

 

Page 1 of 25

REPORT OF THE GROUP TO REVIEW ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR PUBLIC

AND RIGHTS ISSUES SET UP BY PRIMARY MARKET ADVISORY

COMMITTEE (PMAC)

BACKGROUND

The PMAC had set up a sub-group to review the present eligibility norms and suggest
changes,  if  any.  The  sub-group  submitted  the  report  to  PMAC,  which  accepted  the
recommendations,  with  some  modifications.  The  modified  report  is  reproduced  in  the
following pages.

Page 2 of 25

PREAMBLE

1.  After abolition of the CCI Act, SEBI issued its first set of DIP Guidelines in June,
1992 to usher in the era of free pricing in the primary market. Ever since, SEBI has
endeavored  to  maintain  the  “currency”  of  the  guidelines  to  keep  pace  with  the
developments  in  the  market,  increasing  sophistication  of  the  issuer  companies  and
exposure to best international practices.

2.  Initially,  new  companies  were  allowed  to  issue  their  shares  only  at  par  i.e  at  face
value of Rs 10/- while companies having operational history were allowed to freely
price  their  shares.    As  a  large  number  of  companies  flooded  the  market  with  poor/
mediocre  issues,  SEBI  revised  the  Eligibility  Norms  in  1996.  To  ensure  that  only
companies  with  an  established  track  record,  as  against  just  being  in  incorporated
existence,  are  allowed  to  charge  a  premium,  SEBI  prescribed  a  3-year  dividend
payment  track  record  as  a  precondition  to  charge  a  premium.  For  new  companies,
SEBI mandated that these should have at least 10% equity or debt participation from
a bank before they could make an IPO. Stringent as these conditions were, SEBI in
1999, among other things, relaxed the 3- year dividend track record and changed it to
a 3-year profitability record.

3.  Over a period of time, the concept of “par”  was deemed to be redundant in the era of
free pricing. As such, SEBI decided to allow all companies to freely price their issues.
SEBI  also  allowed  companies  which  were  not  satisfying  the  3-year  profitability
record to make an IPO provided the issue is through a book building process and at
least 60% of the issue is subscribed to by QIBs.

4.  Thus,  the  definition  of  operational  history,  track  record  of  company  and  other
parameters  of  Eligibility  Norms  have  undergone  many  changes  over  the  10-year
history of SEBI.

5.  The extant Eligibility Norms are placed at Annexure 1.

TERMS OF REFERENCE
6.  The Group was constituted in order to review the Eligibility Norms with a view to
rationalising the same as also to strengthen them so as to ensure that while raising of
capital  through  public  issues  is  facilitated  for  good  companies,  the  incidence  of
undeserving companies to access the market is restricted.

7.  In keeping with the need to constantly upgrade the regulations, the Group has sought
to  rationalise  and  strengthen  the  existing  Eligibility  Norms  and  introduce  new
requirements, wherever necessary, so as to ensure:
i. 
ii. 
iii. 

better quality of issuer companies,
consequent increase in secondary market trading, and
restrictions on sub-standard issuers through objective criteria.

Page 3 of 25

DELIBERATIONS OF THE GROUP

8.  The Group agreed with the present disclosure-based philosophy of SEBI and was of
the view that anyone with full and complete disclosure should be allowed to access
the primary market. The Group, however, deliberated on ways and means to upgrade
the guidelines so as to ensure quality of issues.

IPOs OF EQUITY
9.0  The primary concern of SEBI and of the Group was to review the Eligibility Norms
for companies approaching the market for the first time i.e. initial public offerings
by unlisted companies. This concern was justified on several counts:

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

Information  about  unlisted  closely  held  companies  (unlike  listed  companies
which  are  required  to  make  full  and  adequate  disclosures  on  a  continuing
basis), is rarely available in the public domain. Hence, the prospectus is often
the  only  document  on  which  the  investor  is  expected  to  take  an  informed
decision.

SEBI’s policy is disclosure - based and hence it expects the investors to rely
on their own examination of the issuer/issue and thereafter decide on investing
in the issue. To this extent, attempts are made to provide complete disclosure
in the offer document. However, SEBI tries to ensure that lay investors are not
exposed to unnecessary risks at the hands of ‘fly-by-night’  operators and has
accordingly  prescribed  Eligibility  Norms  in  order  to  minimise  risks  on  this
count.

At  the  same  time,  there  is  a  concern  in  some  quarters  that  the  Eligibility
Norms  for  IPOs  are  not  ‘market-oriented’  and  thus,  along  with  the  general
economic  downturn  coupled  with  investors  apathy,  have  resulted  in  a
significant  fall  in  the  number  of  equity  IPOs,  as  can  be  seen  from  the
following table. Phase I relates to pre-SEBI DIP Guidelines. Phase II covers
issues made under the initial set of DIP Guidelines. Phase III covers the period
after  Malegam  Committee  in  1996  came  out  with  very  stringent  eligibility
norms. In Phase III, except for the year 1999-2000 and 2000-2001 which saw
some  renewed  activity  courtesy  entirely  the  boom  in  the  IT  sector,  the  IPO
market was very small. In Phase IV, the IPO market has become almost non-
existent.

YEAR 

       NO. OF IPOs 

ISSUE AMOUNT

___________________ _______________     ________________

(Rs. Crore)

Phase I
1989-1990 
1990-1991 

158 
109 

504
632

Page 4 of 25

1991-1992 

Phase II
1992-1993 
1993-1994 
1994-1995 
1995-1996 
1996-1997 

Phase III
1997-1998 
1998-1999 
1999-2000 
2000-2001 

Phase IV
2001-2002 
2002-2003
(April-November)

158 

467 
693 
1231 
1350 
715 

51 
18 
52 
114 

6 

4

724

3673
7650
9919
5260
4346

883
379
2594
2474

1082

983

iv. 

Right issues are made to the existing shareholders, who are considered to be
adequately informed about the company.

9.1  In view of the above, the Group decided to first concentrate on the Eligibility Norms

for unlisted companies, with special emphasis on IPOs of equity.

9.2  The  ICAI  representative  suggested  that  SEBI  should  debar  issues  of  dubious
promoters.  While  the  other  members  broadly  concurred,  they  pointed  out  to  the
difficulty  in  drawing  up  a  list  of  criteria/  conditions  that  would  be  objective  and
comprehensive enough to define dubious promoters. It was informed that this issue
of  debarring  issuers  with  dubious  credentials  has  already  been  considered  in  the
Malegam  Committee  which  has  proposed  formation  of  a  panel  for  deciding  as  to
whether  the  persons/companies  with  dubious  track  record  should  be  allowed  to
come  out  with  an  issue  and  if  not,  how  should  SEBI  stop  such  issues  without
inviting criticism regarding selective bias.

9.3 The representative of ICAI also dissented with the Group in respect of the following

aspects of the SEBI (DIP) Guidelines:
1. Requirement of due diligence to be done by merchant bankers
2. Debarring of issues
3. Free pricing guidelines of SEBI

9.4  The  dissent  note  in  this  regard  is  placed  at  Annexure  2.  The  views  of  the  other

members of the Group on these issues are also given therein.

Page 5 of 25

REVIEW OF THE PRESENT ELIGIBILITY NORMS

9.5 The present Eligibility Norms for an IPO of equity are summarized below:

?  A company meeting the track record/profitability criteria can come with an issue
through fixed price or book built route provided that the size of the issue is not
more than 5 times of its pre issue net worth

?  However, a company which is not fulfilling the track record-profitability criteria
or where the issue size is more than 5 times its pre-issue networth can make an
issue provided the same is through book building route with 60% of the issue to
be mandatorily subscribed by QIBs.

9.6  The Group deliberated on the following aspects of the existing eligibility norms and

concurred that there is a:

1.  need to strengthen the existing norms by stipulating higher net worth/ re-defining

net worth.

2.  need  to  identify  other  eligibility  parameters  viz  post  issue  capital,  minimum

public float, market capitalization, net tangible assets etc

3.  need to provide for alternate mechanisms to enable IPOs of companies which do

not fulfill the profitability track record criteria.

9.7  While doing this, the Group examined the eligibility norms existing in various other
countries  like  Australia,  USA  and  Hong  Kong.  The  underlying  principle  in  the
discussion  was  that  while  there  was  a  need  to  encourage  more  companies  to
approach the primary market by providing a wider platform of entry points, there
was simultaneously a need to ensure that the Eligibility Norms also act as deterrents
to fraudulent companies.

9.8  The  Group  deliberated  extensively  on  the  validity  of  the  existing  criteria  of

profitability track record. It observed that
a)  profitability as an eligibility criterion induces fraudulent companies to resort to
“creative accounting”  in order to show “profits”  while  many  do  not  show  the
impact of the notes to accounts on their profitability.

b)  there is no way of guaranteeing profitability post listing. In fact share prices of
most  of  the  companies  with  a  pre-issue  profitable  track  record  have  fallen
significantly below their offer prices.

c)  as the regulation can not provide a relationship between amount of profit earned
and  the  premium  charged  on  the  issue  price,  there  have  been  instances  of
companies charging very high premium during buoyant times, despite miniscule
profits and as such the profitability track record loses significance.

d)  Investment  in  equity  is  done  substantially  on  future  expectations  and  a
company’s past record and future potential is ideally captured in its issue price.
e)  A profitability track record conversely brings in complacency in the investor as

he automatically believes that the issue is above a threshold.

Page 6 of 25

f) 

there exists a large population of companies, many funded by venture capital,
who are either currently in losses or have not had 3 years of profitability but are
good prospects.

g)  the  Eligibility  Norms  of  several  other  countries  rarely  prescribe  profits  as  a

criteria, and the greater emphasis is on liquidity.

h)  a loss-making company can become profitable with fresh infusion of funds and
therefore should not be denied the opportunity of raising money to turn around.

9.9    As  a  major  departure  from  the  past,  the  Group  decided  to  replace  the  existing

profitability criteria with other parameters, which are described below.

9.10  As  a  major  alternative,  the  Group  suggested  the  criteria  of  Net  Tangible  Assets
(NTA). It was agreed that tangible existence of a company, for a reasonable period,
is  a  good  eligibility  norm,  as  it  would  also  eliminate  fly  by  night  operators.  The
Group  also  deliberated  at  length  on  the  current  net  worth  requirement  and  also
whether the same can be replaced/augmented by “net tangible assets”  (NTA). This
criterion came into focus while reviewing the eligibility norms in other countries.
The Group was of the view that SEBI should consider this as an additional criterion
for eligibility, particularly in view of the fact that while net worth ensures a base
size  of  operations  for  the  company,  the  NTA  criteria  shall  further  ensure  the
physical  existence  of  the  company  over  a  longer  term  and  also  ensure  that  the
company is engaged in a genuine business activity.

9.11  Regarding  definition  of  NTA,  it  was  noted  that  the  Indian  Accounting  Standards
define  “intangible  assets”  and  it  was,  therefore,  agreed  that  all  assets  except
intangible assets may be considered for this purpose.

9.12  While  debating  this  issue,  some  of  the  members  were  concerned  that  a  company
may have excess cash in its books and the same would be deemed as an “asset”  for
the purposes of calculating NTA. Hence, it was suggested that not more than 50%
of a company’s NTA may be held in monetary assets, provided that if more than
50%  is  held  in  monetary  assets,  the  company  should  have  firm  commitments  to
deploy such excess monetary assets in its business/project.

9.13  The  Group  also  discussed  the  dilemma  of  those  companies  in  the  small-medium
enterprise category that do not fulfil  the  track  record  criteria  and  also  because  of
their issues being of smaller size are unable to attract QIBs whose primary concern
is a large float. The Group discussed as to whether an alternative can be provided to
mandatory  book  building  for  companies  without  a  track  record.  The  following
criteria were considered:

i. 

Minimum operating history of company for a suitable period to ensure that
the company does not turn out to be a ‘fly- by- night’  operator.
ii. 
Minimum post issue capital so as to ensure a minimum size of operations.
iii.  Minimum public float so as to ensure adequate liquidity in the scrip, post

listing.

Page 7 of 25

iv. 

Any  other  criteria/deterrent  so  as  to  prevent  potential  “vanishing
companies”  as also dubious companies which change their names.

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE GROUP

9.14 After deliberations and also analysis of the past data, including market capitalization
of  issuer  companies  and  number  of  applicants  in  the  issues  (Annexure  3)  and
keeping  in  mind  the  underlying  principle,  the  Group  recommends  the  following
main Eligibility Norms for IPOs:

(A) ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING OF EQUITY

9.15.1  A company can make an IPO, subject to the following:

(a) As on date of filing of the draft offer document with SEBI, the company
shall  have  Net  Tangible  Assets  of  at  least  Rs.  3  crore  in  each  of  the
preceding 2 full years (of 12 months each), of which not more than 50% is
held  in  monetary  assets,  (provided  that  if  more  than  50%  are  held  in
monetary assets, the company should have firm commitments to deploy
such excess monetary assets in its business/project.). (To ensure verifiable
existence of the company).

AND

(b) The company shall have a Net Worth of at least Rs. 1 crore in each of the
preceding 2 full years (of 12 months each) (To ensure a minimum worth of
the company)

AND

(c) In case the issuer company has changed its name within the last one year,
atleast  50%  of  the  revenue  for  the  preceding  1  full  year  shall  be
accounted for by the activity suggested by the new name. (To ensure that
the  company  does  not  change  its  name  with  the  sole  purpose  of  its  new
name  reflecting  the  latest  “sunrise  sector”  without  actually  having  any
operations in that area)

AND

(d)  The  issue  size  shall  not  exceed  5  times  the  pre-  issue  net  worth  of  the
company.  (To  prevent  the  company  from  raising  unmanageably  large
amounts)

Page 8 of 25

9.15.2    In case ANY of the criteria (a, b, c & d) specified at 12.14.1 above is not met,

the  company can make an IPO, subject to the following:

(I)(a)The issue shall be made only through the book-building process, with at
least 40% of the issue size allotted to the Qualified Institutional Buyers
(QIBs),  failing  which  the  full  subscription  monies  shall  be  refunded.
(Participation of QIBs lends credibility to the issue.) (60% brought down to
40% in view of the present reluctance of the thinly-numbered QIBs to invest
in IPOs as also to encourage greater retail participation).

Or

(b) The “project” should have at least 15% participation by  FIs/scheduled
commercial  banks,  of  which  at 
least  10%  should  come  from  the
appraiser(s). (Participation by FIs/ banks lends credibility to the issue)

AND

(II)(a)The minimum post-issue face value capital of the company shall be Rs.
10 crore (To ensure that for these types of companies, there is a reasonable
size of listed capital to ensure liquidity.)

Or

(b) There shall be a compulsory market-making for at least 2 years from
the date of listing of the shares. (To ensure continuous liquidity.)

9.15.3   In addition to the criteria specified at (1) & (2) above, the company shall also
satisfy  the  criteria  of  having  at  least  1000  allottees  in  its  issue  (to  ensure
public character and wider holding).

[For the above,

A.  NTA shall mean and include all assets of a company other than intangible assets,
not eligible to be recognized as assets, as defined in terms of Accounting Standard
on Intangible Assets (AS-26) provided that for this purpose Net Tangible Assets
would exclude Monetary Assets as defined by AS26.

B.  Net Worth shall mean … …..

(See Annexure 4 for views of ICAI on calculation of Net Tangible Assets and Net
Worth)]

Page 9 of 25

(B) ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR ISSUES OF EQUITY SHARES OTHER THAN

IPOS

10.1  The Group also deliberated upon the Eligibility Norms for equity issues other than

IPOs.

10.2   The Group recommends the following:

1.  There  shall  not  be  any  entry  restrictions  on  any  further  issue,  whether
public  or  rights,  by  an  already  listed  company,  except  in  the  following
circumstances:

a.  In  case  the  issue  size  in  a  further  public  issue  is  more  than  5  times  the
pre-issue net worth, the issuer company shall be required to comply with
the eligibility criteria specified at A (1) or (2) above.

b.  In case there is a change in the name of the issuer company within the last
1 year (reckoned from the date of filing of the offer document) and the
revenue accounted for by the activity suggested by the new name is less
than  50%  of  its  total  revenue  in  the  preceding  1  full-year  period,  the
issuer company shall be required to comply with the criteria specified at
(A) (2) above.

10.3  The  aforesaid  Eligibility  Norms  shall  also  apply  to  Offers  for  Sale  made  by

unlisted companies, to the extent applicable.

(C) ELIGIBILITY NORMS FOR ISSUES OF INSTRUMENTS OTHER THAN

EQUITY SHARES

11.1  The  Group  noted  that  the  existing  Eligibility  Norms  are  applicable  uniformly  to
issuance  of  equity  shares,  instruments  convertible  into  equity  at  a  later  date,  and
non-convertible instruments.

11.2 The Group recommends that its recommendations pertaining to equity shares

should apply mutatis mutandis to all convertible instruments.

11.3 In  the  case  of  issuance  of  debt  instruments,  the  Group  recommends  that  the
following  norms  should  also  be  stipulated.  These  are  in  addition  to  the
provisions already present in the Guidelines:

1.  The  issue  of  debt  instrument  should  receive  at  least  an  “investment

grade” rating.

2.  The company should have 2 credit ratings, irrespective of the issue size.

Page 10 of 25

3.  The company should not be in the list of willful defaulter of RBI, as on

date of filing draft offer document with SEBI.

4.  The company should not be in default of any public debentures in terms

of either interest or principal.

5.  The debentures should be fully secured.

11.4 In terms of number of allottees, the Group recommends 50 allottees (as against

1000 in case of equity issues).

11.5 The Group discussed Clause 8.2.1(b) of the Guideline and was of the opinion that
promoters’  contribution  of  20%  of  the  project  cost  to  be  brought  in  the  form  of
equity is a very onerous requirement and perhaps explains why no issue has come
under  these  guidelines.    The  Group  argued  that  this  requirement  is  advisable  in
IPOs of equity in order to ensure a minimum level of promoters’  commitment in the
company for a continuing period, since investment in equity IPOs is made primarily
on the basis of the promoters’  strength  and  on  his  contribution  to  the  company’s
future performance. It was pointed out that the promoter can exit the company only
in case an acquirer buys out his stake in terms of the provisions of SEBI Takeover
Regulations. In contrast, investment in debt is seldom based on the promoters’  track
record. It is based on the ratings of the debentures, security creation etc. and hence
promoters’  contribution is not relevant in debenture issues.

11.6 The  Group,  therefore,  recommends  that  the  requirement  of  20%  promoters’

contribution in the case of debt issues be deleted.

11.7 However, the Group conceded that in the absence of promoters’  stake and its lock-
in, the rights of the debenture holders in case the promoter was to sell his equity
stake  in  the  company  could  be  adversely  affected.  The  Group    feels  that  in  such
cases, the debenture trustees should be required to play a proactive role. The Group
suggests  that  promoters  be  asked  to  subscribe  to  at  least  25%  of  the  debentures
issued  through  the  offer  document  locked-in  for  1  year  or  till  the  sale  of  the
company, whichever is later, with a view to ensure promoters commitment in the
same instrument. The Group also recommends that this issue may be referred to
the Takeover Department for further deliberations.

11.8  Regarding  Clause  8.2.1(c)  i.e  continuous  disclosures  in  terms  of  listing
agreement,  the  Group  recommends  that  the  continuing  disclosures  may  be
filed with EDIFAR.

11.9 The Group recommends that Clause 8.2.1(d)  i.e prior consent of NCD holders
for change in shareholding pattern, capital structure etc may be deleted as this
would be contrary to the Companies Act provisions.

11.10The Group recommends deleting Clause 8.2.1(e) i.e no partly paid up shares
and no outstanding convertibles for an IPO subject to certain safeguards, as
discussed below under the head : “ Chapter II of the DIP guidelines”.

Page 11 of 25

OTHER RELATED ISSUES

12. The Group deliberated on the following other related issues:

Chapter II of DIP Guidelines

13.1 As on date, rights issues not exceeding Rs.50 lacs are exempted from the provisions

of SEBI (DIP) Guidelines.

13.2 The Group felt that while SEBI may not need to give observations on rights issues
of  up  to  Rs.  50  lacs  of  an  already  listed  company,  it  is  desirable  that  even  such
companies prepare the letter of offer in accordance with the disclosure requirements
prescribed  in  the  SEBI  (DIP)  Guidelines,  2000  and  file  the  same  with  SEBI  for
information.

13.3 The Group also considered whether the existing limit may be increased from Rs. 50
lacs to Rs 2 crores.  However, the Group recommends retaining Rs 50 lacs limit.

13.4 Group also recommends that even in respect of rights issues of upto Rs.50 lacs ,
the offer document must be prepared in compliance with SEBI DIP Guidelines
and filed with SEBI for information  purpose only and put on SEBI Website
(Clause 2.1.2)

13.5 Group recommends that Clause 2.1.4 should specify that the company should
have  made  an  application  for  listing  and  also  obtained  in-principle  listing
approval from the stock exchanges, which is to be submitted to SEBI within 15
days  of  submission  of  draft  offer  document  to  SEBI.  (This  requirement  is
presently in Clause 5.6.2. It was felt that this should appear in the chapter on
eligibility norms)

13.6  The Group recommends that in Clause 2.1.5, “a” may be replaced by “all” as

the company is required to enter into agreements with all depositories.

13.7 The Group was of the view that the current definition of “QIBs” may be expanded as
the  actual  participation  comes  only  from  very  few  of  the  entities  included  therein
presently.

13.8 The Group recommends that the following may be added to the list of QIBs:

i.  Pension funds, provident funds, superannuation funds and gratuity funds.

(With minimum corpus under management of Rs. 25 crores)

ii.  Port trusts (With minimum corpus under management of Rs. 25 crores)
iii. Portfolio  managers  registered  with  SEBI  (With  minimum  corpus  under

management of Rs. 25 crores)

iv. Insurance companies registered with IRDA

Page 12 of 25

13.9 Regarding Explanation 1(ii) to  Clause 2.2.2 regarding restating of accounts of
erstwhile  partnership  firm,  the  Group  recommends  that  this  should  be
applicable  to    entities  arising  out  of  reorganisation  of  any  type  of  entity
whether sole proprietorship, partnership firm or a combination of companies.

13.10  Regarding clause 2.4.1 (iii) dealing with appraisal of infrastructure issues by PFIs,
the Group  noted that the appraisal is allowed to be done by only 4 organisations, of
which  ICICI  Ltd.  is  now  a  bank  and  hence  no  longer  eligible.  The  Group
recommends  that  banks  be  also  allowed  to  carry  out  appraisal  and  participation.
However, in order to restrict this to only such banks which have the expertise of
appraisal,  the  Group  recommends  that  only  such  banks  as  fall  in  the  list  of
scheduled  commercial  banks  as  defined  by  RBI  be  allowed  to  appraise  and
participate in such projects.

13.11 Regarding Clause 2.6 and 2.7 (IPO not allowed pending outstanding warrants and
partly paid shares), the Group feels that some of the companies, especially those in
the software or  infotech sector frequently enter into agreements with other entities
wherein  they  allot  convertible  instruments  to  these  entities.  The  instruments  are
converted  at  a  future  date,  depending  upon  the  performance  of  the  company  or
achievement of pre-agreed/predefined milestones e.g. placement of orders of certain
value or achievement of certain turnover etc. Such agreements are very common in
these sectors and it becomes difficult for such companies to undo these allotments
prior to their IPO. Hence, the Group recommends that this restriction (IPO not
allowed  pending  outstanding  warrants  and  partly  paid  shares)  should  be
removed,  with  necessary  safeguards,  to  ensure  that  genuine  commercial
transaction are not required to be unwound on account of IPO. The safeguards
like existence of a formal agreement delineating this requirement, instruments are
held by persons other than promoters, may be stipulated.

Chapter X of DIP Guidelines

14.1 

 Modify/delete Clause 10.2.1 in view of the recent changes in the Companies
Act,  which  require  appointment  of  trustees  for  all  issues  of  debentures.
(Section 117B of the Companies Act)

14.2  Modify Clause 10.2.5 to prescribe a suitable asset cover for the debentures to
ensure  100%  security  for  the  debentures.  Also,  the  clause  should  state
“issuer’s bankers” and not “their bankers”.

14.3  Delete/ modify Clause 10.3 regarding DRR as the same has been adequately

prescribed under Section 117 of the Companies act, 1956.

14.4  Modify  Clause  10.2.6  (a)  and  (b)  to  cast  an  obligation  on  the  trustees  to
collect  the  report  from  the  lead  bank/agency,  as  lead  bank/agency  is
presently not answerable to the trustees.

Page 13 of 25

14.5  Delete Clause 10.2.6 (d) (talks about prohibition for making debenture issues

for investing in group companies etc).

14.6 

In  Clause  10.2.4(a)  replace  “new”  by  “all”.  Dividend  distribution  by  all
companies should require approval of a debenture trustee. SEBI should also
examine whether this clause can be replaced with a direction that a company
cannot declare any dividend in case of “default” in payment of interest and
redemption proceeds. (“Default” can be suitably defined e.g. any outstanding
for more than 6 months.)

14.7  Delete Clause 10.2.4 (c).

14.8  Delete Clause 10.6.3 as it is redundant as requirements regarding creation of
security, period available for creating the security and assorted requirements
are  provided  in  the  Companies  Act.  Moreover,  the  company  cannot  utilize
the monies out of the issue in case of non creation of security.

14.9  State explicitly in the Guidelines that unsecured debentures cannot be issued.

14.10  Restate  Clause  10.7  as  per  the  suggestion  made  by  the  Debentures  Trustee

Committee.

15. 

The Group also recommends that the words “at the time of filing draft offer
document with the Board” in clause 4.14.2 (ii), be replaced by “at the time of
opening of the issue”.

? ?

In  addition  to  the  recommendations  made  in  the  report,  the  Primary  market  advisory
Committee recommended that :

16.1 The QIB requirement may be diluted to 40% across all book building issues,
not  only  in  case  of  mandatory  book  building.  The  existing  SEBI  guidelines
require  mandatory  participation  from  QIBs  to  the  extent  of  60%  in  case  of
companies not fulfilling the eligibility criteria.

16.2 Even in case of companies which fulfill the eligibility criteria and wish to make the
issue  through  book  building  mechanism,  the  companies  are  required  to  allocate
25% to retail investors and 15% to non-institutional investors, thereby leaving 60%
available  for  allocation  to  QIBs.  The  committee  felt  that  this  should  be  brought
down to 40% on account of the following :

a.  A  larger  part  of  the  issue  would  then  be  available  to  retail  and  non-

institutional investors, and

b.  40% participation by QIBs would be sufficient indication of their interest in

the issue and also for price discovery.

Page 14 of 25

17.1  SEBI may consider allowing the existence of “partly paid shares”-called and

unpaid but not uncalled.

17.2  SEBI  guidelines  state  that  “No  company  shall  make  a  public  or  rights  issue  of
equity share or any security convertible at later date into equity share, unless all the
existing  partly  paid-up  shares  have    been    fully  paid  or  forfeited  in  a  manner
specified in clause 8.6.2.”

17.3  The committee felt that the company may be allowed to come out with a further
issue  with  outstanding  partly  paid  shares,  where  it  has  issued  the  call  notice
but  the  shareholders  have  not  paid.  In  such  cases,  the  company  should  not  be
restrained  on  account  of  non-action  on  the  part  of  the  shareholders.  Moreover,
forfeiture of such shares may take time. Hence, the company may  proceed with its
issue related plans, pending final action on unpaid calls.

Page 15 of 25

EXISTING ELIGIBILITY NORMS

ANNEXURE 1

IPO of equity

2.2.1 An unlisted company shall make a public issue of any equity shares or any security
         convertible into equity shares at a later date subject to the following: -

 i.  It has a pre-issue networth of not less than Rs.1 crore in three (3) out of preceding five
(5) years,
     with a minimum networth to be met during immediately preceding two (2) years; and
 ii. It has a track record of distributable profits in terms of section 205 of the Companies
Act, 1956,
     For at least three (3) out of immediately preceding five (5) years.

Provided  that  the  issue  size  (i.e.  offer  through  offer  document  +  firm  allotment  +
promoters’  contribution through the offer document) does not  exceed five (5) times its
pre-issue networth as per the last available audited accounts, either at the time of filing
draft offer document with the Board or
at the time of opening of the issue.

2.2.2  An unlisted company can make a public issue of equity shares or any  security
convertible  into  equity  shares  at  a  later  date,  only  through  the  book-building
process if ,

i. it does not comply with the conditions specified in clause 2.2.1 above, or,
ii.its proposed issue size exceeds five times its pre-issue networth as per the last available
audited accounts either at the time of filing draft offer document with the Board or at the
time of opening of the issue

Provided that sixty percent (60%) of the issue size shall be allotted to the Qualified
Institutional Buyers (QIBs), failing which the full subscription monies shall be refunded.

Offer for sale
2.2.3.1 A company, whose equity shares or any security convertible at later date into
equity shares are offered through an offer for sale, shall comply with the provisions of
Clause 2.2.

Issue by listed company
2.3.1 A listed company shall be eligible to make a public issue of equity shares or any
security convertible at later date into equity share.

Provided  that  the  issue  size  (i.e.  offer  through  offer  document  +  firm  allotment  +
promoters’  contribution through the offer document) does not exceed five (5)   times its

Page 16 of 25

pre-issue networth as per the last available audited accounts either at the  time of filing
draft offer document with  the Board or at the time of opening of the  issue.

2.3.2 A listed company which does not fulfil the condition given in the proviso to clause
2.3.1  above,  shall  be  eligible  to  make  a  public  issue  only  through  the  book  building
process.

Provided  that  sixty  percent  (60%)  of  the  issue  size  shall  be  allotted  to  the  Qualified
Institutional buyers (QIBs), failing which the full subscription monies shall be refunded.

IPO of debt
In addition to fulfilling the requirements as at clause 2.2 (as applicable) the company
shall comply with the following:

[8.2 Public issue and listing of non-convertible debt securities (hereinafter referred to as
NCDS)  and  Debt  Securities  convertible  into  equity  after  allotment  (hereinafter
referred to as  DSCE).

8.2.1  An  unlisted  company  making  a  public  issue  of  NCDS  may,  subject  to  other
applicable  provisions  of  these  guidelines,  make  a  public  issue  and  make  an
application for listing its  NCDS in the Stock Exchange/s without making a prior
public issue of equity and listing thereof, if the following conditions are fulfilled:

a)  The NCDS shall carry a credit rating not below investment grade at-least from one
Credit Rating Agency registered with the Board.  Where the issue size of the NCDS is
Rs. 100 crores or more, such rating shall be obtained from at least two Credit Rating
Agencies.

b)  The promoter's contribution of atleast 20% of the project cost i.e. objects proposed to
be inter alia financed through the issue shall be brought in the form of equity.  Where
the promoters contribution exceeds Rs. 100 crores, the promoters shall bring in Rs.
100  crores  before  the  opening  of  the  public  issue  and  the  remaining  promoters'
contribution shall be brought in on pro rata basis, before calls on the NCDS are made.
The  promoters'  contribution  of  20%  of  equity  shall  be  locked  in  for  a  period  of  3
years from the date of allotment in the public issue of NCDS.

c)  The  issuer  company  shall  agree  to  comply  with  the  requirements  of  continuing
disclosures as specified under the listing agreement to be entered into with concerned
stock exchanges as is applicable for listing of equity shares.

d)  The issuer company shall agree to obtain prior consent of the holders of the NCDS
through special resolution to be passed at the general meeting of the NCDS holders
for change in terms of issue, change in capital structure and change in shareholding
pattern.

e)  There shall be no partly paid up shares/other securities at the time of filing of draft

offer document with the Board.

f)  The issuer company may come out with a public issue of equity/security convertible
into equity after allotment during the currency of the NCDS or thereafter, only after

Page 17 of 25

complying  with  the  guidelines  applicable  for  an  initial  public  offering  of  such
securities.

g)  The equity held by the promoters or others at the time of issue of NCDS may be listed
only  when  an  initial  public  offer  of  equity/securities  convertible  into  equity  after
allotment is made after complying with the applicable provisions of these Guidelines.

8.2.2  A  Municipal  Corporation  which  has  no  share  capital  may  be  subject  to  the
provisions of sub-clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Clause 8.2.1, make a public issue of
NCDS and list the same on the stock exchange/s.

8.2.3    An  unlisted  company  making  a  public  issue  of  DSCE  may,  subject  to  other
applicable  provisions  of  these  guidelines  make  a  public  issue  and  make  an
application for listing on the stock exchanges without making a prior public issue
of its equity and listing thereof, if the following conditions are fulfilled:

a)  The  provisions  of  clauses  (a)  to  (e)  of  clause  8.2.1  shall  be  mutatis  mutandis

complied with.

b)  An issuer company making an initial public offer of DSCE may come out with a
subsequent public issue of equity/security convertible into equity after allotment
during  the  currency  of  the  DSCE  only  after  complying  with  the  guidelines
applicable for an initial public offering of such securities.

Provided  that  the  provisions  of  Clause  2.6  shall  not  be  applicable  for  an  Initial
Public  Offer  of  such  securities  if  the  floor  price  for  conversion  of  DSCE  is
determined and disclosed in the offer document for issue of DSCE.

c)  The equity held by the promoters and others may be listed along with the listing
of equity in initial public offering of equity/security convertible into equity after
allotment or at the time of listing if equity arising on conversion of the  DSCE .

d)  If the  equity shares held by the promoters  is proposed to be listed on conversion
of  DSCE,  it  shall  be  ensured  that    the  number  of  equity  shares  allotted  to  the
public (after  excluding the allotment of equity shares to holders of DSCE issued
on  firm  allotment/reservation  basis)  as  a  percentage  of  the  total  paid  up  equity
capital  after  conversion  and  listing  of  the  promoters  equity,  is  not  less  than  the
percentage  specified  in  clause  (b)  of  sub-rule  (2)  of  Rule  19  of  Securities
Contracts (Regulations) Rules, 1957.

8.2.5 The lead merchant banker can mention a price band of 20% (cap in the coupon rate/
price  band  should  not  be  more  than  20%  of  the  floor  coupon  rate/price)  in  the
offer  document  filed  with  the  Board  and  the  specific  coupon  rate/price  can  be
determined  by  an  issuer  in  consultation  with  the  lead  manager  at  a  later  date
before filing of the offer document with the RoC/s.

Page 18 of 25

DISSENT NOTE OF ICAI

ANNEXURE 2

1.     FILING OF OFFER DOCUMENT

A.  The present system of filing of offer document only through an eligible Merchant
Banker  has  not  served  appropriately.  Even  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission
USA  is  examining  very  actively  that  various  functions  combined  in  Merchant
Bankers creates a conflict of interest. The Merchant Banker or lead manager or co-
lead manager and advisors to the issue involved in the marketing of a public issue on
behalf of the promoters should not be undertaking –

(a)  research
(b)  due diligence
(c) 

filing or sponsoring a public issue.

The company should be free to opt for any Merchant Banker or Investment Banker to
market the public issue which should not be involved with the due diligence or other
fiduciary relationship with the company in any manner.

B.  The  responsibility  to  undertake  detailed  disclosures  after  detailed  examination  of
books  of  accounts,  visit  to  establishments,  proposed  site,  examination  of  records,
documents  and  other  supporting  papers,  information  and  explanation  and  due
diligence  can  be  undertaken  by  a  merchant  banker  or  a  law  firm  or  a  firm  of
Chartered Accountants.

C.  The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  may  obtain  a  panel  of  Chartered
Accountant  firms  from  ICAI  as  per  norms  as  may  be  decided  by  SEBI  in
consultation with ICAI for appointment of Independent firm of Auditors.

D.  The Independent firm of Auditors should not only vary and certify financial figures
as required now but can also undertake verification / certification of full contents of
the prospectus / offer document.

E.  The  due  diligence  and  certification  that  all  norms  laid  down  by  SEBI  has  been
complied  with  should  be  issued  by  the  Merchant  Banker  or  a  Law  firm  or  a
Chartered Accountant firm.

F.  The  aforesaid  due  diligence  agency  may  be  appointed  by  SEBI  out  of  an

independent panel or selected by the company out of 3 names short-listed by SEBI.

2.  COMPANIES BARRED NOT TO ISSUE SECURITY

A.  This paragraph may contain a proviso as follows :

Page 19 of 25

Provided further that the SEBI Board or a panel appointed by them may, lay down
such  parameters  as  would  disentitle  the  Companies  from  accessing  the  Capital
Market in the interest of investors in general or public interest.

Provided  further  that  the  panel  so  appointed  would,  as  assisted  by  SEBI
Secretariat  or  professionals  retained  on  outsource  basis  for  this  purpose,  may
review  the  prospectus  filed  by  the  companies  for  accessing  capital  market  and
may disapprove companies which do not meet the SEBI norms or parameters as
laid down or such other reasons, as may be recorded in writing, based on which
the companies are debarred from accessing the capital market.

The order of the panel would be appealable to the Board or to Securities Appellate
Tribunal.

B.  A list of circumstances or parameters as per which the companies be barred from

accessing capital market  is given below :

SEBI Guidelines to prohibit undesirable promoters and companies, can include:

i)  Company or promoter or Directors or management found / responsible for :

a)  Criminal prosecution with imprisonment above  … …..  years  /  months  or
fine above Rs. … … ….  Lakhs any time during last 5 years by a court and
is confirmed at second appellate level;

b)   Categorised as willful defaulter or responsible for siphoning of funds, or

diversion of funds,  by their banks or RBI ;

c)  Defaulted in any of the Company  in :

(i)  repayment of debentures for more than 1 year ;
(ii) repayment of Fixed deposit
(iii) payment of dividend duly declared & passed
(iv) redemption of preference shares ;
(v) SSI dues for more than 1 year ;
(vi) Loans payable to any bank, Financial Institution or NBFC or any

multilateral or bilateral funding agencies

d)  is director / has been director or promoter or in management control of any
such  companies  or  companies  who  are  under  compulsory  winding  up  /
settled dues with secured and / or unsecured creditors

e)  failed  to  file  for  more  than  3  years  returns  under  Income  Tax  Act,

Companies Act

f)  responsible for insider trading, manipulation of market.

Page 20 of 25

3.  Para 2.1.4 Application for listing.

SEBI should prescribe broad parameters and scope of Stock Exchanges monitoring.
This should also provide that the post issue size of the issue or market cap or other
conditions  should  be  prescribed  in  a  manner  that  SSI  Companies  and  SMEs
Companies  are  able  to  access  the  capital  market  subject  to  SEBI  guidelines  and
parameters.

4.  GUIDELINES FOR ISSUING SHARES AT PREMIUM

The  norms  identified  in  the  meeting  held  on  24th  September  2002  may  be  adopted
with following provisions:

(ii) 

In  case  of  shares  to  be  issued  at  a  premium  the  following  additional
conditions are to be met :

a. 

b. 

Shares at premium can be issued only by profit making companies for
at least 2 years out of at least 3 years with a minimum profit of Rs. 1
crore or 20% of pre-issue capital (excluding only issue size).
The  profitability  track  record  should  justify  at  least  one-third  of  the
proposed  premium  amount  based  on  valuation  as  per  any  of  the
following methods:-

i)  Profit Earning Capacity Value based on existing earnings or

ii) Intrinsic Value or

iii)  Average Market Value during last 6 months

iv) Discounted Cash Flow Method.

VIEWS OF OTHER GROUP MEMBERS ON THE ABOVE
Regarding  SEBI  adopting  a  merit  -based  approval  and  judging  the  quality  of  issues
approaching the market, the members were of the opinion that investing in equity issues
was  the  riskiest  form  of  investment  and  investors  should  rely  on  their  own  judgment
instead  of  expecting  SEBI  to  sit  in  judgment  on  every  issue.    Moreover,  it  was  not
feasible  to  develop  any  set  of  guidelines  which  will  ensure  that  only  very  good  issues
enter the market. The members overwhelmingly agreed with the present disclosure-based
philosophy of SEBI and were of the view that any entity should be allowed to access the
primary market with full and complete disclosure.

Page 21 of 25

Regarding debarring issues of dubious promoters, the Group’s  view  is  contained  in  the
main report.

Regarding  due  diligence  for  issues  not  to  be  handled  by  the  merchant  banker  lead
managing  the  issue    on  the  ground  the  merchant  banker  may  not  be  able  to  do  an
impartial job in view of the fact that his remuneration depends on the company, and the
same be conducted by an independent entity, not appointed by the company, the members
strongly dissented with this view as they were of the opinion that the obligation cast by
SEBI on the merchant banker was stringent enough in terms of checks and balances and
moreover, a single point responsibility for both diligence and marketing is essential. The
members  also  pointed  out  that  due  diligence  internationally  is  done  by  the  merchant
banker and that appointing a second body for diligence would also increase the time and
cost of the issue.

Regarding the premium allowed to be charged to be based on some formula, the members
rejected this outright based on the premise that price is a matter of consideration of the
market/ investors and not the regulator.

Page 22 of 25

Post-Issue Market Capitalization of Companies

ANNEXURE 3

PERIO

D

< 3

3 TO 5

5 TO
10

10 TO

25 TO

______

_______

_______

25

_

50

_

50 TO
100

_

 

 

1

3

-

-

8

33

2

-

13

49

2

-

6

7

-

-

6

2

-

-

(in Rs.
crore)

>100

______

22

21

2

1

 

-

-

-

-

 

1999-
2000
2000-
2001
2001-
2002
2002-
2003

YEARS

3-4
lacs

1999-2000
2000-2001
2001-2002
2002-
2003*
TOTAL
* April – August

 Data on number of Valid Applications in Public Issue

1-3
lacs
20
3
1
-

50000-
1 lac

11
-
-
-

25000-
50000
9
4
1
-

10000-
25000
7
-
-
1

5000-
10000
6
15
-
-

1000-
5000

-
73
2
-

24

11

14

8

21

75

<1000 TOTAL

1
11
2
-

14

56
115
6
2

179

2
-
-
1

3

Page 23 of 25

VIEWS OF ICAI ON CALCULATION OF NET TANGIBLE ASSETS

ANNEXURE 4

C.  Net Tangible Assets as well as Net Worth or Profits of a company would be
determined  as  per  Accounting  Standards  and  guidance  notes  issued  by  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. While computing Net Tangible
Assets and Net Worth of the Company,  the following shall be  given effect to
:

i) 

ii) 

iii) 

iv) 

v) 

Consider the impact of audit qualifications including those which
could be quantified by the company by reasonable effort;

Consider  the  impact  of  non-adherence  to  Accounting  Standards
and  Guidance  Notes  issued  by  the  Institute  as  well  as  generally
accepted accounting principles in India.

Exclude ascertained liabilities other than those which are disputed
up to                          second appellate level and are pending
disposal,  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  Company  and  the  due
diligence  agency  are  not  expected  to  arise  and  need  not  to  be
provided;

Exclude  provisioning  required  for  Non  Performing  Assets  as  per
guidelines  issued  by  RBI  for  Banks  and  NBFCs  or  by  any  other
relevant authority for others from time to time.

Exclude intangible assets, which should not be recognised as assets
in terms of AS26.

vi) 

Investments are to be valued in accordance with AS13.

vii)  Deposits  with  stock  exchanges  and  value  of  the  card  of  a  stock
exchange and all other assets are to be recognized at carrying cost
subject to Accounting Standard on Impairment of Assets (AS28).

viii)  No benefit of increase in value of assets beyond cost is to be given
unless  the  same  is  permitted  to  be  recognized  in  terms  of
Accounting Standards and Guidance Notes issued by ICAI as may
be  applicable  to  an  enterprise.  The  fair  value  or  market  value
concept  is  not  recognized  by  Indian  as  well  as  International
Accounting Standards issued by ICAI.

Page 24 of 25

ix) 

x) 

xi) 

xii) 

To  evaluate  Net  Worth  and  Net  Tangible  Assets  as  per
consolidated  financial  statements  in  terms  of  AS21,  AS23  and
AS27.

To not to exclude pledged assets from Net Worth, as pledging of
assets  do  not  affect  Net  Worth  unless  ascertaining  liabilities
arising there from are not considered in the financial statements.

To  exclude  bad  and  doubtful  debts  and  advances  in  terms  of
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India.

To  exclude  the 
impact  of  unusual  accounting  practice  or
impermissible financial engineering or accounting jugglery as may
be identified by auditors or any other relevant authority.

Page 25 of 25

