Comments on this report may please be sent to

sandeepd@sebi.gov.in

               kalyankarv@sebi.gov.in

on or before 31th March 2003

CODES OF CONDUCT FOR REGULATED ENTITIES

INDEX

  

 

1. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR FOREIGN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR     
2. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR MERCHANT BANKERS 
3. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PORTFOLIO MANAGERS  
4. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR DEBENTURE TRUSTEES 
5. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR BANKERS TO AN ISSUE 
6. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR STOCK EXCHANGES   
7. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR STOCK BROKERS 
 
8. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR DEPOSITORIES  
9. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR DEPOSITORY PARTICIPANTS  
10. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR DEPOSITORY PARTICIPANTS.
11.CODE OF CONDUCT FOR REGISTRARS TO AN ISSUE AND SHARE
TRANSFER AGENTS. 
12. CODE OF CONDUCT FOR RESEARCH ANALYST IN INDIA  

 
  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR FOREIGN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR

PROPOSED:

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

Foreign Institutional Investor and his key personnel shall observe high
standards of integrity, fairness and professionalism in all dealings with
Indian  securities  market, 
intermediaries,  other  members  and
regulatory and other government authorities.

Foreign Institutional Investor shall at all times render high standards
of  service,  exercise  due  diligence  and  independent  professional
judgment.

Every  Foreign  Institutional  Investor    shall  maintain  required  level  of
knowledge  and  competency  and  abide  by  the  provisions  of  the  Act,
regulations,  circulars  and  Guidelines,  which  may  be  applicable  and
relevant to the activities carried on by  it.

Every  Foreign  Institutional  Investor  shall  ensure  that  good  corporate
policies and corporate governance is in place.

Foreign  Institutional  Investor  shall  deal  only  with  a  custodian
registered with SEBI to act as custodian of securities.

Foreign  Institutional  Investor  shall  ensure  trade  confidentiality  in
respect of trades  done  on  their  own  behalf  and/or  on  behalf  of  their
sub - accounts/clients.

7.

Foreign Institutional Investor shall ensure arm length relationship
both  in  terms  of  own  money  and  sub-account/clients  money  and  his
business other than fund management/investment.

8.

Foreign Institutional Investor shall ensure the following :

a.

b.

It shall not engage in securities borrowing activities and margin
trading in Indian securities market

It shall not extend loan or provide collateral in connection with
dealing in Indian securities market either directly or in-directly.

c.

It shall not sell securities it does not hold.

d.

e.

f.

It shall not deal with any derivative instruments issued outside
India where in underlying is/are Indian securities either directly
or indirectly.

It shall not deal with Indian securities not permitted by this
FOREIGN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS REGULATIONS, 1995

It shall not engage in fraudulent and speculative transactions in
Indian securities market.

9.

a)

Foreign Institutional Investor or any of his employees shall not
render, directly or indirectly, any investment advice about any
security  in  the  publicly  accessible  media,  whether  real-time  or
non real-time, unless a disclosure of his interest including long
or  short  position  in  the  said  security  has  been  made,  while
rendering such advice.

b)

In case, an employee of the Foreign Institutional Investor is
rendering such advice, he shall also disclose the interest of his
dependent family members and employer including their long or
short position in the said security, while rendering such advise.

10.

Foreign Institutional Investor shall not be a party to -

a.

b.

c.

d.

creation of false market in Indian securities

price rigging or manipulation of Indian securities

passing of price sensitive information to brokers and members of
the  stock  exchanges  and  other  intermediaries  in  the  securities
market  or  take  any  other  action  which  is  not  in  the  interest  of
the investors.

No  Foreign  Institutional  Investor  or  any  of  its  directors    or
manager  having  the  management  of  the  whole  or  substantially
the  whole  of  affairs  of  the  business,  shall  either  through  its
account or their respective accounts or through their associates
or  family  members,  relatives  or  friends  indulge  in  any  insider
trading.

*****

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR MERCHANT BANKERS

Existing :

1.

 A merchant banker in the conduct of his business shall observe high
standards of integrity and fairness in all his dealings with  his clients and
other merchant bankers.

2. A merchant banker shall render at all times high standards of service,
exercise due diligence, ensure proper care and exercise independent
professional judgment.  He shall wherever necessary, disclose to the
clients, possible sources of conflict of duties and interests, while providing
unbiased services.

3. A merchant banker shall not make any statement or become privy to any

act, practice or unfair competition, which is likely to be harmful to the
interests of other merchant bankers or is likely to place such other
merchant bankers in a disadvantageous position in relation to the
merchant banker, while competing for or executing any assignment.

4. A merchant banker shall not make any exaggerated statement, whether

oral or written, to the client either about the qualification or the capability
to render certain services or his achievement in regard to services
rendered to other clients.

5. A merchant banker shall always endeavor to -

(a) 

(b) 

render the best possible advice to the clients having regard to
the clients’  needs and the environments and his own professional
skill; and
ensure that all professional dealings are effected in a prompt,
efficient and cost effective manner.

6. A merchant banker shall not -

(a) 

(b) 

divulge to other clients, press or any other party any confidential
information about his client, which has come to his knowledge; and
deal in securities of any client company without making disclosure
to the Board as required under the regulations and also to the
Board of Directors of the client company.

7. A merchant banker shall endeavor to ensure that -

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

the investors are provided with true and adequate information
without making any misguiding or exaggerated claims and are made
aware of attendant risks before any investment decision is taken by
them;
copies of prospectus, memorandum and related literature are made
available to the investors;
adequate steps are taken for fair allotment of securities and refund
of application money without delay; and
complaints from investors are adequately dealt with.

8. The merchant bankers shall not generally and particularly in respect of

issue of any securities be party to -

(a) 
(b) 

creation of false market;
price rigging or manipulation;

(c) 

passing of price sensitive information to brokers, members of the
stock exchanges and other players in the capital market or take
any other action which is unethical or unfair to the investors.

[ (8A)(a) A merchant banker or any of his employees shall not render,
directly or indirectly, any investment advice about any security in the publicly
accessible media, whether real-time or non-real time, unless a disclosure of
his interest including long or short position in the said security has been
made, while rendering such advice.

In case, an employee of the merchant banker is rendering such

(b)
advice, he shall also disclose the interest of his dependent family
members and the employer including their long or short position in the
said security, while rendering such advice.]

9. A merchant banker shall abide by the provisions of the Act, rules and
regulations and which may be applicable and relevant to the activities
carried on by the merchant banker.

Proposed :

1.  Every  merchant  banker  shall  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity,

dignity and fairness in discharging his functions as merchant banker.

2.  Every  merchant  banker  shall  fulfill  his  obligations  in  a  prompt,  an

ethical and professional manner.

3.  Every merchant banker shall at all time exercise due diligence, ensure

proper care and exercise independent professional judgment.

4. Every merchant banker shall maintain required level of knowledge and
competency  and  abide  by  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  regulations,

circulars and Guidelines, which may be applicable and relevant to the
activities carried on by  it.

5.  Every  merchant banker shall ensure that-

Inquiries from investors are adequately dealt with

? 
?  Grievances  of 

investors  are  redressed 

in  a  timely  and

appropriate manner.

?  All  professional  dealings  are  effected  in  a  prompt,  efficient  and

effective manner

6. A merchant banker shall not generally and particularly in respect of any

dealings in securities be party to-

?  Creation of false market
?  Price rigging or manipulation
?  Passing  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to  brokers,
members of the stock exchanges and other intermediaries in the
securities  market  or  take  any  other  action  which  is  not  in  the
interest of the investors.

?  No merchant banker or any of its directors, partners or manager
having the management of the whole or substantially the whole
of affairs of the business, shall either through its account or their
respective  accounts  or  through  their  associates  or  family
members, relatives or friends indulge in any insider trading

7. Every  merchant  banker  shall  have  internal  control  procedures  and
financial and operational capabilities which can be reasonably expected
to  protect  its  operations,  its  clients,  investors  and  other  registered
entities  from  financial  loss  arising  from  theft,  fraud,  and  other
dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions.

8.  The  Merchant  Banker  shall  provide  adequate  freedom  and  powers  to

its compliance officer for the effective discharge of his duties.

9.  Every  merchant  banker  shall  ensure  that  the  board  is  promptly
informed  about  any  material  breach  or  non  compliance  by  it,  of  any
law,  rules,  regulations,  directions  of  the  board  or  of  any  other
regulatory body.

10. (a)  A  merchant  banker  or  any  of  his  employees  shall  not  render,
directly or indirectly, any investment advice about any security in the
publicly accessible media, whether real-time or non real-time unless a
disclosure  of  his  interest  including  long  or  short  position  in  the  said
security has been made, while rendering such advice.

(b)  In  case,  an  employee  of  the  merchant  banker  is  rendering  such
advice,  he  shall  also  disclose  the  interest  of  his  dependent  family
members and the employer including their long or short position in the
said security, while rendering such advice.

11. The Merchant Banker shall ensure arms length relations between the
corporate  finance  arm  and  the  equity  brokerage  research  arm  of  its
organisation and avoid conflict of interest between the two.

12. The  Merchant  Banker  shall  demarcate  between  the  responsibilities  of
the various intermediaries appointed by it so as to avoid any conflict or
confusion  in  the  job  description  and  issues  arising  out  of  it
subsequently.

13. A Merchant banker shall ensure the interest  of the Investors and  of

the issuer companies.

14. Every  merchant  banker  shall  either  avoid  any  conflict  of  interest  or
where  any  conflict  of  interest  arises,  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to
ensure that fair treatment is given to all.

15. Every  merchant  banker  shall  disclose  to  the  Issuer  Company  and  to
the investors his possible source or potential areas of conflict of duties
and  interest  while  acting  as  merchant  banker  which  would  impair  its
ability to render fair, objective and unbiased services.

16. The Merchant Banker shall ensure that adequate disclosures are made
to  the  investors,  in  a  comprehensible  and  timely  manner  so  as  to
enable them to make a balanced and informed decision.

17.The Merchant Banker shall ensure that the investors are provided with
true  and  adequate  information  which  is  not  misleading,  misguiding
and  shall  not  make  any  misrepresentation  or  exaggerated  claims
which may hamper for investors while taking investments decisions.

18. The Merchant Banker shall ensure that copies of the prospectus,

Memorandum and other related literature are made available to the
investors on demand at the time of issue.

19. The Merchant Banker shall take adequate steps for the fair allotment

of securities and refund of application money without delay.

 20.A Merchant Banker shall always ensure the best possible advice to the

clients having regard to their needs .

21. A Merchant Banker  shall not divulge to anybody either orally or in

writing,  directly  or  indirectly,  any  confidential  information  about  its
clients  which  has  come  to  its  knowledge,  without  taking  prior

permission of its clients, except where such disclosures are required to
be made in compliance with any law for the time being in force.

22.A Merchant Banker shall not discriminate amongst its clients.

23.Every merchant banker shall ensure that any change in registration

status  /  any  penal  action  taken  by  board  or  any  material  change  in
financials which may adversely affect the interests of clients / investors
is  promptly  informed  to  the  clients  and  any  business  remaining
outstanding is transferred to another registered person in accordance
with any instructions of the affected clients.

24.Every merchant banker shall develop its own internal code of conduct

for governing its internal operations and laying down its standards of
appropriate conduct for its employees and officers in the carrying out
of  their  duties.  Such  a  code  may  extend  to  the  maintenance  of
integrity,  confidentiality,
professional  excellence  and  standards, 
objectivity,  avoidance  of  conflict  of 
interests,  disclosure  of
shareholdings and interests etc.

26.Every Merchant Banker shall ensure that good corporate policies and

corporate governance is in place.

27.Every merchant banker  shall ensure that any person it employs or

appoints to conduct business is fit and proper and otherwise qualified
to  act  in  the  capacity  so  employed  or  appointed  (including  having
relevant professional training or experience)

28.Every merchant banker shall ensure that it has adequate resources to

supervise diligently and does supervise diligently persons employed or
appointed by it to conduct business on its behalf.

29.Every merchant banker shall be responsible for the acts or omissions of

its employees and agents in respect to the conduct of its business.

30.Every merchant banker shall ensure that the senior management,

particularly  decision  makers    have  access  to  all  relevant  information
about the business on a timely basis.

31.No merchant banker or any of its directors, partners or manager

having  the  management  of  the  whole  or  substantially  the  whole  of
affairs  of  the  business,  shall  either  through  its  account  or  their
respective  accounts  or  through  their  associates  or  family  members,
relatives or friends indulge in any insider trading.

32.No merchant banker shall make any statement, either oral or written,

which  would  misrepresent  the  services  that  the  merchant  banker  is
capable of performing for the issuer company or has rendered to other
issuer company, subject to the secrecy he is expected to keep about
Issuer Company’s affairs.

33.No merchant banker shall make untrue statement or  suppress any

material  fact  in  any  documents,  reports,  papers  or  information
furnished to the Board.

*******

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PORTFOLIO MANAGERS

Existing:

1. A  portfolio  manager  shall,  in  the  conduct  of  his  business,  observe  high
standards of integrity and fairness in all his dealings with his clients and
other portfolio managers.

2. The  money  received  by  a  portfolio  manager  from  a  client  for  an
investment purpose should be deployed by the portfolio manager as soon
as  possible  for  that  purpose  and  money  due  and  payable  to  a  client
should be paid forthwith.

3. A  portfolio  manager  shall  render  at  all  times  high  standards  of  service,
exercise  due  diligence,  ensure  proper  care  and  exercise  independent
professional  judgement.    The  portfolio  manager  shall  either  avoid  any
conflict of interest in his investment or disinvestment decision, or where
any conflict of interest arises, ensure fair treatment to all his customers.
He shall disclose to the clients, possible sources of conflict of duties and
interests,  while  providing  unbiased  services.    A  portfolio  manager  shall
not place his interest above those of his clients.

4. A portfolio manager shall not make any statement or become privy to any
act,  practice  or  unfair  competition,  which  is  likely  to  place  such  other
portfolio  managers  in  a  disadvantageous  position  in  relation  to  the

portfolio  manager  himself,  while  competing  for  or  executing  any
assignment.

5. A portfolio manager shall not make any exaggerated statement, whether
oral or written, to the client either about the qualification or the capability
to  render  certain  services  or  his  achievements  in  regard  to  services
rendered to other clients.

6. At the time of entering into a contract, the portfolio manager shall obtain
in writing from the client, his interest in various corporate bodies which
enables him to obtain unpublished price-sensitive information of the body
corporate.

7. A  portfolio  manager  shall  not  disclose  to  any  clients  or  press  any
confidential  information  about  his  client,  which  has  come  to  his
knowledge.

8. The  portfolio  manager  shall  where  necessary  and  in  the  interest  of  the
client  take  adequate  steps  for  registration  of  the  transfer  of  the  clients’
securities and for claiming and receiving dividends, interest payments and
other rights accruing to the client.  He shall also take necessary action for
conversion  of  securities  and  subscription  /  renunciation  of  /  or  rights  in
accordance with the clients’  instruction.

9. A portfolio manager shall endeavour to -

(a) ensure  that  the  investors  are  provided  with  true  and  adequate
information  without  making  any  misguiding  or  exaggerated  claims  and
are  made  aware  of  attendant  risks  before  any  investment  decision  is
taken by them;

(b) render the best possible advice to the client having regard to the client’s

needs and the environment, and his own professional skills;

(c) ensure  that  all  professional  dealings  are  effected  in  a  prompt,  efficient

and cost effective manner.

10. (1)  A portfolio manager shall not be a party to -

-
-
-

Creation of false market
Price rigging or manipulation
Passing of price sensitive information to brokers, members of the
stock  exchanges  and  any  other  intermediaries  in  the  capital
market  or  take  any  other  action  which  is  prejudicial  to  the
interest of the investors.

(2)
No portfolio manager or any of its directors, partners or manager
shall  either  on  their  respective  accounts  or  through  their  associates  or
family  members,  relatives  enter  into  any  transaction  in  securities  of
companies  on  the  basis  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information
obtained by them during the course of any professional assignment.

[  (11)(a)    A  portfolio  manager  or  any  of  his  employees  shall  not  render,
directly or indirectly any investment advice about any security in the publicly
accessible media, whether real-time or non-real-time, unless a disclosure of
his long or short position in the said security has been made, while rendering
such advice.

(b) In case, an employee of the portfolio manager is rendering such advice,
he shall also disclose the interest of his dependent family members and the
employer  including  their  long  or  short  position  in  the  said  security,  while
rendering such advice.]

[  12.(a)    The  portfolio  manager  shall  abide  by  the  Act,  and  the  Rules,
Regulations  made  there  under  and  the  Guidelines/Schemes  issued  by  the
Board.

(b) The  portfolio  manager  shall  comply  with  the  model  code  of  conduct
specified in the SEBI ( Prohibition of Insider Trading ) Regulations,1992.

(c ) The  portfolio  manager  shall  not  use  his  status  as  any  other  registered
intermediary to unduly influence the investment decision of the clients while
rendering portfolio management services.]

Proposed:

1.  Every  portfolio  manager  shall  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity,

dignity and fairness in discharging his functions as portfolio manager.

2.  Every  portfolio  manager  shall  fulfill  his  obligations  in  a  prompt,  an

ethical and professional manner.

3.  Every portfolio manager shall at all time exercise due diligence, ensure

proper care and exercise independent professional judgment.

4.  Every portfolio manager shall maintain required level of knowledge and
competency  and  abide  by  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  regulations,
circulars and Guidelines, which may be applicable and relevant to the
activities carried on by   it.

5.  Every portfolio manager shall ensure that it has adequate resources to
supervise diligently and does supervise diligently persons employed or
appointed by it to conduct business on its behalf.

6.  Every portfolio manager shall endeavourer to ensure that-

a.  Inquiries from investors are adequately dealt with.
b.  Grievances  of 

investors  are  redressed 

in  a  timely  and

appropriate manner.

c.  Where  a  complaint  is  not  remedied  promptly,  the  investor    is
advised  of  any    further  steps  which  may  be  available  to  the
investor under the regulatory system.

d.  All  professional  dealings  are  effected  in  a  prompt,  efficient  and

effective manner.

7.  A  portfolio  manager  shall  not  generally  and  particularly  in  respect  of

any dealings in securities be party to-

a.  Creation of false market
b.  . Price rigging or manipulation
c.  Passing  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to  brokers,
members of the stock exchanges and other intermediaries in the
securities  market  or  take  any  other  action  which  is  not  in  the
interest of the investors

d.  No portfolio manager or any of its directors, partners or manager
having the management of the whole or substantially the whole
of affairs of the business, shall either through its account or their
respective  accounts  or  through  their  associates  or  family
members, relatives or friends indulge in any insider trading

8.  Every  portfolio  manager  shall  have  internal  control  procedures  and
financial and operational capabilities which can be reasonably expected
to  protect  its  operations,  its  client  and  other  registered  entities  from
financial  loss  arising  from  theft,  fraud,  and  other  dishonest  acts,
professional misconduct or omissions.

9.  Every portfolio manager shall maintain required level of knowledge and
competency  and  abide  by  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  regulations,
circulars and Guidelines, which may be applicable and relevant to the
activities carried on by it.

10.  Every Portfolio Manager shall provide adequate freedom and powers to

its compliance officer for the effective discharge of its duties.

11. Every  portfolio  manager  shall  ensure  that  the  board  is  promptly
informed  about  any  material  breach  or  non  compliance  by  it,  of  any
law,  rules,  regulations  directions  of  the  board  or  of  any  other
regulatory body.

12. (a)  A  portfolio  manager  or  any  of  his  employees  shall  not  render,
directly or indirectly, any investment advice about any security in the
publicly accessible media, whether real-time or non real-time unless a
disclosure  of  his  interest  including  long  or  short  position  in  the  said
security has been made, while rendering such advice.

(b)  In  case,  an  employee  of  the  portfolio  manager  is  rendering  such
advice,  he  shall  also  disclose  the  interest  of  his  dependent  family
members and the employer including their long or short position in the
said security, while rendering such advice.

13. Every Portfolio Manager shall ensure arms length relations between the
Portfolio  Management  activity  and  any  other  activity  carried  out  by
them.

14. A portfolio manager shall ensure the  interest  of the Investors and  of

the issuer companies.

15. Every  portfolio  manager  shall  either  avoid  any  conflict  of  interest  or
where  any  conflict  of  interest  arises,  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to
ensure that fair treatment is given to all.

16. Every portfolio manager shall disclose to the client his possible source
or  potential  areas  of  conflict  of  duties  and  interest  while  acting  as
portfolio manager which would impair its ability to render fair, objective
and unbiased services. No portfolio manager shall indulge in any unfair
competition,  which  is  likely  to  harm  the  interests  of  other  portfolio
managers  or  investors  or  is  likely  to  place  such  other  portfolio
managers  in  a  disadvantageous  position  while  competing  for  or
executing any assignment.

17. Every  portfolio  manager  shall  ensure  that  any  person  it  employs  or
appoints to conduct business is fit and proper and otherwise qualified
to  act  in  the  capacity  so  employed  or  appointed  (including  having
relevant professional training or experience).

18. Every portfolio manager shall take all reasonable steps to establish the
true and full identity of each of its clients, and of each client's financial
situation and maintain record of the same.

19.     Every  Portfolio  Manager  shall  provide  clients  with  adequate  and
appropriate  information  about  its  business,  including  contact  details,
services available to clients, and the identity and status of employees
and  others  acting  on  its  behalf  with  whom  the  client  may  have  to
contact.

20. Every  portfolio  manager  shall  ensure  that  any  change  in  registration
status  /  any  penal  action  taken  by  board  or  any  material  change  in
financials which may adversely affect the interests of clients / investors
is  promptly  informed  to  the  clients  and  any  business  remaining

outstanding is transferred to another registered person in accordance
with any instructions of the affected clients.

21. Every portfolio manager shall be responsible for the acts or omissions

of its employees and agents in respect to the conduct of its business.

22.  No portfolio manager shall make any statement, either oral or written,
which  would  misrepresent  the  services  that  the  portfolio  manager  is
capable  of  performing  for  the  client  or  has  rendered  to  other  client  ,
subject to the secrecy he is expected to keep about clients affairs.

23.   No  portfolio  manager  shall  make  untrue  statement  or  suppress  any
material  fact  in  any  documents,  reports,  papers  or  information
furnished to the Board.

24.   Every  Portfolio  Manager  should  make  adequate  disclosure  to  its
clients, in a comprehensible and timely way, of information needed to
make  an  informed  investment  decision.  Information  provided  to  the
client should also be accurate and not misleading.

25.   Every  Portfolio  Manager  shall  endeavor  to  ensure  that  the  investors
are  provided  with  true  and  adequate  information  without  making  any
misguiding or exaggerated claims and are made aware of the attendant
risks before taking any investment decision.

26. Every  Portfolio  Manager  shall  always  endeavor  to  render  the  best

possible advice to the clients having regard to their needs.

27.   A  portfolio  manager  shall  not  divulge  to  anybody  either  orally  or  in
writing,  directly  or  indirectly,  any  confidential  information  about  its
clients  which  has  come  to  its  knowledge,  without  taking  prior

permission of its clients, except where such disclosures are required to
be made in compliance with any law for the time being in force.

28.  Every portfolio manager shall develop its own internal code of conduct
for governing its internal operations and laying down its standards of
appropriate conduct for its employees and officers in the carrying out of
their duties within the portfolio management work and as a part of the
industry. Such a code may extend to the maintenance of professional
excellence  and  standards, 
integrity,  confidentiality,  objectivity,
avoidance  of  conflict  of  interests,  disclosure  of  shareholdings  and
interests etc.

29.  The Portfolio Manager shall not discriminate amongst its clients.

30.   The  Portfolio  Manager  shall  ensure  that  good  corporate  policies  and

corporate governance is in place.

31. The  money  received  by  a  portfolio  manager  from  a  client  for  an
investment  purpose  should  be  deployed  by  the  portfolio  manager  as
soon  as  possible  for  that  purpose  and  money  due  and  payable  to  a
client should be paid forthwith.

32. The portfolio manager shall where necessary and in the interest of the
client take adequate steps for registration of the transfer of the clients'
securities and for claiming and receiving dividends, interest payments
and  other  rights  accruing  to  the  client.  He  shall  also  take  necessary
action  for  conversion  of  securities  and  subscription/renunciation  of/or
rights in accordance with the clients' instruction.

33.  A portfolio manager shall not give any advice to his clients and also
shall not enter into any transaction in securities on behalf of its client

based on any unpublished price sensitive information obtained during
the course of any professional assignment.

34.   Every  portfolio  manager  shall  ensure  that  the  senior  management
have access to all relevant information about the business on a timely
basis.

35. Every  portfolio  Manger  shall  ensure  to  comply  with  all  the  relevant
rules,  regulations,  circulars,  guidelines  or  instructions  issued  by  the
Board.

*****

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR DEBENTURE TRUSTEES

Existing:

1.  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity,

dignity and fairness in discharging his functions as debenture trustee.

2.  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  fulfil  his  obligations  in  an  ethical

manner.

3.  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  at  all  times  exercise  due  diligence,

ensure proper care and exercise independent professional judgment.

4.  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  disclose  to  the  issuer  company  his
possible  source  or  potential  areas  of  conflict  of  duties  and  interest
while acting as debenture trustee.

5.  Debenture trustee shall not indulge in any unfair competition, which is
likely  to  be  harmful  to  the  interest  of  other  debenture  trustees  or
debenture holders.

6.  No debenture trustee shall make any statement, either oral or written,
which  would  misrepresent  the  services  that  the  debenture  trustee  is
capable  of  performing  for  the  issuer  company  or  has  rendered  to
other issuer company, subject to the secrecy he is expected to keep
about Issuer company’s affairs.

7.  No debenture trustee shall willfully make untrue statement or suppress
any  material  fact  in  any  documents,  reports,  papers  or  information
furnished to the Board.

[(8)(a) A  debenture  trustee  or  any  of  his  employees  shall  not  render,
directly  or  indirectly,  any  investment  advice  about  any  security  in  the
publicly  accessible  media,  whether  real-time  or  non-real-time,  unless  a
disclosure  of  his  interest  including  long  or  short  position  in  the  said
security has been made, while rendering such advice.

(b)In  case,  an  employee  of  the  debenture  trustee  is  rendering  such
advice,  he  shall  also  disclose  the  interest  of  his  dependent  family
members  and  the  employer  including  their  long  or  short  position  in  the
said security, while rendering such advice.]

Proposed:

1. No  debenture  trustee  shall  make  untrue  statement  or    suppress  any
material fact in any documents, reports, papers or information furnished
to the Board.

2. Every  debenture  trustee  shall  make  reasonable  efforts  to  avoid
misrepresentation  and  ensure  that  the  information  provided  to  the
debenture holders is not misleading.

3. Every  debenture  trustee  shall  maintain  required  level  of  knowledge  and
competency and abide by the provisions of the Act, regulations, circulars
and  Guidelines,  which  may  be  applicable  and  relevant  to  the  activities
carried on by it.

4. Every  debenture  trustee    shall  ensure  that  any  person  it  employs  or
appoints to conduct business is fit and proper and otherwise qualified to

act in the capacity so employed or appointed (including having relevant
professional training or experience).

5. Every  debenture  trustee  shall  ensure  that  it  has  adequate  resources  to
supervise  diligently  and  does  supervise  diligently  persons  employed  or
appointed by it to conduct business on its behalf.

6. Every  debenture  trustee  shall  have  internal  control  procedures  and
financial and operational capabilities which can be reasonably expected to
protect its operations, its clients, debenture holders and other registered
entities from financial loss arising from theft, fraud, and other dishonest
acts, professional misconduct or omissions.

7. Every  debenture  trustee  shall  take  all  reasonable  steps  to  establish  the
true  and  full  identity  of  each  of  its  clients,  and  of  each  client's  financial
situation and maintain record of the same.

8. Every  debenture  trustee  shall  provide  clients  with  adequate  and
appropriate  information  about  its  business,  including  contact  details,
services available to clients, and the identity and status of employees and
others acting on its behalf with whom the client may have to contact.

9. Every debenture trustee shall ensure that adequate disclosures are made
to the debenture holders, in a comprehensible and timely manner so as to
enable them to make a balanced and informed decision.

10.Every  debenture  trustee  shall  ensure  that  any  change  in  registration
status  /  any  penal  action  taken  by  board  or  any  material  change  in
financial  position  which  may  adversely  affect  the  interests  of  clients  /
debenture  holders  is  promptly  informed  to  the  clients  and  any  business
remaining  outstanding  is  transferred  to  another  registered  person  in
accordance with any instructions of the affected clients.

11.A  debenture  trustee  shall  not  place  its  interest  above  those  of  the

debenture holders and of the issuer companies.

12.Every debenture trustee shall either avoid any conflict of interest situation
or  where  any  conflict  of  interest  arises,  shall  take  reasonable  steps  to
ensure that fair treatment is given to all.

13.Every debenture trustee shall disclose to the Issuer company and to the
debenture  holders  his  possible  source  or  potential  areas  of  conflict  of
duties and interest while acting as debenture trustee which would impair
its ability to render fair, objective and unbiased services. No trustee shall
indulge in any unfair competition, which is likely to harm the interests of
other  trustees  or  debenture  holders  or  is  likely  to  place  such  other
debenture trustees in a disadvantageous position while competing for or
executing  any  assignment  nor  shall  it  wean  away  the  clients  of  another
trustee on assurance of lower fees. It shall also, not discriminate among
its clients.

14.

a)  A debenture trustee or any of his employees shall not render,
directly or indirectly, any investment advice about any security in the
publicly accessible media, whether real-time or non real-time unless a
disclosure  of  his  interest  including  long  or  short  position  in  the  said
security has been made, while rendering such advice.

(b) In case, an employee of the debenture trustee is rendering such
advice,  he  shall  also  disclose  the  interest  of  his  dependent  family
members and the employer including their long or short position in the
said security, while rendering such advice.

15. A debenture trustee shall not generally and particularly in respect of

any dealings in securities be party to-

i.  Creation of false market
ii.  Price rigging or manipulation
iii.  Passing  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to  brokers,
members  of  the  stock  exchanges  and  other  intermediaries  in  the
securities  market  or  take  any  other  action  which  is  not  in  the
interest of the investors.

iv.   No debenture trustee or any of its directors, partners or manager
having the management of the whole or substantially the whole of
affairs  of  the  business,  shall  either  through  its  account  or  their
respective accounts or through their associates or family members,
relatives or friends indulge in any insider trading.

v.  Every  debenture  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  board  is  promptly
informed about any material breach or non compliance by it, of any
law,  rules,  regulations  directions  of  the  board  or  of  any  other
regulatory body.

16. Every debenture trustee shall be responsible for the acts or omissions of

its employees and agents in respect to the conduct of its business.

17. Every  debenture trustee shall endeavourer to ensure that-

a. 
b. 

c. 

d. 

Inquiries from debenture holders are adequately dealt with
Grievances  of  debenture  holders  are  redressed  in  a  timely  and
appropriate manner.
Where  a  complaint  is  not  remedied  promptly,  the  debenture
holder    is advised of any further steps which may be available
to the debenture holder under the regulatory system.
All  professional  dealings  are  effected  in  a  prompt,  efficient  and
effective manner.

18.Every  debenture  trustee  shall  provide  adequate  freedom  and  powers  to

its compliance officer for the effective discharge of its duties.

19.A trustee shall not divulge to anybody either orally or in writing, directly or
indirectly, any confidential information about its clients which has come to
its knowledge, without taking prior permission of its clients, except where
such disclosures are required to be made in compliance with any law for
the time being in force.

20.Every  debenture  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  senior  management,
particularly decision makers have access to all relevant information about
the business on a timely basis.

21.Every  debenture  trustee  shall  ensure  that  good  corporate  policies  and

corporate governance is in place.

22.Every debenture trustee shall develop its own internal code of conduct for
governing  its  internal  operations  and  laying  down  its  standards  of
appropriate conduct for its employees and officers in the carrying out of
their duties within the trustee and as a part of the industry. Such a code
may extend to the maintenance of professional excellence and standards,
integrity,  confidentiality,  objectivity,  avoidance  of  conflict  of  interests,
disclosure of shareholdings and interests etc.

23.Every debenture trustee shall comply with all relevant rules, regulations,

guidelines and instructions issued by the Board.

*****

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR BANKERS TO AN ISSUE

Existing:

1.

A banker to an issue shall in the conduct of his business, observe high
standards of integrity and fairness in all his dealings with his clients,
the investors and/or other members of his profession.

2.

A banker to an issue shall exercise due diligence, ensure proper care.

A banker to an issue shall not make any statement or become privy to
any act, practice or unfair competition, which is likely to be harmful to
the  interests  of  other  bankers  to  an  issue  or  is  likely  to  place  such
other bankers to an issue in a disadvantageous position in relation to
the  banker  to  the  issue,  while  competing  for  or  executing  any
assignment.

3.

A  banker  to  an  issue  shall  not  make  any  exaggerated  statement,
whether oral or written to the client, either about the qualification or
the capability to render certain services or his achievements in regard
to services rendered to other clients.

4.

A banker to an issue shall always endeavor to -

(a)

render  the  best  possible  advice  to  the  clients  having  regard  to  the
clients’  needs and the environments and his own professional skill; and

(b)

5.

ensure that all professional dealings are effected in a prompt, efficient
and cost effective manner.

A banker to an issue shall not divulge to other clients’  the press or any
other  party  any  confidential  information  about  his  clients,  which  has
come to his knowledge.

6.

A banker to an issue shall not -

(a)

(b)

7.

allow blank application forms bearing brokers stamp to be kept at the
bank  premises  or  peddled  anywhere  near  the  entrance  of  the
premises;

accept applications after office hours or after the date of closure of the
issue or on bank holidays.

A banker to an issue shall not at any time act in collusion with other
agents in a manner that is detrimental to the smaller investor.

(  A banker to an issue shall abide by the provisions of such acts and rules,
regulations,  guidelines,  resolutions,  notifications,  directions,  circulars  and
instructions as may be issued from time to time by the Central Government,
the Reserve Bank of India the Indian Banks Association or the Board and as
may be applicable and relevant to the activities carried on by the banker to
the issue ).

[  (8)(a)    A  banker  to  an  issue  or  any  of  his  employees  shall  not  render,
directly or indirectly, any investment advice about any security in the publicly
accessible media, whether real-time or non-real- time, unless a disclosure of
his  interest  including  long  or  short  position  in  the  said  security  has  been
made, while rendering such advice.

(b)
In  case,  an  employee  of  the  banker  to  an  issue  is  rendering  such
advice, he shall also disclose the interest of his dependent family members
and the employer including their long or short position in the said security,
while rendering such advice. ]

Proposed:

A) 

In respect of the Code of Conduct prescribed in item no. 6 (Schedule III) of
the Regulations, apart from what has been mentioned at (a) and (b), we
may consider adding the following more points :-

?   A  Banker  to  an  Issue  shall  not  after  the  closure  of  the  public  issue
accept  any  instruments  such  as  cheques  /  demand  drafts  /  stock
invests from any other source other than the designated Registrar to
the Issue.

?   A Banker to an Issue shall not part with the issue proceeds until listing

permission is granted to the Body Corporate.

?   A  Banker  to  an  issue  shall  not  delay  in  issuing  the  final  certificate
pertaining  to  the  collection  figures  to  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue,  the
Lead  Manager  and  the  Body  Corporate  and  such  figures  should  be
submitted with seven working days from the issue closure date.

B) 

C) 

A Banker to an Issue shall be prompt in disbursing dividends, interests, or
any  such  accrual  income  received  or  collected  by  him  on  behalf  of  his
clients.

A Banker to an Issue also registered with the Board in other capacity such
as  Merchant  Banker,  etc  shall  endeavor  to  ensure  that  arms  length
relationship  is  maintained  in  terms  of  both  manpower  and  infrastructure

between  the  activities  carried  out  as  Banker  to  an  Issue  and  other
activities for which he holds registration with the Board.

D) 

A  Banker  to  an  Issue  shall  not  neglect  or  fail  or  refuse  to  submit  to  the
Board  or  other  agencies  with  which  he  is  registered,  such  books,
documents,  correspondence,  and  papers  or  any  part  thereof  as  may  be
demanded / requested from time to time.

E) 

A Banker to an Issue shall not be a party to –

1.Creation of false market
2.Price rigging or manipulation
3.Passing  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to  brokers,
members  of  the  stock  exchanges  and  other  intermediaries  in  the
securities market or take any other action which is not in the interest of
the investors.
4. No bankers to an issue or any of its directors, or employee having
the  management  of  the  whole  or  substantially  the  whole  of  affairs  of
the  business,  shall  either  through  its  account  or  their  respective
accounts or through their family members, relatives or friends indulge
in any insider trading.

*****

               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR STOCK EXCHANGES

Proposed:

Every Stock Exchange shall :----

( a ) act honestly and fairly in conducting its business activities in the
best      interests  of  investors,  members  and  the  integrity  of  the
market,

(  b  )  act  with  due  skill,  care  and  diligence,  in  the  best  interests  of

investors, members and the integrity of the market,

( c ) have and employs effectively the resources and procedures that
are  necessary  for  the  proper  performance  of  its  business
activities,

( d) seek from investors, members and other stakeholders information
regarding  their  financial  situations,  investment  experience  and
objectives as regards the services requested,

( e ) make adequate disclosure of relevant material information in its

dealings with investors, members and other stakeholders,

( f ) make a reasonable effort to avoid conflicts of interests and, when
they cannot be avoided, ensures that its investors, members and
other stakeholders are fairly treated,

(  g  )  complies  with  all  regulatory  requirements  applicable  to  the
conduct  of  its  business  activities  so  as  to  promote  the  best
interests  of  investors,  members  and  other  stakeholders  and  the
integrity of the market,

( h ) develops a communications plan designed to educate investors,

members and other stakeholders.

The proposed CODE OF CONDUCT are mainly based on the following
principles :----

?  Fairness  and  transparency  in  dealing  with  matters  relating  to  the

exchange and the investors

?  Compliance  with  all  laws/  rules/  regulations  laid  down  by  regulatory

agencies/ exchange

?  Exercising due diligence in the performance of duties

?  Avoidance  of  conflict  of  interest  between  self  interests  of  directors/  key

functionaries and interests of exchange and investors.

                                     +++++++++++++++++++++

               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR STOCK BROKERS

Existing:

 A.  General  -  (1)   Integrity:   A  stock-broker,  shall  maintain  high
standards of integrity, promptitude and fairness in the conduct of
all his business.

(2)Exercise of due skill and care : A stock-broker, shall act with
due skill, care and diligence in the conduct of all his business.

(3)  Manipulation : A stock-broker shall not indulge in manipulative,
fraudulent or deceptive transactions or schemes or spread news
with a view to distorting market equilibrium or making personal
gains.

(4) Malpractices :  A stock-broker shall not create false market
either singly or in concert with others or indulge in any act
detrimental to the investors interest or which leads to interference
with the fair and smooth functioning of the market. A stock-broker
shall not involve himself in excessive speculative business in the
market beyond reasonable levels not commensurate with his
financial soundness.

(5) Compliance with statutory requirements :  A stock-broker shall
abide by all the provisions of the Act, the rules, regulations issued
by the Government, the Board and the stock exchange from time to
time as may be applicable to him as also circulars and
 guidelines, which may be applicable and relevant to the
activities carried on by it.

B.
Duty to the Investor.- (1)  Execution of Orders :  A stock broker, in his
dealings  with  the  clients  and  the  general  investing  public,  shall  faithfully
execute the orders for buying and selling of securities at the best available
market  price  and  not  refuse  to  deal  with  a  small  investor  merely  on  the
ground  of  the  volume  of  business  involved.    A  stock  broker  shall  promptly
inform his client about the execution or non-execution of an order, and make
prompt payment in respect of securities sold and arrange for prompt delivery
of securities purchased by clients.

(2)  Issue of Contract Note :  A stock broker shall without delay to his client
a  contract  note  for  all  transactions  in  the  form  specified  by  the  stock
exchange.

(3)   Breach of Trust :  A stock broker shall not disclose or discuss with any
other  person  or  make  improper  use  of  the  details  of  personal  investments
and other information of a confidential nature of the client which he comes to
know in his business relationship.

(4)

Business and Commission :

A  stock  broker  shall  not  encourage  sales  or  purchases  of  securities

(a)
with the sole object of generating brokerage or commission.

A stock broker shall not furnish false or misleading quotations or give
(b)
any other false or misleading advice or information to the clients with a view
of inducing him to do business in particular securities and enabling himself to
earn brokerage or commission thereby.

(5)
Business  of  defaulting  clients  :    A  stock  broker  shall  not  deal  or
transact business knowingly, directly or indirectly or execute an order for a
client  who  has  failed  to  carry  out  his  commitments  in  relation  to  securities
with another stock broker.

(6)
Fairness to clients :  A stock broker, when dealing with a client, shall
disclose whether he is acting as a principal or as an agent and shall ensure at
the same time, that no conflict of interest arises between him and the client.
In  the  event  of  a  conflict  of  interest,  he  shall  inform  the  client  accordingly
and shall not seek to gain a direct or indirect personal advantage from the
situation and shall not consider clients’  interest inferior to his own.

(7)
Investment advice :  A stock broker shall not make a recommendation
to any client who might be expected to rely thereon to acquire, dispose of,
retain any securities unless he has reasonable grounds for believing that the
recommendations is suitable for such a client upon the basis of the facts, if
disclosed by such a client as to his own security holdings, financial situation
and  objectives  of  such  investment.    The  stock  broker  should  seek  such
information from clients, wherever he feels it is appropriate to do so.

[ (7A)  Investment Advice in publicly accessible media.- (a)  A stock broker
or  any  of  his  employees  shall  not  render,  directly  or  indirectly,  any
investment  advice  about  any  security  in  the  publicly  accessible  media,
whether  real-time  or  non-real-time,  unless  a    disclosure  of  his  interest
including  the  interest  of  his  dependent  family  members  and  the  employer
including  their  long  or  short  positions  in  the  said  security  has  been  made,
while rendering such advice.

(b)
In case, an employee of the stock broker is rendering such advice, he
shall  also  disclose  the  interest  of  his  dependent  family  members  and  the
employer  including  their  long  or  short  position  in  the  said  security,  while
rendering such advice.]

(8)
Competence of Stock-Broker –  A stock broker should have adequately
trained  staff  and  arrangements  to  render  fair,  prompt  and  competence
services to his clients.

Stock Brokers vis-à-vis other stock brokers.- (1) Conduct of Dealings.
(C)
A stock broker shall cooperate with the other contracting party in comparing
unmatched  transactions.    A  stock  broker  shall  not  knowingly  and  willfully

deliver  documents  which  constitute  bad  delivery  and  shall  cooperate  with
other  contracting  party  for  prompt  replacement  of  documents  which  are
declared as bad delivery.

(2)
Protection  of  Clients  Interests  :  A  stock  broker  shall  extend  fullest
cooperation  to  other  stock  brokers  in  protecting  the  interests  of  his  clients
regarding their rights to dividends, bonus shares, rights shares and any other
right related to such securities.

(3)
Transactions with Stock Brokers :  A stock broker shall carry out his
transactions with other stock brokers and shall comply with his obligations in
completing the settlement of transactions with them.

Advertisement and Publicity  :    A  stock  broker  shall  not  advertise  his

(4)
business publicly unless permitted by the stock exchange.

Inducement  of  Clients  :    A  stock  broker  shall  not  resort  to  unfair

(5)
means of inducing clients from other stock broker.

(6)
False or Misleading Returns :  A stock broker shall not neglect or fail or
refuse to submit the required returns and not make any false or misleading
statement  on  any  returns  required  to  be  submitted  to  the  Board  and  the
stock exchange.

Proposed:

(1) Every stock-broker  shall ensure that any person it employs or

appoints to conduct business is fit and proper and otherwise
qualified  to  act  in  the  capacity  so  employed  or  appointed
(including having relevant professional training or experience).

(2)  A  Stock  Broker  shall  effectively  implement  rules  and  internal
procedures  for  its  employees  and  representatives  in  order  to
ensure high standard of service to its clients.

(3)A  Stock  Broker  shall  disclose  to  his  clients  all  material  and
relevant  information  which  might  affect  the  clients’  decision  to
deal through him.

 

(4) A  Stock  Broker  shall  have  in  place  an  efficient  mechanism  for
resolution  of  complaints  by  investors  and  shall  endeavor  to
resolve every complaint as early as possible.

(5)  Unless  required  by  law,  the  stock  broker  should  not  reveal

clients’  confidential information to third parties.

(6) Every  stock  broker  shall  ensure  that  the  board  is  promptly
informed about any material breach or non compliance by it, of
any law, rules, and regulations directions of the board or of any
other regulatory body.

(7) Every  stock-broker  shall  be  responsible  for  the  acts  or
omissions  of  its  employees  and  sub-brokers  in  respect  of  the
conduct of its business.

(8) A stock-broker, in his dealings with the clients and the general
investing  public,  shall  faithfully  execute  the  orders  for  buying
and selling of securities at the best available market price and
not refuse to deal with a Small Investor merely on the ground of
the volume of business involved. A stock-broker shall promptly
inform  his  client  about  the  execution  or  non-execution  of  an
order,  and  make  prompt  payment  in  respect  of  securities  sold
and  arrange  for  prompt  delivery  of  securities  purchased  by
clients.

(9) A stock-broker shall issue without delay to his client a contract
note  for  all  transactions  in  the  form  specified  by  the  stock
exchange.

(10)    A  stock-broker  shall  not  disclose  or  discuss  with  any  other
person  or  make  improper  use  of  the  details  of  personal
investments  and  other  information  of  a  confidential  nature  of
the client which he comes to know in his business relationship.

 

(11)  A stock-broker shall not :-

(a)  encourage sales or purchases of securities with the sole object

of generating brokerage or commission.

(b) furnish false or misleading quotations or give any other false or
misleading  advice  or  information  to  the  clients  with  a  view  of
inducing  him  to  do  business  in  particular  securities  and  enabling
himself to earn brokerage or commission thereby.

 (12)  A stock-broker shall not deal or transact business knowingly,
directly or indirectly or execute an order for a client who has failed
to carry out his commitments in relation to securities with another
stock-broker.

 

(13)A  stock-broker,  when  dealing  with  a  client,  shall  disclose
whether  he  is  acting  as  a  principal  or  as  an  agent  and  shall
ensure  at  the  same  time,  that  no  conflict  of  interest  arises
between him and the client. In the event of a conflict of interest,
he shall inform the client accordingly and shall not seek to gain
a  direct  or  indirect  personal  advantage  from  the  situation  and
shall not consider clients' interest inferior to his own.

 

(14) A stock-broker shall not make a recommendation to any client
who  might  be  expected  to  rely  thereon  to  acquire,  dispose  of,
retain  any  securities  unless  he  has  reasonable  grounds  for
believing that the recommendation is suitable for such a client
upon the basis of the facts, if disclosed by such a client as to his
own security holdings, financial situation and objectives of such
investment. The stock-broker should seek such information from
clients, wherever he feels it is appropriate to do so.

 

 (15) Investment Advice in publicly accessible media –

(a) A stock broker or any of his employees shall not render, directly
or  indirectly,  any  investment  advice  about  any  security  in  the
publicly  accessible  media,  whether  real  -  time  or  non  real-time,
unless  a  disclosure  of  his  interest  including  the  interest  of  his
dependent  family  members  and  the  employer  including  their  long
or  short  position  in  the  said  security  has  been  made,  while
rendering such advice.

(b)  In  case,  an  employee  of  the  stock  broker  is  rendering  such
advice,  he  shall  also  disclose  the  interest  of  his  dependent  family
members and the employer including their long or short position in
the said security, while rendering such advice.]

(16)A stock-broker should have adequately trained staff and
arrangements to render fair, prompt and competent services to his
clients.

(17)    A  stock-broker  shall  co-operate  with  the  other  contracting
party  in  comparing  unmatched  transactions.  A  stock-broker
shall  not  knowingly  and  will  fully  deliver  documents  which
constitute  bad  delivery  and  shall  co-operate  with  other

contracting  party  for  prompt  replacement  of  documents  which
are declared as bad delivery.

 

(18) A stock-broker shall extend fullest co-operation to other stock-
brokers in protecting the interests of his clients regarding their
rights  to  dividends,  bonus  shares,  right  shares  and  any  other
right related to such securities.

 

(19)  A  stock-broker  shall  carry  out  his  transactions  with  other
in

stock-brokers  and  shall  comply  with  his  obligations 
completing the settlement of transactions with them.

(20) A stock-broker shall not advertise his business publicly unless
permitted by the stock exchange.

 (21)  A  stock-broker  shall  not  resort  to  unfair  means  of  inducing
clients from other stock- brokers.

 (22) A stock-broker shall not neglect or fail or refuse to submit the
required  returns  and  not  make  any  false  or  misleading  statement
on any returns required to be submitted to the Board and the stock
exchange.

*****

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

Code of Conduct for Depositories

Proposed :

1.  The Depository shall not make any exaggerated statement whether
oral  or  written  to  the  clients  either  about  its  qualifications  or
capability  to  render  certain  services  or  about  its  achievements  in
regard to services rendered to other clients.

2.  The Depository shall not divulge to other clients, press or any other
person  any  information  about  its  clients  which  has  come  to  its
knowledge except with the approval / authorisation of the clients or
when it is required to disclose the information under the statutory
requirements of any Act, Rules or Regulations

3.  The Depository shall always endeavor to-

?  Render the best possible advice to the clients having regard
to  the  clients’  needs  and  the  environments  and  his  own
professional skills

?  Ensure  that  all  professional  dealings  are  affected  in  a

prompt, effective and efficient manner.
Inquiries from investors are adequately dealt with

? 
?  Grievances of investors are redressed without any delay

4.  The Depository shall maintain the required level of knowledge and
competency  and  abide  by  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Rules,
Regulations,  circulars  and  directions  issued  by  regulators  which
may be applicable and relevant to the activities carried out by it.

5.  The  Depository  shall  not  make  an  untrue  statement  or  suppress
any material fact in any documents, reports, papers or information
furnished to the Board.

6.  The Depository shall ensure that it has satisfactory internal control
procedures  in  place  as  well  as  adequate  financial  and  operational
capabilities which can be reasonably expected to take care of any
losses  arising  due  to  theft,  fraud  and  other  dishonest  acts,
professional misconduct or omissions.

7.  The Depository shall be responsible for the acts or omissions of its

employees and agents in respect of the conduct of its business.

8.  The  Depository  shall  co-operate  with  the  regulator  as  and  when

required.

9.  The Depository shall take adequate and necessary steps to ensure
that  continuity  in  data  and  record  keeping  is  maintained  and  that
the data or records are not lost or destroyed. Further, for electronic
records  and  data,  up-to-date  back  up  should  always  be  available
with it.

10. The  Depository  shall  provide  adequate  freedom  &  powers  to  its

compliance officer for the effective discharge of his duties.

11. The Depository shall endeavor to resolve all the complaints against
it  or  in  respect  of  the  activities  carried  out  by  it  as  quickly  as
possible.

12. The  Depository  shall  not  neglect  or  fail  or  refuse  to  submit  to  the
Board  or  other  agencies  with  which  he  is  registered,  such  books,
documents, correspondence, and papers or any part thereof as may
be demanded / requested from time to time.

13. The  Depository  and  its  key  personnel  shall  observe  the  highest
standard of integrity, fairness and professionalism in the discharge
of  its  duties  and  in  dealing  with  investors,  other  intermediaries,
regulatory and other government authorities.

14. The  Depository  shall  at  all  times  render  high  standards  of  service,

exercise due diligence and independent professional judgment.

*****

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

Code of Conduct for Depository Participants.

Proposed

1.  The  Depository  Participant  shall  not  make  any  exaggerated
statement  whether  oral  or  written  to  the  clients  either  about  its
qualifications  or  capability  to  render  certain  services  or  about  its
achievements in regard to services rendered to other clients.

2.  The Depository Participant shall not divulge to other clients, press
or  any  other  person  any  information  about  its  clients  which  has
come to its knowledge except with the approval / authorisation of
the clients or when it is required to disclose the information under
the statutory requirements of any Act, Rules or Regulations

3.  The Depository Participant shall always endeavor to-

?  Render the best possible advice to the clients having regard
to  the  clients’  needs  and  the  environments  and  his  own
professional skills

?  Ensure  that  all  professional  dealings  are  affected  in  a

prompt, effective and efficient manner.
Inquiries from investors are adequately dealt with

? 
?  Grievances of investors are redressed without any delay

4.  The  Depository  Participant  shall  maintain  the  required  level  of
knowledge and competency and abide by the provisions of the Act,
Rules,  Regulations,  circulars  and  directions  issued  by  regulators
which may be applicable and relevant to the activities carried out
by it.

5.  The Depository Participant shall not make an untrue statement or
suppress  any  material  fact  in  any  documents,  reports,  papers  or
information furnished to the Board.

6.  The  Depository  Participant  shall  ensure  that  it  has  satisfactory
internal  control  procedures  in  place  as  well  as  adequate  financial
and  operational  capabilities  which  can  be  reasonably  expected  to
take  care  of  any  losses  arising  due  to  theft,  fraud  and  other
dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions.

7.  The  Depository  Participant  shall  be  responsible  for  the  acts  or
omissions of its employees and agents in respect of the conduct of
its business.

8.  The  Depository  Participant  shall  co-operate  with  the  regulator  as

and when required.

9.  The Depository Participant shall take adequate and necessary steps
to ensure that continuity in data and record keeping is maintained
and that the data or records are not lost or destroyed. Further, for
electronic  records  and  data,  up-to-date  back  up  should  always  be
available with it.

10. The  Depository  Participant  shall  provide  adequate  freedom  &
powers  to  its  compliance  officer  for  the  effective  discharge  of  his
duties.

11. The  Depository  Participant  shall  endeavor  to  resolve  all  the
complaints against it or in respect of the activities carried out by it
as quickly as possible.

12. The  Depository  Participant  shall  not  neglect  or  fail  or  refuse  to
submit to the Board or other agencies with which he is registered,

such  books,  documents,  correspondence,  and  papers  or  any  part
thereof as may be demanded / requested from time to time.

13. The Depository Participant shall be prompt and diligent in opening of
a  beneficial  owner  account,  dispatch  of  the  Dematerialisation
Request  Form  (DRF)  &  Rematerialisation  Request  Form  (RRF),
execution  of  Debit  Instruction  Slip  (DIS)  and  in  all  the  other
activities undertaken by him on behalf of the beneficial owners.

14. The Depository Participant shall maintain proper inward system for

all types of mail received in all forms.

15. The Depository Participant shall follow the Maker - Checker concept
in  all  of  its  activities  to  ensure  the  accuracy  of  the  data  and  as  a
mechanism to check unauthorized transaction..

16. The Depository Participant shall not increase charges / fees for the
services  rendered  without  proper  advance  notice  to  the  Beneficial
Owners (BOs).

*****

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

Code of Conduct for Registrars To An Issue and Share Transfer

Agents.

Existing:

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

A  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agent  shall  maintain  high
standards of integrity and fairness in all their dealings with their clients
and other registrars to issue and share transfer agents in the conduct
of their business.

A registrar to an issue and share transfer agent shall act with due skill,
diligence and care in the conduct of all their activities.

A  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agent  shall  not  indulge  in
unfair  competition,  which  is  likely  to  be  harmful  to  the  interests  of
other registrars to issue and share transfer agents or is likely to place
such  other  registrars  to  issue  and  share  transfer  agents  in  a
disadvantageous position in relation to the registrar to issue and share
transfer agent, while competing for or executing any assignment.

A  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agent  shall  not  make  any
exaggerated statement, whether oral or written, to the clients either
about  their  qualifications  or  capability  to  render  certain  services  or
their achievements in regard to services rendered to other clients.

A  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agent  shall  not  divulge  to
other  clients,  press  or  any  other  party  any  confidential  information
about their clients, which have come to their knowledge.

6.

A  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agent  shall  endeavor  to
ensure that -
(a)

Enquiries from investors are adequately dealt with.

(b)

Adequate steps are taken for proper allotment of securities and
refund of application monies without delay and as per the law.

7.

A registrar to an issue and share transfer agent shall not generally and
particularly in respect of any dealings in securities be party to -

creation of false market;
price rigging or manipulation;
passing  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  to  brokers,

(a)
(b)
(c)
members of

the  stock  exchanges  and  other  intermediaries  in  the  securities

market or

take  any  other  action  which  is  not  in  the  interest  of  the

investors;
(d)

no registrar to an issue and share transfer agent or any of its
directors,  partners  or  manager  having  the  management  of  the
whole or substantially the whole of the affairs of their business
shall  either  on  their  respective  accounts  or  through  their
associates or family members, relatives or friends indulge in any
insider trading.

[(8)(a)
A  registrar  to  an  issue  and  share  transfer  agent  or  any  of  his
employees  shall  not  render,  directly  or  indirectly  any  investment  advice
about  any  security  in  the  publicly  accessible  media,  whether  real-time  or
non-real-time,  unless  a  disclosure  of  his  long  or  short  position  in  the  said
security has been made, while rendering such advice.

(b)
In case, an employee of the registrar to issue and share transfer agent
is rendering such advice, he shall also disclose the interests of his dependent
family members and the employer including their long or short position in the
said security, while rendering such advice.)

Proposed

1.  The  Registrar  and  Share  Transfer  agent  shall  not  make  any
exaggerated statement whether oral or written to the clients either
about  its  qualifications  or  capability  to  render  certain  services  or
about  its  achievements  in  regard  to  services  rendered  to  other
clients.

2.  The Registrar and Share Transfer agent shall not divulge to other
clients, press or any other person any information about its clients
which  has  come  to  its  knowledge  except  with  the  approval  /
authorisation  of  the  clients  or  when  it  is  required  to  disclose  the
information under the statutory requirements of any Act, Rules or
Regulations

3.  The Registrar and Share Transfer agent shall always endeavor to-

?  Render the best possible advice to the clients having regard
to  the  clients’  needs  and  the  environments  and his  own
professional skills.

?  Ensure  that  all  professional  dealings  are  affected  in  a

prompt, effective and efficient manner.
Inquiries from investors are adequately dealt with.

? 
?  Grievances of investors are redressed without any delay.

4.  The Registrar and Share Transfer agent shall maintain the required
level of knowledge and competency and abide by the provisions of
the  Act,  Rules,  Regulations,  circulars  and  directions  issued  by

regulators  which  may  be  applicable  and  relevant  to  the  activities
carried out by it.

5.  The Registrar and Share Transfer agent shall not make an untrue
statement or suppress any material fact in any documents, reports,
papers or information furnished to the Board.

6.  The  Registrar  and  Share  Transfer  agent  shall  ensure  that  it  has
satisfactory internal control procedures in place as well as adequate
financial  and  operational  capabilities  which  can  be  reasonably
expected to take care of any losses arising due to theft, fraud and
other dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions.

7.  The Registrar and Share Transfer agent shall be responsible for the
acts  or  omissions  of  its  employees  and  agents  in  respect  of  the
conduct of its business.

8.  The  Registrar  and  Share  Transfer  agent  shall  co-operate  with  the

regulator as and when required.

9.  The  Registrar  and  Share  Transfer  agent  shall  take  adequate  and
necessary steps to ensure that continuity in data and record keeping
is maintained and that the data or records are not lost or destroyed.
Further, for electronic records and data, up-to-date back up should
always be available with it.

10. The  Registrar  and  Share  Transfer  agent  shall  provide  adequate
freedom  &  powers  to  its  compliance  officer  for  the  effective
discharge of his duties.

11. The Registrar and Share Transfer agent shall endeavor to resolve
all  the  complaints  against  it  or  in  respect  of  the  activities  carried
out by it as quickly as possible.

12. The Registrar and Share Transfer agent shall not neglect or fail or
refuse  to  submit  to  the  Board  or  other  agencies  with  which  he  is
registered, such books, documents, correspondence, and papers or
any  part  thereof  as  may  be  demanded  /  requested  from  time  to
time.

13. The  Registrar  and  Share  Transfer  Agent  shall  not  reject  the
Dematerialisation  /  Rematerialisation  request  on  flimsy  grounds,
without providing for proper grounds and supported by copies of the
relevant documents and certificates.

14. The  Registrar  and  Share  Transfer  Agent  shall  exercise  adequate
care,  caution  and  due  diligence  before  dematerialisation  by
confirming & verifying the listing of the securities.

15. The  Registrar  and  Share  Transfer  Agent  shall  hand-over  all  the
records/ data and all related documents which it is possessing in its
capacity  of  RTI  and  /  or  STA  to  the  respective  clients,  within  1
month  from  the  date  of  termination  of  agreement  with  the
respective  clients  or  within  1  month 
the  date  of
expiry/cancellation of certificate of registration as RTI and / or STA,
whichever is earlier.

from 

*****

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA

Code of Conduct for Research Analyst in India

Domestic industry specifics and  recent international developments are taken
into consideration while preparing the proposed code of conduct for research
analysts in India. The paper has been divided into the six sections. Section
One  provides  introduction  followed  by  genesis  of  the  present  discussion  in
Section  Two.      Section  Three  deals  with  the  structure  of    the  industry  in
India.  Section  Four  provides  definitions  for  certain  terms,  Section  Five
discusses the existing provisions and final Section Six  recommends Code of
Conduct for Research Analysts and details.

1.  Introduction

1.1

feed 

Efficiency of financial markets  depends on quality and  speed of
information  in  the  markets  .  Variety  of    information  from
different  quarters  flow  to  the  participants  of  financial  markets.
Government,  government  agencies,  television,  print  media,
web-sites  and  research  analysts    are    amongst  many  sources
who  continually 
information.
Investors,  retail  as  well  as  institutional,  might  use  this
information to take  an investment decision (buy, hold and / or
sell)  in  the  market  place.    Therefore,  it  is  very  important  that
the  price  sensitive  information  flows  to  the  market  from
different  quarters  should  be  reliable,  timely,  cheap  and
unbiased.  The  price  sensitive  information  also  should  be
distributed simultaneously.

financial  markets  with 

1.2

Price  discovery  of  securities  (especially  equity  share  prices)
depends once again on quality of information. Regulators should
provide  enabling  environment  so  that  the  price  sensitive

information is accessed by all market participants almost at the
same time.

2. GENESIS

2..1

There  have  been  reports  mainly  in  some  of  the  developed
markets that did not safeguard  the interest of  retail investors
and  other  non  aligned  institutional  investors.        In  the  recent
past, during technology sector  boom period of  1999 and 2000,
it  appears  that,  many  research  analysts  allegedly  abused  their
research  instrument.  Where  analysts’  business  is  part  of
investment banking, the reports produced either overvalued or
undervalued,  likely  targets  for  takeover  /merger,  as  the  case
may be and this information was not made publicly available to
all the shareholders and to the prospective investor. Analysts of
brokerage  houses  produced  reports  to  get  business  for  the
brokerage firm, thus, exhibiting bias in their research  reports.
It was observed that over 80 percent of the recommendations
are for “buys”  and both hold and sell account for less than 20%.
Buy  recommendations  continued  even  when  prices  of    stocks,
particularly  technology  stocks,  were  falling.  All  these  point  a
needle  of    suspicion    at  the  intentions  and  final  usage  of
research    reports  produced  by  analysts  who  are  employed  by
either investment banks or brokerage houses.

2.2

The regulators around the world have started initiating  steps to
prevent  likely  abuse  of  analyst’s  information.  Some  countries
already issued Code of Conduct for research analysts and some
other countries are in the process of issuing Code of Conduct for
research analysts.

3.

Industry Structure in India

3.1 

3.2

Institutional 

SEBI  has  recognized  large  number  of  merchant  bankers,
brokerage  houses,  Foreign 
Investors  (FIIs),
portfolio  managers  and  Asset  Management  Companies  (AMCs
who manage mutual funds). Of these, quite a few of the large
merchant  bankers  and  brokerage  houses  regularly  publish
research  reports  and  distribute  them  to  their  institutional
investor.    Some  Foreign  Institutional  Investors  and  Mutual
Funds  conduct  research  mostly  for  their  internal  use.    The
presence of portfolio managers in this area is hardly felt.  There
are  some  independent  research  outfits  (third  party  research
reports),  .who  also  bring  out  research  reports.  This  is  a  broad
spectrum  of      the  profile  of  the  research  analysts  and  their
affiliations in  India.

that 

include  capital  structure, 

Conflict of interest and misuse of research reports could mainly
arise  in  case  of  reports  produced  by  merchant  banks  and
brokerage  houses.  Merchant  bankers  offer  various  corporate
advisory  services 
issue
management 
,  mergers  and  acquisitions,  buy-  back  of
securities, leasing or hiring versus buying and others.. All these
likely  issues  have  impact  on  the  prices  of  shares  of  respective
companies.    Research  analyst  prepares  report  and  assesses
impact  of  any  of  the  above  cited  events.  If  this  information  is
available  in  advance,  to  the  people  in  the  respective  advisory
services  and  to  their  clientele  then    the  advanced  information
can  be  used  by  respective  parties.    Intermediary  concerned,
employees of the intermediary and / or research analyst could
use  this privileged information to take appropriate investment
decision.

3.3

3.4

Brokerage  houses  solicit  business  from  various  types  of
institutional  and  retail  investors  by  offering  research  reports.
Since  income  of  brokerage  houses  depends  on  volume  of
business  which  in  turn  partly  depends  on  research  information
produced and distributed. Brokerage houses can influence their
research departments to produce as per their desire (  positive
or negative recommendations).

In both the situations the business of investment research is an
integral  part  of  either  merchant  banking  or  brokerage  houses.
Salaries,  bonuses  and  other  incentives  offered  to  research
analysts are linked to the business throughput achieved by the
respective  organizations.

3.5

The prelude to this report raises several issues which need the
regulator’s attention and also solutions

(a) 

Can research be an independent economic activity?

Research  on  its  own  cannot  generate  sufficient  revenue  to
sustain its existence, therefore, it has to rely on other parts of
the organization .  Logically, it follows that the present structure
may be allowed to continue in India.  Developing countries like
India need to adopt a different structure from that is generally
followed in the U.S. and other developed markets.

(b) Who are the different stakeholders in the entire research

process and use of it ?

The most important stakeholders are investors, retail as well as
institutional, corporates, intermediaries and regulators and last
but not the least,  the country.

(c)  Conflict  of  interest  between  the  parent  organization  and

research analysts?

The salaries and other incentives offered to the staff of research
department should be independent and delinked from business
volume of the organisation.    This can be addressed in India at
a later stage.

(d)  Conflict of interest between the organization and subject
company ?

In order to develop investor centric capital market, the research
analyst on  his own should act in the interest of  the investors
and  the  country.    The  recommendations  should  be  based  on
reliable information that are unbiased.

4.

Definitions

4.1  Research Report

Research  Report  is  a  presentation  in  the  print  or  electronic
media,  which  includes  an  analysis  of  equity  securities  of
individual  companies,  industries  or  sectors  and  which  provides
sufficient  information  to  take  an  investment  decision  and
includes a recommendation.

4.2 Research Analyst or Securities Analysts

A firm / company / an individual who is engaged either on his
own behalf or on behalf of  any other firm or organization  and
regularly  publishes  research  recommendations  either  through
print media and /or electronic media.

4.3 

     The Subject Company.

The company on which  the equity research is produced or likely
to be produced.

4.4 

  

Intermediary

SEBI recognized  and licensed capital market intermediary which
include merchant banker, stock broker, sub-broker or  any other
intermediary.

5. 

Existing Provisions on Investment Advice

5.1

Any  capital  market  intermediary  can  render  investment  advice
about any security in a publicly accessible media,  if and only if,
a disclosure of  his interest including his long and short position
in the security has been made while rendering such advice .

6

PROPOSED CODE OF CONDUCT FOR RESEARCH ANALYSTS

IN INDIA

6.1  Disclosure  of  compensation  received  from  the  subject

companies

Capital  market 
intermediaries  (merchant  bankers,  brokerage
houses  and  others  recognized  by  SEBI)  are  required  to  disclose

compensation received for various services that it rendered for the
past twelve months. The compensation activities include :-

a.  Issue management
b.  Capital Structure
c.  Mergers and Acquisitions
d.  Buy-back of  shares and
e.  Other Corporate Advisory Services

6.2 

 Recommendations performance

For the immediate past twelve month “roll back”  basis the research
analysts  should  disclose  the  success  (lack  of 
it)  rate  of
recommendations.  A consistent way of presenting may be evolved
which will include proportion of success under buy ,  hold and sell
category.  This is should be bench marked against time and price
mentioned  in  the  research  reports.  If  there  are  no  bench  marks
industry    should    evolve  uniform  bench  marks  and  also  uniform
format.  This standardization will help investor to understand easily
and evaluate.

6.3 

  Equity shareholding of the Intermediary

Capital  market  intermediary  such  as  merchant  banker  and
brokerage house must disclose its holding in the company on which
research  report  is  produced.  This  disclosure  is  necessary,  if  the
shares held by the intermediary exceed 1% of the paid-up capital
of the subject company as on  the date of the commencement of
research.

6.4  Equity shareholding of  research analysts

Research  analysts  should  disclose  his  holdings  and  those  of  his
relatives/dependents  in  the    subject  company  as  on  the  date  of
commencement of  research on the subject company.

6.5  “Black-out”  period for intermediary

Capital  market  intermediary  should  be  prohibited  to  trade  in  the
equity shares of the company on research report is produced from
the time the work on the report started, during the preparation of
the report and for five working days after the report is published.

6.6 

 “Black-out”   period for the research analysts

Research analyst should be prohibited to trade in the equity shares
of the company on which research report is produced from the time
the work on the report started, during the preparation of the report
and for five working days after the report is published.

6.7  “Quiet period”   for intermediary

When the intermediary offered its services for any of the corporate
advisory services that include issue management, capital structure,
mergers and acquisitions, buy- back of securities, leasing or hiring
versus  buying,  then  the  intermediary  should  not  be  allowed  to
publish research report on the company concerned for the next 30
days from the closure of the corporate advisory services activity.

6.8  Compensation Package of  research analysts

Research analysts must disclose details of compensation package in
the  research  report.    These  details  include  amount  received  for
various  services  such  as  issue  management,  capital  structure,
mergers and acquisitions, buy- back of securities, leasing or hiring
versus buying and others.

6.9  Distribution of research report prepared by a third party

If  a  capital  market  intermediary  distributes  a  research  report
published  by  any  one  who  is  not  connected  with  itself,  then  the
market intermediary should ensure that such unrelated author also
conforms with the provisions of the Code.

6.10  Standard of  research report

The  report  should  contain  all  relevant  information  clearly,
accurately  and  as  up  to  date  as  possible.  The  report  should
clearly distinguish facts from interpretation, estimates, opinions
and other types of non factual information.  If the information is
borrowed from any other source, that source should be clearly
indicated.

6.11  Exempted category from the code of conduct

Independent  research  publishers  not  affiliated  to  any  capital
market  intermediary,  academic  researchers.    Writers  in  the
news  papers    should  be  exempted  from  the  provisions  of  the
proposed  code  of  conduct.    There  is  no  conflict  of  interest
between  the  subject  company  and  the  researcher.    These

researchers  generally  do  not  offer  any  corporate  advisory
services  mentioned  elsewhere  and  therefore  not  privy  to  price
sensitive information.

6.12  Disclosure

The research report should contain a disclosure that the capital
market  intermediary  has  complied  with  the  SEBI  Code  of
Conduct  and  internal  Code  of  Conduct  of  the  concerned
intermediary, if any.

In India, as of now there is no comprehensive regulation /code of conduct for
research analysts.  The proposed code of conduct would serve a very useful
purpose  and  reduce  scope  for  conflict  of  interest  between  investors  and
research analysts.

*****

