Public Comments may be sent on  the following e -mail Ids:

sandeepd@sebi.gov.in

kalyankarv@sebi.gov.in

by 31st March,2003:

DISCUSSION PAPER ON CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUB-BROKERS

1.  The code of conduct is prescribed in Regulation 15 of the SEBI (Stock Brokers

and  Sub  brokers)  Regulations,  1992.  The  present  regulations  for  the  sub-

brokers had been issued in the year 1992. Over a period of time the Indian

capital market has undergone significant structural changes and the markets

have  transitioned  from  open  out-cry  system  to  a  screen  based  automated

system.  With  the  availability  of  networking  systems  and  technological

developments  the  reach  of  the  exchanges  has  expanded  to  a  wider

geographical area. The book entry system of transfer of securities has been

achieved by dematerialisation of the securities in the Depository System. The

time  taken  to  settle  transactions  have  been  drastically  reduced  with  the

introduction of the T+3 rolling settlement. Efforts are on to further reduce the

settlement cycle.

2.  In view of the changed market structure, a need was felt for a review of the

regulations that were framed in 1992. A separate internal group is already in

the process of reviewing the regulations for sub-brokers. The concept paper

on  regulation  for  sub  broker  is  being  separately  prepared  to  address  the

issues  such  as  concept  of  primary  registration,  capital  adequacy,  eligibility

norms,  reporting,  monitoring, 

inspection,  etc.  Some  of 

the  major

recommendations of the Group are as under:-

?  The sub-broker would be registered with the stock exchanges and the

registration of the sub-brokers with SEBI would be a secondary level.

This is similar to the process of registration for stockbrokers.

?  The sub-brokers would be regulated by the stock exchanges. And the

stock exchange would amend / frame rules, bye-laws and regulations

accordingly.

3.  The code of conduct as given herewith has been framed keeping in mind the

proposed change in the regulations as per discussions of the internal group.

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUB-BROKERS

(Regulation 15)

A. GENERAL

(1)  Integrity  :  A  sub-broker,  shall  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity,

promptitude and fairness in the conduct of securities business.

(2) Exercise Of Due Skill And Care : A sub-broker, shall act with due skill, care

and diligence in the conduct of securities business.

B. DUTY TO THE INVESTOR

(1) Execution Of Orders : A sub-broker, in his dealings with the clients and the

general  investing  public,  shall  faithfully  and  promptly  place  the  orders  for

buying and selling of securities. A sub-broker shall promptly inform his client

about  the  execution  or  non-execution  of  an  order  and  promptly  make

payment  in  respect  of  securities  sold  and  arrange  for  prompt  delivery  of

securities purchased by clients.

(2) Issue of confirmation memo:

(a)  A  sub  broker  shall  issue  to  its  clients  confirmation  memo  in  the  format

prescribed  by  the  stock  exchange  prominently  mentioning,  inter  alia,  Name  of

the exchange where the transaction was executed, SEBI Registration number of

the sub broker, Name of the affiliated broker and its SEBI Registration no., the

reference of the contract note issued by the affiliated broker to the sub broker,

order no, trade no., order time, trade time, brokerage separate from the price.

(b) A sub-broker shall issue confirmation memo in the format prescribed in (a)

above on the same day of execution of trade.

(c) A sub-broker shall not match the purchase and sale orders of his clients and

each  order  must  invariably  be  routed  through  a  member-broker  of  the  stock

exchange with whom he is affiliated.

(d) A Sub broker shall promptly redress the grievances of its investors as soon as

brought to its knowledge.

(2) BREACH  OF  TRUST  :  A  sub-broker  shall  not  disclose  or  discuss  or  make

improper use of the details of dealings in securities and other information of a

confidential  nature  of  the  client  which  it  comes  to  know  in  its  business

relationship.

(4) BUSINESS AND BROKERAGE:

(a) A sub-broker shall not encourage sales or purchases of securities with the sole

object of generating brokerage.

(b)A sub-broker shall not furnish false or misleading quotations or give any other

false or misleading advice or information to the clients with a view of inducing

him  to  do  business  in  particular  securities  and  enabling  himself  to  earn

brokerage thereby.

(c)  A  sub-broker  shall  not  charge  from  his  clients  a  brokerage  (including  the

brokerage charged by the broker) exceeding two and half percentage of the trade

executed price.

(5)  BUSINESS  OF  DEFAULTING  CLIENTS  :  A  sub-broker  shall  not  deal  or

transact business knowingly, directly or indirectly or execute an order for a client

who has failed to carry out his commitments in relation to securities and is in

default with another broker or sub-broker.

(6)  FAIRNESS  TO  CLIENTS  :  A  sub-broker,  when  dealing  with  a  client,  shall

disclose that he is acting as an agent and shall issue appropriate purchase/sale

note ensuring at the same time, that no conflict of interest arises between him

and  the  client.  In  the  event  of  a  conflict  of  interest,  he  shall  inform  the  client

accordingly  and  shall  not  seek  to  gain  a  direct  or  indirect  personal  advantage

from the situation and shall not consider clients' interest inferior to his own.

(7) INVESTMENT ADVICE : A sub-broker shall not make a recommendation to

any client who might be expected to rely thereon to acquire, dispose of, retain

any  securities  unless  he  has  reasonable  grounds  for  believing  that  the

recommendation  is  suitable  for  such  a  client  upon  the  basis  of  the  facts,  if

disclosed by such a client as to his own security holdings, financial situation and

objectives of such investment. The sub-broker should seek such information from

clients, wherever they feel it is appropriate to do so.

7A – Investment Advice in publicly accessible media –

(a) A sub-broker or any of his employees shall not render, directly and indirectly

any  investment  advice  about  any  security  in  the  publicly  accessible  media,

whether real – time or non real-time, unless a disclosure of his interest including

his long or short position in the said security has been made, while rendering

such advice.

(b) In case, an employee of the sub-broker is rendering such advice, he shall also

disclose  the  interest  of  his  dependent  family  members  and  the  employer

including their long or short position in the said security, while rendering such

advice.]

(8)  COMPETENCE  OF  SUB-BROKER  :  A  sub-broker  should  have  adequately

trained staff and arrangements to render fair, prompt and competent services to

his clients and continuous compliance with the regulatory system.

C. SUB-BROKERS VIS-A-VIS STOCK BROKERS

(1) CONDUCT OF DEALINGS : A sub-broker shall co-operate with his broker. A

sub-broker shall not knowingly and wilfully deliver documents which constitute

bad  delivery.  A  sub-broker  shall  promptly  replace  /  and  rectify  documents

which are declared as bad delivery as per the prevailing norms and

Make  available  documents  as  called  for  by  broker  for  enquiries  relating  to

fulfillment of all contracts and also present the same for inspection as and when

called for by broker.

(2) PROTECTION OF CLIENTS’  INTERESTS: A sub-broker shall extend fullest

co-operation  to  his  stock-broker  in  protecting  the  interests  of  their  clients

regarding  their  rights  to  dividends,  right  or  bonus  shares  or  any  other  rights

relatable to such securities.

(3) TRANSACTIONS WITH BROKERS : A sub-broker shall not fail to carry out

his  stock  broking  transactions  with  his  broker  nor  shall  he  fail  to  meet  his

business  liabilities  or  show  negligence  in  completing  the  settlement  of

transactions with them.

(4) ADVERTISEMENT AND PUBLICITY : A sub-broker shall not advertise his

business publicly unless permitted by the stock exchange.

(5) INDUCEMENT OF CLIENTS : A sub-broker shall not resort to unfair means

of inducing clients from other brokers / Sub brokers.

D. SUB-BROKERS VIS-A-VIS REGULATORY AUTHORITIES

(1)  GENERAL  CONDUCT  :  A  sub-broker  shall  not  indulge  in  dishonourable,

disgraceful or disorderly or improper conduct on the stock exchange nor shall it

wilfully  obstruct  the  business  of  the  stock  exchange.  It  shall  comply  with  the

rules, bye-laws and regulations of the stock exchange and circulars, notices, and

other instructions issued by the Board and the relevant Stock Exchange(s).

(2) FAILURE TO GIVE INFORMATION : A sub-broker shall not neglect or fail or

refuse to submit to the Board or the stock exchange with which he is registered,

such books, special returns, correspondence, documents, and papers or any part

thereof as may be required.

(3) FALSE OR MISLEADING RETURNS : A sub-broker shall not neglect or fail

or refuse to submit the required returns and not make any false or misleading

statement  on  any  returns  required  to  be  submitted  to  the  Board  or  the  stock

exchanges.

(4)  MANIPULATION  :  A  sub-broker  shall  not  indulge  in  manipulative,

fraudulent or deceptive transactions.  It shall also not  indulge / float schemes or

spread news with a view to distorting market equilibrium or making personal

gains.

(5) MALPRACTICES : A sub-broker shall not create false market either singly or

in concert with others or indulge in any act detrimental to the public interest or

which  leads  to  interference  with  the  fair  and  smooth  functions  of  the  market

mechanism  of  the  stock  exchanges.  A  sub-broker  shall  not  involve  himself  in

excessive  speculative  business  in  the  market  beyond  reasonable  levels  not

commensurate with his financial soundness.

