 

Discussion paper on  

Short Selling and Securities Lending and Borrowing 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Executive Summary  

I.  Short selling  – the sale of a security that the seller does not own  – is one of the long-standing 
market practices, which has often been the subject of considerable debate and divergent views 
in most of the securities market across the world. The votaries of short selling consider it as a 
desirable and an essential feature of a securities market. The critics of short selling on the other 
hand are convinced that short selling, directly or indirectly, poses potential risks and can easily 
destabilise the market. In an efficient futures market, the relationship between spot price and 
futures price of the underlying asset is governed by cash-and-carry arbitrage and reverse cash-
and-carry arbitrage. The latter requires that traders should be able to sell the underlying security 
short unless of course there are enough number of traders who own the security and are able to 
sell it cash to take advantage of too low a futures price (Paragraphs 1.1 and 1.2). 

 
II.  It  is  noteworthy  though,  that  despite  the  conflicting  schools  of  thought,  securities  market 
regulators  in  most  countries  and  in  particular,  in  all  developed  securities  markets,  recognise 
short selling as a legitimate investment activity. Such jurisdictions also have an active market 
for equity derivatives which includes stock futures. Some of the jurisdictions even recognise the 
usefulness of naked short sales in certain circumstances and instead of prohibiting short  sales; 
the regulators have permitted it to take place within a regulated framework.. The International 
Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) has also reviewed short selling and securities 
lending  practices  across  markets  and  has  recommended  transparency  of  short  selling, rather 
than prohibit it (Paragraph 1.3). 
 

III. A vibrant securities market should necessarily provide for lending and borrowing of securities. 
Securities markets all over the world, mostly, have an active market for securities lending and 
borrowing  scheme,  which  besides  complimenting  short  selling  in  securities  also  enable  the 
investors to earn returns on their idle securities (Paragraph 1.4). Vibrant securities lending and 
borrowing  scheme  is,  therefore,  considered  necessary  to  provide  sufficient  impetus  for short 
selling (Paragraph 5.7). 
 

IV. Presently,  there  is  no  prohibition  on  short  selling  by  retail  investors.  The  “Institutional 
investors” viz. the mutual funds and the Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) registered with 
SEBI, banks and insurance companies are expressly prohibited under the respective regulations 
from short selling and are mandatorily required to settle on the basis of deliveries of securities 
owned  and  held  by  them.  As  they  are  to  settle  by  deliveries,  no  margin  was  levied  on  the 
transactions of institutional investors (Paragraph 3.1). 
 

V.  While  international  securities  market  regulators  have  recognised  that  short  selling  can 
exacerbate market falls and lead to manipulative activities, most of the jurisdictions have also 
recognised short selling as a legitimate investment activity that has contributed significantly to 
market  liquidity.  International  securities  market  regulators  have,  therefore,  permitted  short 
selling with adequate safeguards to prevent any abusive/manipulative market practices. Similar 
issues may arise in the Indian context also. Genuine short selling could exacerbate price decline 
but that by itself may not be construed as a manipulative activity unless there are evidences of 
market misconduct. However, abusive short selling practices to manipulate the price of a stock 
will  continue  to  be  treated  as  market  misconduct  and  attract  appropriate  regulatory  action. 
(Paragraph 5.1). 
 

 

 

VI.  The FSA is of the view that short selling is not in itself manipulative. Rather, [FSA] sees it as a 
valid  investment  practice  that,  in  essence,  represents  the  opposite  of  taking  a  long  position. 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
 i  

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

However,  short  selling,  like  any  other  form  of  trading,  may  be  manipulative when misused 
(Paragraph 4.1.12). 
 

VII.  In  the  Indian  securities  market,  “short  selling”  may  be  defined  as  selling  a  stock  which  the 

seller does not own at the time of trade (Paragraph 5.2). 
 

VIII. Because  of  the  regulatory  restrictions  in  the  Indian  markets  which  have  enabled  only  retail 
investors to short sell, there is no level playing field between various classes of investors. There 
was  a  need  to  bridge  this  gap  and  provide  equal  leveraging  opportunities  for  all  classes  of 
investors. The present regulatory restrictions which allow only the retail investors to short sell 
should be removed to enable a level playing field for all classes of investors. In other words, the 
institutional investors who are currently prohibited should be permitted to short sell (Paragraph 
5.3). 
 

IX. In the Indian context, naked short sales would not be permitted. All investors would be required 
to mandatorily honour their obligation of delivering the securities at the time of settlement. No 
institutional investor shall be allowed to do day- trading i.e., square off their transactions intra-
day.  In  other  words,  all  transactions  would  be  grossed  for  institutional  investors  at  the 
custodians’ level, and the institutions would be required to fulfil their obligations on a gross 
basis. The custodians, however, would continue to settle their deliveries on a net basis with the 
stock exchanges (Paragraphs 5.4 and 5.5). 
 

X.  The  stock  exchanges  should  frame  a  uniform  penalty  structure  and  take  appropriate  action 
against the brokers for failure to deliver securities at the time of settlement which would act as 
a sufficient deterrent against naked short selling.  (Paragraph 5.6). 
 

XI.  As regards the stocks in which short selling may be permitted, to begin with, short selling may 
be  permitted  only  in  those  stocks  in  which  derivative  products  are  available  (Paragraph 
5.8).The lending and borrowing may also be, initially, restricted only in those stocks in which 
derivative products are available (Paragraph 8.4). 
 

XII.  The institutional investors would be obligated to disclose upfront at the time of placement of 
order  whether  the  transaction  is  a  short  sale  and  demonstrate  their  ability  to  borrow  to  the 
satisfaction of the broker. However, the retail investors would be permitted to make a similar 
disclosure before the end of the trading hours on the transaction day. (Paragraph 5.9) 
 

XIII. All  stock  brokers  should  be  mandated  to  maintain  sufficient  documentation  regarding  the 
ability  of  their  clients  to  borrow  and  deliver  the  securities  at  the  time  of  settlement  so  as  to 
ensure sound audit trail. Such information and documents should be readily available during 
inspections  by  the  stock  exchanges  and  SEBI.  In  respect  of  institutional  transactions,  the 
brokers must satisfy themselves that the institutional clients have made sufficient arrangement 
for borrowing securities before executing the order for short sale.(Paragraph 5.10)  
 

XIV. The data on scrip-wise short position is of significance, and, therefore, needed to be disclosed 
in the public domain. The brokers shall be mandated  to collect the details on scrip-wise short 
sell positions, collate the data and upload it to the stock exchanges before the commencement 
of  trading  on  the  following  trading  day.  The  stock  exchanges  will  then  consolidate  such 
information  and  disseminate  the  same  on  their  websites  for  the  information  of  the  public  to 
begin  with,  only  after  the  close  of  market  hours  of  the  next  trading  day.  Ideally,  such 
information  should  be  disclosed  before  the  commencement  of  the  market  hours  on  the  next 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
 ii  

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

trading day.  However,  this  will  not  be  immediately  possible  as  the  brokers  will  be  able  to 
provide this information to the exchanges only by the beginning of the next day. In the course 
of  time,  however,  after  gaining  sufficient  experience  and  once  the  system  stabilises,  this 
requirement may be reviewed to enable disclosure of such information by the exchanges before 
the commencement of the market hours on the next trading day (Paragraph 5.11). 
 

XV.  The  transactions  executed  by  all  institutional  investors  may  be  margined  similar  to  the 
transactions  executed  by  the  retail  investors.  The  institutional  investors  should  also  have  the 
same flexibilities as regards the manner and type of collateral, similar to retail investors, subject 
to other applicable regulations (Paragraph 5.12). 
 

XVI.  A  vibrant  securities  lending  and  borrowing  scheme  is,  therefore,  considered  necessary  to 
provide  sufficient  impetus  for  covered  short  selling.  (Paragraph  5.7)  In  this  context,  the 
securities lending scheme of 1997 (SLS, 1997) was inoperative and was not active in the Indian 
securities market.  
 

XVII.  Pursuant  to  the  recommendations  of  the  erstwhile  SMAC  in  2003,  SEBI  had  specified  the 
operational modalities for Clearing Corporation/House of the stock exchanges to borrow and 
lend  securities  for  the  limited  purpose  of  handling  settlement  shortages.  However,  the  stock 
exchanges are in the process of putting in place, the  necessary systems for dispensing off the 
auction mechanism and are, therefore, yet to operationalise the process of securities lending and 
borrowing for handling settlement shortages (Paragraphs 6.4 and 6.5) 
 

XVIII.  While the present scheme of lending and borrowing securities in the Indian securities market by 
the  clearing  corporation/house  (CC/CH)  of  the  stock  exchanges  for  handling  settlement 
shortages addresses the need for lending and borrowing in a limited way, there is no scope for 
investors to capitalize on the demand for their securities in the market and thus, earn a return on 
the same by lending such securities. The scope of the existing securities lending and borrowing 
scheme  must  be  widened  into  a  full-fledged  lending  and  borrowing  scheme  enabling 
participation of all classes of investors, including retail investors. (Paragraph 6.7).  
 

XIX.  While  introduction  of  such  a  scheme  was  necessary  in  the  present  context  of  the  market,  a 

phased and cautious approach would be appropriate in the initial stages. (Paragraph 6.7).  
 

XX.  World over, securities lending and borrowing transactions were, by and large, over-the-counter 
(OTC) contractual obligations executed between lenders and borrowers. It was also observed 
that  international  securities  market  regulators  do  not  directly  regulate  the  lending  and 
borrowing  transactions.  In  various  international  markets,  entities  like  the  custodians  and 
depositories run the lending and borrowing scheme and have their own screens for meeting the 
demand and supply of securities from their clients (Paragraphs 7.1). 
 

XXI.  The  introduction  of  a  full-fledged  securities  lending  and  borrowing  scheme  should  be 
simultaneous  with  the  introduction  of  short  selling  by  the  institutional  investors. (Paragraph 
5.7). 
 

XXII.  The  CC/CH  of  the  exchanges  should  act  as  Approved  Intermediaries  (AIs)  for  the  limited 
purpose  of  lending/borrowing  securities  for  meeting  settlement  shortages  and  the  stock 
exchanges should go ahead with the operationalisation of the close-out procedure for handling 
settlement  shortages  and  dispense  of  the  auction  mechanism.  Apart  from  the  lending  and 
borrowing of securities by CC/CH for settlement shortages, a full fledged securities lending and 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
 iii  

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

borrowing  scheme  should  be  introduced  by  SEBI/Stock  exchanges  through  the  AIs  route. 
(Paragraphs 8.2 and 8.3).  
 

XXIII.  A  cautious  approach  should  be  adopted,  while  permitting  entities  to  act  as  AIs  for  securities 
lending  and  borrowing  scheme.  In  the  first  stage,  only  custodians,  Banks  and  FIs  may  be 
registered as AIs for the purpose of lending and borrowing of securities. The securities lending 
and borrowing should be, initially, restricted only in those stocks in which derivative products 
are available. (Paragraph 8.4). 

 
XXIV.  The  lending  and  borrowing  transactions  may  be  executed  on  an  automated,  screen-based 
platform which offers the demand and supply of securities for lending/borrowing on a real-time 
basis  along  with  the  facility  of  matching  the  demand  with  the  supply.  Any  trading 
member/investor  who  wishes  to  borrow  securities  may  borrow  the  same  through the screen 
provided by the exchanges. The stock exchanges should undertake the risk management of such 
lending/borrowing transactions and the CC/CH should guarantee the return of the securities by 
the  borrower  to  the  lender  by  being  the  central  counter  party  and  should,  thus,  provide 
guarantee for counter-party risk. The stock exchanges would jointly work out and put in place 
uniform modalities for securities lending and borrowing which will also include the manner in 
which the securities borrowed will be returned to the lender and as the manner in which the 
exchanges will provide the guarantee. (Paragraphs 8.5 and 8.6). 
 

XXV.  With  a  view  to  align  the  agreements  between  the  various  parties  to  a  lending/borrowing 
transaction,  such  transactions  could  be  formalized  in  terms  of  robust  lending  and  borrowing 
agreements  on  the  lines  of  the  model  agreements  provided  by  the  Pan-Asian  Securities 
Lender’s Association (PASLA) which obligate the borrowers to return the securities to the AI 
and  agreements  between  the  AI  and  the  lender  which  enable  the  AI  to  allot  the  lender’ 
securities to the borrowers at a screen determined price (Paragraph 8.7). 
 
 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
 iv  

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

1.1 

 
1.2 

 
1.3 

 
1.4 

 
1.5 

Section I 

Background 

 

 
 

Short selling  – the sale of a security that the seller does not own  – is one of the long-
standing market practices, which has often been the subject of considerable debate and 
divergent views in most of the securities market across the world. The votaries of short 
selling consider it as a desirable and an essential feature of a securities market, not 
only to provide liquidity, but also to help price corrections in over valued stocks.  In 
their  view,  the  restrictions  on  short  selling  distort  efficient  price  discovery,  gives 
promoters the unfettered freedom to manipulate prices, and favours manipulators than 
rational  investors.  They  argue  that  in  a  declining  market,  short  covering  of  positions 
opened at the beginning of the downturn, arrests the declining trend. They also bring a 
body of academic literature in strong support of their case for short sales. Further, in an 
efficient  futures  market,  the  relationship  between  spot  price  and  futures  price  of  the 
underlying  asset  is  governed  by  cash-and-carry  arbitrage  and  reverse  cash-and-carry 
arbitrage. The latter requires that traders should be able to sell the underlying security 
short unless of course there are enough number of traders who own the security and are 
able to sell it cash to take advantage of too low a futures price. 

The critics of short selling on the other hand are convinced that short selling, directly 
or indirectly, poses potential risks and can easily destabilise the market. They believe 
that short selling can quite facilely exacerbate declining trend in share prices, increase 
share  price  volatility,  and  force  the  price  of  individual  stocks  down  to  levels  which 
might not otherwise be reached. They also argue that declining trend in the share prices 
of  a  company,  can  even  impact  its  fund  raising  capability  and  undermine  the 
commercial confidence of the company. In a bear market in particular, short selling can 
contribute to  disorderly trading, give rise to heightened short-term price volatility and 
could be used in manipulative trading strategies.  

It  is  noteworthy  though,  that  despite  the  conflicting  schools  of  thought,  securities 
market  regulators  in  most  countries  and  in  particular,  in  all  developed  securities 
markets, recognise short selling as a legitimate investment activity. Such jurisdictions 
also have an active market for equity derivatives which includes stock futures. Some of 
the  jurisdictions  even  recognise  the  usefulness  of  naked  short  sales  in  certain 
circumstances and instead of prohibiting short sales; the regulators have permitted it 
to  take  place  within  a  regulated  framework.  The  International  Organisation  of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO) has also reviewed short selling and securities lending 
practices across markets and has recommended transparency of short selling, rather 
than prohibit it. 

Another feature common to most major securities markets is lending and borrowing of 
securities. A vibrant market for securities lending and borrowing not only compliments 
short selling in securities, but also enables the investors to earn returns on their idle 
securities.  

SEBI  reviews  its  regulatory  policies  periodically.  The  policy  on  short  sales  and 
securities  lending  and  borrowing  were  last  reviewed  by  the  Secondary  Market 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
1 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

 
1.6 

 
1.7 

 
1.8 

2.1 

 

3.1 

Advisory  Committee  (SMAC)  in  2003.  In  view  of  the  further  developments  taking 
place in the market structure since then, in terms of institutionalisation of the market, 
participation of the retail investors, enhanced participation by the foreign institutional 
investors,  expansion  of  the  derivatives  market,  another  review  was  considered 
necessary. Accordingly when the SMAC was reconstituted under the Chairmanship of 
Professor P.G. Apte, Director of the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, SEBI 
had sought the views of the SMAC, on the twin subjects of short selling and securities 
lending and borrowing.  

This Discussion Paper is based on the deliberations of the Secondary Market Advisory 
Committee.  It  reviews  the  present  policy  on  short  selling  and  securities  lending  and 
borrowing  in  India,  examines  the  international  practices  and  how  securities  market 
regulators  in  other  countries  have  viewed  these  and  assesses  the  relevant  issues  of 
regulatory concern in the context of market confidence and investor protection. 

SEBI has been following a policy of extensive public consultation and debate before 
formulating and implementing any new regulation. In accordance with this policy, this 
Discussion  Paper  of  the  SMAC  is  being  made  available  on  SEBI’s  web  site  at 
www.sebi.gov.in for public comments.  

All comments on this Discussion Paper should reach SEBI at the following address by  
or  may  be sent by e mail to  shortsales-slb@sebi.gov.in by  Friday,  the  20th January 
2006. 

Mr. V.S. Sundaresan, General Manager, 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 
29th Floor, World Trade Centre, Centre 1 
Cuffe Parade, Mumbai 400005 
 
 

Section II 

Structure of the Paper 

 

 

In Section III, we examine the evolution of present policy and practice of short selling 
in India. In Section IV, we consider the international practices and regulatory position 
on short selling. In Section V, we deliberate on the issues related to short sales and give 
recommendations. In  Section  VI,  we  discuss  the  present  regulation  and  practice  of 
securities lending and borrowing in India and  the need for review. In Section VII, we 
discuss the polic ies followed by international securities market regulators on securities 
lending and borrowing. In Section VIII, we examine the various options for introducing 
securities lending and borrowing and recommend the revised regulatory framework. 

Section III 

Present Practice and Regulatory Policy on Short Sales in the Indian 

Securities Market 

At  present,  there  is  no  prohibition  on  short  selling  by  retail  investors.  The 
“Institutional investors” viz. the Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) and the  mutual 
funds registered with SEBI, banks and insurance companies are expressly prohibited 
under  the  respective  regulations  or  statutes  from  short  selling  and  are  mandatorily 
required to settle on the basis of deliveries of securities owned and held by them. As 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
2 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

  
3.2 

 
3.3 

 
3.4 

they are required to settle by deliveries, no margin was levied on the transactions of the 
institutional investors. 

For  example,  regulation  15(3)(a)  of  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Institutional  Investors) 
Regulations,  1995  provides  that  “The  Foreign  Institutional  Investor  shall  transact 
business only on the basis of taking and giving deliveries of securities bought and sold 
and shall not engage in short selling of securities”.  Similarly  for the Mutual Funds, 
regulation 45 of the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, provides that “The funds 
of a scheme shall not in any manner be used in option trading or in short selling or 
carry  forward  transactions:  provided  that  mutual  funds  shall  enter  into  derivatives 
transactions in a recognised stock exchange  for the purpose of hedging and portfolio 
balancing  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  issued  by  the  Board”.   As  far  as  the 
Insurance  Companies 
circular  No. 
IRDA/CIR/INV/062/Jan/05 dated January 17, 2005 has provided that the stock market 
transactions of all the insurers have to result in delivery. The NRIs intending to trade on 
the  stock  exchanges  in  India,  are  required to  comply with  the  requirement  of  the 
Portfolio  Investment  Scheme  (PIS)  which  requires  in  terms  of  Schedule  3  to 
Notification No FEMA 20/2000-RB dated 3rd May 2000, that the NRI investors to take 
delivery of the shares purchased and give delivery of the shares sold by them.  These 
restrictions  have  been  historically  in  place,  because  it  was  considered  prudent  and 
desirable  that  in  the  initial  stages  of  market  development  when  the  stock  exchanges 
followed  account  period  settlement  of  ranging  from  14  to  7  days  and  had  different 
settlement cycles, the long term investors, rather than speculators and delivery based 
trades needed to be encouraged;  

concerned, 

the 

are 

IRDA 

vide 

At present there is also no distinction  between  naked  and  covered  short  sales  in any 
regulation  or  any  statute  governing  the  securities  market.  In  the  absence  of  any 
officially  approved  securities  lending  and  borrowing  mechanism  being  in  place  at 
present, it cannot be said with certainty the extent to which individual investors short 
sell,  in  a  settlement.  Naked  short  sales  would  show  up  as  settlement  shortages.  But 
there  may  be  other  valid  reasons  for  settlement  shortages  as  well.    But  settlement 
shortages at the stock exchanges under the conditions of rolling settlement have  itself 
been  very  low  (in  the  region  of  0.4%  of  the  settlement  turnover)  and  shortages  are 
completed by the exchanges through auctions without any difficulty. In the absence of 
any  analysis  on  settlement  shortages  therefore,  it  would  be  difficult  to  reach  any 
definite conclusion on the extent of naked short sales in the market at present. While 
the auction itself is a penalty for failure to deliver securities, the stock exchanges also 
have a system of levying additional penalties to act as deterrent for those brokers who 
frequently fail to deliver. As a result, there are no unsettled outstanding positions and 
naked short sales even if it takes place have not posed any threat to market stability. 

The  issue  of  short  sales  was  first  deliberated  by  SEBI  in  1996  when  SEBI  had 
constituted  a  Committee  under  the  chairmanship  of  Shri  B  D  Shah,  Chairman  GIC. 
Any  discussion  on  short  sales  should  begin  with  the  definition  of  short  sale.  
Accordingly, the B D Shah Committee, had defined short sale as “selling of the shares 
without having the physical possession of the shares unless it is either for squaring-up 
of an earlier purchase in the same settlement of the same stock exchange or against the 
pending deliveries from the same stock exchange pertaining to previous settlements”.  

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
3 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

 
3.5 

 
3.6 

 
3.7 

 

 
3.8 

 
3.9 

Pursuant to the recommendations of the  B D Shah Committee, in order to address the 
issue  of  the  lack  of  transparency  then  existing  in  the  stock  exchanges,  all  member 
brokers  of  stock  exchanges  were  required  to  submit  their  scrip-wise  net  short  sale 
position to the exchange at the end of each trading day in respect of 60 actively traded 
scrips with effect from November 29, 1996. Subsequently, the disclosure was extended 
to include the net long positions also. 

Thereafter, as a response to the market volatility in 1998, SEBI had temporarily banned 
short sales from June 17, 1998 and required that the net outstanding sale position at the 
end  of  any  trading  day  in  each  security  must  result  in  delivery.  This  restriction  was 
withdrawn subsequently. 

Ban on short sales was reintroduced in March 2001, following extreme conditions of 
market volatility. SEBI advised the stock exchanges that all sales transactions effective 
from  March  8,  2001  shall  be  backed  by  delivery  unless  a  sale  transactions  was 
preceded  by  a  purchase  position  of  at  least  an  equivalent  amount  in  the  name  of  the 
same client in the same or any other exchange. This was applicable to the proprietary 
trading  by  members  as  well  as  all  for  scrips  in  which  other  deferral products were 
available.  With  the  introduction  of  the  rolling  settlement  in  414  scrips  from  July  2, 
2001, and discontinuation of all deferral products, SEBI withdrew the restrictions on 
short sales with effect from July 2, 2001. 

That  the  issue  of  short  sales  and  the  need  for  clear  policy  in  this  regard  was  also 
highlighted in  Para  no.  9.158  of  the  report  of  the Joint Parliamentary Committee on 
Stock  Market  Scam  and  matters  relating  thereto  (JPC).  In  its  report  submitted  in 
December  2002,  the  JPC  had  observed  “……that  SEBI  must  look  into  these  issues 
seriously and expeditiously formulate a clear policy taking all aspects into account.” 
that SEBI should expeditiously formulate a clear policy in this regard.  

In the light of the above, the issue of short  sale was again reviewed by the SMAC in 
2003. The SMAC had then noted that in the context of the changes in the market micro 
structure  that  was  brought  about  through  the  introduction  of  rolling  settlement, 
shortening  of  settlement  cycle  to  T+2  and  the  availability  of  derivatives  products  as 
well  as  the  absence  of  deferral  products,  the  recommendation  of  the  B.D.  Shah 
Committee, including the definition of short selling as above, may no longer be valid. It 
was also of the view that it would not be meaningful  any longer to track short sales at 
the time of sale, as the gap between the trade and settlement has narrowed substantially. 
Besides, it was equally not feasible to ascertain at the time of sale if one is selling short, 
as millions of transactions are effected everyday. 

The SMAC had  then also noted that in the US, the  then existing  regulations allowed 
relatively  unrestricted  short  selling  in  an  advancing  market  while  preventing  short 
sellers  from  accelerating  a  declining  market.  The  regulation  used  tick-test, a formula 
for defining price for permissible as well as non-permissible short-selling. The defined 
price automatically takes into account the prevailing market condition. It permits short 
selling  at    (i)  a  price  above  the  price  at  which  the  immediately preceding sale was 
effected (plus tick), or (ii) the last sale price if it is higher than the last different price 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
4 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

(zero  plus  tick).  Every  short-sale transaction  needed  to  be  disclosed  upfront  to  the 
dealing broker who is held responsible for ensuring that the transaction does not violate 
the tick test.  All this meant that short-selling cannot take place surreptitiously in US. 
Further,  regulation  did  not  require  the  regulators  to  prove  short-seller’s  intent  or 
motive. But the SMAC  had also noted that tick test could only work in a quote driven 
system  as  in  the  US  which  relies  on  the  market  maker,  and  not  on  an  order  driven 
market as in India.  

 
3.10  The SMAC was, therefore, then of the view that a more prudent approach in the Indian 
context  would  be  to  define  short sales as  “failure to deliver securities at the time of 
settlement” and monitor short sales at the time of delivery.  Accordingly, the erstwhile 
SMAC recommended in 2003, that short sales be defined as failure to deliver securities 
at the time of settlement and that it should be monitored at the time of delivery in the 
settlement.  It  also  recommended  that  short  sales  should  be  regulated  by  putting  in 
place a sound and efficient securities lending and borrowing mechanism which would 
entail  borrowing  of  securities  by  the  clearing  corporation  /  house  for  meeting 
settlement shortfalls.  

Section IV  

International practices in Short Selling 

 

 

 

4.1 

Policy on short sales adopted by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) of UK  
(Source : FSA website www.fsa.org ) 

 
4.1.1  The issue of short sales has been extensively debated in the UK. In October 2002, the 
FSA  had  brought  out  a  Discussion  Paper  No.  17  on  the  subject  of  “Short  Selling”, 
which articulated the views of FSA on the subject. 

 
4.1.2  On  “the  utility  of  short  selling”  the  FSA  is  in  favour  of  allowing  short  selling  as 
traditionally  it  has  benefited  the  market  by  “accelerating  price  corrections  in 
overvalued securities or accommodate[ing] abnormal buying pressure which would 
otherwise over inflate a security’s price”.  FSA  considers  this  function  may  be  even 
more important in a market increasingly dominated by large, longer-term investors and 
index funds.  

 
4.1.3  Similarly, FSA also considers that “short selling also benefits the market as a support 
for trading that corrects pricing anomalies. Without the opportunity for arbitrageurs to 
lock in a profit by going short of the ‘overvalued’ instrument at the same time as going 
long of the ‘undervalued’ instrument, the efficiency of the price correcting process is 
correspondingly greatly reduced”.  

 
4.1.4  FSA  has  also  cited  “a  third,  more  practical,  benefit  of  short  selling  has  been  that 
market making and intermediary liquidity provision has traditionally played a central 
part  in  the  UK  market  structure.  Any  attempt  to  restrict  the  freedom  of  liquidity 
providers to go short would, in effect, have made that role impossible. Applied in full, it 
would,  for  example,  have  prevented  market  makers  satisfying  customer  buy  orders 
except out of inventory”.  

 
4.1.5  According  to  FSA,  “any effective restriction on cash market hedging through short 
sales  would  potentially  increase  the  costs  of  risk  management  and  would  seriously 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
5 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

constrain  the  use  of  derivatives.  The  efficient  working  of  the  market  in  ‘downside 
protection’, whether through the use of put options, or equivalent instruments, depends 
on the ability of the sellers of the protection to hedge their exposures by opening a 
matching short position elsewhere, often in the underlying cash securities”.  

In conclusion FSA is of the view that “in facilitating all the above trading strategies, 
short selling adds to pricing efficiency by bringing additional trading opportunities and 
liquidity  to  the  market  in  general”.  Hence FSA sees “no case for prohibiting short 
selling – indeed no major financial market does so – nor for introducing constraints for 
the purpose of deterring use of the practice”. 

 
4.1.7  FSA also recognises “that [short selling] may also bring some potential risks. This is 
why  a  number  of  countries  consider  it  necessary,  in  their specific environment and 
circumstances, to impose various controls on short selling”. In broad terms, FSA has 
assessed the “potential risks of short sales” as follows:- 

“First, there is a set of market risks that arise from the way in which short sales 
add  weight  to  the  supply  of  long  sale  orders  in  the  market.  This  does  not 
automatically  lead  to  disorderly  or  manipulative  trading,  but  may  increase  the 
potential for both. Short selling may also increase short-term volatility in share 
prices. A further  market risk may arise from any settlement disruption for ‘naked’ 
shorts and any consequent failure to deliver.  
  
Second, there are potential risks within the chain of the short selling process. These 
relate to the settlement process and efficient risk management in the operation of 
the securities lending market”. 

 

 
4.1.6 

 
4.1.8  The FSA also assessed that the causes of potential risk of disorderly trading. According 
to  FSA,  the  risk  of  disorderly  trading  “arises,  for  example,  essentially  from  the 
incremental weight of sell orders generated by short sales overwhelming current buy-
side interest and causing an accelerated fall in a share’s price and an increase in price 
volatility in the short term. The particular concern here is that this can happen very 
quickly, leaving little or no time for potential buyers to assess the new position and take 
action that might otherwise stabilise the price and dampen volatility”.  

 
4.1.9  FSA noted that a number of foreign jurisdictions addressed this specific issue through 
the use of ‘tick’ rules, whose basic purpose was to prevent a short sale being made at a 
price below the last traded price and aimed at reduction of the speed of a downtrend by 
preventing  short  sellers  using  sequential  trades  to  clear  current  buying  interest  at 
progressively  lower prices. The UK Exchanges did not adopt the tick rules even when 
it  was  a  quote  driven  market  operated  by  market  makers  or  nor  following  the 
introduction  and  expansion  of  order  book  trading.  Besides the  FSA had also “some 
concerns  about  ‘tick’  rules,  particularly  about  the  potential  complexity  of  creating 
exemptions to those rules, since short selling rules may require exemptions for certain 
market participants. Even more importantly, we have not seen a strong case showing 
that  tick  rules  curb  share  pric e volatility or soften market declines. For example, at 
least as far as this year is concerned, countries operating tick rules, such as the US, 
have not seen less steep market falls or significantly reduced volatility than the UK”.  

 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
6 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

4.1.10  On  the  issue  of  “market  manipulation”,  FSA  recognised  that  there  was  a  “strong 
perception in some quarters that short selling is an essentially manipulative activity, 
used largely to drive down prices”.  But  FSA  also  regarded  that  “significant part of 
short selling in today’s markets is driven by a variety of trading strategies that have 
nothing to do with what is commonly known as the ‘bear raid’”.  

 
4.1.11  FSA is of the view “that short selling is not in itself manipulative. Rather, [FSA] sees it 
as a valid investment practice that, in essence, represents the opposite of taking a long 
position. However, short selling, like any other form of trading, may be manipulative 
when  misused.  Where  it  occurs  in  relation  to  any  investment  traded  on  a  UK 
Recognised Investment Exchange or OFEX, abusive short selling, just like any other 
form of market abuse, is caught under the market abuse regime and the Code of Market 
Conduct”.  

 
4.1.12  FSA has outlined some of the conditions under which short selling undertaken, whether 
or not in collusion with other short sellers, for the purpose of positioning the price of a 
security at a distorted level would amount to market abuse. For example, if an investor, 
or  a  group  of  investors,  holds  a  short  position  in  a  particular  security  and  then 
circulates false or misleading information, e.g. possibly in the form of a rumour, about 
the issuer of that security to depress the price of the security in order to profit from the 
short position, he would likely be in breach of the market abuse regime. This regime 
carries unlimited fines in UK.  

 
4.1.13  FSA is of the view that the present regime provides sufficient tools for dealing with 
abusive short selling and, where FSA has hard evidence of market abuse, FSA will be 
prepared to investigate.  

 
4.1.14  On the concerns that ‘naked’ short sellers may cause disruption in settlements the FSA 
had noted that “a number of countries set certain requirements such as short sellers 
must  borrow  securities  ahead  of  the  sale  or  have  arrangements  in  place  that  will 
enable  them  to  make  delivery  of  the  securities”.  This  was  not  required  in  UK  as 
according  to  FSA,  the  Recognised  Investment  Exchanges  and  Recognised  Clearing 
Houses “have rules on settlement which ensure that it is orderly and timely and that 
rights  to  benefits  (for  example,  dividends)  are  protected  throughout  the  settlement 
process. These rules also impose penalties in some instances for frequent non-delivery, 
and provide for buying-in the securities in question when delivery is delayed. Overall 
settlement performance in the UK is good and where settlement failures do occur the 
Recognised 
Investment  Exchanges  and  Recognised  Clearing  Houses  have 
arrangements to deal with them”. 

 
4.1.15  FSA was not convinced that market confidence would benefit from direct controls on 
short selling, although they did recognised that short selling is a matter of concern to 
some issuers and market users. According to FSA, this concern appears to derive, at 
least in part, from the opacity that surrounds short sales. FSA believes that short sales 
may contain potentially important  information which, if public, would tend to enable 
other  market  users  to  make  better  informed  investment  decisions.  Hence  FSA 
supported disclosure was a key factor in facilitating efficient markets, otherwise “some 
market  participants  have  information  on  short  positions  and  stock  borrowing  figures, 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
7 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

while others do not, leaving those with the information in a privileged position”. FSA is 
of  the  view  “that  short  sales  do  contain  information  of  value  to  other  market  users. 
While we accept that the motivation behind short sales varies, many sales (other than 
pure arbitrage sales) do in some respects reflect a view that a security is intrinsically 
overvalued,  even  when  that  view  is  based  more  on  relative  than  absolute  over-
valuation. It also recognises that the fact that a short sale must, by definition, lead to a 
purchase of an equivalent number of the same securities makes it technically different 
from other transactions in a way that may be of material significance to other market 
users’ investment decisions”. 

 
4.1.16  While advocating greater disclosures  the  FSA felt  “that  to  be  useful,  the  benefits  of 
disclosure  must  outweigh  any  disadvantages.  On  this  point,  there  may  be  strong 
limitations on what is achieved by greater transparency on a cost benefit basis”.  

 
4.1.17  It is interesting to note that the feed back received by FSA on the Discussion Paper for 

most part confirmed the views of FSA.  

 
4.1.18  In  the  final  analysis,  FSA  therefore  recognises  that  short  selling  is  a  legitimate 
investment activity that plays an important role in supporting efficient markets and that 
significant changes to the existing regulatory regime were not warranted. FSA is also of 
the  view  that  there  is  no  case  for  prohibiting  or  introducing  artificial  constraints  on 
short  selling.  However,  it  recognised  that  increased  transparency  surrounding  short 
selling would be helpful, as long as the information provided would be useful and its 
benefits would outweigh any disadvantages, i.e. that it should be useful; should not be 
overly  burdensome 
to  produce;  and  should  not  unduly  breach  commercial 
confidentiality.  

 
4.1.19  FSA favored the publication by CREST Co of data on settlement failures in individual 
securities, which according to FSA would be helpful information to the market and will 
indicate  settlement  pressure  building  in  particular  securities.  FSA  also  considered 
measures  to  notify  market  participants  and  warn  investors  in  circumstances  where 
settlement problems are building in particular illiquid securities, as notifying the market 
may  alleviate  some  pressure  on  the  securities  in  question.  Warning  investors  will 
enable  them  to  make  informed  decisions  about  whether  or  not  to  buy  securities 
experiencing high levels of settlement failure. 

 

Box I : A comparative study of the global market practices in short selling 

 

(cid:216)  Securities  market  regulators  world-wide  have,  by  and  large,  while  recognizing  the 
potential risks of short selling have considered it as a legitimate investment activity and 
permitted  short  selling  transactions  in  their  respective  jurisdiction  subject  to  certain 
conditions;  However,  short  selling  transactions  that  are  executed  with  the  objective  of 
price manipulation or distortion is seen as an abusive market practice. 

  
(cid:216)  Most markets do not impose any restrictions on short selling and allow it for any security. 

There are others in which short selling is allowed in designated securities. 

 
(cid:216)  The UK FSA recognises that short selling in bear market conditions and during high levels 
of  market  volatility  but,  nevertheless,  considers  short  selling  as  a  legitimate  professional 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
8 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

 

investment  activity  which  plays  an  important  role  in  supporting  efficient  markets.  (refer 
paragraph 4.1) 

 
(cid:216)  The US SEC has recently done away with the age old down tick rule first adopted in 1938 
and introduced– Regulation SHO as a pilot project for the entire market for 1 year.  (refer 
paragraph 4.2) 

 
(cid:216)  The  SEC  is  of  the  view  that  although  the vast majority of short sales are legal, abusive 

short sale practices are illegal. 

 
(cid:216) 

It is not uncommon that trades remain unsettled on the stock exchanges in the  US. The 
SEC  recognises  a  tolerance  level  of  unsettled  trades  for  five  consecutive  settlements, 
before taking action under SHO. 

 
(cid:216)  Many  emerging  markets  like  Hong  Kong,  Korea,  Japan,  Singapore  e.t.c.  have  also 
permitted  short  selling  in  their  jurisdictions  on  certain  designated  securities  subject  to 
disclosure  of  such  transactions  and  tick  rules  which  prohibit  short  selling  transactions 
during a falling market. (refer paragraph 4.3) 

 
(cid:216)  Certain  jurisdictions  prohibit  short  selling  during  specific  corporate  activities  like 

acquisitions/takeovers, new issuances,  strategic policy announcements e.t.c. 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
9 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

Policy on short sales adopted by the Securities Exchange Commission of US  
(Source: SEC website www.sec.gov.) 

In the US, the SEC since January 2005,  has done away with the age old down tick rule 
first  adopted  by  the  SEC  in  1938,  and  has  put  in  place,  Regulation  SHO  which 
establishes  two  requirements  called  "locate"  and  "close-out"  to  address  problems 
associated with failures to  deliver, including potentially abusive "naked" short selling. 
The  “locate”  requires  a  broker-dealer  to  have  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that  the 
security can be borrowed so that it can be delivered on the date delivery is due before 
effecting  a  short  sale  order  in  any  equity  security.  (This  "locate"  must  be  made  and 
documented prior to effecting the short sale) while the "close-out" requirement imposes 
additional delivery requirements on broker-dealers for securities in which there are a 
relatively  substantial  number  of  extended  delivery  failures  at  a  registered  clearing 
agency ("threshold securities").  

 
4.2.2  Regulation SHO defines a short sale as the sale of a stock that the investor does not 
own (or that he will borrow for delivery). The SEC noted that short sellers believe the 
price of the stock will fall, or are seeking to hedge against potential price volatility in 
securities that they own. If the price of the stock drops, short sellers buy the stock at the 
lower price and make a profit. If the price of the stock rises, short sellers will incur a 
loss.  Short  selling  is  used  for  many  purposes,  including  to  profit  from  an  expected 
downward  price  movement,  to  provide  liquidity  in  response  to  unanticipated  buyer 
demand,  or  to  hedge  the  risk  of  a  long  position  in  the  same  security  or  a  related 
security.  

 
4.2.3 

 

 

4.2 

 

4.2.1 

It is not uncommon that trades remain unsettled on the stock exchanges in the US. The 
SEC recognises a tolerance level of unsettled trades for five consecutive settlements, 
before  taking  action  under  SHO.  The  new  requirements  have  been  introduced  in  the 
wake of controversies arising from trades remaining unsettled in the Depositories Trust 
& Clearing Corp. (DTCC) for several settlements as a result of naked short sales and 
failed settlements and circulation of counterfeit shares in a number of listed securities 
of small cap and in “pink sheet” companies. According to DTCC’s estimates on a daily 
basis nearly 24,000 transactions of value $ 6bn (as a % of total trades, it is 1.5% of 
dollar  volume)  fail  to  deliver  for  more  than  13  settlements.  Such  securities  are 
classified as threshold securities by SEC under the new SHO regulation (source: DTCC 
web site) 

 
4.2.4  The SEC is of the view that although the vast majority of short sales are legal, abusive 
short sale practices are illegal. For example, it is prohibited for any person to engage in 
a series of transactions in order to create actual or apparent active trading in a security 
or to depress the price of a security for the purpose of inducing the purchase or sale of 
the security by others.  Thus, short sales effected to manipulate the price of a stock are 
prohibited. 

 
4.2.5  Regulation  SHO  defines  "naked"  short  sale  as  a  sale  in  which  the  seller  does  not 
borrow or arrange to borrow the securities in time to make delivery to the buyer within 
the standard three-day settlement period. As a result, the seller fails to deliver securities 
to the buyer when delivery is due is known as a "failure to deliver" or "fail." It also 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
10 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

notes that failure to deliver may result from either a short or a long sale. There may be 
legitimate reasons for a failure to deliver. For example, human or mechanical errors or 
processing  delays  can  result  from  transferring  securities  in  physical  certificate  rather 
than book-entry form, thus causing a failure to deliver on a long sale within the normal 
three-day  settlement  period.  A  fail  may  also  result  from  naked  short  selling.  For 
example,  market  makers  who  sell  short  thinly  traded,  illiquid  stock  in  response  to 
customer  demand  may  encounter  difficulty  in  obtaining  securities  when  the  time  for 
delivery arrives. Hence, naked short selling is not necessarily a violation of the federal 
securities laws or the SEC’s rules. 

 
4.2.6  The  SEC  recognises  that  in  certain  circumstances,  naked  short  selling  contributes  to 
market  liquidity.  For  example,  broker-dealers  who  make  a  market  in  a  security 
generally stand ready to buy and sell the security on a regular and continuous basis at a 
publicly  quoted  price,  even  when  there  are  no  other  buyers  or  sellers.  Thus,  market 
makers must sell a security to a buyer even when there are temporary shortages of that 
security available in the market. This may occur, for example, if there is a sudden surge 
in  buying  interest  in  that  security,  or  if  few  investors  are  selling  the  security  at  that 
time.  

 
4.3 

 

 

 
5.1 

 

5.2 

Policy on short sales adopted by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission 
(Source : HKSFC website www.sfc.hk/sfc/) 

In  Hong  Kong,  short  selling  has  been  permitted  in  certain  designated  securities, like 
those  that  were  part  of  the  benchmark  indices  or  those  in  which  futures  and  options 
have been made available, in which the seller has the unconditional right to vest the 
security  in  the  purchaser  by  virtue  of  securities  borrowing  and  lending  agreement  or 
has confirmation from the counterparty that the counterparty has the security available 
to lend to him. Further, the tick rule has been specified, i.e., it cannot be effected below 
the best current ask price. At the time of inputting the order, the HKSFC requires  the 
investors to communicate to the broker dealers that it is a short selling transaction. 

Section V 

Deliberations and Recommendations of the SMAC on short selling 

The  Committee  noted  that  while  international  securities  market  regulators  have 
recognised that short selling can exacerbate market falls and may lead to manipulative 
activities, short selling has not been prohibited. Indeed most of the jurisdictions have 
recognised  short  selling  as  a  legitimate  investment  activity  that  has  contributed 
significantly  to  market  liquidity.  International  securities  market  regulators  have, 
therefore,  permitted  short  selling  with  adequate  safeguards 
to  prevent  any 
abusive/manipulative market practices. The Committee recognised that  similar issues 
may  arise  in  the  Indian  context  also.  Genuine  short  selling  could  exacerbate  price 
decline, but that by itself may not be construed as a manipulative activity  unless there 
are also  evidences  of  market  misconduct.  However,  the  Committee felt  that  abusive 
short selling practices to manipulate the price of a stock will continue to be treated as 
market misconduct and attract appropriate regulatory action.  

Definition of short sales 
The SMAC noted that  the  commonly  used  definition  of  short  sales  in  international 
jurisdictions and in finance literature is “sale of a stock by an investor which he does 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
11 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

 

5.3 

 

5.4 

5.5 

 

5.6 

not own”. It also noted that in market parlance the world over, “naked short sale” is “a 
transaction in which the seller neither owns nor borrows the securities in time to make 
delivery  to  the  buyer  within  the  settlement  period” and  as  a  result  fails  to  deliver 
securities when required. In other words, naked short sales results in failure to deliver,  
while a “covered short sale” is understood as a transaction in which the seller may or 
may not have securities at the time of sale, but have made arrangements for borrowing 
securities  prior  to  sale  and  honours  the  obligation  of  delivery  at  settlement.  The 
Committee  recommended that in the Indian context, “short selling” may be defined as 
selling a stock which the seller does not own at the time of trade. 

Short selling by institutional investors 
The  Committee  took  note  of  the  policy  and  practices  in  short  sales  in  various 
jurisdictions and was of the view that it would be necessary to enunciate a clear policy 
on short sales which would be in sync with the present stage of market developments 
and the regulatory reforms in India. The Committee, therefore, recommended that the 
present regulatory restrictions which allow only the retail investors to short sell should 
be removed to enable a level playing field for all classes of investors. In other words, 
the institutional investors who are currently prohibited should be permitted to short 
sell.  

Covered Vs. naked short sales 
The Committee noted that most of the international securities market regulators  have 
prohibited naked short selling and required the client to have documentary evidence of 
borrowing/tie-up  with  lenders  before  executing  the  sale  transaction.  The Committee 
was  of  the  view  that  while  the  investors  may  be  permitted  to  do  short  selling, 
settlements  should  take  place  only  on  delivery  basis..  In  case  of  failure  to  settle,  the 
stock exchanges should levy stringent financial penalties which  would act as deterrent 
for  naked  short  sales.  The  Committee  noted  that  this  was  in  consonance  with 
international  regulatory  practice.  The  Committee,  therefore,  recommended  that  in the 
Indian securities market, naked short selling should not be permitted and accordingly, 
all investors would be required to mandatorily honour the obligation of delivering the 
securities at the time of settlement.   
 
Prohibition of day-trading by institutional investors 
The Committee was however of the view that even if  short sales are permitted for the 
institutional  investors,  they  should  not  indulge  in  day  trading.  The  Committee, 
therefore,  recommended  that  no  institutional  investors  shall  be  allowed  to  do  day 
trading  i.e.,  square  off  their  transactions  intra-day.  In other words, all transactions 
would be grossed for institutional investors at the custodians’ level, and the institutions 
would be required to fulfill their obligations on a gross basis. The custodians, however, 
would continue to settle their deliveries on a net basis with the stock exchanges. 

Penalty structure for naked short selling 
The Committee felt that  the stock exchanges  should  be  required  to  closely  monitor 
settlement shortages to check the reasons therefor, such as, genuine shortages, naked 
short sales, etc. and impose stiff penalties to act as deterrent for naked short sales. The 
Committee, therefore, recommended that the stock exchanges should frame a uniform 
penalty structure and take appropriate action against the brokers for failure to deliver 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
12 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

 

5.7 

 

5.8 

 

5.9 

securities at  the  time  of  settlement  which would act as a  sufficient deterrent against 
naked short selling.   

Need for securities lending and borrowing 
The  Committee  noted  that  the  securities  markets  in  which  short  selling  is  freely 
allowed also has a vibrant securities lending and borrowing scheme. In the absence of 
vibrant  market  for  securities  lending  and  borrowing,  short  selling  may  not  work 
effectively.  The  Committee,  therefore,  recommended  that  in  the  Indian  securities 
market, a securities lending and borrowing scheme must be put in place to provide the 
necessary impetus for short selling. The introduction of a full-fledged securities lending 
and borrowing scheme should be simultaneous with the introduction of short selling by 
the institutional investors. 

Designated stocks 
The Committee noted that  while many  international  jurisdictions permit short sales in 
any security, certain jurisdictions permit short sales only in designated securities which 
include  securities  in  which  derivatives  products  were  available,  those  which were 
constituents of the major market indices etc. The underlying principle for the restriction 
seems to be to ensure that market participants do not misuse short selling to distort the 
prices of illiquid stocks which are normally more prone to volatility and manipulation. 
The Committee also noted that so far SEBI has been following a phased approach when 
introducing any new policy. Such a phased approach has been useful. The Committee 
therefore, recommended that to begin with, short selling may be permitted only in those 
stocks in which derivative products  are available. The Committee also recommended 
that the list of stocks that are eligible for short selling transactions may be reviewed by 
SEBI from time to time. 

Designation of a “short” transaction  
The Committee noted that securities market regulators world-wide have mandated that 
the clients designate a transaction as a short sales at the time of placement of order. In 
the  Indian  context,  since  the retail investors are allowed to  square-off their positions 
intra-day and the institutional investors are prohibited from day-trading, the Committee 
felt  the  need  to  have  a  differential  reporting  mechanism  between  the  retail  and 
institutional  investors.  The  Committee,  therefore,  recommended  that  the institutional 
investors  would  be  obligated  to  disclose  upfront  at  the  time  of  placement  of  order 
whether the transaction is a short sale and demonstrate their ability to borrow to the 
satisfaction of the broker. However, the retail investors would be permitted to make a 
similar disclosure before the end of the trading hours on the transaction day.  
 
Documentation of the short selling transactions by the brokers 

5.10  The  Committee  re-iterated  the  need  to  have  sufficient  audit  trail  of  short  selling 
transactions. The Committee also noted that internationally where covered short  sales 
are  permitted,  the  clients  are  required  to  make  prior  arrangements  for  borrowing 
securities before effecting short sales. The Committee therefore, recommended that all 
stock brokers should be mandated to maintain sufficient documentation regarding the 
ability of their clients to borrow and deliver the securities at the time of settlement so 
as  to  ensure  sound  audit  trail.  Such  information  and  documents  should  be  readily 
available  during  inspections  by  the  stock  exchanges  and  SEBI.  In  respect  of 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
13 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

 

 

institutional  transactions,  the  brokers  must  satisfy  themselves  that  the  institutional 
clients have made sufficient arrangement for borrowing securities before executing the 
order for short sale.  

Disclosure of details regarding short selling transactions 

5.11  As regards  disclosure of  transaction  as  “short”  at  the  time  of  order  entry  and  the 
dissemination of short position in each stock at the end of the day, the Committee felt 
that it would be desirable to identify a transaction as a short sale at the time of trade 
itself. However, the stock exchanges were of the view that it would not be practically 
possible to identify a transaction as short on a real time basis at the time of trade and 
disseminate the same to the market, as it would entail enormous stress on their systems. 
But information on short sales should be disclosed to the market. However, considering 
the significance of the data on scrip-wise short position and the need for the availability 
of the data in the public domain, the Committee, recommended that the brokers shall be 
mandated to collect the details on scrip-wise short sell positions, collate the  data and 
upload it to the stock exchanges before the commencement of trading on the following 
trading  day.  The  stock  exchanges  will  then  consolidate  such  information  and 
disseminate the same on their websites for the information of the public to begin with 
only after the close of market hours on the next trading day. Ideally, such information 
should be disclosed before the commencement of the market hours on the next trading 
day.  However,  this  will  not  be  immediately  possible  as  the  brokers  will  be  able  to 
provide this information to the exchanges only by the beginning of the next day. In the 
course  of  time,  however,  after  gaining  sufficient  experience  and  once  the  system 
stabilises, this requirement may be reviewed to enable disclosure of such information 
by the exchanges before the commencement of the market hours on the next trading 
day.  

Margining of institutional trades 

5.12  On the related issue of margining of institutional trades, the Committee was of the view 
that the issue of margining the institutional trades should not be treated independently 
from  the  issue  of  short  selling,  since  permitting  short  selling  without  margining  the 
institutional  trades  would  amount  to  providing  additional  leverage  to  institutional 
investors.  It  was  also  discussed  as  to  whether  institutional  trades  could  be  margined 
only  with  respect  to  those  stocks  in  which  short  selling  is  permitted.  However, this 
would result in segregation of the market. The Committee was of the view that instead 
of  a  piece-meal  basis,  there  was  a  need  to  take  a  holistic  view  in  the  matter.  The 
Committee,  therefore,  recommended  that  transactions  executed  by  all  institutional 
investors  should  be  margined  similar  to  the  transactions  executed  by  the  retail 
investors.  In  any  case,  the  institutional  transactions  are  margined  in  the  derivative 
market and now even in the primary market. The Committee also recommended that the 
institutional investors should also have the same flexibilities as regards the manner and 
type of collateral, similar to retail investors, subject to other applicable regulations. 

 
Section VI 

 
6.1 

Securities Lending Scheme, 1997 

Present  Practice  and  Regulatory  Policy  on  Securities  Lending  and 
Borrowing in the Indian Securities Market 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
14 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

 

 

6.2 

SEBI vide circular dated May 07, 1997 specified the “Securities Lending Scheme of 
1997  (SLS,  1997)”.  The  Scheme  of  1997  laid  down  the  modalities  for  lending  and 
borrowing  of  securities  through  an  Approved  Intermediary  (AI).  A  lender,  under  an 
agreement with the AI can lend his securities to the AI with the guarantee that the AI 
shall return the equivalent securities of the same class and type. A borrower can also 
borrow from the AI on the specified terms of the AI and shall also return the equivalent 
securities  of  the  same  class  and  type.  The  AI  is  the  complete  interface  between  the 
borrower and the lender.  The salient features of the SLS, 1997 are outlined in the table 
below.  

Box II : Salient Features of the Securities Lending Scheme, 1997 (refer paragraph 6.1) 

 
(cid:216)  The lender enters into an agreement with an approved intermediary (AI) registered with SEBI 
for  depositing  the  securities  for  the  purpose  of  lending.  The  borrower  shall  enter  into  an 
agreement with the AI for the purpose of borrowing of securities. The AI liaises between the 
lender and the borrower. 

 
(cid:216)  The AI shall guarantee the return of the equivalent securities of the same type and class to the 
lender along with the corporate benefits accrued on them during the tenure of the borrowing. In 
case of failure of the borrower to return the securities, the AI shall be liable for making good 
the loss caused to the lender. 

 
(cid:216)  The AI retains the securities deposited by the lender in his custody as a trustee and shall lend 

the securities deposited by the lender to the borrower from time to time. 

 
(cid:216)  The  title  of  the  securities  lent  to  the  borrower  shall  vest  with  the  borrower  and  the  borrower 
shall be entitled to deal with or dispose of the securities borrowed in any manner whatsoever.  

 
(cid:216)  The agreement between the lender and the AI and the borrower and the AI, shall provide for 
the  period  of  depositing/lending  of  securities,  charges  or  fees  for  depositing/lending  and 
borrowing, collateral securities for borrowing e.t.c. 

 
(cid:216)  The AI shall be entitled to receive fees for lending from the borrower and collateral securities 
in  the  form  of  cash,  bank  guarantee,  Government  securities,  certificate  of  deposits,  other 
securities e.t.c. 

 
(cid:216) 

In the event of failure to return the securities, the borrower shall become a defaulter and the AI 
has the right to liquidate the collateral, in order to purchase equivalent securities of the same 
class from the market, for returning the securities to the lender. The AI shall be entitled to take 
any action as deemed appropriate against the defaulting borrower to make good his loss, if any.  

 
(cid:216)  The  AI  shall  notify  defaults  by  any  borrower  to  the  Board,  the  concerned  stock 
exchange and the concerned authorities for initiation of appropriate action against the 
defaulter. 

Based  on  the  features  of  the  scheme,  Ministry  of  Finance,  Department  of  Revenue 
(Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) vide their circular No. 751 dated February 10, 
1997 clarified that the transactions of lending of shares or any other securities under the 
Securities Lending Scheme would not result in “transfer” for the purpose of attracting 
the provision relating to the capital gains under the Income Tax Act.  

 
Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 
 

 
15 
 
 

 

6.3 

 
6.4 

 
6.5 

 
6.6 

 
 
6.7 

However, the SLS, 1997  is presently inoperative and  there is no market for securities 
lending  and  borrowing  in  the  true  sense.  The  erstwhile  Secondary Market Advisory 
Committee (SMAC)  had  reviewed  the  matter  of  securities  lending  and  borrowing  in 
2003 and 2004. The SMAC had then noted the observation of the JPC in this regard, 
especially in relation to deferral products.  

The erstwhile SMAC had  recommended  that  only  clearing  corporations  and  clearing 
houses should be allowed to lend and borrow securities to meet settlement shortages. 
Such borrowing would in other words help meet delivery requirement even for naked 
short sales.  Pursuant  to  the  recommendations of the SMAC in 2003 and 2004, SEBI 
vide circulars dated March 19, 2004 and March 4, 2005 had provided the operational 
modalities  for  Clearing  Corporation/House  to  borrow  and  lend  securities  for  the 
limited  purpose  of  handling  settlement  shortages.  Accordingly,  no  entity  other  than 
Clearing  Corporation/Clearing  House  has  been 
registered  as  an  Approved 
Intermediaries  (AIs)  and  borrow  and  lend  securities  under  the  scheme.  NSCCL,  the 
clearing  corporation  of  NSE  and  BOISL,  the  clearing  house  of  BSE  have  been 
registered  as  AIs  for  the  purpose  of  borrowing  and  lending  securities  to  handle 
settlement  shortages.  NSCCL  and  BOISL  have  tied  up  with  the  depositories  to 
operationalise the securities lending and borrowing scheme. Individual investors would 
be  able  to  lend  their  idle  securities.  Pursuant  to  identification  of  securities  shortages 
after  pay-in,  the  depositories  would  communicate  the  list  of  members  who  have  an 
intention to lend securities to the clearing corporation/house. Based on the requirement 
of  securities,  the  clearing  corporation/house  would  match  the  extent  of  settlement 
shortages  with  the  availability  of  securities,  borrow  the  securities  on  behalf  of  the 
default members, allot the same to the lenders on a random basis and communicate the 
same back to the depositories. 

The BSE and NSE are in the process of putting in place the necessary systems and are 
expected to discontinue the auction mechanism and handle the settlement shortages by 
borrowing  and  lending  securities.  In  case  the  clearing  corporation/house is unable to 
borrow,  the  transaction  would  be  closed  out.  This  mechanism  has  not  yet  been 
implemented by the Clearing Corporation/House of the stock exchanges. 

While recommending the above, the erstwhile SMAC also noted that given the past 
excesses  of  the  ALBM  and  BLESS,  it  was  not  in  favour  of  any  exchange  traded 
securities  lending and borrowing  scheme except for meeting settlement shortages. It 
also noted introduction of a full fledged SLB scheme may be examined based on the 
experience  derived  from  the  limited  lending  and  borrowing  for  meeting  settlement 
shortages. The SMAC then was of the view that extreme caution should be exercised in 
allowing a liberal securities lending scheme. 

Need for further review 
While the present scheme of lending and borrowing securities in the Indian securities 
market  by  the  clearing  corporation/house  of  the  stock  exchanges  for  handling 
settlement shortages addresses the need for lending and borrowing in a limited way, 
there is no scope for investors to capitalize on the demand for their securities in the 
market and thus, earn a return  by  lending such securities. Hence,  the  scope of the 
existing securities lending and borrowing scheme must be widened into a full-fledged 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
16 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

 

 

7.1 

 

 

lending  and  borrowing  scheme  enabling  participation  of  all  classes  of  investors, 
including  retail  investors.  Further,  a  full  fledged  securities  lending  and  borrowing 
scheme  is  a  significant  regulatory  reform  in  any  securities  market  to  facilitate other 
market reforms like physical settlement in the derivatives markets. Besides lending and 
borrowing of securities is necessary for covering short positions in the market. Without 
lending and borrowing, the policy on short sales cannot be implemented and physical 
settlement  of  stock  derivatives  cannot  also  take  place.  In  the  light  of  the  aforesaid 
factors,  the  issue  of  reviewing  the  regulatory  policy  on  securities  lending  and 
borrowing was taken up for deliberation by the  present Committee. The Committee is 
however of the view that  while introduction of such a scheme was necessary in the 
present context of the market, a phased and cautious approach would be appropriate in 
the initial stages.  

Section VII 

International practices in securities lending and borrowing 

In most markets, the  securities lending and borrowing transactions are by and large, 
over-the-counter  (OTC)  contractual  obligations  executed  between  lenders  and 
borrowers and securities  market  regulators  do  not  directly  regulate  the  lending and 
borrowing  transactions. The  schemes  for  securities  lending  and  borrowing  are  by 
entities like the custodians and depositories who have their own screens for meeting the 
demand and supply of securities from their clients. For example the State Street, Bank 
of  New  York,  Depositories  Trust  &  Clearing  Corp.  (DTCC),  CrestCo,  Korean 
Securities Depository Association (KSDA) run the securities lending and borrowing for 
their  clients  who  register  with  them  through  the  electronic  trading  screen  which 
matches the demand and supply for the designated securities. 

Box III :  A comparative study of the global market practices in securities lending 

and borrowing 

 

(cid:216) 

Internationally, SLB is an OTC market functioning based on bi-lateral contractual agreements 
between the participants; The transactions are, by and large, privately negotiated transactions 
which  are  conducted  “over-the-counter”  outside  the  centralized  trading  platform.  Pan Asian 
Securities  Lender’s  Association  (PASLA)  has  provided  globally  accepted  model  standard 
agreements for this purpose 

 
(cid:216)  Securities market regulators world -wide are not generally seen to be directly involved in 

regulation of securities lending transactions 

 
(cid:216)  Periodical  reports  on  the  lending  and  borrowing  transactions  are  submitted  to  entities  like 

central banks, clearing corporations, depositories, revenue authorities etc. 

 
(cid:216) 

In  some  emerging  market  jurisdictions  like  Hong  Kong,  Korea,  Singapore  e.t.c.,  the 
depositories and custodians provide an electronic platform for execution of securities lending 
and borrowing transactions. 

 

Section VIII  Deliberations and recommendations of the SMAC on securities lending 

and borrowing 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 

 
 

 
17 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

8.1 

 

8.2 

 

8.3 

 
8.4 

8.5 

In the light of the foregoing discussions the SMAC was of the view that there was clear 
need  for  introduction  of  a  full  fledged  lending  and  borrowing  scheme  in  the  Indian 
securities market beyond what was recommended earlier. Having agreed upon the need 
for full fledged securities lending and borrowing scheme,  the Committee took note of 
the  aforesaid  international  practices  in  this  regard  and  deliberated  on  the  various 
operational modalities that may be feasible for recommending a regulatory framework 
for the lending and borrowing scheme for the Indian securities market.  

Lending  and  borrowing  of  securities  by  clearing  corporation/house  for  meeting 
settlement shortages 
On the issue of Clearing Corporation/House (CC/CH) of the stock exchanges lending 
and borrowing securities for the limited purpose of handling settlement shortages, the 
Committee noted that though the CC/CH have been registered with SEBI as AIs for the 
limited  purpose  of  lending/borrowing  securities  for  meeting  settlement  shortages,  the 
same  has  not  yet  been  operationalised.  The Committee,  felt that  the  scheme should 
continue  and emphasized  that  the clearing corporation/house of the stock exchanges 
should act as AIs for the limited purpose of lending/borrowing securities for meeting 
settlement  shortages  and  the  stock  exchanges  should  go  immediately implement  the 
close-out  procedure  for  handling  settlement  shortages  and  dispense  of  the  auction 
mechanism.      

Need for a full fledged securities lending and borrowing scheme through the AI route 
The  Committee  was  of  the  view  that  the  lending  and  borrowing  by  the  CC/CH only 
served  a  limited  purpose  and  a full fledged lending and borrowing scheme that was 
open for all  market participants was necessary  for the Indian securities market. The 
Committee  therefore  recommended  that  apart  from  the  lending  and  borrowing  of 
securities  by  CC/CH  for  settlement  shortages,  a  full  fledged  securities  lending  and 
borrowing  scheme  should  be  introduced  by  SEBI  along  with  the  Stock exchanges 
through the Approved Intermediaries (AIs) route .  

The Committee however preferred a cautious approach  while permitting entities to act 
as  AIs  for  securities  lending  and  borrowing  scheme.  The  Committee,  therefore, 
recommended that in the first stage, only custodians, Banks and FIs may be registered 
as  AIs  for  the  purpose  of  lending  and  borrowing  of  securities.  Since  it  has  been 
proposed  to  permit  short  selling  in  certain  specific  securities,  the  Committee 
recommended that securities  lending and borrowing may also be, initially, restricted 
only in those stocks in which derivative products are available. 
 
Execution of lending and borrowing transaction 
The lending and borrowing transactions are internationally executed pre-dominantly an 
OTC  market,  or  in  house  by  the  global  custodians  or  depositories.  But  such OTC 
markets  suffer  from  lack  of  transparency  and  thus  do  not  address  the  need  for 
centralized dissemination of  information of such  lending  and borrowing transactions. 
The Committee was, therefore, of the  view that  in  order  that  it would be desirable to 
allow securities lending and borrowing through  an  automated,  screen-based platform 
which would electronically match the demand and supply of securities. This would be 
transparent and enable an audit trail of transactions in the process of securities lending 
and  borrowing,  besides  giving  the  advantages  of  speedier execution,  and  fair and 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
18 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

 

8.6 

 

8.7 

 

8.8 

 

automated  discovery  of  prices.  The  Committee,  therefore,  recommended  that  the 
lending and borrowing transactions may be executed on an  automated, screen-based 
platform  which  enables real time  matching  of the demand  and  supply. Any trading 
member/investor who wishes to borrow securities may borrow the securities through 
the screen.  

Risk management and settlement of lending and borrowing transactions 
The NSE and BSE have  suggested that they may be given the opportunity to provide 
this  separate  trading  platform  considering  their  proven  expertise  in  automating  the 
transactions  in  the  normal  market.  If the  securities  lending and borrowing was to  be 
done through the  stock exchanges it would be necessary to define their role. The risk 
management  and  settlement  of  lending  and  borrowing  transactions  was  equally 
important.  While  agreeing  with  the  proposal  of  the  stock  exchanges,  the  Committee 
recommended that the settlement of the lending and borrowing transactions executed 
through the separate platform should be done independent of the settlement of normal 
market  transactions  and  should  not  be  aggregated  or  mixed  with  the  normal  market 
settlement. The Committee also recommended that the Stock exchanges shall undertake 
the  risk  management  of  such  lending/borrowing  transactions.  As  a  part  of  the  risk 
management,  the  clearing  corporation/house  should  guarantee  the  return  of  the 
securities by the borrower to the lender by being the central counter party and shall, 
thus, provide guarantee for counter-party risk.  The Committee further  recommended 
that the stock exchanges would jointly work out and put in place uniform modalities for 
securities  lending  and  borrowing  which  will  also  include  the  manner  in  which  the 
securities  borrowed  will  be  returned  to  the  lender  and  the  manner  in  which  the 
exchanges will provide the guarantee. 

Standardization of lending & borrowing agreements 
The Committee noted that international experience shows that securities markets which 
had  an  active  securities  lending  and  borrowing  scheme,  had  also  framed  their 
agreements  between  the  various  parties  which  were  similar  or  variants  of  model 
agreements provided by the Pan Asian Securities Lender’s Association (PASLA). With 
a  view  to  align  the  model  agreements  in  the  Indian  securities  market  with  the 
internationally accepted standards,  the  Committee recommended that the  lending and 
borrowing transactions could be formalized in terms of robust lending and borrowing 
agreements on the lines of the model agreements provided by  PASLA which obligate 
the borrowers to return the securities to the AI and agreements between the AI and the 
lender which enable the AI to allot the lender’ securities to the borrowers at a screen 
determined price. 

Disclosure of lending and borrowing transactions 
The Committee felt that adequate disclosure of the lending and borrowing transactions 
to the market was necessary to  gauge  the  demand  and  supply  of  the  securities  and 
enable the investors to  make suitable investment decisions.  The Committee, therefore, 
recommended  that  the  stock  exchanges  shall  disseminate  the  information  on  such 
lending and borrowing transactions to the general public.  

Tax exemptions for the lending & borrowing transactions 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
19 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

 

8.9 

 

8.10 

 

The Committee noted that in the case of SEBI’s first scheme on securities lending and 
borrowing  introduced  in  1997, the  transactions executed under the scheme were not 
treated  as  “transfer  of  securities”  and  were  exempted  from  taxation.  The  Committee 
recommended that such tax exemptions should be made available for the transactions 
executed under the revised scheme also. The Committee, therefore, urged SEBI to take 
up the matter of tax exemption with CBDT. 

Amendments to necessary Regulations 
The  Committee  also  noted  that  SEBI  may  need  to  amend  the  SEBI  (Custodians) 
Regulations, 1996 suitably so as to recognise the role of custodians as AIs under the 
securities  lending  and  borrowing  scheme  and  enable  them  to  lend  and  borrow 
securities as per the aforesaid regulatory framework. 

********** 

Secondary Market Advisory Committee of SEBI 
 

 
 

 
20 
 
 

Discussion Paper on Short Selling and  
Securities Lending and Borrowing  

