 
1.0 

 
1.1 

 
 

 
2.0 

A CONCEPT PAPER ON OMBUDSMAN FOR SECURITIES MARKET 

In terms of section 11 of the SEBI Act it is one of the duties of SEBI to 
protect the interests of investors in securities market by taking necessary 
steps  as  it  deems  fit.    SEBI  had  been  receiving  complaints  form  the 
investors against listed companies particularly with respect to non receipt 
of refund orders, non receipt of shares certificates / unit certificates, non 
receipt  of  dividend  and  many  more  matters.    The  complaints  against 
intermediaries  regarding  deficiency  of  service  have  been  in  a  large 
number.  For redressal of the investor grievance SEBI has been advising 
the companies or the intermediaries to redress the same.  The investors 
have also been claiming damages / compensation / interest etc. The other 
course of action against the listed company is prosecution or imposition of 
monetary  penalty  of  the  erring  companies.    The  available  action  against 
intermediaries  is  the  suspension  and  cancellation  of  registration  or 
imposition  of  monetary  penalty.    The  above  does  not  redress  the 
grievance  of  investors  or  give  any  compensation  to  the  investors.  
Therefore,  issue  of  an  alternative  redressal  mechanism  which  is  cheap, 
fast, informal and efficient has been engaging the attention of SEBI.  SEBI 
is exploring various avenues such as scheme of Ombudsman. 

The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Stock Market Scam and Matters 
Relating Thereto in its Report recommended that – 

intermediaries. 

“14.60  –  There  also  appears  to  be  a  need  to  have  an 
independent  look  at  resolution  of  investor  complaints  against 
companies  and  market 
  The  Committee 
recommends that the concept of Ombudsman, which is already 
being used in the Banking Sector, should also be extended to 
the  capital  market. 
issue  of  power,  duties  and 
responsibilities  of  the  Ombudsman  should  be  suitably  worked 
out.    As  regards,  investors  complaint  against  broker  and  other 
market  intermediaries,  Arbitration  Councils  at  exchange  level 
can  be  used  for  resolution  of  investors  complaints.  Such  body 
would be independent of market intermediaries, particularly the 
brokers …..”     

  The 

The SEBI seeks to introduce the concept of Ombudsman for redressal of 
grievances of investors in securities against the listed  companies and the 
intermediaries  in  the  securities  market  relating  to  refund  of  money  or 
securities  amount  or  any  claim  in  respect  of  dealing  in  securities  or 
deficiency  in  services  by  intermediary  and  other  related  matters.  It 
envisages a system of Ombudsman which should, as far as possible, be 
speedy,  cheaper,  efficacious,  simple  easily  accessible,  informal  and 
amenable to the investors generally spread over the country. Ombudsman 
for  securities  market  may  be  established  with  the  statutory  status  since 

SEBI  has  powers  under  the  SEBI  Act  to  protect  the  interests  of  the 
investors  and  the  matters  connected  with  the  securities  market  by  such 
measures as it may think fit.  

 
2.1   The proposal of Ombudsman for Securities Market was discussed in the 
meetings of the Legal Advisory Committee constituted by the SEBI which 
is  headed  by  Mr.  Justice  M.  N.  Venkatachaliah,  Former  Chief  Justice  of 
India.  The  Committee  has  suggested 
the  SEBI 
(Ombudsman) Regulations by SEBI pursuant to its functions under section 
11 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Act, 1992. 

framing  of 

the 

 
2.2 

The  draft  of  the  SEBI  (Ombudsman)  Regulations,  2003  has  been 
prepared taking into consideration the suggestions of the Committee.   

The salient features of the regulations are as follows :- 

 
3.0 
 
3.1.  Appointment of Ombudsman : 
 

1.  The Ombudsman for Securities market will be appointed by the Chairman, 
SEBI on the recommendation of a Selection Committee consisting of three 
members namely a retired High Court Judge, an expert of financial market 
and an Officer of SEBI not below the rank of Executive Director.  

 
2.  In the initial stages the Ombudsman may be appointed at the Head Office 
of  the  Board  and  depending  on  the  number  of  the  complaints  in  a 
particular  area,  the  Stipendiary  Ombudsman  may  be  appointed  and  the 
infrastructure available at the Regional Offices of SEBI or the local stock 
exchanges may be utilised.       

 
3.  With  a  view  to  make  the  concept  easily  accessible  to  investors, 
inexpensive,  quick  and  informal  it  is  proposed  that  the  Stipendiary 
Ombudsman may be appointed by the Chairman, SEBI as requisition by 
SEBI  or  the  Ombudsman  for  a  number  of  cases  in  specific  areas 
depending upon the number of complaints received. 

4.  The  Stipendiary  Ombudsman  shall  exercise  all  powers  and  functions  as 

are vested in the office of the Ombudsman.  

5.  The Stipendiary Ombudsman shall be paid such fees and allowances for 
the  services  rendered  by  him  as  may  be  determined  by  the  Board  from 
time to time.  Such fees shall be honorary fees or sitting fees. 

 

 

 
3.2  Qualification, Tenure etc. of Ombudsman: 
 

1.  The person of high moral integrity having atleast 40 years of age, 
having  atleast  10  years  experience  of  service  in  any  regulatory 

 

2

 

 

 
4.0 
 

body or having special knowledge and experience in law, finance, 
economics,  management  and  administration  or  either  a  retired 
District Judge are qualified to be a District Judge may be appointed 
as an Ombudsman.   

 
2.  The person to be appointed as a Stipendiary Ombudsman has to 
be a person of good social standing having served as a judicial or 
executive officer or having experience of atleast 10 years in matters 
relating to consumer or investor protection or having legal practice 
or  served  for  a  minimum  period  of  10  years  in  any  financial 
institution or a regulatory body.  

The different qualifications for both types of Ombudsman is contemplated 
in  view  of  the  distinct  status  of  the  two.    The  Ombudsman  has  to  be 
established as a permanent authority with monthly salary and has to deal 
with the matters on continuous basis.  The stipendiary Ombudsman shall 
be  appointed  for  the  specific  disputes  and  may  be  paid  sitting  fees 
depending upon the nature of the complaints. 

Fees and Allowances - 

1.  The remuneration and other perquisites payable to the Ombudsman shall 
be determined by the Board from time to time and shall be borne by the 
issuer  company  and  the  intermediaries  in  such  proportion  and  in  such 
manner as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 

 
2.  In terms of section 11 (2) (k) SEBI may for the purposes of protection of 
the interests of the investors may take measures by levying fees or other 
charges.  Therefore, it is proposed that the fees and other expenses of the 
Ombudsman  may  be  charged 
listed  companies  and 
intermediaries  and  the  establishment  costs,  infrastructure  costs  may  be 
provided by the stock exchanges.   

from 

the 

 
5.0  Nature of Complaints: 
 
5.1 

The  Ombudsman  will  be  empowered  to  receive  complaints  against  the 
listed  public  companies,  public  companies  which  intend  to  get  their 
securities listed in a recognised stock exchange, Mutual Funds, Collective 
Investment Scheme and the intermediaries in securities market relating to 
redressal of grievances of investors in securities, claims of any money in 
respect of issue or dealing in securities, deficiency in services.  

 
5.2   The complaints may be filed either with the Board or Ombudsman on any 
one  or  more  of  the  grounds  as  mentioned  the  draft  Regulations.      Such 
grounds inter alia include non-receipt of refund orders / allotment letters , 
non-receipt  of  dividend  by  shareholders  or  unit  holders  non-receipt  of 

 

3

 

share  certificates  /  unit  certificates,  debenture  certificates  and  bonus 
shares. etc. or any other matter as may be specified by the Board.  

 
6.0   Manner of Resolution of Dispute: 
 

The Ombudsman is empowered to consider such complaints and facilitate 
resolution through mutual agreement,  or mediation and on failure of these 
to  adjudicate  any  claim  against  the  listed  company  or  intermediary  in 
respect of buying or selling of or dealing in securities. 

 
7.0  Annual Budget : 
 

The Ombudsman shall be responsible to draw up an annual budget for its 
office in consultation with the Board and shall incur expenditure within the 
approved  budget.    It  shall  submit  an  annual  report  to  the  Chairman  and 
furnish any information to the Board as may be called for.  

Power to call for information : 
 
For  the  purpose  of  carrying  out  his  duties  the  Ombudsman  may  call  for 
information or any document relating to the subject matter of the complaint 
from the listed company / intermediary or any other person institution or 
authority  which  is  in  /  his  possession.      The  Ombudsman  shall  maintain 
confidentially of any information and document. 

Procedure  for filing complaint : 

 
8.0 

 
9.0 
 

The  draft  regulations  contemplate  a  simplified  procedure.  The 
aggrieved person may file the complaint in the specified form either 
himself  or  through  his  authorised  agent.    The  complaints  may  be 
filed directly with the Ombudsman or to the Board.  The complaints 
received by the Board shall be forwarded to the Ombudsman or the 
Stipendiary Ombudsman.   

The  draft  regulations  require  that  before  making  the  complaint  to 
the  Board  /  Ombudsman  shall  ensure  that  he  had  made  a 
representation  to  the  company  or  intermediary  and  the  same  has 
been  rejected  or  no  reply  has  been  received  within  one  month     
and the complaint is not in respect of the same matter which has 
been  settled  through  the  Ombudsman  and  the  complaint  is  made 
within one year of the cause of action.   

1. 

 
2. 

 

10.0  Re-examination of the award on adjudication -  

 
An aggrieved party to an award on adjudication may make an application 
to  the  Board  for  re-examination  of  the  award.    The  Board  may    pass 
appropriate order on such application within 45 days.   

 

4

 

11.0  Costs and Interests -  

 
The  Ombudsman  may  determine  an  award  reasonable  compensation  , 
costs  of  the  proceedings  and  stipulate  interest  to  be  paid  by  the  party 
against whom the award has been made till the award is implemented. 

Implementation of the award - 

 
12.0 
 

 

The  award  on  consent,  agreement  or  the  arbitral  award  by  the 
Ombudsman or by the Arbitral Committee shall be binding on the parties.  
If any party fails to implement the award he shall be liable for action under 
section  15C  of  the  SEBI  Act,  suspension  of  trading  or  delisting  of 
securities, suspension or cancellation of registration etc.   

 
13.0  Disclosure  of  the  system  by  the 

intermediaries - 

listed  companies  and  the 

1.  As a matter of disclosure to investor and investor awareness it has been 
provided  that  the  listed  companies  and  the  intermediaries  shall  be 
required to display the name and address of the Ombudsman to whom the 
complaints are to be made by the aggrieved party in their office premises 
in  such  a  manner  that  the  visiting  shareholders  and  investors  can  take 
notice.  The listed companies and the intermediaries are also required to 
disclose  in  their  offer  documents  or  clients’  agreement  the  grievance 
redressal mechanism through Ombudsman under the regulations. 

2.  The failure to display the information as above or furnishing information to 
the  Ombudsman  as  required  under  the  regulations  shall  attract  penalty 
under section 15A of the SEBI Act. 

 
14.0   The draft regulations do not contemplate payment of any fees by the        
          complainant alongwith the complaint. 
 
15.0   A copy of the draft regulations is enclosed as Annexure - I. Comments   

thereon may be given  by 27th May, 2003 through e-mail or fax or post at 
the following address : 

 

 

Shri Ananta Barua,    OR  Shri Santosh Shukla 
Joint Legal Adviser   
SEBI   
 
Mittal Court, ‘B’  Wing,  
224, Nariman Point,  
Mumbai – 400 021.   
 
Tel : (022)-22842837 
Fax : (022)-22845470 

Assistant Legal Adviser 
SEBI 
Mittal Court, ‘B’  Wing, 
224, Nariman Point, 
Mumbai – 400 021. 

Tel : (022)-22850451-56 - Ext. 234 
Fax : (022)-22845470 

          E-mail : ananta@sebi.gov.in         E-mail :santoshs@sebi.gov.in   

 

5

 

Annexure - I 
 

DRAFT 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART –II – SECTION 3 – SUB SECTION (ii) 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the ___day of ------------- 2003 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(OMBUDSMAN) REGULATIONS, 2003 

 
S.O. No. ______(E). In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30, read with 
sub-section (1) of section 11, of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the following regulations to provide 
for  the establishment of the institution of Ombudsman to promote the protection 
of the interests of  investors by extending the facility of settlement of grievances 
of  the  investors  against  listed  companies  and  other  securities    market 
intermediaries through mediation and adjudication, namely:- 
 
 

 

CHAPTER  I 

 

PRELIMINARY 

 
SHORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT  
 

 

6

 

1.  (1)  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India (Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003.  

 
       (2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 

Gazette. 

   
Definitions  
 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,- 
 

(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,1992 (15 
of 1992 ); 

 
          (b) “award” means a recommendation of an Ombudsman giving a finding 

on agreement or on adjudication in accordance with these regulations; 

 
         (c)  “authorised  representative”    means  a  person  duly  appointed  and 
authorised by a complainant or a party to an adjudication proceeding, as 
the  case  may  be,  to  act  on  his  behalf  and  represent  him  in  the 
proceedings  under    these  regulations  before  the  Ombudsman  for 
consideration  of his complaint, claim or counter claim; 

 
      

 

 

(d)  “Board”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
established under section 3 of the Act; 

(e) “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Board; 

(f) “claim” shall have the same meaning as is provided in Chapter III of 
these regulations; 
 

 

7

 

(g) “complaint” means a representation in writing containing a grievance 
as mentioned in regulation 14 of these regulations; 

(h) “intermediary” means an includes a person referred to in section 12 
of the Act; 

 (i)  “investor”  means  a  person  who  invests  or  buys  or  sells  or  deals  in 
securities; 

 (j) “listed company”  means a company whose securities are listed on a 
recognised  stock  exchange  and  also  includes  those  public  companies 
which intend to get their securities listed on a recognised stock exchange; 

(k) “member” means a member of the Board and includes the Chairman; 

(l)  “Ombudsman”  means  any  person  appointed  under  regulation  3  of 
these regulations; 

(m) “securities”  means Securities as defined in clause (h) of section 2 of 
the Securities Contracts ( Regulation ) Act,1956 ( 42 of 1956 ); 

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

(n) “Stipendiary Ombudsman” means a person appointed for the purpose 
of acting as ombudsman on specific matters in an specific area or location 
for which the expenses and honorary fees or sitting fees may be paid as 
specified by the Board.  

 
(2)   Words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in  these  regulations  but 
defined  in  the  Act  or  in  the  rules  or  regulations  made  under  the  Act  shall 
have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act or in the rules 
or regulations made under the Act. 

 

8

 

 

 
 
 

CHAPTER II 

ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF OMBUDSMAN 

 
APPOINTMENT  
 
3. (1) The Chairman may, on recommendation of a Selection Committee, appoint 
one or more Ombudsmen including Stipendiary Ombudsmen for such area 
and jurisdiction as may be specified from time to time by notification . 

 
   (2) The Selection Committee referred in sub-regulation (1) shall consist of the    

following members, namely:- 
(i) a retired judge of a High Court, to be nominated by the Chairman; 
(ii) an expert in the area relating to financial market operations or having 
special knowledge and experience of law or finance and economics, to 
be  nominated by the Chairman. 

(iii)a representative of the Board not below the rank of Executive Director 

who shall also be the Secretary of the Selection Committee, to be 
nominated by the Chairman. 

 

   (3)   The Selection Committee may recommend the appointment of a person as 

Ombudsman and prepare a panel of Stipendiary Ombudsmen for the 
purposes of these regulations.    

 
LOCATION OF OFFICE  
 
4. (1) The office of the Ombudsman shall be located at the Head Office of the 

Board and at any other office of the Board or other places as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time. 

 

9

 

 
Provided that in a case where there is no office of the Board at a place 
where the Ombudsman has to conduct any proceedings the office for the 
Ombudsman may be specified at the premises of the local stock exchange: 

 

Provided further that the stipendiary Ombudsman when appointed for any 
specific work shall be located at such place as may be specified. 

 
   (2) In order to expedite disposal of complaints or adjudication, the Ombudsman 
may hold sittings at such places within his area of jurisdiction as may be 
considered  necessary  and  proper  by  him  in  respect  of  a  complaint  or 
reference, as the case may be, before him. 
 

QUALIFICATION  
 
5. 
 

In order to be appointed as an Ombudsman a person shall be - 

a citizen of India; 
of high moral integrity ; 
not below the forty years of age; 
either a retired District Judge or qualified to be a District Judge or 
having at least ten years experience of service in any regulatory body 
or having special knowledge and experience in law, finance, 
economics, management or administration or an official of investors 
association recognised by the Board. 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 

 

DISQUALIFICATION 

 

6. (1) A person shall not be qualified to hold the office of the Ombudsman if he - 

(i) is  an un discharged insolvent ;  
(ii) has been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude;  

 

10 

 

(iii) is  of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court;  
(iv)  has been charge sheeted of any offence including economic offences ; 
or 
(v)  has been in whole-time director in the office of an intermediary or a 
listed company. 

 
TENURE 

 

7. (1) An Ombudsman shall hold office for a term of five years or upto the age of 
seventy years, whichever is earlier, and may also be reappointed on similar 
terms. 

 
(2)Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  the  services  of 
an Ombudsman may be dispensed with by the Board, or on tendering of 
resignation  by  him,  after  serving  a  notice  of  three  months  in  writing  or 
salary of three months to be paid in lieu thereof by the either side, as the 
case may be. 

 

REMUNERATION 
 
8. The salary and allowances payable to, and other terms and conditions of 
service of, an Ombudsman shall be   determined by the Board from time to time.  
 
STIPENDIARY OMBUDSMAN - 
 
9. (1) The Selection Committee referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3 
shall  recommend  the  names  of  suitable  persons  for  the  approval  of  the 
Chairman  to  be  empanelled  as  Stipendary  Ombudsmen    and  whose 
services  may  be  requisitioned  by  an  Ombudsman  or  by  the  Board  to 
conduct  any  inquiry  or  to  resolve  any  dispute  as    Ombudsman  for 

 

11 

 

complaints  allotted  to  them  from  a  state,  city  or  a  district  not  having the 
office of an Ombudsman.   

 
    (2) Any person of good social standing who has held  a judicial or an executive 
office under the Government  or is having experience of at least ten years 
in matters relating to consumer or investor protection or has been a legal 
practitioner    dealing  cases  in  corporate  matters  or  has  served  for  a 
minimum period of ten years in any financial institution or a regulatory body 
may be empanelled as a Stipendiary Ombudsman whose services may be 
requisitioned  for  exercising  the  powers  of  Ombudsman  as  and  when 
required  in an area having proximity to his residence and easily accessible 
to him. 

 
   (3) Save as otherwise specified in a matter by the Board or the Chairman, the 

Stipendiary Ombudsman shall exercise all powers and functions as are 
vested in a Ombudsman under these regulations.  

 
  (4)  The Stipendiary Ombudsman shall be paid such fees and allowances for 
the services rendered by him as may be determined by the Board from 
time to time. 

 
TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION – 
 
10.  Every Ombudsman shall exercise  jurisdiction in relation to an area as may 

be specified by the Board by notification.     

 
COST AND EXPENSES IN RELATION TO OFFICE OF OMBUDSMAN 
 
11. The cost and expenses of the office of Ombudsman shall be shared by listed 
companies or intermediaries and in such proportion as may be determined by the 

 

12 

 

Board.  
 

 

CHAPTER III 

 

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF OMBUDSMAN 

 

GENERAL 
12. The Ombudsman shall have the following powers and functions :- 
(a) 

to  receive  complaints  relating  to  provision  of  services  rendered  by  an  
intermediary or in respect of a listed company; 
to consider such complaints and facilitate resolution; 
to  arrive  at  a  settlement  by  friendly  agreement,  between  the  listed 
company or the intermediary and the aggrieved parties;  
to  adjudicate  any  claim  against  the  listed  company  or  intermediary  in  a 
matter  relating  to  a  public    issue  or  buying  or  selling  or  dealing  in 
securities in terms of these regulations. 

(b) 
(c)  

(d) 

 
OTHER POWERS AND FUNCTIONS 
13. The Ombudsman shall - 
 

(1) provide for superintendence and control over his office and shall be 

responsible for the conduct of business thereat;  

(2) draw up an annual budget for his office in consultation with the Board and 

shall incur expenditure within the approved budget;  

(3) submit an annual report to the Chairman within three months of the close  

of each year containing general review of its activities of his office; 

(4) furnish any information to the Board as may be directed. 

 

13 

 

 

CHAPTER IV 

 

PROCEDURE FOR REDRESSAL OF GRIEVANCE 

 
GROUNDS OF COMPLAINT  
 
14. A person may lodge a complaint on any one or more of the following grounds 
either to the Board or to the Ombudsman concerned :- 

(i) 

(ii) 

Non-receipt  of  refund  orders,  allotment  letters  in  respect  of  a  public 
issue of securities of companies or units of mutual funds or collective 
investments schemes; 
Non-receipt  of  share  certificates,  unit  certificates,  debenture 
certificates, bonus shares; 

(iii)  Non-receipt of dividend by shareholders or unitholders; 
(iv)  Non-receipt  of 

interest  on  debentures,  redemption  amount  of 
debentures or interest on delayed payment of interest on debentures  ; 
Non-receipt of interest on delayed refund of application monies; 

(v) 
(vi)  Non-receipt of annual reports or statements pertaining to the portfolios; 
(vii)  Non-receipt of redemption amount from a mutual fund or returns from 

collective investment scheme; 

(viii)  Non-transfer  of  securities  by  an  issuer  company,  mutual  fund, 
Collective Investment  Management Company or depository within the 
stipulated time; 

(ix)  Non-receipt of letter of offer or consideration in takeover or buy-back 

(x) 
(xi) 

offer; 
Non-receipt of statement of holding corporate benefits, etc; 
Any of the matters covered under section 55A of the Companies Act, 
1956; 

(xii)  Any grievance against an intermediary or a listed company; 
(xiii)  Any other matter as may be assigned by the Board. 

 

14 

 

 

PROCEDURE OF FILING COMPLAINT – 
 
15(1)  Any  person  who  has  a  grievance  against  a  listed  company  or  an 
intermediary  relating to any of the matters mentioned in regulation 14 may 
himself or through his authorised representative make a complaint to the 
Ombudsman  concerned  within  whose  jurisdiction  the  office  of  the  listed 
company or the intermediary complained against is located.   

 
 

 

Provided that if the Board has not notified an Ombudsman for a particular 
locality  or  jurisdiction  the  complainant  may  write  to  the  Board  for 
forwarding  his  complaint  to  the  Ombudsman  having  jurisdiction  to 
entertain and dispose of the complaint. 

(2) The  complaint  shall  be  in  writing  duly  signed  by  the  complainant  or  his 
authorised  representative  (not  being  a  legal  practitioner)  in  the  Form 
specified  in  the  Schedule  to  these  regulations  and  supported  by 
documents, if any.  

 
(3) No complaint to the Ombudsman shall lie unless- 
(a)  the  complainant  had  before  making  a    complaint  to  the  Board  or  the 
Ombudsman concerned made a written representation to the listed company 
or  the  intermediary  named  in  the  complaint  and    the  listed  company  or  the 
intermediary,  as  the  case  may  be,  had  rejected  the  complaint  or  the 
complainant had not received any reply within a period of one month after the 
listed company or intermediary concerned received his representation or the 
complainant is not satisfied with the reply given to him by the listed company 
or an intermediary; 
(b)  the  complaint  is  made  within  one  year  of  the  date    when  the  cause  of 
action had arisen as per clause (a).  

 

15 

 

(c)  the  complaint  is  not  in  respect  of  the  same  subject  matter  which  was 
settled  through  the  Office  of  the  Board  or  Ombudsman  concerned  in  any 
previous proceedings whether or not received from the same complainant or 
along with any one or more complainants or any one or more of the parties 
concerned with the subject matter;  
(d) the complaint does not pertain to the same subject matter for which any 
proceedings before the Board or any court, tribunal or arbitrator or any other 
forum  is  pending  or  a  decree  or  award  or  a  final  order  has  already  been 
passed by any such competent authority, court, tribunal, arbitrator or forum. 
(e) the complaint is not in respect of a matter for which action has been taken 
by  the  Board  under  Chapter  VI  A  of  the  Act  or  under  sub-section  (3)  of 
section 12 of the Act. 

 
(4) Any complaint received by the Board under proviso to sub-regulation (1) shall 
be forwarded to the Ombudsman concerned or to the Stipendiary Ombudsman if 
appointed by the Board. 
 
POWER TO CALL FOR INFORMATION 
 

    16(1)For  the  purpose  of  carrying  out  his  duties  under  these  regulations,  an 
Ombudsman may require the listed company or the intermediary named in 
the  complaint  or  any  other  person,  institution  or  authority  to  provide  any 
information or furnish certified copy of any document relating to the subject 
matter of the complaint which is or is alleged to be in its or his possession: 

 

Provided  that  in  the  event  of  the  failure  of  a  listed  company  or  the 
intermediary to comply the requisition made under sub-regulation (1) without 
any  sufficient  cause,  the  Ombudsman  may,  if  he  deems  fit,  draw  the 
inference  that  the  information,  if  provided  or  copies  if  furnished,  would  be 
unfavourable to the listed company or intermediary. 
 

 

16 

 

(2)The  Ombudsman  shall  maintain  confidentiality  of  any 
information  or 
document coming to his knowledge or possession in the course of discharging 
his  duties  and  shall  not  disclose  such  information  or  document  to  any  person 
except with the consent of the person furnishing such information or document:  

 

Provided that nothing in this sub-regulation shall prevent the Ombudsman from 
disclosing  information  or  document  furnished  by  a  party  in  a  complaint  to  the 
other party or parties, to the extent considered by him to be reasonably required 
to comply with the principles of natural justice and fair play in the proceedings. 

 
(3) A listed company or intermediary who fails to give information as required by 
the Ombudsman shall be liable for action under section 15A of the Act. 
 
SETTLEMENT BY MUTUAL AGREEMENT 
 
17(1)  As  soon  as  it  may  be  practicable  to  do,  the  Ombudsman  shall  cause  a 
notice of the receipt of any complaint along with a copy of the complaint sent to 
the registered office of the listed company or office of the intermediary named in 
the  complaint  and  endeavour  to  promote  a  settlement  of  the  complaint  by 
agreement  or  mediate  between  the  complainant  and  the  listed  company  or 
intermediary named in the complaint. 
 
(2)  If  such  an  agreement  is  arrived  at,  the  Ombudsman  shall  pass  an  award 

within  one  month  from  the  date  of  receipt  of  agreement  and  ask  the  parties  to 

perform their obligations under the award within a time specified in the award. 

 
(3) For the purpose of promoting a settlement of the complaint, the Ombudsman 
may  follow  such  procedure  as  he  may  consider  appropriate  and  shall  not  be 
bound by any strict rules of evidence. 
 

 

17 

 

AWARD ON ADJUDICATION 

18.(1) In the event of a matter not resolved by agreement within a period of one 

month of the receipt of the complaint or such extended time as was permitted, 

the Ombudsman shall, based upon the facts and evidences adduced before him, 

give his decision with reasons in writing in the form of an award on adjudication.   

(2) The award on adjudication in such a matter shall be given by Ombudsman 

within  a  period  of  two  months  from  the  date  of  the  starting  of  the  adjudication 

proceedings. 

(3) The Ombudsman shall forward his award to the parties to the adjudication to 

perform their obligations under the award within the time specified in the award. 

(4) The Ombudsman in adjudication proceedings shall not be bound by the rules 

of evidence and may determine his own procedure by following the principles of 

natural justice. 

   

RE-EXAMINATION OF THE AWARD ON ADJUDICATION 

19.(1) Any party aggrieved by the award on adjudication may file an application 

stating grounds for re-examination of the award by the Ombudsman to the Board 

within one month from receipt of such award. 

(2) The Board may re-examine the award on the matters of fact and law and may 

pass such order as may be deemed appropriate preferably within a period of 

forty five days of the receipt of an application for re-examination. 

 

 

 

18 

 

 

COST AND INTEREST 

20.(1)The Ombudsman or the Board on re-examination shall be entitled to award 

reasonable  compensation  or  damages  alongwith  interest  at  the  rate  given  by 

commercial banks on fixed deposits. 

 

(2) The Ombudsman in the case of award or the Board in the case of order on an 

application for re-examination of the award, as the case may be, may determine 

the cost of the proceedings in the award and include the same in the award or 

the order. 

 

(3)The  Ombudsman  or  the  Board  may  also  stipulate  interest  as  given  by 

commercial banks on fixed deposits to be borne by the party against whom the 

award has been passed until the award is implemented. 

 

CHAPTER V 

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AWARD 

 

CONSEQUENCES OF NON-IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AWARD 

21.If  any  party  fails  to  implement  the  award  or  comply  with  the  order  of  the 

Board, such party shall be liable to the following actions – 

(a) proceedings under section 15C of the Act; 

(b) suspension or delisting of securities; 

 

19 

 

(c) debarment from accessing the securities market; 

(d) debarment from dealing in securities; 

(e) suspension or cancellation of registration; 

(f)  such other action which may be deemed appropriate. 

CHAPTER VI 

DISPLAY OF THE PARTICULARS OF THE OMBUDSMAN 

 

DISPLAY OF THE PARTICULARS OF THE OMBUDSMAN IN OFFICE 
PREMISES AND DOCUMENTS 
 
22(1) Every listed company or intermediary shall display the name and address 
of the Ombudsman as specified by the Board to whom the complaints are to be 
made by any aggrieved person in its office premises in such  manner and at such 
place, so that it is put to notice of the shareholders or investors or unit holders 
visiting the office premises of the listed company or intermediary. 
(2) The listed company or intermediary in its offer document or clients agreement 
shall  give  full  disclosure  about  the  grievance  redressal  mechanism  through 
Ombudsman under these regulations. 
  
CONSEQUENCE OF NON-DISPLAY OR FAILURE TO GIVE INFORMATION 
23. If a listed company or an intermediary fails to display the information about 
Ombudsman  as  required  under  regulation  22  or  fails  to  give  information  to  the 
Ombudsman under regulation 16, such listed company or intermediary shall be 
liable to penalty under section 15A of the Act. 
 
REMOVAL OF DIFFICULTIES  
 
24.If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of these regulations, the 
Board  may issue such directions or clarifications as it may think necessary or 
expedient for removing the difficulty.  
 

 

20 

 

SCHEDULE 

 

FORM 

[Under regulation 15 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003] 

 

 
(FOR OFFICE USE ONLY) 
 

Complaint No. … … …of  year ..…  
 
Date  … … … … … … … …..   
 
 
 
(TO BE FILLED UP BY THE COMPLAINANT) 

To 

The Securities and Exchange Board of India/ Ombudsman 
 
(*  give  address  of  the  office  of  the  Board  or    the  address  of  the  Ombudsman 
having jurisdiction … …)  
 
Dear Sir, 
 
Sub:  Complaint  against  … … … … … … … ….( Name  of  the  listed  company  / 
intermediary)  
 
1.  NAME OF THE COMPLAINANT  
      
2.  FULL ADDRESS OF THE COMPLAINANT         … … … … … … … …  
 
                                       
                  … … … … … … … …  
                     … … … … … … … …  
                                        
 
                                           27          
 
                  PIN CODE  
 
               PHONE NO. / FAX NO.                 
 
3.  COMPLAINT AGAINST (NAME AND FULL  

                           … … … … … … …..  

     … … … … … … … …  

… … … … … …  

 
 

 

 

 

 

21 

 

ADDRESS OF THE LISTED COMPANY /  

 
INTERMEDIARIES )                                            … … … … … … … … … ….     
 
                      PIN                                               … … … … … … … ….  

               … … … … … … … … … ….                     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PHONE NO. / FAX NO.                    … … … … … … … ….  

  
                                                                                       

4.  (a) DATE OF REPRESENTATION / COMPLAINT  BY THE COMPLAINANT 

TO         

… … … … … … … … ….  

(Please enclose three copies of the representation) 

    THE LISTED COMPANY / INTERMDIARY    
 
 
     (b) Whether any reminder was sent by the complainant?    YES /NO 
 
      
5.  SUBJECT MATTER/GROUNDS OF THE COMPLAINT 

(If yes, please enclose three copies of the reminder) 

 

 

(Please refer to regulation 14 of the Regulations) 
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …..  

  
6.  DETAILS  OF  THE  COMPLAINT  (If  space  is  not  sufficient,  please  enclose 

separate sheet)  
          

 

… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …  

                                                         28 
7. (a) Whether any reply (Within a period of one month after the listed company / 

intermediary concerned  received the representation) has been received?    
YES / NO  
(If yes, please enclose ‘three copies’  of the  reply of the listed company / 

 

 
intermediary) 
 
 (b) Whether the representation has been rejected ?         
 
 

(If yes, please enclose ‘three copies’  of the  letter of rejection) 

 YES/ NO 

 (c) Whether the complainant has received any other final decision of the listed 

company / intermediary? 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

YES/ NO 

(If  yes,  please  enclose  ‘three  copies’  of  the    letter  of  the  listed 

 
company/intermediary conveying its final decision) 
 
8.  NATURE  OF  RELIEF  SOUGHT  FROM  THE  OMBUDSMAN  
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …   
( Please enclose ‘three copies’ of documentary proof, if any, in support of your 
claim)  
       
 

  

 

 

22 

 

(Please enclose ‘three copies’ of all the documents) 

9. LIST OF DOCUMENTS ENCLOSED 
 
 
10. DECLARATION 

1.  I/ We , the complainant/s herein declare that: 

(a) the information furnished herein above is true and correct; and 
(b) I/ We have not concealed or misrepresented any fact stated in 

aforesaid columns and the documents submitted herewith. 

 
2.  The  complaint  is  filed  before  expiry  of  period  of  one  year  reckoned  in 

accordance with the provisions of the Regulations. 

                                                       29 

3.  (a) The subject matter of the present complaint has never been brought 
before  the  Office  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
/Ombudsman  by  me/  or  by  any  one  of  us  or  by  any  of  the  parties 
concerned with the subject matter to the best of my/ our knowledge. 

(b) The  subject  matter  of  the  present  complaint  is  not  in  respect  of  the 
same  which  was  settled  through  the  Office  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India /Ombudsman in any previous proceedings 

(c) The subject matter of the present complaint has not been decided by 

 

 

 

 

any forum/court/arbitrator. 

 
OR 

 

The subject matter of the present complaint is pending since…..  (please 
mention  the  date  when  the  matter  was  filed)  before  … …   (*Please 
mention the name of the forum/court/arbitrator before whom pending 
…. 
)  and  the  proceedings  are  likely  to  take  longer  time  in  its  final 
adjudication as contemplated in  the Regulations. 

 
4.  I/We  authorise  the  listed  company  /  intermediary    to  disclose  any  such 
information/ documents furnished by us to the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India /Ombudsman and disclosure whereof in the opinion of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India/ Ombudsman is necessary and 
is required for redressal of any other complaint or our complaint. 

5.  I/We  have  carefully  gone  through  the  provisions  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003. 

 

 

23 

 

/  AUTHORISIATION 

  – 

(If 

the  complainant  wants 

Yours faithfully 
 
(Signature) 
(Complainant ) 
 
NOMINATION 
to 
nominate/authorise his representative, not being a legal practitioner, to appear 
and make submissions on his behalf before the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India/ Ombudsman or to the Office of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India/ Ombudsman, the following declaration should also be submitted.) 
                                              30 
nominate 
I/We 
Shri/Smt… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … ….. who is not a legal practitioner and  
whose address is 
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
… … … … … … … … … … … …  as  my/our  REPRES ENTATIVE in all proceedings of 
this complaint and confirm that  any statement, acceptance or rejection made by 
him/her shall be binding on me/us.  He/She has signed below in my presence. 
 
ACCEPTED 
 
(Signature of Representative) 
(Signature of Complainant) 

complainant/s 

hereby 

the 

above 

named 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
[F. No. SEBI/LGL/         /2003] 

G.N. BAJPAI 
CHAIRMAN 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

  

 

24 

 

