“Review of SEBI (DIP) Guidelines 2000- Proposals - Series III”

“Report on Simultaneous equity offering in Indian and International markets”

1.  This report, entitled “Report on Simultaneous equity offering in Indian and International
markets”  contains  the  recommendations  made  a  group  set  up  by  SEBI,  comprising
representatives  of  BSE,  NSE,  NSDL,  CDSL,  RAIN  and  AMBI,    to  examine  the
feasibility of “simultaneous offerings”, the issues involved in facilitating such offerings
and to work out the procedures for these offerings.1

2.  These  recommendations  cover  the  need  for  simultaneous  issues,  the  regulatory

constraints, systemic bottlenecks and other incidental matters.

3.  This paper does not reflect the views of SEBI, nor has SEBI formed an opinion on these
recommendations. The paper is being hosted on the website for the purpose of eliciting
public comments. SEBI would take cognizance of the public comments received, before
taking a final view on the issues mentioned in the paper.

4.  Comments  on  the  recommendations  may  be  sent  to  the  Primary  Market  Department,
SEBI or emailed to Ms. Sangeeta Uchil, AGM, at  Sangeetau@sebi.gov.in or Ms. Neelam
Bhardwaj,  DGM,    at  neelamb@sebi.gov.in  or  faxed  to  91-22-22045633  on  or  before
April 21, 2003.

                                                  
1  The  presentation  format  of  the  report  has  been  modified  by  SEBI  to  some  extent,  without  affecting  the
recommendations significantly.

31

REPORT

ON

SIMULTANEOUS EQUITY OFFERING IN INDIAN

AND INTERNATIONAL MARKETS

31

Background

1.  SEBI  is  examining  the  feasibility  of  allowing  companies  the  flexibility  of  listing  its
securities  simultaneously  in  the  Indian  and  international  markets.    SEBI  had  received
suggestions  from  companies  and  intermediaries  in  the  capital  market,  for  allowing
simultaneous offering of securities. The suggestions indicate that this facility is available
to  companies  in  some  overseas  markets  and  it  would  be  desirable  to  examine  this
concept in the Indian context also, as it would :

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

Provide simultaneous access to domestic and international equity markets to fund
the development and expansion of Issuers;

increase the transparency of financial and operational information regarding the
Issuers, which is available to public investors;

enable  Indian  companies  to  make  large  sized  offerings,  utilizing  demand  from
non-India registered investors;

provide  access  to  a  wider  investor  base,  which  provides  greater  stability  and
liquidity; and

provide valuation benchmarks for companies in industries where there are few or
no valuation benchmarks in India, for example, in the telecom and biotechnology
sectors.

31

The advantages of a dual-listing to all the stakeholders can be summarised as under:

Issuer Company

Existing Shareholders

•  Mobilizing funds for investment

/expansion

•  Enlarged Investor base will enhance

stability, liquidity & valuation.

•  International Reputation in more
mature and substantially larger
markets.

•  Global Recognition enhancing their

corporate image and business
potential.

New Investors
•  Able/easier to invest in the leading

companies with high growth
potential

•  Larger market size and liquidity
•  Increase the transparency of financial
and operational information reported

•  Provides Valuation benchmarks for

companies

•  Improve Liquidity and thus

valuation and pricing

•  Benchmarking valuation with

global comparables

•  Increase transparency from US

SEC/global disclosure
requirements

Dual
Listing

Country
•  Capital Inflow
•  Enlarged size of total market

capitalization

•  Quick adaptation of international best

practices following listing on global
bourses by Indian companies

•  Increased profile of Indian companies

31

ISSUES FOR DELIBERATION

The group comprising of officials of BSE, NSE, NSDL, CDSL, RAIN and AMBI have examined
the areas which may need to be addressed for facilitating Simultaneous offerings. The same are
as under :

2.  Uniform Prospectus disclosure requirements
2.1 Fundamentally,  there  is  no  difference  in  the  approaches  of  SEBI  and  other  regulators
globally, i.e. all regulators desire that the offer documents should contain material disclosures
that would enable an investor to take an informed decision regarding investment in the issue.
Hence, the endeavor should be to use a common offer document for both the markets.

2.2 However,  various  jurisdictions  have  different  requirements  on  the  format  for  regulatory
disclosures, additional country specific risk factors, format for accounting disclosures, format
of  the  cover  page,  settlement  and  trading  mechanism,  different  application  and  bidding
processes etc.

2.3 Also, the securities offered in the two markets being slightly different (Depository receipts

and Ordinary shares), the investors will have slightly different rights and tax implications.

2.4 The international practice for simultaneous offerings in other Asian markets is to have two
offering circulars say one for ADR/ GDR Offering and one for the Domestic ordinary share
offering.  An extensive due-diligence exercise is conducted by the Book Runner along with
legal counsel familiar with securities laws of other jurisdictions. Both the offering documents
will  comply  fully  with  the  disclosure  requirements  of  the  respective  regulators.  The
documents  being  circulated  to  investors  in  both  the  markets  will  contain  substantially  the
same disclosures, although they may not be stylistically similar. Disclosures with respect to
the  company,  strategy,  management  discussion  and  analysis  and  company  and  business
environment  related  risk  factors  should  be  same.  Each  offer  document  will  have  the
description  of  the  securities  offered  in  the  other  market.  Book  Runner  will  certify  in  the

31

document  that  the  disclosures  in  the  two  offer  documents  are  similar  and  no  material
information has been omitted in any of them.

3.  Minimum  public  offering  of  10%  or  25%  of  the  Capital  as  per  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  the

Securities (Contract) Regulation Rules, 1957 and SEBI guidelines

3.1  It is proposed that the minimum offer to be made for ordinary shares listed in India should be
as per the requirements of Rule 19(2)(b) of the Securities (Contract) Regulation Rules, 1957
and SEBI guidelines (10% or 25%, as the case may be). The overseas offering should be in
addition  to  this  offer.  By  offering  minimum  10%  or  25%  in  the  domestic  markets,  the
requirements  of  Rule  19(2)(b)  of  Securities  Contract  Regulation  Rules    (SCRR)  would  be
fulfilled.

4.  Flexible Price range to be provided as guidance to investors instead of the hard floor

price in the Red Herring Prospectus (RHP) (as is the case now)

1.1 Companies should be allowed the flexibility of indicating a price band of up to 20%, instead
of the present requirement of mentioning a floor price in the RHP. It is further recommended
that  although  the  price  band  should  be  disclosed  in  the  Red  herring  to  be  filed  with  the
Registrar of Companies, the issuer should have the flexibility to revise the price band till one
day before the last day of the closure of the Book.

1.2 In case of a listed company proposing to go in for another issue through this route, the market
price of the shares on the exchange can act as indicators to the pricing of the new issue. In
such circumstances, it needs to be seen whether indication of floor price or price band would
be of any relevance.

5.  Common Book
5.1 In order to have a fair book building in both the markets, a common book of demand for the
ordinary shares and  DRs is proposed.  The bidding period for Domestic and Global offering
shall  be  same.  The  book  will  open  and  close  (say  at  2400  hours)  at  same  Indian  Standard
Time. The book in Indian markets will be built on NSE/BSE platforms as per SEBI guidelines

31

while the international book will be built as per the international market practices. The two
books will be synchronized for the purpose of pricing.

6.  Confidential book building
6.1  The  book  of  demand  should  be  kept  confidential  as  per  the  international  market  practice.

Closed Book-building will help in:
?  True discovery of price, based on investor's evaluation of the Issue and not at the floor of

? 
? 

the indicative price band;

Investors cannot bid with a herd mentality;

Investors and associates of the Issuer can not play with the price by putting in frivolous
bids

7.  Common Pricing in Both the markets
7.1 The pricing for the Ordinary shares and DRs should be same.

8.  Flow-back of shares permitted from the Domestic to the Global offering, and vice-versa
8.1  Red  Herring  Prospectus  would  state  the  percentage  and  quantum  of  offer  made  in  each
market.  In  case  both  domestic  offering  and  DR  offerings  are  oversubscribed,  then  the
allocation would be as per the percentage stated in the Red Herring Prospectus. However,
flow-back  should  be  provided  for  between  the  Indian  and  Global  offering,  in  case  of
undersubscription in any of the markets. Flow-back enables the Issuer and Underwriter to
adjust  the  Book  Size  based  on  the  demand,  thereby  enabling  the  right  supply  of  stock  in
each  of  the  markets.    Without  this  flow-back  provision,  there  could  be  situations,  where
there will be an over-supply in the Domestic offering leading to a pressure on the price, and
an under-supply overseas, leading to a marginal premium for shares in the Global offering,
or vice-versa.  To avoid any situations of this nature, or vice-versa, it is important to provide
for flow-back of shares from one offering, to the other, and vice-versa. In order to achieve
this
?  FIPB approval needs to be taken for the entire Offering size (Domestic plus Global)
?  Minimum subscription to be calculated after considering subscription in both offers.

31

?  Option to be given to eligible investors (Registered FIIs) to spill-over their bids from

one market to another i.e. from DR to domestic or vice-versa.

?  The  Book  Runner  will  announce  the  final  offering  size  in  each  market  after  the

closure of the book and at the time of pricing.

?  Final DR size as announced by Book Runner should be considered for the purpose of

calculation of headroom for reverse fungibility of ordinary shares into DRs.

?  Definition  of  Qualified  Institutional  Buyers  (QIBs)  under  SEBI  (Disclosure  and
Investors Protection) Guidelines to be expanded to include all non individual ADR
holders as QIBs. The 60% minimum allotment to QIB’s under the compulsory Book
Building  under  SEBI  Guidelines  and  19(2)(b)  of  SCRR  to  be  calculated  after
considering QIB participation in both offers.

8.2 One of the members of the committee had submitted a dissent note to this recommendations.

The dissent note is reproduced below :
“Simultaneous listing by itself is a good aid to companies looking at an international listing.
However we feel there should be no fungibility between the two books and like in the case of
NALCO, the two books should be kept separate and fungibility should be not allowed.”

9.  Synchronization of listing and trading of the securities in the two markets
9.1At  present,  each  stock  exchange  has  its  own  listing  requirements.  Generally  all  issuers  list
their securities on BSE and NSE in addition to Regional Stock Exchange. Typically, it takes
two  to  three  days  to  get  the  listing  and  trading  approvals  from  the  Stock  Exchanges.    To
reduce this time gap, the following may be done
?  Central  Listing  Authority  (CLA)  to  give  Letter  of  Recommendation  (LoR)  to  all  stock
Exchanges  where  shares  are  proposed  to  be  listed.  Based  on  the  LOR,  SEs  will  grant
listing & trading approval without much delay..

?  Stock Exchanges to give in-principal approval, based on LoR for listing, before filing of

Red Herring Prospectus with RoC.

?  Stock Exchanges to grant trading permission before  demat credit and despatch of refund
orders as long as the Registrar ensures that Demat credit is given to the investors on or
before first day of trading.

31

?  The  final  allotment  would  be  available  on  the  website  of  the  Registrar/Issuer  so  that

applicant can view the allotment details.

?  Stock  Exchanges  should  have  uniform  information  requirements  approving  basis  of
allocation  and  granting  listing  and  trading  approval.  Relevant  proposals  for  procedural
requirements in this regard is given at Annexure 2.

10. Over-allotment  option  (‘Greenshoe’)  to  the  Book  Runners  at  the  time  of  closing  the

Offering, with a view to stabilise the after-market price

10.1The  provision  of  a  greenshoe  would  help  investors,  including  retail  investors,  as  the
Underwriters  will  stabilize  the  prices  in  aftermarket,  reducing  immediate  aftermarket
volatility. The maximum size of the option should be 15% of the total offering (domestic plus
global). However, the Greenshoe  cannot  exceed  15%  of  the  offering  made  in  each  market
individually (after flow back and as announced at the time of pricing).

11. Allocation of 60% to QIBs
11.1As the substantial portion of the issue would be sold to institutional investors in DR offering,
hence allocation of 60% of the domestic offering to the QIB investors in domestic markets
may not be insisted upon. A minimum allocation 15% to HNI/Corporates and 25% to retail
investors will be done on the basis of  final domestic offering size,  as  announced  by  Book
Runners at the time of pricing. Flow back will be permissible from one category to another as
per the extant SEBI guidelines.

12. Relevance of RoC filing
12.1As  per  the  Companies  Act,  only  delivery  of  the  Prospectus  to  the  RoC  for  registration  is
required,  while  the  issue  of  acknowledgement  card  is  a  procedure  followed  and  made
mandatory by practice. The Offer document should be made to follow EDIFAR filing which
makes  Offer  Document  public  and  the  need  for  the  RoC  filing  should  be  reviewed.  It  is
proposed that the issuer should be able to go ahead with issue after filing the Offer document
with the RoC, without waiting for any acknowledgement card / approval. This will help in
synchronizing the timelines for domestic and global offering.

31

13. Forfeiture of Margin Money in case of withdrawal of Bids
13.1In case the investor withdraws the bid after bid closure then the margin paid, if any, would
be liable to be forfeited. This will help in reducing the settlement time for domestic offering.

14. 90% Minimum Subscription Clause
14.1The Prospectus would disclose the minimum funds required by Company in terms of Section
69 of the Companies Act. As per Schedule II of the Act, 90% minimum subscription would
be  defined  as  90%  of  the  minimum  funds  required  as  defined  in  the  Prospectus.  If  the
Company  is  able  to  raise  90%  of  the  fund  requirement  through  Domestic  and  DR  issues
combined, then the requirements of minimum subscription under Section 69 of the Schedule
II of the Companies Act would be met. Hence, due requirements of Section 69 and Schedule
II of the Companies Act would be met.

15. Research Black-out as per international practice
15.1As per International practice in case of IPO, (though this practice varies among investment
to
banks/jurisdictions),  no  research 
commencement of road shows and up to 40 days after closing. Hence, the blackout period
for distribution of research, in case of IPO, prior to the day of opening of the issue may be
21 days and continue till 40 day after the date of bid closing

is  published  and  distributed  2  weeks  prior 

15.2Further,  Research  houses  publish  research  on  existing  listed  companies.  These  reports  are
useful  source  of  information  and  analysis  for  investors.  As  per  international  practice,  for
follow-on offerings, same rules as applicable for IPO apply. However, if the research house
is  already  covering  the  Issuer  through  research,  then  research  is  allowed  with  certain
restrictions during this period also. This would be in line with SEC Regulations. Hence, in
case of offering by an existing listed company and if the Research house is already covering
the Issuer through research, then it should be allowed to write research reports during the
Issue period.

16 Simultaneous trading in both jurisdictions

31

16.1 Currently in the Indian markets, the shares trade on T+16 (T being closure of issue) days.
However, in overseas market the shares trade on either the next day of within 2-3 days. It
would be desirable to have commencement of trading on both exchanges simultaneously. It
is  proposed  to  make  the  e-IPO  guidelines  issued  by  SEBI,  with  certain  modifications,
mandatory  for  all  simultaneous  issues.  This  would  reduce  the  time  from  T+16  to  T+6.
Details of this proposal are as at Annexure 1.

31

Synchronization of listing and trading the securities in the two markets

The time to listing for Indian offerings is T+16, as depicted in the following flow-chart:

Annexure 1

T

T + 1

T + 6

T + 9

Pricing and
Allocation
•  Confirmation of

Allocation
(CAN) sent to
QIBs

Book Closes
•  Retail investors

pay the entire
consideration at
the time of
Bidding

•  Non-

Institutional
investors pay a
margin

Basis finalised with
Stock Exchange; and
Confirmations are sent
•  Stock Exchange

approves the basis
of allocation drawn
by the Registrar

•  CANs sent to Non-

institutional
investors

Registrar draws the Basis

of Allocation; and
Prospectus finalised
•  Banker forwards the
application form to
the Registrar

•  Banker confirms

realisation of funds
from retail investors

•  Registrar draws the
basis of allocation

•  Underwriting

agreement signed

•  Prospectus finalised
and filed with RoC

T + 11 to T + 13
Pay-in Period; and
Liaision with
depository

•  Investors make

payment for
their shares

•  Registrar

reconciles the
demat account
data with the
depositories and
completes other
documentary
formalities

T + 14

T + 15 to T + 16

Listing and
Trading
•  Stock

Exchanges
grant listing
and trading
permission

•  Trading

commences

Pay-in closes, Designated
Date
Company files Listing
Application
•  Only high-value

investors make payment
on the last pay-in date

•  Underwriter makes

payment for any
devolvement

•  All the funds are credited

to the Public Issue
Account

•  Company allots equity

shares through a
corporate action

•  Company instructs

NSDL to credit the demat
accounts of all investors

•  Company files final

listing application

Typically the time to listing for an ADR offering is T+3, which for IPOs at times is stretched to
T+5.    International  investors  expect  ‘when-issued’  trading  to  commence  immediately  after
pricing.  However, they are willing to be exposed to market risk for a few days of no ‘when-
issued’  trading.

Hence, it is important to compress the present settlement time of T+16 to a maximum of T+6, to
consider a dual listing of an Indian Company. The following will aid in reducing the settlement
time to T+5 days:

(cid:173)  Use best practices of secondary market for primary markets

31

(cid:173)  Domestic Offering only through Book Building
(cid:173)  Application only in Demat Mode

Stockinvest facility should be discontinued.

(cid:173) 
(cid:173)  Application Form can be made concise by using the DP ID and Client ID of investors
as the key reference, as the investor would have shared his / her specific data with the
depository,  for  account  opening.  All  other  information  of  the  applicant  such  as
address,  bank  account  details  etc.  would  be  used  as  per  the  details  available  with
NSDL/CDSL.

(cid:173)  NSDL/CDSL to share the investor details with the Registrar. This will enable speedy

uploading of shares after allotment.
Forfeiture of margin money in case of withdrawal of bids after the book closure

(cid:173) 
(cid:173)  As  per  secondary  market  practice,  the  shares  should  first  drop  into  broker’s  pool
account and thereafter into investor’s demat account on confirmation of the payment
of  full  application  money  to  the  broker.  In  the  Bidding,  allocation,  allotment  and
credit  of  securities    to  the  bidders,  the  following  intermedaries  are  involved  –  i.e.
Brokers,  usage  of  facilities  of  Stock  Exchanges  for  Bidding,  Registrar,  Bankers,
Clearing house of stock exchanges, Depositories and the Book Runners. In order to
expedite the process, It is suggested that, if technically feasible, a common software
programme  may  be  developed  which  can  be  used  by  all  these  intermediaries  and
which can produce reports as may be required by each intermediary.

(cid:173) 

Chapter  XI-A  of  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)  Guidelines  provides  the
framework  for  offering  securities  in  public  issue  through  the  stock  exchange  mechanism.  We
believe  that  this  framework  can  be  used  with  certain  modifications,  alongwith  the  aforesaid
suggestions,  can  reduce  the  timeframe  between  the  Book  Closure  and  listing  and  trading  of
securities.    The  changes  in  Chapter  XI-A  of  the  SEBI  (Disclosure  and  Investor  Protection)
Guidelines are enclosed as per Annexure 1(A).

Based on the aforesaid changes, the Post Bidding timeline would be as under:

31

T+3
Domestic
?  Stock

Exchange
approve
the basis
of
allocation

?  Final

Prospectu
s printed
and
dispatche
d

?  CANs
sent to
Institutio
nal
investors
?  Allocati
on details
electronic
ally
communi
cated by
Registrar
/Compan
y to
Brokers

T+5

Domestic
?  Broker
to credit
shares
to the
demat
account
of
investor
s

T+6
Domestic
?  Trading
commen
ces

Global
?  Pay-in

and
settlemen
t of ADR
?  Trading
commen
ces

T+4
Domestic
?  Pay-in
(only
high-
value)

?  Bankers to

confirm
clearance
of funds

?  Board

Meeting
?  Company
to instruct
NSDL/CD
SL to
credit
shares to
the demat
account of
brokers
?  Stock

Exchange
to issue
the listing
and
trading
permissio
n

T

?  Book

Closes (is
condition
al on the
closing of
the
Global
offering)

T+2

Domestic
?  Registr

ar
draws
the
allocati
on list
(for
non-
QIB
and
retail
investor
s)
?  All

entered
bids
assume
d as
valid

Global
?  Final
Prospec
tus
printed
and
despatc
hed

T+1

?  Price

determinati
on

?  Determinat

ion of
Offering
size in
Global and
Domestic
market

Domestic
?  QIB

Allocation
communica
ted

?  Underwriti

ng
agreement
signed

?  Prospectus

finalised
and filed
with SEBI
and RoC

Global
?  Underwriti

ng
agreement
signed

?  Prospectus

finalized
and filed
with SEC
?  Allocatio

n
communic
ated

In the above table, days refer to working days in local time in respective countries.

31

Annexure 1 (A)

Suggested amendments to Chapter XI-A of the SEBI (DIP)
Chapter XI-A
In order to reduce the settlement time from 16 days to 6 days, following changes (marked
in track changes mode) are suggested in the Chapter XI-A of the SEBI  DIPGuidelines for
offering Securities in Public Issues through the Stock Exchange Mechanism.
1  A  company  proposing  to  issue  capital  to  public  through  the  on-line  system  of  the  stock
exchange for offer of securities shall comply with the requirements as contained in this Chapter
in  addition  to  other  requirements  for  public  issues  as  given  in  these  Guidelines,  wherever
applicable.

2. Agreement with the Stock exchange.

2.1  The  company  shall  enter  into  an  agreement  with  one  or  more  of  the  Stock
Exchange(s) which have the requisite system of on-line offer of securities.
Provided  that,  where  the  Regional  Stock  Exchange  has  the  requisite  system  of  on-line
offer  of  securities,  the  company  shall  also,  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  Regional
Stock Exchange for offering securities to public through on-line system.

2.2  The  agreement  mentioned  in  the  above  clause  shall  specify  inter-alia,  the  rights,
duties, responsibilities and obligations of the company and stock exchange (s) inter se.
The  agreement  may  also  provide  for  a  dispute  resolution  mechanism  between  the
company and the stock exchange.

.3 Appointment of Brokers

3.1  The  Book  Runners/Lead  Managers  stock  exchange,  shall  appoint  brokers  of  the
exchange, who are registered with SEBI, for the purpose of accepting  bidsapplications
and placing orders with the company.

3.2 For the purposes of this Chapter, the brokers, so appointed accepting applications and
application monies, shall be considered as ‘collection centres’.

3.3.  The  broker/s  so  appointed,  shall  collect  the  money  from  his/their  client  for  every
order placed by him/them and in case the client fails to pay for shares allocated as per the
Guidelines, the broker shall pay such amount.

3.4  The  company/lead  manager  Book  Runner  shall  ensure  that  the  brokers  having
terminals  are  appointed  in  compliance  with  the  requirement  of  mandatory  collection
centres, as specified in clause 5.9 of Chapter V of the Guidelines.

31

3.5 The company/lead manager Book Runner shall ensure that the brokers so appointed
are financially capable of honouring  their  commitments  arising  out  of  defaults  of  their
clients, if any.

3.6. The company shall pay to the broker/s a commission/fee for the services rendered by
him/them. The exchange shall ensure that the broker does not levy a service fee on his
clients in lieu of his services.

4 Appointment of Registrar to the Issue

4.1  The  company  shall  appoint  a  Registrar  to  the  Issue  having  electronic  connectivity
with the Stock Exchange/s through which the securities are offered under the system.

5 Listing

5.1 Subject to the requirement of listing on the Regional Stock Exchange, the company
may apply for listing of its securities on an exchange other than the exchange through
which it offers its securities to public through the on-line system. TO BE REPLACED
WITH CENTRAL LISTING APPROVAL AS PER SEBI’s CURRENT VIEW

6. Responsibility of the Lead Manager

6.1 The Lead Manger shall be responsible for co-ordination of all the activities amongst
various intermediaries connected in the issue / system.

6.2  The  names  of  brokers  appointed  for  the  issue  alongwith  the  names  of  the  other
intermediaries  namely  Lead  managers  to  the  issue  and  Registrars  to  the  Issue  shall  be
disclosed in the prospectus and application form.

7 Mode of operation

7.1. The company shall, after filing the offer document with ROC and before opening of
the issue, make an issue advertisement in one English and one Hindi daily with nation
wide  circulation,  and  one  regional  daily  with  wide  circulation  at  the  place  where  the
registered office of the issuer company is situated.

7.2 The advertisement shall contain the salient features of the offer document as specified
in Form 2A of the Companies (Central Government’s) General Rules and Forms, 1956.
The  advertisement  in  addition  to  other  required  information,  shall  also  contain  the
following:
the date of opening and closing of the issue

i. 
ii.  the method and process of application and allotment
iii.  the  names,  addresses  and  the  telephone  numbers  of  the  stock  brokers  and  centres  for

accepting the applications.

7.32A Company shall circulate the application forms to the Brokers.

31

7.43 During the period the issue is open to the public for subscription, the applicants may
approach  the  brokers  of  the  stock  exchange/s  through  which  the  securities  are  offered
under  on-line  system,  to  place  an  order  for  subscribing  to  the  securities.  Every  broker
shall accept orders from all clients who place orders through him;

b.directly send the application form alongwith the cheque/Demand Draft for the sum payable
towards application money to the Registrar to the Issue at the indicated office.   or place
the order to subscribe through a stock- broker under the on-line system. Such application
should reach the Registrar’s office on or before the closure of the bidding period.

7.4 In case of issue of capital of Rs. 10 crores or above the Registrar to the Issue shall
open centres for collection of direct applications at the four metropolitan centres situated
at Delhi, Chennai, Calcutta and Mumbai.

7.5 The broker shall collect the client registration form duly filled up and signed from the
applicants  before  placing  the  order  in  the  system  as  per  "Know  your  client  rule"  as
specified by SEBI and as may be modified from time to time.

7.56 The bidder shall submit the application to broker. The application shall be for shares
in demat form only. The applicant need to enclose a proof of correct DP ID and Client ID
as may be acceptable to the broker. The broker shall, thereafter, enter the buy order in the
system, on behalf of the clients and enter details including the name,  address, telephone
number,  and  category  of  the  applicant,  the  number  of  shares  applied  for,  Bid-cum
Application Form number, Bid price, amount paid, beneficiary ID, DP code etc. and give
an order number/order confirmation slip to the applicant.

7.67 The applicant may withdraw applications up to the closure of bidsin  terms  of  the
Companies Act, 1956. In case an applicant withdraws the bid after closure of the book
then the margin money, if any, paid by the Bidder is liable to be forfeited by the Broker.

7.78 The broker may collect an amount to the extent of up to 100% of the application
money  as  margin  money  from  the  clients  before  he  places  an  order  on  their  behalf.
Application money will be the maximum of the three bid options. Uniform margin money
shall be collected by brokers for each category of investors as per the instructions of the
lead manager.

7.89  The  broker  shall  open  a  separate  bank  account  ([“Escrow  Account”)]  with  the
clearing  house  bank  for  primary  market  issues  and  the  amount  collected  by  the  broker
from his clients as margin money shall be deposited in this account.

7.910 The broker shall, at the end of each day while the issue is open for subscription,
download/forward the order data to the Registrar to the Issue on a daily basisThe Stock
Exchange would send the order data to the Registrar and Book Runners from time to time
and at the end of each day while the issue is open for subscription.. This data shall consist
of only valid orders (excluding those that are cancelled). On the date of closure of the
issue,  the  final  status  of  orders  received  shall  be  sent  to  the  Registrar  to  the  issue  and
Book Runners/company.

31

7.10 The Order book will be kept confidential. Only book runners will have access to the
same.

7.11  On  the  closure  of  the  issue,  the  Regional  Stock  Exchange,  alongwith  the  Lead
merchant  banker  and  Registrars  to  the  Issue  shall  ensure  that  the  basis  of  allocation  is
would be finalised in fair and proper manner on the lines of the norms with respect to
basis of allotment as specified in Chapter VII of the Guidelines, as may be modified from
time to time.

7.12  After  finalisation  of  basis  of  allocation,  the  Registrar  to  the  Issue/company  shall
send  the  computer  file  containing  the  allocation  details  i.e.  the  allocation  numbers,
allocated quantity etc., of successful applicants to the  Broker to the Issue  along with.
The Exchange shall process and generate the  broker-wise  funds  pay-in  obligation.  The
Registrar / Company shall also send the above details to Stock Exchange and shall send
the file containing the allocation details to member brokers.

7.12A Company / Book Runner shall announce the pay-in day and intimate the same to
Brokers and Stock Exchange. It would be responsibility of the Broker to fund the Escrow
Account to the extent of allocation to his clients by high value time on the pay-in date.

7.13 On receipt of the basis of allocation data, the brokers shall immediately intimate the
fact of allocation to their client /applicant. The broker shall ensure that each successful
client/applicant pays submits the duly filled-in and signed application form to him along
with  the  amount  payable  towards  the  application  money  by  the  pay-in  date.  Amount
already  paid  by  the  applicant  as  margin  money  shall  be  adjusted  towards  the  total
allocation money payable. The broker shall, thereafter, hand over the application forms of
the successful applicants who have paid the application money, to the exchange, which
shall submit the same to  to the Registrar to Issue/company for their records.

7.14 The broker shall refund the excess margin money, if any,  collected earlier, within 3
days of receipt of basis of allocation, to the applicants who did not receive allocation.

7.15 The brokers shall give details of the amount received from each client and the names
of clients who have not paid the application money to Registrar / Book Runner and the
exchange. The brokers shall also give soft copy of this data to the exchange.

7.176 In the event of the successful applicants failing to pay the application money, the
broker through whom such client placed orders, shall bring in the funds to the extent of
the  client’s  default. The  broker  will  ensure  that  the  Escrow  Account  is  funded  to  the
extent of allocation made to his client on the pay-in date.If the broker does not bring in
the funds, he shall be declared as a defaulter by the exchange and action as prescribed
under  the  Bye-Laws  of  the  Stock  Exchange  shall  be  initiated  against  him.  In  such  an
event, the Book Runners, who would  have underwriten the issue, would bring-in put in
the shortfall. In such a case, if the minimum subscription as disclosed in the prospectus is
not received, the issue proceeds shall be refunded to the applicants.

31

7.176. On the pay- in day, the broker shall deposit the amount collected from the clients
in  the  separate  bank  account  opened  for  primary  issues  with  the  clearing  house/bank.
Without any instruction from the broker, The the clearing house shall debit the primary
issueEscrow aAccount of each broker to the extent of allocation made to his clients and
credit the amount so collected from each broker to the "Issue Account" on pay-in date.

7.17 In the event of the successful applicants failing to pay the application money, the
broker through whom such client placed orders, shall bring in the funds to the extent of
the client’s default. If the broker does not bring in the funds, he shall be declared as a
defaulter  by  the  exchange  and  action  as  prescribed  under  the  Bye-Laws  of  the  Stock
Exchange shall be initiated against him. In such a case, if the minimum subscription as
disclosed  in  the  prospectus  is  not  received,  the  issue  proceeds  shall  be  refunded  to  the
applicants.

7.18 The subscriber shall have an option to receive the security certificates or hold the
securities in dematerialised form as specified in the Guidelines

7.19 The concerned Exchange shall not use the Settlement/Trade Guarantee Fund of the
Exchange for honoring brokers commitments in case of failure of broker to bring in the
funds.

7.20 On payment and receipt of the sum payable on application for the amount towards
minimum subscription, the company shall allot the shares to the applicants as per these
Guidelines. The Registrar to the issue shall post the share certificates to the investors or,
instruct the depository to credit the  “escrow pool depository account” of each  investor,
as the case may be. bBroker opened for this the purpose of the Issue. Broker shall then
transfer  the  shares  to  the  client/applicantinvestor’s   depository  account  after  receipt  of
confirmation of full payment. For this purpose bBroker would be considered as Agent of
the client/applicant. Broker shall confirm to the Book-runner/Registrar that shares have
been credited to the account of applicants not later then the day of start of trading, in case
full payment had been received. Any cases of dispute, amongst the broker and the clients,
would be referred to arbitration as per the by-laws / regulations of the stock exchange.

7.21 The Allotment details would be put on the Website of the Registrar/Issuer. Further,
online  messaging  facility  of  NSDL/CDSL  can  be  used  to  communicate  the  Allotment
details to Brokers, as an alternative of physical Confirmation of Allocation Note.

7.22. Allotment of securities shall be made not later than 15 days from the closure of the
issue failing which interest at the rate of 15% shall be paid to the investors.

7.22 23 In cases of applicants who have applied directly or by post to the Registrar to the
issue, and have not received allocation, the Registrar to the issue shall arrange to refund
the application monies paid by them within the time prescribed.

7.234  The  brokers  and  other  intermediaries  engaged  in  the  process  of  offering  shares
through the on-line system shall maintain the following records for a period of 5 years :
i. 

orders received

31

ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 

applications received
details of allocation and allotment
details of margin collected and refunded
details of refund of application money

7.25  SEBI  shall  have  the  right  to  carry  out  an  inspection  of  the  records,  books  and
documents  relating  to  the  above,  of  any  intermediary  connected  with  this  system  and
every  intermediary  in  the  system  shall  at  all  times  co-operate  with  the  inspection  by
SEBI. In addition the stock exchange have the right of supervision and inspection of the
activities of its member brokers connected with the system.

31

Finalisation of Basis of Allocation

&

Listing and Trading Requirements of Exchanges

Annexure 2

Sr. No.

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 
8. 
T is the Bid Closing date

Requirement
Issuer to submit draft  Red Herring
Prospectus along with certain pre-issue
documents as per the following list.
Exchange to issue in-principle approval

Issuer signs the Listing Agreement

Issuer to give all other pre-issue
documents as per the following list.

Issuer to submit documents for
finalisation of  Basis of Allotment as per
the following list.
Issuer to submit documents for listing as
per the following list.
Exchanges to give listing approval
Trading Commences

New Requirement
To be submitted
simultaneously with filing with
SEBI
Within 15 days of filing draft
Red Herring Prospectus
At the time of filing of Red
Herring Prospectus with RoC.
To be submitted at the time
of filing of Red Herring
Prospectus with RoC.
T+3

T+4

T+5
T+6

All documents would be filed with exchanges on T+4 days. The Exchanges would grant listing
and  trading  permission  on  T  +  5  and  trading  to  commence  from  T  +  6  day,  provided  all
requirements are completed by all concerned.

Lead  Manager  /  Issuer  /  Book  Runner  etc.  to  constantly  coordinate  with  Exchange
officials.

Pre Issue Requirements at the time of SEBI Filing

Sr.
No.

1
2
3

Particulars

Information relating to Articles of Association
Letter of application
Form of application – Pertaining to company information

31

4

5

6

Resolutions
?  Certified true copy of the resolution passed by the Board of Directors

for further issue of securities.

?  Certified true copy of the resolution passed by the shareholders at the

AGM / EGM authorizing the issue of securities to the public.

?  Certified true copy of the resolution passed by the Board of Directors

for listing the securities of the company on the stock Exchanges and for
affixing the Common Seal on the listing agreement.

Material Documents
?  Certified true copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
company after incorporating the changes if any suggested by the Exchange
(3 copies).

?  Certified true copy of the rating letter issued by rating agency for debt

securities (applicable only in case of debt instruments).

?  Certified true copies of the Annual Reports of the company for the last 5

years.

Other information
?  Details of disciplinary action taken if any by other stock exchanges and

regulatory authorities against the company, the promoters/promoting
companies, other companies promoted by the promoters and group
companies in the past 3 years.

?  Details of defaults in respect of payment of interest and/or principal to the

debenture/bond/fixed deposit holders by the company, the
promoters/promoting companies,  other companies promoted by the
promoters and group companies. Details of all litigations against the
company, the promoters/promoting companies, other companies promoted
and group companies in the last 3 years. The nature of litigation and the
status of litigation need to be mentioned.

?  Name and residential address of the Board of Directors of the company.
?  List of authorized signatories along with their specimen signatures.

31

7

8

9

Shareholding details
?  Shareholding pattern of company as on March 31 for the last 3 financial
years in format given as per clause 35 of the listing agreement. The total
foreign holding and list of persons holding more than 1% of the share
capital under each category of shareholders must also be given.

?  Shareholding pattern of company (pre issue) in format given as per clause

35 of the listing agreement. The total foreign holding and list of persons
holding more than 1% of the share capital under each category of
shareholders must also be given.

?  Details regarding the shareholding of the promoters/promoting companies
in the company as on March 31 of the last 3 financial years in the format
given below:
?  Name
?  Address
?  No. of shares held
?  Percentage shareholding
In case the company has been promoted by promoting companies then
the details of the shareholding of the promoters in the promoting
company as on March 31 of the last 3 financial years shall also be
provided in the above format.

? 

Certificates from Company stating that:
?  The net worth has not been wiped out.
? 
? 
Miscellaneous
?  Certified true copy of the Service Agreements with the Managing Director

It has not been referred to BIFR
It has not received any winding up petition from any court.

Circulars offering securities for subscription or sale during the last five
years

?  Advertisements offering securities for subscription or sale during the last

five years

?  Copy of every letter, Report, Balance Sheet, Valuation, Contract, Court

Order or other documents any part of which is reproduced or referred to in
any Prospectus, Offer for Sale, Circular or Advertisement offering securities
for subscription or sale during the last five years.

?  Statement containing particulars of the dates of the parties to all material

contracts, agreements (including agreements for technical advice and
collaboration), concessions and similar other documents (except those entered
into in the ordinary course of the business carried on or intended to be carried
on by the Issuer) together with a short description of the terms, subject-matter
and general nature of the documents.

?  Certified true copy of all the material contracts and documents mentioned in

the offer document and not forming a part of the above documents.

31

Documents to be submitted at the time of filing of Red Herring Prospectus with RoC

Sr.
No
.
1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9
10
11
12
13

Particulars

Certified true copy of the Debenture Trust Deed (applicable only in case of debt
instruments).
Certified true copies of the due diligence certificates submitted by the Lead
Manager to SEBI (at the time of filing draft offer document with SEBI, at the
time of incorporating changes if any as suggested by SEBI, at the time of filing
with Registrar of Companies and before the issue open date).
Certified true copy of the comments / observations given by SEBI on the draft
offer document.
Certified true copy of the approval received from the Reserve Bank of India for
issue of securities to Non Resident Indians.
Certified true copy of the approval received from the Reserve Bank of India for
export of share certificates to Non Resident Indians. (Not required now)
Certified true copies of letters of consent to act in the following positions along
with copies of the agreement:
?  Book running Lead Managers to the issue
?  Lead Managers to the issue
?  Co-Managers to the issue
?  Bankers to the issue
?  Registrars to the issue
?  Advisors to the issue
?  Brokers to the issue
?  Under-writers to the issue
Certified true copies of tripartite agreements entered into by the company with
the depositories and registrars.
Certified true copy of the Memorandum of Understanding entered into with the
registrars and transfer agents of the company.
Specimen share certificates marked cancelled (6 sets).
ISIN code allotted by the depository for pre issue capital.
Listing Fees
Cheque /demand draft towards initial listing fees.
Compliance with Clause 49 (Corporate Governance) requirement

31

Documents to be submitted for approving the Basis of Allocation/Allotment.
Sr.
No. Particulars
1
2
3

Draft Basis of Allotment for public and other categories
Summary of Rejection List
Summary  of  Lead  Manager/Book  Runner/Broker  showing  total  application  and
amount received
List of Top 100 allottees
The Managing Director/Company Secretary of the company has to declare that
there is no injunction/prohibitory order of a competent court of law on the issue
or on part of any particular category of the issue. (should be given on Company’s
letter head).
Proof of payment of 1% Security Deposit with the Exchange.

4
5

6

31

Documents to be submitted at the time of listing:
(i) Documents to be submitted on T+1 day
Sr. No.
1. 
2. 

Due diligence certificates from BR / LM
Final Prospectus

Particulars

(ii) Documents to be submitted no later than T+4 days
Sr. No.

Particulars
BR / LM confirmation in case of devolvement
Information related to the issue (Post)
Distribution schedule for post issue capital
Board resolution for allotment
Bankers certificate for collection of money
Details of basis of allotment
Auditors certificate for allotment being made as per the basis of allotment
approved (Note 1)
Issuer certificate for shares under lock-in
Shareholding pattern – Regarding Promoter and Non-promoter holding
BR’s confirmation for refunds etc.
Depository’s confirmation for credit of beneficiary account
Copies of all advertisements issued pre and post issue
Regional stock exchange letter granting listing and trading permission (Note
2)
Annual Listing fee
Undertakings from the company and/or Auditors
?  Register of Members of the Bank/Company is open for registering

transfer of shares.

?  The  Auditor's certificate that the expenditure on the  IPO has not

exceeded the overall ceiling fixed as per clause VIII of Government Letter
No.F.14/1/SE/85 dated the 7th May, 1985. (Note 3)

?  Due Diligence Certificate from the Lead Manager to the Issue together
with a  statement  showing inter-se allocation of  responsibility amongst
Lead Managers

?  Declaration that the Issuer has not entered into any buy-back agreement or

arrangement with any of  the applicants/allottees of the shares in its IPO

Any other document as required

31

Documents not required for simultaneous offerings (provided the issue is 100%
in demat and bookbuilding mode)
Sr. No

Particulars
Distribution schedule for public issue portion
Details of region wise collection of application money
Auditors certificate for shares in lock-in
Specimen of allotment advice
Confirmation that refund orders shall be payable at par at all places where
application money is received.
Confirmation that allotment money shall be payable at all centers where
application money is received.

1
2
3
4
5

6

Reports submitted to SEBI
1
Monitoring Reports

Notes:
SEBI and Stock Exchanges need to review the following requirements for grant of
listing and trading approvals:

1.  One of the requirements for listing is submission of Auditors certificate confirming
that  allotment  being  made  as  per  the  basis  of  allotment  approved  by  Stock
Exchanges.  In  view  of  the  paucity  of  time,  it  is  suggested  that  this  certificate
should be replaced with a confirmation from the Registrar to the Issue.

2.  Regional stock exchange letter granting listing and trading permission is one of the
pre-condition for grant of listing and trading permission by other Stock Exchanges.
However  in  view  of  creation  of  Central  Listing  Authority,  all  stock  exchanges
should grant listing and trading approval upon receipt of letter of recommendation
from CLA.

3.  The  Auditor's certificate that the expenditure on the  IPO has not exceeded the
overall  ceiling  fixed  as  per  clause  VIII  of  Government  Letter  No.F.14/1/SE/85
dated the 7th May, 1985. Is one of the requirements for grant of listing and trading
permission. Government of India, Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic
Affairs,  CM  and  ECE  Division  has  withdrawn  this  requirements.  Hence,  Stock
Exchanges should not insist on production of such certificate from the Auditors.

31

Procedure

Definitions:

BRLM
Broker DP ID   
Client ID
Bidders
QIB
CAN

 

            Upload Of Credit

:
:
:
:
:
:
:

Escrow Securities Account     :

Client Master Listing             :

Status Code

:

Annexure 3

Book Running Lead Manager
Depository Participant’s Identification No.
Beneficiary Owner’s Identification No.
Bidders
Qualified Institutional Bidder
Confirmation of Allocation Notice
The  allotment  of  the  securities  to  the  Clearing
Member’s account/ BO’s Account.
Escrow  Securities  Account  to  be  opened  by  the         
Broker  with  DP  in  NSDL/  CDSL  in  which  demat
credit for all the successful bidders will be uploaded
where after the securities will be transferred to the
BO’s account.
Out-put generated by DP relating to the Beneficiary
Owner, which gives the complete particulars of the
BO in whose name the account has been opened.
Nature of BO’s Account (i.e. NRI, FII, RI, etc.)

31

PROCESS:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 
9. 

10. 

11. 

BRLM/ Broker  will collect the Bids from the Beneficiary Owners for the securities
applied by them.
The Broker will upload  the bids in the NSE/ BSE terminal which can extend upto
three options.
While capturing the bids, the Broker will also capture DP ID, Client ID, Name of the
first applicant and the status code.
The Broker will ensure that the DP ID and Client ID is properly entered for which, if
required, he will obtain the Client Master Listing from the beneficiary Owner.
The Broker while capturing the bids will also indicate in a field separately identifying
whether the investor has paid full money/ margin money/ no money.
The Broker shall be fully responsible for the DP ID and Client ID entered by him for
the bids received and entered in the system.
The money collected by the Broker will be deposited in a separate Escrow Account to
be  opened  by  the  Broker  with  the  respective  Bank  in  the  clearing  houses  of  NSE/
BSE.
NSE/ BSE will forward the bids received to the BRLM on a daily basis.
All  the  details  captured  by  the  Broker  should  be  available  in  the  data  provided  by
NSE/ BSE to the BRLM.
On  the  day  the  issue  closes,  BRLM  will  forward  electronic  data  for  all  the  bids
received to the Registrars for finalisation of the basis of allocation.
a. The Registrar will upload DP ID & Client IDs for the individual bids received and
obtain  the  name(s)  –  address  and  all  other  particulars  relating  to  the  Bidder  from
NSDL/ CDSL.
Note  :This  is  being  done  since  the  address  is  not  captured  by  the  Broker  and  for
processing and mailing of CANs, the address of the investor would be required.

b. The  validity  of  the  DP  ID  and  Client  ID  furnished  by  the  Broker  will  stand
established during this upload.

31

c.  Where  the  validity  fails  then  the  Broker  can  be  intimated  in  advance  about  the
failure of the validation and the need for him to verify with his client the correct DP
ID and Client ID particulars.

d.  Download of the name(s), address and other particulars from the Depository will
also be useful in finalising the Return of Allotment  for filing with the ROC.

12. 

13. 

14. 
15. 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

The Basis of Allocation will be finalized by the Registrar, the Book Running Lead
Managers and the Issuer in consultation with Stock Exchange.
The  Registrar  will  prepare  the  CANs  and  forward  the  same  either  physically  or
electronically to Brokers for onward delivery to Bidders /or directly to Investors.
The Broker shall deliver CANs to the investors.
The Registrar will arrange to forward to all the Brokers, details of allocation to their
client  in  a  structured  data  base  identifying  therein  the  DP  ID,  Client  ID,  name,
number  of  Shares  applied,  number  of  shares  allotted,  application  money  received,
amount payable on allotment and amount to be refunded to the Bidders.
The Broker, based on the above statement shall duly verify at his end and arrange to
deposit the balance amount in the Escrow account payable by him in respect of his
clients, as per the allocation finalized in consultation with Stock Exchanges.
The  Registrar  will  also  arrange  to  submit  to  the  BRLM  the  Brokers  pay-in
obligations, which will be forwarded by the BRLM to the respective clearing houses
in NSE/ BSE.
On the pay-in date, the Clearing House will debit the Escrow Account of the Broker
to the extent of the pay-in obligation of the Broker and transfer the said money to the
Issuer’s account.
To the extent of allocation made for each of the individual Broker, the credit will be
uploaded by the Registrar to the Broker’s Escrow Securities Account opened for the
purpose  of  receiving  credit  for  the  securities,  which  have  been  allotted  to  the
respective client of the Broker.
The  Broker  will  thereafter  arrange  to  transfer  the  securities  received  in  his  Escrow
account  to  the  individual  BO  account  immediately  the  following  day,  so  that  the
securities are available for trade.

31

21. 

22. 

The Broker shall withhold transfer of shares only in respect of cases where payment
obligation has not been met by his clients relating to this specific transaction.
The Broker shall provide the confirmation to the BRLM/ Registrar that all the shares
for  which  the  credit  was  received  in  the  Escrow  Account  has  been  respectively
transferred  to  the  clients’  account,  as  per  the  details  furnished  by  the  Registrar.
Exceptions, if any, shall be reported giving reasons for not transferring the securities.

OTHER GENERAL ISSUES

1. 

2. 

3.

4.

5.

Software modifications will have to be done by NSE/ BSE for the bids being accepted
in the terminal. It is necessary that the layouts in which the files will be provided by
the BSE/ NSE are identical.
NSDL/ CDSL will have to modify the software, permitting the Registrar to upload the
credit to the Escrow account of the concerned Broker.
NSDL and CDSL should modify the software for downloading the BO particulars for
the DP ID and Client ID uploaded by the Registrar for validation.
The  Registrar  will  provide  a  structured  data  to  the  Broker,  identifying  the  various
information required by the Broker for identifying the amount to be collected from
individual clients for whom the bids have been entered.
The  Registrar  will  send  the  data  in  such  format  as  required  by  NSE/  BSE  through
BRLM for the Broker’s pay-in obligations.

31

